Darwin, he saw language evolution as a highly complex adaptive process
at all levels, from the remodeling of peripheral vocal structure to the
elaboration of instinctive learning mechanisms, very much like the
acquisition of birdsong or the development of ﬂight in birds.
According to Pinker, language is in fact unique, but so are the elephant’s
trunk and many other specialized organs in the animal kingdom.
Shared or Unique?
Considering the above, it is not surprising that in relation to lan-
guage evolution, Chomsky has always been skeptical. In his early
years Chomsky claimed that the complexity of language was such
that it was impossible to ﬁnd an organization so intricate in general
cognition, even less in animal communication. Furthermore, his view
that language is perfect does not admit the possibility of a gradual
acquisition of distinct elements. It is either complete, or it is not.
However, in later years, coincident with his strategy of simplifying
his syntactical theory, Chomsky has become closer to biology and
evolutionary theory. He teamed up with evolutionary psychologist
Marc Hauser, who up to that point had strongly advocated a gradual
Darwinian evolution of language. After what was probably very
intense conversations at the beginning of this century, Chomsky
and Hauser reached an agreement in which they parceled the study
of language into two territories: one amenable to comparative and
evolutionary studies (Hauser’s domain) and the other reﬂecting the
core elements of language and impenetrable to evolutionary analyses
(Chomsky’s domain). In 2002, they published a now highly cited
paper, together with co-author Tecumseh Fitch, whom we met
above, in which they made a clear distinction between what they
termed the faculty for language in the broad sense (FLB, Hauser and
Fitch’s expertise), and the faculty for language in the narrow sense
(FLN, Chomsky’s expertise) (Hauser et al. 2002). FLB includes all
biological traits shared with other species or with non-linguistic
cognitive mechanisms, while FLN is a single monolithic and
Shared or Unique? 11
indivisible trait that must have appeared only once (recursion stands
out as a prime candidate to be included in FLN).
As an example of FLB, Hauser, Chomsky, and Fitch discussed the
case of categorical perception, which consists of the capacity of the
auditory system to perceive discrete phonological categories like /ba/ as
distinct from /pa/, while in fact there is a continuous transformation of
the spectral composition as one goes from one phoneme to another
(more on this in Chapter 8). This was ﬁrst observed in the laboratory of
Alvin Liberman in the 1950s and was presumed to be the basis for
speech perception (Liberman et al. 1957, 1967; Liberman and Mattingly
1989). Theoretically, Lieberman’s hypothesis considered that the acous-
tic system was somehow framed by the phonological motor apparatus by
mapping continuous perceptual categories into discrete motor programs
involved in the execution of these phonemes. This hypothesis was based
on two assumptions: ﬁrst that categorical perception is unique to
humans and is an adaptation for speech perception; and second that
speech perception is highly dependent on motor programs. Neither of
these statements survived for long in science. In the seventies and
eighties, several articles appeared showing categorical perception in
chinchillas (a cute furry South American rodent), monkeys and even
birds, none of which are able to speak (see Chapter 10) (Hauser et al.
2002). Thus, the trait is not uniquely human, and categorical perception
does not depend on the existence of phonological motor programs,
because these are clearly absent in chinchillas, monkeys, and birds.
This theory has re-emerged as the now fashionable mirror neuron
hypothesis, which I will discuss at more length in Chapter 8. For
Hauser, Chomsky, and Fitch, categorical perception is a paradigmatic
instance of a trait that ﬁts into FLB. Furthermore, they say that the claim
of human uniqueness is diﬃcult to demonstrate as it “must be based on
data indicating an absence of the trait in nonhuman animals and, to be
taken seriously, requires a substantial body of relevant comparative data”
(p. 1572). This example also illustrates some ambiguity in deﬁning FLB,
because although they worded their arguments in such a way to give
space for evolutionary processes, they also implicitly consider the traits
included in FLB as uninteresting and uninformative about language
origins. Another arguable point is that Hauser, Chomsky, and Fitch
12 1 Introduction: The Beginning of Words
provide examples of species distantly related to humans as instances of
shared FLB, denying that this character is absent in non-human pri-
mates and must have been acquired during human evolution, indepen-
dently of whether distant lineages also acquired it in parallel.
FLN should include features that are present only in human language
and are not shared with other animals or with other general cognitive
abilities. In the article’s abstract, they “hypothesize that FLN only
includes recursion and is the only uniquely human component”
(p. 1569). In the article, however, they emphasize that recursion maps
into the sensorimotor (phonological) and conceptual-intentional
(semantic) interfaces, and extend their hypothesis for FLN as consisting
of “the core computational mechanisms of recursion . . . and the map-
pings of the interfaces” (p. 1573). Thus, FLN may not only consist of
recursion but also of any link that connects recursive processes with
phonological and cognitive mechanisms. Besides lacking precision, this
sentence leaves much in the air. In this extended version, FLN could
consist of multiple mechanisms (“the mappings of the interfaces”)
besides recursion itself, which would make FLN a complex evolutionary
acquisition. If this is so, FLN might not be the single monolithic
element that was proposed above. Finally, they proposed that FLN
(recursion) originated from a domain other than communication (in
line with Chomsky’s assumption that recursion is not primarily for
communication), but then, in what appears to be a concession from
Chomsky to his evolutionist partners, they proposed that it may have
emerged from computations involved in number processing, navigation
skills, or social relations. This is perfectly possible but there is no
evidence suggesting that this is the case, as opposed to the alternative
of an origin directly related to communication. Furthermore, it contrasts
with Chomsky’s earlier argument that recursion is produced by a mod-
ular, encapsulated computational system that is distinct from those
involved in general cognitive mechanisms. Attempts by other authors
to observe recursive-like processing in animals have been severely criti-
cized by these authors, who seem to deny this possibility a priori while
opening the possibility of recursion having its origins in animal capa-
cities. More recently, Chomsky has associated with computational lin-
guist Robert Berwick, insisting on the separation between externalized,
Shared or Unique? 13
sensorimotor elements, and the central properties of language (Berwick
and Chomsky 2016). Berwick and Chomsky make special emphasis on
stochastic eﬀects in evolution, where few mutations can account for
dramatic evolutionary changes (as seen in the descending neural control
of vocalization in humans and songbirds), and on the fact that con-
tingent factors like having a very small population size (as it may have
happened in human evolution) can yield non-adaptive changes in gene
frequencies, driven by chance. While I will get into those issues through
the book, now I will focus on the central argument of FLN as the core
element of language.
Experiments on Recursion
Although Hauser, Fitch, and Chomsky sometimes defended their notion
of FLN as a hypothesis, in subsequent articles, these authors and others
assumed that recursion actually represents the core aspect of language
and neglected any other approach to language evolution as being totally
irrelevant (Hauser et al. 2014). While they asserted that a claim of the
uniqueness of a human trait requires “a substantial body of relevant
comparative data”, they did not apply this criterion to the capacity for
recursion. There have been only a handful of experiments assessing the
capacity of recursion in non-human animals, and by no means have
these been exhaustive. Perhaps the most important experiment in this
line was in 2004, when Fitch and Hauser assessed the capacity of
tamarin monkeys (a cute, little South American monkey with a complex
social life) to process recursive auditory patterns (Fitch and Hauser
2004). To do this, they implemented what is known as an artiﬁcial
grammar, or a laboratory invented grammar. Two grammatical versions
were included, using acoustic stimuli consisting of consonant-vowel
syllables like “ba”, “pa”, “du”, etc. These syllables were separated into
two classes, those voiced by a female (class “A” syllables) and those
voiced by a male (class “B” syllables). They then combined these stimuli
into two diﬀerent patterns, one that ordered the syllables in sequence,
like “AB”, “ABAB”, “ABABAB”, representing what they termed a
14 1 Introduction: The Beginning of Words
ﬁnite-state grammar and dubbed (AB)n
. The other pattern consisted of
recursively inserting a pair of AB syllables into another AB syllable
(“AB”, “AABB”, “AAABBB”), termed phrase structure grammar and
dubbed An
Bn
. Two groups of tamarin monkeys were exposed to
repeated playbacks of either the (AB)n
or the An
Bn
grammar, to famil-
iarize them with these patterns. The next day, the monkeys were brieﬂy
re-familiarized with the same stimuli and then presented novel stimuli,
some that ﬁtted the “grammar” that they had been habituated to, and
some that violated this “grammar”, for example, a sequence “AABA”.
Previous studies in human infants and animals had shown that a novel,
unexpected stimulus raises the subject’s attention and makes him/her
look at the stimulus source (the speaker in this case). Fitch and Hauser
found that monkeys that had been trained with the non-recursive
grammar (AB)n
were surprised when a deviant pattern was presented,
while monkeys that were habituated to the recursive structure An
Bn
did
not distinguish violations from grammatically correct sentences. For
adult humans, it is very easy to distinguish the deviants of both recursive
and non-recursive grammar types. Thus, they concluded that tamarin
monkeys were unable to process recursive patterns. In 2006, Timothy
Gentner and colleagues published a highly controversial paper in which
European starlings (a species of songbird) were able to learn recursive
An
Bn
grammars (Gentner et al. 2006), but this has been dismissed by
several authors that argued the birds were able to predict surface regula-
rities of the diﬀerent grammars based on probability and memory, and
not by making an abstraction of a recursive pattern. We will go further
into this discussion in Chapter 9, when discussing songbirds as animal
models for speech acquisition.
In 2005, Steven Pinker and Ray Jackendoﬀ published a strong and
lengthy critique of Hauser, Chomsky, and Fitch’s original article, claim-
ing that language is the result of highly complex and interrelated
adaptations (Pinker and Jackendoﬀ 2005). Furthermore, Pinker and
Jackendoﬀ highlighted phonological and lexical processes and many
other elements of syntax like case marking, agreement, and other gram-
matical subtleties. These are essential for the main function of language,
which is to transmit information of who did what to whom, what is
where, and other semantic relations. Pinker and Jackendoﬀ claimed that
Experiments on Recursion 15
these issues had been severely neglected by Hauser, Chomsky, and Fitch,
in the same way as Chomsky’s minimalist program de-emphasizes them.
Furthermore, they criticized Fitch and Hauser’s experiment on tamarin
monkeys on the basis that although language is recursive, the artiﬁcial
grammar An
Bn
is not a possible human language, and violates basic
principles of Chomsky’s universal grammar. Finally, they ended by
agreeing with Hauser, Chomsky, and Fitch in their statement that
recursion may not be unique to language, and assert that the only reason
language needs to be recursive is for expressing recursive thoughts. There
was a reply from Fitch, Hauser, and Chomsky, and a counter reply from
Jackendoﬀ and Pinker, both claiming that the others had not touched
their essential points, reaching then a point at which no one cared about
or considered the others’ arguments (Fitch et al. 2005; Jackendoﬀ and
Pinker 2005). Perhaps one issue that deserves further comment is
Jackendoﬀ and Pinker’s claim that at least human visual processing has
an An
Bn
recursive structure. Consider a semi-regular array of pairs of
dots, nested in groups of two, four, sixteen, two hundred and ﬁfty six,
and so on. This combinatorial process can go on indeﬁnitely and may
play a role in visual categorization. However, this is not exactly the same
as linguistic recursion, as there are no labels or rules to know which
patterns combine with others.
Another less publicized but very important point was raised by
Pierre Perruchet and Arnaud Rey in 2005, who showed that humans
learning the An
Bn
recursive pattern did so “without exploiting in any
way the embedded structure” (Perruchet and Rey 2005). Furthermore,
when they modiﬁed the conditions and made recursive processing
mandatory, human subjects were unable to learn these patterns, just
like monkeys. More recently, in 2012, Rey, Perruchet and Joël Fagot
showed that baboons were able to process visual stimuli in a center-
embedded or recursive pattern (Rey et al. 2012). They trained baboons
in an intensive task where the animals had to sequentially touch pairs
of visual shapes presented in a screen as in (ﬁrst, touch ﬁgure A1 →
then, touch ﬁgure B1); (A2 → B2); (A3 → B3), etc. The pairs were
sometimes presented together with distractors to be ignored. In the
second part of the experiment, (A1) appeared on the screen together
with a distractor, and the animal had to press on (A1). Then, (A2)
16 1 Introduction: The Beginning of Words
appeared with another distractor and the animal had to press (A2).
Afterwards, (B1), (B2) and a third stimulus (that could be a distractor
or an unrelated target ﬁgure like (B3)) appeared together on the screen,
and the baboon had to touch on either of the target stimuli (but not on
the distractor) in whatever sequence. Subjects preferred to touch (B2)
and then (B1), as (A2) had previously appeared more recently than
(A1), making up the embedded sequence (A1 → A2 → B2 → B1). The
authors concluded not only that human recursive abilities may be
tracked to non-human animals, but more strongly that they rely
more on short-term, or working memory capacities than on abstract
representation of recursive rules. As in Pinker and Jackendoﬀ’s example
of visual recursion, the kind of embedding reported by Rey, Perruchet
and Fagot is rather diﬀerent from the recursive mechanisms observed
in language, but it does ﬁt the artiﬁcial An
Bn
pattern used by Fitch and
Hauser with tamarin monkeys.
Regardless of discussions about their linguistic validity, Fitch and
Hauser’s experiments raise important questions about the real psycho-
logical processes used by subjects to solve these tasks. Although the
researchers had the abstract property of recursion in mind when they
designed the tasks described above, this may not have been the mechan-
ism by which subjects resolved the problem. Rather, they may have
relied on clever, but perhaps lower-level tricks based on associativity and
short-term memory. A notable example of this is Clever Hans, not the
Brothers Grimm fairy tale character, but an actual horse that lived in the
early 1900s (Richards 1989; Candland 1995). The horse’s owner
claimed it could count, add, subtract, and provide correct answers to
complex questions. While diﬀerent answers were presented to the horse,
it responded only to the correct one by tapping its forelimb. Wilhelm
von Osten, the horse’s owner, was a mathematics teacher and was
impressed with Darwin’s ideas about the evolution of behavior and
intelligence. Clever Hans received so much attention that Oskar
Pfungst, a psychologist interested in this phenomenon, went to observe
the horse’s performance. First, he found that the horse responded
correctly to anyone, not only to its owner. But it responded correctly
only when the questioner also knew the answer. Pfungst went on to
conduct many tests, including isolating the animal from the public and
Experiments on Recursion 17
blocking its visual contact with the questioner. He found that the body
posture and facial expressions of the questioner changed before oﬀering
the correct answer. The horse perceived these subtle cues and hoofed
its response right away. The extent to which we are dealing with
“Clever Hans” phenomena in language or psychology is a major issue
today. Are we really grasping at abstract representations of complex
stimuli, or are we using subtle unconscious cues to make up an illusion
about reality? Moreover, what about children learning to speak, or
animals tested in the laboratory? Are they really attending to the deep
grammatical or conceptual structures, or do they use subtle perceptual
cues to predict complex outcomes? Throughout this book we will see
that the Clever Hans issue pervades much of today’s human and
animal research, including language processing and other theories of
human behavior.
Pidgins and Creoles
Besides discussions about whether animals can or cannot master recursive
patterns, and whether recursion is indeed unique to language, in my
opinion the main problem with the proposal of Chomsky and his collea-
gues is that strictly speaking, they do not provide any fundamental insight
into language evolution. The main ideas in Hauser, Chomsky, and Fitch’s
article could have been written by a non-evolutionist, highlighting that we
have shared features with other species (that are therefore uninteresting),
and we have unique characters provided by recursion. This has been in
fact the standard classiﬁcatory logic even before the advent of Darwin’s
evolutionary theory. Species are clustered by their shared characters and
diﬀer from each other by non-shared characters. The Australian agnostic
anti-evolutionist Michael Denton has in fact argued that the entire
classiﬁcatory method provided by modern biology and genetics points
to a hierarchical or nested categorization of diﬀerent groups, where larger
groups share more characters and smaller groups diﬀer from each other in
features that are unique to each group. For him, there is no need for an
evolutionary theory (Denton 1985).
18 1 Introduction: The Beginning of Words
Derek Bickerton, a well-known evolutionary linguist mentioned
above in relation to Chomsky’s concept of Merge, has said that the
arguments of Hauser, Chomsky, and Fitch provide no clues as to the
process by which we acquired language (Bickerton 2009). Bickerton
made his reputation by studying creole languages in Hawaii and the
Caribbean, which according to him provide cues about the origin of
language. Creoles are people of foreign ancestry (usually African) born in
European or American colonies. Creole languages consist of a gramma-
tically simpliﬁed mixture of ancestral languages and the dominant
language of the colony. Creole languages derive from pidgin languages,
which are even simpler forms of communication used by the parents of
creoles, who were born in a diﬀerent land and have the ancestral
language as their mother tongue. Pidgin is used for trading with the
colony owners, as neither Africans nor Europeans understand the other’s
language. The mother tongue of creoles is, in a way, the pidgin spoken
by their parents. Bickerton has proposed that the cues for a universal
grammar can be found in the structure of creole languages, whose
rudimentary grammar develops spontaneously from language competent
children taught in pidgin. In a way, Bickerton embraces Chomsky’s
conception of universal grammar and the uniqueness of language, but
diﬀers radically in his conception of language evolution. He has pro-
posed some hypotheses (admittedly, some of them quite diﬃcult or
impossible to refute or verify) about the evolution of language, which
in essence represent a sequence similar to the transition from pidgin
→creole → established language with full-ﬂedged syntax.
Bickerton, together with other scholars like Terrence Deacon, have
strongly emphasized the capacity for symbolic representation as the
initial impetus for language evolution (Deacon 1997). Symbolism is
the capacity to evoke a mental representation of an object or an event by
providing a sensory stimulus not directly related to that object or event.
Symbols are the result of consensual agreements among diﬀerent people
and are in essence arbitrary. For Bickerton, a key event in the acquisition
of symbolic capacity was related to the ecology of early Homo, who
constructed an ecological niche for themselves in high-level scavenging,
competing with other hyper-carnivores. Early Homo species like
H. erectus developed primitive tools that were used both for cutting up
Pidgins and Creoles 19
dead animals and for defending themselves from other animals, and
established a vague social organization consisting of large, loosely knit
groups that assembled and disassembled over time, which may have been
optimal for ﬁnding carcasses over a wide area. Under these conditions, it
was essential to have ways to call one another in an honest manner (that
is, providing a signal that the other considers true), as individuals or
small groups needed to recruit as many others as possible when they
found a good carcass to fend oﬀ dangerous scavengers that competed
with them. According to Bickerton, this was the key for the acquisition
of displacement, that is, providing an alert signal about something that is
not there but somewhere else. Most animals communicate using honest
signals (there are also “dishonest” ones that provide beneﬁt only to the
sender, but this is not our issue at this point). However, as Marc Hauser
had already shown some time before his association with Chomsky,
animal communication systems provide information about the here
and now, and there are only exceptional examples of animals providing
signals for events distant in time and space (Hauser 1996). In the 1980s
and 90 s, comparative psychologists Robert Seyfarth, Dorothy Cheney
and Peter Marler showed exciting evidence of alarm signals produced by
vervet monkeys (a mid-sized African monkey) in response to speciﬁc
predators that diﬀered whether the predator was a snake or an eagle (see
Chapter 10) (Seyfarth et al. 1980). But were they saying “eagle” or
“snake”? The current interpretation is that this is not likely, as the two
calls trigger diﬀerent escape responses. Monkeys do not call to talk about
an eagle or a snake; rather they may be saying, “Danger from above, lets
hide in the bushes”. On the other hand, bees and ants, although quite
diﬀerent from us, do show the capacity for signal displacement, as seen
in the bee’s waggle dance. But again, this kind of signal is very hard
wired and genetically determined. Instead, early humans achieved signal
displacement by conventionalized learning.
The ﬁrst displacement calls were probably not truly symbolic, but
contained some elements reminiscent of the object they referred to, as
for example imitations of the sounds made by the living animal whose
carcass had been found, made by vocalizations or pantomime.
Eventually, these signals became truly symbolic and allowed concepts
to emerge. In the ﬁrst stage of this sequence, early humans must have
20 1 Introduction: The Beginning of Words
acquired the ability to imitate the sounds produced by other animals, or
the sounds made by natural elements like wind or water. Other species,
notably parrots and songbirds, but also marine mammals and elephants,
do show imitative vocal capacity, and have been called vocal learners.
Humans are also vocal learners, but our common ancestor with the
chimpanzee was probably not a vocal learner. Thus, the acquisition of
vocal learning must have been a crucial requisite for speech to evolve.
After the acquisition of symbolic representations in long-term mem-
ory, humans developed linguistic concepts, claimed to be diﬀerent from
animal concepts as these are “anchored” by a symbol that permits
evoking it in diﬀerent contexts, and keeping it active online in short-
term memory. Short-term, or working memory, also allowed combining
these symbols in diﬀerent ways, and messages began to increase in
complexity by arranging strings of a few of these primitive words,
generating a pidgin-like protolanguage, with few if any rules governing
the order of these utterances. Based on the notable conservation and lack
of improvement in tools for some 200 million years in early human
evolution, Bickerton claimed that the protolanguage stage remained
unchanged for all this time. With the appearance of Homo sapiens and
its cultural revolution some 100,000 years ago, the hierarchical structure
of language developed together with the acquisition of Merge,
Chomsky’s operation that provides rules for assemblies of words into
sentences. This was mainly a cultural, rather than a biological innova-
tion. For Bickerton, the crucial event for the development of language
was the acquisition of a lexicon in which the semantic component of
words determined the possibilities of joining with other words. For this,
many auxiliary words began to appear as links between lexical entities
and modern grammar was on its way.
The scenario just summarized is, as I said, quite speculative and
largely impossible to verify. Nonetheless, there are important considera-
tions that can be used when tracing the evolutionary history of language.
The ﬁrst is that language conveys displaced learned signals, as opposed to
animal communication, which shows no displacement although they
may communicate with learned signals, particularly vocal ones. The
second is that symbolic representations were probably a critical event
in language evolution, and these could be stored in long-term memory
Pidgins and Creoles 21
and manipulated in short-term or working memory. However,
Bickerton said little about the nature of these early words, and how we
came to develop a rich vocal system that enables us to imitate sounds and
generate long strings conveying a theoretically immense number of
possible messages. In this line, Ray Jackendoﬀ suggested a similar
sequence of events as Bickerton’s in the acquisition of language, more
focused on syntactic operations, but perhaps more importantly, empha-
sizing the early development of a phonological system that combined
preexisting sounds to form new ones (Jackendoﬀ 1999). The words of
protolanguages may have had a rich phonological structure, a point that
I will discuss later. Basically, Bickerton did not put much attention on
the development of the vocal system, and seemed to take this for
granted. But more likely, the protowords that enabled protolanguage
may only have been possible with a previous, rich repertoire of learned
vocal signals that were used in social contexts, including mother-child
behavior, group cohesion, alliances, and other instances. It is also clear,
and Bickerton noted this, that gestural communication was an impor-
tant component of the social life of early humans.
Toward Biology
One thing that Chomsky and Bickerton have in common is their
assumption that the human brain must have been “rewired” for the
acquisition of modern language, that is, its connectivity must have
diverged from the condition of our close ancestors. However, neither
of them says anything about the speciﬁc neuronal changes that could
have brought about this tremendous achievement. In the 1950s and 60s,
the cognitive psychologist Eric Lenneberg teamed up with Noam
Chomsky, attempting to provide a biological foundation to Chomsky’s
innateness hypothesis (Lenneberg 1967). At about the same time, the
neurophysiologists Wilfer Penﬁeld and Lamar Roberts 1959 ﬁrst pro-
posed the existence of a critical period of language acquisition, based on
the earlier concept of a critical period for the development of innate
behaviors coined by the Nobel laureates Konrad Lorenz 1981 and Niko
22 1 Introduction: The Beginning of Words
Tinbergen (Tinbergen 1951; Penﬁeld and Roberts 1959; Lorenz 1981;
Burkhardt 2005). The concept of a critical period was neurobiologically
supported by the contemporaneous studies of the also Nobel laureates
David Hubel and Torsten Wiesel (awarded in 1981), in the develop-
ment of the visual system of monkeys (Hubel 1977). Hubel and Wiesel
demonstrated that alterations in sensory experience could have dramatic
eﬀects on the connectivity of the visual cortex, but only during a brief
period after birth. After this period, connectivity stabilizes and becomes
more resistant to sensory deprivation. The notion of a critical period in
language was based on two lines of evidence. One is the fact that the
earlier one learns a second language, the less evident is one´s accent. A
well-known example is the Kissinger brothers Walter and Henry (the
latter former US Secretary of State), both German Jews that immigrated
to the US when Henry was 12 years old, and Walter only 10. While
both learned to speak English ﬂuently, Henry never lost his German
accent, while Walter is said to sound like a native English speaker. It is
commonly said that this is due to the diﬀerence in their ages; with the
younger Walter still able to reorganize his language network while the
older Henry was not. However, it is also possible that Henry was simply
not as good at languages as his brother, at any age. The second line of
evidence originates from the few known cases of feral children that
apparently grew up isolated from human contact, either in a state of
conﬁnement by their parents or other people, or simply living in the
wild (Candland 1995). Feral children usually have profound diﬃculties
in getting used to living with humans, are incapable of following basic
norms like using a toilet, let alone communicating. Their inability to
learn to speak is notable, which has been attributed to their lack of early
social stimulation. Nonetheless, these children usually show signs of
having been abused and mistreated, and it is not clear whether they
suﬀered neural developmental disorders that may have worsened their
condition. Today, the study of critical periods for language acquisition
(whether a ﬁrst or second language) in humans represents an intense
research agenda, some of which we will address in Chapter 10.
Lenneberg relied on this evidence and on Alvin Lieberman’s motor
theory of speech perception mentioned above, to popularize the notion
that language is a discrete and separable, species-speciﬁc trait, whose
Toward Biology 23
biological foundations followed patterns observed in other instinctive
behaviors (Steven Pinker’s bestselling 1994 book, The Language Instinct,
is in some aspects a follow-up of these ideas) (Pinker 1994). In the
1970s, when I was doing my undergraduate training in Biological
Sciences, I was impressed with all these ideas, embracing animal beha-
vior, neuroscience and human language. I felt particularly motivated
with Eric Lenneberg’s book The Biological Foundations of Language,
which at the time represented a brave attempt to conceive language as
a biological trait, and it is no exaggeration that reading it was highly
signiﬁcant in my choice to study the evolution of human language.
Contemporary with these developments and a nascent link between
linguistics and biology, some scholars began to ask whether language was
truly innate in our species. After all, it was known that some bird species
like parrots can learn human words even if they do not understand them.
Furthermore, at this point there was the widespread notion that apes had
a highly developed imitative ability. The ﬁrst attempt to teach human
language to a non-human primate was in the 1940s–1950s by the wife
and husband team Catherine and Keith Hayes, who raised a young
chimpanzee called Viki (Hayes and Hayes 1952). The Hayes taught
Viki to speak by using extensive sessions of speech therapy procedures
normally used for children with language disorders. Despite long intense
eﬀorts, Vicky was able to voice only four words: “mama”, “papa” “up”
and “cup”, showing that the chimpanzee lacks the vocal motor control
necessary to utter human words (however, see Chapter 10). But as noted
above, language is not only speech. In the 1960s, the wife and husband
team Beatrix and Allen Gardner, both comparative psychologists, fol-
lowed by their student Francine Patterson in the 1970s and then others,
underwent the painstaking task to train apes in hand-sign language
commonly used by the deaf (Gardner and Gardner 1969, Patterson
and Linden 1985). The Gardners worked with Washoe, a chimpanzee
that was 10 months old when the training started, while Patterson
worked with Koko, a young gorilla. Their intention was to determine
the extent to which apes could acquire linguistic skills, by using a
sensorimotor system other than auditory-vocal circuitry. These studies
were successful in teaching animals to use signs with humans (after many
years, Koko mastered 1,000 hand signs, and understood an even greater
24 1 Introduction: The Beginning of Words
number of voiced words). This was, however, the result of very long and
intensive training procedures. In comparison, by the age of three,
children use around 3,000 words, but these have been learned eﬀort-
lessly on the part of themselves and their parents. However, the most
striking ﬁnding was that in none of these long and tedious experiments,
were apes able to produce a simple combination of words in something
resembling syntax, which is reminiscent of Bickerton’s early stages of
protolanguage, where there are words but little or no syntactic rules.
In the 1970s, Kenneth Oakley, and later on in the 1980s, researchers
like William Calvin and Michael Corballis proposed that language arose
as an evolutionary outgrowth of hand dexterity, which was initially used
in shaping and handling tools and throwing objects (Oakley 1972;
Calvin 1983; Corballis 1993). From that, communication may have
developed using body and manual signs, and was ﬁnally transferred to
the mouth for reasons that are not completely clear (see Chapter 4). This
proposal received very intense support from ﬁndings by the neurophy-
siologist Giacomo Rizzolatti and collaborators in Parma, Italy.
Rizzolatti’s team identiﬁed an interesting class of premotor neurons in
the macaque cerebral cortex, called “mirror neurons”, which were acti-
vated both during the execution of a motor act and the observation of
another performing the same motor act (or so it seemed) (Rizzolatti
1998). Together with Michael Arbib, Rizzolatti proposed that mirror
neurons provided the neuroscientiﬁc grounds for the origin of a gestural
language that was eventually supplanted by vocal speech (Rizzolatti and
Craighero 2004). The role of gestures, and the relevance of the mirror
neuron hypothesis in language evolution will be the subject of
Chapter 8.
In the last 50 years another research tradition has followed Darwin’s
original line, which is the study of vocal learning in non-human species,
mainly songbirds but also other kinds of birds, as well as mammals like
dolphins, bats, and elephants (Chapters 9 and 10). Again, this tradition
has experienced an explosion in the last 20 years, in which behavioral,
electrophysiological, neuroanatomical, and genetic approaches have con-
verged to analyze the mechanisms underlying the capacity for vocal
imitation. Although these vocal learning species are only distantly related
to humans, it is expected that they will serve as models to understanding
Toward Biology 25
the neurobiological and genetic mechanisms involved in the acquisition
of vocal plasticity. For example, the speech-related gene FOXP2 is
mutated in speciﬁc regions in humans while it is not in non-vocal
learning apes and monkeys. It is also known to participate in vocal
learning in songbirds and other species.
Our Family
Finally, before we begin with this book, it is necessary to consider
human evolution, early human behavior and the fossil evidence for the
evolution of the human brain. I said that language does not fossilize, but
fossils and human-made artifacts yield important clues about the beha-
vior and the brain capacity of our ancestors, which allow us to make
educated guesses about the evolution of human communication. The
human lineage started some 6 million years ago, when our common
ancestor with chimpanzees split into two lineages. Possibly the closest we
have to the last common ancestor is Ardipithecus, which lived in trees but
was able to walk on two feet. Australopithecines appeared 4 million years
ago, and lived until almost 1 million years ago in Africa. Ardipithecus and
most Australopithecines were small (4 feet tall) with brains not much
larger than 500 cubic centimeters, about the same size as that of
chimpanzees. The genus Homo, our lineage, makes its debut about 2.5
million years ago in early species like H. habilis, H. rudolfensis and H.
naledi, which are gradually replaced by Homo ergaster and Homo erectus
about 1.8 million years ago (Plummer 2004; Anton et al. 2014; Kimbel
and Villmoare 2016; Crompton 2016). Brain size was slightly larger in
members of the Homo lineage, particularly Homo erectus, which lived in
Africa and Eurasia, with a brain size ranging from about 700 cubic
centimeters in the earliest specimens, to somewhat more than 1,000
cubic centimeters in the latest individuals that lived 200 thousand years
ago (Cornélio et al. 2016). The more modern H. antecessor and
H. heidelberguensis had signiﬁcantly larger brains than the last H. erectus
specimens. Finally, Neanderthal man (Homo neanderthalensis, or
H. sapiens neanderthalensis) and the closely related Denisovan Man
26 1 Introduction: The Beginning of Words
(H. sapiens denisova) appeared about 600,000 years ago, while modern
humans (Homo sapiens) originated 200 thousand years ago. All these
late humans had similar brain sizes of about 1,500 cubic centimeters,
comparable to the average size of human brains today. Neanderthals and
Denisovans disappeared about 30,000–25,000 years ago, possibly at the
hands of our direct ancestors. But they did not become totally extinct, as
there was an intense interbreeding between these species (or subspecies,
to some), and we have inherited many of their genes. The small-sized
and small-brained H. ﬂoresiensis (with a body and braincase the same size
as that of Australopithecines) had a very short appearance, between
50,000 and 10,000 years ago. This is a contentious species, as some
authors claim that it was a microcephalic or Down syndrome child of
normal modern humans. H. ﬂoresiensis was found associated with
Oldowan-like tools that some argue were made by Australopithecines.
Therefore, three stages can be observed in the evolution of the human
brain. First, was the Australopithecine stage, in which brains are no
larger than that of other apes. Then, the appearance of the genus Homo
(especially H. erectus) set the brain race in motion, slowly increasing
brain size over a period of 1.5 million years (Rightmire 2013; Cornélio
et al. 2016). However, the increase in brain size was not accompanied by
spectacular cultural advances. Early Homo species managed primitive
stone tools from the beginning, and there is evidence suggesting that at
least some Australopithecines used them too, as the oldest stone tools yet
discovered date from about 3.3 million years ago. Early Homo made
sturdy stone tools referred to as the Oldowan industry. The shape of
Oldowan stone tools is very stable over time, with very little change in
the design of the cuts to sharpen their edges. More sophisticated hand
axes appear some 1.7 million years ago, with the Acheulean industry,
which overlaps Oldowan technology. Some anthropologists have
assigned Oldowan industry to H. habilis, and the Acheulean tools to
H. erectus, with a larger brain size. In any case, both Oldowan and
Acheulean tools remained more or less the same over time, evidencing
very little evolution in their design. H. erectus also used ﬁre and remains
of one-million-year old campﬁres have recently been unearthed, which
may support the cooking hypothesis for brain growth that I discuss in
Chapter 3. How the use of ﬁre relates to toolmaking and eventually to
Our Family 27
language evolution is a highly intriguing question to which unfortu-
nately we have as yet no clues. Fire also changes social dynamics, as
individuals begin to join around campﬁres, which increases food sharing
and social interactions, and of course the task of making and maintain-
ing ﬁre, which requires strict cooperation among members of the group.
The last step in increased brain size, occurred ﬁrst in Neanderthals
and the closely related Denisovans (with a brain size comparable to
ours), and is associated with the origin of more elaborate stone tools
that appeared somewhat later, about 300,000 years ago (Sankararaman
et al. 2016). This new technology is referred to as Mousterian industry,
characterized by sharp ﬂint tools, used for ﬁne cutting and other tasks.
Modern humans, who entered the scene slightly later, are also believed
to have used Mousterian tools. From then on, there is an evident
increase in cultural artifacts in the archaeological record, slowly initiating
the Cultural Revolution that is still taking place among us. Why didn’t
H. erectus go further in its cultural development, despite reaching (in
later specimens) brain sizes in the lower range of modern humans? Derek
Bickerton termed this two-million-year period in Homo erectus history
“the long stagnation”, given that cultural achievements were slow to
develop despite the doubling of brain size. The cultural explosion that
began in Neanderthals, and then in modern humans could not have
been due solely to brain size, as the brain had already been increasing in
volume for a long time. What about language and speech? When did
they appear? It is likely that modern speech is a very recent acquisition,
which evolved together with cultural innovations. Bickerton claimed
that H. erectus had a simple communication system, consisting only of
a small set of word-like elements used to recruit subjects in the search for
food. But in what context did these word-like elements appear? What
was the biological diﬀerence that made our species able to speak about
the world? I will touch on these critical questions throughout the book,
but this is an advance for which neither I nor anyone else has a deﬁnite
explanation
Ideally we could obtain additional information about our ancestors’
brains by observing the cranial shape and the impressions the brain
leaves in the cranial vault. The study of human brain endocasts (molds
of the cranial cavity) has been an important discipline in
28 1 Introduction: The Beginning of Words
paleoanthropology, yielding information about brain size, shape and
growth trajectories in extinct lineages. Nonetheless, this discipline has
also been plagued with controversies, the most well-known being that
between Dean Falk and Ralph Holloway, which started as an argument
about the presumptive presence of an ape-like sulcus in the occipital
endocast of the Taung child, an immature specimen of Australopithecus
africanus, originally described by Falk (Falk and Clerke 2007, 2012;
Folk 2009; Holloway and Broadﬁeld 2012; Holloway et al. 2014).
Additional ﬁndings have been made by Philipp Gunz and colleagues,
who observed that modern humans diverge from chimpanzees and from
the Neanderthal man in the shape of the braincase, acquiring a more
globular shape (Gunz et al. 2010; Neubauer et al. 2010). Furthermore,
this unique globular shape is evident in the human neonate, diﬀering
signiﬁcantly from the more elongated skulls of chimps and
Neanderthals. These authors attribute the diﬀerence in shape to changes
in neural organization to support higher cognition and cultural learning.
Dean Falk, Emiliano Bruner, and others have focused on reproducing
the sulcal patterns in fossil skulls, based on impressions in the inner
surface of the cranial cavity (Falk 2014; Bruner et al. 2014). These and
other authors claim to have found evidence for reorganization of Broca’s
region, the parieto-temporo-occipital region and the prefrontal cortex
(which is almost the entire brain), a process that started in the
Australopithecine brains when compared to modern apes. These argu-
ments are reminiscent of Franz Gall’s phrenology doctrine (see the next
chapter), or the aforementioned studies on Basque and French skulls by
Paul Broca. Can anything about cognition be reliably concluded from
these cranial diﬀerences? In my opinion, not much. In general, the study
of cranial morphology tells us little about the development of the neural
networks involved in cognition. The distinct developmental trajectories
in the shape of the cranial vault can be attributed to many factors,
ranging from obstetric constraints to general craniofacial development,
but there is no strong evidence that braincase geometry has anything to
do with cognitive capacities. Nonetheless, I have to say that in a very
large sample of human adults and children, Michael Gregory and
collaborators recently reported that general cognitive capacity correlated
with increased gyriﬁcation in the inferior parietal lobe, temporoparietal
Our Family 29
junction, insula and prefrontal cortex, all regions that have been asso-
ciated with language processing (see next chapter) (Gregory et al. 2016).
Whether these diﬀerences are reﬂected in cranial morphology still needs
to be conﬁrmed.
Although there is a full Chapter (Chapter 3) discussing the evolution
of brain size, I want to mention here that achieving a large brain size has
not been easy for humans. The upright posture achieved by
Australopithecines implied profound changes in pelvic structure, pro-
viding more support to gluteal muscles and constraining pelvic diameter.
As the brain size increases, a conﬂict develops between locomotor
adaptation and the development of a larger skull at birth (human new-
borns are especially large-headed for their body size), which has been
termed “the obstetric dilemma”. Humans are very special animals that
require assisted delivery and possibly have the highest rate of obstetrical
complications. This constraint has implied a series of adaptations, like
the rotation of the newborn before birth, so that the head comes out ﬁrst
(as opposed to what usually occurs in monkeys and apes), and the
development of a circular pelvic canal to facilitate the transition of the
newborn (Trevathan 2015, Huseynof et al. 2016; Ponce de León et al.
2016). Instead, others argue that the solution to the obstetric dilemma is
rather a consequence of the geometry of growth rather than a speciﬁc
result of natural selection (Fischer and Mitteroecker 2015; Mitteroecker
and Fischer| 2016). This idea is in line with the now classic notion of
evolutionary “spandrels”, by Stephen Jay Gould and Richard Lewontin,
who criticized an overly adaptationist trend in the 1970s that interpreted
practically every observable trait as emerging from speciﬁc selective
pressures (Gould and Lewontin 1979). Perhaps the most important
developmental modiﬁcation associated with the obstetric dilemma con-
sists of delivering the newborn in earlier periods, thus giving birth to
smaller and more immature babies. Steven Piantadosi and Celeste Kidd
used an estimate of brain size as a proxy for measuring intelligence across
species, and reported a strong positive correlation between intelligence
estimates and weaning time across many primate species (Piantadosi and
Kidd 2016). They propose that selection for increasing brain size leads
to progressively immature newborns, which selects back to further
increases in brain size as parents need more intelligence to raise their
30 1 Introduction: The Beginning of Words
young. Although this is an interesting possibility, comparing intelligence
across species is a contentious issue, as diﬀerent species need to solve
diﬀerent kinds of problems to survive. In this line, Stephen Jay Gould
and many others noted that humans retain juvenile characters such as a
ﬂat face, hairless skin, a thinner skeleton, and a large brain in relation to
body size (Gould 1977). Changes in the developmental timing of
diﬀerent biological characters are called heterochronies, and the process
of juvenilization, or keeping juvenile characters until the age of repro-
duction and beyond, is speciﬁcally called neoteny. Humans are neotenic
primates according to many standards, including some behavioral char-
acters including playfulness and less aggressiveness. Brain maturation
rates are similar in humans and other primates, simply more prolonged
in humans than chimps than monkeys, such that the human brain
increases at rates expected from its size, only for longer times. In
Chapter 11 I will take on this issue again.
This Book
A lasting perspective in the study of speech and language, of which I
have talked little as yet, comes from neurology and consists of getting
directly inside the speaker’s brain. This became possible by the early
ﬁndings by Paul Broca, and continued through most of the twentieth
century. I will provide a short historical account of this tradition in
Chapter 2. Notably, the linguistic and the neurologic traditions followed
largely parallel histories for most of last century, without much com-
munication between the two disciplines. Only recently, with the revolu-
tion caused by new brain imaging methodologies, have these two lines
begun to converge. In this book, I will focus on the neuronal and
connectional changes that made the emergence of language possible.
To do this, in several instances I will delve into the biological aspects of
human evolution, to which the acquisition of speech and language is
necessarily subordinate. As mentioned, I will refer mostly to speech
rather than other forms of language, and will not describe in detail the
linguistic aspects of syntax, semantics, phonology or lexical structure,
This Book 31
although I will make reference to them as they often impinge on
neurobiological discussions. I will take into consideration the diﬀerent
perspectives on the evolution of the neural circuits for language, but will
propose the novel approach that a key ingredient was the functional
consolidation of a particular circuit connecting auditory and vocal
regions in the cerebral cortex, termed the phonological loop by the
brilliant psychologist Alan Baddeley (Chapter 6) (Baddeley 2007).
This circuit largely overlaps with the classical language areas, but here
I emphasize its critical role in verbal working memory in the evolution of
speech. The activity of the phonological loop enables us to keep linguis-
tic strings in short-term or working memory while we process them and
plays a role in the acquisition of vocabulary and speech. Furthermore, it
contributes an internal speech domain that facilitates the recognition
and visualization of our own mental states, and may also contribute to
engaging in long-term reciprocal conversations with others.
Ampliﬁcation of this circuit astronomically propelled our communica-
tion capacity compared to an ancestral multimodal (vocal-gestural)
communication system, and may have facilitated the development of a
complex grammar. Finally, I will argue that speech was the ﬁrst instance
of elaborate language, and that it allowed us to generate a shared
semantics, and consequently a shared mind (Chapters 10 and 11).
In following this approach, it is necessary to discuss several features of
the human brain, notably its size, functional asymmetry and the neces-
sary exchange of information in both hemispheres in a lateralized brain.
Since Darwin, language has been associated with the size of the human
brain (Chapter 3). Is this really causal, and if so, do larger brains give rise
to language, or vice versa, does language increase brain size? In addition,
language is usually localized in the left hemisphere of the brain, inciden-
tally the same side that controls hand dexterity in right-handers. Why is
this so? Do we really have one dominant hemisphere? What is the link
between language lateralization and hand preference (Chapter 4)?
Finally, interrupting the connections between cerebral hemispheres has
signiﬁcantly informed us about the lateralization of functions and the
organization of our brains. But what is the role of this huge tract in non-
lateralized animals and how does it contribute to a lateralized brain and
the origin of lateralized speech (Chapter 5)?
32 1 Introduction: The Beginning of Words
I will develop my argument starting with the history and current
interpretations of the neurology of language (Chapter 2), followed by
some general attributes of the human brain like its large size (Chapter 3),
lateralization (Chapter 4) and the transfer of information between hemi-
spheres (Chapter 5). I will then introduce Baddeley’s concept of working
memory and its implications for language development in children
(Chapter 6). In the second part of the book, I will review possible evolu-
tionary roots of the phonological loop in the non-human primate brain,
presenting the main argument of the book outlined above (Chapter 7).
After this, I will discuss the argument that language has its origins in hand
gestures, which has been championed by exponents of the mirror neuron
hypothesis (Chapter 8). I will then provide an overview of some recent
ﬁndings on mechanisms of vocal plasticity and learning in other animals,
showing how these can be used as models for the early stages of human
vocal communication (Chapters 9 and 10). In the last chapter, I will
discuss how the phonological loop contributed to amplifying a semantic
space that led us to a shared mind and the consequent interpretation of the
world, with all its cultural consequences (Chapter 11).
References
Antón SC, Potts R, Aiello LC (2014) Evolution of early Homo: an integrated
biological perspective. Science 345:1236828
Baddeley A (2007) Working Memory, Thought and Action. Oxford University
Press, Oxford
Berwick RC, Chomsky N (2016) Why Only Us: Language and Evolution.
MIT Press, Cambridge
Bickerton D (1990) Language and Species. University of Chicago Press,
Chicago
Bickerton D (2009) Adam’s Tongue. How Humans Made Language, How
Language Made Humans. Hill and Wang Press, New York
Bickerton D (2014) More Than Nature Needs. Language, Mind, and
Evolution. Harvard University Press, Cambridge
Bruner E, de la Cuétara JM, Masters M, Amano H, Ogihara N (2014)
Functional craniology and brain evolution: from paleontology to biomedi-
cine. Front Neuroanat 8:19
References 33
Burkhardt RW (2005) Patterns of Behavior: Konrad Lorenz, Niko
Tinbergen, and the Founding of Ethology. University of Chicago
Press, Chicago
Calvin W (1983) The Throwing Madonna. Mc Graw-Hill Press, New York
Candland DK (1995) Feral Children and Clever Animals. Reﬂections on
Human Nature. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Chomsky N (1957) Syntactic Structures. Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin (2002)
Chomsky N (1965) Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. MIT Press, Cambridge
(2014)
Chomsky N (1981) Lectures on Government and Binding. The Pisa Lectures.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin
Corballis M (1993) The Lopsided Ape. Oxford Univeristy Press, Oxford
Cornélio AM, de Bittencourt-Navarrete RE, de Bittencourt Brum R, Queiroz
CM, Costa MR (2016) Human brain expansion during evolution is inde-
pendent of ﬁre control and cooking. Front Neurosci 10:167
Crompton RH (2016) The hominins: a very conservative tribe? Last common
ancestors, plasticity and ecomorphology in Hominidae. Or, What’s in a
name? J Anat 228:686–699.
Darwin C (1859) On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the
Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life. Murray Press, London
Darwin C (1871) The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex.
Murray Press, London
Deacon T (1997) The Symbolic Species. The Co-evolution of Language and
the Brain. Norton Press, New York
Denton M (1985) Evolution: a Theory in Crisis. Burnett Books, Sydney
Desmond A (1984) Archetypes and Ancestors. Palaeontology in Victorian
London, 1850–1875. University of Chicago Press, Chicago
Falk D (2009) The natural endocast of Taung (Australopithecus africanus):
insights from the unpublished papers of Raymond Arthur Dart. Am J Phys
Anthropol 140 (Suppl 49):49–65
Falk D (2014) Interpreting sulci on hominin endocasts: old hypotheses and
new ﬁndings. Front Hum Neurosci 8:134
Falk D, Clarke R (2007) Brief communication: new reconstruction of the
Taung endocast. Am J Phys Anthropol 134:529–534
Falk D, Clarke R (2012) Letter to the editor: response to Holloway and
Broadﬁeld’s critique of our reconstruction of the Taung virtual endocast.
Am J Phys Anthropol 148:483–485
34 1 Introduction: The Beginning of Words
Fischer B, Mitteroecker P (2015) Covariation between human pelvis shape,
stature, and head size alleviates the obstetric dilemma. Proc Natl Acad Sci
USA 112:5655–5660
Fitch T (2010) The Evolution of Language. Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge
Fitch WT, Hauser MD (2004) Computational constraints on syntactic proces-
sing in a nonhuman primate. Science 303:377–380
Fitch WT, Hauser MD, Chomsky N (2005) The evolution of the language
faculty: clariﬁcations and implications. Cognition 97:179–210; discussion
211–225
Gardner RA, Gardner BT (1969) Teaching sign language to a chimpanzee.
Science 165:664–672
Gentner TQ, Fenn KM, Margoliash D, Nusbaum HC. (2006) Recursive
syntactic pattern learning by songbirds. Nature 440:1204–1207
Gould SJ (1977) Ontogeny and Phylogeny. Belknap Press, Harvard,
Cambridge.
Gould SJ, Lewontin RC (1979) The spandrels of San Marco and the
Panglossian paradigm: a critique of the adaptationist programme. Proc R
Soc Lond B Biol Sci 205:581–598
Gregory MD, Kippenhan JS, Dickinson D, Carrasco J, Mattay VS, Weinberger
DR, Berman KF (2016) Regional variations in brain gyriﬁcation are asso-
ciated with general cognitive ability in humans. Curr Biol 26:1301–1305
Gross CG (1993) Huxley versus Owen: the hippocampus minor and evolution.
Trends Neurosci 16:493–498
Gunz P, Neubauer S, Maureille B, Hublin JJ (2010) Brain development after
birth diﬀers between Neanderthals and modern humans. Curr Biol 20:
R921–922
Hauser M (1996) The Evolution of Communication. MIT Press, Cambridge
Hauser MD, Chomsky N, Fitch WT (2002) The faculty of language: what is it,
who has it, and how did it evolve? Science 298:1569–1579
Hauser MD, Yang C, Berwick RC, Tattersall I, Ryan MJ, Watumull J,
Chomsky N, Lewontin RC (2014) The mystery of language evolution.
Front Psychol 5:401
Hayes KJ, Hayes C (1952) Imitation in a home-raised chimpanzee. J Comp
Physiol Psychol 45:450–459
Herder G (1800) Outlines of a Philosophy of the History of Man. Bergman
Publishers, New York
References 35
Holloway RL, Broadﬁeld D (2012) Reply to Falk and Clarke on Taung virtual
endocast midline and volume. Am J Phys Anthropol 149:326
Holloway RL, Broadﬁeld DC, Carlson KJ (2014) New high-resolution com-
puted tomography data of the Taung partial cranium and endocast and their
bearing on metopism and hominin brain evolution. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S
A 111:13022–13027
Hubel DH, Wiesel TN (1977) Ferrier lecture. Functional architecture of
macaque monkey visual cortex. Proc R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 198:1–59
Huseynov A, Zollikofer CP, Coudyzer W, Gascho D, Kellenberger C,
Hinzpeter R, Ponce de León MS (2016) Developmental evidence for
obstetric adaptation of the human female pelvis. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S
A 113:5227–5232
Jackendoﬀ R (1999) Possible stages in the evolution of the language capacity.
Trends Cogn Sci 3:272–279
Jackendoﬀ R, Pinker S (2005) The nature of the language faculty and its
implications for evolution of language (Reply to Fitch, Hauser and
Chomsky). Cognition 97:211–225
Kimbel WH, Villmoare B. (2016) From Australopithecus to Homo: the
transition that wasn’t. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 371:1698
Lenneberg EH (1967) Biological Foundations of Language. John Wiley Press,
New York
Lewontin RC (1975) Genetic aspects of intelligence. Annu Rev Genet 9:387–
405
Liberman AM, Mattingly IG (1989) A specialization for speech perception.
Science 243:489–494
Liberman AM, Harris KS, Hoﬀman HS, Griﬃth BC (1957) The discrimina-
tion of speech sounds within and across phoneme boundaries. J Exp Psychol
54:358–368
Liberman AM, Cooper FS, Shankweiler DP, Studdert-Kennedy M (1967)
Perception of the speech code. Psychol Rev 74:431–461
Lorenz K (1981) The Foundations of Ethology. Springer Verlag, New York
Mitteroecker P, Fischer B (2016) Adult pelvic shape change is an evolutionary
side eﬀect. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 113:E3596
Neubauer S, Gunz P, Hublin JJ (2010) Endocranial shape changes during
growth in chimpanzees and humans: a morphometric analysis of unique and
shared aspects. J Hum Evol 59:555–566
Oakley K (1949) Man the Tool-Maker. Bulletin of the British Museum of
Natural History, London (1972)
36 1 Introduction: The Beginning of Words
Owen R (1837) The Hunterian lectures in comparative anatomy. University of
Chicago Press, Chicago (1992).
Patterson F, Linden E (1985) The Education of Koko. Holt, Rinehart and
Winston Press, New York
Penﬁeld W, Roberts L (1959) Speech and Brain Mechanisms. Princeton
University Press, Princeton
Perruchet P, Rey A (2005) Does the mastery of center-embedded linguistic
structures distinguish humans from nonhuman primates? Psychon Bull Rev
12:307–313
Piantadosi ST, Kidd C (2016) Extraordinary intelligence and the care of
infants. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 113:6874–6879
Pinker S (1994) The Language Instinct. Penguin Books, London
Pinker S, Jackendoﬀ R (2005) The faculty of language: what’s special about it?
Cognition 95:201–236
Plummer T (2004) Flaked stones and old bones: biological and cultural
evolution at the dawn of technology. Am J Phys Anthropol Suppl
39:118–164
Ponce de León MS, Huseynov A, Zollikofer CP (2016) Reply to
Mitteroecker and Fischer: developmental solutions to the obstetrical
dilemma are not Gouldian spandrels. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 113:
E3597–3598
Rey A, Perruchet P, Fagot J (2012) Centre-embedded structures are a by-
product of associative learning and working memory constraints: evidence
from baboons (Papio Papio). Cognition 123:180–184
Richards RJ (1989) Darwin and the Evolutionary Theories of Mind and
Behavior. University of Chicago Press, Chicago
Rightmire GP (2013) Homo erectus and Middle Pleistocene hominins:
brain size, skull form, and species recognition. J Hum Evol 65:223–
252
Rizzolatti G, Arbib MA (1998) Language within our grasp. Trends Neurosci
21:188–194
Rizzolatti G, Craighero L (2004) The mirror-neuron system. Annu Rev
Neurosci 27:169–192
Sankararaman S, Mallick S, Patterson N, Reich D (2016) The combined
landscape of Denisovan and Neanderthal ancestry in present-day humans.
Curr Biol 26:1241–1247
Schiller F (1992) Paul Broca. Explorer of the Brain. Oxford University Press,
Oxford
References 37
Seyfarth RM, Cheney DL, Marler P (1980) Monkey responses to three diﬀer-
ent alarm calls: evidence of predator classiﬁcation and semantic commu-
nication. Science 210:801–803
Tinbergen N (1951) The Study of Instinct. Clarendon Press, New York
Trevathan W (2015) Primate pelvic anatomy and implications for birth. Philos
Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 370:20140065
38 1 Introduction: The Beginning of Words
Part I
A Special Brain
2
Pandora’s Box
It may seem obvious to many of us that our capacities for reason and
language are the product of the activity of interconnected neurons in the
brain. However, coming to this interpretation is the result of a long
history, starting from early conceptions that interpreted brain matter as
little more than a cushion to protect the spirits inside the brain from
harm. Furthermore, identifying the brain regions related to speech and
language processing became possible only after the postmortem study of
language-impaired individuals, a discipline that progressed quite slowly
during the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Only with the advent
of brain imaging techniques in the late twentieth century have we gained
more detailed insight into the organization and structure of language-
related networks. This chapter provides a historical account of the
discovery of the brain as the organ for thought and language, and the
diﬀerent interpretations and controversies that shaped the history of
neurolinguistics, many of which are causing sparks to this day.
© The Author(s) 2017
F. Aboitiz, A Brain for Speech,
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-54060-7_2
41
White Matter, Gray Matter
Modern neuroanatomy probably began with the work of Thomas Willis
in Oxford in the mid seventeenth century (Zimmer 2004). Willis was
the ﬁrst to emphasize the diﬀerence between gray and white matter, and
to pay attention to the cerebral convolutions of the brain. His interest in
the minute anatomy of the brain led him to make fundamental con-
tributions to what is now modern neurology (in fact, he and his
colleagues coined the term “neurology”). He made elegant descriptions
of the cranial nerves, the corpus callosum (then called the mesolobe, and
noted that it was composed of ﬁne parallel lines), the corpus striatum (a
deep nucleus inside the cerebral hemisphere, so named because of the
mixture of gray matter and ﬁber tracts), the thalamus and other regions,
including the circle of Willis, a circle of arteries surrounding the
hypothalamus, obviously named after him. Besides these empirical con-
tributions, Willis also came to the conclusion that it is in gray matter
that our feelings and thoughts are located. He conceived white matter as
a series of channels that convey perceptions and thoughts into the gray
matter of the cerebral cortex, which stores them as enduring memories.
Willis drew attention to the distinct brain folds and convolutions in
diﬀerent animals, which he believed served to store sensory impressions,
and noted that these were less complex in quadrupeds than in apes and
humans. Furthermore, he believed that “storms” of atoms in the brain
caused mental phenomena, and that mental disorders might be eﬀec-
tively treated with pharmaceutical products.
After Willis, another important step in advancing neurology was the
development of phrenology in the early nineteenth century by the German
anatomist Franz Joseph Gall. Instead of observing cerebral tissue itself, Gall
dedicated himself to analyzing the variability of skull shapes, which accord-
ing to him represented the development of diﬀerent parts of the brain in
individuals, resulting in outward pressure on the cranium during growth.
Thus, he developed an elegant but seriously erroneous map of diﬀerent
mental faculties located in speciﬁc parts of the brain, represented by
distinct “bumps” on the surface of the skull (Corsi et al. 1991; Steinberg
2009). This discipline is often dismissed as a classic example of
42 2 Pandora’s Box
pseudoscience, as there was no empirical support for the proposed localiza-
tions. This was solidly demonstrated by Pierre Flourens when he sectioned
brain regions of animals and observed their behavioral eﬀects. However,
the inﬂuence of Gall on the subsequent development of neurology was
tremendous. Jerry Fodor proposed that Gall set the path for the concept of
cerebral localization in which diﬀerent functions are circumscribed to
speciﬁc brain regions. Perhaps more fundamentally, he argued for what
is called “faculty psychology”, that is, the psychological processes like
attention, memory, and language are functionally diﬀerent faculties
(Fodor 1983). Furthermore, his notion that the growth of “bumps” on
the skull (and the underlying brain) corresponds to the development of
diﬀerent capacities presaged the modern concept of experience-dependent
plasticity. We all take these notions for granted now, but Gall’s implicit
inﬂuence on these basic ideas is substantial.
Gall considered that language is localized in the region of the frontal
lobes above the eye orbits, which is now called the orbitofrontal cortex.
This notion received support in the early nineteenth century from Jean
Baptiste Bouillaud, who presented postmortem evidence from lesioned
patients that indicated frontal localization of speech functions (Corsi
et al. 1991). Bouillaud’s work was highly criticized by many, but the
point was made that at least one of the frontal lobes was found to be
damaged in the autopsied brains of individuals that had lost the capacity
for speech, while there were no cases of loss of speech in individuals with
intact frontal lobes. Bouillaud distinguished the capacity to produce
mental symbols and ideas that are preserved in memory (inner speech,
controlled by the frontal lobe gray matter), from the actual articulation
of these ideas in concrete words (external speech, controlled by frontal
lobe white matter).
The Power of the Microscope
Unlike Gall, Paul Broca (whom we met in Chapter 1) was interested in
brain anatomy and the structure of brain convolutions, which were
notably conserved in distinct species. By that time, the comparative
The Power of the Microscope 43
study of brain gyri was well on its way after the work of Luigi Rolando in
the early nineteenth century, who divided the brain into posterior and
anterior components, separated by Rolando’s ﬁssure (now called the
central ﬁssure). Sometime before in the seventeenth century,
Franciscus Sylvius described the other main sulcus of the human
brain, called the Sylvian or lateral ﬁssure (Zimmer 2004; Schiller
1992). Broca had studied with Jules Baillarguer, who discovered the
microscopic six-layered structure of the cerebral cortex, which is con-
served across the diﬀerent gyri but with subtle diﬀerences in the thick-
ness of these laminae, as, for example, the bands of Baillarguer, two
horizontal stripes of myelinated ﬁbers that are especially prominent in
the visual cortex. These ﬁndings were precursors to the ﬁeld of cytoarch-
itectonics, which consisted of the systematic analysis of the laminar
composition of the cerebral cortex across brain regions. Researchers
like Theodor Meynert found that the thickness and appearance of the
diﬀerent laminae are not uniform across the cerebral cortex, which could
be parcellated into several areas, each being relatively homogeneous in its
laminar composition. This provided support to the concept of the
cerebral cortex as a mosaic of specialized areas rather than a uniform,
homogeneous mantle covering the encephalon (Schiller 1992; Corsi
et al. 1991).
Cytoarchitecture received substantial support from the emerging stu-
dies of the cellular composition of the nervous system, led by Camillo
Golgi and Santiago Ramón y Cajal. Both scientists took advantage of
Golgi’s discovery of a silver staining method to analyze the ﬁne structure
of individual neurons, which permitted observing the immense variety
of neuronal types in diﬀerent regions of the nervous system. Particularly,
two main neuronal morphologies were observed in the cerebral cortex,
ﬁrst pyramidal cells with vertically oriented apical dendrites that are
organized in columns perpendicular to the cortical laminae, and second
smaller granular cells, with star-like dendritic arborizations (so-called
stellate cells), of which there are two kinds: spiny (displaying small
dendritic “spines” on the surface), and smooth stellate cells. The char-
acteristic laminar distribution of these cell types represented important
evidence for the ﬁeld of cytoarchitectonics. It later turned out that spiny
cells and pyramidal neurons are excitatory, while smooth stellate cells are
44 2 Pandora’s Box
inhibitory. The evidence of a vertical organization of neurons in the
cerebral cortex, mainly provided by Cajal, complemented the horizontal
laminarity concept of Baillarguer, both of which form the basic scaﬀold-
ing for the modern conception of cortical anatomy (see Fig. 2.1) (Corsi
et al. 1991).
Perhaps the most important exponent of cytoarchitectonics was
Korbinian Brodmann, who in 1909 published a comprehensive
account of the cerebral cortical areas in diﬀerent mammals including
humans and described more than 50 areas in the human brain
(Fig. 2.2) (Brodmann 1909). This map is the most commonly used
by contemporary researchers, as several of these areas were found to
correspond to diﬀerent sensory and motor regions in the brain.
Subsequent students of cytoarchitectonics that deserve mention are
Constantin Von Economo and Georg Koskinas, who made an exhaus-
tive study in 1925 of laminar diﬀerentiation of the cerebral cortex
(Von Economo and Koskinas 1925). They observed that cytoarchi-
tectonic characteristics did not change abruptly; rather there is a
gradient of diﬀerentiation along the cerebral cortex. Thus, regions
involved in sensory processing display densely packed small (granular)
neurons, especially in the middle layer, while motor and limbic areas
show large pyramidal neurons, especially in the deep layers. Between
these regions, there are extensive areas where granularity decreases
with distance from sensory areas and the pyramidal component
increases with proximity to motor regions. Another characteristic of
these intermediate regions is the enlarged thickness of the superﬁcial
layers, considered to be the site for associative connectivity. Von
Economo and Koskinas’ approach also represented a slight departure
from a more phrenologically oriented view of the brain, consisting of
discrete areas or modules, to a gradual pattern of functional diﬀer-
entiation along the cerebral cortex (Corsi et al. 1991). Combined
approaches including high-resolution cytoarchitectonics, gene and
receptor distribution, and new imaging techniques have been used
recently to produce high-resolution atlases of the human cerebral
cortex (Ding et al. 2016b; Glasser et al. 2016). Although these are
promising achievements, their consistency and reliability still needs to
be improved.
The Power of the Microscope 45
I
II
IV
III
V
VI
Motor
Sensory
I
II
IV
III
V
VI
Fig. 2.1 Cellular organization of the cerebral cortex. The cerebral cortex is
organized in horizontal laminae (layers I–VI) and vertical columns crossing
each of the laminae. Cytoarchitectonics refers to the parcellation of the
cerebral cortex in different areas, based on the relative development of the
layers in different regions. As an example, a motor area, with a robust layer V
(output layer), is contrasted to a sensory area displaying a thick layer IV (input
layer). Morphologically, excitatory cells are of two kinds: pyramidal (trian-
gles), and spiny granular cells (circles), the latter concentrated on layer IV.
Inhibitory interneurons (also called smooth granular cells; not shown) are
distributed in all layers
46 2 Pandora’s Box
3
1
2
5
4
6
8
9
46
10
11
45
47
38
Sylvian
fissure
Corpus
callosum
20
8
9
32
10
11 12
33
25
26
29
27
34
28
36
38
20
35
37
19
18
17
18
30
19
31
7
23
6
24
4
3 1
2
5
Medial
21
22
42
41
43
44
40
39
19
37
17
Lateral
(b)
(a)
18
7
Fig. 2.2 Lateral and medial aspects of the human cerebral hemispheres.
Figures depict Brodmann’s cortical areas in numbers, and the longitudinal
The Power of the Microscope 47
Broca’s Brains
To Broca the evidence above strongly indicated that convolutions sup-
ported distinct mental functions. In the following, I will mainly refer to
Francis Schiller’s lucid biography of Broca, which is probably the main
modern reference to his work (Schiller 1992). On April 18, 1861, Broca
reported in the Societé D’Anthropologie the postmortem brain of his
patient Leborgne, who had a lesion of the left third frontal convolution
of the left hemisphere. This region is now referred to as the inferior frontal
gyrus, or ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (which is to be distinguished from
the ventral premotor cortex, located just posteriorly, which codiﬁes com-
plex motor patterns executed by the ventral motor cortex). From now on,
I will use the term “ventrolateral prefrontal cortex” to specify the location
of Broca’s region. Leborgne had a speciﬁc impairment to articulate speech
(he could only pronounce the word “tan”), while speech comprehension
was intact. A few months later, Broca found Lelong, another patient with
a similar lesion, whose speech was also impaired, being able to utter only
six French words: oui (yes), non (no), tois (trois, which meant not only
three but any number), tojours (always), and Lelo (Lelong). Like
Leborgne, this patient showed a reasonable capacity to understand what
was said to him. Leborgne had a long-lasting, presumably progressive
Fig.2.2 (Continued)
subdivisions speciﬁed by Foville in gray. (a) In the lateral aspect, Foville’s
circonvolution d’enceinte, or the Sylvian convolution surrounds the Sylvian
ﬁssure. This includes the inferior parietal lobe (areas 39 and 40, angular and
supramarginal gyri), the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (areas 44-pars oper-
cularis, 45-pars triangularis, and 47), and the ventral premotor (area 6),
motor (area 4), somatosensory (areas 3, 1, 2) and insular (area 43) regions.
In the temporal lobe, areas 22, 41 and 42 make up the superior temporal
gyrus, which is separated from the middle and inferior temporal gyri (areas
20, 21 and 37) by the superior temporal sulcus (not shown). The temporal
pole corresponds to area 38. (b) The medial aspect of the hemisphere depicts
Foville’s and Broca’s limbic lobe (in gray). The anterior cingulate cortex
corresponds to area 24, and areas 23, 26, 29, 30 and 31 behind the corpus
callosum make up the posterior cingulate cortex or retrosplenial region. The
default mode network involves areas 10 and 32 in the frontal lobe, and the
posterior cingulate cortex
48 2 Pandora’s Box
condition, as his brain had softened in regions spanning the white matter,
the basal ganglia, and nearby cortical regions. Lelong acquired this con-
dition suddenly, likely due to a localized brain hemorrhage in the same
left third frontal convolution (the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex). Finally,
localization of brain functions was conﬁrmed. Broca called this condition
aphemia, and postulated that it was due to the loss of a special kind of
memory involved in the procedure used for articulating words (Broca
1865). He was, however, clear in saying that not all cerebral faculties were
as circumscribed as this one. It is less known that the neurologist Marc
Dax, at Sommières (a small town close to Montpellier), had made similar
observations some 25 years before Broca, but instead of specifying the
brain region, he emphasized the left hemisphere as the site where lesions
produced language disturbances. Dax was largely ignored in his time,
presumably due to his early death 1 year after his ﬁndings. After Broca’s
presentation, Dax’s son published these observations again, but was
unsuccessful in vindicating his father. Broca was late in recognizing the
leftward asymmetry of the observed lesions, initially attributing them to
chance, but eventually he concluded that there was in fact a clear tendency
shown by evidence (Schiller 1992).
Broca was not without his detractors, among them the anti-localiza-
tionist Pierre Flourens, who viewed these interpretations as a new form
of phrenology. In addition, the eminent Jean Martin Charcot presented
a case with undeniable aphemia with a lesion on the upper border of the
Sylvian ﬁssure (in modern terms, the gyrus supramarginalis in the
inferior parietal lobe). Responding to this, Broca claimed that a single
case did not make a tendency, but perhaps more importantly for our
purposes, he relied on Louis Foville’s anatomical descriptions of brain
convolutions, which contrary to Rolando’s depiction, subdivided the
brain into three major longitudinal lobes (Fig. 2.2). The most medial of
these was the convolution of the hem, which includes the cingulate gyrus
and the medial temporal lobe. Secondly, there was a large lobe encom-
passing dorsal frontal, superior parietal, occipital, and inferior temporal
areas, and ﬁnally there was the convolution around the Sylvian ﬁssure or
circonvolution d’enceinte, involving all areas surrounding the Sylvian
ﬁssure. In modern terms, these are Broca’s region, the adjacent premotor
and motor cortices and the inferior parietal lobe on the upper side of the
Broca’s Brains 49
Sylvian ﬁssure, and on the lower side, the superior temporal gyrus where
auditory areas and Wernicke’s region are located. Broca initially argued
that the speech organ was the entire Sylvian convolution, and that there
are diﬀerences in its organization among individuals, but he later insisted
on the third frontal convolution (the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex) as
the site of speech (Schiller 1992).
Although little recognized today, Foville’s subdivision ﬁts the current
notions about the arrangement of major longitudinal tracts of the brain.
Broca renamed the hem convolution as the limbic lobe. He published a
massive work on the “great limbic lobe” of mammals, surrounding the
medial borders of the cerebral hemispheres. Broca also made a thorough
analysis of the brains of several mammals, and concluded that the
primate brain was divided into regions comparable to the brains of
other animals, indicating a conservatism in structure that was not gen-
erally agreed on at that time (Broca 2015). The limbic convolution is
connected through a tract called the cingulum bundle and other tracts,
making up a circuit that was described in the twentieth century by James
Papez, and termed the Papez circuit. Foville’s large convolution in the
middle is the arrangement of the visual system, with one pathway
following through the superior parietal and dorsal frontal cortices (as
we will see, this is involved in visuomotor coordination), and the other
pathway running along the middle and inferior temporal lobe (involved
in visual recognition). Finally, all the areas included in the Sylvian
convolution have been directly or indirectly associated with language
processing. We will come back to this anatomical partition in Chapter 7.
Another antagonist of Broca was Armand Trousseau, who analyzed a
large series of brains of speech-impaired individuals. Although he found
a clear prevalence of left hemisphere lesions, when looking for the exact
location of the lesion in a subset of the subjects he studied he found no
strong evidence for Broca’s hypothesis. Ironically, Trousseau coined the
word “aphasia”, which eventually replaced Broca’s term aphemia. But
perhaps Broca’s hardest critics were the neurologists John Hughlings
Jackson in England and Pierre Marie in France. Jackson considered
language a very complicated faculty and was highly skeptical of the
localizationist perspective. He emphasized subcortical regions involved
in language, particularly the corpus striatum, which could have been
50 2 Pandora’s Box
damaged in aphasic patients. In addition, he claimed that damage to
one part of the brain could produce eﬀects in distant regions, aﬀect-
ing functions not necessarily located in the damaged site. Jackson also
highlighted the case of a patient who had severe diﬃculties in speak-
ing normally, but was able to swear with complete precision and vigor
(York and Steinberg 2011). Pierre Marie had a similar interpretation
to Jackson’s, arguing that language is one and indivisible, and that
Broca’s cases only involved the lower motor systems involved in
speech production rather than an intellectual impairment. Notably,
Marie argued that aphemia or aphasia could be produced not only
through lesions of the left third frontal convolution, but also with
deeper lesions involving the insula (a portion of the cortex that is
buried deep within the Sylvian ﬁssure), or the basal ganglia. The
dispute between holists and localizationists went on for over a cen-
tury, the former providing important theoretical insights, while the
latter contributed increasingly detailed anatomical evidence in their
support (Schiller 1992; Steinberg 2014).
Comprehending Speech
Broca’s observations fell short on the capacity to perceive speech and
language. In 1874, at the age of 26, Karl Wernicke proposed the existence
of a brain center involved in the storage of speech sounds, located in the
posterior superior temporal gyrus (Wernicke 1874). This is now called
Wernicke’s area, corresponding to the posterior part of Brodmann’s area
22, a region now associated with high level auditory processing. This region
is dedicated to storing acoustic images of words that are then transferred to
Broca’s area, controlling speech. Supporting this notion, Wernicke described
patients that could hear but had diﬃculty understanding speech. He dis-
tinguished this “word deafness” or sensory aphasia, as opposed to Broca’s
motor aphasia, from semantic deﬁcits. Thus, he believed that this sensory
speech region was responsible for transforming orthographic signals into
phonological patterns, and making the generation of inner speech pos-
sible (Corsi, 1991; Schiller 1992; Petrides, 2014; Weiller et al. 2011).
Comprehending Speech 51
Wernicke was greatly inﬂuenced by the work of Theodore
Meynert, who beside his contribution to cytoarchitectonics, was
also the ﬁrst to propose a systematic subdivision of the ﬁber tracts
in the human brain, with ascending or descending projection ﬁbers,
commissural ﬁbers connecting the cerebral hemispheres via the cor-
pus callosum, and association ﬁbers connecting diﬀerent regions of
the cerebral cortex within each hemisphere. Following Meynert,
Wernicke postulated a connection between Wernicke’s and Broca’s
areas that made the association of sensory inputs with motor com-
mands possible. In contrast to the localizationist view, Wernicke
emphasized the associative nature of these projections, presaging
modern concepts of brain connectivity. Lesions in the connectivity
between the sensory (Wernicke’s) and motor (Broca’s) regions
resulted in a disconnection syndrome called conduction aphasia,
which included paraphasia. This consisted of the generation of
erroneous syllables, words or even phrases during speech. Another
symptom was impaired writing, although speech was ﬂuent and
comprehension preserved. Wernicke attributed the production of
paraphasias to the suppression of mental reverberation of acoustic
images while speaking, which serves to monitor motor images.
However, a cardinal symptom of conduction aphasia was eventually
speciﬁed as the diﬃculty to repeat sentences or utterances presented
to the patient, something that Wernicke did not originally describe
(Corsi et al. 1991; Schiller 1992; Petrides 2014).
It is widely believed that Wernicke’s model considered that
conduction aphasia was due to disruption of the arcuate fasciculus,
a tract of ﬁbers that runs around the Sylvian ﬁssure, deep to the
inferior parietal lobe, and connects the posterior superior temporal
lobe (Wernicke’s area) with Broca’s region (Fig. 2.3). However,
Cornelius Weiller has recently argued that although Wernicke may
have been aware of the existence of this tract, his original diagrams
point to a much shorter pathway via the mid-or anterior temporal
lobe, which he considered traveled deep to the insula, a buried
cortical area located between Wernicke’s and Broca’s regions
52 2 Pandora’s Box
FAT
SLFI
SLFII
SLFIII
UF
EC
MLF
VOF
AF
(b)
6 4
8
9
46
10
45
44
47
38
20
21
22
37
42
41
43
40
39
19
18
Inferior
parietal lobe
Wernicke
17
7
5
3 1
2
11
Broca
(a)
ILF
Sylvian
fissure
Fig. 2.3 The main cortico-cortical tracts discussed in this book. (a) This sche-
matic is not intended to be anatomically accurate but to reﬂect the topo-
graphical arrangement of these tracts. In addition, these tracts are not
Comprehending Speech 53
(Weiller et al. 2011). The arcuate fasciculus, named after Karl
Burdach, was ﬁrst described at the beginning of the eighteenth
century by Johan Cristian Reil as a bundle of ﬁbers running around
the superior border of the Sylvian ﬁssure, encompassing the super-
ior temporal, inferior parietal and inferior frontal areas, beneath
Foville’s upper Sylvian convolution (see above). Constantin von
Monakow ﬁrst postulated that this tract plays a role in aphasia,
and it was only later that Wernicke accepted that it is a main tract
in language pathways, whose disruption produces conduction apha-
sia (nonetheless, more recent ﬁndings have evidenced gray matter
involvement in many cases of conduction aphasia). From then on,
Wernicke’s original model of a short language pathway underlying
the insula fell into oblivion, as attention shifted to the arcuate
fasciculus as the main connection between Broca and Wernicke’s
areas (Schiller 1992; Catani and Mesulam 2008a; Weiller et al.
2011).
Fig.2.3 (Continued)
discrete bundles but rather overlap in a continuous plexus below the cortical
surface. AF, Arcuate fasciculus; EC, Extreme capsule; FAT, Frontal aslant tract;
ILF, Inferior longitudinal fasciculus; MLF, middle longitudinal fasciculus; SLF I,
II, III, dorsal, middle and ventral components of the superior longitudinal
fasciculus, respectively; UF, Uncinate fasciculus; VOF, Vertical occipital fasci-
culus. The curved arrow at the posterior end of the Sylvian ﬁssure connects
superior temporal and inferior parietal areas, and has been termed the
posterior segment of either the arcuate fasciculus or the middle longitudinal
fasciculus, depending on the nomenclature. (b) Functional subdivisions and
connectivity of the language-related circuit. In the superior temporal gyrus,
areas 41 and 42 make up the auditory cortex, while Wernicke’s area roughly
corresponds to posterior area 22. Broca’s area, in a restricted sense, has been
deﬁned as area 44-pars opercularis, and area 45-pars triangularis. The dorsal
language pathway has two components, one connecting Wernicke’s area
mainly with area 44 and neighboring regions via the arcuate fasciculus
(black arrow), and the other connecting Wernicke’s area with the inferior
parietal lobe, and then projecting to areas 44 and 45 via the superior long-
itudinal fasciculus (dark gray arrows). There are additional connections
between motor, premotor and somatosensory areas (light gray arrow). The
ventral pathway (segmented arrows) is a polysynaptic tract that connects the
anterior temporal gyrus (auditory component), and the middle and inferior
temporal gyri (visual component) with areas 45 and 47
54 2 Pandora’s Box
Nonetheless, recent investigations have conﬁrmed the existence of two
parallel pathways connecting Wernicke and Broca’s region (Fig. 2.3). One is
the dorsal pathway, running through the arcuate fasciculus, whose interrup-
tion (or of the gray matter above it) leads to conduction aphasia. The second
is the so-called ventral pathway, connecting the anterior temporal lobe and
the inferior frontal gyrus along the extreme capsule, which has been proposed
to participate in auditory recognition. The ventral pathway has been pro-
posed as a better ﬁt to Wernicke’s original notion of a short connection to
Broca’s region beneath the insula (Saur et al. 2008; Weiller et al. 2011;
Fridriksson et al. 2016). Again, Foville’s Sylvian convolution ﬁts these two
pathways, the dorsal pathway/arcuate fasciculus running through the inferior
parietal lobe, and the ventral pathway/extreme capsule running through the
temporal lobe and below the insula to reach Broca’s area. Furthermore, Reil’s
original depiction of the arcuate fasciculus as a curved tract running the
length of the upper Sylvian convolution is also consistent with this notion.
Possibly due to the neglect of the ventral pathway during most of the last
century, the arcuate fasciculus came to be viewed only as the dorsal compo-
nent linking Broca’s and Wernicke’s areas.
The Disconnection Syndrome
Since Wernicke’s ﬁndings, an inﬂuential associationist tradition emerged
in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, in which disconnec-
tion syndromes were described in other brain areas beyond the language
regions (Mesulam 2015). Wernicke’s student Heinrich Lissauer described
a patient with intact visual capacity but incapable of recognizing familiar
objects by sight, a condition called visual agnosia that is due to interrup-
tion of the connectivity between visual areas and higher order association
areas. Another student, Hugo Liepmann, described the apraxias resulting
from disconnection of the motor centers from sensory regions and char-
acterized by the incapacity to imitate meaningless movements or manip-
ulating imaginary objects (Weiller 2011). Finally, Jules Déjérine coined
the term pure alexia, meaning the acquired inability to read (while the
capacity to write remains spared) due to a disconnection between visual
areas and Wernicke’s area. In 1881, Déjérine described a patient with a
The Disconnection Syndrome 55
lesion in the fusiform gyrus (part of the inferior temporal lobe), who was
unable to read but could write and otherwise had intact visual and
language skills. Déjérine slightly departed from the pure associationist
school by proposing a speciﬁc brain center dedicated to processing word
images (Corsi et al. 1991). More recent research, notably by Stanislaas
Dehaene, has identiﬁed a region called the visual word form area in the
inferior temporal lobe, which is speciﬁcally involved in recognizing the
shapes of words and letters, and projects to Wernicke’s area where these
visual percepts associate with auditory phonological representations
(Cohen et al. 2002). The visual word form area does not activate with
reading, and cannot do so, in illiterate people, and is the result of
enculturation among the literate. Subsequent studies suggest the existence
of a nearby visual number form area, and an area involved in graphemic
motor control (called Exner’s area), above Broca’s region (Roux et al.
2009). As I mentioned in the Chapter 1, culture can make enormous
changes in the structure and functional organization of our brains. Is
language an example of enculturation, as the neural substrate is for
reading?
The associationist school became ﬁrmly consolidated much later in
1965, with Norman Geschwind’s monumental work The disconnection
syndromes in animals and man (Geschwind 1965). Geschwind made an
extensive account of acquired neurological symptoms that could be
explained by the disconnection between diﬀerent brain centers. He
proposed a series of pathways connecting visual, auditory and somato-
sensory areas with each other, but also with motor and limbic areas
whose speciﬁc damage yielded a particular neurological symptomatol-
ogy. A key element in these networks was the inferior parietal lobe (the
supramarginal and angular gyri, part of the Sylvian convolution), where
auditory, visual, and somatosensory projections converged. Marco
Catani and collaborators recently summarized these ideas in a diagram
highlighting the inferior parietal lobe as a critical node for cortico-
cortical connectivity, and appropriately called it “Geschwind’s area”
(Catani and ﬀytche 2005; Catani and Mesulam 2008b). Concerning
the language circuits, Geschwind emphasized the case of conduction
aphasia and the role of the arcuate fasciculus in conveying sensory
information from Broca’s to Wernicke’s areas. Furthermore, he
56 2 Pandora’s Box
consolidated the now classical model of language areas that prevailed
through the second half of last century, consisting of a posterior,
perceptive Wernicke’s region, connected via the arcuate fasciculus with
Broca’s anterior motor region.
In 1964, Geschwind published a little known article, called The
development of the brain and the evolution of language, where he proposed
that the capacity to establish direct cortico-cortical associations, espe-
cially between diﬀerent sensory modalities (but also within a sensory
modality), was particularly well developed in humans as opposed to
other primates (Geschwind 1964). This allows us to name objects in
the world and acquire symbolic representations. On the other hand,
non-human primates are much slower in learning cross-modal associa-
tions, and require an intact limbic system to perform such associations.
Humans, with their big brains, have freed themselves of the limbic
connection by emphasizing direct cross-modal, cortico-cortical associa-
tions. This is not to say that in humans there are no limbic associations,
but that much faster cortico-cortical associations can be readily made
that allow us to rapidly associate words with objects. Again, an essential
part of Geschwind’s proposal was that the temporo-parietal junction
serves as a node in which sensory information converges from the visual,
tactile, and auditory modalities, and is connected to Wernicke’s area in
the superior temporal lobe. Later evidence that apes are able to learn a
relatively extensive vocabulary using sign language has challenged this
hypothesis. However, apes learn words through a long and painstaking
training procedure, while children acquire their vocabulary rapidly
and eﬀortlessly.
In the twentieth century, human neuroanatomy made some dis-
crete progress, particularly in the study of cytoarchitectonics and
brain-behavior correlations, a ﬁeld termed by Geschwind as “beha-
vioral neurology” (Catani and Mesulam 2008a,b). Broca’s area
became circumscribed to two speciﬁc regions of the ventrolateral
prefrontal cortex. One is the posterior part of Broca’s area or pars
opercularis, comprising Brodmann’s area 44, more related to pho-
nological and vocal articulatory processes, and the other is the
anterior part or pars triangularis, which includes Brodmann’s areas
45 and 47, and is related to lexical and semantic processing.
The Disconnection Syndrome 57
Nonetheless, there is a noticeable individual variability in the symp-
toms of classical Broca’s aphasia. This condition now includes a wide
spectrum of acquired speech dysfunctions, including more subtle
speech articulation and ﬂuency deﬁcits, diﬃculties to ﬁnd words,
and some comprehension problems, particularly of complex gram-
matical sequences. Moreover, studies in the late twentieth century,
notably by Nina Dronkers, Marco Catani and others, have found
that Broca’s aphasia can be produced by lesions in several regions
surrounding areas 44 and 45, including neighboring cortical areas,
the insula, the underlying white matter and the basal ganglia, which
is in agreement with Pierre Marie’s descriptions (see above)
(Thiebaut de Schotten et al. 2015). Thus, instead of being a strictly
localized brain region, Broca’s area encompasses a wide network in
the left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. Moreover, damage restricted
to areas 44 and 45 is now thought to produce only transient speech
deﬁcits, while long-lasting impairments may include lesions in white
matter tracts that connect Broca’s region with other areas, or in
more extensive cortical regions. In this line, Alfredo Ardila proposes
the term “Broca’s complex” to account for Broca’s aphasia sympto-
matology, which includes prefrontal areas 44, 45, 46, 47 and part of
the ventral premotor cortex (area 6) (Ardila et al. 2016).
Dronkers and collaborators analyzed in detail the brains of Leborgne
and Lelong, conﬁrming Broca’s original descriptions, but localizing
Leborgne’s lesion in the middle of the inferior frontal gyrus (Dronkers
and Sanides 2007). The posterior part of this gyrus, where modern
researchers have located Broca’s region, is altered but is not the most
damaged area. In Lelong’s brain, there are signs of atrophy consistent
with chronic dementia, but there is also evidence of a stroke located in
the pars opercularis, sparing the pars triangularis. Further analyses using
magnetic resonance imaging techniques show extensive damage in
Leborgne’s brain, restricted to the left hemisphere, including regions like
the insula, superior temporal lobe and inferior parietal lobe, while in
Lelong’s brain resonance imaging conﬁrms the lesion localized in the
pars opercularis. This supports the idea that Broca’s aphasia does not result
from damage in a strictly localized brain region, but may require more
extensive cortical, subcortical or white matter lesions. Nonetheless,
58 2 Pandora’s Box
anatomical studies have by necessity been restricted to a handful of areas,
particularly areas 44 and 45, although sometimes including neighboring
regions. Although this may only be part of a larger network for language
production, science accumulates information step by step, from the parti-
cular to the general in order to keep the required simplicity for executing
highly demanding technical procedures. Below, I will refer to some recent
studies that use the more restricted deﬁnition of Broca’s area, involving
only areas 44 and 45 (and sometimes 47), a notion that, while criticized for
reasons outlined above, has been extremely useful to trace the neural
connectivity that makes up language and speech networks.
On the other hand, Wernicke’s area remains ill deﬁned, correspond-
ing to a wide region including Brodmann’s posterior area 22 and
surrounding areas. This covers the posterior superior temporal gyrus
and a triangular region within the lower bank of the Sylvian ﬁssure called
planum temporale. In front of the planum temporale are the gyri of
Heschl, containing the primary and secondary auditory areas.
Cytoarchitectonic studies in the 1960s by Friedrich Sanides, Deepak
Pandya and their then student Albert Galaburda subdivided the auditory
areas into three concentric rings, a “core” region containing primary and
secondary auditory areas, which are successively surrounded by an
intermediate auditory “belt” and an outer “parabelt”. In the posterior
parabelt, Galaburda and Pandya described a region called Tpt, which is
thought to occupy a large part of the planum temporale, and has been
ascribed (but not exclusively) to Wernicke’s area (Galaburda and Sanides
1980, Galaburda and Pandya 1983). Notably, all the regions composing
Broca and Wernicke’s regions exist in monkeys and apes, indicating that
they are highly conserved in evolution. How did these areas acquire a
linguistic function? This is a major question I intend to address in this
book, and will discuss in more detail in Chapter 7.
The Imaging Revolution
For most of the twentieth century, the study of the human brain was
limited to postmortem, gross anatomical, and microscopic cytoarchitec-
tonic studies. There were few possibilities of studying the brain in action
The Imaging Revolution 59
(one exception being electroencephalography) or brain connectivity, as
was being done with animals for most of that time. Anatomical and
electrophysiological studies were yielding much information about ani-
mal brains, but to what extent these ﬁndings could be extrapolated to the
human brain was in many cases a matter of question. At least since the
1980s, neuronal connections can be visualized in high detail in animals
by injecting chemical tracers that are absorbed by the respective axons or
neurons in one brain region, and then observing the distribution of the
tracer in the rest of the brain in the postmortem tissue. Apart from some
details, this technique continues to be used to trace connections in most
animal brains. However, this cannot be done with humans, and until
recently the only way to analyze connectivity was in postmortem speci-
mens that had suﬀered brain stroke in life. When neurons die due to
injury, their axonal projections undergo a degenerative process called
Wallerian degeneration, which leaves traces in the neural tissue that can
be observed after death. However, this method depends on the site and
size of the lesion, and has very low resolution compared to animal tract-
tracing procedures.
A diﬀerent strategy emerged in the 1950s and 1960s, when neuro-
surgeons Wilder Penﬁeld and Lamar Roberts made groundbreaking
studies with patients undergoing brain surgery by electrically stimulating
their brains and observing the behavioral reactions (Penﬁeld and Roberts
1959). Since neurosurgery has to be done with the patient awake and
using only local anesthesia, patients were conscious and able to respond
to the stimulation procedure. Penﬁeld and colleagues depicted the
famous body homunculus in the sensory and motor cortices; and also
identiﬁed areas whose stimulation elicited vocalizations, notably in the
ventral precentral and supplementary motor regions of both hemi-
spheres (areas 6 and 4, ventral). They further found that stimulating
the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (Broca’s area), the motor and premo-
tor cortices, and some regions around the Sylvian ﬁssure, all in the left
hemisphere, could lead to interference with or the arrest of speech.
But revolutionary discoveries were about to change the study of
language for good. Since the 1960s, new brain imaging techniques
were developed that made it possible for the ﬁrst time to study local
brain activity in living humans, even if they evidenced processes only
60 2 Pandora’s Box
indirectly associated with neuronal activity. The ﬁrst of these techniques
were SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) and PET
(positron emission tomography), which detect emissions from a radio-
active tracer in the bloodstream, sensed by an array of detectors that
anatomically localize the source of the emission in the brain. These
techniques measure diﬀerences in blood ﬂow, but also glucose consump-
tion and even the binding of radioactive ligands to their receptors. An
underlying assumption is that local diﬀerences in blood ﬂow or glucose
metabolism reﬂect changes in neuronal activity in the corresponding
brain regions. However, the most inﬂuential neuroimaging technique
has been magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), ﬁrst developed by Paul
Lauterbur, and optimized by Peter Mansﬁeld (both received the Nobel
Prize for their contribution), a totally non-invasive technique that mea-
sures the magnetic ﬁeld orientation of water molecules in diﬀerent
tissues (Pearson 2003). MRI made it possible to generate high-resolution
three-dimensional images of the brain for detailed quantitative analyses
of brain morphology in living subjects. Moreover, two techniques
derived from MRI have been the most relevant for the development of
cognitive neuroscience and particularly for understanding the language
neural networks. One is functional MRI (fMRI), which takes advantage
of the magnetic properties of the oxygen-carrier protein hemoglobin,
depending on whether or not it is oxygen-binding. Counterintuitively,
brain regions show a larger oxygen supply when they are more, rather
than less active, presumably because the overall increase in blood ﬂow
overcomes the higher oxygen consumption by active neurons.
Compared to SPECT and PET, fMRI has higher neuroanatomical
precision and, as noted, is totally non-invasive, as it does not require
radioactive tracers, which also makes it more aﬀordable. However, one
drawback for language studies is that speech produces image distortions
due to jaw movements, so subjects’ responses are restricted to button
pressing. As well, the machine is quite noisy, which complicates the
delivery of auditory stimuli.
Another technical diﬃculty with imaging techniques is that the brain
is never quiet, and blood ﬂow is evident throughout the brain. One way
to overcome this is a subtraction procedure, where the diﬀerence in
activity between two related conditions is determined. In most instances,
The Imaging Revolution 61
subjects have to perform two quite similar tasks, but diﬀering only in
one parameter. For example, imagine the N-back task, a procedure to
assess short-term memory, where subjects are exposed to a semi-random
string of numbers (avoiding the chance of repeated numbers), and at
some point the sequence stops. Subjects are then asked to immediately
recall the last number of the sequence. This is the 0-back condition,
which requires attention from the subject, but on the other hand it puts
little demand on short-term memory capacity. If the subject is then
asked to recall the next-to-last number (1-back condition), the demand
on memory is higher, and still more demanding if the subject has to
recall the second-to-last number (2-back condition) (Gaspar et al. 2011).
Thus, brain activation in the ﬁrst 0-back task evidences networks
involved primarily with attention, but that have less to do with memory,
while activation patterns in the 1-back and 2-back tasks increasingly
activate networks involved in memory and executive processes, but also
activate attentional networks. If we subtract the activation pattern of the
0-back from that of the 1-back, we minimize activation due to atten-
tional mechanisms and emphasize memory-related networks. By sub-
tracting the 1-back and the 2-back conditions, we may obtain
understanding of higher-level executive processes. The usual results are
that a small group of areas are highlighted by the subtraction procedure.
However, the technique has its drawbacks, as it downplays connec-
tivity and the participation of brain regions that may be highly relevant
for the speciﬁc function but also participate in the control task.
Furthermore, the speciﬁc areas that “light up” in a subtraction procedure
may depend on the statistical method and criterion used to identify
signiﬁcant diﬀerences. Furthermore, results are usually (but not always)
reported as grand averages of several trials with each subject, and then
averaged among the subjects that compose the sample. Under these
conditions, the observed activity locus is usually attributed to speciﬁc
cytoarchitectonic areas. However, in practice, this is impossible to verify
because of inter-individual diﬀerences in brain activity proﬁles and the
neuroanatomy of cortical areas, where ﬁssurization patterns are highly
variable, and presumably so is the arrangement of cytoarchitectonic
areas. The best we can get is an approximation of the cortical areas
involved. Furthermore, Eklund et al. (2016) and collaborators recently
62 2 Pandora’s Box
performed a comprehensive study, ﬁnding an astonishing 70% of false-
positives when analyzing imaging data with standard fMRI softwares,
which calls into question the results of some 40,000 previous studies.
There have been recent technical developments such as single-trial fMRI
approaches, but these are still not widespread and have not yet produced
important results. Most of the studies presented in this book rely on
averaged samples of subjects.
Resting Brains
One alternative to rescue network thinking has come from a
technique called functional connectivity, which is basically the statistical
analysis of covariance in activity between diﬀerent brain regions. That is,
the activity level of a brain region is not constant but changes over time,
either as a result of sensory stimulation, or by endogenous mechanisms. If
we analyze diﬀerent brain regions and ﬁnd areas where activity changes
more or less synchronically, we can say that these areas are functionally
connected. This is not exactly the same as anatomical connectivity, as
functional connectivity results from a statistical study of correlated varia-
bility between two areas. Thus, we can observe which area becomes
preferentially activated in a given task, and then analyze the constellation
of brain areas that are functionally connected to it to unveil the distrib-
uted brain network to which it belongs. One notable example of this was
provided by the groundbreaking experiments by Marcus Raichle and his
collaborators, who criticized the standard imaging protocols for always
using a control task that requires an executive function, and then con-
trasting this with the experimental task. Raichle wondered what happens
when the brain does not have to perform any task at all, as opposed to
executing some sort of cognitive task. Thus, he asked participants to lie
quietly on the fMRI machine with their eyes open while he recorded their
brain activity. Then, he and colleagues compared the observed pattern
with the average activations found for a series of cognitive tasks. His
ﬁndings have become among the most relevant in the history of cognitive
neuroscience, although not without controversy, as every respectable
innovation should be (Raichle et al. 2001; Raichle 2015).
Resting Brains 63
Raichle determined that in the resting condition, also called the
default mode condition, there was a typical activity pattern in which
some brain areas increase their activity. Notably, these are the dorsome-
dial prefrontal cortex and posterior cingulate cortex in the dorsal midline
of the hemisphere (see Fig. 2.2), and a few other areas in the lateral
aspect of the hemisphere. On the other hand, these same areas signiﬁ-
cantly decrease their activity when the brain engages in an executive task.
In the latter condition, there is a diﬀerent set of areas that increase their
activity, including premotor areas that are involved in short-term mem-
ory processes, in eye movement control and others. When studying the
functional connectivity in these networks, it was found that their activity
was strongly oscillatory, with a notable within-network positive syn-
chrony. That is, within the resting networks all areas activate and
decrease their activities more or less at the same time; and conversely,
within the executive network all areas also show a highly positive activity
correlation. However, between networks there is strict anti-synchrony,
that is, when the resting state network is active, the executive network
goes down, and conversely, when the executive network engages, the
resting state network disengages (Fox et al. 2005, 2007). As I said, this is
an oscillatory process, in which we normally alternate in periods of one
or more minutes from activating the executive networks and deactivat-
ing the resting network, and then activating the resting network and
deactivating the executive network. Thus, we do not fully concentrate
even when we are engaged in serious tasks, but from time to time
disengage and make an update of our internal state and contextual
situation, to again re-enter the task after a brief while. This ﬁts quite
well with our own personal experiences at work, when writing, as I am
now, or in any other task. Thus, our cognitive or behavioral eﬃciency
may relate better with the appropriate alternation between these two
tasks than with keeping to the executive network at the expense of the
resting network.
I used these long words to describe the resting state and default
network because they are related to two mental processes that are
highly relevant to language and to language origins: one is social
behavior, as the default network has been associated with empathy
and mentalization, the capacity to understand the other’s mental states;
64 2 Pandora’s Box
and the second is introspection and particularly daydreaming, which
are related to the development of inner speech, a capacity that I will
argue marked an inﬂection point in the evolution of speech and
language. Importantly, the language network does not strictly belong
to either the executive or the resting state networks, but rather is
recruited by one or the other in diﬀerent circumstances, say when
daydreaming (activating the resting state network, as noted above), or
for example when teaching a class or opening conference (activating the
executive network). The speech circuits may actually contribute infor-
mation stored in both networks and supply a way of transferring
memories between them (See Chapter 4).
The Language Network Updated
The second derivation of MRI is tractographic diﬀusion tensor
imaging (DTI), which measures the asymmetry of water diﬀusion
in nerve ﬁber tracts. Inside a tract, water tends not to diﬀuse
symmetrically in all directions, but diﬀuses in the same direction
as the ﬁbers. By measuring the direction of water ﬂow in nerve
tracts, it is possible to follow their trajectory in the living human
brain and represent them in three dimensions. Using a combina-
tion of fMRI and DTI, we can ﬁnd for example the areas that
activate under a given experimental task, and then use these areas
as “seeds” to trace their anatomical connections to the rest of the
brain, thus visualizing the “hard” network to which each area
belongs. Although DTI does not have the resolution to
determine which ﬁbers are aﬀerents (incoming) or eﬀerents
(outgoing) to the respective area, practically all cortico-cortical
ﬁber tracts are bidirectional, containing both kinds of axons. MRI
and DTI do not yet have the same resolution as animal postmor-
tem techniques, but they have provided invaluable information that
was totally inaccessible some 50 years ago. As I said above, these
ﬁndings have provided substantial evidence that the language cir-
cuit contains dorsal and ventral components that run in the dorsal
and ventral aspects of the Sylvian convolution, respectively.
The Language Network Updated 65
Early tractographic studies of the language regions, ﬁrst by Marco
Catani and later by several groups, including those led by James Rilling,
Cornelius Weiller, Michael Petrides and Angela Friederici, conﬁrmed
the existence of an arcuate fasciculus connecting Wernicke’s and Broca’s
regions, running deep to the inferior parietal lobe and the ventral
somatosensory and motor cortices, which was larger on the left than
on the right hemisphere (Catani et al. 2005b; Glasser and Rilling 2008,
Saur et al. 2008, Frey et al. 2008, Friederici 2009, Brauer et al. 2013,
Tremblay and Dick 2016; Fridriksson et al. 2016). In addition, Catani
and Dominic ﬀytche noted an important connection from the inferior
parietal lobe into Broca’s region (Catani and ﬀytche 2005; Catani et al.
2005). The name of the tract containing these ﬁbers diﬀers among
authors, and I will refer to it as being part of the superior longitudinal
fasciculus. Furthermore, there is another tract that connects Wernicke’s
region with the inferior parietal lobe, therefore closing the circuit
between the auditory cortex, the inferior parietal cortex and Broca’s
area. Again, this tract has received distinct names from diﬀerent authors,
and I will refer to it as the posterior middle longitudinal fasciculus
(Petrides 2014; Catani and Bambini 2014). Adding to these projections
that make up the dorsal stream, the above studies also described the so-
called ventral pathway for language. This encompasses ﬁbers along the
superior temporal lobe, recruiting ﬁbers from the anterior auditory
regions, connecting them with the anterior temporal lobe, and reaching
the anterior part of Broca’s area and its vicinities (areas 47 and 45). The
auditory and neighboring areas in the anterior temporal lobe play a role
in semantic processing and identifying the speaker, as in some cases
lesions in this region lead to anomia, that is, the inability to generate the
names of categories of objects or perceptions like colors. The pathway
connecting these areas includes two longitudinal tracts, the inferior
longitudinal fasciculus, and the inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus.
From now on, I will refer to it as the “ventral pathway” for speech or
language (for a summary diagram, see Fig. 2.3).
Recently, Catani and Valentina Bambini summarized the language-
related projections in the social communication and language evolu-
tion and development (SCALED) model, which separates the diﬀer-
ent tracts according to their distinct functions (Catani and Bambini
66 2 Pandora’s Box
2014, Tremblay and Dick 2016). According to this model, (i) the
arcuate fasciculus is involved in syntactic analysis; (ii) the inferior
parietal projection to the posterior part of Broca’s area participates in
recognition and production of motor patterns. (iii) Wernicke’s area
and the inferior parietal lobe are connected via a tract (the posterior
middle longitudinal fasciculus) involved in pragmatic aspects of
speech. (iv) the ventral pathway, involving two longitudinal fascicles
along the temporal lobe (middle and inferior longitudinal fascicles),
and their connection to the anterior part of Broca’s region via the
uncinate fasciculus and the extreme capsule, is involved in lexical and
semantic processing. I have to note that some 20 years ago, Ricardo
García and I proposed a connectivity diagram for the language circuit
containing essentially the same elements as this model (see
Chapter 7) (Aboitiz and García 1997).
Based on these and other ﬁndings, Gregory Hickok and David
Poeppel provided a functional-anatomical model of language processing,
with an early stage of speech perception that takes place in the superior
temporal lobe (auditory cortex, Wernicke’s area) of both hemispheres,
involving the analysis of auditory signals and early phonological proces-
sing (see Chapter 4) (Hickok and Poeppel 2004, 2007). From there,
there is a pathway that runs along the temporal lobe (predominantly in
the left hemisphere) and involves lexical representations, and a left-
hemisphere dorsal pathway that controls articulatory processes.
Following earlier authors like Ludwig Lichtheim and Antonio
Damasio, Hickok and Poeppel proposed a diﬀuse “conceptual network”
that interacts with these two pathways in an as yet unspeciﬁed manner.
Interestingly, the right hemisphere auditory pathways participate in
prosodic processing. Daniela Sammler, Pascal Belin and other coauthors
made a thorough imaging study of the neural basis of prosody, eviden-
cing that it takes dual routes in the ventral and dorsal auditory pathways
of the right hemisphere, with a similar organization to that of left-
hemisphere language networks (Sammler et al. 2015).
The separation of dorsal and ventral pathways prompted to a rede-
ﬁnition of the role of Broca’s region in language processing. Angela
Friederici and collaborators parcellated this region into three compo-
nents, areas 45 (pars triangularis), area 44 (pars opercularis), and a
The Language Network Updated 67
region called the deep frontal operculum that borders the deep
insular cortex (Friederici et al. 2006; Anwander et al. 2007). The
dorsal pathway is associated with area 44 and participates in recur-
sive syntactic processing, and verbal working memory. On the
other hand, area 45 and its connections via the ventral pathway
are linked to simple (non-recursive) grammatical forms, and seman-
tic and lexical analyses. More recently, Friederici and collaborators
have proposed a model for Broca’s region in which area 45 receives
auditory information from the ventral pathway and then areas 45
and 44 convert the phonological and lexical inputs into a vocal
articulatory pattern that is conveyed to the premotor cortex to
codify speech utterances (Skeide and Friederici 2016). Thus,
Broca’s area may not be directly involved in the production of
speech, but rather coordinates the transformation from phonologi-
cal representations into neuromuscular articulatory processes. This
is consistent with the recent ﬁnding by Nina Dronkers and colla-
borators, who found that while Broca’s area activates during word
presentation in a vocal repetition task, at the time of the speech
response there is activation of the ventral motor cortex, but not of
Broca’s region. Nonetheless, Broca’s region activated when novel
articulatory sequences had to be executed when presenting non-
word stimuli, that is, phonetically correct but meaningless phono-
logical sequences, like “dago”, which requires conscious control of
vocalization (Flinker et al. 2015).
Finally, Catani, Marsel Mesulam and other collaborators have dis-
covered an additional tract, called the frontal aslant. This is a vertical
ﬁber bundle that connects the supplementary and pre-supplementary
motor areas in the superior frontal gyrus (dorsal prefrontal cortex) with
the inferior frontal gyrus where Broca’s area is located (Catani et al.
2013). Catani and his group found that the aslant tract was aﬀected in
a subgroup of patients with primary progressive aphasia (a neurode-
generative condition that results in progressive loss of speech), which is
characterized by lack of ﬂuency in speech or in its more serious
condition, complete mutism. The aslant tract is also present in mon-
keys, and may be part of a secondary but ancestral vocalization system
that includes the medial frontal cortex and its descending projections
68 2 Pandora’s Box
to the brainstem, which we will discuss in more detail in Chapter 10
(Ackermann et al. 2014).
Connecting It All
Perhaps surprisingly to some, the language areas are not diﬀerent from
other cortical areas in their intrinsic architecture. Angela Friederici, Wolf
Singer and several others have emphasized that the synaptic organization
of diﬀerent cortical regions is essentially the same, based on a “canonical
microcircuit” that repeats serially throughout the cortex (Friederici and
Singer 2015). The idea of a modular organization of the cerebral cortex
was introduced by Vernon Mountcastle in the 1950s, based on the
vertical organization of neuronal clusters in the cerebral cortex, in arrays
termed columns (Edelman and Mountcastle 1978; Mountcastle 1997).
Mountcastle proposed that cortical columns have a conserved synaptic
organization across the entire cortical mantle. There are minor diﬀerences
between cortical areas arising from the relative development of distinct
laminar components, for example, large pyramidal neurons in motor areas
and abundant granular neurons in sensory areas. Mountcastle also asserted
that each cortical region should be deﬁned by the unique pattern of
connectivity of each area with the rest of the brain, rather than by its
cytoarchitectonic features. In this context, the speciﬁcity of functions of
each given area depends more on the particular embedding of this area in
a larger scale neural network rather than on its internal organization.
Thus, localization emerges more as a consequence of the network conﬁg-
uration than as an intrinsic property of each brain region. Furthermore,
recent evidence has revealed signiﬁcant individual variability in the orga-
nization of these networks. Emily Finn and her collaborators have
described an individual ﬁngerprint in the connectome, which allows for
distinguishing one subject from others. This indeed provides each of us
with a speciﬁc signature, characterized by the organization of large-scale
neural connections in our brains (Finn et al. 2015).
Network thinking has led to the connectome project, which is an
ambitious computational endeavor that aims to account for all
Connecting It All 69
connections of the human brain. The connectome was independently
proposed in 2005 by Olaf Sporns and Patric Hagmann, in analogy to
the human genome project, and has been developed by the U.S.
National Institute of Health as a major endeavor to describe the con-
nectivity of the entire nervous system in humans and animals (Hagmann
et al. 2008). Connectome models emphasize complex and distributed
networks encompassing widespread brain areas, in which there are
critical nodes where many connections converge and are therefore key
regulators of the overall network. Stefan Fuertinger, Kristina Simonyan
and collaborators proposed a speech-speciﬁc connectome model that
includes the classical language networks, the dorsal and the ventral
pathways described here, and other regions like the insula, anterior
cingulate gyrus and other regions (Fuertinger et al. 2015). Notably, a
critical node in this network is the posterior motor cortex, which can be
considered a connector through which motor output is directed to
brainstem centers. Pascale Tremblay and colleagues have proposed a
complex network subserving language systems, emphasizing a descend-
ing cortical “motor stream” that includes Catani’s frontal aslant tract,
which anchors the distributed language network in a speciﬁc motor
pathway (Dick et al. 2014). These ﬁndings are relevant for the origin
of speech, as it has been commonly argued that the direct control of the
descending cortical over laryngeal musculature was the key process that
allowed the voluntary control of vocalizations and hence the appearance
of speech as the main communicative modality.
These extended networks support the notion of a widespread region
associated with Broca’s aphasia. In this line, Evelina Fedorenko has
subdivided the language-related networks into a functionally specialized
“core” of coactive areas during speech and language processing (Broca
and Wernicke’s areas in the restricted sense), and a “periphery” that
includes areas like the insular cortex, inferior parietal areas and other
regions (Fedorenko 2014; Fedorenko and Thompson-Schill 2014; Chai
et al. 2016). These areas contribute domain-general mechanisms like
attention, short-term memory, motivation and motor control to lin-
guistic processes, but may also provide cognitive control over other
tasks. Furthermore, cortico-cortical connections are usually reciprocal,
so that information can be transferred in both directions, from sensory-
70 2 Pandora’s Box
related to motor-related areas (bottom-up), and vice versa, from motor-
related to sensory-related areas (top-down). A statistical methodology
called dynamic causal modeling, developed in the 2000s by Karl
Friston and collaborators, analyzes the eﬀect that changes in activity
in one region can have on activity in another connected region (Friston
et al. 2003). Using this technique, Dirk-Bart den Ouden and colla-
borators determined a signiﬁcant top-down eﬀect of Broca’s area and
the adjacent premotor cortex into Wernicke’s area, via the dorsal path-
way, particularly for mechanisms of sentence processing (den Ouden et
al. 2012). Other authors like Angela Friederici and Josef Rauschecker
have also proposed a top-down regulation of Wernicke’s area from
Broca’s area (Rauschecker 2012; Skeide and Friederici 2016). More
speciﬁcally, the arcuate fasciculus and the adjacent tract stemming from
the premotor cortex probably play an important role in modulating
early stages of speech processing in function of current motor programs
(see Chapter 7).
Thus, there is a much more intricate cortical network for language
than was envisioned in the early models of Wernicke and
Geschwind. This becomes even more complicated when we consider
that these areas are not isolated from the rest of the brain and that
they are highly interconnected with other neuronal systems. For
example, the production of speech, writing or sign language requires
the execution of complex motor patterns that are controlled by the
cerebellum and the basal ganglia (Jeon et al. 2014; Ackermann et al.
2014; Leisman et al. 2014; Moberget and Ivry 2016; Krishnan et al.
2016). The basal ganglia are extensively connected with the cerebral
cortex, and Broca’s and Wernicke’s areas, as well as the motor cortex
controlling the vocal tract. People with lesions in these subcortical
nuclei usually display speech deﬁcits like dysarthria or apraxia (the
incapacity to form and articulate speech sounds, although patients
seem to know what they want to say). Furthermore, stuttering is also
caused by basal ganglia dysfunction, and pharmacological blockage
of dopamine (a neurotransmitter critical for basal ganglia function)
can ameliorate these speech deﬁcits. In addition, the basal ganglia are
believed to participate in the execution of automatic speech patterns
acquired over many years, like producing the past tense in regular
Connecting It All 71
verbs in English. In Parkinson’s disease, a condition that primarily
aﬀects the basal ganglia, there is in fact diﬃculty in applying this
rule to newly learned verbs. Another subcortical structure that is
relevant for speech and language is the thalamus, a potato-shaped
complex of nuclei at the base of the cerebral hemispheres that is
highly and reciprocally connected to the cerebral cortex, to which
some of its nuclei convey auditory, visual and somatosensory stimuli
(Jeon et al. 2014; Klostermann et al. 2013; Bohsali et al. 2015).
Lesions in the thalamus have been linked to aphasia, but the rela-
tionship with language or speech production is still diﬃcult to
understand and separate from cortical damage. A common eﬀect of
thalamic eﬀects on language is dysnomia, which is thought to be due
to insuﬃcient arousal caused by damage to the thalamic reticular
nucleus. The study of subcortical components in speech and lan-
guage is only in its beginnings, and probably the coming years will
witness exciting discoveries in this area. Finally, a recent study
revealed that the hippocampus, a limbic structure of the temporal
lobe involved in memory processing (see Chapter 6), participates in
language processing by linking incoming words with stored semantic
representations, possibly associated to the ventral language pathway
(Piai et al. 2016).
Brain Waves
Another recent source of evidence on language processing has come
from more direct measurements of neuronal activity, such as electro-
encephalography (EEG, the analysis of electrical ﬁelds on the surface of
the skull) and the much more recent magnetoencephalography (MEG),
which measures the magnetic ﬁelds associated with electrical ﬁelds.
Compared with imaging methods, whose time resolution analysis is on
the order of minutes, EEG and MEG record electromagnetic activity
every millisecond, which reveals the microdynamics of the brain in real
time. However, they lack the anatomical resolution of imaging methods,
as they are recorded directly from the skull, after tremendous distortions
72 2 Pandora’s Box
of the electromagnetic ﬁeld as it crosses the braincase. The electrical
activity of the brain surface was ﬁrst analyzed in the 1870s by the
American neurologist Richard Caton, and was subsequently measured
by several other researchers (Caton 1875). However, it was the German
psychiatrist Hans Berger who, in 1924, recorded the ﬁrst human EEG
on the skull surface (Berger 1929). Berger had studied mathematics
before enrolling in medicine, and had an interest in the physics of the
brain, but more than that, he was motivated by his belief in telepathy,
and was trying to ﬁnd physical evidence for this. His electrical recordings
unveiled a complex oscillating electrical signal that was, however, much
too weak to travel any signiﬁcant distance away from the skull. He
discovered the alpha rhythm of the EEG (an oscillatory activity of
some 8–13 cycles per second), which is evident in occipital regions
when subjects close their eyes, but is substituted by the faster beta
rhythm (between 12 and 30 cycles per second) when subjects open
their eyes. His ﬁndings revealed that the brain is actually an active
network at all times, working as a highly complex oscillatory machine
with electrical activity with cycles at many diﬀerent frequencies at the
same time. Brain oscillations come in diﬀerent ﬂavors, and the EEG
signal is in fact a composite of many oscillatory activities that occur at
frequencies from one tenth of a cycle per second or less, up to some 80
cycles per second or more. These frequencies can be separated, much the
way white light can be broken down into its diﬀerent frequencies or
colors through a prism, by a mathematical method called Fourier
analysis, or other more modern methods such as wavelet analysis.
Thus, brain activity occurs at diﬀerent timescales that, interestingly, ﬁt
spatial requirements so that high frequencies seem to be related to local
processing, and are nested in wider networks operating at higher fre-
quencies that serve as associative links between diﬀerent regions.
Work in this century by György Buzsáki, Nikos Logothetis, Wolf
Singer and many others have determined that neuronal oscillations are
ubiquitous across species and brain regions, and have been found to
be critical for brain activity, including cognitive processes (Buzsáki et
al. 2013). Ongoing oscillatory activity is fundamental for controlling
and synchronizing the “spiking” activity of neurons, that is, the
generation of very strong but extremely brief all-or-none electrical
Brain Waves 73
signals called action potentials that make up the basis of neuronal
signaling. In a seminal article, Eugenio Rodríguez, working with
Francisco Varela and others, showed that high-frequency synchroniza-
tion of neuronal oscillations across brain regions is associated with
feature perception in human subjects (Rodríguez et al. 1999; Varela
et al. 2001). Furthermore, my former student Conrado Bosman,
working with Pascal Fries and me (in two separate papers) has recently
proposed that the canonical cortical circuit discussed above is essen-
tially an oscillatory device, highly conserved not only across cortical
areas but also across many species (including birds, reptiles and
perhaps some invertebrates) (Bosman and Aboitiz 2015, Lewis et al.
2015). This circuit serves basic computational processes inherent to a
variety of sensory, motor and cognitive functions (see Chapter 9). As
Angela Friederici and Wolf Singer have emphasized, the neuronal
networks for language are no exception to this phenomenology
(Friederici and Singer 2015). David Poeppel has advanced the
hypothesis that brain rhythms are essential for language processing
and that their nested organization partly reﬂects the hierarchical
structure of language by packaging information at diﬀerent temporal
levels. Poeppel speciﬁes three main levels of processing that ﬁt distinct
neuronal frequencies, namely phonemes are processed at very high
frequencies (some 25–35 cycles per second or more, called the high
beta or low gamma ranges), the syllabic rate occurs at around 4–7
cycles per second (the so-called theta frequency); and lexical and
phrasal units are processed at slower frequencies, say 1–2 cycles per
second (delta frequency). Additional studies have found that diﬀer-
ences in the amplitude of gamma oscillations in auditory regions are
also associated with diﬀerences in semantic contents, while the theta
rhythm is related to short-term verbal memory, a capacity that is
critical for language acquisition (Chapters 6 and 7) (Poeppel et al.
2012; Poeppel 2014; Giraud and Poeppel 2012; Ghitza et al. 2013;
Chait et al. 2015, Hickok and Poeppel 2015). Noteworthy, a recent
study mentioned above, indicating involvement of the hippocampus
in language processing, revealed that modulation of theta oscillations
in this region are associated with semantic expectations during speech
perception (Piai et al. 2016).
74 2 Pandora’s Box
Thus, speech and speech processing take place in an oscillatory domain
where interrelated frequency ranges must be tightly coordinated for appro-
priate execution and perception. Provided that the speech rhythm is main-
tained, the nested organization of these activities is able to provide contextual
cues (provided by low frequencies) to local processing (occurring at high
frequencies). Under these conditions, it may be possible to solve perceptual
ambiguities and facilitate comprehension. In the auditory cortex, ongoing
oscillations in superﬁcial layers, especially in the theta and gamma ranges,
synchronize with the acoustically imposed rhythmic activity provided by the
speech signal, which hits the middle layers of the cortex, and is projected to
higher order cortical areas. On the motor side, speech itself is a highly
rhythmic activity involving lip, tongue and vocal fold movements that also
take place semi-periodically (just like many other motor activities).
Furthermore, the tight coordination between the diﬀerent organs involved
in speech (lips, tongue, and vocal folds) requires ﬁne coordination of the
motor pacemakers located in the brainstem, which are controlled by brain
oscillatory activity. In this same line, Nai Ding, Lucia Melloni, Poeppel and
colleagues recently analyzed spectral activity at diﬀerent timescales in subjects
listening to ﬂuent speech, observing that cortical activity accurately tracked
the time course of words, phrases and sentences, while purely acoustic cues or
the predictability of incoming words did not correlate with the recorded
activity (Ding et al. 2016a). This suggests that grammatical constructions
reﬂect a timescale hierarchy of neural processing, a point I will return to in
Chapter 6. Some very recent studies have used intracranial recordings during
surgery of epileptic patients. For example, the group led by Stanislaas
Dehaene found that oscillatory activity in the left hemisphere increases as
words arebeingreadin asentence (possiblyreﬂecting workingmemoryload),
but this activity decreases in the moment the phrase is formed, which may
relate to the syntactic function Merge (see Chapter 1) (Nelson et al. 2017).
Finally, another way of analyzing human brain electromagnetic
activity has been the study of event-related potentials (ERPs), a
technique developed in the 1930s by Pauline and Hallowell Davis
(Davis et al. 1939). It consists of averaging EEG signals after many
trials that are time-locked to the presentation of a stimulus in a
sensory modality (visual, auditory or tactile). Since the recordings
are time-locked, trial averaging eliminates all non-coherent variation
Brain Waves 75
in activity, unveiling a smooth signal that shows voltage or magnetic
deﬂections at speciﬁc times after the presentation of a stimulus. These
deﬂections are the ERPs, which are classiﬁed as early potentials
(occurring around 100–200 milliseconds after the stimulus), which
reﬂect activation of speciﬁc sensory cortices; and late potentials (300
milliseconds or later), reﬂecting multimodal cognitive operations.
Although a relatively old technique, the study of ERPs has been
revived in the last 30 years due to their usefulness in the study of
attentional processes. As we will see in Chapter 5, there has been a
steadily increasing number of ERP studies in language processing,
partly triggered by the seminal reports of Marta Kutas and Steve
Hillyard on semantic-related activity (Kutas and Hillyard 1980).
The time resolution of the ERP signal has allowed for establishing a
sequence of events in speech processing that was elegantly summarized in
a recent model proposed by Michael Skeide and Angela Friederici.
According to them, speech information is ﬁrst processed in the auditory
cortex, and some 20–50 milliseconds after presentation, the phonological
representation of words is recognized in the superior temporal sulcus.
Then, two parallel streams run along the temporal lobe, one involved in
morphosyntactic categorization (assigning syntactical categories to
words) (40–90 milliseconds) and analysis of basic phrase structure
(120–150 milliseconds in the anterior temporal lobe). The other stream
is lexical-semantic processing in which, for example, words are
distinguished from non-words (50–80 milliseconds), followed by lexical
retrieval processes in which word meanings are fully recognized (110–170
milliseconds in the left anterior temporal lobe). These are bottom-up
processes that are conveyed mainly by the ventral acoustic stream. Top-
down mechanisms then ensue via a projection from the anterior temporal
lobe to Broca’s area. First (between 200 and 400 milliseconds), lexical
information reaches areas 45 and 47 in the left hemisphere via the ventral
pathway, where semantic analysis is performed. In addition (between 300
and 500 milliseconds), morphosyntactic input is conveyed to area 44,
where higher-level syntax is processed. After this, both semantic and
syntactic information are transmitted back from Broca’s region to
Wernicke’s area, where syntactic and semantic information converge to
generate a uniﬁed conceptual representation of the speech string. On the
76 2 Pandora’s Box
other hand, prosodic processing has a longer onset time, beginning at 200
milliseconds in the right auditory cortex, while activity related to prosodic
information begins in the right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex at some 300
milliseconds post-stimulus (Skeide and Friederici 2016).
No doubt we have come a long way since Broca’s time. Researchers
have been able to identify a sophisticated network involved in speech
processing, and accessory networks supplying basic cognitive processes
to support the demands of linguistic behavior. Still, the evolutionary
questions of how did these networks originate, and whether they
emerged from some ancestral system present in the non-human primate
brain remains unanswered. First, we need to explore other features of the
human brain that are intimately related to our communicative capacity:
the large size of our brain, hemispheric dominance and interhemispheric
communication, and our memory system. After discussing these, I will
begin to track the ancestry of our speech-related brain networks and
behavior by looking for similar phenomena in non-human primates,
other mammals and even non-mammals like birds.
References
Aboitiz F, García R (1997) The evolutionary origin of the language areas in the
human brain. A neuroanatomical perspective. Brain Res Rev 25:381–396
Ackermann H, Hage SR, Ziegler W (2014) Brain mechanisms of acoustic
communication in humans and nonhuman primates: an evolutionary per-
spective. Behav Brain Sci 37:529–546
Anwander A, Tittgemeyer M, von Cramon DY, Friederici AD, Knösche TR
(2007) Connectivity-based parcellation of Broca’s area. Cereb Cortex
17:816–825
Ardila A, Bernal B, Rosselli M (2016) How localized are language brain areas?
A review of Brodmann areas involvement in oral language. Arch Clin
Neuropsychol 31:112–122
Berger H (1929) Über das Elektroenkephalogramm des Menschen. Arch
Psychiatr 87: 527–570
Bohsali AA, Triplett W, Sudhyadhom A, Gullett JM, McGregor K, FitzGerald
DB, Mareci T, White K, Crosson B (2015) Broca’s area – thalamic con-
nectivity. Brain Lang 141:80–88
References 77
Bosman CA, Aboitiz F (2015) Functional constraints in the evolution of brain
circuits. Front Neurosci 9:303
Brauer J, Anwander A, Perani D, Friederici AD (2013) Dorsal and ventral
pathways in language development. Brain Lang 127:289–295
Broca P (1865) Sur le siège de la faculté du langage articulé. Bull Soc Anthrop
Paris 6: 377–393
Broca P (2015) Comparative anatomy of the cerebral convolutions: the great
limbic lobe and the limbic ﬁssure in the mammalian series. J Comp Neurol
523:2501–2554
Brodmann K (1909) Vergleichende Lokalisationslehre der Grosshirnrinde.
Johann Ambrosius Barth, Leipzig
Buzsáki G, Logothetis N, Singer W (2013) Scaling brain size, keeping timing:
evolutionary preservation of brain rhythms. Neuron 80:751–764
Catani M, Bambini V (2014) A Model for Social Communication and
Language Evolution and Development (SCALED). Curr Opin Neurobiol
28:165–171
Catani M, ﬀytche DH (2005) The rises and falls of disconnection syndromes.
Brain 128:2224–2239
Catani M, Mesulam M (2008a) The arcuate fasciculus and the disconnection
theme in language and aphasia: history and current state. Cortex 44:953–961
Catani M, Mesulam M (2008b) What is a disconnection syndrome? Cortex
44:911–913
Catani M, Jones DK, ﬀytche DH (2005) Perisylvian language networks of the
human brain. Ann Neurol 57:8–16
Catani M, Mesulam MM, Jakobsen E, Malik F, Martersteck A, Wieneke C,
Thompson CK, Thiebaut de Schotten M, Dell’Acqua F, Weintraub S,
Rogalski E (2013) A novel frontal pathway underlies verbal ﬂuency in
primary progressive aphasia. Brain 136:2619–2628
Caton R (1875) Electrical currents of the brain. J Nerv Ment Dis 2:610
Chai LR, Mattar MG, Blank IA, Fedorenko E, Bassett DS (2016) Functional
network dynamics of the language system. Cereb Cortex 26: 4148–4159
Chait M, Greenberg S, Arai T, Simon JZ, Poeppel D (2015) Multi-time resolu-
tion analysis of speech: evidence from psychophysics. Front Neurosci 9:214
Cohen L, Lehéricy S, Chochon F, Lemer C, Rivaud S, Dehaene S (2002)
Language-speciﬁc tuning of visual cortex? Functional properties of the
Visual Word Form Area. Brain 125:1054–1069
Corsi P, Jones EG, Shepherd GM (1991) The Enchanted Loom. Chapters in
the History of Neuroscience. Oxford University Press, Oxford.
78 2 Pandora’s Box
Davis H, Davis PA, Loomis AL, Harvey EN, Hobart G (1939) Electrical
reactions of the human brain to auditory stimulation during sleep.
J Neurophysiol 2:500–514
den Ouden DB, Saur D, Mader W, Schelter B, Lukic S, Wali E, Timmer
J, Thompson CK (2012) Network modulation during complex syntactic
processing. Neuroimage 59:815–823
Dick AS, Bernal B, Tremblay P (2014) The language connectome: new
pathways, new concepts. Neuroscientist 20:453–467
Ding N, Melloni L, Zhang H, Tian X, Poeppel D (2016a) Cortical tracking of
hierarchical linguistic structures in connected speech. Nat Neurosci
19:158–164
Ding SL, Royall JJ, Sunkin SM, Ng L, Facer BA, Lesnar P, Guillozet-Bongaarts
A, McMurray B, Szafer A, Dolbeare TA, Stevens A, Tirrell L, Benner T,
Caldejon S, Dalley RA, Dee N, Lau C, Nyhus J, Reding M, Riley ZL,
Sandman D, Shen E, van der Kouwe A, Varjabedian A, Write M, Zollei L,
Dang C, Knowles JA, Koch C, Phillips JW, Sestan N, Wohnoutka P, Zielke
HR, Hohmann JG, Jones AR, Bernard A, Hawrylycz MJ, Hof PR, Fischl B,
Lein ES (2016b) Comprehensive cellular-resolution atlas of the adult
human brain. J Comp Neurol 525:407
Dronkers NF, Plaisant O, Iba-Zizen MT, Cabanis EA (2007) Paul Broca’s
historic cases: high resolution MR imaging of the brains of Leborgne and
Lelong. Brain 130:1432–1441
Edelman GM, Mountcastle VB (1978) The Mindful Brain. Cortical organization
and the group-selective theory of higher brain function. MIT press, Cambridge
Eklund A, Nichols TE, Knutsson H (2016) Cluster failure: Why fMRI
inferences for spatial extent have inﬂated false-positive rates. Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S A 113:7900–7905.
Fedorenko E (2014) The role of domain-general cognitive control in language
comprehension. Front Psychol 5:335
Fedorenko E, Thompson-Schill SL (2014) Reworking the language network.
Trends Cogn Sci 18:120–126
Finn ES, Shen X, Scheinost D, Rosenberg MD, Huang J, Chun MM,
Papademetris X, Constable RT (2015) Functional connectome
ﬁngerprinting: identifying individuals using patterns of brain connectivity.
Nat Neurosci 18:1664–1671.
Flinker A, Korzeniewska A, Shestyuk AY, Franaszczuk PJ, Dronkers NF,
Knight RT, Crone NE (2015) Redeﬁning the role of Broca’s area in speech.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112:2871–2875
References 79
Fodor J (1983) The Modularity of Mind. MIT Press, Cambridge
Fox MD, Snyder AZ, Vincent JL, Corbetta M, Van Essen DC, Raichle ME
(2005) The human brain is intrinsically organized into dynamic, antic-
orrelated functional networks. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 102:9673–9678
Fox MD, Snyder AZ, Vincent JL, Raichle ME (2007) Intrinsic ﬂuctuations
within cortical systems account for intertrial variability in human behavior.
Neuron 56:171–184
Frey S, Campbell JS, Pike GB, Petrides M (2008) Dissociating the human
language pathways with high angular resolution diﬀusion ﬁber tractography.
J Neurosci 28:11435–11444
Fridriksson J, Yourganov G, Bonilha L, Basilakos A, Den Ouden DB, Rorden
C (2016) Revealing the dual streams of speech processing. Proc Natl Acad
Sci U S A 113:15108–15113
Friederici AD (2009) Pathways to language: ﬁber tracts in the human brain.
Trends Cogn Sci 13:175–181
Friederici AD, Singer W (2015) Grounding language processing on basic
neurophysiological principles. Trends Cogn Sci 19:329–338.
Friederici AD, Bahlmann J, Heim S, Schubotz RI, Anwander A (2006) The
brain diﬀerentiates human and non-human grammars: functional localiza-
tion and structural connectivity. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 103:2458–2463
Friston KJ, Harrison L, Penny W (2003) Dynamic causal modelling.
Neuroimage 19:1273–1302
Fuertinger S, Horwitz B, Simonyan K (2015) The functional connectome of
speech control. PLoS Biol 13:e1002209
Galaburda AM, Pandya DN (1983) The intrinsic architectonic and connec-
tional organization of the superior temporal region of the rhesus monkey. J
Comp Neurol 221:169–184
Galaburda A, Sanides F (1980) Cytoarchitectonic organization of the human
auditory cortex. J Comp Neurol 190:597–610
Gaspar PA, Bosman CA, Ruiz S, Zamorano F, Pérez C, Aboitiz F (2011)
Parametric increases of working memory load unveil a decreased alpha
oscillatory activity in schizophrenia. Schizophr Res 131:268–269
Glasser MF, Rilling JK (2008) DTI tractography of the human brain’s lan-
guage pathways. Cereb Cortex 18:2471–2482
Glasser MF, Coalson TS, Robinson EC, Hacker CD, Harwell J, Yacoub E,
Ugurbil K, Andersson J, Beckmann CF, Jenkinson M, Smith SM, Van
Essen DC (2016) A multi-modal parcellation of human cerebral cortex.
Nature 536:171–178
80 2 Pandora’s Box
Geschwind N (1964) The development of the brain and the evolution of
language. Mon Ser Lang Ling 1:155–169
Geschwind N (1965) Disconnexion syndromes in animals and man. Brain
88:237–294; 585–644
Ghitza O, Giraud AL, Poeppel D (2013) Neuronal oscillations and speech
perception: critical-band temporal envelopes are the essence. Front Hum
Neurosci 6:340
Giraud AL, Poeppel D (2012) Cortical oscillations and speech processing: emer-
ging computational principles and operations. Nat Neurosci 15:511–117.
Hagmann P, Cammoun L, Gigandet X, Meuli R, Honey CJ, Wedeen VJ,
Sporns O (2008) Mapping the structural core of human cerebral cortex.
PLoS Biol 6:e159
Hickok G, Poeppel D (2004) Dorsal and ventral streams: a framework for under-
standing aspects of the functional anatomy of language. Cognition 92:67–99.
Hickok G, Poeppel D (2007) The cortical organization of speech processing.
Nat Rev Neurosci 8:393–402
Hickok G, Poeppel D (2015) Neural basis of speech perception. Handb Clin
Neurol 129:149–160
Jeon HA, Anwander A, Friederici AD (2014) Functional network mirrored in
the prefrontal cortex, caudate nucleus, and thalamus: high-resolution func-
tional imaging and structural connectivity. J Neurosci 34:9202–9212
Klostermann F, Krugel LK, Ehlen F (2013) Functional roles of the thalamus
for language capacities. Front Syst Neurosci 7:32
Krishnan S, Watkins KE, Bishop DV (2016) Neurobiological basis of language
learning diﬃculties. Trends Cogn Sci 20:701–714
Kutas M, Hillyard SA (1980) Reading senseless sentences: brain potentials
reﬂect semantic incongruity. Science 207:203–205
Leisman G, Braun-Benjamin O, Melillo R (2014) Cognitive-motor interac-
tions of the basal ganglia in development. Front Syst Neurosci 8:16
Lewis CM, Bosman CA, Fries P (2015) Recording of brain activity across
spatial scales. Curr Opin Neurobiol 32:68–77
Mesulam MM (2015) Fifty years of disconnexion syndromes and the
Geschwind legacy. Brain 138:2791–2799
Moberget T, Ivry RB (2016) Cerebellar contributions to motor control and
language comprehension: searching for common computational principles.
Ann N Y Acad Sci 1369:154–171
Mountcastle VB (1997) The columnar organization of the neocortex. Brain
120:701–722
References 81
Nelson MJ, El Karoui I, Giber K, Yang X, Cohen L, Koopman H, Cash SS,
Naccache L, Hale JT, Pallier C, Dehaene S (2017) Neurophysiological
dynamics of phrase-structure building during sentence processing. Proc
Natl Acad Sci U S A 114:E3669-E3678
Pearson H (2003) Magnetic pioneers met Nobel for putting medicine in the
picture. Nature 425:547
Penﬁeld W, Roberts L (1959) Speech and Brain Mechanisms. Princeton
University Press, Princeton
Petrides M (2014) Neuroanatomy of Language Regions of the Human Brain.
Academic Press, New York
Piai V, Anderson KL, Lin JJ, Dewar C, Parvizi J, Dronkers NF, Knight RT
(2016) Direct brain recordings reveal hippocampal rhythm underpinnings
of language processing. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 113:11366–11371
Poeppel D (2014) The neuroanatomic and neurophysiological infrastructure
for speech and language. Curr Opin Neurobiol 28:142–149
Poeppel D, Emmorey K, Hickok G, Pylkkänen L (2012) Towards a new
neurobiology of language. J Neurosci 32:14125–14131
Raichle ME (2015) The brain’s default mode network. Annu Rev Neurosci
38:433–447.
Raichle ME, MacLeod AM, Snyder AZ, Powers WJ, Gusnard DA, Shulman
GL (2001) A default mode of brain function. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
98:676–682
Rauschecker JP (2012) Ventral and dorsal streams in the evolution of speech
and language. Front Evol Neurosci 4:7
Rodríguez E, George N, Lachaux JP, Martinerie J, Renault B, Varela FJ (1999)
Perception’s shadow: long-distance synchronization of human brain activity.
Nature 397:430–433
Roux FE, Dufor O, Giussani C, Wamain Y, Draper L, Longcamp M, Démonet
JF (2009) The graphemic/motor frontal area Exner’s area revisited. Ann
Neurol 66:537–545
Sammler D, Grosbras MH, Anwander A, Bestelmeyer PE, Belin P (2015)
Dorsal and ventral pathways for prosody. Curr Biol 25:3079–3085
Saur D, Kreher BW, Schnell S, Kümmerer D, Kellmeyer P, Vry MS, Umarova
R, Musso M, Glauche V, Abel S, Huber W, Rijntjes M, Hennig J, Weiller C
(2008) Ventral and dorsal pathways for language. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
105:18035–18040
Schiller F (1992) Paul Broca. Explorer of the Brain. Oxford University Press,
Oxford
82 2 Pandora’s Box
Skeide MA, Friederici AD (2016) The ontogeny of the cortical language
network. Nat Rev Neurosci 17:323–332
Steinberg DA (2009) Cerebral localization in the nineteenth century–the birth
of a science and its modern consequences. J Hist Neurosci 18:254–261.
Steinberg DA (2014) The origin of scientiﬁc neurology and its consequences
for modern and future neuroscience. Brain 137:294–300
Thiebaut de Schotten M, Dell’Acqua F, Ratiu P, Leslie A, Howells H, Cabanis
E, Iba-Zizen MT, Plaisant O, Simmons A, Dronkers NF, Corkin S, Catani
M (2015) From Phineas Gage and Monsieur Leborgne to H.M.: revisiting
disconnection syndromes. Cereb Cortex 25:4812–4827
Tremblay P, Dick AS (2016) Broca and Wernicke are dead, or moving past the
classic model of language neurobiology. Brain Lang 162:60–71
Varela F, Lachaux JP, Rodriguez E, Martinerie J (2001) The brainweb: phase
synchronization and large-scale integration. Nat Rev Neurosci 2:229–239
Von Economo C, Koskinas GN (1925) Die Cytoarchitektonik der Hirnrinde
des Erwachsenen Menschen. Springer Verlag, Wien
Weiller C, Bormann T, Saur D, Musso M, Rijntjes M (2011) How the ventral
pathway got lost: and what its recovery might mean. Brain Lang 118:29–39
Wernicke K (1874) Der Aphasische Symptomencomplex. Eine Psychologische
Studie auf Anatomischer Basis. M. Crohn and Weigert, Breslau
York GK 3rd, Steinberg DA (2011) Hughlings Jackson’s neurological ideas.
Brain 134:3106–3113
Zimmer C (2004) Soul Made Flesh. The Discovery of the Brain – and How it
Changed the World. Free Press, New York
References 83
3
A Matter of Size
A feature early neurologists rapidly became aware of was that humans are
endowed with unusually large brains compared to those of many other
animals. This fact tempted many people to associate brain size with
intelligence, not only across species but also among humans. Darwin
claimed that the large size of the human brain, compared to that of the
gorilla or orangutan, was closely related to the higher mental powers of
humans, and noted that the eﬀect of brain size was also found in insects,
where social ants and bees had much larger cerebral ganglia than beetles
(Darwin 1871). Darwin also asserted that one of the requisites to achieve
language was to be endowed with higher mental capacity. As we will see
throughout this book, it may have been the other way around, commu-
nication skills being a strong selective force for the increase in both brain
size and cognitive capacity. In this chapter, I will review some aspects of
the intense research agenda involved in determining the functional,
developmental and evolutionary aspects of brain size diﬀerences. Not
surprisingly, this continues to be a contentious topic as it is the most
evident diﬀerence in brain anatomy between us and other primates.
© The Author(s) 2017
F. Aboitiz, A Brain for Speech,
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-54060-7_3
85
Brain and Body
Animals like elephants and whales have brains much larger than ours. In
fact, the brain is simply another organ of the body, subject to similar
growth rules as other organs. Thus, larger animals tend to have larger
brains than smaller animals, but are they smarter? Supporting the notion
that brain size is a determinant of intelligence and learning capacity, in
the early twentieth century Karl Lashley proposed the “principle of mass
action”, stating that the amount of damaged neural tissue is proportional
to the amount of memory impairment produced, a concept that chal-
lenged the localizationist hypotheses at the time (Lashley 1929). Later
on, Harry Jerison interpreted Lashley’s concept in an evolutionary
context and proposed the “principle of proper mass”, which relates
overall brain size to processing capacity across species (Jerison 1973).
Jerison claimed that brain weight correlated best with the number of
neurons in the brain, and that the amount of information processing per
unit of volume was constant across species, implying that increased brain
volume is directly associated with increased information capacity.
Jerison statistically analyzed brain and body sizes of many species of
vertebrates and found a consistent correlation between brain and body
size among species, but little correlation in these variables within a
species. In sexually dimorphic species (like humans), each sex was treated
as a separate species. He graphically showed his results in standard
allometric diagrams called log-log graphs in which both variables are
displayed exponentially in each axis. With this method, exponential
relations are displayed linearly and one can apply standard statistical
methods to the data. If two variables (brain and body) have a linear
relationship (a twofold increase in one implies a twofold increase in the
other), the relationship is isometric and the slope of the graph is 1. If the
slope is other than 1 in either direction, the relationship is allometric. In
isometric growth, overall size increases result in scaled versions of the
smaller versions, but in allometric growth, components (say body and
brain) increase in size at diﬀerent rates. Note that in an allometric
relationship growth among diﬀerent components still correlates, only
some increase in size faster than others. A third possibility is that
86 3 A Matter of Size
structures grow independently, that is, there is no correlated variability
in size among distinct components of the body. The latter suggests little
genetic correlation among the components, at least in relation to the
determination of size. It is important to be clear about this, as some
controversies have been caused by a lack of precision in describing
comparative data.
In the case of body and brain, twofold increases in body size result in
less than twofold increases in brain size, implying that smaller animals
have larger brains for their body size than bigger animals. Jerison
considered the strong body size dependency of brain size as the amount
of neural tissue that was necessary for controlling bodily functions, and
called it the “somatic factor”, which was variable across vertebrate
groups. Jerison’s body-brain slope in mammals was about two-thirds,
which ﬁts the geometrical ratio between body size and body surface area.
Therefore, he speculated that brain size scaled not with body weight but
with the animals skin surface, as it needed to match the sensory receptors
distributed in the skin. New analyses have revealed that the brain-body
slope is not two thirds, but actually three-fourths, that is, if the body
doubles in size, the brain increases 1.5 times in size (Martin 1981).
According to this, a new interpretation for brain-body scaling is that
brain size is determined by basal metabolic rate, which Max Kleiber
showed to scale at three fourths with body size (Fig. 3.1) (Kleiber 1975).
Since the brain is one of the most expensive organs in terms of energy
needs (in humans it uses about 20% of total body energy), a lower
metabolism in larger animals put limits to brain growth during gesta-
tion. However, no relationship was found between metabolic rate and
brain size in a statistical analysis that eliminated body size (Pagel and
Harvey 1988). In eﬀect, metabolic rate and brain size only correlate
because they both depend on body weight.
More detailed studies in the 1980s revealed that the variable that
best ﬁts the mammalian brain body slope is the period of prenatal
body growth (Riska and Atchley 1985). During development, brain
growth follows an exponential curve that can be subdivided into three
distinct phases. There is an initial rapid growth phase in which the
brain increases in size concomitant with body size and roughly
corresponds to the period of prenatal growth. There is then a second
Brain and Body 87
Brain
weight
(grams)
10,000
1,000
100
10
1
0.1
Goldfish
Rat
Crow
Baboon
Human
Elephant
Blue
whale
Crocodile
Mammals
Birds
Fish, reptiles
& amphibians
0.1 1 10 100 1,000 10,000
Body weight (kg)
Body
(b)
(a)
Weight
Brain
Birth
Time
Adult
Fig. 3.1 Brain and body growth. (a) Brain weight depends on body weight
across species. Birds and mammals tend to have larger brains for a given body
88 3 A Matter of Size
phase in which brain growth slows down with respect to body size
and more or less ﬁts the period around birth, and ﬁnally there is a
postnatal period of slow brain growth in which the brain decouples
from body growth, which maintains a high rate of growth. As species
increase in body size, the period of postnatal body growth increases
disproportionately to prenatal growth, which largely determines adult
brain size. In evolution, this makes neonatal body size and adult brain
size grow more slowly than adult body growth. This is important, as
neurogenesis (the production of neurons during development) in
mammals is largely restricted to the embryonic and fetal periods,
with the notable exception of regions like the dentate gyrus, the
olfactory bulbs and other brain regions where adult neurogenesis is,
however, very limited. The brain keeps growing after birth by increas-
ing neural ramiﬁcations (dendrites), increasing glial cells, myelination
and glial cell production, but the neuronal population is largely
determined by prenatal and early postnatal growth.
The length of the gestation period varies considerably among species,
as altricial species like humans deliver their young prematurely and the
period of rapid brain growth continues beyond birth. This makes the
period of postnatal brain growth more important in determining adult
brain size in these animals than it is in other species. Notwithstanding
the variability of gestation period among mammals, brain development
follows more or less the same schedule in all species. Barbara Finlay and
colleagues (Workman et al. 2013, Finlay and Workman 2013)
Fig.3.1 (Continued)
size than other vertebrates, and primates and birds like crows have brains
twice the size of those of other mammals or birds, respectively. Finally,
although there is a statistical correlation between brain and body size,
brain size grows more slowly than body size, so that larger animals tend to
have smaller brains relative to their body size than smaller animals (humans
are an exception). (b) The lifetime curve of body and brain growth of an
average mammalian species. Most brain growth occurs prenatally, but the
rest of the body keeps growing at a rapid rate long after birth. The postnatal
period is increasingly important for the body growth of large-bodied species
(double arrows) while postnatal brain growth is slower. Primates are unique
in that their brains are larger at all ages, and grow more rapidly in the initial
stages than the brains of other mammals of the same body size.
Brain and Body 89
developed an extensive cross-species developmental timetable, showing
that the ordering of many critical events like the initiation and end of
neurogenesis, the appearance of important neural connections, and
diﬀerentiation of cell types and nuclei all follow an extremely conserved
sequence that scales logarithmically with post-conception time.
Furthermore, the slope and the intercept of these curves increase steeply
in species that end up with larger cerebral cortices, like humans. More
recently, Andrew Halley showed that the rate of rapid brain growth in
early development is somewhat conserved among mammals, although
primates show a faster rate of growth, and even start their development
with a larger fetal brain size relative to fetal body size than other species
(Halley 2016). Notably, this is not due to more rapid brain growth, but
to slower prenatal body growth in relation to other mammals.
The Anatomy of Intelligence
In the late nineteenth century, Francis Galton quantiﬁed the relation-
ship between brain size and intelligence, by multiplying head length by
width, and comparing this with the academic performance of about
1,000 Cambridge students (Galton 1907). He reported that the best
students had a brain size around 4% larger than the rest. After that,
speculation about diﬀerences in brain size among ethnic groups became
widespread, Europeans supposedly having the largest brains and Africans
the smallest. The idea that brain size correlates with intelligence was
pervasive but still controversial during most of last century. In the early
eighties, Stephen Jay Gould published his popular and highly inﬂuential
book The Mismeasure of Man, where he strongly refuted the idea of
racially based diﬀerences in brains and intelligence, showing categori-
cally that there was no evidence for ethnic diﬀerences in intellectual
ability (Gould 1981). He did recognize that there might be diﬀerences
in brain size across human groups, but these were mostly related to
diﬀerences in body height. Since then, sporadic reports suggesting racial
diﬀerences in brain size or capacity have appeared, although these have
produced more controversy than consensus. For example, Philippe
90 3 A Matter of Size
Rushton has been one of the main defenders of an association between
brain size and intelligence, arguing for signiﬁcant racial diﬀerences in
both parameters, which has brought him under intense criticism, as
would be expected (Rushton and Ankney 2009). In any case, should
racial diﬀerences in IQ or brain size exist, these would be explained
largely by cultural, socioeconomic or even alimentary diﬀerences rather
than by genetic load.
Searching for diﬀerences in cognitive capacity among species, Jerison
and others also showed that the brain-body relationship was not the
same for all vertebrate groups. For any given body size, an average
mammal has a larger brain than a reptile, and reptiles have larger brains
than amphibians or ﬁsh (Jerison 1973). Birds have a brain-to-body ratio
much like that of mammals. Furthermore, both are homeotherms, or
warm-blooded, which points again to some relation between brain size
and metabolism. Among mammals, primates have brains that are about
twice as big as the brain of non-primate mammals of the same size.
Transitional species like Archaeopteryx (the earliest bird) or Triconodon
(an early mammal) have relative brain sizes intermediate between those
of reptiles and birds or mammals, respectively. In addition, birds and
mammals display more complex behaviors than small-brained, cold-
blooded reptiles, and among mammals, primates are characterized by
elaborate social lives. Thus, there seems to be at least some phylogenetic
relationship between (absolute or relative) brain size and whatever we
may call intelligence or cognitive abilities. Within each vertebrate group
(birds, mammals or reptiles), a proportion of the brain-body data lies
outside the best-ﬁtting curve, yielding species with higher or lower than
expected brain sizes for their given body size. The coeﬃcient between
the expected and actual body size has been deﬁned as the encephalization
quotient (EQ). An EQ greater than 1 indicates that a species has a larger
brain than the average mammal with the same body size. This diﬀerence
is interpreted as excess brain mass attributable to higher cognitive
capacities (Jerison 1973). Humans are the most encephalized species of
all, followed by dolphins and elephants. Whales have enormous brains,
particularly the blue whale with a 7 kg brain, but their gigantic body size
renders their EQ on the mammalian average. Among birds, crows and
parrots have very large EQs.
The Anatomy of Intelligence 91
Although it is a controversial measure, the encephalization quotient
has shown a statistical relationship to certain behavioral capacities. For
example, it varies with the predictability of food resources, such that
extant carnivores tend to have higher EQs than herbivores and other
animals that feed on abundant food (Aboitiz 1996). Among bats,
echolocating insectivore species tend to have the lowest EQs, which
increase in fruit-eating and nectarivorous bats, reaching a maximum in
the hematophagous vampire (Pirlot and Pottier 1977). Among rodents,
fossorial and folivorous species tend to have smaller EQs than terrestrial
and granivorous species; and among primates, folivorous species usually
have smaller brains for their body size than frugivorous species (Frahm
et al. 1997). However, in many cases, it is not clear if these diﬀerences
are due to the cognitive challenges involved in ﬁnding food, or to the
quality of the food source, as abundant food is usually poor in nutrients.
Social animals also tend to have larger EQs than non-social animals
(Shultz and Dunbar 2010). Other studies have found that absolute brain
mass, regardless of body weight, is indeed a relevant trait. Evan MacLean
and collaborators compared performance in self-control tasks in about
36 species of mammals and found that absolute brain mass correlates
better with behavior than brain mass corrected for body size (MacLean
et al. 2014). Likewise, Jeﬀrey Stevens reported that absolute brain size
was the best predictor of self-control, measured as the capacity to wait
for the delivery of reward (Stevens 2014).
As noted, the quality of food has repeatedly been proposed as a
limiting factor for brain growth, animals that feed on less nutritional
food having smaller encephalization quotients. Humans stand out for
their high encephalization quotient, and the evolutionary explanations
range from selective pressure to compete in social environments to the
increasing availability of energy rich nutrients provided by the invention
of cooking over ﬁre. A modern variant of the energy hypothesis of brain
growth mentioned above was put forward as the “expensive tissue”
hypothesis, which postulates a trade-oﬀ between the size of the brain
and that of the digestive tract, both tissues requiring large amounts of
energy. More speciﬁcally, Robert Foley and Leslie Aiello proposed that
in human evolution, increasing brain size only became possible when
humans acquired an energy rich carnivorous diet, allowing for a
92 3 A Matter of Size
reduction of the gastrointestinal tract and the release of energy con-
straints to build a large brain (Foley and Lee 1991; Aiello and Wheeler
1995). In a similar line, Suzana Herculano-Houzel points out that apes,
which spend much of the day eating large amounts of low calorie leaves,
are limited in their energy intake by the duration of the active period of
the sleep-wake cycle (Fonseca-Azevedo and Herculano-Houzel 2012;
Herculano-Houzel 2015). Accordingly, cross-species increases in neuro-
nal numbers are adaptively associated with decreasing sleep require-
ments. The shift by our recent ancestor to high-calorie meat liberated
them from this limitation, contributing to the rapid increase in brain
size. The anthropologist Richard Wrangham has further hypothesized
that the advent of ﬁre-based cooking, which made nutrients more
accessible for digestion, was a critical event that permitted the increase
in brain size and neuron numbers in early humans (Wrangham 2009).
Likewise, among apes, humans exceed by far the other species in total
energy expenditure, which is largely explained by an increase in basal
metabolic rate (Pontzer et al. 2016). Still, the energy hypothesis remains
controversial, and there are arguments for and against it. For example,
Alianda Cornélio and collaborators made an extensive analysis of homi-
nin brain volumes over time and found no relation between brain size
increases and archeological evidence for the use of ﬁre (Cornélio et al.
2016). Another energy variable that has been related to brain size is
adipose tissue, which some authors have found to correlate negatively
with brain size among mammals (Navarrete et al. 2011), although
humans have been reported to have the highest percentage of body fat
among apes (Pontzer et al. 2016).
Wrinkled Brains
Because brain size is largely determined by cortical surface, larger brains
soon reach a point at which further cortical growth is limited by the
volume of the cranium in which the brain is contained. Species with
relatively small cortices tend to have smooth brains and are called
lissencephalic, while species with larger cortices display convoluted, or
Wrinkled Brains 93
gyrencephalic brains characterized by inward sulci and outward gyri that
develop in the embryo as the brain increases in size. In larger brains, the
cortex seen on the brain’s surface is a very minor fraction of the total
cortical area, as most of the cortex lies buried within highly intricate
sulci. The anatomical pattern of sulci and gyri is speciﬁc for diﬀerent
mammalian orders, such that the brain of an elephant folds somewhat
diﬀerently from that of a carnivore or a primate brain. Our brain folds
follow a general primate pattern. This indicates a strong within-group
genetic determinant of cortical folding mechanics, of which we still
know little.
While gyriﬁcation does not necessarily reﬂect the development of
neuronal networks in the brain, the developmental and mechanical
factors involved in their generation have attracted the attention of
many researchers, including myself. Explanations of gyriﬁcation have
been proposed over the years, but we still have no real way of determin-
ing which of these, if any, is correct. The models fall into three main
categories, one emphasizing the role of the deep ventricular surface of
the brain, where neurons and the radial glia are produced, as proposed
by Pasko Rakic, and Robert Hevner and Tao Sun (Rash and Rakic 2014;
Sun and Hevner 2014). The radial glia is a critical cell type for brain
development, whose cell body is located in the depth of the hemisphere
and has a process that reaches the external surface of the brain (the pia
mater), spanning the entire thickness of the developing hemisphere. We
will come to other functions of this cell type below, but for now it is
suﬃce to say that it is like a chord attached to the external (pia mater)
and internal (ventricular epithelium) brain surfaces that produces
mechanical tensions, for example, in the depth of sulci, as the cerebral
cortex expands in development. Regions where radial glia are for some
reason more elastic and can increase in length will grow and fold out-
wardly, while regions in which radial glia are “stiﬀer” will remain buried,
close to the ventricular surface, forming the depth of sulci.
Other models emphasize a role of cortical expansion per se, implying
the diﬀerential growth of the superﬁcial layers of the cortex as opposed
to the slower expansion of the deep layers, producing an intracortical
mechanical pressure that leads to folding (Sun and Hevner 2014,
Striedter et al. 2015). Another possibility is that cortical expansion
94 3 A Matter of Size
generates mechanical pressure on the cranial cavity that leads to folding.
Georg Striedter and collaborators recently proposed a mechanism by
which newly arriving neurons to the developing cortex must intercalate
in the horizontal plane between older neurons that arrived there earlier
(Striedter et al. 2015). This produces a mechanical tension in the
tangential direction, particularly in the superior cortical layers, that
leads to the diﬀerential expansion of the cortex relative to deeper
structures. According to Eric Lewitus, the onset of gyriﬁcation in a
mammalian group depends on a critical neuron-number threshold,
which is about 109
neurons (Lewitus et al. 2014). David Van Essen,
and more recently Helen Barbas, proposed a diﬀerent model, in which
short-range cortico-cortical axonal connections exert mechanical tension
between the connected areas such that as the cortex grows, these two
areas tend to fold against each other, forming a gyrus. Long cortico-
cortical connections, on the other hand, exert less tension and are
allowed to grow underneath the depth of the sulci formed by adjacent
gyri (van Essen 1997; Hilgetag and Barbas 2009).
Suzana Herculano-Houzel proposed a mixed model to account for
connectivity and cortical expansion processes, and considers gyriﬁca-
tion a strategy to optimize connectivity in a large brain, an idea that
goes back to Georg Striedter (Striedter 2005). Herculano-Houzel
found that the surface area of white matter increases less rapidly
than the number of cortical neurons (Herculano-Houzel et al.
2010). In primates, whose cerebral cortex is particularly large, the
scaling of white matter relative to neuron number is actually slower
than that of other species like rodents, which means that primates
have relatively less white matter. This implies a general decrease in
connectivity in larger brains, presumably reﬂecting a strategy to
minimize redundancy in connectivity. Furthermore, Herculano-
Houzel claims that cortical folding in large brains contributes to
solving the connectivity problem by minimizing the length of cortical
connections with critical regions deeper in the brain. Moreover,
Herculano-Houzel recently published a mathematical model for cor-
tical folding in which the degree of folding depends on the product
between surface of cortical area and the square root of average cortical
thickness (Mota and Herculano-Houzel 2015). Notably, the model
Wrinkled Brains 95
closely ﬁts to what is found when folding paper sheets of diﬀerent
thicknesses: folding capacity is much higher with thinner than thicker
sheets. In fact, human mutations in which the cortex is particularly
thick have low folding indexes, and species with large brains but thin
cortices like dolphins and whales have highly convoluted cortices,
much more than that of humans. Georg Striedter contended that
these models assume that the cerebral cortex folds once it has already
grown (like a sheet of paper), but in fact the cortex folds as it
develops and the model does not make any assumptions about the
embryological mechanisms involved, apart from the general hypoth-
esis of a tension-based mechanism from the underlying white matter
(Striedter and Srinivasan 2015). Nonetheless, the model may well
reﬂect the physical constraints involved in gyriﬁcation, to which the
developmental mechanism must in last instance be subordinate.
Perhaps the most elegant physical model for cortical folding was
recently published by Tuomas Tallinen, Jun Young Chung and collabora-
tors, who developed a 3D printed gel model of a 22-week-old fetal human
brain, coated with a layer of a diﬀerent gel that absorbs liquid and
progressively swells over time (Tallinen et al. 2014). Under these condi-
tions, the surface gel expands tangentially and develops a complex pattern
of gyri and sulci that strikingly resembles the normal ﬁssural development
in the human brain, closely reproducing the orientation of the major and
secondary sulci. Note, however, that the 3D printed template already
shows an incipient temporal lobe, an exposed insula and the superior
operculum of the Sylvian ﬁssure. Therefore, this model does not account
for the initial formation of the most fundamental ﬁssural components of
the human brain, namely the Sylvian ﬁssure and the insular lobe.
Nevertheless, this and Herculano-Houzel’s studies strongly imply that
purely physical parameters are at the very least signiﬁcant determinants
of ﬁssurization. However, this does not account for diﬀerences among
individuals and species in cortical folding, or for hemispheric asymmetries.
This variability may depend on the diﬀerential expansion of distinct
cortical regions, or on other aforementioned factors like the mechanical
inﬂuences of radial glia and subcortical white matter, which may be under
genetic control.
96 3 A Matter of Size
Cell Counts
Following Harry Jerison’s principle of proper mass, many of the above
studies have assumed that in larger brains there will be more processing
neurons, more connectivity among them and more information capa-
city. This is in line with the micro-modular organization of the neocor-
tex that we discussed in the previous chapter, where the building block
of the cerebral cortex is the cortical column. Thus, in larger brains there
will be more columns, neurons, and processing capacity. As we will see
now, this may be correct but only to some extent. Despite a general
conservation of the basic module, the comparative evidence indicates
that there are areal and species diﬀerences in some details of the cano-
nical microcircuit, based on the variability of neuron number in each
column, and the proportions of neuronal types.
After the classic study of Andrew Rockel and collaborators, who
reported that the number of neurons underneath a unit of cortical area
was constant throughout the cerebral cortex, the latter was considered by
many as an extended sheet of tissue that increases mostly in surface and
very little in depth (Rockel et al. 1980). However, some ﬁndings
appeared not much later that partly challenged this notion. Some years
after Rockel’s study, Herbert Haug published an extensive account of
neuronal densities across brain regions and species using a technique
called stereology (Haug 1987). This is a standardized method to make a
three-dimensional representation of a series of two-dimensional micro-
scopic cross sections of neural tissue, yielding accurate information
about the total number of neurons in a given volume. Haug found
that neuronal density varies both across regions and across species. In
addition, Haug reported that gray matter neuronal density was lower in
species with larger brains than in species with smaller brains. Comparing
most species, neuron numbers tend to increase with brain size, but at a
lower rate than the increase in brain size. As a result, neuronal density
tends to decrease with increased brain size, providing more space for
neuronal connections for each neuron. This notion is consistent with
many developmental studies that indicate that training induces lower
neuronal density and higher dendritic growth in speciﬁc brain regions,
Cell Counts 97
which may be associated with increasing connectivity and processing
capacity (Diamond et al. 1993, Diaz et al. 1994, Scheibel 1988).
In 2005, Suzana Herculano-Houzel presented a new methodology to
count cells in brain tissue, called the isotropic fractionator, which has
challenged some of the ideas discussed earlier in this chapter
(Herculano-Houzel 2005, Herculano-Houzel et al. 2015c). The isotro-
pic fractionator consists of dissociating cell nuclei in a given volume of
tissue, suspending the nuclei in a chemical solution and then staining
them for neuronal or non-neuronal markers with speciﬁc antibodies.
This allows for discerning and accurately counting the number of
neurons and glial cells. Herculano-Houzel and collaborators conﬁrmed
and extended Haug’s earlier ﬁnding that in most mammals, there is an
increase in neuron numbers with increasing brain size, but the rate of
additional neurons is slower than the increase in brain size, resulting in
lower neuronal density in larger brains (Herculano-Houzel et al. 2015a,
b; Mota and Herculano-Houzel2014). Furthermore, she and colleagues
have observed that the rate of neuronal increase in relation to brain size
diﬀers across mammalian orders, such that distant species with similar
brain sizes can have very diﬀerent neuron numbers. On the other hand,
glial cells maintain a constant density across species and their number
accurately reﬂects diﬀerences in brain size. Herculano-Houzel has there-
fore proposed that for comparative studies, an estimator of the total
neurons per brain should be used, called the Neuronal Index. This
measure, she argues, may be a better predictor of cognitive ability than
the EQ or brain size.
According to Herculano-Houzel, primate brains are unique in their
neuronal composition (Wong et al. 2013; Ventura-Antunes et al.
2013). This group is characterized by a very rapid rate of neuronal
addition, in which an 11-fold larger brain contains 10 times more
neurons (and about 12 times non-neuronal cells, mostly glial), which
results in a nearly constant and very high neuronal density despite
brain size increases. As a result, primate brains have many more
neurons than non-primate brains of the same size, and humans are
no exception to this. This may relate to the more rapid fetal brain
growth relative to body size in primates than in other species as I
mentioned above (Halley 2016). With their very large brain, humans
98 3 A Matter of Size
have the highest absolute neuron number (regardless of body size),
some 86 billion neurons (and an equal number of glial cells), of
which about 16 billion are in the cerebral cortex (these numbers are
at odds with the classical estimates of 100 billion total neurons and
1,000 billion glial cells). Contrary to claims of a disproportionate
increase in cortical neurons in large-brained species, Herculano-
Houzel argues that cortical neurons represent about 20% of the
total neurons in the brain across many species, including humans
(Herculano-Houzel et al. 2014). The elephant brain is three times as
large as the human brain, but has only 5.6 billion neurons in the
cerebral cortex. Likewise, dolphins and whales, despite having large
brains, have characteristically fewer neurons in their cerebral cortex.
Even the smaller-brained gorillas, with a brain size one-third that of
humans, also have more brain neurons than elephants and false orcas!
Importantly, Herculano-Houzel, working with Tecumseh Fitch and
other researchers, showed that parrots and songbirds have on average
twice the number of neurons as primates of the same size (Olkowicz
et al. 2016). Furthermore, most of these neurons are located in the
pallium, a region involved in higher cognitive processing, comparable
in functions to the mammalian cerebral cortex (see Chapter 9).
How do we reconcile Herculano-Houzel’s ﬁndings with the earlier
literature on the EQ? The model of prenatal neuronal addition may hold
some cues. If most neurons are added in the prenatal and early postnatal
periods (depending on the species), neuronal number should be a better
proxy for immature brain size than adult brain size. In fact, during early
development most cell division results in neurogenesis, but in postnatal
development cell division is produced mostly by glial cells, and neuronal
density and size may vary signiﬁcantly during postnatal life. Thus, the
prenatal/early postnatal period of growth is the main determinant of
neuron number. But why would primates and some birds achieve such
high neuronal densities? Perhaps it has to do with the inherent physical
costs of having a brain volume (and head) that becomes too large in
relation to body size, plus computational diﬃculties due to longer nerve
paths. If we had the same neuronal density as the average mammal, in
order to keep the same number of neurons, our brains (and heads)
would have to about twice the size they are now! The same constraints
Cell Counts 99
may hold for birds, especially as these animals have the additional
constraint of minimizing head weight in order to be able to ﬂy.
Nonetheless, Diarmuid Cahalane, Chistine Charvet, and Barbara
Finlay have been particularly critical of the isotropic fractionator
method, claiming that this technique has strong limitations in anatomi-
cal resolution (Cahalane et al. 2012). They compared diﬀerent histolo-
gical cell counting methods for the primary visual cortex and the entire
cortex of rodents and primates and found signiﬁcant outlier eﬀects for
the isotropic fractionator that resulted in diﬀerences of 50% or more
from the counts obtained by other methods. Although determining the
number and size of neuronal cells (as well as neuronal types) may be a
much better way to estimate processing capacity than brain size or the
EQ, we still need to do many more comparative and developmental
studies and assess the diﬀerent techniques against each other to get a
consensual estimate of these critical variables.
How to Build a Big Brain
How are larger brains produced? We have seen that there is an increasing
number of neurons and glia in larger brains, but we haven’t yet
addressed the mechanisms by which the brain increases in size, for
which we will need to brieﬂy review cellular processes involved in
cortical development. In the 1970s, Pasko Rakic proposed the radial
model of cortical development, in which neurons are produced in the
deep surface of the brain and migrate outward to reach the cerebral
cortex (Rakic 1978). In the early embryo, there are self-renewing pro-
genitor cells, called radial glia because they have a long process that
connects the internal or ventricular surface, with the external surface or
pia mater of the brain. The cell bodies of radial glia are located deep in
the ventricular zone, and undergo symmetric divisions (that is, each
progenitor gives rise to two identical radial progenitors). Thus, their
numbers grow exponentially as development proceeds. In later stages,
these progenitors divide asymmetrically, where one daughter cell is an
immature neuron that stays some time in the ventricular zone and then
100 3 A Matter of Size
migrates toward the brain surface attached to the radial glia’s process
(Tamamaki et al. 2001; Noctor et al. 2002). Migration is arrested in the
cortical plate by a stop signal, and the cell diﬀerentiates as a mature
neuron. The stop signal is a molecule called reelin, which is secreted by a
special kind of cell called the Cajal-Retzius cell. Once stopped, neurons
arrange themselves into a laminar and columnar scaﬀolding (Rakic
2009; Geschwind and Rakic 2013). Neurons that migrate along the
same glial cell are likely to derive from the same radial glia, and arrange
themselves in columns in the cortical surface (Fig. 3.2) (Noctor et al.
2001; Kriegstein and Noctor 2004; Yu et al. 2009).
Although successful, Rakic’s model has required important modiﬁca-
tions. In the late 1990s, John Rubenstein and collaborators showed that
while excitatory neurons use radial migration to reach the cortex, inhi-
bitory neurons do not arise from the cortical ventricular zone, but are
born in the ventral hemisphere, in the region where the basal ganglia
develop (Fig. 3.3) (Anderson et al. 1997). Rubenstein and his group
performed minute surgery on the brains of fetal mice, separating the
basal ganglia primordium from the cortical primordium. Impressively,
in these animals, no inhibitory neurons were observed in the developing
cortex, although the number of excitatory neurons was normal. The
embryonic basal ganglia were then recognized as the major site for
production of inhibitory neurons in the cerebral hemisphere, while
most excitatory neurons are generated in the cortical ventricular zone.
Once born in the ventral hemisphere, inhibitory neurons migrate fol-
lowing a tangential route, that is, perpendicular to the orientation of
radial glia and parallel to the brain surface, and end in the diﬀerent
cortical layers as the cortex develops.
Several developmental studies in the 2000s revealed that in late cortical
development, a layer of cells called the subventricular zone (located just
above the ventricular zone) contains highly active neural progenitors
(Rakic 2009) called intermediate progenitors, which derive from radial
glia but have not yet diﬀerentiated as neurons. Instead, they continue
proliferating for two or three cell divisions, and then migrate outwardly to
the developing cerebral cortex. Studies by Zoltán Molnár (Cheung et al.
2007, 2010), Christine Charvet, Arnold Kriegstein and others established
that the subventricular zone is absent or barely discernible in reptiles and
How to Build a Big Brain 101
C-R
CP
RG
IZ
SVZ
VZ
VE
3
2
1
PS
Fig. 3.2 Development of the cerebral cortex. In this region, radial glia (RG)
extend a process that crosses the ventricular wall from the ventricular epithe-
lium (VE) to the pial surface (PS). In early stages (1), radial glia divide symme-
trically, their numbers increasing exponentially. In later development (2),
102 3 A Matter of Size
Fig.3.2 (Continued)
these neurons divide asymmetrically, producing one radial glia and a daugh-
ter neuron (circles). These neurons migrate from the deep ventricular zone
(VZ) (ovals) to the cortical plate (CP), attached to the glial process (RG) across
the intermediate zone (IZ), to make up the deep cortical layers. In a third
stage (3), radial glia produce daughter progenitors that proliferate in the
subventricular zone (SVZ) and then migrate outwardly to form superﬁcial
cortical layers (but they also contribute to deep layers; not shown). Cajal-
Retzius neurons (C-R) are located in the most superﬁcial layer (called the
marginal zone), and secrete the protein reelin, which controls the laminar
arrangement of the cerebral cortex (see Chapter 9)
CX
Excitatory
neurons
Inhibitory
neurons
MGE
Fig. 3.3 Radial and tangential migration in brain development. A cross-
section of the embryonic mammalian brain (one hemisphere), in which the
cerebral cortex (CX) develops. Excitatory neurons migrate from the deep
ventricular zone of the cortical primordium (black arrows). Inhibitory inter-
neurons originate in a deep brain region, the medial ganglionic eminence
(MGE), and arrive to the cortex by a process of tangential or horizontal
migration (gray arrows)
How to Build a Big Brain 103
some marsupials, modest in rodents and highly developed in large-brained
primates, including humans (birds have also developed a subventricular
zone, likely independently of mammals but reﬂecting similar mechanisms
of brain growth; see Chapter 9) (Charvet and Striedter 2011; Lui et al.
2011). Furthermore, a cell type called outer radial glia, which is present in
the subventricular zone (as opposed to the canonical radial glia, located in
the ventricular zone), is abundant in species with large brains, especially
humans, producing further intermediate progenitors (Hansen 2010;
Shitamukai et al. 2011; Florio and Huttner 2014).
The genetic cascade involved in this ampliﬁcation process seems to be
highly conserved across species, including birds. Pax6, a regulator gene
originally found in the fruit ﬂy and critical for eye development in most
animals studied, from insects to vertebrates (see Chapter 10), is also a key
promoter of radial glia self-renewal (Georgala et al. 2011). Increasing Pax6
activity results in more rapid production of neural progenitors, which at
some point start invading the subventricular zone to keep dividing before
migrating to the cortex. Thus, Pax6 is a key regulator of overall progenitor
numbers, and together with downstream and related genes, has been
proposed as an essential element of cortical expansion in mammalian
brains. My students, particularly Juan Montiel and Francisco Zamorano
(Aboitiz and Montiel 2007a, b; Aboitiz and Zamorano 2013) and I have
further argued that ampliﬁcation of a Pax6 cascade, or of related genes,
was a key event in the origin of the mammalian cerebral cortex, as well as
in the expansion of the avian brain, indicating a strongly conserved genetic
cascade that underlies brain development and evolution, possibly in all
vertebrates (see Chapter 9).
Pax6 is a key candidate for increasing neuronal numbers in mamma-
lian and human brains, but there are also many other related genes that
participate in this process, whose mutation could lead to smaller or
larger brains (Georgala et al. 2011). One example is the genes involved
in the regulation of neuronal death, such as Notch1 and CASP, which
are also important in regulating neuronal cell numbers during develop-
ment (Ables et al. 2011). Recently, Lei Wang and collaborators reported
a role of a developmental regulatory gene called Hedgehog in the
regulation of progenitor division and expansion of the cerebral cortex
(Wang et al. 2016). Other evidence points to so-called microRNAs,
104 3 A Matter of Size
small RNA pieces that do not code for a protein structure but regulate
the activity of other genes. These tiny molecules can depress or enhance
the activity of genes involved in progenitor division, ﬁnally aﬀecting
neuronal numbers (Somel and Khaitovich 2013).
Another source of evidence is genetic disorders that result in cortical
malformations, particularly microcephaly, a condition well known now
because of the Zika virus (Geschwind and Rakic 2013). Genes associated
with this condition are MCPH and ASPM, both involved in the pro-
liferation of neural progenitors (Pulvers et al. 2015). In contrast, macro-
cephaly is a condition in which there is an excessively large head, usually
concomitant with a larger than normal brain. A larger brain can be the
result of hydrocephalous or other conditions that aﬀect the volume of
the ventricular cavities, but can also be produced by megalencephaly (an
abnormally large brain wall and cerebral cortex). Notably, over 20% of
autism cases display macrocephaly to some degree. For example, over-
activation of the gene AKT3 can result in megalencephaly, and its
inhibition can result in microcephaly (Gai et al. 2015). Another inter-
esting gene associated with macrocephaly is PTEN, which is also linked
to autistic traits (Garcia-Junco-Clemente and Golshani 2014).
Determining which of these and other genes have been involved in the
evolution of our uniquely large brain is a matter of intense research
today, with new and interesting candidates appearing every day. Still,
there is a long way to go to provide a coherent picture of the genetics and
evolution of human brain size.
The Brain Hangs Together
In 1995, Barbara Finlay and Richard Darlington published an inﬂuen-
tial paper showing that the evolution of brain size proceeds according to
a highly conserved developmental schedule shared by most mammalian
species (Finlay and Darlington 1995). They analyzed the sizes of major
brain components in a huge sample of 131 species of primates, bats and
insectivores, observing an extremely well-conserved correspondence
between the volume of major brain components and the overall size of
The Brain Hangs Together 105
the brain. The only components that deviated from this relationship
were limbic and olfactory-related components, which varied indepen-
dently of brain size, and presumably in relation to ecological demands.
Interestingly, the cerebral cortex scales disproportionately to other brain
structures, so that species with larger brains tend to have relatively larger
cerebral cortices. However, this explosive brain growth ﬁts a clear allo-
metric trend across species, which indicates that the cerebral cortex does
not increase in size independently of other brain structures. In other
words, all brain components (except olfactory/limbic) tend to grow
together, although they do so at diﬀerent rates. Considering this allo-
metric growth, humans have the expected cortical size and proportions
of a hypothetical primate of the same overall brain size. Finlay and
Darlington concluded that there is only one way to increase the size of
brain structures, which is by growing an overall larger brain. This
conserved pattern has more recently been extended to all vertebrate
groups, from sharks to mammals (Yopak et al. 2010). According to
Finlay and Darlington, the independent development of brain compo-
nents is not impossible, but very unlikely.
Subsequently, Finlay, Darlington, and collaborators expanded on
their ﬁndings, presenting evidence for a conserved developmental sche-
dule in mammalian brains, excepting limbic, and olfactory structures
(Finlay et al. 1998; Workman et al. 2013). There is a neurogenetic
gradient from back to front and from ventral to dorsal, such that
anterior, late-generated brain components are disproportionately larger
than posterior, early generated structures; and ventral (motor) structures
tend to grow less than dorsal (sensory) structures. This meets Georg
Striedter’s dictum of “late equals large equals well-connected”, meaning
that late-developing structures tend to grow more and establish more
interconnected networks (Striedter 2005), but adds the antero-posterior
and dorso-ventral time gradients. According to Finlay and collaborators,
this imposed gradient speciﬁes a priori which structures will grow larger.
Thus, it is not common to ﬁnd species with a large brainstem compo-
nent but very small cerebral hemispheres (with the exception of some
rare species like mormyrid ﬁsh that have an hypertrophied cerebellum).
In this line, the cerebral cortex is located exactly in the most expansive
brain region, not because this is a functionally strategic region but
106 3 A Matter of Size
because this is where it will grow faster. In other words, cognitive
networks allocate in the most expanding regions, rather than cognitive
functions specifying the brain regions that will expand. This line of
thought is akin to Stephen Jay Gould and Richard Lewontin’s notion
that developmental mechanisms and constraints may be more important
than the selective processes in shaping morphology in evolution (Gould
and Lewontin 1979). In my opinion, this does not necessarily mean that
development determines everything. The neurogenetic gradient is not a
given, but responds to a basic functional constraint that has been the
target of natural selection. The position of the brain subordinates to the
oral end of the animal to regulate food intake. Likewise, sense organs are
also localized near the oral end, making up the head. The postero-
anterior neurogenetic gradient probably responds to this requirement,
facilitating the formation of neural networks that regulate the most basic
behaviors like orientation for food sources and other signals near the
mouth and sense organs. In this sense, the disproportionate growth of
anterior brain structures like the cerebral cortex may be the result of an
ancient developmental mechanism that has been selected to favor the
establishment of neural networks in the anterior end of the animal.
Sensorimotor and cognitive networks, including those involved in lan-
guage, are an extension of purposeful orientation behavior and develop
atop this ancestral scaﬀolding. This perspective agrees with Robert
Barton and colleagues’ recent conclusion that allometric relations may
ultimately result from functional rather than developmental constraints
(Montgomery et al. 2016).
Specialist Brains
Finlay and Darlington acknowledge that the brain divisions they used
are rather gross, and that there may be space for reallocation of functions
within each division (Finlay and Darlington 1995). Furthermore,
despite the observed correlations, Finlay and Darlington’s data allow
for two to threefold variation in the size of individual parts, which leaves
space for independent variation of the diﬀerent components. In this line,
Specialist Brains 107
many authors have focused on the adaptation of speciﬁc brain systems to
ecological conditions, considering their growth to be somewhat inde-
pendent of that of other networks. A good example of this particulated
strategy is food-storing birds, which have a larger hippocampus (a brain
structure critical for the acquisition of memory, which we will discuss in
Chapter 9) than that of non-foodstoring birds (Clayton 1998). This
increase in size has been associated with postnatal addition of neurons,
but there have been contesting reports. Likewise, in the brood parasitic
cowbird, which lays its eggs on the nests other species, females have to
remember the location of several nests of other species and wait until
eggs are laid in one of these to deposit their own eggs there.
Consequently, the hippocampus is larger in females than in males of
this species (Sherry et al. 1993). However, part of this may be due to
acquired increases in size, as in the famous study showing that London
taxi drivers and bus drivers have larger hippocampi than control subjects
(nowadays, with the help of satellite-directed navigators this character
may be lost) (Maguire et al. 2006). In addition, migratory birds tend to
have smaller encephalization quotients than all-year resident birds, pre-
sumably because they need more cognitive capacity to ﬁnd food in the
harsh winter. However, a recent report by Orsloya Vincze et al. 2015
and collaborators has shown that, despite having a smaller brain, migra-
tory birds tend to have larger than expected relative sizes of the optic
tectum in the brainstem, which is the main visual processing area in the
bird brain. This character may be of beneﬁt for visual orientation
during migration.
Beginning in 1995, Robert Barton and collaborators published a
series of extensive studies of visual and olfactory structures in primates,
bats and insectivores and their evolutionary relationships (Barton et al.
1995; Harvey 2000; Barton 2004). After removing the eﬀect of overall
brain size, they found correlated changes in size among functionally
related structures (visual with visual, and olfactory with olfactory struc-
tures), while correlations between visual and olfactory structures were
negative in primates, nonsigniﬁcant in insectivores and positive in bats.
In primates and insectivores, nocturnal habits are associated with larger
olfactory systems and smaller visual systems, but there are also associa-
tions of visual structures with frugivory (color vision helps detect ripe
108 3 A Matter of Size
fruit) in primates and insectivores, and between frugivory and olfaction,
but only in bats.
Barton and Chris Venditti recently reported an important correlation
between cerebellar and cerebral cortex growth (Barton 2012, Venditti
2014). Furthermore in apes and humans, the cerebellum increased in
size more than would be expected based on cortical expansion. Barton
proposed cerebellar growth was associated with extractive foraging, which
consists of locating and processing food that is either underground (roots
or ants, for example), or embedded in hard shells, which can require tool
making, as has been shown in chimpanzees in the wild. This implies that
cerebellar function has been an important achievement in ape and human
evolution and may have been involved in social behavior, cognition and
motor dexterity, possibly associated with making and throwing tools, and
other behaviors relevant to early hominids. Supporting Barton and
Venditti’s claims, Herculano-Houzel also determined that the cerebral
cortex does not grow alone, but as extra cells are added to this structure,
there is a coordinated increase in neuronal numbers in the cerebellum
(Herculano-Houzel 2010). Although the cerebellum only increases mod-
estly in size with growing body size, the number of cerebellar neurons are
added in tight correlation with increased body mass. Furthermore, the rate
of addition of neurons is uneven; there being about 8 new cerebellar
neurons and 2 cortical neurons for each neuron added to the rest of the
brain. This results in a tremendous increase in neuronal density in the
cerebellum of larger animals. Finally, a note on the developmental and
evolutionary aspect of this correlation, while the correlation between the
cerebral cortex and cerebellum probably results from the fact that both are
late-generated structures (as argued by Finlay; see above), natural selection
may have beneﬁted lineages in which the neurogenetic schedules of these
two structures synchronize.
The Cortical Mosaic
There is conserved developmental and architectural scaﬀolding in the
regions of the cerebral cortex. Barbara Finlay and Ryutaro Uchiyama
recently subdivided the cortex into an exteroceptive zone including
The Cortical Mosaic 109
visual, somatosensory and motor areas, and an interoceptive zone includ-
ing temporal, insular and ventral frontal areas (oddly, auditory regions are
labeled in the interoceptive zone) (Finlay and Uchiyama 2015). In this
organization, sensory and motor areas are “seeds” shared by all mammals,
while higher order and association areas appear and expand between them,
concomitant with increasing brain size in mammalian evolution. A neu-
rogenetic gradient is added to this in which neurogenesis continues in
posterior cortical regions until later stages, and consequently neuron
numbers and density are greater than in frontal regions where neurogen-
esis ends earlier (Charvet 2014; Cahalane et al. 2012). Cortical connec-
tions tend to arrange themselves in this same direction, preferentially
aligning antero-posteriorly. According to Finlay, this conserved organiza-
tion represents a compromise between network redundancy, providing
robustness against perturbations, and evolvability by permitting genetic
and environmental variability (Anderson and Finlay 2014). In this line,
the group led by Henry Kennedy has made a thorough analysis of
connectivity in the macaque and mouse, showing a conserved pattern of
connectivity among cortical areas, where the density of interareal connec-
tions decreases exponentially with areal distance. Nonetheless, this decay is
much more pronounced in the larger brain of the macaque than in the
smaller mouse brain, indicating that there is a constraint for long-range
connectivity as brains increase in size (Ercsey-Ravasz et al. 2013; Horvát
et al. 2016). Even so, primates show a tendency to have more dense
cortico-cortical connectivity than other mammals (Charvet et al. 2017).
In addition to this conserved scaﬀolding, there is evidence that
cortical regions can vary in size in diﬀerent directions among species.
Using modern anatomical and electrophysiological mapping methods,
Jon Kaas and others have exhaustively analyzed the areal composition of
the cerebral cortex in diﬀerent mammals, obtaining large species diﬀer-
ences in the number and relative extent of these areas (Kaas 2011, 2013).
Based on the presence of distinct cortical areas in all the studied mammal
species, Kaas proposed that the ancestral mammal had only a few cortical
regions, with four visual areas, four somatosensory areas, a gustatory and
viscerosensitive (insular) area, and an auditory area. There was also a
small frontal cortex with medial (cingulate cortex) and orbitofrontal
components, and a small, multimodal parietal area. In the course of
110 3 A Matter of Size
mammalian brain evolution, diﬀerent areas have been added as the
cerebral cortex has increased in size. A general process of areal separation
and input segregation was ﬁrst noted by Sven Ebbesson, who postulated
the “parcellation theory” for brain development and evolution
(Ebbesson 1980). Basically, Ebbesson argued that there are initially
heterogeneous projections in both neural development and brain evolu-
tion that converge in speciﬁc brain regions. As the brain increases in size,
there is a pervasive tendency of these projections to segregate into
diﬀerent areas that end up receiving more speciﬁc inputs, thus parcellat-
ing an ancestral multi-targeted convergence center, and favoring parallel
processing. The idea sparked intense debate at the time, but eventually
gained support, not as the exclusive mechanism for the evolution of
brain projections, but as a common phenomenon. Parcellation is likely
to occur especially as the convergence zone increases in size and allows
for the spatial segregation of diﬀerent inputs. This is in fact what
happens in the cerebral cortex, because as the cortex grows in size
disproportionately to the thalamic nuclei that relay information to it,
the numbers of neurons receiving input from a speciﬁc source keep
increasing, which favors the segregation of axons and the eventual
separation of diﬀerent brain areas.
Leah Krubitzer has proposed an updated version of Ebbesson’s theory,
in which small-scale mechanisms of aﬀerent segregation also contribute
to increasing input speciﬁcity and processing eﬃciency (Krubitzer 2009;
Seelke 2012). The addition of new areas is considered a result of a
process that includes increased size of a given area, subsequent within-
area microscopic segregation of diﬀerent inputs into distinct laminae or
stripes, and eventually the separation of these areas in two regions. For
example, the primary visual cortex is microscopically segregated into a
laminar distribution of neurons according to responsiveness to speciﬁc
kinds of visual stimuli, each of which then projects to distinct areas of
the temporal and parietal lobes (see Chapter 7). This pattern of spatial
ampliﬁcation of microscopically segregated inputs may also take place
during evolution, generating the observed diversiﬁcation of cortical areas
in the large brains of many species.
The main exception to the parcellation process is the well-known
invasion of inputs to a region that up to then received few if any aﬀerents
The Cortical Mosaic 111
from a given brain component. Examples of this are the connections
between both cerebral hemispheres, and the corticospinal tract that
sends axons from the cortex to the spinal cord, both tracts appearing
only in mammals. Suzana Herculano-Houzel and collaborators have
clariﬁed that the disproportionate increase in descending axons from
the cerebral cortex in primates, and especially in humans, is explained
simply by the fact that the number of descending cortical projections
invading the brainstem and spinal cord nuclei increases as the cortex
grows in size (Herculano-Houzel et al. 2016). On the other hand, the
number of cells in the brainstem and spinal cord nuclei does not increase
as rapidly as does the cerebral cortex, and they are invaded by descending
axons. To what extent is cortical control of human speech a consequence
of this allometric scaling? I will discuss this question in Chapters 8
and 10.
The relative size of individual cortical areas can also change according
to behavioral adaptations. For example, the somatosensory representa-
tion of the tactile vibrissae of rodents occupies a large extent of the cortex
and is organized into a series of “barrels”, each representing one whisker
(Kaas 2011, 2013). Likewise, the star-nosed mole, a subterranean animal
that has developed many tentacle-like protuberations in its nose to
maximize tactile sensitivity, has a very enlarged representation of each
of these tentacles in the cerebral cortex (Catania 1995). And the platy-
pus, the only mammal known to have electrosensory capacities (located
in its beak, which it uses to ﬁnd prey in mud underwater), also has a
hypertrophied beak representation in the somatosensory cortex
(Krubitzer et al. 1995). Bats also have an enlarged auditory cortex,
which I will describe in more detail in Chapter 10.
Evidence gathered in recent years shows that both plasticity-driven
and genetically modulated mechanisms operate in concert to determine
the diﬀerentiation of cortical regions. To show the eﬀects of neural
plasticity, Migranka Sur, Sarah Pallas, and collaborators have taken
advantage of a common phenomenon in early brain development,
namely transient exuberance of incoming cortical connections such
that nuclei from one sensory modality (say visual) initially send axons
to cortical areas destined to another modality (say auditory or somato-
sensory) (Sur et al. 1990). However, these connections soon retract
112 3 A Matter of Size
during normal development. By surgically eliminating the natural auditory
or somatosensory input to the presumptive auditory and somatosensory
areas, researchers have found that the originally transient visual projections
to the remaining areas stabilize, establishing functional synapses. Neurons
in these areas become visually sensitive, having similar visual responses to
those in the original visual cortex. Altogether, the evidence of transient
exuberance of cortical projections and the subsequent retraction or segre-
gation of these projections is in accord with Ebbesson’s parcellation
hypothesis, and also indicates a period of intense plasticity of projections
that can be remodeled according to diﬀerential patterns of activity (recall
the critical period of development, see Chapter 1). In normal circum-
stances, circuits processing diﬀerent inputs (like visual or auditory) become
largely separated and can perform their computations relatively indepen-
dently of each other. However, if there is an imbalance in this process in
early development caused by a lesion or deprivation, it is possible that
circuits from a diﬀerent modality take over. This occurs in people blind
from birth, whose visual areas become auditory or somatosensory sensitive.
However, plasticity does not account for everything. There are also
genetic mechanisms, perhaps not imposing a ﬁxed mosaic pattern of cortical
areas, but establishing continuous developmental gradients across the cortical
surface, which serve as scaﬀolding for the diﬀerentiation of cortical areas.
Three such gradients have been found at this point, the Pax6 gradient (the
same gene involved in progenitor proliferation we saw above) distributed
from lateral to medial cortex; a gradient including genes called Wnts and
Emx2 among others, from posterior to anterior regions; and ﬁnally a
gradient of a gene called FGF8 and related ones, from anterior to posterior.
Dennis O’Leary and colleagues ﬁrst observed that in mutant mice in which
Pax6 is inactive, lateral structures (olfactory cortex, amygdala) and frontal
areas, where Pax6 should be active, become strongly regressive (O’Leary and
Sahara 2008; Bishop et al. 2002). Conversely, posterior (visual) areas where
the Emx2 gene is normally active become regressive at the expense of
ampliﬁcation of frontal regions when this gene is mutated. Other experi-
ments by Elizabeth Grove and collaborators showed that injecting the
anterior signal FGF8 in the posterior cortex of the mouse produced a
duplicate somatosensory area in the posterior cortex (Grove and Fukuchi-
Shimogori 2003). Thus, diﬀerential modulations of these gradients may
The Cortical Mosaic 113
expand presumptive territories destined to diﬀerent cortical areas, and
furthermore, as the cortex increases in size, these gradients may also extend,
providing more space for areal diﬀerentiation.
The current consensus about areal speciﬁcation in the cerebral cortex is
that gene patterning mechanisms play a role in establishing what is called a
protomap or blueprint of the topographic arrangement of cortical areas,
which is reﬁned in later development by neuronal activity and plastic
processes. Projecting this to evolution, both factors may play a role.
Studies indicate that there may be more variability in the arrangement of
sensory areas within each species than the variability seen among related
species, indicating either that genetic variability is very high or that plastic
mechanisms are relevant in establishing the ﬁnal conﬁguration of cortical
areas. It is likely that both mechanisms were important in human evolu-
tion. Furthermore, considering that language must have arisen quite
rapidly in evolutionary time, it is very likely that the advent of culture-
induced plastic reorganizations of the brain, and at the same time, gener-
ated a selective pressure for mutations favoring these reorganizations.
Primates Are Different (Again)
Besides having a large brain, primates have privileged visual systems among
mammals. While reptiles and birds have a rich color perception, in mam-
malian origins some of the genes involved in color vision were lost,
presumably due to early adaptations to nocturnal life (see Chapter 9). As
a consequence, most mammals have only two visual pigments, one detect-
ing blue light and the other detecting a sort of green light. Another
common adaptation to nocturnal life is frontal vision, which increases
light and contrast sensitivity. Early primates are thought to have been
both nocturnal and arboreal, a lifestyle that strongly selects for frontal
vision (Aboitiz and Montiel 2015). When primates invaded the diurnal
niches, they redeveloped color vision by duplicating the gene for the green
pigment, and mutating one of these copies into a close-to-red light detect-
ing pigment. Thus, primates are usually trichromats (have three color
pigments) as opposed to most other mammals that are dichromats. In
2004, Robert Barton elegantly showed that the degree of optical convergence
114 3 A Matter of Size
in primates is associated with the expansion of several visual brain compo-
nents, which ends up increasing overall brain size (Barton 2004). This was
shown by a tight correlation across species between optical convergence and
the volume of thalamic visual nuclei, the visual cortex, and overall brain size,
which were independent of increases in body size.
Another factor that has been invoked to explain the large brains of
primates is social behavior. Robin Dunbar and his colleagues collected
evidence for an increase in relative volume of the cerebral cortex (this time
compared to total brain size) and social group size in diﬀerent primates
including humans (Schultz and Dunbar 2010). Likewise, Simon Reader
and Kevin Laland made an exhaustive analysis of documented instances of
behavioral innovation, social learning and tool use among primates (which
tend to correlate among themselves) and found that these variables
strongly correlate with both absolute and relative brain volumes (Reader
and Laland 2002). However, a very recent study reports that a main
determinant of brain size among primates is frugivorous diet rather than
social complexity (DeCasien et al. 2017). The most likely possibility is
that there are many factors inﬂuencing brain size, and determining the
relative weight of each may depend on several variables.
One possibility to integrate these hypotheses is that with the development
ofa complex visual systemand the regression of olfactory structures,the social
life of primates underwent important modiﬁcations, increasingly based on
visual and gestural cues rather than olfactory or pheromonal signals. There is
a report that loss of olfactory receptor genes is concomitant with the devel-
opment of trichromatric vision in primates (Gilad et al. 2004); and Rodrigo
Suárez, Jorge Mpodozis and colleagues found that in sexually dimorphic
species like primates, that rely more on visual signals for mating, there is a
documented reduction of the pheromone-detecting system (Suárez et al.
2011). A visual, gesture-dominated communication system may have pro-
pelled the development of cognitive power, which beneﬁted from increasing
neuronalnumbers and brain size.Gesturalcommunication is also relevantfor
human speech and language, which would be in line with this possibility.
One of the brain regions that has received more attention in relation to
human brain evolution is the frontal cortex, which is in front of the central
sulcus that separates the parietal and frontal lobes. On the other hand, the
prefrontal cortex covers most of the frontal cortex, but does not include the
Primates Are Different (Again) 115
premotor and motor cortices, which are located just anterior to the central
sulcus (Brodmann’s areas 6 and 4). Interest in the prefrontal cortex originates
from its involvement in characteristically human abilities like planning
behavior, cognition and speech and language. Karl Brodmann was perhaps
the ﬁrst to claim that the frontal lobe represents a larger proportion of cortical
surface in humans (28%) than in chimpanzees (17%) and macaques (11%),
a concept that became deeply entrenched for most of the past century
(Brodmann 1909). However, in the 1940s, Gerhardt von Bonin concluded
that the human frontal lobe is the size that would correspond to a primate
with that brain size, indicating that the main diﬀerence with apes is overall
brain size rather than an expanded frontal cortex (von Bonin 1948). Debate
about frontal lobe size has continued until now, as studies continue to present
contradictory evidence. Many authors have reported diﬀerent estimates of
prefrontal size, including neuroimaging measures of white matter, gray
matter, absolute and relative volumes, etc., producing more controversy
than consensus (Passingham and Smaers 2014; Smaers et al. 2011; Smaers
2013; Sherwood and Smaers 2013; Barton and Venditti 2013a, 2013b;
Smaers et al. 2017). Again, Herculano-Houzel and collaborators have
attempted to resolve this issue by the isotropic fractionator method
(Ribeiro et al. 2013; Gabi et al. 2016). They found that apart from overall
diﬀerences in total neuron numbers, humans do not diﬀer from other
primates in the proportion of neurons in the prefrontal cortex (about 8%
in all species). Furthermore, they claim that new neurons have been added
uniformly across cortical areas, and that the main diﬀerence between humans
and other primates lies in the larger total number of neurons. All in all, at this
point it may be safe to say that if there are diﬀerences in the size or neuron
numbers of the human prefrontal cortex with respect to other primates, they
are small enough to strongly depend on the statistics and experimental
methodologies used.
Increase Brain Power, Not Cell Numbers
Ursula Dicke and Gerhard Roth have pointed out the inconsistencies of
studies attempting to correlate intelligence with general brain properties
(Dicke and Roth 2016). They have proposed an estimator of
116 3 A Matter of Size
information processing capacity that depends on the number of cortical
neurons, neuronal packing density, interneuronal distance, and axon
conduction velocity, to minimize delays because of increasing distances
in large brains. Humans have the largest information capacity, followed
by apes and monkeys. Despite their large brains, cetaceans and elephants
score lower than primates in this estimate. On the other hand, some
birds, like crows and parrots, have high neuronal densities that signiﬁ-
cantly increase their information processing capacity, which may explain
their notable learning abilities.
Considering the apparent paradoxes and controversies concerning the
relationship between brain size, body size and intelligence, in 1996 I
proposed the hypothesis of dual processes of brain growth in evolution
(Aboitiz 1996). Most researchers have assumed that as brains get larger
or have more neurons, they are automatically better at processing
information. But this assumption ignores all the intricate variability in
connectivity and plasticity mechanisms that in the end may be more
critical than the raw brain cell numbers. Consider, for example, echolo-
cating bats, which, as discussed above, have quite small encephalization
quotients. Nevertheless, their auditory cortex is particularly well devel-
oped (see Chapter 10). On the other hand, the statistical allometric
relationship between body growth and brain growth is undeniable, so
that the brain is developmentally coupled to the rest of the body, at least
in early developmental stages. In a way, Jerison’s “somatic factor” reﬂects
this coupling, although not for the reasons he proposed. Therefore, there
is one mechanism of brain growth, which I have called “passive growth”
that results from simply following increases in body size. And the speciﬁc
allometric relationship between body and brain (or number of neurons)
depends on the particular developmental coupling between body and
brain in each speciﬁc lineage, in prenatal and early postnatal stages. In
this case, animals whose body size increases also grow a larger brain, but
generally to perform the same functions they were doing before at
smaller sizes.
There is another way by which brains can grow, which is by selective
pressure on behavioral or functional capacities. In this case, it may be of
beneﬁt to produce more neurons, as there will be more possibilities of
connectional rearrangements and network specialization (even if in some
Increase Brain Power, Not Cell Numbers 117
cases, as in echolocating bats, this can be done with fewer neurons). I call
this process “active” brain growth, which is a strategy to facilitate the
development of more eﬃcient neural networks and increasing plasticity.
Plastic rearrangements that increase processing capacity occur during
the lifetime of individuals as a response to immediate environmental
demands. Under these conditions, subjects having more neurons in their
brains might be at some advantage over those with slightly fewer
neurons. I highlighted a role of neural plasticity as a driver for human
brain evolution in an early article, proposing that a minimum of genetic
changes, mainly (but not exclusively) involved in increasing neural
progenitor proliferation in the brain, might account for human brain
evolution, while the rearrangement of connectivity would have been
largely a byproduct of activity-dependent reorganization of the neural
networks in these larger brains (Aboitiz 1988).
More neurons and larger brains may be of beneﬁt for the development
of learned social abilities, as Robin Dunbar has observed in primates
(Shultz and Dunbar 2010; Gamble et al. 2014). It is conceivable that a
sort of “arms race” (to use Richard Dawkins’ term; Dawkins 1991) took
place among our immediate ancestors, in which every increase in mental
capacity resulted in higher ﬁtness relative to the group. Or just to follow
Leigh Van Valen’s “Red Queen” hypothesis, individuals had to con-
stantly adapt not only to gain ﬁtness relative to others, but also to keep
their social status in a rapidly changing social world (changes that were,
in turn, produced by the advent of successive cultural innovations)
(Liow et al. 2011). Thus, a virtuous circle may have been established
in which pressure for increasing plasticity facilitated selection of large
brains and more neurons, and in turn these large brains resulted in more
intense social pressures and cultural innovations, again putting new
selective demands to increase neuron numbers, and so on.
Furthermore, increasing brain size may be a relatively simple genetic
achievement that can be done in a short time in evolutionary terms.
Subsequently (but certainly not caused by my publication), many
authors like Terrence Deacon and others also proposed plastic and epige-
netic processes for the rapid evolution of the human brain (Deacon 1997).
Very recently, Chet Sherwood and collaborators reported that the herit-
ability of cortical anatomy is much higher in the chimpanzee than in the
118 3 A Matter of Size
human, which ﬁrmly supports the concept of a plastic process in brain
evolution (Gómez-Robles et al. 2015). They studied a series of human and
chimp brains with known kin relationships, and determined variability in
brain size and brain shape, measured from a geometric model of cortical
anatomy. They then calculated an index of heritability, which is the
proportion of variability that cannot be explained by genetics or kinship.
Their ﬁnding is in line with a strong developmental plasticity of the human
brain, which might simply be the result of increasing brain size (larger
brains might have more developmental plasticity), an interesting possibility
that requires further research.
Finally, I have to point out that things are not so clear-cut regarding the
diﬀerent modalities of evolutionary brain growth. First, in passive growth,
brains still need to keep doing what they did before, but in larger networks
and with more distance between neurons, which may produce unwanted
delays in neuronal communication. As I said above, increasing neuronal
density might be a factor contributing to minimizing brain expansion as
neuron numbers increase. Furthermore, as mentioned in the previous chap-
ter, oscillatory activity could be especially hampered in large brains. If the
transmission delay of nerve impulses is too long, it may take a signiﬁcant part
ofan oscillatorycycle, or be even longer than one cycle,which would interfere
with the production of synchronized oscillations in large-scale networks,
particularly at high frequencies where cycles are much shorter in time.
Györgi Buzsáki, Nikos Logothetis and Wolf Singer recently highlighted
that the “synaptic path length”, or the number of synaptic relays between
two connected regions, increases as the distance between these regions
expands in larger brains (Buzsáki et al. 2013). Larger brains partly adapt to
this situation by growing longer faster conducting axons that are larger in
diameter, which serve as shortcuts for long connections (see Chapter 5).
Thus, connectivity becomes more complex, with local connections, middle-
range connections in diﬀerent degrees, and long- and very long-range con-
nections that act as shortcuts for diﬀerent pathways. This pattern corresponds
to what is called a “small world” organization, in which the balance among
local, intermediate and long-range connections is optimized to maximize
processing eﬃciency. Buzsáki and collaborators have also underlined the fact
that the propagation of low frequency oscillations across the cerebral cortex is
much faster in the large human brain than in the small brains of rats, pointing
Increase Brain Power, Not Cell Numbers 119
to a relative maintenance of transmission time intervals across the cortex in
both species. We will come back to the issue of axonal conduction and brain
size in Chapter 5, using the corpus callosum as a model tract for the evolution
of brain connectivity.
Thus, there may be compensatory rearrangements during passive
growth simply to maintain basic functional requirements. In addition,
by increasing neuron number, passive growth provides space for further
connectional rearrangements and opens a possibility for increasing beha-
vioral capacity. In fact, in many cases, active growth may make use of
general body size increases to increase the overall neuron number. This has
happened in human evolution, where there has been a steady increase in
body size accompanied with brain size increases, from 30 to 45 kg in
Australopithecines and Homo habilis to 60 kg in Homo erectus and a larger
average size in modern humans. However, body size has only doubled,
while brain size has tripled from Australopithecines to modern humans,
indicating that passive growth is not the only factor involved. Therefore,
brain growth, coupled with body growth, may be one of the ways higher
processing capacity has been achieved, but selection may also increase
brain size (or neuron number) independent of body growth. Moreover,
this could also explain why in some cases it is absolute neuron numbers,
and in others the number of neurons relative to body size, that best
accounts for behavioral capacities in diﬀerent animal groups.
Nonetheless, general brain size, plasticity and epigenetics could not have
done it all. We have evolved a speciﬁc sensorimotor network, specialized
to one hemisphere that enabled our ancestors to engage in complex vocal
behavior. In the next chapter, I will refer to another attribute of the
human brain, namely brain lateralization, which is an additional innova-
tion that may have required distinct genetic mechanisms.
References
Ables JL, Breunig JJ, Eisch AJ, Rakic P (2011) Not(ch) just development:
Notch signalling in the adult brain. Nat Rev Neurosci 12:269–283
Aboitiz F (1988) Epigenesis and the evolution of the human brain. Med
Hypotheses 25:55–59.
120 3 A Matter of Size
Aboitiz F (1996) Does bigger mean better? Evolutionary determinants of brain
size and structure. Brain Behav Evol 47: 225–245
Aboitiz F, Montiel J (2007a) Co-option of signaling mechanisms from neural
induction to telencephalic patterning. Rev Neurosci 18:311–342
Aboitiz F, Montiel J (2007b) Origin and evolution of the vertebrate telence-
phalon, with special reference to the mammalian neocortex. Adv Anat
Embryol Cell Biol 193:1–112
Aboitiz F, Montiel JF (2015) Olfaction, navigation, and the origin of isocortex.
Front Neurosci 9:402
Aboitiz F, Zamorano F (2013) Neural progenitors, patterning and ecology in
neocortical origins. Front Neuroanat 7:38
Aiello LC, Wheeler P (1995) The expensive-tissue hypothesis: the brain and the
digestive system in human and primate evolution. Curr Anthropol 36:199–221
Anderson ML, Finlay BL (2014) Allocating structure to function: the strong links
between neuroplasticity and natural selection. Front Hum Neurosci 7:918
Anderson SA, Eisenstat DD, Shi L, Rubenstein JL (1997) Interneuron migra-
tion from basal forebrain to neocortex: dependence on Dlx genes. Science
278:474–476.
Barton RA (2004) Binocularity and brain evolution in primates. Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S A 101:10113–10115
Barton RA (2012) Embodied cognitive evolution and the cerebellum. Philos
Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 367:2097–2107
Barton RA, Harvey PH (2000) Mosaic evolution of brain structure in mam-
mals. Nature 405:1055–1058
Barton RA, Venditti C (2013a) Human frontal lobes are not relatively large.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110:9001–9006
Barton RA, Venditti C (2013b) Reply to Smaers: getting human frontal lobes
in proportion. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110: E3683–E3684
Barton RA, Venditti C (2014) Rapid evolution of the cerebellum in humans
and other great apes. Curr Biol 24:2440–2444
Barton RA, Purvis A, Harvey PH (1995) Evolutionary radiation of visual and
olfactory brain systems in primates, bats and insectivores. Philos Trans R
Soc Lond B Biol Sci 348:381–392
Bishop KM, Rubenstein JL, O’Leary DD (2002) Distinct actions of Emx1,
Emx2, and Pax6 in regulating the speciﬁcation of areas in the developing
neocortex. J Neurosci 22:7627–7638
Brodmann K (1909) Vergleichende Lokalisationslehre der Grosshirnrinde.
Johann Ambrosius Barth, Leipzig
References 121
Buzsáki G, Logothetis N, Singer W (2013) Scaling brain size, keeping timing:
evolutionary preservation of brain rhythms. Neuron 80:751–764
Cahalane DJ, Charvet CJ, Finlay BL (2012) Systematic, balancing gradients in
neuron density and number across the primate isocortex. Front Neuroanat
6:28
Catania KC (1995) Magniﬁed cortex in star-nosed moles. Nature
375:453–454
Charvet CJ (2014) Distinct developmental growth patterns account for the
disproportionate expansion of the rostral and caudal isocortex in evolution.
Front Hum Neurosci 8:190
Charvet CJ, Striedter GF (2011) Causes and consequences of expanded sub-
ventricular zones. Eur J Neurosci 34:988–993
Charvet CJ, Hof PR, Raghanti MA, Van Der Kouwe AJ, Sherwood CC,
Takahashi E (2017) Combining diﬀusion magnetic resonance tractography
with stereology highlights increased cross-cortical integration in primates.
J Comp Neurol 525:1075–1093
Cheung AF, Pollen AA, Tavare A, DeProto J, Molnár Z (2007) Comparative
aspects of cortical neurogenesis in vertebrates. J Anat 211:164–176
Cheung AF, Kondo S, Abdel-Mannan O, Chodroﬀ RA, Sirey TM, Bluy LE,
Webber N, DeProto J, Karlen SJ, Krubitzer L, Stolp HB, Saunders NR,
Molnár Z (2010) The subventricular zone is the developmental milestone of
a 6-layered neocortex: comparisons in metatherian and eutherian mammals.
Cereb Cortex 20:1071–1081
Clayton NS. (1998) Memory and the hippocampus in food-storing birds: a
comparative approach. Neuropharmacology 37:441–452
Cornélio AM, de Bittencourt-Navarrete RE, de Bittencourt Brum R, Queiroz
CM, Costa MR (2016) Human brain expansion during evolution is inde-
pendent of ﬁre control and cooking. Front Neurosci 10:167
Darwin C. (1871) The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex. John
Murray, London
Dawkins R (1991) The Blind Watchmaker. Penguin, New York
Deacon T (1997) The Symbolic Species. The Co-evolution of Language and
the Brain. Norton Press, New York
DeCasien AR, Williams SA, Higham JP (2017) Pimate brain size is predicted
by diet but not sociality. Nature Ecol Evol 1:1002
Diamond ME, Armstrong-James M, Ebner FF (1993) Experience-dependent
plasticity in adult rat barrel cortex. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 90:2082–2086
122 3 A Matter of Size
Díaz E, Pinto-Hamuy T, Fernández V (1994) Interhemispheric structural
asymmetry induced by a lateralized reaching task in the rat motor cortex.
Eur J Neurosci 6:1235–1238
Dicke U, Roth G (2016) Neuronal factors determining high intelligence.
Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 371:20150180
Ebbesson SO (1980) The parcellation theory and its relation to interspeciﬁc
variability in brain organization, evolutionary and ontogenetic development,
and neuronal plasticity. Cell Tissue Res 213:179–212
Ercsey-Ravasz M, Markov NT, Lamy C, Van Essen DC, Knoblauch K,
Toroczkai Z, Kennedy H (2013) A predictive network model of cerebral
cortical connectivity based on a distance rule. Neuron 80:184–197
Finlay BL, Darlington RB (1995) Linked regularities in the development and
evolution of mammalian brains. Science 268:1578–1584
Finlay BL, Uchiyama R (2015) Developmental mechanisms channeling cortical
evolution. Trends Neurosci 38:69–76
Finlay BL, Workman AD (2013) Human exceptionalism. Trends Cogn Sci
17:199–201
Finlay BL, Hersman MN, Darlington RB (1998) Patterns of vertebrate neuro-
genesis and the paths of vertebrate evolution. Brain Behav Evol 52:232–242
Florio M, Huttner WB (2014) Neural progenitors, neurogenesis and the
evolution of the neocortex. Development 141:2182–2194
Foley RA, Lee PC (1991) Ecology and energetics of encephalization in hominid
evolution. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 334:223–231
Fonseca-Azevedo K, Herculano-Houzel S (2012) Metabolic constraint imposes
tradeoﬀ between body size and number of brain neurons in human evolu-
tion. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109:18571–18576
Frahm HD, Rehkämper G, Nevo E (1997) Brain structure volumes in the mole
rat, Spalax ehrenbergi (Spalacidae, Rodentia) in comparison to the rat and
subterrestrial insectivores. J Hirnforsch 38:209–222
Gabi M, Neves K, Masseron C, Ribeiro PF, Ventura-Antunes L, Torres L,
Mota B, Kaas JH, Herculano-Houzel S (2016) No relative expansion of the
number of prefrontal neurons in primate and human evolution. Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S A 113:9617–9622
Gai D, Haan E, Scholar M, Nicholl J, Yu S (2015) Phenotypes of AKT3
deletion: a case report and literature review. Am J Med Genet A 167:174–179
Galton F (1907) Inquiries into Human Faculty and Its Development. JM Dent
& Sons, London
References 123
Gamble C, Gowlett J, Dunbar R (2014) Thinking Big: How the Evolution of
Social Life Shaped the Human Mind. Thames and Hudson, New York
Garcia-Junco-Clemente P, Golshani P (2014) PTEN: A master regulator of
neuronal structure, function, and plasticity. Commun Integr Biol 7:e28358
Georgala PA. Carr CB, Price DJ (2011) The role of Pax6 in forebrain devel-
opment. Dev Neurobiol 71:690–709
Geschwind DH, Rakic P (2013) Cortical evolution: judge the brain by its
cover. Neuron 80:633–647
Gilad Y, Przeworski M, Lancet D (2004) Loss of olfactory receptor genes coincides
with the acquisition of full trichromatic vision in primates. PLoS Biol 2:E5
Gómez-Robles A, Hopkins WD, Schapiro SJ, Sherwood CC (2015) Relaxed
genetic control of cortical organization in human brains compared with
chimpanzees. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112:14799–14804
Gould SJ (1981) The Mismeasure of Man. WW Norton, New York
Gould SJ, Lewontin RC (1979) The spandrels of San Marco and the panglos-
sian paradigm: a critique of the adaptationist programme. Proc Roy Soc
Lond B 205:581–598
Grove EA, Fukuchi-Shimogori T (2003) Generating the cerebral cortical area
map. Annu Rev Neurosci 26:355–380
Halley AC (2016) Prenatal brain-body allometry in mammals. Brain Behav
Evol 88:14–24
Hansen DV, Lui JH, Parker PR, Kriegstein AR (2010) Neurogenic radial glia
in the outer subventricular zone of human neocortex. Nature 464:554–561
Haug H (1987) Brain sizes, surfaces, and neuronal sizes of the cortex cerebri: a
stereological investigation of man and his variability and a comparison with
some mammals (primates, whales, marsupials, insectivores, and one ele-
phant). Am J Anat 180:126–142
Herculano-Houzel S (2010) Coordinated scaling of cortical and cerebellar
numbers of neurons. Front Neuroanat 4:12
Herculano-Houzel S (2015) Decreasing sleep requirement with increasing
numbers of neurons as a driver for bigger brains and bodies in mammalian
evolution. Proc Biol Sci 282:20151853
Herculano-Houzel S, Lent R (2005) Isotropic fractionator: a simple, rapid
method for the quantiﬁcation of total cell and neuron numbers in the
brain. J Neurosci 25:2518–2521
Herculano-Houzel S, Mota B, Wong P, Kaas JH (2010) Connectivity-driven
white matter scaling and folding in primate cerebral cortex. Proc Natl Acad
Sci U S A 107:19008–19013
124 3 A Matter of Size
Herculano-Houzel S, Manger PR, Kaas JH (2014) Brain scaling in mammalian
evolution as a consequence of concerted and mosaic changes in numbers of
neurons and average neuronal cell size. Front Neuroanat 8:77
Herculano-Houzel S, Catania K, Manger PR, Kaas JH (2015a) Mammalian
brains are made of these: a dataset of the numbers and densities of neuronal
and nonneuronal cells in the brain of glires, primates, scandentia, eulipo-
typhlans, afrotherians and artiodactyls, and their relationship with body
mass. Brain Behav Evol 86:145–163
Herculano-Houzel S, Messeder DJ, Fonseca-Azevedo K, Pantoja NA (2015b)
When larger brains do not have more neurons: increased numbers of cells
are compensated by decreased average cell size across mouse individuals.
Front Neuroanat 9:64
Herculano-Houzel S, von Bartheld CS, Miller DJ, Kaas JH (2015c) How to
count cells: the advantages and disadvantages of the isotropic fractionator
compared with stereology. Cell Tissue Res 360:29–42
Herculano-Houzel S, Kaas JH, de Oliveira-Souza R (2016) Corticalization of
motor control in humans is a consequence of brain scaling in primate
evolution. J Comp Neurol 524:448–455
Hilgetag CC, Barbas H (2009) Sculpting the brain. Sci Amer 2:66–71
Horvát S, Gămănuț R, Ercsey-Ravasz M, Magrou L, Gămănuț B, Van Essen
DC, Burkhalter A, Knoblauch K, Toroczkai Z, Kennedy H (2016) Spatial
embedding and wiring cost constrain the functional layout of the cortical
network of rodents and primates. PLoS Biol 14:e1002512
Jerison HJ (1973) Evolution of the Brain and Intelligence. Academic Press,
New York
Kaas JH (2011) Reconstructing the areal organization of the neocortex of the
ﬁrst mammals. Brain Behav Evol 78:7–21
Kaas JH (2013) The evolution of brains from early mammals to humans. Wiley
Interdiscip Rev Cogn Sci 4:33–45
Kleiber M (1975) Metabolic turnover rate: a physiological meaning of the
metabolic rate per unit body weight. J Theor Biol 53:199–204
Kriegstein AR, Noctor SC (2004) Patterns of neuronal migration in the
embryonic cortex. Trends Neurosci 27:392–399
Krubitzer L (2009) In search of a unifying theory of complex brain evolution.
Ann N Y Acad Sci 1156:44–67
Krubitzer LA, Seelke AM (2012) Cortical evolution in mammals: the bane and
beauty of phenotypic variability. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109 (Suppl
1):10647–10654
References 125
Krubitzer L, Manger P, Pettigrew J, Calford M (1995) Organization of soma-
tosensory cortex in monotremes: in search of the prototypical plan. J Comp
Neurol 351:261–306
Lashley KS (1929) Brain Mechanisms and Intelligence. University Of Chicago
Press, Chicago
Lewitus E, Kelava I, Kalinka AT, Tomancak P, Huttner WB (2014) An
adaptive threshold in mammalian neocortical evolution. PloS Biology 12:
e1002000
Liow LH, Van Valen L, Stenseth NC (2011) Red Queen: from populations to
taxa and communities. Trends Ecol Evol 26:349–358
Lui JH, Hansen DV, Kriegstein AR (2011) Development and evolution of the
human neocortex. Cell 146:18–36
MacLean EL, Hare B, Nunn CL, Addessi E, Amici F, Anderson RC, Aureli F,
Baker JM, Bania AE, Barnard AM, Boogert NJ, Brannon EM, Bray EE,
Bray J, Brent LJ, Burkart JM, Call J, Cantlon JF, Cheke LG, Clayton NS,
Delgado MM, DiVincenti LJ, Fujita K, Herrmann E, Hiramatsu C, Jacobs
LF, Jordan KE, Laude JR, Leimgruber KL, Messer EJ, Moura AC, Ostojić
L, Picard A, Platt ML, Plotnik JM, Range F, Reader SM, Reddy RB, Sandel
AA, Santos LR, Schumann K, Seed AM, Sewall KB, Shaw RC, Slocombe
KE, Su Y, Takimoto A, Tan J, Tao R, van Schaik CP, Virányi Z, Visalberghi
E, Wade JC, Watanabe A, Widness J, Young JK, Zentall TR, Zhao Y (2014)
The evolution of self-control. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 111:E2140–E2148
Maguire EA, Woollett K, Spiers HJ (2006) London taxi drivers and bus
drivers: a structural MRI and neuropsychological analysis. Hippocampus
16:1091–1101
Martin RD (1981) Relative brain size and basal metabolic rate in terrestrial
vertebrates. Nature 293:57–60
Montgomery SH, Mundy NI, Barton RA (2016) Brain evolution and devel-
opment: adaptation, allometry and constraint. Proc Roy Soc B
283:20160433.
Mota B, Herculano-Houzel S (2014) All brains are made of this: a fundamental
building block of brain matter with matching neuronal and glial masses.
Front Neuroanat 8:127
Mota B, Herculano-Houzel S (2015) Cortical folding scales universally with
surface area and thickness, not number of neurons. Science 349:74–77
Navarrete A, van Schaik CP, Isler K (2011) Energetics and the evolution of
human brain size. Nature 480:91–93
126 3 A Matter of Size
Noctor SC, Flint AC, Weissman TA, Dammerman RS, Kriegstein AR (2001)
Neurons derived from radial glial cells establish radial units in neocortex.
Nature 409:714–720
Noctor SC, Flint AC, Weissman TA, Wong WS, Clinton BK, Kriegstein AR
(2002) Dividing precursor cells of the embryonic cortical ventricular zone
have morphological and molecular characteristics of radial glia. J Neurosci
22:3161–3173
O’Leary DD, Sahara S (2008) Genetic regulation of arealization of the neo-
cortex. Curr Opin Neurobiol 18:90–100
Olkowicz S, Kocourek M, Lučan RK, Porteš M, Fitch WT, Herculano-Houzel
S, Němec P (2016) Birds have primate-like numbers of neurons in the
forebrain. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 113:7255–7260
Pagel MD, Harvey PH (1988) How mammals produce large-brained oﬀspring.
Evolution 42:948–957
Passingham RE, Smaers JB (2014) Is the prefrontal cortex especially enlarged in
the human brain allometric relations and remapping factors. Brain Behav
Evol 84:156–166
Pirlot P, Pottier J (1977) Encephalization and quantitative brain composition
in bats in relation to their life-habits. Rev Can Biol 36:321–336
Pontzer H, Brown MH, Raichlen DA, Dunsworth H, Hare B, Walker K, Luke
A, Dugas LR, Durazo-Arvizu R, Schoeller D, Plange-Rhule J, Bovet P,
Forrester TE, Lambert EV, Thompson ME, Shumaker RW, Ross SR
(2016) Metabolic acceleration and the evolution of human brain size and
life history. Nature 533:390–392
Pulvers JN, Journiac N, Arai Y, Nardelli J (2015) MCPH1: a window into
brain development and evolution. Front Cell Neurosci 9:92
Rakic P (1978) Neuronal migration and contact guidance in the primate
telencephalon. Postgrad Med J 54 (Suppl 1):25–40
Rakic P (2009) Evolution of the neocortex: a perspective from developmental
biology. Nat Rev Neurosci 10:724–735
Rash BG, Rakic P (2014) Genetic resolutions of brain convolutions. Science
343:744–745
Reader SM, Laland KN (2002) Social intelligence, innovation, and enhanced
brain size in primates. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 99:4436–4441
Ribeiro PF, Ventura-Antunes L, Gabi M, Mota B, Grinberg LT, Farfel JM,
Ferretti-Rebustini RE, Leite RE, Filho WJ, Herculano-Houzel S (2013) The
human cerebral cortex is neither one nor many: neuronal distribution reveals
References 127
two quantitatively diﬀerent zones in the gray matter, three in the white matter,
and explains local variations in cortical folding. Front Neuroanat 7:28
Riska B, Atchley WR (1985) Genetics of growth predict patterns of brain-size
evolution. Science 229:668–671
Rockel AJ, Hiorns RW, Powell TP (1980) The basic uniformity in structure of
the neocortex. Brain 103:221–244
Rushton JP, Ankney CD (2009) Whole brain size and general mental ability: a
review. Int J Neurosci 119:691–731
Scheibel AB (1988) Dendritic correlates of human cortical function. Arch Ital
Biol 126:347–357
Sherry DF, Forbes MR, Khurgel M, Ivy GO (1993) Females have a larger
hippocampus than males in the brood-parasitic brown-headed cowbird.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 90:7839–7843
Sherwood CC, Smaers JB (2013) What’s the fuss over human frontal lobe
evolution? Trends Cogn Sci 17:432–433
Shitamukai A, Konno D, Matsuzaki F (2011) Oblique radial glial divisions in
the developing mouse neocortex induce self-renewing progenitors outside
the germinal zone that resemble primate outer subventricular zone progeni-
tors. J Neurosci 31:3683–3695
Shultz S, Dunbar R (2010) Encephalization is not a universal macroevolu-
tionary phenomenon in mammals but is associated with sociality. Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S A 107:21582–21586
Smaers JB (2013) How humans stand out in frontal lobe scaling. Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S A 110:E3682
Smaers JB, Steele J, Case CR, Cowper A, Amunts K, Zilles K (2011) Primate
prefrontal cortex evolution: human brains are the extreme of a lateralized
ape trend. Brain Behav Evol 77:67–78
Smaers JB, Gómez-Robles A, Parks AN, Sherwood CC (2017) Exceptional
Evolutionary Expansion of Prefrontal Cortex in Great Apes and Humans.
Curr Biol 27:714–720
Somel M, Liu X, Khaitovich P (2013) Human brain evolution: transcripts,
metabolites and their regulators. Nat Rev Neurosci 14:112–127
Stevens JR (2014) Evolutionary pressures on primate intertemporal choice.
Proc Biol Sci 281:1786
Striedter GF (2005) Principles of Brain Evolution. Sinauer Associates, Sunderland
Striedter GF, Srinivasan S (2015) Knowing when to fold them. Science 349:31–32
Striedter GF, Srinivasan S, Monuki ES (2015) Cortical folding: when, where,
how, and why? Annu Rev Neurosci 38:291–307
128 3 A Matter of Size
Suárez R, Fernández-Aburto P, Manger PR, Mpodozis J (2011) Deterioration
of the Gαo vomeronasal pathway in sexually dimorphic mammals. PLoS
One 6(10):e26436
Sun T, Hevner RF (2014) Growth and folding of the mammalian cerebral
cortex: from molecules to malformations. Nat Rev Neurosci 15:217–232
Sur M, Pallas SL, Roe AW (1990) Cross-modal plasticity in cortical develop-
ment: diﬀerentiation and speciﬁcation of sensory neocortex. Trends
Neurosci 13:227–233
Tallinen T, Chung JY, Biggins JS, Mahadevan L (2014) Gyriﬁcation from
constrained cortical expansion. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 111:12667–12672
Tamamaki N, Nakamura K, Okamoto K, Kaneko T (2001) Radial glia is a
progenitor of neocortical neurons in the developing cerebral cortex.
Neurosci Res 41:51–60
Van Essen DC (1997) A tension-based theory of morphogenesis and compact
wiring in the central nervous system. Nature 385:313–318
Ventura-Antunes L, Mota B, Herculano-Houzel S. (2013) Diﬀerent scaling of
white matter volume, cortical connectivity, and gyriﬁcation across rodent
and primate brains. Front Neuroanat 7:3
Vincze O, Vágási CI, Pap PL, Osváth G, Møller AP (2015) Brain regions associated
with visual cues are important for bird migration. Biol Lett 11 pii: 20150678
Von Bonin G (1948) The frontal lobe of primates; cytoarchitectural studies.
Res Publ Assoc Res Nerv Ment Dis 27:67–83
Wang L, Hou S, Han YG (2016) Hedgehog signaling promotes basal progeni-
tor expansion and the growth and folding of the neocortex. Nat Neurosci
19:888–896
Wong P, Peebles JK, Asplund CL, Collins CE, Herculano-Houzel S, Kaas JH
(2013) Faster scaling of auditory neurons in cortical areas relative to sub-
cortical structures in primate brains. Brain Behav Evol 81:209–218
Workman AD, Charvet CJ, Clancy B, Darlington RB, Finlay BL (2013)
Modeling transformations of neurodevelopmental sequences across mam-
malian species. J Neurosci 33:7368–7383
Wrangham R (2009) Catching Fire: How Cooking Made Us Human. Proﬁle
Books, London
Yopak KE, Lisney TJ, Darlington RB, Collin SP, Montgomery JC, Finlay BL
(2010) A conserved pattern of brain scaling from sharks to primates. Proc
Natl Acad Sci U S A 107:12946–12951
Yu YC, Bultje RS, Wang X, Shi SH (2009) Speciﬁc synapses develop preferen-
tially among sister excitatory neurons in the neocortex. Nature 458:501–504
References 129
4
Broken Symmetry
As I mentioned in Chapter 2, Marc Dax was the ﬁrst to document left-
hemisphere specialization in speech, something that in the beginning
was not evident for either Broca or Wernicke (Schiller 1992). By the
early twentieth century, the notion that the faculty of speech was
localized in the left hemisphere was already accepted among neurolo-
gists, but hemispheric specialization was still not a signiﬁcant issue. In
the 1960s, Norman Geschwind’s work on disconnection syndromes
contributed to establishing the notion of brain lateralization, with the
left hemisphere dominant for language and hand control (Geschwind
1965). However, it was with the Nobel Prize winning study by Roger
Sperry and his student Michael Gazzaniga on what they termed split-
brain patients that the concept became widely known among the scien-
tiﬁc community and the public. Together with the neurosurgeon Joseph
Bogen, Sperry, and Gazzaniga were interested in patients undergoing a
new neurosurgical technique called callosotomy, which consists of sec-
tioning the corpus callosum, a massive tract of ﬁbers that connects the
left and right hemispheres of the brain (of which I will talk extensively in
the next chapter). This procedure has been performed since the 1940s
on patients with intractable epilepsy to avoid the development of a
© The Author(s) 2017
F. Aboitiz, A Brain for Speech,
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-54060-7_4
131
mirror focus in the other hemisphere, which contributes to propagating
seizures. The surgery was very successful in medical terms, providing a
series of “split-brain” patients in which the two cerebral hemispheres
were largely disconnected. One of the most striking observations was
that such patients were able to live reasonably normal lives. However,
some of them experienced hand discoordination, in which the left hand
(controlled by the right hemisphere) seemed to act on its own and did
not follow the patient’s will, or at least according to the patients’ verbal
reports (which depends on the left hemisphere). This was an important
indication that the right hemispheres of these patients were blind to
language processes.
Two Minds
Sperry became widely respected in the 1950s for his groundbreaking
work on the regeneration of the optic nerve in amphibians (neural
regeneration is common in these animals, unlike in higher verte-
brates) (Sperry 1947). He showed that changing the eye’s orientation
by rotating it did not result in modifying its central connections
when these were reestablished. Sperry took advantage of the fact that
the geometry of the eye inverts the image projected on the retina like
an optical photographic camera, so that the lower retina normally
faces the superior visual ﬁeld and the upper retina faces the inferior
visual ﬁeld. After sectioning the optic nerve, he rotated the frog’s eye
by 180 degrees, so that the normally lower retina was now in an
upper position facing the lower visual ﬁeld and vice versa. After
allowing the sectioned nerve to regenerate, Sperry studied the frog’s
visual behavior by presenting food (a ﬂy) in the frog’s upper or lower
visual ﬁeld. When the ﬂy was positioned in the lower visual ﬁeld, the
frog lunged upwardly to catch it, while if it was presented in the
upper visual ﬁeld; the frog lunged downwardly, as it would have
done before the eye rotation. The world had turned upside down to
the frog, but it was unable to adjust to this change. Of course,
sectioning the optic nerve and allowing it to regenerate without
rotating the eye did not produce this eﬀect. These ﬁndings implied
132 4 Broken Symmetry
that axons located in the superior (or inferior) retina were labeled to
establish connections with central regions representing the upper
(or lower) visual ﬁeld, regardless of the eye’s orientation. This con-
clusion supported the chemical label theory of how axons ﬁnd their
synaptic targets; as opposed to the resonance theory that claimed
axons connect with their postsynaptic partners based on similarities
in electrical activity patterns.
Sperry and collaborators continued studying the visual system, this time
using cats to section a structure called the optic chiasm, where ﬁbers of the
optic nerve cross to the opposite hemisphere (Miner et al. 1956; Myers and
Sperry 1958; Schrier and Sperry 1959). In frontal viewing species like cats
and humans, each eye projects visual ﬁbers to both cerebral hemispheres, so
sectioning the optic chiasm made visual stimuli from each eye send ﬁbers to
the same hemispheric side, and not the other hemisphere. That is, the left
eye was only connected to the left hemisphere, and the right eye to the right
hemisphere (Fig. 4.1). Sperry then taught the cats a visual task with one eye
blinkered, so that only one of their hemispheres (the one receiving input
from the unblinkered eye) could learn the task. Cats learned the task well
with the unblinkered eye. Experimenters then blinkered the eye with
which the cat had learned the task, and unblinkered the other one
(the untrained eye). Notably, cats also did well in the task because infor-
mation that originally reached the hemisphere that had learned the task
could be transferred to the other hemisphere through the corpus callosum.
In a second step, Sperry and team performed two operations, one section-
ing the optic chiasm, and the other sectioning the corpus callosum to
interrupt interhemispheric communication. The cats did well in the task
with the eye originally exposed to the task, but were unable to do it with
the untrained eye. This suggested that the hemisphere that had learned the
task was unable to transfer the knowledge to the hemisphere connected to
the blinkered eye.
In a third step, Sperry, together with Michael Gazzaniga, studied the
human split brain (Gazzaniga et al. 1962, 1965,; Gazzaniga and Sperry
1967). With the help of Joe Bogen, they recruited several split-brain patients
to analyze their behavior under restricted conditions. Because sectioning the
human optic chiasm was not an option, Sperry and Gazzaniga took advan-
tage of the arrangement of retinal projections to the brain in binocular, or
Two Minds 133
1
2 3
4
Right
LGN
Left 2
3
4
1
2
3
4, 3 2, 1
2
3
1
4
V1 V1
Q
CC
Fig. 4.1 The visual pathway to the cerebral cortex. The visual ﬁeld (curved
lines 1–4) is subdivided into the left (1, 2) and the right (3, 4) visual hemiﬁelds.
The left eye (segmented lines) sees the left hemiﬁeld (ipsilateral, 1, 2), and only
the medial right hemiﬁeld (contralateral, 3). Conversely, the right eye sees the
right hemiﬁeld (ipsilateral, 4, 3), and only the medial left hemiﬁeld (contral-
ateral, 2). In the optic chiasm (Q), ﬁbers from the ipsilateral visual ﬁeld repre-
sentation from each eye cross to the other hemisphere, while ﬁbers from the
contralateral representation from each eye remain in the same hemisphere.
134 4 Broken Symmetry
frontal viewing species like humans and cats. In animals with binocular
vision, each eye can see on both sides of the head (called left and right visual
ﬁelds, respectively). However, connectivity is arranged so that in both the left
and right eyes, the part of the retina that sees the left visual ﬁeld is projected to
the right hemisphere. Conversely, objects on the right visual ﬁeld are pro-
jected by both eyes to the left cerebral hemisphere (Fig. 4.2). The short story
is that when you are looking frontally, whatever is to your right is seen by the
left hemisphere and everything to your left is seen with the right hemisphere.
Gazzaniga and Sperry put their patients in front of a screen divided in two
(left and right), and instructed them to ﬁx their sight on a central point. They
then presented stimulus on only half of the visual ﬁeld (left or right), so that
thestimulus wouldbe projected onlytothe contralateral hemisphere(right or
left, respectively). Gazzaniga and Sperry found that the left hemisphere of
split-brain patients (receiving stimuli from only the right visual ﬁeld) was
perfectly able to perform all reading tasks, while the reading capacity of the
right hemisphere (facing the left visual ﬁeld) was much more limited, being
restricted to simple words for most patients. Furthermore, subjects might not
be able to verbally recall stimuli presented to the right hemisphere, but using
the left hand, the subject was able to point to the observed object, so, for
example, if the subject was presented with a word like “pencil” in the right
hemisphere, he/she could recognize the object with his left hand even if it was
out of sight (this showed a limited reading ability of the right hemisphere),
but when asked what he/she had done, the subject could not report this
verbally since language is located in the left hemisphere.
Later in the seventies, another of Sperry’s students Eran Zaidel
designed an ingenious contact lens (the Z-lens) that presented stimuli
to only one eye, in which half of the stimulus was seen by the left
hemisphere and the other half by the right hemisphere (Zaidel 1975). At
the time this was a great innovation as the previous design required
constantly checking to ensure that subjects had not moved their eyes
Fig.4.1 (Continued)
The result is that in the visual cortex (V1), the left visual ﬁeld is represented in
the right hemisphere, and the right visual ﬁeld is represented in the left
hemisphere. Both hemiﬁelds are connected in the visual cortex by ﬁbers of
the corpus callosum (CC). LGN, lateral geniculate nucleus
Two Minds 135
Left
“Ring”
“Ring”
B
W
M M
Right
Fig. 4.2 The split brain. If the corpus callosum is sectioned at the midline,
sensory information (in this case, visual) reaching only one hemisphere is
disconnected from the other hemisphere. If two different stimuli are pre-
sented to the two halves of the visual ﬁeld (say, a key on the left side and a
ring on the right side), each hemisphere will have access to only one stimulus.
If the subject is asked to grasp the presented object, he/she will take the key
with the left hand, and the ring with the right hand, because the descending
motor pathway from the motor cortex (M) is crossed. Note that the motor
pathway to the hand crosses to the contralateral side in the brainstem, and
not through the corpus callosum. On the other hand, if the subject is asked to
say what he/she saw, he/she will say “Ring” as the language regions (W and
B) are located in the left hemisphere in most people
136 4 Broken Symmetry
from the center of the screen (if they did, they allowed both hemispheres
access to the stimulus). In subsequent studies, Zaidel demonstrated that
the right hemisphere of split-brain patients has a language representation
of its own, and is able to perform some basic syntactic operations (Zaidel
1976, 1983; Zaidel and Peters 1981). Furthermore, not all people have
left-hemisphere language dominance, as about 10% of people have
right-sided language representation. To complicate things further,
there may be signiﬁcant variability in the degree of language or speech
lateralization, and in the speciﬁc linguistic functions that are lateralized.
This issue will be dealt with below in this chapter, speciﬁcally when I
discuss speech perception and production.
Nonetheless, the left hemisphere was found to be deﬁcient in simple
tasks involving spatial orientation, visual searches, drawing a cube, or
imagining the rotation of three-dimensional objects; tasks that the right
hemisphere had no problem doing (Sperry 1961, Springer and Deutsch
1981; Hellige 1993). Other studies of patients with right hemisphere
damage reported speciﬁc deﬁcits in attentional capacity. In particular,
patients usually show left-sided neglect, which is a speciﬁc denial of the
events that take place on the left side, be they external to the subject or
even parts of his/her own body (the left arm, for example), despite there
being no problem in sensory capacity on this side. Right hemisphere
patients can also have deﬁcits in the capacity to recall dates, times or
places, in organizing discourse, and facial recognition. In addition, some
language-related functions like music (in musically uneducated persons)
and prosody are better processed in the right hemisphere (see Chapter 2).
Thus, while in most people the left hemisphere is dominant for speech,
the right hemisphere performs better in visual orientation and other tasks
like speech prosody. Furthermore, split-brain subjects display conﬂicts in
bimanual tasks, as in what is called the alien hand syndrome, where the
two hands behave in opposite ways, for example, one hand choosing one
piece of clothing from a closet and the other choosing another; or one
turning on a light and the other turning it oﬀ. In extreme cases, one hand
has even become aggressive against the patient. This condition is not only
caused by callosal sectioning, but can also occur after localized lesions of
the frontal or parietal lobes. Thus, the corpus callosum was found to be
necessary for the integration and resolution of conﬂicting experiences
Two Minds 137
between the two hemispheres. Nonetheless, the observation that other-
wise split-brain subjects showed no major behavioral dysfunctions
implied that whatever its function, an intact corpus callosum was not
critical for daily behavior.
Another lateralized behavior is emotion, which Charles Darwin
described as lopsided, noting that deﬁant facial expressions were mark-
edly asymmetrical (Darwin 1872). John Hughlings Jackson later noted
that patients with lesions in the right hemisphere were impaired in
producing and perceiving emotions (York and Steinberg 2011).
Likewise, facial expressions display evident lateralization. The inferior
aspect of the face, where most emotional expression takes place, is
contralaterally innervated by the motor muscles of the brainstem.
Consequently, emotional expressions tend to appear more rapidly and
more intensely on the left side of our faces (controlled by the right
hemisphere) (Springer 1981, Hellige 1993). Finally, the right hemi-
sphere has usually been associated with creativity and art, a speculation
that as yet has no scientiﬁc basis. Dahlia Zaidel, another of Sperry’s
students (who met and married Eran Zaidel while working in Sperry’s
lab), recently criticized this unwarranted assumption, claiming that this
was originally a popular notion that ﬁltered into science and has misled
research on neuroaesthetics in recent years (Zaidel 2013).
Roger Sperry was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1981. Eran Zaidel once
told me that he witnessed how Sperry had worked his way to earn this
recognition. It is very likely that such awards are as much the result of
scientiﬁc as political work. And this may not have been without con-
sequences. The award generated a deep rift with Michael Gazzaniga,
who may have felt that he should have shared the prize, as he designed
and performed the initial split-brain experiments (Corballis 2015a).
After that, Sperry and Gazzaniga “split” in Michael Corballis’ words.
As a graduate student of Eran Zaidel, who remained close to Sperry, I
could feel the tension between the two groups, which for a long time did
not have any interaction whatsoever. While Sperry turned to more
philosophical issues concerning the phenomenology of consciousness
(Sperry 1980, 1984, 1998), Gazzaniga focused on the hypothesis that
the left hemisphere works as an “interpreter” that provides a coherent
account of fragmented perceptions and memories, thus contributing to
138 4 Broken Symmetry
the unity of mind (Gazzaniga 1998, 2000, 2015a, b). On the other
hand, Zaidel remained perhaps the most experimentally oriented, and
developed a laboratory dedicated to studying diﬀerent kinds of func-
tional asymmetries in the brain, and especially information transfer
across the hemispheres.
The impact of Gazzaniga and Sperry’s work on both science and the
public was tremendous. The notion that we have two brains, one
specialized for logic and language and the other for visual orienting
and creativity soon became widespread among the public and was non-
critically and superﬁcially applied to many aspects of daily behavior.
There would be “right-brained” and “left-brained” people, with diﬀer-
ent capacities, goals, etc. Moreover, men were proposed to have more
right-hemisphere skills and women more left-hemisphere skills. For
laypersons, this has been perhaps the most inﬂuential and at the same
time the most misunderstood discovery in the history of neuroscience.
A more accepted interpretation among scholars is that the left hemi-
sphere is specialized in time-related matters and sequential processing,
while the right hemisphere is devoted to holistic, gestaltic processing
(Corballis 2014, 2015b). Although this may generally be true, and we
will see evidence of diﬀerent patterns of connectivity between the left
and the right hemispheres, it is important to emphasize that many of
the diﬀerences between hemispheres are more a matter of degree than of
kind.
Lateralization Is Complex
One limitation of the studies by Sperry, Gazzaniga, Zaidel and others
was that the experimental designs were based on visual stimulation,
while speech is audio-vocal. The problem is that one cannot simply
separate the auditory inputs to the left hemisphere from those to the
right, as both ears project to both hemispheres. This is just like the visual
system, you might say, but with the complication that auditory stimuli
from either side of the head are not segregated from stimuli from the
other side, as happens with the left and right visual ﬁelds. Each hemi-
sphere receives auditory input from both ears, and also from both sides
Lateralization Is Complex 139
of the head, although with a small diﬀerence in timing; as sounds
produced on one side of the head reach the ear of that side sooner
than the ear on the other side. The delay between the two ears is used by
the brain to calculate the source of a sound. This computation is made at
low hierarchical levels in the brainstem, but there are indications that
this also takes place in the auditory cortex.
There have been two main ways to experimentally circumvent the
acoustical problem. One is the Wada test, which consists of injecting the
sedative sodium amytal (a relative of “truth serum”) into one hemisphere
via the carotid artery, which temporarily inhibits the respective hemi-
sphere while the other hemisphere remains awake (Strauss and Wada
1983). This procedure is still used with epilepsy patients to determine
the hemispheric localization of language before surgery. Another, less
invasive method is the dichotic listening test, which consists of simulta-
neously presenting two diﬀerent but similar syllables like /ba/ and /pa/,
one in the left ear and the other in the right ear. In conditions of dichotic
input, individuals whose left hemisphere is dominant for language will
better detect the syllable presented to the right ear (Bryden 1962). This
is believed to occur due to a process called ipsilateral suppression, where
the input from the left ear is inhibited when a competing stimulus
appears from the other ear. Studies using the Wada and dichotic listen-
ing tests supported the early lesion studies of language lateralization, and
Sperry and Gazzaniga’s’ main ﬁndings of a strong left hemisphere
specialization for speech and language in most people.
However, David Poeppel, whom we met in Chapter 2, presented evidence
that in some cases speech perception is a bilateral rather than left dominant
process (Poeppel 2003, 2014; Chait et al. 2015, Silbert et al. 2014; Hickok
and Poeppel 2007). First, he found that the condition that most aﬀects
speech perception is pure word deafness (which is not the same as Wernicke’s
original concept of word deafness; see Chapter 2) or auditory verbal agnosia,
which predominantly aﬀects the perception of consonants, and is only
produced by bilateral lesions in the auditory areas. In other words, both the
left and the right auditory cortices need to be impaired for this condition to
occur.Pure worddeafness patients haveno auditoryproblems except for their
incapacity to understand spoken words (they describe what they hear as being
like a foreign language). Furthermore, Poeppel reported strong, bilateral,
140 4 Broken Symmetry
electromagnetic activity in both hemispheres when presenting speech-like
stimuli. Intrigued by these ﬁndings, Gregory Hickok reexamined the classical
example of Wernicke’s aphasia (produced by lesions in the left hemisphere),
where patients are said to have a deﬁcit in speech perception, and concluded
that instead of a speech recognition problem, the perceptual impairment
emerges from a diﬃculty at higher sentence processing levels (Hickok 2014).
But how do we deal with the established evidence of a left-hemisphere
dominance for syllable perception, as seen in dichotic listening studies?
Hickok and Poeppel argue that speech perception is a complex phenomenon,
occurring at diﬀerent levels of linguistic structure, and includes discrimina-
tion of phonemes and words and recognition of phrases and sentences
(Hickok and Poeppel 2007). While some stroke patients have diﬃculty in
distinguishing similar syllables like /ba/ and /da/, their capacity to distinguish
the words /bad/ and /dad/ remains. Conversely, other patients are able to
discriminate isolated syllables but have trouble with words. This points to
dissociation between syllable and word perception. Thus, the capacity to
distinguish pairs of isolated syllables that sound similar, as in dichotic listen-
ing studies, is not the same as word perception. These authors also claimed
that dichotic listening requires cognitive as well as perceptual skills. Most
syllable discrimination tasks put a load on phonological working memory, as
they require conscious awareness of speech sounds; something we automati-
cally do while reading, but not when hearing speech. During normal listen-
ing, we do not listen to phonemes but rather to words and their meanings.
Thus, analyzing the phonological structure of speech signal puts a load on
phonological working memory, which depends on the dorsal language path-
way, which is left hemisphere dominant (see Chapters 2 and 6). This may
explain the leftward bias in dichotic listening studies, but it remains to be
experimentally demonstrated. Notably, Gregory Cogan and collaborators
recorded electrical activity from the cortical surface with epilepsy patients
while they were performing a word repetition task in which subjects had to
either hear a word and then say it two seconds later, or to silently mouth
words they had just heard (Cogan et al. 2014). Somatomotor activity (i.e.
activity in both the auditory and the production phases) occurs bilaterally in
language-related areas, suggesting that the sensorimotor component of the
dorsal stream is also bilateral. This intriguing ﬁnding may imply that articu-
latory processes in the dorsal pathway are also bilateral, which would leave
Lateralization Is Complex 141
hemispheric dominance only to complex syntactic processing (see
Chapter 2). More studies are needed in this line.
Although early stages of speech perception take place bilaterally, Poeppel
claims there is a division of functions between the two hemispheres, with
low-frequency theta sampling (syllabic level) dominated by the right
auditory cortex while high-frequency gamma sampling (phonemic proces-
sing) is driven by the left hemisphere. Regarding the above discussion on
the lateralization of dichotic listening, it is possible that this task requires
high frequency processing of sounds, which is left hemisphere dominant.
This might be a simpler explanation than invoking working memory
requirements for the task. Robert Zatorre, Pascal Belin and others
(Zatorre et al. 2002; Belin and Zatorre 2000) have advanced similar
interpretations, emphasizing that auditory perception is constrained by a
tradeoﬀ between ﬁne time-discrimination and the analysis of frequency
composition. This is a general constraint of signal processing mechanisms
in which a suﬃcient window of time must be compressed to extract
information about the frequency composition (depending on the wave-
lengths to be analyzed), within which information is lost about speciﬁc
events. In auditory physiology, this is called “acoustic uncertainty”. It has
been hypothesized that language processing has optimized this dilemma by
specializing the right hemisphere in frequency analysis, and the left hemi-
sphere in high-resolution temporal analysis. In turn, word discrimination
may depend on a combination of both time and spectral analyses of speech
stimulus (besides semantic processing), making it a bilateral process. On
the other hand, Robert Shannon and collaborators argue that the relevant
signals from speech emerge mostly from an envelope component that
captures the bulk of the variability of air pressure (Shannon 2005).
Conversely, the ﬁne temporal structure of speech is less relevant. In fact,
cochlear implants rely on envelope information to transmit speech signals.
This contrasts with the acoustically relevant cues from music, which
according to Shannon derive from its ﬁne temporal structure. It has not
yet been fully established how the two hemispheres interact in speech
perception. This will probably be resolved by further experiments.
Hemispheric dominance might be evident with motor functions.
However, studies using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) have
shown that the process is more complicated than expected. TMS is a
142 4 Broken Symmetry
non-invasive technique used with awake subjects that provides brief,
highly localized magnetic pulses on the surface of the skull. This pro-
duces a transient alteration of neural activity in the site to which it is
applied, and can reveal the role of speciﬁc brain areas in distinct tasks by
suppressing their normal processing capacity. Yasuo Terao, Ichiro
Kanazawa, and collaborators applied TMS in the motor area controlling
oral speech movements of subjects undergoing a task in which they had
to respond vocally after presentation of a visual cue (Terao et al. 2001).
Recall that Broca’s region is not motor or premotor cortex, it is pre-
frontal cortex and upstream from premotor and motor areas controlling
speech muscles. TMS produced a delay in the vocal response, when
applied to either the left or the right motor areas. However, there were
hemispheric diﬀerences in the speciﬁc timing in which stimulation was
more eﬀective. If TMS was applied at a relatively long interval before
vocalization (50–100 msec), left hemisphere interruption produced a
slightly longer delay than when it was applied to the right hemisphere.
However, if it was applied just before the onset of vocalization (0–50
msec), the eﬀect was much longer when TMS was produced in the right
hemisphere than in the left hemisphere. Thus, there seems to be an
alternation between the two hemispheres when the motor command is
downstream from the motor cortex. All this evidence indicates that
rather than one hemisphere being totally dominant over the other for
speech; they interact closely and play diﬀerent roles in speech perception
and execution. Perhaps the neural substrates for lateralization are to be
found at higher levels in the processing hierarchy.
Connectivity Within or Between?
Jonathan Peelle, a scholar who has been working on speech perception, has
proposed another model in which more basic aspects of hearing and speech
perception, like the perception of pure tones or more complex signals, is
strongly bilateral. Word perception is in an intermediate position, with
weak left hemisphere specialization in lexical and semantic memory pro-
cesses, while processing larger structures like phrases or sentences primarily
depends on the left hemisphere (Peelle 2012). In this model, speech
Connectivity Within or Between? 143
lateralization depends on the diﬀerential organization of large-scale net-
works in each hemisphere, which may be consistent with diﬀerences in
early processing between the two hemispheres. In fact, there is brain-
imaging support for asymmetries in large-scale networks in the cerebral
hemispheres. Using resting-state fMRI, Hesheng Liu and collaborators
studied the functional connectivity of diﬀerent large-scale cortical networks
(Wang et al. 2014). These included the default mode or resting state
network, the executive frontoparietal network, and attentional networks
that partly overlap with the frontoparietal system. While the frontoparietal
network is strongly coupled with attentional networks in the right hemi-
sphere, it links with the default-mode network and the language network
in the left hemisphere. This is relevant to our interests, as it indicates that
language networks in the left hemisphere are linked to both the executive
and resting state networks, both of which display antisynchronic activity.
This points to a double standard of the language networks, participating in
internal state dynamics via mechanisms of inner speech, while at the same
time being engaged in executive processes when using external language
(see also Chapter 2). Furthermore, Liu and colleagues found that the
higher level networks mentioned above display a preference for establishing
within-hemisphere, rather than between-hemisphere connectivity, which
contrasts with the sensorimotor networks that display strong interhemi-
spheric coherence. Thus, there might be a trade-oﬀ between inter-hemi-
spheric and intra-hemispheric connectivity, promoting brain lateralization
when there is an increase in within-hemisphere associations relative to
between-hemisphere couplings. This will be an important topic in the next
chapter, when I talk about the role of the corpus callosum in the origin of
brain lateralization. Finally, Liu’s work also showed a lateralized pattern in
the cerebellum, mirroring the one observed in association cortices.
Finally, hemispheric lateralization has been observed in other brain
regions like the hippocampus, a structure that participates in forming
new memories (see Chapter 6). Epilepsy patients undergoing resection
of a large part of the hippocampus in one hemisphere develop verbal
memory impairments in the case of left hemisphere surgery, while in
right hemisphere resections patients show deﬁcits in memory of faces
and abstract ﬁgures. In addition, there is functional evidence of
144 4 Broken Symmetry
preferential activation of the right hippocampus in spatial memory and
the left in verbal memory (Springer 1981).
From Function to Form
An important issue regarding the early studies of brain lateralization was
that although the functional evidence for hemispheric diﬀerences was very
strong, there was no accompanying structural evidence of asymmetries in
the human brain. In 1968, Norman Geschwind and Walter Levitsky
contributed a now classical postmortem study showing notable hemi-
spheric diﬀerence in an auditory region of the Sylvian ﬁssure called planum
temporale (see Chapter 2) (Geschwind and Levitsky 1968). This structure
was reported to be larger in the left hemisphere than in the right in about
two thirds of the population. Subsequently, Albert Galaburda, working
with Geschwind and other collaborators, reported that the asymmetry of
the planum temporale could be observed in the lateral surface of the
hemisphere as a longer Sylvian ﬁssure on the left side, an asymmetry that
is already evident in the fetus (Galaburda et al. 1978a). Furthermore, based
on skull morphology, they claimed that Neanderthals also had Sylvian
asymmetries. In the same year, Galaburda, Geschwind and the expert on
cytoarchitectonics, Friedrich Sanides, found asymmetry in the size of the
cortical area Tpt, a posterior auditory area that occupies a large part of the
planum temporale (Galaburda et al. 1978b).
I did my Ph.D. thesis in Eran Zaidel’s lab, working on the interaction
between brain asymmetry and callosal connectivity in humans. Therefore,
I spent quite some time looking at the lateral surfaces of brains to measure
the length and depth of the Sylvian ﬁssure in postmortem specimens.
There were no computer-based morphometric algorithms to automatize
area or curved length measures, and I had to do all this using simple but
ingenious methods, which nevertheless were time-consuming.
Surprisingly, I found that the Sylvian ﬁssure does not always run straight
in the lateral surface of the hemisphere, but has an inﬂection point in the
posterior aspect, from which it either curves upwardly to the parietal lobe,
or remains horizontal (Fig. 4.3). The straight pattern is prevalent in the left
hemisphere, while the upward deviation appears more often in the right
From Function to Form 145
Left
Right
PP
PT
Sylvian fissure
Sylvian fissure
Fig. 4.3 Asymmetry of the Sylvian ﬁssure. In the left hemisphere, the Sylvian
ﬁssure runs horizontally, while in the right hemisphere it usually turns
upward. The planum temporale (PT) is located in the Sylvian ﬁssure, and
depicted here as a triangle. The posterior region of the planum temporale
is called planum parietale (PP) when it runs into the parietal lobe. When the
brain is sectioned in the plane of the Sylvian ﬁssure, the region correspond-
ing to the planum temporale appears smaller in the right hemisphere.
146 4 Broken Symmetry
(Aboitiz et al. 1992; Ide et al. 1996). In the same line, the groups led by
Sandra Witelson and by Lutz Jäncke and Heinz Steinmetz made similar
observations and referred to the region in the upward deﬂection as the
planum parietale (Jäncke et al. 1994; Witelson and Kigar 1992). It is
possible that in many cases Geschwind and Levitsky sectioned the upward
deviation when exposing the planum temporale in the Sylvian ﬁssure. As
the upward branch is more common in the right side, they may have
sectioned it more often in the right than in the left hemisphere, yielding an
apparent diﬀerence in size. In fact, when measuring the total length of the
Sylvian ﬁssure, considering both the horizontal and the upward branches,
the asymmetry is minimized. Geschwind and Levitsky did observe signiﬁ-
cant asymmetry, but it was not so much in the depth or length of the
Sylvian ﬁssure as in its orientation.
However, the relationship between planum temporale asymmetry and
functional lateralization has been elusive. For example, Jäncke and
Steinmetz were unable to detect any correlation between diﬀerent ver-
sions of the dichotic listening task and planum asymmetry (Jäncke and
Steinmetz 1993). However, together with Gottfried Schlaug, the same
authors noted strong asymmetry (larger in the left) of the planum
temporale in musicians with perfect pitch, which is the capacity to
recognize musical notes without a reference note, an ability Mozart
shared with other musicians (Schlaug et al. 1995). Asymmetry in these
subjects was greater when compared to asymmetries in other musicians
and non-musicians. Other reports indicated abnormal asymmetry in
dyslexia, autism, schizophrenia and other conditions, but again these
ﬁndings have often been inconsistent.
Anatomical asymmetries have been found in other brain regions as
well. My former student Andrés Ide observed ﬁssurization is more
pronounced on the left than on the right of Broca’s region (Ide et al.
1999). Ide also described asymmetry in the sulcal pattern of the inferior
parietal lobe and the cingulate cortex in the medial frontal lobe, with
folding again being more marked in the left hemisphere. Shortly before
our paper, Anne Foundas, Katryn Amunts, and collaborators reported
leftward asymmetry in the volume of the pars triangularis (anterior
Broca’s area), as seen in MRI images (Keller et al. 2009). Furthermore,
these authors described asymmetries in size (larger on the left) in areas
From Function to Form 147
44 and 45, but there are also reports contrary to these ﬁndings. More
recently, François Leroy, Ghislaine Dehaene-Lambertz and collaborators
recently described robust asymmetry (larger on the right) in the depth of
the superior temporal sulcus (below the Sylvian ﬁssure) of humans but
not apes, which is present before birth (Leroy et al. 2015). Another type
of consistent brain asymmetry is the so-called petalias, corresponding to
torsion of the hemispheres in which anteriorly, the right frontal lobe
protrudes to the left of the midline, and posteriorly, the left occipital
lobe protrudes to the right of the midline. Petalias are found in fossil
hominids and great apes, although in modern humans they tend to be
more signiﬁcant (Galaburda et al. 1978a).
As I said above, although there is evidence of gross anatomical asym-
metries in the human brain, many are not convinced that there is
relationship to functional laterality. There are still many conﬂicting
reports and the relationship with functional asymmetry has not found
consistently. Perhaps measures of white matter tracts will be more reliable
and correlate better with functional measures. Using neuroimaging trac-
tographic techniques, Geoﬀrey Parker and his group were the ﬁrst to
document that the arcuate fasciculus and related ﬁbers have more exten-
sive connections in the left than in the right hemisphere, while the ventral
language pathway showed a symmetric pattern (see Chapter 2) (Parker et
al. 2005). This was conﬁrmed by several authors like Angela Friederici
and her team, who even showed the asymmetry of the arcuate fasciculus
to be present in newborns, as opposed to the tracts making up the ventral
language pathway, which are equivalent in the two hemispheres from
birth (Perani et al. 2011). An important recent study by Marco Catani
and colleagues used DTI to analyze the projections to Broca’s area from
the superior temporal lobe via the arcuate fasciculus, and from the
inferior parietal lobe via the superior longitudinal fasciculus, in a large
sample of subjects of diﬀerent ages including monozygotic and dizygotic
twins (see Chapter 2) (Budisavljevic et al. 2015). They found strong
lateralization of both projections, which is established before adolescence
and remains stable from then on. Notably, the projection from the
superior temporal lobe (arcuate fasciculus) is more robust on the left
hemisphere, while that from the inferior parietal lobe (superior long-
itudinal fasciculus) is more developed in the right hemisphere. These
148 4 Broken Symmetry
pathways were reported to be concordant among twins, although
Michael Corballis and collaborators described a signiﬁcant degree of
variability in the arcuate fasciculus of monozygotic twins (Häberling
et al. 2013). I must mention the apparent correspondence between the
leftward asymmetries of the arcuate fasciculus and the planum temporale
on the one hand, and between the rightward asymmetries of the ventral
superior longitudinal fasciculus and the planum parietale on the other
hand. Whether these tractographic and gross anatomy asymmetry mea-
sures in fact correlate is a matter for future studies.
Asymmetries in language regions have also been sought at the cellular
level. In 1985 Arne Scheibel (my Ph.D. thesis co-advisor) showed that
neurons in the left and right pars opercularis of Broca’s area, and in the
adjacent facial area of the premotor and motor cortices, displayed more
dendritic branching on the left than the right side in subjects that had
been right-handed in life (Scheibel et al. 1985). The asymmetry pattern
was less consistent in left-handers. Likewise, my student Ricardo García
studied a speciﬁc type of pyramidal neuron that contains an enzyme
called acetylcholinesterase, and observed larger neuronal sizes in Broca’s
area than in its right hemisphere equivalent (García et al. 2004). These
neurons are sensitive to the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, a neuromo-
dulator that regulates cortical excitability and participates in memory
mechanisms. In the auditory regions, Bob Jacobs (then a student of
Scheibel’s) made an exhaustive analysis of the dendritic structure of
Wernicke’s area, in which they found some sex diﬀerences, and reported
only a slight left-hemisphere advantage in dendritic length that was
however not always consistent at the individual level (Jacobs and
Scheibel 1993; Jacobs et al. 1993). What did have a substantial eﬀect
on dendritic length was educational level, which speaks of an important
eﬀect of plasticity and literacy on the late dendritic development of the
language regions. In the auditory regions, Ralf Galuske, Wolf Singer and
others detected hemispheric diﬀerences in the cellular organization of
Wernicke’s area, cortical columns were about 20% further apart in the
left hemisphere than in the right (Galuske et al. 2000). Not long after
this Daniel Buxhoeveden and his group reported that the columns of the
planum temporale were larger, with more interneuronal space and more
neurons in humans than in monkeys (Buxhoeveden et al. 2001).
From Function to Form 149
Furthermore, they only observed hemispheric asymmetry in column
structure in humans, while non-human primates exhibited no asymme-
try. Summarizing most studies suggest that asymmetries in the language
regions and associated areas occur at diﬀerent scales, from the cellular to
the network to gross anatomy. However, the challenge remains to
associate these traits at diﬀerent anatomical levels, and correlate them
with functional lateralization.
Monkeying with Brain Dominance
Another of Sperry’s students, Charles Hamilton was probably the ﬁrst to
investigate functional cerebral lateralization in monkeys. In 1977, he
published a study of split-brain monkeys, in which he found hemispheric
equivalence for a variety of tasks (Hamilton 1977). Hamilton concluded
that there was as yet little support for hemispheric specialization in non-
human mammals, but it was worth pursuing the question a little more
before abandoning it. In a subsequent study he and collaborators described
a positive correlation between handedness in monkeys and the hemisphere
that was faster in learning visual discrimination tasks (Hamilton and
Vermeire 1982). From then on, he consistently observed hemispheric
diﬀerences in facial discrimination (better in the right hemisphere) and
spatial orientation (particularly to discriminate the angle of tilted lines, in
which the left hemisphere was better). Hamilton concluded that monkeys
are good models for studying the neurobiology of brain lateralization
(Hamilton 1983; Hamilton and Vermeire 1988). Other studies used
acoustic orienting tasks, notably Michael Petersen and his group. These
authors presented stimuli randomly to the left or the right ear of monkeys,
and compared discrimination capacity between the two sides (Petersen et
al. 1978). They recorded calls from the Japanese macaque repertory and
presented the stimuli to Japanese macaques and other macaque species that
have distinct calls. They found a clear right ear preference only in Japanese
macaques. Other monkey species learned the task equally well, but had no
ear advantage, indicating that the laterality eﬀect was restricted to species-
speciﬁc calls. However, an imaging analysis by Ricardo Gil-da-Costa and
150 4 Broken Symmetry
collaborators observed that species-speciﬁc calls elicit strong bilateral acti-
vation of the homologs of Broca and Wernicke’s areas in macaques (see
Chapter 7) (Gil-da-Costa et al. 2006). There may be a diﬀerence between
behavioral lateralization and lateralization as seen in brain imaging, and the
two measures may not always correspond. Other studies have reported left
hemisphere advantage for same-species calls in domestic dogs, the house
mouse and other species. Notably, a very recent imaging study found
lateralization for human speech perception in dogs, with left-hemisphere
dominance for perception of words, and right hemisphere dominance for
intonation patterns (Andics et al. 2016).
Anatomical asymmetries in regions comparable to human language
areas were soon reported in non-human primates. Patrick Gannon and
collaborators reported that the planum temporale was larger on the left side
in 17 of 18 chimpanzees (a proportion higher than in humans!), and found
a human-like rightward asymmetry of the planum parietale (Gannon et al.
1998, 2005). These ﬁndings were conﬁrmed by William Hopkins, James
Rilling and others, who noted that a planum temporale was present only in
great apes and not in monkeys, and that it was asymmetric in all species of
apes (Hopkins et al. 1998). Furthermore, Hopkins and colleagues also
reported a correlation between the hand preference for clapping and
planum asymmetries (chimps usually clap with one hand over the other,
and the dominant hand is considered to be the one above, which keeps the
rhythm) (Meguerditchian et al. 2012). Broca’s area was not left behind.
Claudio Cantalupo and Hopkins used MRI reconstructions of the inferior
frontal lobe to report signiﬁcant asymmetry in the homologue of the
posterior Broca’s area of chimps (the pars opercularis), but this has been
contested on the basis that the individual variability is too great (Cantalupo
and Hopkins 2001; Sherwood et al. 2003). Considering these and other
ﬁndings, Hopkins and colleagues have concluded that asymmetries in gross
brain anatomy are present in non-human apes, but are less pronounced
than in humans (Hopkins 2013; Meguerditchian et al. 2013).
Importantly, human-like size asymmetry in the chimp arcuate fasciculus
was also reported, which to my knowledge is the only measure yet made of
this structure in non-human primates (Rilling et al. 2008). More recently,
Dietricht Stout, Todd Preuss and collaborators reported asymmetry in the
Monkeying with Brain Dominance 151
superior longitudinal fasciculus of the chimpanzee, which I will discuss
below in the context of tool making (Hecht et al. 2015a).
Lateralization of facial expressions is also found in non-human
primates, particularly associated with vocalization behavior. In chim-
panzees, voluntary communicative vocalizations are accompanied by
more movements of the right side of the face (mainly left hemisphere),
while more automatic, emotional signals appear more intensely on the
left side of the face. Likewise, communicative gestures and sounds
made with the lips and mouth show a right face bias (left hemisphere),
whereas innate vocalizations display left facial dominance. In addition,
emotional perception has also been reported to be asymmetric. Jacques
Vauclair and colleagues have extensively documented lateralization for
emotional gestures in baboons, and have shown a right hemisphere
advantage for emotional perception (Vauclair et al. 2013). Thus,
although studies of brain dominance in non-human primates have
not always reached consensus, they do suggest a weaker degree of
lateralization and asymmetry than in humans, sometimes in the same
direction as humans. This brings us to the question of whether these
asymmetries provided the scaﬀolding for the origin of language later-
alization in the human species.
Throwing with the Right
Since Broca’s time, the association of handedness with speech dominance in
the left hemisphere of most people has been a subject of interest. About 90%
of people are right-handed, but this depends on the criterion used for
assessing handedness. In humans, handedness for object-use usually appears
before 1 year of age and becomes fully established by 3 years of age. On the
other hand, left-handers are not considered mirror images of right-handers,
but rather represent a less lateralized group than most right-handers
(Springer 1981, Hellige 1993). Thus, the hemispheric coincidence for
handedness and speech, and the use of tools associated with handedness in
early humans, have led many to speculate that language circuits evolved from
a left-hemisphere already specialized for skilled actions like throwing and
making tools.
152 4 Broken Symmetry
One of the most enthusiastic proponents of this association is William
Calvin, who wrote a highly popular book in 1983 in which he attributed
the ability to throw objects with one hand to the development of
handedness and other lateralized skills, including language and writing
(Calvin 1983). Calvin speculated that human babies were carried with
their mothers’ left arm and hip because they could better feel the heart-
beat, leaving the right arm free to collect food, point to indicate direc-
tions, and throw objects. He further argued that most females carried
their babies on the left side, while fathers, who like mothers, are also
predominantly right-handers, have no side preference for carrying (per-
sonally, I am right handed and have carried my own babies preferentially
with the left arm!). According to Calvin, this implies that right-handed
bias originated as an adaptation by women for carrying their infants.
Partly in support of Calvins’s hypothesis, a study of the group led by
William Hopkins observed that in the chimpanzee there is a relationship
between the ability to throw objects, communicative ability and the
white-to-gray ratio in Broca’s area homolog (Hopkins et al. 2012).
However, as I will argue below, the relationship between handedness
and speech in humans is not as clear-cut as one would expect.
Another advocate of the handedness theory of language origins is Michael
Corballis, who has hypothesized a speciﬁc role of handedness, and particu-
larly manual gestures in the origin of speech (Corballis 1991). His proposal is
largely based on the correlation between hand dominance and hemispheric
dominance for speech across people, in which right-hand dominance in the
left hemisphere was probably the initial factor leading to right hemisphere
dominance for visuospatial processing as a secondary event. However, the
association between right-handedness and left-sided language lateralization is
not as strong as expected. According to some studies by Corballis’ group
(Badzakova-Trajkov et al. 2010), about 97% of right-handers, but also 70%
of left-handers, show left hemisphere dominance for language. Furthermore,
other lateralized capacities like spatial attention (in which the right hemi-
sphere tends to be dominant) do not correlate with either language or
handedness lateralization, which suggests that lateralization in diﬀerent skills
may be relatively independent. Additional studies by Corballis’ group
reported that handedness and language lateralization in the left hemisphere
correlates with right-hemisphere specialization for perceiving facial emotions
Throwing with the Right 153
(Badzakova-Trajkov et al. 2015). According to them, left-hemisphere dom-
inance for both facial and manual communicative gestures may have driven
the displacement of facial emotion processing to the right hemisphere.
Dorothy Bishop, working with Magriet Groen and other collabora-
tors, investigated the possible correlation between three tests for hand-
edness, and a language lateralization measure based on ultrasound
assessment of blood ﬂow through the left and right middle cerebral
arteries while subjects verbally recalled a speechless video (Groen et al.
2013). They found limited correlation between handedness and lan-
guage lateralization, in which handedness predicted no more than 16%
of the total variance in language lateralization. Moreover, they strongly
recommended against using handedness as a proxy for language or
speech lateralization as there is considerable independence between the
two variables. Furthermore, Bishop recently reviewed the literature on
the relationship between language disorders and brain lateralization and
concluded that contrary to current notions, weak cerebral lateralization
is unlikely to be genetically associated with language impairments
(Bishop 2013). Alternatively, she argues that lateralization is not a stable
heritable character, and that alterations of normal asymmetric develop-
ment are more likely the consequence than the cause of language
impairments. In my opinion, the relationship between handedness and
speech lateralization remains obscure. On the one hand, the two traits
are strongly asymmetric in the population, and both are in the same
direction, which intuitively suggests that they may be related. However,
looking more closely this relationship tends to vanish. A possible expla-
nation is that there is an underlying trait biasing handedness and speech
laterality in the same direction, even if the two variables have no direct
relationship between them.
There are many reports on hand preferences in non-human animals.
Asymmetry in paw preference is common among individuals of a species,
but in diﬀerent directions in distinct subjects, so that at the population
level there is no left or right bias. However, kangaroos and wallabies are
strongly left-handed, a characteristic associated with bipedalism among
marsupials that may have to do with the evolution of human handedness
(Giljov et al. 2015). Additionally, some species of parrots have strong foot-
grasping lateralization, sometimes to the right side, and more often to the
154 4 Broken Symmetry
left. Some days ago while writing this book, I saw a group of seven wild
Argentinian parrots (a pest in my country, Chile) eating dandelions, all of
them handling the ﬂowers with their left foot, and standing on the fence
with their right. This might have been just chance, but in any event it was a
curious observation. Unfortunately, handedness is not so clear in non-
human primates. Peter MacNeilage reported that most primates display a
left-hand preference to reach for objects, which he speculated was related to
coordinated preference for object manipulation with the right hand, which
may have served as scaﬀolding for tool use in early humans (MacNeilage
2013). As I mentioned, some studies of apes, including those of Hopkins’
group and of the team led by Jacques Vauclair, have described hand
preferences for reaching, clapping, handling, tool use and manual gestures.
Despite the attractiveness of these reports, other studies have not con-
ﬁrmed a consistent species-level hand preference among non-human pri-
mates. Reviewing this literature, Tecumseh Fitch and Stephanie Braccini
reasonably concluded that if there is a handedness population eﬀect among
monkeys or apes, it is relatively small, depending on the speciﬁc task
observed and on the diﬃculty of the task (Fitch and Braccini 2013).
This points to a speciﬁcally human ampliﬁcation of handedness, perhaps
related to full bipedalism and the acquisition of tool-making capacities.
Man the Toolmaker
A more reliable association of handedness is toolmaking, which requires a
great deal of bimanual coordination. In the mid-twentieth century,
Kenneth Oakley published an inﬂuential book called Man the Tool
Maker, in which he eloquently argued that toolmaking was the main factor
that propelled human and human brain evolution (Oakley 1949). Early
human-made tools required a painstaking procedure to be produced, and
our early ancestors must have spent large amounts of time making them.
Dietrich Stout has studied the cognitive processes involved in making
stone tools and has shown that this is an extremely laborious and diﬃcult
task (Stout and Chaminade 2012, 2016). Collaborating with Tierry
Chaminade and other colleagues, Stout has shown that learning to make
such tools involves diﬀerent processes in time (Hecht et al. 2015b). In one
Man the Toolmaker 155
study, Stout’s students were PET scanned after a toolmaking session, and in
another study students were scanned by fMRI while passively viewing
movies of toolmaking apprentices. In both studies, they found that at
early stages of learning, students show increased activity in visual areas,
but as they become more skillful, they started activating bilateral regions of
the inferior parietal lobes and ventral premotor areas. Stout and colleagues
also compared brain activation while learning either the more primitive
Oldowan technique or the more elaborate Acheulean technique. They
found that the latter was associated with increased activation in the right
inferior frontal gyrus (roughly equivalent to Broca’s region in the right
hemisphere), and bilaterally in other brain regions, which to them implies
increasing demands of cognitive control for making the more sophisticated
tools. Furthermore, Stout and Erin Hecht performed a tractographic study
of the superior longitudinal fasciculus that connects the parietal and frontal
lobes, areas that showed increased activation with toolmaking (Hecht et al.
2015a). Notably, they found that this tract is larger in humans than in apes,
particularly its ventral aspect, which is also larger on the right side in
humans. This ﬁnding agrees with the study of Sanja Budisavljevic, Marco
Catani and others, mentioned above, and may provide a useful functional
explanation for this asymmetry (Budisavljevic et al. 2015). Nonetheless, the
possibility I mentioned before is also a plausible explanation, namely that
the rightward asymmetry of the superior longitudinal fasciculus relates to
the asymmetry of the planum parietale, and the leftward asymmetry of the
arcuate sulcus relates to the asymmetry of the planum temporale.
There is a beneﬁt to left and right hand specialization in toolmaking, so
that in bimanual tasks there is a division of labor and conﬂict is minimized.
In toolmaking, one hand holds the object while the other (usually the right)
makes repetitive and rhythmic movements to shape the future tool. Natalie
Uomini and others have characterized this as complementary role diﬀer-
entiation, in which one hand (usually the left) performs low-frequency
movements, changing the position and orientation of the tool, while the
other hand (usually the right) performs more accurate high frequency
movements (Uomini 2009; Uomini and Meyer 2013). According to this
view, hemispheric dominance arose due to the separation of two neural
processing strategies that compete with each other, one involved in complex
sequencing behaviors like skilled hand movements, and the other relating
156 4 Broken Symmetry
to coarse motor programs. Similarly, Stout and Chaminade argue that tool
manufacturing is a hierarchically organized behavior, resembling the nested
and recursive structure of human syntax (Stout and Chaminade 2012).
Finally, Thomas Morgan and colleagues found that students learned to
make stone tool faster if they were verbally instructed, which points to a co-
evolution between toolmaking and speech (see Chapter 8) (Morgan et al.
2015). However, there are some dissenting opinions. Mark Moore and
Yinika Preston forced an experienced human toolmaker to focus on each
step of ﬂake making instead of thinking of the ﬁnal result while the subject
was producing an Oldowan-type hand axe (Moore and Perston, 2016).
The resulting tool was a reasonable instrument, without having beneﬁted
from a predetermined goal. The authors argue that the geometrical con-
straints of stone fracture may yield results of apparently complex thought.
Even if the authors are right, this toolmaking strategy requires a good deal
of bimanual coordination and functional specialization, so that is possible
that in early stages of toolmaking behavior, our ancestors did not manu-
facture tools according to an elaborate plan but just found that breaking
stones would leave them with useful sharp edges. In later stages, planning
behavior may have been needed to make more sophisticated tools, as in the
Mousterian industry. Again, we may never know exactly how our ancestors
planned toolmaking, but most likely they had to rely on bimanual coordi-
nation and hand specialization to perform such tasks.
Hand-based toolmaking is not uniquely human, however. Archaeological
evidence from chimpanzee sites some 1–4 thousand years ago, and more
recently, from pre-Columbian sites attributed to Brazilian capuchin mon-
keys, indicate that non-human primates have been using stones to break hard
shelled food for some time (Haslam et al. 2016). South American capuchin
monkeys usually use stones to crack open nuts or digging. More recently,
they have been observed breaking stones into sharp-edged ﬂakes similar to
early hominid tools, although they apparently do not use them for any
purpose (Proﬃtt et al. 2016). Modern day chimpanzees capture termites
by cleaning a stick and poking it into a hole in a termite nest and then
removing the stick and licking oﬀ the termites adhering to it. In this and
other toolmaking or tool-using behaviors, some groups have been found to
be right dominant, and others left dominant (Humle and Matsuzawa 2009).
Furthermore, individuals with stronger handedness scores are more eﬃcient
Man the Toolmaker 157
in this behavior (McGrew and Marchant, 1999). Thus, there is a tendency
for the development of hand preference in individuals, but it does not reach a
population level in which the large majority of subjects consistently prefer
one hand to the other, as in humans. Analyzing the shape of prehistoric tools,
Uomini has concluded that our direct ancestors like Homo habilis and
Neanderthals were predominantly right-handed, which ﬁts the toolmaking
hypothesis of right-handedness (Uomini 2009). What would be the advan-
tage of having a majority of right-handers (or left handers)? It might be
related to tool use; all left-handers know what it is to live in a right-handed
world, where most things are made to be used with the right hand.
Nonetheless, there might be some advantages in being diﬀerent from the
majority, which would make left handers more ﬁt for some tasks. For
example, left-handed ﬁghters, especially boxers, are known to be more
diﬃcult to deal with by the majority of right-handers. This might help
explain the maintenance of left-handers in our species, as long as they are a
minority.
In summary, handedness may relate to diﬀerent kinds of tasks, the left
hand involved in low-level but skilled sequential processes, while the right
hand provides broader contextual and support elements. These two prop-
erties have also been associated with brain lateralization, the left hemi-
sphere emphasizing sequential processing while the right hemisphere is
more involved with gestaltic and visuospatial processing. It may be that a
weak initial hemispheric bias independently shaped the asymmetries of
sensorimotor systems involved in speech, and in toolmaking. This suggests
an ancient but relatively weak developmental tendency for hemispheric
specialization, from which diﬀerent functions like toolmaking and speech
beneﬁtted independently. This is not to say that toolmaking and speech
did not interact in human evolution. The point is that the developmental
mechanisms may not be directly related to each other.
Whence Asymmetry?
As I said, language and handedness may not be the only or the most common
instance of lateralization or asymmetry in animals. There are other ancient
lateralized functions in the brain that may have contributed to frame
158 4 Broken Symmetry
asymmetric networks in which functions like language and handedness
found ground for hemispheric specialization (Springer 1981; Hellige
1993). Furthermore, cerebral asymmetries have been described in several
non-primate species (even in ﬁsh and invertebrates), and in systems far from
hand control or communication. For instance, we all have a preferred foot to
kick with, and a preferred eye to look with (which some studies have related
to handedness, particularly throwing capacity). Likewise, eye preferences are
common in birds. Chicks develop a visual asymmetry based on the enhanced
exposure to light of the eye that faces the eggshell while the other eye faces the
body as the chick folds its neck inside the egg. The eye more exposed to light
(usually the left) is better at detecting movement and shapes, while the eye less
exposed to light is better at discriminating details like food grains. This
asymmetry is also modulated by maternal hormone levels at egg laying, and
during development induces cognitive asymmetries at central levels. Similar
eye asymmetries have been reported in ﬁsh (Güntürkün and Ocklenburg
2017). Perceptual lateralization as seen in the chicken eye might lead to
selective disadvantages, as relevant stimuli can appear on any side and one
would think that the animal might be better oﬀ having equal perceptual
abilities on both sides. However, studies indicate that both in birds and ﬁsh,
more asymmetric individuals are more eﬃcient in foraging for food in
presence of predators (Güntürkün and Ocklenburg 2017). More spectacular
and related to human speech, songbirds have developed a lateralized circuit
for singing that relates to peripheral asymmetry in the innervation and
musculature of the syringe (analogous to our vocal tract), which is the subject
of Chapter 9.
Functional interpretations of the evolution of lateralization and asym-
metry abound, although no one has as yet provided a coherent perspective
of this phenomenon. It may well be that asymmetries serve diﬀerent kinds
of functions, and cannot be pooled together in one overarching evolution-
ary explanation. Others have argued that in vertebrates, brain asymmetries
for cognitive functions or behaviors serve a specialization rule, like the time
versus frequency processing conﬂict mentioned above; or that there are
some functions that are better performed in a well-packed network, and
distributing this network in two hemispheres would hamper processing
eﬃciency. In this line, complex motor functions performed by midline
structures in speech (the tongue and larynx) and birdsong (the syrinx)
Whence Asymmetry? 159
might beneﬁt from being specialized in only one hemisphere to favor
neuronal coordination. Another possibility is that brain dominance is the
consequence of another adaptive process like increased brain size, which
would favor hemispheric independence, again for the beneﬁt of processing
eﬃciency. Giorgio Vallortigara and Leslie Rogers have argued that species-
level lateralization results from social selection mechanisms that promote
behavioral coordination among individuals, in which there might be inter-
ference by certain socially relevant cognitive functions (like sequence and
pattern discrimination), which is solved by hemispheric specialization
(Vallortigara et al. 1999). Possibly like human speech, left-right dominance
in other species builds on a preexisting hemispheric bias that has arisen for
reasons unrelated to the function that is currently being selected.
Subsequently, the new function may beneﬁt from being lateralized in one
hemisphere.
However, the biological development of asymmetries may in the end
show more cross-species commonalities than its selective causes. The
ﬁeld of comparative genetics has advanced impressively in recent years,
evidencing highly conserved genetic regulatory mechanisms for the
development of widely diﬀerent traits. Therefore, although cerebral
lateralization may respond to diﬀerent functional requirements across
species, there may be restricted genetic and developmental mechanisms
underlying these diﬀerent instances. The development of brain asym-
metries was for a long time a little examined topic, and very few
hypotheses appeared about the embryonic or genetic mechanisms under-
lying it. Below, I will review some of the studies to unveil the develop-
mental and genetic processes underlying brain asymmetry in humans
and in other species.
In the 1980s Norman Geschwind, Peter Behan and Albert Galaburda
provided one of the earliest interpretations of the developmental origins
of human brain lateralization. In his clinical practice, Geschwind
noticed a curious association between left-handedness, developmental
learning disorders, immune-related conditions and migraines.
Geschwind and Behan published a ﬁrst article reporting these ﬁndings,
and then Geschwind started working with Galaburda in an extensive
three-part review, emphasizing the intrauterine environment as a main
determinant of anatomical asymmetries (Geschwind and Behan 1982;
160 4 Broken Symmetry
Geschwind and Galaburda 1985). Abnormal sex hormone levels dis-
rupted normal asymmetric development and produced immune-related
pathologies as a side eﬀect. Geschwind passed away in 1984 and did not
live to see this article published in 1985. Subsequent studies in humans
and other species have reported sex diﬀerences in lateralization, and
relations between hormone levels and brain lateralization and anatomical
asymmetry, but at this point the topic remains controversial.
Is there a genetic determinant of human brain dominance? As far as we
have reviewed here, the evidence for this proposal is not strong. Likewise,
studies of gene expression levels have not revealed signiﬁcant diﬀerences
between cerebral hemispheres. There have been a few large-scale studies of
gene polymorphism (i.e. high-frequency alleles of a gene in a population
that are sometimes associated with phenotypic diﬀerences). For example,
Philippe Pinel, Stanislaas Dehaene, and others reported that alleles of the
speech-associated gene FOXP2 and of related genes are more common in
individuals showing altered patterns of brain lateralization as seen in
functional imaging studies (Pinel et al. 2012). Timothy Crow, a psychia-
trist well known for his groundbreaking classiﬁcatory work on schizophre-
nia (Crow 2008), has advanced a more theoretical proposal. Crow has
argued for some time that this pathology is found only in humans (which is
very likely), and appeared as an unwanted consequence of acquiring
language. In his words, schizophrenia is the price we have to pay for having
language. His proposal is that there was a single genetic mutation occurring
in the sex chromosomes some 6 million years ago, in the last common
ancestor of humans and chimps, which aﬀected some cell-surface adhesion
molecules. A subsequent mutation producing a right-shift factor that
propelled language and increased risk of schizophrenia appeared about
150–200 thousand years ago. While some association has been reported
between abnormal brain lateralization and schizophrenia (Royer et al.
2015), the identiﬁcation and speciﬁc functions of Crow’s putative genes
has been more confusing than elucidating.
It is possible that more insights into asymmetric development will come
not directly from language-related regions, but from much simpler but no
less important brain structures. One such system is the epithalamus, a small
region in the roof of the diencephalon (its name means “over the thala-
mus”) that connects with several lower brain centers that regulate basic
Whence Asymmetry? 161
behaviors, including reproduction, feeding, water intake and basic compo-
nents of emotional behavior including stress response. The epithalamus
contains mainly two components, the pineal gland or parietal eye, and the
parapineal organ, two eye-shaped structures located in the midline. In
some vertebrates, these organs are exposed to the surface and serve a
photoreceptive function that regulates, via the hormone melatonin, the
sleep/wake cycle according to ambient light. In other vertebrates like
mammals, these structures remain buried inside the braincase, indirectly
receiving photic input via retinal projections. The pineal and parapineal
organs are supported by a small stalk that contains the habenular nucleus,
which connects them to other brain structures. The habenula and asso-
ciated nuclei have been the subject of many recent studies about their role
in the control of behavior and neuropsychiatric conditions (Hikosaka
2010). Notably, in many species the parapineal organ is located on the
left side of the midline, and sends its projections only to the left habenula,
which is consequently highly asymmetric in size, neuronal composition
and internal structure. The asymmetry of the habenular nuclei has been
reported in species from mammals to ﬁsh, particularly in the zebraﬁsh, a
common aquarium ﬁsh that is also amenable to genetic and developmental
research. Consequently, this little ﬁsh has been used as an animal model to
study the mechanisms underlying cerebral asymmetries in vertebrates
(Concha and Wilson 2001). Furthermore, in zebraﬁsh and in other ﬁsh,
habenular asymmetries have been found to relate to behavioral lateraliza-
tion, fear responses, anxiety and other characters like asymmetries in eye
development in ﬂounders. More interestingly, studies by Miguel Concha
and Stephen Wilson established that the direction of habenular asymmetry
in the zebraﬁsh is initially random (left or right) in development, but the
expression of a gene called Nodal, and the signaling cascade associated with
it, is critical in directing this asymmetry to the left side (Concha et al.
2009). Other factors, including environmental stimuli and hormonal
levels, can also modulate the robustness of this asymmetry. Thus, the
action of Nodal produces a consistent shift in the direction of lateralization,
making it a population-level phenomenon that otherwise would be
obscured by the random distribution of left- or right-sided asymmetries.
Moreover, Nodal controls asymmetric body development in very primitive
animals that lack a pineal or parapineal organ, indicating that its function is
162 4 Broken Symmetry
more general than just determining epithalamic asymmetry. In humans,
Nodal and other genes participate in generating asymmetry of critical
structures like the heart and lungs, but evidence for its involvement in
brain lateralization or asymmetry is still lacking (Hirokawa et al. 2006). In
fact, humans with situs inversus, where asymmetric organs are placed in a
mirror image pattern with respect to normals, display normal handedness
and language lateralization (Güntürkün and Ocklenburg 2017). In this
line, a pioneering study led by Caleb Webber and Silvia Paracchini used
the technique of meta-analysis to unveil common genetic determinants of
handedness (Brandler et al. 2013). Meta-analysis is a systematic, statistical
analysis of data reported in large numbers of publications to ﬁnd common
ground that may be obscured by inherent errors in each of the studies. In
their study, Webber and Paracchini reported an intriguing association
between a variant or polymorphism in a gene called PCSK6, known to
regulate Nodal activity, and relative hand skill in dyslexics but not in the
general population. Other genes are LRRTM1, whose methylation pat-
terns have been linked to handedness, and genes associated with glutama-
tergic neurotransmission (Güntürkün and Ocklenburg 2017).
A word of caution is needed here. I am not even close to saying that
there is only one gene involved in asymmetric development; we have
seen that several laterality measures do not show signiﬁcant correlations
between them, which may be produced by environmental eﬀects, or by
diﬀerent genetic systems involved in them. The development of asym-
metries may be highly ﬂexible, being modulated by many epigenetic and
genetic variables. Nonetheless, some genes may participate in many
instances of asymmetric development, in diﬀerent organs and species.
Thus, studying the development of asymmetries in other systems may
yield clues to the mechanisms underlying language lateralization.
However, as I mentioned above, genetic research on lateralization or
asymmetry is still in its infancy.
Lateralization of brain function and asymmetry began as a brilliant
ﬁnding that promised to explain many of our conﬂicting behaviors and
provide ground for philosophical and pseudo-philosophical interpreta-
tions. However, as research went into the details, the picture was found
to be much more complex than expected, and it was diﬃcult to make
broad generalizations from the obtained results. Much of the evidence
Whence Asymmetry? 163
was controversial if not confusing, and a uniﬁed model of functional
lateralization is still lacking. However, there are some facts more or less
established. The left hemisphere supports more language-related func-
tions than the right hemisphere, particularly those associated with the
dorsal stream of language processing (sequencing, articulation and time
analysis). The ventral stream apparently has a strong bilateral compo-
nent. Likewise, there is rightward lateralization of some functions like
visuospatial processing, emotional responses and prosody, but these
functions are actually bilateral, the right hemisphere being only better
at them than the right hemisphere in most people. The relationship
between structural asymmetry and functional lateralization is still not
clear, and there is not yet a good explanatory hypothesis for these
relationships. A promising candidate to unveil such associations is the
study of white matter connectivity, which to date has provided more
consistent results than gross anatomy measures. Finally, as I said, our
understanding of the development and genetics of brain asymmetry is
weak to say the least. In the rest of this book, we will have to keep in
mind that at least some components of the dorsal language pathway are
better developed in the left hemisphere, and that this may provide
beneﬁt for some fast processing functions like sequencing and time
analysis. However, as I once heard Alfonso Caramazza say, it may not
matter which hemisphere does any speciﬁc function, what is really
important is to know how it is processed.
References
Aboitiz F, Scheibel AB, Zaidel E (1992) Morphometry of the Sylvian ﬁssure
and the corpus callosum, with emphasis on sex diﬀerences. Brain 115:1521–
1541
Andics A, Gábor A, Gácsi M, Faragó T, Szabó D, Miklósi Á (2016) Neural
mechanisms for lexical processing in dogs. Science 353:1030–1032
Badzakova-Trajkov G, Häberling IS, Roberts RP, Corballis MC (2010)
Cerebral asymmetries: complementary and independent processes. PLoS
One 5:e9682
164 4 Broken Symmetry
Badzakova-Trajkov G, Corballis MC, Häberling IS (2015)
Complementarity or independence of hemispheric specializations? A
brief review. Neuropsychologia 93:386–393
Belin P, Zatorre RJ (2000) “What”, “where” and “how” in auditory cortex. Nat
Neurosci 3:965–966
Bishop DV (2013) Cerebral asymmetry and language development: cause,
correlate, or consequence? Science 340:1230531
Brandler WM, Morris AP, Evans DM, Scerri TS, Kemp JP, Timpson NJ, St
Pourcain B, Smith GD, Ring SM, Stein J, Monaco AP, Talcott JB, Fisher
SE, Webber C, Paracchini S (2013) Common variants in left/right asym-
metry genes and pathways are associated with relative hand skill. PLoS
Genet 9:e1003751
Bryden MP (1962) Order of report in dichotic listening. Can J Psychol
16:291–299
Budisavljevic S, Dell’Acqua F, Rijsdijk FV, Kane F, Picchioni M, McGuire P,
Toulopoulou T, Georgiades A, Kalidindi S, Kravariti E, Murray RM, Murphy
DG, Craig MC, Catani M (2015) Age-related diﬀerences and heritability of
the Perisylvian language networks. J Neurosci 35:12625–12634
Buxhoeveden DP, Switala AE, Litaker M, Roy E, Casanova MF (2001)
Lateralization of minicolumns in human planum temporale is absent in
nonhuman primate cortex. Brain Behav Evol 57:349–358
Calvin WH (1983) The Throwing Madonna: Essays on the Brain. McGraw-
Hill, New York
Cantalupo C, Hopkins WD (2001) Asymmetric Broca’s area in great apes.
Nature 414:505
Chait M, Greenberg S, Arai T, Simon JZ, Poeppel D (2015) Multi-time
resolution analysis of speech: evidence from psychophysics. Front
Neurosci 9:214
Cogan GB, Thesen T, Carlson C, Doyle W, Devinsky O, Pesaran B (2014)
Sensory-motor transformations for speech occur bilaterally. Nature 507:94–98
Concha ML, Wilson SW (2001) Asymmetry in the epithalamus of vertebrates.
J Anat 199:63–84
Concha ML, Signore IA, Colombo A (2009) Mechanisms of directional
asymmetry in the zebraﬁsh epithalamus. Semin Cell Dev Biol 20:498–509
Corballis MC (1991) The Lopsided Ape. Evolution of the Generative Mind.
Oxford University Press, Oxford
Corballis MC (2014) Left brain, right brain: facts and fantasies. PLoS Biol 12:
e1001767
References 165
Corballis MC (2015a) A life of splits. Brain 138:3128–3130
Corballis MC (2015b) What’s left in language? Beyond the classical model.
Ann N Y Acad Sci 1359:14–29
Crow TJ (2008) The “big bang” theory of the origin of psychosis and the
faculty of language. Schizophr Res 102:31–52
Darwin C (1872) The Expression of Emotions in Man and Animals. John
Murray, London
Fitch WT, Braccini SN (2013) Primate laterality and the biology and evolution
of human handedness: a review and synthesis. Ann N Y Acad Sci 1288:70–85
Galaburda AM, LeMay M, Kemper TL, Geschwind N (1978a) Right-left
asymmetrics in the brain. Science 199:852–856
Galaburda AM, Sanides F, Geschwind N (1978b) Human brain.
Cytoarchitectonic left-right asymmetries in the temporal speech region.
Arch Neurol 35:812–817
Galuske RA, Schlote W, Bratzke H, Singer W (2000) Interhemispheric asym-
metries of the modular structure in human temporal cortex. Science
289:1946–1949
Gannon PJ, Holloway RL, Broadﬁeld DC, Braun AR (1998) Asymmetry of
chimpanzee planum temporale: humanlike pattern of Wernicke’s brain
language area homolog. Science 279:220–222
Gannon PJ, Kheck NM, Braun AR, Holloway RL (2005) Planum parietale of
chimpanzees and orangutans: a comparative resonance of human-like pla-
num temporale asymmetry. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol
287:1128–1141
García RR, Montiel JF, Villalón AU, Gatica MA, Aboitiz F (2004) AChE-rich
magnopyramidal neurons have a left-right size asymmetry in Broca’s area.
Brain Res 1026:313–316
Gazzaniga MS (1998) Brain and conscious experience. Adv Neurol 77:181–
192; discussion 192–193
Gazzaniga MS (2000) Cerebral specialization and interhemispheric commu-
nication: does the corpus callosum enable the human condition? Brain
123:1293–1326
Gazzaniga MS (2015a) The split-brain: rooting consciousness in biology. Proc
Natl Acad Sci U S A 111:18093–18094
Gazzaniga MS (2015b) Tales from Both Sides of the Brain. Harper Collins,
New York.
Gazzaniga MS, Sperry RW (1967) Language after section of the cerebral
commissures. Brain 90:131–148
166 4 Broken Symmetry
Gazzaniga MS, Bogen JE, Sperry RW (1962) Some functional eﬀects of section-
ing the cerebral commissures in man. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 48:1765–1769
Gazzaniga MS, Bogen JE, Sperry RW (1965) Observations on visual perception
after disconnexion of the cerebral hemispheres in man. Brain 88:221–236
Geschwind N (1965) Disconnexion syndromes in animals and man. Brain
88:237–294; 585–644
Geschwind N, Behan P (1982) Left-handedness: association with immune
disease, migraine, and developmental learning disorder. Proc Natl Acad
Sci U S A 79:5097–5100
Geschwind N, Galaburda AM (1985) Cerebral lateralization. Biological
mechanisms, associations, and pathology: I, II and III. A hypothesis and a
program for research. Arch Neurol 42: 428–459; 521–552; 634–654
Geschwind N, Levitsky W (1968) Human brain: left-right asymmetries in
temporal speech region. Science 161:186–187
Gil-da-Costa R, Martin A, Lopes MA, Muñoz M, Fritz JB, Braun AR (2006)
Species-speciﬁc calls activate homologs of Broca’s and Wernicke’s areas in
the macaque. Nat Neurosci 9:1064–1070
Giljov A, Karenina K, Ingram J, Malashichev Y (2015) Parallel Emergence of
True Handedness in the Evolution of Marsupials and Placentals. Curr Biol
25:1878–1884
Groen MA, Whitehouse AJ, Badcock NA, Bishop DV (2013) Associations
between handedness and cerebral lateralisation for language: a comparison
of three measures in children. PLoS One 8:e64876
Güntürkün O, Ocklenburg S (2017) Ontogenesis of Lateralization. Neuron
94:249–263
Häberling IS, Badzakova-Trajkov G, Corballis MC (2013) Asymmetries of the
arcuate fasciculus in monozygotic twins: genetic and nongenetic inﬂuences.
PLoS One 8:e52315
Hamilton CR (1977) An assessment of hemispheric specialization in monkeys.
nAnn N Y Acad Sci 299:222–232
Hamilton CR (1983) Lateralization for orientation in split-brain monkeys.
Behav Brain Res 10:399–403
Hamilton CR, Vermeire BA (1982) Hemispheric diﬀerences in split-brain
monkeys learning sequential comparisons. Neuropsychologia 20:691–698
Hamilton CR, Vermeire BA (1988) Complementary hemispheric specializa-
tion in monkeys. Science 242:1691–1694
Haslam M, Luncz LV, Staﬀ RA, Bradshaw F, Ottoni EB, Falótico T (2016)
Pre-Columbian monkey tools. Curr Biol 26:R521–R522
References 167
Hecht EE, Gutman DA, Bradley BA, Preuss TM, Stout D (2015a) Virtual
dissection and comparative connectivity of the superior longitudinal fasci-
culus in chimpanzees and humans. Neuroimage 108:124–137
Hecht EE, Gutman DA, Khreisheh N, Taylor SV, Kilner J, Faisal AA, Bradley
BA, Chaminade T, Stout D (2015b) Acquisition of Paleolithic toolmaking
abilities involves structural remodeling to inferior frontoparietal regions.
Brain Struct Funct 220:2315–2331
Hellige JB (1993) Hemispheric Asymmetry. What’s Right and What’s Left.
Harvard University Press, Cambridge
Hickok G (2014) The Myth of Mirror Neurons: The Real Neuroscience of
Communication And Cognition. Norton Press, New York
Hickok G, Poeppel D (2007) The cortical organization of speech processing.
Nat Rev Neurosci 8:393–402
Hikosaka O (2010) The habenula: from stress evasion to value-based decision-
making. Nat Rev Neurosci 11:503–513
Hirokawa N, Tanaka Y, Okada Y, Takeda S (2006) Nodal ﬂow and the
generation of left-right asymmetry. Cell 125:33–45
Hopkins WD (2013) Neuroanatomical asymmetries and handedness in chim-
panzees (Pan troglodytes): a case for continuity in the evolution of hemi-
spheric specialization. Ann N Y Acad Sci 1288:17–35
Hopkins WD, Marino L, Rilling JK, MacGregor LA (1998) Planum temporale
asymmetries in great apes as revealed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Neuroreport 9:2913–2918
Hopkins WD, Russell JL, Schaeﬀer JA (2012) The neural and cognitive
correlates of aimed throwing in chimpanzees: a magnetic resonance image
and behavioural study on a unique form of social tool use. Philos Trans R
Soc Lond B Biol Sci 367:37–47
Humle T, Matsuzawa T (2009) Laterality in hand use across four tool-use
behaviors among the wild chimpanzees of Bossou, Guinea, West Africa. Am
J Primatol 71:40–48
Ide A, Rodríguez E, Zaidel E, Aboitiz F (1996) Bifurcation patterns in the
human sylvian ﬁssure: hemispheric and sex diﬀerences. Cereb Cortex
6:717–725
Ide A, Dolezal C, Fernández M, Labbé E, Mandujano R, Montes S, Segura P,
Verschae G, Yarmuch P, Aboitiz F (1999) Hemispheric diﬀerences in
variability of ﬁssural patterns in parasylvian and cingulate regions of
human brains. J Comp Neurol 410:235–242
168 4 Broken Symmetry
Jacobs B, Scheibel AB (1993) A quantitative dendritic analysis of Wernicke’s
area in humans. I. Lifespan changes. J Comp Neurol 327:83–96
Jacobs B, Schall M, Scheibel AB (1993) A quantitative dendritic analysis of
Wernicke’s area in humans. II. Gender, hemispheric, and environmental
factors. J Comp Neurol 327:97–111
Jäncke L, Steinmetz H (1993) Auditory lateralization and planum temporale
asymmetry. Neuroreport 5:169–172
Jäncke L, Schlaug G, Huang Y, Steinmetz H (1994) Asymmetry of the planum
parietale. Neuroreport 5:1161–1163
Keller SS, Crow T, Foundas A, Amunts K, Roberts N (2009) Broca’s area:
nomenclature, anatomy, typology and asymmetry. Brain Lang 109:29–48
Leroy F, Cai Q, Bogart SL, Dubois J, Coulon O, Monzalvo K, Fischer C,
Glasel H, Van der Haegen L, Bénézit A, Lin CP, Kennedy DN, Ihara AS,
Hertz-Pannier L, Moutard ML, Poupon C, Brysbaert M, Roberts N,
Hopkins WD, Mangin JF, Dehaene-Lambertz G (2015) New human-
speciﬁc brain landmark: the depth asymmetry of superior temporal sulcus.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112:1208–1213
MacNeilage PF (2013) Vertebrate whole-body-action asymmetries and the
evolution of right handedness: a comparison between humans and marine
mammals. Dev Psychobiol 55:577–587
McGrew WC, Marchant LF (1999) Laterality of hand use pays oﬀ in foraging
success for wild chimpanzees. Primates 40:509–513
Meguerditchian A, Gardner MJ, Schapiro SJ, Hopkins WD (2012) The
sound of one-hand clapping: handedness and perisylvian neural corre-
lates of a communicative gesture in chimpanzees. Proc Biol Sci
279:1959–1966
Meguerditchian A, Vauclair J, Hopkins WD (2013) On the origins of human
handedness and language: a comparative review of hand preferences for
bimanual coordinated actions and gestural communication in nonhuman
primates. Dev Psychobiol 55:637–650
Miner N, Sperry RW, Stamm JS (1956) Relearning tests for interocular transfer
following division of optic chiasma and corpus callosum in cats. J Comp
Physiol Psychol 49:529–533
Moore MW, Perston Y (2016) Experimental insights into the cognitive sig-
niﬁcance of early stone tools. PLoS One 11:e0158803
Morgan TJ, Uomini NT, Rendell LE, Chouinard-Thuly L, Street SE, Lewis
HM, Cross CP, Evans C, Kearney R, de la Torre I, Whiten A, Laland KN
References 169
(2015) Experimental evidence for the co-evolution of hominin tool-making
teaching and language. Nat Commun 6:6029
Myers ER, Sperry RW (1958) Interhemispheric communication through the
corpus callosum: mnemonic carry-over between the hemispheres. AMA
Arch Neurol Psychiatr 80:298–303
Oakley K (1949) Man the Tool-Maker. Bulletin of the British Museum of
Natural History, London
Parker GJ, Luzzi S, Alexander DC, Wheeler-Kingshott CA, Ciccarelli O,
Lambon Ralph MA (2005) Lateralization of ventral and dorsal auditory-
language pathways in the human brain. Neuroimage 24:656–666
Peelle JE (2012) The hemispheric lateralization of speech processing depends
on what “speech” is: a hierarchical perspective. Front Hum Neurosci 6:309
Perani D, Saccuman MC, Scifo P, Anwander A, Spada D, Baldoli C, Poloniato
A, Lohmann G, Friederici AD (2011) Neural language networks at birth.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 108:16056–16061
Petersen MR, Beecher MD, Zoloth SR, Moody DB, Stebbins WC (1978)
Neural lateralization of species-speciﬁc vocalizations by Japanese macaques
(Macaca fuscata). Science 202:324–327
Pinel P, Fauchereau F, Moreno A, Barbot A, Lathrop M, Zelenika D, Le
Bihan D, Poline JB, Bourgeron T, Dehaene S (2012) Genetic variants
of FOXP2 and KIAA0319/TTRAP/THEM2 locus are associated with
altered brain activation in distinct language-related regions. J Neurosci
32:817–825
Poeppel D (2003) The analysis of speech in diﬀerent temporal integration
windows: cerebral lateralization as “asymmetric sampling in time”. Speech
Comm 41: 245–255
Poeppel D (2014) The neuroanatomic and neurophysiological infrastructure
for speech and language. Curr Opin Neurobiol 28:142–149
Proﬃtt T, Luncz LV, Falótico T, Ottoni EB, de la Torre I, Haslam M (2016)
Wild monkeys ﬂake stone tools. Nature 539:85–88
Rilling JK, Glasser MF, Preuss TM, Ma X, Zhao T, Hu X, Behrens TE (2008)
The evolution of the arcuate fasciculus revealed with comparative DTI. Nat
Neurosci 11:426–428
Royer C, Delcroix N, Leroux E, Alary M, Razaﬁmandimby A, Brazo P,
Delamillieure P, Dollfus S (2015) Functional and structural brain asymme-
tries in patients with schizophrenia and bipolar disorders. Schizophr Res
161:210–214
170 4 Broken Symmetry
Scheibel AB, Paul LA, Fried I, Forsythe AB, Tomiyasu U, Wechsler A, Kao A,
Slotnick J (1985) Dendritic organization of the anterior speech area. Exp
Neurol 87:109–117
Schiller, F (1992) Paul Broca. Explorer of the Brain. Oxford University Press,
Oxford
Schlaug G, Jäncke L, Huang Y, Steinmetz H (1995) In vivo evidence of
structural brain asymmetry in musicians. Science 267:699–701
Schrier AM, Sperry RW (1959) Visuomotor integration in split-brain cats.
Science 129:1275–1276
Shannon RV (2005) Speech and music have diﬀerent requirements for spectral
resolution. Int Rev Neurobiol 70:121–134
Sherwood CC, Broadﬁeld DC, Holloway RL, Gannon PJ, Hof PR (2003)
Variability of Broca’s area homologue in African great apes: implications
for language evolution. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol 271:276–285
Silbert LJ, Honey CJ, Simony E, Poeppel D, Hasson U (2014) Coupled neural
systems underlie the production and comprehension of naturalistic narrative
speech. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 111: E4687–E4696
Sperry RW (1947) Nature of functional recovery following regeneration of the
oculomotor nerve in amphibians. Anat Rec 97:293–316
Sperry RW (1961) Cerebral Organization and Behavior: The split brain
behaves in many respects like two separate brains, providing new research
possibilities. Science 133:1749–1757
Sperry RW (1980) Mind-brain interaction: mentalism, yes; dualism, no.
Neuroscience 5:195–206
Sperry R (1984) Consciousness, personal identity and the divided brain.
Neuropsychologia 22:661–673
Sperry RW (1998) A powerful paradigm made stronger. Neuropsychologia
36:1063–1068
Springer SP, Deutsch G (1981) Left Brain, Right Brain. WH Freeman &
Company, New York
Stout D (2016) Tales of a stone age neuroscientist. Sci Amer 4:20–27
Stout D, Chaminade T (2012) Stone tools, language and the brain in human
evolution. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 367:75–87
Strauss E, Wada J (1983) Lateral preferences and cerebral speech dominance.
Cortex 19:165–177
Terao Y, Ugawa Y, Enomoto H, Furubayashi T, Shiio Y, Machii K, Hanajima
R, Nishikawa M, Iwata NK, Saito Y, Kanazawa I (2001) Hemispheric
References 171
lateralization in the cortical motor preparation for human vocalization. J
Neurosci 21:1600–1609
Uomini NT (2009) The prehistory of handedness: archaeological data and
comparative ethology. J Hum Evol 57:411–419
Uomini NT, Meyer GF (2013) Shared brain lateralization patterns in language
and Acheulean stone tool production: a functional transcranial Doppler
ultrasound study. PLoS One 8:e72693
Vallortigara G, Rogers LJ, Bisazza A (1999) Possible evolutionary origins of
cognitive brain lateralization. Brain Res Brain Res Rev 30:164–175
Vauclair J, Fagard J, Blois-Heulin C (2013) Lateralization, praxis, and com-
municative gestures: developmental and comparative perspectives. Dev
Psychobiol 55:575–576
Wang D, Buckner RL, Liu H (2014) Functional specialization in the
human brain estimated by intrinsic hemispheric interaction. J Neurosci
34:12341–12352
Witelson SF, Kigar DL (1992) Sylvian ﬁssure morphology and asymmetry in
men and women: bilateral diﬀerences in relation to handedness in men. J
Comp Neurol 323:326–340
York GK 3rd, Steinberg DA (2011) Hughlings Jackson’s neurological ideas.
Brain 134:3106–3113
Zaidel E (1975) Technique for presenting lateralized visual input with pro-
longed exposure. Vis Res 15:283–289
Zaidel E (1976) Auditory vocabulary of the right hemisphere following brain
bisection or hemidecortication. Cortex 12:191–211
Zaidel E (1983) A response to Gazzaniga. Language in the right hemisphere,
convergent perspectives. Am Psychol 38:542–546
Zaidel DW (2013) Split-brain, the right hemisphere, and art: fact and ﬁction.
Prog Brain Res 204:3–17
Zaidel E, Peters AM (1981) Phonological encoding and ideographic reading by
the disconnected right hemisphere: two case studies. Brain Lang 14:205–234
Zatorre RJ, Belin P, Penhune VB (2002) Structure and function of auditory
cortex: music and speech. Trends Cogn Sci 6:37–46
172 4 Broken Symmetry
5
Bridging Hemispheres
The experiments of Sperry, Gazzaniga, and collaborators with calloso-
tomized patients shed profound light on the lateralization of human
brain functions, but did not provide much additional insight into the
functions normally subserved by the corpus callosum. Work on split
brains in humans and animals had made it clear that the corpus callosum
was essential for transferring information across the hemispheres when it
was available to only one hemisphere. Although this process is relevant
to our lateralized brain, it is not necessarily so in the brains of animals
that show a much lower degree of functional laterality.
The functions of the corpus callosum have in fact been an enigma for
many researchers over time. In the 1600s, Thomas Willis, of whom I
spoke in Chapter 2, suggested that the callosum receives sensory input
after it has been ampliﬁed by the lentiform body (i.e. the basal ganglia),
much as a lens does, and projects this information to the gray matter of
the cerebral cortex (Zimmer 2004). According to Willis, the corpus
callosum was associated with imagination by connecting the diﬀerent
regions of the cerebral cortex. More modern interpretations have
pointed to a role of the corpus callosum in coordinating sensory and
motor information across the hemispheres, and some have argued that
© The Author(s) 2017
F. Aboitiz, A Brain for Speech,
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-54060-7_5
173
its emergence propelled further growth of the cerebral cortex by allowing
more extensive and integrated neural networks to operate synchroni-
cally. However, there is an apparent contradiction between the evolu-
tionary conservation of such a massive tract, and the relatively mild
symptomatic eﬀects produced by surgical callosotomy on human
patients and animals, which can only be characterized in controlled
laboratory conditions. In this chapter, I will attempt to explain the
origin and functions of this massive tract, the largest of the human
brain, and its relationship to brain lateralization and hand control,
features that are relevant for speech and language origins.
Holding the Hemispheres Together
My Ph.D. thesis, with Eran Zaidel and Arne Scheibel as co-advisors, was
initially aimed at understanding the relationship between callosal anat-
omy and anatomical brain asymmetry in postmortem brains. Earlier
works, notably by Sandra Witelson, had reported sex and handedness
diﬀerences in callosal size, with females and left-handers having larger
callosums than right-handed males (Witelson 1985). This suggests that
there is an inverse relationship between interhemispheric connectivity
and brain lateralization. My interest was to make a direct anatomical-to-
anatomical comparison, assessing the extent of morphological asymme-
tries, and to directly estimate ﬁber counts in the callosum instead of
using cross-sections of the callosal area as had been done in previous
studies.
Human postmortem and monkey tract-tracing studies suggested that
diﬀerent callosal regions bridge diﬀerent cortical areas, such that the
callosum contains a back-to-front topographic map of the cortical
regions that project through it. Therefore, one could look for speciﬁc
callosal sectors in relation to circumscribed anatomical asymmetries, like
those of the planum temporale and the Sylvian ﬁssure. Following
Witelson, we cross-sectioned the callosum at the midline between the
hemispheres, and parcellated it into a series of segments from back to
front, each presumably connecting diﬀerent cortical areas (Aboitiz et al.
1992a). Since there are no clear anatomical landmarks to parcel this
174 5 Bridging Hemispheres
tract, the standard procedure was to subdivide it geometrically into
thirds according to its straight length (see Fig. 5.1). The anterior third
is called the genu, and the mid-third the callosal body. The posterior
third is subdivided into the posterior ﬁfth, called the splenium, and the
region between the posterior third and the posterior ﬁfth is called the
isthmus. The isthmus is usually the most slender callosal region, and
there is postmortem evidence that ﬁbers from the planum temporale and
adjacent areas cross at this level to the other hemisphere. In my thesis, I
found no relationship between the callosal cross-section area and callosal
ﬁber density, supporting the notion that larger callosal sizes imply more
ﬁbers crossing through, although with substantial interindividual var-
iance. In addition, I found partial support for my original hypothesis
that asymmetries in the planum temporale are associated with a smaller
isthmus area and ﬁber number, but only in males. However, the callosal
region we were targeting for planum asymmetries may have been the
wrong one, as recent studies by Giorgio Innocenti and collaborators
Prefrontal
Ant.
Genu Body Isthmus Splenium
Post.
1/5
1/3
1/3
Somatosensory
Motor Auditory Visual
Fig. 5.1 A midsagittal section of the corpus callosum. This structure is geo-
metrically subdivided into thirds, and in the posterior ﬁfth. Insets show a
schematic of the distribution of ﬁber diameters in callosal regions connecting
different cortical areas
Holding the Hemispheres Together 175
indicate that callosal ﬁbers connecting the left and right planum tem-
porales are located in the midportion of the callosal splenium (posterior
ﬁfth), rather than in the isthmus as we speculated (Caminiti et al. 2013;
Innocenti et al. 2014). The relationship between callosal anatomy and
brain lateralization is still unclear as there have been many discrepant
reports, largely related to the diﬀerent procedures used to determine
callosal connectivity, anatomical asymmetries and functional lateraliza-
tion (Dorion et al. 2000; Josse et al. 2008; Luders et al. 2010). Perhaps
due to the lack of conﬁrmatory ﬁndings, the subject has lost much of its
initial impetus.
Nonetheless, there have been ﬁndings that support an association
between callosal connectivity and interhemispheric coordination. A
revealing study in this line was recently provided by Marcus Raichle’s
laboratory, the discoverer of the default-mode brain network (see
Chapter 2). Using fMRI, Raichle and collaborators analyzed slow spon-
taneous ﬂuctuations (more than 10 seconds per cycle) in cortical activity
across the hemispheres in a child that had undergone a complete
callosotomy (Johnston et al. 2008). After surgery, they found that
while intrahemispheric correlations remained similar to condition before
surgery, interhemispheric correlations were practically lost post-surgery,
generating independent activity patterns in each hemisphere. In the
previous chapter, I mentioned the fMRI study by Hesheng Liu and
collaborators, in which interhemispheric correlations were higher in
sensorimotor than in higher-order cortical areas, indicating that callosal
connectivity is stronger for low-level processing regions; and that activity
in higher-level ipsilateral networks is organized asymmetrically (Wang
et al. 2014). In a more recent large-scale fMRI study, Kelly Shen and
collaborators evaluated the strength of functional connectivity between
homotopic regions across hemispheres, and compared these values with
heterotopic functional connectivity in diﬀerent resting state conditions
(Shen et al. 2015). Heterotopic connectivity could be contralateral, that
is, connecting diﬀerent cortical regions in separate hemispheres, or
ipsilateral, that is, connecting diﬀerent cortical regions within a single
hemisphere. Notably, they observed that functional connectivity
between homotopic points in both hemispheres remained robust and
stable across conditions, while contralateral, or ipsilateral heterotopic
176 5 Bridging Hemispheres
connectivity was less stable, depending on the resting condition.
Furthermore, functional connectivity between homotopic regions
depended on the speciﬁc connections through the corpus callosum,
being stronger in sensory than association areas. This indicates that the
integration of information is stronger between homotopic regions than
between ipsilateral or contralateral heterotopic regions. Overall, this
evidence points to callosal participation in the maintenance of interhe-
mispheric integration. Nonetheless, in order to get more precise insight
into the functions of this structure, we need to go into some anatomical
detail about the microscopic structure of the callosum and its evolu-
tionary and developmental underpinnings, which I will do in the rest of
this chapter.
Mammals Are More Connected
Although it is the largest cerebral tract, the corpus callosum is not an
ancient structure. It is present only in placental mammals (i.e. rats, cats,
cows, monkeys, humans and many others), but is absent in marsupials
(like opossums and kangaroos) and monotremes (echidnas and platy-
podes). However, marsupials and monotremes have abundant interhe-
mispheric ﬁbers, mainly running across the anterior commissure, a tract
located in the deep forebrain, which is disproportionately large in these
animals. A much smaller tract that also contributes to interhemispheric
communication is the hippocampal commissure, which connects the
two hippocampi in the dorsal hemisphere. In placental mammals, the
corpus callosum probably served as a shortcut for interhemispheric
ﬁbers, as the pathway via the anterior commissure used by marsupials
is quite long and tortuous. An alternative attempt to minimize inter-
hemispheric axonal length is what is termed the fasciculus aberrans in
large-brained marsupials like kangaroos, which somewhat shortens the
distance traveled from the cerebral cortex to the anterior commissure
(Aboitiz and Montiel 2003). In non-mammals (birds, reptiles and
amphibians) there is a modest pallial commissure, homologous to the
hippocampal commissure of mammals, and an anterior commissure
connecting limbic regions like the amygdala. However, there are no
Mammals Are More Connected 177
reciprocal connections between the most expanding regions of the
cerebral hemispheres, which are comparable to the cerebral cortex of
mammals (Aboitiz and Montiel 2003). In addition, mammals are
unique in the conspicuous laminar arrangement of the cerebral cortex,
while the cerebral hemispheres of non-mammals have an overall globular
shape, with no evident lamination (I will come back to this below, and
in Chapter 9).
The corpus callosum originated in evolution through a major devel-
opmental innovation. Some 30 years ago, Michael Katz and collabora-
tors originally proposed that a “glial sling” bridging the two embryonic
hemispheres appeared in early placental mammals, allowing axons to
cross the midline (Katz et al. 1983). Subsequently, Linda Richards and
her team described in more detail the generation of this interhemispheric
bridge, which includes several glial specializations, and demonstrated
that it serves as a substrate for growth of cortical axons across the midline
between hemispheres (Lindwall et al. 2007; Suárez et al. 2014). As
brains get larger, as in humans, the glial bridge becomes increasingly
complex, with diﬀerent cellular components involved.
As in other instances mentioned in this book, the genetic basis for the
generation of commissural connections seems to be signiﬁcantly con-
served in evolution. There is a detailed molecular mechanism that allows
axons to grow across the midline and invade the other side of the brain,
which has been found at all levels in the nervous system of vertebrates,
insects and worms. This is based on the interplay between three key
proteins, called Robo, Slit and Comm. Slit is located in the midline and
repels Robo, which is expressed in axons that are impeded from crossing
to the other side. However, developing commissural axons stop expres-
sing Robo at some point and join another midline molecule, Comm,
which facilitates their growth across the midline (Dickson and Gilestro
2006). Notably, once axons have reached the other side, they start
expressing Robo again at their tip, which makes them unable to cross
back again. Richards and colleagues have found that diﬀerent forms of
Slit are indeed expressed in cells of the callosal glial wedge, and Robo is
present in growing cortical axons. Likewise, mutant mice with inacti-
vated Slit or Robo genes display severe malformations in the developing
corpus callosum, as well as in many other ﬁber tracts. In addition to its
178 5 Bridging Hemispheres
axonal repellent function, Slit is required for the formation of the glial
bridge that serves as a substrate for callosal axon growth (Richards 2002;
Edwards et al. 2014; Unni et al. 2012). Thus, it appears that a major
genetic rearrangement took place in placental mammals, involving the
regulation of Slit, Robo and other genes, and the formation of a glial
pathway that permitted the growth of callosal ﬁbers across the midline.
More recently, Richards and her team have reported a role of another
protein, Netrin, in callosal axon guidance and regulating Slit expression
during the formation of the corpus callosum (Fothergill et al. 2014).
There are rare genetic conditions in which the corpus callosum is not
present in humans or selected rodent breeds (Edwards et al. 2014). In
these cases, a robust longitudinal nerve tract called Probst’s bundle
develops on both sides of the brain, which may consist of prospective
callosal ﬁbers that turn back on the same hemisphere, or may simply
reﬂect the compaction of a preexisting ﬁber tract (the cingulum bundle)
that normally becomes disaggregated as callosal ﬁbers cross through it to
reach the midline (Stefanko 1980). Some genetic conditions, such as X-
chromosome-linked lissencephaly (a type of cerebral malformation),
Aicardi syndrome (also linked to the X chromosome), and ciliopathies,
in which cellular cilia (tiny and movable “hairs” in the cells) are defec-
tive, have been associated with callosal agenesis. Callosal agenesis is also
related to relatively severe cognitive impairments, including visual,
motor and cognitive deﬁcits and autistic behavior. Thirty percent of
subjects with callosal agenesis have autistic symptomatology, and many
individuals with autism spectrum disorder have congenital reduction of
the callosal area. However, it is not known to what extent this correla-
tion is due to the absence of the callosum per se, or to a more pervasive
eﬀect of the genetic disorder, aﬀecting other neural and bodily systems.
Many individuals with callosal agenesis have adequate intelligence levels
and live relatively normal lives (if there is such a thing as a normal life).
Thus, interhemispheric connections are a new evolutionary acquisi-
tion, possibly associated with the origin of the mammalian cerebral
cortex. However, its original functions are still somewhat of a mystery.
As I have said, the interpretation of a role of the callosum in the
integration of the cerebral hemispheres makes sense. However, this
does not explain what its function was originally, when it was still a
Mammals Are More Connected 179
small tract (unless it appeared all at once, which I consider unlikely). It
also leaves open the question of how birds have developed such sophis-
ticated behavioral and cognitive skills without the help of interhemi-
spheric connectivity. In order to understand this, we will need to delve
into some anatomic and functional details that, although somewhat
intricate, can be enlightening in these points.
160 Million Fibers
The corpus callosum is by far the largest ﬁber tract in the brain,
which in humans contains some 160 million nerve ﬁbers crossing the
midline. This is a number I know quite well as it was perhaps the
main result of my Ph.D. dissertation (Aboitiz et al. 1992b). I was not
the ﬁrst, however, to study this famous tract. At about the same time,
Anthony LaMantia, working in his thesis with Pasko Rakic, was
making an electron microscopy analysis of the ﬁne callosal structure
in the monkey brain (LaMantia and Rakic 1990a). Electron micro-
scopy is a highly detailed technique that cannot be reliably used with
humans because it requires pre-mortem preparation of tissue that
cannot be performed on humans. But despite its elegance,
LaMantia’s work was with monkeys, not humans. However, in
1954, the anatomist Joseph Tomasch published a light-microscopy
description of the ﬁber composition of four human callosums, a report
that had gone largely unnoticed (Tomasch 1954). I decided to
increase the sampling to 40 subjects, 20 males and 20 females.
When I started my thesis I had no idea how painstaking a job this
was going to be. At the time there were no adequate automatic
counting procedures and I had to count ﬁbers of diﬀerent cross-
section diameters for quite a long time. When I closed my eyes at
night all I could see were the tiny circles and dots depicting the cross-
sectioned myelinated and non-myelinated ﬁbers under the intense
light coming through the microscope lens. In a way, I felt reassured
reading Ramón y Cajal’s autobiography at the time, as he mentioned
that when he went to sleep after a day of histological observations all
the neuronal shapes he had seen in the day would come back to mind
180 5 Bridging Hemispheres
to produce a synthesis of the most important and relevant features
among the eﬀervescent diversity of neuronal types (Ramón y Cajal
2006).
One of the ﬁrst relevant observations among this tedious work was
that callosal ﬁber sizes are quite variable (Fig. 5.1). There are many small
unmyelinated or slightly myelinated ﬁbers, smaller than a micrometer in
diameter. In addition, there are progressively smaller proportions of
myelinated, medium-diameter (1 to 3 micrometers) and large-diameter
ﬁbers (larger than 3 micrometers) (myelin is a sheath that covers some
axons to increase the propagation speed of nerve signals). Furthermore,
diﬀerent ﬁber types, particularly the large-diameter ﬁbers, are not homo-
geneously distributed along the callosum. I ﬁrst realized this when
observing the posterior corpus callosum of a subject that showed a
striking concentration of very large diameter ﬁbers in the posterior-
most region, where ﬁbers connecting primary and secondary visual
areas travel. This was a hint that ﬁber composition was indeed variable
from subject to subject. However, looking at all the data in all callosal
regions and across all subjects, a conserved pattern appeared, with two
peaks of concentration of large diameter ﬁbers. The ﬁrst and largest is in
the posterior part of the callosal body (the posterior middle third), and
the second largest is located in the posterior most callosum (the back of
the splenium). These are regions that connect primary and secondary
somatosensory and motor areas (the posterior body), and visual areas
(the posterior splenium). On the other hand, the callosal genu (the
anterior third), which connects frontal and prefrontal areas, is character-
ized by high densities of small unmyelinated ﬁbers. It was very stimulat-
ing to see that the ﬁndings by Tomasch with his small human sample,
and by LaMantia with macaques were highly consistent with my own.
These ﬁndings were not just an anatomical curiosity, as ﬁber diameter,
together with myelin wrapping, determines the conduction velocity of
nerve impulses. Therefore, they were of high functional relevance, mean-
ing that these are ﬁbers connecting primary or secondary sensory and
motor areas that transmit their nerve impulses much faster than the
average callosal ﬁber, while in higher order or association areas (particu-
larly in the frontal region), callosal connectivity is generally slower.
Subsequent MRI studies, again including Giorgio Innocenti’s group,
160 Million Fibers 181
have assessed callosal ﬁber microstructure by fractional anisotropy, the
basis for tractographic analyses that I mentioned in Chapter 2 (Caminiti
et al. 2013). As I said, water diﬀusion is highly constrained by the
orientation of axons and myelin sheaths, and is more constrained
when the tract is highly packed and myelinated. Thus, a higher aniso-
tropy value in a tract implies more myelination and increased packing.
This technique is still in its beginnings, but in the future, it may provide
a non-invasive assessment of callosal ﬁber variability across subjects.
The Zipper Hypothesis
Why would ﬁbers connecting early stage sensory and motor areas be so
fast-conducting? To get some insight into this question, we must ﬁrst go
into some details about the development of callosal connectivity in
sensory and higher-order association areas. Innocenti, Caminiti and
colleagues ﬁrst showed in the cat that there is an initial excess of callosal
ﬁbers crossing the callosum, which decreases substantially soon after
birth, with only about a quarter of the callosal ﬁbers at birth being
retained beyond the postnatal period (Innocenti et al. 1977; Innocenti
1981; Koppel and Innocenti 1983; Berbel and Innocenti 1988). These
ﬁndings concurred with those of LaMantia and Rakic with monkeys
(LaMantia and Rakic 1990b). Considering that I calculated 160 million
callosal ﬁbers in humans, this means that in the human newborn there
could be as many as 640 million callosal ﬁbers, with 480 million
retracting shortly after birth. This retraction process can also be observed
in gross morphology, as the cross-sectional area of the callosum transi-
ently diminishes after birth, only to begin growing again due to
increased ﬁber thickness, myelination and decreased ﬁber density. The
number of callosal ﬁbers stabilizes in later development and for most of
adulthood, except with disease and advanced aging. Furthermore, this
initial exuberance indicates that there is a strong intrinsic tendency of
many ﬁbers to cross the callosum, many more than are actually sup-
ported in adult life. Note that this process of terminal retraction is not
exclusive for callosal connectivity, but has been found to be a major
feature of the development of ipsilateral cortico-cortical connections as
182 5 Bridging Hemispheres
well, and may be related to the existence of critical periods for sensor-
imotor development, including language (see Chapter 10).
The studies by Innocenti’s group showed that concomitant with major
ﬁber loss, there is a drastic rearrangement of callosal projections around
birth, when initially callosal ﬁbers evenly innervate all cortical regions
(Innocenti et al. 1977; Innocenti 1981, 1986; Innocenti Bressoud 2003;
Koppel and Innocenti 1983; Berbel and Innocenti 1988; Aggoun-
Zouaoui and Innocenti 1994). From then on, callosal development diﬀers
between ﬁbers connecting primary and secondary sensorimotor areas on
the one hand, and higher order cortical areas on the other. Only in
primary and secondary sensory (visual, somatosensory and auditory) and
motor areas, is there a topographic map of the sensory or motor surface.
This is the “homunculus” in sensory and motor cortices, and the repre-
sentation of the visual ﬁeld in visual areas. You will recall that these maps
only correspond to the opposite part of the sensory surface. In auditory
areas, the situation is slightly diﬀerent, as there is a “tonotopic” represen-
tation, corresponding to diﬀerent auditory tones that are segregated in the
cochlea of the inner ear. Moving to higher order cortical areas, the sensory
or motor topography becomes diﬀuse, as these regions are involved in
more abstract processing mechanisms. Notably, the process of callosal
terminal retraction is much more pronounced in the primary and second-
ary areas than in higher order areas of the cortex. In the former, callosal
projections become restricted to a strip located in the borders between
adjacent sensory (or motor) areas, while ﬁbers connecting higher order
areas are evenly eliminated across the surface (Fig. 5.2). Still, many more
ﬁbers may remain connecting higher order areas than sensorimotor
regions. The projecting callosal strip that remains in sensory and motor
cortices is the representation of the sensory or motor midline of the
adjacent areas, so that the only sensorimotor regions connected through
the callosum are those corresponding to the medial part of the body and
the sensory ﬁeld, like the visual midline, or the midline of the body
surface. Since each hemisphere only receives input from the contralateral
side, callosal ﬁbers in these regions serve to connect the two hemi-
representations in the midline, forming a continuous sensory and motor
ﬁeld across the hemispheres. In the regions of sensory or motor areas that
are far from the midline, representing say the periphery of the visual ﬁeld,
The Zipper Hypothesis 183
there are very few callosal ﬁbers, if any. Likewise, callosal ﬁbers connecting
the hand region of motor or somatosensory cortex are negligible, as in
these areas most callosal ﬁbers connect midline body regions. Therefore,
tasks that are learned with one hand need to be transferred to the other
hemisphere via the higher-order areas that are intensively connected via
the callosum, and not by primary/secondary areas. Audition is in a way an
exception to this rule, as the surface of the cochlea does not map space
locations of sounds but rather diﬀerent tones, with high tones at one
extreme and low tones at the other. Callosal projections in auditory areas
of the cortex cover diﬀerent tonalities, but are still restricted to the edges
of auditory regions.
90˚
V1 V1
V2
V2
MT
MT
90˚
0˚
0˚
90˚
90˚
Fig. 5.2 The anatomical arrangement of adult callosal connections.
Although in the newborn, neurons project to the corpus callosum through-
out the sensory areas (in this case, V1 and V2), these projections undergo
severe retraction after birth and only those that connect regions related to
the sensory midline remain (0º), while those that represent peripheral
regions of the visual ﬁeld (→90º) are lost. In higher-order areas, there is
also profound retraction, but evenly distributed across the respective areas
(in this case, area MT). The remaining neurons in adults continue projecting
to and from all parts of the respective areas, as well as projecting to addi-
tional areas. For simplicity, connections between primary and secondary
sensory areas are depicted only from left to right, and in area MT, these
are shown from right to left. In fact, all these projections are bidirectional.
184 5 Bridging Hemispheres
The uneven distribution of ﬁber sizes in the callosum now makes some
sense. In the ﬁrst steps of visual or somatosensory processing, the events
that occur around the midline are usually the most relevant, and must be
rapidly processed in order for there to be continuous perception across the
two hemispheres. Ramón y Canal ﬁrst proposed the midline rule, assert-
ing that callosal and other commissural connections establish the con-
tinuity of the two halves of the sensory map across the hemispheres
(Ramón y Cajal 1898). Further studies, including those by the Nobel
Prize winners David Hubel and Torsten Wiesel, supported the notion
that callosal ﬁbers extend the visual network across hemispheres (Hubel
1988). More speciﬁcally, Jean-Christophe Houzel and others have pro-
posed that callosal ﬁbers participate in the process of adaptation to and
prediction of a moving object, that passes in front of an observer from one
visual ﬁeld to the other by crossing the vertical midline (Houzel et al.
2002). A beautiful experiment in this line was recently made by Kerstin
Schmidt and collaborators, who lightly anesthetized the right visual cortex
of a cat by lowering its temperature, and recorded neurons in the left
hemisphere while presenting moving stimuli in the contralateral visual
ﬁeld (i.e. right) (Peiker et al. 2013). They found that these neurons
activated more strongly when stimuli entered the midline, predictably to
cross to the opposite visual ﬁeld, as opposed to activation with movement
toward the periphery of the visual ﬁeld. Thus, visual neurons may antici-
pate the movement of objects across the midline, perhaps in addition to
other functions involved in fusing the two visual images. This may require
very rapid communication across the callosum, and a similar situation
may hold for motor and somatosensory areas (both regions displaying the
highest concentration of large diameter ﬁbers through the callosum).
Moving Maps to the Cortex
The ﬁne anatomy of callosal ﬁbers and its variability among species give
some hints about the original function of interhemispheric connections,
and may explain why other large-brained animals like birds never
developed this arrangement. We know that embryonic specialization
in early placental mammals permitted ﬁber growth across the midline,
Moving Maps to the Cortex 185
and that the callosum was advantageous because it provided a shortcut to
the other side of the brain. Nonetheless, we still have no clues about
what processing beneﬁts they provided when they ﬁrst appeared given
there must have been selective pressure favoring their development.
To clarify this point, let me remind the reader that the mammalian
cerebral cortex is quite diﬀerent in shape from that of other vertebrates.
It is organized as a bidimensional sheet or lamina consisting of several
layers, as opposed to the brain of birds, which develops as a well-packed
three-dimensional neuronal network. The bidimensional arrangement of
the sensory cerebral cortex of mammals is particularly suited for the
development of topographically arranged maps of the sensory surfaces,
like the somatosensory homunculus or the representation of the visual
ﬁeld (see above). Conversely, in reptiles, birds and other vertebrates,
spatial information about the environment is not processed in the
cerebral hemispheres, but in a laminar brainstem structure called the
optic tectum (see Fig. 5.3). In these animals, the cerebral hemispheres
behave like higher-order cortical areas, with no clear topographic sensory
or motor organization (Aboitiz and Montiel 2003). These diﬀerences are
reﬂected in the relatively small size of the mammalian superior collicu-
lus, the structure homologous to the bird’s tectum, an example support-
ing Robert Barton’s hypothesis of evolutionary independence of
diﬀerent neural processing systems (see Chapter 3).
Thus, in mammals there has been a shift in the early sites of spatial
processing from the brainstem to the cerebral cortex. As I discussed
above, spatial processing poses the problem of midline fusion as each
side of the brain receives input from only half of the sensory surface.
Non-mammals have solved this problem by developing a tectal com-
missure that connects the two halves of the sensory ﬁeld in the midbrain.
But as spatial maps moved to the cerebral hemispheres of mammals, the
problem of midline fusion became an issue, and interhemispheric con-
nections came as a solution. In the beginning, as in monotremes and
marsupials, the only available path for these ﬁbers was through the
anterior commissure, which was still a long way but was perhaps better
than nothing. The corpus callosum came as an improvement that
permitted a shorter travelling distance. One could even stretch this
hypothesis and say that without interhemispheric connectivity mammals
186 5 Bridging Hemispheres
TC
CC
Mammal
Turtle
TC
Fig. 5.3 The topographic representation of visual inputs in a reptile and a
mammal. In reptiles, the visual map is established in the optic tectum (gray),
Moving Maps to the Cortex 187
would never have generated or at least expanded the cerebral cortex as we
know it, not because of developmental but rather functional limitations.
Despite the attractiveness of the hypothesis of midline fusion, the
great majority of callosal ﬁbers connects areas other than the sensory or
motor regions and is directed mainly to higher-order and association
areas involved in higher cognitive processes. It is likely that when this
pathway became available, ﬁrst via the anterior commissure and then
through the corpus callosum, not only sensory and motor but also many
other ﬁbers were able to traverse to the other hemisphere. As a side eﬀect
of the initial beneﬁt of midline fusion, ﬁbers from other cortical regions
also made their way across the hemispheres, contributing to other
aspects of interhemispheric integration. This may have had the beneﬁt
of generating more interconnected networks, but it still remains to be
proven that this design is any better than that of other animals without
interhemispheric connections, such as birds.
Robin Mihrshahi proposed that besides perceptual midline fusion,
interhemispheric integration of motor areas played a key role in the
evolution of the callosum (Mihrshahi 2006). In fact, some behavioral
functions may have strongly beneﬁted from the development of cross-
hemispheric communication, such as bimanual coordination, a mam-
mal-speciﬁc behavioral pattern that relies on interhemispheric axons
connecting higher-order cortical areas. Bimanual coordination is
observed in most mammals, excepting those that have undergone ana-
tomical specializations for walking, swimming or digging; and is pretty
much absent in other vertebrates. Moreover, bimanual coordination
depends on hand dexterity, which is supported by the cortico-spinal
tract, another invention of the mammalian brain. Thus, bimanual
coordination is a result of the interplay between these two tracts, the
callosum and the cortico-spinal tract, and is extremely useful for beha-
Fig.5.3 (Continued)
and there is a tectal commissure (TC) that fuses both halves of visual repre-
sentation. In mammals, in addition to the optic tectum (in mammals this
structure is called superior colliculus), the visual map is also generated in
the visual cortex, where the corpus callosum serves to fuse the two represen-
tations at the midline.
188 5 Bridging Hemispheres
viors like nest building and especially food manipulation, features that
may have been very important in early mammalian evolution. Bimanual
coordination and hand dexterity are especially important in primates,
and foreshadowed the capacity for toolmaking and communication in
our immediate ancestors. William Hopkins and colleagues observed
chimpanzees ﬁshing for termites with sticks, as they do in the wild.
They assessed the degree of hand preference and performance in this
task, and took tractographic measures of the ﬁber integrity of the corpus
callosum of all individuals (Phillips et al. 2013). They found increasing
connectivity through the corpus callosum in individuals with stronger
hand preference and performance, regardless of direction (left- or right-
handers), which supports the concept of an increasing sensorimotor (but
not necessarily higher-level) communication between hemispheres in
association with hand specialization. The authors also measured the
regional size of the corpus callosum and found no diﬀerences in relation
to handedness, which emphasizes the use of tractographic instead of area
analysis to study callosal connectivity.
There is ample evidence that the corpus callosum in humans is required
for everyday bimanual coordination tasks, like typing or eating with a knife
and fork, and of course toolmaking in our ancestors. Most of us learn these
tasks easily and they become daily routines, but acallosal patients have
diﬃculty with them, especially when these tasks are new and subjects have
to learn them. You will recall the alien hand syndrome I mentioned in the
previous chapter. While patients who underwent callosal surgery tend to do
badly in bimanual coordination tasks, subjects with callosal agenesis (who
are born without a corpus callosum) do much better in such tasks, showing
some compensatory capacity during development. Gazzaniga and collabora-
tors recently studied a patient undergoing callosotomy in successive stages,
where the anterior corpus callosum was sectioned in an initial operation,
and the posterior part was resected in a second procedure (Eliassen et al.
2000). With each hand, the patient had to simultaneously draw either
mirror image or non-mirror image ﬁgures following a model presented to
her. Mirror image drawings require tight bimanual coordination, for which
an intact corpus callosum may be needed. The patient was evaluated before
and after the ﬁrst operation and after the second. Before surgery, the non-
mirror images were drawn poorly, but mirror images were drawn reasonably
Moving Maps to the Cortex 189
well. Sectioning the anterior callosum in the ﬁrst operation had little eﬀect
on either the mirror image or non-mirror image drawings. Nonetheless,
after sectioning the posterior callosum in the second operation, mirror
image drawing deteriorated, while non-mirror drawings improved, presum-
ably because there was less interference between the two hands. The authors
concluded that bimanual spatial coordination in visuomotor tasks is sig-
niﬁcantly impaired by the absence of the corpus callosum, and considering
the critical role of the posterior callosum in this task bimanual integration is
likely conveyed by the parietal cortex.
Helene Sisti and collaborators used a bimanual task in which healthy
subjects had to move a cursor on a computer screen using two dials, with
diﬀerent levels of diﬃculty during a learning period (Sisti et al. 2012). The
researchers studied the callosal regions of the subjects tractographically and
found a positive correlation between fractional anisotropy and behavioral
performance, but only in regions connecting prefrontal areas. This was
found only after a period of training, as the correlation was not signiﬁcant
during early training sessions. In motor regions, the group led by Ulf
Ziemann assessed callosal fractional anisotropy and a functional measure
of interhemispheric connectivity using TMS with normal subjects and
neurologic patients that performed a bimanual ﬁnger-tapping task (Wahl
et al. 2015). They found that both structural and functional parameters
correlated with task performance. Thus, the callosal region, through which
bimanual coordination is executed, may depend on the speciﬁc task being
assessed. As I said above, callosal ﬁbers from primary and secondary motor
areas are unlikely to participate in this task as these ﬁbers are concentrated
in the body midline rather than in the hand or arm representation.
Transferring Sounds
The above holds well for visual, somatosensory and motor transfer, but
not so much for audition. We have seen that the auditory cortex is
diﬀerent from the somatosensory or visual areas, as it has no spatial
representation of the auditory scene. Likewise, it appears that auditory
callosal ﬁbers do not ﬁt the pattern of visual and somatosensory ﬁbers, as
they tend to be located in the anterior part of the splenium, which has an
190 5 Bridging Hemispheres
association area-like ﬁber composition. This may make sense because in
audition, much side-to-side information transfer already takes place at
very early neural processing levels in the brainstem. In the visual pathway
of mammals, brainstem side-to-side connectivity is very limited, and is
mainly performed via the tectal or collicular commissure. Thus, cortico-
cortical interhemispheric transfer may not need to be as rapid for
audition as it does for vision and touch. This has been shown by a series
of studies that measure interhemispheric transfer in the visual and the
auditory modalities that are based on a simple neuropsychological pro-
cedure called the simple reaction time task.
In the 1800s, Franciscus Donders designed the reaction time task to
measure the time required to perform a given computation (Newell
1989). In this task, subjects had to respond automatically to a visual
or auditory stimulus by pressing a button. The time taken to press this
button is the result of the sum of perceptual, motor and cognitive
processes. By manipulating the cognitive task and keeping the perceptual
and motor components constant Donders estimated the time the brain
takes to perform a speciﬁc cognitive process. Thus, he compared the
response time for automatic tasks and tasks that required a perceptual
choice, and found that the latter involved more time. A variant of this
task was used by John Stroop in the 1920s, in which subjects were
shown the names of colors (red, blue, green) written in diﬀerent colored
ink, so that, for example, the word “red” was written in the same color or
a diﬀerent color (Stroop 1935; MacLeod 1992). Subjects had to respond
to the color of the ink and not to the word. For example, if the word
“red” was written in blue, the correct answer was “blue”. Subjects took
longer to respond when the word was diﬀerent from the color of the ink.
Around the same time, psychologist Albert T. Poﬀenberger designed an
experimental paradigm to measure the time needed for interhemispheric
transfer of sensory information, consisting of pressing a button with one
hand (left or right) as fast as possible after the appearance of a lateralized
stimulus in one visual ﬁeld (left or right) (Poﬀenberger 1912). When the
stimulus was presented in the same visual ﬁeld as the responding hand
(left visual ﬁeld and left hand, or right visual ﬁeld and right hand), the
response times were shorter than when the stimulus was presented to the
visual ﬁeld opposite to the responding hand (left visual ﬁeld and right
Transferring Sounds 191
hand, or right visual ﬁeld and left hand). The diﬀerence was about 5
milliseconds, depending on the speciﬁc task. When the visual ﬁeld and
responding hand were on the same side, the stimulus reached the
contralateral hemisphere, which also commands the contralateral hand
(see previous Chapter). However, if visual ﬁeld presentation and
responding hand were crossed, the stimulus had to be transferred to
the opposite hemisphere to perform the manual response. This time
diﬀerence is considered an estimate of sensory interhemispheric transfer
through the corpus callosum.
However, Marco Iacoboni and Eran Zaidel showed that visual inter-
hemispheric transfer is quite diﬀerent from auditory transfer. They
analyzed the crossed-uncrossed reaction time diﬀerence for auditory
and visual stimuli with a patient that had undergone a complete callo-
sotomy (Iacoboni and Zaidel 1999; Zaidel and Iacoboni 2003). They
found that the auditory crossed-uncrossed diﬀerence was rather small
and highly variable (less than 5 milliseconds), while the visual crossed-
uncrossed diﬀerence was much greater (between 25 and 45 millise-
conds), indicating that the auditory crossed-uncrossed diﬀerence is not
a reliable estimate of callosal interhemispheric transfer. Rebecca Woelﬂe
and Jessica Grahn also found in normal humans that interhemispheric
transfer took less time when auditory rather than visual cues were used
(Woelﬂe and Grahn 2013). The subjects, who were trained musicians
and non-musicians, performed a simple reaction task of pressing in
button in response to a visual or auditory stimulus. The crossed-
uncrossed diﬀerence was less for auditory than for visual stimuli, and
was slightly greater in musicians than non-musicians. As I have men-
tioned, the smaller crossed-uncrossed diﬀerence for auditory stimuli may
be explained by the fact that acoustic information can cross the midline
already in the brainstem, while in the visual system this occurs mostly at
cortical levels; or, in the case of normal subjects, because visual callosal
connections require longer axons than auditory connections due to the
anatomy of the neural pathways (see below). A recent and intriguing
ﬁnding in this line by Giorgio Innocenti and collaborators is a callosal
projection to the corpus striatum in monkeys and humans (Innocenti
et al. 2016) that is carried by thin ﬁbers, with an estimated interhemi-
spheric transfer time of about 2 and 4 milliseconds in monkeys and
192 5 Bridging Hemispheres
humans, respectively, which ﬁts with the results of standard neuropsy-
chological studies of interhemispheric transfer. Furthermore, callosal
corticostriatal axons originate mainly from sensory, motor and premotor
cortices (with an important exception in humans, which I will discuss
below), suggesting that simple sensorimotor interhemispheric transfer is
mediated by crossed cortico striatal projections through the corpus
callosum.
Time is of the Essence
Diﬀerent species have diﬀerent brain sizes and consequently inter-
hemispheric distance varies accordingly, such that in large-brained
species like us, callosal ﬁbers are much longer than in mice.
Furthermore, interhemispheric delay may be especially detrimental
when information has to cross back and forth between the hemi-
spheres, as happens with more complex processing. In this line, James
Ringo, Robert Doty, Steve Demeter and Patrice Simard conjectured
in 1994 that more time is required to transmit information across the
hemispheres in species with larger brains as they have on average a
longer interhemispheric distance (Ringo et al. 1994). This imposes an
additional delay that they argued is detrimental for ﬁne time-critical
neural computations in which multiple passes across the callosum
would make processing prohibitively slow. A simple solution is to
keep high-resolution processing, or reciprocal neural loops involved
in higher processing, restricted to a single hemisphere, leading to
hemispheric specialization. A not yet conﬁrmed prediction from their
hypothesis was that all large-brained species like elephants and ceta-
ceans would also show a high degree of hemispheric specialization
(interestingly, elephants and cetaceans are also good vocal learners;
see Chapter 10).
Partly motivated by the above conjecture, my student Ricardo
Olivares made a comparative analysis of ﬁber composition in the poster-
ior corpus callosum of several domestic species of diﬀerent brain sizes
(mouse, rabbit, cat, cow and horse) (Olivares et al. 2001). Ricardo
noticed that in each species, ﬁber sizes are distributed in an asymmetric
Time is of the Essence 193
bell-like curve in which one side of the bell (the left, closer to zero) is
very short and the other (the right), containing higher values, has a very
long tail. The peak of the curve includes the large majority of ﬁbers and
reﬂects the most common diameter, or modal value. This shape is
similar to probability functions like Poisson’s or ex-Gaussian distribu-
tion. What is more striking is that the modal value changes little across
species regardless of brain size. Following Ringo and his colleagues, this
implies that interhemispheric transfer is in fact delayed in larger brained
species, as most callosal ﬁbers do not signiﬁcantly increase conduction
velocity concomitant with the physical separation of the two hemi-
spheres. On the other hand, the few largest-diameter ﬁbers (the long
tail at the right of the bell) noticeably increased in diameter and conse-
quently in conduction velocity in larger brains. This strongly suggests
that some kinds of information can be rapidly transferred even in big
brains. As we saw earlier, many (but not all) of these large ﬁbers
correspond to sensory and motor regions and may participate in midline
fusion. Nonetheless, provided that nerve ﬁber conduction velocity
increases linearly with ﬁber diameter, and scales directly with increasing
interhemispheric distance, we calculated the expected increases in ﬁber
caliber required for interhemispheric delay to remain constant, regardless
of brain size. We found that the increased size of the largest ﬁbers is not
suﬃcient to maintain a constant interhemispheric delay as brains get
bigger, so that there is a toll on interhemispheric transmission.
Furthermore, we searched the literature for information about inter-
hemispheric transfer velocity and transmission times of visual ﬁbers in
diﬀerent animals, and found that species with laterally-directed eyes like
rabbits have very long transfer times as opposed to cats, with frontally-
directed eyes and shorter interhemispheric transfer times. The laterally
placed eyes of rabbits cover a visual ﬁeld of almost 360 degrees around
their heads to maximize detection of predators, while carnivores like cats
and dogs depend strongly on frontal vision, and visual midline fusion
may be important for them to catch prey. Likewise, Olivares showed
that cats and dogs have a higher proportion of large or very large splenial
ﬁbers than would be expected in ungulates, rabbits or rodents of the
same brain size, all of the latter having laterally placed eyes to diﬀerent
degrees (Olivares et al. 2001). In addition to these ﬁndings, we found a
194 5 Bridging Hemispheres
signiﬁcant diﬀerence in the relative size of the posterior callosum in
relation to total callosal area in frontal-looking species like carnivores
and humans, compared to laterally-looking species (mostly herbivores),
suggesting that these species devote a higher proportion of visual ﬁbers
to the callosum, or have larger visual ﬁbers (Olivares et al. 2000).
After our report, two laboratory groups published similar ﬁndings,
but with diﬀerent samples of species. The ﬁrst was led by Samuel
Wang, and included Patrick Hof as one of their collaborators.
Wang’s group has for some time been interested in describing scaling
regularities among diﬀerent cellular brain components and brain size.
Shortly after our publication, these authors published preliminary
ﬁndings with a small sample of species similar to ours (adding a
primate, the macaque), and conﬁrmed an increase in the diameter of
the large ﬁbers in species with larger brains (Harrison et al. 2002).
They later conﬁrmed these ﬁndings in a broader sample of species
from shrews to whales, and measured ﬁbers in the posterior and
anterior portions of the callosal body (Wang et al. 2008). In line
with our conclusions, they showed that while modal ﬁber diameter
remained relatively constant across species, maximal ﬁber diameters
and the degree of myelination of these ﬁbers rose steeply with
increasing brain size. Nonetheless, the associated increase in conduc-
tion velocity was not suﬃcient to maintain a constant interhemi-
spheric transmission time, which ranged from one to two
milliseconds in the smallest species to about 5 milliseconds in whales
(in humans, this value was calculated to be about 4 milliseconds).
Wang explains these ﬁndings in terms of a functional tradeoﬀ
between the need to increase conduction velocity in larger brains
on the one hand, and the energy cost and the anatomical diﬃculty
of packing larger axonal volumes on the other, which is a reasonable
hypothesis that has to be tested.
The second ﬁnding was made by Giorgio Innocenti, Roberto
Caminiti, Patrick Hof and others, who analyzed the diameter and
anatomic position of callosal ﬁbers originating from speciﬁc cortical
regions in diﬀerent primate species (Caminiti et al. 2009). In a series
of important articles, they conﬁrmed the previous ﬁndings of anterior to
posterior distribution of callosal ﬁbers according to cortical topography,
Time is of the Essence 195
and the distribution of ﬁber diameters described before. The shortest
interhemispheric delays were found in areas connecting motor and
sensory regions, consistent with previous ﬁndings. Moreover, comparing
the sizes of axons from motor regions in the macaque, chimpanzee and
human, they reported conservatism in modal ﬁber diameter, and pro-
gressively greater maximal axon diameters in relation to increased brain
size. Again, the largest axons were not suﬃciently fast to render a
constant interhemispheric delay. Moreover, diﬀerences in maximal
axon diameter were not evident from chimp to human. Notably,
although frontal regions have very thin callosal ﬁbers, their interhemi-
spheric delays are rather short, because the distance traveled by axons is
shorter than in more posterior regions. On the other hand, ﬁbers
connecting visual regions have to travel a long distance to the midline,
and consequently the interhemispheric delay is relatively high despite
there being a high proportion of coarse diameter ﬁbers connecting these
areas. Another important point made by Innocenti’s group was that
there is greater intrinsic variability of ﬁber sizes and transmission times
in species with larger brains. Here, humans ranked higher than chimps.
Greater intrinsic variability was observed across callosal regions, but also
among ﬁbers connecting speciﬁc brain regions. They concluded that
there tends to be a wider range of conduction velocities in species with
larger brains, which implies that there is a wider time frame for segregat-
ing neuronal circuits, particularly considering oscillatory activity. More
recently, Kimberley Phillips, Chet Sherwood, Patrick Hof and others
described the ﬁber composition of the corpus callosum in 14 primate
species, including humans, again conﬁrming the same essential ﬁndings
(Phillips et al. 2015).
Finally on this point, Innocenti, Caminiti and Hof extended their
previous ﬁndings to language-related regions, ﬁnding cross-species con-
servatism in the size of callosal ﬁbers originating from the planum
temporale in humans and chimpanzees (Innocenti et al. 2010). In
addition, William Hopkins, Chet Sherwood and colleagues found that
planum temporale asymmetries in the chimpanzee were associated with
a smaller proportion of large diameter ﬁbers in the posterior corpus
callosum (Hopkins et al. 2012), which in a way is reminiscent of my
early results described at the beginning of this chapter (Aboitiz et al.
196 5 Bridging Hemispheres
1992b). Although in principle this is an interesting ﬁnding, in my
opinion this data needs to be consistently replicated before it can be
considered a fact.
Travelling Waves
As I said in Chapter 2, oscillatory activity is a hallmark of brain function,
speech and language being no exceptions to this. As David Poeppel and
colleagues have evidenced, speech processing takes place in a nested
symphony of neuronal oscillations in a wide but continuous frequency
range, from high frequency gamma activity involved in phoneme per-
ception to low-frequency delta oscillations related to large-scale language
processing like complex grammar and semantic associations (Chait et al.
2015). We also saw in Chapter 4 that speech perception and production
may involve complex bilateral interactions, therefore the question of
how these oscillations are coordinated across the hemispheres is crucial.
To achieve cross-hemispheric coordination information must be rapidly
transmitted across the hemispheres, very likely conveyed by high oscil-
latory frequency codes. Motor and somatosensory cortices contain the
largest axons in the corpus callosum, and are concentrated in the
representation of the sensorimotor midline, which includes the organs
of speech: the tongue, larynx and lips. However, we know little about
interhemispheric transmission during vocalizations. The study of inter-
hemispheric synchronization during normal and pathological speech
production may prove a valuable ﬁeld of study that could be of clinical
relevance when considering neural plasticity mechanisms and compen-
satory eﬀects in speech-impaired individuals.
In Chapter 3, I mentioned an article by György Buzsáki, Nikos
Logothetis and Wolf Singer that highlighted the conservation of oscilla-
tory brain activity across a wide variety of mammals from bats and mice
to humans, from very high frequencies at 100 or more cycles per second
that take place in the hippocampus, to very slow frequencies of about 10
seconds per cycle (Buzsáki et al. 2013). Just to remind the reader classical
human electroencephalographic waves are found in most mammals and
other vertebrates, including gamma, alpha, beta and theta waves, and
Travelling Waves 197
have been associated with similar functions in all species. High-fre-
quency oscillations like gamma (at 40 cycles per second or more) are
considered to reﬂect local processing and cognitive contents, and are
distinguished from low-frequency oscillations (theta or slower waves)
that underlie the workings of large-scale networks that integrate diﬀerent
local processes and contextual elements. The rainbow of oscillatory brain
frequencies is thus a highly preserved character across species regardless
of brain size, and probably reﬂects aspects of neuronal network dynamics
that are essential for local-global integration and self-organization. A
critical requirement for oscillatory dynamics is that stimuli or signals are
delivered at appropriate times in the respective neuronal groups, which
must be achieved by several physiological processes including synaptic
activity, dendritic integration, inhibitory processes and, especially
important for our concerns, close regulation of axonal conduction
velocity in the diﬀerent circuits. Thus, in the same line as Ringo and
colleagues, Buzsáki, Logothetis and Singer claim that with increasing
brain size, time constraints become especially important for oscillatory
activity, which is partly compensated for by increasing conduction
velocity in a small group of axons. Our work and Innocenti’s on the
corpus callosum have shown that the range of axonal conduction velo-
cities ampliﬁes as brains grow larger, which may have important con-
sequences for the dynamics of local-global processing in larger brains.
Interhemispheric distance is no more than 1 cm in the mouse brain,
but can reach 10–14 cm or more in the human brain, depending on the
regions being connected. Conduction velocity of the most abundant,
relatively small ﬁbers (about 0.8 microns in diameter) is calculated to be
5–8 meters per second, producing an interhemispheric delay of about 2
milliseconds in the mouse, and 15 and 25 milliseconds in the human.
Low oscillatory frequencies like theta have periods of 100–250 milli-
seconds per cycle, so a delay of 2 milliseconds (mouse) or 20 millise-
conds (human) makes up a small proportion of the oscillatory cycle in
both species. In other words, these delays may do no harm to low-
frequency coordinated activity across the hemispheres. Even in humans,
the transmission delay takes about a tenth of the entire cycle, a variability
that is within the expected range. On the other hand, at higher frequen-
cies like gamma (40 cycles per second), with cycles lasting only 25
198 5 Bridging Hemispheres
milliseconds, the situation becomes more complicated for the human
brain. While in the mouse, 2 milliseconds of delay may not aﬀect high-
frequency interhemispheric synchrony, the resulting delay in humans is
impossibly long to maintain accurate synchrony if callosal connections
are made via the average ﬁbers. Larger callosal ﬁbers, say more than 3
microns in diameter, transmit impulses at about 40 meters per second,
while the largest 0.1% of ﬁbers, with axons 10 micrometers in diameter
or more, can transmit at 120 meters per second. This yields interhemi-
spheric delays of about 3 milliseconds for ﬁbers 3 micrometers in
diameter, and close to 1 millisecond for the largest ﬁbers, which may
ﬁt within a 10% tolerance in the variability of gamma oscillatory gamma
cycles. These large ﬁbers could allow high-frequency interhemispheric
synchrony in the human and other big brains (Aboitiz et al. 2003).
But is there any high frequency synchrony between hemispheres
after all? In the visual system, there are fast-conducting callosal ﬁbers,
but the longer interhemispheric distance results in increased transmis-
sion delay. With single cell recording techniques, Andreas Engel, Wolf
Singer and collaborators were the ﬁrst to observe interhemispheric
synchrony in pairs of neurons of the primary visual area of the cat.
Synchrony became disrupted after sectioning the corpus callosum
(Engel et al. 1991). Later, Engel, Ina Peiker and colleagues moved to
humans, using magnetoencephalography, a technique that records
magnetic ﬁeld variations in the skull surface (as opposed to recording
electric ﬁelds in the EEG) (Peiker et al. 2015). They assessed visual
integration deﬁcits in autistic subjects performing an object discrimi-
nation task with partially occluded ﬁgures. While controls showed
increased gamma coherence (a measure indicative of synchronic activ-
ity) in visual temporal areas during tasks that require information from
both hemispheres, autistic subjects failed to show this increase in such
tasks. But high frequency interhemispheric communication may be
more complex than a straightforward ﬁt in the phase of the fast cycles.
Rafael Malach and his group used electrodes located directly on the
cortical surface of ﬁve individuals suﬀering pharmacologically intract-
able epilepsy, while monitoring brain activity during surgery (Nir et al.
2008). They observed strong, spontaneous slow-frequency cross-hemi-
spheric ﬂuctuations in the activity of high-frequency oscillations,
Travelling Waves 199
particularly gamma (above 40 cycles per second). That is, the intensity
of rapid oscillations ﬂuctuate slowly, and these ﬂuctuations are syn-
chronized in both cerebral hemispheres, a ﬁnding that is reminiscent of
the low-frequency interhemispheric synchrony reported with fMRI by
Marcus Raichle and collaborators (see above in this chapter).
On the other hand, callosal ﬁbers connecting auditory regions usually
do not reach diameters as large as those of visual or somatosensory or
motor ﬁbers, and consequently there is likely a smaller ﬁber contingent
able to support high frequency interhemispheric synchrony. However,
interhemispheric distance is shorter for auditory than for visual ﬁbers,
which works in their favor. Saskia Steinmann, Christoph Mulert, Angela
Friederici, and other authors conducted a high-density EEG study with
healthy subjects participating in a dichotic listening task (Steinmann
et al. 2014). Besides analyzing the synchrony, the authors employed a
source estimation algorithm that, in combination with tridimensional
MRI brain reconstructions, allowed for reconstructing the deep location
of surface activity recorded on the scalp with EEG. Notably, the authors
found a speciﬁc increase in gamma synchrony between the right and left
auditory cortices, when subjects consciously perceived the syllable pre-
sented to the non-dominant ear (the left ear, projecting principally to
the right hemisphere). This is taken as evidence for high-frequency
interhemispheric transfer of auditory linguistic information.
Considering the close interhemispheric coupling that takes place with
speech perception and production, it is likely that cross-hemispheric,
high-frequency synchronic ensembles are relevant for speech perception
and production, and perhaps for bimanual motor tasks, a process that
must depend on a small contingent of fast-conducting ﬁbers.
Integrating Speech, Emotion and Meaning
Callosal ﬁbers may also play a role at higher levels of speech and
language processing in the temporal coordination of diﬀerent speech
processes, especially the exchange of information between right-domi-
nant and left-dominant streams. A widely used strategy to study lan-
guage and semantic processing is the N400 event-related potential, a
200 5 Bridging Hemispheres
negative voltage deﬂection occurring about 400 milliseconds after sti-
mulus presentation (see Chapter 2). N400 and other similar potentials
have been associated with cognitive incongruencies in which two or
more stimuli are contradictory to each other. In the early eighties,
Marta Kutas discovered the N400 in a semantic congruence/incongru-
ence task where she presented phrases word-by-word on a screen that
had expected endings like “The coﬀee was too hot to . . . ”. In this
sentence, the last word is expected to be “drink” (Kutas and Hillyard
1980). Kutas presented diﬀerent ending words, the expected one
(“drink”), and unexpected ones (say, “eat”, or even more unexpected,
“walk”). Comparing the event-related EEG curves for the expected and
unexpected ending words, there was an evident negative deﬂection
occurring at some 400 milliseconds for the incongruous words, which
was more pronounced the more incongruous the word was with the
content of the sentence. This was termed the semantic incongruency
eﬀect, and was marked by N400 potential. Angela Friederici took
advantage of this technique to study interhemispheric processing in
partially callosotomized patients. Since syntax is represented mainly on
the left hemisphere, and prosody is right-hemisphere dominant, the
corpus callosum might be important to integrate the two processing
streams. Instead of semantic incongruency, Friederici’s group presented
inconguencies between the prosodic contour of a phrase and its syntactic
structure (Sammler et al. 2010). Notably, while normal subjects devel-
oped a good N400 eﬀect after prosodic-semantic incongruencies,
patients with lesions in the posterior third of the corpus callosum failed
to show this eﬀect. However, patients did show a normal semantic N400
eﬀect, indicating that the deﬁcit was speciﬁc for tasks being processed in
diﬀerent hemispheres. In a subsequent study, Friederici’s team also
showed that patients with anterior callosal lesions displayed a normal
prosodic-syntactic N400 incongruency eﬀect, supporting the participa-
tion of parieto-temporal interhemispheric connections in the integration
between intonation and phrase structure. This evidence is in line with
studies showing that patients with callosal agenesis perform poorly in
tasks requiring aﬀective or nonliteral sentence understanding, like meta-
phors or proverbs (Paul et al. 2003; Rehmel et al. 2016). Analyzing the
callosal projection to the corpus striatum that I mentioned above,
Integrating Speech, Emotion and Meaning 201
Innocenti found that only in humans does this projection originate in
temporoparietal areas that ﬁt Geschwind’s area in the language network
of the left hemisphere (Innocenti et al. 2016). Furthermore, this projec-
tion crosses through the callosal isthmus, and is proposed by Innocenti’s
group to participate in syntactic-prosodic integration.
There have been ﬁndings supporting interhemispheric interplay in
semantic processing. In an early study, Eran Zaidel and collaborators
presented subjects with words belonging to diﬀerent semantic categories
(say, content words vs. action words) either in the left or the right visual
ﬁelds, or presented the same word simultaneously in both visual ﬁelds
(Mohr et al. 1994). Bilateral presentation improved recognition, but this
did not occur when pseudo words (phonetically correct, but meaningless
sequences of letters) were used as stimuli. This indicates that cross-
hemispheric interactions are in fact relevant for processing semantic
information. Warren Brown and his team also showed that subjects
with agenesis of the corpus callosum display poorer narrative contents
compared to IQ-matched controls, and have speciﬁc diﬃculties in
semantic and pragmatic interpretations of the discourse (Turk et al.
2010).
Large-scale processes involved in semantic and higher syntactic analysis
might relate to lower frequency neuronal oscillations that are more likely
associated with contextual information. In this line, my student Enzo
Brunetti conducted a variant of a lexical decision task in which words
belonging to diﬀerent semantic categories (animals, man-made objects,
abstract nouns) and pseudo words were binaurally presented to subjects
that had to say whether or not the word they heard corresponded to one
of the pre-deﬁned semantic categories, say animals (Brunetti et al. 2013).
Enzo observed overall phase synchronization increments at low frequen-
cies that were speciﬁc for the semantic category that was being used at the
moment, whichever it was as there were no diﬀerences among semantic
categories. However, the average topography of the synchronic networks
was speciﬁc for each category, despite there being signiﬁcant individual
variability. Enzo also showed early increases in gamma synchrony asso-
ciated with semantic relevance for the task. Source analysis of this data
suggests that the synchronic networks at work are bilateral, at least for
low-frequency oscillations. This ﬁnding underscores the role of callosal
202 5 Bridging Hemispheres
communication in higher aspects of speech and language processing.
Overall, these ﬁndings are consistent with the recent report by
Alexander Huth and collaborators, who identiﬁed a widespread semantic
representation across the cerebral cortex, whose anatomical organization
seems to be conserved across subjects (Huth et al. 2016).
All in all, the corpus callosum provides a massive pathway for cross-
hemispheric integration, and despite time constraints, synchronic oscil-
latory activity can be performed in our large brains at relatively high
frequencies, although through a limited contingent of large and very
large diameter ﬁbers. Its role in midline control, providing continuity
across the sensorimotor representations, may represent one of the most
basic and earliest functions of interhemispheric ﬁbers, while processes
like bimanual coordination and some aspects of speech perception and
production (the corpus callosum may participate, but is not essential for
speech processes), may have appeared as late acquisitions. Another
question that remains is whether having such abundant interhemispheric
connectivity provides any processing advantage to the mammalian brain
over that of birds, some of which have shown cognitive capacities as
elaborate as those of many mammals, or even more so. Comparative
research in the organization of large-scale networks in mammals and
birds is needed to provide insight into this issue.
References
Aboitiz F, Montiel J (2003) One hundred million years of interhemispheric
communication: the history of the corpus callosum. Braz J Med Biol Res
36:409–420
Aboitiz F, López J, Montiel J (2003) Long distance communication in the
human brain: timing constraints for inter-hemispheric synchrony and the
origin of brain lateralization. Biol Res 36:89–99
Aboitiz F, Scheibel AB, Zaidel E (1992a) Morphometry of the Sylvian
ﬁssure and the corpus callosum, with emphasis on sex diﬀerences. Brain
115:1521–1541
Aboitiz F, Scheibel AB, Fisher RS, Zaidel E (1992b) Fiber composition of the
human corpus callosum. Brain Res 598:143–153
References 203
Aggoun-Zouaoui D, Innocenti GM (1994) Juvenile visual callosal axons in
kittens display origin- and fate-related morphology and distribution of
arbors. Eur J Neurosci 6:1846–1863
Berbel P, Innocenti GM (1988) The development of the corpus callosum in
cats: a light- and electron-microscopic study. J Comp Neurol 276:132–156
Brunetti E, Maldonado PE, Aboitiz F (2013) Phase synchronization of delta
and theta oscillations increase during the detection of relevant lexical infor-
mation. Front Psychol 4:308
Buzsáki G, Logothetis N, Singer W (2013) Scaling brain size, keeping timing:
evolutionary preservation of brain rhythms. Neuron 80:751–764
Caminiti R, Ghaziri H, Galuske R, Hof PR, Innocenti GM (2009) Evolution
ampliﬁed processing with temporally dispersed slow neuronal connectivity
in primates. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 106:19551–19556
Caminiti R, Carducci F, Piervincenzi C, Battaglia-Mayer A, Confalone G,
Visco-Comandini F, Pantano P, Innocenti GM (2013) Diameter, length,
speed, and conduction delay of callosal axons in macaque monkeys and
humans: comparing data from histology and magnetic resonance imaging
diﬀusion tractography. J Neurosci 33:14501–1411
Chait M, Greenberg S, Arai T, Simon JZ, Poeppel D (2015) Multi-time
resolution analysis of speech: evidence from psychophysics. Front
Neurosci 9:214
Dickson BJ, Gilestro GF (2006) Regulation of commissural axon pathﬁnding
by slit and its Robo receptors. Annu Rev Cell Dev Biol 22:651–675
Dorion AA, Chantôme M, Hasboun D, Zouaoui A, Marsault C, Capron
C, Duyme M (2000) Hemispheric asymmetry and corpus callosum
morphometry: a magnetic resonance imaging study. Neurosci Res
36:9–13
Edwards TJ, Sherr EH, Barkovich AJ, Richards LJ (2014) Clinical, genetic and
imaging ﬁndings identify new causes for corpus callosum development
syndromes. Brain 137:1579–1613
Eliassen JC, Baynes K, Gazzaniga MS (2000) Anterior and posterior callosal
contributions to simultaneous bimanual movements of the hands and
ﬁngers. Brain 123:2501–2511
Engel AK, König P, Kreiter AK, Singer W (1991) Interhemispheric synchro-
nization of oscillatory neuronal responses in cat visual cortex. Science
252:1177–1179
Fothergill T, Donahoo AL, Douglass A, Zalucki O, Yuan J, Shu T, Goodhill
GJ, Richards LJ (2014) Netrin-DCC signaling regulates corpus callosum
204 5 Bridging Hemispheres
formation through attraction of pioneering axons and by modulating Slit2-
mediated repulsion. Cereb Cortex 24:1138–1151
Harrison KH, Hof PR, Wang SS (2002) Scaling laws in the mammalian
neocortex: does form provide clues to function. J Neurocytol 31:289–298
Hopkins WD, Pilger JF, Storz R, Ambrose A, Hof PR, Sherwood CC (2012)
Planum temporale asymmetries correlate with corpus callosum axon ﬁber
density in chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). Behav Brain Res 234:248–254
Houzel JC, Carvalho ML, Lent R (2002) Interhemispheric connections
between primary visual areas: beyond the midline rule. Braz J Med Biol
Res 35:1441–1453
Hubel DH (1988) Eye, Brain and Vision. Scientiﬁc American Library, New
York
Huth AG, de Heer WA, Griﬃths TL, Theunissen FE, Gallant JL (2016)
Natural speech reveals the semantic maps that tile human cerebral cortex.
Nature 532:453–458
Iacoboni M, Zaidel E (1999) The crossed-uncrossed diﬀerence in simple
reaction times to lateralized auditory stimuli is not a measure of interhemi-
spheric transmission time: evidence from the split brain. Exp Brain Res
128:421–424
Innocenti GM (1981) Growth and reshaping of axons in the establishment of
visual callosal connections. Science 212:824–827
Innocenti GM (1986) General organization of callosal connections in the
cerebral cortex. In: Jones EG, Peters A (eds) Cerebral Cortex. Volume 5.
Sensory Motor Areas and Aspects of Cortical Connectivity. Plenum Press,
New York, p 291–354
Innocenti GM, Bressoud R (2003) Callosal axons and their development. In:
Zaidel E, Iacoboni M (eds) The Parallel Brain. Cognitive Neuroscience of
the Corpus Callosum. MIT Press, Cambridge, p 11–26
Innocenti GM, Fiore L, Caminiti R (1977) Exuberant projection into the
corpus callosum from the visual cortex of newborn cats. Neurosci Lett
4:237–242
Innocenti GM, Caminiti R, Hof PR (2010) Fiber composition in the planum
temporale sector of the corpus callosum in chimpanzee and human. Brain
Struct Funct 215:123–128
Innocenti GM, Vercelli A, Caminiti R (2014) The diameter of cortical axons
depends both on the area of origin and target. Cereb Cortex 24:2178–2188
Innocenti GM, Dyrby TB, Andersen KW, Rouiller EM, Caminiti R (2016)
The crossed projection to the striatum in two species of Monkey and in
References 205
Humans: behavioral and evolutionary signiﬁcance. Cereb Cortex pii:
bhw161 [EPub ahead of Print]
Johnston JM, Vaishnavi SN, Smyth MD, Zhang D, He BJ, Zempel JM,
Shimony JS, Snyder AZ, Raichle ME (2008) Loss of resting interhemi-
spheric functional connectivity after complete section of the corpus callo-
sum. J Neurosci 28:6453–6458
Josse G, Seghier ML, Kherif F, Price CJ (2008) Explaining function with
anatomy: language lateralization and corpus callosum size. J Neurosci
28:14132–14139
Katz MJ, Lasek RJ, Silver J (1983) Ontophyletics of the nervous system:
development of the corpus callosum and evolution of axon tracts. Proc
Natl Acad Sci U S A 80:5936–5940
Koppel H, Innocenti GM (1983) Is there a genuine exuberancy of callosal
projections in development? A quantitative electron microscopic study in
the cat. Neurosci Lett 41:33–40
Kutas M, Hillyard SA (1980) Reading senseless sentences: brain potentials
reﬂect semantic incongruity. Science 207:203–205
LaMantia AS, Rakic P (1990a) Cytological and quantitative characteristics
of four cerebral commissures in the rhesus monkey. J Comp Neurol
291:520–537
LaMantia AS, Rakic P (1990b) Axon overproduction and elimination in the
corpus callosum of the developing rhesus monkey. J Neurosci
10:2156–2175
Lindwall C, Fothergill T, Richards LJ (2007) Commissure formation in the
mammalian forebrain. Curr Opin Neurobiol 17:3–14
Luders E, Cherbuin N, Thompson PM, Gutman B, Anstey KJ, Sachdev P,
Toga AW (2010) When more is less: associations between corpus callosum
size and handedness lateralization. Neuroimage 52:43–49
Macleod CM (1992) The Stroop task: the “gold standard” of attentional
measures. J Exp Psychol: General 121:12–14
Mihrshahi R (2006) The corpus callosum as an evolutionary innovation. J Exp
Zool B Mol Dev Evol 306:8–17
Mohr B, Pulvermüller F, Zaidel E (1994) Lexical decision after left, right
and bilateral presentation of function words, content words and non-
words: evidence for interhemispheric interaction. Neuropsychologia
32:105–124
Newell FW (1989) Franciscus Cornelis Donders (1818–1889). Am J
Ophthalm 107:691–693
206 5 Bridging Hemispheres
Nir Y, Mukamel R, Dinstein I, Privman E, Harel M, Fisch L, Gelbard-Sagiv H,
Kipervasser S, Andelman F, Neufeld MY, Kramer U, Arieli A, Fried I, Malach
R (2008) Interhemispheric correlations of slow spontaneous neuronal ﬂuctua-
tions revealed in human sensory cortex. Nat Neurosci 11:1100–1108
Olivares R, Michalland S, Aboitiz F (2000) Cross-species and intraspecies
morphometric analysis of the corpus callosum. Brain Behav Evol 55:37–43
Olivares R, Montiel J, Aboitiz F (2001) Species diﬀerences and similarities in
the ﬁne structure of the mammalian corpus callosum. Brain Behav Evol
57:98–105
Paul LK, Van Lancker-Sidtis D, Schieﬀer B, Dietrich R, Brown WS (2003)
Communicative deﬁcits in agenesis of the corpus callosum: nonliteral lan-
guage and aﬀective prosody. Brain Lang 85:313–324
Peiker C, Wunderle T, Eriksson D, Schmidt A, Schmidt KE (2013) An updated
midline rule: visual callosal connections anticipate shape and motion in
ongoing activity across the hemispheres. J Neurosci 33:18036–18046
Peiker I, David N, Schneider TR, Nolte G, Schöttle D, Engel AK (2015)
Perceptual integration deﬁcits in autism spectrum disorders are associated
with reduced interhemispheric gamma-band coherence. J Neurosci
35:16352–16361
Phillips KA, Schaeﬀer JA, Hopkins WD (2013) Corpus callosal microstructure
inﬂuences intermanual transfer in chimpanzees. Front Syst Neurosci 7:125
Phillips KA, Stimpson CD, Smaers JB, Raghanti MA, Jacobs B, Popratiloﬀ A,
Hof PR, Sherwood CC. (2015) The corpus callosum in primates: processing
speed of axons and the evolution of hemispheric asymmetry. Proc Biol Sci
282:20151535. Erratum in: Proc Biol Sci. 2016, 283:1826. Proc Biol Sci.
2015, 282:1819
Poﬀenberger AT (1912) Reaction time to retinal stimulation with special reference
to the time lost in conduction through nerve centers. Arch Psychol 23:1–73
Ramón y Cajal S (1898) Estructura del quiasma óptico y teoria general de los
entrecruzamientos nerviosos. Rev Trim Micrograf 3:2–18
Ramón y Cajal S (2006) Recuerdos de mi Vida. Crítica Editorial, Barcelona
Rehmel JL, Brown WS, Paul LK (2016) Proverb comprehension in individuals
with agenesis of the corpus callosum. Brain Lang 160:21–29
Richards LJ (2002) Surrounded by Slit–how forebrain commissural axons can
be led astray. Neuron 33:153–155
Ringo JL, Doty RW, Demeter S, Simard PY (1994) Time is of the essence: a
conjecture that hemispheric specialization arises from interhemispheric con-
duction delay. Cereb Cortex 4:331–343
References 207
Sammler D, Kotz SA, Eckstein K, Ott DV, Friederici AD (2010) Prosody
meets syntax: the role of the corpus callosum. Brain 133:2643–2655
Shen K, Mišić B, Cipollini BN, Bezgin G, Buschkuehl M, Hutchison RM,
Jaeggi SM, Kross E, Peltier SJ, Everling S, Jonides J, McIntosh AR,
Berman MG (2015) Stable long-range interhemispheric coordination is
supported by direct anatomical projections. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
112:6473–6478
Sisti HM, Geurts M, Gooijers J, Heitger MH, Caeyenberghs K, Beets IA,
Serbruyns L, Leemans A, Swinnen SP (2012) Microstructural organization
of corpus callosum projections to prefrontal cortex predicts bimanual motor
learning. Learn Mem 19:351–357
Stefanko SZ (1980) Fasciculus callosus longitudinalis (bundle of Probst) and its
relation to the corpus callosum. Patol Pol 31:263–272
Steinmann S, Leicht G, Ertl M, Andreou C, Polomac N, Westerhausen R,
Friederici AD, Mulert C (2014) Conscious auditory perception related
to long-range synchrony of gamma oscillations. Neuroimage
100:435–443
Stroop JR (1935) Studies of interference in serial verbal reactions. J Exp
Psychol 18:643–662
Suárez R, Gobius I, Richards LJ (2014) Evolution and development of inter-
hemispheric connections in the vertebrate forebrain. Front Hum Neurosci
8:497
Tomasch J (1954) Size, distribution, and number of ﬁbres in the human corpus
callosum. Anat Rec 119:119–135
Turk AA, Brown WS, Symington M, Paul LK (2010) Social narratives in
agenesis of the corpus callosum: linguistic analysis of the Thematic
Apperception Test. Neuropsychologia 48:43–50
Unni DK, Piper M, Moldrich RX, Gobius I, Liu S, Fothergill T, Donahoo AL,
Baisden JM, Cooper HM, Richards LJ (2012) Multiple Slits regulate the
development of midline glial populations and the corpus callosum. Dev Biol
365:36–49
Wahl M, Lauterbach-Soon B, Hattingen E, Hübers A, Ziemann U (2015)
Callosal anatomical and eﬀective connectivity between primary motor cor-
tices predicts visually cued bimanual temporal coordination performance.
Brain Struct Funct 221:3427–3443
Wang SS, Shultz JR, Burish MJ, Harrison KH, Hof PR, Towns LC, Wagers
MW, Wyatt KD (2008) Functional trade-oﬀs in white matter axonal scal-
ing. J Neurosci 28:4047–4056
208 5 Bridging Hemispheres
Wang D, Buckner RL, Liu H (2014) Functional specialization in the human brain
estimated by intrinsic hemispheric interaction. J Neurosci 34:12341–12352
Witelson SF (1985) The brain connection: the corpus callosum is larger in left-
handers. Science 229:665–668
Woelﬂe R, Grahn JA (2013) Auditory and visual interhemispheric commu-
nication in musicians and non-musicians. PLoS One 8:e84446
Zaidel E, Iacoboni M (2003) Introduction: Poﬀenberger’s simple reaction time
paradigm for measuring interhemispheric transfer time. In: Zaidel E,
Iacoboni M (eds) The Parallel Brain. Cognitive Neuroscience of the
Corpus Callosum. MIT Press, Cambridge, p 1–7
Zimmer C (2004) Soul Made Flesh. The Discovery of the Brain – and How it
Changed the World. Free Press, New York
References 209
6
A Loop for Speech
Our minds are made of memories. Our past, our present and even our
imagined future are memory representations of recent or past events,
transformed in diﬀerent ways by the neural networks that shape our
behavior. Everything we do is strongly shaped by the many kinds of
memory we have, from recognizing someone familiar, organizing a
dinner, driving a car, our consciousness and the image of ourselves,
not to mention the memory we need for proper education and the
autobiographical memory that gives us a sense of identity.
Furthermore, memory is not a single, unitary process but rather is
composed of many diﬀerent mechanisms involved in generating repre-
sentations of past events in diﬀerent sensory modalities. Early researchers
in the ﬁeld of memory recognized that there were at least two forms of
memory, one permanent with inﬁnite (or better, unknown) capacity,
which remains stable over time, and the other of recent events, which
lasts a few seconds and represents a gateway to form enduring memories.
Recent memory is vivid, and makes our experiences combine in what
seems a continuous stream of events forming the essence of our minds.
Eloquently, the Nobel laureate Gerald Edelman titled one of his books
on consciousness “The Remembered Present” (Edelman 1989).
© The Author(s) 2017
F. Aboitiz, A Brain for Speech,
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-54060-7_6
211
Memento
Perhaps the ﬁrst person to recognize the diﬀerence between short- and
long-term memory was William James at the end of the nineteenth
century, who referred to primary memory, which represented “the
trailing edge of the conscious present” (James 1890). On the other
hand, past memories corresponded to secondary memory, possibly
under the assumption that short-term memory is a ﬁrst stage required
to establish long-term memories. In the 1940s Donald Hebb introduced
the concept of short-term memory, which was dependent on electrical
brain activity, as opposed to long-term memory, which was produced by
neurochemical changes (Hebb 1949). Hebb proposed a basic principle
for the generation of memories (now called Hebb’s rule), based on the
maintenance of synapses that successfully exert changes in activity in the
next neuron, while synapses that fail to produce a postsynaptic eﬀect are
doomed to be eliminated. Hebb’s principle has had a tremendous
impact on neuro and cognitive science, as it provides a simple mechan-
ism to explain short-term memory, long-term learning and neural plas-
ticity, including the critical periods of neuronal development discussed
in the Chapter 1. In the last century, evidence had accumulated that
memories decay rapidly if there is no opportunity to rehearse them
behaviorally or mentally. The studies by George Miller in the 1950s
provided a deeper understanding of the nature of short-term memory,
by showing that it has a limited capacity, allowing the storage of no more
than about seven separate items in experimental subjects (Miller 1956).
One of the earliest tests to assess short-term memory was the digit span
test, which requires serial recall of random sequences of digits. As might
be expected, the shorter sequence, the more accurate the performance.
What would life be without being able to develop new memories?
Guy Pearce provided an eloquent interpretation of this condition in
Christopher Nolan’s movie “Memento”, where the main character has
lost his capacity to acquire new knowledge, as his short-term memory
vanishes as soon as he changes his focus of attention. This results in a
total loss of the sense of continuity and consequent disorientation that
deeply aﬀects the subject’s daily life. But such profound impairment is
not just ﬁction. In the early 1950s, a patient called Henry Molaison, also
212 6 A Loop for Speech
known as HM, underwent profound brain surgery at the age of 16 to
treat intractable temporal lobe epilepsy. The surgical procedure elimi-
nated most of his medial temporal lobes bilaterally, including the
hippocampus and adjacent structures. Fortunately, this massive surgery
alleviated his condition, but on the other hand he was left with severe
anterograde amnesia, that is, the incapacity to transfer new information
from short-term to long-term memory. Brenda Milner, who had been
studying the role of the primate medial temporal lobe in memory, was
impressed with this case and made a thorough neuropsychological study
of HM (Scoville and Milner 1957). Notably, HM had a preserved short-
term memory (evidenced in a normal performance in the digit span test)
and procedural memory (the capacity to learn and remember motor
programs like riding a bicycle), but was not able to use newly acquired
information over the long term. He also had some retrograde amnesia,
that is, he could not remember events that happened some 2 years before
the surgery, suggesting that these memories were still in the process of
being consolidated as enduring long-term memories. By the end of his
life in 2008, he was capable of incorporating some new memories and
modifying preexisting ones, which indicates a degree of plasticity in the
networks controlling his behavior (Banks et al. 2014).
Since the ﬁndings by Milner and others, there have been many studies
of short-term memory (Baddeley 2007). The earliest formal models of
short-term memory, developed in the 1960s, considered in general three
stages in memory processing, the ﬁrst being a sensory memory that could
be visual (iconic memory) or auditory (echoic memory). After this, there
was a short-term or working memory storage box, which transiently held
information, but was also related to direct behavioral control. Finally,
there was long-term store of enduring memories. Long-term memories
could go back to the short-term store to participate in behavioral
responses. It was assumed that the short-term memory store was one
and the same for all kinds of memory, and there was no proposal for a
speciﬁc mechanism involved in transferring memories from the short- to
the long-term store. The main determinant of the probability of transfer
to the long-term store was assumed to be the length of time remaining in
the short-term box. However, several studies showed that the behavioral
or cognitive context in which recent memories were acquired is more
Memento 213
important for transfer to long-term memory than time. For example,
simple classiﬁcation of items results in poor long-term acquisition, while
items that have to be verbalized are more likely to be retained, and
highly meaningful items or ones with emotional content are even more
strongly maintained. In addition, assuming that there is only one short-
term memory box suggests that short-term memory patients are deﬁcient
in all kinds of short-term memory tasks. However, many such patients
live relatively normal lives, like running a shop or driving taxi. This
means that some types of short-term memory are indeed spared, even
though such patients perform poorly on tests like the digit span. Cases
like HM are in a way extreme, while most short-term memory patients
are not as impaired as he was. The exact process by which short-term
memory rapidly decays with time has been a matter of much discussion
and is not yet settled. Two main hypotheses have been presented, one is
that memory traces spontaneously decay over time, and the other
suggests that this decay is based primarily on interference from other
sources of activity. In the latter view, inhibitory mechanisms actively
repress interfering processes, and control the maintenance of memory
traces. Additionally, behavioral rehearsal mechanisms such as vocalizing
the remembered items could be an important factor that counteracts the
eﬀects of interference or spontaneous decay.
A special case of memory encapsulation was oﬀered by patients with
verbal short-term memory deﬁcits. Several papers were published, nota-
bly by Elizabeth Warrington and Tim Shallice, describing brain lesion
patients with deﬁcits in short-term memory for words and numbers,
while visual short-term memory was intact (Warrington and Shallice
1969). Noteworthy, in such patients the lesions were usually located in
the left temporoparietal region and not the medial temporal lobe.
Furthermore, despite their memory impairment, these subjects were
perfectly able to sustain simple routine conversations, and spoke nor-
mally, that is, they were not speech impaired. Note that this symptom is
very diﬀerent from aphasia, as in addition to short-term memory deﬁ-
cits; in the latter there is a serious speech condition. Warrington and
Shallice interpreted these symptoms as selective disruption of verbal
short-term memory (particularly auditory), and spoke of a temporal
buﬀer that maintains perceived speech for a couple of seconds, but was
214 6 A Loop for Speech
clearly not necessary for everyday speech. At about the same time, Alan
Baddeley and Graham Hitch were working with a model for verbal
short-term memory based on motor output, that is, constant vocal
articulation of the remembered items to sustain the memory trace.
However, the ﬁndings of verbal short-term memory patients without
speech problems called for a revision of this interpretation. Thus,
Baddeley and collaborators decided to include an additional component
to their articulatory model of verbal short-term memory, a phonological
storage buﬀer that transiently maintains auditory representation while
reverberation of the articulatory loop refreshes the memory trace. As we
will see below, this component has turned out to be one of the most
controversial in Baddeley’s model. In this context, in the 1970s Baddeley
and Hitch introduced and popularized the model of working memory,
as a limited capacity system that maintains information in the short-
term, while one performs cognitively demanding tasks such as reasoning,
comprehension or learning (Baddeley and Hitch 1974).
Perhaps no one can better tell the genesis of the concept of working
memory better than Baddeley. In his inﬂuential book Working memory,
Thought and Action, he provides a very clear account of these develop-
ments, which I will succinctly review here (Baddeley 2007). Although
Baddeley confessed to having been reluctant to write this book for a long
time, many of us are grateful to him for having done so. Moreover, I felt
particular empathy with him when he acknowledged his wife at the
beginning of the book for her support and encouragement to a husband
that wandered about talking to himself instead of doing household chores.
Initially, Baddeley and collaborators had shown double dissociation
between short- and long-term memory impairments; that is, patients
could have deﬁcits in the former and not the latter, or conversely perform
normally in short-term memory tests and show long-term memory impair-
ments. An experimental paradigm, called the recency eﬀect well illustrated
the diﬀerence between the two kinds of memory (Baddeley 1968; Baddeley
and Hitch 1993). This phenomenon is seen when subjects have to repeat
in whatever order a list of words they have been shown. If recall is
immediately after seeing the list, the last items on the list are better recalled
than the ﬁrst ones. However, if there is a short interval between the list and
the recall time, this eﬀect tends to vanish, and items presented earlier can
Memento 215
be recalled just as well as the later ones. Long-term memory amnesic
patients show a strong recency eﬀect as their short-term memory is good,
but tend to fail when recalling the early items. On the other hand, short-
term memory patients perform the other way around, doing well with the
earlier items and badly with later ones.
Subsequently, Baddeley and Hitch asked normal subjects to continu-
ously rehearse a random sequence of digits while performing a verbal
reasoning task like responding true or false to sentences like “A follows B
→ BA” (true), or “B is not preceded by A → AB” (false), and other
combinations (Baddeley and Hitch 1974). Verbally repeating only one
digit during the task (say one, one, one, etc.) impeded overt vocal
reasoning, while randomly repeating a rising number of digits involved
a load on working memory that progressively demanded processing
capacity. Notably, as the number of digits to be rehearsed increased
from 0 to 8, the time required to respond increased signiﬁcantly but
modestly, from 2.2 seconds to only 2.9 seconds. Moreover, subjects
made only about 4% errors in the task regardless of the digit load, that
is, this had no eﬀect on the rate of successful trials. Baddeley and Hitch
concluded that the observed eﬀect was far less than was predicted from
the single unit short-term memory model, and decided to move on to a
diﬀerent, multicomponent model of working memory.
Baddeley’s Memories
George Miller and others like Richard Shiﬀrin used the term “working
memory” to refer to a kind of short-term memory used for problem
solving. However, Baddeley and Hitch formalized this concept into a
model of memory processing involving diﬀerent components and pro-
cessing stages. Baddeley and Hitch conceived of working memory as a
limited capacity system that maintains information in the short-term
while one performs cognitively demanding tasks like reasoning, com-
prehension or learning. In eﬀect, working memory involves storage and
manipulation of elements in the context of a behavioral task, while the
more general term short-term memory refers to a passive, short-term
216 6 A Loop for Speech
imprinting of events that eventually are extinguished or transformed
into long-term memories (Baddeley 2007, 2012).
Baddeley and Hitch’s multicomponent model of working memory
consists of two modality-speciﬁc and limited-capacity storage systems,
one for visuospatial behavior, called the visuospatial sketchpad, and the
other for auditory-vocal behavior, called the phonological loop (Fig. 6.1)
(Baddeley and Hitch 1974). While the former is involved in tasks related
to spatial orientation and visual search, the latter keeps vocal and
acoustic information online and is involved in inner speech.
Maintenance of visuospatial sensory information in these stores partly
depends on motor rehearsal involving head, eye, and possibly hand
movements, or attentional displacements. Phonological rehearsal
involves overt or covert speech (also called inner speech). These sensor-
imotor components are in turn supervised by a multimodal attentional
Central
executive
Episodic
buffer
Visuospatial
sketchpad
Phonological loop
Articulation Storage
Fig. 6.1 Baddeley’s multicomponent model of working memory. There is no
precise statement in the model about the anatomical location of the
components
Baddeley’s Memories 217
control system, the central executive, which manipulates the items in the
sensory loops according to cognitive or behavioral demands. The visuos-
patial sketchpad was initially assessed with a visual orienting task in
which there were two alternative ways to recall a path through the
university campus, one using rote verbal rehearsal and the other based
on visual imagery, recalling relevant points and then mentally connect-
ing them. Subjects performed better in the latter (Baddeley 2007). In a
second step, subjects had to complete a visuomotor tracking task parallel
to doing the test. With this additional requirement, the advantage
observed in the visual imagery task disappeared and performance fell
to the level in rote verbal recall. Thus, visuomotor performance impaired
visuospatial tracking as it interfered with the rehearsal component of
visuospatial working memory.
Baddeley and Hitch assumed that the phonological loop, which is of
the utmost relevance for this book, consists of a phonological store and
an articulatory rehearsal mechanism. The authors tapped the phonolo-
gical store with the phonological similarity eﬀect, which is based on the
tendency to confuse similar sounding letters like /d/and /t/. Baddeley
found that visually presented strings of phonetically similar monosylla-
bic words were more diﬃcult to recall in the short-term than strings of
dissimilar words (Baddeley 1966). This eﬀect was more pronounced
than when comparing semantically similar vs. semantically dissimilar
word strings. Conversely, in long-term memory tests, semantic similarity
impairs recall more than does phonological similarity. This ﬁnding
underscores the role of phonological processing (as opposed to semantic
processing) in short-term memory, even with visually presented stimuli.
Basically, visual stimuli have to be ﬁrst translated into an auditory
memory trace that is subvocalized before it is recognized. Another
strategy to disrupt phonological storage capacity was to use the irrelevant
speech eﬀect, which basically consists of presenting irrelevant sounds
while subjects memorize a string of words or letters (Salamé and
Baddeley 1982, 1990). These stimuli need not be speech, as they can
also be irregular sounds that compete with the phonological trace in
auditory short-term memory. According to Baddeley, complex auditory
information obliges access to the phonological store, there being no ﬁlter
to separate relevant from irrelevant input (Baddeley 2000a).
218 6 A Loop for Speech
The articulatory component of the phonological loop can be reﬂected
in a phenomenon called the word length eﬀect, in which the recall of
recently presented word strings declines with longer words (after con-
trolling for the diﬀerent exposure times to long versus short word strings
with equal numbers of words) (Baddeley et al. 1975). The short-term
auditory memory trace tends to fade rapidly unless it is reactivated by a
motor process. Therefore, immediate recall is limited by the decay of the
auditory trace and the articulatory speed capacity of the subject. Longer
words take more time to be articulated and therefore decay more rapidly
than shorter words. However, there is still discussion regarding the exact
process involved in the word length eﬀect, whether it owes to the longer
rehearsal time per se or to the greater phonological complexity of longer
words. Finally, articulatory suppression is an experimental manipula-
tion, consisting of covertly repeating an irrelevant sound during the task
while word strings are presented acoustically (Murray 1968). This
inhibits motor rehearsal and strongly impairs performance, but sup-
presses the word length eﬀect. However, the phonological similarity
eﬀect is spared, which depends on the phonological store. The eﬀect
of articulatory suppression is best observed with visual presentation of
verbal stimuli, in which the visual image has to be translated into a
phonetic representation. In this condition, articulatory suppression
eliminates both the word length and the phonological similarity eﬀects.
The latter is eliminated because the translation of the seen stimulus into
a sound cannot be readily executed. Thus, neither the auditory trace nor
the articulatory speed has any eﬀect on memory maintenance, generat-
ing poor performance at all levels. Later in this chapter, I will discuss
imaging studies that purport to localize the phonological store and the
articulatory system, and criticisms of these ﬁndings.
The executive component of working memory was more diﬃcult to
tackle, and its conceptualization was derived from Donald Norman and
Tim Shallice’s schema of attentional control developed in the 1980s
(Norman and Shallice 1983). The authors distinguished two attentional
mechanisms at work during daily behavior. The ﬁrst is an automatic
habit-based system that one uses to drive home from work, and the
second, of more relevance to Baddeley’s model, is a supervisory atten-
tional system that involves contextual awareness and permits
Baddeley’s Memories 219
circumventing the habit system when it is no longer appropriate or when
one is in a novel setting. These two components may be also separated
anatomically, the automatic system putting more emphasis on basal
ganglia or striatal networks, while the supervisory attentional system is
biased to parietal-prefrontal cortical networks. However, Baddeley rea-
lized that an additional component was necessary that feeds long-term
memory input into the working memory network to address more
complex forms of working memory like recalling the elements of a
discourse. This was investigated by more complicated studies on work-
ing memory span, in which subjects were presented a list of sentences
and had to remember the last word of each. This measure is a good
predictor of many cognitive capacities, and requires the use of long-term
skills in addition to the simple mental manipulation assumed for the
initial working memory model. Baddeley conceived the episodic buﬀer
as an interface between the phonological loop, the visuospatial sketchpad
and the central executive, which binds incoming information in inte-
grated episodes that can be maintained in the mid-term (Baddeley
2000b). This is diﬀerent from episodic memory, which is a long-term
memory of experiences acquired in a single shot, in that the episodic
buﬀer is transient in nature and related to the speciﬁc task. Nonetheless,
episodic memory is strongly dependent on the hippocampus, and there
is much recent evidence indicating hippocampal involvement in work-
ing memory tasks (Baddeley et al. 2011).
Images of Memory
Baddeley’s working memory model inspired studies using imaging
methods to establish the neuroanatomical regions involved in the dif-
ferent components of this model. Initially many studies concentrated on
the phonological loop, which is more amenable to experimental analyses
than the visuospatial sketchpad or the central executive. The ﬁrst of
these studies by Eraldo Paulesu, Chris Frith and Richard Frackowiak
(Paulesu et al. 1993) used PET to compare brain activation patterns in
subjects doing two diﬀerent tasks, one consisting of short-term memor-
ization of visual letters that supposedly engages both the phonological
220 6 A Loop for Speech
store and the subvocal articulatory system. This was contrasted to a
similar task using Korean characters, a language that none of the subjects
knew. Subtracting the activities in the two conditions highlighted the
areas speciﬁcally involved in the phonological loop, including both the
rehearsal and storage systems, as Korean letters were perceived only as
visual stimuli. After this, Frith and Frackowiak applied an additional
task requiring rhyming judgments. This was assumed to involve only the
subvocal rehearsal mechanism and not the phonological store, as articu-
latory suppression speciﬁcally impairs rhyming judgment capacity.
Furthermore, Giuseppe Vallar and Baddeley had shown that in patients
with verbal storage deﬁcits there was no deﬁcit in rhyming judgments,
indicating that the phonological store is not required for this task (Vallar
et al. 1991). By subtracting the activity seen in the letter memorization
task from that of the rhyming task, they expected to evidence the locus
of activation of the phonological store system only, as it was supposed to
be inactive (or less active) during the rhyming task, while the rehearsal
system was active in both conditions. The main ﬁndings were activation
of the left inferior parietal lobe (anterior part, Brodmann’s area 40)
associated with the phonological store, and activation in posterior
Broca’s area (pars opercularis, Brodmann’s area 44), associated with
subvocal rehearsal. These ﬁndings provoked a lot of excitement because
patients with damage to the inferior parietal area and with deﬁcits in
phonological working memory had been reported earlier, although
many of the lesions in these patients also involved temporal areas
(Baddeley 2007; Vallar et al. 1991; Warrington and Shallice 1969).
Some years later, Bradley Buchsbaum and Mark D’Esposito criticized
the report by Paulesu and collaborators, citing evidence that the rhyming
task indeed activates the phonological storage system, even if it is not
necessary for the task (Buchsbaum and D’Esposito 2008). Therefore, the
diﬀerence observed in activation does not accurately reﬂect a phonolo-
gical store system. It can reasonably be counter-argued that there may be
a diﬀerence in metabolic activity when a structure is necessary for a task
from when the structure participates in the task but is not required for it,
and this is reﬂected in the observed diﬀerence between the two tasks. In
other words, even if the phonological store is activated during the
rhyming task, it may be less active than in the visual letter memorization
Images of Memory 221
task because it may not be critical for rhyming judgment. Nonetheless,
this possibility needs to be tested experimentally. Buchsbaum and
D’Esposito also made more serious objections to these ﬁndings, which
I will describe in a few more paragraphs.
In the same year as Paulesu’s report, John Jonides and collaborators
published a PET study assessing brain activation in a visuospatial working
memory task that consisted of showing a subject an array of three dots on a
screen and after three seconds the subject was presented with a spot that
matched or did not match the location of the previous dots. This was
contrasted with a similar task that required minimal memory, that is, there
was no delay between probe and target (Jonides et al. 1998). In the memory
condition, Jonides and team found increased activation in area 40 of the
right hemisphere (the same as in Paulesu’s study but in the other hemi-
sphere), in left frontal regions and in visual areas. Jonides’ group subse-
quently developed a series of studies aimed at distinguishing the activation
patterns of verbal versus spatial working memory processes and conﬁrmed
the association between phonological storage tasks with activation of the left
inferior parietal lobe, although the precise inferoparietal area activated
seemed to depend on the speciﬁc task used. Their ﬁndings were also
consistent with a link between verbal rehearsal tasks and activation of
Broca’s region. The participation of right inferior parietal and frontal areas
in the visuospatial network was also consistently observed. Using more
complex designs, such as the N-back task (see Chapter 2), Jonides and
collaborators found that verbal material activated the same regions in the
left hemisphere as in the previous verbal tasks, but with prefrontal activation
that increased with memory load, reﬂecting the recruitment of executive
processes. There were other areas that evidenced activation, like the right
cerebellum, and in highly demanding tasks there was also a mild activation of
equivalent areas of the right hemisphere. This experiment is open to criticism
as the N-back task heavily involves executive processes, and it has been
claimed that it does not put increasing demands on phonological storage
given that the number of digits in the store is probably constant regardless of
the load. However, this assumption has not been veriﬁed experimentally.
There were other studies that failed to detect left inferior parietal-Broca
activation in verbal working memory tasks, but these tasks used semantically
meaningful stimuli that confuse the processes being analyzed.
222 6 A Loop for Speech
Jonides and collaborators also analyzed the rehearsal mechanisms
involved in visuospatial working memory, focusing on attentional direc-
tion during the memorization interval (Smith and Jonides 1997). They
did not address eye movements, perhaps a more natural eﬀector system for
attentional displacement, as these were at the time diﬃcult to monitor and
subjects were asked to ﬁx their sight on the center of the screen. Instead,
the authors employed a classical design by Michael Posner, who pioneered
cognitive studies of attentional mechanisms (Posner and Petersen 1990).
Basically, Posner’s experiments showed that response to a visual stimulus
is more rapid if it coincides with the region where attention is allocated,
even if the eyes are not ﬁxed on that position. In the working memory
experiment of Jonides’ group subjects had to memorize a spatial location,
and concurrently a stimulus appeared either within the region kept in
memory or outside it, that had to be discriminated. Discrimination
evoked a stronger response when the stimulus fell into the patch the
subject had to keep in mind, indicating that attention was located in
this place. Finally, the central executive proved to be very elusive for
imaging studies, as it has been very diﬃcult to design a task that isolates
executive processes. Attempts to do so have been inconclusive or contra-
dictory until now. There is general consensus that the central executive
probably relies heavily on prefrontal cortex activity, but agreement stops
there. In parallel to these studies, several electrophysiological experiments
were taking place by other researchers using visual working memory tasks
with monkeys, which I will discuss more extensively in the next chapter.
These studies revealed two parallel circuits, one via the parietal lobe that
processes object location, and the other via the temporal lobe that pro-
cesses object identity.
Boxes or Networks?
In their critique of imaging studies of working memory, Buchsbaum and
D’Esposito referred to a meta-analysis of the data from the group of Julie
Fiez (Fiez et al. 1995). The authors emphasized the variability of the
activated locus in the inferior parietal lobe, which ranged from area 40
(supramarginal gyrus) to the more posterior area 39 (angular gyrus), and
Boxes or Networks? 223
dorsally up to the intraparietal sulcus bordering the superior parietal
lobe. The precise locus of activity was highly dependent on the precise
task. For example, activation of intraparietal areas was more evident
when using visual-demanding protocols. Furthermore, and perhaps
more importantly, Fiez’s group noted that if Baddeley’s notion of
obligatory access to the phonological loop was correct, inferior parietal
activation should be observed when subjects listen passively to speech,
which had not been reported. Furthermore, studies with monkeys had
shown sustained patterns of activation of individual neurons during the
delay period of a visual working memory task (see the next chapter).
This is the period between presenting a stimulus and response, where
sensory information must be kept active as the animal waits for the next
response. These neurons were interpreted as memory-related cells. Thus,
if a storage system is present, it should be active especially during the
delay period, which is when information has to be maintained online.
However, previous reports had averaged brain activity throughout the
memory task, so it was not possible to determine which areas showed
this speciﬁc maintained activity. Consequently, Buchsbaum,
D’Esposito, Gregory Hickok and others searched for regions of the
brain that become active during both the passive presentation of speech
sounds and in the memory delay period. In one study, Hickok,
Buchsbaum and Colin Humphries used an auditory verbal working
memory task with multisyllabic pseudowords (Hickok et al. 2003).
They observed only two brain regions that showed persistent activity
during both the presentation of the stimulus and the delay period: the
posterior superior temporal sulcus, where phonemes are integrated into
word forms (see Chapter 2), and a small region in the posterior depth of
the Sylvian ﬁssure at the intersection of the temporal and parietal lobes,
which they appropriately called Spt (for Sylvian, parietal and temporal).
Further studies indicated that these areas also show sustained activation
with nonsense speech and musical stimuli. In addition, these areas are
active with both visual verbal and auditory verbal stimuli, but the
superior temporal sulcus has some preference for auditory stimuli.
Activity in these areas decays over time, which is consistent with a fading
memory trace. It was also noted that these areas are by no means speech-
speciﬁc and therefore are not exclusively phonological. These ﬁndings
224 6 A Loop for Speech
are consistent with aforementioned reports, indicating that many of the
verbal working memory-impaired patients also had temporal lobe lesions
in addition to damage to the inferior parietal (Baddeley 2007; Vallar et
al. 1991; Warrington and Shallice 1969).
Area Spt and the superior temporal sulcus are embedded in the
auditory processing circuits and are diﬃcult to separate from early stages
of sound analysis. Damage to these areas leads to severe speech deﬁcits,
unlike the purely short-term memory condition described by Shallice
and Vallar. Considering this, Buchsbaum and D’Esposito argued that
the phonological store is a psychological construct, without a neuroana-
tomical correlate in the brain (Buchsbaum and D’Esposito 2008). They
further claimed that the rarity of the pure verbal short-term memory
condition, with only 15 reported cases, suggests that these patients are
indeed special cases, in which, for example, the right hemisphere may
have assumed many language functions, albeit relying on a less robust
network that evidences deﬁcits like pure short-term memory.
Buchsbaum and collaborators designed a dual-modality continuous
recognition task, in which sequences of words were presented simulta-
neously in the auditory and visual modalities (Buchsbaum et al. 2011a).
Subjects had to ignore the auditory stimuli, and discriminate whether
each visually presented word had been visually presented before, or if it
was a new word. Nonetheless, some of the visually presented words had
been presented previously, not in the visual but in the acoustic modality.
These visual stimuli were supposedly “new”, as the acoustic stimuli had
to be ignored. While overall subjects performed well in the task, fMRI-
assessed bilateral activation of the inferior parietal lobe decreased with
longer distances between the visually repeated words (increasing diﬃ-
culty). Conversely, areas in the superior parietal and frontal lobes
showed higher levels of activity with longer delays between words,
which is consistent with their involvement in the diﬃculty of the task.
Furthermore, this study conﬁrmed dissociation between inferior parietal
deactivation and activity in area Spt. More recently, D’Esposito and
collaborators have criticized the notion that persistent activity in the
prefrontal cortex actually represents memory storage, rejecting any claim
of a localized storage buﬀer in the brain (D’Esposito and Postle 2015).
As they argue, the only sites that store high-ﬁdelity memory information
Boxes or Networks? 225
are the sensory cortices, which is consistent with many recent ﬁndings
indicating sensory activity during working memory tasks.
What function does area Spt serve? This region is considered an
auditory-motor interface that binds acoustic representations with
articulatory patterns in Broca’s area, possibly via the arcuate fascicu-
lus. Therefore, it represents a core component of the language net-
work. Conduction aphasia, the symptoms of which include naming
deﬁcits, impaired verbal repetition and importantly, deﬁcient verbal
working memory, was initially believed to be caused by the discon-
nection between Broca’s and Wernicke’s areas via the arcuate fasci-
culus, but more recent studies have shown a signiﬁcant involvement
of gray matter in many patients (See Chapter 2). In an MRI study of
15 patients with conduction aphasia, Hickok, Nina Dronkers and
colleagues found that the region of maximal lesion overlap ﬁts the
location of area Spt, which according to them explains most of the
symptomatology of this condition (Buchsbaum et al. 2011b). This
area may be connected to Broca’s region, or to the vocal premotor
cortex via the arcuate fasciculus or some adjacent tract (Saur et al.
2008). Complementary to this, Angela Friederici and her team
assessed sentence processing and verbal working memory perfor-
mance in a patient with a lesion involving the white matter under-
lying the left superior temporal gyrus, but sparing gray matter
(Meyer et al. 2014). MRI examination revealed the absence of the
arcuate fasciculus and the superior longitudinal fasciculus, the latter
connecting parietal and frontal areas. Concomitantly, the patient
performed poorly in verbal working memory tests, and in memory
of sentences involving complex word order and long words, while
performing better in tasks requiring long word storage. Another
study by Friederici’s group with normal subjects revealed that in
normal speech, manipulation of phrase ordering (as in subject-ﬁrst
vs. object-ﬁrst German sentences) primarily involved activation of
Broca’s area, while storage functions (phrases intervening between
object and verb) were more associated with activation of the left
temporoparietal junction and tractographic integrity of the arcuate
fasciculus/superior longitudinal fasciculus (Meyer et al. 2012).
Together, these ﬁndings imply that the connectivity of area Spt to
226 6 A Loop for Speech
Broca’s region via the arcuate fasciculus and other tracts is a critical
component of verbal working memory. Likewise, Hickok’s group
conﬁrmed a role of Broca’s region and motor articulatory mechan-
isms in verbal working memory (Hickok et al. 2014). They assessed
short-term verbal memory (assessed with a digit span task), and
speech articulation deﬁcits (apraxia of speech) with a series of stroke
patients in the very early stages, before the onset of compensatory
reorganizations of the damaged neuronal networks. Articulatory def-
icits were related to damage in posterior Broca’s area, motor areas,
insula and somatosensory areas, while verbal working memory was
related mainly to posterior Broca’s and motor areas. This indicates a
close overlap in sensorimotor systems involved in speech production
and verbal working memory.
So much for the search for a localized phonological store, especially in
the inferior parietal lobe. Although the debate has not yet been settled,
we will see in the next chapter that animal studies have shown that there
no need for a speciﬁc storage system in the neural networks underlying
visuospatial working memory. More generally, the notion that neurop-
sychological capacities are encapsulated in modular systems does not ﬁt
neuroscientiﬁc evidence. Nonetheless, besides the evidence shown here,
there have been many other reports that have consistently found invol-
vement of the inferior parietal lobe in verbal working memory tasks. It
may be that these areas are recruited because verbal working memory
demands attentional capacity, partly controlled by the inferior parietal
lobe (as argued by Buchsbaum and D’Esposito), or that the inferior
parietal lobe plays some role in rehearsal mechanisms, or that it con-
tributes to the goal-directed component of working memory. For exam-
ple, Baldo and Nina Dronkers tested patients with either inferior parietal
or inferior frontal cortex damage in phonological storage tasks (includ-
ing auditory rhyming, repetition and digit span), and in articulatory
tasks (an n-back task and a visual rhyming task) (Baldo and Dronkers
2006). While inferior frontal patients were speciﬁcally impaired in
rehearsal tasks, inferior parietal patients showed a deﬁcit circumscribed
to storage tasks. Using fMRI, Oliver Gruber and collaborators have done
studies using the articulatory suppression condition to eliminate verbal
strategies when performing working memory tasks like memory of letter
Boxes or Networks? 227
names, colors or shapes, and found largely overlapping parieto-frontal
networks associated with these diﬀerent modalities (Gruber 2001;
Gruber and von Cramon 2001). Furthermore, Gruber showed that
during verbal working memory tasks performed under articulatory sup-
pression, activation increased in the posterior inferior parietal lobe
(instead of area 44) and anterior prefrontal areas. More recently,
Gruber studied two selected patients, one with a bilateral lesion in the
frontal pole and the other with a lesion restricted to Broca’s area (Trost
and Gruber 2012). The former had normal articulatory rehearsal capa-
city (measured in a subvocalization letter memory task) but impaired
non-articulatory phonological working memory (that is, the same task
under articulatory suppression), while the Broca’s area patient showed
intact non-articulatory verbal memory but was highly deﬁcient in
articulatory rehearsal tasks. This suggests that phonological storage
mechanisms partly depend on networks other than the classical language
networks, encompassing parieto-prefrontal systems.
Einat Lienbenthal and collaborators used dichotically presented sylla-
bles and chirps in an auditory recognition task with a combined ERP
and fMRI protocol (Liebenthal et al. 2013). They found early syllable-
speciﬁc activations in the auditory areas in the inferior parietal lobe and
the ventral motor cortex. Moreover, concurrent left hemisphere activa-
tion in the inferior parietal and motor areas preceded the activation of
left auditory areas, suggesting an anticipatory role. Dorothy Saur,
Cornellius Weiller and collaborators found that the inferior parietal
lobe contributed to both the ventral and dorsal language pathways
(Kellmeyer et al. 2013). This team investigated the structural connectiv-
ity of areas involved in manipulations of segmental (shifting vowels) and
suprasegmental (shifting stress placement) elements of pseudo words.
The authors reported that connections between the left inferior parietal
lobe and pars opercularis in Broca’s area (area 44) participated in
suprasegmental manipulations (dorsal pathway), while connections
between the inferior parietal lobe and pars triangularis in Broca’s region
(area 45) participated in segmental manipulations (ventral pathway).
These ﬁndings underscore the supporting role of parietal-frontal net-
works in phonological processing, even if they are not related to the
phonological storage module. In another study of interest, Anne Sophie
228 6 A Loop for Speech
Champod and Michael Petrides used an event-related fMRI design to
assess the role of the inferior parietal cortex (particularly the intraparietal
sulcus) in manipulating verbal information (Champod and Petrides
2010). They presented subjects with lists or abstract disyllabic words
that had to be remembered in precise order. Subjects were then required
to reorder the list (manipulation task) or to note the occurrence or non-
occurrence of certain words from the remembered list when a new list
was presented (monitoring task). A control task was simply to recall the
words presented in each trial. While they observed increased activity in
the prefrontal cortex during both manipulation and monitoring of
progressively longer words, increased activity in the posterior parietal
sulcus was related to manipulation but not monitoring information.
Very recently, Cathy Price and collaborators assessed the participation of
the supramarginal gyrus in a variety of phonological tasks, and identiﬁed
speciﬁc subregions involved in articulatory sequencing, auditory short-
term memory and lexical processing, which again supports the role of
the inferior parietal lobe in the phonological loop (Oberhuber et al.
2016). Other components that have been involved in working memory
circuits are the basal ganglia and the cerebellum. Both structures connect
intensely with large regions of the cerebral cortex. Christopher
Chatham, Michael Frank and David Badre proposed that the corpus
striatum participates in input and output stimulus selection during
working memory, mediated by contextual information provided by the
frontal cortex (Chatham et al. 2014). Jutta Peterburs, Dominic Cheng
and John Desmond have recently evidenced involvement of the cere-
bellum in controlling human eye movement in visual working memory
tasks, which are dependent on memory load and independent of eye
movements involved in stimulus analysis (Peterburs et al. 2015). While
these designs have used mostly visuospatial tasks, it is possible that these
systems play similar roles in verbal working memory.
Considering the above, parietal-prefrontal and subcortical networks
may contribute to verbal working memory through indirect mechanisms,
although they may not contain the memory elements that are kept online.
Instead, these networks exert top-down inﬂuence over sensory regions in
terms of the desired outcome or the motor programs that are to be
selected. This view emphasizes a distributed system, encompassing sensory
Boxes or Networks? 229
and higher order areas that support working memory tasks. In this way,
activity in sensory regions is modulated, and possibly stabilized against
interference by backward inputs from inferior parietal and frontal regions
involved in motor programming and goal directed planning. In addition
to these supporting components, increasing evidence indicates signiﬁcant
hippocampal involvement in the digit span and other working memory
tasks (Baddeley 2000b). As with Baddeley’s episodic buﬀer, working
memory depends on the vivid representation of sensory input, which is
provided by episodic memory, possibly via theta oscillations that propa-
gate from the hippocampus to the cerebral cortex. A core circuit for verbal
working memory therefore contains the arcuate fasciculus, connecting the
auditory area Spt with the posterior of Broca’s area, but includes sur-
rounding components as subsidiary elements, as Evelina Fedorenko and
collaborators have correctly emphasized (Chapter 2) (Fedorenko 2014).
In general, Baddeley’s multicomponent model for working memory
has been very inﬂuential, but it needs to be updated and revisited in the
context of new neuroscientiﬁc evidence. The model of boxes involved in
speciﬁc cognitive processes like articulation and storage is too simplistic
for neuroscientiﬁc work, and will probably be replaced by a network-
level model in which overlapping and distributed systems participate in
diﬀerent processes. Nonetheless, we owe Baddeley for introducing the
concept of working memory as a kind of explicit short-term memory to
be used in the near future, and especially to this book’s purpose, for the
concept of the phonological loop as a sensorimotor device that allows
verbal acquisition, and may be unique to our species.
Tracking Sentences
Baddeley wondered what function verbal working memory serves, espe-
cially with subjects with low verbal working memory capacity that do
reasonably well in normal life and are able to employ and understand
forms of speech used in daily life. One possibility is that phonological
memory is needed to understand complex forms of speech that cannot
be processed automatically. Baddeley and Giuseppe Vallar worked with
PV, a patient who was perfectly able to speak normally, with appropriate
230 6 A Loop for Speech
vocabulary and syntax, and normal speed and prosody (which rules out
any speech processing deﬁcit) (Vallar et al. 1991; Baddeley 2007).
However, she was unable to understand relatively long and intricate
sentences, especially passive ones, which required her to keep track of the
initial elements to understand their meaning at the end. Linguists refer
to these relations between distant elements in a phrase as long distance
dependencies, while these are in fact time dependencies as whether in
speech or reading, the relation between distant components is mediated
by time and necessarily invoke some kind of memory. During reading,
one can come back to the original words above on the page to help in
understanding, while in speech one has to rely exclusively on memory,
or else say, “Could you say that again?”
Thus, one possibility is that the loop serves to integrate complex
sentences and track elements in memory phrases that are needed to
understand the phrase as it is unfolding. This resembles the N-back
task described in Chapter 2. However, this is not a simple retention
memory task, as it requires manipulation of the items as they enter and
exit the attention window, keeping their order in sequence. Thus, it also
involves executive processes that may be at work during natural speech
processing. Furthermore, there are additional elements in complex sen-
tences that go beyond a mere string of concatenated elements. Steve
Pinker argued that this is a critical element for language, requiring a
special kind of memory that allows for keeping the ﬁrst elements of
sentences active as new words arrive (Pinker 1994). Some years ago,
Eleanor Saﬀran went beyond the phonological dimension of working
memory, putting forward a model that includes several parallel but
interacting working memory systems involved in phonological, syntactic
and semantic processing (Saﬀran and Marin 1975). Likewise, David
Caplan has argued the existence of separate working memory systems for
semantic and for syntactical processing (Caplan and Waters 1999).
These ideas agree with Joaquín Fuster’s notion that memory is a prop-
erty of cognitive circuits, rather than a separate system in the brain (see
Chapter 7). Circuits involved in diﬀerent linguistic processes like syntax,
semantics and phonology, may have their own memory capacities, even
if they show signiﬁcant overlap. In a similar line, Aniruddh Patel
analyzed two existing models for syntactic and harmonic processing of
Tracking Sentences 231
music, the Dependency Locality Theory (DLT) and the Tonal Pitch
Space Theory, respectively (Patel 2003). In both theories, distances
between items (words or chords) have to be computed and stored
while the sequence is still being perceived. In his words, “in DLT,
integration can be understood as activating the representation of an
incoming word while also reactivating a prior dependent word whose
activation has decayed in proportion to the distance between words. In
TPS, integration can be understood as activating an incoming chord
while maintaining activation of another chord which provides the con-
text for the incoming chord’s interpretation” (Patel 2003, p. 678).
Although Patel does not mention a memory system involved in this
process, this is quite similar to the online management of information
during working memory tasks.
Therefore, phonological, syntactical and semantic circuits may use
diﬀerent but overlapping short-term memory processes that contri-
bute to creating a contextual framework in which linguistic elements
are organized into a coherent whole. In this sense, an algorithm may
be necessary to translate a sequential phonological working memory
code into a visuospatial working memory code provided by lexical
and semantic contents. Some of my students and I have argued that
this algorithm is contained in the hierarchical organization of phrases
that transforms the sequential auditory code into a visuospatial code.
In this sense, syntax works as an interface between phonology on one
side, and the lexicon and semantics describing actions or events, on
the other (Aboitiz et al. 2006a, b). Furthermore, this interface may
be represented by the nested time scale organization of oscillatory
activity during speech processing, as the group of David Poeppel has
recently found (Chait et al. 2015; Ding et al. 2016; see Chapter 2).
In this, our brains are probably unique, as no other species is known
to make translations of this kind in the context of short-term
memory.
In Broca’s aphasia there seems to be a speciﬁc diﬃculty in keeping
the memory traces that connect phrase components in special verb
tenses like passives, in which the canonical order of a sentence is
reversed (for example, “The boy kissed the girl” → “The girl was
kissed by the boy”). Something similar happens with some
232 6 A Loop for Speech
interrogative sentences, as in “Where did you go?” This operation is
called “syntactic movement”, and it is believed to be a consequence
of the recursive property of language, in which components can be
inserted within others, or moved from place to place, as if they were
Leggo blocks. In order to recompose the canonical structure of the
sentence, phrasal constituents keep connected with traces that bind
them to their canonical place. As I said above, such traces have to be
mnemonic in nature, as the brain processes sentence structure over a
time interval. Yosef Grodzinsky, who ﬁrst noted that Broca’s apha-
sics have diﬃculty with syntactic movement, proposed the “trace
deletion hypothesis”, claiming that in Broca’s aphasia, traces of
syntactic movement are speciﬁcally erased (Grodzinsky 2000). As
expected, the longer and more complex the dependencies, the more
trouble patients have to understand them. Grodzinsky did not men-
tion any memory deﬁcit in these patients, and speciﬁcally referred to
the elimination of formal syntactic operations. However, as I told
Josef at one time, no matter what formal elements are missing, the
main problem is the neurocognitive process by which the brain keeps
these traces. Grodzinsky has responded that a direct connection
between formal syntactic elements and working memory has yet to
be demonstrated, which is correct but for now seems to be a reason-
able neurobiological and cognitive explanation for these ﬁndings.
However, I am not saying that working memory explains syntactic
movement or long distance dependencies in complex grammars.
Clearly, there is a lot more to these processes than short-term
memory, like hierarchical organization and appropriate labeling and
ordering of the phrasal components. But these syntactic operations
are probably limited by short-term memory capacity, which, if
impaired, results in a restriction of the syntactical operations that
can be performed.
Broca’s area has been considered critical for complex syntactic
processing, as evidenced by studies showing activity changes asso-
ciated with grammatically correct sentences compared with ungram-
matical sentences. Notably, this area is also active during harmonic
musical processing and mathematical calculations (both involving a
sort of grammar). Disengaging the syntactic and mnemonic processes
Tracking Sentences 233
in these instances can be very diﬃcult, as has been discussed by
several authors (Fiebach et al. 2005). Michiru Makuuchi, working in
Angela Friederici’s laboratory, made an fMRI study in which they
compared German sentences with two manipulated variables: hier-
archical organization, tapping grammatical processing; and long dis-
tance dependencies that put a preferential load on working memory
(Makuuchi et al. 2009). For example, phrases like “Maria, die Hans,
der gut aussah, liebte, Johann geküsst hatte” (“Maria, who loved Hans
who was good looking, had kissed Johann”) vs. “Maria, die weinte,
Johann geküsst hatte und zwar gestern abend” (“Maria, who cried, had
kissed Johann and that was yesterday night”). Both phrases are
highly hierarchical but the former has more long distance dependen-
cies than the latter, as shown by the distance between the main
subject “Maria” and the verb “hatte” in each of them (8 words in the
former, 4 in the latter). On the other hand, phrases like “Achim den
grossen Mann gestern am späten Abend gesehen hatte” (“Achim saw the
tall man yesterday late at night”) and “Achim den grossen Mann
gesehen hatte und zwar am abend” (“Achim saw the tall man at
night and that was late”) are simple in hierarchical organization
but again the former sentence has a longer distance dependency
than the latter (8 words as opposed to 4 between “Achim” and
“hatte”). Makuuchi found that hemodynamic activity in the left
pars opercularis correlated more with structural complexity, while a
slightly more ventral region (the left inferior frontal sulcus) was more
sensitive to long distance dependencies. However, there was a very
strong overlap between the activated regions for each variable, as well
as a signiﬁcant functional connectivity between these areas. Thus,
they were able to partially segregate these two functions, but in my
opinion the most important ﬁnding is the strong interconnectivity
observed between the involved regions, which increased with higher
syntactic complexity. This argues in favor of a tight relationship
between syntactical processing and working memory load. As judged
by the images presented, the activated areas in this study do not
exactly ﬁt the restricted notion of Broca’s area, which involves only
the inferior frontal gyrus (located just ventrally to the sites of
activation). This underscores the point I made in Chapter 2, that
234 6 A Loop for Speech
Broca’s region may be functionally more extended than the pars
triangularis and pars opercularis of the inferior frontal gyrus.
Furthermore, the subtracting design of fMRI experiments emphasizes
diﬀerences in activity but tends to eliminate areas that may be very
necessary but coactive under diﬀerent conditions (see also
Chapter 2).
The Loop is for Learning
Interesting as the evidence and theories above may be, Baddeley
correctly argued that it is diﬃcult to think that the main beneﬁt
of the phonological loop is that we can understand complex and
unusual sentences. My students and I have also argued that the
development of complex syntax may have beneﬁted from the acqui-
sition of a suﬃciently robust phonological loop, but clearly this does
not explain its initial development (Aboitiz and García 1997; Aboitiz
et al. 2006a, b). More than complex language processing in adults,
the ease for learning a language may represent a more critical process
for human development, and must have been a critical selective
factor in early humans. Baddeley then focused on language acquisi-
tion, ﬁrst with adults learning a second language, and later with
children learning their mother tongue.
Baddeley asked the aforementioned patient PV to associate Russian
words (a language that PV did not master) with their Italian transla-
tions (her native language), as opposed to learning associations
between semantically and structurally distinct Italian words
(Baddeley 2007; Vallar et al. 1991). PV was especially impaired in
learning Russian-to-Italian associations, while Italian-to Italian pairs
were recalled perfectly well. Control subjects did well in both tasks.
The same ﬁndings were obtained when a graduate student with poor
phonological working memory was assessed. Vallar described a patient
with Down syndrome that had an outstanding verbal working mem-
ory capacity and had mastered three languages despite having a low
IQ, (Vallar and Papagno 1993). Other studies successfully used
articulatory suppression to interfere with learning foreign words,
The Loop is for Learning 235
while the same procedure had no eﬀect on associations between native
words (Baddeley 2007).
Baddeley and colleagues then moved on to children with speciﬁc
language impairment. This is a partly hereditary condition characterized
by delayed language development in otherwise normal children that do
not suﬀer hearing loss, vocal deﬁcits or other developmental delays.
Baddeley and colleagues observed that these children had a notable
impairment when it came to repeating spoken non-words of diﬀerent
lengths (something reminiscent of conduction aphasia, although not the
same, where the deﬁcit consists of repeating spoken phrases or words).
Baddeley and colleagues tested 8-year-old patients that performed at the
level of normal 4-year-old children (Baddeley and Hitch 1993; Baddeley
et al. 1998; Baddeley 2007; Gathercole et al. 1994). The non-word
repetition test proved more reliable than other measures of phonological
working memory, as it relies on novel phonological combinations that
have not been overlearned as real words and numbers have. It has also
been found that tests of non-word recognition, instead of repetition can
be useful in assessing phonological storage capacity, especially with
subjects with speech production problems. Returning to our point, the
next step was to test non-word repetition capacity in normal children
and ﬁnd whether it could predict aspects of speech and language devel-
opment. As expected, with children of a given age, verbal IQ signiﬁ-
cantly correlated with non-verbal IQ. However, non-word repetition
was a better predictor than non-verbal IQ of verbal IQ performance.
Furthermore, Baddeley and colleagues did a follow-up study that initi-
ally assessed vocabulary levels, and performance with two kinds of non-
words, one type similar to English words, like “prindle”, and the other
dissimilar to English words like “stikicult”. A year later the same children
were evaluated for vocabulary richness again. Acquisition of new words
during the year strongly correlated with earlier performance in the less
English-like non-words but did not correlate with performance in the
more English-like non-words. The point here is that children with more
capacity to keep and repeat novel utterances are able to learn new words
more rapidly.
But as many say, correlation does not mean causation. To get stronger
evidence that better phonological working memory was indeed causing
236 6 A Loop for Speech
the diﬀerence in vocabulary acquisition, Baddeley and his group made
what is called a cross-lagged correlation study, in which 4-year old
children were tested on non-word repetition and on vocabulary (as
had been done before), and after 1 year were tested again on both
non-word repetition and vocabulary (Baddeley et al. 1998; Baddeley
2007). The point of this design was to determine which variable better
explains the changes in the other. They found that non-word repetition
at 4 more strongly correlated with vocabulary at 5 than vocabulary at 4
with non-word repetition at 5. This rules out the possibility that
vocabulary itself is the main factor increasing phonological working
memory. In fact, there is a positive eﬀect of increasing vocabulary on
working memory capacity, but it is much weaker than the eﬀect that
working memory capacity has on vocabulary acquisition. Finally,
Baddeley and colleagues looked for evidence of the inﬂuence of working
memory on grammatical development in children. They found indirect
support for this, such as a study of two highly intelligent bilingual
siblings, one with deﬁcits in phonological memory accompanied with
slow vocabulary and syntactic development, while the other was good at
both (Baddeley 2007). Other studies have found correlations between
phonological working memory capacity and the mean length of utter-
ances, and grammar learning in a second language. Further studies of
working memory and syntax development, as well as on working mem-
ory and other aspects of language and speech are strongly needed.
To end, the analysis related to errors in the digit span task has
provided further insight into the mechanisms of verbal working mem-
ory. It has been known for some time that if a sequence of numbers
increases beyond storing capacity, all the items are still remembered but
are recalled in the wrong order, typically transposing two adjacent digits.
Likewise, in studies using consonant-vowel-consonant (CVC) non-
words like /wux/- /caz/, a common error is to transpose the consonants
and retain the vowel order intact, for example, recalling /cux/- /waz/
after presentation of the above non-words. Furthermore, lists of CVC
non-words similar in vowel sounds (/dah/, /fah/, /gah/) are more diﬃcult
to recall than non-words diﬀering in their vowels (/di/, /dah/, /doh/).
Baddeley and colleagues found that closed item sets (that is, using the
same words in diﬀerent trials), resulted in complete word transposition
The Loop is for Learning 237
deﬁcits, while with an open set (that is, new words in each trial), words
themselves were often misreported, with a predominant shift of consonant
order (for example /hat/- /pen/to /pat/- /hen/) (Baddeley 2007). These
experiments make an important point, which is that order information
tends to be carried by vowels instead of consonants, while consonants can
be seen as the “junctures” between vowels (see Chapter 10).
Ampliﬁed Working Memory
There are about 37,000 articles in the scientiﬁc search page PubMed on
working memory, the majority of which involve human subjects. In fact,
the concept of working memory was conceived as a human trait, and
initially there was little interest in its evolutionary development. Peter
Carruthers recently published an interesting review of the comparative
issues raised by working memory research (Carruthers 2013). Many
objections have been raised to the idea that other animals display work-
ing memory capacities, including the incapacity to maintain sensory
information for a relatively long period (2 seconds or so), the incapacity
to resist interference, the inability to generate top-down control of
memory traces, and the absence of rehearsal mechanisms that refresh
working memory. Traditionally, it has been argued that if animals have
any working memory capacity, it is very limited (no more than two
objects) and they are unable to manipulate items in memory.
Furthermore, animals only use working memory in contingent beha-
vioral situations and not during mind-wandering and inner speech, as
human commonly use it. And ﬁnally, only in humans does working
memory operate in a communicative context. Although there has been
little research directly comparing memory capacities in humans and
non-human animals, there is evidence at least in higher vertebrates and
especially monkeys and some birds, which challenges many of these
assumptions. Studies have shown higher than expected memory spans
and capacities in non-human species, as well as evidence of the capacity
to resist interference in certain tasks (even in mice), and crows have been
described as performing “mental travels”, which is the capacity to recall
one’s past or future, a function dependent on episodic memory that is
238 6 A Loop for Speech
activated in working memory (see Chapter 9). Basically, tests involved in
assessing this capacity rely on the animal’s being able to forecast a
complex future event, or to accurately recall the three W’s of an event:
what, when and where did something happen. Crows perform admir-
ably well in these tasks, which implies that they can create vivid images
of past or future events. Likewise, chimpanzees have shown the ability to
rehearse actions mentally and plan strategies for cognitively complex
behaviors. For example, Carruthers refers to a case of a captive chimp in
an open-plan zoo that amused itself by collecting stones that he would
later throw at the human visitors. Zookeepers then started removing his
stone stashes, to which the chimp responded by concealing his projec-
tiles and using new materials to throw. In this context, a very recent
article by Hjalmar Kuhl Ammie Kalan and collaborators reported wide-
spread stone accumulating behavior in wild chimpanzees (Kuhl et al.
2016). Notably, some chimps have the habit of throwing stones at
certain trees, or tossing them inside tree holes, which result in piles of
stones inside or around apparently targeted trees. Moreover, several
species have shown the ability to mentally manipulate volumes, being
able to recognize among other alternatives a three-dimensional object
after it has been rotated to hide its initial appearance. The notion that
animals engage little in daydreaming (or mind-wandering) and are more
limited in the ways they use working memory capacities seem to be
better sustained at the moment, as there is an apparent relationship
between speech and mind-wandering in humans. Cerebral patterns of
resting state activity similar to humans have been reported in chimpan-
zees, macaques and rodents (Rilling 2014), but whether these involve
any mental imagery is still a big question. In my opinion, these patterns
do not necessarily involve working memory capacity, as the phonological
loop, using inner speech, may be an important element in maintaining
the stability of mental contents. As I have said before, the language
circuit may have a double role, connecting with executive networks for
problem solving but also engaging with the default network at rest,
providing continuity to our daydreams.
Working memory is directly related to mechanisms of cognitive
control, which is a key element for appropriate social behavior.
Executive function, which depends on working memory, is critical to
Ampliﬁed Working Memory 239
revisit judgments that may be produced automatically but can be
repressed or controlled by top-down mechanisms. In this line,
Baddeley refers to Donald Norman and Tim Shallice’s supervisory
attentional system as a key element inhibiting automatic behavioral
patterns in order for individuals to behave appropriately in social con-
texts. This system may have undergone strong selective pressure in
human evolution (Norman and Shallice 1983). Nelson Cowan and
others have argued that working memory has been expanding in
response to increasing social and technological demands, but it is not
clear whether this alleged increase is due to genetic selection or to
learning or brain plasticity mechanisms, including epigenetic factors
(Cowan 2005, 2009). Another proposal by Michael Vendetti and
Silvia Bunge attributes relational thinking capacity, that is, the ability
to represent relations between several items, to the lateral frontoparietal
networks (Vendetti and Bunge 2014). In human development
increased connectivity among these areas is associated with better
relational thinking. Other authors, including Richard Passingham,
have highlighted the role of dorsal prefrontal-parietal networks in
foraging behavior in diﬀerent species, by integrating information
about metrics, distances, proportions and order (Genovesio et al.
2014). In the next chapter, I will mention additional functions of
the parieto-frontal pathway that very likely played a signiﬁcant role
in the origin of speech and vocal communication. Finally in this line,
working memory is intimately linked to attention, and increasing
working memory capacity is dependent on a concomitant enhance-
ment of attentional systems. In human evolution, both functions must
have interacted closely, and the case of language origins and the
generation of the phonological loop may not be exceptions to this.
We still need to disentangle better the participation of attentional
mechanisms in verbal working memory, to envision their role in the
evolutionary origin of speech. In my opinion this is a highly promising
direction for future research.
Perhaps no one has more explicitly pursued the ampliﬁcation of
working memory in human evolution than Fred Coolidge and
Thomas Wynn, who proposed that an expansion of working memory
capacity was a key event in late human evolution, separating modern
240 6 A Loop for Speech
humans from Neanderthals (Coolidge and Wynn 2007). It is sup-
posed that working memory expansion was associated with expansion
of the inferior parietal lobe and globularization of the brain, facil-
itating planning behavior and the development of progressively
sophisticated technologies and social organization. Coolidge and
Wynn put special emphasis on abilities like communicating in the
subjunctive mode, referring to events that are not real and may never
occur, and the capacity to understand metaphors or jokes, which has
been associated with inferior parietal lobe activation. As I said in
Chapter 3, the associations between gross brain anatomy or cranial
features and cognitive abilities still require empirical support, and are
highly reminiscent of Franz Galls’s phrenology doctrine. The archae-
ological evidence of less sophisticated technology may however give
us clues about early human behavior, and indicates that the techno-
logical revolution only took place in modern humans, which implies
that a profound change in cognitive development was occurring at
that time. I will come back to these issues at the end of the book
(Chapter 11), while in the next chapter I will focus on a more
restricted aspect of working memory, which is the phonological
loop, and of evidence suggesting its possible evolutionary history.
This, however, will bring us far back from the Neanderthal-modern
human split, and we will have to look for evidence in non-human
primates to get a glimpse of its neural underpinnings.
References
Aboitiz F, García R (1997) The evolutionary origin of the language areas in the
human brain. A neuroanatomical perspective. Brain Res Rev 25:381–396
Aboitiz F, García RR, Bosman C, Brunetti E (2006a) Cortical memory
mechanisms and language origins. Brain Lang 98:40–56
Aboitiz F, García R, Brunetti E, Bosman C (2006b) The origin of Broca’s area
from an ancestral working memory network. In: Grodzinsky Y, Amunts K
(eds) Broca’s Region. Oxford University Press, Oxford, p 3–16
Baddeley AD (1966) The inﬂuence of acoustic and semantic similarity on long
term memory for word sequences. Quart J Exp Psychol 18:302–309
References 241
Baddeley AD (1968) Prior recall of newly learned items and the recency eﬀect
in free recall. Can J Psychol 22:157–163
Baddeley AD (2000a) The phonological loop and the irrelevant speech eﬀect:
some comments on Neath. Psychon Bull Rev 7:544–549
Baddeley A (2000b) The episodic buﬀer: a new component of working mem-
ory? Trends Cogn Sci 4:417–423
Baddeley A (2007) Working Memory, Thought and Action. Oxford University
Press, Oxford
Baddeley A (2012) Working memory: theories, models, and controversies.
Annu Rev Psychol 63:1–29
Baddeley AD, Hitch GJ (1974) Working memory. In: Bower GA (ed) Recent
Advances in Learning and Motivation (vol. 8). Academic Press, New York, p
47–89
Baddeley AD, Hitch G (1993) The recency eﬀect: implicit learning with
explicit retrieval? Mem Cognit 21:146–155
Baddeley AD, Thomson N, Buchanan M (1975) Word length and the struc-
ture of short-term memory. J Verb Learn Verb Behav 14:575–589
Baddeley A, Gathercole S, Papagno C (1998) The phonological loop as a
language learning device. Psychol Rev 105:158–173
Baddeley A, Jarrold C, Vargha-Khadem F (2011) Working memory and the
hippocampus. J Cogn Neurosci. 23:3855–3861
Baldo JV, Dronkers NF (2006) The role of inferior parietal and inferior frontal
cortex in working memory. Neuropsychology 20:529–538
Banks SJ, Feindel W, Milner B, Jones-Gotman M (2014) Cognitive function
ﬁfty-six years after surgical treatment of temporal lobe epilepsy: a case study.
Epilepsy Behav Case Rep 2:31–36
Buchsbaum BR, D’Esposito M (2008) The search for the phonological store:
from loop to convolution. J Cogn Neurosci 20:762–778
Buchsbaum BR, Ye D, D’Esposito M (2011a) Recency Eﬀects in the Inferior
Parietal Lobe during Verbal Recognition Memory. Front Hum Neurosci
5:59
Buchsbaum BR, Baldo J, Okada K, Berman KF, Dronkers N, D’Esposito M,
Hickok G (2011b) Conduction aphasia, sensory-motor integration, and
phonological short-term memory – an aggregate analysis of lesion and
fMRI data. Brain Lan 119:119–128
Caplan D, Waters GS (1999) Verbal working memory and sentence compre-
hension. Behav Brain Sci 22:77–94; discussion 95–126
242 6 A Loop for Speech
Carruthers P (2013) Evolution of working memory. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
110 (Suppl 2):10371–10378
Chait M, Greenberg S, Arai T, Simon JZ, Poeppel D (2015) Multi-time
resolution analysis of speech: evidence from psychophysics. Front
Neurosci 9:214
Champod AS, Petrides M (2010) Dissociation within the frontoparietal net-
work in verbal working memory: a parametric functional magnetic reso-
nance imaging study. J Neurosci 30:3849–3856
Chatham CH, Frank MJ, Badre D (2014) Corticostriatal output gating during
selection from working memory. Neuron 81:930–942
Coolidge FL, Wynn T (2007) The working memory account of Neandertal
cognition–how phonological storage capacity may be related to recursion
and the pragmatics of modern speech. J Hum Evol 52:707–710
Cowan N (2005) Working Memory Capacity. Psychology Press, Hove
Cowan N (2009) Working memory from the trailing edge of consciousness.
Neuron 62:13–15
D’Esposito M, Postle BR (2015) The cognitive neuroscience of working
memory. Annu Rev Psychol 66:115–142
Ding N, Melloni L, Zhang H, Tian X, Poeppel D (2016) Cortical tracking of
hierarchical linguistic structures in connected speech. Nat Neurosci 19:158–164
Edelman GM (1989) The Remembered Present: A Biological Theory of
Consciousness. Basic Books, New York
Fedorenko E (2014) The role of domain-general cognitive control in language
comprehension. Front Psychol 5:335
Fiebach CJ, Schlesewsky M, Lohmann G, von Cramon DY, Friederici AD
(2005) Revisiting the role of Broca’s area in sentence processing: syntactic
integration versus syntactic working memory. Hum Brain Mapp 24:79–91
Fiez JA, Raichle ME, Miezin FM, Petersen SE, Tallal P, Katz WF (1995) PET
studies of auditory and phonological processing: eﬀects of stimulus char-
acteristics and task demands. J Cogn Neurosci 7:357–375
Gathercole SE, Willis CS, Baddeley AD, Emslie H (1994) The Children’s Test
of Nonword Repetition: a test of phonological working memory. Memory
2:103–127
Genovesio A, Wise SP, Passingham RE (2014) Prefrontal-parietal function:
from foraging to foresight. Trends Cogn Sci 18:72–81
Grodzinsky Y (2000) The neurology of syntax: language use without Broca’s
area. Behav Brain Sci 23:1–21; discussion 21–71
References 243
Gruber O (2001) Eﬀects of domain-speciﬁc interference on brain activation
associated with verbal working memory task performance. Cereb Cortex
11:1047–1055
Gruber O, von Cramon DY (2001) Domain-speciﬁc distribution of working
memory processes along human prefrontal and parietal cortices: a functional
magnetic resonance imaging study. Neurosci Lett 297:29–32
Hebb DO (1949) Organisation of Behaviour. Wiley Press, New York
Hickok G, Buchsbaum B, Humphries C, Muftuler T (2003) Auditory-motor
interaction revealed by fMRI: speech, music, and working memory in area
Spt. J Cogn Neurosci 15:673–682
Hickok G, Rogalsky C, Chen R, Herskovits EH, Townsley S, Hillis AE (2014)
Partially overlapping sensorimotor networks underlie speech praxis and
verbal short-term memory: evidence from apraxia of speech following
acute stroke. Front Hum Neurosci 8:649
James W (1890) The Principles of Psychology. Henry Holt Press, New York
Jonides J, Schumacher EH, Smith EE, Koeppe RA, Awh E, Reuter-Lorenz PA,
Marshuetz C, Willis CR (1998) The role of parietal cortex in verbal working
memory. J Neurosci 18:5026–5034
Kellmeyer P, Ziegler W, Peschke C, Juliane E, Schnell S, Baumgaertner A,
Weiller C, Saur D (2013) Fronto-parietal dorsal and ventral pathways in the
context of diﬀerent linguistic manipulations. Brain Lang 127:241–250
Kühl HS, Kalan AK, Arandjelovic M, Aubert F, D’Auvergne L,
Goedmakers A, Jones S, Kehoe L, Regnaut S, Tickle A, Ton E, van
Schijndel J, Abwe EE, Angedakin S, Agbor A, Ayimisin EA, Bailey E,
Bessone M, Bonnet M, Brazolla G, Buh VE, Chancellor R, Cipoletta C,
Cohen H, Corogenes K, Coupland C, Curran B, Deschner T, Dierks K,
Dieguez P, Dilambaka E, Diotoh O, Dowd D, Dunn A, Eshuis H,
Fernandez R, Ginath Y, Hart J, Hedwig D, Ter Heegde M, Hicks TC,
Imong I, Jeﬀery KJ, Junker J, Kadam P, Kambi M, Kienast I,
Kujirakwinja D, Langergraber K, Lapeyre V, Lapuente J, Lee K,
Leinert V, Meier A, Maretti G, Marrocoli S, Mbi TJ, Mihindou V,
Moebius Y, Morgan D, Morgan B, Mulindahabi F, Murai M, Niyigabae
P, Normand E, Ntare N, Ormsby LJ, Piel A, Pruetz J, Rundus A, Sanz
C, Sommer V, Stewart F, Tagg N, Vanleeuwe H, Vergnes V, Willie J,
Wittig RM, Zuberbuehler K, Boesch C (2016) Chimpanzee accumula-
tive stone throwing. Sci Rep 6:22219
244 6 A Loop for Speech
Liebenthal E, Sabri M, Beardsley SA, Mangalathu-Arumana J, Desai A (2013)
Neural dynamics of phonological processing in the dorsal auditory stream.
J Neurosci 33:15414–15424
Makuuchi M, Bahlmann J, Anwander A, Friederici AD (2009) Segregating the
core computational faculty of human language from working memory. Proc
Natl Acad Sci U S A 106:8362–8367
Meyer L, Obleser J, Anwander A, Friederici AD (2012) Linking ordering in
Broca’s area to storage in left temporo-parietal regions: the case of sentence
processing. Neuroimage 62:1987–1998
Meyer L, Cunitz K, Obleser J, Friederici AD (2014) Sentence processing and
verbal working memory in a white-matter-disconnection patient.
Neuropsychologia 61:190–196
Miller GA (1956) The magical number seven, plus or minus two: some limits
on our capacity for processing information. Psychol Rev 63:81–97
Murray DJ (1968) Articulation and acoustic confusability in short-term mem-
ory. J Exp Psychol 78: 679–684
Norman DA, Shallice T (1983) Attention to action –willed and automatic
control of behaviour. Bull Psychon Soc 21:354–354
Oberhuber M, Hope TM, Seghier ML, Parker Jones O, Prejawa S, Green DW,
Price CJ (2016) Four functionally distinct regions in the left supramarginal
gyrus support word processing. Cereb Cortex 26: 4212–4226
Patel AD (2003) Language, music, syntax and the brain. Nat Neurosci 6:674–
681
Paulesu E, Frith CD, Frackowiak RS (1993) The neural correlates of the verbal
component of working memory. Nature 362:342–345
Peterburs J, Cheng DT, Desmond JE (2015) The association between eye
movements and cerebellar activation in a verbal working memory task.
Cereb Cortex 26:3802–3813
Pinker S (1994) The Language Instinct. Penguin Books, London
Posner MI, Petersen SE (1990) The attention system of the human brain.
Annu Rev Neurosci 13:25–42
Rilling JK (2014) Comparative primate neuroimaging: insights into human
brain evolution. Trends Cogn Sci 18:46–55
Saﬀran EM, Marin OS (1975) Immediate memory for word lists and sentences in
a patient with deﬁcient auditory short-term memory. Brain Lang 2:420–443.
Salamé P., Baddeley AD. (1982) Disruption of short term memory by unat-
tended speech. Implications for the structure of working memory. J Verb
Learn Verb Behav 21:150–164
References 245
Salamé P, Baddeley AD (1990) The eﬀects of irrelevant speech on immediate
free recall. Bull Psychon Soc 28:540–542
Saur D, Kreher BW, Schnell S, Kümmerer D, Kellmeyer P, Vry MS, Umarova
R, Musso M, Glauche V, Abel S, Huber W, Rijntjes M, Hennig J, Weiller C
(2008) Ventral and dorsal pathways for language. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
105:18035–18040
Scoville WB, Milner B (1957) Loss of recent memory after bilateral hippo-
campal lesions. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatr 20:11–21
Smith EE, Jonides J (1997) Working memory: a view from neuroimaging.
Cogn Psychol 33:5–42
Trost S, Gruber O (2012) Evidence for a double dissociation of articulatory
rehearsal and non-articulatory maintenance of phonological information in
human verbal working memory. Neuropsychobiology 65:133–140
Vallar G, Papagno C (1993) Preserved vocabulary acquisition in Down’s
syndrome: the role of phonological short-term memory. Cortex 29:467–483
Vallar G, Papagno C, Baddeley AD.¡ (1991) Long-term recency eﬀects and
phonological short-term memory. A neuropsychological case study. Cortex
27:323–326
Vendetti MS, Bunge SA (2014) Evolutionary and developmental changes in
the lateral frontoparietal network: a little goes a long way for higher-level
cognition. Neuron 84:906–917
Warrington EK, Shallice T (1969) The selective impairment of auditory verbal
short-term memory. Brain 92:885–896
246 6 A Loop for Speech
Part II
Before Speech
7
Monkey Brain, Human Brain
Around the time Baddeley and Hitch proposed their tripartite model of
working memory, some researchers were beginning what would later
become an explosion of articles on the functions of the monkey pre-
frontal cortex. These advances were largely based on single-neuron
electrical recording with microelectrodes (also known as single-unit
recording). This marked the beginning of a period devoted to mapping
the electrical activity of individual neurons in diﬀerent parts of the
central nervous system. Single-unit recording was a revolutionary tech-
nique that allowed for the ﬁrst time to record the electrical responses of
neurons, elicited by sensory stimuli and associated with behavioral
patterns. The ﬁrst studies, with notable exceptions, focused on vision
and provided a fundamental conceptual framework for the development
of cognitive neuroscience. Some key notions that emerged from this
research were then applied to other sensory systems, particularly audi-
tory and language processing. Consequently, it is important to give an
overview of these early ﬁndings in order to provide the neurobiological
bases on which the study of language has been built.
© The Author(s) 2017
F. Aboitiz, A Brain for Speech,
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-54060-7_7
249
The Visual Paradigm
In the late 1950s, titanic researchers consolidated the single-unit record-
ing technique in neuroscience. This was science at its best, starting with
the studies by John Eccles on motor neurons of the spinal cord, for
which he was honored with the Nobel Prize in 1963 (Eccles 1967).
Another crucial advance was made by Steven Kuﬄer and Horace
Barlow, who recorded electrical activity from retinal cells in response
to light stimuli (Spillman 2014). After them, the team led by Jerome
Lettvin, in which Humberto Maturana was a key author, made a
substantial discovery analyzing the visual responses of single neurons
in the frog retina and optic tectum, a midbrain structure that is the main
visual processing component of lower vertebrates. Lettvin and collabora-
tors had been motivated by Roger Sperry’s earlier studies on the devel-
opment of the frog visual system, in which he sectioned the optic nerve,
detaching the eye, and then allowing the visual ﬁbers to regenerate their
severed projections into the optic nerve (see Chapter 4). Maturana,
Lettwin and coworkers began studying the visual responses of frog
retinal cells, following Kuﬄer’s method of directly illuminating the eye
and recording neuronal electrical activity. In an earlier study, Maturana
and coworkers sectioned the frog optic nerve as Sperry had done before
and physiologically conﬁrmed Sperry’s behavioral ﬁndings that regener-
ated ﬁbers grew into their original positions even after having rotated the
eye (Maturana et al. 1959). But the group’s most important ﬁnding
came soon after this. As Maturana told the story, one day he was alone in
the lab with a frog with an implanted electrode while his co-workers
were at lunch when he made perhaps one of the most serendipitous
discoveries in the history of neuroscience. He accidentally moved his
hand in front of the frog’s eye and observed a strong electrical response
from the retinal neuron that was being recorded. Maturana’s ﬁnding was
that not only light, but also a moving shadow could provoke a visual
response. The team began searching for speciﬁc kinds of stimuli that
could trigger visual responses in the retina, and observed that the frog
eye has only four separate visual operations: detection of sharp bound-
aries, detection of convex borders (“bug perceivers”, presumably
250 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
involved in catching prey), moving edge detection (as with Maturana’s
hand), and light dimming detection (Maturana et al. 1960). These cell
types had diﬀerent electrophysiological properties and their axons dif-
fered in terms of myelination. Furthermore, they projected to distinct
layers in the optic tectum, where the presence of these same response
types was conﬁrmed. Lettvin, Maturana and collaborators published an
inﬂuential paper titled What the frog’s eye tells the frog’s brain, in which
they argued for the existence of “feature detectors” that extract behavio-
rally relevant cues according to basic perceptual conﬁgurations (Lettvin
et al. 1968; Spillman 2014). With that the search began for operations
that detect stimulus regularities to construct the visual world. This
perspective had strong impact on the ﬁeld of computer science, with
eﬀorts to construct image-processing devices. Maturana and Lettvin
were nominated for the Nobel Prize for their ﬁndings, but the prize
went in the end to the aforementioned David Hubel and Torsten
Wiesel, who went more deeply into these ﬁndings in the monkey, and
extended their studies on neuronal development in cats. Subsequently,
Maturana took up epistemological issues regarding the nature of reality
in terms of the operation of the nervous system. He refuted the para-
digm he had contributed to constructing, and concluded that it makes
no sense to speak of detecting features or information processing in the
nervous system, as it is a dynamic system and its internal operations are
much more relevant than its external interactions. This notion came
together with an overarching conceptualization of the organization of
living forms, deﬁned by Maturana as “autopoietic”, that is, self-produ-
cing machines. Although inﬂuential in the social sciences, Maturana’s
views have had limited acceptance in biology and neuroscience.
At about the same time as Maturana and Lettvin, Hubel and Wiesel
began a series of studies to analyze neuronal response to speciﬁc conﬁg-
urations of stimuli (Hubel and Wiesel 1977; Hubel 1988). They char-
acterized neurons according to their response selectivity when diﬀerent
kinds of stimuli were presented. For example, neurons in the retina or
the lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus (the main relay nucleus to
the cerebral cortex) respond to very simple stimuli, such as spots of light.
In the mid-layers of the primary visual area (also called V1), neurons are
more responsive to a light bar in a speciﬁc angular orientation (they
The Visual Paradigm 251
called these “simple cells”), while in more superﬁcial cortical layers,
“complex cells” are more sensitive to attributes like the direction of
movement (say left or right), and respond to a wider range of stimuli
than do simple cells. Even more cryptic than these are the “hypercom-
plex cells”, usually located in secondary visual areas and very diﬃcult to
describe in terms of their stimulus-response properties. The simplest
hypothesis for these ﬁndings is that several aligned spot-detecting tha-
lamic cells converge to form a simple cell, which would explain the
preference for linear stimuli in a speciﬁc orientation. Subsequently,
several simple cells converge to form a complex cell in the superﬁcial
layers of the visual cortex, and several of these converge to form hyper-
complex cells in other areas. Extending this idea implies that recognition
of complex patterns, such as faces, depends on the progressive conver-
gence of many simple attributes of the visual stimuli that are sequentially
integrated to construct a speciﬁc perceptual scene, which is perceived by
one or more neurons located somewhere in the brain. This notion led to
Jerry Lettvin’s ironic concept of the “grandmother cell”, a neuron that
speciﬁcally recognizes one’s own grandmother. Among the main objec-
tions to this interpretation was that this architecture is not compatible
with the system’s plasticity, and that too many of these grandmother-like
cells would be needed to account for all the things we are able to
perceive, let alone the complex percepts we learn in our lives.
Alternative models were proposed based on lateral interactions between
neighboring cells and the establishment of distributed large-scale net-
works involving diﬀerent areas, but to date none of these hypotheses has
been unequivocally supported by the evidence. Perhaps the most likely
situation is that there is a bit of both, that is, a hierarchical processing
network that is strongly modulated by preexisting activity in neighbor-
ing and distant regions. Some years ago, Rodrigo Quian Quiroga and
collaborators reported a subset of hippocampal neurons in human sub-
jects, selectively ﬁring in response to speciﬁc images of known faces (like
Jennifer Aniston, Halle Berry or Luke Skywalker), places, objects or
animals (Quiroga et al. 2005). From then on, the “grandmother cell”
rejuvenated into the “Jennifer Aniston neuron”, with much more gla-
mor. However, there is not just one neuron in the brain preferring
Jennifer Aniston, but rather about a million (about one in every
252 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
thousand hippocampal neurons). Furthermore, some of these neurons
also ﬁre in response to related faces, such as co-stars in the same series.
The result is that there are overlapping neuronal networks involved in
the responses to speciﬁc semantic stimuli, rather than a single hierarchi-
cally positioned neuron involved in complex recognition. Furthermore,
Quiroga doubts that these cells are speciﬁcally involved in individual
recognition. Rather he postulates that these neuronal ensembles partici-
pate in generating associative networks with preexisting memories that
permit consolidating memory and recall of contextual information
about a perception (Quiroga et al. 2008; Quiroga 2012).
Subsequent studies depicted a mixed organization of the visual sys-
tem, where together with hierarchical organization, parallel streams are
involved in processing diﬀerent attributes of the visual scene. The work
on the visual system was fundamental for recognizing the dorsal and
ventral pathways for speech and language, and I will succinctly review it
here (Zeki 1993). The visual pathway begins in the retina, the ganglion
neurons of which send axons to the lateral geniculate nucleus of the
thalamus, which then projects to the primary visual cortex or V1. There
are two main kinds of ganglion neurons in the retina. The ﬁrst are
parvocellular neurons, selective for chromatic or color stimuli and visual
details (the “P” pathway); and the other are magnocellular neurons,
selective for movement and gross shapes (the “M” pathway). The two
neuronal types project to diﬀerent layers in the lateral geniculate nucleus
(P and M layers, respectively), and neurons in these layers project to
diﬀerent subdivisions of the mid-layers in the primary visual cortex, such
that the laminar segregation acquired in the thalamus is maintained in
the visual cortex (Fig. 7.1). Information from visual detail from the P-
receiving sublayer projects to superﬁcial layers of V1; and the chromatic-
responding neurons cluster in these layers in small cellular aggregates
called “blobs” (Hubel 1988; Zeki 1993).
There are a series of stripes in the secondary visual area (V2) that cover
all layers and run the length of the area in a sort of zebra stripe pattern.
The stripes can be distinguished by the activity of a mitochondrial
enzyme, cytochrome oxidase. There are three types of stripes, thick,
thin and what are termed inter-stripes. From the P pathway, the color-
processing blobs of V1 project to the thin stripes of V2, and the
The Visual Paradigm 253
superﬁcial layers of V1 connect with the inter-stripe band. Neurons
from the M-receiving sublayer of V1 project directly into the thick
stripes of V2. Thus, the laminar segregation of inputs in V2 is trans-
formed into micro-areal segregation, where diﬀerent stripes convey
diﬀerent attributes of the visual stimulus. At higher levels of the visual
processing network, V2 micro-areal segregation becomes large scale areal
separation into two main processing pathways (Hubel 1988; Zeki 1993).
Area V2 projects to third-order visual areas called V3, V4 and V5,
which receive diﬀerent types of inputs from the former. For example,
area V4, located in the inferior temporal lobe, receives color (thin
stripes) and detailed visual (inter-stripes) information from V2. V4 is
essential for the subjective perception of color. Lesions in this area
produce a condition called achromatopsia in which patients become
Parietal
V5
V4
V3
V2
Blobs
Interblobs
Layer IVB
Interstripes
Thick stripes
Thin stripes
V1
Inferior
temporal
Fig. 7.1 Connections between visual areas. In gray arrows, the ventral path-
way, processing object information and details. In black arrows, the dorsal
pathway, processing spatial and movement information. Area V1 is sepa-
rated in its laminar components, while area V2 is composed of tangential
“stripes”. Different laminar and stripe elements convey distinct kinds of
visual information
254 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
partly color-blind in the visual ﬁeld contralateral to the site of the lesion.
Notably, color perception is not exactly the same as the ability to dis-
criminate wavelengths. The studies by Semir Zeki and others have pro-
vided substantial evidence that the perception of color is a subjective
phenomenon, and depends on contextual variables (Zeki 1993). To
understand this, we ﬁrst have to realize that objects do not have color
by themselves, as the light they reﬂect depends on the light by which they
are illuminated. Thus, a red object could be made to reﬂect more green
than red light, if illuminated with intense green light and faint red light.
The brain compensates for this eﬀect in a phenomenon called color
constancy, where despite diﬀerent lighting conditions, the object remains
the same color, within some limits of course. What the brain actually does
is to calculate how much red light and how much green light the object is
emitting compared to ambient light. Thus, regardless of how much red
and green light the object reﬂects at any instant, it will reﬂect more red
and less green light compared to its immediate surroundings if the
ambient is illuminated with the same light, and surrounding objects
have a balanced chromatic composition. Thus, the object is labeled as
“red” because it reﬂects more red light than its surroundings, and is not
“green”, even if it reﬂects more green than red light. This object-surround-
ings computation occurs in visual area V4, as chromatic cells in the retina
and V1 are strictly responsive to light wavelength. That is, the hypothe-
tical red object illuminated with mostly green light would be labeled in V1
as “green”. There are ways to fool the system by altering the chromatic
properties of the surroundings, which produces what is called color
shadows, in which one sees colors that are not present (Zeki 1993). A
good example of this is a dress that recently circulated in the Internet that
appeared blue or white depending on the observer and contextual condi-
tions. I have taken this small detour because I will make a similar
argument in Chapter 10, but in the area of speech perception.
Area V4 connects extensively with many areas in the inferior temporal
lobe, containing neurons selective to distinct objects such as faces (recall
Quiroga’s Jennifer Aniston neurons), hands and inanimate objects or
places. Bilateral lesions of the inferior temporal lobe produce visual
agnosia, which is the incapacity to recognize objects, of which the
most dramatic is prosopagnosia, referred to as the inability to recognize
The Visual Paradigm 255
the faces of familiar persons. This condition is usually caused by severe
brain injury, although there are examples of developmental prosopagno-
sia in absence of evident neurological lesions. Some celebrities like Brad
Pitt have claimed to be prosopagnosic, possibly a good excuse for
ignoring many of the people that approach them. It would in any
event be interesting to ﬁnd out what happened with his Jennifer
Aniston neurons. Visual areas from the inferior temporal lobe are highly
connected to the anterior tip of the temporal lobe (the temporal pole),
which serves as an interface between these sensory areas and limbic
regions involved in emotional processing and memory. On the other
hand, the dorsal visual pathway runs in the parietal lobe, in which area
V3 receives projections from the M pathway (thick bands of V2 and the
M-receiving sublayers of V1), and projects to V5 (also called MT).
These areas are selective for gross shapes and movement, and lesions in
V5 sometimes lead to a rare condition called akinetopsia, in which
subjects are unable to perceive movement. They have diﬃculty crossing
streets, as they cannot tell the velocity of vehicles or ﬁlling a teacup
because they cannot tell how full it is. These patients report not being
able to sense continuous movement but instead visualize a series of static
photographs that keep changing. V5 and other areas from the inferior
and posterior parietal lobe connect with higher order parietal areas that
in turn project into frontal areas for motor action (Zeki 1993).
Thus, two main streams were recognized in visual processing, a
ventral one running via the inferior temporal lobe, associated with object
recognition (the P pathway), and the other running dorsally to the
parietal lobe (the M pathway), associated with spatial information and
movement or space-time processing. These two pathways are usually
dubbed as the “what” (or “who”) and the “where” pathways, respec-
tively, although more recent interpretations prefer to nickname the
dorsal stream as the “how” pathway, as it links visuospatial processing
with motor commands in the frontal cortex via the parietal lobe. The
ventral pathway is involved in recognition, emotional and semantic
processing, while the dorsal pathway codes for context-dependent beha-
vioral patterns. However, this is not to say that these two streams are
totally independent; there are well known connections between the two
that may serve to maintain an integrated perception of say, a bouncing
256 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
colorful beach ball. The general problem of perceptual integration has
intrigued neuroscientists for some time, and has been referred to as the
binding problem. Synchronic oscillatory activity was proposed by Wolf
Singer, Francisco Varela and others as the main mechanism by which
distributed areas of the brain involved in diﬀerent processing domains
might integrate their activities contributing to a uniﬁed perceptual
image (Singer 1999; Varela et al. 2001). In this context, Jason
Yeatman and collaborators recently used tractographic imagery to ana-
lyze the human vertical occipital fasciculus, which connects the dorso-
lateral and ventrolateral visual cortices (see Chapter 2) (Yeatman et al.
2014). This tract was originally described by Wernicke in non-human
primates, and may serve as a main channel to integrate the ventral and
dorsal visual pathways.
Mapping Memory
In the 1970s, electrophysiologists began studying the activity of
neurons in higher-level cortical areas of the monkey to understand
the mechanisms underlying higher cognitive processes like memory
and attention. These studies were largely inspired by the ground-
breaking work in the 1930s of Carlyle Jacobsen, who pioneered a
controversial operation, the lobotomy (Jacobsen 1938). Jacobsen
showed that monkeys with bilateral prefrontal lesions (more pre-
cisely, in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex) had no problem solving
complex puzzles if the required information was available on sight,
but the moment there was an interruption of even a few seconds the
monkeys could no longer continue the task. This mirrored the
observations by earlier neurologists like John Hughlings Jackson of
human patients with prefrontal lesions, and reﬂected a signiﬁcant
deﬁcit in short-term memory, which many researchers later likened
to Baddeley’s visuospatial working memory (York and Steinberg
2011). Jacobsen even advanced the concept that short-term memory
must be maintained by some sort of sustained activity in the absence
of stimuli, or by recall of past events. Other researchers like Karl
Pribram and Mortimer Mishkin also made important contributions
Mapping Memory 257
to understanding the role of the prefrontal cortex in behavior, with
studies indicating distractibility, inﬂexibility and perseverative beha-
vior following lesions in this region (Pribram and Mishkin 1956;
Mishkin and Pribram 1955, 1956).
Two scientists were key in providing insights into the neurobiological
underpinnings of working memory. One was Joaquín Fuster, who trained
monkeys in the delayed match-to-sample task (Fuster and Alexander 1971;
Fuster 1995, 2003), which consists of brieﬂy presenting stimuli on a screen
(the sample), followed by a short delay of a few seconds in which stimuli are
erased, after which a second set of stimuli is presented. The animal then has to
select stimuli from the second set that ﬁt properties from the ﬁrst sample. For
example, the sample could be a colored dot, and the monkey has to
remember the color during the delay and match it to the same color in the
new set of stimuli. In 1971, Fuster and Garrett Alexander, in one paper and
Kisou Kubota and Hiroaki Niki in another described sustained ﬁring of
prefrontal and thalamic neurons during the performance of a delayed
response task (Fuster and Alexander 1971; Kubota and Niki 1971). The
two papers reported a variety of neuronal responses during the task, some of
which activated with the presentation of the sample, others activated just
before the response, and still others activated precisely during the delay when
no stimulus was present. These cells were selective for the sample and were
not considered to reﬂect a general attentional state. Rather, their activity was
interpreted as encoding or “keeping in mind” the information that was
required for a near-future task. In the previous chapter, I mentioned Mark
D’Esposito’s critique of this assumption (D’Esposito and Postle 2015). In
subsequent studies, Fuster, and others observed a variety of “memory cells”,
some ﬁring more intensely at the beginning of the delay and then decaying,
others with the reverse pattern of ﬁring more at the end, and others still that
showed a truly sustained pattern of activity during the delay (Fuster 1995,
2003). Nonetheless, Fuster is reluctant to use the term “working memory”
and uses the term “active memory”, making reference to a more general
process in which information not only from the environment but also stored
in long-term memory is activated by sustained ﬁring. Fuster envisions active
memory as a broad associative network formed by interactions between
diﬀerent brain systems that are maintained as a memory fragment in the
context of a behavioral outcome in the short term. In this way, Fuster gets
258 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
closer to the non-localizationist tradition that views the brain as resulting
from the operation of large-scale and pervasive networks that encode multi-
modal information. Moreover, he views the brain as a hierarchically orga-
nized system with distributed executive processes in the frontal lobe,
connecting with perceptual memories in the posterior brain (parietal, tem-
poral and occipital lobes). Lower-level representations from sensory and
motor networks are nested in these large-scale networks in an organization
that reﬂects the diﬀerent levels at which memory operates, from contextual to
sensorimotor. One of his well-known dictums is that there is no system in the
brain for memory, but rather there is the memory of diﬀerent systems. He
views memory as a property of the distinct sensorimotor networks involved in
behavior, rather than as a separate cognitive system involved in the storage of
diﬀerent kinds of information. Finally, Fuster claims that from birth, mem-
ories are formed by associative interactions that depend on experience, and
build over phylogenetically established frameworks that connect sensory and
motor domains, a point that I will discuss further in the next chapter.
The other main contributor to the neurobiology of working
memory was Patricia Goldman (later, Patricia Goldman-Rakic),
who followed Jacobsen’s studies and attempted to deﬁne the region
of the frontal cortex that is critically involved in short-term spatial
memory (Goldman and Rosvold 1970). She found that animals with
lesions in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, located dorsally to the
ventrolateral prefrontal cortex where Broca’s region is located, had
short-term spatial memory impairments. However, the animals were
able to do spatial tasks that did not require memory. Goldman then
worked with the renowned neuroanatomist Walle Nauta in visualiz-
ing the connectivity of these areas with tract tracing methods and
found columnar organization of inputs in the dorsolateral prefrontal
cortex, reminiscent of what David Hubel and Torsten Wiesel had
described earlier in the visual system (Goldman and Nauta 1977).
Together with Carmen Cavada and other researchers, Goldman-
Rakic found that the principal sulcus of the prefrontal lobe, involved
in spatial working memory, is closely connected to the parietal
association cortex, particularly in the intraparietal sulcus and neigh-
boring areas (more technically, areas 7a and 7lip) (Cavada and
Goldman-Rakic 1989a, b). Moreover, these two regions are intensely
Mapping Memory 259
connected to other frontal, temporal and parietal areas involved in
diﬀerent aspects of perception and behavior, as well as with many
subcortical nuclei (Fig. 7.2).
After becoming acquainted with Fuster’s and Kubota’s works,
Goldman-Rakic started working with Shintaro Funahashi using a
delayed match-to-sample task in which the animal did not have to
push buttons as in previous experiments, but was only required to
move its eyes to a location (Funahashi et al. 1989, 1991). Eye
movements were precisely monitored by an eye-tracking device, an
apparatus that is now commonplace in cognitive neuroscience
laboratories. Goldman-Rakic used spatially located samples as cues,
instead of object properties like color or shape, and identiﬁed spatial-
speciﬁc delay cells that ﬁre continuously with the location of an
object that is maintained in memory, and suppress ﬁring when other
locations are remembered. Notably, small lesions in the cell´s
Dorsal
Premotor
Dorsolateral
Prefrontal
Ventrolateral
Prefrontal
Inferior
Temporal
Parietal
V1
Auditory
Fig. 7.2 Dorsal and ventral pathways for vision and audition. The diagram
depicts the arrangement of the visual- prefrontal (gray arrows) and auditory-
prefrontal (black arrows) projections in the macaque, each depicting ventral
and dorsal components. Segmented arrows indicate projections that are less
developed in the monkey than in humans
260 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
surroundings produced impairment in the memory but not in the
perception of the precise location. This ﬁnding apparently challenges
Michael D’Esposito notion that memory is strictly represented in
sensory areas (Chapter 6) (D’Esposito and Postle 2015), but these
higher order areas may work by stabilizing neural activity in sensory
regions by top-down mechanisms that contribute to maintaining the
memory trace. In additional experiments, Goldman-Rakic and her
collaborators separated prefrontal neurons selective for locations in
more dorsal regions of the prefrontal cortex from neurons encoding
stimulus features such as color, shape and even faces in more ventral
prefrontal positions. Together with Amy Arnsten, Goldman-Rakic
identiﬁed the neuronal types involved in sustained ﬁring, located
mainly in cortical layer 3 and displaying extensive axonal arboriza-
tion to neighboring neurons with similar perceptual properties
(Arnsten et al. 1994). These connections engage in relatively
extended circuits that maintain activity during the delay period due
to recurrent excitation. Recurrent excitation during working memory
tasks is modulated by inhibitory interneurons, and more notably by
the neurotransmitter dopamine. Dopamine has a bell-shaped dose-
response relationship in which an intermediate doses provides opti-
mal results while doses that are too low or too high result in
functional impairment associated with distractibility or anxiety,
respectively. Goldman-Rakic then focused on the study of prefrontal
function in schizophrenia, providing important insights before her
unexpected death in 2003 (Arnsten 2013).
Goldman-Rakic and Fuster agreed that these neurons are the
cellular basis of mental representations, but Goldman-Rakic’s inter-
pretations were more on the localizationist side than Fuster’s.
Following the scaﬀolding provided by research on the visual system,
Goldman-Rakic distinguished two separate circuits involved in visual
working memory (Fig. 7.2) (Goldman-Rakic 1990, 1995; Goldman-
Rakic et al. 1999). The ﬁrst is a dorsal stream selective for spatial
cues that involves the primary visual area, posterior parietal cortices,
and dorsal regions of the dorsal prefrontal cortex. The second circuit
is a ventral stream that conveys object and facial information, invol-
ving the primary visual area, the inferior temporal lobe and more
Mapping Memory 261
ventral regions of the lateral prefrontal cortex. Note that these two
circuits together ﬁt Louis Foville’s longitudinal subdivision of the
brain described in Chapter 2, while Foville’s Sylvian convolution
corresponds to the dorsal and ventral auditory pathways to be
described below. Anatomically, connectivity between superior parie-
tal areas and dorsal prefrontal areas that subserve visuospatial work-
ing memory is provided by the superior longitudinal fasciculus, the
massive tract of ﬁbers that connects the parietal and frontal lobes.
On the other hand, the inferior longitudinal fasciculus, running
along the temporal lobe, contributes to the object and face-related
ventral stream. There are several tracts from the anterior temporal
lobe that may connect the ventral stream with the ventro-lateral
prefrontal cortex, like the capsula externa, the capsula extrema and
the uncinate fasciculus. Goldman’s Rakic’s depiction of a dorsal
visuospatial pathway, and a ventral object/face pathway for working
memory made a strong impact on the neuroscientiﬁc community,
and contributed signiﬁcantly to the exponential increase in publica-
tions involving working memory and the prefrontal cortex.
These experiments intrigued John Jonides and collaborators, who
developed a design to distinguish object and spatial working memory
in humans (Jonides et al. 1993). Subjects had to retain either the spatial
location or the shape of three objects for three seconds. While the spatial
task induced strong right hemisphere activation (occipital, parietal and
prefrontal areas), the object task activated left hemisphere regions,
particularly inferotemporal and parietal areas. This conﬁrmed the dis-
sociation between a dorsal spatial-related network, and an object-related
ventral network, also revealing diﬀerences in hemispheric specialization.
Further studies showed that lateralization for object working memory
depends on the nature of the stimulus, with the left hemisphere
dominant with abstract shapes and the right dominant for faces. These
were seminal studies for understanding the neural substrates of visual
working memory. However, little information was available in the
seventies and eighties about the neuroscience of auditory working
memory, which could be a lot more interesting for people working
on language.
262 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
The Search for Homology
As a biology undergraduate in the seventies, and then a graduate student in
neuroscience in the eighties, I was deeply intrigued by the Geschwind/
Wernicke neuronal model of language, which at the time was depicted as a
circumscribed circuit with no counterpart in non-human primates. The
evolutionary origin of this circuit was a complete mystery that practically
no one at that point had tried to solve. My undergraduate mentors
Humberto Maturana and Francisco Varela were reluctant to recognize
the existence of localized systems in the brain and adhered to the concept of
dynamic large-scale networks in which the anatomical delineation of
neural systems was less relevant than their functional dynamics.
However, when I moved to the United States in the late 1980s, ﬁrst to
the lab of Al Galaburda, and then to the labs of Eran Zaidel and Arne
Scheibel, the perspective was more localizationist, and the notion of a brain
subdivided into distinct modules specialized for diﬀerent functions was
well accepted. As I said earlier in this book, the systemic or holistic
paradigm provides a wealth of theoretical perspectives, but the localiza-
tionist approach has nourished us with substantial empirical evidence and
has allowed us to chart the ﬁrst maps of brain function. The combination
of the two views of the brain may actually represent the optimal approx-
imation of brain function, working with a trial and error strategy.
Moreover, the module-based approach in a way simpliﬁes the issue of
tracking the phylogenetic ancestry of a function or organ, as it is easier to
search for similar components in other species. In this line, the studies at
the time by Fuster, Goldman-Rakic and their colleagues seemed to me a
promising framework to understand the origin and evolution of language
circuits. I could not help but imagine similarity between the large-scale
networks for visuospatial working memory depicted by Patricia Goldman-
Rakic, and the Wernicke-Geschwind model of the language circuit via the
arcuate fasciculus. The ventral pathway for language was not yet fully
recognized.
The existence of a circuit comparable to the language network in the
monkey would strongly imply evolutionary continuity between non-
human primates and us. The ﬁrst step in this line was to determine
The Search for Homology 263
elements in other species homologous to Broca’s region, Wernicke’s
region and their connections (Aboitiz 1988). But homology does not
mean identical. Richard Owen, whom we met in the Chapter 1, deﬁned
homology in the mid-1800s as the “same” organ in diﬀerent species,
regardless of diﬀerences in form or function (Owen 1837; Rupke 1994).
This means that homologous organs can display a variety of shapes
and functions, like the ﬁns of ﬁsh and the limbs of mammals. With
Darwin, the concept of homology acquired a completely new historical
dimension as it implied a structure present in the common ancestor
of two species that diverged into diﬀerent forms but is still recognizable
in terms of development, inner structure or relative position.
Unfortunately, there is no clear-cut criterion to determine homology,
which has sometimes led to agitated controversies, as I will discuss in
Chapter 9.
Fortunately, ﬁnding areas homologous to those assigned to the classi-
cal language circuits was not that diﬃcult. In the early 1980s, Al
Galaburda, working with Friedrich Sanides and Deepak Pandya, parcel-
lated the human and macaque auditory cortices in detail, subdividing it
into a mosaic of interconnected areas organized around the primary
auditory regions (Brodmann’s areas 41 and 42; see Chapter 2)
(Galaburda and Sanides 1980; Galaburda and Pandya 1983). One of
the most posterior of these areas was Tpt in the planum temporale,
which we have referred to before in relation to its asymmetry in the
human, and its possible correspondence to Wernicke’s region.
Subsequent studies by Todd Preuss and Goldman-Rakic identiﬁed
area Tpt in the galago, a basal primate, indicating that this area has a
long evolutionary history and predates the origin of speech (Preuss and
Goldman-Rakic 1991a). What happened with area Tpt in human
evolution, did it acquire a new function, associated with speech proces-
sing? Things like this may happen. An example is the visual word form
area in humans, described by Stanislaas Dehaene, which decodes the
visual structure of letters translating them into phonological representa-
tions (see Chapter 2) (Cohen et al. 2002). This area exists in illiterate
people, but obviously does not play this function, and probably partici-
pates in a bimodal or multimodal integration network. Furthermore, the
capacity for orthographic processing is present even in pigeons, showing
264 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
that this ability can develop from general perceptual abilities (Scarf et al.
2016). Likewise, area Tpt is probably part of a multimodal interface in
primates, and may have acquired its function in human evolution
through its engagement in a novel auditory-vocal interface. Area Tpt
has been described as a multisensory “hub” in which visual, auditory and
somatosensory inputs from the occipital, parietal and temporal lobes
converge, respectively. In this sense, it is well placed to participate in the
sensorimotor transformation of vocal sounds, and to associate these
sounds with other sensory modalities. As I have said, elucidating the
relationship between this area and area Spt described in the previous
chapter may be worth pursuing. The identiﬁcation of a homologue to
Broca’s region was also relatively straightforward. As I described in
Chapter 2, Broca’s area consists at its core, but not exclusively, of
cytoarchitectonic areas 44 and 45 in the ventrolateral cortex of the
human brain. Preuss and Goldman Rakic identiﬁed area 45 (corre-
sponding to anterior Broca’s region, pars triangularis), but not area 44,
in the macaque (Preuss and Goldman Rakic 1991b). For many research-
ers, areas 44, corresponding to posterior Broca’s region in the human,
emerged in humans as an outgrowth from the ventral premotor region
that represented orofacial movements.
However, the connectivity between the presumed homologues of
Broca’s and Wernicke’s regions provided some surprising ﬁndings. By
the 1980s and 1990s there were studies on the frontal connectivity of the
macaque inspired largely by the earlier work by Goldman-Rakic. The
most important at that time were a series of papers published by Todd
Preuss and Goldman-Rakic, and Michael Petrides and Deepak Pandya
(Preuss and Goldman-Rakic 1991c; Petrides and Pandya 1984, 1988).
This evidence indicated that the main input to what corresponds to
Broca’s area in the monkey originated in the inferior parietal lobe,
traveling via the superior longitudinal fasciculus. On the other hand,
the main output of the posterior auditory areas was directed to dorsal
premotor regions involved in eye movement control, instead of running
via the arcuate fasciculus into the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex as was
supposed in humans. No strong evidence had been found of a direct
connection between the homologues of Broca’s and Wernicke’s areas via
an arcuate fasciculus. There was only one study, by Terrence Deacon
The Search for Homology 265
indicating direct connectivity between a region lateral to area Tpt and
ventral premotor areas in the monkey, which overlaps with terminations
from inferior parietal regions (Deacon 1992).
In 1995, I wrote an article in a low-proﬁle journal proposing that the
language areas and their connections arose through the establishment of
a robust temporoparietal-prefrontal auditory-vocal network that served
as a basic working memory system for names and primitive vocal
utterances (Aboitiz 1995). I speculated that the capacity to keep vocal
signals in mind for some time was critical for tasks such as recalling the
name of an object that was not present. Thus, an ampliﬁcation of vocal
working memory capacity was the basis of the origin of the language-
related circuits and speech. Subsequently, Ricardo García and I pro-
posed a more detailed scheme for the homologies and evolution of the
language regions (Fig. 7.3) (Aboitiz and Garcia 1997). We depicted a
three-way input to Broca’s area and its corresponding region in the
monkey. The evidence at that time indicated that the main projection
to Broca’s homologue in the monkey is not from auditory areas but from
the inferior parietal lobe, particularly areas 40 and 39, together corre-
sponding to the human supramarginal and angular gyri. We speculated
that auditory projections reach the inferior parietal lobe via a projection
from the superior temporal lobe. This makes an indirect projection
between Wernicke and Broca’s areas via the inferior parietal lobe,
which we argued is also present in the human. A second input to the
homologue of Broca’s area consists of a direct projection from auditory
regions via the arcuate fasciculus as speciﬁed by the Wernicke-
Geschwind model. However, this tract was considered rudimentary in
the monkey, if present at all. Finally, we proposed a third input to
Broca’s area or its homologue from the anterior temporal lobe, carrying
complex visual information to be associated with auditory projections.
This projection ﬁts the ventral visual pathway described above, which, as
we will see below, partly merges with the ventral auditory pathway.
Adding and subtracting a few elements, the network for language we
proposed is essentially the same as the one that is accepted today and was
depicted in Chapter 2. We hypothesized that the vocal repertoire of early
humans expanded concomitant with the ampliﬁcation of the arcuate
fasciculus and other projections from premotor regions to the brainstem
266 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
controlling vocal musculature. Together with this expansion, an increase in
auditory working memory capacity was provided by the growing arcuate
fasciculus and inferior parietal projections, generating an incipient phono-
logical loop for learning increasingly complex vocal utterances. In subse-
quent articles, my students and I emphasized the anatomically more
conservative arrangement of the ventral auditory pathway, which in mon-
keys may be the main circuit for auditory-vocal coordination. On the other
hand, the dorsal pathway (especially the arcuate fasciculus) has undergone
the greatest degree of expansion in human evolution (Aboitiz et al. 2006,
2010; Aboitiz and García 2009; Aboitiz 2012).
40
SMG
44
45
TE
39
Tpt
Fig. 7.3 Our original model of language connectivity. We proposed that
connections between area Tpt and area 40, and between area Tpt and
Broca’s area (areas 44, 45) became ampliﬁed in the human lineage. Note
however that area 44 had not yet been described in the monkey (Aboitiz
1997). Connections between Broca’s area and the dorsolateral prefrontal
cortex were also depicted in the original model (not shown). Overall, the
diagram contains many of the elements shown in Fig. 2.3. AF, arcuate fasci-
culus; SMG, supramarginal gyrus, TE, area TE; Tpt, area Tpt
The Search for Homology 267
The Paths of Sound
A couple years after our proposal, two independent groups, one led by
Liz Romanski in collaboration with Goldman-Rakic and Josef
Rauschecker, and the other involving Troy Hackett and Jon Kaas,
conﬁrmed that the dorsal auditory stream in the monkey directs to
dorsal prefrontal areas instead of the homologue of Broca’s area. In
addition, they described a robust ventral stream of auditory-prefrontal
projections originating in the anterior temporal lobe, which ends prin-
cipally in the anterior ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and adjacent areas
(Fig. 7.2) (Romanski et al. 1999a, b, 2000; Romanski 2007; Kaas and
Hackett 1999). These studies showed that the dorsal auditory pathway is
associated with spatial and motion auditory processing, while the ventral
pathway is more involved in identifying sounds including vocalizations
and speech. Ricardo Gil-da-Costa and collaborators also showed that
species-speciﬁc calls induce activation of visual and limbic areas of the
inferior temporal lobe of the macaque (Gil-da-Costa et al. 2004). These
notable ﬁndings were widely conﬁrmed by a subsequent series of studies
indicating a similar organization of visual and auditory projections, both
subdivided in dorsal and ventral pathways.
Romanski and Goldman-Rakic also described an auditory domain in the
ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (areas 12 and 45) of the monkey, with auditory
neurons sensitive to conspeciﬁc vocalizations, intermingled with visual neu-
rons sensitive to faces (Romanski and Goldman-Rakic 2002). This indicates
that the ventral auditory and visual pathways converge in this region,
integrating vocalizations and orofacial gestures. More recently, Romanski
and collaborators showed that a population of neurons in the monkey
ventrolateral prefrontal cortex responds to videos of conspeciﬁc faces, audi-
tory vocalizations or a combination of these (Romanski and Diehl 2011;
Romanski 2012; Sugihara et al. 2006). In addition, the activity of some
neurons is suppressed when incongruous face-vocalization pairs are pre-
sented, which may be relevant for determining the caller’s identity (Diehl
and Romanski 2014). Likewise, Steﬀen Hage and Andreas Nieder analyzed
single neurons in the macaque ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, the discharge
rate of which is modulated by both vocalizations and the perception of
268 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
species-speciﬁc calls (Hage and Nieder 2015). Altogether, this evidence
provides an excellent starting point for the development of Broca’s area in
human evolution, notably receiving its main projection from the ventral
auditory and visual pathways. Nonetheless, face-voice associations may not
be as developed in monkeys as they are in humans. Julia Sliwa, Sylvia Wirth
and collaborators recently described dissociation between facial and vocal
responses in hippocampal and inferotemporal cortex neurons of monkeys, in
which facial information correlated with individual recognition while voice
information did not (Sliwa et al. 2016). This ﬁnding contrasts with the
reports by Quian Quiroga and collaborators that hippocampal neurons in
humans can multimodally represent familiar conspeciﬁcs (Quiroga 2012).
Thus, associations between faces and voices in the ventral pathway may have
been strengthened over the course of human evolution (Viskontas et al.
2009).
Subsequent ﬁndings in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex of the
macaque further reﬁned the homologies with Broca’s area. Michael
Petrides and collaborators were the ﬁrst to identify area 44 in the
macaque brain, providing a complete homology between human and
macaque areas 44 and 45, the core of Broca’s region (Petrides et al.
2005, Frey et al. 2014). Stimulation of area 44 triggered orofacial
movement and rarely hand movements, but not ocular movements,
indicating that it is mainly involved in the control of vocal behavior.
Eye and hand movements were elicited with stimulation in other dorsal
premotor areas. Therefore, the rudiment of Broca’s region in the mon-
key contains two components, an anterior sensory one (area 45) that
receives auditory and visual input, and a posterior motor one (area 44)
that controls orofacial movement. The ventral auditory and visual path-
ways feed into the anterior component, while the posterior component
receives projections from the dorsal pathway.
Petrides and collaborators subsequently analyzed the dorsal pathway to
Broca’s area in the human and its homologue in the macaque (Petrides
2014). The authors depicted a nested hierarchy of connections between
ventrolateral prefrontal and inferior parietal areas in which lower-order
sensory and motor areas close to each other are heavily interconnected,
while slightly more distant middle-order parietal and frontal areas are also
interconnected. The even more distant higher order parietal and prefrontal
The Paths of Sound 269
areas also have strong connectivity between them (see Fig. 2.3 of Chapter 2).
In addition, Petrides and collaborators proposed that the temporal lobe feeds
multimodal input (including auditory signals) to the inferior parietal lobe,
which provides a route connecting the auditory cortex, the inferior parietal
lobe and Broca’s area or its homologue (Petrides 2014, Yeterian et al. 2012,
Petrides et al 2012). Petrides and his group also described an arcuate
fasciculus in the monkey, directly connecting area Tpt and area 45, but it
seems less developed than in humans. Finally, the superior temporal lobe
connects with anterior Broca’s area (area 45) via the ventral pathway (Frey et
al. 2008; Petrides and Pandya 2009; Margulies and Petrides 2016). Although
here I tried to make a simpliﬁed scheme of inferior parietal-prefrontal
connections, there are still some discrepancies among authors in the details
of this network, which will probably be resolved by further work and the
development of more sophisticated imaging techniques (see next Chapter).
In a very similar vein, Marco Catani, Dominic ﬀychte and Valentina
Bambini depicted a quite conserved pattern of connectivity between the
language-related networks and their homologue regions in the monkey brain
(the SCALED model; see Chapter 2) (Catani et al. 2005; Catani and
Bambini 2014; Tremblay and Dick 2016). In both species, there are profuse
longitudinal tracts along the ventral pathway, but the direct connections
between Wernicke’s and Broca’s regions via the arcuate fasciculus, and
between Wernicke’s area and the inferior parietal lobe are poorly developed
in the monkey, as was proposed in our original scheme (Fig. 7.3).
The above model is widely accepted today as the basic network for
language processing (see Chapter 2), and is consistent with our original
proposal of a phylogenetically conserved tripartite input into Broca’s
region or its monkey homologue. In humans, the dorsal pathway pro-
cesses phonological and articulatory information, and complex syntactic
processes, while the ventral pathway has more to do with identiﬁcation
of sounds and speech, and with associating these inputs with other
stimuli and long-term memories in a semantic network. Accordingly,
while the more posterior part of Broca’s area (area 44), which is con-
nected to the dorsal pathway, has a role in phonological ﬂuency and
grammatical processing, the anterior Broca’s region (area 45), which is
more connected to the ventral pathway, is more related to associative
processes and memory retrieval.
270 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
From Ape to Human
A potential weakness of the aforementioned studies is that none of them
has directly compared the auditory pathways in humans and non-human
primates in a single study. James Rilling and collaborators made such
pioneering comparative studies using tractographic information from
monkey, chimpanzee and human brains (Rilling et al. 2008). In a
groundbreaking study, they reported that the arcuate fasciculus is pre-
sent in monkeys, chimpanzees and humans. Nonetheless, Rilling and
colleagues found a progressive expansion of the arcuate fasciculus from
the macaque to chimpanzee, with maximum development in humans.
Conversely, the ventral pathway has remained relatively unchanged in
primates, and therefore becoming relatively smaller than the dorsal
pathway as brains have increased in size. Note that the dorsal pathway
visualized by Rilling and colleagues includes ﬁbers from both inferior
parietal and superior temporal areas, possibly including elements from
the superior longitudinal fasciculus. As I said in Chapter 2, these ﬁber
tracts are most likely not discrete entities but made up of a continuous
plexus of longitudinal ﬁbers covering the white matter below the poster-
ior temporal, parietal and frontal lobes. Very recently, the group led by
Kristina Simonyan found robust connectivity in humans between the
area in the motor cortex representing the larynx (aptly termed the
laryngeal motor cortex) and somatosensory and inferior parietal regions,
much stronger than that observed in the macaque, which further high-
lights the relevance of inferior parietal components in controlling speech
processing (Kumar et al. 2016).
Rilling and his team also found that the arcuate fasciculus proper
emerges in humans both from the superior temporal sulcus and middle
temporal gyrus, while in the chimp these ﬁbers originate only in the
superior temporal gyrus (Rilling et al. 2012; Rilling 2014). This implies
a broader connectivity in the former, and supports the concept of a role
of the dorsal pathway (including inferior parietal projections) in human
language. Nonetheless, the arcuate fasciculus of the chimpanzee is larger
than that of the monkey. Furthermore, in the chimpanzee the authors
found asymmetry in this tract similar to that in the human, consistent
From Ape to Human 271
with earlier reports of an asymmetric planum temporale in both species (see
Chapter 4). One possibility is that the gradual ampliﬁcation of the dorsal
auditory pathway, compared to the conservation of the ventral pathway, is
explained by the allometry of cortical expansion. In other words, there is
disproportionate expansion of the posterior ventrolateral prefrontal regions
and the inferior parietal lobe or posterior temporal areas (making up the
dorsal pathway) compared to the more conservative growth of anterior
ventrolateral prefrontal regions connected to the anterior temporal lobe.
From this perspective, the arcuate fasciculus can be considered an extension
of the ventral aspect of the superior longitudinal fasciculus, as there is no
clear-cut separation between the two tracts. As I discussed in Chapter 3, the
evidence for selective enlargement of the entire frontal lobe in primates and
humans is controversial. However, the group led by Marcello Rosa
(Chaplin et al. 2013) tackled this question by quantifying the diﬀerential
volumetric expansion of speciﬁc cortical regions using surface models of the
cortex of New World monkeys and macaques, and identiﬁed homologous
regions as points of reference. They further compared these patterns with
published data on the cortical expansion of the human brain. Their results
show selective expansion across species of the temporoparietal junction, the
ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and the dorsal cingulate cortex. Moreover,
the above authors argue that these regions are among the latest to mature in
the cerebral cortex, which agrees with Georg Striedter and Barbara Finlay’s
assertion that late developing brain components have undergone the great-
est expansion during brain growth (Chapter 3). More recent reports have
reached similar conclusions (Margulies et al. 2016).
Another issue is that although anatomical evidence has shown robust
connectivity between the inferior parietal lobe and Broca’s region or its
surroundings, the function of this projection in verbal processing and
working memory remains enigmatic, partly after Buchsbaum and
D’Esposito’s critique of these areas as representing the phonological
storage of Baddeley’s phonological loop (Buchsbaum and D’Esposito
2008). In the last chapter, I proposed that the inferior parietal lobe
supports working memory in diﬀerent ways, but at this point it may be
of interest to discuss the role of these areas in the non-human primate in
order to visualize an evolutionary transition to their role in human
speech. In this line, Jon Kaas and collaborators have emphasized the
272 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
general development of parietal-frontal connections in mammalian and
primate evolution, very likely concomitant with increasing brain size,
ant their role in the selection of complex ethologically relevant beha-
vioral patterns among competing motor programs (Kaas and
Stepniewska 2016). Speciﬁcally, the inferior parietal lobe represents a
converging site of diﬀerent sensory modalities and participates in the
execution of several complex motor behaviors, including grasping beha-
vior and object manipulation, but it also drives facial motor patterns and
communicative gestures, which may have been of relevance for early
human communication. Dietricht Stout and Tierry Chaminade asso-
ciated these areas with tool use, particularly in the right hemisphere (see
Chapter 4) (Stout and Chaminade 2012). On the other hand, Josef
Rauschecker has oﬀered an interpretation more related to vocal-auditory
circuitry. He proposes that the dorsal pathway conveys a backward
“eﬀerence copy” (that is, a template of ongoing motor activity) from
prefrontal and motor cortices into the inferior parietal lobe to reach
auditory areas in order to generate an “optimal state estimation” of
vocalizations and reﬁne the output. That is, the dorsal pathway not
only works forwardly, but is also bidirectional, like most cortical path-
ways (Rauschecker 2012). This is complementary to Angela Friederici’s
proposal that the arcuate fasciculus in humans conveys a top-down
inﬂuence on early speech processing areas, which originates in Broca’s
region (Chapter 2) (Skeide and Friederici 2016). Thus, the co-option of
the inferior parietal areas to support an incipient phonological loop
could have originated from a top-down control system to optimize
vocalizations, which may have been increasingly relevant as our human
ancestors learned to vocalize, as opposed to the stereotypical calls of
other primates.
Function and Behavior
Concomitant with tract-tracing analyses, a series of comparative func-
tional imaging studies have yielded important evidence of the activation
patterns of the macaque brain in relation to heard or produced vocaliza-
tions. Most of these studies have shown striking resemblance between
Function and Behavior 273
the areas involved in language processing in humans and those support-
ing conspeciﬁc vocalization processing in non-human primates. For
example, some years ago Ricardo Gil-da-Costa and collaborators pub-
lished a PET study with macaques in which they observed activations in
the ventral premotor area, auditory area Tpt and the posterior parietal
cortex after exposure to species-speciﬁc vocalizations (Gil-da-Costa et
al. 2006). Notably, the activations were either bilateral or had no
consistent left or right asymmetry (see Chapter 4). More recently, the
group led by Christopher Petkov showed that learning a simple artiﬁcial
grammar involves perisylvian regions highly similar to the language
networks in both humans and monkeys (Wilson et al. 2013). They
used a simple sequential pattern that had speciﬁc variants, and assessed
the brain activity of consistent sequences, contrasted with violations of
these sequences. The authors observed activations in monkeys asso-
ciated with this contrast in brain areas comparable to those seen in
relation to language tasks, particularly involving syntactic processing
(perisylvian, frontal temporal and parietal areas). In a subsequent study,
Petkov and colleagues examined the brain activity of monkeys during a
non-word sequencing task and found activation in the ventrolateral
prefrontal cortex similar to that in humans performing syntactic tasks
(Wilson et al. 2015). They concluded that syntactic capacity evolved in
humans from a domain general system involved in sequential proces-
sing. This evidence and that reviewed in the previous sections indicate
that human speech networks can be traced to a basic circuitry involved
in processing species-speciﬁc vocalizations in other primates. But the
innovation in the human brain that allowed our ancestors to make the
leap to speech and language is that we humans are endowed with a new
functional circuit, the phonological loop, which produced a big bang in
our communicative and cognitive capacities.
In addition to neuroanatomical evidence, there is functional and
behavioral data supporting the emergence of the phonological loop in
humans. Franz-Xaver Neubert and collaborators used a combined trac-
tography and resting-state functional connectivity analysis of some 20
human brains and 20 macaque brains to unveil the relationships
between the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and other cortical areas
(Neubert et al. 2014). They found an overall species similarity of
274 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
network organization, although they described fundamental diﬀerences in
the connectivity of posterior auditory areas (associated with the dorsal path-
way) with prefrontal regions. In humans, there was a conspicuous interaction
between posterior auditory areas and several areas in the ventrolateral pre-
frontal cortex, not only those traditionally involved in language, while in
macaques these projections are minimal. Anterior auditory areas (the ventral
pathway) evidenced similar frontal connectivity in the two species. These
functional diﬀerences imply distinct behavioral capacities. Another recent
report analyzed intracortical connectivity in macaques and humans, again
concluding that the arcuate fasciculus enables the emergence of verbal work-
ing memory, a key capacity for language learning (Schomers et al. 2017).
Finally, Brian Scott, Mortimer Mishkin and Pingbo Yin provided beha-
vioral support for a selective ampliﬁcation of auditory working memory in
our species. These authors presented an auditory delayed-match-to-sample
task to macaques, and found that their working memory was seriously
impaired when interfering stimuli were placed during the maintenance
period, which indicates a strong instability of the short-term auditory mem-
ory trace (Scott et al. 2012). This contrasts with their performance in visual
working memory, which is much more robust in these animals. In a more
recent review,Scottand Mishkin presentedevidencethatshort-termauditory
memory in monkeys relies on passive sensory retention of the stimulus, while
human working memory is based on phonological mechanisms activated by
long-termmemories (Scott and Mishkin 2016). Likewise,AmyPorembaand
collaborators analyzed the response patterns of monkey neurons in the
auditory cortex during a delayed match-to-sample task and observed little
sustained activity during the retention interval. Most of the neurons changed
activity either at the beginning or end of the interval (Bigelow et al. 2014).
Furthermore, they also recorded similar short-term auditory memory cells in
the anterior temporal lobe and found that this information is carried pre-
dominantly by the ventral auditory pathway.
A Key Innovation
In several articles we have proposed that the recruitment of the dorsal
pathway to support both phonological articulation and working mem-
ory was a radical event in human evolution, astronomically propelling
A Key Innovation 275
the vocal repertoire of our species (Aboitiz 1995, 2012; Aboitiz and
García 1997, 2009; Aboitiz et al. 2006, 2010,). This process may have
begun as early as Australopithecines, ﬁrst with the transition from
primitive ﬁxed forms of vocal communication to more ﬂexible, learned
patterns that became strongly adaptive in social behavior. Learned vocal
utterances may have been involved in mother-child relations, the estab-
lishment of individual alliances, facilitating group cohesion and other
social functions, providing advantages for those groups with more
elaborate vocal repertoires. Initially, vocal learning capacity was acquired
by a series of peripheral adaptations including modiﬁcations of orofacial
musculature and the oral cavity, and more reﬁned neural control of the
vocalization system based on the development of a descending cortical
projection to brainstem nuclei controlling vocalizations (see
Chapter 10). Suzana Herculano-Houzel has suggested that increasing
cortical control of both the hand and orofacial motor systems is just a
parallel consequence of increasing cortical size relative to subcortical
systems, which concomitantly increased the density of descending cor-
tical projections into the brainstem or spinal nuclei (see Chapter 3)
(Herculano-Houzel et al. 2016). Thus, greater vocal plasticity could
have been partly a consequence of increase in brain size, facilitating
more complex vocal communication that in turn generated selective
pressure for increasing brain size, and so on.
In addition, the eventual development of an incipient phonological
loop that increased verbal working memory capacity was key to learning
progressively complex vocal repertoires in the context of bidirectional,
conversational interactions with others, establishing a rudimentary form
of speech. Larger brain size in early humans provided the basic scaﬀold-
ing for the development of a direct auditory-vocal interface in the
cerebral cortex, producing the ﬁrst impetus for the ampliﬁcation of the
dorsal auditory pathway. Speciﬁcally, the arcuate fasciculus and related
tracts may have provided beneﬁts for the development of an auditory-
vocal sensorimotor interface, facilitating and amplifying learned oral
communication. In addition, the indirect dorsal pathway, connecting
the posterior temporal lobe with the inferior parietal lobe, and then with
the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (prospective Broca’s area) and motor
cortices, may have been recruited for vocal behavior by contributing to
276 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
select appropriate motor commands to execute the learned utterances,
and by providing a top-down control that served to reﬁne output
during learning. Recent evidence suggests that this articulatory system
is to some extent bilateral, notwithstanding the possibility of hemi-
spheric segregation of functions, as with speech perception (Cogan et al.
2014; see Chapter 4).
As vocalization behavior became crucial for social interactions in
early humans, a selective tendency arose favoring genetic and epige-
netic modiﬁcations that strengthened the functional connectivity of
the incipient auditory-vocal circuits and their descending projection
to vocal motor nuclei in the brainstem, inducing further lateralization
of these functions. The developmental mechanisms involved in the
reﬁnement of these projections may not be particularly complex,
including the modulation of connectivity by generating new connec-
tions or eliminating others, again by modifying the labels that axons
use to establish synaptic contacts with their presumed targets.
Additionally to this, and possibly more importantly, is the initial
exuberance and the subsequent dramatic reduction of connectivity
that occurs in early cortical development, where the majority of
connections established in utero are lost by the ﬁrst or second year
of life (see Chapters 3 and 5). This process occurs in all cortical areas
and subcortical connections, and has been associated to critical
periods of language acquisition (see Chapters 1 and 10). Some of
these early transient projections can be maintained by experimental
means, avoiding their retraction and allowing them to form func-
tional circuits in targets that otherwise would not receive such
projections. As discussed in Chapter 3, the studies by Migranka Sur
and Sarah Pallas have shown that experimental manipulations can
stabilize the transient exuberant ectopic connections in the develop-
ing brain, generating novel functional circuits (Sur et al. 1990). This
provides a mechanism by which neuronal connectivity can rapidly
change in evolution, using minimal genetic modiﬁcations. In this
line, many authors such as Dale Purves, have proposed that the
process of axonal retraction during development can be viewed as a
reservoir of connections that can be used for brain plasticity after
early lesions. More relevant to this discussion, this transient axonal
A Key Innovation 277
exuberance can also provide a supply for rapid evolutionary change in
connectivity, where the balance of retraction of axons can be modu-
lated to generate new circuits and eliminate old ones (Purves 1988).
In the next chapter, I will discuss other functions of the expanding
parietal system and dorsal pathway that contributed to the development
of human communication as a multimodal process involving not only
vocalizations but also facial, hand and body gestures. This network
provides a unifying context in which toolmaking, manual dexterity
and gestuality contributed to shaping vocal language. As I have repeat-
edly said, human communication is an opportunistic phenomenon that
takes advantage of any possible behavioral means to convey emotional or
descriptive contents. It is in this context that human speech arose, where
there was probably strong pressure for ﬂexibility in communication,
perhaps associated with more complex social life, including a rudimen-
tary culture and the beneﬁt of developing increasing emotional bonds
among individuals.
References
Aboitiz F (1988) Homology: a comparative or a historical concept? Acta
Biotheor 37:27–29
Aboitiz F (1995) Working memory networks and the origin of language areas
in the human brain. Med Hypotheses 44:504–506
Aboitiz F (2012) Gestures, vocalizations, and memory in language origins.
Front Evol Neurosci 4:2
Aboitiz F, García VR (1997) The evolutionary origin of the language areas in the
human brain. A neuroanatomical perspective. Brain Res Rev 25:381–396
Aboitiz F, García R (2009) Merging of phonological and gestural circuits in
early language evolution. Rev Neurosci 20:71–84
Aboitiz F, García RR, Bosman C, Brunetti E (2006) Cortical memory mechan-
isms and language origins. Brain Lang 98:40–56
Aboitiz F, Aboitiz S, García R (2010) The phonological loop: a key innovation
in human evolution. Curr Anthropol 51:S55–S65
Arnsten AF (2013) The neurobiology of thought: the groundbreaking
discoveries of Patricia Goldman-Rakic 1937–2003. Cereb Cortex
23:2269–2281
278 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
Arnsten AF, Cai JX, Murphy BL, Goldman-Rakic PS (1994) Dopamine D1
receptor mechanisms in the cognitive performance of young adult and aged
monkeys. Psychopharmacology 116:143–151
Bigelow J, Rossi B, Poremba A (2014) Neural correlates of short-term memory
in primate auditory cortex. Front Neurosci 8:250
Buchsbaum BR, D’Esposito M (2008) The search for the phonological store:
from loop to convolution. J Cogn Neurosci 20:762–778
Catani M, Bambini V (2014) A model for Social Communication And
Language Evolution and Development (SCALED). Curr Opin Neurobiol
28:165–171
Catani M, Jones DK, ﬀytche DH (2005) Perisylvian language networks of the
human brain. Ann Neurol 57:8–16
Cavada C, Goldman-Rakic PS (1989a) Posterior parietal cortex in rhesus
monkey: I. Parcellation of areas based on distinctive limbic and sensory
corticocortical connections. J Comp Neurol 287:393–421
Cavada C, Goldman-Rakic PS (1989b) Posterior parietal cortex in rhesus
monkey: II. Evidence for segregated corticocortical networks linking sensory
and limbic areas with the frontal lobe. J Comp Neurol 287:422–445
Chaplin TA, Yu HH, Soares JG, Gattass R, Rosa MG (2013) A conserved
pattern of diﬀerential expansion of cortical areas in simian primates. J
Neurosci 33:15120–15125
Cogan GB, Thesen T, Carlson C, Doyle W, Devinsky O, Pesaran B (2014)
Sensory-motor transformations for speech occur bilaterally. Nature
507:94–98
Cohen L, Lehéricy S, Chochon F, Lemer C, Rivaud S, Dehaene S (2002)
Language-speciﬁc tuning of visual cortex? Functional properties of the
Visual Word Form Area. Brain 125:1054–1069
Deacon TW (1992) Cortical connections of the inferior arcuate sulcus cortex in
the macaque brain. Brain Res 573:8–26
D’Esposito M, Postle BR (2015) The cognitive neuroscience of working
memory. Annu Rev Psychol 66:115–142
Diehl MM, Romanski LM (2014) Responses of prefrontal multisensory neu-
rons to mismatching faces and vocalizations. J Neurosci 34:11233–11243
Eccles JC (1967) The inhibitory control of spinal reﬂex action.
Electroencephalogr Clin Neurophysiol Suppl 25:20–34
Frey S, Campbell JS, Pike GB, Petrides M (2008) Dissociating the human
language pathways with high angular resolution diﬀusion ﬁber tractography.
J Neurosci 28:11435–1144
References 279
Frey S, Mackey S, Petrides M (2014) Cortico-cortical connections of areas 44
and 45B in the macaque monkey. Brain Lang 31:36–55
Funahashi S, Bruce CJ, Goldman-Rakic PS (1989) Mnemonic coding of visual
space in the monkey’s dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. J Neurophysiol
61:331–349
Funahashi S, Bruce CJ, Goldman-Rakic PS (1991) Neuronal activity related to
saccadic eye movements in the monkey’s dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. J
Neurophysiol 65:1464–1483
Fuster JM (1995) Memory in the Cerebral Cortex. Bradford, MIT Press,
Cambridge
Fuster JM (2003) Cortex and Mind. Unifying Cognition. Oxford University
Press, Oxford
Fuster JM, Alexander GE (1971) Neuron activity related to short-term mem-
ory. Science 173:652–654
Galaburda AM, Pandya DN (1983) The intrinsic architectonic and connec-
tional organization of the superior temporal region of the rhesus monkey.
J Comp Neurol 221:169–184
Galaburda A, Sanides F (1980) Cytoarchitectonic organization of the human
auditory cortex. J Comp Neurol 190:597–610
Gil-da-Costa R, Braun A, Lopes M, Hauser MD, Carson RE, Herscovitch
P, Martin A (2004) Toward an evolutionary perspective on conceptual
representation: species-speciﬁc calls activate visual and aﬀective
processing systems in the macaque. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
101:17516–17521
Gil-da-Costa R, Martin A, Lopes MA, Muñoz M, Fritz JB, Braun AR (2006)
Species-speciﬁc calls activate homologs of Broca’s and Wernicke’s areas in
the macaque. Nat Neurosci 9:1064–1070
Goldman PS, Nauta WJ (1977) Columnar distribution of cortico-cortical
ﬁbers in the frontal association, limbic, and motor cortex of the developing
rhesus monkey. Brain Res 122:393–413
Goldman PS, Rosvold HE. (1970) Localization of function within the
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of the rhesus monkey. Exp Neurol
27:291–304
Goldman-Rakic PS (1990) Cellular and circuit basis of working memory in
prefrontal cortex of nonhuman primates. Prog Brain Res 85:325–335;
discussion 335–336
Goldman-Rakic PS (1995) Cellular basis of working memory. Neuron
14:477–485
280 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
Goldman-Rakic PS, Funahashi S, Bruce CJ (1999) Neocortical memory cir-
cuits. Cold Spring Harb Symp Quant Biol 55:1025–1038
Hage SR, Nieder A (2015) Audio-vocal interaction in single neurons of the
monkey ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. J Neurosci 35:7030–7040
Herculano-Houzel S, Kaas JH, de Oliveira-Souza R (2016) Corticalization of
motor control in humans is a consequence of brain scaling in primate
evolution. J Comp Neurol 524:448–455
Hubel DH (1988) Eye, Brain and Vision. Scientiﬁc American Library, New York
Hubel DH, Wiesel TN (1977) Ferrier lecture. Functional architecture of
macaque monkey visual cortex. Proc R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 198:1–59
Jacobsen CF (1938). Studies of cerebral function in primates. Comp Psychol
Monogr 13:1–68
Jonides J, Smith EE, Koeppe RA, Awh E, Minoshima S, Mintun MA (1993)
Spatial working memory in humans as revealed by PET. Nature
363:623–625
Kaas JH, Hackett TA (1999) “What” and “where” processing in auditory
cortex. Nat Neurosci 2:1045–1047
Kaas JH, Stepniewska I (2016) Evolution of posterior parietal cortex and
parietal-frontal networks for speciﬁc actions in primates. J Comp Neurol
524:595–608
Kubota K, Niki H (1971) Prefrontal cortical unit activity and delayed alterna-
tion performance in monkeys. J Neurophysiol 34:337–347
Kumar V, Croxson PL, Simonyan K (2016) Structural organization of the
laryngeal motor cortical network and its implication for evolution of speech
production. J Neurosci 36:4170–4181
Lettvin JY, Maturana HR, McCullough WS, Pitts WH (1968) What the frog’s
eye tells the frog’s brain. In: Corning WC (ed), The Mind: Biological
Approaches to its Functions. Martin Balaban, Boston, p 233–258.
Margulies DS, Petrides M (2016) Distinct parietal and temporal connectivity
proﬁles of ventrolateral frontal areas involved in language production.
J Neurosci 33:16846–16852
Margulies DS, Ghosh SS, Goulas A, Falkiewicz M, Huntenburg JM, Langs G,
Bezgin G, Eickhoﬀ SB, Castellanos FX, Petrides M, Jeﬀeries E, Smallwood J
(2016) Situating the default-mode network along a principal gradient of
macroscale cortical organization. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 113:12574-12579
Maturana HR, Lettvin JY, McCulloch WS, Pitts WH (1959) Evidence that cut
optic nerve ﬁbers in a frog regenerate to their proper places in the tectum.
Science 130:1709–1710
References 281
Maturana HR, Lettvin JY, McCulloch WS, Pitts WH (1960) Anatomy and
physiology of vision in the frog (Rana pipiens). J Gen Physiol 43
(Suppl):129–175
Mishkin M, Pribram KH (1955) Analysis of the eﬀects of frontal lesions in
monkey. I. Variations of delayed alternation. J Comp Physiol Psychol
48:492–495
Mishkin M, Pribram KH (1956) Analysis of the eﬀects of frontal lesions in
monkey. II. Variations of delayed response. J Comp Physiol Psychol 49:36–40
Neubert FX, Mars RB, Thomas AG, Sallet J, Rushworth MF (2014)
Comparison of human ventral frontal cortex areas for cognitive control
and language with areas in monkey frontal cortex. Neuron 81:700–713
Owen R (1837) The Hunterian Lectures in Comparative Anatomy. University
of Chicago Press, Chicago (1992)
Petrides M (2014) Neuroanatomy of Language Regions of the Human Brain.
Academic Press, New York
Petrides M, Pandya DN (1984) Projections to the frontal cortex from the poster-
ior parietal region in the rhesus monkey. J Comp Neurol 228:105–116
Petrides M, Pandya DN (1988) Association ﬁber pathways to the frontal cortex
from the superior temporal region in the rhesus monkey. J Comp Neurol
273:52–66
Petrides M, Pandya DN (2009) Distinct parietal and temporal pathways to the
homologues of Broca’s area in the monkey. PloS Biol 7:e1000170
Petrides M, Cadoret G, Mackey S (2005) Orofacial somatomotor responses in
the macaque monkey homologue of Broca’s area. Nature 435:1235–1238
Petrides M, Tomaiuolo F, Yeterian EH, Pandya DN (2012) The prefrontal
cortex: comparative architectonic organization in the human and the maca-
que monkey brains. Cortex 48:46–57
Preuss TM, Goldman-Rakic PS (1991a) Architectonics of the parietal and
temporal association cortex in the strepsirhine primate Galago compared
to the anthropoid primate Macaca. J Comp Neurol 310:475–506
Preuss TM, Goldman-Rakic PS (1991b) Myelo- and cytoarchitecture of the
granular frontal cortex and surrounding regions in the strepsirhine
primate Galago and the anthropoid primate Macaca. J Comp Neurol
310:429–474
Preuss TM, Goldman-Rakic PS (1991c) Ipsilateral cortical connections of
granular frontal cortex in the strepsirhine primate Galago, with comparative
comments on anthropoid primates. J Comp Neurol 310:507–549
282 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
Pribram KH, Mishkin M (1956) Analysis of the eﬀects of frontal lesions in
monkey. III. Object alternation. J Comp Physiol Psychol 49:41–45
Purves D (1988) Body and Brain. A Trophic Theory of Neural Connections.
Harvard Press, Cambridge
Quiroga RQ (2012) Concept cells: the building blocks of declarative memory
functions. Nat Rev Neurosci 13:587–597
Quiroga RQ, Reddy L, Kreiman G, Koch C, Fried I (2005) Invariant
visual representation by single neurons in the human brain. Nature
435:1102–1107
Quiroga RQ, Kreiman G, Koch C, Fried I (2008) Sparse but not “grandmother-
cell” coding in the medial temporal lobe. Trends Cogn Sci 12:87–91
Rauschecker JP (2012) Ventral and dorsal streams in the evolution of speech
and language. Front Evol Neurosci 4:7
Rilling JK (2014) Comparative primate neurobiology and the evolution of
brain language systems. Curr Opin Neurobiol 28:10–14
Rilling JK, Glasser MF, Preuss TM, Ma X, Zhao T, Hu X, Behrens TE (2008)
The evolution of the arcuate fasciculus revealed with comparative DTI. Nat
Neurosci 11:426–428
Rilling JK, Glasser MF, Jbabdi S, Andersson J, Preuss TM (2012) Continuity,
divergence, and the evolution of brain language pathways. Front Evol
Neurosci 3:11
Romanski LM (2007) Representation and integration of auditory and visual
stimuli in the primate ventral lateral prefrontal cortex. Cereb Cortex 17
(Suppl 1):i61–i69
Romanski LM (2012) Integration of faces and vocalizations in ventral pre-
frontal cortex: implications for the evolution of audiovisual speech. Proc
Natl Acad Sci U S A 109 (Suppl 1):10717–10724
Romanski LM, Diehl MM (2011) Neurons responsive to face-view in the
primate ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. Neuroscience 189:223–235
Romanski LM, Goldman-Rakic PS (2002) An auditory domain in primate
prefrontal cortex. Nat Neurosci 5:15–16
Romanski LM, Bates JF, Goldman-Rakic PS (1999a) Auditory belt and para-
belt projections to the prefrontal cortex in the rhesus monkey. J Comp
Neurol 403:141–157
Romanski LM, Tian B, Fritz J, Mishkin M, Goldman-Rakic PS, Rauschecker
JP (1999b) Dual streams of auditory aﬀerents target multiple domains in the
primate prefrontal cortex. Nat Neurosci 2:1131–1136
References 283
Romanski LM, Tian B, Fritz JB, Mishkin M, Goldman-Rakic PS, Rauschecker
JP (2000) Reply to “What”, “where” and “how” in auditory “cortex”. Nat
Neurosci 3:966
Rupke N (1994) Richard Owen. Victorian Naturalist. Yale University Press,
New Haven
Scarf D, Boy K, Uber Reinert A, Devine J, Güntürkün O, Colombo M (2016)
Orthographic processing in pigeons (Columba livia). Proc Natl Acad Sci
U S A 113:11272-11276
Schomers MR, Garagnani M, Pulvermüller F (2017) Neurocomputational
Consequences of Evolutionary Connectivity Changes in Perisylvian
Language Cortex. J Neurosci 37:3045-3055
Scott BH, Mishkin M (2016) Auditory short-term memory in the primate
auditory cortex. Brain Res 1640:264–277
Scott BH, Mishkin M, Yin P (2012) Monkeys have a limited form of short-
term memory in audition. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 109:12237–12241
Singer W (1999) Neuronal synchrony: a versatile code for the deﬁnition of
relations? Neuron 24: 49–65, 111–125
Skeide MA, Friederici AD (2016) The ontogeny of the cortical language
network. Nat Rev Neurosci. 17:323–332
Sliwa J, Planté A, Duhamel JR, Wirth S (2016) Independent Neuronal
Representation of Facial and Vocal Identity in the Monkey Hippocampus
and Inferotemporal Cortex. Cereb Cortex 26:950–966
Spillmann L (2014) Receptive ﬁelds of visual neurons: the early years.
Perception 43:1145–1176
Stout D, Chaminade T (2012) Stone tools, language and the brain in human
evolution. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 367:75–87
Sugihara T, Diltz MD, Averbeck BB, Romanski LM (2006) Integration of
auditory and visual communication information in the primate ventrolateral
prefrontal cortex. J Neurosci 26:11138–11147
Sur M, Pallas SL, Roe AW (1990) Cross-modal plasticity in cortical develop-
ment: diﬀerentiation and speciﬁcation of sensory neocortex. Trends
Neurosci 13:227–233
Tremblay P, Dick AS (2016) Broca and Wernicke are dead, or moving past the
classic model of language neurobiology. Brain Lang 162:60–71
Varela F, Lachaux JP, Rodriguez E, Martinerie J (2001) The brainweb: phase
synchronization and large-scale integration. Nat Rev Neurosci 2:229–239
284 7 Monkey Brain, Human Brain
Viskontas IV, Quiroga RQ, Fried I (2009) Human medial temporal lobe
neurons respond preferentially to personally relevant images. Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S A 106(50):21329–21334
Wilson B, Slater H, Kikuchi Y, Milne AE, Marslen-Wilson WD, Smith K,
Petkov CI (2013) Auditory artiﬁcial grammar learning in macaque and
marmoset monkeys. J Neurosci 33:18825–18835
Wilson B, Kikuchi Y, Sun L, Hunter D, Dick F, Smith K, Thiele A, Griﬃths
TD, Marslen-Wilson WD, Petkov CI (2015) Auditory sequence processing
reveals evolutionarily conserved regions of frontal cortex in macaques and
humans. Nat Commun 6:8901
Yeatman JD, Weiner KS, Pestilli F, Rokem A, Mezer A, Wandell BA (2014)
The vertical occipital fasciculus: a century of controversy resolved by in vivo
measurements. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 111:E5214–E5223
Yeterian EH, Pandya DN, Tomaiuolo F, Petrides M (2012) The cortical
connectivity of the prefrontal cortex in the monkey brain. Cortex 48:58–81
York GK 3rd, Steinberg DA (2011) Hughlings Jackson’s neurological ideas.
Brain 134:3106–3113
Zeki S (1993) A Vision of the Brain. Blackwell Press, Oxford
References 285
8
Grasping Mirrors
Among the early hypotheses for the origin of human language was that
the ﬁrst communicative signs were manual, and speech appeared only in
later stages. The critical symbolic properties of language would have
been acquired with primitive gestures, speech being a secondary addition
that only elaborated on this crucial innovation. However, speech would
have rapidly taken over as the main modality for communication. As
Michael Corballis has said, present-day gestures represent a “behavioral
fossil”, just as our intestinal appendix reminds us of our vegetarian past
(Gentilucci and Corballis 2006). In Chapter 4, I discussed gestural
communication in relation to handedness and tool use, and in this
chapter I will focus on the ﬁndings of mirror neurons and the mirror
system hypothesis for language evolution, which have provided a neu-
roscientiﬁc perspective to the gestural theory of language. Although
there is a wealth of evidence indicating an important role of gestures
in human and animal communication, the gesture-ﬁrst approach does
not provide any speciﬁc insight into the mechanism by which we ended
up communicating through speech. In addition, the hypothetical ges-
tural stage of communication prior to speech remains speculative given
there is no straightforward evidence for it.
© The Author(s) 2017
F. Aboitiz, A Brain for Speech,
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-54060-7_8
287
Ancestral Gestures
Among the main arguments for the gestural origin of language is that
vocalizations in non-human primates are largely ﬁxed and stereotyped,
while hands are under voluntary control, which makes their involvement
in learned communication signals more likely. It is commonly asserted
that vocalizations of non-human primates are used in situations directly
related to survival, like calls of alarm, shows of dominance, courtship etc.
Therefore, there would be a selective beneﬁt in maintaining close genetic
control of these signals. Alternatively, hand movements and gestures are
apparently more ﬂexible and not under such stringent selective condi-
tions, providing a degree of freedom that can be used in more relaxed
social situations, closer to those in which humans usually communicate
(Arbib 2005, 2012; Arbib et al. 2008).
Monkeys and apes have been observed using hand and body gestures,
usually to request things from one another, like the begging behavior of
subordinate individuals, which is directed to higher ranking individuals
to access food. This consists of extending the hand to the dominant
subject, a sign that may be conceived as a ritualized grasping action.
Begging gestures are often accompanied with facial gestures and vocali-
zations. Another kind of sign is arm-waving to call attention of others,
elicit play, request nursing, or initiate group movement in a given
direction (Liebal et al. 2004; Liebal and Call 2012; Genty and
Zuberbühler 2014, 2015, Genty et al. 2014, Hobaiter and Byrne
2011, 2014). There is discussion about whether some of these gestures
are learned, as only a few or one individual in a group may use them.
Furthermore, such gestures are dependent on the other’s position and
gaze, which indicates that gestures are ﬂexibly used and based on the
other’s attentional state (Kaminski et al. 2004). Captive apes raised by
humans have been reported to point to food items with their open hand,
which can be interpreted as a derivation of begging behavior. However,
there are no reports of ape pointing for another ape. Pointing is a very
basic communicative strategy that develops quite early in human infants
as they rapidly understand the meaning of this gesture made by adults.
On the other hand, apes are very slow in learning this gesture, and in
most instances never get the intent of pointing (see below in this
288 8 Grasping Mirrors
chapter) (Tomasello 2006). As a communication signal, pointing has to
do with additional social capacities that I will discuss in more detail in
Chapter 10. Overall, regarding both gestures and vocalizations in apes
and other animals, Derek Bickerton claims that such signs are aimed at
manipulating the other’s behavior for the immediate beneﬁt of the signer
more than at communicating any kind of knowledge, a point also made
by Michael Tomasello, who distinguishes instrumental from declarative
communication (Tomasello and Call 1997; Bickerton 2009). More
recent ﬁndings have shown some capacity for planning ahead in chim-
panzees and bonobos, which I mentioned in Chapter 6. However, in no
way do their natural social signals have the property of displacement that
is common in human language, that is, the capacity for making reference
to absent events. These also lack any combinatorial organization resem-
bling syntax. In this sense, the manual and facial gestural communica-
tion of apes is as far from modern speech as their vocal behavior is, which
is also unable to transmit any symbolic content (with the exception of
enculturated apes that have learned some rudimentary form of hand
signing language).
Neuronal Reﬂections
It is no exaggeration to say that the gestural theory of speech origins
catapulted in recent years with the discovery of mirror neurons by
the group led by Giacomo Rizzolatti, who developed the famous
Mirror Neuron Hypothesis (Rizzolatti and Craighero 2004;
Rizzolatti and Sinigaglia 2006). The central ﬁnding is that there is
a subset of neurons that ﬁre both when the monkey executes an
action and when it observes another carrying out a similar action.
The story began when Rizzolatti and colleagues at the University of
Parma recorded single units in the lateral premotor cortex of the
macaque (more speciﬁcally, area F5) that ﬁred concomitantly with a
grasping action. There were several types of these neurons associated
with the diﬀerent shapes of the objects being grasped. Furthermore,
they found visuomotor neurons in F5 that ﬁred when the monkey
simply saw the object to be grasped (for example, a piece of food).
Neuronal Reﬂections 289
They demonstrated that the response was visually evoked by produ-
cing a short delay between the presentation of the object and the
grasping action. Thus, the neuron activated with the visual presenta-
tion of the object before the motor command was executed. These
were later called canonical visuomotor neurons. To their surprise,
the experimenters observed that a group of neurons ﬁred when a
human experimenter picked up the food to start another experimen-
tal trial. Extending this observation with additional experiments,
they found that these neurons ﬁred speciﬁcally when the monkey
observed a similar grasping action, such as a precision pinch rather
than a power grip. Importantly, these cells coded for actions like
grasping an actual object, but not when pantomiming a grasp when
the object was not present (di Pellegrino et al. 1992). The term
“mirror neurons” was coined to describe a special kind of visuomotor
neuron that ﬁres both when the animal performs a particular kind of
grasping action and when it perceives the same or similar actions
made by others. The Parma group interpreted these neurons as
acting as a mirror between the internal motor program and the
external observation of someone else’s behavior, thus generating an
internal representation, or simulation, of the other’s motor com-
mand. Rizzolatti and coworkers concluded that mirror neurons
were essential to understanding the goals or actions of others, by
internally activating motor programs congruent with the behavior
observed in others (Gallese et al. 1996; Rizzolatti et al. 1996a).
Subsequently, a series of articles appeared from this group and others
conﬁrming mirror neuron activity in the premotor area F5. Mirror
neurons were classiﬁed as “strictly congruent”, with activity that closely
ﬁts the action seen with the motor program they are involved in, and
“broadly congruent” that activate with observation of actions more
broadly related to the action they participate in. Moreover, the activity
of some strictly congruent cells called “suppression” mirror neurons
decreases when the animal observes actions that are only slightly similar
to the one it performed. Finally, there are “logically related” mirror
neurons that ﬁre with observation of actions diﬀerent from but contex-
tually related to the grasping behavior they code, such as putting the
object to be grasped on a table. Congruent mirror neurons were
290 8 Grasping Mirrors
interpreted as directly involved in action understanding by automatically
translating the observation of a speciﬁc behavior into an internal motor
program (Rizzolatti and Craighero 2004; Rizzolatti and Sinigaglia 2006).
Other studies identiﬁed mirror neurons in the inferior parietal lobe,
and mirror-like neurons in the superior temporal sulcus of the temporal
lobe (close to Wernicke’s area) that were sensitive to body and hand-
directed movements (Fogassi et al. 2005). A circuit was then delineated
that connected the superior temporal sulcus in the temporal lobe, the
inferior parietal lobe and the ventral premotor area that was involved in
programming and identifying goal-directed actions (Fig. 8.1). Mirror
neuron properties were also detected in other areas like the primary
motor cortex and the dorsal premotor cortex (Rizzolatti and Craighero
2004; Rizzolatti and Sinigaglia 2006). Furthermore, orofacial mirror
neurons were detected in the monkey ventral premotor cortex, which
ﬁre in relation to feeding and swallowing behaviors, but also with
communicative gestures like lip-smacking (a common vocal behavior
of monkeys and apes), and tongue protrusion (Ferrari et al. 2003). These
ﬁndings suggest that mirror neurons are involved in facial gestures and
feeding behavior, providing an initial state for the evolution of speech.
Other kinds of mirror neurons were found to ﬁre with unnatural sounds
associated with actions (such as tearing paper), and, after massive train-
ing, with observations of grasping actions using pliers (Kohler et al.
2002; Ferrari et al. 2005).
Human Mirrors
The mirror neuron experiments were quickly extended to humans, using
diﬀerent techniques to ﬁnd mirror-like properties. Single unit studies are
problematic with humans for ethical reasons. The only possibility is
during brain surgery (usually with epileptic patients) when the surgeon
places an electrode in the patient’s brain to determine the location of the
epileptic focus. Consequently, other approaches have been used like
brain imaging and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) that moni-
tor the activity or function of large neuronal populations (see Chapters 2
and 4). However, with these techniques it is impossible to know whether
Human Mirrors 291
the same neurons that are active when a subject observes an action also
ﬁre when the subject performs the same action, which is the deﬁning
criterion for mirror neurons. Thus, researchers prefer to speak of a
mirror system in humans, in which there are brain regions rather than
single cells that are responsive to both the observation and execution of
motor actions of a speciﬁc class, like hand actions as distinct from
orofacial actions. As with the monkey, the human mirror system is
located in both hemispheres, and includes parietotemporal visual areas,
the rostral inferior parietal lobe, and the ventrolateral prefrontal and
premotor cortices (Aziz-Zadeh et al. 2002, 2006). Additional evidence
for a mirror system in humans comes from studies of automatic imita-
tion, in which observation of an action facilitates the execution of that
action or interferes with the execution of a similar action. Using TMS, it
M1
AIP
PFG
F5
STS
V1
44
45
Fig. 8.1 The mirror neuron circuit in the monkey. Mirror neurons have been
found in premotor area F5, in the intraparietal area AIP, and in the inferior
parietal area PFG. Neurons in the superior temporal sulcus have mirror-like
properties but are not mirror neurons. For reference with Brodmann’s areas,
area F5 corresponds to the inferior aspect of area 6; area AIP is located in
Brodmann’s area 7; area PFG corresponds to anterior area 39. Also shown are
areas 44 and 45, corresponding to Broca’s area in the human. M1, motor
cortex; V1, primary visual cortex
292 8 Grasping Mirrors
was found that listening to speech increases the excitability of tongue
muscles (Fadiga et al. 2002). Furthermore, disrupting activity in the
inferior frontal gyrus with TMS impairs automatic imitation and blocks
interference by observing related actions (Baldissera et al. 2001; Iacoboni
2009; Cross and Iacoboni 2014a, b).
While mirror neurons in macaques are restricted to grasping
actions, lip movements and very constrained motor patterns, mirror
activity in humans has been associated with abstract or meaningless
movements, although the anatomical location of this activity does
not precisely ﬁt the macaque mirror neuron circuit. In an early study
by Rizzolati’s group, human subjects were exposed to videos of
hand-related movements, whether grasping or pantomimic (Fadiga
et al. 1995). While doing so, the hand motor area (not the premotor
area, where mirror neurons are found in the monkey) was transiently
stimulated using TMS, and the threshold for triggering a hand
movement with this technique was lower when subjects were obser-
ving hand movements than when they were not, indicating a higher
excitability of the motor cortex. Note that this eﬀect was observed
for both pantomimic and grasping hand movements that diﬀer from
monkey mirror neurons in that the latter do not respond to mean-
ingless movements. Furthermore, the human mirror neuron system
has been associated with activity in Broca’s area. Reports by
Rizzolatti’s group published in 1996 showed that observations of
the grasping actions of others increased hemodynamic activity in
Broca’s area and its surroundings (in addition to activity in the
superior temporal lobe), compared to control situations (Grafton et
al. 1996a, b; Rizzolatti et al. 1996b). A later study reported activa-
tion overlap in the observation and execution of meaningless actions
(Iacoboni et al. 1999). James Kilner, Karl Friston and others used
the fMRI repetition-suppression method, which consists of habituat-
ing or making less responsive the subset of Broca’s area neurons
involved in motor grasping through repeated execution of the beha-
vior (Kilner et al. 2009). They showed that after having habituated
the subject to perform the action, the fMRI response was also
attenuated when presenting images of subjects grasping an object.
This suggests that some of the neurons involved in executing the
Human Mirrors 293
action are also involved in observing the action. However, the result
was negative when analyzing cross-habituation in imitation of mean-
ingless hand movements. Other studies showed that damage to
regions including Broca’s area produced deﬁcits in pantomime recog-
nition, suggesting that the damage to Broca’s region produced a
deﬁcit in recognizing abstract movements. Direct evidence for
action-observation activity at the cellular level was ﬁnally provided
in patients undergoing neurosurgery for epilepsy (Mukamel et al.
2010). The authors recorded mirror neurons associated with hand
grasping actions and emotional facial expressions in the supplemen-
tary motor area, hippocampus and neighboring regions, which in the
monkey are devoid of mirror neurons.
It has also been proposed that the human mirror system partici-
pates in empathy, emotion recognition, and other elements related to
social behavior, particularly the theory of mind. The latter concept
implies that we are able to infer other people’s knowledge and
intentions, and assume that other people have minds like our own.
Although I will deal with this issue in more detail in Chapter 11, it
is useful to mention here that Simon Baron-Cohen ﬁrst argued that
autistic patients, whose empathy and social abilities are strongly
impaired, had diﬃculty in understanding or inferring other people’s
mental sates as being diﬀerent from their own (Baron-Cohen et al.
1985). This deﬁcit was ﬁrst termed mind-blindness, and was thought
to be an impairment of the theory of mind. Mirror neuron theorists
soon projected their interpretations to autistic symptoms, and pro-
posed a relationship between the theory of mind and the mirror
neuron system, as both involve neural systems involved in detecting
complex, goal-directed actions (Rizzolatti and Craighero 2004;
Rizzolatti and Sinigaglia 2006). Nonetheless, there are alternative
hypotheses to explain autistic behavior, including over-reactivity
(instead of indiﬀerence) to social stimuli (see Chapter 11).
Another inﬂuential proposal is that the mirror system is involved in
human language, both gestural and vocal, and that it provides the
neurobiological link between ancestral gestural communication and
the subsequent acquisition of speech (Rizzolatti and Arbib 1998).
Below, I will address some basic issues related to the development and
294 8 Grasping Mirrors
functions of mirror neurons, and then directly address the mirror system
hypothesis of language origins, mainly through Michael Arbib, who has
done most of the theoretical work in this line (Arbib 2012).
Simulations, Associations or Predictions?
Rizzolatti and collaborators proposed that mirror neurons internally
simulate the observed behavior of others, providing knowledge of their
intentions and goals “from the inside”, which facilitates predicting the
behavior of others. This notion has been widely accepted among
researchers and the public (Rizzolatti and Craighero 2004; Rizzolatti
and Sinigaglia 2006). However, there are investigators that are skeptical
about this hypothesis. The ﬁrst of these is Arbib, a mirror neuron
theorist, who argues that the mirror neuron system is not suﬃcient for
understanding actions and has to interact with other systems. Arbib
proposes that mirror neurons did not originally develop for social
purposes, but rather to control one’s behavior through mechanisms of
sensorimotor learning, in which self-observation of arm movements
feeds on canonical motor neurons while the animal executes these
movements (Oztop and Arbib 2002). Visual feedback is in fact crucial
for arm control, as it helps in predicting actions, as proposed by James
Kilner and colleagues (Kilner et al. 2007). During the execution of a
movement like reaching for an object, the brain has to register via the
senses (proprioceptive and visual) when the arm is out of the pro-
grammed trajectory, and must send a correction signal to restore the
trajectory. Normally, the motor system continuously inhibits sensory
feedback that would otherwise be elicited at the predicted position of the
arm. Thus, if the movement is on target, there is no backward signal and
everything keeps on going. But if the movement goes out of the
predicted trajectory, it will trigger the activity of sensory regions that
are out of the predicted goal, and therefore are not being inhibited by
the motor system. A signal then comes in to restore the arm’s trajectory.
However, this takes time, and by the time the correction signal is
executed, the arm may be in a diﬀerent position than when the original
error signal was sent. Thus, the motor system must predict the ongoing
Simulations, Associations or Predictions? 295
trajectory of the arm from the error signal, and send a correction to the
predicted arm position when the signal gets to the eﬀectors. This process
has been termed predictive coding, and visuomotor mirror neurons may
be an essential part of it. By the way, this mechanism has been proposed
to explain why one cannot tickle oneself. As your hand approaches your
own body, skin sensory receptors would become attenuated, predicting
the contact and blocking part of the sensory response. Predictive coding
is also observed in the auditory system, as sensory attenuation of self-
generated sounds, be them speech or manually triggered sounds, has
been observed in humans and mice (Curio et al. 2000; Martikainen et al.
2005; Baess et al. 2011; Rummell et al. 2016). Summarizing, the above
perspective implies that the original function of mirror neurons is motor
control, not action understanding. The link between internal motor
programs and the observation of the behavior of others may be con-
sidered an extension of this process. In the process of complex action
recognition, Arbib considers that the mirror system works in coopera-
tion with additional, “beyond the mirror” systems involved in higher
cognitive processes (Bonaiuto and Arbib 2015).
Gregory Hickok is a more radical critic of the simulation hypoth-
esis. He has written several essays and more recently an entire book
dedicated to criticizing the notion of mirror neurons, not only
because of the uncritical enthusiasm for this concept in the popular
literature, but also because of questions about the very nature of these
neurons and their properties (Hickok 2009, 2013, 2014; Hickok and
Hauser 2010). Hickok recognizes the existence of mirror neurons and
considers this to be a very important ﬁnding, however, he questions
one of the most fundamental interpretations, which is the simulation
hypothesis, claiming that it is based on questionable assumptions,
and that there is no hard evidence in its support. According to
Hickok, many of the ﬁndings related to mirror neurons can be
explained by associative links between contextual elements in the
experimental set, rather than by a direct representation of the other’s
actions. This resembles again a Clever Hans phenomenon (see
Chapter 1), in which animals use subtle but simple cues to solve
apparently complex problems. In general terms, Hickok points out
that the experimental procedures involved in recording mirror
296 8 Grasping Mirrors
neurons include long exposure of the monkey to the experimenter’s
behavior, involving grasping movements and providing food items to
the animal, actions that will very likely be relevant for subsequent
action selection by the monkeys (i.e. grasping). Hickock asserts that
through classical conditioning, motor neurons become responsive to
human actions. Furthermore, an important proportion of the neu-
rons observed in these experiments activate not by observing grasping
itself, but when observing actions that predict or are preparatory to
the monkey’s grasping action, such as when the experimenter places
food on the table so that the monkey can grasp it. These neurons are
not further analyzed by the experimenters, but according to Hickok
can be explained in the same terms of action selection mechanisms
and classical conditioning.
Richard Cook, Cecilia Heyes and collaborators proposed a simple
model for the development of mirror neurons in which higher order
visual regions coding the recognition of speciﬁc actions like grasping
are simultaneously activated with motor programs when infants
observe themselves performing the movement (Cook et al. 2014;
Catmur et al. 2007, 2009). However, simultaneous activation is not
enough to produce an associative pair. This temporal coincidence has
to be contingent, that is, ﬁring of motor neurons has to be causally
related to the perception of hand movement. Thus, an association
between motor patterns and action perception develops that can be
extended to observing the behavior of others. Like Hickok, Heyes
and group claim that all kinds of mirror neurons, especially those
ﬁring with “logical” stimuli, or unnatural stimuli, can be more simply
explained by associative processes rather than as instances of action
recognition. In this regard, mirror neurons are viewed as part of a
top-down mechanism for motor control and action selection. These
circuits activate speciﬁc commands on the basis of associations with
sensory cues that are contingent to the situation. The variety of such
cues can be very diverse, including all kinds of visuomotor and mirror
neurons. This agrees with the associative interpretations of cortical
networks of earlier authors like Joaquín Fuster (see Chapter 7) and
especially Norman Geschwind and his hypothesis of ampliﬁcation of
associative capacity in human evolution (see Chapter 2).
Simulations, Associations or Predictions? 297
Copycats
Early interpretations of mirror neuron activity in the monkey proposed
that they were involved in imitation, which was a straightforward inter-
pretation, as mirror neurons associate an observed behavior with a motor
program. However, some authors rapidly rejected this proposal arguing
that monkeys have little or no imitation skills. About 10 years ago some
of my students and I proposed that mirror neurons likely participate in
imitative processes (Bosman et al. 2004; Aboitiz et al. 2005), which was
rebutted by Michael Corballis (Corballis 2004). Many mirror neuron
theorists think monkey mirror neurons are involved largely in object-
directed actions. Imitation, particularly of complex behaviors like pan-
tomime, is considered a high-level cognitive process acquired by
humans, although it is assumed to be partly conveyed by the human
mirror neuron system.
However, there is much evidence that monkeys are able to imitate.
Pier Ferrari and collaborators have found evidence for imitation of
several facial and hand gestures in young macaques, including lip smack-
ing, tongue protrusion, mouth opening, hand opening, and opening and
closing of eyes (Ferrari et al. 2006; Paukner et al. 2011). Simple imita-
tion of this kind may not be cognitively complex. There are many simple
reﬂex actions like yawning, laughter, blinking and scratching that are
highly contagious. Likewise, aspects of speech like prosody are easily
imitated, as anyone can testify from hearing the speech of close friends,
regional accents, and other instances. Yawning is a reﬂex that has been
well studied, and has a well-deﬁned physiological function, contributing
to the circulation of the cerebrospinal ﬂuid in which the brain is
immersed, and clearing chemicals involved in sleep induction
(Walusinski 2014). Furthermore, species with larger brains tend to
yawn for longer times, which might relate to the constraints for mod-
ulating ﬂuid circulation in a larger volume (Gallup et al. 2016). Robert
Provine has been studying yawning behavior in many species, and found
that it has contagious properties in humans, non-human primates, and
domestic and other social animals (Provine 2013, 2014). Contagious
yawning is associated with empathy, and is widespread among social
mammals, including domestic dogs that even respond to their owner’s
298 8 Grasping Mirrors
yawning (Joly-Mascheroni et al. 2008; Romero et al. 2013, 2014).
Furthermore, yawning has an acoustic signal that elicits contagious
behavior in others (Massen et al. 2015). Is this contagiousness based
on a mirror system? What is its social function? Do the imitative abilities
related to learning speech or early social behavior derive from these basic
processes (Palagi et al. 2009; Leone et al. 2014)? This is an exciting area
for future research in comparative psychology.
In any case, humans may have found imitation more useful than did
other species, possibly in relation to the acquisition of toolmaking
capacities and the social and cultural implications of this innovation.
We start imitating others practically from when we are born, and
continue doing so throughout our lives. Newborn infants have been
reported to imitate facial gestures with an impressive facility, particularly
tongue protrusion (a common gesture in infants, consisting of sticking
the tip of one’s tongue out), and other gestures like mouth opening,
hand opening, ﬁnger movements, blinking and the like. This suggests to
some that there is an innate capacity provided by a built-in link between
actions present in the subjects’ repertoire and an observational trigger.
On the other hand, Cecilia Heyes asserts that our apparently prodigious
imitative capacities rely on associative processes not unlike what we see
in other kinds of learning, and in other animals, and that newborns and
infants have enough sensory experience to shape behavior according to
associative learning (Heyes 2016a, b). For example, in speech and facial
gestures there is no visual input about one’s performance. In infants,
visual sensory feedback for facial and vocal behavior is provided by
adults, who imitate the child’s expressions, often in an exaggerated
way. Adults reward infants for their imitative behavior, which contri-
butes to consolidating the process in a reciprocal loop (Heyes 2016a, b).
It all starts when the adult imitates the infant’s facial movements,
producing in the latter a nearly simultaneous activation of the perceptive
and motor networks, an association that, if it involves a reward, stabilizes
over time. This process may serve as the basis for the generation of a
mirror system for facial gestures and vocalizations.
Perhaps both mechanisms, instinct and learning by association, parti-
cipate in imitation. In ethology, an innate releasing mechanism consists
of an instinctive action (say, smiling) that is elicited by a very speciﬁc
Copycats 299
stimulus (the mother’s smile). In the early twentieth century Niko
Tinbergen showed that adult seagulls have a bright red spot on their
lower beak that acts as a triggering stimulus for beak-pecking behavior in
hatchlings (Tinbergen 1951). Hatchlings peck at the red spot, which
triggers a regurgitation reﬂex in the adult that provides food to the
oﬀspring. But this instinctive pattern may not be strictly genetic. The
hatchling possibly develops an association between its own beak-pecking
behavior, the mother’s red spot, and the consequent delivery of food in a
process called operant conditioning, but as well, this association may
develop more rapidly than other associative processes. Supporting this
interpretation, Peter Marler argues that the development of most
instinctive behaviors is dependent on experience (Marler 2004). To
become properly expressed, immature motor patterns need to be
rehearsed over time, just as many birds need practice to learn to ﬂy.
But more importantly for us, these motor patterns usually need to be
elicited by triggering stimuli, and the eventual association between this
stimuli and behavior is dependent on the sensory experience. Consider
the famous example of the geese raised by Konrad Lorenz that, inter-
acted with him before they were exposed to their own mother after
hatching and in the end preferred to follow him everywhere instead of
members of their own species (Lorenz 1981; see also Robinson and
Barron 2017 for a more recent approach). Another important example is
birdsong learning, which I will discuss in the next Chapter.
The processes responsible for the consolidation of such innate released
patterns depend on a critical period, not unlike that described by Hubel
and Wiesel for the visual system and by others for speech acquisition (see
Chapters 1 and 10), in which the subject is particularly prone to devel-
oping contingent associations among sensory stimuli, and between sen-
sory stimuli and motor programs. There is good evidence that robust
associative learning can occur with a minimum of sensory exposure. In the
1970s, John García showed that food aversion learning, in which the
animal links a noxious food item with some contingent stimulus can be
learned very rapidly after only one trial (García et al. 1974). Food aversion
is a behavior of high selective value, as the animal’s life may depend on
making the right choice of food. Instances of such rapid associative
capacity are called “adaptively specialized associative learning”, and may
300 8 Grasping Mirrors
be the result of selection for genes that facilitate this process. It is possible
that our species is particularly endowed with these behavioral patterns,
and has a genetic propensity for adaptively specialized associative learning,
especially in the context of infant-adult reciprocal behavior like human
imitation and speech learning. Again, this may be another of the great
innovations that shaped our species and facilitated the origin of speech.
Janine Oostenbroeck and collaborators recently reported the most
extensive study ever done on neonatal imitation in early infants
(Oostenbroeck et al. 2016). They found that the odds of producing
matching or non-matching actions in response to the presentation of
adult gestures are about the same, which challenges the notion of a built-
in program for copying others. Many of these behaviors, and particularly
tongue protrusion, make up part of the inborn repertoire of newborn
infants, and they will react with this gesture to many unrelated stimuli
such as a ﬂashlight, and even a mechanical tongue-like stimulus disem-
bodied from a mouth. This makes this behavior strongly reminiscent of
the innate-released patterns discussed above, in which innate behaviors
are initially elicited by a variety of stimuli, but with experience they
narrow the triggering stimulus to a very simple visual conﬁguration, like
the red spot on the gull’s beak. We need more experiments to know
whether a mirror system is involved in the innate imitative behavior of
infants, or in the more complex imitations made by children learning to
speak. My own bias is that mirror activity will be found in both
instances, as in both cases there is a link between observed behavior
and a motor program.
But what about subtler forms of imitation involving cognitive pro-
cesses? In the 1950s, there was a study of a group of macaque monkeys
on the island of Kosiva, Japan that were being fed on sweet potatoes (Fa
and Lindburg 1996). As sweet potatoes were left on the sand of the
riverbank where the monkeys lived, they usually tried to wipe the sand
oﬀ with their hands before eating them. In one instance, a young female
called Imo grasped a potato covered with sand, and washed it in the
water instead of brushing it, which turned out to be a much more
eﬃcient way to clean the food. Her brothers and sisters saw her doing
this, and soon began to wash their own potatoes in the river. Imo’s
mother also followed, and in a few years practically all macaques washed
Copycats 301
their potatoes in the water before eating them. Furthermore, at some
point Imo found that washing the potatoes in seawater would make
them more ﬂavorful, a plus that also rapidly spread in the community.
This has been classically considered an early forerunner of culture, that
is, socially learned behavioral patterns. It is reasonable to argue that these
new habits were acquired through observation and imitation, a process
called observational learning. In a more controlled setup, Ralph
Holloway, Herbert Terrace and collaborators taught a couple of maca-
ques to touch a given sequence of four pictures on a screen. Each
monkey learned a diﬀerent sequence, and afterward the experimenters
placed the two animals together, in which one macaque rehearsed its
own sequence while it was observed by the other, and vice versa (Subiaul
et al. 2004). The result was that both macaques learned the other’s
sequence simply by observation. More recently, much evidence of social
imitation has been gathered from several species, including other pri-
mates (recall toolmaking in chimps), cetaceans, domesticated animals
and other species, including vocal learning species, as I will show in
Chapters 9 and 10 (Byrne 2009).
Cognitive imitation of tasks like food washing or cleaning sticks to
extract termites has been considered to require knowledge of the goal, or
the end result of an observed action, and the speciﬁc plan of action used
by the agent (Tomasello 2014). It has been proposed that the capacity to
infer both goals and intentions in others is necessary to respond to the
observed behavior with ﬂexibility. Simple action patterns are usually
copied directly, as the observed behavior is within the animal’s reper-
toire. But more complex actions involve knowledge of the goal to be
achieved, and the animal has to generate novel behavioral sequences in
order to reach the end result. If these do not work, the observer focuses
on the performer’s behavior to copy speciﬁc action sequences. Humans
excel other animals in the capacity to use both kinds of information to
copy complex behavioral patterns, which explains our rapid imitative
skills. But for achieving this, motor programs must be deconstructed
into components and ﬂexibly rearranged to achieve diﬀerent goals.
According to Michael Arbib and others, the imitation of novel and
complex motor sequences like a pantomime or a ritual action is a
fundamental step in language evolution (Arbib 2012). Particularly,
302 8 Grasping Mirrors
Arbib emphasizes the mimetic capacity for hand movements, to which a
mirror system contributes but is not the only component as a critical
stage for the origin of the language-ready brain. Arbib distinguishes what
he calls “simple imitation”, as the capacity for learning some motor plans
after a long period of observation, like the manual signs made by
enculturated apes, from learning a motor plan in just a moment, as
humans do. This kind of learning is referred to as “complex imitation”
and is based on the capacity to decompose the observed action and
recognize each of the subcomponents in one’s own motor plans.
According to Arbib, the ability for complex imitation is also involved
in the child’s language learning capacity, and in the analysis of complex
articulatory vocal patterns in the adult. Apes are quite poor at complex
imitation, as opposed to humans. This capacity requires the expansion of
the mirror system beyond simple imitation tasks, including additional
brain systems involved in complex action recognition, such as sharing
the other’s attentional state to identify the goal of the object, and the
details of the imitated behavior. I agree with these statements in general
terms, but would add that these behaviors could largely be the result of
associative phenomena, in which the individual makes a link between
his/her actions, and the other’s actions, possibly in the context of shared
attention mechanisms. But more importantly, Arbib and others assert
that speech emerged when hand motor control mechanisms broke into
the orofacial sensorimotor system. On the other hand, I do not see the
need for putting hands before mouth in the evolution of vocal imitation.
As we will see below in this chapter, and in Chapters 9 and 10, birds and
other animals learn vocal patterns quite quickly without having a hand
grasping system, and apes and monkeys can indeed perform some types
of orofacial imitation.
Rebirth of a Theory
One of the strongest implications of the mirror neuron hypothesis refers
to the role of neurons in speech and language origins, which was ﬁrst
claimed in a highly inﬂuential article by Rizzolatti and Arbib (Rizzolatti
and Arbib 1998). This proposal was originally based on two arguments,
Rebirth of a Theory 303
ﬁrstly on the assumption of homology between area F5 in the monkey
premotor cortex and Broca’s area in the human, which I will discuss
below. Secondly, Rizzolatti considered that their ﬁndings were consis-
tent with Alvin Liberman’s motor theory of speech perception, which I
mentioned in the Chapter 1 (Liberman et al. 1957, 1967; Liberman
1970). The general idea is that mirror neurons ﬁrst endowed our
ancestors with the capacity for hand and gestural communication, and
then “colonized” vocal behavior for the acquisition of speech. In 2010,
while attending a satellite meeting on the Neuroscience of Language in
the context of the Society for Neuroscience, I had the opportunity to
witness an interesting debate between Gregory Hickok and Luciano
Fadiga, the latter representing the mirror neuron group. The discussion
was agitated but respectful (and often funny). In essence, Hickok
criticized motor theories of speech perception on the basis that these
had been long discredited by counterfactual evidence, while Fadiga
argued for a mirror neuron theory of speech perception. In the question
and answer session, David Poeppel (a close friend of Hickok) naturally
said that he felt Hickok had made the clearest arguments, but recognized
that Fadiga made much better jokes.
Hickok’s claim is partly based on evidence from brain lesion
studies that challenge a critical role of motor components in speech
perception (Hickok 2014; Rogalsky et al. 2011). First, deﬁcits in
speech recognition are produced by lesions in auditory, not mirror
neuron areas. Broca’s aphasics, whose frontal mirror neuron system
should be impaired according to the theory, are reasonably able to
understand speech. Hickok’s second argument is based on criticism
of Liberman’s motor theory of speech perception. In the 1950s,
Liberman noted that speech is a continuous stream in which pho-
nemes overlap in time, such that they are never perceived in isolation
(Liberman et al. 1957, 1967; Liberman 1970). Moreover, the onset
time of many phonemes, such as the stop consonants, depends on
the following vowel, yet they still sound the same to us. This
suggested to Liberman that subjects were not just perceiving spectral
stimuli, but were classifying these stimuli based on phonological
motor programs, which he believed are invariant for each phonemic
category. A second phenomenon that I mentioned in the Chapter 1
304 8 Grasping Mirrors
is categorical perception, consisting of the perception of related
phonemes as discrete categories, in conditions that there is an
acoustically continuous transformation from one phoneme to a
related one, for example, from /b/ to /d/, or from /be/ to /de/. As
I said earlier, this phenomenon was initially claimed to be unique to
human speech perception until it was found that human infants and
animals like the chinchilla, which are totally unable to speak, also
displayed this capacity, indicating that they could not be emulating a
motor speech pattern. Thus, categorical perception is probably a
general acoustic process that humans may beneﬁt from to under-
stand other speakers.
Further evidence in favor of Liberman’s theory was provided by the
McGurk eﬀect, discovered by Harry McGurk and John MacDonald
(McGurk and MacDonald 1976). This takes place when a video showing
someone’s mouth uttering, say /ga/, is simultaneously presented with the
sound of the syllable /ba/. Surprisingly, under these conditions the per-
ceived eﬀect is neither of the above but a third syllable, /da/, which is
acoustically intermediate between /ga/ and /ba/. This evidence implies that
acoustic patterns are not suﬃcient to enable speech perception, and that
motor speech patterns have an important inﬂuence on speech perception.
Dominic Massaro further investigated this eﬀect, using this time the
syllables /ba/ and /da/ (Massaro and Chen 2008). An auditory /ba/ coupled
with a visual /da/ resulted in perception of the visual signal /da/. However,
when it was the other way around, an auditory /da/ and a visual /ba/,
subjects perceived the auditory stimulus, which is not an expected result
from the perspective of the motor theory of speech perception. The point,
according to Massaro, is that when sounds are very similar, visual cues help
to recognize the signal; but when visually identical syllables are used like /p/
and /b/, auditory cues alone clearly distinguish them. Thus, although visual
information helps in disambiguating closely similar speech signals under
certain conditions, it is not mandatory for speech perception. Just as color
perception depends on ambient illumination (see Chapter 7), phonemes
are not just perceived on the basis of their intrinsic acoustic features, but
also on comparison with contextual cues, mostly auditory, but probably
also visual and motoric. The top-down modulation of other sensory and
motor systems provides a contextual framework that contributes to
Rebirth of a Theory 305
distinguishing perceived signals. Massaro, for example, claims that larger
units, like syllables, strongly shape phoneme perception. The speech signal
is processed in the context of an entire syllable, and syllables in the context
of even larger units, so the brain is able to reconstruct the perceived low-
level items by top-down interactions (see Chapter 4).
Many authors, including Angela Friederici and Josef Rauschecker
have likewise proposed a non-impositive top-down modulatory eﬀect
of motor systems on speech perception (see Chapters 2 and 7). As said,
speech systems may feed back into auditory regions, participating in
predictive coding mechanisms that minimize performance errors and
tune speech perception (Rauschecker 2012; Moulin-Frier and Arbib
2013; Clark 2013; Pickering and Garrod 2013; Schomers and
Pulvermüller 2016; Skeide and Friederici 2016; Skipper et al. 2017).
Daniel Lametti and team observed that subjects that had been adapted
to altered auditory feedback in a speech motor learning task displayed
subtle changes in subsequent speech perception (Lametti et al. 2014).
This modulatory eﬀect can be relevant for speech learning in infancy,
as 6-month-old infants were impaired in distinguishing among non-
native phonemes presented to them if they were using teething toys
that impeded them from moving their tongues to articulate the sounds
(Bruderer et al. 2015). Another study showed that interfering with the
motor cortex using TMS impaired syllable perception in general
(Berent et al. 2015). However, syllables that were ill formed were the
least impaired by TMS, and produced less activation of the motor area.
According to the motor theory of speech perception, ill-formed sylla-
bles that are more diﬃcult to pronounce should be more aﬀected by
this procedure. The authors concluded that although the language
perception and motor systems are highly interactive, especially with
learned patterns, motor systems are not causally related to speech
perception. The top-down motor inﬂuence may be relevant when it
comes to acquiring speech, as it may facilitate learning new phonolo-
gical sequences and in particular support phonological working mem-
ory by contributing to maintaining the memory trace in presence of
interfering processes. Supporting this idea, Diana Liao and collabora-
tors used TMS to interfere with motor areas during both spatial and
verbal working memory tasks. They observed impaired performance in
306 8 Grasping Mirrors
both tasks, especially in verbal working memory when using non-
words, as these stimuli put a higher load on the phonological system
(Liao et al. 2014).
The Devil is in the Details
The second assumption in Rizzolatti and Arbib’s article on language
origins was homology between area F5 of the monkey, where mirror
neurons were initially found, and Broca’s region in the human
(Rizzolatti and Arbib 1998). However, area F5 is part of the monkey
ventral premotor cortex (area 6v in the human) and is not strictly part of
the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex that makes up the restricted Broca’s
region in the human. Michael Petrides (Petrides et al. 2005) described
areas 44 and 45, corresponding to the core of Broca’s area, as distinct from
area F5 (or 6v) in the monkey, as Giuseppe Luppino, a close collaborator of
Rizzolatti (Belmalih et al. 2009). As mentioned in the previous chapter,
Petrides and collaborators observed that stimulation of neurons in the
monkey area 44 triggers orofacial movements, while oral mirror neurons
that ﬁre with the execution/observation of facial and lip-smacking move-
ments have been located in the more lateral aspect of F5 close to area 44,
but not within it. There have been no reports to date of orofacial or
grasping mirror neurons in area 44 or in other regions of the ventrolateral
prefrontal cortex that may contribute to an “extended Broca’s area” (see
Chapter 2). Another point of disagreement is that Petrides and others have
described the inferior parietal connections as reaching Broca’s region (areas
44 and 45) (Petrides 2014), while the group of Luppino has described
these projections as terminating more posteriorly in the ventral premotor
region or area F5, where mirror neurons are located (Gerbella et al. 2010).
Despite these diﬀerences in the details, the overall data points to a robust
inferior parietal projection to the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and/or the
ventral premotor and motor cortices. These connections are involved in
orofacial control and participate in the selection of behaviorally relevant
motor patterns, as proposed by Kaas and Stepniewska (2016) and others
(seeprevious chapter).Myinterpretationisthatthese inferior parietalregions,
mainly those representing mouth and facial movements, received increasing
The Devil is in the Details 307
auditory projection in human evolution (see Chapters 2 and 7). These
projections contributed to auditory working memory by selecting vocal
motor programs to be rehearsed in working memory processes, and by
providing top-down modulations of speech perception to reﬁne output,
which is relevant for learning speech.In thisway,the inferior parietalpathway
began to support the phonological loop that was emerging, mainly associated
with an ampliﬁcation of the arcuate fasciculus. As I said above, it is expected
that as part of sensorimotor circuits auditory-vocal mirror neurons are
included in the circuit involved in the phonological loop (Aboitiz et al.
2005, 2010; Aboitiz 2013). Examples of these are the audiovisual and the
orofacial mirror neurons described above (Kohler et al. 2002; Ferrari et al.
2003). It has been argued that audiovisual mirror neurons activate with the
sound of paper being torn but not with the corresponding hand movement,
and that the orofacial mirror neurons relate to ingestive movements other
than those involved in phonation, which is supposedly produced by a highly
rigid, non-plastic sensorimotor system. But there is no reason why auditory
mirror neurons should not activate with noises made directly with the hand,
and it does not seem diﬃcult to extend ingestive-related mirror neurons to
vocalization processes (see Chapter 10). Therefore, auditory-vocal mirror
neurons need not derive from a hand grasping system, but may have
originated directly from associative processes within the auditory modality.
This is not to say that hand-based and phonological representations were
totally independent; as I have previously mentioned, an increase in manual
skills was also taking place at that point, allowing for the fabrication tools and
weapons, which was synergistic with vocal and gestural communication
(Chapter 4) (McGinn 2015; Morgan et al. 2015). Nonetheless, circuits
involved in toolmaking and vocal behavior may have partially segregated to
avoid interference, so it is possible that in some instances they inhibited
each other.
Protosigns and Protospeech
Michael Arbib has continued updating the mirror system hypothesis for
language origins, disputing the notion that mirror neurons contain a
simulation of the other’s behavior, and including components “beyond
308 8 Grasping Mirrors
the mirror” to account for action understanding and complex imitation of
pantomimes and hand gestures (Arbib 2005, 2009, 2012, 2013a, b, 2016a,
b). He retains the key element of the original hypothesis based on an
action-oriented framework that derives from manual dexterity, which is
the precursor of the circuits involved in speech and language. According to
Arbib, it was only through use of the hands that our ancestors were able to
develop a primitive lexicon and grammar supporting a semantic network.
Arbib has developed an elaborate theory of motor control and language
processing, and I will only refer here to those aspects that relate directly to
this book’s purposes. He proposes that the mirror system for grasping was
extended in early humans to facilitate imitation, which evolved from a slow
“object oriented” process in non-human primates to a complex imitation
system that allows rapid imitation of complex behaviors, including gestures
and pantomimes that resemble animal movements or natural events (see
above in this Chapter). From here, a “protosign” stage emerged, following
Derek Bickerton’s concept of protolanguage (see Chapter 1), which is a
combinatorial open repertoire of manual gestures conveying simple mean-
ings about objects or events. Protosigns provide neural scaﬀolding for the
origin of a primitive vocal communication system called protospeech. In
Arbib’s terms, the brain was then “language-ready” but not “language-
using”. From then on, protosign and protospeech co-evolved in an
“expanding spiral” that lasted for most of the history of our ancestors
until speech became dominant. Eventually, modern language appeared,
with a complex syntax and compositional semantics. Arbib also asserts that
while the acquisition of the protosign and protospeech stages (i.e. the
language-ready brain) was dependent on genetic mechanisms, modern
language is the result of more recent cultural evolution in the history of
Homo sapiens, rather than resulting from a genetic process. In this way,
Arbib claims to depart from the classical Chomskyan approach, which
states that the structure of human grammar is innately pre-speciﬁed.
Nonetheless, I see some similarity between Arbib’s notion of a
“language-ready” brain and Chomsky’s concept of competence for
language (see Chapter 1). Chomsky argues that individuals may be
competent for language even if they do not express it. The innate
element of Chomsky’s language ability resides in the competence, not
in the executed structure. In human evolution, the transition from
Protosigns and Protospeech 309
the acquisition of competence to actual performance is very unlikely
to have been instantaneous, as language only develops within a
language-using community. Our ancestors probably needed a few
millenniums of cultural development to actually start using language.
Thus, one could say that at the protosign/protospeech stage, humans
were already competent for language in Chomsky’s terms. The dif-
ference between the two views seems to lie in the cognitive inter-
pretation of language-readiness or competence, which Arbib and
others claim is deeply intertwined with semantics, and Chomsky
proposes is an encapsulated modular system (see Chapter 1). But if
language execution is the result of cultural evolution, why do all
languages share similar syntactic rules? This could be due to a single
origin of all languages, or to genetic constraints in the kinds of
structures that cultural learning can develop. We do not yet have a
clear answer to this question. By the way, this gets to the argument
of Alfred Russell Wallace, the co-discoverer of evolution by natural
selection. He observed that native children from the Malay
Archipelago could learn English, to read and to do arithmetic
under the same conditions as those of their ancestors, who never
done any of these things. Dissenting from Darwin, Wallace believed
that these traits were not product of natural selection. The point is
that these individuals are already language (or mathematically) com-
petent, or have a “language-ready” brain that is an instrument for
complex learning. Note however that the analogy is not perfect, as
these natives did speak their own language, and had the capacity to
estimate quantities based on magnitude. The point I want to make is
that our brain may be equipped to do a lot more than what our
cultural environment can make us express at any time in history.
Arbib hypothesizes that the last common ancestor of humans and
monkeys was manually skilled, but had few imitation capacities, and
communication consisted of innate, stereotyped vocal calls. More
recently, the last common ancestor of humans and chimps was, in
addition, capable of simple imitation of manual tasks and had a simple
communicative repertoire of manual gestures, using ritualized gestures
to transmit desires. Arbib considers ritualization a key element in this
process, and he borrows Michael Tomasello and Josep Call’s model
310 8 Grasping Mirrors
(Tomasello and Call 1997) for the development of ritualization.
Imagine, for example, the origin of begging behavior in apes. There
are two individuals, one of which (the acting one) is extending its arm to
obtain food that the other (the responding one) is eating. The respond-
ing individual is able to recognize the action when it begins, so it can
anticipate the response (giving some food) before the action to obtain
food is totally executed. But this anticipation might not preclude the
acting individual to ﬁnish extending its arm, as is proposed to happen
with monkeys. With chimps however, the acting subject “anticipates the
anticipation” of the responding subject, producing a ritualized begging
behavior that is rapidly responded to and is subsequently conventiona-
lized. The basic point here is that the responding individual is able to
recognize the other’s action in its early stages, which can make the acting
individual use only the ﬁrst elements of its own action chain to express
its desire.
According to Arbib, the ritualization mechanism emerges when the
acting individual can recognize proprioceptive signals to abort the motor
program before it ends, something that is proposed to depend on the
elaboration of the mirror system for motor control. Another kind of
ritualization is human-assisted ritualization, in which the ape unsuccess-
fully attempts to perform a behavior, but sees a human being eﬀective in
this action (like grasping an object). Eventually, the ape produces a
ritualized form of this behavior (for example, pointing) to get the
human to perform the action for him. This mechanism, however, can
be seen in domestic species like dogs and cats, and is not exclusive to
primates. Some authors argue that although ritualization can be seen in
captivity, there is no evidence of ritualized behavior in wild apes
(Hobaiter and Byrne 2011). In any case, macaques are claimed to be
unable to arrest the initiated motor program (in the example, the
extension of the arm) like captive chimpanzees can do.
Continuing with Arbib’s scenario, he proposes that after reaching the
ritualization stage, early humans added the capacity to discern the shapes
of movements and to form complex hierarchies of motor skills (Arbib
2012). This led to elaborate imitation patterns that resulted in the
development of pantomime, or the imitation of actions to direct the
attention of others to speciﬁc objects, places or events. For example,
Protosigns and Protospeech 311
pantomime is used by modern humans to teach children to use tools,
which may have happened with early humans as well (Arbib 2005).
Protosigns emerged by conventionalizing pantomimes in the commu-
nity, which made communication less energetically demanding, less
ambiguous and more precise. Protosigns could then be fractionated,
for example, a mimic of a ﬂying bird could become split into two
protosigns, one for “ﬂying” and the other for “bird”, which could be
used to transmit novel meanings, like “bird nest”. In all these stages,
protohumans are supposed to have had a rudimentary capacity for vocal
control and vocal learning, even if they made use of facial and vocal
gestures during communication. Up to then, vocal behavior would have
had little communicative inﬂuence besides grunts or noises denoting
ingestive behaviors, which ﬁts the mirror neuron evidence. Arbib and
others consider that at some point, coincident with the development of a
direct tract from premotor and motor cortices into the laryngeal muscles
that control vocalization, the control of vocalizations became voluntary.
From then on, an “expanding spiral” between gestural and vocal com-
munication developed in which all three modalities, gestures and speech,
mutually reinforced the other, until speech took over communication
and hand-based signs became limited to gestures that accompany speech.
In summary, Arbib proposes a sequence of several stages in the
evolution of language readiness: (1) grasping behavior in primates; (2)
the development of a mirror system for grasping in the common ances-
tor of humans and monkeys; (3) acquisition of a simple imitation system
for grasping in the common ancestor of humans and chimpanzees; (4)
the development of a complex imitation system for grasping; (5) the
advent of protosign, that breaks through the vocal system to produce an
open repertoire; (6) protospeech, an open-ended vocal system for pro-
duction and perception of vocal gestures; (7) an expanding spiral
between protospeech and protogestures; and (8) recent cultural evolu-
tion generating modern language.
I have said that Arbib proposes that the neural underpinnings of
language acquisition depend on the mirror neuron system, but also on
its interactions with networks “beyond the mirror system”. He empha-
sizes the organization of the visual system in the dorsal and ventral
pathways described in Chapter 7, and the interaction between the two
312 8 Grasping Mirrors
pathways. In Arbib’s model, the ventral visual pathway recognizes
objects in a scene, and their approximate spatial relationship. By virtue
of its connectivity with the prefrontal cortex, this pathway contributes to
action planning by maintaining perceptual and motor schemas that are
relevant for interaction with the physical and social world. For its part,
the dorsal visual system includes mirror neurons and other kinds of
neurons that mediate production and recognition of actions. Using
complex imitation and planning behavior, execution and observation
of familiar actions can be extended to create novel actions leading to
pantomimes and protosigns. During the acquisition of protospeech, the
dorsal mirror system for compound actions extends in evolution to a
mirror system for words, maintaining its connectivity with the ventral
pathway. In this way, words can be raised to more elaborate utterances
using complex imitation and planning, as happened with hand control
in the protosign stage. As protospeech emerges, conveying conventiona-
lized meanings, communicative actions acquire symbolic content and
dissociate from praxic actions. The dorsal auditory pathway, mapping
sound into articulatory representations, is involved in the production of
words-as-actions (i.e. controlling the articulatory process), while the
ventral stream that maps sound to meaning provides an interface
between phonological signals and conceptual representations.
Following the above argument, Arbib sees syntax as deeply inter-
twined with semantics. He proposes a “visually constructed grammar”
based on a hierarchical “semantic representation” of a visual scene,
containing information about agents, attributes and other relevant
issues, from which an algorithm operates to produce a sentence describ-
ing the event (Arbib 2012). In the process, function words that serve
auxiliary grammatical roles (like “if”, “the”, and “or”) are produced to
disambiguate meanings conveyed by content words. A key property of
symbolic systems is compositionality, that is, when the semantic con-
tents of a complex expression can be fractionated in the meanings of its
diﬀerent components, as in the above example of “ﬂying bird”.
According to Arbib, repeating this fragmentation procedure to generate
longer communicative structures yields recursion as a by-product.
Likewise, Friedemann Pulvermüller also argues, the hierarchical struc-
ture of an action is composed of an ordered array of action sequences
Protosigns and Protospeech 313
and subsequences (Arbib 2012, Pulvermüller 2014). The diﬀerence
is that in an action, there is sensory and contextual information at
each step that helps to decide the next step, while in a sentence
there is no such cue, and working memory is required to keep the
sentence going on. This view has commonalities with other propo-
sals like Ronald Langacker’s cognitive model of grammar, which
emphasizes the transformation of a perceptual code into a beha-
vioral code (Langacker 2013). However, linguists like Andrea Moro
remain unconvinced and insist that sensory-motor systems lack
both an equivalent to function words and locality principles as
found in syntax (Moro 2014a, b). Locality governs the proximity
relationship between lexical items, minimizing the load on working
memory and computational capacity (otherwise, there would be
truly no limit to the complexity of sentences used). The contro-
versy between traditional linguists, heirs of the Chomskyan tradi-
tion on one side, and cognitivists that try to intertwine language
and semantics on the other, will probably continue for a long time.
As I said in Chapter 7, I am more inclined to the notion that
syntax represents an algorithm to accurately translate a sequential
phonological working memory code into a visual (or visuomotor)
working memory representation, minimizing computational load,
and involving participation of both the dorsal and the ventral
auditory and visual streams (Aboitiz et al. 2006). Thus, syntax is
neither “visually constructed” or “motor constructed”, nor an
encapsulated module, but rather represents an interface between
the phonological and sensory-motor systems (particularly vision),
and as such may have elements not found in either of these.
The Chicken or the Egg?
A crucial point in Arbib’s hypothesis is that visuo-manual circuits were
far more developed in the last common ancestor between humans and
chimps, which makes an initial gesturing stage more likely, leading to
pantomime and protosign. According to Arbib, using and combining
learned manual symbols in the protosign stage provided the social and
314 8 Grasping Mirrors
cognitive context to acquire vocal control and vocal learning capacity,
leading to protospeech. Songbirds and other animals are particularly
good at learning complex vocal patterns by imitation, but Arbib asserts
that this ability by itself cannot generate a primitive lexico-semantic
system. On the other hand, the grasping mirror neuron system is directly
related to praxis, and grasping actions are easier to be decomposed in
smaller elements that are amenable to ritualization and can subsequently
acquire symbolic properties.
The above is a plausible but speculative scenario, and there are other
possibilities as well. Primates (and other mammals) have had voluntary
control of their hands for quite some time, but no tendency has arisen
to develop gestural symbols or pantomime in any of them. Perhaps
non-human primates are stagnated in a stage comparable to that of
non-human vocal learning animals. Something else is needed for the
origin of semantic communication, which Arbib attributes to the
advent of complex manual imitation. In my opinion, there is no reason
why such complex action recognition could not develop by itself in the
vocal system, by learning to articulate vocal utterances by imitation.
There are many species that can perform quite complex vocal imita-
tions and do not have a grasping apparatus. In more technical terms,
there is no phylogenetic association between vocal learning capacity
and grasping abilities. In other words, I see no need for proposing a
protosign stage to account for the development of vocal learning and
imitation. It is not whether pantomime or vocal behavior was ﬁrst; the
point is that it is only in the human lineage that a combination of
learned gestures and vocal plasticity has taken place to develop a
symbolic system, possibly fueled by increasing imitative behavior in
both systems. Supporting this perspective, Stephanie King and Peter
McGregor recently explained that while birdsong focuses on mate
attraction and territorial defense, vocal learning in other animals like
parrots and cetaceans promotes social bonds and behavioral coordina-
tion, a condition that may be closer to developing a primitive refer-
ential system (King and McGregor 2016).
Therefore, I prefer the notion that vocal plasticity is quite ancient in
our lineage, probably appearing as far back as Australopithecines. In
Chapter 10, we will see that some apes can in fact do vocal imitation
The Chicken or the Egg? 315
(Lameira et al. 2016). Our ancestors may have used learned vocalizations
mainly for social purposes like bonding, group cohesion and other social
functions, as songbirds and other animals do. In addition, parrots can
learn to name objects, and vervet monkeys use vocal signals to signal
speciﬁc predators, although the latter are largely ﬁxed and stereotyped
(see Chapters 9 and 10). If Australopithecines acquired vocal learning
for social purposes, and also developed vervet-like calls, a rudimentary
semantics could have emerged. Our ancestors may have had a relatively
broad repertoire of calls, some of them imitating animals or events like
the wind or running water. A vocal learning circuit may have been
endowed with sophisticated predictive coding mechanisms and vocal
mirror neurons, and may have had powerful working memory capacities,
even in the absence of semantic contents (remember that verbal working
memory is assessed using meaningless non-words; Chapter 6). These
signals worked together with hand and body gestures to transmit simple
meanings. Nonetheless, speech rapidly took over, possibly as hands were
recruited for toolmaking and tool use, and because speech was energe-
tically more eﬃcient (Bosman 2005; Aboitiz 2013; Garcia et al. 2014).
I completely agree with Arbib in that language, and human commu-
nication are multimodal devices, and I also consider that there was a
close gestural-vocal coevolution in our lineage. There is increasingly
evidence that communication is multimodal in humans, apes and mon-
keys. Jared Taglialatela et al. (2008, 2011), working with chimpanzees,
has shown activation of Broca’s area homologue with the production of
both manual and vocal communicative signals. Likewise, Peter Hagoort
(Willems and Hagoort 2007) and others have shown a similar situation
in humans. Body gesturing not only accompanies speech, it also helps
communication in a similar way as prosody supports speech. There are
studies that point to gestures as being more eloquent than vocal imita-
tion in modern human communication, and perhaps it was like this for
early humans as well. For example, if human subjects are prohibited
from using language, they use gestures and signs better than vocal
behavior for communication (Fay and Lim 2012). Furthermore, gestures
are more prevalent than words for 16-month old children, while for 20-
month old children words are more prevalent than gestures (Iverson et
al. 1994). However, infants begin vocalizing and then babbling and
316 8 Grasping Mirrors
using prosody at a much earlier age, which is perhaps more comparable
to gestural behavior. In addition, there is no direct indication that
gestural communication ever became more complex than what is
observed in modern human gestuality, child or adult, in diﬀerent speak-
ing cultures. In other words, although gestures may have been present
since very early in human evolution, there are no traces of the hypothe-
tical protosign stage in modern human behavior. Arbib somehow con-
cedes that only limited protosign was required to ground the ascending
speech-gesture spiral (Arbib 2013b).
Mirror neuron theorists point to the ability of the hearing impaired
to develop sign language. Sign languages are highly complex and
syntactically organized, relying on a neural system that overlaps
with the language network. Broca’s area activates when deaf subjects
use hand-signing languages, and damage to this area results in apha-
sic-like behavior in the deaf (Poizner et al. 1987; Xu et al. 2009;
Newman et al. 2010, 2015). But these ﬁndings do not imply that this
is the original function of Broca’s area. Other ﬁndings indicate that
the structure of sign languages develops in speciﬁc steps, starting with
only dominant (usually right) hand signing, but then involves head
movements, facial expression, torso movements and ﬁnally the use of
the non-dominant hand (Matacic 2016). This evidence suggests to
some that there was an ancestral hand-signing system that is reacti-
vated in the hearing impaired. However, this capacity may be due to a
phenomenon of brain plasticity and opportunism for using distinct
sensory motor systems for communication. An example of this is the
famous patient suﬀering cerebral palsy Christy Brown, who painted
and wrote with his left foot (his story was popularized in the award-
winning movie “My Left Foot”, directed by Jim Sheridan and star-
ring Daniel Day-Lewis); or the case of patients that can only com-
municate by moving their eyes. As communication is opportunistic
and multimodal, we use any possible way to convey messages if we
cannot speak. Hands come in as a ﬁrst choice, but we can and will use
any other means to transmit complex messages if necessary (Aboitiz
2013). Similarly, Johan Bolhuis and collaborators claim that sign
languages develop in individuals with modern brains already
equipped for language, including the computational systems needed
The Chicken or the Egg? 317
to learn language, but in many cases lacking the sensory components
to develop speech (Huybregts et al. 2016).
Mirror neuron theorists also maintain that in monkeys, vocaliza-
tions are largely ﬁxed and stereotyped, while hand movement is under
voluntary control. The latter is associated with strong and direct
motor cortical projection to the hand motor neurons in the cervical
spinal cord, which is absent for laryngeal motor neurons controlling
vocalizations. However, in Chapter 10 we will see examples of apes
able to voluntarily imitate the human voice (Lameira et al. 2016).
Furthermore, Suzana Herculano-Houzel et al. (2016) has argued that
the development of descending cortical control is mainly due to
increased brain size (see Chapters 3 and 7). If this is so, there may
be no need for transmission of voluntary control from hand to
mouth, but only an independent growth of the innervation of the
respective nuclei. This parallel increase may have had two conse-
quences: one was facilitated vocal plasticity and learning, and the
other was increased manual dexterity to be used in sign- and tool-
making. It is possible that gestural communication was arrested at
early stages in human evolution, due to the involvement of hands in
toolmaking and object manipulation, while the vocal system took
over communicative behavior. Although I will discuss this in more
detail in Chapter 10, I want to make the point that speech is the
result of a history with many complex innovations, from peripheral
modiﬁcations of the vocal tract to changes in innervation of the
tongue and vocal cords, not to mention the development of a vocal
neural circuitry at diﬀerent levels, enabling learning complex vocali-
zation sequences. Vocal learning capacity leading to speech is very
unlikely to have appeared uniquely as a result of simple traits like the
development of an orofacial corti-cobulbar tract, nor as consequence
of a protosign communicative stage that put social and cognitive
pressure on the vocal system (Aboitiz 2013). More than grasping
behavior, vocal behavior is what has made our lineage diﬀerent
from that of other apes, and probably our vocal system underwent
rapid evolution in early stages of our lineage to support social cohe-
sion and behavioral coordination like toolmaking or foraging over
long distances (see Chapter 10).
318 8 Grasping Mirrors
The take-home message of this Chapter is that speech has never
been the only channel for communication and there are other ways
to transmit complex messages when speech is not available.
Furthermore, there may have been close coevolution of speech and
gestures (including body, face and hands), each supporting the other
from very early times of human evolution. In the following two
chapters, I will discuss the evolution of speech mechanisms, showing
evidence for a continuous evolution of many of the processes
involved in speech, and presenting comparative evidence that gaining
voluntary control of the vocal apparatus may not have been such a
diﬃcult evolutionary step. After this, and provided a hand manipula-
tion system, the evolution of speech and language could begin.
References
Aboitiz F (2013) How did vocal behavior “take over” the gestural communica-
tion system? Lang Cognit 5:167–176
Aboitiz F, García R, Brunetti E, Bosman C (2005) Imitation and memory in
language origins. Neural Netw. 18:1357
Aboitiz F, García R, Brunetti E, Bosman C (2006) The origin of Broca’s
area from an ancestral working memory network. In: Grodzinsky Y,
Amunts K (eds), Broca’s Region. Oxford, Oxford University Press, p
3–16
Aboitiz F, Aboitiz S, García R (2010) The phonological loop: a key innovation
in human evolution. Curr Anthropol 51:S55–S65
Arbib MA. (2005) From monkey-like action recognition to human language: an
evolutionary framework for neurolinguistics. Behav Brain Sci 28:105–124; dis-
cussion 125–167
Arbib MA (2009) Evolving the language-ready brain and the social mechanisms
that support language. J Commun Disord 42:263–271
Arbib MA (2012) How The Brain Got Language. The Mirror System
Hypothesis. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Arbib MA (2013a) Précis of how the brain got language. The mirror system
hypothesis. Lang Cognit 5:107–131
Arbib MA (2013b) Complex Imitation and the language-ready brain. Lang
Cognit 5:273–312
References 319
Arbib MA (2016a) Towards a computational comparative neuroprimatology:
framing the language-ready brain. Phys Life Rev 6:1–54
Arbib MA (2016b) Toward the language-ready brain: biological evolution and
primate comparisons. Psychon Bull Rev 24:142–150
Arbib MA, Liebal K, Pika S (2008) Primate vocalization, gesture, and the
evolution of human language. Curr Anthropol 49:1053–1063; discussion
1063–1076
Aziz-Zadeh L, Maeda F, Zaidel E, Mazziotta J, Iacoboni M (2002)
Lateralization in motor facilitation during action observation: a TMS
study. Exp Brain Res 144:127–131
Aziz-Zadeh L, Koski L, Zaidel E, Mazziotta J, Iacoboni M (2006) Lateralization
of the human mirror neuron system. J Neurosci 26:2964–2970
Baess P, Horváth J, Jacobsen T, Schröger E (2011) Selective suppression of self-
initiated sounds in an auditory stream: an ERP study. Psychophysiology
48:1276–1283
Baldissera F, Cavallari P, Craighero L, Fadiga L (2001) Modulation of spinal
excitability during observation of hand actions in humans. Eur J Neurosci
13:190–194
Baron-Cohen S, Leslie AM, Frith U. Baron-Cohen S, Leslie AM, Frith U
(1985) Does the autistic child have a “theory of mind”? Cognition
21:37–46
Belmalih A, Borra E, Contini M, Gerbella M, Rozzi S, Luppino G (2009)
Multimodal architectonic subdivision of the rostral part (area F5) of the
macaque ventral premotor cortex. J Comp Neurol 512:183–217
Berent I, Brem AK, Zhao X, Seligson E, Pan H, Epstein J, Stern E, Galaburda
AM, Pascual-Leone A (2015) Role of the motor system in language knowl-
edge. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112:1983–1988
Bickerton, D (2009) Adam’s Tongue. How Humans Made Language, How
Language Made Humans. Hill and Wang, New York
Bonaiuto J, Arbib MA (2015) Learning to grasp and extract aﬀordances: the
Integrated Learning of Grasps and Aﬀordances (ILGA) model. Biol Cybern
109:639–669
Bosman C, García R, Aboitiz F (2004) FOXP2 and the language working-
memory system. Trends Cogn Sci 8:251–252
Bosman C, López V, Aboitiz F (2005) Sharpening Occam’s razor: is there
necessity of a hand-signing stage prior to vocal communication?
Commentary. Behav Brain Sci 28:128–129
320 8 Grasping Mirrors
Bruderer AG, Danielson DK, Kandhadai P, Werker JF (2015) Sensorimotor
inﬂuences on speech perception in infancy. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
112:13531–13536
Byrne RW (2009) Animal imitation. Curr Biol 19:R111–R114
Catmur C, Walsh V, Heyes C (2007) Sensorimotor learning conﬁgures the
human mirror system. Curr Biol 17:1527–1531
Catmur C, Walsh V, Heyes C (2009) Associative sequence learning: the role of
experience in the development of imitation and the mirror system. Philos
Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 364:2369–2380
Clark A (2013) Whatever next? Predictive brains, situated agents, and the
future of cognitive science. Behav Brain Sci 36:181–204
Cook R, Bird G, Catmur C, Press C, Heyes C (2014) Mirror neurons: from
origin to function. Behav Brain Sci 37:177–192; discussion 221–241
Corballis MC (2004) FOXP2 and the mirror system. Trends Cogn Sci 8:95–96
Cross KA, Iacoboni M (2014a) Neural systems for preparatory control of
imitation. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 369:20130176
Cross KA, Iacoboni M (2014b) To imitate or not: avoiding imitation involves
preparatory inhibition of motor resonance. Neuroimage 91:228–236
Curio G, Neuloh G, Numminen J, Jousmäki V, Hari R (2000) Speaking
modiﬁes voice-evoked activity in the human auditory cortex. Hum Brain
Mapp 9:183–191
di Pellegrino G, Fadiga L, Fogassi L, Gallese V, Rizzolatti G (1992)
Understanding motor events: a neurophysiological study. Exp Brain Res
91:176–180
Fa J, Lindburg D (1996) Evolution and Ecology of Macaque Societies.
Cambridge University Press, New York
Fadiga L, Fogassi L, Pavesi G, Rizzolatti G (1995) Motor facilitation during action
observation: a magnetic stimulation study. J Neurophysiol 73:2608–2611
Fadiga L, Craighero L, Buccino G, Rizzolatti G (2002) Speech listening
speciﬁcally modulates the excitability of tongue muscles: a TMS study.
Eur J Neurosci 15:399–402
Fay N, Lim S (2012) From hand to mouth: An experimental simulation of
language origin. In: Smith ADM, Schouwstra M, de Boer B, Smith K (eds),
The Evolution of Language. World Scientiﬁc Press, Singapore, p 401–402
Ferrari PF, Gallese V, Rizzolatti G, Fogassi L (2003) Mirror neurons respond-
ing to the observation of ingestive and communicative mouth actions in the
monkey ventral premotor cortex. Eur J Neurosci 17:1703–1714
References 321
Ferrari PF, Rozzi S, Fogassi L (2005) Mirror neurons responding to observation
of actions made with tools in monkey ventral premotor cortex. J Cogn
Neurosci 17:212–226
Ferrari PF, Visalberghi E, Paukner A, Fogassi L, Ruggiero A, Suomi SJ (2006)
Neonatal imitation in rhesus macaques. PLoS Biol 4:e302
Fogassi L, Ferrari PF, Gesierich B, Rozzi S, Chersi F, Rizzolatti G (2005)
Parietal lobe: from action organization to intention understanding. Science
308:662–667
Gallese V, Fadiga L, Fogassi L, Rizzolatti G (1996) Action recognition in the
premotor cortex. Brain 119:593–609
Gallup AC, Church AM, Pelegrino AJ (2016) Yawn duration predicts brain
weight and cortical neuron number in mammals. Biol Lett 12,
pii:20160545
Garcia J, Hankins WG, Rusiniak KW (1974) Behavioral regulation of the
milieu interne in man and rat. Science 185:824–831
García RR, Zamorano F, Aboitiz F (2014) From imitation to meaning:
circuit plasticity and the acquisition of a conventionalized semantics.
Front Hum Neurosci 8:605
Gentilucci M, Corballis MC (2006) From manual gesture to speech: a gradual
transition. Neurosci Biobehav Rev 30:949–960
Genty E, Zuberbühler K (2014) Spatial reference in a bonobo gesture. Curr
Biol 24:1601–1605.
Genty E, Zuberbühler K (2015) Iconic gesturing in bonobos. Commun Integr
Biol 8:e992742
Genty E, Clay Z, Hobaiter C, Zuberbühler K (2014) Multi-modal use of a
socially directed call in bonobos. PLoS One 9:e84738
Gerbella M, Belmalih A, Borra E, Rozzi S, Luppino G (2010) Cortical con-
nections of the macaque caudal ventrolateral prefrontal areas 45A and 45B.
Cereb Cortex 20:141–168
Grafton ST, Arbib MA, Fadiga L, Rizzolatti G (1996a) Localization of grasp
representations in humans by positron emission tomography. 2.
Observation compared with imagination. Exp Brain Res 112:103–111
Grafton ST, Fagg AH, Woods RP, Arbib MA (1996b) Functional anatomy of
pointing and grasping in humans. Cereb Cortex 6:226–237
Herculano-Houzel S, Kaas JH, de Oliveira-Souza R (2016) Corticalization of
motor control in humans is a consequence of brain scaling in primate
evolution. J Comp Neurol 524:448–455
322 8 Grasping Mirrors
Heyes C (2016a) Homo imitans? Seven reasons why imitation couldn’t possi-
bly be associative. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 371:20150069
Heyes C (2016b) Imitation: not in our genes. Curr Biol 26:R412–R414
Hickok G (2009) Eight problems for the mirror neuron theory of action
understanding in monkeys and humans. J Cogn Neurosci 21:1229–1243
Hickok G (2013) Do mirror neurons subserve action understanding? Neurosci
Lett 540:56–58
Hickok G (2014) The Myth of Mirror Neurons: The Real Neuroscience of
Communication And Cognition. Norton Press, New York
Hickok G, Hauser M (2010) (Mis)understanding mirror neurons. Curr Biol
20:R593–R594
Hobaiter C, Byrne RW (2011) The gestural repertoire of the wild chimpanzee.
Anim Cognit 14:745–767
Hobaiter C, Byrne RW (2014) The meanings of chimpanzee gestures. Curr
Biol 24:1596–1600
Huybregts MA, Berwick RC, Bolhuis JJ (2016) The language within. Science
352:1286
Iacoboni M (2009) Imitation, empathy, and mirror neurons. Annu Rev
Psychol 60:653–670
Iacoboni M, Woods RP, Brass M, Bekkering H, Mazziotta JC, Rizzolatti G
(1999) Cortical mechanisms of human imitation. Science 286:2526–2528
Iverson JM, Capirci O, Caselli MC (1994) From communication to language
in two modalities. Cogn Devel 9:23–43
Joly-Mascheroni RM, Senju A, Shepherd AJ (2008) Dogs catch human yawns.
Biol Lett 4:446–448
Kaas JH, Stepniewska I (2016) Evolution of posterior parietal cortex and
parietal-frontal networks for speciﬁc actions in primates. J Comp Neurol
524:595–608
Kaminski J, Call J, Tomasello M (2004) Body orientation and face orientation:
two factors controlling apes’ behavior from humans. Anim Cogn 7:216–223
Kilner JM, Friston KJ, Frith CD (2007) Predictive coding: an account of the
mirror neuron system. Cogn Process 8:159–166
Kilner JM, Neal A, Weiskopf N, Friston KJ, Frith CD (2009) Evidence of
mirror neurons in human inferior frontal gyrus. J Neurosci
29:10153–10159
King SL, McGregor PK (2016) Vocal matching: the what, the why and the
how. Biol Lett 12:20160666
References 323
Kohler E, Keysers C, Umilta MA, Fogassi L, Gallese V, Rizzolatti G (2002)
Hearing sounds, understanding actions: action representation in mirror
neurons. Science 297:846–848
Lameira AR, Hardus ME, Mielke A, Wich SA, Shumaker RW. (2016) Vocal
fold control beyond the species-speciﬁc repertoire in an orang-utan. Sci Rep
6:30315
Lametti DR, Rochet-Capellan A, Neufeld E, Shiller DM, Ostry DJ (2014)
Plasticity in the human speech motor system drives changes in speech
perception. J Neurosci 34:10339–10346
Langacker RW (2013) Essentials of Cognitive Grammar. Oxford University
Press, Oxford
Leone A, Ferrari PF, Palagi E (2014) Diﬀerent yawns, diﬀerent functions?
Testing social hypotheses on spontaneous yawning in Theropithecus gelada.
Sci Rep 4:4010
Liao DA, Kronemer SI, Yau JM, Desmond JE, Marvel CL (2014) Motor
system contributions to verbal and non-verbal working memory. Front
Hum Neurosci 8:753
Liberman AM (1970) Some characteristics of perception in the speech mode.
Res Publ Assoc Res Nerv Ment Dis 48:238–254
Liberman AM, Harris KS, Hoﬀmann HS, Griﬃth BC (1957) The discrimina-
tion of speech sounds within and across phoneme boundaries. J Exp Psychol
54:358–368
Liberman AM, Cooper FS, Shankweiler DP, Studdert-Kennedy M (1967)
Perception of the speech code. Psychol Rev 74:431–461
Liebal K, Call J (2012) The origins of non-human primates’ manual gestures.
Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 367:118–128
Liebal K, Call J, Tomasello M (2004) Use of gesture sequences in chimpanzees.
Am J Primatol 64:377–396
Lorenz K (1981) The Foundations of Ethology. Springer Verlag, New York
Marler P (2004) Innateness and the instinct to learn. An Acad Bras Cienc
76:189–200
Martikainen MH, Kaneko K, Hari R (2005) Suppressed responses to self-
triggered sounds in the human auditory cortex. Cereb Cortex 15:299–302
Massaro DW, Chen TH (2008) The motor theory of speech perception
revisited. Psychon Bull Rev 15:453–457; discussion 458–462
Massen JJ, Church AM, Gallup AC (2015) Auditory contagious yawning in
humans: an investigation into aﬃliation and status eﬀects. Front Psychol
6:1735
324 8 Grasping Mirrors
Matacic C (2016) How sign languages evolve. Science 352:392–393
McGinn C (2015) Prehension: The Hand and the Emergence of Humanity.
MIT Press, Cambridge
McGurk H, MacDonald J (1976) Hearing lips and seeing voices. Nature
264:746–748
Morgan TJ, Uomini NT, Rendell LE, Chouinard-Thuly L, Street SE, Lewis
HM, Cross CP, Evans C, Kearney R, de la Torre I, Whiten A, Laland KN
(2015) Experimental evidence for the co-evolution of hominin tool-making
teaching and language. Nat Commun 6:6029
Moro A (2014a) On the similarity between syntax and actions. Trends Cogn
Sci 18:109–110
Moro A (2014b) Response to Pulvermüller: the syntax of actions and other
metaphors. Trends Cogn Sci 18:221
Moulin-Frier C, Arbib MA (2013)Recognizing speech in a novel accent: the
motor theory of speech perception reframed. Biol Cybern 107:421–447
Mukamel R, Ekstrom AD, Kaplan J, Iacoboni M, Fried I (2010) Single-neuron
responses in humans during execution and observation of actions. Curr Biol
20:750–756
Newman AJ, Supalla T, Hauser PC, Newport EL, Bavelier D (2010) Prosodic
and narrative processing in American Sign Language: an fMRI study.
Neuroimage 52:669–676
Newman AJ, Supalla T, Fernandez N, Newport EL, Bavelier D (2015) Neural
systems supporting linguistic structure, linguistic experience, and symbolic
communication in sign language and gesture. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
112:11684–11689
Oostenbroek J, Suddendorf T, Nielsen M, Redshaw J, Kennedy-Costantini S,
Davis J, Clark S, Slaughter V (2016) Comprehensive longitudinal study
challenges the existence of neonatal imitation in humans. Curr Biol
26:1334–1338
Oztop E, Arbib MA (2002) Schema design and implementation of the grasp-
related mirror neuron system. Biol Cybern 87:116–140
Palagi E, Leone A, Mancini G, Ferrari PF (2009) Contagious yawning in gelada
baboons as a possible expression of empathy. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
106:19262–19267
Paukner A, Ferrari PF, Suomi SJ (2011) Delayed imitation of lipsmacking
gestures by infant rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). PLoS One 6:e28848
Petrides M (2014) Neuroanatomy of Language Regions of the Human Brain.
Academic Press, New York
References 325
Petrides M, Cadoret G, Mackey S (2005) Orofacial somatomotor responses in
the macaque monkey homologue of Broca’s area. Nature 435:1235–1238
Pickering MJ, Garrod S (2013) An integrated theory of language production
and comprehension. Behav Brain Sci 36:329–347
Poizner H, Klima ES, Bellugi U (1987) What the Hands Reveal about the
Brain. MIT Press, Cambridge
Provine RR (2013) Laughing, grooming, and pub science. Trends Cogn Sci
17:9–10
Provine RR (2014) Contagious behavior: an alternative approach to mirror-like
phenomena. Behav Brain Sci 37:216–217
Pulvermüller F (2014) The syntax of action. Trends Cogn Sci 18:219–220
Rauschecker JP (2012) Ventral and dorsal streams in the evolution of speech
and language. Front Evol Neurosci 4:7
Rizzolatti G, Arbib MA (1998) Language within our grasp. Trends Neurosci
21:188–194
Rizzolatti G, Craighero L (2004) The mirror-neuron system. Annu Rev
Neurosci 27:169–192
Rizzolatti G, Sinigaglia C (2006) Mirrors in the Brain. How Our Minds Share
Actions and Emotions. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Rizzolatti G, Fadiga L, Gallese V, Fogassi L (1996a) Premotor cortex and the
recognition of motor actions. Cogn Brain Res 3:131–141
Rizzolatti G, Fadiga L, Matelli M, Bettinardi V, Paulesu E, Perani D, Fazio F
(1996b) Localization of grasp representations in humans by PET: 1.
Observation versus execution. Exp Brain Res 111:246–252
Robinson GE, Barron AB (2017) Epigenetics and the evolution of instincts.
Science 356:26–27
Rogalsky C, Love T, Driscoll D, Anderson SW, Hickok G (2011) Are mirror
neurons the basis of speech perception? Evidence from ﬁve cases with
damage to the purported human mirror system. Neurocase 17:178–187
Romero T, Konno A, Hasegawa T (2013) Familiarity bias and physiological
responses in contagious yawning by dogs support link to empathy. PLoS
One 8:e71365
Romero T, Ito M, Saito A, Hasegawa T (2014) Social modulation of con-
tagious yawning in wolves. PLoS One 9:e105963
Rummell BP, Klee JL, Sigurdsson T (2016) Attenuation of responses to self-
generated sounds in auditory cortical neurons. J Neurosci 36:12010–12026
326 8 Grasping Mirrors
Shomers MR, Pulvermüller F (2016) Is the sensorimotor cortex relevant for
speech perception and understanding? An integrative review. Front Hum
Neurosci 10:435
Skeide MA, Friederici AD (2016) The ontogeny of the cortical language
network. Nat Rev Neurosci 17:323–332
Skipper JI, Devlin JT, Lametti DR (2017) The hearing ear is always found
close to the speaking tongue: Review of the role of the motor system in
speech perception. Brain Lang 164:77–105
Subiaul F, Cantlon JF, Holloway RL, Terrace HS (2004) Cognitive imitation
in rhesus macaques. Science 305:407–410
Taglialatela JP, Russell JL, Schaeﬀer JA, Hopkins WD (2008)
Communicative signaling activates “Broca’s” homolog in chimpanzees.
Curr Biol 18:343–348
Taglialatela JP, Russell JL, Schaeﬀer JA, Hopkins WD (2011) Chimpanzee
vocal signaling points to a multimodal origin of human language. PLoS One
6:e18852
Tinbergen N (1951) The Study of Instinct. Clarendon Press, New York
Tomasello M (2006) Why don’t apes point? In: Enﬁeld NJ, Levinson SC (eds),
Roots of Human Sociality: Culture, Cognition and Interaction. Berg
Publishers, Oxford and New York, p 506–524
Tomasello M (2014) A Natural History of Human Thinking. Harvard
University Press, Cambridge
Tomasello, M., & Call, J (1997) Primate Cognition. Oxford University Press,
New York
Walusinski O (2014) How yawning switches the default-mode network to the
attentional network by activating the cerebrospinal ﬂuid ﬂow. Clin Anat
27:201–209
Willems RM, Hagoort P (2007) Neural evidence for the interplay between
language, gesture, and action: a review. Brain Lang 101:278–289
Xu J, Gannon PJ, Emmorey K, Smith JF, Braun AR (2009) Symbolic gestures
and spoken language are processed by a common neural system. Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S A 106:20664–20669
References 327
9
Of Birds and Men
One of Darwin’s boldest assertions regarding the origins of speech was to
suggest an analogy between the acquisition of songs by songbirds and the
early stages of speech learning. His main argument was that like bird-
song, language is an instinctive skill that nonetheless has to be learned. If
not stimulated properly, neither language nor birdsong will develop
normally. Eloquently, Darwin said that no child is born with an instinc-
tive tendency to cook, bake or brew, as he or she is born with a drive to
communicate with others. Like birdsong, language was probably musical
in its origins, and was also a product of male competition for attracting
females in a process termed sexual selection. Nonetheless, the theory of
the origin of birdsong by sexual selection has been challenged in recent
years as there are several songbird species in which both males and
females sing (Langmore 1998; Odom et al. 2014). Instead, a broader
concept called social selection has been proposed, where sexual partners
compete with other couples for territory and nesting sites. With tropical
songbirds, both sexes tend to sing, while with species in colder climates it
is more common that only males sing, which is similar to what is found
in our closer relatives, the gibbon, where both males and females sing in
duet to defend their territory (see the next chapter). Furthermore,
© The Author(s) 2017
F. Aboitiz, A Brain for Speech,
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-54060-7_9
329
Tecumseh Fitch claims that there is no evidence of sexual selection for
human language, as both sexes are equally able to learn it and language is
acquired at very early stages, as opposed to most sexually dimorphic
traits that appear in adolescence (Fitch 2009).
In this chapter I will discuss the bird brain and its cognitive and
communicative abilities including birdsong, always in comparison
to mammals and human speech. I will attempt to illustrate the fact
that despite having widely diverging evolutionary histories, birds
and mammals have developed convergent solutions for many char-
acters relevant for brain function and behavior, including vocal
capacities.
Dinosaurs All Around
The common ancestor of birds and humans was a lizard-like
creature that lived some 300–350 million years ago, when tetrapods
(four-legged animals) were colonizing the land (Prothero 2006).
This ancestor belongs to a group of tetrapods called amniotes,
which gave rise to reptiles, birds and mammals. Amniote eggs
were covered with a ﬂuid-ﬁlled sac that conserved moisture that
allowed these animals to lay their eggs on the land instead of in
water as ancestral amphibians did. From very early, amniotes
diverged into stem reptiles (sauropsids) on one side, and into
mammal-like reptiles (synapsids) on the other. Initially, the synap-
sids were relatively successful and diversiﬁed into a series of forms,
both carnivores and herbivores. But this early radiation ended
abruptly 250 million years ago with what is called the great
Permian extinction, one of the largest mass extinction events in
the history of life (Prothero 2006). After this event, the Mesozoic
era began, which lasted a little less than 200 million years. This was
the reign of the dinosaurs, the “terrible lizards” that emerged from
the sauropsid lineage, together with ancient crocodiles and ptero-
dactyls. The early synapsids that had ﬂourished earlier disappeared
almost completely, leaving a lineage of small animals called cyno-
donts, which gave rise to the ﬁrst mammals some 200–150 million
330 9 Of Birds and Men
years ago, in the Jurassic period. Birds emerged from a lineage of
small carnivorous dinosaurs called maniraptors, at about the same
time. Early birds and mammals coexisted with the non-avian dino-
saurs for a very long time, and in the Cretaceous period they
witnessed the proliferation of ﬂowering plants and the associated
radiation of insects, which since the Permian had been co-evolving
with ﬂowers by acting as their pollinators. This provided a rich
ecological condition for small animals like early birds and mammals
to diversify (Prothero 2006; Luo 2007, Brusatte and Luo 2016).
The world was changing rapidly, but this was nothing compared
with what was to come. We have all been told that some 66
million years ago the dinosaurs dramatically disappeared in a single
event, in the last great extinction in our planet’s history. In the
1980s, Luis Alvarez provided evidence for a massive asteroid impact
in what is now Yucatán, Mexico, which may have triggered the
extinction (Alvarez et al. 1980). But there are also records of
massive volcanism at that time, which increased the eﬀect of the
impact (Cloudsley-Thompson 2001; Burgess and Bowring 2015). I
am not a geologist, but it is possible that the impact itself triggered
increasing geological activity that resulted in increased volcanism.
In any case, the eﬀects of these events were catastrophic, and early
mammals and birds were not immune to them. The majority of
these early lineages also disappeared, leaving only a few animals
that made it through and colonized the new world that was to
come (Brusatte et al. 2015a). Other evidence has been accumulat-
ing that dinosaurs were already on the decline when the asteroid hit
the earth, which would have given these animals a coup de grâce to
extinguish most of them (Prothero 2006; Sakamoto et al. 2016).
But did the dinosaurs really disappear? Research has shown robust
evidence that characters previously believed to be privative to birds,
like feathers, their respiratory system, warm-bloodedness and skeletal
features were shared by maniraptors that coexisted with birds in the
Cretaceous (Pickrell 2014; Brusatte 2016; Brusatte et al. 2015b).
Birds are a surviving lineage of dinosaurs and have become the most
successful terrestrial vertebrate, with more than 10,000 species living
today (compared with 5,000 species of mammals, 8,000 reptiles and
Dinosaurs All Around 331
surprisingly, 6,000 species of amphibians). There are dinosaurs all
around us, and many of them are singing.
Snifﬁng and Whisking
Birds inherited the reptile brain, which is superﬁcially quite diﬀerent
from that of mammals, as it does not have a six-layered cerebral cortex as
the mammalian brain does. In birds, as in other vertebrates, a signiﬁcant
part of visual processing begins in brainstem nuclei, and the cerebral
hemispheres receive substantial input from them. On the other hand, in
mammals these brainstem centers are regressive at the expense of the
expansion of the cerebral cortex (Butler et al. 2011). The laminated
cerebral cortex of mammals represents a diverging trend in the evolution
of the amniote brain, and the evolutionary explanation for this unique
organization is a major enigma. My former students Juan Montiel and
Francisco Zamorano and I have proposed that the origin of the mam-
malian cerebral cortex is closely linked to many behavioral and physio-
logical adaptations of early mammals (Aboitiz and Zamorano 2013,
Aboitiz and Montiel 2007a, 2012, 2015). These innovations deﬁned a
new lifestyle driven by nocturnal semi-burrowing habits, and the expan-
sion of olfactory capacity associated with a new form of respiration based
on a muscular diaphragm (Gerkema et al. 2013, Kielan-Jaworowska et
al. 2004, Rowe and Shepherd 2016). Furthermore, early mammals
developed a secondary palate that separates the vocal and the nasal
cavities, contributing to moistening the air while breathing. This was
associated with three important sensory and behavioral innovations. The
ﬁrst was increasing olfactory capacity and sniﬃng behavior, which is
important for behavioral exploration (Aboitiz and Montiel 2015). In
this line, the mammalian olfactory receptor gene family is some 10 times
as large as its reptilian and avian counterparts, giving mammals a keen
olfactory discrimination capacity (Niimura 2009). Notably, Timothy
Rowe and colleagues showed that there is a dramatic increase in brain
size in the ﬁrst mammals compared with their immediate cynodont
ancestors, associated with the expansion of the olfactory bulbs in the
brain, and of the internal nasal surface, indicating an expanded olfactory
332 9 Of Birds and Men
epithelium (Rowe et al. 2011). The second innovation was the acquisi-
tion of mastication aided by a new jaw articulation and more elaborate
dentition. As a consequence, two tiny ossicles, which in reptiles provides
jaw articulation, were liberated from their function and became
embedded in the middle ear, making up the malleus and the incus of
the ossicle ear chain, which notably increased acoustic capacity (Rowe
1996, Luo et al. 2011). Thirdly, early mammals also enhanced their
tactile sense, as their skins were covered with fur rather than scales or
feathers. Fur was accompanied with the development of secretory
glands, with the production of milk and full homeothermy. But perhaps
most important for us, most mammals have whiskers, or vibrissae
around the mouth, which they use to explore the environment as they
go sniﬃng around (Ahisar 2008; Grant et al. 2013).
In most mammals, the olfactory system is very important for beha-
vior, and is closely connected to the hippocampus, a structure involved
in spatial memory and orientation (Lynch 1986). Linda Jacobs has
emphasized the role of olfactory navigation, guiding the animal toward
food or mating sources (Jacobs 2012). Furthermore, the olfactory system
is proposed to provide scaﬀolding for the cognitive orientation map that
develops in the hippocampus (Fig. 9.1). There are both olfactory and
visually sensitive neurons in the rodent hippocampus, which segregate in
alternating bands. The group led by Howard Eichenbaum has shown
that hippocampal olfactory neurons participate in associating diﬀerent
odors, and more importantly in associating odors with contextual infor-
mation, thus extracting cues for behavioral orientation (Eichenbaum
1998, 2004, 2010, 2014; Dickerson and Eichenbaum 2010).
Eichenbaum and collaborators have also described “time cells” in the
hippocampus that contribute to providing a spatio-temporal representa-
tion of stimuli that provides a behaviorally relevant sequence of events
(Howard and Eichenbaum 2015). Furthermore, electrophysiological
studies by Cornelius Vanderwolf showed that high-frequency hippo-
campal oscillations (in the gamma range) are selectively associated with
active sniﬃng. He proposed that the hippocampus is originally an
olfactory-motor interface that serves to orient behavior (Vanderwolf
2001). The cognitive operations of the hippocampus, including the
generation of complex spatial maps, are considered a secondary
Snifﬁng and Whisking 333
acquisition. Likewise, recent studies have stressed the critical role of
coordinated sniﬃng and whisking in orientation behavior, both rhyth-
mic behaviors that are coupled to theta low-frequency oscillatory activity
in hippocampal neurons (Deschênes et al. 2012; Kleinfeld et al. 2016;
Mammal Bird
Hy
HP
He
AM
SP
Sup
Cerebral cortex
(a)
(b) Bird brian
Mid
Inf
HP
CX
V1
V2
A
OL
He
V1
V2
M
N
SP
A
Fig. 9.1 The brains of birds and mammals. (a) Comparison of cross sections of
the embryonic cerebral hemispheres of a mammal and a bird. All regions located
above the subpallium (SP) make up the embryonic pallium. Brainstem-derived
visual and auditory projections (A, auditory; V2, secondary visual) end in the
cortex of mammals (CX), and in the nidopallium (N) of birds. Primary visual
projections (V1) and somatosensory projections (not shown) end in the CX of
mammals and in the hyperpallium (Hy) of birds. AM, amygdala complex, with
pallial and subpallial components; He, cortical hem; HP, hippocampus; M, meso-
pallium; OL, olfactory cortex. (b) Comparison of the distribution of neurochem-
ical markers in the different layers of the mammalian cerebral cortex, and the
different regions of the avian pallium.
334 9 Of Birds and Men
Grion et al. 2016). These orienting functions may have been particularly
important for the ﬁrst nocturnal mammals, whose visual abilities were
limited. They may also have been important for young searching for the
source of milk secreted from their mothers’ bellies, as is observed in
newborn rabbits and kittens (Schaal et al. 2009). Notably, the most
important regions of the mammalian brain in which the production of
new neurons in adult life (called adult neurogenesis) has been demon-
strated are the olfactory system and the dentate gyrus, an important
hippocampal region that provides substantial input to the other hippo-
campal components (Ming and Song 2011). As we will see below, adult
neurogenesis has been shown to be important for neural plasticity, and it
may not be just chance that it occurs in these brain regions involved in
behavioral orientation.
Another function of the hippocampus is to generate a bi-dimensional
(or tridimensional) spatial map, independent of the animal’s position.
John O’Keefe earned the Nobel Prize for the discovery, together with his
then student Jonathan Dostrovsky, of the so-called “place cells” in the
hippocampus (O’Keefe and Dostrovsky 1971; O’Keefe 1979 1990,
Alme et al. 2014). Place cells ﬁre selectively when the animal is located
in a speciﬁc region of a labyrinth that it has learned to travel through.
Combining the activity of the diﬀerent place cells, the animal is believed
to generate a cognitive representation of the labyrinth. This interpreta-
tion was further supported by the discovery of “grid cells” in the
entorhinal cortex by the co-winners of the Nobel Prize with O’Keefe,
Edvard Moser and May-Britt Moser (Fyhn et al. 2004; Hafting et al.
2005; Moser et al. 2008). The entorhinal cortex is located adjacent to
the hippocampus and provides multimodal sensory input to it. Grid cells
are like place cells, but ﬁre at multiple locations, establishing a regular
bidimensional grid-like pattern that represents the entire space in which
the animal is moving in a given situation. This results in a time and
subject-independent map of the relevant space that involves visual,
motor, somatosensory and other modalities like olfaction. Eichenbaum
and O’Keefe engaged in an important controversy regarding the role of
the hippocampus in behavior, as the former conceives it as a system that
binds elements in time through sequential mapping, and the latter
envisions it as providing a subject-independent representation of space.
Snifﬁng and Whisking 335
In my opinion, both models can be correct, and the role in providing
sequential cues for behavioral orientation may be more olfactory-based
and better represent the ancestral mammalian condition. On the other
hand, the generation of a multimodal Cartesian map is multimodal but
strongly dependent on visual and other sensory inputs provided by the
cerebral cortex. Juan Montiel and I have speculated that the earliest
mammals or mammal-like cynodonts emphasized olfactory-based
sequential maps as they had nocturnal habits (Aboitiz and Montiel
2015). Later, when mammals started invading diurnal niches, visual
information became increasingly important for spatial orientation. We
proposed that the mammalian cerebral cortex arose as an expansion of
regions like the entorhinal cortex, which is comparable to a small region
called the dorsal cortex in reptiles, and was probably also present in
mammal-like reptiles. In early mammals, the nascent cerebral cortex
inherited the laminar organization that is characteristic of the hippo-
campus and the olfactory system, and expanded like a two-dimensional
sheet as increasing sensory input was reaching this region (Shepherd
2011; Rowe and Shepherd 2016; Kaas 2013). The expanding cerebral
cortex thus provided multimodal input to the hippocampal system to
participate in behavioral orientation. Reptiles and of course birds have
good spatial and sequential capacities, and further studies may soon ﬁnd
place and grid-like neurons, as well as time cells in their brains. My point
is that sequential mapping was more important than spatial mapping in
early mammalian evolution, while the latter regained signiﬁcance when
mammals became diurnal. Historical contingency, where olfaction was a
dominant sense in early mammals, had a profound impact on the
anatomical organization of the growing cerebral cortex.
The Thorniest Problem of Comparative
Neuroanatomy
Birds have a large brain, similar in size to that of modern mammals and
larger than that of most reptiles. Although the emblematic early bird
Archaeopteryx had a relative brain size intermediate between birds and
other reptiles, a tendency toward increasing brain size was already
336 9 Of Birds and Men
evident in some non-avian maniraptor dinosaurs like Troodon (Pickrell
2014). In its internal structure, the avian brain looks like a hypertro-
phied reptilian brain, and its anatomy has been the subject of much
debate during this and the previous century. Before we start with
another anatomical puzzle, I will ﬁrst mention some basic aspects of
brain anatomy (see Fig. 9.1). The embryonic cerebral hemispheres are
subdivided into a dorsal part called the pallium (“roof” in Latin), and a
ventral part called the subpallium. In mammals, the pallium contains all
cortical areas including the olfactory cortex, cerebral cortex and hippo-
campus; and part of the amygdala, a nuclear complex involved in
emotional responses and instinctive patterns. The subpallium contains
the basal ganglia, which includes the corpus striatum and the pallidum,
and other structures including the remaining parts of the amygdala
located in the pallial-subpallial border. However, the situation in reptiles
and birds is a little more complicated. The brains of reptiles are char-
acterized by the presence of a large structure called the dorsal ventricular
ridge, which protrudes into the cerebral ventricle and receives most
sensory inputs. As opposed to the laminar cerebral cortex of mammals,
this is a large, non-laminated mass of cells. In birds, the dorsal ventri-
cular ridge is highly expanded and is subdivided into several compo-
nents, termed mesopallium, nidopallium, and arcopallium. Above these
structures is the hyperpallium, which corresponds to the dorsal cortex of
reptiles mentioned above. The brains of reptiles and birds also possess a
hippocampus and a small olfactory cortex (Butler et al. 2011, Reiner et
al. 2004a, b).
The dorsal ventricular ridge of reptiles and its avian equivalent
(mostly the nidopallium and mesopallium) have been a source of con-
troversy for comparative anatomists since they were ﬁrst analyzed in the
early twentieth century (Fig. 9.1). While these structures were ﬁrst
considered to be part of the subpallium (more precisely, of the corpus
striatum), in the 1970s Harvey Karten showed that auditory and some
visual sensory projections ascend from brainstem centers and end in the
nidopallium of birds, while in mammals these projections end in the
auditory and the secondary, or extrastriate visual cortex, respectively,
making the avian nidopallium comparable to parts of the mammalian
cerebral cortex. Other sensory inputs (visual and somatosensory) that
The Thorniest Problem of Comparative Neuroanatomy 337
ascend directly to the brain, bypassing brainstem centers, end instead in
the avian hyperpallium (Karten 1968, 1969). In mammals, these projec-
tions arrive to the primary visual and somatosensory areas of the cerebral
cortex, respectively. Thus, the nidopallium of birds receives similar
sensory input as the auditory and extrastriate visual cortices of mammals.
On the other hand, the avian hyperpallium receives similar inputs as the
mammalian somatosensory and primary visual cortices. Kartén then
proposed a dual origin of the mammalian cerebral cortex, with its lateral
aspect deriving from the reptilian equivalent of the avian nidopallium
(the dorsal ventricular ridge), and its medial aspect deriving from the
reptilian homologue of the avian hyperpallium (the reptilian dorsal
cortex) (Karten 1991, 1997, 2013). This perspective prevailed for
many years, but has been challenged by more recent evidence.
As a graduate student in the 1980s, I became interested in the
origin of the mammalian cerebral cortex as it appeared to be so
widely diﬀerent from corresponding brain structures in other verte-
brates. It looked truly unique in evolution. By studying the early
embryological descriptions of reptiles by Bengt Källén in the early
twentieth century, I came to the conclusion that the reptilian dorsal
ventricular ridge was largely separated from the reptilian dorsal
cortex by the olfactory cortex, which produces discontinuity between
the two structures (Källén 1951). Perhaps more importantly, the
reptilian dorsal ventricular ridge and its avian equivalent are located
adjacent to the pallial-subpallial border, while the mammalian cere-
bral cortex is separated from this boundary by the amygdala and the
olfactory cortex (Aboitiz 1992, 1993, 1995). Unifying the dorsal
ventricular ridge and the dorsal cortex of reptiles to generate a
continuous cortical ﬁeld, as Karten’s hypothesis requires, implies
substantial developmental rearrangement that in my view is unlikely
to have occurred, given conserved topography of most brain regions
across species. Karten argued that massive migration of excitatory
neurons from the dorsal ventricular ridge to the dorsal cortex was a
plausible mechanism for the fusion of the two structures, but to date
there has been no evidence supporting this possibility. Much more
likely to me is the possibility that the sensory pathways that end in
the reptilian dorsal ventricular ridge deviated from their route during
338 9 Of Birds and Men
development, and were redirected to the rudimentary dorsal cortex of
early mammals, which expanded and eventually transformed into the
entire neocortex of mammals (Aboitiz et al. 2003 Aboitiz 2011). More
recently, evidence has been found of the migration of inhibitory neu-
rons, but not excitatory neurons, from the subpallium to the cerebral
cortex (see Chapter 3) (Anderson et al. 1997). However, these are not
the cell types Karten had in mind in his hypothesis. A more recent
study described the migration of excitatory neurons from the pallial-
subpallial boundary to the embryonic cerebral cortex, but all these
neurons disappear shortly after birth (Teissier et al. 2010). My students
and I have proposed that this migration of transient cells could be a
mechanism for attracting sensory axons toward the developing cortex in
mammals (Aboitiz and Zamorano 2013). Shortly after my ﬁrst papers,
Georg Striedter published an inﬂuential article proposing similar ideas,
and adding a hypothesis of homology between the dorsal ventricular
ridge and parts of the mammalian amygdala complex (Striedter 1997,
2005). Laura Bruce and Timothy Neary argued along the same line
(Bruce and Neary 1995). Homology between amygdalar components
and the reptilian dorsal ventricular ridge had been argued earlier by Nils
Holmgren, who used the term “hypopallium” to refer to these nuclei
across species, but this work was much neglected for most of the
twentieth century (Holmgren 1922).
I also speculated that comparative genetics would show molecular
markers evidencing diﬀerent embryonic origins of the mammalian cere-
bral cortex, the reptilian dorsal ventricular ridge, and the avian nidopal-
lium and mesopallium (Aboitiz 1995). By that time, evidence was
emerging that suggested a conserved genetic plan in the embryos of
animals as diﬀerent as ﬂies and humans, and I extrapolated this idea to
the evolution of the vertebrate brain. Strong support for this view came
from subsequent embryological and molecular studies, ﬁrst in a report
from Edoardo Boncinelli’s laboratory, and later by the paramount work
by Luis Puelles and his collaborators, notably Loreta Medina, who
provided genetic evidence that the reptilian dorsal ventricular ridge
and the avian nidopallium are embryologically more comparable to the
mammalian amygdala complex, all these structures originating from an
embryonic region called the ventral pallium (Smith-Fernández et al.
The Thorniest Problem of Comparative Neuroanatomy 339
1998; Puelles et al. 1999, 2000; Medina and Abellán 2009). On the
other hand, the cerebral cortex of mammals was found to derive from a
diﬀerent embryonic region, called the dorsal pallium, and equivalent to
the reptilian dorsal cortex. Summarizing, the dorsal ventricular ridge of
reptiles and the nidopallium/mesopallium of birds originate the embryo-
nic ventral pallium; and the mammalian cerebral cortex develops mostly
in the embryonic dorsal pallium (Fig. 9.1). This explains the diﬀerent
topographic positions of the two structures. This evidence provided a
new frame of reference for the anatomy of the brain, which the extensive
group led by Luis Puelles and John Rubenstein has elegantly extended to
many vertebrate species (Rubenstein et al. 1994; Puelles and Rubenstein
2003). In 2005, Striedter published a comprehensive compilation of the
above and other evidence in his book Principles of Brain Evolution
(Striedter 2005).
However, the issue is far from settled, as there are sympathizers
with Karten and Puelles’, Striedter’s and my views, and there is little
crosstalk and strong disqualiﬁcation among them. The well-known
comparative neuroanatomist Glenn Northcutt even said that the
issue of possible homologies between mammalian and avian brains
was very likely the thorniest problem of comparative neuroscience
(Northcutt 2003). In my opinion, these controversies are on their
way to being resolved. In recent years, genetic evidence has unveiled
deep commonalities in the developmental mechanisms at work in the
avian and mammalian brains, even if the exact anatomical origin of
the avian nidopallium and the mammalian cerebral cortex are not
the same (Montiel and Aboitiz 2015, Aboitiz and Zamorano 2013).
Several studies, including those of Zoltan Molnár, Georg Striedter
and Christine Charvet have found evidence of an embryonic layer
termed the subventricular zone (see Chapter 3) that contains pro-
liferating neural precursors and participates in brain expansion in
mammals and birds, indicating similar cellular mechanisms (Abdel-
Mannan 2008; Striedter and Charvet 2009; Cheung et al. 2010;
Molnár 2011). Furthermore, several laboratories, including those of
Tadashi Nomura, Ikuo Suzuki and Federico Luzzati have found
similar neurochemical types in the avian nidopallium and the super-
ﬁcial layers of the mammalian cerebral cortex. Notably,
340 9 Of Birds and Men
neurochemical markers of neurons in the deep cortical layers of
mammals are comparable to those of hippocampal and amygdala
neurons of birds (Fig. 9.1) (Nomura et al. 2013, 2016; Suzuki
et al. 2012, Luzzati et al. 2009; Luzzati 2015; Aboitiz and
Zamorano 2013).
The laminar segregation of neuronal types that is seen in the cerebral
cortex of mammals is also observed across brain regions in reptiles and
birds. Luzzati has argued that the cortical superﬁcial layers are a new
evolutionary acquisition (which others also aﬃrm), and have beneﬁted
from the same developmental genetic system as the one that takes place
in the ampliﬁcation of the avian nidopallium, leading to similar
neurochemical types. Other studies, including those of Juan Montiel
and Grant Belgard in the laboratory of Zoltán Molnár have used large-
scale analyses of gene expression in diﬀerent brain regions of birds and
mammals and have found similar patterns in the avian nidopallium
and the mid-layer of the mammalian cortex, which they attribute to
evolutionary convergence (Belgard et al. 2013; Montiel et al. 2016).
Using similar techniques, the group led by Erich Jarvis also reported
similarity in gene expression between the nidopallium and regions of
the hyperpallium of birds, pointing to a common developmental
pattern in diﬀerent brain regions of the avian brain (Jarvis et al.
2013; Chen et al. 2013).
Attempting to make some sense of all this information, we have
proposed that the genetic and developmental mechanisms for brain
ampliﬁcation are largely conserved in mammals and birds, although
the process of ampliﬁcation itself may have taken place in diﬀerent
embryonic brain regions in each species (Aboitiz and Zamorano
2013; Montiel and Aboitiz 2015). One of the candidate genes for
participating in this conserved amplifying cascade is Pax6 (but there
are many others), which promotes the proliferation of progenitor
neurons during development. It is critical for the development of
the embryonic subventricular zone, and is expressed embryonically
both in the cerebral cortex and in the avian and reptilian pallium
(Georgala et al. 2011). The proposed shared genetic cascade involved
in brain expansion in both groups was likely present in the common
ancestor, and is probably more ancient than this, but participated in
The Thorniest Problem of Comparative Neuroanatomy 341
other developmental contexts, controlling stem cell proliferation in
diﬀerent neural systems. In birds and mammals, this cascade was
independently activated for brain ampliﬁcation, possibly because it
was easily recruited from other preexisting developmental processes
(Aboitiz 2011; Aboitiz and Montiel 2007b).
But if developmental genetics is so conserved, why is the cerebral
cortex anatomically so diﬀerent from the avian nidopallium? We
claim that an additional developmental process underwent signiﬁcant
expansion in mammals but not in birds or reptiles, providing the
laminar organization and pyramidal morphology of excitatory cells
that are characteristic of the mammalian cerebral cortex (Aboitiz and
Zamorano 2013; Montiel and Aboitiz 2015). In all studied verte-
brates, a small embryonic region called the cortical “hem” is involved
in the diﬀerentiation of the hippocampus in the most medial aspect
of the cerebral hemispheres (Grove et al. 1998; Rubenstein 2011)
(Fig. 9.1). The inﬂuence of the cortical hem of mammals (but not in
reptiles and birds) has ampliﬁed beyond the realm of the developing
hippocampus, reaching more lateral regions of the brain and pattern-
ing the developing cerebral cortex (Cabrera-Socorro et al. 2007;
Caronia-Brown et al. 2014). The cortical hem is also the main site
of origin of a special kind of embryonic neuron called Cajal-Retzius
cell that secretes a protein called reelin that participates in establish-
ing the columnar and laminar organization of the cerebral cortex (see
Chapter 3, Fig. 3.2). An additional source of Cajal-Retzius cells in
mammals is the olfactory cortex in the lateral hemisphere, which as
discussed above, probably played a crucial role in neocortical origins
(de Frutos et al. 2016). Cajal-Retzius neurons and reelin expression
are dramatically ampliﬁed in the mammalian cerebral cortex, com-
pared with the brains of other vertebrates (Tissir and Goﬃnet 2003).
Thus, in the embryonic mammalian cerebral cortex there is an over-
lap between (1) a diﬀerentiation program driven by the cortical hem
and Cajal-Retzius cells, imposing a laminar organization of the cere-
bral cortex; and (2) a genetic cascade that ampliﬁes in later develop-
ment, increasing neuronal numbers and brain size. This cascade may
be initiated by Pax6 activity, but is later executed by a complex
regulatory gene network (Aboitiz and Zamorano 2013, Montiel and
342 9 Of Birds and Men
Aboitiz 2015). In reptiles and birds, both diﬀerentiation cascades
have less overlap, which results in a regional rather than a laminar
gradient of cell diﬀerentiation, with the hem acting on more medial
regions, and the Pax6-driven increase in neuronal proliferation taking
place in more lateral regions of the pallium.
Thus, homology between the mammalian cerebral cortex and the
avian nidopallium (and related components) may be better sought in
the genetic mechanisms involved in their respective brain growth
rather than in adult structures. In other words, diﬀerent brain
regions may have independently beneﬁted from a common genetic
mechanism, simply because there may not be many possible alter-
natives to increase the size of the brain (Aboitiz and Montiel 2007b).
Walter Gehring introduced the concept of “deep homology” to refer
to structures that have been acquired independently (i.e. are not
strictly homologous), but are based on homologous, ancestral genetic
mechanisms (Gehring and Ikeo 1999). The best-known example of
this is the compound eyes of ﬂies and the cup-shaped eyes of
vertebrates, both depending on the gene Pax6 for their development
(again!), although they clearly developed independently in evolution.
Personally, I prefer the term genetic homology for these instances,
because homology can be found at many diﬀerent levels that do not
always agree with each other (Aboitiz 1995). There can be homology
of behavioral traits, of anatomical structures, of cell types, and of
genetic processes, and there are known examples of homology at one
level but not at others. In 1971, Sir Gavin De Beer published a brief
but in my view outstanding monograph in which he described
instances of homologous functions performed by non-homologous
organs, and homologous adult structures generated by non-homo-
logous developmental processes (De Beer 1971). Glenn Northcutt
and Georg Striedter further built on this point, emphasizing the
existence of homology at diﬀerent levels (Striedter and Northcutt
1991). In my view, the evidence of a conserved developmental brain
topography across species suggests no regional or embryonic homol-
ogy between the avian nidopallium and the mammalian cerebral
cortex, but instead the genetic evidence indicates partial homology
in the molecular mechanisms involved in their ampliﬁcation.
The Thorniest Problem of Comparative Neuroanatomy 343
Canonical Circuits
In line with his hypothesis of homology between the avian nidopallium
and the mammalian cerebral cortex, Harvey Karten proposed the
equivalent cell hypothesis, depicting a microprocessing circuit in the
avian brain comparable to the columnar organization of the mammalian
cerebral cortex (Karten 1991, 1997, 2013). Karten visualized a speciﬁc
network connecting diﬀerent avian brain regions in a similar way to the
interconnectivity of the diﬀerent layers of the cerebral cortex. This idea
was reinforced by a series of recent studies by him and several collabora-
tors like my friend and former classmate Jorge Mpodozis, who described
in ﬁne detail the similarities between the avian and mammalian brain
microcircuits, including shared molecular markers for input-receiving
and output-sending neurons (Wang et al. 2010; Dugas-Ford et al. 2012;
Ahumada-Galleguillos et al. 2015). Considering this evidence, some
authors have asserted that birds have “columns”, homologous to the
mammalian cortical columns, but their cellular elements are dispersed in
diﬀerent brain nuclei instead of in diﬀerent layers, as in the cerebral
cortex. In my opinion, mammalian columns not only make up a speciﬁc
microcircuit, but are also composed of clonally related neurons deriving
from the same progenitor cell (see Chapter 3), which is consistent with
the radial diﬀerentiation of cell types in the cortex, as opposed to the
tangential diﬀerentiation gradient in birds. It is not known whether the
“columns” observed in the brains of birds are also clonally related
(personally, I consider it unlikely). Nonetheless, I partly agree with
this statement, if we consider that a simple version of such microcircuits,
also referred to as canonical microcircuits (see Chapter 2), may have
been present in the brain of the common ancestor of birds and
mammals.
Ancestral amniotes had a rudimentary tubular brain, resembling that
of modern salamanders, with a very limited degree of neuronal prolif-
eration and cell migration compared to mammals and birds (Aboitiz and
Montiel 2007a; Kielan-Jaworowska et al. 2004). In this tiny brain, like
in more evolved brains, an appropriate balance between excitation and
inhibition was a cardinal character to maintain proper functions.
Conrado Bosman and I have proposed that this balanced activity
344 9 Of Birds and Men
represents one of the basic functions of microcircuits, and must be a very
ancient character required for the assembly of large-scale neuronal net-
works (Bosman and Aboitiz 2015). Speciﬁcally, inhibitory neurons serve
to regulate the oscillatory dynamics of such reverberating microcircuits,
hence a very simple circuit architecture consisting of input-receiving and
output neurons, combined with some excitatory and inhibitory inter-
neurons, may well have existed in the brains of the earliest amniotes (and
possibly in the earliest vertebrates as well). In the lineages leading to
mammals and birds, the complexity of these rudimentary microcircuits
independently increased, always constrained by stringent physiological
requirements to maintain processing capacity. Thus, although there may
be an ancestral microcircuit underlying the canonical circuits of mam-
mals and birds, the further elaboration of it was highly constrained by
similar functional demands. As I mentioned in Chapter 2, language
processing may also be based on the operation of these canonical
microcircuits, in the same way as other cognitive processes are.
Likewise, birdsong probably relies on a similar microcircuitry recruited
for this function during the evolution of this group of birds.
Thus, the ﬁne commonalities observed between avian and mamma-
lian connectivity may reﬂect the fact that they are designed by natural
selection to do the same thing, rather than being strict indicators of
common ancestry. An eloquent example that resemblance of circuit
assembly does not imply common ancestry is the retinae of mammals
and insects. Santiago Ramón y Cajal noted this intriguing similarity,
which in both cases consists of three vertical and two horizontal cellular
layers that exert lateral inhibition. Furthermore, in both the ﬂy and
vertebrates, axons leaving the retina make synapses in a relay center
before reaching the brain (protocerebrum in insects) (Ramón y Cajal
and Sánchez 1915; Sanes and Zipursky 2010). A more recent study
demonstrated a striking similarity in the neural mechanisms involved in
motion detection in ﬂies and vertebrates (Borst and Helmstaedter 2015).
The common ancestor of ﬂies and vertebrates was among the earliest
members of urbilateria, a large-level taxon that includes all animals with
bilateral symmetry, and excludes sea sponges, jellyﬁsh and other animals.
In urbilateria there are so many groups devoid of retina that it is very
unlikely that the earliest ancestor had a retina like that of insects and
Canonical Circuits 345
vertebrates. Nonetheless, the gene Pax6 may have been at work, con-
tributing to specifying photoreceptive cells (see above) (Gehring and
Ikeo 1999). The most likely explanation is that the retinal circuits of
insects and vertebrates arose separately, but converged in a nearly opti-
mal design for vision.
The Raven Said, Nevermore
As an undergraduate, I got interested in literature and particularly in the
so-called Damned Poets, one of my favorites being Edgar Allan Poe,
whose complete works I still have on my shelves. To me, one of his best
poems is “The Raven”, which stylishly tells the story of a raven’s visit to a
young man mourning the loss of his love Lenore. The bird only repeats
the word “Nevermore” while the lover falls into increasing melancholy
and despair. Ravens, crows, jays, rooks and the like make up the family
Corvidae, close relatives of songbirds, and legendarily known for their
vocal capacities, but especially for their cleverness, which has been
compared to that of apes (Clayton and Emery 2005, 2015; Emery and
Clayton 2004, 2009; Güntürkün and Bugnyar 2012; Güntürkün 2016).
Corvids have a very complex repertoire of calls to refer to food, danger
and social instances, and are particularly good vocal imitators, including
of human speech. Anecdotes about smart crows abound, with books
written on their admirable behavior. There is a BBC ﬁlm that shows
crows leaving nuts in front of cars at a red light, then ﬂying oﬀ and
waiting for the cars to move and crush the nuts when the light turns
green. With the next red light, the birds ﬂy down and eat the cracked
nuts1
. Crows are also very good at social cognition, with anecdotes of
crows purposefully deceiving others for their beneﬁt, and even display-
ing a sense of humor. In her book Crows, Candace Savage tells a story in
which a female crow watched a petal fall on her brother, who jumped in
surprise. The bird then began dropping petals on her brother, presum-
ably expecting him to jump again (Savage 2007). Working with ravens,
1
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BGPGknpq3e0
346 9 Of Birds and Men
Thomas Bugnyar observed a pair of birds collecting food from colored
tubes, where in each trial a diﬀerent color was the one associated with
food. While one bird (the subordinate one) rapidly learned the task, the
other (the dominant one) decided to wait for the subordinate bird’s ﬁrst
choice and then robbed the food from him. But the subordinate soon
started to poke tubes that he knew were empty, making the dominant
approach them, and then rapidly ﬂew to the correct ones to get his
reward. He did not do this often, so that the dominant one would still
follow him to the decoys (Bugnyar and Kotrschal 2004).
While many birds migrate south to warmer zones during the harsh
winter of Northern Europe and North America, crows stay put through-
out the year. Migrating birds have evolved very powerful ﬂight muscu-
lature and respiratory apparatus, and a sophisticated orienting system,
while non-migrating birds have on average larger brains than migrating
birds, particularly in the hippocampal region, which as I have said is
involved in spatial memory and orientation. In preparation for tougher
times, in autumn crows cache food in diﬀerent places to which they
return in winter. To be able to do this impressive task, birds need
powerful episodic memory, or memory of events. This is not unlike
the odor-based memory of rats described above, and includes solving the
three W questions: what happened at some event, where did it happen
and when did it happen. Nicola Clayton and Nathan Emery have
studied the impressive memory capacities of corvids for a long time
(Clayton and Emery 2005, 2015). It is now known that these animals do
not develop an extensive map of an entire forest to remember their cache
sites, but rather use a conspicuous and stable landmark from which the
position of diﬀerent cache sites can be seen. In a series of clever experi-
ments, Clayton’s group has found that jays can remember the kind of
food placed in a given place, and the time it has spent there. For
example, peanuts last for a very long time when hidden, but wax
worms degrade very quickly. The birds prefer to retrieve the wax
worms ﬁrst and leave the peanuts last, while avoiding sites where food
is probably rotten (Clayton and Emery 2015).
Emery and Clayton have added a fourth W to episodic memory,
namely “who” was watching the event (Dally et al. 2006). Jays usually
re-cache their food after it has been stored, presumably to avoid it being
The Raven Said, Nevermore 347
stolen by other nearby birds. Thus, Clayton and colleagues observed the
caching behavior of jays in the laboratory under three conditions: alone,
with another bird that could not see the caching sites, and with a bird
that witnessed all the caching behavior. After some hours, the storing
birds were allowed to go back to the storing sites, and researchers
observed re-caching behavior under the three conditions. Re-caching
was much more frequent when there was a witnessing bird than in the
other two conditions. Furthermore, they ﬁrst re-cached from the sites in
which they knew they had been observed by another bird. Finally, birds
that had experience in stealing from other birds’ cache sites were much
more prone to re-cache and more sensitive to observation by others than
birds with no history of stealing food. Although these ﬁndings argue for
a strong episodic memory capacity in corvids, they do not necessarily
imply a human-like ability to attribute intentions to the witnessing
animal, such as “he/she knows what I know”, and “he/she will attempt
to steal the food I stored in this place, but not in that place”. This would
require what is known as a mind-reading ability or Theory of Mind,
which is subjectively evident in we humans, but has proven elusive as a
scientiﬁc concept. A simpler interpretation may be that they have
associated the close presence of other birds with stealing food and
acted accordingly. We have not yet designed the appropriate experi-
ments to discriminate the subjective condition of experimental animals,
and perhaps never will (see Chapter 11). In this line, Thomas Nagel
1974 wrote an inﬂuential article in the 1970s titled “What is it Like to
be a Bat?” in which he asserted that it would be impossible to get into
the minds of other species.
Crows vs Chimps
Crows can also be very good at manipulating objects, perhaps better
than any other non-human animal. In his splendid book Not a Chimp,
Jeremy Taylor eloquently criticizes the primatocentric view of compara-
tive psychology, which assumes that apes represent the condition closest
to ours in the elaboration of cognitive abilities (Taylor 2009). True, we
are phylogenetically very close to apes (our DNA diﬀers from theirs by
348 9 Of Birds and Men
only 1% or 2%), but Taylor claims this is misleading when it comes to
cognitive capacity, in which very small genetic mutations may have
explosive phenotypic eﬀects, not to mention possibly substantial epige-
netic modiﬁcations. Elaborate cognitive abilities perhaps more compar-
able to those of humans may be found in distant species like crows. In
his book, Taylor makes a comparison of the cognitive capacities of
chimps and crows and shows that the latter have no reason to envy
apes, which I will brieﬂy outline below. As I said above, there is a strong
convergence in the evolution of the brains of birds and mammals,
despite the two groups having diverging gross neuroanatomy. Onur
Güntürkün and others have described an avian equivalent of the pre-
frontal cortex, which like that of mammals, receives strong dopaminergic
innervation and is involved in executive functions like behavioral ﬂex-
ibility, attention, decision making and working memory (Güntürkün
2005). However, the anatomical location of this region does not ﬁt that
of mammals, because the brains of birds and mammals have very
diﬀerent gross morphologies. Whether the common ancestor of birds
and mammals had a rudimentary region performing some prefrontal
cortex-like functions is open to question.
Although showing some capacity for planning behavior (see
Chapter 7), apes seem to have a very limited understanding of the
physical properties of objects and how to use them for their purposes,
a capacity that has been termed “folk physics”. In the wild, chimps are
apparently able to understand simple causal eﬀects by making tools like
little twigs to extract termites from their nest, cracking nuts with stones,
using leaves as sponges to extract water and sometimes using forked
branches as hooks. However, in captivity, they show very limited capa-
city to understand basic laws of physics, like the resistance of materials
and physical causation that 4-year-old children master quite successfully.
The group of David Povinelli and other teams have made important
contributions to unveiling the limitations of chimpanzees to manipulate
physical objects (Povinelli 2000; Penn and Povinelli 2007). For exam-
ple, captive chimps can learn to use a long twig to extract a piece of food
from a transparent cylinder, but they have a hard time when the twig has
side branches that keep it from entering the cylinder. They fail to realize
that they can remove the branches to put the twig in the cylinder, which
Crows vs Chimps 349
contrasts to what is seen in the wild where chimps clean twigs to dip for
termites. This indicates that in the wild they learn to use these instru-
ments very slowly, probably by a mixture of trial and error and imitation
of others.
A task amply used for testing cognitive capacity in monkeys and
chimps is the trap-tube test, in which there is an opening on the
bottom of a tube where food can be trapped if it falls in.
Experimenters placed a peanut on one side of the trap such that to
extract it had to be poked at from the opening on the other side of
the trap to keep the peanut from falling in the hole. Only one
monkey could do the task. But when the trap was upside down
and the hole facing upward, the monkey still pushed the food from
the other side even though it made no diﬀerence from which side the
food was poked. Povinelli found that chimps behaved similarly to
monkeys in this task. Another experiment was the trap-table pro-
blem. In this case, food had to be raked from a table either with a
trap as in the trap tube problem, or with a painted rectangle of the
same size as the trap. Only one of 7 chimps got the diﬀerence
between the two conditions. Chimps did only marginally better in
the same task, this time either with a correct rake or an inverted one
that did not work, selecting in many instances the incorrect rack
(Povinelli 2000; Penn and Povinelli 2007).
Povinelli then wondered whether chimps understand the concept of
force transmission through contact. He and collaborators designed a
string-pulling trap in which several strings were located close to a visible
but inaccessible banana, but only one string was tied to the banana such
that pulling the string made the banana fall. Another test was simply
placing the banana on the string, so that pulling the latter moved the
banana and made it fall. Chimps chose the correct string when it was
tied to the banana, but not when it was simply placed under the banana.
Other experiments tested more directly the ability to use and manipulate
tools. Chimps were presented with an appropriate tool to retrieve an
apple, straight at one end with a side bar at the other, versus a T-shaped
tool that did not work for the task. Again, chimps showed only a mild
preference for the appropriate tool. And when using the appropriate
tool, they sometimes tried to use the incorrect end. Finally, chimps were
350 9 Of Birds and Men
provided with a ﬂexible pipe that was bent by the experimenter in the
chimps’ presence, and the chimps had to unbend it to use it for reaching
food. They also performed badly in this test (Povinelli 2000; Penn and
Povinelli 2007).
These experiments indicate that chimps have some elemental under-
standing of physical properties and tools like appropriate size and basic
conﬁguration, but not much more than that. They seem to have very
little capacity to manipulate objects, and their abilities for tool-making
in the wild may be strictly based on imitation learning, following a
procedure that is probably acquired very slowly. On the other hand,
crows are equal or even better than apes in solving these kinds of tasks.
Crows have also shown a capacity for tool-making in the wild that is
comparable to or surpasses that of chimpanzees. Gavin Hunt and Russell
Gray have shown that New Caledonian crows make very sophisticated
tools by delicately cutting the long leaves of a shrub called Pandalus,
making a long twig with one end much narrower than the other (Hunt
1996; Taylor et al. 2009). Moreover, the barbs at the edge of the leaf
point to the wider side, which is the end that the birds hold to insert the
leaf in a hole. They then use the barbs as hooks to catch insects as they
pull the leaf out. Interestingly, they often use the twig on the left side of
their beaks, indicating consistent lateralization in tool use. These birds
deliberately make hooks by cutting a small branch from a twig near its
origin, leaving the little stem pointing upward. There is circumstantial
evidence, but not yet proof, that this behavior is learned and is not an
inherited motor program. This is closely similar to, or even better than
what wild chimpanzees do, as they have never been found to prepare the
sophisticated hooks made by crows.
In the laboratory, crows and the like are also good problem solvers.
Emery, Clayton, and collaborators got rooks to perform a trap-tube task
similar to that presented to chimps, which they solved very well, out-
doing the best chimps (Tebbich et al. 2007). Additionally, Hunt and
Gray showed that crows also perform admirably well in a bird version of
the trap-table test (Hunt 1996). However, they found that New
Caledonian crows, with their exquisite tool-making capacity, performed
no better than monkeys and chimps in the trap-tube task. Using a design
similar to the rope-pulling experiment, Berndt Heinrich and his
Crows vs Chimps 351
colleagues put pieces of meat and stones hanging from ropes (Heinrich
and Bugnyar 2007). The ravens retrieved the food but not the stones by
pulling on the strings with their beaks while holding the string with their
feet to prevent it from fall again. They had to repeat this procedure
several times as the string was longer than the bird’s height so they could
not reach the food with a single pull. They also knew from simple sight
when a food item was too heavy for them to lift and did not choose these
items.
To me, the most impressive demonstration of cognitive abilities
was provided by the team of Alex Kacelnik who put New
Caledonian crows in a task in which food was placed on a transpar-
ent tube, and birds had to select an appropriate stick out of many
placed nearby to get the food out (Weir et al. 2002; Weir and
Kacelnik 2006; Chappell and Kacelnik 2002). They did pretty well
in the task, as monkeys and chimps have also done. They even
removed leaves from branches before using them. But the most
notable experiment involved a female crow called Betty, whose
performance in some tasks can be found in You-tube 2
. In the ﬁrst
test, Betty and other crows had to retrieve food from a vertical tube,
in which the only way to do this was to use a hook to lift the
container inside the tube. The crows were presented with straight
and hooked wires, and appropriately chose the correct tools. In one
instance, when Betty had chosen the last hook that was left, a
dominant male took it from her. Incredibly, and the ﬁrst time this
seen with an animal, Betty bent a straight wire and used it to
retrieve the food. But the most impressive of Betty’s performances
was shortly before her death. She had to retrieve food placed deep in
a long tube and had only a small stick beside the tube. There was no
way she could get the food out with this tool. Nonetheless, there
were other tubes nearby, and a stick long enough for the task was
inside one of them. This could not be retrieved with the short stick
she had available, but there were intermediate sticks in the other
2
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZE4BT8QSgZk; https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=
UDg0AKfM8EY; https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lcvbgq2SSyc
352 9 Of Birds and Men
tubes that would serve the purpose and could be retrieved using the
short stick. Impressively, Betty ﬁgured out that she had to use the
short stick to get an intermediate and then use that to get the long
stick and then ﬁnally retrieve the food. This is far more than anyone
has been able to show at this point with non-human primates or any
other species. More recently, Christian Rutz and colleagues have
equipped wild New Caledonian crows with miniature video cameras
to explore their natural behavior. Astonishingly, they saw birds
bending collected twigs in the same way as Betty had done, indicat-
ing that this behavior is not just found in captivity (Troscianko and
Rutz 2015)3
.
Why have crows developed such a complex knowledge of physics?
Emery and Clayton claim that this is not strictly related to tool use
capacity, but with the ability to plan behavior, which may be partly
correct (Emery and Clayton 2004, 2009). Nonetheless, I believe this
may also have to do with another behavior that is highly prominent in
birds, which is nest building (Healy et al. 2008). Nest building is a
largely innate behavior present in most birds and other species, including
non-avian dinosaurs. In some birds, including Passeriformes (crows,
songbirds and others), nests are made preferentially by females and are
highly elaborate, consisting of small sticks intricately woven into a solid
structure in which eggs are safely placed. In other bird species, males
construct fancy nests to attract females, for which they collect all kinds
of conspicuous and colorful objects. Unfortunately, little is known about
the neural mechanisms involved in nest building. There are doubtlessly
several largely inherited automatic programs controlling this behavior.
But on the other hand, the bird also needs goal-directed planning for
nest construction, and more importantly has to select the appropriate
sticks and objects and gauge their size and ﬂexibility. It then has to bend
the sticks and interweave them to make a rigid structure. It may be that
the physical knowledge of crows and other birds is partly a spin-oﬀ of
this inherited motor program. Nesting behavior is sexually dimorphic in
3
https://www.newscientist.com/article/2100535-genius-crows-tool-bending-behaviour-may-be-
natural-to-its-kind/
Crows vs Chimps 353
several species, and therefore it might be expected that females tend to be
better at these tasks than males. Furthermore, there are wide species
diﬀerences in nest structure, and perhaps a correlation can be found
between nest complexity and cognitive abilities across species.
Talking and Singing
Birds diﬀer from mammals not only in their brains but also in the
structure of their phonatory organs. Instead of a larynx with vocal
folds as in mammals, birds have a syrinx, a membranous structure
located at the base of the trachea where it divides in two bronchii. The
syrinx consists of two halves, one at the base of each bronchus, and each
innervated by the same side hypoglossal nerve and controlled by the
ipsilateral hemisphere (Schmidt and Martin 2014). Many bird species
can learn new vocalizations by imitation, like songbirds, crows, parrots
and even hummingbirds. Collectively, all these species are called vocal
learning birds, and are distinguished from other birds that are termed
vocal non-learning birds (Petkov and Jarvis 2012). A noteworthy exam-
ple of a vocal learning bird is the African forked trail drongo, a small bird
that mimics the alarm calls of several other species, like meerkats, to trick
them and rob their food, but also uses calls to provide genuine alarm
when predators are approaching. In this way, they avoid the “boy who
cried wolf” eﬀect of habituation to the alarm signals of other species4
.
One of the most impressive cases of vocal learning in birds was an
African grey parrot named Alex, who was bought at a pet store by Irene
Pepperberg, a comparative psychologist interested in animal communi-
cation (Pepperberg 2008). Alex learned a sophisticated vocabulary of up
to 150 words, with a capacity to understand simple syntactic rules.
Pepperberg used a special procedure to teach Alex called the model/
rival technique, which is based on a human instructor presenting the
model to be copied, and a “rival” human student who gives correct and
incorrect responses, and competes with the animal in attracting the
4
http://www.bbc.co.uk/nature/life/Drongo#p013bxk7
354 9 Of Birds and Men
instructor’s attention. This novel technique was so successful that it has
been proposed for therapeutic use with children with language disabil-
ities. Alex’s abilities went beyond pure vocal learning, as he learned to
add numbers in a way that surprised Pepperberg. She was trying to teach
another parrot to count up to two clicks with the hand, and had
instructed Alex to remain silent. His disobedience turned out to be a
great discovery. Pepperberg had made two clicks with her hand, to
which the parrot being trained did not respond. So she made another
two clicks and asked him again. Then, Alex came in and said “four”!
Pepperberg insisted he keep quiet, and made an additional pair of clicks,
to which Alex answered “six”! Some critics have objected that Alex’s case
may be an instance of associative learning, as in the “clever Hans” story I
mentioned in the Chapter 1. Pepperberg has responded that Alex would
talk with a variety of people, not only with her, and responded correctly
in the absence of anybody who knew the answer, showing sometimes a
high degree of insight. Unfortunately, Alex passed away unexpectedly
before more sophisticated controls could be made to test his
performance.
As claimed by Stephanie King and Peter McGregor, vocal learning in
parrots and crows may be used in social contexts more comparable to
human speech than songbird learning (King and McGregor 2016).
Unfortunately, we know very little about the neural bases of the mimick-
ing capacity of crows and parrots, but notable advances have been made
in the recent years in our understanding of the neural circuits involved in
birdsong. Note, however, that although birdsong sounds very musical to
us, birds may not perceive it in the same way. Working in Timothy
Gentner’s lab, Micah Bregman showed that as with human speech
European starlings can generalize conspeciﬁc melodies based primarily
on spectral envelopes rather than on pitch cues that contain the ﬁne
structure of the stimulus (Bregman et al. 2016). On the other hand, the
relevant cues for music processing derive from the temporal ﬁne struc-
ture of the signal (Shannon 2005) (see Chapter 4). Thus, birds may not
communicate musically (as understood by us), but rather in a speech-
like manner.
Darwin’s analogy between birdsong and human speech was largely
ignored during the last century despite notable advances by ethologists
Talking and Singing 355
like Peter Marler. Marler was among the ﬁrst to revive Darwin’s hypoth-
esis by conceptualizing both birdsong and human language in the
ethological framework proposed by Konrad Lorenz and Niko
Tinbergen (Marler 1990a, b). Marler’s main point was that both lan-
guage and birdsong are innate release mechanisms in which a sensory
template needs to be presented early to the young. This auditory
template is then gradually matched to motor output and eventually
reﬁned into adult speech or birdsong, respectively (see Chapter 8).
Furthermore, the now classical experiments by Masakazu Konishi estab-
lished that deaf birds developed abnormal songs, which interestingly
were similar across related species, while young birds with normal
hearing but without exposure to conspeciﬁc songs, developed more
elaborate songs than those of the deaf birds, although still abnormal
(Konishi 2004). A very recent experiment shed further light on this
issue. Makoto Araki and colleagues raised young zebra ﬁnches with adult
Bengalese ﬁnches, so they learned to sing using another species’ model.
In these conditions, the zebra ﬁnches acquired a song with mixed
characters, with a morphology reminiscent of Bengalese ﬁnches, but
with the temporal structure of the zebra ﬁnch song (Araki et al. 2016).
These ﬁndings indicate that some of the song features are dependent to
sensory feedback, while others are genetically determined.
Marler was a pioneer in the study of the ethological bases of birdsong
learning, and, consistent with Darwin’s ideas, described the acquisition
of a “subsong” acquired in early stages of learning. The subsong is
initially overly extensive in its sounds and combinations, but with
exposure to adult songs it is selectively reduced to a set of combined
syllables representing the adult song. Birdsong learning is highly depen-
dent on the kind of songs that the bird listens to, such that birds learn
their song from an adult “tutor”, which in most cases is their own father.
In this way, the bird acquires some idiosyncratic features from its father’s
song that are transmitted across generations. Thus, true dialects can be
observed in separate populations of birds, something that was also
recognized by Darwin. More recent studies led by Johan Bolhuis and
collaborators have established that learning in both humans and song-
birds undergoes an initial phase of perception in which the speech or
song sounds are stored in memory (Bolhuis et al. 2010, Berwick et al.
356 9 Of Birds and Men
2012, 2011, Beckers et al. 2014). This is followed by an execution part
in which the motor systems rehearse the imprinted vocalizations. The
execution stage begins with a subsong, which is a rudimentary vocal
output that is successively reﬁned to match the auditory template stored
in the memory, until it crystallizes as an adult song. Similar processes
have been observed in human infants that begin with a wide repertoire
of vocalizations (the babbling stage, which has been compared to the
bird’s subsong) that becomes gradually restricted to the phonemes used
in the community learning he or she is immersed in. Likewise, the
infant’s ability to perceive speech sounds becomes restricted to the
sounds used by adults. An example of this is the diﬃculty to recognizing
the phonemes of non-native speakers who learned another language late
in life.
Fernando Nottebohm, a former student of Marler, contributed enor-
mously to dissecting the cerebral circuits that participate in song learning
and identiﬁed a group of brain nuclei involved in song learning and
production (Nottebohm 1970, 2005). First, he found that song learning
is strongly lateralized and restricted to only one hemisphere of the brain,
preferentially the left in canaries, but the right in zebra ﬁnches. One
interpretation for this arrangement is that rapid frequency movements
may be more easily controlled from only one hemisphere, especially in
animals like birds that lack a corpus callosum. However, song-related
nuclei are present in both hemispheres, and if the singing hemisphere is
damaged, the contralateral nuclei can perfectly develop song. More
recent studies by Bolhuis’ group have extended these ﬁndings and
conﬁrmed lateralization for both song perception and production from
early stages of learning (Bolhuis and Gahr 2006; Bolhuis et al. 2010).
Moreover, separate circuits for song perception and production have
been identiﬁed in the songbird brain, which emulates the development
of lateralized Wernicke and Broca’s regions in humans (Fig. 9.2). The
auditory pathway for song learning includes a nucleus called ﬁeld L
(equivalent, but probably not homologous to the mammalian auditory
cortex), which connects with a nucleus called HVC. Both nuclei activate
speciﬁcally when the bird hears song (Bolhuis et al. 2010). Erich Jarvis
and his team found that this auditory pathway also exists in vocal non-
learning birds, indicating that it is ancient, although in songbirds it
Talking and Singing 357
probably developed some speciﬁc adaptations for perceiving song stimuli
(Jarvis 2004; Petkov and Jarvis 2012).
The motor pathways seem to be more complex. Put very schema-
tically, there are two vocal pathways for song learning in birds: a
posterior vocal pathway involved in song production that includes
the HVC nucleus, possibly involved in song sequencing. The HVC
then projects to the RA nucleus, part of the avian amygdala, which
sends descending projections to brainstem vocal control nuclei.
HVC
L
RA
ICo
XII
Syrinx
DLM
LMAN
X
Fig. 9.2 The brain nuclei involved in song learning in songbirds. In black,
subpallial components (area X); in white, pallial components (L, HVC and
LMAN); in gray, amygdalar components (RA). ICo, nucleus intercollicularis;
nXII, XII cranial nucleus. L is the analogue of the auditory cortex of mammals.
A circuit including LMAN, area X and thalamic nucleus DLM is comparable to
the cortico-striato-thalamic circuit for speech production in humans, while the
descending projection from RA to brainstem motor nuclei parallels the projec-
tion from motor cortex to vocal motor nuclei in humans (see Chapter 10)
358 9 Of Birds and Men
Secondly, the anterior pathway, which is thought to participate in
song acquisition and auditory-vocal feedback, includes nuclei termed
LMAN, involved in song variability, area X in the basal ganglia, and
the dorsal lateral nucleus of the medial thalamus (Fig. 9.2). This
circuit emulates the cortico-basal ganglia-thalamus circuit involved in
speech production in humans (Petkov and Jarvis 2012, 2014).
Interestingly, lesions in the song learning nuclei impair learning
new songs, but not the execution of songs already learned. Notably,
these vocal learning motor circuits have also been found in other
vocal learning birds like hummingbirds and parrots, but seem to be
absent in birds with no or poor vocal learning (Jarvis et al. 2000; Liu
et al. 2013). The common ancestor of parrots, hummingbirds and
songbirds is very likely not to have been a vocal learner, and therefore
this may be another case of evolutionary convergence. Nonetheless,
the similarity of the respective circuits indicates that convergence is
based on a shared and possibly ancestral system involved in motor
control that diﬀerentiated independently into similar neural circuits
in the three lineages of vocal learning birds. In this way, brain
pathways for vocal learning probably evolved separately in diﬀerent
bird species, but under common constraints (Chakraborty and Jarvis
2015).
Considering this evidence, Gesa Feenders, Erich Jarvis and collabora-
tors have proposed a motor theory for the evolutionary origin of vocal
learning in birds, in which the vocal learning control system derives from a
vocal control system present in vocal non-learners (Feenders et al. 2008).
Notably, the vocal non-learning circuit is anatomically close to the loca-
tion of vocal learning nuclei in songbirds, and is interconnected in a
similar way to the vocal learning nuclei. Furthermore, this system activates
during non-vocal behavior of vocal learners like limb and body move-
ments, and during vocal behavior of vocal non-learners. In humans,
learning to speak is also considered to consist principally of the develop-
ment of motor control, and as I mentioned previously, vocal rehearsal is a
very important element, perhaps not so much for vocal perception per se,
but for the maintenance of phonological memory traces that are critical
for speech learning. Additional studies led by Jarvis (Pfenning et al. 2014;
Whitney et al. 2014) used a massive computational approach to gene
Talking and Singing 359
expression patterns in vocal learning birds (songbirds, parrots and hum-
mingbirds), vocal non-learning birds (quails and doves), humans and
macaques. The authors observed a well-deﬁned pattern of neural activ-
ity-induced gene expression in the diﬀerent song nuclei. Furthermore,
there was a signiﬁcant convergence in gene expression between the avian
RA and the laryngeal motor cortex in humans, and between area X in
songbirds and the striatal area that activates during speech production in
humans. Notably, these gene expression patterns were not found in vocal
non-learning species (quail, dove and macaque).
Finally, a couple words on the cellular processes involved in song
learning. There are two kinds of songbirds: some, like the zebra ﬁnch,
acquire a song only once and maintain it for the rest of their lives. The
songs of zebra ﬁnches are relatively simple compared to those of the
second group of songbirds, including mockingbirds and canaries, which
modify their songs every year in the mating season. Nottebohm found
that the song nuclei of seasonal songbirds have a cyclical dynamic,
growing larger during the period of song acquisition (spring) and
shrinking afterward, only to grow again the next spring (Nottebohm
1989, 2004; Nottebohm and Liu 2010). It was found that the days
getting longer is important in triggering the growth of these nuclei and
song learning, mediated by a burst of testosterone in the male. Thus,
injecting testosterone into females increased the size of their nuclei and
resulted in their developing a song, while castrating males had the
opposite eﬀect, blocking song learning and nucleus growth. But the
most striking ﬁnding by Nottebohm was that the growth of such nuclei
was due to the production of new neurons born in the subventricular
region, deep in the brain, that migrated to the respective nuclei.
Furthermore, after each breeding season there is a signiﬁcant loss of
neurons concomitant with the partial decline in singing capacity, until
the next spring when new neurons are added and the bird develops a
song containing elements of the old one, but also adds new elements to
it. Adult neurogenesis had been observed before in lower vertebrates, but
the dogma at that time was that higher animals like birds and mammals
were born with a ﬁxed number of neurons that could only decrease with
age. Nottebohms’s ﬁndings were highly criticized in the beginning, but
slowly they became established as a powerful scientiﬁc fact. Additional
360 9 Of Birds and Men
studies have shown that beside neuronal death and neurogenesis, the
dendritic ramiﬁcations of the neurons that remain across breeding
seasons undergo dramatic reductions in winter and expansions in spring.
Recent ﬁeld studies of free-living birds have revealed a more complex
story, in which some species do not show signiﬁcant seasonal changes in
the volume of nuclei but do express seasonal diﬀerences in song struc-
tures, while others show signiﬁcant seasonal diﬀerences in song structure
but not in the size of song nuclei (Bolhuis and Gahr 2006).
The Grammar of Birds
Some songbirds learn complex songs, with a hierarchical organization
that resembles that of speech sounds. Birdsongs usually contain a struc-
ture based on introductory single notes followed by “motifs” that are
repeated and contain ﬁxed sequences of “syllables” with one or two
notes. This arrangement is however ﬁxed, and songbirds have been
considered unable to develop more complex syntactical organization
like the recursive or combinatorial grammar that characterizes human
language. However, a provocative article in 2006 by Timothy Gentner
and his collaborators claimed that songbirds can learn simple recursive
rules in artiﬁcial songs presented to them (see Chapter 1) (Gentner et al.
2006). However, other studies showed that birds cannot generalize this
learning to structurally similar sequences composed of diﬀerent sounds,
implying that birds are not able to grasp recursion as an abstract property
but store the learned sequences by memory (Berwick et al. 2011, 2012).
Nonetheless, studies by Luca Bonatti, Marcela Peña and collaborators
with human infants have shown that children initially use phonetic clues
to recognize and memorize structural patterns that are later assimilated
as abstract rules (Bonatti et al. 2005). Thus, there may be a stage in
syntactic learning in which infants also use sound patterns and memory
to recognize structural regularities that eventually become generalized to
diﬀerent settings. In other words, songbird learning might represent an
early stage in grammar acquisition, which is also present in infants but
develops into a truly recursive syntax only in humans. In this same line, a
recent article by Dina Lipkind and collaborators compared the vocal
The Grammar of Birds 361
combinatorial capacity of zebra ﬁnches, Bengalese ﬁnches and human
infants, and observed a conserved stepwise pattern of vocal learning in
the three species (Lipkind et al. 2013). Juvenile birds were trained to
change syllable order or to insert new syllables into a learned string, in
which birds gradually approximated the correct sequences by slowly
developing new syllable combinations. Likewise, babbling infants devel-
oped their vocalizations in several steps, in which each new syllable type
was gradually combined with diﬀerent syllables, expanding the reper-
toire of utterances from repetitive sequences to diversiﬁed patterns of
vocalizations.
There are other ﬁndings indicating grammatical complexity in bird
songs and calls. Toshitaka Suzuki and collaborators have found that
great tit calls can be very elaborate, combining ten diﬀerent notes to
produce complex vocalizations with distinct meanings (Suzuki et al.
2016). For example, they emit a three-syllable call (ABC) to signal
danger, inducing other birds to scan the environment. In addition,
they use a single call (D) to request approaching the caller, and the
combination ABC-D signiﬁes approaching while also scanning the
surroundings. Suzuki and collaborators presented audio recordings of
these syllables to wild great tits that reproduced the natural responses.
However, the combination ABC-D was structure dependent, as it did
not elicit any behavior when placed in the order D-ABC. The authors
argue that this reﬂects the property of compositionality, a property of
human language (particularly the lexicon) in which semantic units are
combined in larger units whose meaning depends on the independent
units and the structural organization of the sentence. In a related
experiment, Sabrina Engesser and collaborators recognized another
property of speech, called combinatoriality, which occurs, for example,
in the aggregation of phonemes, meaningless by themselves, to assemble
meaningful larger units (Engesser et al. 2015). The authors analyzed the
calls of the chestnut-crowned babbler, a social bird from the Australian
desert. They found that this bird uses two diﬀerent acoustic signals (say
A and B) that are arranged in diﬀerent ways to convey distinct meanings
(AB, promoting ﬂight; and BAB, prompting for begging for food at the
nest), and that the alteration of the call structure impairs their social
signiﬁcance. They suggest that this is evidence of a phonemic contrast
362 9 Of Birds and Men
like that found in speech, as in the case of the words “pat” and “bat”.
Commenting on these ﬁndings, Daniel Bowling and Tecumseh Fitch
raised the point that although a very relevant ﬁnding of animal combi-
natoriality, the observed signals are unlike phonemes, as they are used
only in speciﬁc circumstances (during ﬂight) (Bowling and Fitch 2015).
Moreover, these sounds are separated by silent gaps, and the diﬀerence
between AB and BAB is the presence or absence of the initial sound B,
rather than the use of similar sounds to convey diﬀerent meanings, as in
“pat” and “bat”.
Songbirds show a wide range of song complexity across species, and
Timothy Gardner and his group have detected non-adjacent correlations
in the call structure of birds like the canary that develop complex songs
(Markowitz et al. 2013). This points to the existence of long-term
dependencies (see Chapter 6), in which the next syllable during a song
depends on the current syllable but also on the history of the song up to
ten seconds before. Johan Bolhuis and collaborators have also argued
that increasing numbers of song elements (notes and syllables) as songs
become more complex requires an expansion of working memory capa-
city in order to manipulate these sounds and alter preexisting sequences
to generate novel ones (Bolhuis et al. 2010). This assumption implies
that with increasing working memory capacity songbirds are able to
remember and master longer strings of syllables that can be manipulated,
altering their order and generating new songs. More generally, Erich
Jarvis and Christopher Petkov propose that mastering long distance
dependencies can be considered a critical evolutionary transition toward
the development of complex syntax, which would require an expansion
of short-term memory capacity (Jarvis 2004; Petkov and Jarvis 2012).
To test these ideas, we ﬁrst need to assess auditory-vocal working
memory capacity in songbirds and if a mechanism is found to increase
working memory in them, perhaps by genetic manipulation, we might
begin to test the possibility of inducing recursive grammar in their songs.
This is almost science ﬁction, as no genes have yet been found that
increase working memory, and the genetic manipulation of birds is still
in its infancy. Another possibility is to artiﬁcially select birds with better
memory capacities. In any case, the point is that working memory is
proposed to have a role in the appearance of recursive grammar, as there
The Grammar of Birds 363
is a mnemonic limit to the number of elements one can keep online
while processing other sound elements. Thus, there is a noticeable
convergence between Bolhuis and collaborators’ ideas and our proposals,
both involving working memory in the evolution of complex commu-
nication signals.
References and Notes
Abdel-Mannan O, Cheung AF, Molnár Z (2008) Evolution of cortical neuro-
genesis. Brain Res Bull 75:398–404
Aboitiz F (1992) The origin of the mammalian brain as a case of evolutionary
irreversibility. Med Hypotheses 38:301–304
Aboitiz F (1993) Further comments on the evolutionary origin of the mam-
malian brain. Med Hypotheses 41:409–418
Aboitiz F (1995) Homology in the evolution of the cerebral hemispheres. The
case of reptilian dorsal ventricular ridge and its possible correspondence with
mammalian neocortex. J Hirnforsch 36:461–472
Aboitiz F (2011) Genetic and developmental homology in amniote brains.
Toward conciliating radical views of brain evolution. Brain Res Bull
84:125–136
Aboitiz F, Montiel J (2007a) Origin and evolution of the vertebrate telence-
phalon, with special reference to the mammalian neocortex. Adv Anat
Embryol Cell Biol 193:1–112
Aboitiz F, Montiel J (2007b) Co-option of signaling mechanisms from neural
induction to telencephalic patterning. Rev Neurosci 18:311–342
Aboitiz F, Montiel JF (2012) From tetrapods to primates: conserved develop-
mental mechanisms in diverging ecological adaptations. Prog Brain Res
195:3–24
Aboitiz F, Montiel JF (2015) Olfaction, navigation, and the origin of isocortex.
Front Neurosci 9:402
Aboitiz F, Zamorano F (2013) Neural progenitors, patterning and ecology in
neocortical origins. Front Neuroanat 7:38
Aboitiz F, Morales D, Montiel J (2003) The evolutionary origin of the
mammalian isocortex: towards an integrated developmental and functional
approach. Behav Brain Sci 26:535–552; discussion 552–585
Ahissar E, Knutsen PM (2008). Object localization with whiskers. Biol Cybern
98:449–458
364 9 Of Birds and Men
Ahumada-Galleguillos P, Fernández M, Marin GJ, Letelier JC, Mpodozis J
(2015) Anatomical organization of the visual dorsal ventricular ridge in the
chick (Gallus gallus): layers and columns in the avian pallium. J Comp
Neurol 523:2618–2636
Alme CB, Miao C, Jezek K, Treves A, Moser EI, Moser MB (2014) Place cells
in the hippocampus: eleven maps for eleven rooms. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S
A 111:18428–18435
Alvarez LW, Alvarez W, Asaro F, Michel HV (1980) Extraterrestrial cause for
the cretaceous-tertiary extinction. Science 208:1095–1108
Anderson SA, Eisenstat DD, Shi L, Rubenstein JL (1997) Interneuron migra-
tion from basal forebrain to neocortex: dependence on Dlx genes. Science
278:474–476
Araki M, Bandi MM, Yazagi-Sugiyama Y (2016) Mind the gap: neural coding
of species identity in birdsong prosody. Science 354:1282–1287
Beckers GJ, Berwick RC, Bolhuis JJ (2014) Comparative analyses of speech and
language converge on birds. Behav Brain Sci 37:547–548
Belgard TG, Montiel JF, Wang WZ, García-Moreno F, Margulies EH,
Ponting CP, Molnár Z (2013) Adult pallium transcriptomes surprise in
not reﬂecting predicted homologies across diverse chicken and mouse pallial
sectors. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110:13150–13155
Berwick RC, Okanoya K, Beckers GJ, Bolhuis JJ (2011) Songs to syntax: the
linguistics of birdsong. Trends Cogn Sci 15:113–121
Berwick RC, Beckers GJ, Okanoya K, Bolhuis JJ (2012) A bird’s eye view of
human language evolution. Front Evol Neurosci 4:5
Bolhuis JJ, Gahr M (2006) Neural mechanisms of birdsong memory. Nat Rev
Neurosci 7:347–357
Bolhuis JJ, Okanoya K, Scharﬀ C (2010) Twitter evolution: converging
mechanisms in birdsong and human speech. Nat Rev Neurosci 11:747–
759
Bonatti LL, Peña M, Nespor M, Mehler J (2005) Linguistic constraints on
statistical computations: the role of consonants and vowels in continuous
speech processing. Psychol Sci 16:451–459
Borst A, Helmstaedter M (2015) Common circuit design in ﬂy and mamma-
lian motion vision. Nat Neurosci 18:1067–1076
Bosman CA, Aboitiz F (2015) Functional constraints in the evolution of brain
circuits. Front Neurosci 9:303
Bowling DL, Fitch WT. (2015) Do animal communication systems have
phonemes? Trends Cog Sci 19:555–557
References and Notes 365
Bregman MR, Patel AD, Gentner TQ (2016) Songbirds use spectral shape, not
pitch, for sound pattern recognition. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 113:1666–
1671
Bruce LL, Neary TJ (1995) The limbic system of tetrapods: a comparative
analysis of cortical and amygdalar populations. Brain Behav Evol 46:224–
234
Brusatte SL (2016) How some birds survived when all other dinosaurs died.
Curr Biol 26:R415–R417
Brusatte S, Luo ZX (2016) Ascent of the mammals. Sci Amer 6:28–35
Brusatte SL, Butler RJ, Barrett PM, Carrano MT, Evans DC, Lloyd GT,
Mannion PD, Norell MA, Peppe DJ, Upchurch P, Williamson TE
(2015a) The extinction of the dinosaurs. Biol Rev Camb Philos Soc
90:628–642
Brusatte SL, O’Connor JK, Jarvis ED (2015b) The origin and diversiﬁcation of
birds. Curr Biol 25:R888–R898
Bugnyar T, Kotrschal K (2004) Leading a conspeciﬁc away from food in ravens
(Corvus corax)? Anim Cogn 7:69–76
Burgess SD, Bowring SA (2015) High-precision geochronology conﬁrms volu-
minous magmatism before, during, and after Earth’s most severe extinction.
Sci Adv 1:e1500470
Butler AB, Reiner A, Karten HJ (2011) Evolution of the amniote pallium and
the origins of mammalian neocortex. Ann N Y Acad Sci 1225:14–27
Cabrera-Socorro A, Hernandez-Acosta NC, Gonzalez-Gomez M, Meyer G
(2007) Comparative aspects of p73 and Reelin expression in Cajal-Retzius
cells and the cortical hem in lizard, mouse and human. Brain Res
1132:59–70
Caronia-Brown G, Yoshida M, Gulden F, Assimacopoulos S, Grove EA (2014)
The cortical hem regulates the size and patterning of neocortex.
Development 41:2855–2865
Chakraborty M, Jarvis ED (2015) Brain evolution by brain pathway duplica-
tion. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 370:1684
Chappell J, Kacelnik A (2002) Tool selectivity in a non-primate, the New
Caledonian crow (Corvus moneduloides). Anim Cogn 5:71–78
Chen CC, Winkler CM, Pfenning AR, Jarvis ED (2013) Molecular proﬁling of
the developing avian telencephalon: regional timing and brain subdivision
continuities. J Comp Neurol 521:3666–3701
Cheung AF, Kondo S, Abdel-Mannan O, Chodroﬀ RA, Sirey TM, Bluy LE,
Webber N, DeProto J, Karlen SJ, Krubitzer L, Stolp HB, Saunders NR,
366 9 Of Birds and Men
Molnár Z (2010) The subventricular zone is the developmental milestone of
a 6-layered neocortex: comparisons in metatherian and eutherian mammals.
Cereb Cortex 2:1071–1081
Clayton N, Emery N (2005) Corvid cognition. Curr Biol 15:R80–R81
Clayton NS, Emery NJ (2015) Avian models of human cognitive neuroscience:
a proposal. Neuron 86:1330–1342
Cloudsley-Thompson J (2001) Multiple factors in the reptile extinctions of the
Cretaceous period. Biologist 48:177–181
Dally JM, Emery NJ, Clayton NS (2006) Food-caching western scrub-jays
keep track of who was watching when. Science 312:1662–1665
DeBeer G (1971) Homology, an Unsolved Problem. Oxford University Press,
Glasgow
de Frutos CA, Bouvier G, Arai Y, Thion MS, Lokmane L, Keita M, Garcia-
Dominguez M, Charnay P, Hirata T, Riethmacher D, Grove EA, Tissir F,
Casado M, Pierani A, Garel S (2016) Reallocation of olfactory Cajal-Retzius
cells shapes neocortex architecture. Neuron 92:435–448
Deschênes M, Moore J, Kleinfeld D (2012) Sniﬃng and whisking in rodents.
Curr Opin Neurobiol 22:243–250
Dickerson BC, Eichenbaum H (2010) The episodic memory system: neuro-
circuitry and disorders. Neuropsychopharmacology 35:86–104
Dugas-Ford J, Rowell JJ, Ragsdale CW (2012) Cell-type homologies and
the origins of the neocortex. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109:16974–
16979
Eichenbaum H (1998) Using olfaction to study memory. Ann N Y Acad Sci
855:657–669
Eichenbaum H (2004) Hippocampus: cognitive processes and neural represen-
tations that underlie declarative memory. Neuron 44:109–120
Eichenbaum H (2010) Memory systems. Wiley Interdiscip Rev Cogn Sci
1:478–490
Eichenbaum H (2014) Time cells in the hippocampus: a new dimension for
mapping memories. Nat Rev Neurosci 15:732–744
Emery NJ, Clayton NS (2004) The mentality of crows: convergent evolution of
intelligence in corvids and apes. Science 306:1903–1907
Emery NJ, Clayton NS (2009) Tool use and physical cognition in birds and
mammals. Curr Opin Neurobiol 19:27–33
Engesser S, Crane JM, Savage JL, Russell AF, Townsend SW (2015)
Experimental evidence for phonemic contrasts in a nonhuman vocal system.
PLoS Biol 13:e1002171
References and Notes 367
Feenders G, Liedvogel M, Rivas M, Zapka M, Horita H, Hara E, Wada K,
Mouritsen H, Jarvis ED (2008) Molecular mapping of movement-asso-
ciated areas in the avian brain: a motor theory for vocal learning origin.
PLoS One 3:e1768
Fitch WT (2009) Musical protolanguage: Darwin’s theory of language evolu-
tion revisited. http://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/?p=1136
Fyhn M, Molden S, Witter MP, Moser EI, Moser MB (2004) Spatial repre-
sentation in the entorhinal cortex. Science 305:1258–1264
Gehring WJ, Ikeo K (1999) Pax 6: mastering eye morphogenesis and eye
evolution. Trends Genet 15:371–317
Gentner TQ, Fenn KM, Margoliash D, Nusbaum HC (2006) Recursive
syntactic pattern learning by songbirds. Nature 440:1204–1207
Georgala PA, Carr CB, Price DJ (2011) The role of Pax6 in forebrain devel-
opment. Dev Neurobiol 71:690–709
Gerkema MP, Davies WI, Foster RG, Menaker M, Hut RA (2013) The
nocturnal bottleneck and the evolution of activity patterns in mammals.
Proc Biol Sci 280:20130508
Grant RA, Haidarliu S, Kennerley NJ, Prescott TJ (2013) The evolution of
active vibrissal sensing in mammals: evidence from vibrissal musculature and
function in the marsupial opossum Monodelphis domestica. J Exp Biol
216:3483–3494
Grion N, Akrami A, Zuo Y, Stella F, Diamond ME (2016) Coherence between
rat sensorimotor system and hippocampus is enhanced during tactile dis-
crimination. PLoS Biol 14:e1002384
Grove EA, Tole S, Limon J, Yip L, Ragsdale CW (1998) The hem of the
embryonic cerebral cortex is deﬁned by the expression of multiple Wnt
genes and is compromised in Gli3-deﬁcient mice. Development 125:2315–
2325
Güntürkün O (2005) The avian “prefrontal cortex” and cognition. Curr Opin
Neurobiol 15:686–693
Güntürkün O (2012) The convergent evolution of neural substrates for cogni-
tion. Psychol Res 76:212–219
Güntürkün O, Bugnyar T (2016) Cognition without Cortex. Trends Cogn Sci
20:291–303
Hafting T, Fyhn M, Molden S, Moser MB, Moser EI (2005) Microstructure of
a spatial map in the entorhinal cortex. Nature 436:801–806
Healy S, Walsh P, Hansell M (2008) Nest building by birds. Curr Biol 18:
R271–R273
368 9 Of Birds and Men
Heinrich B, Bugnyar T (2007) Just how smart are ravens? Sci Amer 4:64–71
Howard MW, Eichenbaum H (2015) Time and space in the hippocampus.
Brain Res 1621:345–354
Holmgren N (1922) Points of view concerning forebrain morphology in lower
vertebrates. J Comp Neurol 34:391–459
Hunt GR. (1996) Manufacture and use of hook-tools by New Caledonian
crows. Nature 379:249–251
Jacobs LF (2012) From chemotaxis to the cognitive map: the function of
olfaction. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109(Suppl. 1):10693–10700
Jarvis ED (2004) Learned birdsong and the neurobiology of human language.
Ann N Y Acad Sci 1016:749–777
Jarvis ED, Ribeiro S, da Silva ML, Ventura D, Vielliard J, Mello CV (2000)
Behaviourally driven gene expression reveals song nuclei in hummingbird
brain. Nature 406:628–632
Jarvis ED, Yu J, Rivas MV, Horita H, Feenders G, Whitney O, Jarvis SC, Jarvis
ER, Kubikova L, Puck AE, Siang-Bakshi C, Martin S, McElroy M, Hara E,
Howard J, Pfenning A, Mouritsen H, Chen CC, Wada K (2013) Global
view of the functional molecular organization of the avian cerebrum: mirror
images and functional columns. J Comp Neurol 521:3614–3665
Kaas JH (2013) The evolution of brains from early mammals to humans. Wiley
Interdiscip Rev Cogn Sci 4:33–45
Källén B (1951) On the ontogeny of the reptilian forebrain. Nuclear structures
and ventricular sulci. J Comp Neurol 95:307–347
Karten HJ (1968) The ascending auditory pathway in the pigeon (Columba
livia). II. Telencephalic projections of the nucleus ovoidalis thalami. Brain
Res 11:134–153
Karten HJ (1969) The organization of the avian telencephalon and some
speculations on the phylogeny of the amniote telencephalon. Ann New
York Acad Sci 167:164–179
Karten HJ (1991) Homology and the evolutionary origins of the “neocortex”.
Brain Behav Evol 38:264–272
Karten HJ (1997) Evolutionary developmental biology meets the brain: the
origins of mammalian neocortex. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 94:2800–
28004
Karten HJ (2013) Neocortical evolution: neuronal circuits arise independently
of lamination. Curr Biol 23:R12–R15
Kielan-Jaworowska Z, Cifelli R, Luo ZX (2004) Mammals from the Age of
Dinosaurs. Columbia University Press, New York
References and Notes 369
King SL, McGregor PK (2016) Vocal matching: the what, the why and the
how. Biol Lett 12:20160666
Kleinfeld D, Deschênes M, Ulanovsky N (2016) Whisking, sniﬃng, and
the hippocampal θ-Rhythm: a tale of two oscillators. PLoS Biol 14:
e1002385
Konishi M (2004) The role of auditory feedback in birdsong. Ann N Y Acad
Sci 1016:463–475
Langmore NE (1998) Functions of duet and solo songs of female birds. Trends
Ecol Evol 13:136–140
Lipkind D, Marcus GF, Bemis DK, Sasahara K, Jacoby N, Takahasi M, Suzuki
K, Feher O, Ravbar P, Okanoya K, Tchernichovski O (2013) Stepwise
acquisition of vocal combinatorial capacity in songbirds and human infants.
Nature 498:104–108
Liu WC, Wada K, Jarvis ED, Nottebohm F (2013) Rudimentary substrates for
vocal learning in a suboscine. Nat Commun 4:2082
Luo ZX (2007) Transformation and diversiﬁcation in early mammal evolution.
Nature. 450:1011–1019
Luo ZX, Ruf I, Schultz JA, Martin T (2011) Fossil evidence on evolution of
inner ear cochlea in Jurassic mammals. Proc Biol Sci 278:28–34
Luzzati F (2015) A hypothesis for the evolution of the upper layers of the
neocortex through co-option of the olfactory cortex developmental pro-
gram. Front Neurosci 9:162
Luzzati F, Bonfanti L, Fasolo A, Peretto P (2009) DCX and PSA-NCAM
expression identiﬁes a population of neurons preferentially distributed in
associative areas of diﬀerent pallial derivatives and vertebrate species. Cereb
Cortex 19:1028–1041
Lynch G (1986) Synapses, Circuits, and the Beginnings of Memory. MIT
Press, Cambridge
Markowitz JE, Ivie E, Kligler L, Gardner TJ (2013) Long-range order in canary
song. PLoS Comput Biol 9:e1003052
Marler P (1990a) Innate learning preferences: signals for communication. Dev
Psychobiol 23:557–568
Marler P (1990b) Song learning: the interface between behaviour and neu-
roethology. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 329:109–114
Medina L, Abellán A (2009) Development and evolution of the pallium. Semin
Cell Dev Biol 20:698–711
Ming GL, Song H (2011) Adult neurogenesis in the mammalian brain:
signiﬁcant answers and signiﬁcant questions. Neuron 70:687–702
370 9 Of Birds and Men
Molnár Z (2011) Evolution of cerebral cortical development. Brain Behav Evol
78:94–107
Montiel JF, Aboitiz F (2015) Pallial patterning and the origin of the isocortex.
Front Neurosci 9:377
Montiel JF, Vasistha NA, Garcia-Moreno F, Molnár Z (2016) From sauropsids
to mammals and back: new approaches to comparative cortical develop-
ment. J Comp Neurol 524:630–645
Moser EI, Kropﬀ E, Moser MB (2008) Place cells, grid cells, and the brain’s
spatial representation system. Annu Rev Neurosci 31:69–89
Nagel T (1974) What is it like to be a bat? Philos Rev 83:435–450
Niimura Y (2009) On the origin and evolution of vertebrate olfactory receptor
genes: comparative genome analysis among 23 chordate species. Genome
Biol Evol 1:34–44
Nomura T, Gotoh H, Ono K (2013) Changes in the regulation of cortical
neurogenesis contribute to encephalization during amniote brain evolution.
Nat Commun 4:2206
Nomura T, Ohtaka-Maruyama C, Yamashita W, Wakamatsu Y, Murakami Y,
Calegari F, Suzuki K, Gotoh H, Ono K (2016) The evolution of basal
progenitors in the developing non-mammalian brain. Development
143:66–74
Northcutt RG (2003) The Use and abuse of developmental data. Behav Brain
Sci 26:565–566
Nottebohm F (1970) Ontogeny of bird song. Science 167:950–956
Nottebohm F (1989) From bird song to neurogenesis. Sci Am 2:74–79
Nottebohm F (2004) The road we travelled: discovery, choreography, and
signiﬁcance of brain replaceable neurons. Ann N Y Acad Sci 1016:628–658
Nottebohm F (2005) The neural basis of birdsong. PLoS Biol 3:e164
Nottebohm F, Liu WC (2010) The origins of vocal learning: New sounds, new
circuits, new cells. Brain Lang 115:3–17
Odom KJ, Hall ML, Riebel K, Omland KE, Langmore NE (2014) Female
song is widespread and ancestral in songbirds. Nat Commun 5:3379
O’Keefe J (1979) A review of the hippocampal place cells. Prog Neurobiol
13:419–439
O’Keefe J (1990) A computational theory of the hippocampal cognitive map.
Prog Brain Res 83:301–312
O’Keefe J, Dostrovsky J (1971) The hippocampus as a spatial map.
Preliminary evidence from unit activity in the freely-moving rat. Brain
Res 34:171–175
References and Notes 371
Penn DC, Povinelli DJ (2007) Causal cognition in human and nonhuman
animals: a comparative, critical review. Annu Rev Psychol 58:97–118
Pepperberg I (2008) Alex & Me. How a Scientist and a Parrot discovered a
Hidden World of Intelligence – and Formed a Deep Bond in the Process.
Harper Collins, New York
Petkov CI, Jarvis ED (2012) Birds, primates, and spoken language origins:
behavioral phenotypes and neurobiological substrates. Front Evol Neurosci
4:12
Petkov CI, Jarvis ED (2014) The basal ganglia within a cognitive system in
birds and mammals. Behav Brain Sci 37:568–569; discussion 577–604
Pfenning AR, Hara E, Whitney O, Rivas MV, Wang R, Roulhac PL, Howard
JT, Wirthlin M, Lovell PV, Ganapathy G, Mouncastle J, Moseley MA,
Thompson JW, Soderblom EJ, Iriki A, Kato M, Gilbert MT, Zhang G,
Bakken T, Bongaarts A, Bernard A, Lein E, Mello CV, Hartemink AJ, Jarvis
ED (2014) Convergent transcriptional specializations in the brains of
humans and song-learning birds. Science 346:1256846
Pickrell J (2014) Flying Dinosaurs. How Fearsome Reptiles Became Birds.
NewSouth Publishers, Sydney
Povinelli DJ (2000) Folk Physics for Apes. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Prothero DR (2006) After the Dinosaurs. The Age of Mammals. Indiana Press,
Bloomington
Puelles L, Rubenstein JL (2003) Forebrain gene expression domains and the
evolving prosomeric model. Trends Neurosci 26:469–476
Puelles L, Kuwana E, Puelles E, Rubenstein JL (1999) Comparison of the
mammalian and avian telencephalon from the perspective of gene expression
data. Eur J Morphol 37:139–150
Puelles L, Kuwana E, Puelles E, Bulfone A, Shimamura K, Keleher J, Smiga S,
Rubenstein JL(2000) Pallial and subpallial derivatives in the embryonic
chick and mouse telencephalon, traced by the expression of the genes Dlx-
2, Emx-1, Nkx-2.1, Pax-6, and Tbr-1. J Comp Neurol 424:409–438
Ramón y Cajal Y, Sánchez D (1915) Contribución al conocimiento de los
centros nerviosos de los insectos. Parte I Retina y centros ópticos. Trab Lab
Invest Biol Univ Madrid 13:1–168
Reiner A, Perkel DJ, Bruce LL, Butler AB, Csillag A, Kuenzel W, Medina L,
Paxinos G, Shimizu T, Striedter G, Wild M, Ball GF, Durand S, Gütürkün
O, Lee DW, Mello CV, Powers A, White SA, Hough G, Kubikova L,
Smulders TV, Wada K, Dugas-Ford J, Husband S, Yamamoto K, Yu J,
Siang C, Jarvis ED (2004a) The avian brain nomenclature forum:
372 9 Of Birds and Men
terminology for a new century in comparative neuroanatomy. J Comp
Neurol 473:E1–E6
Reiner A, Perkel DJ, Mello CV, Jarvis ED (2004b) Songbirds and the revised
avian brain nomenclature. Ann N Y Acad Sci 1016:77–108
Rowe T (1996) Coevolution of the mammalian middle ear and neocortex.
Science 273:651–654
Rowe TB, Shepherd GM (2016) Role of ortho-retronasal olfaction in mam-
malian cortical evolution. J Comp Neurol 524:471–495
Rowe TB, Macrini TE, Luo ZX (2011) Fossil evidence on origin of the
mammalian brain. Science 332:955–957
Rubenstein JL (2011) Development of the cerebral cortex: implications for
neurodevelopmental disorders. J Child Psychol Psychiatr 52:339–355
Rubenstein JL, Martinez S, Shimamura K, Puelles L (1994) The embryonic
vertebrate forebrain: the prosomeric model. Science 266:578–580
Sakamoto M, Benton MJ, Venditti C (2016) Dinosaurs in decline tens of
millions of years before their ﬁnal extinction. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
113:5036–5040
Sanes JR, Zipursky SL (2010) Design principles of insect and vertebrate visual
systems. Neuron 66:15–36
Savage C (2007) Crows. Encounters with the Wise Guys of the Avian World.
Douglas & McIntyre, London
Schaal B, Coureaud G, Doucet S, Delaunay-El Allam M, Moncomble AS,
Montigny D, Patris B, Holley A (2009) Mammary olfactory signalisation in
females and odor processing in neonates: ways evolved by rabbits and
humans. Behav Brain Res 200:346–358
Schmidt MF, Martin Wild J (2014) The respiratory-vocal system of songbirds:
anatomy, physiology, and neural control. Prog Brain Res 212:297–335
Shannon RV (2005) Speech and music have diﬀerent requirements for spectral
resolution. Int Rev Neurobiol 70:121–134
Shepherd GM (2011) The microcircuit concept applied to cortical evolution:
from three-layer to six-layer cortex. Front Neuroanat 5:30
Smith-Fernández A, Pieau C, Repérant J, Boncinelli E, Wassef M (1998)
Expression of the Emx-1 and Dlx-1 homeobox genes deﬁne three molecu-
larly distinct domains in the telencephalon of mouse, chick, turtle and frog
embryos: implications for the evolution of telencephalic subdivisions in
amniotes. Development 125:2099–2111
Striedter GF (1997) The telencephalon of tetrapods in evolution. Brain Behav
Evol 49:179–213
References and Notes 373
Striedter GF (2005) Principles of Brain Evolution. Sinauer Associates,
Sunderland
Striedter GF, Charvet CJ (2009) Telencephalon enlargement by the convergent
evolution of expanded subventricular zones. Biol Lett 5:134–137
Striedter GF, Northcutt RG (1991) Biological hierarchies and the concept of
homology. Brain Behav Evol 38:177–189
Suzuki IK, Kawasaki T, Gojobori T, Hirata T (2012) The temporal sequence
of the mammalian neocortical neurogenetic program drives mediolateral
pattern in the chick pallium. Dev Cell 22:863–870
Suzuki TN, Wheatcroft D, Griesser M (2016) Experimental evidence for
compositional syntax in bird calls. Nat Commun 7:10986
Taylor J (2009) Not a Chimp: The Hunt to Find the Genes that Make us
Human. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Taylor AH, Hunt GR, Medina FS, Gray RD (2009) Do new caledonian crows
solve physical problems through causal reasoning? Proc Biol Sci 276:247–254
Tebbich S, Seed AM, Emery NJ, Clayton NS (2007) Non-tool-using rooks,
Corvus frugilegus, solve the trap-tube problem. Anim Cogn 10:225–231
Teissier A, Griveau A, Vigier L, Piolot T, Borello U, Pierani A (2010) A novel
transient glutamatergic population migrating from the pallial-subpallial bound-
ary contributes to neocortical development. J Neurosci 30:10563–10574
Tissir F, Goﬃnet AM (2003) Reelin and brain development. Nat Rev Neurosci
4:496–505
Troscianko J, Rutz C (2015) Activity proﬁles and hook-tool use of New
Caledonian crows recorded by bird-borne video cameras. Biol Lett
11:20150777
Vanderwolf CH (2001) The hippocampus as an olfacto-motor mechanism:
were the classical anatomists right after all? Behav Brain Res 127:25–47
Wang Y, Brzozowska-Prechtl A, Karten HJ (2010) Laminar and columnar
auditory cortex in avian brain. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 107:12676–12681
Weir AA, Kacelnik A (2006) A New Caledonian crow (Corvus moneduloides)
creatively re-designs tools by bending or unbending aluminium strips. Anim
Cogn 9:317–334
Weir AA, Chappell J, Kacelnik A (2002) Shaping of hooks in New Caledonian
crows. Science 297:981
Whitney O, Pfenning AR, Howard JT, Blatti CA, Liu F, Ward JM, Wang R,
Audet JN, Kellis M, Mukherjee S, Sinha S, Hartemink AJ, West AE, Jarvis
ED (2014) Core and region-enriched networks of behaviorally regulated
genes and the singing genome. Science 346:1256780
374 9 Of Birds and Men
10
Talking Heads
We saw that songbirds and other vocal learning birds can serve as very
interesting models for the acquisition of human speech. However,
because not only their brains but also their peripheral phonatory systems
have diﬀerent evolutionary histories from those of humans, they provide
only limited insight into the speciﬁc origin of speech. For this, we have
to turn our attention to vocalizing mammals that at least share a cerebral
cortex, homologous brainstem nuclei and vocal tract, vocal folds and
larynx, as well as to human infants and children acquiring speech. Non-
human primate calls, like those of other mammals, convey information
to their conspeciﬁcs about the individual’s social status, sex, age and
identity. The transition from such stereotyped vocalizations to vocal
learning and then to speech has become a major issue in the study of
language evolution. In this chapter I will argue that speech is a complex
behavior, in which historical continuity between monkeys, apes and
humans can be found in the peripheral organs involved in speech, in
their neural control, and in the cerebral networks involved in speech
processing. The gradual evolution of these systems was a requisite for the
acquisition of the phonological loop, and the origin of modern speech.
© The Author(s) 2017
F. Aboitiz, A Brain for Speech,
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-54060-7_10
375
Vocal Beasts
There are well-known examples of domestic dogs and other animals that
can learn, often quickly, the meanings of many words and even phrases
uttered by humans (Kaminski et al. 2004; Andics et al. 2016). However,
the evolution of vocal learning is driven by modiﬁcations of the motor
rather than the auditory system, which is more conserved across species,
and relies on general-purpose mechanisms (see Chapter 9) (Feenders et
al. 2008). While vocal learning is present in only a few species, the
capacity for auditory learning is widespread in vertebrates.
Some species display voluntary use of vocalizations depending on the
context, as some animals can learn to vocalize only in speciﬁc circum-
stances, and can modulate the intensity or duration of their calls in
diﬀerent settings. However, these vocalizations remain stereotyped in
structure. This is seen in apes and monkeys, domestic animals and many
other species (Hauser 1996). What is more interesting to us is the
capacity to learn new sounds by imitation and to develop novel strings
with diﬀerent combinations of sounds. Although we seem to be alone
among primates in our vocal abilities, other mammalian species have
shown a sometimes impressive capacity to imitate, not only sounds made
by conspeciﬁcs, but also physical phenomena and even the human voice.
Vocal imitation is observed in seals, toothed whales and elephants, while
the ability to generate new sequences of sounds generating a rudimentary
syntax is much less common. Furthermore, the capacity for vocal learn-
ing is not strictly a gift given to some animals, but there are diﬀerent
levels of vocal learning abilities in diﬀerent species. Christopher Petkov
and Erich Jarvis categorized species on the basis of their vocal learning
capacities, where animals like monkeys display a limited learning capa-
city, songbirds and parrots are relatively complex vocal learners and our
species apparently exceeds all the others in the voluntary and ﬁne control
of phonation (Petkov and Jarvis 2012).
Echolocating species like bats and cetaceans are good vocal learners.
These animals have developed several anatomical and biochemical hear-
ing and vocal specializations that allow them to hear and emit a much
wider range of sound frequencies (into the ultrasonic range) than can
humans. Particularly, the protein prestin, which is expressed in external
376 10 Talking Heads
ciliary cells of the cochlea (they are only found in mammals), provides
motility to the receptors, dramatically increasing their sensitivity. Notably,
convergent mutations have been reported in this protein in echolocating
bats and cetaceans that enhance their ultrasonic hearing range
(Caspermeyer 2014). Furthermore, work in Nobuo Suga’s laboratory
has shown that the auditory cortex of some bats is proportionally quite
large, and is subdivided into several highly specialized areas (Suga 1989).
There is an area that processes frequency modulated signals (called FM-
FM area), with neurons sensitive to the time delay of the echo, providing
information about the distance to a target. Neurons in another area (called
CF-CF area) process a constant frequency (around 30 Hz, the frequency
of the echolocating call) and its harmonics, which is used to calculate
changes in echo frequencies produced by the bat’s velocity relative to a
target (the Doppler eﬀect). A third component is the DSCF area, which
represents the frequency range of maximal sensitivity (an acoustic fovea),
matching the echo call frequency. Bats in enclosed environments rely
more on the FM signal, while bats in open environments use the CF
signal more. It is not yet clear whether these auditory specializations are
restricted to echolocation or if they also participate in vocal learning
mechanisms. If this is so, it would be an exception to Erich Jarvis’ claim
that the evolution of vocal learning is mainly dependent on motor
adaptations. Finally, there is signiﬁcant asymmetry in the acoustic proper-
ties of the FM-FM and the DSCF areas of the bat auditory cortex, with
the left hemisphere more sensitive to echo time delays, while the right
specializes in frequency analysis (Washington and Tillinghast 2015).
Bats not only use their calls for echolocation but also sing intensely when
landing on their roosts (and sometimes also when ﬂying), producing songs
that are sometimes as complex as those of highly specialized songbirds
(Bradbury and Emmons 1974). As with bird songs, there is a tremendous
variety of “bat songs” across species (Knörnschild et al. 2010; Morell 2014),
some of which are simple and involve the rhythmical repetition of one
variable note, while the songs of other species are hierarchically organized
but also highly ﬂexible, with structures that change according to circum-
stances, such as the appearance of males nearby. In species of the genus
Pipistrellus, songs are formed by a sequence of phrases that signal the animal’s
species, the individual’s identity, group information, and a landing site signal.
Vocal Beasts 377
Like many songbirds, male bats are usually the ones that sing, both to signal
territoryand toattractmates.Somebatsusethesamesongforboth functions,
but others have diﬀerent songs for territorial disputes and courtship.
Furthermore, bats do not sing when they are alone, and do not sing only
in the mating season. Bats learn their songs by babbling and imitating, like
songbirds and humans. The learning process may extend to the echolocation
call, as young horseshoe bats adapt their echolocating call to that of their
mother, and in many species pup calls have individual signatures that
distinguish them from those of other pups in the colony.
Harbor seals, belugas and elephants have been reported to imitate human
speech, while some whales display very long complex songs that change
with time in synchrony with other members of the group (Ridgway et al.
2012; Stoeger et al. 2012; Reichmuth and Casey 2014; Janik 2009). As
with bats, whale songs have repetitions of elements that can be organized
into syntax-like structures similar to those of songbirds (Janik 2013, 2014;
Janik and Sayigh 2013, King and Janik 2013). The nasal cavities of
dolphins are rather complex, with two phonic lips and two air sacs that
enable them to control the vibration of air before it comes out through the
blowhole at the top of the head. The emitted sound is transmitted and
radiated through the melon, a fatty deposit in the front of the head.
Dolphins use vocalizations (“nasalizations” would apply better in this
case) to localize prey and to explore their surroundings. As mentioned by
Stephanie King and Peter McGregor cetacean vocalizations facilitate social
bonding and group synchrony, which makes it perhaps more comparable to
early human communication than birdsong (see Chapters 8 and 9) (King
and McGregor 2016). Vincent Janik and collaborators observed that each
individual dolphin produces a learned but individually speciﬁc signature call
that allows them to recognize one other. However, this signature call is not
categorically diﬀerent from other calls shared by all members of the group,
but is rather a variant of these. Recent research suggests that dolphin
mothers start singing to their babies before they are born, apparently
teaching them their signature whistle, a process that continues over
the ﬁrst weeks after birth (King et al. 2016)1
. The signature call of
1
http://www.livescience.com/55699-mother-dolphins-teach-babies-signature-whistle.html
378 10 Talking Heads
dolphins serves to maintain group cohesion, as individuals separated
from the group emit their signature whistles while the others respond
with their own signatures until they come together again.
Although mice have traditionally been ignored in vocal learning
studies, more recent studies by Julia Fischer and by Erich Jarvis and
Gustavo Arriaga have focused on mouse ultrasonic vocalizations, which
are remarkably song-like and produced by males to attract females
(Fischer and Hammerschmidt 2011; Hammerschmidt et al. 2009,
2012; Arriaga et al. 2012; Arriaga and Jarvis 2013). Adult male mice
produce sonic vocalizations by vibrating their vocal folds, and ultrasonic
vocalizations by expiring air while maintaining the vocal folds tight and
forcing the air to pass through a rigid slit. Male mice use and modulate
ultrasonic vocalizations in diﬀerent social contexts such as in the pre-
sence of other males. Deafening mice early in life aﬀects the syllabic
structure of the animal’s calls, which suggests that mice song learning is
partly a sensory-driven learning process, although it is not yet clear
whether the songs develop through a babbling-like stage as in humans
and songbirds. A laryngeal motor cortex-like region was recently
described by Arriaga and Jarvis, which is active during vocalizations
and makes a direct although faint projection into the nucleus ambiguus
(Arriaga et al. 2012).
Noisy Primates
Although our primate cousins are highly vocal species, little vocal
learning capacity has been observed in them, which is another
argument for how unusual we are in our evolutionary family. But
this is not to say that non-human primates have absolutely no
voluntary control over their vocalizations. For example, the Indri, a
social lemur from Madagascar, develops long cries that are synchro-
nized along the group, but the song varies in structure according to
social condition (Gamba et al. 2016). Monkeys and apes can choose
when and what to vocalize depending on contextual cues, and there
is evidence of voluntary control over the upper vocal tract, including
lip musculature (Hage et al. 2013, 2016). Early studies showed that
Noisy Primates 379
socially isolated and deafened monkeys display somewhat abnormal
vocalizations (Newman and Symmes 1974; Talmage-Riggs et al.
1972; Egnor et al. 2006). South American tamarin monkeys are
highly loquacious, and there are call diﬀerences among subspecies.
Some individuals develop mixed calls, but these could be hybrids
among subspecies (Bradley and McClung 2015). There are some
indications that marmosets modify their calls and vocalizations
depending on the presence of other individuals, but these consist
of modulations of pitch and other acoustic features, and no evidence
has yet been found of learning new vocalizations (Miller et al. 2003;
Bezerra et al. 2009; Seyfarth and Cheney 2010). Nonetheless, Asif
Ghazanfar and associates recently reported that the development of
marmoset vocalizations, as in songbirds and humans, proceeds from
an initial stage of highly variable sounds that become clustered in
acoustical properties as individuals mature (Takahashi et al. 2015).
But perhaps more interestingly, parental vocal feedback is a key
variable in the maturation of vocalizations of marmosets, songbirds
and humans, which indicates a common substrate for early vocal
learning across species.
There is some evidence of vocal plasticity in old world monkeys,
possibly because they have been heavily studied (Hage and Nieder
2013). The calls of rhesus monkeys display troop diﬀerences, and
cross-fostered individuals develop the typical call of the group they
belong to (Owren et al. 1993). Studies in the late twentieth century
showed that these animals can be trained to modulate the amplitude and
duration of their calls to match them with playbacks presented to them,
but again these modiﬁcations are only in the length and strength of the
expiration phase (Hauser 1996, 1998). Likewise, guenon monkeys have
been observed to use speciﬁc combinations of calls in speciﬁc circum-
stances, like initiating group movements (Candiotti et al. 2012; Arnold
and Zuberbühler 2012). In this context, David Reby and colleagues
described a noticeable parallel between human and ape vocalizations,
reporting that both species voluntarily modulate the fundamental fre-
quency of speech, increasing or decreasing pitch in diﬀerent contexts, as
when one talks to a man, woman, or infant, or when tries to impose
authority (Pisanski et al. 2016). These basic control mechanisms are
380 10 Talking Heads
shared with other mammals, especially primates, and are proposed to
represent a starting point from which voluntary vocal control evolved in
our species.
Some primates are characterized by their long complex calls that can
be heard from very far away. One of these is the howler monkey in
South America, which has been little studied, and the others are the
gibbon and siamang of South Asia. Gibbons are relatively close to us, as
we both belong to the hominoidea superfamily of Old World monkeys,
commonly called “apes”, which separated from other monkeys about
18–20 million years ago. Gibbons are arguably the most elaborate
vocalizers among non-human primates (Clarke et al. 2006). They live
in stable couples and both sexes sing to defend their territory, similar to
tropical songbirds discussed in the previous chapter. Like some song-
birds, male and female gibbons usually sing in coordinated duets where
the female leads (Geissmann 2002). However, gibbon songs are highly
stereotyped and show little geographic variation, and hybrids between
two species develop a mixed call between the two parent species
(Brockelman and Schilling 1984). Furthermore, phylogenetic trees
have been established based on the divergence of song patterns of
diﬀerent species that match genetically based trees (Thinh et al. 2011).
There is a role for learning in the gibbon song, which has mainly to do
with coordinating vocalizations while making the male and female duet,
although some evidence suggests that there is a maternal role in the
maturation of the song’s structure (Koda et al. 2013). It has been
reported that gibbons can also modulate and change the organization
of their songs in the presence of predators, but this needs to be con-
ﬁrmed. In summary, our primate lineage has been characterized by a
limited vocal learning capacity. Even our closest relatives, chimpanzees
and bonobos, have demonstrated little ability to imitate and combine
vocal utterances, aside from the voluntary control of lip movements and
facial gestures.
As they have limited respiratory control, many non-human primates,
especially highly vocal ones like gibbons, some apes and howler mon-
keys, have developed laryngeal sacs, which are extensions of the vocal
tract cavity principally in the laryngeal region (Hewitt et al. 2002). One
interpretation is that the sacs serve as a reservoir of air that allows for
Noisy Primates 381
producing longer and more rapid calls, or to provide an additional sound
source without the risk of hyperventilating. There is some support for
this hypothesis as vocalizations of primates with air sacs are free from
body size constraints that apply to primates without air sacs, which limit
respiratory frequency and call duration. According to another view, air
sacs increase resonance to amplify vocalizations, or to provide the
impression of being produced by a larger individual. It has been claimed
that there is evidence of vestigial air sacs in humans, but this is con-
troversial. As well, speech may not be as energy demanding as the calls of
gibbons and other species. We will see below that early humans took
another route to generate complex vocalizations, based on restructuring
the laryngeal cavity.
Chimpanzees have been reported to elicit referential food calls that
provide information about food quality to the group (Lalamn and
Boesch 2013). The acoustic structure of such food calls was reported
to adapt to that of a diﬀerent group when an outsider joined it (Watson
et al. 2015). However, these ﬁndings have been contested on the
grounds that these calls and their modulation were likely driven by
emotional arousal rather than directly signaling food quality (Wheeler
and Fischer 2012; Fischer et al. 2015). Evidence for vocal modulation
has also come from gorillas. After an extensive analysis of recorded
videos, Markus Perlman and Nat Clark recently concluded that Koko,
the gorilla raised by Francine Patterson (see Chapter 1), was able to
modulate breathing-related vocalizations with tongue and lip move-
ments (Perlman and Clark 2015). Furthermore, this was done in the
context of manual actions and gestures. More recently, a study reported
food-associated “songs” of gorillas, but it is still unclear whether these are
actually learned (Luef et al. 2016). Finally, orangutans have been
reported to imitate the human voice2
(Lameira et al. 2015, 2016;
Wich et al. 2009). Although not our immediate ancestor like the
chimpanzee, this species can provide a useful model for acquisition of
an open-ended vocal repertoire (see below).
2
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0zr2eunVDxw
382 10 Talking Heads
Neanderthal Throats
To begin with the ancestry of human speech, it is important ﬁrst to
depict the structure of our phonatory organs. These can be divided into
a deep component that generates the vocal sounds, consisting of the
larynx and the vocal folds. Vocal folds are two membranous infoldings
that make up a vibrating groove in the upper larynx that generates a
variety of acoustically complex sounds, depending on their vibration
rate. The folds are controlled by the nucleus ambiguus of the brainstem,
via the vagus nerve. In turn, the nucleus ambiguus receives input from
the vocal motor cortex, providing voluntary control of the vocal folds.
Some authors have equated cortical control of vocal fold motoneurons to
the capacity for vocal learning, but we will see that there is more to tell
about this. The sound generated by the vocal folds resonates in the oral
cavity until it is expelled and radiates outwardly at the lips. The other
component of the speech apparatus is provided by superior or supralar-
yngeal organs including the oral and nasal cavities, which provide a
sound ﬁlter that modulates the air column; and the tongue and the lips,
which control airﬂow and are critical for the production of most
consonants.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Philip Lieberman observed that the
human vocal tract was longer, and the larynx in a lower position than in
other primates (Fig. 10.1) (Lieberman 1968, 1979, 1984). This results
in an additional cavity, the pharyngeal, located between the larynx and
the oral cavity that increases resonance in the air column. According to
Lieberman, this makes it possible to produce a diversity of vowel types,
but has the drawback of increasing the risk of choking while ingesting
food, as the larynx remains open while swallowing. This impedes us
from breathing and swallowing at the same time. Interestingly, human
babies are born with a high-positioned larynx, which enables them to
swallow and breathe simultaneously. With age, the position of the larynx
descends to its adult position. Thus, our larynx diverges from that of
other primates, but in the infant it is similar to that of non-human
primates, presumably to avoid choking in the young. This apparently
contrasts with the widespread notion, championed by the late Stephen
Jay Gould, and mentioned earlier in this book, that we are juvenilized
Neanderthal Throats 383
apes that have retained infant-like features into adulthood (see also
Chapter 11). Nonetheless, another possible explanation is that the
shortening of the human face and jaw, a juvenilized character as we
discussed above, forced the movement of the larynx in order to maintain
the length of the vocal tract to permit adequate breathing and swallow-
ing (Coquerelle et al. 2013).
Lieberman and his collaborators went further in their analyses into
the structure and position of the hyoid bone in Neanderthals.
Lieberman concluded that the larynx of this species was in an
upward position relative to that of humans; hence they were limited
in the vowels they could produce. This sparked intense debate about
Neanderthal speech, which was not really evidence-based as the vocal
tract and larynx are largely formed of soft tissue that does not
fossilize, and inferring the position of the hyoid bone under these
conditions is very questionable. Furthermore, biomechanical analysis
of the Neanderthal hyoid suggests that Neanderthals were able to
pronounce vowels as well as we do (D’Anastasio et al. 2013). Finally,
the descended larynx is not uniquely human, being present at least
in deer. Tecumseh Fitch noted that while at rest, the deer larynx has
a position similar to that of the human larynx, while when deer roar
Larynx Larynx
Fig. 10.1 The position of the larynx in the chimpanzee and in the human
384 10 Talking Heads
the larynx descends, even reaching the sternum (Fitch and Reby
2001). According to Fitch, the descended larynx contributes to
decreasing resonant frequencies and exaggerates perceived body size,
a feature of sexual selection. This is because larger animals with
larger vocal tracts tend to generate lower frequency vocalizations
than smaller animals, all else being equal. This interpretation has
also been invoked for the lower voice tone acquired by men com-
pared to women after puberty. In any case, whatever the reason for
the origin of the descent of the larynx and its status in Neanderthals,
our ancestors may have taken advantage of it to produce a more
diverse vocal repertoire.
Read My Lips
“Read my lips: no new taxes”, said US presidential candidate George H.
W. Bush in 1988, a promise that although probably key to his winning
the election, remained unfulﬁlled during his term, and was an important
reason for his losing the next election to Bill Clinton. The deaf and some
hearing people are usually able to understand speech just by looking at
lip movements. In fact, speech is a lot more than just the larynx and
vocal folds. The word “language” itself derives from the Latin “lingua”,
which means “tongue”. Most research on vocal communication in
primates and other mammals has focused on the larynx and vocal
folds, and dismissed the crucial role of the upper vocal tract. While we
have gathered some evidence on the neural processes involved in con-
trolling the larynx, comparative studies on the generation of lip and
tongue movements are only beginning. The human tongue and lips are
highly movable and allow us to modulate the air column to produce
diﬀerent types of sounds that are essential for speech and for phoneme
production. The lips are innervated by the facial nerve and nucleus, like
other muscles for facial expression, and the tongue is innervated by the
hypoglossal cranial nucleus. Both structures are under voluntary control
in monkeys and in humans, although non-human primates seem to have
ﬁner control of lip than of tongue movements. A recent study showed
that the hypoglossal nucleus in monkeys is directly innervated by the
Read My Lips 385
motor and premotor cortices in addition to other regions like the insula
and the anterior cingulate gyrus (Morecraft et al. 2014).
While the vocal folds are mostly involved in vowel production, the
lips and tongue participate in both vowel and consonant production.
Furthermore, consonants are made largely by rapid movements of the
tongue and lips, most of them not requiring vocal fold vibrations to be
produced. Consonants outnumber vowels in practically all human lan-
guages, there being overall some 600 while there are only about 200
vowels in all known languages. In this line, Adriano Lameira and
collaborators called attention to supralaryngeal control in the evolution
of speech, arguing that while the separation between vocal learners and
vocal non-learners is rather clear in primates, a continuum can be
observed between humans and other primates in the control of voiceless
calls involving the lips, tongue and jaws (Lameira et al. 2014). There are
a variety of such calls in apes, including “clicks”, “smacks” (I referred to
lip smacks in Chapter 8), “kissing sounds” and “whistles”. In contrast to
their voiced calls, the voiceless calls of apes are apparently inﬂuenced by
social learning and ﬁne-tuned with experience. There is also evidence of
imitation of voiceless calls like lip vibrations by chimpanzees. Lameira
and collaborators mention the case of Viki, the vocally trained chimp,
who learned to say words like “mama”, “papa” or “cup”, by using only
the supralaryngeal tract (see Chapter 1) (Hayes and Hayes 1951). But
orangutans seem to be vocally more gifted than chimps, being able to
mimic not only the human voice (see above), but also voiceless sounds
like whistles (Lameira et al. 2013, 2015). Dialect-like vocal variability
has been observed in diﬀerent orangutan populations, some using
“raspberry calls” during nest building, while others use lip smacks, and
still others are silent for the same behavior; although it still needs to be
shown that these diﬀerences are the product of learning. Lameira and
colleagues claim that a ﬁrst stage in the evolution of speech was repre-
sented by control of the supralaryngeal tract, which was then followed by
voluntary modulation of the vocal folds (Lameira et al. 2014). The
tongue and lips are also fundamental for the production of vowels.
The vertical and horizontal positions of the tongue largely determine
the type of vowel that is being produced, as their combinations deﬁne
two axes that determine what is called the vowel diagram: closed vs. open
386 10 Talking Heads
vowels (e.g. /i/and /u/vs. /ae/, respectively), and front vs. back vowels (e.g. /i/
and /ae/vs. /u/and /o/). Thus, the production of both vowels and consonants
depends perhaps more on the upper rather than the lower vocal tract.
Finally, in a very recent study, Tecumseh Fitch and Asif Ghazanfar
analyzed with X-ray videos the jaw movements of a macaque while it ate,
drank, yawned, vocalized and made lip smacking movements, and
compared these movements with the oral movements involved in
human speech. Notably, they observed that all oral movements required
for speech are within the macaque’s repertoire. Furthermore, the
researchers were even able to generate a computerized simulation of
the monkey’s vocal tract, uttering sentences like “will you marry me?”.
The result was that the simulation was perfectly able to generate these
movements, producing an acoustically intelligible sentence. To the
authors, this implies that the vocal tract of macaques is already equipped
for speech. The diﬀerence, the authors say, must rely on the neuronal
control of these movements (Price 2016). An additional study reported
that monkeys emit vowel-like sounds in their daily behavior (Boë et al.
2017). Despite this evidence, it is yet possible that further modiﬁcations
of the upper vocal tract, like lowering the larynx, may have contributed
to optimize vocal production in our recent ancestors.
The Origin of Rhythm
The rhythmic movements of voice and lips are an essential component of
speech, and are marked by the duration of vowels, and the variability of
consonant intervals. Speech rhythm is determined by changes in intensity,
duration and pitch, in a complex hierarchy that ranges from phonemes to
higher order linguistic units, and is considered to be fundamental in infant
language learning. Notably, the rhythmic characteristics of a language
determine some of its fundamental grammatical structure, as in object-
verb languages and verb-object languages. Furthermore, speech rhythm is
perceived multimodally, using both acoustic and visual cues, from obser-
ving lip movements (Peña et al. 2016). In humans, the perception of
rhythm has been associated with activation of dorsal premotor areas, the
basal ganglia, and auditory regions, showing some overlap with language
The Origin of Rhythm 387
networks, particularly as auditory-prefrontal connectivity is apparently
mediated by the parietal lobe.
The analysis of lip movements of monkeys has provided a new and
interesting perspective that may providea plausible scenario of speech origins.
Tecumseh Fitch, Asif Ghazanfar and collaborators found that lip smacking
movements in monkeys are dissociated from throat movements and have a
frequency of close to 5 cycles per second, which is similar to the frequency of
lip movements during human speech and much more rapid than chewing
(Ghazanfar et al. 2012). Like human lip movements, monkey lip smacking
gradually changes during development from variable and slow movements to
rapid and stereotyped movements (Morrill et al. 2012). Jaw, lip, tongue and
hyoid bone (to which laryngeal muscles are attached) movements are coor-
dinated during speech and chewing. However, these movements are more
closely tuned for chewing than either speech or lip-smacking. David Poeppel
and collaborators have shown that during speech perception, the human
auditory cortex displays oscillations at about the same frequency as lip
smacking movements (see Chapter 2) (Chait et al. 2015; Ding et al. 2016).
Our faces also move concomitantly with speech, making both speech-
induced and indirectly related emotional expressions that are processed
multimodally in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (including Broca’s
area). In human speech, facial movements (particularly those of the
mouth) are ﬁnely coordinated at speciﬁc rhythms with the emitted sounds.
However, monkey vocalizations dissociate from gestures, and rhythmicity
takes place only in the acoustic dimension. Ghazanfar and collaborators
proposed that vocalizations in the human lineage synchronized with lip-
smacking, which in a ﬁrst instance would have involved babbling-like
expressions that evolved into speech-like behavior (Ghazanfar and
Takahashi 2014a, b). Notably, primates use lip-smacking as an approaching
signal or during close contact like grooming and face-to-face interactions. An
instance of lip-vocal synchronization has been observed in male geladas (a
large baboon-like monkey), which make a sound called a “wobble” to
approach females. In another study, Morgan Gustison and colleagues
found that as in human speech, gelada vocalizations include shorter segments
as the vocalization they make is more complex, which follows Menzertah’s
law that longer words tend to have shorter syllables (Gustison et al. 2016).
This may make the gelada a particularly good model to study speech origins.
388 10 Talking Heads
Since rhythmic behavior may be a key element in the evolution of
speech, researchers have investigated whether non-human animals are
able to perceive rhythmic sequences. Monkeys and apes display very
limited capacity for rhythmic beat, while vocal learning birds like parrots
can synchronize to rhythmic beats, but not as well as humans do.
Considering this evidence, Anhiruddh Patel proposed the “vocal learn-
ing and rhythmic synchronization hypothesis” that vocal learning is
required for the capacity to synchronize motor outputs with a musical
beat (Patel et al. 2009). Likewise, Ghazanfar proposed that the percep-
tion of rhythm partly depends on synchronization between the upper
and lower vocal tracts (Ghazanfar and Takahashi 2014a, b). However,
Peter Cook and colleagues, and others more recently showed that the
California sea lion, whose vocal plasticity is supposedly below that of
typical vocal learners, is able to follow acoustic rhythms by head bobbing
(Cook et al. 2013, Ravignani et al. 2016, Rouse et al. 2016). More
studies are needed to determine the vocal imitation capacities of these
animals. In any case, if the ability to learn rhythmic beats is only present
in vocal learning animals, then the capacity to perform rhythmic
movements with the hands, as in tool making, might be a derivative of
vocal learning capacity rather than the other way around, hand skills
inducing vocal rhythmic capacity, as the gestural theory of language
origins may suggest.
Ghazanfar and colleagues also addressed another key aspect of
speech, which is the production of conversational vocal exchanges
between people, with distinct gaps of silence between each turn
(Takahashi et al. 2013, 2015, 2016). The capacity for reciprocal
conversation is a universal character of speech, and is seen even in
babbling children. Conversations may not have been produced ori-
ginally to convey meaning, but rather as a bonding mechanism. We
saw that gibbons engage in such vocal turn-taking behavior. In
addition, Takahashi, Ghazanfar and collaborators have analyzed in
more detail the turn-taking behavior of the marmoset monkey,
whose vocalizations are more variable than those of gibbons.
Marmosets are highly social and cooperative, showing biparental or
multiparental care of their young. These monkeys communicate
vocally, with few manual gestures, and engage in vocal exchanges
The Origin of Rhythm 389
where both individuals take turns. Marmoset conversations may take
up to 30 minutes, with a turn-taking frequency that is not unlike
that of human conversations. Another conversing animal seems to be
dolphins, which can match each other’s vocalizations in the wild,
alternating their respective emissions.
The Melodic Ape
Music is acquired in a similar way as is speech. It is learned quite early in
life, as studies suggest that 1- or 2-year-old babies already have a capacity
to follow music by vocalizing and moving their limbs. As with speech
learning, babies memorize melodies in terms of sequences that are more
likely to occur than others, which then generate expectations of the notes
that will follow in a given melody (Patel 2008). The brain regions
involved in musical perception include the auditory cortex, premotor
cortex, intraparietal sulcus, and other emotion-related regions like the
anterior insula and the anterior cingulate cortex, the latter also involved
in the control of innate vocalizations in both humans and monkeys
(Patel 2008). Music has an intricate and recursive structure that has
often been compared to that of language. Notably, important researchers
in the neuroscience of music like Robert Zatorre and Anhiruddh Patel
emphasize that the capacity to store sequences of notes in working
memory is critical for learning and anticipating melodies (see
Chapter 6) (Patel 2008; Grimault et al. 2009; Peretz and Zatorre
2005; Zatorre 2003; Zatorre and Salimpoor 2013). This is subserved
by strong loops connecting frontal and temporal cortices, using both the
dorsal (conveying time and sequence information) and ventral auditory
pathways (conveying signals like pitch and emotion).
Darwin proposed that speech could have ﬁrst evolved as primitive
melodies that are controlled by the vocal folds rather than the lips and
tongue, which seem to be more related to rhythm. This is partly
supported by comparative evidence showing that vocal learners are
usually melodic, and that melodic-like vocalizations can be found in
many species including our relative the gibbon. However, as Timothy
Gentner’s group recently argued, the acoustically relevant cues of these
390 10 Talking Heads
“songs” may be more speech-like than melodic (see Chapter 9)
(Bregman et al. 2016).
Another defender of a musical origin of speech is Tecumseh Fitch,
who proposes the existence of a “musical protolanguage”, the central
aspects of which were prosodic and phonological, and from which a
hierarchic syntax-like organization emerged (Fitch 2009, 2010).
Fitch argues that as with songbirds this melodic protolanguage
characteristically lacked a rhythmic component. However, if we
accept that superior vocal tract-based consonants are more related
to rhythm, and that these may have been under voluntary control
before the control of exhalative vocalizations, it seems more likely
that this musical protolanguage contained both melodies and rhyth-
mic components. From this initial condition, vocal communication
may have diverged into songs on the one hand, and semantically
based speech on the other.
There are some disorders of music perception and production, one of
which is called amusia. Studies by Patel have revealed that congenital
amusia implies speech impairments, particularly in the capacity to
perceive intonation and emotion, and in the capacity to maintain
auditory patterns in working memory (Liu et al. 2015). Moreover,
Maija Hausen and her collaborators assessed the perception of music
and speech prosody in healthy adults, evidencing an association between
the two capacities but not with visual perception (Hausen et al. 2013).
Another similarity between prosodic and musical processing was
reported by Anastasia Glushko and collaborators, who evidenced that
the closure positive shift, a speciﬁc event-related potential associated
with prosodic phrase boundaries, is also observed at the onset of musical
phrase boundaries (Glushko et al. 2016). Like prosody, harmony per-
ception in untrained individuals tends to be right-lateralized (rhythm is
left-lateralized), although trained musicians use their left hemisphere to
process musical information (Springer and Deutsch 1981; Patel 2008).
Thus, (proto-)music and (proto-)speech may be separated concomitant
with enhancement of a rudimentary level of brain lateralization, music
to the right and speech to the left. Subsequently, with the appearance of
more complex musical aspects that require syntactic processing in
trained musicians, the left hemisphere becomes dominant again.
The Melodic Ape 391
From Meaning to Grammar
It was probably semantics that separated speech and song. But how did
semantics appear? How did social-bonding vocalizations begin to repre-
sent events in the world around us? There are examples of semantic vocal
communication in mammals like vervet monkeys, baboons and suri-
cates. Some years ago, Robert Seyfarth, Dorothy Cheney and Peter
Marler observed that vervet monkeys make diﬀerent alarm calls when
they spot a leopard, eagle or snake, each eliciting distinct escape beha-
viors (Seyfarth et al. 1980). For example, after an eagle alarm call,
animals on the ground run to a bush, while after a snake alarm call
they disperse. This selectivity is learned, as vervet infants often use
predator alarms in response to harmless species. When they hear false
alarms, adults usually look up but do not respond, but when the alarm is
correct they repeat it. This provides feedback to the young that permits
them to gradually reﬁne their calls (Seyfarth and Cheney 2003a, b).
However, alarm calls are triggered by a reﬂex pattern and are not
necessarily goal-directed behavior in which there is a pursued outcome.
On the other hand, symbolic reference depends on learned associative
relations between diﬀerent kinds of stimuli, say visual and auditory.
According to Steﬀen Hage and Andreas Nieder, a precursor of semantic
associations can be observed in neurons of the monkey ventrolateral
prefrontal cortex, where single neurons associate arbitrary visual signs
with numerical stimuli that are presented contingently (Diester and
Nieder 2007; Hage and Nieder 2016). This mechanism probably
depends on interactions with hippocampal and medial temporal lobe
structures.
As I said in Chapter 8, early meanings based on vocal mimicry and
gestural pantomimes may have been the ﬁrst instances of a primitive
semantic system. Moreover, a factor that may have been relevant for the
evolution of conventionalized meaning is the capacity to share an atten-
tional state between two individuals. Converging attention may be
directed to an external object within sight, or more abstractly, to internal
meaning like the concept of an absent object, where both subjects
generate similar representations of the referred object (Garcia 2014).
Thus, the capacity to direct the other’s attention is a critical step for the
392 10 Talking Heads
acquisition of meanings. Children use at least two mechanisms to direct
the attention of adults to speciﬁc objects. One is ﬁnger-pointing and
gaze direction, and the other is vocal behavior. Vocalizations and other
gestures are more generic and do not convey spatial information. In the
monkey, vocalizations are associated with an innate circuit that includes
the cingulate gyrus in the frontal cortex (described in the next section).
This region signals the occurrence of contextually incongruent or unpre-
dicted events, and triggers activation of executive brain systems in the
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex that engage in resolving the conﬂict or
incongruence. Thus, the cingulate cortex signals behaviorally relevant
events that are transmitted to others by vocalizations (Paus 2001;
Roelofs and Hagoort 2002). One possibility is that vocalizations and
non-pointing gestures served to attract the other’s attention to the
respective individual, and then gaze direction and pointing served to
direct attention to a given position in space. These steps, I believe, might
represent a missing link between predominantly emotional communica-
tion and a primitive referential system based on vocal mimicry and
pantomimic sounds.
In a further step, imitation of animals or physical events, be they
vocal, gestural, or both, may have represented an early instance of
symbolic reference (see Chapter 8). But how did we go from simple
meanings like those conveyed in vocal imitation and pantomime to
more complex meanings involving phrases depicting actions? Hage and
Nieder argue that complex behaviors like sequence planning, behavioral
sequences and strategy changes are encoded by monkey lateral prefrontal
cortex neurons, which may be considered a precursor of syntactic
structure (Hage and Nieder 2016, Fujii and Graybiel 2003, Wallis et
al. 2001). Likewise, fMRI studies suggest that complex, nested motor
plans including speech could be processed by Broca’s area (Koechlin and
Jubault 2006). On the other hand, the insula and other speech-related
areas may rather control the precise timing of complex motor acts.
More into behavior, Bickerton proposes that words began to be
combined in diﬀerent ways to achieve increasingly complex meanings,
ﬁrst in random order (as in Creole languages; see the Chapter 1), but
then using short words like prepositions and other elements as links
between them (Bickerton 2009). For Bickerton, the lexical properties of
From Meaning to Grammar 393
words determine the linguistic elements that can be bound to them, and
syntax emerges from these binding rules. Others like Otto Jespersen, and
Tecumseh Fitch after him have argued that propositional utterances
originally consisted of entire sung phrases, which had a kind of holistic
or contextual meaning, perhaps more like vervet monkey calls. In a
subsequent stage, this continuous message was decomposed into several
mobile “chunks”, or primitive words that combined with others, which
is similar to what Michael Arbib proposed (see Chapter 8) (Jespersen
1922; Fitch 2009, 2010; Arbib 2012). This is compatible with the
notion that vocalizations were originally used for play and other appar-
ently non-utilitarian behaviors rather than for directly transmitting
relevant information about the environment. Similarly, Simon
Townsend and collaborators have argued that syntactically ordered
messages appeared early in human vocal evolution, and that a phonolo-
gically organized system of words was a late acquisition (Collier et al.
2014). In any of these cases, the learning, processing and combination of
words probably put a much heavier load on working memory capacity,
and it is tempting to propose that the origin of syntax was associated
with a signiﬁcant ampliﬁcation of the phonological loop.
My own perspective is that the two kinds of signaling had diﬀerent uses.
The primitive speech of our ancestors may have contained both long
structured vocal strings signaling identity, group membership and other
social signals; and short primitive word-like utterances and gestures used to
call the attention of others and to direct their attention to speciﬁc objects or
events. Playful behavior and learned emotional signals like vocalizations
and gestures may have been important to generate cohesive behavior and
generate dyads, not only between mother and child, but also among allies
within a group. In addition, the capacity to use word-like utterances like
onomatopoeias and conventionalized vocalizations to address simple
meanings generated primitive semantics. In this context, Damián Blasi
and collaborators found a strong statistical relationship between speech
sounds and word meanings, as in /t/ for “tongue” and /n/ for nose, across
about two-thirds of the world’s languages (Blasi et al. 2016), which is in
line with the onomatopoeia hypothesis of speech origins. If I had to guess, I
would bet that early Homo, and even Australopithecines communicated
extensively through learned vocalizations, which developed from a
394 10 Talking Heads
condition similar to the babbling of human infants. This type of vocaliza-
tion developed a primitive syntactic organization, as in songbirds. From
this behavior, a “lexical component” emerged, signaling events that may
have been relevant for group behavior, such as recruiting individuals to
obtain a distant food source. Another possibility for the emergence of a
lexical component is tool-making (see Chapters 4 and 8). These two
components, lexical and syntactical, coalesced in later stages, possibly in
very recent times, to produce the ﬁrst forms of speech as we know it. This
may have taken place concomitant with the origin of modern humans, and
the associated Cultural Revolution that took place at that time. In this line,
Vitor Nóbrega and Shigeru Miyagawa proposed that there are two key
formal elements in language structure, the expressive and the lexical
(Nóbrega and Miyagawa 2015). The expressive system is related to inten-
tionality and is hierarchically organized but limited (ﬁnite) in its possible
structures, while the lexical system conveys semantic content but does not
admit structural organization. There are examples of expressive commu-
nication among non-human animals such songbirds, and of lexical com-
munication as in vervet monkeys, but the two never occur together. The
two communication domains fused only in human language. We may
never know when this happened in human evolution, giving rise to
modern speech. It may have been gradual, starting concomitantly with
the incipient phonological loop, perhaps already in Australopithecines, but
it may have been fully expressed much later, as human culture became
increasingly complex. This perspective diﬀers from the notions of proto-
speech and protosign of Derek Bickerton and Mike Arbib, respectively, in
that early human communication took place in two diﬀerent domains, not
just conveying signals about external events, but also a rudimentary pho-
nology in which preverbal strings were used for socializing.
Down from the Cortex
The above is a plausible, but admittedly very speculative scenario of
speech origins. Now I will turn to harder evidence of the neural mechan-
isms involved in vocalizations. The rhythmic organization of vocaliza-
tions, together with other orofacial movements like breathing, licking,
Down from the Cortex 395
chewing, and swallowing, depend on brainstem sensorimotor circuits
that control the precise coordination of many muscles involved in
generating and regulating subtly diﬀerent movements of the respiratory
muscles, nose, lips, tongue and throat. Feeding behaviors like eating,
drinking and swallowing require the coordinated action of some 26
muscles and ﬁve brainstem motor nuclei to be correctly executed. All
these behaviors have to be strictly timed with breathing, which is
essential to staying alive. These processes are coordinated by small
brainstem circuits called central pattern generators, which in some
cases are synchronized by upstream central rhythmic generators. Jaw
movements are controlled in the brainstem by the trigeminal motor
nucleus; tongue movements by the hypoglossal nucleus, lip and nose
movements by the facial nucleus, and ﬁnally swallowing and vocalization
by the nucleus ambiguus. The close neural relationship in mammals
between the control of swallowing and vocalization suggests to many
that primitive vocalizations originated from modulations of ingestive
behaviors, which is supported by the ﬁndings of mirror neurons involved
in swallowing that I mentioned in Chapter 8, and may relate to the
recently reported “food songs” of gorillas (see above). Likewise, the
production of speech requires elaborate neural control of the phonatory
system at diﬀerent levels. For example, we need close regulation of
thoracic musculature during exhalation when we speak because air has
to be expelled much more slowly and in bursts than during normal
respiration. Furthermore, there have to be very rapid inspirations as we
run out of air while speaking. This pattern contrasts with the inhalation-
exhalation patterns observed during vocalization by non-human pri-
mates, who alternate inspirations and expirations much more regularly
during long vocalizations, putting a limit on the duration and rate of
their calls. Asif Ghazanfar and others have argued that the thoracic
vertebral canal, housing the thoracic spinal cord that innervates breath-
ing muscles, is larger in modern humans and Neanderthals than in non-
human primates and other fossil hominids (Ghazanfar and Rendell
2008). However, whether larger size indicates increased motor control
has not been demonstrated.
Some vocalizations made by non-human primates and other mam-
mals during play are reminiscent of human laughter. Robert Provine has
396 10 Talking Heads
studied laughter in non-human primates and has observed that with
chimpanzees, such vocalizations are accompanied by a “play face” that
allows us to recognize this as a form of laughter (Provine 2013, 2016).
While human laughter sounds like “ha-ha-ha”, chimp laughter sounds
like “ah-ah-ah”, and sounds more like panting. This is because humans
can parse the exhalation into a sequence of several vowel-like sounds,
while chimps produce one laughing sound per respiratory cycle. This is
proposed to result from a tight coupling of the respiratory cycle to
locomotion that is observed in four-legged animals, and remains in
most apes even if they walk bipedally. According to Provine, full
bipedality in humans released this constraint, and provided the necessary
ﬂexibility of the respiratory system for the emergence of speech.
Interestingly, Provine also notes that there are plenty of laughter during
normal speech, which normally intercalates with it between phrases, not
interfering with syntactical structure. Provine calls this the punctuation
eﬀect, which serves to provide emphasis to speech, and probably co-
evolved with speech in a similar way to hand gestures and other beha-
viors. Finally in this line, I have always been intrigued by the variety of
laughs diﬀerent people have. One can quickly tell whether a friend is in a
place or not just by hearing his or her laughter. Perhaps laughter partly
evolved as an individual signature like what is seen in dolphins and other
species, which favored group cohesion.
Descending control for speech originates in diﬀerent brain centers
and establishes the patterns of the activity of brainstem and spinal motor
neurons in organized sequences. There are two basic circuits that control
vocal behavior in humans. The ﬁrst and more ancient is shared with
monkeys and other mammals, and participates in reﬂex and emotionally
triggered vocalizations like laughing and crying, as well as in monkey
vocalizations. Recently reviewed by Gert Holstege and Hari
Subramanian, this circuit encompasses the anterior cingulate cortex,
orbitofrontal cortex, insula and amygdala, with projections to a brain-
stem region called the periaqueductal gray (Fig. 10.2). From there,
projections reach the reticular formation and are then directed to the
ambiguus nucleus (more speciﬁcally for vocalizations, the nucleus retro-
ambiguus). This nucleus controls the soft palate, pharynx, larynx and
respiratory muscles (Holstege and Subramanian 2016). In turn, these
Down from the Cortex 397
muscles control the air pressure in the respiratory tract, which is needed
for proper vocalization. Activation of this circuit may partly explain the
unimpaired speech of stutterers when they sing or swear. Perhaps related
to these functions is Marco Catani’s frontal aslant tract (see Chapter 2),
running down from the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex to Broca’s area,
which is involved in motivational aspects of speech (Catani et al. 2013).
The second descending circuit is associated with Broca’s region and related
cortical areas that connect with the premotor and motor cortices and the
basal ganglia, thalamus and the cerebellum. Originating from the laryngeal
cortex in the primary motor cortex, axons reach the brainstem reticular
formation, and directly innervate the ambiguus nucleus containing the
motor neurons that control the laryngeal muscles for vocalization. The
cortical- ambiguus projection is speciﬁc to humans among primates, and is
thought to participate in learned vocalizations including speech (see
Chapter 8), and has been compared to the descending projection to vocal
brainstem nuclei in songbirds (Chapter 9). Electrophysiological stimulation
of the human larynx area (usually the left) of the ventral motor cortex triggers
vocalizations and oral movements, while activation of regions related to
Broca’s area can elicit more complex, speech-like behavior (see Chapter 2).
In the monkey primary motor cortex there is also a larynx representation
that Kristina Simonyan and Uwe Jürgens have exhaustively characterized
(Simonyan and Jürgens 2003; Simonyan et al. 2016). Axons from the
monkey laryngeal motor cortex reach brainstem reticular neurons, which in
turn connect with ambiguus motor neurons. However, some axons are
found in the periphery of the nucleus ambiguus, which implies that the
purported diﬀerences from humans in motor innervation of the nucleus
ambiguus are of degree rather than kind. Furthermore, the group of
Leonardo Fogassi reported the existence of ventral premotor neurons in
the macaque that activate speciﬁcally with voluntary vocalizations, and a
ventral premotor region that produces simple mouth movements and
contraction of laryngeal muscles but not vocalizations when stimulated,
while lesions in this region have no eﬀect on spontaneous vocalizations
(Coudé et al. 2011). Likewise, Steﬀen Hage and Andreas Nieder evidenced
call-related neurons in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex that predict pre-
paration for voluntary vocalizations (Hage and Nieder 2013). In addition,
Simonyan and collaborators recently reported a substantial increase from
398 10 Talking Heads
AC
PAG
NA
LC
Fig. 10.2 The cortical pathways for vocal control in the human. Black arrows
show the pathway that is shared with other primates and mammals. Gray
arrows show a tract that is more developed in our species. AC, anterior
cingulate; LC, laryngeal cortex; PAG, periaqueductal gray; NA, nucleus
accumbens
Down from the Cortex 399
monkey to human in the connectivity of the laryngeal motor cortex with
somatosensory and inferior parietal cortex, which indicates greater sensory
and cognitive control of this region (see Chapter 7) (Kumar et al. 2016).
Hage and Nieder have recently summarized this evidence, describing
two neural circuits controlling speech (Hage and Nieder 2016). The ﬁrst
is a volitional motor network dependent on the prefrontal cortex,
centered in Broca’s area, and a phylogenetically older vocal motor net-
work that depends on limbic areas (involved in the initiation of vocaliza-
tions) and brainstem systems (controlling the motor output). Hage and
Nieder argue that the volitional network is present in monkeys, but its
link with the vocal motor network is weak, only allowing to control the
initiation of stereotyped vocal output. In human evolution, the voli-
tional network has progressively gained control over the vocal motor
network, mainly through inhibitory interactions. This is coupled with
two other major innovations, the reinforcement of direct descending
projections from the motor cortex to the brainstem, and the
ampliﬁcation of auditory projections to the frontal executive network
(contributing to the phonological loop). In summary, rudimentary
motor cortical control of the orofacial region already existed in non-
human primates, from which voluntary control of speech may have
emerged at some point.
Look Who’s Talking
Another approach to the study of speech origins is infant vocal and
speech development. Kimborough Oller and collaborators have found
notable ﬂexibility in early infants’ aﬀective vocalizations (squeals, vowel-
like sounds, and growls), denoting positive, neutral or negative emotions
depending on the context (Oller et al. 2013). These vocalizations con-
trast with the innately speciﬁed cry and laughter, which always denote
negative and positive eﬀects, respectively, and can be compared to the
vocalizations of non-human primates. Flexibility of the former calls may
have been important for subsequent acquisition of vocal learning in early
humans, contributing to the emotional meaning of speech.
Consistent with the notion of the origin of the phonological loop as a
key innovation in speech origins, the anatomical development of the
400 10 Talking Heads
language network ﬁts the trajectory of speech acquisition in infants.
Michael Skeide and Angela Friederici recently summarized the chronol-
ogy of speech development in infants, correlating it with the maturation
of the dorsal and ventral auditory pathways (Skeide and Friederici
2016). Firstly, bottom-up mechanisms in the ventral auditory stream
develop in the ﬁrst year of life, generating the capacity to segment
phonological information into distinct word forms, and after 12 months
lexical items and lexico-semantic information is already being processed
in the superior temporal lobe. By the time the baby is 2 years of age,
morphosyntactic processing and grammatical categorization have
matured, mostly involving the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. Finally,
at around 4 years of age, the child starts developing top down processing
mechanisms through the dorsal pathway, and the neural systems
involved in syntactic and semantic processing begin to diverge into
distinct but overlapping networks. This process ends when children
reach the age of ten, when adult-like syntactic and semantic networks
are evident. Friederici’s group and others have recently observed that the
maturation of the arcuate fasciculus correlates with both the maturation
of hemodynamic responses during sentence comprehension, and with
the subject’s behavioral performance in the task (Skeide et al. 2016;
Yeatman et al. 2011). The group led by Ghislaine Dehaene-Lambertz
showed that the ventral language pathway matures earlier, while the
dorsal pathway (including the arcuate fasciculus) is slower to mature but
catches up in the ﬁrst months after birth, which they suggest relates to
the development of combinatorial speech processing (Dubois et al.
2016). Likewise, Pascale Tremblay and collaborators have recently
found that the length of the frontal aslant tract in the left hemisphere
predicts the receptive language development of 5-to-8-year-old children,
a period characterized by improvements in language and communica-
tion (Broce et al. 2015).
In addition, an intense research agenda has focused on the mechan-
isms of speech perception in infants. Nonetheless, these studies have
failed to show a language-speciﬁc mechanism for the early processing of
speech. Take the example of categorical perception described in the
Chapters 1 and 8. In early language learning, infants need to weigh
the fact that diﬀerent speakers generate diﬀerent acoustic patterns for the
Look Who’s Talking 401
same linguistic sound, for which they cluster each speaker’s sounds into
discrete categories, which are normalized for the general population,
such as the sound of the letter /a/ is classiﬁed as the same regardless of
the speaker. However, this capacity has been observed in other species as
well. Furthermore, when infants are exposed to language, they are said to
commit their brains to the sound patterns that are speciﬁc to the
particular language they use, while blocking the capacity to distinguish
the sound patterns of other languages (Kuhl 2004). Commitment to one
language is believed to occur during a critical or sensitive period, where
from the 800 or so sounds that are present in all languages, the child
becomes sensitive to some 40 elements that are characteristic of the
mother’s language. Children who acquire an additional language after
this critical period develop the typical foreign accent most of us have in
our second languages. Again, this process is consistent with general
mechanisms of brain development. Giorgio Innocenti has suggested
that the processes of axonal pruning and connectional rearrangement
that take place during normal development may be particularly relevant
during critical periods, including those instances of sensory deprivation
during early language acquisition. In this case, the consequences may
range from minor ones like the lack of exposure to phonemic boundaries
in some languages, to more severe consequences among socially deprived
individuals. Innocenti speculates that the process of terminal retraction
may be stunted in these cases (Innocenti 2007). A recent report by
Jacques Mehler, Marina Nespor and collaborators concluded that there
are innate preferences of infants for syllable types. Using a non-invasive
technique called near infrared spectroscopy, which can measure brain
oxygen supply on the surface of the infant’s skull, these authors found
that syllable structures that are common in many languages elicited a
speciﬁc response in language-related regions of the left hemisphere of 2-
5-day old infants, as opposed to uncommon syllable structures (Gómez
et al. 2014). However, this assumes that newborns have had no exposure
to speech before they were born, which may not be totally correct.
Babies may start hearing their mother’s voice when they are still in the
womb.
Once infants recognize the sounds of a language, they begin to break
it down into words. Separating the verbal string into its constituent
402 10 Talking Heads
words is a diﬃcult task, as any one knows who has been exposed to an
unknown language. The groups led by Jenny Saﬀran, Patricia Kuhl and
Jacques Mehler have made outstanding contributions to this problem,
evidencing that infants perform a statistical analysis of the frequencies of
syllable transitions during speech, and detect unlikely transitions as
candidates for word separations (Saﬀran et al. 1996; Kuhl 2004; Peña
et al. 2002). This capacity requires maintaining the syllable string in the
memory. Children can detect word candidates after only two minutes of
exposure to continuous syllable strings when they hear an artiﬁcial
language for the ﬁrst time consisting of syllable sequence patterns.
This process may also contribute to extract structural regularities of
the speech string, which can be generalized to novel inputs, contributing
to the acquisition of certain grammatical rules. Not only infants, but also
children and adults can perform well in tasks requiring statistical learn-
ing of syllables. Furthermore, Lucca Bonatti, Marcela Peña, and colla-
borators have disclosed diﬀerent roles for consonants and vowels in
language learning (Bonatti et al. 2007). As in working memory studies,
consonants have been associated with lexical structure, while vowels are
linked to grammatical order (see Chapter 6). Manuel Carreiras has
further shown that vowels put processing demands on prosody, while
as expected, consonants are related to lexical and semantic analysis
(Carreiras and Price 2008). The arcuate fasciculus is still immature in
infants and Broca’s and motor areas are still incapable of programming
accurate articulatory mechanics, which makes unlikely that infants are
using adult-like verbal working memory circuits to understand speech
(Skeide et al. 2016). Nonetheless, the auditory system seems to be
suﬃciently mature to perform these tasks, and probably contains the
critical elements of sensory processing that will be later used in working
memory networks. Note however that statistical learning is not exclusive
to speech learning and can also be observed in sequences of tones and
melodies. It is not exclusively human either as it has been observed in
non-human primates and even rats (Toro and Trobalón 2005).
Many regular associations in language are distantly related to each
other, with intervening elements located between them. These are the
long distance dependencies discussed in Chapter 6, a feature that has
been considered a central aspect of language structure. Elissa Newport
Look Who’s Talking 403
and Richard Aslin showed that adults had diﬃculty learning syllable
transitions when a pair of critical syllables that are normally together in
words are separated by an intermediate syllable (e.g. /ba/-/di/-/te/;
/ba/-/ku/-/te/; /ba/-/to/-/te/). However, the same subjects had no
problem learning pairs of non-adjacent letters, be they two vowels
separated by a variable consonant, or two consonants separated by a
variable vowel (Newport and Aslin 2004). It is possible that tracking
non-adjacent syllables puts a computationally intractable load on the
memory system. In a second study, Newport and Aslin joined the
ethologist Marc Hauser and trained tamarin monkeys in these tasks,
who were able to learn non-adjacent relationships between vowels but
not between consonants (Newport et al. 2004). Like human adults,
monkeys were unable to detect distant regularities between syllables,
but performed well in the case of letters. Notably, human infants were
unable to learn any of these non-adjacent dependencies made by
syllables or letters. Tracking non-adjacent dependencies in music is
also possible depending on the context. For example, Ansgar Endress
showed that adult humans have less diﬃculty doing these tasks using
tonal melodies (as opposed to random melodies), indicating the role of
higher-level processes in this type of learning (Endress 2010).
Summarizing this evidence, the known perceptual strategies that
infants use for recognizing speech, like categorical perception or sta-
tistical learning, are not uniquely human or speech-speciﬁc, which
again reinforces the notion that the perceptual mechanisms involved
in speech recognition are domain general processes underlying neural
plasticity in many systems.
Infants use not only the complicated strategies described above to
recognize and separate words, but also other social signals, like prosody,
semantics and pragmatics. For example, mothers and adults in all
cultures speak to their infants in what is called baby talk, or motherese,
in which adults modulate some aspects of prosody like slowing rhythm,
exaggerating pitch diﬀerences and stretching vowel sounds, to which
infants have been found to beneﬁt in discriminating speech sounds.
Infants are not only aroused by their parents’ intonation patterns, but
also use prosodic cues to extract lexical and grammatical information.
Furthermore, it is known that actual face to face and even physical
404 10 Talking Heads
contact with adults are highly important for language learning, as well as
for song learning in songbirds. In addition, the pragmatics of language,
which settles the behavioral context in which this takes place, is a critical
aspect of language development, as it consists of the association of words
and sentences with current and previous situations, and with the mother
and child’s ongoing behavior and intentions. All of this contextual
information is required to make reference to external events and associ-
ate speciﬁc strings with diﬀerent behavioral situations (Skeide and
Friederici 2016). The relative contribution of statistical processing and
behavioral cues for learning words remains to be determined, but I
would predict that the latter make at least a robust contribution to
this process.
Gene Tracks
The last, but in no way the least aspect of speech origins that I will
discuss in this chapter is genetics. In Chapter 9, I mentioned the notable
parallelism in patterns of gene expression between language-related areas
in humans, and regions involved in vocal learning in songbirds
(Pfenning et al. 2014). Another approach has been the study of inherited
speech disorders. As with other human traits, there are many conditions
that aﬀect the development of speech and language, which have been
collectively termed as speciﬁc language impairment to distinguish them
from language disorders that are secondary to other conditions like
autism or hearing impairments (see Chapter 6). However, this clinical
category is far from homogeneous, there being dysfunctions in expressive
language, in both expressive and receptive language, phonological dis-
orders, stuttering and non-speciﬁed communication disorders.
Furthermore, clinicians usually separate speech disorders like stuttering
and phonological disorders from language disorders that are more pro-
found and aﬀect morphology (formation of words), grammar, and in
some cases semantics and pragmatics. Despite the attempts to separate
and categorize these alleged subgroups, there is a noticeable overlap
among these conditions, and few children ﬁt neatly into any of these
subgroups (van der Lely and Pinker 2014).
Gene Tracks 405
In many cases, genetic factors contribute to susceptibility of language
and speech disorders, as these conditions usually run in families, and
have shown a strong heritability: monozygotic twins show a stronger
concordance for language disorders than dizygotic twins. However,
pinpointing genes speciﬁcally aﬀecting the development of speech and
language is diﬃcult. The ﬁrst gene to be associated with language, and
possibly the one we now know most about is FOXP2, ﬁrst identiﬁed in
the analysis what is called the KE family. Some of the members of this
family have impaired control of orofacial musculature, resulting in
interrupted speech and the incapacity to articulate words ﬂuently and
intelligibly, a condition termed verbal dyspraxia. This condition resem-
bles the deﬁcits observed in acquired Broca’s aphasia, showing deﬁcits in
grammatical competence, especially with past tenses in irregular verbs,
and in word formation. Notably, the aﬀected subjects have no deﬁcits in
manual praxis and are usually taught sign language to supplement their
communication diﬃculties. It is however not clear if learning highly
skilled manual operations like playing musical instruments would be
deﬁcitary in these subjects.
In 1995, Fanareh Vargha-Khadem and collaborators published an
inﬂuential article showing that the inherited disorder of the KE family
is not language-speciﬁc, including not only deﬁcits in articulated speech
and syntactic operations, but also in general orofacial functions and
intellectual capacity (verbal and non-verbal IQ) (Vargha-Khadem et al.
1995, 2005). Aﬀected members of the KE family vary in the severity of
this condition, some having relatively mild deﬁcits while others show
profound intellectual and communicative impairment. Three years later,
Vargha-Khadem and collaborators located an alteration in a speciﬁc
region in chromosome 7 strongly associated with the condition
(Fischer et al. 1998). In a subsequent paper in 2001, the gene in
chromosome 7 was identiﬁed as coding for a regulatory gene called
FOXP2 (Lai et al. 2001).
Neuroanatomical observations of the aﬀected family members point
to a signiﬁcant reduction of cerebellar regions and the caudate nucleus (a
component of the basal ganglia), and underactivation of the basal gang-
lia during speech production. Broca’s area and related regions connected
to the basal ganglia have less gray matter in aﬀected individuals than in
406 10 Talking Heads
normal subjects, and show lower than normal activation during speech.
Conversely, in posterior regions, Wernike’s area, the superior temporal
sulcus and the putamen showed an increased level of gray matter
compared to the normal condition (Vargha-Khadem et al. 1998). In
normal postmortem subjects, FOXP2 was found to be active in several
brain regions, including the cerebral cortex, limbic regions, and espe-
cially the basal ganglia and the thalamus (Vargha-Khadem et al. 2005;
Fisher 2009). All together, these ﬁndings suggest that FOXP2 is impor-
tant for the development of motor neural circuits involving the cerebral
cortex, the basal ganglia and the cerebellum, which participate in learn-
ing an planning skilled motor movements. These movements are prin-
cipally orofacial but could involve manual skills as well. Further research
has found another gene, CNTNAP2 that codes for a protein involved in
cell adhesion and neuronal recognition, to which the FOXP2 protein
binds (Newbury et al. 2010). Variants of this gene have been associated
with cases of speciﬁc language impairment. In addition, human muta-
tions in FOXP1, a gene closely related to FOXP2, produce language
disorders and other symptoms like developmental delay, dropping eye-
lids and hand and foot contractions. Other speech-related candidate
genes have appeared recently, but there is still much research to be done.
Notably, FOXP2 is found in most studied non-human species,
many of which are vocal non-learners, and in these the gene expres-
sion proﬁle is similar to that in humans. Moreover, the gene struc-
ture is highly conserved and is identical among primates like
macaques, gorillas and chimpanzees (Enard et al. 2002). Human
FOXP2 diﬀers in two amino acids from that of other primates,
while the mouse FOXP2 diﬀers from primate FOXP2 in only one
amino acid. Recall that mice are vocal learners and develop ultra-
sonic “songs”. Mutations characterizing human FOXP2 are claimed
to date from about 200,000 years ago. Notably, DNA sequences
from our Neanderthal cousins suggest that they had already acquired
these two mutations (Krause et al. 2007). However, the common
ancestor of modern humans and Neanderthals is believed to have
existed some 300,000 years ago (Johansson 2014). Clearly more
studies are needed to settle the chronology of these events in
human evolution.
Gene Tracks 407
Mice are an excellent animal model for many genetic conditions, as
so-called knock-out mutants can be produced in which a speciﬁc gene
is suppressed, for example, by inserting a non-functional copy of the
gene that replaces the normal one in the single cell embryo (Enard et
al. 2002, 2009; Hammerschmidt et al. 2015). Several mutants for
FOXP2 have been produced, which show a general developmental
delay and usually die 3 or 4 weeks after birth, possibly because of
respiratory impairment. Since FOXP2 mutants live for a short time,
research has focused on the largely innate ultrasonic vocalizations of
young pups, which they usually emit when separated from their
mother. The evidence from diﬀerent mutants indicates that inactiva-
tion of FOXP2, or associated genes like SRPX2, results in the absence
or reduction of isolation calls and other mild behavioral deﬁcits, but in
more stringent conditions they do emit these vocalizations, with a
generally conserved acoustic structure. Reviewing this evidence,
Simon Fisher and Constance Scharﬀ concluded that the evidence
does not yet support a parallel between the development of mouse
vocalizations and that of human speech, nor in the role of FOXP2 in
vocalizations of the two species (Fisher 2009). However, new ﬁndings
using heterozygous FOXP2 mutant mice, who live until adulthood,
have found that in these animals the songs are altered in syllable
structure and rhythmicity, and develop abnormally in relation to
wild type mice (Castelucci 2016; Chabout et al. 2016). Other inter-
esting animals in which to assess FOXP2 functions are songbirds,
which express this gene in the corpus striatum, cerebellum and other
brain regions. FOXP2 is upregulated in the striatal area X during song
learning and is higher when adult males sing to females than when they
sing alone (White et al. 2006). In another study, the group of
Constance Scharﬀ showed that after interfering with FOXP2 gene
expression by means of a directed viral infection in area X of the
zebraﬁnch, young birds were impaired in their song learning abilities,
copying some notes but not others from the exposed songs (Haesler et
al. 2007). Furthermore, even imitated notes were not accurate, which
was interpreted as a deﬁcit in sensorimotor coordination, FOXP2
mediating the proper synaptic activity of two main neurotransmitters
in the basal ganglia: glutamate and dopamine.
408 10 Talking Heads
It has been proposed that FOXP2 participates in the development of
the neural networks that make up the frontal cortex, corpus striatum and
cerebellum, involved in sensorimotor integration and particularly in
motor skill learning (Schreiweis et al. 2014; Groszer et al. 2008). This
evidence in part has prompted authors like Constance Scharﬀ and Johan
Bolhuis to suggest that FOXP2 was recruited in several instances (song-
birds, humans and possibly bats) to assist vocal learning capacities
(Bolhuis et al. 2010; Scharﬀ and Petri 2011). This may be another
case of “deep homology” (in my opinion, a better term is genetic
homology), like the one I described in Chapter 9, where the gene
Pax6 was recruited for the development of eyes in widely diﬀerent
animal lineages, presumably because it originally served some role in
the speciﬁcation of phototransducing receptors.
Beyond Genetics
I have argued throughout this book that the acquisition of the phono-
logical loop was a key evolutionary innovation, in which an auditory-
motor interface provided by the development of the dorsal pathway
supported vocal learning. These anatomical features are likely to have
been associated with increasing brain size, showing a gradation from
early Homo, with a brain volume of some 500 cc., to the large 1,500 cc.
brains of modern humans that appear about 300 thousand years ago.
Nonetheless, since we achieved our large brains, a very long time passed
before the critical transition some 40,000 to 50,000 years ago that
marked the emergence of more sophisticated cultures. Richard
Wrangham and others attribute this cultural explosion to the process
of self-domestication, in which we adapted ourselves to live in commu-
nity by inhibiting aggressive behavior and other traits (I will go further
on this in the next chapter) (Wrangham 2003, Hare et al. 2012). As I
said above, modern speech combining the lexico-semantic and the
phonological-syntactic components could have appeared slowly, from
an initial stage in which phonological sequences were used for social
bonding and lexical-semantic items were used for contingent behavioral
coordination. These two domains may have been progressively mixed,
Beyond Genetics 409
until a stage at which it triggered major cultural innovations. Some
authors, like Michael Arbib, consider that the acquisition of modern
speech was very recent and a largely cultural event, with few genetic
changes, in which individuals learned new behaviors, ﬁrst through
imitation of others and subsequently by instruction (Chapter 8). This
may be partly correct, as we are born to learn from others, an evolu-
tionary tendency that probably began before we acquired speech.
Nevertheless, were there genetic changes associated with this transition
that were favored by natural selection (see the next chapter).
Paradoxically, apart from FOXP2 and a couple other genes, there has
not been a great deal of success in ﬁnding a genetic blueprint for
language evolution. Of course one possibility is that we still have not
found the relevant genes for this development and further research into
the genetic foundations of language is certainly worth pursuing.
Another emerging possibility is the epigenetic action of proteins like
histones and other chemicals like methyl groups and the small RNAs that
surround the DNA molecule and participate in gene expression regulation.
Epigenetic processes are normally involved in cell diﬀerentiation during
development, in which many genes are repressed while others are activated,
generating diﬀerent cellular phenotypes. There has been an explosion of
studies analyzing the eﬀects of epigenetic modiﬁcations, some of which
have been contentiously reported to be transmitted across generations.
Michael Skinner is one of the defenders of this process as an important
evolutionary mechanism (Skinner 2014). Despite all the criticism and
controversy his work has received, Skinner claims that this may be one of
the biggest scientiﬁc paradigm shifts of the century. Epigenetic changes in
development have been linked to several clinical conditions, particularly
stress response and developmental disorders like autism and attention
deﬁcit hyperactivity disorder.
Epigenetic processes may have also been involved in human brain
evolution. Working with Svante Pääbo and a team of other researchers,
Liran Carmel mapped the methylation patterns of modern humans and
compared these with genomes extracted from ancient human,
Neanderthal and Denisovan fossils (Gokhman et al. 2014). They used
a sophisticated computational approach to infer the original methylation
pattern in the highly distorted DNA of ancient humans. Although this is
410 10 Talking Heads
an indirect measure, it has provided intriguing results that still need to
be conﬁrmed by other methods. The genetic diﬀerence between modern
and ancient humans is minimal (fewer than 100 genes), but they found
important diﬀerences in DNA methylation patterns, particularly in
disease-related genes, and about one third of these were in genes asso-
ciated with neuropsychiatric disorders. On the other hand, another
recent study shows that regions in the genome that underwent most
accelerated evolution in the human lineage are associated with risk of
cognitive and social disorders like autism (Doan et al. 2016). Thus, it is
possible that both, rapid genetic evolution and epigenetic modiﬁcations
have contributed to the origin of the human mind and its diseases.
This evidence points to the intriguing possibility that epigenetic
mechanisms had a profound eﬀect on the evolution of language-related
circuits. Is the acquisition of the phonological loop related to such
changes? This remains an enigmatic question that fortunately can be
addressed by future studies. Evidence indicates that epigenetic mechan-
isms were involved in the domestication of the silkworm and the
chicken, as reported by the group of Per Jensen (Jensen 2014). If the
proposal of Wrangham is correct and our species experienced a domes-
tication-like process in the last 50,000 years, it may be that epigenetics
played a role in the evolution of our sociality, and perhaps in the
acquisition of critical traits like the phonological loop (Wrangham
2003). In the last chapter of this book, I will refer to the contextual
and social circumstances in which speech may have emerged, as it is not
an isolated achievement but is interwoven with several other behavioral
innovations.
References and Notes
Arbib MA (2012) How the Brain Got Language. The Mirror System
Hypothesis. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Andics A, Gábor A, Gácsi M, Faragó T, Szabó D, Miklósi Á (2016) Neural
mechanisms for lexical processing in dogs. Science 353:1030–1032
Arriaga G, Jarvis ED (2013) Mouse vocal communication system: are ultra-
sounds learned or innate? Brain Lang 124:96–116
References and Notes 411
Arriaga G, Zhou EP, Jarvis ED (2012) Of mice, birds, and men: the mouse
ultrasonic song system has some features similar to humans and song-
learning birds. PLoS One 7:e46610
Arnold K, Zuberbühler K (2012) Call combinations in monkeys: composi-
tional or idiomatic expressions? Brain Lang 120:303–309
Bezerra BM, Souto Ada S, de Oliveira MA, Halsey LG (2009) Vocalisations of
wild common marmosets are inﬂuenced by diurnal and ontogenetic factors.
Primates 50:231–237
Bickerton D (2009) Adam’s Tongue. How Humans Made Language, How
Language Made Humans. Hill and Wang, New York
Blasi DE, Wichmann S, Hammarström H, Stadler PF, Christiansen MH
(2016) Sound-meaning association biases across thousands of languages.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 113:10818–10823
Boë LJ, Berthommier F, Legou T, Captier G, Kemp C, Sawallis TR, Becker Y,
Rey A, Fagot J (2017) Evidence of a Vocalic Proto-System in the Baboon
(Papio papio) Suggests Pre-Hominin Speech Precursors. PLoS One 12(1):
e0169321
Bolhuis JJ, Okanoya K, Scharﬀ C (2010) Twitter evolution: converging
mechanisms in birdsong and human speech. Nat Rev Neurosci 11:747–759
Bonatti LL, Peña M, Nespor M, Mehler J (2007) On consonants, vowels,
chickens, and eggs. Psychol Sci 8:924–925
Bradbury JW, Emmons LH (1974) Social organization of some trinidad bats I.
Emballonuridae. Z Tierpsychol 36:137–183
Bradley CE, McClung MR (2015) Vocal divergence and discrimination of long
calls in tamarins: A comparison of allopatric populations of Saguinus
fuscicollis nigrifrons and S. f. lagonotus. Am J Primatol 77:679–687
Bregman MR, Patel AD, Gentner TQ (2016) Songbirds use spectral shape, not
pitch, for sound pattern recognition. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 113:1666–1671
Broce I, Bernal B, Altman N, Tremblay P, Dick AS (2015) Fiber tracking
of the frontal aslant tract and subcomponents of the arcuate fasciculus in
5-8-year-olds: Relation to speech and language function. Brain Lang
149:66–76
Brockelman WY, Schilling D (1984) Inheritance of stereotyped gibbon calls.
Nature 312:634–636
Candiotti A, Zuberbühler K, Lemasson A (2012) Context-related call combi-
nations in female Diana monkeys. Anim Cogn 15:327–339
Carreiras M, Price CJ (2008) Brain activation for consonants and vowels.
Cereb Cortex 18:1727–1735
412 10 Talking Heads
Caspermeyer J (2014) For bats and dolphins, hearing gene prestin adapted for
echolocation. Mol Biol Evol 31:2552
Castellucci GA, McGinley MJ, McCormick DA (2016) Knockout of Foxp2
disrupts vocal development in mice. Sci Rep 6:23305.
Catani M, Mesulam MM, Jakobsen E, Malik F, Martersteck A, Wieneke C,
Thompson CK, Thiebaut de Schotten M, Dell’Acqua F, Weintraub S,
Rogalski E (2013) A novel frontal pathway underlies verbal ﬂuency in
primary progressive aphasia. Brain 136:2619–2628
Chabout J, Sarkar A, Patel SR, Radden T, Dunson DB, Fisher SE, Jarvis ED
(2016) A FOXP2 mutation implicated in human speech deﬁcits alters
sequencing vocalizations in adult male mice. Front Behav Neurosci 10:197
Chait M, Greenberg S, Arai T, Simon JZ, Poeppel D (2015) Multi-time
resolution analysis of speech: evidence from psychophysics. Front
Neurosci 9:214
Clarke E, Reichard UH, Zuberbühler K (2006) The syntax and meaning of
wild gibbon songs. PLoS One 1:e73
Collier K, Bickel B, van Schaik CP, Manser MB, Townsend SW (2014)
Language evolution: syntax before phonology? Proc Biol Sci 281:20140263
Cook P, Rouse A, Wilson M, Reichmuth C (2013) A California sea lion
(Zalophus californianus) can keep the beat: motor entrainment to rhythmic
auditory stimuli in a non vocal mimic. J Comp Psychol 127:412–427
Coquerelle M, Prados-Frutos JC, Rojo R, Mitteroecker P, Bastir M (2013)
Short faces, big tongues: developmental origin of the human chin. PLoS
One 8:e81287
Coudé G, Ferrari PF, Rodà F, Maranesi M, Borelli E, Veroni V, Monti F,
Rozzi S, Fogassi L (2011) Neurons controlling voluntary vocalization in the
macaque ventral premotor cortex. PLoS One 6:e26822
D’Anastasio R, Wroe S, Tuniz C, Mancini L, Cesana DT, Dreossi D,
Ravichandiran M, Attard M, Parr WC, Agur A, Capasso L (2013) Micro-
biomechanics of the Kebara 2 hyoid and its implications for speech in
Neanderthals. PLoS One 8:e82261
Ding N, Melloni L, Zhang H, Tian X, Poeppel D (2016) Cortical tracking of
hierarchical linguistic structures in connected speech. Nat Neurosci 19:158–164
Diester I. Nieder A (2007) Semantic associations between signs and numerical
categories in the prefrontal cortex. PLoS Biol 5:e294
Doan RN, Bae BI, Cubelos B, Chang C, Hossain AA, Al-Saad S, Mukaddes
NM, Oner O, Al-Saﬀar M, Balkhy S, Gascon GG; Homozygosity Mapping
Consortium for Autism., Nieto M, Walsh CA (2016) Mutations in Human
References and Notes 413
Accelerated Regions Disrupt Cognition and Social Behavior. Cell
167:341–354
Dubois J, Poupon C, Thirion B, Simonnet H, Kulikova S, Leroy F, Hertz-
Pannier L, Dehaene-Lambertz G (2016) Exploring the Early Organization
and Maturation of Linguistic Pathways in the Human Infant Brain. Cereb
Cortex 26:2283–2298
Egnor SE, Iguina CG, Hauser MD (2006) Perturbation of auditory feedback
causes systematic perturbation in vocal structure in adult cotton-top tamar-
ins. J Exp Biol 209:3652–3663
Enard W, Przeworski M, Fisher SE, Lai CS, Wiebe V, Kitano T, Monaco AP,
Pääbo S (2002) Molecular evolution of FOXP2, a gene involved in speech
and language. Nature 418:869–872
Enard W, Gehre S, Hammerschmidt K, Hölter SM, Blass T, Somel M, Brückner
MK, Schreiweis C, Winter C, Sohr R, Becker L, Wiebe V, Nickel B, Giger T,
Müller U, Groszer M, Adler T, Aguilar A, Bolle I, Calzada-Wack J, Dalke C,
Ehrhardt N, Favor J, Fuchs H, Gailus-Durner V, Hans W, Hölzlwimmer G,
Javaheri A, Kalaydjiev S, Kallnik M, Kling E, Kunder S, Mossbrugger I, Naton
B, Racz I, Rathkolb B, Rozman J, Schrewe A, Busch DH, Graw J, Ivandic B,
Klingenspor M, Klopstock T, Ollert M, Quintanilla-Martinez L, Schulz H,
Wolf E, Wurst W, Zimmer A, Fisher SE, Morgenstern R, Arendt T, de Angelis
MH, Fischer J, Schwarz J, Pääbo S (2009) A humanized version of Foxp2
aﬀects cortico-basal ganglia circuits in mice. Cell 137:961–971
Endress AD (2010) Learning melodies from non-adjacent tones. Acta Psychol
135:182–190
Feenders G, Liedvogel M, Rivas M, Zapka M, Horita H, Hara E, Wada K,
Mouritsen H, Jarvis ED (2008) Molecular mapping of movement-asso-
ciated areas in the avian brain: a motor theory for vocal learning origin.
PLoS One 3:e1768
Fischer J, Hammerschmidt K (2011) Ultrasonic vocalizations in mouse models
for speech and socio-cognitive disorders: insights into the evolution of vocal
communication. Genes Brain Behav 10:17–27
Fischer J, Wheeler BC, Higham JP (2015) Is there any evidence for vocal
learning in chimpanzee food calls? Curr Biol 25:R1028–1029
Fisher SE, Scharﬀ C (2009) FOXP2 as a molecular window into speech and
language. Trends Genet 25:166–177
Fisher SE, Vargha-Khadem F, Watkins KE, Monaco AP, Pembrey ME (1998)
Localisation of a gene implicated in a severe speech and language disorder.
Nat Genet 18:168–170
414 10 Talking Heads
Fitch WT (2009) Musical protolanguage: Darwin’s theory of language evolu-
tion revisited. http://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/?p=1136
Fitch WT (2010) The Evolution of Language. Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge.
Fitch WT, Reby D (2001) The descended larynx is not uniquely human. Proc
Biol Sci 268:1669–1675
Fujii N, Graybiel AM (2003) Representation of action sequence boundaries by
macaque prefrontal cortical neurons. Science 301:1246–1249
Gamba M, Torti V, Estienne V, Randrianarison RM, Valente D, Rovara P,
Bonadonna G, Friard O, Giacoma C (2016) The Indris Have Got Rhythm!
Timing and Pitch Variation of a Primate Song Examined between Sexes and
Age Classes. Front Neurosci 10:249
García RR, Zamorano F, Aboitiz F (2014) From imitation to meaning: circuit
plasticity and the acquisition of a conventionalized semantics. Front Hum
Neurosci 8:605
Geissmann T (2002) Duet-splitting and the evolution of gibbon songs. Biol
Rev Camb Philos Soc 77:57–76
Ghazanfar AA, Rendall D (2008) Evolution of human vocal production. Curr
Biol 18:R457–R460
Ghazanfar AA, Takahashi DY (2014a) The evolution of speech: vision, rhythm,
cooperation. Trends Cogn Sci 18:543–553
Ghazanfar AA, Takahashi DY (2014b) Facial expressions and the evolution of
the speech rhythm. J Cogn Neurosci 26:1196–1207
Ghazanfar AA, Takahashi DY, Mathur N, Fitch WT (2012) Cineradiography
of monkey lip-smacking reveals putative precursors of speech dynamics.
Curr Biol 22:1176–1182
Glushko A, Steinhauer K, DePriest J, Koelsch S (2016) Neurophysiological
Correlates of Musical and Prosodic Phrasing: Shared Processing
Mechanisms and Eﬀects of Musical Expertise. PLoS One 11:e0155300
Gokhman D, Lavi E, Prüfer K, Fraga MF, Riancho JA, Kelso J, Pääbo S,
Meshorer E, Carmel L (2014) Reconstructing the DNA methylation maps
of the Neandertal and the Denisovan. Science 344:523–527
Gómez DM, Berent I, Benavides-Varela S, Bion RA, Cattarossi L, Nespor M,
Mehler J (2014) Language universals at birth. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
111:5837–5841
Grimault S, Lefebvre C, Vachon F, Peretz I, Zatorre R, Robitaille N, Jolicoeur P
(2009) Load-dependent brain activity related to acoustic short-term memory for
pitch: magnetoencephalography and fMRI. Ann N Y Acad Sci 1169:273–277
References and Notes 415
Groszer M, Keays DA, Deacon RM, de Bono JP, Prasad-Mulcare S, Gaub S,
Baum MG, French CA, Nicod J, Coventry JA, Enard W, Fray M, Brown
SD, Nolan PM, Pääbo S, Channon KM, Costa RM, Eilers J, Ehret G,
Rawlins JN, Fisher SE (2008) Impaired synaptic plasticity and motor
learning in mice with a point mutation implicated in human speech deﬁcits.
Curr Biol 18:354–362
Gustison ML, Semple S, Ferrer-I-Cancho R, Bergman TJ (2016) Gelada vocal
sequences follow Menzerath’s linguistic law. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 113:
E2750–E2758
Haesler S, Rochefort C, Georgi B, Licznerski P, Osten P, Scharﬀ C (2007)
Incomplete and inaccurate vocal imitation after knockdown of FoxP2 in
songbird basal ganglia nucleus Area X. PLoS Biol 5:e321
Hage SR, Nieder A (2013) Single neurons in monkey prefrontal cortex encode
volitional initiation of vocalizations. Nat Commun 4:2409
Hage SR, Nieder A (2016) Dual Neural Network Model for the Evolution of
Speech and Language. Trends Neurosci 39:813–829
Hage SR, Gavrilov N, Nieder A (2013) Cognitive control of distinct vocaliza-
tions in rhesus monkeys. J Cogn Neurosci 25:1692–1701
Hage SR, Gavrilov N, Nieder A (2016) Developmental changes of cognitive
vocal control in monkeys. J Exp Biol 219:1744–1749
Hammerschmidt K, Radyushkin K, Ehrenreich H, Fischer J (2009) Female
mice respond to male ultrasonic “songs” with approach behaviour. Biol Lett
5:589–592
Hammerschmidt K, Reisinger E, Westekemper K, Ehrenreich L, Strenzke N,
Fischer J (2012) Mice do not require auditory input for the normal devel-
opment of their ultrasonic vocalizations. BMC Neurosci 13:40
Hammerschmidt K, Schreiweis C, Minge C, Pääbo S, Fischer J, Enard W
(2015) A humanized version of Foxp2 does not aﬀect ultrasonic vocalization
in adult mice. Genes Brain Behav 14:583–590
Hare B, Wobber V, Wrangham R (2012) The self-domestication hypothesis:
evolution of bonobo psychology is due to selection against aggression. Anim
Behav 83:573–585
Hausen M, Torppa R, Salmela VR, Vainio M, Särkämö T (2013) Music and
speech prosody: a common rhythm. Front Psychol 4:566
Hauser M (1996) The Evolution of Communication. MIT Press, Cambridge
Hauser MD (1998) Functional referents and acoustic similarity: ﬁeld play-
back experiments with rhesus monkeys. Anim Behav 55:1647–1658
416 10 Talking Heads
Hayes KJ, Hayes C (1951) The intellectual development of a home-raised
chimpanzee. Proc Am Philos Soc 95:105–109
Hewitt G, MacLarnon A, Jones KE (2002) The functions of laryngeal air sacs
in primates: a new hypothesis. Folia Primatol 73:70–94
Holstege G, Subramanian HH (2016) Two diﬀerent motor systems are needed
to generate human speech. J Comp Neurol 524:1558–1577
Innocenti GM (2007) Subcortical regulation of cortical development: some
eﬀects of early, selective deprivations. Prog Brain Res 164:23–37
Janik VM (2009) Whale song. Curr Biol 19:R109–R111
Janik VM (2013) Cognitive skills in bottlenose dolphin communication.
Trends Cogn Sci 17:157–159
Janik VM (2014) Cetacean vocal learning and communication. Curr Opin
Neurobiol 28:60–65
Janik VM, Sayigh LS (2013) Communication in bottlenose dolphins: 50 years
of signature whistle research. J Comp Physiol A Neuroethol Sens Neural
Behav Physiol 199:479–489
Jensen P. (2014) Behavior genetics and the domestication of animals. Annu
Rev Anim Biosci 2:85–104
Jespersen O (1922) Language: Its Nature, Development and Origin. W W
Norton & Company, New York
Johansson S (2014) Neanderthals did speak, but FOXP2 doesn’t prove it.
Behav Brain Sci 37:558–559
Kaminski J, Call J, Fischer J (2004) Word learning in a domestic dog: Evidence
for “fast mapping”. Science 304:1682–1683
King SL, Janik VM (2013) Bottlenose dolphins can use learned vocal labels to
address each other. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110:13216–13221
King SL, McGregor PK (2016) Vocal matching: the what, the why and the
how. Biol Lett 12:20160666
King SL, Guarino E, Keaton L, Erb L, Jaakkola K (2016) Maternal signature
whistle use aids mother-calf reunions in a bottlenose dolphin, Tursiops
truncatus. Behav Processes 126:64–70
Knörnschild M, Nagy M, Metz M, Mayer F, von Helversen O (2010)
Complex vocal imitation during ontogeny in a bat. Biol Lett 6:156–
159
Koda H, Lemasson A, Oyakawa C, Rizaldi, Pamungkas J, Masataka N (2013)
Possible role of mother-daughter vocal interactions on the development of
species-speciﬁc song in gibbons. PLoS One 8:e71432
References and Notes 417
Koechlin E, Jubault T (2006) Broca’s area and the hierar-chical organization of
human behavior. Neuron 50:963–974
Krause J, Lalueza-Fox C, Orlando L, Enard W, Green RE, Burbano HA,
Hublin JJ, Hänni C, Fortea J, de la Rasilla M, Bertranpetit J, Rosas A,
Pääbo S (2007) The derived FOXP2 variant of modern humans was shared
with Neandertals. Curr Biol 17:1908–1912
Kuhl PK (2004) Early language acquisition: cracking the speech code. Nat Rev
Neurosci 5:831–843
Kumar V, Croxson PL, Simonyan K (2016) Structural organization of the
laryngeal motor cortical network and its implication for evolution of speech
production. J Neurosci 36:4170–4181
Lai CS, Fisher SE, Hurst JA, Vargha-Khadem F, Monaco AP (2001) A fork-
head-domain gene is mutated in a severe speech and language disorder.
Nature 413:519–523
Lalamn A, Boesch C (2013) Do wild chimpanzees have functionally referential
food calls? Folia Primatol 84:290
Lameira AR, Hardus ME, Kowalsky B, de Vries H, Spruijt BM, Sterck EH,
Shumaker RW, Wich SA (2013) Orangutan (Pongo spp.) whistling and
implications for the emergence of an open-ended call repertoire: a replica-
tion and extension. J Acoust Soc Am 134:2326–2335
Lameira AR, Maddieson I, Zuberbühler K (2014) Primate feedstock for the
evolution of consonants. Trends Cogn Sci 18:60–62
Lameira AR, Hardus ME, Bartlett AM, Shumaker RW, Wich SA, Menken SB
(2015) Speech-like rhythm in a voiced and voiceless orangutan call. PLoS
One 10:e116136
Lameira AR, Hardus ME, Mielke A, Wich SA, Shumaker RW (2016) Vocal
fold control beyond the species-speciﬁc repertoire in an orangutan. Sci Rep
6:30315
Lieberman P (1968) Primate vocalizations and human linguistic ability. J
Acoust Soc Am 44:1574–1584
Lieberman P (1979) Hominid evolution, supralaryngeal vocal tract physiology,
and the fossil evidence for reconstructions. Brain Lang 7:101–126
Lieberman P (1984) The Biology and Evolution of Language. Harvard
Univeristy Press, Harvard
Liu F, Jiang C, Wang B, Xu Y, Patel AD (2015) A music perception disorder
(congenital amusia) inﬂuences speech comprehension. Neuropsychologia
66:111–118
418 10 Talking Heads
Luef EM, Breuer T, Pika S (2016) Food-associated calling in Gorillas (Gorilla
g. gorilla) in the Wild. PLoS One 11:e0144197
Miller CT, Flusberg S, Hauser MD (2003) Interruptibility of long call produc-
tion in tamarins: implications for vocal control. J Exp Biol 206:2629–2639
Morell V. (2014) When the bat sings. Science 344:1334–1337
Morecraft RJ, Stilwell-Morecraft KS, Solon-Cline KM, Ge J, Darling WG
(2014) Cortical innervation of the hypoglossal nucleus in the non-human
primate (Macaca mulatta). J Comp Neurol 522:3456–3484
Morrill RJ, Paukner A, Ferrari PF, Ghazanfar AA (2012) Monkey lipsmacking
develops like the human speech rhythm. Dev Sci 15:557–568
Newbury DF, Fisher SE, Monaco AP (2010) Recent advances in the genetics of
language impairment. Genome Med 2:6
Newman JD, Symmes D (1974) Vocal pathology in socially deprived monkeys.
Dev Psychobiol 17:351–358
Newport EL, Aslin RN (2004) Learning at a distance I. Statistical learning of
non-adjacent dependencies. Cogn Psychol 48:127–162
Newport EL, Hauser MD, Spaepen G, Aslin RN (2004) Learning at a distance
II. Statistical learning of non-adjacent dependencies in a non-human pri-
mate. Cogn Psychol 49:85–117
Nóbrega VA, Miyagawa S (2015) The precedence of syntax in the rapid
emergence of human language in evolution as deﬁned by the integration
hypothesis. Front Psychol 6:271
Oller DK, Buder EH, Ramsdell HL, Warlaumont AS, Chorna L, Bakeman R
(2013) Functional ﬂexibility of infant vocalization and the emergence of
language. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110:6318–6323
Owren MJ, Dieter JA, Seyfarth RM, Cheney DL (1993) Vocalizations of
rhesus (Macaca mulatta) and Japanese (M. fuscata) macaques cross-fostered
between species show evidence of only limited modiﬁcation. Dev Psychobiol
26:389–406
Patel AD (2008) Music, Language and the Brain. Oxford University Press,
Oxford
Patel AD, Iversen JR, Bregman MR, Schulz I (2009) Studying synchronization
to a musical beat in nonhuman animals. Ann N Y Acad Sci 1169:459–469
Paus T (2001) Primate anterior cingulate cortex: where motor control, drive
and cognition interface. Nat Rev Neurosci 2:417–424
Peña M, Bonatti LL, Nespor M, Mehler J (2002) Signal-driven computations
in speech processing. Science 298:604–607
References and Notes 419
Peña M, Langus A, Gutiérrez C, Huepe-Artigas D, Nespor M (2016) Rhythm
on your lips. Front. Psychol 7:1708
Peretz I, Zatorre RJ (2005) Brain organization for music processing. Annu Rev
Psychol 56:89–114
Perlman M, Clark N (2015) Learned vocal and breathing behavior in an
enculturated gorilla. Anim Cogn 18:1165–1179
Petkov CI, Jarvis ED (2012) Birds, primates, and spoken language origins:
behavioral phenotypes and neurobiological substrates. Front Evol Neurosci
4:12
Pfenning AR, Hara E, Whitney O, Rivas MV, Wang R, Roulhac PL,
Howard JT, Wirthlin M, Lovell PV, Ganapathy G, Mouncastle J,
Moseley MA, Thompson JW, Soderblom EJ, Iriki A, Kato M, Gilbert
MT, Zhang G, Bakken T, Bongaarts A, Bernard A, Lein E, Mello CV,
Hartemink AJ, Jarvis ED (2014) Convergent transcriptional specializa-
tions in the brains of humans and song-learning birds. Science
346:1256846
Pisanski K, Cartei V, McGettigan C, Raine J, Reby D (2016) Voice modula-
tion: a window into the origins of human vocal control? Trends Cogn Sci
20:304–318
Price M (2016) Why monkeys can’t talk—and what they would sound like if
they could. Science Magazine online, Dec. 9. http://www.sciencemag.org/
news/2016/12/why-monkeys-can-t-talk-and-what-they-would-sound-if-
they-could
Provine RR (2013) Laughing, grooming, and pub science. Trends Cogn Sci
17:9–10
Provine RR (2016) Laughter as a scientiﬁc problem: an adventure in sidewalk
neuroscience. J Comp Neurol 524:1532–1539
Ravignani A, Fitch WT, Hanke FD, Heinrich T, Hurgitsch B, Kotz SA,
Scharﬀ C, Stoeger AS, de Boer B (2016) What pinnipeds have to say
about human speech, music, and the evolution of rhythm. Front Neurosci
10:274
Reichmuth C, Casey C (2014) Vocal learning in seals, sea lions, and walruses.
Curr Opin Neurobiol 28:66–71
Ridgway S, Carder D, Jeﬀries M, Todd M (2012) Spontaneous human speech
mimicry by a cetacean. Curr Biol 22:R860–R861
Roelofs A, Hagoort P (2002) Control of language use: cognitive modeling
of the hemodynamics of Stroop task performance. Cogn Brain Res
15:85–97
420 10 Talking Heads
Rouse AA, Cook PF, Large EW, Reichmuth C (2016) Beat keeping in a Sea
Lion as coupled oscillation: implications for comparative understanding of
human rhythm. Front Neurosci 10:257
Saﬀran JR, Aslin RN, Newport EL (1996) Statistical learning by 8-month-old
infants. Science 274:1926–1928
Scharﬀ C, Petri J (2011) Evo-devo, deep homology and FoxP2: implications
for the evolution of speech and language. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol
Sci 366:2124–2140
Schreiweis C, Bornschein U, Burguière E, Kerimoglu C, Schreiter S,
Dannemann M, Goyal S, Rea E, French CA, Puliyadi R, Groszer M,
Fisher SE, Mundry R, Winter C, Hevers W, Pääbo S, Enard W, Graybiel
AM (2014) Humanized Foxp2 accelerates learning by enhancing transitions
from declarative to procedural performance. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
111:14253–14258
Seyfarth RM, Cheney DL (2003a) Signalers and receivers in animal commu-
nication. Annu Rev Psychol 54:145–173
Seyfarth RM, Cheney DL (2003b) Meaning and emotion in animal vocaliza-
tions. Ann N Y Acad Sci 1000:32–55
Seyfarth RM, Cheney DL (2010) Production, usage, and comprehension in
animal vocalizations. Brain Lang 115:92–100
Seyfarth RM, Cheney DL, Marler P (1980) Monkey responses to three diﬀer-
ent alarm calls: evidence of predator classiﬁcation and semantic commu-
nication. Science 210:801–803
Simonyan K, Jürgens U (2003) Eﬀerent subcortical projections of the laryngeal
motorcortex in the rhesus monkey. Brain Res 974:43–59
Simonyan K, Ackermann H, Chang EF, Greenlee JD (2016) New develop-
ments in understanding the complexity of human speech production. J
Neurosci 36:11440–11448
Skeide MA, Friederici AD (2016) The ontogeny of the cortical language
network. Nat Rev Neurosci 17:323–332
Skeide MA, Brauer J, Friederici AD (2016) Brain functional and structural
predictors of language performance. Cereb Cortex 26:2127–2139
Skinner MK (2014) Environment, epigenetics and reproduction. Mol Cell
Endocrinol 398:1–3
Springer SP, Deutsch G (1981) Left Brain, Right Brain. WH Freeman &
Company, New York
Stoeger AS, Mietchen D, Oh S, de Silva S, Herbst CT, Kwon S, Fitch WT
(2012) An Asian elephant imitates human speech. Curr Biol 22:2144–2148
References and Notes 421
Suga N (1989) Principles of auditory information-processing derived from
neuroethology. J Exp Biol 146:277–286
Takahashi DY, Narayanan DZ, Ghazanfar AA (2013) Coupled oscillator
dynamics of vocal turn-taking in monkeys. Curr Biol 23:2162–2168
Takahashi DY, Fenley AR, Teramoto Y, Narayanan DZ, Borjon JI, Holmes P,
Ghazanfar AA (2015) The developmental dynamics of marmoset monkey
vocal production. Science 349:734–738
Takahashi DY, Fenley AR, Ghazanfar AA (2016) Early development of turn-
taking with parents shapes vocal acoustics in infant marmoset monkeys.
Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 371:1693
Talmage-Riggs G, Winter P, Ploog D, Mayer W (1972) Eﬀect of deafening on
the vocal behavior of the squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus). Folia Primatol
17:404–420
Thinh VN, Hallam C, Roos C, Hammerschmidt K (2011) Concordance
between vocal and genetic diversity in crested gibbons. BMC Evol Biol
11:36
Toro JM, Trobalón JB (2005) Statistical computations over a speech stream in
a rodent. Percept Psychophys 67:867–875
van der Lely HK, Pinker S (2014) The biological basis of language: insight from
developmental grammatical impairments. Trends Cogn Sci 18:586–595
Vargha-Khadem F, Watkins K, Alcock K, Fletcher P, Passingham R (1995)
Praxic and nonverbal cognitive deﬁcits in a large family with a genetically
transmitted speech and language disorder. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
92:930–933
Vargha-Khadem F, Watkins KE, Price CJ, Ashburner J, Alcock KJ, Connelly
A, Frackowiak RS, Friston KJ, Pembrey ME, Mishkin M, Gadian DG,
Passingham RE (1998) Neural basis of an inherited speech and language
disorder. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 95:12695–12700
Vargha-Khadem F, Gadian DG, Copp A, Mishkin M (2005) FOXP2 and the
neuroanatomy of speech and language. Nat Rev Neurosci 6:131–138
Wallis JD, Anderson KC, Miller EK (2001) Single neurons in prefrontal cortex
encode abstract rules. Nature 411:953–956
Washington SD, Tillinghast JS (2015) Conjugating time and frequency: hemi-
spheric specialization, acoustic uncertainty, and the mustached bat. Front
Neurosci 9:143
Watson SK, Townsend SW, Schel AM, Wilke C, Wallace EK, Cheng L, West
V, Slocombe KE (2015) Vocal learning in the functionally referential food
grunts of chimpanzees. Curr Biol 25:495–499
422 10 Talking Heads
Wheeler BC, Fischer J (2012) Functionally referential signals: a promising
paradigm whose time has passed. Evol Anthropol 21:195–205
White SA, Fisher SE, Geschwind DH, Scharﬀ C, Holy TE (2006) Singing
mice, songbirds, and more: models for FOXP2 function and dysfunction in
human speech and language. J Neurosci 26:10376–10379
Wich SA, Swartz KB, Hardus ME, Lameira AR, Stromberg E, Shumaker RW
(2009) A case of spontaneous acquisition of a human sound by an orangu-
tan. Primates 50:56–64
Wrangham R (2003) The Evolution of Cooking. In: Brockman J (ed), The
New Humanists: Science at the Edge. Sterling Publishing, New Dehli, p
108–109
Yeatman JD, Dougherty RF, Rykhlevskaia E, Sherbondy AJ, Deutsch GK,
Wandell BA, Ben-Shachar M (2011) Anatomical properties of the arcuate
fasciculus predict phonological and reading skills in children. J Cogn
Neurosci 23:3304–3317
Zatorre RJ (2003) Music and the brain. Ann N Y Acad Sci 999:4–14
Zatorre RJ, Salimpoor VN (2013) From perception to pleasure: music and its
neural substrates. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110 (Suppl 2):10430–10437
References and Notes 423
11
Taming Ourselves
In the preceding chapters, I have argued that speech and language
originated due to the acquisition of the phonological loop, a species-
speciﬁc auditory-vocal cortical network. This circuit is coupled with
additional elements like the basal ganglia, thalamus and cerebellum,
and via the motor cortex it sends a descending projection to brain-
stem nuclei controlling vocal and oral musculature. The phonologi-
cal loop endowed our ancestors with a powerful auditory working
memory capacity, which was a keystone in the evolution of pre-
human communication, allowing us to learn and articulate complex
vocal messages. Eventually, this memory boost helped transform
sequential vocal information into complex meaningful events in
space and time, represented in visuospatial working memory. This
ability results from an interface between the auditory-vocal networks
and other networks involved in perception-action cycles, and
depends on the integration between auditory-vocal, visual-gestural,
and visuomotor circuits in which the mirror neuron system probably
played an important role.
Nonetheless, the question that is perhaps the most fundamental of all
remains open. Charles Darwin said that we are gifted with an instinctive
© The Author(s) 2017
F. Aboitiz, A Brain for Speech,
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-54060-7_11
425
tendency to acquire an “art” (language), which may be more generally
expressed as an innate drive to communicate with others (Darwin 1887).
Without this, speech and language would never have evolved. Probably
no other animal depends as much as we do on social life, especially in
our early years. Many studies with primates and other animals have
shown the eﬀects of early social deprivation, but it may not be an
exaggeration to say that in humans these eﬀects are far more devastating,
largely because we live immersed in a culture where even the most basic
objectives, like eating and mating, are achieved by social learning. The
case of feral children (see Chapter 1) shows the tremendous eﬀects that
early social deprivation can have on human behavior, in which these girls
and boys may be unable to speak or even walk upright, much less
socialize. In this last chapter, I will attempt to provide a social and
ecological scenario in which the development of iterated reciprocal
interactions between individuals resulted in a great beneﬁt for them,
channeling evolution to the development of increasingly early social
attachments and communication. It is in this context that the emergence
of the phonological loop may have been a critical inﬂection point for
social behavior and for the evolution of our species.
The Brain in Society
There is a well conserved subcortical network that regulates the social
behavior of all vertebrates, which includes limbic components like the
amygdala, deep forebrain nuclei involved in reward processing, the
hypothalamus regulating the internal milieu and controlling hormonal
levels, and brainstem nuclei controlling arousal and emotional behavior
(Syal and Finlay 2011). This network is involved in the control of
aggressive, sexual and parental behavior and other social activities. But
our brains are diﬀerent in the sense that we rely, perhaps more than any
other species, on attachment to others to ﬁnd reward. Onto this basic
scaﬀolding, primates, and especially humans have built a complex net-
work that has permitted the development of a new form of social
behavior, based on learning and cooperation, not denying the intense
competition among groups and individuals. As early Homo developed
426 11 Taming Ourselves
the ability to cooperate and learn from others, individuals increased their
capacity and intention to establish reciprocal interactions like trading, or
conversational situations in which two individuals mutually engaged in
gestural and vocal interactions, just for the sake of it. There has to be
pleasure in this for it to be an important motivation, just as we look for
pleasure in food and sex. For some reason, our ancestors greatly enjoyed
being together, perhaps much more than do our close primate relatives.
This is not to say that there are no signs of attachment or empathy in
non-human primates or in other mammals, which of course there are. It
is just that this behavior became uniquely prominent in early humans.
Neither does it mean that primitive societies were all love, as there was
strong competition and rivalry both within and among groups. Some
authors, in particular Robin Dunbar, have claimed that living in a social
group in which the balance between competition and cooperation is
critical, was a main motor for our unique cognitive capacities (Dunbar
and Shultz 2007).
The establishment of close individual attachments, including strong
kinship bonds emerging from mother-infant communication contribu-
ted to establishing group identity and to maintaining strategic alliances
in a context of competition within and among groups. The increasing
dependence of newborns on their mothers is partly a consequence of
humans being born at a much earlier developmental stage than other
primates. As we saw earlier in this book, human babies are born
premature for two possible reasons, one is that development is slowed
down allowing an extended period for neurogenesis, and the other is that
a big brain (or a big head) is diﬃcult to pass through the pelvic canal,
which thus favored earlier birth to avoid delivery complications.
Another, not alternative, possibility is that the metabolic costs of devel-
oping a large brain are ameliorated by slowing down development and
completing it after birth.
As children grew up in these early societies, they were endowed
with a still maturing brain that was molded by the diﬀerent circum-
stances they had to face, from cooperation to empathy to aggression
and outright violence. Thus, the young early human had to adapt to
this increasingly complex social life in which appropriate behavior
became progressively dependent on learning social skills and practical
The Brain in Society 427
abilities like tool-making. Eﬃcient neural networks involved in plan-
ning, behavioral control, emotional perception and anticipation were
selected in order to behave appropriately and obtain food and sex.
Following Dunbar’s idea, Daniel Kennedy and Ralph Adolphs have
proposed that the neural systems involved in social behavior encom-
pass at least four broad networks related to empathy (cingulate gyrus
and anterior insula), emotion regulation (amygdala and inferior
temporal, ventromedial prefrontal and orbitofrontal cortices), a mir-
ror system for understanding intentions and actions (parietal cortex
and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex); and the capacity to mentalize,
that is, to infer the mental states of other people (anterior temporal
lobe, superior temporal sulcus, and midline regions in the prefrontal
cortex and the retrosplenial and posterior cingulate cortices) (Fig.
11.1) (Kennedy and Adolphs 2012). This capacity is often referred
to as having a theory of mind of others, a subject I introduced in
Chapter 8. The network involved in inferring the other’s mental
state overlaps with Marcus Raichle’s default or resting state network,
which I described in Chapter 2. A signiﬁcant portion of our social
lives may depend on the operation of the default network, from
imagining situations, engaging in daily conversations, sharing laughs
and other things that make our lives enjoyable. According to
Kennedy and Adolphs, malfunction in any of these networks due
to localized brain lesions results in deﬁcits in social behavior.
Moreover, the symptoms of conditions like autism, attention deﬁcit
and hyperactivity disorder, depression and schizophrenia have been
interpreted as associated with deregulation of these networks.
Nonetheless, the above neural systems are not exclusive to humans, as
we share these brain components with other primates. How do we
explain our intense sociality when the respective networks seem to be
so conserved? Are these regions just working diﬀerently in humans? The
expansion of our brain, although following primate trends as we dis-
cussed in Chapter 3, involves more intense ampliﬁcation of many of the
areas that are involved in social behavior. Were these diﬀerences suﬃ-
cient to develop our social behavior? It is likely that, as with the language
networks, circuits involved in social behavior were co-opted from other
networks performing more basic functions.
428 11 Taming Ourselves
DLPF
VLPF
PAR
VM/OF
STS
PC
AC
VMPF
VM/OF
(b)
(a)
AM/ATL
AI
Fig. 11.1 Regions involved in the social brain. A, lateral view; B, medial view.
AC, anterior cingulate cortex; AI, anterior insula; AM/ATL, amygdala and
The Brain in Society 429
Mind Readers
For example, let us consider some simple abilities like following another
person’s gaze or looking where someone points, which I discussed in
Chapters 8 and 10. The neural networks involved in shared attention
(when two subjects agree to focus on the same event), as well as in
mental state attribution, depend on midline regions of the frontal cortex,
which indicates a broad neurological overlap among these capacities
(Shteynberg 2015). Pointing and gaze following can be seen as requisites
for both shared attention, and the onset of a primitive learned semantics
(see Chapter 8). As we became able to share knowledge about the world
by developing rudimentary semantics, we also slowly became aware that
the other might know the same as what we know. A complication of this
knowledge is when we realize that the other might not know all that we
know, or know things we don’t know. More complicated is the knowl-
edge that others may believe things that are incorrect. This process
gradually develops in the child as the semantic space and the world we
share becomes increasingly complex.
It has been said that science is just common sense formalized, as
opposed to metaphysics, which goes beyond common sense. This is
why, for example, scientists’ concept of causality sometimes seems too
basic for philosophers. Working with children, Alison Gopnik has found
that they start to reason about the world very early, by making hypoth-
eses that are empirically put to the test by letting objects fall, hiding
them, or hiding themselves, breaking toys apart and other manipulations
they make (Gopnik and Meltzoﬀ 1984; Gopnik 2012). In this way, they
develop folk physics, in which they understand basic causality, mechan-
ical interactions and transformations in time and space (see Chapter 9).
In parallel to this development, normal children acquire full-blown
mind-reading abilities by the age of four, which is evidenced by highly
Fig.11.1 (Continued)
anterior temporal lobe; DLPF, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex; MPF, medial
prefrontal cortex; PAR, parietal lobe; PC, posterior cingulate cortex; STS,
superior temporal sulcus; VLPF, ventrolateral prefrontal cortex; VM/OF, ven-
tromedial and orbitofrontal cortices
430 11 Taming Ourselves
standardized neuropsychological tests. Gopnik and others have shown
that children recognize human faces, facial expressions and the human
voice by the age of one and are able to imitate some facial gestures
practically as soon as they are born (see Chapter 8). They are able to
follow pointing gestures by 1 year of age, and start pointing to objects
soon after this. Gopnik says that children understand their own mental
states at this point, but are able to infer these states in other people only
by the time they are four. However, the capacity to detect intentions or
preferences in other people arises much earlier. Gopnik has shown that
when oﬀering food that children like, together with other food they
dislike, they will naturally prefer the one they like. If the experimenter
says that he or she prefers the food the child dislikes, and then asks the
child to oﬀer him or her one of the two types of food, children under 18
months will oﬀer the one they like themselves, but over 18 months they
understand that the experimenter has diﬀerent taste from theirs, and
oﬀer him or her the food they dislike. As noted before, the capacity to
infer knowledge in other people is more complex. If 3-year olds are
shown an open candy box that contains something totally diﬀerent (say
buttons), and are asked what another child believes is inside the box
(now closed), a child under four assumes the other child knows there are
buttons in it, but children over four say that the other child wrongly
believes there are candies in the box (Gopnik and Schulz 2004; Gopnik
2012; Meltzoﬀ et al. 2012; Sobel et al. 2007; Waismeyer et al. 2015).
In a now classic article, David Premack and Guy Woodruﬀ asked
whether chimpanzees had a theory of mind, that is, are they able to infer
the mental states and intentions of others or assume that others have
minds like theirs (Premack and Woodruﬀ 1978). This article sparked an
intense debate and research programs to determine whether apes are able
to read minds as we can. In particular, Michael Tomasello, Josep Call
and Brian Hare made important contributions to this research, which
initially produced no evidence of mind reading by captive chimps. Later
ﬁndings made these investigators doubt that the ability to read minds
was an all-or-nothing capacity but rather a gradually evolving ability,
much more akin to what Darwin would have proposed (Tomasello et al.
1998, 2003a, b, Call et al. 1998 and Hare et al. 2000, 2001). For
example, baby apes and monkeys may be able to deceive others by crying
Mind Readers 431
when a larger individual has food they want, thus inducing their mother
to attack the latter, who then ﬂees and releases the food. Another
instance of deception is when subordinate males court or copulate
with females out of sight from the dominant male. A subtler example
is an ape ﬁxing its gaze on some point to distract others and then
grabbing their food (Hare et al. 2000, 2001). Do these behaviors
imply that chimpanzees and other apes can read minds? Do they have
any knowledge of their own mental states? Do they avoid the dominant
male´s sight only because they won’t feel his presence, or do they really
know that the other is ignorant of what they are doing?
In order to determine whether or not chimpanzees have a theory of
others’ minds, Tomasello, Call, Hare and their collaborators have
conducted an enormous number of experiments with chimps, that
were interpreted as showing at the best a limited capacity to under-
stand others’ knowledge of the world. It is now well known that apes
are very good at following the others’ gaze. For example, Tomasello
and collaborators showed that if a chimpanzee is sitting in front of an
experimenter but separated by a barrier that prevents the chimp from
seeing the experimenter’s arms, the ape is able to follow the experi-
menter’s gaze to locate an object that he moved with his hands (Call
et al. 1998). However, this does not necessarily mean that they
understand that the other has any knowledge of what he or she is
seeing. For example, David Povinelli and collaborators observed that
when chimps beg food from experimenters, they seem not to care
whether or not the experimenter is looking at them (he or she may
even be wearing a bucket over his head or is evidently blindfolded), as
long as the experimenter is standing in front of the chimp (Povinelli
2000; Penn and Povinelli 2007). They can learn to beg food only
with experimenters directly looking at them, but after a couple years
after doing the task they have forgotten the trick completely and have
to start from zero. However, in the 2000s Brian Hare devised an
experiment that suggested some capacity for mind reading in apes
(Hare et al. 2000, 2001). Two chimps, one dominant and the other
subordinate, were placed in front of each other. Food was placed
where both could see it, and other food where only the subordinate
could see it. Subordinates preferred to direct themselves to the food
432 11 Taming Ourselves
only they were able to see. Additional experiments involved misin-
forming the dominant about the location of food (in which case the
subordinate looks for places where the dominant believes there is no
food), and switching dominants so that the second dominant had not
seen where food had been located (in this case subordinates collect
more food than in the former situation).
Tomasello, Call and Hare’s position now is that chimps are stuck
in a stage comparable or slightly inferior to that of 2- or 3-year-old
children, where they can follow gazes and understand perspective
taking, all of this slowly moving in the direction of a theory of
mind in children, but never reaching this stage (Tomasello et al.
2003a, b; Hermann et al. 2007). More recently, Tomasello proposed
that apes are noticeably human-like in their ability for abstract
thought, using inferences about things, understanding the other’s
goals and planning for the future, as seen in tool retaining behavior
(see Chapters 4, 6 and 9) (Tomasello 2014). He envisions two
critical steps in the evolution of human behavior; the ﬁrst taking
place some 400,000 years ago, when early Homo started to develop
complex cooperative and reciprocal behaviors based on mind reading
capacities. From there a protolanguage developed, ﬁrst based on
manual gestures and only later speech became the main communica-
tion system (but see Chapter 8). The second stage does not have a
clear starting date, but is marked by the acquisition of shared
conventions that specify behavioral norms, permitting further orga-
nization of social behavior and catapulting cultural complexity.
Moreover, Tomasello views grammar as a secondary elaboration of
the incorporation of conventionalized rules of behavior, rather than
as an innately driven capacity. More generally, his perspective is that
what is diﬀerent about us from our ape cousins is the innate
predisposition to cooperate with each other.
Other researchers, like Cecilia Heyes and David Povinelli have criti-
cized Tomasello, Call and Hare’s interpretations, essentially by arguing
that none of their experiments demonstrate that chimps have any knowl-
edge of others’ mental states, and that there are lower-level explanations
based on associative behavior that can account for these ﬁndings (Heyes
1998; Povinelli 2000; Povinelli and Vonk 2003, Penn and Povinelli
Mind Readers 433
2007). The above disagreement is clearly illustrated by the interpreta-
tions of an experiment by Fumihiro Kano and Christopher Krupenye.
These authors recently recorded the eye movements of bonobos while
they watched a video in which a researcher wearing a “King Kong” suit
pretended to attack a human and then hid behind a bale. In one version
of the movie, King Kong moved to another bale in front of the human,
who then left the scene and came back with a stick to attack the
presumed ape. In the second version, the human left and went for the
stick ﬁrst, and while he was away, King Kong moved to the other hiding
place and then left the scene. So, when the human character came back,
he is supposed to believe that the beast was still hiding in the ﬁrst place.
In this second version of the movie, Bonobos predicted the behavior of
the human character and consistently looked at the ﬁrst hiding place
when the actor came back, which was interpreted as proof of mind
reading in apes, that is, they apparently knew that the human had a false
belief about King Kong’s location (Krupenye et al. 2016). Another
experiment in the same line was very recently performed by the same
group (Buttelmann et al. 2017). Regarding the ﬁrst experiment,
researchers like Carla Krachun and Robert Lurz claim that bonobos
just remember the place where the human last saw King Kong as an
eﬃcient predictive rule, without any knowledge about the agent’s beliefs
(Caruso 2016). Likewise, Cecilia Heyes refers to this ability as “sub-
mentalization”, indicating that it relies on anticipatory cues rather than
true mind reading (Heyes 2017). This controversy continues and in my
opinion it will be very hard to demonstrate that the animals are in fact
inferring the other’s mental state. Once again, we could be in a “Clever
Hans” situation, as in the Mirror Neuron foundational experiments,
where clever but relatively simple associative mechanisms, instead of
inner simulations of others, account for these ﬁndings.
I agree with Tomasello that social skills were gradually acquired over
human evolution and that there may have been diﬀerent stages in the
development of these skills. Nonetheless, social behavior may have evolved
through the use of increasingly sensitive cues to predict the other’s behavior,
and not necessarily by reading the other’s mind. Moreover, we ourselves
may be unconsciously or semi-consciously using such cues every day, and
only a posteriori making inferences about the other’s mind. As I said before,
434 11 Taming Ourselves
believing that others have minds may be related to the acquisition of a
learned semantics around language, so that we share the world with others;
a capacity that may be necessary and useful for living together.
How do we come to attribute consciousness to other beings? Alan
Turing, a brilliant mathematician who contributed signiﬁcantly to the
Allies winning World War II by deciphering enemy codes, and who is also
known as the father of artiﬁcial intelligence, asked this question from a
computational perspective. Very sadly, as Turing was homosexual and the
British government could not tolerate that a person with his inclinations
be considered a war hero, they submitted him to aggressive hormonal
treatment that practically destroyed him. His dramatic life was recently
popularized in the 2014 Oscar winning movie “The Imitation Game”,
directed by Morten Tyldum and starring Benedict Cumberbatch and
Keira Knightley. Turing reasoned that the attribution of consciousness
was due to the establishment of reciprocal or conversational interactions
with others, in which we share semantic knowledge about the world or
about ourselves. In these conversations, the other expresses his or her non-
trivial knowledge of what we are expressing, and both share a mental state.
Furthermore, through conversation we also soon learn that others may not
know the same as we do. As I have mentioned in previous chapters, the
capacity to engage in reciprocal conversations may have been facilitated by
the acquisition of vocal learning and the subsequent expansion of the
phonological loop, which allowed us not only to learn more complex
utterances, but also to rapidly articulate responses in order to engage in,
and enjoy these reciprocal interchanges.
Turing asked himself, how we could know if a computer were con-
scious? He then conceived of the Turing test1
, which consists of a
computer placed out of sight that interacts verbally with a human. If
the human cannot tell whether he is talking to another person or to a
computer, the computer has passed the test. A trick favoring the computer
is that it elaborates grammatically correct sentences based on the phrases
spoken by the human. The computer responds very much as a psycho-
analyst does during a therapy session, using elements of the phrases to
1
http://www.psych.utoronto.ca/users/reingold/courses/ai/turing.html
Mind Readers 435
construct others that keep the conversation going. In this way, humans
tend to automatically believe they are speaking with a conscious person.
Some have even joked with the idea of selling psychoanalytic software in
which you receive therapy without the need to talk to a real person. Then,
perhaps people would feel less inhibited and would address deeper issues
that may be diﬃcult to discuss with a human therapist. The point is that
we are indeed endowed with a cognitive mechanism that allows us to
extrapolate our own thoughts and intentions to others around us, and I
believe this mechanism is deeply intertwined with the development of a
shared semantics through language. Going further with this argument,
religion is an expression of this cognitive bias, when humans attribute
intentions to natural processes.
The Pleasure of Being Together
We interpret the minds of others in the context of an intense social life
to which we are instinctively driven because we need others to be happy.
How did we amplify our social capacity to this extent? I believe the
answer is related to the unique evolutionary history and ecology of our
species, to which I will come to below. However, before delving into this
issue, I will emphasize the rewarding aspects of social life, and how these
may have inﬂuenced the development of our language capacity. A lot of
recent research has focused on the hormonal regulation of the social
behavior of animals. One of the most notable ﬁndings comes not from
primates but from rodents, particularly the well-known vole, of which
there are some 150 species. Researchers like Elizabeth Hammock and
Larry Young have observed striking diﬀerences in family behavior in
diﬀerent vole populations (Hammock and Young 2006). While prairie
voles are monogamic and males help care for the young, meadow voles
do not establish stable couples and males are not interested in their
oﬀspring. This diﬀerential behavior is due to genetic diﬀerences in the
regulatory region of genes coding for receptors of the closely related
hormones vasopressin and oxytocin. Vasopressin was discovered long
ago as a mediator of hydric balance but more recent evidence indicates
that it also promotes social behavior. Increasing activity of this hormone
436 11 Taming Ourselves
(or of its receptors) may promote pair bonding and parental behavior,
but only in males. Notably, this gene has been found to be mutated in
some cases of autism, and in chimpanzees the same gene lacks a base pair
in the same place as the deletion associated with autism (Hammock and
Young 2006). In humans, several studies including those by Rachel
Bachner-Melman and Richard Ebstein, and by Hasse Walum and col-
laborators have associated variants of this receptor’s genes with coopera-
tive behavior, creative dance and marital stability (Bachner-Melman and
Ebstein 2014; Walum et al. 2008). Oxytocin is a related hormone
associated with reproduction, serving physiological roles like facilitating
delivery and lactation. More recent studies have found that oxytocin also
participates in sexual behavior and in promoting social recognition,
parental bonding, and traits like generosity and attachment in animals
and humans (Gao et al. 2016). Several ﬁndings with voles suggest that
oxytocin promotes within-group bonding but aggression and rejection of
outsiders (Bachner-Melman and Ebstein 2014). As cute as these animals
look, they can be quite nasty when attacking competitors. Notably, a
recent study showed that in humans playing a bargaining game, the sex
hormone testosterone promotes both aggressive and prosocial behaviors,
producing stronger punishments when receiving unfair oﬀers, and stron-
ger rewards when receiving fair oﬀers when compared to control sub-
jects. This suggests that testosterone has a similar role as oxytocin in the
regulation of social behavior (Dreher et al. 2016).
In addition to these hormones, some neurotransmitters like dopa-
mine (of which I will speak later) and serotonin have been shown to
inﬂuence social behavior (Crockett and Fehr 2014; Skuse and
Gallagher 2009, 2011). Serotonin is a neurotransmitter that has
been associated with mood disorders, and many pharmaceutical pro-
ducts target serotoninergic signaling as therapeutic agents. One com-
ponent of this signaling process is the serotonin transporter that
regulates the amount of extracellular serotonin. The gene that codes
for this protein comes in at least two ﬂavors, depending on the
length of its regulatory region. The short repeat variant produces
less protein than the long repeat variant, therefore allowing more
circulating serotonin in the extracellular space and increasing its
activity in relation to the long-repeat one. Subjects with the short-
The Pleasure of Being Together 437
repeat version of the gene are more likely to develop mood disorders,
are more reactive to fear stimuli, and tend to have a decreased
functional connectivity between the anterior cingulate and the amyg-
dala. In social contexts, it has been shown that increasing serotonin
levels is related to submissiveness and decreased aggressiveness,
favoring associative behavior. Below we will see that important
changes in serotoninergic activity have taken place in recent human
evolution that may be related to increasing sociability in humans and
other animals.
Speech is no exception to the drive to be with others, as it develops in
the context of intensely rewarding social contact. Supriya Syal and
Barbara Finlay appropriately claim that language learning results not
only from a powerful cortico-striatal learning system, but also from its
obligatory coupling to a subcortical socio-motivational circuitry regulat-
ing the rewarding aspects of social life (Syal and Finlay 2011). In fact,
the relevance of direct social contact is very clear to anyone who has tried
to learn a second language just by watching TV. Patricia Kuhl and her
colleagues showed that English speaking children that directly interacted
with native Mandarin speakers learned to discriminate some phonetic
contrasts not present in English much better than did children that were
exposed to the same speech signals audiovisually through television or
only via audiotaped speakers (Kuhl et al. 2003). The latter group
performed the same as children exposed only to English speakers, that
is, they had learned practically nothing. This is partly because during
direct social interaction adults refer to contingent situations by using
shared attention, which gives pragmatic clues about meanings, but also
because there is an intrinsic reward in social interactions. Normal
children enjoy hearing speech and being physically close to someone.
This is a main driver for human sociality and of course for language
learning. Furthermore, speech itself is a source of reward, at least for
children. Leslie Seltzer and collaborators worked with mother-child
dyads in which the children had been mildly stressed, and then allowed
to get in contact with their mothers, in three conditions: (i) complete
mother-child contact, (ii) speech-only contact, and (iii) no contact
(Seltzer et al. 2010). Afterward, blood samples from the children were
tested. Children who had complete contact or only speech contact had
438 11 Taming Ourselves
higher levels of oxytocin and lower levels of the hormone cortisol, a
stress indicator, than children in the group with no contact.
The known cases of socially deprived children have shown the funda-
mental relevance of early contact with caregivers in both the evolution of
social skills and language learning. Kuhl claims that infants and children
are able to appreciate the communicative intent of others, and in early
stages develop eye-to-eye contact, together with imitating sounds and
gestures, and developing shared attention (Kuhl 2004; Kuhl and Rivera-
Gaxiola 2008). Surprisingly, there has been very little research on the
rewarding aspects of speech and communication. Clinically, we know
that social reward is therapeutically critical in children with speciﬁc
language impairment, and in schizophrenics, stutterers, autistics and
other patients. In the previous chapter we discussed the relevance of
exaggerating prosody in Motherese in mother-infant dyadic communi-
cation. This may serve not only to help infants to discriminate the
sounds of language, but also to provide them with strong emotional
feedback during communication.
Pascal Belin and collaborators have been studying the emotional
components of speech processing in adults. They designed morphed
prosodic and visual face expression stimuli that vary continuously from
angry to happy expressions, which were presented to human subjects
undergoing fMRI imaging. They identiﬁed two levels of emotional
speech processing: a low- level circuit including auditory regions and
the amygdala, which codes for emotion-related acoustic information,
and a higher-level circuit involving the anterior insula and the prefrontal
cortex, which codes the abstract, cognitive representations of social aﬀect
(Bestelmeyer et al. 2014). Working with normal subjects, Diana Tamir
and Jason Mitchell recently reported that we love to speak about
ourselves. According to them 30% or 40% of our speech consists of
informing others about our own mental state (Tamir and Mitchell
2012). Furthermore, they found that self-disclosure during speech is
associated with activation of reward related regions like the ventral
striatum and the dopaminergic nucleus called the ventral tegmental
area, which participate in reward processing. This may be partly the
reason psychotherapy is so successful. Furthermore, we spend a lot of
time gossiping about others rather than talking about external events.
The Pleasure of Being Together 439
According to Robin Dunbar, gossip is a highly rewarding behavior that
served as social glue in our ancestors, and was critical in language
evolution (Dunbar 2004). In a similar line, Dean Falk has claimed
that early Homo mothers delivered increasingly immature babies that
needed constant emotional support. Furthermore, our hairless skin and
the weakness of the newborns did not permit babies to cling to their
mothers’ bodies while they moved, as other primate babies do. Thus,
mother-child vocal communication facilitated emotional attachment
between both, especially when the mother was foraging and away from
her baby (Falk 2004).
Rewarding Circuits
In the last 50 years, we have learned quite a lot about the neural circuits
and neurochemical regulation of rewarded behavior. Early studies in the
1950s, that have now become classic, showed that rats that could self-
stimulate by pressing a lever that activated an electrode implanted in
regions of their brains continued doing so and preferred to do this rather
than eat, which was interpreted as a highly rewarding behavior for the rat
(Jacques 1979). Consequently, these places were termed “pleasure cen-
ters” as they were believed to signal hedonic value. One such center is the
ventral striatum (more precisely, a region called nucleus accumbens),
which receives strong dopaminergic innervation. Later studies revealed
that dopamine signaling mediates the rewarding eﬀects in this nucleus,
and that practically all addictive drugs, by diﬀerent mechanisms, in the
end have the common eﬀect of boosting dopaminergic activity in the
nucleus accumbens (Haber 2011).
It was later found that dopaminergic activity not only signals pleasure
but also has a more profound role in classical conditioning (Schultz
2007). Large amounts of dopamine are released with unexpected plea-
surable events (unconditioned stimulus), but when the event is pre-
dicted, it does not induce an increase in dopaminergic activity, even if
it may seem highly rewarding. Nonetheless, dopamine signals stimuli
that predict the subsequent appearance of reward, as, for example, a light
that precedes the delivery of food (the conditioning stimulus). Firstly,
440 11 Taming Ourselves
when the animal does not know the light-reward association, dopamine
is released upon the presence of reward but not the light. However, as
the animal develops an association between these two events, dopami-
nergic ﬁring begins to be induced by the light at the same time that its
release by the reward itself becomes progressively weaker, until the light
produces a strong response while the reward does not change dopami-
nergic activity at all. However, if we provide no reward after the light to
an animal that has learned this task, it experiences dopaminergic depres-
sion. On the other hand, if we deliver the reward before it is expected,
there is a very strong dopaminergic response. According to Wolfram
Schultz and several other researchers, dopamine signals a prediction
error in the appearance of reward, that is, it activates most strongly
with unexpected rewards or events associated with rewards rather than
with the reward itself (Schultz 2016). Moreover, and perhaps more
importantly, Peter Redgrave and Kevin Gurney have proposed that
dopaminergic activity participates in generating an associative network
between the unexpected reward and other stimuli that occur prior to or
simultaneously with it (Redgrave and Gurney 2006). This is critical for
the animal to make the link between the preceding light and the reward,
or between its own behavior and a rewarding outcome, for example, by
accidentally pressing a lever that delivers food. Additional studies have
revealed a role of dopamine in signaling negative as well as positive
rewards, which is consistent with its role in conditioned learning
(Matsumoto and Hikosaka 2009).
Associations have been reported between dopamine and emotional
processing during speech. Patients with Parkinson’s disease, in whom
there is substantial dopaminergic depletion in the basal ganglia, have
been repeatedly reported to show, among other symptoms, ﬂat prosody
and lack of emotional tone in their speech. Mark Pell and Silke
Paulmann have done several studies of the role of the striatum, a
component of the basal ganglia, in emotional speech processing
(Paulmann et al. 2008). They have observed, for example, that
Parkinson patients and patients with focalized basal ganglia lesions
show a speciﬁc impairment in recognizing the emotional content of
prosody, although their capacity for emotional processing is otherwise
intact (Garrido-Vasquez et al. 2013). Likewise, when imaging
Rewarding Circuits 441
radioactive dopaminergic ligands with PET, Kristina Simonyan
observed that dopamine is released in the striatum during the execution
of speech in normal subjects (Simonyan et al. 2013).
A fundamental aspect of music is its deep link to emotion. In his
autobiography Charles Darwin recognized that the absence of music
results in less happiness (F. Darwin 1887). Music serves to communicate
emotion and may have been important in human evolution, to generate
empathy and form group alliances. Robert Zatorre and his collaborators
have been researching the pleasurable aspects of music in diﬀerent
people, and have found a strong, positive relationship between subjective
pleasure induced by music, and autonomic responses reﬂected in elec-
trical skin conduction, heart rate and other variables (Zatorre and
Salimpoor 2013; Zatorre 2015). Using fMRI, they found activation of
the ventral striatum. When subjects listened to new melodies, the ventral
striatum showed stronger coactivation with the auditory cortex in
response to melodies that subjects considered more rewarding. Using
PET, Zatorre’s group observed that this activation was associated with
the release of dopamine (Salimpoor et al. 2011, 2015). On the other
hand, monkeys have little ability to discriminate melodies or consonant
versus dissonant sequences. Thus, beside speech, humans may be unique
among primates in that they can recognize, learn and enjoy
musical melodies.
Unfortunately, very few studies have focused on the rewarding aspects
of vocalizations in mammals. The group led by Marcus Wöhr and Ingo
Willuhn has found that rats emit two types of ultrasonic vocalizations,
low frequency ones that occur in aversive situations and high-frequency
ones associated with appetitive situations (Willuhn et al. 2014). The
former induces freezing behavior, a conduct associated with fear, while
the latter induces social approach behavior. Only the social-promoting
high frequency vocalizations induce activation of reward related areas
like the nucleus accumbens, by triggering the release of dopamine bursts
in this nucleus. More detailed research with songbirds on the role of
reward during song production and song learning may illuminate the
importance of the social context in the acquisition of speech and
language. Lubica Kubikova and Lubor Kostal have developed an elabo-
rate argument for the role of dopamine in motivation, reward and
442 11 Taming Ourselves
monitoring errors in reward prediction that leads to learning in birdsong
(Kubikova and Kostál 2010). The group of Constance Scharﬀ reported
that the presentation of noxious food stimuli elicited expression of
genetic markers of neural activity in only some song-related nuclei
(notably HVC and RA) (Tokarev et al. 2011). According to Scharﬀ
and coworkers, this indicates that as well as song learning, these nuclei
participate in non-vocal behavior, especially food-related. This ﬁnding
also suggests that these nuclei participate in reward and motivational
mechanisms. Collaborating with Richard Mooney, Scharﬀ found that
decreasing expression of the language-related gene FOXP2 interferes
with dopaminergic signaling in the striatum, and disrupts developmen-
tal and social modulation of song variability, which points to a role in
reinforcement mechanisms during song learning (Murugan et al. 2013).
In addition, Yoshimasa Seki and other researchers have found that
neural activity and dopamine signaling in the striatal, song related area
X are modulated by reward signals including song and food (Seki et al.
2014). Sarah Earp and Donna Manney found activation of dopamine-
related mesolimbic components in female white-throated sparrows
exposed to male songs during breeding season, in a pattern similar to
what was reported when humans listen to pleasurable music (Earp
2012); and Yael Mandelblat-Cerf and collaborators showed that the
intermediate ventral arcopallium, a reward related region of the birdsong
forebrain, receives auditory inputs and is sensitive to distortions of the
auditory feedback during song production (Mandelblat-Cerf et al.
2014). Moreover, lesions of this nucleus impair vocal learning in these
birds. Kristina Simonyan and Erich Jarvis have proposed a model for
reward during birdsong, in which a speciﬁc type of dopaminergic
receptor called D1 signals auditory feedback errors in the learning
phase, when the bird attempts to match its song to an auditory template
that was acquired by listening to the songs of other adults (Simonyan
et al. 2012). Similarly, Vikram Gadagkar and collaborators produced
auditory interference to young zebra ﬁnches while they were singing,
such that they heard a distorted output (Gadagkar et al. 2016). These
“errors” were signaled by activity bursts of the dopaminergic projection
to area X, indicating that these animals have an internal goal for their
song that is continuously checked by output (an instance of predictive
Rewarding Circuits 443
coding; see Chapter 8). Furthermore, this can be a mechanism by which
the young birds correct their errors while learning the song from adults.
Finally, studies with singing birds have also focused on the inﬂuence
of social context on reward. In an early study, Erich Jarvis and colleagues
reported that dopaminergic activity in area X is higher in the context of
directed singing (to attract a mate) than undirected singing (Sasaki et al.
2006). Subsequently, Lauren Riters and collaborators designed a condi-
tioned learning experiment in which birds associated undirected singing
with a speciﬁc place and acquired preference for this place (Riters 2012).
The birds did not develop preference for a speciﬁc place when they
directed their song to a potential mate, but acquired aversion to the place
if they were unsuccessful at attracting the female. The authors concluded
that undirected song is driven by intrinsic reward while female directed
song is reinforced by social interactions. However, this also points to
undirected song as a site-speciﬁc behavior that may serve to maintain
territory in the wild, while failure to attract a mate in a speciﬁc place
makes the bird look for another place to attract mates. Riters also found
that dopamine and particularly opioids mediate social feedback signals
in directed song, as well as the intrinsic reward in undirected song.
Extending these ﬁndings to human speech, reward mechanisms may
have been fundamental in the acquisition of speech and the early
evolution and social signiﬁcance of vocal behavior.
Autism or Liking Versus Wanting
Autism refers to a diverse group of conditions that have in common
deﬁcient social skills, restricted interests and repetitive behaviors.
Aﬀected subjects may show evidence of impaired capacity to interact
with others as early as 2 or 3 years of age. Although autism is
usually diagnosed by the age of three, it can show evident signs
after the ﬁrst year. Notably, Warner Jones and Ami Klin reported
that infants that were later diagnosed with autism showed signiﬁcant
impairment in visual ﬁxation, especially with ﬁxation to visual facial
stimuli (Jones and Klin 2013). Simon Baron-Cohen proposed that
autistic subjects are unable to infer the mental states of others, as he
444 11 Taming Ourselves
puts it, they are “mentally blind” (Baron-Cohen et al. 1985). In
later writings, Baron-Cohen presented an even more controversial
interpretation in which he refers to autistic subjects as having
extremely masculine brains, as males are considered to be more
narrowly focused and less empathic than females (Baron-Cohen
2002). Another perspective, led by Coralie Chevallier and collabora-
tors, emphasizes motivational dysfunction in autism, in which
aﬀected subjects are considered to experience no pleasure or reward
in social interaction (Chevallier et al. 2012). Mirror neuron
researchers have proposed a diﬀerent perspective on autism, which
is that the mirror neuron system of these subjects is dysfunctional in
that it impedes them from empathizing with others (Williams et al.
2001; Gallese 2006).
Autistic subjects have been repeatedly reported to avoid direct eye
contact (depending on the severity of symptoms), and display abnormal
activation of the amygdala and other emotion-related brain regions
during face processing. Elisabeth von dem Hagen, teaming with
Baron-Cohen and collaborators, reported that in the context of eye
contact autistic subjects display atypical activation of emotion-related
and theory-of-mind related brain regions (von dem Hagen et al. 2014).
Activation was higher for autistic subjects with averted gaze than direct
gaze, while the opposite was the case for controls. The authors hypothe-
sized that with normal subjects direct gaze triggers automatic attribu-
tions of mental states to the other, while this is not the case with autistic
subjects and there is no interest in the stimulus. This and other studies
have also shown reduced connectivity between areas related to social
behavior and areas relevant to social interaction like the face-selective
region of the fusiform area in the temporal lobe. Daniel Abrams and
colleagues have given support to the motivational theory of autism,
reporting less connectivity between the left posterior superior temporal
sulcus and the nucleus accumbens (Abrams et al. 2013a, b). Autistic
children also showed decreased connectivity between the right superior
temporal sulcus, which processes speech prosody, and reward-related
regions. Furthermore, reduced connectivity correlated with deﬁcits in
communicative abilities but not speciﬁcally with the formal language
abilities of autistic patients.
Autism or Liking Versus Wanting 445
An opposing perspective, supported by Gregory Hickok, considers
that autistic subjects do develop emotional responses from social contact,
but these are simply so intense that they cannot bear them (Hickok
2014). In other words, instead of being unreactive, they are over-reactive
to social stimuli. Therefore, they avoid establishing close interactions
because it makes them too uncomfortable. For example, Sylvie
Tordjman and collaborators observed that while autistic subjects showed
fewer behavioral responses to painful stimuli, their physiological indica-
tors of stress under these conditions (heart rate and production of stress-
related hormones) were higher than those of normal subjects (Tordjman
et al. 2009). Psychologists like Antonia Hamilton and Ann Gernsbacher
have shown evidence that autistic patients have no problem in imitating
object-directed behaviors or in understanding other people’s intentions
(Gernsbacher and Frymiare 2005; Hamilton et al. 2007). Gernsbacher
and collaborators further argue that the deﬁcits in Theory of Mind tests
observed in autistic patients stem from their impairment in commu-
nicative ability rather than damage to a speciﬁc brain module involved in
inferring the mental states of others. Furthermore, Cecilia Heyes and
collaborators have shown that autistic subjects can perform tasks per-
fectly that involve spontaneous imitation. The authors claim that the
inability of some autistic subjects to imitate pantomimic actions stems
from the cognitive complexity of these tasks rather than from a speciﬁc
deﬁcit in imitation (Heyes 1998; Leighton et al. 2008). These diverging
interpretations were the focus of a forum in which Vittorio Gallese,
Gernsbacher, Heyes, Hickok and Marco Iacoboni participated and
presented their respective views (Gallese et al. 2011). In addition,
Rebecca Brewer and collaborators have conducted several studies com-
paring autistic and alexithymia subjects (Brewer et al. 2015; Brewer and
Murphy 2016, Cook et al. 2013). Alexithymia consists of impairment to
recognizing one’s own and others’ emotions, but these patients do feel
signs of distress, sometimes more strongly than normal, when witnessing
someone in pain. Brewer has conﬁrmed that autism and alexithymia are
dissociated conditions, but they overlap signiﬁcantly. Furthermore, these
researchers found that the inability to recognize facial emotions origi-
nates in alexythimic symptoms rather than in the autistic condition per
se (Cook et al. 2013). In the autistic spectrum, there may be such
446 11 Taming Ourselves
heterogeneity in both symptomatology and etiology that many more
cognitive, neuroscientiﬁc and genetic studies are needed before we know
whether in fact we are dealing with a single condition or with a group of
apparently similar disorders.
Subjects diagnosed with autism or belonging to the autistic disorder
spectrum group have signiﬁcantly altered electrophysiological responses to
speech as well as an apparent lack of interest in speech signals, with a
preference for non-speech sounds over speech sounds. Nonetheless, many
autistic children are able to speak, although their speech is usually uncom-
mon in terms of vocabulary, syntactic forms and prosody, showing stereo-
typed and repetitive use of language forms. Their main deﬁcit lies in what is
called the pragmatics of speech, which consists of relating language or speech
to a social context in order to interpret social situations or disambiguate
meanings (Sterponi et al. 2015; Baird and Norbury 2016). Elizabeth Carter
and team evaluated judgments of a social situation (in which a child was
behaving well or badly) and a physical situation (in which a child could be
indoors or outdoors) (Carter et al. 2012). Typically developing children
made use of brain regions associated with language and mentalization to
solve the social task, while autistic children showed less activation of these
areas during this task. Nonetheless, autistic children were equally able as
controls to solve the task, which suggests to the authors that autistic children
have diﬃculty using language to explain social situations, even if they are able
to understand them. Likewise, the group led by Stefan Sunaert compared the
language deﬁcits of children diagnosed with speciﬁc language impairment to
those of autistic children (Verhoeven et al. 2012). The main diﬀerence
between the two clinical groups is that patients with speciﬁc language
disorder are otherwise relatively normal, while autistic patients show a
wide array of social and cognitive impairments, even if they are of normal
or above-average intelligence. Using tractographic techniques, Sunaert and
colleagues found alterations in white matter in the superior longitudinal
fasciculus in the speciﬁc language impairment group but not in the autistic
group, even if the two groups overlapped in linguistic receptive-expressive
impairments. In a subsequent study in autistic subjects, the same group
found normal functional connectivity between Broca’s and Wernicke’s areas,
but abnormal functional connectivity between the language areas and other
brain regions (Verly et al.2014).
Autism or Liking Versus Wanting 447
Overall, the evidence suggests that autistic subjects have diﬃculty
with using language rather than with its structure or articulation. They
are able to produce and understand language at relatively complex
syntactical and semantic levels. However, they have problems with
some verbal tenses and use a generally less complex grammar than
normal children. Ken Wexler and team reported that autistic children
have diﬃculty in understanding reﬂexive pronouns like “himself”- as
opposed to “him”, as in the sentence “Tim’s brother pointed to himself”,
where normal speakers understand that “himself” refers to Tim’s brother
and not to Tim (Perovic et al. 2013). However, others have argued that
this could arise from diﬃculty with the concept of self rather than being
a speciﬁcally syntactic problem. In any event, if autistic children have
grammatical impairments, these are relatively mild and do not stand out
as principal features of the syndrome. This supports the notion that
individual development of language capacity does not rely on appro-
priate social interactions, or alternatively that autistic children are
socially impaired but not totally incompetent, and may be able to extract
clues from speakers to develop language. Coralie Chevallier indeed
argues along this line (Chevallier et al. 2012).
According to behavioral neuroscientists, two diﬀerent processes take
place in reward-seeking behavior that can be dissociated. One is wanting,
which is expressed as a motivational drive to reach a goal; and the other is
liking, or the pleasure that consumption of reward produces (Pool et al.
2016). Autistic children might not be motivated to interact socially or try
to avoid it, but they may nonetheless enjoy this interaction when it takes
place. This view is supported by studies by Line Gebauer and collaborators,
in which autistic subjects had to rate melodies on a scale from happy to sad
(Gebauer et al. 2014). The patients rated the emotional content of music
similarly to normal controls, but showed more activation in regions like the
prefrontal cortex and anterior insula, suggesting that they may even be
overreactive to the emotional content of music. This is further evidence
supporting the hypothesis of hyper-reactive emotionality in autism.
The idea that autistic patients enjoy social contact even if they avoid it is
consistent with a role of reward in speech learning. Nevertheless, innatists
may have a point in that we are very fast learners when it comes to speech
acquisition. In my view, this may be reﬂection of accelerated development
448 11 Taming Ourselves
of language and speech-related neural networks relative to others, as there
was a beneﬁt for our ancestors in being able to speak as soon as possible.
This is partly because social interactions and abilities build up from earlier
social experiences, and there may have been a selective value in developing
these basic capacities in early life, where neural plasticity is higher. To use
an extreme example, this may be like birds learning to ﬂy. In most species,
except for highly specialized species like swifts, birds require practice to ﬂy,
although they are instinctively driven to do it. The main motivation for
young birds to learn how to ﬂy is food, and at some age parents gradually
begin leaving food at some distance from the nest, forcing the baby bird to
leave the nest, then jumping to nearby branches and so on. There are many
trials and errors, and some young birds fall to the ground and die, but most
end up learning to ﬂy. Furthermore, and what is important to this argu-
ment, the earliest ﬂying birds probably did not learn to ﬂy when they were
young, as they started trying to ﬂap their wings or to glide as adults. The
developmental acceleration of the neural networks that were being
acquired by adult practice allowed young birds to learn to ﬂy much earlier
and with less practice than their ancestors required.
The Prince and the Fox
“I am looking for friends. What does that mean – tame?”
“It is an act too often neglected,” said the fox. “It means to establish ties.”
“To establish ties?”
“Just that,” said the fox. “To me, you are still nothing more than a little boy
who is just like a hundred thousand other little boys. And I have no need of
you. And you, on your part, have no need of me. To you I am nothing more
than a fox like a hundred thousand other foxes. But if you tame me, then we
shall need each other. To me, you will be unique in all the world. To you, I
shall be unique in all the world . . . .”
Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, The Little Prince (1956), p. 71–72.
English translation.
A large part of our uniqueness relates to our being an extremely social
species, a condition that provided the adequate setting for language to
The Prince and the Fox 449
evolve. But how did this hyper-sociality evolve? Those who had a
stronger motivation to make bonds with others and to establish
cooperative behaviors were more likely to survive. We know of
instances of close cooperation among species like insects, where we
assume there is little emotional attachment as their interactions are
largely genetically determined. But when it comes to learned coopera-
tion, there has to be some previous emotional engagement among
participants, there has to be some trust and acceptance of the other’s
intentions. In this section I propose a broader evolutionary and
ecological context to account for our intense sociality, gathering
evidence from an unexpected source that has been available for a
long time, but has only received attention in recent years. This begins
with Charles Darwin’s original example of domesticated species as a
model for natural selection, which has turned on its head by recogniz-
ing that domestication is not a special condition but rather is a
powerful motor for the evolution of human social behavior.
Common chimpanzees show signs of cooperative behavior, but their
social life is riddled with aggressive encounters among members of the
same group and between groups, which has been popularized with
images of members of one group brutally killing isolated members of
other groups, and has been thoroughly described in Richard Wrangham
and Dale Peterson’s book Demonic Males (Wrangham and Peterson
1997; Wrangham et al. 1999; Wrangham 2003; Hare et al. 2012). On
the other hand, the lives of the Bonobo, or pygmy chimpanzee, are
totally diﬀerent from that of the common chimpanzee. They are smaller,
have a juvenilized appearance, and live in a much gentler society, with
intense heterosexual and homosexual sexual activity. One ecological
explanation for this diﬀerence is that bonobo groups are much larger
than those of the chimpanzees. Groups of wild chimpanzees are com-
posed of not more than ten individuals, while bonobos live in groups of
no fewer than ﬁfteen individuals and often many more than this.
According to Wrangham, a factor inﬂuencing group size is diet.
Bonobos feed on fruit and leaves that provide suﬃcient food for a
large group, while chimps live alongside of gorillas that dominate the
ground and take the major share of herbs and shoots, obliging chimps to
rely more on less accessible fruit in the trees, and other food sources like
450 11 Taming Ourselves
monkey meat. Which of these species best represents our ancestor’s
behavior? Some authors like Frans de Waal have claimed that the social
structure of bonobos has important things in common with that of early
humans (de Waal 2005). This may be partly correct, but again we must
not forget the intense competition and aggression that drives our own
social behavior (Gómez et al. 2016).
As I said before, among our ancestors there were signiﬁcant beneﬁts
for those that could engage in stable reciprocal relationships. We began
to adapt to live with others, establishing close family ties and friendship-
like alliances as well as sexual bonding. This involved an intense selection
process in which the environment to which we were adapting was not
just the outside world, but also our social world. Charles Darwin used
the term “artiﬁcial selection” to refer to the process in which humans
iterate the selection of some attributes of domestic species to maximize
their usefulness, as an example to illustrate the power of restricting the
reproductive resources to only some, based on the possession of speciﬁc
traits. He then proposed the term “natural selection” to refer to a similar
process occurring in the wild, without an operator behind it, but based
solely on the diﬀerential reproduction of some lineages at the expense of
others (Darwin 1871).
Technically, domestication can be deﬁned as the process of control-
ling the reproduction of another species. We have been using artiﬁcial
selection to “improve” the quality of species according to our needs.
Using this procedure, humans have domesticated hundreds of species,
from wheat to cattle, in eﬀect everything we see in the supermarket and
much more, including dogs and cats. The dog is the earliest species we
tamed (or, as in Saint-Exupéry’s story, we tamed each other), some
15,000 years ago (Shannon et al. 2015), although some argue it was
even earlier. Recent studies suggest two sites, in Eastern and Western
Asia, for the origin of the dog from two separate wolf populations
(Frantz et al. 2016). Domestication of grains like maize began some
9,000 years ago in the Fertile Crescent, imposing strong selective pres-
sure on these species to increase their nutritive capacity (Huﬀord et al.
2012). With domestication of plants and animals, came conditions like
periodontal disease, and many mutations were selected in humans that
allowed their digestive system and metabolism to adapt to increasingly
The Prince and the Fox 451
starch-rich and milk-rich diets (Tishkoﬀ et al. 2007). But not only genes
involved in metabolism show a signature of intense selection, there are
also genes coding for neuronal signaling pathways like the gene that
codes for the short version of the serotonin transporter, whose modula-
tion is related to mood disorders and control of aggressiveness (Chiao
and Blizinsky 2010). In addition, a type of dopamine receptor, D4, has
recently acquired polymorphisms that are related to risk-taking behavior,
attention deﬁcit hyperactivity disorder, and other neuropsychiatric con-
ditions (Ding et al. 2002). After analyzing the variability of human
genomes, Robert Moyzis and colleagues have come to the conclusion
that our species has undergone an intense selective process, at least in the
last 40,000 years, not unlike that observed in domesticated species like
maize or cattle (Hawks et al. 2007; Voight et al. 2006; Wang et al.
2006).
As we domesticated other species, we adapted ourselves to the process
of domestication, forming an evolutionary circle that maintained our
genetic evolution and drags other species with it. Richard Wrangham
argues that we humans not only domesticated other species, but that our
own evolutionary history is one of self-domestication, where we adapted
to the needs of our own social group, changing social dynamics that in
turn put new demands on our behavior in an ongoing cyclic process
(Wrangham 2003). This partly contradicts the now fashionable trend of
evolutionary psychology, interpreting human behavior as the result of
adaptations that occurred a long time ago, which are assumed to have
been unchanged genetically since then. The ﬁeld of evolutionary psy-
chology has been abundantly criticized for its post hoc interpretations,
which are quite diﬃcult to disprove. On the other hand, the evolution-
ary interpretation of our recent history is backed by genetic and archae-
ological evidence. Wrangham and others have argued that there were
two main inﬂection points in the evolution of society (Wrangham and
Peterson 1997; Wrangham et al. 1999). The ﬁrst stage relates to the
origin of Homo erectus some 1.8 million years ago, who begins to control
ﬁre and starts eating cooked food, providing the energy requirements to
build a large brain. From then on, brains slowly increased in size until
some 300,000 years ago, with the origin of Neanderthals and modern
humans, a period when our current brain size was acquired. This period
452 11 Taming Ourselves
was marked by several cultural innovations, including more sophisti-
cated tools and ornaments. Another critical event took place much more
recently, some 40,000 to 50,000 years ago, which coincided with the
intensiﬁcation of genetic selection in our species, at the time modern
humans colonized the planet and began what anthropologists call the
“great leap forward”. Here, technology underwent a dramatic explosion,
marked by the appearance of tools associated with clothing and jewelry,
arrow making and cave painting among other innovations. According to
Wrangham, from then until now, the self-domestication process has
accelerated tremendously, which is consistent with the evidence of
intense genetic selection shown above.
I am again indebted to Jeremy Taylor for calling my attention to
the experiments made in the 1950s by the late Russian geneticist
Dimitri Belyaev, and afterward by his colleague Lyudmila Trut, on
the process of domestication and artiﬁcial selection of wild Arctic
foxes (Trut 1999; Taylor 2009). Belyaev started with a population of
130 wild foxes that were held captive and allowed to reproduce. He
began an intense selection process, oﬀering food to the pups with
one hand while attempting to handle them with the other. After
repeating this procedure for several months, Belyaev separated the
foxes into three groups, those that never approached, those that
fondly accepted food, and an intermediate group. Notably, those
that accepted food also wagged their tails while approaching, and
these were the only ones allowed to reproduce later on. After six
generations, animals had become so docile that they behaved like
pets. Moreover, beside their tameness and lack of aggressiveness,
these animals evidenced many other changes like precocious sensorial
and vocal development, delayed appearance of the fear response,
retarded developmental release of the stress hormone corticosterone,
diminished adrenal gland activity and increased blood serotonin
levels. There were also morphological changes, diminishing the sex-
ual dimorphism of the skull, making it more female-like (or juveni-
lized) in males. Furthermore, Brian Hare experimented with the
social behavior of these animals, showing that they were just as
good as domesticated dogs and children at following human cues
like pointing or gazing, and notably better than wild animals and
The Prince and the Fox 453
even than wild non-human primates (Hare et al. 2005). More
recently, Adam Wilkins, together with Richard Wrangham and
Tecumseh Fitch proposed the existence of a “domestication syn-
drome” in several domestic animal species that includes many phe-
notypical features like docility, depigmentation, ﬂoppy ears, shorter
muzzles, smaller brains, more frequent reproductive cycles and neo-
tenic characters (Wilkins et al. 2014). Furthermore, they advanced
the bold hypothesis that underlying many of these characters is a
mild but generalized defect in an embryonic structure called the
neural crest, responsible for, among other things, the development
of pigmentation, the cranial skeleton and the autonomic and adrenal
systems that mediate stress response and the ﬁght-or-ﬂight reaction.
In this context, some years ago the group led by Nicole Le Douarin
transplanted cranial neural crest cells from chicks to quails, which
among other things resulted in chimeric hatchlings that produce
intermediate chick/quail vocalizations (Le Douarin 1980). This
implies that neural crest tissue is important in the generation of
structures involved in vocalizations, and that its modiﬁcation during
self-domestication contributed to the development of vocal learning
and speech.
The dog is our closest friend, not only because of its loyalty but
also because dogs show clear signs of empathy, display eye-to-eye
contact and are probable the most sociable of domestic animals.
Unlike the domestication of cattle or grain, the ancestors of carnivor-
ous domestic animals, like the wolf and the wild Egyptian cat prob-
ably approached humans looking for food rather than being chosen
by humans for domestication. Ray and Lorna Coppinger (Coppinger
and Coppinger 2002) and others have advanced this argument.
According to this hypothesis, wolves and cats entered a domestication
process on their own, ﬁrst wolves by approaching encampments and
looking for leftovers, and much later on, cats by chasing the rodents
that fed on grain stocks. Step by step, humans became familiar with
the most daring animals, which for their part restrained their aggres-
siveness to proﬁt more from their incursions. Humans also beneﬁted
from this alliance, as wolves helped to protect human groups and
provided clues about food, even helping to hunt. Cats reduced the
454 11 Taming Ourselves
number of mice and rats in food stocks. However, humans may have
not been so passive in receiving dogs and cats. It has been reported
that young adult male baboons kidnap female baboon infants from
other groups to start their own harem. There are some controversial
videos in YouTube suggesting that baboons also kidnap feral dog
cubs, which grow to adulthood as members of the baboon troop,
helping them to maintain territory and guarding against predators or
rival groups2
. Although the veracity of these videos has been ques-
tioned, similar behavior could have taken place among early modern
humans. Thus, in the process of becoming more sociable, we have
included other species, some for their own sake and others that were
manipulated by humans from the beginning. What I am pointing to
here is that the evolution of human social life is highly complex,
encompassing many other species in a profound evolutionary process
that goes far beyond just us. In a way, the evolution of social life and
of domestication can be seen as one overarching evolutionary process,
perhaps one of the most radical we have seen in the history of the
Earth.
Our brains may have been subject to the same kind of selective
process as other parts of the body, increasing our social dependence,
decreasing intra-group aggressiveness and facilitating mutual
exchanges of gestures and vocalizations as a sort of “social glue”
that promoted bonding and attachment between family members
and neighbors. Personally, I think this may partly be the case. As I
discussed in the previous chapter, there is growing likelihood that
other phenomena involving epigenetic processes rather than genetic
mutation played an important role in recent and not so recent
human evolution. This process has probably been taking place
since long before the origin of modern humans, and may have
been responsible for our physical evolution, including the acquisition
of large brains, the shortening of the face, our upright posture and
many other characters.
2
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U2lSZPTa3hohttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=
QlwOViUzv10
The Prince and the Fox 455
The Peter Pan Syndrome
Domestication is associated with the maintenance of juvenile characters, a
phenomenon that in the 1970s the late Stephen Jay Gould brilliantly called
attention to as an important mechanism for evolutionary change, particu-
larly in the evolution of our species (Gould 1977). Timing is of the essence in
embryonic development, and modulation of the rates and duration of
distinct growth patterns may be responsible for much of the morphological
evolution of animals. Changes in developmental timing are collectively
termed heterochronies, and as Gould proposed, these can be paedomorphic,
in which juvenile traits are maintained in the adult, or recapitulatory,
in which development follows a sequence dictated by evolutionary
history. Paedomorphic characters can occur by truncation of the latest
developmental stages (which is called progenesis), or by retardation of the
developmental pace, which is called neoteny (I talked about the latter
phenomenon in the Chapters 1 and 3). On the other hand, recapitulation
takes place by hypermorphosis, in which new stages are added at the end of
development. In recapitulation there is a general acceleration of earlier stages,
thus condensing them in early development due to a sort of “pressure”
produced as new structures keep adding in later developmental stages. Gould
and others argued that we humans are neotenic apes, in which our develop-
ment has slowed down, prolonging childhood and retarding maturity. This
is evidenced in features like a ﬂattened and broadened face, a large brain in
relation to body size, small teeth and jaws, thin skull bones, large eyes, and
other characters. Something similar has been proposed to occur in the
evolution of speech capacities. During development, juvenile monkeys
progressively lose the capacity to vocalize on instructed command as they
become adults. This feature is speciﬁc to voluntary vocal production, because
spontaneous vocalizations, as well as responses to other instructed motor
commands like hand movements, continued into adulthood. Steﬀan Hage
and Andreas Nieder argue that humans may represent a neotenic condition
in this respect, in which the juvenile voluntary control of vocalizations
extends into adulthood (Hage et al. 2016). This is consistent with evidence
showing a maintained expression of genes involved in synapse formation in
humans (Somel et al. 2013).
456 11 Taming Ourselves
However, some authors like Michael McKinney and Kenneth
McNamara have criticized the neotenic hypothesis of human evolution
(McKinney and McNamara 1991). These authors make the argument
that much of human brain heterochrony is in fact a case of hypermor-
phosis, in which both behavior and brain development go beyond the
stages achieved by other primates, acquiring more capacities and brain
complexity than our primate ancestors as new circuits and behaviors are
built based on previous ones. As I said above, the early and rapid devel-
opment of some human speech capacities may be an example of develop-
mental acceleration, like the development of ﬂight in birds. It may be that
neoteny accounts for some of our traits, like skeletal characters, hair loss,
etc., that maintain an immature condition in the adult stage. On the other
hand, human brain development does not result in an immature brain but
in a much larger and more complex brain because the rates of growth,
neuronal proliferation and establishment of connectivity are maintained
for a longer time (see Chapter 3). In my view, the situation is a combina-
tion of events in which the prolongation of development resulted in
increasing plasticity to generate evolutionary novelty but also permitted
brain development beyond the stages reached by other primates.
In contrast to humans, a typical feature of domesticated species is that
their brain size is smaller than that of their counterparts in the wild, a
character that is retained generations after returning to the wild (Kruska
2005). What makes this diﬀerence if we were both subjected to the domes-
tication process? One possibility is that domestication is not exactly the same
for the dominant and subordinate species. The subordinate species must
inhibit aggressive behaviors much more than the dominant one, and there is
a price for members of the dominant species that develop novel behavioral
strategies. Furthermore, members of the dominant species still have to
compete for mates, while those of subordinate species are by deﬁnition not
able to choose mates. Thus, while some human characters indeed showed a
relaxation of selection, and a positive selection for decreased aggressiveness
and greater tameness that are consistent with neoteny, some other traits
display intense selection for increasing behavioral complexity beyond that
achieved by other primates during human evolution.
In this chapter we have seen that the process of domestication, including of
ourselves as products of this behavioral and cultural innovation, is one of the
The Peter Pan Syndrome 457
main events in our recent history. We achieved this after a very long and slow
history in which our ancestors initiated a rudimentary culture of stone
artifacts. This primitive culture remained quite stable over time and changed
only recently, ﬁrst with the origin of Neanderthals and Denisovans, and then
with the appearance of modern humans. The last step is believed to have
occurred very recently, about 50,000 years ago, marked by the advent of
domestication practices that led to agriculture, sophisticated art and a tech-
nological explosion that is still taking place. Derek Bickerton has argued that
a pre-lexical system may have been at use as far back as Australopithecines,
which developed into modern speech much later, producing a rapid increase
in brain size and then giving rise to a Cultural Revolution (Bickerton 2014). I
claim instead that the protospeech stage described by Bickerton was accom-
panied (and very likely preceded) by a rich vocal repertoire used for social
bonding. These two elements gradually fused by inserting elements that
permitted connecting words in strings, until modern speech appeared. The
phonological loop probably evolved gradually along this process, but may
have acquired its maximal expression with the origin of modern speech. The
increasing sociality of early humans, possibly triggered by the ecological
conditions in which they had to live, was slowly molding our ancestors’
brains in a way that made having more communicative abilities highly
beneﬁcial. Thus, large brain networks were recruited for social behavior, in
concordance with the evolution and activation of the phonological loop.
Perhaps full-blown speech was acquired very recently, and may be partly
dependent on cultural and epigenetic mechanisms.
References and Notes
Abrams DA, Lynch CJ, Cheng KM, Phillips J, Supekar K, Ryali S, Uddin LQ,
Menon V (2013a) Underconnectivity between voice-selective cortex and reward
circuitry in children with autism. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110:12060–12065
Abrams DA, Uddin LQ, Menon V (2013b) Reply to Brock: Renewed focus on
the voice and social reward in children with autism. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S
A 110:E3974
Bachner-Melman R, Ebstein RP (2014) The role of oxytocin and vasopressin in
emotional and social behaviors. Handb Clin Neurol 124:53–68
458 11 Taming Ourselves
Baird G, Norbury CF (2016) Social (pragmatic) communication disorders and
autism spectrum disorder. Arch Dis Child 101:745–751
Baron-Cohen S (2002) The extreme male brain theory of autism. Trends Cogn
Sci 6:248–254
Baron-Cohen S, Leslie AM, Frith U. Baron-Cohen S, Leslie AM, Frith U
(1985) Does the autistic child have a “theory of mind”? Cognition
21:37–46
Bestelmeyer PE, Maurage P, Rouger J, Latinus M, Belin P (2014) Adaptation
to vocal expressions reveals multistep perception of auditory emotion. J
Neurosci 34:8098–8105
Bickerton D (2014) More Than Nature Needs. Language, Mind, and
Evolution. Harvard University Press, Cambridge
Brewer R, Murphy J (2016) People with autism can feel emotions, feel
empathy. Sci Amer. Spectrum http://www.scientiﬁcamerican.com/article/
people-with-autism-can-read-emotions-feel-empathy/
Brewer R, Happé F, Cook R, Bird G (2015) Commentary on “Autism, oxytocin
and interoception”: Alexithymia, not Autism Spectrum Disorders, is the
consequence of interoceptive failure. Neurosci Biobehav Rev 56:348–353
Buttelmann D, Buttelman F, Carpenter M, Call J, Tomasello M (2017) Great
apes distinguish true from false beliefs in an interactive helping task. PLoS
One 12:e0173793
Call J, Hare BA, Tomasello M (1998) Chimpanzee gaze following in an object-
choice task. Anim Cogn 11:89–99
Carter EJ, Williams DL, Minshew NJ, Lehman JF (2012) Is he being bad?
Social and language brain networks during social judgment in children with
autism. PLoS One 7:e47241
Caruso C (2016) Chimps may be capable of comprehending the minds of
others. Sci Am 10: 16–17
Chevallier C, Kohls G, Troiani V, Brodkin ES, Schultz RT (2012) The social
motivation theory of autism. Trends Cogn Sci 16:231–239
Chiao JY, Blizinsky KD (2010) Culture-gene coevolution of individualism-
collectivism and the serotonin transporter gene. Proc Biol Sci 277:529–537
Cook R, Brewer R, Shah P, Bird G (2013) Alexithymia, not autism, predicts
poor recognition of emotional facial expressions. Psychol Sci 24:723–732
Coppinger R, Coppinger L (2002) Dogs: A New Understanding of canine
Origin, Behavior and Evolution. University of Chicago Press, Chicago
Crockett MJ, Fehr E (2014) Social brains on drugs: tools for neuromodulation
in social neuroscience. Soc Cogn Aﬀect Neurosci 9:250–254
References and Notes 459
Darwin C (1871) The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex.
Murray, London
Darwin F (1887) The Life and Letters of Charles Darwin, Including and
Autobiographical Chapter. 3 vols. Murray, London.
De Saint-Exupéry A (1956) Le Petit Prince. Éditions Gallimard, Paris p 71–72
(1999)
De Waal F (2005) Our Inner Ape. Granta Books, London
Ding YC, Chi HC, Grady DL, Morishima A, Kidd JR, Kidd KK, Flodman P,
Spence MA, Schuck S, Swanson JM, Zhang YP, Moyzis RK (2002)
Evidence of positive selection acting at the human dopamine receptor D4
gene locus. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 99:309–314
Dreher JC, Dunne S, Pazderska A, Frodl T, Nolan JJ, O’Doherty JP (2016)
Testosterone causes both prosocial and antisocial status-enhancing behaviors
in human males. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 113:11633–11638
Dunbar RI (2004) Gossip in evolutionary perspective. Rev Gen Psychol
8:11–110
Dunbar RI, Shultz S (2007) Evolution in the social brain. Science 317:1344–1347
Earp SE, Maney DL (2012) Birdsong: is it music to their ears? Front Evol
Neurosci 4:14
Falk D (2004) Prelinguistic evolution in early hominins: whence motherese?
Behav Brain Sci 27:491–503; discussion 503–583
Frantz LA, Mullin VE, Pionnier-Capitan M, Lebrasseur O, Ollivier M, Perri A,
Linderholm A, Mattiangeli V, Teasdale MD, Dimopoulos EA, Tresset A,
Duﬀraisse M, McCormick F, Bartosiewicz L, Gál E, Nyerges ÉA, Sablin
MV, Bréhard S, Mashkour M, Bălăşescu A, Gillet B, Hughes S, Chassaing
O, Hitte C, Vigne JD, Dobney K, Hänni C, Bradley DG, Larson G (2016)
Genomic and archaeological evidence suggest a dual origin of domestic
dogs. Science 352:1228–1231
Gadagkar V, Puzerey PA, Chen R, Baird-Daniel E, Fargang AR, Goldberg JH
(2016) Dopamine neurons encode performance error in singing birds.
Science 354:1278–1281
Gallese V (2006) Intentional attunement: a neurophysiological perspective on
social cognition and its disruption in autism. Brain Res 1079:15–24
Gallese V, Gernsbacher MA, Heyes C, Hickok G, Iacoboni M (2011) Mirror
Neuron Forum. Perspect Psychol Sci 6:369–407.
Gao S, Becker B, Luo L, Geng Y, Zhao W, Yin Y, Hu J, Gao Z, Gong Q,
Hurlemann R, Yao D, Kendrick KM (2016) Oxytocin, the peptide that bonds
the sexes also divides them. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 113:7650–7654
460 11 Taming Ourselves
Garrido-Vásquez P, Pell MD, Paulmann S, Strecker K, Schwarz J, Kotz SA
(2013) An ERP study of vocal emotion processing in asymmetric
Parkinson’s disease. Soc Cogn Aﬀect Neurosci 8:918–927
Gebauer L, Skewes J, Westphael G, Heaton P, Vuust P (2014) Intact
brain processing of musical emotions in autism spectrum disorder, but
more cognitive load and arousal in happy vs. sad music. Front
Neurosci 8:192
Gernsbacher MA, Frymiare JL (2005) Does the Autistic Brain Lack Core
Modules? J Dev Learn Disord 9:3–16
Gómez JM, Verdú M, González-Megías A, Méndez M (2016) The phyloge-
netic roots of human lethal violence. Nature 538:233–237
Gopnik A (2012) Scientiﬁc thinking in young children: theoretical advances,
empirical research, and policy implications. Science 337:1623–1627
Gopnik A, Meltzoﬀ AN (1984) Semantic and cognitive development in 15- to
21-month-old children. J Child Lang 11:495–513
Gopnik A, Schulz L (2004) Mechanisms of theory formation in young chil-
dren. Trends Cogn Sci 8:371–377
Gould SJ (1977) Ontogeny and Phylogeny. Belknap Press, Harvard, Cambridge
Haber SN. (2011) Neuroanatomy of Reward: A View from the Ventral
Striatum. In: Gottfried JA (ed), Neurobiology of Sensation and Reward.
CRC Press/Taylor & Francis, Boca Raton, p 123–161
Hage SR, Gavrilov N, Nieder A (2016) Developmental changes of cognitive
vocal control in monkeys. J Exp Biol 219:1744–1749
Hamilton AF, Brindley RM, Frith U (2007) Imitation and action understand-
ing in autistic spectrum disorders: how valid is the hypothesis of a deﬁcit in
the mirror neuron system? Neuropsychologia 45:1859–1868
Hammock EA, Young LJ (2006) Oxytocin, vasopressin and pair bonding: impli-
cations for autism. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 361:2187–2198
Hare B, Call J, Agnetta B, Tomasello M (2000) Chimpanzees know what
conspeciﬁcs do and do not see. Anim Behav 59:771–785
Hare B, Call J, Tomasello M (2001) Do chimpanzees know what conspeciﬁcs
know? Anim Behav 61:139–151
Hare B, Plyusnina I, Ignacio N, Schepina O, Stepika A, Wrangham R, Trut L
(2005) Social cognitive evolution in captive foxes is a correlated by-product
of experimental domestication. Curr Biol 15:226–230
Hare B, Wobber B, Wrangham R (2012) The self-domestication hypothesis:
evolution of bonobo psychology is due to selection against aggression. Anim
Behav 83:573–585
References and Notes 461
Hawks J, Wang ET, Cochran GM, Harpending HC, Moyzis RK (2007)
Recent acceleration of human adaptive evolution. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S
A 104:20753–20758
Herrmann E, Call J, Hernàndez-Lloreda MV, Hare B, Tomasello M (2007)
Humans have evolved specialized skills of social cognition: the cultural
intelligence hypothesis. Science 317:1360–1366
Heyes CM (1998) Theory of mind in nonhuman primates. Behav Brain Sci
21:101–114; discussion 115–148
Heyes CM (2017) Apes submentalise. Trends Cogn Sci 21:1–2
Hickok G (2014) The Myth of Mirror Neurons: The Real Neuroscience of
Communication And Cognition. Norton Press, New York
Huﬀord MB, Xu X, van Heerwaarden J, Pyhäjärvi T, Chia JM, Cartwright RA,
Elshire RJ, Glaubitz JC, Guill KE, Kaeppler SM, Lai J, Morrell PL,
Shannon LM, Song C, Springer NM, Swanson-Wagner RA, Tiﬃn P,
Wang J, Zhang G, Doebley J, McMullen MD, Ware D, Buckler ES,
Yang S, Ross-Ibarra J (2012) Comparative population genomics of maize
domestication and improvement. Nat Genet 44:808–811
Jacques S (1979) Brain stimulation and reward: “pleasure centers” after twenty-
ﬁve years. Neurosurgery 5:277–283
Jones W, Klin A (2013) Attention to eyes is present but in decline in 2-6-
month-old infants later diagnosed with autism. Nature 504:427–431
Kennedy DP, Adolphs R (2012) The social brain in psychiatric and neurolo-
gical disorders. Trends Cogn Sci 16:559–572
Krupenye C. Kano F, Hirata S, Call J, Tomasello M (2016) Great apes
anticipate that other individuals will act according to false beliefs. Science
354:110–114
Kruska DC (2005) On the evolutionary signiﬁcance of encephalization in some
eutherian mammals: eﬀects of adaptive radiation, domestication, and fer-
alization. Brain Behav Evol 65:73–108
Kubikova L, Kostál L (2010) Dopaminergic system in birdsong learning and
maintenance. J Chem Neuroanat 39:112–123
Kuhl PK (2004) Early language acquisition: cracking the speech code. Nat Rev
Neurosci 5:831–843
Kuhl P, Rivera-Gaxiola M (2008) Neural substrates of language acquisition.
Annu Rev Neurosci 31:511–534
Kuhl PK, Tsao FM, Liu HM (2003) Foreign-language experience in infancy:
eﬀects of short-term exposure and social interaction on phonetic learning.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 100:9096–9101
462 11 Taming Ourselves
Le Douarin NM (1980) The ontogeny of the neural crest in avian embryo
chimaeras. Nature 286:663–669
Leighton J, Bird G, Charman T, Heyes C (2008) Weak imitative performance
is not due to a functional “mirroring” deﬁcit in adults with Autism
Spectrum Disorders. Neuropsychologia 46:1041–1049
Mandelblat-Cerf Y, Las L, Denisenko N, Fee MS (2014) A role for descending
auditory cortical projections in songbird vocal learning. Elife doi: 10.7554/
eLife.02152
Matsumoto M, Hikosaka O (2009) Two types of dopamine neuron distinctly
convey positive and negative motivation signals. Nature 459:837–841
McKinney ML, McNamara KJ (1991) Heterochrony. The Evolution of
Ontogeny. Plenum Press, New York
Meltzoﬀ AN, Waismeyer A, Gopnik A (2012) Learning about causes from
people: observational causal learning in 24-month-old infants. Dev Psychol
48:1215–1228
Murugan M, Harward S, Scharﬀ C, Mooney R (2013) Diminished FoxP2
levels aﬀect dopaminergic modulation of corticostriatal signaling important
to song variability. Neuron 80:1464–1476
Paulmann S, Pell MD, Kotz SA (2008) Functional contributions of the basal
ganglia to emotional prosody: evidence from ERPs. Brain Res 1217:171–178
Penn DC, Povinelli DJ (2007) On the lack of evidence that non-human
animals possess anything remotely resembling a “Theory of Mind”. Phil
Trans Roy Soc Lond B doi:10.1098/rstb.2006.2023
Perovic A, Modyanova N, Wexler K (2013) Comprehension of reﬂexive and
personal pronouns in children with autism: A syntactic or pragmatic deﬁcit?
Appl Psycholing 34:813–835
Pool E, Sennwald V, Delplanque S, Brosch T, Sander D (2016) Measuring
wanting and liking from animals to humans: A systematic review. Neurosci
Biobehav Rev 263:124–142
Povinelli DJ (2000) Folk Physics for Apes. Oxford University Press, New York
Povinelli DJ, Vonk J (2003) Chimpanzee minds: suspiciously human? Trends
Cogn Sci 7:157–160
Premack D, Woodruﬀ G (1978) Chimpanzee problem-solving: a test for
comprehension. Science 202:532–535
Redgrave P, Gurney K (2006) The short-latency dopamine signal: a role in
discovering novel actions? Nat Rev Neurosci 7:967–975
Riters LV (2012) The role of motivation and reward neural systems in vocal
communication in songbirds. Front Neuroendocrinol 33:194–209
References and Notes 463
Salimpoor VN, Benovoy M, Larcher K, Dagher A, Zatorre RJ (2011)
Anatomically distinct dopamine release during anticipation and experience
of peak emotion to music. Nat Neurosci 14:257–262
Salimpoor VN, Zald DH, Zatorre RJ, Dagher A, McIntosh AR (2015)
Predictions and the brain: how musical sounds become rewarding. Trends
Cogn Sci 19:86–91
Sasaki A, Sotnikova TD, Gainetdinov RR, Jarvis ED (2006) Social context-
dependent singing-regulated dopamine. J Neurosci 26:9010–9014
Seki Y, Hessler NA, Xie K, Okanoya K (2014) Food rewards modulate the
activity of song neurons in Bengalese ﬁnches. Eur J Neurosci 39:975–983
Schultz W (2007) Behavioral dopamine signals. Trends Neurosci 30:203–210
Schultz W (2016) Dopamine reward prediction-error signalling: a two-compo-
nent response. Nat Rev Neurosci 17:183–195
Seltzer LJ, Ziegler TE, Pollak SD (2010) Social vocalizations can release
oxytocin in humans. Proc Biol Sci 277:2661–2666
Shannon LM, Boyko RH, Castelhano M, Corey E, Hayward JJ, McLean C, White
ME, Abi Said M, Anita BA, Bondjengo NI, Calero J, Galov A, Hedimbi M,
Imam B, Khalap R, Lally D, Masta A, Oliveira KC, Pérez L, Randall J, Tam
NM, Trujillo-Cornejo FJ, Valeriano C, Sutter NB, Todhunter RJ, Bustamante
CD, Boyko AR (2015) Genetic structure in village dogs reveals a Central Asian
domestication origin. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112:13639–13644
Shteynberg G (2015) Shared Attention. Perspect Psychol Sci 10:579–590
Simonyan K, Horwitz B, Jarvis ED (2012) Dopamine regulation of human
speech and bird song: a critical review. Brain Lang 122:142–150
Simonyan K, Herscovitch P, Horwitz B (2013) Speech-induced striatal dopamine
release is left lateralized and coupled to functional striatal circuits in healthy
humans: a combined PET, fMRI and DTI study. Neuroimage 70:21–32
Skuse DH, Gallagher L (2009) Dopaminergic-neuropeptide interactions in the
social brain. Trends Cogn Sci 13:27–35
Skuse DH, Gallagher L (2011) Genetic inﬂuences on social cognition. Pediatr
Res 69:85R–91R
Sobel DM, Yoachim CM, Gopnik A, Meltzoﬀ AN, Blumenthal EJ (2007) The
blicket within: preschoolers’ inferences about insides and causes. J Cogn
Dev 8:159–182
Somel M, Liu X, Khaitovich P (2013) Human brain evolution: transcripts,
metabolites and their regulators. Nat Rev Neurosci 14:112–127
Sterponi L, de Kirby K, Shankey J (2015) Rethinking language in autism.
Autism 19:517–526
464 11 Taming Ourselves
Syal S, Finlay BL (2011) Thinking outside the cortex: social motivation in the
evolution and development of language. Dev Sci 14:417–430
Tamir DI, Mitchell JP (2012) Disclosing information about the self is intrin-
sically rewarding. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109:8038–8043
Taylor J (2009) Not a Chimp: The Hunt to Find the Genes that Make us
Human. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Tishkoﬀ SA, Reed FA, Ranciaro A, Voight BF, Babbitt CC, Silverman JS,
Powell K, Mortensen HM, Hirbo JB, Osman M, Ibrahim M, Omar SA,
Lema G, Nyambo TB, Ghori J, Bumpstead S, Pritchard JK, Wray GA,
Deloukas P (2007) Convergent adaptation of human lactase persistence in
Africa and Europe. Nat Genet 39:31–40
Tokarev K, Tiunova A, Scharﬀ C, Anokhin K (2011) Food for song: expression
of c-Fos and ZENK in the zebra ﬁnch song nuclei during food aversion
learning. PLoS One 6:e21157
Tomasello M (2014) A Natural History of Human Thinking. Harvard
University Press, Cambridge
Tomasello M, Call J, Hare B (1998) Five primate species follow the visual gaze
of conspeciﬁcs. Anim Behav 55:1063–1069
Tomasello M, Call J, Hare B (2003a) Chimpanzees versus humans: it’s not that
simple. Trends Cogn Sci 7:239–240
Tomasello M, Call J, Hare B (2003b) Chimpanzees understand psychological
states - the question is which ones and to what extent. Trends Cogn Sci
7:153–156
Tordjman S, Anderson GM, Botbol M, Brailly-Tabard S, Perez-Diaz F,
Graignic R, Carlier M, Schmit G, Rolland AC, Bonnot O, Trabado S,
Roubertoux P, Bronsard G (2009) Pain reactivity and plasma beta-endor-
phin in children and adolescents with autistic disorder. PLoS One 4:e5289
Trut LN (1999) Early canid domestication: the farm-fox experiment. Amer Sci
87:160–169
Verhoeven JS, Rommel N, Prodi E, Leemans A, Zink I, Vandewalle E, Noens
I, Wagemans J, Steyaert J, Boets B, Van de Winckel A, De Cock P, Lagae L,
Sunaert S (2012) Is there a common neuroanatomical substrate of language
deﬁcit between autism spectrum disorder and speciﬁc language impairment?
Cereb Cortex 22:2263–2271
Verly M, Verhoeven J, Zink I, Mantini D, Peeters R, Deprez S, Emsell L, Boets
B, Noens I, Steyaert J, Lagae L, De Cock P, Rommel N, Sunaert S (2014)
Altered functional connectivity of the language network in ASD: role of
classical language areas and cerebellum. Neuroimage Clin 4:374–382
References and Notes 465
Voight BF, Kudaravalli S, Wen X, Pritchard JK (2006) A map of recent
positive selection in the human genome. PLoS Biol 4: e72. Erratum in:
PLoS Biol. 2007 5:e147. PLoS Biol. 2006 4:e154
von dem Hagen EA, Stoyanova RS, Rowe JB, Baron-Cohen S, Calder AJ
(2014) Direct gaze elicits atypical activation of the theory-of-mind network
in autism spectrum conditions. Cereb Cortex 24:1485–1492
Waismeyer A, Meltzoﬀ AN, Gopnik A (2015) Causal learning from probabil-
istic events in 24-month-olds: an action measure. Dev Sci 18:175–182
Walum H, Westberg L, Henningsson S, Neiderhiser JM, Reiss D, Igl W, Ganiban
JM, Spotts EL, Pedersen NL, Eriksson E, Lichtenstein P (2008) Genetic
variation in the vasopressin receptor 1a gene (AVPR1A) associates with pair-
bonding behavior in humans. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 105:14153–14156
Wang ET, Kodama G, Baldi P, Moyzis RK (2006) Global landscape of recent
inferred Darwinian selection for Homo sapiens. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
103:135–140
Wilkins AS, Wrangham RW, Fitch WT (2014) The “domestication syn-
drome” in mammals: a uniﬁed explanation based on neural crest cell
behavior and genetics. Genetics 197:795–808
Williams JH, Whiten A, Suddendorf T, Perrett DI (2001) Imitation, mirror
neurons and autism. Neurosci Biobehav Rev 25:287–295
Willuhn I, Tose A, Wanat MJ, Hart AS, Hollon NG, Phillips PE, Schwarting
RK, Wöhr M (2014) Phasic dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens in
response to pro-social 50 kHz ultrasonic vocalizations in rats. J Neurosci
34:10616–10623
Wrangham R (2003) The Evolution of Cooking. In: Brockman J (ed), The New
Humanists: Science at the Edge. Sterling Publishing, Dubai, p 108–109
Wrangham R, Peterson D (1997) Demonic Males: Apes and the Origin of
Human Violence. Mariner Books, San Diego
Wrangham RW, Jones JH, Laden G, Pilbeam D, Conklin-Brittain N (1999)
The raw and the stolen. Cooking and the ecology of human origins. Curr
Anthropol 40:567–594
Zatorre RJ (2015) Musical pleasure and reward: mechanisms and dysfunction.
Ann N Y Acad Sci 1337:202–211
Zatorre RJ, Salimpoor VN (2013) From perception to pleasure: music and its
neural substrates. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110 (Suppl 2):10430–10437
466 11 Taming Ourselves
12
Epilogue
This book has focused on a speciﬁc aspect of the evolution of our
species, which are the neurobiological innovations that took place to
allow us to communicate through a syntactically and semantically struc-
tured language that uses speech as its main communicative channel. Our
brain is special for several reasons, most of them related to our capacity
for speech and language, like its large size housing a great number of
neurons, and the lateralization of its functions that puts stringent
demands on interhemispheric connectivity. Our memory capacity, par-
ticularly in the form of working memory (especially auditory), is also
unique among primates. This led me some years ago to think that the
expansion of working memory capacity, particularly through the devel-
opment of the phonological loop and its neuronal underpinnings, was a
particularly relevant acquisition for the evolution of speech. Recognizing
that the evolution of speech must have been an extremely complex
process, my proposal has focused on identifying speciﬁc inﬂection points
that may have signiﬁcantly changed or accelerated the evolutionary
trajectory of our species. In my view, this is a useful and recommended
strategy to unveil the diﬀerent variables involved in complex phenom-
ena. In this direction, I have aimed to specify circumscribed neural
© The Author(s) 2017
F. Aboitiz, A Brain for Speech,
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-54060-7_12
467
circuits that may be necessary for speech development and may have
been critical in its evolution. Furthermore, I have looked for possible
homologous circuits in non-human primates (possibly serving a quite
diﬀerent function), in order to establish an evolutionary continuity with
our recent ancestors.
Throughout this book, I have discussed alternative perspectives for
the origin of speech, like the gestural origin of language and the
mirror neuron hypothesis, with which I partly agree, in the sense
that human communication is an opportunistic, multimodal behavior
that uses any means possible to transmit information, be it gestural,
vocal, or otherwise. Nonetheless, none of these perspectives has really
addressed the key issue of how speech became the dominant commu-
nication modality, and what were the neural and biological processes
involved in this transformation. Furthermore, in my opinion, the idea
that there was a primitive gesture-dominant stage that served as
scaﬀolding for subsequent speech origins is speculative and backed
by little evidence. On the other hand, I have reviewed comparative
evidence from birds and mammals, including primates, to illustrate
that vocal learning capacity – a critical requisite for speech evolution –
occurs in several animal species. Primates may not be particularly good
at vocal learning, as they have little voluntary control over the vocal
folds, but their voluntary control of the upper vocal tract, particularly
the lips, is related to social behavior and its motor coordination is not
unlike that in humans.
The book’s central argument is that at a more central level, the
acquisition of the phonological loop was a key element in the
acquisition of speech, as a circuit connecting the ventral motor cortex
with auditory areas via the arcuate fasciculus (supported by inferior
parietal and anterior temporal projections to the emerging Broca’s
region), and with brainstem nuclei controlling phonation. It is very
likely that at least part of the circuitry involved in the phonological
loop, including a rudimentary arcuate fasciculus, was already present
in the common ancestor with the chimpanzee, but did not necessarily
participate in vocal behavior. At some unknown point in evolution
(perhaps in Australopithecines), this temporoparietal circuit was co-
opted to participate in learned vocal behavior, slowly giving rise to a
468 12 Epilogue
primitive proto-speech-like stage, marked by song-like sequences and
“proto-lexical” items signaling objects or events. This resulted in
behavioral changes associated with a gradual increase in brain size
in early Homo. But the full functional expansion of this incipient
phonological loop is probably a more recent event, concomitant with
the development of semantics, syntax, and the development of a
theory of mind, which are essential events in the cultural and genetic
revolution that started with archaic Homo sapiens and exploded some
50,000 years ago. The acquisition of modern language, largely
mediated by speech, had vast consequences for human behavior,
engaging us in a large-scale evolutionary process that includes not
only us but also many other species. This is perhaps one of the most
radical events we have seen in the history of the Earth and is not
without consequences, as we are probably on the verge of causing the
sixth mass extinction of the planet. Eloquently, Brian Cox asserts,
“The idea that a civilization may destroy itself is both ludicrous and
likely. We are pathetically inadequate at long term planning, idioti-
cally primitive in our destructive urges and pathologically incapable
of simply getting along” (Cox 2014 p 45). But speech has also
endowed us with the power to establish conversations and listen to
others, and with a powerful ability to foresee outcomes that are
distant in time. It therefore depends on our capacity to converse
again to secure the fate of our species and our world.
Reference
Cox B (2014) Human Universe. William Collins, London
Reference 469
Author Index
A
Abrams, D., 445
Adolphs, R., 428
Aiello, L., 92–93
Alexander, G., 258
Alvarez, L., 331
Amunts, K., 147
Arbib, M., 25, 288, 294, 295, 296,
302, 303, 306–317, 394,
395, 410
Arnsten, A., 261
Arriaga, G., 379
Aslin, R., 404
Atchley, W., 87
B
Bachner-Melman, R., 437
Baddeley, A., 32, 33, 213, 215–221,
224, 225, 230–231, 235–238,
240, 249, 257, 272
Badre, D., 229
Baillarguer, J., 44, 45
Baldo, J., 227
Bambini, V., 66, 270
Barbas, H., 95
Barlow, H., 250
Baron-Cohen, S., 294, 444–445
Barton, R., 107–109, 114–115,
116, 186
Belgard, G., 341
Belin, P., 67,
142, 439
Belyaev, 453
Berent, I., 306
Berger, H., 73
Bickerton, D., 10, 19–22,
25, 28, 289, 309, 393,
395, 458
Bishop, D., 154
Boesch, C., 382
Bogen, J., 131, 133
© The Author(s) 2017
F. Aboitiz, A Brain for Speech,
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-54060-7
471
Bolhuis, J., 317, 356, 357, 361, 363,
364, 409
Bonatti, L., 361, 403
Boncinelli, E., 339
Borst, A., 345
Bosman, C., 74, 298, 316,
344–345
Bouillaud, JB, 43
Bowling, D., 363
Braccini, S., 155
Bradbury, J., 377
Bregman, M., 355, 391
Brewer, R., 446
Broca, P., 4–6, 29, 31, 43–44,
48–52, 54–60, 66–68,
70–71, 76, 131, 143,
147–149, 151–153, 156,
221, 222, 226–228, 230,
232–235, 259, 264–266,
268–270, 272–273, 293–294,
304, 307, 316, 317, 357, 388,
393, 398, 400, 403, 406,
447, 468
Brodmann, K., 45, 51, 57, 59, 116,
221, 264
Brown, C., 317
Bruce, L., 339
Bruderer, A., 306
Brunetti, E., 202
Buchsbaum, B., 221–227, 272
Budisavljevic, S., 148, 156
Bugnyar, T., 346–347, 352
Burdach, K., 54
Burnet, J., 7
Bush,G., 385
Buxhoeveden, D., 149
Buzsáki, G., 73, 119, 197–198
Byrne, R., 288, 302, 311
C
Cahalane, D., 100, 110
Cajal, S., 44–45, 180–181, 185, 345
Calvin, W., 25, 153
Call, J., 288–289, 310–311,
431–433
Caminiti, R., 176, 182, 195, 196
Cantalupo, C., 151
Caplan, D., 231
Caramazza, A., 164
Carmel, L., 410
Carruthers, P., 238–239
Carter, E., 447
Catani, M., 54, 56–58, 66, 68, 70,
148, 156, 270, 398
Caton, R., 73
Cavada, C., 259
Chaminade, T., 155, 157, 273
Champod, A., 229
Charvet, C., 100, 101, 104, 110, 340
Chatham, C., 229
Cheney, D., 20, 380, 392
Cheng, D., 229
Chevallier, C., 445, 448
Chomsky, N., 8–16, 18–22,
309–310
Chung, JY, 96
Clark, N., 382
Clayton, N., 108, 346–348, 351,
353
Clinton, B., 385
Collier, K., 394
Concha, M., 162
Condillac, E., 7
Cook, P., 389
Cook, R., 297
Coolidge, F., 240–241
Coppinger, L., 454
472 Author Index
Coppinger, R., 454
Corballis, M., 25, 138, 139, 149,
153, 287, 298
Cornélio, A., 26, 27, 93
Cowan, N., 240
Cox, B.(Epilogue), 469
Crow, T., 161
Cumberbatch, B., 435
D
Damasio, A., 67
Darlington, R., 105–107
Darwin, C., 3–6, 11, 17, 18, 25, 32,
85, 138, 264, 310, 329,
355–356, 390, 425–426, 431,
442, 450, 451
Davis, P., 75
Davis, H., 75
Dax, M., 49, 131
De Beer, G., 343
D’Esposito, M., 221–225, 227, 258,
261, 272
De Waal, F., 451
Deacon, T., 19, 118, 265–266
Dehaene, S., 56, 161, 264
Dehaene-Lambertz, G., 148, 401
Déjérine, J., 55–56
Demeter, S., 193
Den Ouden, DB., 71
Denton, M., 18
Desmond, J., 229
Diamond, M., 98
Dick, AS, 66, 67, 70, 270
Dicke, U., 116
Diehl, M., 268
Donders, F., 191
Dorion, A., 176
Dostrovsky, J., 335
Doty, R., 193
Dronkers, N., 58, 68, 226, 227
Dunbar, R., 92, 115, 118, 427,
428, 440
E
Earp, S., 443
Ebbesson, S., 111, 113
Ebstein, R., 437
Eccles, J., 250
Edelman, G., 211
Eichenbaum, H., 333, 335
Emery, N., 346, 347, 351, 353
Endress, A., 404
Engel, A., 199
Engesser, S., 362
F
Fadiga, L., 293, 304
Falk, D., 29, 440
Fedorenko, E., 70, 230
Feenders, G., 359, 376
Ferrari, P., 291, 298, 308
Ffytche, D., 56, 66
Fiez, J., 223–224
Finlay, B., 89, 100, 105–107,
109–110, 272, 426, 438
Finn, E., 69
Fischer, B., 30
Fisher, S., 407, 408
Fitch, T., 4, 7, 11, 12, 14–19, 99,
155, 330, 363, 384–385, 387,
388, 391, 394, 454
Flinker, A., 68
Fodor, J., 43
Author Index 473
Fogassi, L., 291
Foley, R., 92–93
Foundas, A., 147
Foville, L., 49, 50, 54, 55, 262
Frackowiak, R., 220–221
Frank, M., 229
Friederici, A., 66–69, 71, 74, 76,
148, 200, 201, 226, 234, 273,
306, 401, 405
Fries, P., 74
Friston, K., 71, 293
Frith, C., 220–221
Fuertinger, S., 70
Funahashi, S., 250
Fuster, J., 231, 258–261, 263, 297
G
Galaburda, A., 59, 145, 148, 160,
253, 264
Galton, F., 90
Galuske, R., 149
Gall, F., 29, 42–43, 241
Gallese, V., 290, 445, 446
Gannon, P., 151
García, J., 300
Gardner, A., 24
Gardner, B., 24
Gardner, T., 363
Gazzaniga, M., 131, 133, 135,
138–140, 173, 189
Gebauer, L., 448
Gehring, W., 343, 346
Gentner, T., 15, 355, 361, 390
Gernsbacher, A., 446
Geschwind, N., 56, 57, 71, 131, 145,
147, 160
Ghazanfar, A., 380, 387–389, 396
Gil-da-Costa, R., 150–151, 268, 274
Glushko, A., 391
Goldman-Rakic, P., 259–265, 268
Golgi, C., 44
Gómez-Robles, A., 119
Gopnik, A., 430–431
Gould, SJ., 30–31, 90, 107, 383, 456
Gray, R., 351
Gregory, M., 29, 30
Grodzinsky, J., 233
Groen, M., 154
Grove, E., 113, 342
Gruber, O., 227–228
Güntürkün, O., 346, 349
Gunz, P., 29
Gurney, K., 441
Gustison, M., 388
H
Hackett, T., 268
Hage, S., 268–269, 379, 380, 392,
393, 398, 400, 456
Hagmann, P., 70
Hagoort, P., 316, 393
Hamilton, A., 446
Hamilton, C., 150
Hammock, E., 436, 437
Hare, B., 409, 431–433, 450, 453
Haug, H., 97, 98
Hausen, M., 391
Hauser, M., 11, 12, 14–20, 296,
376, 380, 404
Hayes, C., 24, 386
Hayes, K., 24, 386
Hebb, D., 212
Hecht, E., 152, 155–156
Hegel, G. (Epilogue), 467
474 Author Index
Heinrich, B., 351–352
Helmstaedter, M., 345
Herculano-Houzel, S., 93, 95,
96, 98, 99, 109, 112, 116,
276, 318
Herder, G., 7
Hevner, R., 94
Heyes, C., 297, 299, 433, 446
Hickok, G., 67, 74, 140, 141, 224,
226, 227, 296, 297, 304, 446
Hillyard, S., 76, 201
Hitch, G., 215, 216, 217, 218,
236, 249
Hof, P., 195–196
Holmgren, N., 339
Holstege, G., 397
Holloway, R., 29, 302
Hopkins, W., 151, 153, 155, 189, 196
Hubel, D., 23, 185, 251, 253,
259, 300
Humphries, C., 224
Hunt, G., 351
Huseynof, A., 30
Huth, A., 203
Huxley, TH., 5
J
Iacoboni, M., 192, 293, 446
Ide, A., 147
Innocenti, GM., 175, 176, 181,
182, 183, 192, 195, 196, 198,
202, 402
Jackendoﬀ, R., 10, 15–17, 22
Jackson, JH., 50, 51, 138, 257
Jacobs, B., 149
Jacobs, L., 333
Jacobsen, C., 257
Jäncke, L., 147
Janik, V., 378
Jarvis, E., 341, 357, 359, 363, 376,
377, 379, 443, 444
Jensen, P., 411
Jerison, H., 86, 87, 91, 97, 117
Jespersen, O., 394
Jewelry, C., 453
Jones, W C., 444
Jonides, J., 222–223, 262
Jürgens, U., 398
K
Kaas, J., 110, 112, 268, 272, 273,
307, 336
Kacelnik, A., 352
Kalan, A., 239
Källén, B., 338
Kanazawa, I., 143
Karten, H., 337–340, 344
Katz, M., 178
Kennedy, D., 110, 428
Kidd, C., 30
Kilner, J., 293, 295
Kleiber, M., 87
Kleinfeld, D., 334
Klin, A., 444
Knightley, K., 435
Konishi, M., 356
Koskinas, G., 45
Kostal, L C., 442–443
Kriegstein, A., 101
Krubitzer, L., 111–112
Kubikova, L., 442–443
Kubota, K., 258, 260
Kuﬄer, S., 250
Author Index 475
Kuhl, H., 239
Kuhl, P., 403, 438, 439
Kutas, M., 76, 201
L
Laland, K., 115
LaMantia, A., 180–182
Lameira, A., 382, 386
Lametti, D., 306
Langacker, R., 314
Langmore, N., 329
Lashley, K., 86
Lauterbur, P., 61
Le Douarin, L., 454
Lenneberg, E., 22, 23, 24
Leroy, F., 148
Lettvin, J., 250, 252, 253
Levitsky, W., 145, 147
Lewis, D., 317
Lewitus, E., 95
Lewontin, R., 8, 30, 107
Liao, D., 306, 307
Liberman, A., 12, 304, 305
Lichtheim, L., 67
Liebenthal, E., 228
Lieberman, P., 383, 384
Liepmann, H., 55
Lipkind, D., 361, 362
Lissauer, H., 55
Liu, H., 176
Logothetis, N., 73, 119, 197, 198
Lorenz, K., 22, 23, 300, 356
Luders, E., 176
Luef, E., 382
Luppino, G., 307
Luzzati, F., 340, 341
M
Mac-Donald, J., 305
MacLean, E., 92
MacNeilage, P., 155
Makuuchi, M., 234
Malach, R., 199
Mandelblat-Cerf, Y., 443
Manney, D., 443
Mansﬁeld, P., 61
Marie, P., 50, 51, 58
Marler, P., 20, 300, 356,
357, 392
Massaro, D., 305, 306
Maturana, H., 250, 251, 263
McGurk, H., 305
McKinney, M., 457
McNamara, K., 457
Medina, L., 339, 340
Mehler, J., 402, 403
Mesulam, M., 54–57, 68
Meynert, T., 44, 52
Mihrshahi, R., 188
Milner, B., 213
Miller, G., 212, 216
Mishkin, M., 257, 258, 275
Mitchell, J., 439
Mitteroecker, P., 30
Miyagawa, S., 395
Molnár, Z., 101, 340, 341
Montiel, J., 104, 114, 177, 178, 186,
332, 336, 340–344
Mooney, R., 443
Moore, M., 157
Morecraft, R., 386
Morgan, T., 157, 308, 388
Moro, A., 314
Moser, E., 335
476 Author Index
Moser, M., 335
Moulin.Frier, C., 306
Mountcastle, V., 69
Moyzis, R., 452
Mpodozis, J., 115
Mukamel, R., 294
Mulert, C., 200
Müller, M., 7
N
Nagel, T., 348
Nauta, W., 259
Neary, T., 339
Nespor, M., 402
Neubert, F., 274
Newport, E., 403–404
Nieder, A., 268, 269, 380, 392, 393,
398, 400, 456
Niki, H., 258
Noctor, S., 101
Nolan, C., 212
Nomura, T., 340, 341
Norman, D., 219, 240
Northcutt, G., 340, 343
Nottebohm, F., 357, 360
O
O’Keefe, J., 335
O’Leary, D., 113
Oakley, K., 25, 155
Olivares, R., 193–195
Oller, K., 400
Oostenbroeck, J., 301
Owen, R., 4, 5, 264
Oztop, E., 295
P
Pääbo, S., 410
Pallas, S., 112, 277
Pandya, D., 59, 264, 265, 270
Papez, J., 50
Paracchini, S., 163
Parker, G., 148
Pascual-Leone, A., 299
Passingham, R., 116, 240
Patel, A., 231, 232, 389, 390
Patterson, F., 24, 382
Paulesu, E., 220, 221, 222
Paulmann, S., 441
Pearce, G., 212
Peelle, J., 143
Peiker, I., 199
Pell, M., 441
Penﬁeld, W., 22, 23, 60
Peña, M., 361, 403
Pepperberg, I., 354, 355
Perlman, M., 382
Perruchet, P., 16, 17
Peterburs, J., 229
Petersen, M., 150, 223
Peterson, D., 450, 452
Petkov, C., 274, 363, 376
Petrides, M., 51, 52, 66, 229, 265,
269, 270, 307
Pfungst, O., 17
Phillips, K., 196
Piantadosi, S., 30
Pinel, JP., 161
Pinker, S., 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 24,
231, 405
Poe, E., 346
Poeppel, D., 67, 74, 75, 140,
141, 142
Author Index 477
Poﬀenberger, A., 191
Pontzer, H., 93
Poremba, A., 275
Posner, M., 223
Povinelli, D., 349–351, 432, 433
Premack, D., 431
Preuss, T., 151, 264, 265
Pribram, K., 257, 258
Price, C., 229, 387
Provine, R., 396, 397
Puelles, L., 339, 340
Pulvermüller, F., 306, 313, 314
Purves, D., 277–278
Q
Quiroga, R., 252, 253, 255
R
Raichle, M., 63, 176, 200, 428
Rakic, P., 94, 101, 105,
180, 182
Ramón y Cajal, S., 44, 180–181,
185, 345
Rauschecker, J., 71, 268, 273, 306
Reader, S., 115
Reby, D., 380, 385
Redgrave, P., 441
Reil, JC., 54
Rey, A., 16, 17, 66
Richards, L., 178
Rilling, J., 66, 151, 239, 271
Ringo, J., 193, 194, 198
Riska, B., 87
Riters, L., 444
Rizzolatti, G., 25, 289, 290–291,
293, 294, 295, 303, 307
Roberts, L., 22, 23, 60
Rockel, A., 97
Rogers, L., 160
Rolando, L., 44, 49
Romanski, L., 268
Rosa, M., 272
Roth, G., 116
Rowe, T., 332, 333, 336
Rubenstein, J., 101, 340, 342
Rushton, JP., 91
S
Saﬀran, E., 231
Saﬀran, J., 403
Saint-Exupéry, A., 449, 451
Sammler, D., 67, 201
Sanides, F., 58, 59, 145, 264
Saur, D., 55, 66, 226, 228
Savage, C., 346
Scott, B., 275
Scharﬀ, C., 408, 409, 443
Scheibel, A., 98, 149, 174, 263
Schiller, F., 5, 44, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52,
54, 131
Schlaug, G., 147
Schmidt, K., 185, 354
Schultz, W., 115, 440, 441
Seki, Y., 443
Seltzer, L., 438
Seyfarht, R., 20, 380, 392
Shallice, T., 214, 219, 221,
225, 240
Shannon RV., 142, 355
Shen, K., 176
Sheridan, J., 317
Sherwood, C., 116, 118, 151, 196
Shiﬀrin, R., 216
478 Author Index
Simard, P., 193
Simonyan, K., 70, 271, 398,
442–443
Singer, W., 69, 73–74, 119, 149,
197–199, 257
Sinigaglia, C., 289, 291, 294, 295
Sisti, H., 190
Skeide, M., 68, 71, 76, 273, 306,
401, 403, 405
Skinner, M., 410
Sliwa, J., 269
Smith-Fernández, A., 339
Sperry, R., 131–133, 135, 137–140,
173, 250
Sporns, O., 70
Steinmann, S., 200
Steinmetz, H., 147
Stout, D., 151, 155–157, 273
Striedter, G., 94–96, 104, 106
Stroop, J., 191
Subramanian, H., 397
Suga, N., 377
Sun, T., 94
Sunaert, S., 447
Sur, M., 112, 277
Suzuki, I., 340, 341
Suzuki, T., 362
Sylvius, F., 44
T
Taglialatela, J., 316
Takahashi, D., 388, 389
Tallinen, T., 96
Tamamaki, N., 101
Tamir, D., 439
Taylor, J., 348, 349, 351, 453
Terao, Y., 143
Terrace, H., 302
Tillinghast, J., 377
Tinbergen, N., 23, 300, 356
Tomasch, J., 180, 181
Tomasello, M., 289, 302, 310, 311,
431–434
Tordjman, S., 446
Townsend, S., 394
Tremblay, P., 66, 67, 70,
270, 401
Trevathan, W., 30
Trousseau, A., 50
Trut, L., 453
Turing, A., 435
Tyldum, M., 435
U
Uomini, N., 156, 158
V
Vallar, G., 221, 225, 230,
231, 235
Vallortigara, G., 160
Van Essen, D., 95
Vanderwolf, C., 333
Varela, F., 74, 257, 263
Vargha-Khadem, F., 406, 407
Vauclair, J., 152, 155
Vendetti, M., 240
Venditti, C., 109, 116
Vincze, O., 108
Von Bonin, G., 116
Von dem Hagen, E., 445
Von Economo, C., 45
Von Monakow, C., 54
Von Osten, W., 17
Author Index 479
W
Walum, H., 437
Wang, S., 195
Warrington, E., 214, 221, 225
Washington, S., 377
Watson, 382
Webber, C., 163
Weiller, C., 52, 54, 55, 66, 228
Wernicke, K., 51, 52, 54, 55, 56, 57,
59, 66, 131, 140, 141, 257,
263–266, 270, 357, 447
Wheeler, B., 93, 382
Wiesel, T., 23, 185, 251, 259, 300
Wilkins, A., 454
Wilson, S., 162
Willis, T., 42, 173
Willuhn, M., 442
Wirth, S., 269
Witelson, S., 147, 174
Woelﬂe, R., 192
Wöhr, M., 442
Woodruﬀ, G., 431
Wrangham, R., 93, 409, 411, 450,
452–454
Wynn, T., 240, 241
Y
Yin, P., 275
Young, L., 436, 437
Z
Zaidel, D., 138
Zaidel, E., 135, 137, 138, 139, 145,
174, 192, 202, 263
Zamorano, F., 104,
332, 339–342
Zatorre, R., 142, 390, 442
Zeki, S., 253–256
Ziemann, U., 190
Zuberbϋhler, K., 288, 380
480 Author Index
Subject Index
A
Absolute pitch, 147
Acallosal patients, bimanual
coordination, 189
Accelerated development,
language, 448
Acheulean, 27, 156
Achromatopsia, 254
Acient DNA, 410–411
Acoustic uncertainty, 142
Action understanding, 291, 296, 309
Active brain growth, 118
Active memory, 258
Adaptively specialized associative
learning, 300–301
Addictive drugs, 440
Adrenal glands, system, 453
Adult neurogenesis, 89, 360
Aﬀective vocalizations, 400
Aggression, 427, 437, 451
Agnosia, 55, 140, 255
visual, 55, 255
Aicardi syndrome, 179
Akinetopsia, 256
AKT3, 105
Alarm call, 354, 392
Alex, gray parrot, 354
Alexia, 55
Alexithymia, 446
Alien hand, 137, 189
Allometry, allometric growth, 86,
106
Alpha rhythm, 73
Amnesia, retrograde, 213
Amniotes, 330, 332, 344–345
Amphibians, 91, 132, 177,
330, 332
Amusia, 391
© The Author(s) 2017
F. Aboitiz, A Brain for Speech,
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-54060-7
481
Amygdala, 113, 177, 337–339, 341,
358, 397, 426, 428, 438,
439, 445
Angry expressions, 439
Angular gyrus, 223
area 39, 223
Animals working memory, 17, 224,
227, 238, 275
Anterior commissure, 177, 186, 188
Anterior temporal lobe, 52, 55,
66, 76, 262, 266, 268, 272,
275, 428
Anticipation, social behavior, 428
Apes, 4, 5, 24–26, 29, 42, 57, 59, 93,
109, 116, 117, 148, 151, 155,
156, 288–289, 303, 311, 315,
316, 318, 346, 348–349, 351,
375, 376, 379, 381, 384, 386,
389, 397, 431–432, 434, 456
Aphasia, 50–52, 54–56, 58, 68, 70,
72, 141, 214, 226, 232–233,
236, 406
Broca’s, 50, 51, 70
Aphemia, 49–51
Approach behavior, social, 442
Approaching behavior, 442
Apraxia, 55, 71
Archaeopteryx, 91, 336
Archaic modern humans, 469
Arcopallium, 337, 443
Arctic fox, 453
Arcuate fasciculus, 52, 54–57, 66,
67, 71, 148–149, 151,
226–227, 230, 263, 265–267,
270–273, 276, 308, 401,
403, 468
asymmetry, 148
Area 6, 58
Area 7, 292
Area 39 (Inferior parietal lobe), 223
Area 40, inferior parietal
lobe, 221–223
Area 44 (Broca’s area), 57, 221, 228,
265, 269, 270
Area 44, 57, 67–68, 76, 221, 228,
265, 269, 270, 307
Area 44, pars opercularis, 57, 67,
221, 228
Area 45 (Broca’s area), 68, 228,
265, 270
Area 45, 68, 228, 265, 269, 270
Area 45, pars triangularis, 228, 265
Area 46, 58
Area 47, 57–59, 66, 76
Area AIP, 292
Area F5, 289, 290, 292, 304, 307
Area PF, 292
Area PFG, 292
Area X, 359, 360, 408, 443, 444
Arms race, 118
Articulatory rehearsal, phonological
loop, 218
Articulatory suppression, 219, 221,
227–228, 235
Artiﬁcial Grammar, 14, 16, 274
Artiﬁcial selection, 451, 453
Aslant tract, frontal, 68, 70, 398, 401
ASPM, 105
Associative behavior, 433, 438
Associative processes, 270, 297, 299,
300, 308
Asymmetrical divisions, 100
Asymmetry
anatomical, 147, 151, 160–161,
174, 176
development, 139, 154, 159–163
482 Subject Index
genetics, 164
lateralization and callosum, 174
perceptual, 159
Attachment, social, 426
Attentional control system, 217–218
Attention deﬁcit hyperactivity
disorder, 410, 428, 452
Auditory cortex, 66, 75, 76, 112,
117, 140, 142, 190, 270, 275,
357, 377, 388, 390, 442
Auditory system
dorsal pathway, 228, 269,
275, 409
ventral pathway, 66, 68, 268,
272, 275
Auditory template, 356, 357, 443
Australopithecines, 26–27, 29,
30, 120, 276, 315–316,
394–395, 458
Australopithecus,
Australopithecines, 29
Autism, 105, 147, 179, 405, 410,
411, 428, 437, 444–449
autistic behavior, 179
grammar, 405, 448
language, 405, 447, 448
reﬂexive pronouns, 448
Autonomic system, 454
Averted gaze, 445
Axon or ﬁber diameter, 196
Axons, diameter, 119, 196, 199
B
Babbling, 316, 357, 362, 378,
389, 395
infants, 316, 362, 395
Baboons, emotion, lateralization, 152
Baillarguer band (band of
Gennari), 44
Barrels, barrel ﬁeld, 112
Basal ganglia, 49, 51, 58, 71,
101, 173, 220, 229, 337,
359, 387, 398, 406–408,
425, 441
working memory, 220, 229, 425
Basal metabolic rate, 87, 93
Basal progenitors, intermediate
progenitors, 101
Bats, 25, 92, 105, 108–109, 112,
117, 118, 197, 376–378, 409
Bat songs, 377
Begging behavior, 288, 311
Behavioral control, 213, 428
Behavioral neurology, 57
Behavioral plasticity, 120, 315
Belugas, 378
Bengalese ﬁnches, 356, 362
Beta oscillations, interhemispheric
transfer, 197
Beta rhythm, 73
Beyond the mirror components, 296,
308–309, 312
Bimanual coordination, 155, 157,
188–190, 203
Bimanual tasks, Bimanual
coordination, 190
Binding problem, 257
Binocular species, frontal looking
species, 133, 135
Bipedality, 397
Birdsong, 11, 159, 300, 329,
330, 345, 355–356, 361,
378, 443
Blowhole, dolphins, 378
Body, callosum, 173, 183
Subject Index 483
Body size, 31, 86, 87, 89–92, 98,
99, 109, 115, 117, 120, 382,
385, 456
Bonobos, 289, 381, 434, 450–451
Bottom up, speech processing, 71,
76, 401
Brad Pitt, prosopagnosia, 256
Brain, domestication, 409
Brain size
eriaqueductal gray, 397
interhemispheric transfer, 194
Brainstem, 69, 70, 75, 106, 108,
112, 138, 140, 186, 191, 192,
266, 276, 277, 332, 337–338,
358, 375, 383, 396–398, 400,
425, 426, 468
Breathing, 332, 383–384, 395–396
Broadly congruent mirror
neurons, 290
Broca’s region or area, 29, 48, 49, 51,
52, 54–60, 66–68, 71, 76, 143,
147, 148, 149, 151, 153, 156,
221, 222, 226–228, 230,
233–235, 259, 264–266,
268–273, 293–294, 304, 307,
316, 317, 357, 393, 398,
400, 406
C
Cajal-Retzius cells, 101, 342
Calcar avis, Hippocampus minor, 5
California sea lion, 389
Callosal agenesis, 179, 189, 201
Callosotomy, 131, 174, 176,
189, 192
Canary, 363
Canonical circuit, 344–346
Capsula externa, 262
Carotid artery, 140
Cat, domestication, 193, 454
Cat callosum, 133, 182, 185,
193, 199
Categorical perception, 12, 305,
401, 404
Cats, 133, 135, 177, 182, 185, 193,
194, 199, 311, 451, 454–455
Cattle, domestication, 451–452, 454
Caudate nucleus, 406
Cell adhesion, 407
Cellular diﬀerentiation, 410
Central executive, 218, 220, 223
Central pattern generators, 396
Central rhythmic generators, 396
Cerebellum, 71, 109, 144, 222, 229,
398, 407–409, 425
working memory, 222, 229, 425
Cerebral cortex, 25, 32, 42, 44–45,
52, 69, 71–72, 94–97, 99–101,
104–107, 109, 110–112, 114,
115, 119, 173–174, 177–179,
186, 188, 203, 229, 230, 272,
276, 332, 336–344, 375, 407
laminar arrangement, 178
Cerebral palsy, 317
Cetaceans, 117, 193, 302, 315,
376–377
callosum, 193
CF-CF area, bats, 377
Chewing, 388, 396
Chick, visual asymmetry, 159
Chicken, domestication, 411
Chick-quail chimaeras, 454
Children, mental states, 431
Chimpanzee(s)
arcuate fasciculus, 271, 468
484 Subject Index
asymmetry, 151, 271
chimp, 196, 239, 271, 397, 432
folk physics, 349
gestures, 152, 381
handedness, 153
pars opercularis, 151
planning behavior, 116
planum parietale, 151
planum temporale, 151, 196, 272
superior longitudinal
fascisulus, 152
vocalizations, 152, 397
Chinchilla, 12, 305
Choking, 383
Chromosome 7, 406
Cilia, 179
Ciliary cells, 377
Ciliopathies, 179
Cingulate cortex, 64, 110, 147, 272,
390, 393, 397
anterior, 390, 397
Cingulate gyrus, 49, 70, 386,
393, 428
Cingulate sulcus, 390, 428
gyrus, 49, 70, 386, 393, 428
Cingulum bundle, 50, 179
Circle of Willis, 42
Circonvolution d’enceinte, 48, 49
Classical conditioning, 297, 440
Clever Hans, 17–18, 296, 355, 434
Clicks, primate calls, 386
Climate change, 329
Closure positive shift, 391
Clothing, 137, 453
CNTNAP2, 407
Cochlea, 183–184, 377
Color vision, 108, 114
trichromatric vision, 115
Columns, cortical, 97, 149, 344
Combinatoriality,
birdsong, 362–363
Combinatorial regularities,
speech, 401
Comm, 178
Commissure, 177, 186, 188, 191
Communication, communicative
ability, 153, 330, 445, 446, 458
Competence for language, 309
Competition, social, 426–427
Complex cells, vision, 252
Compositionality, 313, 362
Compositionality, birdsong, 362
Concept, 19, 22–23, 33, 43–45, 86,
116, 140, 189, 216, 252, 343,
348, 430, 448
Conditioning stimulus, 440
Conduction aphasia, 52, 54–56,
226, 236
Connectivity, brain size, 97, 117, 273
Connectome, 69–70
Consciousness, 138, 211, 435
Consonants, 140, 237–238, 304, 383,
386–387, 391, 403, 404, 442
Contractions, hands and feet, 407
Conversations, 11, 32, 214,
389–390, 428, 435, 469
Cooking, 27, 92–93
Cooperation, cooperative
behavior, 450
Corpus callosum
bimanual coordination,
188–189, 203
development, 178, 189
ﬁber composition, 180, 181,
193, 196
topography, 195, 202
Subject Index 485
Corpus striatum, 42, 50, 192, 201,
229, 337, 408, 409
Cortical columns, 97, 149, 344
birds, 344
Cortical layers, 95, 101, 252,
261, 341
Cortical network, 71, 144, 220, 297,
425, 426
Cortico-basal ganglia-thalamus
circuit, 359
Cortico-spinal tract, 188
Cortisol, 439
Corvids, corvidae, cognition, 346
Corvids, corvidae, folk physics, 349
Corvids, corvidae, vocal
learning, 346
Cowbird, 108
Cow callosum, 177, 193
Cranial skeleton, domestication, 454
Creole, 18–22
Critical period, 22–23, 113, 183,
212, 277, 300, 402
language, 22–23,
183, 277, 402
Crocodiles, 330
Cro-Magnon, 6
Crossed-uncrossed diﬀerence, 192
Cross-lagged correlation, 237
Crow, 91, 117, 238, 346,
347–355
Cry, 400
Culture, 56, 278, 302, 317, 395,
404, 409, 426, 458
imitation, 302
modern speech, 409–410, 458
Cynodonts, 330,
332, 336
Cytoarchitecture, 44
D
D1 dopamine receptor, 443
D4 dopamine receptor, 452
Dance, 20, 437
Deaf, 317, 356, 385
Deep homology, 343, 409
Deer, descended larynx, 384
Default mode network and
callosum, 144
Default mode network, resting state
activity, 144
Default network, 64, 239, 428
Delayed match to sample task, 258,
260, 275
Delta oscillations, interhemispheric
transfer, 197
Delta rhythm, 74
Dendrites, 44, 89
Dendritic spines, 44
Density, neuronal, 97–99, 109, 119
Dentate gyrus, 89, 335
Dependence Locality Theory, 232
Depigmentation, domestication, 454
Depression, 428, 441
Developmental delay, 236, 407, 408
Developmental plasticity, 119
Dialects birdsong, 356
Dialects, 356, 386
Diaphragm, respiration, 332
Dichotic listening, 140, 141,
147, 200
Diencephalon, 161
Diﬀusion tensor imaging (DTI), 65
Digestive system, domestication, 451
Digit span test, 212, 213
Dinosaurs, 330–332, 337, 353
Directed song, songbirds, 444
Direct gaze, 445
486 Subject Index
Disconnection syndrome, 52,
55–59, 131
DNA, 348, 407, 410, 411
Docility, domestication, 454
Dog, domestication, 151, 298, 311,
376, 451, 453, 454
Dogs, 151, 194, 298, 311, 376, 451,
453–455
Dolphin, 25, 91, 96, 99, 378–379,
390, 397
Domesticated, domestic
animals, 376, 454
Domestication, 411, 450–458
Domestication syndrome, 454
Dominance, cerebral, 161
Dopamine, 71, 261, 408, 437,
440–444, 452
Dorsal auditory pathway, 67, 268,
272, 276, 313
Dorsal cortex, reptiles, 336,
337, 338
Dorsal pallium, 340
Dorsal pathway, 55, 67, 68, 71, 141,
228, 256, 267, 269–273, 276,
278, 401, 409
language, 271
Dorsal prefrontal cortex, 68, 261
Dorsal ventricular ridge, 337–340
Dorsal visual pathway, 256, 257
Dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, 257,
259, 393
Drinking, 396
Drongo, 354
Dropping eyelids, 407
DSCF area, bats, 377
Dualism, 67
Dual modality continuous
recognition task, 225
Dynamic causal modelling, 71
Dyslexia, 147
E
Ear ossicles, 333
Ears, domestication, 454
Eating, 93, 155, 189, 301–302, 311,
396, 426, 452
Echoic memory, 213
Echolocating bats, echolocation, 117,
118, 377
Echolocation, 377–378
Eﬀerence copy, dorsal auditory
pathway, 273
Electroencephalography (EEG), 60,
72–73, 75, 199–201
Electron microscopy, 180
Electrophysiology,
electrophysiological
autism, 447
Elephant, 11, 21, 25, 86, 91, 94, 99,
117, 193, 376, 378
Elephant callosum, 193
Emotion, 138, 154, 200–203, 294,
391, 428, 442
asymmetry, 138
emotional, 3, 6–7, 138, 152, 162,
164, 214, 256, 278, 294, 337,
382, 388, 393, 394, 400, 426,
428, 439–441, 446, 448, 450
emotional processing, 256, 441
Empathy, 64, 215, 294, 298,
427–428, 442, 454
Emx, Emx2, 113
Encephalization, encephalization
quotient (EQ), 91, 92,
108, 117
Subject Index 487
Energy, energetic hypothesis, 92–93
Entorhinal cortex, 335, 336
Epigenesis, epigenetic, 2, 118, 120,
163, 240, 277, 349, 410–411,
455, 458
Epigenetic variability, 118–119
Epigenetics, 120, 411
Epilepsia, temporal lobe, 213
Epilepsy, 131, 140, 141, 144, 199,
213, 294
Episodic buﬀer, 220, 230
Episodic memory, 220, 230, 238,
347–348
Epithalamus, 161
Equivalent cell hypothesis, 344
Escape behavior, 392
Event-related potentials (ERPs), 75,
200, 391
Evolutionary psychology, 452
Excitation-inhibition balance, 344
Excitatory neurons, 101, 338–339
Executive function, processes,
working memory, 239, 349
Executive network, 64, 65,
239, 400
Executive processes, 62, 144, 222,
223, 231, 259
Ex-Gaussian distribution, 194
Exhalation, during speech,
396, 397
Exner’s area, 56
Expanding spiral, 309, 312
Expectancy, inferior parietal
lobe, 221
Expensive tissue hypothesis, 92
Expressive language disorder, 405
Extraterrestrial impact, asteroid, 331
Extreme capsule, 55, 67
Extreme masculine brain, 445
Eye ﬁxation, 444
Eyes, evolution, 343, 456
Eye-to-eye contact, 439, 454
F
Face, 31, 138, 152, 319, 384, 439,
455, 456
perception, 428
processing, 388
selective mirror neurons, 445
Facial expression, asymmetry, 138
Facial expressions, 18, 138, 152, 294,
317, 385, 431
Facial nerve, nucleus, 385
Faculty of language in the broad
sense (FLB), 11
Faculty of language in the narrow
sense (FLN), 11
Fasciculus aberrans, 177
Fat storage, 378
Fear response, 162, 453
Feathers, 331, 333
Feature detectors, 251
Feedback errors, 443
Feral children, 23, 426
Feral dogs, 455
Fertile crescent, 451
FGF, FGF8, 113
Fight-or-ﬂight reaction, 454
Fire control, 452
Flight learning, birds, 11
Flowering plants, 331
FM-FM area, bats, 377
fMRI, 61, 63, 65, 144, 156, 176,
200, 225, 227–229, 234–235,
293, 393, 439, 442
488 Subject Index
fMRI repetition suppression
method, 293
Folding, cortical, 94–96
Folk physics, 349, 430
Food calls, 382
Food songs, 396
Food stimuli, noxious, 443
Food storing birds, 108
Foreign accent, 402
FOXP1, 407
FOXP2, 2, 26, 161, 406–410, 443
lateralization, 161
Fractional anisotropy, 182, 190
Freezing behavior, 442
Frog, 132, 250–251
Frontal aslant tract, 70, 398, 401
Frontal cortex, 68, 110, 115–116,
227, 229, 256, 259, 393,
409, 430
frontal lobe, 115–116
Frontal lobe, 43, 116, 147–148, 151,
259, 272
Frontal vision, binocular
vision, 114
Frontal vision callosal ﬁbers, 194
Fronto-parietal networks, 144, 228
Frontoparietal segment, superior
longitudinal fasciculus/arcuate
fasciculus, 54
Fronto-temporal segment, arcuate
fasciculus, 54
Frugivory, 108–109
Functional connectivity, 63, 64,
144, 176–177, 234, 274, 277,
438, 447
Function words, 313–314
Fundamental frequency, speech, 380
Fusiform gyrus, 56
G
Gamma interhemispheric
synchrony, 198–199, 200
Gamma oscillations, 74
Gamma oscillations,
interhemispheric
delay, 198–199
Gamma Rhythm, 74, 75
Gamma sampling, 142
Ganglion cells, 253
Gastrointestinal tract, 93
Gaze following, 430
Gaze, gaze direction, 393
Geladas, 388
Gene, 14, 26, 45, 104, 105, 113,
114, 161–163, 332, 341–343,
346, 360, 405–410, 437, 438,
443, 452
Gene expression, 161, 341, 360, 405,
407, 408, 410
Generosity, 437
Genetic homology, 343, 409
Geniculate nucleus, lateral, 251, 253
Genu, callosum, 175, 181
Geschwind’s area, 56, 202
Gestural theory of language
origins, 389
Gestural-vocal coevolution, 316
Gestures, 1, 4, 6, 25, 33, 115,
152–155, 268, 273, 278,
287–289, 291, 298, 299, 301,
309, 310, 312, 315–317, 319,
381, 382, 388, 389, 393, 394,
397, 431, 433, 439, 455, 468
Gestures, communication,
primates, 115, 273, 288
Gibbons, 381–382, 389
Glia, glial cells, 94, 96, 100, 101, 104
Subject Index 489
Glial sling, glial wedge, 178
Glutamate, 408
Goal directed actions, mirror
neurons, 291, 294
Gorilla, 5, 24, 85, 99, 382, 396,
407, 450
Gossip, 439–440
Grammar, 3, 9, 14–16, 19, 21, 32,
197, 233, 237, 274, 309,
314, 361–364, 392–395, 405,
433, 448
grammatical processing, 234, 270
Grammatical categorization, 401
Grammatical competence, 406
Grammatical processing, 234, 270
Grandmother cell, 252
Granular cells, 44
Grasping, 18, 273, 287–319
Grasping behavior, 273, 290,
312, 318
Gray matter, 42–43, 54, 97, 116,
173, 226, 406–407
Great leap forward, 453
Great tits, 362
Grid cells, 335
Grooming, 388
Guenon monkeys, 380
Gyrencephalic brains, 94
H
Habenula, asymmetry, 162
Habit based attention system, 219
Halle Berry, 252
Hand dexterity, 25, 32, 188–189
Handedness, 150, 152–154,
158–159, 163, 174, 189, 287
Happiness, 442
Happy expressions, 439
Harbor seals, 378
Harmony, music, 391
Hearing impairments, 405
Heart rate, 442, 446
Hedgehog, 104
Hedonic value, 440
Hem convolution, 50
Hem, cortical, 49, 50, 342–343
Hemispheric specialization, 131,
150, 158, 159, 160, 193, 262
Henry Molaison, HM, 212
Heritability cortical anatomy, 118
Heschl gyrus, 59
Heterochrony, 457
Heterotopic connections,
callosum, 176–177
Hippocampal commissure, 177
Hippocampus, 5, 72, 74, 108, 144,
145, 197, 213, 220, 230, 294,
333, 335, 336, 337, 342
lateralization, 144, 145
Histones, 410
Holism, 51, 139, 263, 394
Hominoidea, apes, 381
Homo, 19, 21, 26, 27, 309, 394, 409,
426, 433, 440, 469
Homo erectus, 26, 28, 120, 452
Homo habilis, handedness, 158
Homo habilis, Homo erectus, 120
Homology, 264, 269, 304, 307, 339,
343, 344, 409
Homology, deep, genetic, 343, 409
Homo sapiens, 21, 27, 309, 469
Homo species, 19, 27
Homotopic connections,
callosum, 176–177
Homunculus, 60, 183, 186
490 Subject Index
Hormones, social
behavior, 436–437, 446
Horse callosum, 193
Howling monkey, 381
Hummingbirds, 354, 359, 360
HVC, 357, 358, 443
HVC nucleus, 358
Hydric balance, 436
Hydrocephalous, 105
Hyoid bone, 384, 388
Hypercomplex cells, vision, 252
Hypermorphosis, 456–457
Hyperpallium, 337–338, 341
Hypoglossal nerve, 354
Hypoglossal nucleus, 385, 396
Hypopallium, 339
I
Iconic memory, 213
Imitation, 6, 7, 25, 292–294,
298–299, 301–303, 309–313,
315, 316, 350–351, 354, 376,
386, 389, 393, 410, 435, 446
Imitation, autism, 410, 446
Imitation, automatic, 292–293
Imitation, cognitive, 302
Imitation, complex, 301, 303, 309,
312, 313
Imitation, infants, 299, 301, 316
Imitation, simple, 298, 303, 310, 312
Imitation, vocal, 25, 303, 315, 316,
346, 376, 389, 393
Immune disorders and
lateralization, 160
Incus, 333
Infant, language learning, 387, 401,
403, 439
Infants, imitation, 299, 301, 316
Infants, speech acquisition, 15, 401
Inferior longitudinal fasciculus
(ILF), 66, 262
Inferior parietal cortex, 66, 229, 400
Inferior parietal lobe, 29, 49, 52, 55,
56, 58, 66, 67, 147, 148, 156,
221–223, 225, 227–229, 241,
265–266, 270, 272, 273, 276,
291, 292
Inferior temporal cortex, 49, 428
Inferior temporal lobe, 50, 56, 254,
255, 256, 261, 268
Ingestive behavior, 312, 396
Inhalation, during speech, 396
Inhibitory neurons, 101, 339, 345
Innate preferences, syllables, 402
Innate releasing mechanisms,
299, 356
Insects, 85, 104, 178, 331, 345–346,
351, 450
Insula, 30, 51, 52, 54, 55, 58, 68, 70,
96, 110, 227, 386, 390, 393,
397, 428, 439, 448
Insular lobe, 96
Intelligence, 4, 6, 17, 30, 31, 85,
86, 90, 91, 116, 117, 179,
435, 447
Intelligence, IQ, 91
Intentionality, 395
Interference, working memory, 60,
160, 190, 214, 230, 238, 293,
308, 443
Interhemispheric ﬁbers, 177, 203
Interhemispheric transfer time,
192, 194
Interpreter, left hemisphere, 143
Intraparietal area, 224
Subject Index 491
Intraparietal sulcus, 224, 229,
259, 390
Intraparietal sulcus, areas 7a, 7lip, 259
Invasion of projections, 111
IQ, verbal, non verbal, 236, 406
Irregular verbs, 406
Irrelevant speech eﬀect, 218
Isolation calls, mice, 408
Isotropic fractionator, 98, 100, 116
Isthmus, 175, 176, 202
J
Jaw articulation, 333
Jaw, 61, 333, 384, 387, 388, 396
Jays, 346, 347, 348
Jennifer Aniston neuron, 252,
255, 256
K
Kangaroos and wallabies, 154
KE family, 406
Kidnapping, baboons, 455
Kinship, 119, 427
Kissinger brothers, 23
Kiss sounds, 386
Kittens, 335
Knock out mutants, 408
Koko, 24, 382
Koko gorilla, 24, 382
Kosiva Island, Japanese
macaques, 301
L
Lactation, 437
Laminar cells, 343
Language acquisition, 8, 22, 23, 74,
235, 277, 312, 402
Language competence,
Chomsky, 309, 310
Language learning, 303, 387, 401,
403, 405, 438, 439
Language-ready brain, 303, 309, 310
Large diameter ﬁbers and
interhemispheric transfer, 181,
185, 196
Laryngeal cortex, 398
Laryngeal motor cortex, 271, 360,
379, 398, 400
Laryngeal muscles, 312, 388, 398
Laryngeal sacs, 381
Larynx, 159, 197, 271, 354, 375,
383–385, 397, 398
Lateralization, 32, 33, 120, 131, 137,
138, 140, 143, 144, 145, 147,
148, 150–154, 158–164, 173,
174, 176, 262, 277, 351, 357,
391, 467
birdsong, 159
Laughter, 298, 396, 397, 400
Layer 3, cortex, 261
Learning disorders and
lateralization, 160
Learning, associative, 300, 301
Leborgne, 48, 58
Left handers, 149, 152, 153, 158, 174
Lelong, 48, 49, 58
Lexical, 10, 15, 21, 31, 57, 67, 68, 74,
76, 143, 202, 229, 232, 314,
393, 395, 401, 403, 404, 410
Lexical processin g callosum, 229
Lexicon, 3, 9, 10, 21, 232, 309, 362
lexical communication, 395
Light microscopy, 180
492 Subject Index
Liking, reward, 448
Limbic, 45, 48, 50, 56, 57, 72, 106,
177, 256, 268, 400, 407,
426, 443
Limbic lobe, 50
Limbic structures, 72
Lips, 152, 189, 196, 197, 378, 383,
385, 386, 387, 390, 396
Lip smacking, 291, 298, 307, 387, 388
mirror neurons, 307
Lip-vocal synchronization, 388
Lissencephalic brains, 93
Lissencephaly, 179
Locality, 232, 314
Localization of functions, 43, 49
Localizationism, 263
Locomotion, respiration, 397
Logically related mirror neurons, 290
Log-log graph, 86
Long distance dependencies, 231,
233, 234, 363, 403
birdsong, 363
Long term memory, 21, 212–216,
218, 220, 258
Luke Skywalker, 252
Lung epithelium, 94
M
Macaque, 25, 110, 116, 150, 151,
181, 195, 239, 264, 265, 268,
269, 271, 272, 273, 274, 275,
289, 293, 298, 301, 302, 311,
360, 387, 398, 407
imitation, 311
Macaque arcuate fasciculus, 271
Macaque area 44, 269
Macrocephaly, 105
Magnetoencephalography
(MEG), 72, 199
Maize, domestication, 451, 452
Malleus, 333
Mammals, 21, 25, 45, 50, 77, 87, 89,
90–93, 98, 106, 108, 110, 112,
114, 150, 162, 177–179, 185,
186, 188, 191, 197, 203, 298,
315, 330–342, 344, 345, 349,
354, 360, 375, 377, 381, 385,
392, 396, 427, 442, 468
MAN, 4, 6, 56, 90
Mandarin speakers, 438
Manipulation of food, 189
Maniraptors, 331
Manual communication, 154, 316
Manual praxis, 406
Marital stability, 437
Marmosets, 380, 389
Mass extinction, 330, 469
Mastication, 333
Mathemathical calculations, 233
Mating, 115, 333, 360, 378, 426
McGurk eﬀect, 305
Medial temporal lobe, 49, 213,
214, 392
Medial thalamus, dorsal lateral
nucleus, 359
Megalencephaly, 105
Melatonin, 162
Melody, melodies, 390
Melon, dolphins, 378
Memory, 8, 15, 17, 21, 22, 32, 43,
49, 62, 64, 68, 70, 72, 74, 86,
108, 141, 143, 144–145, 149,
211–241, 249, 253, 256,
257–263, 266, 270, 272, 275,
306–308, 314, 316
Subject Index 493
Memory verbal, memory faces, 32,
68, 74, 144–145, 214, 215,
222, 224–230, 235, 236, 237,
240, 272, 276, 306, 307,
316, 403
Mentalize, mentalization, 428
Mentally blind, 445
Mental state attribution, mind
reading, 430
Mental travels, 238
Menzertah’s law, 388
Merge, 10, 19, 21, 266
Mesolimbic nuclei, 443
Mesopallium, 337, 339, 340
Mesozoic era, 330
Metabolism, domestication, 451
metabolic, 87
Metaphysics, 430
Methylation, DNA, 410, 411
Methyl groups, 410
Mice, vocal learning, 309, 407, 408
Microcephalin (MCPH), 105
Microcephaly, 105
MicroRNA, 104
Middle longitudinal fasciculus
(MLF), 66, 67
Migraine and lateralization, 160
Migration, 101, 108, 338, 339
neuronal, 109
Migratory birds, 108
Milk, 333, 335, 452
orientation, 333
Mimicry, vocal, 392, 393
Mind-blindness, 294
Mind-wandering or daydreaming,
animals, 238, 239
Minimalist program, 10, 16
Mirror image drawings, 189, 190
Mirror neuron, 12, 25, 33, 287, 289,
290–298, 303, 304, 307, 308,
312, 313, 315, 316, 317, 318,
396, 425, 434, 445, 468
broadly congruent, 290
logically related, 290
motor control, 297
orofacial, 291
strictly congruent, 290
suppression, 290
Mirror system, 287, 292, 294, 295,
296, 299, 301, 303, 308, 309,
311, 312, 313, 428
Mirror system hypothesis, 287,
295, 308
Mockingbirds, 360
Model/rival technique, 354
Modern humans, 27–29, 120, 148,
241, 312, 396, 407, 409, 410,
452, 453, 455, 458
Monkey, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20, 23,
26, 30, 31, 59, 68, 117, 149,
151, 155, 157, 174, 177, 180,
182, 192, 223, 224, 238, 249,
251, 257, 258, 263, 265, 266,
267, 268–272, 274, 275, 288,
289, 290–294, 297, 298,
301–304, 307, 310, 312, 316,
350–352, 375, 376, 379–381,
385, 387, 388, 389, 390, 392,
393, 394, 395, 397, 398, 400
Monkey folk physics, 349
handedness, 150
lateralization, 150
Monogamic, monogamy, 436
Mood disorders, 437, 438, 452
Morphology, language, 29, 30, 61,
107, 145, 182, 342, 356, 405
494 Subject Index
Morphosyntactic categorization, 76
Morphosyntactic processing, 401
Mother-child dyads, 438
Motherese, 404, 439
baby talk, 404
Mother-infant communication, 427
Motivation, 70, 398, 427, 438, 442,
443, 445, 448, 449, 450
Motor cortex, 48, 68, 70, 71, 143,
228, 271, 291, 293, 306,
360, 379, 383, 398, 400,
425, 468
Motor system, 276, 295, 305, 306,
314, 317, 357
Motor theory of speech
perception, 23, 304, 305, 306
Motor theory of vocal learning, 376
Mouse FOXP2, 407
hippocampus, 333
Mousterian, 28, 157
Mouth gestures, 381
MRI, 61, 65, 147, 151, 181,
200, 226
Music, 3, 6, 7, 137, 142,
232, 355, 390, 391, 404,
442, 443
emotion, pleasure, 390, 448
musicians, 147, 192, 391
Musical processing, 233, 391
Musical protolanguage, 4, 391
Musicians, crossed-uncrossed
diﬀerence, 147, 192, 391
Mutants, 408
Mutations, 2, 14, 96, 114, 349, 377,
407, 451
domestication, 451
Myelinated ﬁbers, 44, 180, 181
“My left foot”, 317
N
N400, 200–201
Nasal cavities, 332, 378, 383
“Nasalizations”, dolphins, 378
Natural selection, 5, 30, 107,
109, 310, 345, 410,
450, 451
N-back task, 62, 222, 227, 231
Neanderthals, asymmetry; tool
making, 145
Denisovans, 27, 458
descended larynx, 384, 385
working memory, 241
Near infrared spectroscopy, 402
Neoteny, 31, 456, 457
Nest building behavior, birds, 353
Netrin, 179
Neural crest, 454
Neural precursors, 340
Neurogenesis, 89, 90, 99, 110, 335,
360, 361, 427
Neuronal Index, 98
Neuropsychiatric disorders, 411
Neurotransmitter, 71, 149, 261,
408, 437
New Caledinian crows, tool
making, 351, 352, 353
Nidopallium, 337–344
Nodal, asymmetry, 162, 163
Non-adjacent correlations,
birdsong, 363
Non adjacent dependencies, 404
Non adjacent syllables, 404
Non speciﬁed communication
disorder, 405
Non-verbal IQ, 236, 406
Nonwords, 236, 237
Notch, 104
Subject Index 495
Nucleus accumbens, 440, 442, 445
Nucleus ambiguus, 379, 383,
396, 398
O
Object manipulation, 155, 273, 318
Object working memory, 262
Obstetric dilemma, 30
Occipital lobe, 148, 259
Occipito-temporal sulcus, 291, 407
Old world monkeys, 380, 381
Oldowan, 27, 156, 157
Olfaction, 335, 336
olfactory structures, 106, 108
Olfactory cortex, 113, 337,
338, 342
Olfactory receptor genes, 115
Olgactory bulbs, 89, 332
Onomatopoeia, 394
Optic chiasm, 133
Optic nerve, 132, 133, 250
Optic tectum, 108, 186, 250, 251
Oral cavity, 276, 383
Orangoutan, 3, 382, 386
Orbitofrontal cortex, 43, 397
Orientation behavior, 107, 334
Ornaments, 453
Orofacial functions, 406
Orofacial mirror neurons, 291, 308
Orofacial musculature, 276, 406
Oscillations, gamma, 74
oscillatory, 64, 74, 75, 196, 197,
198, 199, 203, 232, 257, 345
Oscillatory activity, 73, 75, 119, 196,
197, 198, 203, 232, 257
Outer radial glia, 104
Oxytocin, 436, 437, 439
P
Paedomorphism, 456
Palate, secondary, 332
Pallial commissure, 177
Pallial-subpallial border, 337, 338
Pallidum, Globus pallidus, 337
Pallium, 99, 337, 339, 340, 341, 343
Pandalus, crow tool, 351
Pantomime, autism, 20, 294, 298,
302, 309, 311–315, 392, 393
gestural, 315
pantomimic, 393
Papez circuit, 50
Paraphasia, 52
Parapineal organ, 162
Parcellation theory, 111
Parental behavior, 426, 437
Parietal cortex, 66, 190, 229, 274,
400, 428
Parietal lobe, 29, 48, 49, 52, 54, 55,
56, 66, 67, 111, 137, 145, 147,
148, 156, 221, 222, 223, 224,
225, 227, 228, 229, 241, 256,
265, 266, 270, 272, 273, 276,
291, 292, 388
Parkinson’s disease, 71, 441
Parrot, 21, 24, 91, 99, 117,
154–155, 315–316, 354–355,
359–360, 376, 389
handedness, 155
Pars opercularis, area 44, 54, 67
Pars opercularis (Broca’s area),
149, 228
Pars triangularis (Broca’s area),
147, 228
Pars triangularis, area 45, 48
Passeriformes, 353
Passive brain growth, 117, 119
496 Subject Index
Passive tense, 232
Past tense, 71, 406
Pax6, 104, 113, 341, 342, 343,
346, 409
PCSK6, lateralization, 163
Periodontal disease, 451
Permian, permian extinction,
330, 331
Perspective taking, 433
PET, 61, 156, 220, 222, 274, 354,
442, 453
Petalias, 148
Pharyngeal cavity, 383
Philosophers, 430
Phonemes, 3, 12, 74, 141, 224, 304,
305, 306, 357, 362, 363, 387
Phonetic contrasts, 438
Phonic lips, dolphins, 378
Phonological disorders, 405
ﬂuency, 270
loop, 32, 33, 217–221, 224, 229,
230, 235, 239, 240, 267, 272,
273, 274, 276, 308, 375, 394,
395, 400, 401, 409, 411, 425,
426, 435, 458, 467–469
short term, or working
memory, 32
similarity eﬀect, 218, 219
Phonological storage, 215, 218, 221,
222, 227, 228, 236, 272
Phonology, 3, 9, 10, 31, 231,
232, 395
Photoreceptors, 162, 346
Phrase boundaries, musical and
prosodic, 391
Phrase structure grammar, 15
Phrenology, 29, 42, 49, 241
Pidgin, 18–22
Pineal gland, 161
Pipistrellus, 377
Pitch, 147, 232, 355, 380, 387,
390, 404
Place cells, 335
Planum parietale, 147, 149, 151, 156
Planum temporale, 59, 145, 147,
149, 151, 156, 174, 175, 176,
196, 264, 272
Planum temporale and corpus
callosum, 175
Plasticity, neural, 112, 113
Platypus, 112
Play face, chimpanzees, 397
Pleasure, 427, 436–440, 442,
445, 448
Pleasure centers, 440
Poﬀenberger paradigm, 191
Pointing, 119–120, 288, 289, 311,
341, 351, 393, 406, 430, 431,
453, 455
Pointing, apes, 288
Posterior temporal-inferior parietal
projection, 271, 272, 276
Pragmatics, 3, 404, 405, 447
Prediction error, 441
Prediction suppression, 221
Predictive coding, 296, 306, 316
Prefrontal cortex, 29, 30, 48, 49, 50,
57, 58, 60, 64, 68, 77, 115,
116, 143, 223, 225, 229, 249,
257–259, 261, 262, 265, 269,
272, 274–276, 307, 313, 349,
388, 392, 393, 398, 400, 401
Prefrontal cortex, birds, 115, 116
Prefrontal lesions, 257
Premotor cortex, 48, 58, 68, 71, 143,
226, 289, 291, 304, 307
Subject Index 497
Prenatal development, prenatal
growth, 89, 90, 99, 117
Prestin, 376
Primates, 189, 353, 386
Primary memory, 212
Primary motor cortex, 291, 398
Primary visual area, V1, 5, 199,
251, 261
Primates, 4, 5, 8, 9, 13, 31, 57, 85,
89–92, 95, 98, 99, 100, 104,
105, 108, 109, 112, 114–118
Primatocentric perspective, 348
Principle of mass action, 86
Principle of proper mass, 86, 97
Probst’s bundle, 179
Procedural memory, 213
Progenesis, 456
Progenitor cells, 100
Proposition, 394
Prosody, 3, 67, 137, 164, 201, 231,
298, 316, 317, 391, 403, 404,
439, 441, 445, 447
Prosopagnosia, 255, 256
Protolanguage, 4, 21, 22, 25, 309,
391, 433
Protosign, 308, 309, 310, 312–315,
317–319, 395
Protospeech, 308, 309, 310, 312,
313, 315, 395, 458
Pseudowords, 224
Psychoanalyst, 435, 436, 446
Psychotherapy, 439
PTEN, 105
Pterodactyls, 330
Punctuation eﬀect, 397
Pure word deafness, auditory verbal
agnosia, 140
Putamen, 407
PV patient, 230, 235
Pyramidal cells, 44
R
Rabbits, 194, 335
Races, racial diﬀerences, 5, 6
Radial glia, 94, 96, 100–104
Radial migration, 101
RA nucleus, 358
Rats, 119, 177, 347, 403, 440,
442, 455
“The raven”, 346–348, 352
Reaction time task, 191
Recapitulation in development,
neoteny, 456
Recency eﬀect, 215, 216
Reciprocal interactions, 426, 427
Recursion, language, 10, 12, 13, 14,
16–18, 313, 361
recursive, 10, 13–17, 68, 157,
233, 361, 363, 390
Recursive syntax, 361
Recursive, recursion, 10, 13,
14–17, 68, 157, 233, 361,
363, 390
Red queen hypothesis, 118
Reelin, 101, 342
Relational thinking capacity, 240
Religion, 436
Repetition test, working
memory, 236
Reptiles, 74, 91, 101, 114, 177, 186,
330, 331, 333, 336, 337, 338,
340, 341, 343
Respiratory cycle, 397
Respiratory impairment, 408
Respiratory muscles, 396, 397
498 Subject Index
Resting state, 64, 65, 144, 176, 239,
274, 428
default mode network, 48, 144
default network, 64, 239, 428
fMRI, 61, 63, 65, 144, 156, 176,
200, 225, 227–229, 234, 235
Retardation in development, 456
Reticular formation, 397–398
Retina, 132, 133, 135, 162, 250,
251, 253, 255, 345–346
insects and vertebrates, 346
Retrospenial cortex, 48
Reward, 92, 299, 347, 426,
436–445, 448
Rewarded behavior, reward seeking
behavior, 440
Rhesus monkeys, 380
Rhythm, 6, 73, 74, 75, 151, 156,
334, 387–391, 395, 396,
404, 408
Rhyming, 221, 222, 227
Ritualization, 310, 311, 315
human-assisted, 311
Robo, 178–179
Rodents, 92, 95, 100, 104, 112, 194,
239, 436, 454
Rooks, 346, 351
S
Salamanders, 344
Sauropsids, 330
SCALED model, 66, 270
Schizophrenia, 147, 161, 261, 428
lateralization, language, 161
Sea gulls, innate released pattern, 300
Seal, 376, 378
Sea lion, 389
Secondary memory, 212
Secondary visual area V2, 181,
252, 253
Second language acquisition,
working memory, 8, 22, 23,
74, 235, 277, 312, 402
Selection, natural, 5, 30, 107, 109,
310, 410, 450, 451
Self-disclosure, 439
Self domestication, 409, 452, 453, 454
Semantics, 3, 9, 10, 31, 32, 231, 232,
309, 310, 313, 314, 316
incongruence, callosum, 201
processing callosum, 57, 66, 67,
76, 142, 200, 202, 231, 401
similarity, working memory, 218
Sensorimotor coordination, 409
Sensorimotor midline, 197
Sensory areas, 45, 56, 69, 110,
113–114, 185, 227, 256,
261, 338
Sensory memory, 213
Serotonin, 437–438, 453
Serotonin transporter, 437, 452
Sex Chromosomes and
lateralization, 161
Sex diﬀerences, 149, 161
Sex hormones and lateralization, 161
Sexual bonding, 451
Sexual dimorphism, sexually
dimorphic, 86, 115, 353, 453
Sexual selection, 329–330
Shared attention, 303, 430, 438, 439
Short term memory, 17, 62, 64, 70,
212–216, 218, 225, 229–230,
232–233, 257, 363
Shrew corpus callosum, 195
Siamang, 381
Subject Index 499
Signature call, dolphins, 378
Sign language, 1, 3, 24, 57, 71,
317, 406
Silkworm domestication, 417
Simple cells, visión, 251–252
Simulation of motor programs, 290
Singing, 159, 332, 354, 357, 360,
378, 443–444
Single unit, single neuron
recording, 249–250
Skilled motor movements, 407
Skin conduction, 442
Skull, domestication, 453, 456
Sleep, 93, 162, 180, 298
Sleep/wake cycle, 93, 162
Slit, 178–179, 379
Small RNA, 105, 410
Small world organization, 119
Sniﬃng, 332–333
Social aﬀect, 439
Social behavior, 4, 64, 109, 115, 239,
276, 294, 299, 426, 428, 433,
434, 436–437, 450, 451, 453,
458, 468
Social deprivation, 426
Social learning, 115, 386, 426
Socially deprived children, 439
Social reward, songbird, 439
Social selection, 160, 329
Sodium amytal, truth serum, 140
Soft palate, 397
Somatic factor, 87, 117
Somatosensory cortex, 184
Songbirds, 6, 9, 14, 15, 21, 25–26,
99, 159, 315–316, 329, 346,
353, 354, 356, 357, 359–361,
363, 375–381, 391, 395, 398,
405, 408–409, 442
Song learning, 300, 356–360, 379,
405, 408, 442–443
Song related nuclei, 357, 443
Song variability, 359, 443
Source estimation fMRI, 200
Spandrel, 30
Spatial memory, 145, 259, 333, 347
Spatial orientation, 137, 150,
217, 336
Spatial processing and callosum
origins, 153, 158, 164,
186, 256
Speciﬁc language impairment, 236,
405, 407, 439, 447
SPECT, 61
Speech disorders, 2, 405–406
Splenium, 175, 176, 181, 190
Split brain, 132, 135, 137, 138,
150, 173
Spt área, 224–226, 230, 265
SRGAP, 408
SRPX2, 408
Starch, 451–452
Star-nosed mole, 112
Statistical learning, 403–404
Stereology, 97
Stone tools, monkey and
chimpanzee, 157, 239, 349
Stress, 162, 228, 334, 410, 438–439,
446, 453, 454
Striatum, 42, 50, 192, 201, 229,
337, 408–409, 439–443
Striatum, corpus striatum, 42, 50,
192, 201, 229, 337, 408–409
Strictly congruent mirror
neurons, 290
String-pulling trap, 350
Stroke, 58, 60, 141, 227
500 Subject Index
Stroop task, 191
Structural regularities, speech,
261, 403
Stutterers, 398, 439
Stuttering, 71, 405
Subjunctive mode, working
memory, 241
Submission behavior, 438
Subpallium, 337, 339
Subsong, 356–357
Subventricular zone, 101, 104
Subvocal articulation, 221
Superior colliculus, 186
Superior longitudinal fasciculus
(SLF), 66, 148–149, 152, 156,
226, 262, 265, 271–272, 447
Superior temporal lobe, 52, 57, 58, 66,
67, 148, 266, 270, 293, 401
Superior temporal sulcus, 76, 148,
224–225, 271, 291, 407,
428, 445
Superior temporal sulcus,
asymmetry, 148
Supervisory attentional
System, 219–220, 240
Supplementary motor area, 294
Suppression mirror neurons, 290
Supralaryngeal tract, 386
Supramarginal gyrus, 223, 229
Supramarginal gyrus, area 40, 223
Supramarginal gyrus, tool
making, 223, 229
Sustained or persistent activity in
working memory, 224, 225,
239, 257, 258, 275
Swallowing, 291, 383, 384, 396
Swallowing mirror neurons, 291, 396
Swearing, 51, 398
Syllable perception, syllabic
perception, 141, 306
Syllable transitions, 403, 404
Syllables birdsong, 356, 361
Sylvian convolution, 50, 54, 55, 56,
65, 262
Sylvian ﬁssure, 49–52, 54, 59, 60,
96, 145, 147, 148, 174, 224
Symbol, symbolic, 19–21, 43, 57,
287, 289, 313, 315, 319,
392, 393
Symmetrical divisions, 100
Sympathetic system, 340
Synapsids, 330
Synaptic path length, 119
Synchrony, interhemispheric,
199, 200
Synchrony, synchronic, 63, 174,
199, 200, 202, 203, 257
Syntactic capacity, monkeys, 274
Syntactic movement, 233
Syntax, 3, 10, 15, 19, 25, 31, 76,
157, 201, 231, 232, 235, 237,
289, 309, 313, 314, 361, 363,
376, 378, 391, 394, 469
songbirds, 361, 363, 378, 391
syntactic, 25, 76, 237
Syntax callosum, 201
Syntax, tool making, 157
Syrinx, 159, 354
T
Tail waggingn domestication, 453
Tamarin monkey, 14–17, 380, 404
Tangential migration, 101
Taung child, Australopithecus, 29
Taxi drivers, 108
Subject Index 501
Temporal lobe, 49, 50, 52, 55–58,
66, 67, 72, 76, 96, 148, 213,
214, 223, 225, 254, 255, 256,
261, 262, 265, 266, 268, 270,
272, 275, 276, 291, 293, 392,
401, 428, 445
Temporal pole, 256
Temporoparietal region, 214
Testosterone, 360, 437
Tetrapods, 330
Thalamus, 42, 71, 72, 161, 251, 253,
359, 398, 407, 425, 426
Theory of mind, 294, 348, 428, 431,
433, 445, 446, 469
Theory of mind, corvids, 348
Theta oscillations, 74, 230
Theta oscillations, interhemispheric
transfer, 198
Theta rhythm, 74
Theta sampling, 142
Thoracic musculature, 396
Thoracic vertebral canal, 396
Throat, 383, 388, 396, 443
Time cells, 333, 336
TMS, transcranial magnetic
stimulation, 142, 143, 190,
291–293, 306
Tonal Pitch Space Theory, 232
Tongue, 19, 75, 159, 197, 235, 291,
293, 298, 299, 301, 306, 318,
382, 383, 385, 386, 388, 390,
394, 396
Tongue protrusion, 291, 298,
299, 301
Tonotopic representation, auditory
cortex, 183
Tool making, 109, 152, 155, 351,
389, 395, 428
Tool use, 115, 155, 158, 273, 287,
316, 351, 353
Tools, tool making, 109, 152, 155,
351, 389, 395, 428
Top down inﬂuence, arcuate
fasciculus, 273
Top down, speech processing, 71, 273
Topographic representation, sensory
and motor areas, 183, 186
Tpt area, 59, 145, 264, 265,
270, 274
Trace deletion hypothesis, 233
Tractography
callosum, 189
MRI, DTI, 65
Tract tracing
anterograde, 213
retrograde, 213
Trap-table test, 351
Triconodon, 91
Troodon, 337
Truncation in development, 456
Turing test, 435
Tutor, birdsong, 356
Twins, language disorders, 406
U
Ultrasonic sounds, 376, 377, 379,
408, 442
Ultrasonic vocalizations, mice, 379
Ultrasonic vocalizations, rats, 442
Uncinate fasciculus, 67, 262
Unconditioned stimulus, 440
Understanding from within, mirror
neurons, 290, 295, 296
Undirected song, birdsong, 444
Ungrammatical sentences, 233
502 Subject Index
Unmyelinated ﬁbers, 181
Urbilateria, 345
V
V3 visual area, 254, 256
V4 visual area, 254, 255
V5, or MT visual area, 254, 256
Vagus nerve, 383
Vasopressin, 436
Ventral auditory pathway, 262, 266,
267, 275, 390, 401
Ventral pallium, 339, 340
Ventral pathway, 55, 66–68, 70, 76,
228, 253, 256, 263, 268–272,
275, 312, 313
language, 66, 67, 70, 253, 263,
270, 275, 312
Ventral striatum, 439, 440, 442
Ventral tegmental area, 439
Ventral visual pathway, 266, 313
Ventricle, cerebral, 337
Ventricular zone, 100, 101, 104,
340, 341
Ventrolateral prefrontal
cortex, 48–50, 57, 58, 60, 77,
259, 265, 268, 269, 272,
274–276, 307, 388, 392,
401, 428
Ventrolateral prefrontal cortex,
inferior frontal gyrus, 48
Ventromedial prefrontal cortex, 428
Verbal dyspraxia, 406
Verbal IQ, 236, 406
Verbal repetition, 226
Verbal short term, or working
memory, 214, 215, 225
Vertical occipital fasciculus, 54, 257
Vertical occipital or perpendicular
fasciculus, 257
Vervet monkeys, 20, 316, 392,
394, 395
Vibrissae, 112, 333
Viki Chimpanzee, 24, 386
Violence, 427
Visual areas, 55, 110, 113, 156,
181, 183, 190, 222, 252, 254,
256, 292
Visual cortex
primary, 100, 111, 253
secondary, 337
Visual feedback, 295
Visual imagery, 218
Visually constructed grammar, 313
Visual orienting task, 218
Visual pigments, 114
Visual projections, 113
subcortical, 276, 277
Visual search, 137, 217
Visual system
dorsal pathway, 253, 312, 313
ventral pathway, 253, 312, 313
Visual word form area (VWFA),
56, 264
Visual working memory, 223, 224,
229, 261, 262, 275
Visuomotor neurons, canonical, 290
Visuospatial sketchpad, 217,
218, 220
Visuospatial working memory, 218,
222, 223, 227, 232, 257, 262,
263, 425
Vocabulary learning, 57, 354
Vocal articulation, 215
Vocal folds, 75, 354, 375, 379, 383,
385, 386, 390, 468
Subject Index 503
Vocalization, 9, 14, 20, 60, 68, 70,
143, 152, 197, 228, 268, 273,
274, 276–278, 288, 289, 299,
308, 312, 316, 318, 354, 357,
362, 375, 376, 378–382, 385,
388–398, 400, 408, 442,
454–456
Vocalizations, primates, 9, 152, 273,
274, 288, 376, 379, 382, 388,
396, 397, 400
Vocal learning, 21, 25, 26, 276,
302, 312, 315, 316, 318,
354, 355, 359, 360, 362,
375–377, 379–381, 383, 389,
400, 405, 409, 435, 443,
454, 468
“Vocal learning and rhythmic
synchronization
hypothesis”, 289
Vocal learning, vocal learners,
21, 359
Vocal non learner, 359, 386, 407
Vocal non-learning, 354,
359, 360
Vocal tract, 71, 159, 318, 375,
379, 381, 383–385, 387, 389,
391, 468
inferior, 276
superior, 391
Voice, human, 318, 376, 382,
386, 431
Voiceless calls, primates, 386
Volcanism, 331
Voles, 436, 437
Voluntary control, vocalizations, 70,
288, 318, 379, 391, 456
Vowels, 228, 237, 238, 284, 286,
287, 403, 404
W
Wada test, 140
Wallace, AR., 4, 310
Wallerian degeneration, 60
Wanting, reward, 448
Washoe chimpanzee, 24
Wernicke’s area, 51, 52, 54–57,
59, 67, 70, 71, 76, 149,
151, 226, 265, 270,
291, 447
Wernicke’s area, dendritic
structure, 149
Whales, 86, 91, 96, 99, 195,
376, 378
Whale songs, 378
Wheat, domestication, 451
Whiskers, 333
Whisking, 332, 334
Whistles, 379, 386
White matter asymmetry,
148, 164
White throated sparrows, 443
Wnt, 113
Wobble call, gelada, 388
Word deafness, 51, 140
Word formation, 406
Word length eﬀect, 219
Word perception, 141, 143
Words, 1–33, 43, 48, 49, 51, 52,
56–58, 64, 72, 75–76, 106,
107, 135, 138, 140, 141, 151,
161, 198, 201, 202, 214, 215,
218, 219, 221, 224, 225, 226,
228, 229, 231, 232, 234,
235–238, 272, 307, 314–317,
343, 354, 360, 361, 363, 376,
386, 393, 394, 403–406,
446, 458
504 Subject Index
Working memory, 17, 21, 22, 32,
33, 68, 141, 213, 215–241,
249, 257, 258, 261, 262, 263,
266, 267, 272, 275, 276, 306,
307, 308, 314, 316, 349, 363,
364, 390, 391, 394, 403,
425, 467
multicomponent model, 216,
217, 230
phonological, 141, 221, 228,
232, 235, 236, 237, 306,
314, 363
Working memory span, 220
Writing, 1, 52, 64, 71, 153, 155, 445
X
X-chromosome linked
lissencephaly, 179
Y
Yawning, 298, 299
Yucatán, 331
Z
Zebraﬁnch, 408
Zebraﬁsh, habenula, 162
Z-lens, 135
Subject Index 505
