14 CHAPTER 1 Articulation and Acoustics
MANNERS OF ARTICULATION
At most places of articulation, there are several basic ways in which articulatory
gestures can be accomplished. The articulators may close off the oral tract for an
instant or a relatively long period; they may narrow the space considerably; or
they may simply modify the shape of the tract by approaching each other.
Stop
(Complete closure of the articulators involved so that the airstream cannot escape
through the mouth.) There are two possible types of stop.
Oral stop If, in addition to the articulatory closure in the mouth, the soft pal-
ate is raised so that the nasal tract is blocked off, then the airstream will be
completely obstructed. Pressure in the mouth will build up and an oral stop will
be formed. When the articulators come apart, the airstream will be released in a
small burst of sound. This kind of sound occurs in the consonants in the words
pie, buy (bilabial closure), tie, dye (alveolar closure), and kye, guy (velar clo-
sure). Figure 1.8 shows the positions of the vocal organs in the bilabial stop in
buy. These sounds are called plosives in the International Phonetic Association’s
(IPA’s) alphabet (see inside the front cover of this book).
Nasal stop If the air is stopped in the oral cavity but the soft palate is down so
that air can go out through the nose, the sound produced is a nasal stop. Sounds
of this kind occur at the beginning of the words my (bilabial closure) and nigh
(alveolar closure), and at the end of the word sang (velar closure). Figure 1.9
shows the position of the vocal organs during the bilabial nasal stop in my. Apart
from the presence of a velic opening, there is no difference between this stop
and the one in buy shown in Figure 1.8. Although both the nasal sounds and the
oral sounds can be classified as stops, the term stop by itself is almost always
used by phoneticians to indicate an oral stop, and the term nasal to indicate a
nasal stop. Thus, the consonants at the beginnings of the words day and neigh
would be called an alveolar stop and an alveolar nasal, respectively. Although
the term stop may be defined so that it applies only to the prevention of air es-
caping through the mouth, it is commonly used to imply a complete stoppage of
the airflow through both the nose and the mouth.
Fricative
(Close approximation of two articulators so that the airstream is partially ob-
structed and turbulent airflow is produced.) The mechanism involved in making
these slightly hissing sounds may be likened to that involved when the wind
whistles around a corner. The consonants in fie, vie (labiodental), thigh, thy
(dental), sigh, zoo (alveolar), and shy (palato-alveolar) are examples of fricative
sounds. Figure 1.10 illustrates one pronunciation of the palato-alveolar fricative
consonant in shy. Note the narrowing of the vocal tract between the blade of the
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Manners of Articulation 15
tongue and the back part of the alveolar ridge. The higher-pitched sounds with a
more obvious hiss, such as those in sigh, shy, are sometimes called sibilants.
Approximant
(A gesture in which one articulator is close to another, but without the vocal tract
being narrowed to such an extent that a turbulent airstream is produced.) In say-
ing the first sound in yacht, the front of the tongue is raised toward the palatal area
of the roof of the mouth, but it does not come close enough for a fricative sound
to be produced. The consonants in the word we (approximation between the lips
and in the velar region) and, for some people, in the word raw (approximation
in the alveolar region) are also examples of approximants.
Lateral (Approximant)
(Obstruction of the airstream at a point along the center of the oral tract, with
incomplete closure between one or both sides of the tongue and the roof of
the mouth.) Say the word lie and note how the tongue touches near the center
of the alveolar ridge. Prolong the initial consonant and note how, despite the
closure formed by the tongue, air flows out freely, over the side of the tongue.
Because there is no stoppage of the air, and not even any fricative noises, these
sounds are classified as approximants. The consonants in words such as lie,
laugh are alveolar lateral approximants, but they are usually called just alveo-
lar laterals, their approximant status being assumed. You may be able to find
out which side of the tongue is not in contact with the roof of the mouth by
holding the consonant position while you breathe inward. The tongue will feel
colder on the side that is not in contact with the roof of the mouth.
Additional Consonantal Gestures
In this preliminary chapter, it is not necessary to discuss all of the manners of
articulation used in the various languages of the world—nor, for that matter,
in English. But it might be useful to know the terms trill (sometimes called
roll) and tap (sometimes called flap). Tongue-tip trills occur in some forms of
Scottish English in words such as rye and raw. Taps, in which the tongue makes
a single tap against the alveolar ridge, occur in the middle of a word such as pity
in many forms of American English.
The production of some sounds involves more than one of these manners of
articulation. Say the word cheap and think about how you make the first sound. At
the beginning, the tongue comes up to make contact with the back part of the al-
veolar ridge to form a stop closure. This contact is then slackened so that there is a
fricative at the same place of articulation. This kind of combination of a stop imme-
diately followed by a fricative is called an affricate, in this case a palato-alveolar
(or post-alveolar) affricate. There is a voiceless affricate at the beginning and end
of the word church. The corresponding voiced affricate occurs at the beginning and
end of judge. In all these sounds the articulators (tongue tip or blade and alveolar
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
16 CHAPTER 1 Articulation and Acoustics
ridge) come together for the stop and then, instead of coming fully apart, separate
only slightly, so that a fricative is made at approximately the same place of articula-
tion. Try to feel these movements in your own pronunciation of these words.
Words in English that start with a vowel in the spelling (like eek, oak, ark,
etc.) are pronounced with a glottal stop at the beginning of the vowel. This
“glottal catch” sound isn’t written in these words and is easy to overlook; but in
a sequence of two words in which the first word ends with a vowel and the sec-
ond starts with a vowel, the glottal stop is sometimes obvious. For example, the
phrase flee east is different from the word fleeced in that the first has a glottal
stop at the beginning of east.
Figure 1.8 The positions of the vocal organs in the bilabial stop in buy.
Figure 1.9 The positions of the vocal organs in the bilabial nasal (stop) in my.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
The Waveforms of Consonants 17
To summarize, the consonants we have been discussing so far may be
described in terms of five factors:
1. state of the vocal folds (voiced or voiceless);
2. place of articulation;
3. central or lateral articulation;
4. soft palate raised to form a velic closure (oral sounds) or lowered (nasal
sounds); and
5. manner of articulatory action.
Thus, the consonant at the beginning of the word sing is a (1) voiceless,
(2) alveolar, (3) central, (4) oral, (5) fricative; and the consonant at the end of
sing is a (1) voiced, (2) velar, (3) central, (4) nasal, (5) stop.
On most occasions, it is not necessary to state all five points. Unless a spe-
cific statement to the contrary is made, consonants are usually presumed to be
central, not lateral, and oral rather than nasal. Consequently, points (3) and (4)
may often be left out, so the consonant at the beginning of sing is simply called
a voiceless alveolar fricative. When describing nasals, point (4) has to be
specifically mentioned and point (5) can be left out, so the consonant at the end
of sing is simply called a voiced velar nasal.
THE WAVEFORMS OF CONSONANTS
At this stage, we will not go too deeply into the acoustics of consonants, simply
noting a few distinctive points about their waveforms. The places of articulation
are not obvious in any waveform, but the differences in some of the principal
Figure 1.10 The positions of the vocal organs in the palato-alveolar (post-alveolar)
fricative in shy.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
18 CHAPTER 1 Articulation and Acoustics
manners of articulation—stop, nasal, fricative, and approximant—are usually
apparent. Furthermore, as already pointed out, you can also see the differences
between voiced and voiceless sounds.
The top half of Figure 1.11 shows the waveform of the phrase My two boys
know how to fish, labeled roughly in ordinary spelling. The lower part shows the
same waveform with labels pointing out the different manners of articulation. The
time scale at the bottom shows that this phrase took about two and a half seconds.
Looking mainly at the labeled version in the lower part of the figure, you can
see in the waveform where the lips open after the nasal consonant in my so that
the amplitude gets larger for the vowel. The vowel is ended by the voiceless
stop consonant at the beginning of two, for which there is a very short silence
followed by a burst of noise as the stop closure is released. This burst is why the
oral stop consonants are called “plosives” in the International Phonetic Alphabet
chart. The vowel in two is followed by the voiced stop at the beginning of boys.
The voicing for the stop makes this closure different from the one at the begin-
ning of two, producing small voicing vibrations instead of a flat line. After the
vowel in boys, there is a fricative with a more nearly random waveform pattern,
although there are some voicing vibrations intermingled with the noise.
The waveform of the [ n ] in know is very like that of the [ m ] at the begin-
ning of the utterance. It shows regular glottal pulses, but they are smaller (have
nasal nasal
vowel vowel vowel
vowel
closure closure
closure
m y two b o y s knowhowto fish
burst burst
vowel
vowel
fricative
fricative fricative
h v
0 1.0 2.0 seconds
Figure 1.11 The waveform of the phrase My two boys know how to fish.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
The Articulation of Vowel Sounds 19
less amplitude) than those in the following vowel. The [h] that follows this vowel
is very short, with hardly any voiceless interval. After the vowel in how, there are
some further very short actions. There is hardly any closure for the [t], and the
vowel in to has only a few vocal fold pulses, making it much shorter than any of the
other vowels in the sentence. The fricative [f] at the beginning of fish is a little less
loud (has a slightly smaller amplitude) than the fricative at the end of this word.
THE ARTICULATION OF VOWEL SOUNDS
In the production of vowel sounds, the articulators do not come very close to-
gether, and the passage of the airstream is relatively unobstructed. We can describe
vowel sounds roughly in terms of the position of the highest point of the tongue
and the position of the lips. (As we will see later, more accurate descriptions can
be made in acoustic terms.) Figure 1.12 shows the articulatory position for the
vowels in heed, hid, head, had, father, good, food. Of course, in saying these
words, the tongue and lips are in continuous motion throughout the vowels, as we
saw in the x-ray movie in demonstration 1.1 on the CD. The positions shown in
the figure are best considered as the targets of the gestures for the vowels.
Figure 1.12 The positions of the vocal organs for the vowels in the words 1 heed, 2 hid,
3 head, 4 had, 5 father, 6 good, 7 food. The lip positions for vowels 2, 3, and 4
are between those shown for 1 and 5. The lip position for vowel 6 is between
those shown for 1 and 7.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
20 CHAPTER 1 Articulation and Acoustics
As you can see, in all these vowel gestures, the tongue tip is down behind the
lower front teeth, and the body of the tongue is domed upward. Check that this
is so in your own pronunciation. You will notice that you can prolong the [ h ]
sound and that there is no mouth movement between the [h] and the following
vowel; the [h] is like a voiceless version of the vowel that comes after it. In the
first four vowels, the highest point of the tongue is in the front of the mouth. Ac-
cordingly, these vowels are called front vowels. The tongue is fairly close to the
roof of the mouth for the vowel in heed (you can feel that this is so by breathing
inward while holding the target position for this vowel), slightly less close for
the vowel in hid (for this and most other vowels it is difficult to localize the po-
sition by breathing inward; the articulators are too far apart), and lower still for
the vowels in head and had. If you look in a mirror while saying the vowels in
these four words, you will find that the mouth becomes progressively more open
while the tongue remains in the front of the mouth. The vowel in heed is classi-
fied as a high front vowel, and the vowel in had as a low front vowel. The height
of the tongue for the vowels in the other words is between these two extremes,
and they are therefore called mid-front vowels. The vowel in hid is a mid-high
vowel, and the vowel in head is a mid-low vowel.
Now try saying the vowels in father, good, food. Figure 1.12 also shows the
articulatory targets for these vowels. In all three, the tongue is close to the back
surface of the vocal tract. These vowels are classified as back vowels. The body
of the tongue is highest in the vowel in food (which is therefore called a high
back vowel) and lowest in the first vowel in father (which is therefore called a
low back vowel). The vowel in good is a mid-high back vowel. The tongue may
be near enough to the roof of the mouth for you to be able to feel the rush of cold
air when you breathe inward while holding the position for the vowel in food.
Lip gestures vary considerably in different vowels. They are generally closer
together in the mid-high and high back vowels (as in good, food), though in
some forms of American English this is not so. Look at the position of your
lips in a mirror while you say just the vowels in heed, hid, head, had, father,
good, food. You will probably find that in the last two words, there is a move-
ment of the lips in addition to the movement that occurs because of the lowering
and raising of the jaw. This movement is called lip rounding. It is usually most
noticeable in the inward movement of the corners of the lips. Vowels may be
described as being rounded (as in who’d) or unrounded (as in heed).
In summary, the targets for vowel gestures can be described in terms of three
factors: (1) the height of the body of the tongue; (2) the front–back position
of the tongue; and (3) the degree of lip rounding. The relative positions of the
highest points of the tongue are given in Figure 1.13. Say just the vowels in the
words given in the figure caption and check that your tongue moves in the pat-
tern described by the points. It is very difficult to become aware of the position
of the tongue in vowels, but you can probably get some impression of tongue
height by observing the position of your jaw while saying just the vowels in the
four words heed, hid, head, had. You should also be able to feel the difference
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
The Sounds of Vowels 21
between front and back vowels by contrasting words such as he and who. Say
these words silently and concentrate on the sensations involved. You should feel
the tongue going from front to back as you say he, who. You can also feel your
lips becoming more rounded.
As you can see from Figure 1.13, the specification of vowels in terms of the
position of the highest point of the tongue is not entirely satisfactory for a number
of reasons. First, the vowels classified as high do not have the same tongue height.
The back high vowel (point 7) is nowhere near as high as the front vowel (point 1).
Second, the so-called back vowels vary considerably in their degree of backness.
Third, as you can see by looking at Figure 1.12, this kind of specification disre-
gards considerable differences in the shape of the tongue in front vowels and in
back vowels. Nor does it take into account the width of the pharynx, which varies
considerably and is not entirely dependent on the height of the tongue in different
vowels. We will discuss better ways of describing vowels in Chapters 4 and 9.
THE SOUNDS OF VOWELS
Studying the sounds of vowels requires a greater knowledge of acoustics than
we can handle at this stage of the book. We can, however, note some compara-
tively straightforward facts about vowel sounds. Vowels, like all sounds except
the pure tone of a tuning fork, have complex structures. We can think of them
as containing a number of different pitches simultaneously. There is the pitch at
which the vowel is actually spoken, which depends on the pulses being produced
by the vibrating vocal folds; and, quite separate from this, there are overtone
pitches that depend on the shape of the resonating cavities of the vocal tract.
These overtone pitches give the vowel its distinctive quality. We will enlarge on
this notion in Chapter 8; here, we will consider briefly how one vowel is distin-
guished from another by the pitches of the overtones.
Normally, one cannot hear the separate overtones of a vowel as distinguish-
able pitches. The only sensation of pitch is the note on which the vowel is said,
Figure 1.13 The relative positions of the highest points of the tongue in the vowels in
1 heed, 2 hid, 3 head, 4 had, 5 father, 6 good, 7 food.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
22 CHAPTER 1 Articulation and Acoustics
which depends on the rate of vibration of the vocal folds. But there are circum-
stances in which the overtones of each vowel can be heard. Try saying just the
vowels in the words heed, hid, head, had, hod, hawed, hood, who’d, making all
of them long vowels. Now whisper these vowels. When you whisper, the vocal
folds are not vibrating, and there is no regular pitch of the voice. Nevertheless,
you can hear that this set of vowels forms a series of sounds on a continuously
descending pitch. What you are hearing corresponds to a group of overtones that
characterize the vowels. These overtones are highest for the vowel in heed and
lowest for the vowel in either hawed, hood, or who’d. Which of the three vowels
is the lowest depends on your regional accent. Accents of English differ slightly
in the pronunciation of these vowels. You can hear Peter Ladefoged whispering
these vowels on the CD.
There is another way to produce something similar to this whispered pitch.
Try whistling a very high note, and then the lowest note that you can. You will
find that for the high note you have to have your tongue in the position for the
vowel in heed, and for the low note your tongue is in the position for one of the
vowels in hawed, hood, who’d. From this, it seems as if there is some kind of
high pitch associated with the high front vowel in heed and a low pitch associ-
ated with one of the back vowels. The lowest whistled note corresponds to the
tongue and lip gestures very much like those used for the vowel in who. A good
way to learn how to make a high back vowel is to whistle your lowest note pos-
sible, and then add voicing.
Another way of minimizing the sound of the vocal fold vibrations is to say
the vowels in a very low, creaky voice. It is easiest to produce this kind of voice
with a vowel such as that in had or hod. Some people can produce a creaky-
voice sound in which the rate of vibration of the vocal folds is so low you can
hear the individual pulsations.
Try saying just the vowels in had, head, hid, heed in a creaky voice. You
should be able to hear a change in pitch, although, in one sense, the pitch of all
of them is just that of the low, creaky voice. When saying the vowels in the order
heed, hid, head, had, you can hear a sound that steadily increases in pitch by
approximately equal steps with each vowel. Now say the vowels in hod, hood,
who’d in a creaky voice. These three vowels have overtones with a steadily de-
creasing pitch. You can hear Peter Ladefoged saying the vowels in the words
heed, hid, head, had, hod, hawed, hood, who’d in his British accent on the CD.
The first four of these vowels have a quality that clearly goes up in pitch, and the
last four have a declining pitch.
In summary, vowel sounds may be said on a variety of notes (voice pitches),
but they are distinguished from one another by two characteristic vocal tract
pitches associated with their overtones. One of them (actually the higher of the
two) goes downward throughout most of the series heed, hid, head, had, hod,
hawed, hood, who’d and corresponds roughly to the difference between front
and back vowels. The other is low for vowels in which the tongue position is
high and high for vowels in which the tongue position is low. It corresponds
CD 1.4
CD 1.4
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Suprasegmentals 23
(inversely) to what we called vowel height in articulatory terms. These charac-
teristic overtones are called the formants of the vowels, the one with the lower
pitch (distinguishable in creaky voice) being called the first formant and the
higher one (the one heard when whispering) the second formant.
The notion of a formant (actually the second formant) distinguishing vow-
els has been known for a long time. It was observed by Isaac Newton, who, in
about 1665, wrote in his notebook: “The filling of a very deepe flaggon with a
constant streame of beere or water sounds ye vowells in this order w, u, o, o, a,
e, i, y.” He was about twelve years old at the time. (The symbols used here are
the best matches to the letters in Newton’s handwriting in his notebook, which is
in the British Museum. They probably refer to the vowels in words such as woo,
hoot, foot, coat, cot, bait, bee, ye.) Fill a deep narrow glass with water (or beer!)
and see if you can hear something like the second formant in the vowels in these
words as the glass fills up.
SUPRASEGMENTALS
Vowels and consonants can be thought of as the segments of which speech is
composed. Together they form the syllables that make up utterances. Super-
imposed on the syllables are other features known as suprasegmentals. These
include variations in stress and pitch. Variations in length are also usually con-
sidered to be suprasegmental features, although they can affect single segments
as well as whole syllables. We will defer detailed descriptions of the articulation
and the corresponding acoustics of these aspects of speech till later in this book.
Variations in stress are used in English to distinguish between a noun and
a verb, as in (an) insult versus (to) insult. Say these words yourself, and check
which syllable has the greater stress. Then compare similar pairs, such as
(a) pervert, (to) pervert or (an) overflow, (to) overflow. (Peter Ladefoged’s pro-
nunciation of these words can be found on the CD.) You should find that in the
nouns, the stress is on the first syllable, but in the verbs, it is on the last. Thus,
stress can have a grammatical function in English. It can also be used for con-
trastive emphasis (as in I want a red pen, not a black one). Stress in English is
produced by (1) increased activity of the respiratory muscles, producing greater
loudness, as well as by (2) exaggeration of consonant and vowel properties, such
as vowel height and stop aspiration, and (3) exaggeration of pitch so that low
pitches are lower and high pitches are higher.
You can usually find where the stress occurs on a word by trying to tap with
your finger in time with each syllable. It is much easier to tap on the stressed
syllable. Try saying abominable and tapping first on the first syllable, then on
the second, then on the third, and so on. If you say the word in your normal way,
you will find it easiest to tap on the second syllable. Many people cannot tap on
the first syllable without altering their normal pronunciation.
Pitch changes due to variations in laryngeal activity can occur independently
of stress changes. They are associated with the rate of vibration of the vocal
CD 1.5
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
24 CHAPTER 1 Articulation and Acoustics
folds. Earlier in the chapter, we called this the “voice pitch” to distinguish be-
tween the characteristic overtones of vowels (“vocal tract pitches”) and the rate
of vocal fold vibration. Pitch of the voice is what you alter to sing different notes
in a song. Because each opening and closing of the vocal folds causes a peak of
air pressure in the sound wave, we can estimate the pitch of a sound by observ-
ing the rate of occurrence of the peaks in the waveform. To be more exact, we
can measure the frequency of the sound in this way. Frequency is a technical
term for an acoustic property of a sound—namely, the number of complete rep-
etitions (cycles) of a pattern of air pressure variation occurring in a second. The
unit of frequency measurement is the hertz, usually abbreviated Hz. If the vocal
folds make 220 complete opening and closing movements in a second, we say
that the frequency of the sound is 220 Hz.The frequency of the vowel [a]shown
in Figure 1.4 was 100 Hz, as the vocal fold pulses occurred every 10 ms (one-
hundredth of a second).
The pitch of a sound is an auditory property that enables a listener to place it
on a scale going from low to high, without considering its acoustic properties. In
practice, when a speech sound goes up in frequency, it also goes up in pitch. For
the most part, at an introductory level of the subject, the pitch of a sound may be
equated with its fundamental frequency, and, indeed, some books do not distin-
guish between the two terms, using pitch for both the auditory property and the
physical attribute.
The pitch pattern in a sentence is known as the intonation. Listen to the
intonation (the variations in the pitch of the voice) when someone says the sen-
tence This is my father. (You can either say the sentences yourself, or listen to
the recordings of it on the CD.) Try to find out which syllable has the highest
pitch and which the lowest. In most people’s speech, the highest pitch will oc-
cur on the first syllable of father and the lowest on the second, the last syllable
in the sentence. Now observe the pitch changes in the question Is this your
father? In this sentence, the first syllable of father is usually on a lower pitch
than the last syllable. In English, it is even possible to change the meaning of
a sentence such as That’s a cat from a statement to a question without altering
the order of the words. If you substitute a mainly rising for a mainly falling
intonation, you will produce a question spoken with an air of astonishment:
That’s a cat?
All the suprasegmental features are characterized by the fact that they must
be described in relation to other items in the same utterance. It is the relative
values of pitch, length, or degree of stress of an item that are significant. You
can stress one syllable as opposed to another irrespective of whether you are
shouting or talking softly. Children can also use the same intonation patterns
as adults, although their voices have a higher pitch. The absolute values are
never linguistically important. But they do, of course, convey information about
the speaker’s age, sex, emotional state, and attitude toward the topic under
discussion.
CD 1.6
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 25
EXERCISES
(Printable versions of all the exercises are available on the CD.)
A. Fill in the names of the vocal organs numbered in Figure 1.14.
1. 8.
2. 9.
3. 10.
4. 11.
5. 12.
6. 13.
7. 14.
Figure 1.14
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
26 CHAPTER 1 Articulation and Acoustics
B. Describe the consonants in the word skinflint using the chart below. Fill in
all five columns, and put parentheses around the terms that may be left out,
as shown for the first consonant.
1 2 3 4 5
Voiced or Place of Central or Oral or Articulatory
voiceless articulation lateral nasal action
s voiceless alveolar (central) (oral) fricative
k
n
f
l
t
C. Figure 1.15 a–g illustrates all the places for articulatory gestures that we
have discussed so far, except for retroflex sounds (which will be illustrated
in Chapter 7). In the spaces provided below, (1) state the place of articula-
tion and (2) state the manner of articulation of each sound, and (3) give an
example of an English word beginning with the sound illustrated.
(1) Place of (2) Manner of (3) Example
articulation articulation
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
D. Studying a new subject often involves learning a large number of techni-
cal terms. Phonetics is particularly challenging in this respect. Read over
the definitions of the terms in this chapter before completing the exercises
below. Say each of the words, and listen to the sounds. Be careful not to be
confused by spellings. Using a mirror may be helpful.
1. Circle the words that begin with a bilabial consonant:
met net set bet let pet
2. Circle the words that begin with a velar consonant:
knot got lot cot hot pot
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 27
Figure 1.15 Sounds illustrating all the places of articulation discussed so far, except for
retroflex sounds.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
28 CHAPTER 1 Articulation and Acoustics
3. Circle the words that begin with a labiodental consonant:
fat cat that mat chat vat
4. Circle the words that begin with an alveolar consonant:
zip nip lip sip tip dip
5. Circle the words that begin with a dental consonant:
pie guy shy thigh thy high
6. Circle the words that begin with a palato-alveolar consonant:
sigh shy tie thigh thy lie
7. Circle the words that end with a fricative:
race wreath bush bring breathe bang
rave real ray rose rough
8. Circle the words that end with a nasal:
rain rang dumb deaf
9. Circle the words that end with a stop:
pill lip lit graph crab dog hide
laugh back
10. Circle the words that begin with a lateral:
nut lull bar rob one
11. Circle the words that begin with an approximant:
we you one run
12. Circle the words that end with an affricate:
much back edge ooze
13. Circle the words in which the consonant in the middle is voiced:
tracking mother robber leisure massive
stomach razor
14. Circle the words that contain a high vowel:
sat suit got meet mud
15. Circle the words that contain a low vowel:
weed wad load lad rude
16. Circle the words that contain a front vowel:
gate caught cat kit put
17. Circle the words that contain a back vowel:
maid weep coop cop good
18. Circle the words that contain a rounded vowel:
who me us but him
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 29
E. Define the consonant sounds in the middle of each of the following words as
indicated in the example:
Voiced or Place of Manner of
voiceless articulation articulation
adder voiced alveolar stop
father
singing
etching
robber
ether
pleasure
hopper
selling
sunny
lodger
F. Complete the diagrams in Figure 1.16 so as to illustrate the target for the
gesture of the vocal organs for the first consonants in each of the following
words. If the sound is voiced, schematize the vibrating vocal folds by draw-
ing a wavy line at the glottis. If it is voiceless, use a straight line.
G. Figure 1.17 shows the waveform of the phrase Tom saw nine wasps.
Mark this figure in a way similar to that in Figure 1.11. Using just ordi-
nary spelling, show the center of each sound. Also indicate the manner of
articulation.
H. Make your own waveform of a sentence that will illustrate different manners
of articulation. You can use the WaveSurfer application that is available on
the CD or download it at http://www.speech.kth.se/wavesurfer/
I. Recall the pitch of the first formant (heard best in a creaky voice) and the
second formant (heard best when whispering) in the vowels in the words
heed, hid, head, had, hod, hawed, hood, who’d. Compare their formants to
those in the first parts of the vowels in the following words:
First formant similar to Second formant similar
that in the vowel in: to that in the vowel in:
bite
bait
boat
CD 1.6
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
30 CHAPTER 1 Articulation and Acoustics
Figure 1.16
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 31
cat
think
nut
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
32 CHAPTER 1 Articulation and Acoustics
J. In the next chapter, we will start using phonetic transcriptions. The following
exercises prepare for this by pointing out the differences between sounds and
spelling.
How many distinct sounds are there in each of the following words? Circle
the correct number.
1. laugh 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
2. begged 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
3. graphic 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
4. fish 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
5. fishes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
6. fished 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
7. batting 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8. quick 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
9. these 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
10. physics 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
11. knock 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
12. axis 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
K. In the following sets of words, the sound of the vowel is the same in every
case but one. Circle the word that has a different vowel sound.
1. pen said death mess mean
2. meat steak weak theme green
3. sane paid eight lace mast
4. ton toast both note toes
5. hoot good moon grew suit
6. dud died mine eye guy
0 0.5 1.0 1.5 seconds
Figure 1.17 The waveform of the phrase Tom saw nine wasps.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
33
2
Phonology and Phonetic
Transcription
Many people think that learning phonetics means simply learning to use pho-
netic transcription. But there is really much more to the subject than learning to
use a set of symbols. A phonetician is a person who can describe speech, who
understands the mechanisms of speech production and speech perception, and
who knows how languages use these mechanisms. Phonetic transcription is no
more than a useful tool that phoneticians use in the description of speech. It is,
however, a very important tool.
In this chapter, we will be concerned with the phonetic transcription of care-
ful speech—the style of speech you use to show someone how to pronounce a
word. This is called the citation style of speech. Transcriptions of citation style
are particularly useful in language documentation and lexicography, and also
serve as the basic phonetic observations described in phonology. In Chapter 5, we
will discuss phonetic transcription of connected speech—the style that used in
normal conversation.When phoneticians transcribe a citation speech utterance,
we are usually concerned with how the sounds convey differences in meaning.
For the most part, we describe only the significant articulations rather than the
details of the sounds. For example, when saying the English word tie, some peo-
ple pronounce the consonant with the blade of the tongue against the alveolar
ridge, others with the tip of the tongue. This kind of difference in articulation
does not affect the meaning of the word and is not usually transcribed. We will
begin by considering just this simplest form of transcription, sometimes called a
broad transcription.
In order to understand what we transcribe and what we don’t, it is necessary
to understand the basic principles of phonology. Phonology is the description of
the systems and patterns of sounds that occur in a language. It involves studying
a language to determine its distinctive sounds, that is, those sounds that convey a
difference in meaning. Children have to do this when they are learning to speak.
They may not realize at first that, for example, there is a difference between the
consonantsatthebeginningsofwordssuchaswhiteandright.Theylaterrealizethat
these words begin with two distinct sounds. Eventually, they learn to distinguish
all the sounds that can change the meanings of words.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
34 CHAPTER 2 Phonology and Phonetic Transcription
When two sounds can be used to differentiate words, they are said to
belong to different phonemes. There must be a phonemic difference if two words
(such as white and right or cat and bat) differ in only a single sound. There are,
however, phonetic variations that cannot be used to distinguish words, such as
the differences between the consonants at the beginning and end of the word pop.
For the first of these sounds, the lips must open and there must be a puff of air
before the vowel begins. After the final consonant, there may be a puff of air, but
it is not necessary. In fact, you could say pop and not open your lips for hours, if
it happened to be the last word you said before going to sleep. The sound at the
end would still be a p. Both consonants in this word are voiceless bilabial stops.
They are different, but the differences between them cannot be used to change
the meaning of a word in English. They both belong to the same phoneme.
We cannot rely on the spelling to tell us whether two sounds are members
of different phonemes. For example, the words phone and foam begin with the
same sounds, although they have different spellings. To take a more complex ex-
ample, the words key and car begin with what we can regard as the same sound,
despite the fact that one is spelled with the letter k and the other with c. But in
this case, the two sounds are not exactly the same. The words key and car begin
with slightly different sounds. If you whisper just the first consonants in these
two words, you can probably hear the difference, and you may be able to feel
that your tongue touches the roof of the mouth in a different place for each word.
This example shows that there may be very subtle differences between members
of a phoneme. The sounds at the beginning of key and car are slightly different,
but it is not a difference that changes the meaning of a word in English. They are
both members of the same phoneme.
We noted other small changes in sounds that do not affect the meaning in
Chapter 1, where we saw that the tongue is farther back in true than in tea, and
the n in tenth is likely to be dental, whereas the n in ten is usually alveolar. In
some cases, the members of a phoneme are more different from one another. For
example, most Americans (and some younger speakers of British English) have
a t in the middle of pity that is very different from the t at the end of the word
pit. The one in pity sounds more like a d. Consider also the l in play.You can say
just the first two consonants in this word without any voicing, but still hear the l
(try doing this). When you say the whole word play, the l is typically voiceless,
and very different from the l in lay. Say the l at the beginning of lay, and you’ll
hear that it is definitely voiced.
It follows from these examples that a phoneme is not a single sound, but a
name for a group of sounds. There is a group of t sounds and a group of l sounds
that occur in English. It is as if you had in your mind an ideal t or l, and the
ones that are actually produced are variations that differ in small ways that do
not affect the meaning. These groups of sounds—the phonemes—are abstract
units that form the basis for writing down a language systematically and un-
ambiguously. (Peter Ladefoged’s book Vowels and Consonants has an extended
discussion of the relationship between written language and phonology in which
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
The Transcription of Consonants 35
he speculates that the development of phonemic analysis was partly due to the
writing systems used by European linguists.)
We often want to record all—and only—the variations between sounds that
cause a difference in meaning. Transcriptions of this kind are called phonemic
transcriptions. Languages that have been written down only comparatively
recently (such as Swahili and most of the other languages of Africa) have a
fairly phonemic spelling system. There is very little difference between a written
version of a Swahili sentence and a phonemic transcription of that sentence.
But because English pronunciation has changed over the centuries while the
spelling has remained basically the same, phonemic transcriptions of English
are different from written texts.
THE TRANSCRIPTION OF CONSONANTS
We can begin searching for phonemes by considering the contrasting consonant
sounds in English. A good way is to find sets of words that rhyme. Take, for
example, all the words that rhyme with pie and have only a single consonant at
the beginning. A set of words in which each differs from all the others by only
one sound is called a minimal set. The second column of Table 2.1 lists a set of
this kind. There are obviously many other words that rhyme with pie, such as
spy, try, spry, but these words begin with sequences of two or more of the sounds
already in the minimal set. Some of the words in the list begin with two conso-
nant letters (thigh, thy, shy), but they each begin with a single consonant sound.
Shy, for example, does not contain a sequence of two consonant sounds in the
way that spy and try do.You can record these words and see the sequences in spy
and try for yourself.
Some consonants do not occur in words rhyming with pie. If we allow using
the names of the letters as words, then we can find another large set of conso-
nants beginning words rhyming with pea. A list of such words is shown in the
third column of Table 2.1. (Speakers of British English will have to remember
that in American English, the name of the last letter of the alphabet belongs in
this set rather than in the set of words rhyming with bed.)
Even in this set of words, we are still missing some consonant sounds that con-
trast with others only in the middles or at the ends of words. The letters ng often
represent a single consonant sound that does not occur at the beginning of a word.
You can hear this sound at the end of the word rang, where it contrasts with other
nasals in words such as ram and ran, though the vowel sound in rang is a little dif-
ferent in most varieties of English. There is also a contrast between the consonants
in the middles of mission and vision, although there are very few pairs of words
that are distinguished by this contrast in English. (One such pair for some speakers
involves the name of a chain of islands—Aleutian versus allusion.) Words illus-
trating these consonants are given in the fourth column of Table 2.1.
Most of the symbols in Table 2.1 are the same letters we use in spelling these
words, but there are a few differences. One difference between spelling and
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
36 CHAPTER 2 Phonology and Phonetic Transcription
phonetic usage occurs with the letter c, which is sometimes used to represent
a [k] sound, as in cup or bacon, and sometimes to represent an [s] sound, as in
cellar or receive. Two c’s may even represent a sequence of [k] and [s] sounds
in the same word, as in accent, access. A symbol that sometimes differs from
the corresponding letter is [g], which is used for the sound in guy and guess but
never for the sound in age or the sound in the name of the letter g.
A few other symbols are needed to supplement the regular alphabet. The pho-
netic symbols we will use are part of the set approved by the International Pho-
netic Association, a body founded in 1886 by a group of leading phoneticians
from France, Germany, Britain, and Denmark. The complete set of IPA symbols
is given in the chart on the inside covers of this book. It will be discussed in
detail later in this book. Because we often need to talk about the symbols, the
names that have been given to them are shown in the last column of Table 2.1.
The velar nasal at the end of rang is written with [ N ], a letter n combined
with the tail of the letter g descending below the line. Some people call this
CD 2.1
TABLE 2.1 Symbols for transcribing English consonants. (Alternative symbols that may
be found in other books are given in parentheses.) The last column gives
the conventional names for the phonetic symbols in the first column.
p pie pea lowercase p
t tie tea lowercase t
k kye key lowercase k
b by bee lowercase b
d dye D lowercase d
g guy lowercase g
m my me ram lowercase m
n nigh knee ran lowercase n
N rang eng (or angma)
f fie fee lowercase f
v vie V lowercase v
T thigh theta
D thy thee eth
s sigh sea listen lowercase s
z Z mizzen lowercase z
S (s#) shy she mission esh (or long s)
Z (z#) vision long z (or yogh)
l lie lee lowercase l
w why we lowercase w
r rye lowercase r
j (y) ye lowercase j
h high he lowercase h
Note also the following:
tS (ts#) chi(me) chea(p)
dZ (dz#) ji(ve) G
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
The Transcription of Consonants 37
symbol eng; others pronounce it angma. The symbol [T], an upright version of
the Greek letter theta, is used for the voiceless dental fricative in words such as
thigh, thin, thimble, ether, breath, mouth. The symbol [D], called eth, is derived
from an Anglo-Saxon letter. It is used for the corresponding voiced sound in
words such as thy, then, them, breathe. Both these symbols are ascenders (letters
that go up from the line of writing rather than descending below it). The spelling
system of the English language does not distinguish between [T] and [D]. They
are both written with the letters th in pairs such as thigh, thy.
The symbol for the voiceless palato-alveolar (post-alveolar) fricative [S] (long s)
in shy, sheep, rash is both an ascender and a descender. It is like a long, straight-
ened s going both above and below the line of writing. The corresponding voiced
symbol [Z] is like a long z descending below the line. This sound occurs in the
middle of words such as vision, measure, leisure and at the beginning of foreign
words such as the French Jean, gendarme, and foreign names such as Zsa Zsa.
In earlier editions of this book, the sound at the beginning of the word rye
was symbolized by [®], an upside-down letter r. This is the correct IPA symbol
for this sound but as the two major dictionaries of American and British English
pronunciation (see “Further Reading”) use a regular [r] for this sound, we have
done so here.
It is unfortunate that different books on phonetics use different forms of
phonetic transcription. This is not because phoneticians cannot agree on which
symbols to use, but rather because different styles of transcription are more ap-
propriate in one circumstance than in another. Thus, in this book, where we are
concerned with general phonetics, we have used the IPA symbol [j] for the ini-
tial sound in yes, yet, yeast because the IPA reserves the symbol [y] for another
sound, the vowel in the French word tu. Another reason for using [j] is that in
many languages (German, Dutch, Norwegian, Swedish, and others) this letter is
used in words such as ja, which are pronounced with a sound that in the English
spelling system would be written with the letter y. Books that are concerned
only with the phonetics of English often use [y] where this one uses [j]. Some
books on phonetics also use [s#] and [z#] in place of the IPA symbols [S] and [Z],
respectively. The first and last sounds in both church and judge are transcribed
with the digraph symbols [tS] and [dZ]. These affricate sounds are phonetically
a sequence of a stop followed by a fricative (hence the IPA symbols for them are
digraphs), yet they function in English as if they are really a single unit, com-
parable in some ways to other stop consonants. You can see that a word such as
choose might be said to begin with [tS] if you compare your pronunciation of the
phrases white shoes and why choose. In the first phrase, the [t] is at the end of
one word and the [S] at the beginning of the next; but in the second phrase, these
two sounds occur together at the beginning of the second word. The difference
between the two phrases is one of the timing of the articulations involved. The af-
fricate in why choose has a more abrupt fricative onset, and the timing of the stop
and fricative is more rigid than is the timing of the sequence in white shoes.
Also, for some speakers, the final [t] of white may be said with simultaneous
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
38 CHAPTER 2 Phonology and Phonetic Transcription
alveolar and glottal stops, while the [ t ] in the affricate [ tS ] is never said with
glottal stop. Other pairs of phrases that demonstrate this point are heat sheets
versus he cheats and might shop versus my chop. There are no pairs of phrases
illustrating the same point for the voiced counterpart [odZo] found in jar, gentle,
age, because no English word begins with [oZo].
Some other books on phonetics transcribe [ tS ] and [ dZ ] (as in church and
judge) with single symbols, such as [c#] and [K#]. These transcriptions highlight
the fact that affricates are single units by using a single letter to transcribe them.
We will see that some linguistic segments have two phonetic elements (for
example, vowel diphthongs) and it is usually helpful to represent both of the
elements in phonetic transcription. When we wish to make perfectly clear that
we are writing an affricate and not a consonant cluster, the ligature symbol [o
° o]
is used to tie symbols together. Thus, the affricate in why choose can be written
[ tS
° ] to distinguish it from the cluster [ tS ] in white shoes. The glottal stop that
begins words that are spelled with an initial vowel (recall the example from
Chapter 1 of the difference between flee east and fleeced) is written phoneti-
cally with [/], a symbol based on the question mark. So flee east is pronounced
[fli/ist], while fleeced is [flist]. The status of glottal stop as a consonant phoneme
in English is questionable because its distribution is limited. Where other conso-
nants may appear in a variety of positions in words (e.g. note the [k] in cat, scab,
back, active, across, etc.), glottal stop only occurs word initially before vowels
in American English. In London Cockney, glottal stop also appears between
vowels in words like butter and button where other dialects have a variant of
[ t ]. In American casual speech, the final [ t ] in words like cat and bat can be
“glottalized”—replaced by glottal stop, or more usually pronounced with simul-
taneous glottal stop (e.g., [bœt/
° ] and [kœt/
° ]).
There is one minor matter still to be considered in the transcription of the
consonant contrasts of English. In most forms of both British and American
English, which does not contrast with witch. Accordingly, both why and we in
Table 2.1 are said to begin simply with [w]. But some speakers of English con-
trast pairs of words such as which, witch; why, wye; whether, weather. These
speakers will have to transcribe the first consonants of each of these pairs of
words with [hw]. Note that, phonetically, the [h] is transcribed before [w] in
that it is the first part of each of these words that is voiceless.
THE TRANSCRIPTION OF VOWELS
The transcription of the contrasting vowels (the vowel phonemes) in English is
more difficult than the transcription of consonants for two reasons. First, accents
of English differ more in their use of vowels than in their use of consonants.
Second, authorities differ in their views of what constitutes an appropriate de-
scription of vowels.
Taking the same approach in looking for contrasting vowels as we did for
contrasting consonants, we might try to find a minimal set of words that differ
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
The Transcription of Vowels 39
only in the vowel sounds. We could, for example, look for monosyllables that
begin with [h] and end with [d] and supplement this minimal set with other lists
of monosyllables that contrast only in their vowel sounds. Table 2.2 shows five
such sets of words. You should listen to the recordings of these words on the CD
while reading the following discussion of the vowels.
We will consider one form of British and one form of American English. The
major difference between the two is that speakers ofAmerican English pronounce
[r] sounds after vowels, as well as before them, whereas in most forms of British
English, [r] can occur only before a vowel. American English speakers distin-
guish between words such as heart and hot not by making a difference in vowel
quality (as in Peter Ladefoged’s form of British English), but rather by pronounc-
ing heart with an [r] and hot with the same vowel but without an [r] following
it. In here, hair, hire, these speakers may use vowels similar to those in he, head,
high respectively, but in each case with a following [r]. Most speakers of Brit-
ish English distinguish these words by using different diphthongs—movements
from one vowel to another within a single syllable.
CD 2.2
TABLE 2.2 Symbols for transcribing contrasting vowels in English. Column 1 applies to
many speakers of American English, Column 2 to most speakers of British
English. The last column gives the conventional names for the phonetic
symbols in the first column unless otherwise noted.
1 2
i i heed he bead heat keyed lowercase i
I I hid bid hit kid small capital I
eI eI hayed hay bayed hate Cade lowercase e
” ” head bed epsilon
œ œ had bad hat cad ash
A A hard bard heart card script a
A Å hod bod hot cod turned script a
O O hawed haw bawd cawed open o
Á Á hood could upsilon
oÁ EÁ hoed hoe bode code lowercase o
u u who’d who booed hoot cooed lowercase u
Ø Ø Hudd bud hut cud turned v
∏± ∏ herd her bird hurt curd reversed epsilon
aI aI hide high bide height lowercase a (+I)
aÁ aÁ how bowed cowed (as noted above)
OI OI (a)hoy Boyd (as noted above)
Ir IE here beard (as noted above)
”r ”E hair bared cared (as noted above)
aIr aE hired hire (as noted above)
Note also:
ju ju hued hue Bude cued (as noted above)
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
40 CHAPTER 2 Phonology and Phonetic Transcription
Even within American English, there are variations in the number of con-
trasting vowels that occur. Many Midwestern speakers and most Far Western
speakers do not distinguish between the vowels in pairs of words such as odd,
awed and cot, caught. Some forms of American English make additional dis-
tinctions not shown in Table 2.2. For example, some speakers (mainly from the
East Coast) distinguish the auxiliary verb can from the noun can, the latter being
more diphthongal. But we will have to overlook these small differences in this
introductory textbook.
There are several possible ways of transcribing the contrasting vowels in
Table 2.2. The two principal forms that will be used in this book are shown in
the first and second columns. The first column is suitable for many forms of
American English and the second for many forms of British English. The two
columns have been kept as similar as possible; as you will see in Chapter 4, we
have tried to make the transcriptions reasonably similar to those of well-known
authorities on the phonetics of English.
As in the case of the consonant symbols, the vowel symbols in Table 2.2
are used in accordance with the principles of the IPA. Those symbols that have
the same shapes as ordinary letters of the alphabet represent sounds similar to the
sounds these letters have in French or Spanish or Italian. Actually, the IPA usage
of the vowel letters is that of the great majority of the world’s languages when
they are written with the Roman alphabet, including such diverse languages as
Swahili, Turkish, and Navajo. The present spelling of English reflects the way it
sounded many centuries ago when it still had vowel letters with values similar to
those of the corresponding letters in all these other languages.
One of the principal problems in transcribing English phonetically is that
there are more vowel sounds than there are vowel letters in the alphabet. In a
transcription of the English word sea as [ si ], the [ i ] represents a similar (but
not identical) sound to that in the Spanish or Italian si. But unlike Spanish and
Italian, English differentiates between vowels such as those in seat, sit, and
heed, hid. The vowels in seat, heed differ from those in sit, hid in two ways:
They have a slightly different quality and they are longer. Because the vowels in
sit, hid are somewhat like those in seat, heed, they are represented by the symbol
[I], a small capital I. In an earlier edition of this book, the difference in length
was also shown by adding the symbol [ … ], which, as we will see later, can be
used when it is necessary to distinguish sounds that differ in length. Adding this
symbol to some vowels shows additional phonetic detail, but it goes against the
principle of showing just the differences between phonemes and will not be used
when making phonemic transcriptions of English in this book.
The vowels in words such as hay, bait, they are transcribed with a sequence
of two symbols, [eI], indicating that for most speakers of English, these words
contain a diphthong. The first element in this diphthong is similar to sounds in
Spanish or Italian that use the letter e, such as the Spanish word for ‘milk,’ which
is written leche and pronounced [letSe]. The second element in the English words
hay, bait, they is [I], the symbol used for transcribing the vowel in hid.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
The Transcription of Vowels 41
Two symbols that are not ordinary letters of the alphabet, [”] and [œ], are
used for the vowels in head and had, respectively. The first is based on the Greek
letter epsilon and the second on the letters a and e joined together. They may be
referred to by the names epsilon and ash.
Most Americans use the same vowel sound in the words heart and hot and
can use one form of the letter a. They would transcribe these words as [ohArto]
and [ohAto]. But some East Coast Americans and speakers of British English who
do not pronounce [r] sounds after a vowel distinguish between these words by
the qualities of the vowels and have to use two different forms of the letter a.
They would transcribe these words as [hAt] and [hÅt].
Most speakers of British forms of English, and many American speakers,
distinguish between pairs of words such as cot, caught; not, naught. The symbol
[O], an open letter o, may be used in the second of each of these pairs of words
and in words such as bawd, bought, law. Many Midwestern and Far Western
American speakers do not need to use this symbol in any of these words, as they
do not distinguish between the vowels in words such as cot and caught. They
may have different vowels in words in which there is a following [ r ] sound,
such as horse, hoarse, but if there is no opposition between cot, caught or not,
naught, there is no need to mark this difference by using the symbol [O]. Doing
so would simply be showing extra phonetic detail, straying from the principle of
showing just the differences between phonemes.
Another special symbol is used for the vowel in hood, could, good. This
symbol, [Á], may be thought of as a letter u with the ends curled out.
The vowel in hoe, dough, code is a diphthong. For most American English
speakers, the first element is very similar to sounds that are written in Spanish
or Italian with the letter o. Many speakers of English from the southern parts of
Britain use a different sound for the first element of the diphthong in these words,
which we will symbolize with [E], an upside-down letter e called schwa. We will
discuss this sound more fully in a later section. The final element of the diphthong
in words such as hoe and code is somewhat similar to the vowel [Á] in hood.
An upside-down letter v, [Ø], is used for the vowel in words such as bud, hut.
This symbol is sometimes called wedge. Another symbol, [∏], a reversed form
of the Greek letter epsilon, is used for the sound in pert, bird, curt as pronounced
by most speakers of British English and those speakers of American English
who do not have an [r] in these words. In most forms of American English, the
r is fully combined with the vowel, and the symbol [∏±] is used. The little hook
[o±] indicates the r-coloring of the vowel.
The next three words in Table 2.2 contain diphthongs composed of elements
that have been discussed already. The vowel in hide [haId] begins with a sound
between that of the vowel in cat [ kœt ] and that in hard [ hAd ] or [ hArd ], and
moves toward the vowel [I] as in hid [hId]. The symbol [a] is used for the first
part of this diphthong. The vowel in how [aÁ] begins with a similar sound but
moves toward [Á] as in hood. The vowel in boy [bOI] is a combination of the
sound [O] as in bawd and [I] as in hid.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
42 CHAPTER 2 Phonology and Phonetic Transcription
Most Americans pronounce the remaining words in Table 2.2 with one of
the other vowels followed by [ r ], while most British English speakers have
additional diphthongs in these words. In each case, the end of the diphthong is
[E], the same symbol we used for the beginning of the diphthong in hoe for most
British English speakers. We will discuss this symbol further in the next para-
graph. Some (usually old-fashioned) British English speakers also use a diph-
thong in words like poor, cure that can be transcribed as [ÁE]. Some people have
a diphthong [aE] in words such as fire, hire [faE, haE]. Others pronounce these
words as two syllables (like higher, liar), transcribing them as [faIE, haIE].
The words in Table 2.2 are all monosyllables except for ahoy. Consequently,
none of them contains both stressed and unstressed vowels. By far, the most com-
mon unstressed vowel is [E], the one we noted at the end of some of the diph-
thongs in British English. It is often called by its German name, schwa. It occurs
at the ends of words such as sofa, soda ["soÁfE, "soÁdE], in the middles of words
such as emphasis, demonstrate ["”mfEsIs, "d”mEnstreIt], and at the beginnings of
words such as around, arise [E"raÁnd, E"raIz]. (In all these words, the symbol ["]
is a stress mark that has been placed before the syllable carrying the main stress.
Stress should always be marked in words of more than one syllable.)
In British English, [E] is usually the sole component of the -er part of words
such as brother, brotherhood, simpler ["brØDE, "brØDEhÁd, "sImplE]. In forms of
American English with r-colored vowels, these words are usually [ "brØDE±,
"brØDE±hÁd, "sImplE±]. As with the symbol [∏±], the small hook on [E±] symbolizes
the r-coloring. Both [E] and [E±] are very common vowels, [E] occurring very fre-
quently in unstressed monosyllables such as the grammatical function words the, a,
to, and, but. In connected speech, these words are usually [DE, E, tE, End, bEt].
Some of the other vowels also occur in unstressed syllables, but because of
differences in accents of English, it is a little more difficult to say which vowel
occurs in which word. For example, nearly all speakers of English differentiate
between the last vowels in Sophie, sofa or pity, patter. But some accents have
the vowel [ i ] as in heed at the end of Sophie, pity. Others have [ I ] as in hid.
Similarly, most accents make the vowel in the second syllable of taxis different
from that in Texas. Some have [i] and some have [I] in taxis. Nearly everybody
pronounces Texas as ["t”ksEs]. (Note that in English, the letter x often represents
the sounds [ks].) Compare your pronunciation of these words with the record-
ings on the CD and decide which unstressed vowels you use.
This is an appropriate moment to start doing some transcription exercises.
There are a large number of them at the end of this chapter. To ensure that you
have grasped the basic principles, you should try the first four sets of exercises.
CONSONANT AND VOWEL CHARTS
So far, we have been using the consonant and vowel symbols mainly as ways of
representing the contrasts that occur among words in English. But they can also
be thought of in a completely different way. We may regard them as shorthand
CD 2.3
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Consonant and Vowel Charts 43
descriptions of the articulations involved. Thus, [p] is an abbreviation for voice-
less bilabial stop and [l] is equivalent to voiced alveolar lateral approximant.
The consonant symbols can then be arranged in the form of a chart as in
Figure 2.1. The places of articulation are shown across the top of the chart, start-
ing from the most forward articulation (bilabial) and going toward those sounds
made in the back of the mouth (velar) and in the throat (glottal). The manners
of articulation are shown on the vertical axis of the chart. By convention, the
voiced–voiceless distinction is shown by putting the voiceless symbols to the
left of the voiced symbols.
The symbol [w] is shown in two places in the consonant chart in Figure 2.1.
This is because it is articulated with both a narrowing of the lip aperture, which
makes it bilabial, and a raising of the back of the tongue toward the soft palate,
which makes it velar. The affricate symbols [otSo] and [odZo] are not listed sepa-
rately in the table even though they are contrastive sounds in English. Note that
if we were to include them in the table, we would have the problem of deciding
whether to put them in the palato-alveolar column (the place of the fricative
element) or in the alveolar column (the place of the stop element). The interna-
tional phonetic alphabet avoids the inaccuracy that is inevitable when the stop
element and fricative element of the affricate have different place of articulation
by listing only stop and fricative symbols in the consonant chart.
Figure 2.1 A phonetic chart of the English consonants we have dealt with so far.
Whenever there are two symbols within a single cell, the one on the left
represents a voiceless sound. All other symbols represent voiced sounds. Note
also the consonant [h], which is not on this chart, and the affricates [tS, dZ],
which are sequences of symbols on the chart.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
44 CHAPTER 2 Phonology and Phonetic Transcription
The symbols we have been using for the contrasting vowels may also be re-
garded as shorthand descriptions for different vowel qualities. There are prob-
lems in this respect in that we have been using these symbols somewhat loosely,
allowing them to have different values for different accents. But the general val-
ues can be indicated by a vowel chart as in Figure 2.2. The symbols have been
placed within a quadrilateral, which shows the range of possible vowel qualities.
Thus, [i] is used for a high front vowel, [u] for a high back one, [oIo] for a mid-
high front vowel, [e] for a raised mid-front vowel, [o”o] for a mid-low, and so on.
The simple vowel chart in Figure 2.2 shows only two of the dimensions of
vowel quality, and if they are taken to be descriptions of what the tongue is do-
ing, these dimensions are not represented very accurately (as we will see in later
chapters). Furthermore, Figure 2.2 does not show anything about the variations
in the degree of lip rounding in the different vowels, nor does it indicate anything
about vowel length. It does not show, for example, that in most circumstances,
[i] and [u] are longer than [oIo] and [oÁo].
The consonant and vowel charts enable us to understand the remark made
in Chapter 1, when we said that the sounds of English involve about twenty-
five different gestures of the tongue and lips. The consonant chart has twenty-
three different symbols, but only eleven basic gestures of the tongue and lips are
needed to make these different sounds. The sounds [op, b, mo] are all made with
the same lip gesture, and [ot, d, no] and [ok, g, No] with the same tongue gestures.
(There are slight differences in timing when these gestures are used for making
Figure 2.2 A vowel chart showing the relative vowel qualities represented by some of the
symbols used in transcribing English. The symbols [e, a, o] occur as the first
elements of diphthongs.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Phonology 45
the different sounds, but we will neglect them here.) Four more gestures are
required for the sounds in the fricative row, three more for the (central) approxi-
mants, and another one for the lateral approximant, making eleven in all. The
vowel chart has fourteen symbols, each of which may be considered to require a
separate gesture. But, as we have seen, accents of English vary in the number of
vowels that they distinguish, which is why we said that English requires about
twenty-five different gestures of the tongue and lips.
All these sounds will also require gestures of the other three main compo-
nents of the speech mechanism—the airstream process, the phonation process,
and the oro-nasal process. The airstream process involves pushing air out of the
lungs for all the sounds of English. The phonation process is responsible for
the gestures of the vocal folds that distinguish voiced and voiceless sounds, and
the oro-nasal process will be active in raising and lowering the velum so as to
distinguish nasal and oral sounds.
PHONOLOGY
At the beginning of this chapter, we discussed another reason why it is only
approximately true that in our transcriptions of English, the symbols have the
values shown in Figures 2.1 and 2.2. In the style of transcription we have been
using so far, we have used symbols that show just the contrasting sounds of
English, the phonemes. From this point on, we will use slash lines / / to mark off
symbols when we are explicitly using them to represent phonemes.
As we have noted, some of the phoneme symbols may represent different
sounds when they occur in different contexts. For example, the symbol /t/ may
represent a wide variety of sounds. In tap/tœp/, it represents a voiceless alveolar
stop. But the /t/ in eighth/eItT/ may be made on the teeth, because of the influ-
ence of the following voiceless dental fricative /oT/. This /t/ is more accurately
called a voiceless dental stop, and we will later use a special symbol for tran-
scribing it. In most forms of both British and American English, the /t/ in bitten
is accompanied by a glottal stop, and we will also be using a special symbol
for this sound. As we saw, for most Americans and for many younger British
English speakers, the /t / in catty /"kœti / symbolizes a voiced, not a voiceless,
sound. All these different sounds are part of the /t/ phoneme. Each of them oc-
curs in a specific place: /t/ before /T/ is a dental stop, /t/ before a word final /n/
is a glottal stop, and /t/ after a vowel and before an unstressed vowel is a voiced
stop. None of these variations is different enough to change the meaning of a
word in English. Note also that all of these variations occur in citation speech and
are not simply the result of failing to “hit the target” when speaking quickly.
Similarly, other symbols represent different sounds in different contexts. The
symbols /l/ and /r/ normally stand for voiced approximants. But in words such
as ply / plaI / and try / traI /, the influence of the preceding stops makes them
voiceless. Vowel sounds also vary. The /i/ in heed/ hid/ is usually very different
from the /i/ in heel/hil/, and much longer than the /i/ in heat.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
46 CHAPTER 2 Phonology and Phonetic Transcription
Many of the variations we have been discussing can be described in terms
of simple statements about regular sound patterns. Statements of this kind may
be considered rules that apply to English words. In most forms of American
English, for example, /t/ becomes voiced not only in catty, but on all occasions
when it occurs immediately after a vowel and before an unstressed vowel (for
example, in pity, matter, utter, divinity, etc.). In English of nearly all kinds, it
is also a rule that whenever /t/ occurs before a dental fricative, it is pronounced as
a dental stop. We can show that this is a different kind of /t/ by adding a small
mark [o 1o] under it, making it [t1]. (As this symbol is not representing a phoneme,
it is placed between [ ].) The same is true of / d /, as in width [ wId1D ]; / n /, as
in tenth [ot”n1To]; and /l/, as in wealth [w”l1T]. In all these cases, the mark
[ 1] may be added under the symbol to indicate that it represents a dental
articulation. All these transcriptions are placed between square brackets, as they
are phonetic transcriptions rather than phonemic transcriptions.
Small marks that can be added to a symbol to modify its value are known
as diacritics. They provide a useful way of increasing the phonetic precision of
a transcription. Another diacritic, [ 9 ], a small circle beneath a symbol, can be
used to indicate that the symbol represents a voiceless sound. Earlier, we noted
that the / l / in play is voiceless. Accordingly, we can transcribe this word as
[pl9eI]. Similarly, ply and try can be written [pl9aI] and [tr9aI].
When we describe the sound patterns that occur in English, we want to be
able to say that in some sense there are always the same underlying sounds that
are changed because of the contexts in which they occur. The phonology of a
language is the set of rules or constraints that describe the relation between
the underlying sounds, the abstract units called phonemes described at the be-
ginning of this chapter, and the phonetic forms that can be observed. When
we transcribe a word in a way that shows none of the details of the pronun-
ciation that are predictable by phonological rules, we are making a phonemic
transcription.
The variants of the phonemes that occur in detailed phonetic transcriptions
are known as allophones. They can be described as a result of applying the pho-
nological rules to the underlying phonemes. We have now discussed some of the
rules for different allophones of the phoneme /t/. For example, we know that in
most varieties of American English, /t/ has a voiced allophone when it occurs
between a stressed vowel and an unstressed vowel. We have also illustrated rules
that make /r/ and /l/ voiceless when they occur after /p, t, k/. (These rules need
more refinement before they can be considered to be generally applicable.)
In addition to applying rules that describe particular allophones of the pho-
nemes in a transcription, there is another way we can show more phonetic detail.
We can use more specialized phonetic symbols. For example, we noted that the
vowel /i/ is longer than the vowel /I/, as in sheep versus ship. This difference in
length is always there as long as the two vowels are in the same phonetic context
(between the same sounds and with the same degree of stress, etc.). We could
transcribe this difference in length by adding a length mark to the longer of the
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Phonology 47
two sounds. The IPA provides the symbol [o…o] to show that the preceding symbol
represents a longer sound. Accordingly, we could transcribe the two sounds as
/oi…o/ and /oIo/. We would still be representing only the underlying phonemes in
this particular accent of English, but doing so with greater phonetic precision.
Another example of using more precise phonetic symbols to show more
phonetic detail has to do with the transcription of English / r /. We mentioned
that in previous editions of this book, we used the upside-down r [ ® ] to write
the r sound of English. This was done because the IPA symbol [r] indicates a
trilled r and not the approximant r of English. One principle of the International
Phonetic Alphabet is to use the most common form of the letter for the most
common phonetic property associated with that letter. Because trilled r is more
common in languages of the world than is approximant r, the IPA uses the un-
usual symbol [®] for the unusual r sound found in English. So, you can use [®]
to give a more precise transcription of the English /r/.
Students sometimes also make the mistake of thinking that allophones are
written with diacritics while phonemes are written with simple phonetic sym-
bols. Consider, though, the pronunciation of the word letter. For most speakers
of American English, there is no [ t ] sound in this word. Instead, the medial
consonant sounds like a very short [d]. It is different enough from [d] (compare
seedy and see Dee) that the IPA has a unique symbol for the tap allophone of /t
/ and /d/. The alveolar tap sound in letter is written with the symbol [|], a letter
derived from the letter r. Note, therefore, that transcription of allophones may
use simple phonetic symbols as well as symbols with diacritic marks.
The term broad transcription is often used to designate a transcription that
uses the simplest possible set of symbols. Conversely, a narrow transcription is
one that shows more phonetic detail, either by using more specific symbols or
by representing some allophonic differences. A broad transcription of please and
trip would be /pliz/ and /trIp/. A narrow (but still phonemic) transcription could
be /pli…z/ and /trIp/. This transcription would be phonemic as long as we always
used /oi…/ wherever we would otherwise have had /i/. In this way, we would not
be showing any allophones of the phonemes. A narrow allophonic transcription
would be [pl9i…z] and [tr9Ip], in which [l9] and [r9]. are allophones of /l/ and /r/.
Every transcription should be considered as having two aspects, one of which
is often not explicit. There is the phonetic text itself and, at least implicitly, there
is a set of conventions for interpreting the text. These conventions are usually of
two kinds. First, there are the conventions that ascribe general phonetic values to
the symbols. It was these conventions we had in mind when we said earlier that
a symbol could be regarded as an approximate specification of the articulations
involved. If we want to remind people of the implicit statements accompany-
ing a transcription, we can make them explicit. We could, for instance, say that,
other things being equal, /i/ is longer than /Io/, perhaps stating at the beginning
of the transcription /i/ = /i…/. We could also make explicit the rules that specify
the allophones that occur in different circumstances, a topic we will return to in
Chapter 4.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
48 CHAPTER 2 Phonology and Phonetic Transcription
On a few occasions, a transcription cannot be said to imply the existence of
rules accounting for allophones. This is at least theoretically possible in the case
of a narrow transcription so detailed that it shows all the rule-governed alterna-
tions among the sounds. A transcription that shows the allophones in this way
is called a completely systematic phonetic transcription. In practice, it is dif-
ficult to make a transcription so narrow that it shows every detail of the sounds
involved.
On some occasions, a transcription may not imply the existence of rules ac-
counting for allophones because, in the circumstances when the transcription
was made, nothing was known about the rules. When writing down an unknown
language or when transcribing the speech of a child or a patient not seen previ-
ously, one does not know what rules will apply. In these circumstances, the sym-
bols indicate only the phonetic value of the sounds. This kind of transcription is
called an impressionistic transcription.
We hope this brief survey of different kinds of transcription makes plain that
there is no such thing as the IPA transcription of a particular utterance. Some-
times, one wants to make a detailed phonetic transcription; at other times, it is
more convenient to make a phonemic transcription. Sometimes, one wants to
point out a particular phonetic feature, such as vowel length; at other times, the
vowels are not of concern and details of the consonants are more important. IPA
transcriptions take many forms.
EXERCISES
(Printable versions of all the exercises are available on the CD.)
A. Find the errors in the transcriptions of the consonant sounds in the following
words. In each word, there is one error, indicating an impossible pronun-
ciation of that word for a native speaker of English of any variety. Make a
correct transcription in the space provided after the word.
1. strength [str”ngT] should be [ ]
2. crime [craIm] [ ]
3. wishing [wIshIN] [ ]
4. wives [waIvs] [ ]
5. these [Tiz] [ ]
6. hijacking [haIjœkIN] [ ]
7. chipping [tSIppIN] [ ]
8. yelling ["y”lIN] [ ]
9. sixteen ["sIxtin] [ ]
10. thesis ["DisIs] [ ]
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 49
B. Now try another ten words in which the errors are all in the vowels. Again,
there is only one possible error, but because of differences in varieties of
English, there are sometimes alternative possible corrections.
11. man-made ["manmeId] should be [ ]
12. football ["fÁtbol] [ ]
13. tea chest ["titSest] [ ]
14. tomcat ["tomkœt] [ ]
15. tiptoe [ "tiptoÁ] [ ]
16. avoid [œ"vOId] [ ]
17. remain [rE"man] [ ]
18. bedroom ["b”drOm] [ ]
19. umbrella [um"br”lE ] [ ]
20. manage ["mœnœdZ] [ ]
C. Make a correct transcription of the following words. There is still only one
error per word, but it may be among the vowels, the consonants, or the stress
marks.
21. magnify [o"mœgnifaIo] should be [ ]
22. traffic [o"trœfIco] [ ]
23. simplistic [o"sImplIstIko] [ ]
24. irrigate [o"IrrIgeIto] [ ]
25. improvement [oIm"prÁvmEnto] [ ]
26. demonstrate [o"dEmAnstreIto] [ ]
27. human being [ohumEn "biINo] [ ]
28. appreciate [oE"preSieIto] [ ]
29. joyful [o"dZOyfÁlo] [ ]
30. wondrous [o"wondrEso] [ ]
D. Transcribe the following words or phrases as they are pronounced by either
the British or the American speaker on the CD. Be careful to put in stress
marks at the proper places. Use a phonemic transcription, and note which
speaker you are transcribing.
31. languages
32. impossibility
33. boisterous
34. youngster
35. another
36. diabolical
37. nearly over
38. red riding hood
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
50 CHAPTER 2 Phonology and Phonetic Transcription
39. inexcusable
40. chocolate pudding
E. Which of the two transcriptions below is the narrower?
(For this exercise both transcriptions have been put between square
brackets.)
Betty cried as she left in the plane.
(a) ["b”ti "kraId Ez Si "l”ft In DE "pleIn]
(b) ["b”|i "kr9aId Ez Si… "l”ft In1 DE "pl 9eIn]
State rules for converting the transcription in (a) above into that in (b). Make
your rules as general as possible, so that they cover not only this pair of tran-
scriptions but also other similar sentences (for example, [t] S [|] when it
occurs after a vowel and before an unstressed vowel).
F. Pirahã, a language spoken by about 300 hunter-gatherers living in the
Amazonian rain forest, has only three vowels—i, a, o—and eight conso-
nants—p, t, k, /, b, g, s, h. (/, the glottal stop, does not have any lip or
tongue action.) How many different gestures of the tongue and lips do the
speakers of this language have to make? Note which are vocalic (vowel) ges-
tures and which are consonantal gestures.
G. Hawaiian, now undergoing a revival although spoken natively by only a few
hundred people, has the following vowels and consonants: i, e, a, o, u, p, k,
/, m, n, w, l, h. How many different gestures of the tongue and lips do the
speakers of this language have to make? Note which are vocalic gestures and
which are consonantal gestures.
H. Transcribe the following phrases as they are pronounced by either the British
English or the American English speaker on the CD. Say whether the British
or American English speaker is being transcribed.
1. We can see three real trees.
2. He still lives in the big city.
3. The waiter gave the lady stale cakes.
4. They sell ten red pens for a penny.
5. His pal packed his bag with jackets.
6. Father calmly parked the car in the yard.
7. The doll at the top costs lots.
8. He was always calling for more laws.
9. Don’t stroll slowly on a lonely road.
10. The good-looking cook pulled sugar.
11. Sue threw the soup into the pool.
12. He loved a dull muddy-colored rug.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 51
13. The girl with curls has furs and pearls.
14. I like miles of bright lights.
15. He howled out loud as the cow drowned.
16. The boy was annoyed by boiled oysters.
I. Transcribe the following phrases as they are pronounced by either the British
English or the American English speaker on the CD. Make both (a) a broad
transcription and (b) a narrower transcription. Say whether the British or
American English speaker is being transcribed.
Please come home.
(a)
(b)
He is going by train.
(a)
(b)
The tenth American.
(a)
(b)
His knowledge of the truth.
(a)
(b)
I prefer sugar and cream.
(a)
(b)
Sarah took pity on the young children.
(a)
(b)
J. Read the following passages in phonetic transcription. The first, which rep-
resents a form of British English of the kind spoken by Peter Ladefoged, is
a broad transcription. The second, which represents an American pronun-
ciation typical of a Midwestern or Far Western speaker, is slightly narrower,
showing a few allophones. By this time, you should be able to read tran-
scriptions of different forms of English, although you may have difficulty
pronouncing each word exactly as it is represented. Nevertheless, read each
passage several times and try to pronounce it as indicated. Take care to put
the stresses on the correct syllables, and say the unstressed syllables with the
vowels as shown. Now listen to these passages on the CD, and comment on
any problems with the transcriptions.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
52 CHAPTER 2 Phonology and Phonetic Transcription
British English
It Iz "pÅsEbl tE trœn"skraIb fE"n”tIklI
"”ni "ØtrEns, In "”nI "lœNgwIdZ,
In "s”vrEl "dIfrEnt "weIz
"Ol Ev DEm "juzIN Di "œlfEbEt End kEn"v”nSnz
Ev Di "aI "pi "eI.
DE "seIm "TIN Iz "pÅsEbl
wID "mEÁst "ØDE IntE"nœSEnl fE"n”tIk "œlfEbEts.
E trœn"skrIpSn wItS Iz "meId baI "juzIN "l”tEz Ev DE "sImplIst "pÅsEbl "SeIps,
End In DE "sImplIst "pÅsEbl "nØmbE,
Iz "kOld E "sImpl fEÁ"nimIk trœn"skrIpSn.
American English
If DE "nØmbE± Ev "dIfrEnt "l”|E±z Iz "mOr Den1 DE "mInEmEm
Ez dEfaInd E"bØv
DE trœn"skrIpSn wIl "nAt bi E fE"nimIk,
bE| En œlE"fAnIk wØn.
"sØm Ev DE "foÁnimz, "Dœ| Iz tE "seI,
wIl bI r”prE"z”ntEd baI "mOr DEn "wØn "dIfrEnt "sImbl.
In "ØDE± "w∏±dz "sØm "œlEfoÁnz Ev "sØm "foÁnimz
wIl bI "sINgld "aÁt fE± "r”prEz”n"teISn In1 DE trœn"skrIpSn,
"h”ns DE "t∏±m "œlE"fAnIk.
(Both the above passages are adapted from David Abercrombie, English
Phonetic Texts [Salem, N.H.: Faber & Faber, 1964].)
PERFORMANCE EXERCISES
It is extremely important to develop practical phonetic skills as you learn the the-
oretical concepts. One way to do this is to learn to pronounce nonsense words.
You should also transcribe nonsense words that are dictated to you. By using
nonsense words, you are forced to listen to the sounds that are being spoken. All
the following words are on the CD.
A. Learn to say simple nonsense words. A good way is to start with a single
vowel, and then add consonants and vowels one by one at the beginning. In
this way, you are always reading toward familiar material, rather than having
new difficulties ahead of you. Make up sets of words such as:
A
zA
I"zA
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Performance Exercises 53
tI"zA
"œtI"zA
"mœtI"zA
Ø"mœtI"zA
tØ"mœtI"zA
B. Read the following words and listen to them as they appear on the CD. Ask
a partner to click on the words on the CD in a different order. Enter the order
in which the words are played.
pi"suz
pi"sus
pi"zus
pi"zuz
pi"zuZ
C. Repeat Exercise B with the following sets of words:
tA"T”D "kipik "lœmœm "mØlØl
tA"T”T "kIpik "lœmœn "mØrØl
tA"D”T "kipIk "lœnœm "mØwØl
tA"D”D "kIpIk "lœnœn "nØlØl
tA"f”D "kIpIt "lœnœN "nØrØl
D. There is a set of nonsense words on the CD numbered D 1–5. Play them one
at a time and try to transcribe them.
1. ____________________________
2. ____________________________
3. ____________________________
4. ____________________________
5. ____________________________
E. After you have done Exercise D, look at the following nonsense words,
which are the answers to Exercise D. Now make up a set of similar words,
and say these to a partner. Your words can differ from the sample set in as
many sounds as you like. But we suggest that you should not make them
much longer at first. You will also find it advisable to write down your
words and practice saying them for some time by yourself so that you can
pronounce them fluently when you say them to your partner.
"skAnzil
"braIgbluzd
"dZINsmœN
flOIS"TraIDz
pjut"peItS
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
54 CHAPTER 2 Phonology and Phonetic Transcription
When you have finished saying each word several times and your partner has
written the words down, compare notes. Try to decide whether any discrep-
ancies were due to errors in saying the words or in hearing them. If possible,
the speaker should try to illustrate discrepancies by pronouncing the word in
both ways, saying, for example, “I said [o"skAnzilo] but you wrote [o"skAnsilo].”
There is no one best way of doing ear-training work of this kind. It is
helpful to look carefully at a person pronouncing an unknown word, then try
to say the word yourself immediately afterward, getting as much of it right
as possible but not worrying if you miss some things on first hearing. Then
write down all that you can, leaving blanks to be filled in when you hear the
word again. It seems important to get at least the number of syllables and the
placement of the stress correct on first hearing, so that you have a framework
in which to fit later observations. Repeat this kind of production and percep-
tion exercise as often as you can. You should do a few minutes’ work of this
kind every day, so that you spend at least an hour a week doing practical
exercises.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
PART II
ENGLISH PHONETICS
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
56
3
The Consonants of English
We will begin this chapter by reviewing some of the gestures involved in
producing the consonants of English. In the materials for this chapter on the CD,
there are two movies. The first shows the pronunciation of consonants that have
different places of articulation. The stops [p,t,k] are illustrated in the nonsense
utterances [hEpa,hEta, hEka]. These stops are said to be bilabial, alveolar, and
velar. But it is not just the different places on the roof of the mouth that distin-
guish these sounds. They are equally characterized by the movements of the lips
and different parts of the tongue. Look at the movie on the CD and note the
rapid movements of the lips for the first consonant, of the tip of the tongue for
the second, and of the back of the tongue for the third.
The second movie on the CD shows different manners of articulation, illus-
trating the consonants [d,n,s] in the nonsense words [hEd”,hEn”,hEs”]. Look
at the movie and then go through it slowly. You can use the right arrow key,
which is usually at the bottom right of the keyboard, to step through one frame
at a time. In [hEd”], note how, at the left of the picture, the soft palate rises to
form a velic closure in the first few frames, even before the tip of the tongue
moves up to form a closure on the alveolar ridge. Conversely, in [hEn”], note
that the soft palate moves up before the tongue moves, but this time only
slightly. The soft palate does not make a complete closure and thus allows air
to escape through the nose after the tongue tip has made a closure on the al-
veolar ridge for [n]. The third nonsense word in this movie, [hEs”], has tongue
and soft palate gestures very similar to those in [hEd”]. The small differences
in tongue shape are hard to see in this film, even when you step through it one
frame at a time. But if you superimpose tracings of the articulators at the [d]
and [ s ] midpoints, you will find that in the [ s ], the center of the tongue is
slightly hollowed; the location of the constriction in [d] is slightly behind that
for [ s ]. Also, during the [ s ], the teeth are closer together and slightly more
forward than during the [d]. Much of the sound of [s] is produced by a jet of
air striking the edges of the teeth. The rapidly moving airstream is formed by
the narrow gap between the tongue and the alveolar ridge. These requirements
of the [ s ] sound may explain why this speaker has slightly different tongue
and jaw positions for [d] and [s].
CD 3.1
CD 3.2
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Stop Consonants 57
STOP CONSONANTS
Consider the difference between the words in the first column in Table 3.1 and
the corresponding words in the second column. This opposition may be said to
be between the set of voiceless stop consonants and the set of voiced stop con-
sonants. But the difference is really not just one of voicing during the consonant
closure, as you can see by saying these words yourself. Most people have very
little voicing going on while the lips are closed during either pie or buy. Both
stop consonants are essentially voiceless. But in pie, after the release of the lip
closure, there is a moment of aspiration, a period of voicelessness after the stop
articulation and before the start of the voicing for the vowel. If you put your
hand in front of your lips while saying pie, you can feel the burst of air that
comes out during the period of voicelessness after the release of the stop.
In a narrow transcription, aspiration may be indicated by a small raised h,
[h ]. Accordingly, these words may be transcribed as [phaI, thaI, khaI]. You may
not be able to feel the burst of air in tie and kye because these stop closures are
made well inside the mouth cavity. But listen carefully and notice that you can
hear the period of voicelessness after the release of the stop closure in each of
the words. It is this interval that indicates that the stop is aspirated. The major
difference between the words in the first two columns is not that one has voice-
less stops and the other voiced stops. It is that the first column has (voiceless)
aspirated stops and the second column has (perhaps voiced) unaspirated stops.
The amount of voicing in each of the stops [b,d,g] depends on the context in
which it occurs. When it is in the middle of a word or phrase in which a voiced
sound occurs on either side (as in column 3 in Table 3.1), voicing usually oc-
curs throughout the stop closure. But most speakers of English have no voicing
during the closure of so-called voiced stops in sentence initial position, or when
they occur after a voiceless sound as in that boy.
One of the main objects of this book is to teach you to become a phonetician
by learning to listen very carefully. You should be able to hear these differences,
but you can also see them in acoustic waveforms. Figure 3.1 is a record of the
words tie and die. It is quite easy to see the different segments in the sound
wave. In the first word, tie, there is a spike indicating the burst of noise that
occurs when the stop closure is released, followed by a period of very small
CD 3.3
CD 3.3
TABLE 3.1 Words illustrating allophones of English stop consonants.
1 2 3 4 5 6
pie buy a buy spy nap nab
tie dye a dye sty mat mad
kye guy a sky sky knack nag
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
58 CHAPTER 3 The Consonants of English
semi-random variations during the aspiration, and then a regular, repeating wave
as the vocal folds begin to vibrate for the vowel. In die, the noise burst is smaller,
and there is very little gap between the burst and the start of the wave for the
vowel. As you can see, the major difference between tie and die is the increase
in time between the release of the stop and the start of the vowel. We will dis-
cuss this distinction further in Chapter 6.
Now consider the words in the fourth column of Table 3.1. Are the sounds of
the stop consonants more like those in the first column or those in the second?
As in many cases, English spelling is misleading, and the sounds are in fact
more like those in the second column. There is no opposition in English be-
tween words beginning with / sp / and / sb /, or / st / and / sd /, or / sk / and / sg /.
English spelling has words beginning with sp, st, sc, or sk, and none that begin
with sb, sd, or sg, but the stops that occur after / s / are really somewhere be-
tween initial / p / and / b /, / t / and / d /, / k / and / g /, and usually more like the
so-called voiced stops / b, d, g / in that they are completely unaspirated. Figure
3.2 shows the acoustic waveform in sty. You can see the small variations in the
waveform corresponding to the fricative / s /, followed by a straight line during
the period in which there is no sound because there is a complete stop for the / t /.
This is followed by a sound wave very similar to that of the / d / in Figure 3.1.
If you have access to a computer that can record sounds and let you see the
waveforms of words, you can verify this for yourself. (The freeware program
WaveSurfer, included on the CD, will let you do this.) Record words such as
spy, sty, sky, spill, still, skill, each said as a separate word. Now find the be-
ginning and end of each / s /, and cut this part out. When you play the edited
Figure 3.1 The waveforms of the words tie and die.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Stop Consonants 59
recordings to others and ask them to write down the words they hear, they will
almost certainly write buy, die, guy, bill, dill, gill.
What about the differences between the words in the fifth and sixth columns?
The consonants at the end of nap, mat, knack are certainly voiceless. But if you
listen carefully to the sounds at the end of the words nab, mad, nag, you may
find that the so-called voiced consonants / b, d, g / have very little voicing and
might also be called voiceless. Try saying these words separately. You can, of
course, say each of them with the final consonant released with a noise burst and
a short vowel-like sound afterward. But it would be more normal to say each of
them without releasing the final consonants, or at least without anything like a
vowel. You could even say cab and not open your lips for a considerable period
of time if it were the last word of an utterance. In such circumstances, it is quite
clear that the final consonants are not fully voiced throughout the closure.
There is, however, a clear distinction between the words in the fifth and sixth
columns. Say these words in pairs—nap, nab; mat, mad; knack, nag—and try to
decide which has the longer vowel. In these pairs, and in all similar pairs—such
as cap, cab; cat, cad; back, bag—the vowel is much shorter before the voiceless
consonants / p, t, k / than it is before the voiced consonants / b, d, g /. The major
difference between such pairs of words is in the vowel length, not in the voicing
of the final consonants.
You can hear that both speakers on the CD also distinguish these words by
vowel length. In these recordings, each of the speakers said the words nap,
nab; mat, mad; knack, nag in the same phonetic context, I’ll say ___ again. By
saying each word in a separate sentence, it’s easier to give each of them the
same stress and intonation, and thus avoid the influence of these factors on the
length of a word.
This length difference is very evident in Figure 3.3, which shows the wave-
forms of the words mat and mad. In this occasion, the vowel in mad is almost
twice as long as the vowel in mat. You can see small voicing vibrations during
Figure 3.2 The waveform of the word sty.
CD 3.4
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
60 CHAPTER 3 The Consonants of English
the / d / in mad, but there is nothing noteworthy at the end of mat except the
slightly irregular voicing at the time of the closure. We will return to this point
later in this section.
Try comparing the length differences in short sentences such as Take a cap
now and Take a cab now. If you say these sentences with a regular rhythm, you
will find that the length of time between Take and now is about the same in both.
This is because the whole word cap is only slightly shorter than the whole word
cab. The vowel is much shorter in cap than in cab. But the consonant / p / makes
up for this by being slightly longer than the consonant / b /. It is a general rule
of English (and of most other languages) that syllable final voiceless consonants
are longer than the corresponding voiced consonants after the same vowel.
The phrases Take a cap now and Take a cab now also illustrate a further point
about English stop consonants at the end of a word (or, in fact, at the end of a
stressed syllable). Say each of these phrases without a pause before now. Do
your lips open before the [ n ] of now begins, or do they open during the [ n ]?
If they open before the [n ], there will be a short burst of aspiration or a short
vowel-like sound between the two words. Releasing the stops produces a some-
what unnatural pronunciation. Generally, final stops are unreleased when the
next word begins with a nasal. The same is true if the next word begins with
a stop. The final [t] in cat is nearly always unexploded in phrases like the cat
pushed. In a narrow transcription, we can symbolize the fact that a consonant
is unreleased by adding a small raised mark [ } ], which stands for “no audible
release.” We could therefore transcribe the phrase as [DE "kÓœt} "pÓÁSt].
Figure 3.3 The waveforms of the words mat and mad.
CD 3.5
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Stop Consonants 61
The same phenomenon occurs even within a word such as apt [œp}t ] or act
[œk}t]. Furthermore, across a word boundary, the two consonants involved can
even be identical, as in the phrase white teeth. To convince yourself that there
are two examples of / t / in this phrase, try contrasting it with why teeth. Not
only is the vowel in white much shorter than the vowel in why (because the
vowel in white is in a syllable with a voiceless consonant at the end), but also the
stop closure in white teeth is much longer than the stop in the phrase with only
one / t /. In white teeth, there really are two examples of / t / involved, the first of
which is unreleased.
Other languages do not have this rule. For example, it is a mark of speakers
with an Italian accent (at least as caricatured in films and on television) that
they release all their final stop consonants, producing an extra vowel at the end,
as they normally would in their own language. Authors trying to indicate an
Italian speaking English will write the sentence It’s a big day as It’s a bigga
day. They are presumably trying to indicate the difference between the normal
[Its E "bIg} "deI] and the foreign accent [Its E "bIgE "deI ].
It is interesting that words such as rap, rat, rack are all distinguishable, even
when the final consonants are unreleased. The difference in the sounds must
therefore be in the way that the vowels end—after all, the rest is silence. The
consonants before and after a vowel always affect it, so there is a slight but no-
ticeable difference in its quality. Compare your pronunciation of words such as
pip, tit, kick. Your tongue tip is up throughout the word tit, whereas in pip and
kick it stays behind the lower front teeth. In kick, it is the back of the tongue that
is raised throughout the word, and in pip, the lip gestures affect the entire vowel.
The same is true for words with voiced consonants, such as bib, did, gig. The
consonant gestures are superimposed on the vowel in such a way that their effect
is audible throughout much of the syllable.
The sounds [ p, t, k ] are not the only voiceless stops that occur in English.
Many people also pronounce a glottal stop in some words. A glottal stop is the
sound (or, to be more exact, the lack of sound) that occurs when the vocal folds
are held tightly together. As we have seen, the symbol for a glottal stop is [/],
resembling a question mark without the dot.
Glottal stops occur whenever one coughs.You should be able to get the sensa-
tion of the vocal folds being pressed together by making small coughing noises.
Next, take a deep breath and hold it with your mouth open. Listen to the small
plosive sound that occurs when you let the breath go. Now, while breathing out
through your mouth, try to check and then release the breath by making and re-
leasing a short glottal stop. Then do the same while making a voiced sound such
as the vowel [A]. Practice producing glottal stops between vowels, saying [A/A]
or [i/i], so that you get to know what they feel like.
One of the most common occurrences of a glottal stop is in the utterance
meaning no, often spelled uh-uh. If someone asks you a question, you can reply
no by saying [-"/Ø/Ø] (usually with a nasalized vowel, which we will symbolize
later). Note that there is a contrast between the utterance meaning no and that
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
62 CHAPTER 3 The Consonants of English
meaning yes that is dependent on the presence of the glottal stop. If you had
meant to say yes, you might well have said ["ØhØ]. We can tell that it is the glot-
tal stop that is important in conveying the meaning by the fact that one could be
understood equally well by using a syllabic consonant (shown by putting the
mark [ Æ-] under the consonant) instead of a vowel, and saying [-"m`hm]` for yes and
["/m`/m` ] for no. As long as there is a glottal stop between the two syllables, the
utterance will mean no, irrespective of what vowel or nasal is used.
Glottal stops frequently occur as allophones of / t /. Probably most Americans
and many British speakers have a glottal stop followed by a syllabic nasal in
words such as beaten, kitten, fatten ["bi/n`, "kI/n`, "fœ/n`]. London Cockney and
many forms of Estuary English also have a glottal stop between vowels, as in but-
ter, kitty, fatter ["bØ/E, "kI/I, "fœ/E]. Many speakers in both Britain and America
have a glottal stop just before final voiceless stops in words such as rap, rat,
rack. Usually, the articulatory gesture for the other stop is still audible, so these
words could be transcribed [rœ/°p, rœ/°t, rœ/°k]. When Peter Ladefoged recorded
the word mat for Figure 3.3, he pronounced it as [mœ/°t], with the glottal stop
and the closure for [t] occurring almost simultaneously.
Practice producing words with and without a glottal stop. After you have
some awareness of what a glottal stop feels like, try saying the words rap, rat,
rack in several different ways. Begin by saying them with a glottal stop and a fi-
nal release [rœ/°pÓ, rœ/°tÓ, rœ/°kÓ]. Next, say them without a glottal stop and with
the final stops unexploded [rœp}, rœt}, rœk}]. Then, say them with a glottal stop
and a final unexploded consonant [rœ/°p}, rœ/°t}, rœ/°k}]. Finally, say them with a
glottal stop and no other final consonant [rœ/, rœ/, rœ/].
When a voiced stop and a nasal occur in the same word, as in hidden, the
stop is not released in the usual way. Both the [d] and the [n] are alveolar con-
sonants. The tongue comes up and contacts the alveolar ridge for [d] and stays
there for the nasal, which becomes syllabic ["hIdn` ]. Consequently, as shown in
Figure 3.4, the air pressure built up behind the stop closure is released through
the nose by the lowering of the soft palate (the velum) for the nasal consonant.
This phenomenon, known as nasal plosion, is normally used in pronouncing
words such as sadden, sudden, leaden ["sœdn`, "sØdn`, "l”dn`]. It is considered a
mark of a foreign accent to add a vowel [-"sœdEn, "sØdEn, "l”dEn]. Nasal plosion
also occurs in the pronunciation of words with [ t ] followed by [n], as in kitten
["kItn` ], for those people who do not have a glottal stop instead of the [t], but the
majority of speakers of English pronounce this word with a glottal stop ["kI/n`].
It is worth spending some time thinking exactly how you and others pro-
nounce words such as kitten and button, in that it enables you to practice mak-
ing detailed phonetic observations. There are a number of different possibilities.
Most British and American English speakers make a glottal stop at the end of the
vowel, before making an alveolar closure. Then, while still maintaining the glot-
tal stop, they lower the velum and raise the tongue for the alveolar closure. But
which comes first? If they lower the velum before making the alveolar closure,
there is only [/n] and no [t]. If they make the alveolar closure first, we could
CD 3.6
CD 3.7
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Stop Consonants 63
say that there is [/tn], but there would not be any nasal plosion, as there would
be no pressure built up behind the [t] closure. Nasal plosion occurs only if there
is no glottal stop, or if the glottal stop is released after the alveolar closure has
been made and before the velum is lowered.
These are fairly difficult sequences to determine, but there are some simple
things you can do to help you find out what articulations you use. First of all,
find a drinking straw and something to drink. Put one end of the straw between
your lips and hold the other end just (and only just) below the surface of the
liquid. Now say [ApA], and note how bubbles form during [p]. This is because
pressure is built up behind your closed lips. Now push the straw slightly farther
into your mouth and say [AtA]. It will not sound quite right because the straw
gets in the way of your tongue when it makes the alveolar closure.You may have
to try different positions of the straw. Go on until you can see bubbles coming
out, and convince yourself that pressure builds up behind the [t]. Now try say-
ing button. Of course there will be bubbles during the [b], but are there any at
the end of the word, or do you have a glottal stop and no [t] behind which pres-
sure builds up?
When two sounds have the same place of articulation, they are said to be
homorganic. Thus, the consonants [d] and [n], which are both articulated on the
alveolar ridge, are homorganic. For nasal plosion to occur within a word, there
must be a stop followed by a homorganic nasal. Only in these circumstances can
there be pressure first built up in the mouth during the stop and then released
through the nose by lowering the soft palate. Many forms of English do not have
any words with a bilabial stop [ p ] or [ b ] followed by the homorganic nasal
Figure 3.4 Nasal plosion.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
64 CHAPTER 3 The Consonants of English
[m] at the end of the word. Nor in most forms of English are there any words
in which the velar stops [k] or [g] are normally followed by the velar nasal [N].
Consequently, both bilabial and velar nasal plosion are less common than alveo-
lar nasal plosion in English. But when talking in a rapid conversational style,
many people pronounce the word open as ["oÁpm` ], particularly if the next word
begins with [m], as in open my door, please. Quite frequently, when counting,
people will pronounce seven as ["s”bm` ], and something, captain, bacon are some-
times pronounced ["sØmpm` "kœpm`, "beIkN`].You should try to pronounce all these
words in these ways yourself.
A phenomenon similar to nasal plosion may take place when an alveolar stop
[t] or [d] occurs before a homorganic lateral [l], as in little, ladle [}lItl`, "leIdl`].
The air pressure built up during the stop can be released by lowering the sides
of the tongue; this effect is called lateral plosion. Say the word middle and note
the action of the tongue. Many people (particularly British speakers) maintain
the tongue contact on the alveolar ridge through both the stop and the lateral,
releasing it only at the end of the word. Others (most Americans) pronounce a
very short vowel in the second syllable. For those who have lateral plosion, no
vowel sound occurs in the second syllables of little, ladle. The final consonants
in all these words are syllabic. There may also be lateral plosion in words such
as Atlantic, in which the [t ] may be resyllabified so that it is at the beginning
of the stressed (second) syllable. We should also note that most Americans, ir-
respective of whether they have lateral plosion, do not have a voiceless stop in
little. There is a general rule in American English that whenever / t / occurs after
a stressed vowel and before an unstressed syllable other than [n`], it is changed
into a voiced sound. For those Americans who have lateral plosion, this will be
the stop [d].
This brings us to another important point about coronal stops and nasals. For
many speakers, including most Americans, the consonant between the vow-
els in words such as city, better, writer is not really a stop but a quick tap in
which the tongue tip is thrown against the alveolar ridge. This sound is written
in the IPA with the symbol [ | ] so that city can be transcribed as [ "sI|i ]. Many
Americans also make this kind of tap when / d / occurs after a stressed vowel and
before an unstressed vowel. As a result, they do not distinguish between pairs
of words such as latter and ladder. But some maintain a distinction by having
a shorter vowel in words such as latter that have a voiceless consonant in their
underlying form. It is as if the statement that vowels are shorter before voice-
less consonants had applied first, and then a later rule was applied changing [t]
into [|] when it occurred between a stressed and an unstressed syllable. Some
dialects of North American English, particularly from central Canada, also dis-
tinguish between word pairs like writer and rider which are both said with a tap
[|] with an additional vowel quality difference that is redundant with the vowel
length difference found in other dialects. So, where a Midwesterner in the U.S.
would say [raI|E± ] and [ra…I|E± ], with a length difference in the diphthong, in
Canadian vowel “raising” we hear [rEI|E±] and [ra…I|E±] with a short “schwa.”
CD 3.8
CD 3.9
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Fricatives 65
We can summarize the discussion of stop consonants by thinking of the pos-
sibilities there are in the form of a branching diagram, as shown in Figure 3.5.
The first question to consider is whether the gesture for the stop is released
(exploded) or not. If it is released, then is it oral plosion, or is the release due to
the lowering of the velum, with air escaping through the nose, making it nasal
plosion? If it is oral plosion, then is the closure in the mouth entirely removed,
or is the articulation in the midline retained and one or both sides of the tongue
lowered so that air escapes laterally? You should be able to produce words illus-
trating all these possibilities. For coronal stops, there is an additional point not
shown in Figure 3.5; namely, is the [t] or [d] sound produced as a tap [ |-]?
FRICATIVES
The fricatives of English vary less than the stop consonants, yet the major allo-
phonic variations that do occur are in many ways similar to those of the stops. Ear-
lier we saw that when a vowel occurs before one of the voiceless stops / p, t, k /, it
is shorter than it would be before one of the voiced stops / b, d, g /. The same kind
of difference in vowel length occurs before voiceless and voiced fricatives. The
vowel is shorter in the first word of each of the pairs strife, strive [-straIf, straIv-];
teeth, teethe [-tiT, tiD-]; rice, rise [-raIs, raIz-]; mission, vision ["mISn`, "vIZn].
Stops and fricatives are the only English consonants that can be either voiced
or voiceless. Consequently, we can revise our statement that vowels are shorter
before voiceless stops than before voiced stops. Instead, we can say that vowels
are shorter before all voiceless consonants than before all voiced consonants. In
this way, we can capture a linguistically significant generalization that would
have been missed if our statements about English had included two separate
statements, one dealing with stops and the other dealing with fricatives.
CD 3.10
Figure 3.5 Stop consonant releases.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
66 CHAPTER 3 The Consonants of English
We also saw that a voiceless stop at the end of a syllable (as in hit) is longer
than the corresponding voiced stop (as in hid). Similarly, the voiceless frica-
tives are longer than their voiced counterparts in each of the pairs safe, save
[seIf, seIv], lace, laze [leIs, leIz], and all the other pairs of words we have been
discussing in this section. Again, because fricatives behave like stops, a linguis-
tically significant generalization would have been missed if we had regarded
each class of consonants completely separately.
Fricatives are also like stops in another way. Consider the degree of voicing
that occurs in the fricative at the end of the word ooze, pronounced by itself.
In most pronunciations, the voicing that occurs during the final [ z ] does not
last throughout the articulation but changes in the last part to a voiceless sound
like [s]. In general, voiced fricatives at the end of a word, as in prove, smooth,
choose, rouge [pruv, smuD, tSuz, ruZ], are voiced throughout their articulation
only when they are followed by another voiced sound. In a phrase such as prove
it, the [ v ] is fully voiced because it is followed by a vowel. But in prove two
times two is four or try to improve, where the [ v ] is followed by a voiceless
sound [t] or by a pause at the end of the phrase, it is not fully voiced.
Briefly stated, then, fricatives are like stops in three ways. First, stops and
fricatives influence vowel length in similar ways—vowels before voiceless stops
or fricatives are shorter than before voiced stops or fricatives. Second, final
voiceless stops and fricatives are longer than final voiced stops and fricatives.
Third, the final stops and fricatives classified as voiced are not actually voiced
throughout the articulation unless the adjacent sounds are also voiced. In addi-
tion, both these types of articulation involve an obstruction of the airstream. Be-
cause they have an articulatory feature in common and because they act together
in phonological statements, we refer to fricatives and stops together as a natural
class of sounds called obstruents.
However, fricatives do differ from stops in that they sometimes involve
actions of the lips that are not immediately obvious. Try saying fin, thin, sin, shin
[fIn, TIn, sIn, SIn ]. There is clearly a lip action in the first word as it involves
the labiodental sound [ f ]. But do your lips move in any of the other three
words/ Most people find that their lips move slightly in any word containing /s/
(sin, kiss) and quite considerably in any word containing / S / (shin, quiche), but
that there is no lip action in words containing / T / (thin, teeth). There is also lip
movement in the voiced sounds corresponding to / s / and / S /, namely / z / as in
zeal, zest and / Z / in leisure, treasure, but none in / D / as in that, teethe.
The primary articulatory gesture in these fricatives is the close approxima-
tion of two articulators so that friction can be heard. The lip rounding is a lesser
articulation in that the two articulators (the lower lip and the upper lip) approach
one another but not sufficiently to cause friction. A lesser degree of closure by
two articulators not involved in the primary articulation is called a secondary
articulation. This particular one, in which the action of the lips is added to
another articulation, is called labialization. The English fricatives /-S, Z- / are
strongly labialized, and the fricatives / s, z / are slightly labialized.
CD 3.11
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Nasals 67
AFFRICATES
This is a convenient place to review the status of affricates in English. An affricate
is simply a sequence of a stop followed by a homorganic fricative. Some such se-
quences, for example the dental affricate [tT] as in eighth or the alveolar affricate
[ ts ] as in cats, have been given no special status in English phonology. They have
been regarded just as consonant clusters comparable with those at the end of lapse
and sacks (which are not affricates, as the stops and the fricatives are not homor-
ganic). But, as we noted in the discussion of symbols for transcribing English, it is
appropriate to regard the sequences [tS] and [dZ] as different from other sequences
of consonants. They are the only affricates in English that can occur at both the
beginning and the end of words. In fact, even the other affricates that can occur at
the end of words will usually do so only as the result of the formation of a plural or
some other suffix, as in eighth. From the point of view of a phonologist consider-
ing the sound pattern of English, the palato-alveolar affricates are plainly single
units, but [ts] as in cats is simply a sequence of two consonants. One way to con-
vince yourself that the affricates [tS] and [dZ] are phonetic sequences of stop fol-
lowed by fricative is to record yourself saying itch and badge and then play them
backwards (use the WaveSurfer “reverse” function to do this). The fricative stop
sequence is usually pretty easy to hear in the backwards versions.
NASALS
The nasal consonants of English vary even less than the fricatives. Nasals, to-
gether with [r, l], can be syllabic when they occur at the end of words. As we
have seen, the mark [ `] under a consonant indicates that it is syllabic. (Vowels,
of course, are always syllabic and therefore need no special mark.) In a nar-
row transcription, we may transcribe the words sadden, table as ["sœdn`, "teIbl`].
In most pronunciations, prism, prison can be transcribed ["prIzm`, "prIzn`], as these
words do not usually have a vowel between the last two consonants. Syllabic
consonants can also occur in phrases such as Jack and Kate ["dZœk N` "keIt].
The nasal [N] differs from the other nasals in a number of ways. No English
word can begin with [ N ]. This sound can occur only within or at the end of a
word, and even in these circumstances it does not behave like the other nasals.
It can be preceded only by the vowels /-I, ”, œ, Ø- / and / A / (American English)
or / Å / (British English), and it cannot be syllabic (except in slightly unusual
pronunciations, such as bacon ["beIkN`], and phrases such as Jack and Kate men-
tioned above).
One way to consider the different status of [N] is that in the history of English,
it was derived from a sequence of the phonemes / n / and / g /. Looking at it
this way, sing was at an earlier time in history / sIng /, and sink was / sInk /.
There was then a sound change in which / n / became the new phoneme / N /
in those words where it occurred before / g / and / k /, turning / sIng / into /
sINg / and / sInk / into / sINk /. Another change resulted in the deletion of / g /
(but not of / k /) whenever it occurred after / N / at the end of either a word
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
68 CHAPTER 3 The Consonants of English
(as in sing) or a stem followed by a suffix such as -er or -ing. In this way, the
/ g / would be dropped in singer, which contains a suffix -er, but is retained
in finger, in which the -er is not a suffix. The second change has been undone
in the case of some speakers from the New York area who make singer rhyme
with finger.
APPROXIMANTS
The voiced approximants are / w, r, j, l / as in whack, rack, yak, lack. The
first three of these sounds are central approximants, and the last is a lateral
approximant. The articulation of each of them varies slightly depending on the
articulation of the following vowel. You can feel that the tongue is in a differ-
ent position in the first sounds of we and water. The same is true for reap and
raw, lee and law, and ye and yaw. Try to feel where your tongue is in each of
these words.
These consonants also share the possibility of occurring in consonant clus-
ters with stop consonants. The approximants / r, w, l / combine with stops in
words such as pray, bray, tray, dray, Cray, gray, twin, dwell, quell, Gwen, play,
blade, clay, glaze. The approximants are largely voiceless when they follow one
of the voiceless stops / p, t, k / as in play, twice, clay. This voicelessness is a
manifestation of the aspiration that occurs after voiceless stops, which we dis-
cussed at the beginning of this chapter. At that time, we introduced a small raised
h symbol, [ Ó ], which can be used to show that the first part of the vowel is
voiceless. When there is no immediately following vowel, we can use the
diacritic [ 9] to indicate a voiceless sound. We can transcribe the words play,
twice, clay, in which there are approximants after initial voiceless plosives, as
[pl9eI, tw99aIs, kl9eI]. The approximant / j / as in you [ju] can occur in similar con-
sonant clusters, as in pew, cue [pj9u, kj9u], and, for speakers of British English,
tune [-tj9un-]. We will discuss the sequence [ju] again when we consider vowels
in more detail.
In most forms of British English, there is a considerable difference in the
articulation of / l / before a vowel or between vowels, as in leaf or feeling, as
compared with / l / before a consonant or at the end of a word, as in field or
feel. In most forms of American English, there is less distinction between these
two kinds of / l /. Note the articulation of / l / in your own pronunciation. Try to
feel where the tongue is during the / l / in leaf. You will probably find that the
tip is touching the alveolar ridge, and one or both sides are near the upper side
teeth, but not quite touching. Now compare this articulation with the / l / in feel.
Try playing leaf backwards to see if it sounds like feel. Does feel backwards
sound like leaf? Most (but not all) speakers make / l / with the tongue tip touch-
ing the alveolar ridge. But in both British and American English, the center of
the tongue is pulled down and the back is arched upward as in a back vowel. If
there is contact on the alveolar ridge, it is the primary articulation. The arch-
ing upward of the back of the tongue forms a secondary articulation, which we
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Overlapping Gestures 69
will call velarization. In most forms of American English, all examples of / l /
are comparatively velarized, except, perhaps, those that are syllable initial and
between high front vowels, as in freely. In British English, / l / is usually not
velarized when it is before a vowel, as in lamb or swelling, but it is velarized
when word final or before a consonant, as in ball or filled. Also, compare the
velarized / l / in Don’t kill dogs with the one in Don’t kill it. Most people don’t
have a velarized / l / in kill it, despite the fact that it is seemingly at the end of a
word. This is because the it in kill it acts like a suffix (technically a clitic), just
like the suffix -ing in killing. (Note: The differences between the two types of
/ l / are more noticeable in British English. American English examples of the
phenomena cited above are not included on the CD.)
One symbol for velarization is the mark [ -º] through the middle of the symbol.
Accordingly, a narrow transcription of feel would be [-fi:-]. For many speakers,
the whole body of the tongue is drawn up and back in the mouth so that the tip
of the tongue no longer makes contact with the alveolar ridge. Strictly speaking,
therefore, this sound is not an alveolar consonant but more like some kind of
back vowel.
Finally, we must consider the status of / h /. Earlier we suggested that the
English / h / is the voiceless counterpart of the surrounding sounds. At the
beginning of a sentence, / h / is like a voiceless vowel, but / h / can also occur
between vowels in words or phrases like behind the head. As you move from
one vowel through / h / to another, the articulatory movement is continuous, and
the / h / is signaled by a weakening of the voicing, which may not even result in
a completely voiceless sound.
In many accents of English, / h / can occur only before stressed vowels or
before the approximant / j /, as in hue [ hju ]. Some speakers of English also
sound / h / before / w /, so that they contrast which [hwItS] and witch [wItS]. The
symbol [∑] (an inverted w) is sometimes used for this voiceless approximant.
The contrast between / w / and / ∑ / is disappearing in most forms of English.
In those dialects in which it occurs, [∑] is more likely to be found only in the
less common words such as whether rather than in frequently used words such
as what.
OVERLAPPING GESTURES
All the sounds we have been considering involve movements of the articulators.
They are often described in terms of the articulatory positions that characterize
these movements. But, rather than thinking in terms of static positions, we should
really consider each sound as a movement. This makes it easier to understand the
overlapping of consonant and vowel gestures in words such as bib, did, gig, men-
tioned earlier in this chapter. As we noted, in the first word, bib, the tongue tip is
behind the lower front teeth throughout the word. In the second word, did, the tip
of the tongue goes up for the first / d / and remains close to the alveolar ridge dur-
ing the vowel so that it is ready for the second / d /. In the third word, gig, the back
CD 3.12
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
70 CHAPTER 3 The Consonants of English
of the tongue is raised for the first / g / and remains near the soft palate during the
vowel. In all these cases, the gestures for the vowels and consonants overlap.
The same kind of thing happens with respect to gestures of the lips. Lip
rounding is an essential part of / w /. Because there is a tendency for gestures
to overlap with those for adjacent sounds, stops are slightly rounded when they
occur in clusters in which / w / is the second element, as in twice, dwindle, quick
[-tw9aIs-
, "dwIndlÆ, kw99Ik ]. This kind of gestural overlapping, in which a second
gesture starts during the first gesture, is sometimes called anticipatory coarticu-
lation. The gesture for the approximant is anticipated during the gesture for the
stop. In many people’s speech, / r / also has some degree of lip rounding. Try
saying words such as reed and heed. Do you get some movement of the lips in
the first word but not in the second? Use a mirror to see whether you get antici-
patory lip rounding for the stops [t, d] so that they are slightly rounded in words
such as tree and dream, as opposed to tee and deem.
We can often think of the gestures for different articulations as movements
towards certain targets. A target is something that one aims at but does not nec-
essarily hit, perhaps because one is drawn off by having to aim at a second tar-
get. Ideally, the description of an utterance might consist of the specification
of a string of target gestures that must be made one after another. The data in
Figure 3.6 are traces of the vocal tract during [ b ], [ d ], and [ g ] in a variety
of vowel contexts in French; similar observations have been made for English
as well. The patterns of stability and variation are interesting. For instance, the
traces for [b] show that the lips, jaw, and soft palate have about the same posi-
tion no matter what the vowel context is, while the tongue position and larynx
height varies quite a bit. If you look at the tongue traces closely, you can see
tongue positions during [b] for the French vowels [i],[u],[A], and the umlaut u,
which is transcribed [y] in the IPA. In the traces for [ d ], we see again that some
parts of the vocal tract take the same position in all of the vowel contexts (the
tongue tip, soft palate, and jaw are the least variable). Interestingly, tongue body
variation is much smaller in [d], which requires a tongue tip or blade gesture,
than it is in [ b ], while in [ d ] the lip position is more variable. We also see a
good deal of variation in the lip positions for [g], as well as a good deal of varia-
tion in the front/back location of the tongue—unlike [b] and [ d ], the place of
articulation of [ g ] varies a good deal as a function of the neighboring vowel.
The increased coarticulation of [g] with surrounding vowels, as compared with
[ d ], suggests that the specifications of the consonant and vowel gestures are
competing with each other for control of the tongue body. The vowel [u] wants
the tongue body to go quite far back in the mouth, as you can see it does in the
[b] traces, while the [g] wants the tongue body to be located a bit farther toward
the front than this. Similarly, the vowel [i] wants the tongue body to be further
front than is required or specified for [g]. What we see in the figure is that the
exact location of the [g] stop closure is more variable than are the locations of
the stop closures in [b] or [d]. This is probably because [g] requires significant
tongue body movement, just as do vowels.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Overlapping Gestures 71
Coarticulation between sounds will always result in the positions of some
parts of the vocal tract being influenced quite a lot, whereas others will not be so
much affected by neighboring targets. The extent to which anticipatory coarticu-
lation occurs depends on the extent to which the position of that part of the vocal
tract is specified in the two gestures. The degree of coarticulation also depends on
the interval between them. For example, a considerable amount of lip rounding
occurs during [k] when the next sound is rounded, as in coo [ku]. Slightly less lip
rounding occurs if the [k] and the [u] are separated by another sound, as in clue
[ klu ], and even less occurs if there is also a word boundary between the two
sounds, as in the phrase sack Lou [sœklu ]. Nevertheless, some rounding may
occur, and sometimes anticipatory coarticulations can be observed over even
longer sequences. In the phrase tackle Lou [ tœkll̀u ], the lip rounding for the
[u] may start in the [k], which is separated from it by two segments and a word
boundary.
There is no simple relationship between the description of a language in
terms of phonemes and the description of utterances in terms of gestural targets.
Figure 3.6 Mid-sagittal sections of [b], [d], and [g] adjacent to different vowels.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
72 CHAPTER 3 The Consonants of English
A phoneme is an abstract unit that may be realized in several different ways.
Sometimes, the differences between the different allophones of a phoneme can
be explained in terms of targets and overlapping gestures. The difference be-
tween the [k] in key and the [k] in caw may be simply due to their overlapping
with different vowels. Similarly, we do not have to specify separate targets for
the alveolar [n] in ten and the dental [n1-
] in tenth. Both are the result of aiming at
the same target, but in tenth, the realization of the phoneme / n / is influenced by
the dental target required for the following sound. However, the differences be-
tween some allophones are actually the result of aiming at different targets. For
many American English speakers, the initial [r] in reed is made with a tongue
gesture that is very different from that for the final [r] in deer. In most forms of
British English, the [l] in leaf and the [l] in feel differ in ways that cannot be
ascribed to coarticulation. Perhaps the most extreme example of the difference
between phonemes and gestures is in the realization of the / t / phoneme in ten
[tÓ”n] and in button [bØ/n], in which the one phoneme is realized by two com-
pletely different gestures, [tÓ] and [/]. Sometimes, the differences between al-
lophones are the result of overlapping gestures, producing what have been called
intrinsic allophones; sometimes, they involve different gestures, which may be
called extrinsic allophones. Because phonemes are composed of these two types
of allophones, they cannot be equated with gestures.
To summarize, gestural targets are units that can be used in descriptions of
how a speaker produces utterances. Phonemes are more abstract units that can
be used in descriptions of languages to show how words contrast with one an-
other. Virtually all the gestures for neighboring sounds overlap. Differences in
the timing of one gesture with respect to another account for a wide range of the
phenomena that we observe in speech. The next section provides a number of
additional examples.
RULES FOR ENGLISH CONSONANT ALLOPHONES
A good way of summarizing (and slightly extending) all that we have said about
English consonants so far is to list a set of formal statements or rules describing
the allophones. These rules are simply descriptions of language behavior. They
are not the kind of rules that prescribe what people ought to do. Like most pho-
neticians, we would not presume to be arbiters of fashion who can declare what
constitutes “good” speech. But phonetics is part of an exact scientific discipline,
and that means we should be able to formalize descriptions of speech in terms of
a set of precise statements.
Given the discussion of consonant allophones in this chapter, we can give a
number of descriptive rules. One of these deals with consonant length.
(1) Consonants are longer when at the end of a phrase.
You can see the application of this statement by comparing the consonants
in words such as bib, did, don, nod. Use WaveSurfer (on the CD) to make
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Rules for English Consonant Allophones 73
a recording of these words, and then play the recording backward. Are the first
two words the same backward and forward? Do the third and fourth words sound
like each other when played in reverse?
Most of the allophonic rules apply to only selected groups of consonants.
(2) Voiceless stops (i.e., / p, t, k /) are aspirated when they are syllable initial,
as in words such as pip, test, kick [-pÓIp, tÓ”st, kÓIk-].
(3) Obstruents—stops and fricatives—classified as voiced (that is, / b, d, g,
v, D, z, Z-/) are voiced through only a small part of the articulation when
they occur at the end of an utterance or before a voiceless sound. Listen to
the / v / when you say try to improve, and the / d / when you say add two.
(4) So-called voiced stops and affricates / b, d, g, dZ / are voiceless when syl-
lable initial, except when immediately preceded by a voiced sound (as in
a day as compared with this day). Use WaveSurfer to listen to the sday
part of this day. Does it sound like stay?
(5) Voiceless stops / p, t, k / are unaspirated after / s / in words such as spew,
stew, skew.
(6) Voiceless obstruents / p, t, k, tS, f, T, s, S / are longer than the corre-
sponding voiced obstruents / b, d, g, dZ, v, D, z, Z / when at the end of a
syllable.
Words exemplifying this rule are cap as opposed to cab and back as opposed
to bag. Try contrasting these words in sentences, and you may be able to hear
the differences more clearly.
(7) The approximants /w, r, j, l / are at least partially voiceless when they oc-
cur after initial / p, t, k /, as in play, twin, cue [pl9eI, tw9In, kj9u].
This is due to the overlapping of the gesture required for aspiration with the
voicing gesture required for the approximants. (Note that the formal statement
says at least partially voiceless, but the transcription marks the approximants as
being completely voiceless. Conflicts between statements and transcriptions of
this kind will be discussed further below.)
(8) The gestures for consecutive stops overlap, so that stops are unexploded
when they occur before another stop in words such as apt [ œp}t ] and
rubbed [rØb}d].
(9) In many accents of English, syllable final / p, t, k / are accompanied by
an overlapping glottal stop gesture, as in pronunciations of tip, pit, kick
as [tI/°p, pI/°t, kI/°k]. (This is another case where transcription cannot fully
describe what is going on.)
This rule does not apply to all varieties of English. Some people do not have
any glottal stops in these circumstances, and others have glottal stops completely
replacing some or all of the voiceless stops. In any case, even for those who sim-
ply add a glottal stop, the statement is not completely accurate. Many people
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
74 CHAPTER 3 The Consonants of English
will have a glottal stop at the end of cat in phrases such as that’s a cat or the cat
sat on the mat, but they will not have this allophone of / t / in the cat eats fish.
(10) In many accents of English, / t / is replaced by a glottal stop when it
occurs before an alveolar nasal in the same word, as in beaten ["bi/n`].
(11) Nasals are syllabic at the end of a word when immediately after an ob-
struent, as in leaden, chasm ["l”dn`, "kœzm`].
Note that we cannot say that nasals become syllabic whenever they occur at
the end of a word and after a consonant. The nasals in kiln, film are not syllabic
in most accents of English. We can, however, state a rule describing the syllabic-
ity of / l / by saying simply:
(12) The lateral / l / is syllabic at the end of a word when immediately after a
consonant.
This statement summarizes the fact that / l / is syllabic not only after stops
and fricatives (as in paddle, whistle ["pœdl,̀ "wIsl-`]), but also after nasals (as in
kennel, channel ["k”nl-̀, "tSœnl-`]). The only problem with this rule is what happens
after / r /. It is correct for words such as barrel ["bœrl`] but does not work in most
forms of American English in words such as snarl [snArl], when / r / has to be
considered as part of the vowel.
When it is not part of the vowel, / r / is like / l / in most forms of American
English in that it, too, can be syllabic when it occurs at the end of a word and
after a consonant, as in saber, razor, hammer, tailor ["seIbr`, "reIzr`,̀ "hœmr`,̀ "teIlr``].
If we introduce a new term, liquid, which is used simply as a cover term for the
consonants / l, r /, we may rephrase the statement in (12) and say:
(12a) The liquids / l, r / are syllabic at the end of a word when immediately
after a consonant.
The next statement also applies more to American English than to British
English. It accounts for the / t / in fatty, data [-"fœ|i, "deI|E-]. But note that these
are not the only contexts in which these changes occur. This is not simply a
change that affects / t / after a stressed vowel and before an unstressed one, in
that / t / between two unstressed vowels (as in divinity) is also affected. How-
ever, not all cases of / t / between vowels change in this way. The / t / in attack
(i.e., before a stressed syllable) is voiceless, and / t / after another consonant (for
example, in hasty and captive) is also voiceless. Note also that most American
English speakers have a very similar articulatory gesture in words containing
/ d / and / n / in similar circumstances, such as daddy and many. The first of
these two words could well be transcribed ["dœ|i-]. The second has the same
sound, except that it is nasalized, so it could be transcribed [-"m”|)i-] in a narrow
transcription. Nasalization is shown by the diacritic [- )] over a symbol. The fol-
lowing statement accounts for all these facts:
(13) Alveolar stops become voiced taps when they occur between two
vowels the second of which is unstressed.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Rules for English Consonant Allophones 75
Many speakers of American English require a similar rule to describe a se-
quence of an alveolar nasal followed by a stop. In words such as painter and
splinter, the / t / is lost and a nasal tap occurs. This has resulted in winter and
winner and panting and panning being pronounced in the same way. For these
speakers, we can restate (13), making it:
(13a) Alveolar stops and alveolar nasal plus stop sequences become voiced
taps when they occur between two vowels the second of which is
unstressed.
There is a great deal of variation among speakers with respect to this state-
ment. Some make taps in familiar words such as auntie, but not in less common
words such as Dante. Some make them only in fast speech. Try to formulate a
statement in a way that describes your own speech.
(14) Alveolar consonants become dentals before dental consonants, as in
eighth, tenth, wealth [eIt1T, t”n1T, w”l1T]. Note that this statement ap-
plies to all alveolar consonants, not just stops, and often applies across
word boundaries, as in at this [-œt1 DIs-]. This is a statement in which, in
English, the gestures for these two consonants overlap so much that the
place of articulation for the first consonant is changed.
In a more rapid style of speech, some of these dental consonants tend to be
omitted altogether. Say these words first slowly and then more rapidly, and see
what you do yourself. It is difficult to make precise statements about when con-
sonants get deleted, because this depends so much on the style of speech being
used. Alveolar stops often appear to get dropped in phrases such as fact finding.
Most people say most people as [-"moÁs "pipl` ] with no audible [ t ], and they
produce phrases such as send papers with no audible [d]. We could state this as
follows:
(15) Alveolar stops are reduced or omitted when between two consonants.
Rule (15) raises an interesting point of phonetic theory. Note that we said “al-
veolar stops often appear to get dropped,” and there may be “no audible [d]”.
However, the tongue tip gesture for the alveolar stop in most people
may be present but just not audible because it is completely overlapped by the
labial stop following. More commonly, it is partially omitted; that is to say,
the tongue tip moves up for the alveolar stop but does not make a complete clo-
sure. When we think in terms of phonetic symbols, we can write ["moÁs "pipl`]
or [-"moÁst "pipl`]. This makes it a question of whether the [t] is there or not. But
that is not really the issue. Part of the tongue tip gesture may have been made, a
fact that we have no way of symbolizing.
Check how you say phrases such as best game and grand master. Say these
and similar phrases with and without the alveolar stop. You may find it difficult
to formulate a statement that takes into account all the contexts where alveolar
stops may not appear in your speech.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
76 CHAPTER 3 The Consonants of English
We must state not only where consonants get dropped, but also where they
get added. Words such as something and youngster often get pronounced as
["sØmpTiN] and ["jØNkstE±]. In a similar way, many people do not distinguish be-
tween prince and prints, or tense and tents. All these words may be pronounced
with a short voiceless stop between the nasal and the voiceless fricative. But the
stop is not really an added gesture. It is simply the result of changing the timing
of the nasal gesture with respect to the oral gesture. By rushing the raising of
the velum for the nasal, a moment of complete closure—a stop—occurs. The
apparent insertion of a stop into the middle of a word in this way is known as
epenthesis. If we wanted to make a formal statement of this phenomenon, we
could say:
(16) A homorganic voiceless stop may occur after a nasal before a voiceless
fricative followed by an unstressed vowel in the same word.
Note that it is necessary to mention that the following vowel must be un-
stressed. Speakers who have an epenthetic stop in the noun concert do not usually
have one in verbal derivatives such as concerted, or in words such as concern.
Nothing need be said about the vowel before the nasal. Epenthesis may—like
the [t]-to-[|] change in statement (13)—occur between unstressed vowels. It is
possible to hear an inserted [ t ] in both agency and grievances.
Statement (16) raises a theoretical point similar to that discussed in connec-
tion with (15), where we were concerned with whether a segment had been de-
leted. Now we are concerned with whether a segment has been added. In each
case, it is better to treat these as misleading questions and to think about the
gestures involved rather than worry about the symbols that might or might not
represent separate segments. It may be convenient to transcribe something as
[-"sØmpTiN-], but transcription is only a tool and should not be thought of as nec-
essarily portraying the units used in the production of speech.
The next statement accounts for the shortening effects that occur when two
identical consonants come next to one another, as in big game and top post. It
is usually not accurate to say that one of these consonants is dropped. There
are two consonantal gestures, but they overlap considerably. Even in casual
speech, most people would distinguish between stray tissue, straight issue,
and straight tissue. (Try saying these in sentences such as That’s a stray tissue
and see for yourself.) But there clearly is a shortening effect that we can state
as follows:
(17) A consonant is shortened when it is before an identical consonant.
We can describe the overlapping gestures that result in more advanced arti-
culations of / k / in cap, kept, kit, key [ kÓœp, kÓ”pt, kÓIt, kÓi- ] and of / g / in
gap, get, give, geese [-gœp, g”t, gIv, gis]. You should be able to feel the
fronted position of your tongue contact in the latter words of these series. We
can say:
CD 3.13
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 77
(18) Velar stops become more front before more front vowels.
Finally, we need to note the difference in the quality of / l / in life [laIf-] and
file [faI:-], or clap [-klœp] and talc [tœ:k-], or feeling [filIN] and feel [-fi:].
(19) The lateral / l / is velarized when after a vowel or before a consonant at
the end of a word.
Note that there are clearly distinct gestures required for / l / in the differ-
ent circumstances. These are not differences that can be ascribed to overlapping
gestures.
DIACRITICS
In this and the previous chapter, we have seen how the transcription of English
can be made more detailed by the use of diacritics, small marks added to a sym-
bol to narrow its meaning. The six diacritics we have introduced so far are shown
in Table 3.2. You should learn the use of these diacritics before you attempt any
further detailed transcription exercises. Note that the nasalization diacritic is a
small wavy line above a symbol (the “tilde” symbol), and the velarization dia-
critic is a tilde through the middle of a symbol. Nasalization is more common
among vowels, which will be discussed in the next chapter.
EXERCISES
(Printable versions of all the exercises are available on the CD.)
A. The sequence of the following annotated diagrams illustrates the actions
that take place during the consonants at the end of the word bench. Fill in
the blanks.
TABLE 3.2 Some diacritics that modify the value of a symbol.
9 Voiceless w9 l9 kw9Ik, pl9eIs quick, place
Ó Aspirated tÓ kÓ tÓœp, kÓIs tap, kiss
1 Dental t1 d1 œt1DE, hEl1T at the, health
) Nasalized r) œ) mœ)n man
u Velarized : pÓI: pill
` Syllabic n` lÆ "mI-/n
` ` mitten
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
78 CHAPTER 3 The Consonants of English
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 79
B. Annotate the diagram below so as to describe the actions required for the
consonants in the middle of the word implant. Make sure that your annota-
tions mention the action of the lips, the different parts of the tongue, the soft
palate, and the vocal folds in each diagram. Try to make clear which of the
vocal organs moves first in going from one consonant to another. The pro-
nunciation illustrated is that of a normal conversational utterance; note the
position of the tongue during the bilabial nasal.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
80 CHAPTER 3 The Consonants of English
C. Draw and annotate diagrams similar to those in the previous exercises, but
this time illustrate the actions that occur in pronouncing the consonants in the
middle of the phrase thick snow. Make sure you show clearly the sequence
of events, noting what the lips, tongue, soft palate, and vocal folds do at each
moment. Before you begin, say the phrase over to yourself several times at
a normal speed. Note especially whether the back of your tongue lowers
before or after the tip of the tongue forms the articulation for subsequent
consonants.
D. As a transcription exercise, give a number of examples for each of State-
ments (2) through (19) by making a narrow transcription of some additional
words that fit the rules. Your examples should not include any words that
have been transcribed in this book so far. Remember to mark the stress on
words of more than one syllable.
Statement (2) three examples (one for each voiceless stop)
Statement (3) seven examples (one for each voiced obstruent)
Statement (4) eight examples (two for each voiced stop or affricate)
Statement (5) four examples (one for each approximant)
Statement (6) three examples (one for each voiceless stop)
Statement (7) four contrasting pairs (one for each place of articulation)
Statement (8) six examples (one for each voiced and voiceless stop)
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 81
Statement (9) three examples (not necessarily from your own speech)
Statement (10) three examples (use three different vowels)
Statement (11) three examples (use at least two different nasals)
Statement (12a) six examples (three each with / l / and / r /)
Statement (13a) six examples (two each with / t, d, n /, one being after an
unstressed vowel)
Statement (14) three examples (one each for / t, d, n /)
Statement (15) three examples (any kind)
Statement (16) two examples (use two different nasals)
Statement (17) three examples (any kind)
Statement (18) four examples (use four different vowels)
Statement (19) two contrasting pairs (try to make them reversible words)
E. As a more challenging exercise, try to list two exceptions to some of these
statements.
Statement ( )
Statement ( )
F. Write a statement that describes the allophones of / h /.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
82 CHAPTER 3 The Consonants of English
G. Transcribe both the British and the American speaker saying the following.
British English speaker
Once there was a young rat named Arthur,
who could never make up his mind.
Whenever his friends asked him
if he would like to go out with them,
he would only answer, “I don’t know.”
He wouldn’t say “yes” or “no” either.
He would always shirk making a choice.
American English speaker
Once there was a young rat named Arthur,
who could never make up his mind.
Whenever his friends asked him
if he would like to go out with them,
he would only answer, “I don’t know.”
He wouldn’t say “yes” or “no” either.
He would always shirk making a choice.
PERFORMANCE EXERCISES
A. Learn to produce some non-English sounds. First, in order to recall the sen-
sation of adding and subtracting voicing while maintaining a constant articu-
lation, repeat the exercise saying [ssszzzssszzz]. Now try a similar exercise,
saying [mmmm9m9m9mmmm9m9m9 ]. Make sure that your lips remain together all
the time. During [m9 ], you should be producing exactly the same action as
when breathing out through the nose. Now say [m9 ] between vowels, produc-
ing sequences such as [Am9 A, im9i], etc. Try not to have any gap between the
consonant and the vowels.
B. Repeat this exercise with [ n, N, l, r, w, j ], learning to produce [ An9A, AN9A,
Al9A, Ar9A, Aw9A, Aj9A] and similar sequences with other vowels.
C. Make sure that you can differentiate between the English words whether,
weather; which, witch, even if you do not normally do so.
Say:
[-hw”DE(r)] whether
[w”DE(r)-] weather
[hwItS-] which
[ wItS ] witch
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Performance Exercises 83
D. Learn to produce the following Burmese words. (You may for the moment
neglect the tones, indicated by accents above the vowels.)
Voiced nasals Voiceless nasals
ma$ ‘lift up’ m9 a$ ‘from’
na# ‘pain’ n9a# ‘nose’
Na$ ‘fish’ N9a$ ‘borrow’
E. Working with a partner, produce and transcribe several sets of nonsense
words. You should use slightly more complicated sets than previously. Make
up your own sets on the basis of the illustrative set given below, including
glottal stops, nasal and lateral plosion, and some combinations of English
sounds that could not occur in English. Remember to mark the stress.
"kl9AntSÁps"kweIdZ
"ZiZm`"spobm`
"tsI/-
I"b”/Id1`
mbu"tr9IgN
"tw9aIbr”/Ip-
F. To increase your memory span in perceiving sounds, include some simpler
but longer words in your production–perception exercises. A set of possible
words is given below. Words such as the last two, which have eight sylla-
bles each, may be too difficult for you at the moment. But try to push your
hearing ability to its limit. When you are listening to your partner dictating
words, remember to try to (1) look at the articulatory movements; (2) repeat,
to yourself, as much as you can immediately afterward; and (3) write down
as much as you can, including the stress, as soon as possible.
"kiputu"pikitu
"b”gI"gId”"d”dI
tr9i"tSI/itSu"drudZi
"ril”"tol”"mAnu"dÁli
"faITiDi"vOIDuvu"Tifi
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
85
4
English Vowels
TRANSCRIPTION AND PHONETIC DICTIONARIES
The vowels of English can be transcribed in many different ways, partly because
accents of English differ greatly in the vowels they use, and partly because there
is no one right way of transcribing even a single accent of English. The set of
symbols used depends on the reason for making the transcription. If one is aim-
ing to reduce English to the smallest possible set of symbols, then sheep and
ship, Luke and look, and all the other pairs of vowels that differ in length could
be transcribed using one symbol per pair plus a length mark […], as [Si…p, Sip],
[lu…k, luk], and so on. In this way, one could reduce the number of vowel sym-
bols considerably, but at the expense of making the reader remember that the
vowel pairs that differed by the use of the length mark also differed in quality.
A different approach would be to emphasize all the differences between English
vowels. This would require noting that both length and quality differences occur,
making [Si…p, SIp] the preferable transcription. Using this kind of transcription
would hide the fact that vowel quality and vowel length are linked, and there is
no need to mark both. In this book, we have chosen to use the transcription that
most phonetics instructors prefer and write [Sip, SIp], leaving the reader to infer
the difference in length.
Using this simple style of transcription, which was introduced in Chapter 2,
carries a small penalty. There are some widely accepted reference books that
specify pronunciations in both British and American English, none of which use
exactly this style. One is an updated version of the dictionary produced by the
English phonetician Daniel Jones, whose acute observations of English dom-
inated British phonetics in the first half of the twentieth century. The current
edition, English Pronouncing Dictionary, 16th edition (Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 2003), is familiarly known as “EPD 16.” It still bears Daniel
Jones’s name but has been completely revised by the new editors, Peter Roach,
James Hartman, and Jane Setter. It now shows both British and American pro-
nunciations. One version is accompanied by a CD so that you can hear both the
British and American pronunciations.
Another authoritative work is the Longman Pronunciation Dictionary,
2nd edition (Harlow, U.K.: Pearson, 2000), by John Wells. This dictionary,
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
86 CHAPTER 4 English Vowels
known as “LPD 2,” also gives the British andAmerican pronunciations. Professor
Wells holds the chair in phonetics at University College, London, that Daniel
Jones previously held. He is clearly the leading authority on contemporary Eng-
lish pronunciation in all its forms—British, American, and other variants of the
worldwide language. Both these dictionaries, EPD 16 and LPD 2, use transcrip-
tions in which the length differences in vowels are marked, not just the qual-
ity differences as in this book. They write [Si…p, SIp] where we have [Sip, SIp].
A third dictionary, Oxford Dictionary of Pronunciation for Current English
(Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003) by Clive Upton, William Kretzschmar,
and Rafal Konopka, is slightly different from the other two dictionaries in that it
gives a wider range of both British and American pronunciations. To show more
detail, it also uses a larger set of symbols and a more allophonic transcription
than either of the other two dictionaries.
Everyone seriously interested in English pronunciation should be using one
of these dictionaries. Each of them shows the pronunciations typically used
by national newscasters—what we may regard as “Standard American News-
caster English” and “Standard BBC English” (often shortened to just “American
English” and “British English” in this book). Of course, in neither country is
there really a standard accent. Some newscasters in both countries have notable
local accents. The dictionaries give what would be accepted as reasonable pro-
nunciations for communicating in the two countries. They allow one to compare
British and American pronunciations in great detail, noting, for example, that
most British speakers pronounce Caribbean as [kœrI"biEn], with the stress on
the third syllable, whereas Americans typically say [kE"rIbiEn], with the stress
on the second syllable.
Ordinary American college dictionaries also provide pronunciations, but the
symbols they use are not in accordance with the principles of the IPA and are of
little use for comparative phonetic purposes. American dictionary makers some-
times say that they deliberately do not use IPA symbols because their dictionaries
are used by speakers with different regional accents, and they want readers to be
able to learn how to pronounce an unfamiliar word correctly in their own accent.
But, as we have been observing, IPA symbols are often used to represent broad
regions of sounds, and there is no reason why dictionary makers should not assign
them values in terms of key words, just as they do for their ad hoc symbols.
Two of the three dictionaries we have been discussing, LPD 2 and EPD 16,
use virtually the same set of symbols, differing only in the way they transcribe
the vowel in American English bird: LPD 2 has [∏±], whereas EPD 16 has [∏r].
Oxford Dictionary of Pronunciation for Current English uses a slightly different
set of symbols, but they are readily interpretable within the IPA tradition. This
book keeps to the style of transcription used in Wells’s LPD 2 except for the
omission of the length mark and a simple typographical change. We use [”] in
words such as head, bed instead of [e]. In later chapters, we will be comparing
vowels in other languages such as French and German, and we will need to use
both [e] and [”].
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Vowel Quality 87
VOWEL QUALITY
In the discussion so far, we have deliberately avoided making precise remarks
about the quality of the different vowels. This is because, as we said in Chapter 1,
the traditional articulatory descriptions of vowels are not very satisfactory. Try
asking people who know as much about phonetics as you do to describe where
the tongue is at the beginning of the vowel in boy, and you will get a variety of
responses. Can you describe where your own tongue is in a set of vowels?
It is difficult to describe the tongue position of a vowel in one’s own speech.
Very often, people can only repeat what the books have told them—they cannot
determine for themselves where their tongues are. It is quite easy for a book to
build up a set of terms that are not really descriptive but are in fact only labels.
We started introducing terms of this kind for vowel qualities in Chapters 1 and 2
and will continue with this procedure here. But it is important for you to remem-
ber that the terms we are using are simply labels that describe how vowels sound
in relation to one another. They are not absolute descriptions of the position of
the body of the tongue.
Part of the problem in describing vowels is that there are no distinct bound-
aries between one type of vowel and another. When talking about consonants,
the categories are much more distinct. A sound may be a stop or a fricative, or
a sequence of the two. But it cannot be halfway between a stop and a fricative.
Vowels are different. It is perfectly possible to make a vowel that is halfway be-
tween a high vowel and a mid vowel. In theory (as opposed to what a particular
individual can do in practice), it is possible to make a vowel at any specified
distance between any two other vowels. In order to appreciate the fact that vowel
sounds form a continuum, try gliding from one vowel to another. Say [œ] as in
had and then try to move gradually to [i] as in he. Do not say just [œ–i], but try
to spend as long as possible on the sounds between them. If you do this correctly,
you should pass through sounds that are something like [”] as in head and [eI]
as in hay. If you have not achieved this effect already, try saying [œ–”–eI–i ]
again, slurring slowly from one vowel to another.
Now do the same in the reverse direction, going slowly and smoothly from [i]
as in he to [œ] as in had. Take as long as possible over the in-between sounds.
You should learn to stop at any point in this continuum so that you can make,
for example, a vowel like [ ” ] as in head, but slightly closer to [ œ] as in had.
Next, try going from [œ] as in had slowly toward [A] as in father. When you say
[œ–A], you probably will not pass through any other vowel of your own speech.
But there is a continuum of possible vowel sounds between these two vowels.
You may be able to hear sounds between [œ] and [A] that are more like those
used by people with other accents in had and father. Some forms of Scottish
English, for example, do not distinguish between the vowels in these words (or
between cam and calm). Speakers with these accents pronounce both had and
father with a vowel about halfway between the usual Midwestern American
pronunciation of these two vowels. Some speakers of American English in the
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
88 CHAPTER 4 English Vowels
Boston area pronounce words such as car and park with a vowel between the
more usual American vowels in cam and calm. They do, however, also distin-
guish the latter two words.
Last, in order to appreciate the notion of a continuum of vowel sounds, glide
from [A] as in father to [u] as in who. In this case, it is difficult to be specific
as to the vowels that you will go through on the way, because English accents
differ considerably in this respect. But you should be able to hear that the move-
ment from one of these sounds to the other covers a range of vowel qualities that
have not been discussed so far in this section.
THE AUDITORY VOWEL SPACE
When you move from one vowel to another, you are changing the auditory
quality of the vowel. You are, of course, doing this by moving your tongue and
your lips, but, as we have noted, it is very difficult to say exactly how your
tongue is moving. Consequently, because phoneticians cannot be very precise
about the positions of the vocal organs in the vowels unless we use x-ray or
MRI to monitor the tongue, we often simply use labels for the auditory qualities
of the different vowels. The vowel [i] as in heed is called high front, meaning,
roughly, that the tongue is high and in the front of the mouth but, more pre-
cisely, that it has the auditory quality we will call high, and the auditory quality
front. Similarly, the vowel [ œ] as in had has a low tongue position and, more
important, an auditory quality that may be called low front. The vowel [”] as in
head sounds somewhere between [i] and [œ], but a little nearer to [œ], so we
call it mid-low front. (Say the series [i, ”, œ] and check for yourself that this is
true.) The vowel [A ] as in father has a tongue position that is low and back in
the mouth and auditory qualities that we will call low back. Last, the vowel [u]
in who is a high, fairly back vowel. The four vowels [i, œ, A, u], therefore, give
us something like the four corners of a space showing the auditory qualities of
vowels, which may be drawn as in Figure 4.1.
Figure 4.1 The vowel space.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
American and British Vowels 89
None of the vowels has been put in an extreme corner of the space in Figure 4.1.
It is possible to make a vowel that sounds more back than the vowel [u] that most
people use in who. You should be able to find this fully back vowel for yourself.
Start by making a long [u], then round and protrude your lips a bit more. Now try
to move your tongue back in your mouth, while still keeping it raised toward the
soft palate. The result should be a fully back [ u ]. Another way of making
this sound is to whistle the lowest note that you can and then, while retaining
the same tongue and lip position, voice this sound. Again, the result will be an
[u] sound that is farther back than the vowel in who. Try saying [i] as in heed, [u]
as in who, and then this new sound, which we may symbolize with an added
underline [u2]. If you say the series [i, u, u2], you should be able to hear that [u] is
intermediate between [i] and [u2], but—for most speakers—much nearer [u2].
Similarly, it is possible to make vowels with a more extreme quality than the
usual English vowels [i, œ, A]. If, for example, while saying [œ] as in had, you
lower your tongue or open your jaw slightly farther, you will produce a vowel
that sounds relatively farther from [i] as in heed. It will probably also sound a
little more like [A] as in father.
Given a notion of an auditory vowel space of this kind, we can plot the rela-
tive quality of the different vowels. Remember that the labels high/low and front/
back should not be taken as descriptions of tongue positions. They are simply in-
dicators of the way one vowel sounds relative to another. The labels describe the
relative auditory qualities, not the articulations.
Students of phonetics often ask why we use terms like high, low, back, and front
if we are simply labeling auditory qualities and not describing tongue positions.
The answer is that it is largely a matter of tradition. For many years, phoneticians
thought they were describing tongue positions when they used these terms to spec-
ify vowel quality. But there is only a rough correspondence between the traditional
descriptions in terms of tongue positions and the actual auditory qualities of vow-
els. If you could take x-ray pictures showing the position of your tongue while
you were saying the vowels [i, œ, A, u], you would find that the relative positions
were not as indicated in Figure 4.1. But, as we will see in Chapter 8, if you use
acoustic phonetic techniques to establish the auditory qualities, you will find that
these vowels do have the relationships indicated in this figure.
Indeed, linguists have used terms such as acute and grave instead of front and
back in the description of vowels. But, for a variety of reasons, these terms did
not become widely used. It seems preferable to stick with the old terms high,
low, front, and back, even though they are being used to describe auditory quali-
ties rather than tongue positions.
AMERICAN AND BRITISH VOWELS
Most of the vowels of a form of Standard American Newscaster English typical
of many Midwestern speakers are shown in the upper part of Figure 4.2. A com-
parable diagram of the vowels of British English as spoken by BBC newscasters
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
90 CHAPTER 4 English Vowels
is shown in the lower part of Figure 4.2. In both diagrams, the solid points repre-
sent the vowels that we are treating as monophthongs, and the lines represent the
movements involved in the diphthongs. The symbols labeling the diphthongs are
placed near their origins. There is a good scientific basis for placing the vowels
as shown here. The positions of both monophthongs and diphthongs are not just
the result of auditory impressions. The data are taken from the acoustic analy-
ses of a number of authorities, a point we will return to in Chapter 8 when we
discuss acoustic phonetics. Meanwhile, if you are able to listen to a speaker of
Figure 4.2 The relative auditory qualities of some of the vowels of Standard American
Newscaster English and British (BBC newscaster) English.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
American and British Vowels 91
Midwestern American English or BBC English, you should be able to hear that
the relative vowel qualities are as indicated. Other varieties of English will differ
in some respects, but you should find that in most accents, the majority of the
relationships are the same. We will note the cases in which there are substantial
differences as we discuss the individual vowels.
Listen first of all to your pronunciation of the vowels [i, I, ”, œ] as in heed,
hid, head, had. (If you are not a native speaker of English, you can listen to
recordings of these words, which are on the CD in Chapter 2.) Do these vow-
els sound as if they differ by a series of equal steps? Make each vowel about
the same length (although in actual words they differ considerably), saying just
[i, I, ”, œ]. Now say them in pairs, first [i, I], then [I, ”], then [”, œ]. In many
forms of English, [ i ] sounds about the same distance from [ I ] as [ I ] is from
[”], and as [”] is from [œ]. Some Eastern American speakers make a distinct
diphthong in heed so that their [ i ] is really a glide starting from almost the
same vowel as that in hid. Other forms of English, for example as spoken in
the Midlands and the North of England, make a lower and more back vowel
in had, making it sound a little more like the [ A ] in father. This may result
in the distance between [ ” ] and [ `œ ] being greater than that between [ ” ] and
[ I ]. But speakers who have a lower [ œ ] may also have a slightly lower [ ” ],
thus keeping the distances between the four vowels [i, I, ”, œ] approximately
the same.
The remaining front vowel in English is [eI] as in hay. We will discuss this
vowel after we have discussed some of the back vowels. The back vowels vary
considerably in different forms of English, but no form of English has them
evenly spaced like the front vowels. Say for yourself [ A, O, Á, u ] as in father,
author, good, food. As before, make each vowel about the same length, and say
just [A, O, Á, u]. (If, like many Californians, you do not distinguish between the
vowels in father and author, just say the three vowels [A, Á, u].) Consider pairs
of vowels as you did the front vowels. Estimate the distances between each of
these vowels, and compare them with those shown in Figure 4.2.
We noted that many Midwestern and Californian speakers do not distin-
guish [A] and [O] as in cot and caught. They usually have a vowel intermediate
in quality between the two points shown on the chart but closer to [ A ]. On
the other hand, most speakers of British English have an additional vowel in
this area. They distinguish between the vowels [ A, Å, O ] as in balm, bomb,
bought. This results in a different number of vowel qualities, as shown in
the lower diagram in Figure 4.2. The additional vowel [ Å ] is more back and
slightly more rounded than [A].
The vowels [ Á, u ] as in good, food also vary considerably. Many speakers
have a very unrounded vowel in good and a rounded but central vowel in food.
Look in a mirror and observe your own lip positions in these two vowels.
Both British and American English speakers have a mid-low central vowel
[Ø] as in bud. In many forms of British English, this vowel may be a little lower
than in American English. In this way, it is distinct from the British English
CD 2.2
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
92 CHAPTER 4 English Vowels
central vowel [∏] in bird. The vowel in American English bird is not shown in
the upper part of Figure 4.2 because it is distinguished from the vowel in bud by
having r-coloring, which we will discuss later.
DIPHTHONGS
We will now consider the diphthongs shown in Figure 4.2. Each of these sounds
involves a change in quality within the one vowel. As a matter of convenience,
they can be described as movements from one vowel to another. In English, the
first part of the diphthong is usually more prominent than the last. In fact, the
last part is often so brief and transitory that it is difficult to determine its exact
quality. Furthermore, the diphthongs often do not begin and end with any of the
sounds that occur in simple vowels.
For maximum clarity, the difference in the prominence of the two vowel
qualities of a diphthong can be indicated by writing the “nonsyllabic” diacritic
symbol under the less prominent portion, as in [ aI 8]. This makes explicit the
distinction between a two-syllable vowel sequence (gnaw it [ naIt ]) and a
single-syllable vowel sequence (night [ naI8t ]). It is also common among phone-
ticians to use another method to mark diphthongs: with the nonsyllabic element
printed as a superscript letter (e.g., [aà]).
As you can see from Figure 4.2, both of the diphthongs [aI, aÁ], as in high,
how, start from more or less the same low central vowel position, midway be-
tween [œ] and [A] and, in BBC English, closer to [Ø] than to any of the other
vowels. (The Oxford Dictionary of Pronunciation for Current English tran-
scribes the American [ aI ] as [ ØI ] in British English.) Say the word eye very
slowly and try to isolate the first part of it. Compare this sound with the vowels
[œ, Ø, A] as in bad, bud, father. Now make a long [A] as in father, and then say
the word eye as if it began with this sound. The result should be something like
some forms of NewYork or London Cockney English pronunciations of eye. Try
some other pronunciations, starting, for example, with the vowel [œ] as in bad.
In this case, the result is a somewhat affected pronunciation.
The diphthong [ aI ], as in high, buy, moves toward a high front vowel, but
in most forms of English, it does not go much beyond a mid-front vowel. Say
a word such as buy, making it end with the vowel [”] as in bed (as if you were
saying [ba”]). A diphthong of this kind probably has a smaller change in qual-
ity than occurs in your normal pronunciation (unless you are one of the speakers
from Texas or elsewhere in the South and Southwest who make such words as
by, die into long monophthongs—[ba…, da…]). Then say buy, deliberately making
it end with the vowel [I] as in bid. This vowel is usually slightly higher than the
ending of this diphthong for many speakers of English. Finally, say buy with the
vowel [i] as in heed at the end. This is a much larger change in quality than nor-
mally occurs in this word. But some speakers of Scottish English and Canadian
English have a diphthong of this kind in words such as sight, which is different
from the diphthong that they have in side.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Diphthongs 93
The diphthong [aÁ] in how usually starts with a quality very similar to that
at the beginning of high. Try to say owl as if it started with [œ] as in had, and
note the difference from your usual pronunciation. Some speakers of the type
of English spoken around London and the Thames estuary (often called Estuary
English) have a complicated movement in this diphthong, making a sequence
of qualities like those of [ ” ] as in bed, [ Ø ] as in bud, and [ u ] as in food. Say
[ ”–Ø–u ] in quick succession. Now say the phrase how now brown cow using
a diphthong of this type.
The diphthong [ eI ] as in hay varies considerably in different forms of
English. Some American English speakers have a diphthong starting with a
vowel very like [ ” ] in head (as shown in the upper part of Figure 4.2). Most
BBC English speakers and many Midwestern Americans have a smaller diph-
thong, starting closer to [I] as in hid. Estuary English, as described above, has a
larger diphthong, so that words such as mate, take sound somewhat like might,
tyke. Conversely, others (including many Scots) have a higher vowel, a monoph-
thong that can be written [e]. Check your own pronunciation of hay and try to
decide how it should be represented on a chart as in Figure 4.2.
The diphthong [ oÁ ] as in hoe may be regarded as the back counterpart of
[eI]. For many speakers of American English, it is principally a movement in
the high–low dimension, but in most forms of British English, the movement is
more in the front–back dimension, as you can see in Figure 4.2. Some British
English speakers make this vowel start near [”] and end a little higher than [Á].
Say each part of this diphthong and compare it with other vowels.
The remaining diphthong moving in the upward direction is [OI] as in boy.
Again, this diphthong does not end in a very high vowel. It often ends with a
vowel similar to that in bed. We might well have transcribed boy as [bO”] if we
had not been trying to keep the style of transcription used in this book as similar
as possible to other widely used transcriptions.
The last diphthong, [ju] as in cue, differs from all the other diphthongs in that
the more prominent part occurs at the end. Because it is the only vowel of this
kind, many books on English phonetics do not even consider it a diphthong; they
treat it as a sequence of a consonant followed by a vowel. We have considered it
to be a diphthong because of the way it patterns in English. Historically, it is a
vowel, just like the other vowels we have been considering. Furthermore, if it is
not a vowel, then we have to say that there is a whole series of consonant clusters
in English that can occur before only one vowel. The sounds at the beginning of
pew, beauty, cue, spew, skew and (for most speakers of British English) tune, due,
sue, Zeus, new, lieu, stew occur only before /u/. (Note that in British English, do
and due are pronounced differently, the one being [du] and the other [dju].) There
are no English words beginning with /pje/ or /kjœ/, or any combination of stop
plus [j] before any other vowel. In stating the distributional properties of English
sounds, it seems much simpler to recognize /ju/ as a diphthong and thus reduce
the complexity of the statements one has to make about the English consonant
clusters.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
94 CHAPTER 4 English Vowels
RHOTIC VOWELS
The only common stressed vowel of American English not shown in Figure 4.2
is [∏±] as in sir, herd, fur. This vowel does not fit on the chart because it cannot
be described simply in terms of the features high–low, front–back, and rounded–
unrounded. The vowel [∏±] can be said to be r-colored. It involves an additional
feature called rhotacization. Just like high–low and front–back, the feature
rhotacization describes an auditory property, the r-coloring, of a vowel. When
we describe the height of a vowel, we are saying something about how it sounds
rather than something about the tongue gesture necessary to produce it. Simi-
larly, when we describe a sound as a rhotacized vowel, we are saying something
about how it sounds. In most forms of American English, there are both stressed
and unstressed rhotacized vowels. The transcription for the phrase my sister’s
bird in most forms of American English would be [maI "sIstE±s "b∏±d].
Rhotacized vowels are often called retroflex vowels, but there are at least two
distinct ways in which the r-coloring can be produced (see Figure 4.3). Some
speakers have the tip of the tongue raised, as in a retroflex consonant. The
speaker shown in the top panel of Figure 4.3 has this type of tongue configura-
tion in [ ∏± ]. Others (such as the speaker in the bottom panel) keep the tip down
and produce a high bunched tongue position. These two gestures produce a very
similar auditory effect. X-ray studies of speech have shown that in both these
ways of producing a rhotacized quality, there is usually a constriction in the
pharynx caused by retraction of the part of the tongue near the epiglottis.
The most noticeable difference among accents of English is in whether they
have r-colored vowels. In many forms of American English, rhotacization oc-
curs when vowels are followed by [r], as in beard, bared, bard, board, poor, tire,
hour. Accents that permit some form of [r] after a vowel are said to be rhotic.
The rhotacization of the vowel is often not so evident at the beginning of the
vowel, and something of the quality of the individual vowel remains. But in sir,
herd, fur the whole vowel is rhotacized (which is why LPD 2 [∏±] is preferable
to EPD 16 [∏r]). Insofar as the quality of this vowel can be described in terms of
the features high–low and front–back, it appears to be a mid-central vowel such
as [∏] with added rhotacization.
Rhotic accents are the norm in most parts of North America. They were
prevalent throughout Britain in Shakespeare’s time, and still occur in the West
Country, Scotland, and other regions distant from London. Shortly after it
became fashionable in the Southeast of England to drop the post-vocalic /r/, this
habit spread to areas of the United States in New England and parts of the South.
These regions are now non-rhotic to various degrees. Try to find a speaker of
English with an accent that is the opposite of yours—rhotic or non-rhotic, as the
case may be. Listen to their vowels in words such as mirror, fairer, surer, poorer,
purer and compare them with your own.
Standard BBC English is not rhotic and has diphthongs (not shown in
Figure 4.2) going from a vowel near the outside of the vowel space toward the
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Rhotic Vowels 95
central vowel [ E ]. In words such as here and there, these are transcribed
[ IE ] and [ ”E ]. Some speakers have a long [ ” ] instead of [ ”E ], particularly
before [ r ] as in fairy and bearing. Some people have a centering diphthong
[ÁE] in words such as poor, but this is probably being replaced by [O] in most
non-rhotic accents of British English. We also noticed in Chapter 2 that some
speakers have a centering diphthong (though we did not call it that at the time)
in hire, fire, which are [haE, faE].
As a conclusion to this section, we will consider the ways in which the vow-
els of different accents (or, indeed, of different languages) can differ. Each accent
Figure 4.3 Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of two American English speakers
producing [ ∏± ] (data from Zhou, Espy-Wilson, Tiede, & Boyce, 2007).
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
96 CHAPTER 4 English Vowels
(or language) contrasts a certain number of vowels. The first difference between
two accents may be in the number of vowels they contrast. Californian English,
for example, differs from many Midwestern accents of English in having lost
the contrast between [A] and [O], as in cot versus caught, so there is one fewer
vowel in the Californian system. Similarly, most British English accents have
systemic differences from most American English accents in that they have
additional vowels, distinguishing cart, cot, court by vowels that we can repre-
sent by /A, Å, O/. Another way in which accents can differ is in the vowels that
occur in certain words. Both BBC English and American Newscaster English
have vowels that can be symbolized by /œ/ and /A/ as in fat and father, but BBC
English has / A / in glass and last, while American English has / œ /. An even
more pointed comparison of this kind of difference is that between some Stan-
dard Northern accents of British English and BBC English. Both these accents
have the same number of vowel contrasts (the same vowel systems), but they use
/œ / and /A / in different words, Standard Northern having /œ / in castle, glass,
and much the same words as those for which this vowel is used in American
English. This kind of difference between accents is known as a difference in dis-
tribution (of vowel qualities) as opposed to a difference in system (the number
of distinct vowels). Finally, some differences between accents are simply a mat-
ter of vowel quality. Two accents can have exactly the same vowel systems and
the same vowel distributions, but the vowels can differ in quality. Thus, Texans
and Midwestern Americans have similar vowel systems and distributions but use
different ways of distinguishing the vowels in words such as pie and the word
for ‘father,’ pa. Texans are likely to have a long monophthong in each of these
words, making them best symbolized as [pa…] and [pA… ], whereas Midwestern
Americans are more likely to say [paI ] and [pA]. Or, to take a British English
example, an old-fashioned Cockney English and a modern Estuary English ac-
cent may have the same vowel distinctions (the same systems) and use them
in the same words (the same distributions), but use different vowel qualities.
Cockney will have vowels best represented as [ØI] and [AI] in mate and might;
Estuary English pronounces these words more like [m”It] and [mØIt].
Try to compare your own accent of English with another accent and say
which of the vowel differences are best described as differences in the system
of vowels, which are differences of distribution, and which involve just differ-
ences in vowel quality. Often all three of these factors—systemic differences,
distributional differences, and vowel quality differences—distinguish one accent
from another. Nevertheless, considering the three factors provides a useful way
of looking at differences between accents.
UNSTRESSED SYLLABLES
In all forms of English, the symbol [E], not shown in Figure 2.2, may be used
to specify a range of mid-central vowel qualities. As we saw in Chapter 2, this
vowel occurs in grammatical function words, such as to, the, at [ tE, DE, Et ].
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Unstressed Syllables 97
It also occurs at the end of the words sofa, China ["soÁfE, "tSaInE], and, for most
British speakers, better, farmer ["b”tE, "fAmE]. In American English, the vowel
at the end of words with the -er spelling is usually [E±], a very similar quality,
but with added r-coloring. As the vowel chart in Figure 4.2 represents a kind
of auditory space, vowels near the outside of the chart are more distinct from
one another than vowels in the middle, and differences in vowel quality become
progressively reduced among vowels nearer the center. The symbol [E] may be
used to designate many vowels that have a central, reduced vowel quality.
We will be considering the nature of stress in English in the next chapter, but
we can note here that vowels in unstressed syllables do not necessarily have a
completely reduced quality. All the English vowels can occur in unstressed syl-
lables in their full, unreduced forms. Many of them can occur in three forms, as
shown in Table 4.1. In this table, the vowel to be considered is in the first column.
The words in the second column illustrate the full forms of the vowels. The third
column gives an example of the same unreduced vowel in an unstressed syllable.
The fourth column illustrates the same underlying vowel as a reduced vowel. For
many people, the reduced vowels in this last column are all very similar. Some ac-
cents have slightly different qualities in some of these words, but all are still within
the range of a mid-central vowel that can be symbolized by [E]. Others have [I]
in some of these words, such as recitation, or a high-central vowel, which may be
symbolized by [ˆ]—a symbol that is sometimes called ‘barred i.’ Yet others, par-
ticularly speakers of various forms of American English, do not reduce the vowels
in the fourth column appreciably, keeping them with much the same vowel quality
as in the third column. The transcription of vowels with one symbol or another
sometimes disguises the fact that the vowel in question might have an intermediate
quality, neither that of the unstressed vowel nor that of a vowel fully reduced to [E].
Say all the words in Table 4.1 yourself and find out which vowels you have.
There are some widely applicable rules of English relating the pronunciation
of the words in the second column to that of the words in the fourth column.
TABLE 4.1 Examples of vowels in stressed and unstressed syllables and in
reduced syllables. The boldface type shows the vowel under consideration.
Vowels Stressed Syllable Unstressed Syllable Reduced Syllable
i appreciate creation deprecate
I implicit simplistic implication
O cause causality
Á hoodwink neighborhood
Ø confront umbrella confrontation
∏±, ∏ confirm verbose confirmation
aI recite citation recitation
OI exploit exploitation
ju compute computation circular
CD 4.1
CD 2.3
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
98 CHAPTER 4 English Vowels
Consequently, we are able to say that the same underlying vowels occur in the
words in the second and fourth columns. If we were making a high-level phono-
logical transcription, we could transcribe the vowels in the different columns with
the same symbols and allow the rules to make it clear that different allophones
occurred. Thus, we could transcribe emphatic as /”mfœtIk/ and emphasis as /
”mfœsIs/, as long as we also have a rule that assigns the stress and makes /œ/
into [E] in the second word.
The rules accounting for the allophones are very general in the sense that they
account for thousands of similar alternations among English words. But they are
also very complicated. They have to account for the blanks in the fourth column,
which show that some vowels can be completely reduced but others cannot.
There is, for example, a completely reduced vowel in explanation, demonstra-
tion, recitation, but not, for most people, in the very similar words exploitation,
computation. As you can also see from an examination of Table 4.1, some vow-
els, such as [ O, Á, u, aÁ, OI ], do not fit into this scheme of alternations in the
same way as the other vowels. Because the rules are so complicated, we will not
use transcriptions showing the underlying forms of English in this elementary
textbook. Instead, we will continue to use [ E] or [I] in reduced syllables.
Most British and some American English speakers have a vowel more like [I]
in suffixes such as -ed, -(e)s at the ends of words with alveolar consonants such
as hunted, houses ["hØntId, "haÁzIz]. For these speakers, both vowels in pitted
["pItId] have much the same quality. A reduced vowel more like [Á] may occur
in the suffix -ful as in dreadful [ "dr”dfÁl ], but for many people, this is just
a syllabic [l`], ["dr”dfl`].
TENSE AND LAX VOWELS
The vowels of English can be divided into what may be called tense and lax
sets. These terms are really just labels used to designate two groups of vowels
that behave differently in English words. There are phonetic differences between
the two groups, but they are not simply a matter of muscular tenseness versus
laxness. To some extent, the differences between the two sets are due to devel-
opments in the history of the English language that are still represented in the
spelling. The tense vowels occur in the words with a final, so-called silent e in
the spelling, e.g., mate, mete, kite, cute. The lax vowels occur in the correspond-
ing words without a silent e: mat, met, kit, cut. In addition, the vowel in good,
which, for reasons connected with the history of English, has no silent e partner,
is also a member of the lax set. This spelling-based distinction is, however, only
a rough indication of the difference between the two sets. It is better exemplified
by the data in Table 4.2.
The difference between the two sets can be discussed in terms of the different
kinds of syllables in which they can occur. Table 4.2 shows some of the restric-
tions for one form of American English. The first column of words illustrates a
set of closed syllables—those that have a consonant at the end. All of the vowels
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Tense and Lax Vowels 99
can occur in these circumstances. The next column shows that in open syllables—
those without a consonant at the end—only a restricted set of vowels can occur.
None of the vowels [I, ”, œ, Á, Ø] as in bid, bed, bad, good, bud can appear in
stressed open syllables. This is the set of vowels that may be called lax vowels,
as opposed to the tense vowels in the other words. To characterize the differ-
ences between tense and lax vowels, we can consider some of them in pairs,
each pair consisting of a tense vowel and the lax vowel that is nearest to it in
quality. Three pairs of this kind are [ i, I] as in beat, bit; [eI, ”] as in bait, bet;
and [u, Á] as in boot, foot. In each of these pairs, the lax vowel is shorter, lower,
and slightly more centralized than the corresponding tense vowel. There are no
vowels that are very similar in quality to the remaining two lax vowels in most
forms of American English, [ œ ] as in hat, cam and [ Ø ] as in hut, come. But
both of these low lax vowels are shorter than the low tense vowel [A] as in spa.
Speakers of most forms of British English have an additional lax vowel. They
have the tense vowel [A] as in calm, car, card in both open and closed syllables,
and they also have a lax vowel [Å] as in cod, common, con [kÅd, "kÅmEn, kÅn],
which occurs only in closed syllables.
The fifth column in Table 4.2 shows the vowels that can occur in syllables closed
by /r/ in American English. In a syllable closed by /r/, there is no contrast in qual-
ity between a tense vowel and the lax vowel nearest to it. Consequently, as often
happens in contexts in which there is no opposition between two sounds, the actual
sound produced is somewhere between the two. (We have already observed another
example of this tendency. We saw that after /s/ at the beginning of a word, there is
no contrast between /p/ and /b/, or /t/ and /d/, or /k/ and /g/. Consequently, the
stops that occur in words such as spy, sty, sky are between the corresponding voiced
and voiceless stops; they are unaspirated, but they are never voiced.)
TABLE 4.2 The distribution of tense and lax vowels in stressed syllables in American
English.
Tense Lax Most Closed Open Syllables Syllables Syllables
Vowels Vowels Syllables Syllables Closed By Closed By Closed By
[r] [N] [S]
i beat bee beer (leash)
I bit sing wish
eI bait bay
” bet bare length fresh
oÁ boat low (boar)
Á good push
u boot boo tour
E/Ø but burr hung crush
aI bite buy fire
OI void boy (coir)
ju cute cue pure
CD 4.2
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
100 CHAPTER 4 English Vowels
The words boar and coir are in parentheses in this column because for many peo-
ple, [oÁ] and [OI] do not occur before /r/. The word coir [kOIr], perhaps the only
word in English pronounced with [OIr], is not in many people’s vocabularies, and
many people make no difference between bore and boar. But some speakers do con-
trast [O] and [oÁ] in these two words, or in other pairs such as horse and hoarse.
The next column shows the vowels that occur before [ N ]. In these circum-
stances, again, there is no possible contrast between tense and lax vowels. But,
generally speaking, it is the lax vowels that occur. However, many younger
Americans pronounce sing with a vowel closer to that in scene rather than that in
sin. And in some accents, length is regularly pronounced with virtually the same
vowel as that in bait rather than that in bet; in others, it is pronounced with the
vowel in bit. The pronunciation of long varies. It is [lAN] or [lON] in most forms
of American English and [lÅN] in most forms of British English. Several other
changes are true of vowels before all nasals in many forms of American English.
For example, [ œ ] may be considerably raised in ban, lamb as compared with
bad, lab. In many accents, pin, pen and gym, gem are not distinguished.
The last column shows that there are similar restrictions in the vowels that can
occur before [S]. By far, the majority of words ending in /S/ have lax vowels for most
speakers, although some accents (e.g., that used in parts of Appalachia) have [i] in
fish (making it like fiche) and [u] in push and bush. In Peter Ladefoged’s speech,
the only words containing the tense vowel /i/ before /S/ are leash, fiche, quiche.
Some speakers have tense vowels in a few new or unusual words such as creche,
gauche, which may be [kreIS, goÁS]. The pronunciation of wash varies in much the
same way as that of long. Both [wAS- ] and [wOS] occur in American English.
RULES FOR ENGLISH VOWEL ALLOPHONES
As we did in the previous chapter in discussing consonant allophones, we can
conclude this chapter by considering a set of formal statements that apply to
vowels. The first concerns vowel length:
(1) Other things being equal, a given vowel is longest in an open syllable,
next longest in a syllable closed by a voiced consonant, and shortest in a
syllable closed by a voiceless consonant.
If you compare words such as sea, seed, seat or sigh, side, site, you will hear
that the vowel is longest in the first word in each set, next longest in the sec-
ond, and shortest in the last. You can see an example of part of this statement in
Figure 3.3, which showed the waveforms of the words mat and mad. Because
some vowels (particularly the tense vowels) are inherently longer than others
(the lax vowels), we have to restrict statement (1) to a vowel of a given quality.
Although it is in a syllable closed by a voiced consonant, the lax vowel in bid is
often shorter than the tense vowel in beat, which is a syllable closed by a voice-
less consonant. We also have to note “other things being equal” because, as we
will see in the next statement, there are other things that affect vowel length.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Rules for English Vowel Allophones 101
Even when we are considering the same vowel in syllables with the same
consonants, there may be a difference in vowel length. Stressed syllables are
longer than the corresponding unstressed syllables. Compare words such as
below and billow.You will find that the vowel [oÁ] in the stressed syllable in the
first word is longer than the same vowel in the second word, where it occurs in
an unstressed syllable. We therefore have the following formal statement:
(2) Other things being equal, vowels are longer in stressed syllables.
We still have to hedge this statement with the phrase “other things being
equal,” as there are other causes of variation in vowel length. Another kind of
length variation is exemplified by sets of words such as speed, speedy, speed-
ily. Here, the vowel in the stressed syllable gets progressively shorter as extra
syllables are added to the same word. The reasons for this phenomenon will be
dealt with in the next chapter. Here, we will simply state:
(3) Other things being equal, vowels are longest in monosyllabic words, next
longest in words with two syllables, and shortest in words with more than
two syllables.
We should also add a statement about unstressed vowels, which may become
voiceless in words such as potato, catastrophe. For some people, this happens
only if the following syllable begins with a voiceless stop, but for many, it also
happens in a normal conversational style in words such as permission, tomato,
compare. In terms of the gestures involved, this is simply a case of the voiceless
gesture for the glottis associated with the initial voiceless stops overlapping with
the voicing gesture normally associated with the vowels. One wording of an
appropriate statement would be:
(4) A reduced vowel may be voiceless when after a voiceless stop (and before
a voiceless stop).
The parenthesized phrase can be omitted for many people.
(5) Vowels are nasalized in syllables closed by a nasal consonant.
The degree of nasalization in a vowel varies extensively. Many people will
have the velum lowered throughout a syllable beginning and ending with a nasal,
such as man, making the vowel fully nasalized.
Finally, we must note the allophones produced when vowels occur in syl-
lables closed by / l /. Compare your pronunciation of / i / in heed and heel, of
/eI/ in paid and pail, and [œ] in pad and pal. In each case, you should be able
to hear a noticeably different vowel quality before the velarized [:]. All the front
vowels become considerably retracted in these circumstances. It is almost as if
they became diphthongs with an unrounded form of [Á] as the last element. In
a narrow transcription, we could transcribe this element so that peel, pail, pal
would be [pÓiÁ:, pÓeÁ:, pÓœÁ:]. Note that we omitted the usual second element
of the diphthong [ eI ] in order to show that in these circumstances, the vowel
moved from a mid-front to a mid-central (rather than to a high front) quality.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
102 CHAPTER 4 English Vowels
Back vowels, as in haul, pull, pool, are usually less affected by the final [:]
because they already have a tongue position similar to that of [:]. But there is
often a great difference in quality in the vowels in hoe and hole. As we have
seen, many speakers of British English have a fairly front vowel as the first ele-
ment in the diphthong [EÁ]. This vowel becomes considerably retracted before
/:/ at the end of the syllable. You can observe the change by comparing words
such as holy, where there is no syllable final [:], and wholly, where the first syl-
lable is closed by [:].
The change of vowel quality before [ : ] is yet another example of overlap-
ping gestures. The exact form of the statement for specifying vowel allophones
before [:] will vary from speaker to speaker. But, so that we can include a state-
ment in our set summarizing some of the main allophones of vowels in English,
we may say:
(6) Vowels are retracted before syllable final [:].
Some speakers have a similar rule that applies to vowels before /r/, as in hear,
there, which might be [hiEr, DeEr]. Note again how /l, r/ act in similar ways, as
we found in the preceding chapter when discussing consonants.
Again, it is important to understand that these statements specify roughly
only some of the major aspects of the pronunciation of English. They do not
state everything about English vowels that is rule-governed, nor are they formu-
lated with complete accuracy. There are problems, for example, in saying ex-
actly what is meant by word or syllable, and it is possible to find both exceptions
to these statements and additional generalizations that can be made.
EXERCISES
(Printable versions of all the exercises are available on the CD.)
A. Put your own vowels in this chart, using a set of words such as that given in
Table 2.2. Listen to each vowel carefully and try to judge how it sounds rela-
tive to the other vowels.You will probably find it best to say each vowel as the
middle vowel of a three-member series, with the vowels in the words above
and below forming the first and last vowels in the series. In the case of the
diphthongs, you should do this with both the beginning and the ending points.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 103
B. Try to find a speaker with an accent different from your own (or perhaps a
foreigner who speaks English with an accent) and repeat Exercise A, using
this blank chart.
accent:____________
C. List words illustrating the occurrence of vowels in monosyllables closed by
/p/. Do not include names or words of recent foreign origin. You will find
that some vowels cannot occur in these circumstances.
i
I
eI
”
œ
A
O
oÁ
Á
uØ
aI
aÁ
OI
D. Considering only the vowels that cannot occur in monosyllables closed by
/p/ as in Exercise C, give words, if possible, illustrating their occurrence in
syllables closed by the following consonants.
b l
m s
f z
t k
n g
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
104 CHAPTER 4 English Vowels
E. Which vowel occurs before the smallest number of consonants? Also, which
class of consonants occurs after the largest number of vowels? (Define the
class in terms of the place of articulation at which these consonants are made.)
____________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________
F. Look at Table 4.1. Find additional examples illustrating the relationship be-
tween the words in the second and fourth columns. Transcribe each pair of
words as shown below for the vowel /i/.
Vowel Stressed Syllable Reduced Syllable
i secrete [sE"krit] secretive ["sikrEtIv]
I
eI
”
œ
A or Å
oÁ
aI
G. Make up and transcribe a sentence containing at least eight different vowels.
____________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________
H. Give a number of examples for each of statements (1) through (6) by mak-
ing a transcription of some additional words that fit the rules. Your examples
should not include any words that have been transcribed in this book so far.
Remember to mark the stress on words of more than one syllable.
(1) three examples (one for each syllable type)
_______________ _______________ _______________
(2) two pairs of examples (each showing words differing principally in
stress)
_______________ _______________
_______________ _______________
(3) two sets of examples (each containing a one-syllable, a two-syllable,
and a three-syllable word, with the first stressed syllable remaining
constant)
_______________ _______________ _______________
_______________ _______________ _______________
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Performance Exercises 105
(4) four examples
_______________ _______________
_______________ _______________
(5) four examples (use different vowels and different nasals)
_______________ _______________
_______________ _______________
(6) two sets of examples, each containing a contrasting pair of words
_______________ _______________
_______________ _______________
I. Transcribe the following sentences as recorded by the British and American
speakers on the CD.
(1) I’ve called several times, but never found you there.
(2) Someone, somewhere, wants a letter from you.
(3) We were away a year ago.
(4) We all heard a yellow lion roar.
(5) What did you say before that?
(6) Never kill a snake with your bare hands.
(7) It’s easy to tell the depth of a well.
(8) I enjoy the simple life.
As instructors vary in the kinds of transcription exercises they wish to assign,
additional exercises will not be given at the end of this and subsequent chapters.
Instead, more exercises may be found at the end of Chapter 11, in the appen-
dix “Additional Material for Transcription,” and on the CD in a special section
called “Additional Resources.”
PERFORMANCE EXERCISES
A. Learn to produce only the first part of the vowel [eI ] as in hay. Try saying
this sound in place of your normal diphthong in words such as they came late.
Similarly, learn to produce a mid-high back vowel [o], and say it in words that
you have been transcribing with the diphthong [oÁ], such as Don’t go home.
B. Incorporate [ e ] and [ o ] in nonsense words for production and perception
exercises. These words might also now include the voiceless sounds [m9 , n9,
N(, w9, j9]. Remember to practice saying the words by yourself so that you can
say them fluently to your partner. Start with easy words such as:
mA"N(A
"n99eme
"N(Ale
"mo/i
"l9ele
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
106 CHAPTER 4 English Vowels
Then go on to more difficult words like:
he"m9An9e
"Nambm
` bel99
"spo/etn`/OI
"w9oTSo"r9esfi
"tlepr9idZi"kuZ
C. Again working with a partner, write the numbers 1 through 5 somewhere on
a vowel chart as, for example, shown here.
Now say vowels corresponding to these numbered positions in nonsense
monosyllables, saying, for example, something like [ dub ]. Your partner
should try to plot these vowels on a blank chart. When you have pronounced
five words, compare notes and then discuss the reasons for any discrepancies
between the two charts. Then reverse roles and repeat the exercise.
D. Repeat Exercise C with as many different partners as you can. It is diffi-
cult to make perceptual judgments of the differences among vowels, but you
should be able to find a rough consensus.
E. In addition to nonsense words of the kind given in Exercise B, continue prac-
ticing with words to increase your auditory memory span. Say each word
only two or three times. Remember that you should be spending at least one
hour a week on production and perception exercises.
Te"mife"Dim9e
"serApo"sApofi"pos
mo"preteplete"ki
n9A"koto"tAkpoto
lA"kimiti"none/e
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
107
5
English Words
and Sentences
WORDS IN CONNECTED SPEECH
In previous chapters, we considered lists of words that illustrated the contrasts
between consonants and the contrasts between vowels. This is a good way of
starting to look at the gestures that make up the words of English (or, indeed, of
any language, as we will see later). But speech is not really composed of a series
of distinct gestures, and, anyway, we don’t usually speak using isolated words.
As we saw in Chapter 1, when looking at the short movie clip of on top of his
deck, all the actions run together, making it very hard to see separate gestures.
It’s useful to look at short, specially constructed phrases so as to be able to see
the main aspects of individual vowels and consonants, as we did using x-ray
clips in Chapters 2 and 3. But now we must look at how pronunciations of indi-
vidual words compare with what happens in more normal, connected speech.
The form of a word that occurs when you say it by itself is called the citation
form. At least one syllable is fully stressed and there is no reduction of the vowel
quality. But in connected speech, many changes may take place. Consider, for
example, the spectrogram in Figure 5.1. This is our first spectrogram of speech,
so you shouldn’t expect to get much out of it at first, but even with only a little
explanation of how to “read” a spectrogram, you should be able to tell that the
word opposite was said in two different ways in this utterance. The speaker was
being interviewed, and the topic of life choices came up. He was talking about
choosing between a life of crime or a life in a religious discipline, and he said,
“or I was going to go in the opposite direction, and I went in the opposite di-
rection.” Before reading on, listen to this utterance on the CD. Can you hear
any differences in the word opposite between the first time he says it and the
second? They both seem to be perfectly acceptable (American) pronunciations
of the word, but the spectrogram shows some differences. The second opposite
is phonetically reduced. There are arrows under the portions of the spectrogram
that correspond to vowel sounds. The first opposite has three arrows correspond-
ing to the three vowels that we expect in the citation form of the word, while in
the second production we can only identify two vowel segments.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
108 CHAPTER 5 English Words and Sentences
In reading spectrograms, the first and most basic observation to make is that
there are three basic types of sounds. A stop appears as a white gap (silence)
followed by a very thin vertical stripe (the release burst). You can see this pat-
tern in the [p] of both productions of opposite in Figure 5.1. Fricatives appear
as dark patches near the top of the spectrogram. The [ s ] of opposite is visible
in both productions, as is the [S] of direction [dr
Æ"”kSn
Æ]. The third basic type of
sound includes vowels, approximants, and nasals and has anywhere from two to
five roughly parallel horizontal bands, generally with one band below a thousand
Hertz (Hz on the vertical scale), one between one thousand and two thousand Hz,
and another between two thousand and three thousand Hz. You can see that the
unstressed vowels of the first opposite are quite short in duration—less than 0.05
seconds on the horizontal scale—and one of the two has completely vanished in
the second opposite so that it is now pronounced ["ApsIt]. There are other indi-
cations of reduced pronunciation in the second production of this word—all of
the segments are shorter, the first vowel has no steady-state portion (see how the
second highest dark band goes down in frequency throughout the vowel, where
in the first production there was a plateau), and the [s] is lighter at the top of the
spectrogram.
When words are said in connected speech, they may be pronounced with
varying degrees of emphasis, and this results in varying degrees of deviation
from the citation form (which can be taken as the most emphatic, phonetically
full form of the word). In Chapters 3 and 4, we discussed rules for consonant
and vowel allophones that help us describe the patterns of pronunciation found
in citation forms. The range of phonetic variability found in connected speech is
a good deal greater and more subtle than the variability found in citation forms,
and this makes it difficult to describe the sound patterns of conversational speech
as alternations among phonetic symbols; quantitative measurement of duration,
Figure 5.1 A spectrogram of the utterance “the opposite direction, and I went in the opposite
direction.”
CD 5.1
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Words in Connected Speech 109
amplitude, and frequency is often a more insightful ways to proceed. Neverthe-
less, some useful observations about phonetic reduction in conversational speech
can be based on careful phonetic transcription.
The key difference between citation speech and connected speech is the vari-
able degree of emphasis placed on words in connected speech. This “degree of
emphasis” is probably related to the amount of information that a word conveys
in a particular utterance in conversation—for example, repetitions such as the
second opposite in Figure 5.1 are almost always reduced compared to the first
mention of the word—but here we will focus on the phonetics of reduction, not
its semantics. The citation speech/conversational speech difference is particu-
larly noticeable for one class of words. Closed-class words such as determiners
(a, an, the), conjunctions (and, or), and prepositions (of, in, with)—the gram-
matical words—are very rarely emphasized in connected speech, and thus their
normal pronunciation in connected speech is quite different from their citation
speech forms.
As with other words, closed-class words show a strong form, which occurs
when the word is emphasized, as in sentences such as He wanted pie and ice
cream, not pie or ice cream. There is also a weak form, which occurs when
the word is in an unstressed position. Table 5.1 lists strong and weak forms of a
number of common English words.
Several of the words in Table 5.1 have more than one weak form. Sometimes,
as in the case of and, there are no clear rules as to when one as opposed to
another of these forms is likely to occur. After a word ending with an alveolar
consonant, most speakers of English have a tendency to drop the vowel and say
[n`- ] or [n`d] in phrases such as cat and dog or his and hers. But this is far from
invariable.
TABLE 5.1 Strong and weak forms of some common English words. Over five times as
many could easily have been listed.
Word Strong form Weak form Example of a Weak Form
a eI E a cup [-E "kØp-]
and œnd End, n`d, En, n` you and me [-"ju En "mi-]
as œz Ez as good as [-Ez "gÁd Ez-]
at œt Et at home [-Et "hoÁm-]
can kœn kEn, kN` I can go [-aI kN` "goÁ-]
has hœz hEz, Ez, z, s he’s left [-hIz "l”ft-]
he hi i, hI, I will he go? [-wIl I "goÁ-]
must mØst mEst, mEs, ms` I must sell [-aI ms` "s”l-]
she Si SI did she go? [-"dId SI "goÁ-]
that Dœt DEt he said that it did [-hI "s”d DEt It "dId-]
to tu tÁ, tE to Mexico [-t E "m”ksIkoÁ-]
would wÁd wEd, Ed, d it would do [-"I t Ed "du-]
CD 5.2
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
110 CHAPTER 5 English Words and Sentences
For some words, however, there are rules that are nearly always applicable.
The alternation between a [E] before a consonant and an [En] before a vowel
is even recognized in the spelling. Similar alternations occur with the words the
and to, which are [DE, tE] before consonants and are often [Di, tu] or [DI, tÁ]
before vowels. Listen to your own pronunciation of these words in the sentence
The [DE] man and the [DI] old woman went to [tE] Britain and to [tÁ] America.
The two examples of the will often be pronounced differently. It should be noted,
however, that there is a growing tendency for younger American English speak-
ers to use the form [DE] in all circumstances, even before a vowel. If a glottal
stop is inserted before words beginning with a vowel (another growing tendency
in American English), then the form [DE] is even more likely to be used.
Some of the words in Table 5.1 are confusing in that the same spelling rep-
resents two words with different meanings (two homonyms). Thus, the spelling
that represents a demonstrative pronoun in a phrase such as “that boy and the
man,” but it represents a subordinate conjunction in he said that women were
better. The conjunction is much more likely to have a weak form. The demon-
strative that is always pronounced [ Dœt ]. Similarly, when has is an auxiliary
verb, it may be [z ], as in she’s gone, but it is [hEz ] or [Ez ] when it indicates
possession, as in she has nice eyes.
Atthispoint,weshouldnoteaweaknessintheabovediscussionandinTable5.1.
We have been using phonetic transcription to note changes that occur. But
although transcription is a wonderful tool for phoneticians to use (please go on
practicing it), it is not a perfect one. All transcriptions use a limited set of sym-
bols, giving the impression that a sound is one thing or another. The word has,
for example, has been transcribed as [hœz] or [Ez] or [z], but there are really
lots of intermediate gestures. The word to has more possibilities than [tu, tÁ, tE].
Similarly, in the previous chapter, we discussed the first syllable in words such
as potato, noting that the vowel can be there or not. But it’s really not as absolute
as that. There may be anything from just the [pÓ], through a single glottal pulse
of a vowel, to (rather unusually) a full vowel [ oÁ ]. Speech is a continuum of
gestures that may be produced fully or in a reduced form, or may be virtually
not present at all.
These considerations also apply to another way in which words can be
affected when they occur in connected speech. As you already know, sounds are
often affected by adjacent sounds—for example, the [n] in tenth is articulated
on the teeth (or nearer to them) because of the following dental fricative [ T ].
Similar effects commonly occur across word boundaries, so that in phrases such
as in the and on the, the [n] is realized as a dental [n1] because of the following
[ D ]. But it isn’t a simple choice of the nasal being either dental or alveolar.
Using phonetic transcription, we have only those two possibilities. Transcription
puts things in one category or another, but in fact there is a continuum of pos-
sibilities between the two possible transcriptions.
Finally, in this discussion of the limitations of transcription, think how you
say phrases like fact finding. Do you pronounce the [ t ] at the end of fact?
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Stress 111
Most people don’t say [ "fœkfaIndIN ] with no [ t ] gesture, nor do they say
["fœktfaIndIN] with a complete [t]gesture. Instead, there is probably a small [t]
gesture in which the tip of the tongue moves up slightly. A similar partial gesture
probably occurs in phrases like apt motto and wrapped parcel. You cannot say
that there is or is not a [t].
When one sound is changed into another because of the influence of a neigh-
boring sound, there is said to be a process of assimilation. There is an assimi-
lation of [ n ] to [ n1 ] because of the [ D ] in the phrase in the. The assimilation
may be complete if the nasal becomes absolutely dental, or partial if it is some-
where between dental and alveolar, a form we cannot symbolize in transcription.
Anticipatory coarticulation is by far the most common cause of assimilations in
English. In this process, the gesture for one sound is affected by anticipating the
gesture for the next sound. But there are also perseverative assimilations, in which
the gesture for one sound perseveres into the gesture for the next sound. The pronun-
ciation of the phrase it is [It Iz] as it’s [Its] is a result of the perseveration of the
voicelessness of [t].
There is, of course, nothing slovenly or lazy about using weak forms and as-
similations. Only people with artificial notions about what constitutes so-called
good speech could use adjectives such as these to label the kind of speech we have
been describing. Rather than being labeled lazy, it could be described as being more
efficient, in that it conveys the same meaning with less effort. Weak forms and
assimilations are common in the speech of every sort of speaker in both Britain and
America. Foreigners who make insufficient use of them sound stilted.
STRESS
Stress is most easily identified in citation forms. In conversational speech, words
can be unemphasized, and when this happens, some of the properties of stressed
syllables may not be realized. In citation forms, a stressed syllable is usually
produced by pushing more air out of the lungs in one syllable relative to others.
A stressed syllable thus has greater respiratory energy than neighboring
unstressed syllables. It may also have an increase in laryngeal activity. Stress
can always be defined in terms of something a speaker does in one part of an
utterance relative to another.
It is difficult to define stress from a listener’s point of view. A stressed syllable
is often, but not always, louder than an unstressed syllable. In declarative utter-
ances it is usually, but not always, on a higher pitch. The most reliable thing for
a listener to detect is that a stressed syllable frequently has a longer vowel than
it would have if it were unstressed. But this does not mean that all long vowels
are necessarily stressed. The second and third vowels in radio, for example, are
comparatively long, but they do not have the extra push of air from the lungs that
occurs on the first vowel. Conversely, the vowels in the first syllables of cupcake
and hit man are comparatively short, but they have extra respiratory energy and
so are felt to be stressed.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
112 CHAPTER 5 English Words and Sentences
Stress can always be correlated with something a speaker does rather than
with some particular acoustic attribute of the sounds. Consequently, you will
find that the best way to decide whether a syllable is stressed is to try to tap out
the beat as a word is said. This is because it is always easier to produce one in-
crease in muscular activity—a tap—in time with an existing increase in activity.
When as listeners we perceive the stresses that other people are making, we are
probably putting together all the cues available in a particular utterance in order
to deduce the motor activity (principally the respiratory gestures) we would use
to produce those same stresses. It seems as if listeners sometimes perceive an
utterance by reference to their own motor activities. When we listen to speech,
we may be considering, in some way, what we would have to do in order to
make similar sounds. We will return to this point when we discuss phonetic the-
ories in a later chapter.
Stress has several different functions in English. In the first place, it can be
used in sentences to give special emphasis to a word or to contrast one word
with another. As we have seen, even a word such as and can be given a con-
trastive stress. The contrast can be implicit rather than explicit. For example, if
someone else says, or if you even thought that someone else might possibly say
(using stress marks within regular orthography):
"John or "Mary should "go.
You might, without any prior context actually spoken, say:
"I think "John "and "Mary should "go.
Another major function of stress in English is to indicate the syntactic cat-
egory of a words. There are many noun–verb oppositions, such as an "insult, to
in"sult; an "overflow, to over"flow; an "increase, to in"crease. In these three pairs
of words, the noun has the stress on the first syllable and the verb has it on the
last. The placement of the stress indicates the syntactic category of the word.
(Of course, there are nouns with second-syllable stress—like gui"tar, pi"ano, and
trom"bone—and verbs with first-syllable stress—like to "tremble, to "flutter, and
to "simper—so stress placement is not determined by syntactic category but is
simply a cue in certain noun–verb pairs as to the identity of the word.)
Similar oppositions occur in cases where two-word phrases form compounds,
such as a "walkout, to "walk "out; a "put-on, to "put "on; a "pushover, to "push "over.
In these cases, there is a stress only on the first element of the compound for
the nouns but on both elements for the verbs. Stress also has a syntactic func-
tion in distinguishing between a compound noun, such as a "hot dog (a form of
food), and an adjective followed by a noun, as in the phrase a "hot "dog (an over-
heated animal). Compound nouns have a single stress on the first element, and
the adjective-plus-noun phrases have stresses on both elements.
Many other variations in stress can be associated with the grammatical struc-
ture of the words. Table 5.2 exemplifies the kinds of alternations that can occur.
All the words in the first column have the main stress on the first syllable. When
the noun-forming suffix “-y” occurs, the stress in these words shifts to the sec-
ond syllable. But as you can see in the third column, the adjectival suffix “-ic”
CD 5.3
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Degrees of Stress 113
moves the stress to the syllable immediately preceding it, which in these words
is the third syllable. If you make a sufficiently complex set of rules, it is possible
to predict the location of the stress in the majority of English words. There are
very few examples of lexical items such as differ and defer that have the same
syntactic function (they are both verbs) but different stress patterns. Billow and
below are another pair of words illustrating that differences in stress are not al-
ways differences between nouns and verbs.
DEGREES OF STRESS
In some longer words, it may seem as if there is more than one stressed syllable.
For example, say the word multiplication and try to tap on the stressed syllables.
You will find that you can tap on the first and the fourth syllables—"multipli"cation.
The fourth syllable seems to have a higher degree of stress. The same is true
of other long words, such as "magnifi"cation and "psycholin"guistics. But this
apparently higher degree of stress on the later syllable occurs only when the
word is said in isolation or at the end of a phrase. Try saying a sentence such
as The "psycholin"guistics "course was "fun. If you tap on each stressed syllable,
you will find that there is no difference between the first and fourth syllables of
psycholinguistics. If you have a higher degree of stress on the fourth syllable
in psycholinguistics, this word will be given a special emphasis, as though you
were contrasting some other psychology course with a psycholinguistics course.
The same is true of the word magnification in a sentence such as The de"gree
of "magnifi"cation de"pends on the "lens. The word magnification will not have a
larger stress on the fourth syllable as long as you do not break the sentence into
two parts and leave this word at the end of a phrase.
Why does it seem as if there are two degrees of stress in a word when it oc-
curs at the end of a phrase or when it is said alone—which is, of course, at the
end of a phrase? The answer is that in these circumstances, another factor is
present. As we will see in the next section, the last stressed syllable in a phrase
often accompanies a special peak in the intonation (the “tonic accent”). In lon-
ger words containing two stresses, the apparent difference in the levels of the
first and the second stress is really due to the superimposition of an intonation
pattern. When these words occur within a sentence in a position where the word
does not receive tonic accent, then there are no differences in the stress levels.
CD 5.5
CD 5.4
TABLE 5.2 English word stress alternations.
"___ _ ___ _ _"__ __ __ __ _ _
"
__ _
diplomat diplomacy diplomatic
photograph photography photographic
monotone monotony monotonic
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
114 CHAPTER 5 English Words and Sentences
A lower level of stress may also seem to occur in some English words. Com-
pare the words in the two columns in Table 5.3. The words in both columns have
the stress on the first syllable. The words in the first column might seem to have
a second, weaker, stress on the last syllable as well, but this is not so. The words
in the first column differ from those in the second by having a full vowel in
the final syllable. This vowel is always longer than the reduced vowel—usually
[E]—in the final syllable of the words in the second column. The result is that
there is a difference in the rhythm of the two sets of words. This is due to a dif-
ference in the vowels that are present; it is not a difference in stress. There is not
a strong increase in respiratory activity on the last syllable of the words in the
first column. Both sets of words have increases in respiratory activity only on
the first syllable.
In summary, we can note that the syllables in an utterance vary in their de-
grees of prominence, but these variations are not all associated with what we
want to call stress. A syllable may be especially prominent because it accompa-
nies the final peak in the intonation. We will say that syllables of this kind have a
tonic accent. Given this, we can note that English syllables are either stressed or
unstressed. If they are stressed, they may or may not be the tonic stress syllables
that carry the major pitch changes in the phrase. If they are unstressed, they may
or may not have a reduced vowel. These relationships are shown in Figure 5.2.
As an aid to understanding the difference between these processes, consider
the set of words explain, explanation, exploit, exploitation. If each of these words
is said in its citation form, as a separate tone group, the set will be pronounced
as shown below (using a schematic representation of the intonation peak).
Intonation peak ↑ ↑ ↑ ↑
Stress ex"plain "expla"nation ex"ploit "exploi"tation
Segments Iks"pleIn "”ksplE"neISEn Iks"plOIt "”ksplOI"teISEn
Another way of representing some of these same facts is shown in Table 5.4.
This table shows just the presence (+) or absence (–) of an intonation peak
TABLE 5.3 Three-syllable words exemplifying the difference between an unreduced
vowel in the final syllable (first column) and a reduced vowel in the final
syllable (second column).
"multiply "multiple
"regulate "regular
"copulate "copula
"circulate "circular
"criticize "critical
"minimize "minimal
CD 5.6
CD 5.7
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Degrees of Stress 115
(a tonic accent), a stress, and a full vowel in each syllable in these four words.
Considering first the stress (in the middle row), note that the two-syllable words
are marked [ + stress ] on the second syllable, and the four-syllable words are
marked [+ stress] on both the first and the third syllables.
As you can see by comparing the middle row with the top row, the last
[+ stress] syllable in each word has been marked [+ tonic accent]. There is a
[+] in the third row if the vowel is not reduced. Note that the difference in rhythm
between explanation and exploitation is that the second syllable of explanation
has a reduced vowel, but this syllable in exploitation has a full vowel. As we
saw in the previous chapter, there are a number of vowels that do not occur in
reduced syllables. Furthermore, the actual phonetic quality of the vowel in a
reduced syllable varies considerably from accent to accent. We have transcribed
the first vowel in explain as [I] because that is the form Peter Ladefoged used.
But other accents (such as Keith Johnson’s) have [”].
Some other books do not make the distinctions described here, maintaining
instead that there are several levels of stress in English. The greatest degree of
stress is called stress level one, the next is level two, the next level three, a lower
level still is level four, and so on. Note that in this system, a smaller degree of
stress has a larger number.
You can easily convert our system into a multilevel stress system by adding the
number of [ + ] marks on a syllable in a table of the sort just used and subtracting
this number from four. If there are three [ + ] marks, it is stress level one; if two,
stress level two; if one, stress level three; and if none, stress level four. Try this for
yourself with the data in Table 5.4. Writing the stress levels as superscripts after
the vowels, you will find that explanation and exploitation are e2xpla4na1tio4n
(a pattern of 2–4–1–4) and e2xploi3ta1tio4n (a pattern of 2–3–1–4).
We do not consider it useful to think of stress in terms of a multilevel system,
feeling that descriptions of this sort are not in accord with the phonological facts.
Figure 5.2 Degrees of prominence of different syllables in a sentence.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
116 CHAPTER 5 English Words and Sentences
But as it is so commonly said that there are many levels of stress in English, we
thought we should explain how these terms are used. In this book, however, we
will continue to regard stress as something that either does or does not occur on
a syllable in English, and we will view vowel reduction and intonation as sepa-
rate processes.
We can sometimes predict by rules whether a vowel will be reduced to [E] or
not. For example, we can formalize a rule stating that [OI] never reduces. But
other cases seem to be a matter of how recently the word came into common
use. Factors of this sort seem to be the reason why there should be reduced vow-
els at the end of postman, bacon, and gentleman, but not at the end of mailman,
moron, and superman.
SENTENCE RHYTHM
The stresses that can occur on words sometimes become modified when the
words are part of sentences. The most frequent modification is the dropping of
some of the stresses. There is a stress on the first syllable of each of the words
Mary, younger, brother, wanted, fifty, chocolate, peanuts when these words
are said in isolation. But there are normally fewer stresses when they occur
in a sentence such as Mary’s younger brother wanted fifty chocolate peanuts.
Tap with your finger at each stressed syllable while you say this phrase in
a normal conversational style. You will probably find it quite natural to tap
on the first syllables marked with a preceding stress mark in "Mary’s younger
"brother wanted "fifty chocolate "peanuts. Thus, the first syllables of younger,
wanted, and chocolate are pronounced without stresses (but with their full
vowel qualities).
The same kind of phenomenon can be demonstrated with monosyllabic
words. Say the sentence The big brown bear bit ten white mice. It sounds un-
natural if you put a stress on every word. Most people will say The "big brown
"bear bit "ten white "mice. As a general rule, English does not have stresses too
close together. Very often, stresses on alternate words are dropped in sentences
where they would otherwise come too near one another.
The tendency to avoid having stresses too close together may cause the stress
on a polysyllabic word to be on one syllable in one sentence and on another
TABLE 5.4 The combination of stress, intonation, and vowel reduction
in a number of words.
Explain Explanation Exploit Exploitation
tonic accent – + – – + – – + – – + –
stress – + + – + – – + + – + –
full vowel – + + – + – – + + + + –
CD 5.7
CD 5.8
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Sentence Rhythm 117
syllable in another. Consider the word clarinet in He had a "clarinet "solo and
in He "plays the clari"net. The stress is on the first or the third syllable, depend-
ing on the position of the other stresses in the sentence. Similar shifts occur in
phrases such as "Vice-president "Jones versus "Jones, the vice-"president. Numbers
such as "fourteen, "fifteen, "sixteen are stressed on the first syllable when count-
ing, but sometimes not in phrases such as She’s "only six"teen. Read all these
phrases with the stresses as indicated and check that it is natural to tap on the
stressed syllables. Then try tapping on the indicated syllables while you read the
next paragraph.
"Stresses in "English "tend to re"cur at "regular "intervals of "time. ( " ) It’s "often
"perfectly "possible to "tap on the "stresses in "time with a "metronome. ( " ) The
"rhythm can "even be "said to de"termine the "length of the "pause between "phrases.
( " ) An "extra "tap can be "put in the "silence, ( " ) as "shown by the "marks with"in the
pa"rentheses. ( " )
Figure 5.3 shows another example of speech rhythm. This musical notation
of the rhythm of the first forty-seven seconds of Barack Obama’s victory speech
after the Iowa primary election of 2008 shows that he came in “on the beat”
CD 5.9
Figure 5.3 The first forty-seven seconds of Barack Obama’s Iowa victory speech.
CD 5.10
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
118 CHAPTER 5 English Words and Sentences
after interruptions by a cheering crowd of supporters—even a long interruption
of sixteen beats. This and other instances of public speaking are so noticeably
rhythmic that some artists have set them to music, dubbing rhythm tracks under
the spoken word.
Of course, not all sentences are as regular as those discussed in the preceding
paragraphs. Stresses tend to recur at regular intervals. It would be quite untrue
to say that there is always an equal interval between stresses in English. It is
just that English has a number of processes that act together to maintain the
rhythm. We have already mentioned two of these processes. First, we saw that
some words that might have been stressed are nevertheless often unstressed, thus
preventing too many stresses coming together. To give another example, both
wanted and pretty can be stressed in She "wanted a "pretty "parrot, but they may
not be in My "aunt wanted "ten pretty "parrots. Second, we saw that some words
have variable stress; compare the "unknown "man with the "man is un"known.
We can also consider some of the facts mentioned in the previous chapter
as part of this same tendency to reduce the variation in the interval between
stresses. We saw that the vowel in speed is longer than the first vowel in speedy,
and this in turn is longer than the first vowel in speedily. This can be interpreted
as a tendency to minimize the variation in the length of words containing only a
single stress, so that adjacent stresses remain much the same distance apart.
Taking all these facts together, along with others that will not be dealt with
here, it is as if there were a conspiracy in English to maintain a regular rhythm.
However, this conspiracy is not strong enough to completely override the irregu-
larities caused by variations in the number and type of unstressed syllables. In a
sentence such as The "red "bird flew "speedily "home, the interval between the first
and second stresses will be far shorter than that between the third and fourth.
Stresses tend to recur at regular intervals. But the sound pattern of English does
not make it an overriding necessity to adjust the lengths of syllables so as to en-
force complete regularity. The interval between stresses is affected by the num-
ber of syllables within the stress group, by the number and type of vowels and
consonants within each syllable, and by other factors such as the variations in
emphasis that are given to each word.
INTONATION
Listen to the pitch of the voice while someone says a sentence.You will find that
it is changing continuously. The difference between speaking and singing is that
in singing, you hold a given note for a noticeable length of time and then jump
to the pitch of the next note. But when one is speaking, there are no steady-
state pitches. Throughout every syllable in a normal conversational utterance,
the pitch is going up or down. (Try talking with steady-state pitches and notice
how odd it sounds.)
The intonation of a sentence is its pattern of pitch changes. The part of a sen-
tence over which a particular pattern extends is called an intonational phrase.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Intonation 119
A short sentence forming a single intonational phrase is shown in sentence (1)
below. In this and all the subsequent illustrations of different intonations in this
chapter, two curves are shown. The top one always represents the changes in
pitch for a British English speaker, and the lower one for an American English
speaker. They are not completely smooth curves because they show the actual
pitches of the utterances on the CD. The irregularities reflect how the vocal folds
vibrated when producing these sentences. In most cases, there is no pitch scale
indicated, as it is usually the relative pitches within a phrase that are important.
The time scale varies from utterance to utterance, allowing the graphs to fit the
dimensions of the page. Below the American speaker, there is always a thin line
representing a duration of 500 ms (half a second).
The sentence spoken is shown below the pitch curve in ordinary spelling, but
with IPA stress marks added, and one syllable preceded by an asterisk. Within
an intonational phrase, stressed syllables usually have a pitch change; but there
is also a single syllable that stands out because it carries the major pitch change.
This syllable, which carries the tonic accent, will be marked in this section by an
asterisk. In sentence (1), the first syllable of mayor has the tonic accent, and, as
you can see, this word is the last one with a large overall pitch change. There is a
pitch peak on the stressed syllable know, indicating that this syllable also had an
accent, though the tonic accent on mayor is more prominent.
We
know
the new
m a
y o r
(1) We "know the new *mayor.
The tonic accent usually occurs on the last stressed syllable in a tone group in
neutral intonation. But it may occur earlier, if some word requires emphasis. If we
want to emphasize that we know the new mayor but not the old one, then we can put
the tonic accent on new, as in sentence (2). There are no further accents after new.
We know the
n e w
mayor
(2) We "know the *new "mayor.
CD 5.11
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
120 CHAPTER 5 English Words and Sentences
Sometimes, there are two or more intonational phrases within an utterance.
When this happens, the first one ends in a small rise, which we may call a con-
tinuation rise. It indicates that there is more to come and the speaker has not
yet completed the utterance. The break between two intonational phrases may
be marked, as in sentence (3), by a single vertical stroke. The British English
speaker in (3) signals that there is more to come by having a fall on in, the
last word in the phrase, followed by a marked continuation rise. The American
speaker does this by prolonging the word in (which starts at the peak of the
pitch contour) and making a very large fall followed by a more slight continu-
ation rise. In this way of showing there is more to come (which occurs quite
frequently), it is not that there is much of a continuation rise, it’s more that there
is no sentence final fall. Note also that the British speaker put a high accent on
when, while the American speaker didn’t.
When
we
c a m e i n we had
ner
d i n
When we came
i
we had
ner
d i n
n
(3) "When we came "in, | we had *"dinner.
In (3), the two intonational phrases can be associated with the two syntactic
clauses within the sentence, but the clause structure does not always determine
the intonation. An intonational phrase is a unit of information rather than a syn-
tactically defined unit. Because it is the information that matters, it is difficult
to tell not only where the intonation breaks occur but also where the tonic ac-
cent will fall. As one linguist put it, “Intonation is predictable (if you are a mind
reader).” You have to know what is in the speaker’s mind before you can say ex-
actly what will be accented. The intonation is also considerably affected by the
speaker’s style. When speaking slowly in a formal style, a speaker may choose
to break a sentence up. Obamian oratory will produce a large number of intona-
tional phrases, but in a rapid conversational style, there is likely to be only one
per sentence.
Although one cannot entirely predict which syllable will be the tonic syl-
lable in an intonational phrase, some general statements can be made. New
information is more likely to receive a tonic accent than material that has
already been mentioned. The topic of a sentence is less likely to receive the
tonic accent than the comment that is made on that topic. Thus, if you were
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Intonation 121
telling someone a number of facts about lions, you might say the sentence
shown in (4). The topic of the discussion is lions, and the comment on that
topic is that a lion is a mammal. The two speakers in (4) differ slightly in
that the American English speaker puts accents on both lion and mammal.
Nevertheless, even for this speaker, the tonic accent is the last accent of the
intonational phrase; for both speakers, this is on the last word, mammal,
making it clear that this is the comment, the new information that is being
given about an already known topic.
A l i o n i s a m a m
mal
(4) A "lion is a *mammal.
In a discussion of mammals, and considering all the animals that fit into that
category, the comment, the new information, is that a lion fits into the category,
as illustrated in (5). Here, for both speakers, the tonic accent is on lion.
A
l i o n
a m a m m a l
i s
(5) A *lion is a "mammal.
Various pitch changes are possible within the tonic accent. In sentences
(1) through (5), the intonation may be simply described as having a falling con-
tour, except for the continuation rise in the middle of (3). Another possibility is
that the tonic syllable is marked by a low target followed by a rise. This kind of
pitch change, which we will refer to as a rising contour, is typical in questions
requiring the answer yes or no, as exemplified in (6). For the British speaker (the
upper pitch curve), the first part of the sentence is on a fairly level pitch, with
most of the rise on the last word. The American speaker has a rising pitch for
much of the last two-thirds of the sentence.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
122 CHAPTER 5 English Words and Sentences
W i l l
m e m y m
y o u
m a i l
Will m e
m y
mo n e y ?
y o u
m a i l
o
n
e y ?
(6) Will you "mail me my *money?
As with falling contours, the syllable that has the prominent rising contour is
not necessarily the last stressed syllable in an intonational phrase. If the question
in (6) is really about whether the money will be mailed or whether it has to be
picked up, then emphasis will be on an earlier word, and the pitch will start go-
ing up at that point, as illustrated in (7). For the British speaker, there is a major
rise on mail, and then, after a comparatively level piece, a further rise on money.
The American speaker, who says this sentence considerably faster, has a rise
starting on mail, and a fall on the first syllable of money, followed by a small
rise on the last syllable in the sentence.
W i l l
m e m y m o n
y o u
m a i l
e y ?
W i l l
m e m y
m o n
y o u
m a i l
e y ?
(7) Will you *mail me my "money?
Now consider what you do in questions that cannot be answered by yes or no,
such as that in (8). Of course, there are many possible ways of saying this sen-
tence, but probably the most neutral is with a falling contour starting on the final
stressed syllable. Apparently, the British English speaker has instead put the
tonic accent very early in the question—on when. Questions that begin with wh-
question words, such as where, when, who, why, what, are usually pronounced
with a falling intonation. The American English speaker, however, has chosen
to say this sentence with two rising phrases, the second one with a considerable
pitch increase. This makes it a much more argumentative question. Listen to the
recordings on the CD and see if you agree.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Intonation 123
W h e n
w i l l
you mail me my m o n e y ?
W h e n w i l l
y o u
m a i l
me my
m o n
e y ?
(8) "When will you "mail me my *money?
As we saw in (3), a small rising intonation occurs in the middle of sentences,
typically at the end of an intonational phrase. Another example is given in (9).
Again, there is a difference between the British and the American English
speaker. The British English speaker has a fall followed by a rise in the word
winning. The American English speaker has a sharp rise followed by a large fall
that levels off at the end.
W h e n
you are w i n n i n g I w i l l r u n a w a y
W h e n you are
w i n n i n g
I w i l l r u n a w a y
(9) "When you are *winning, | I will run a*way.
A list of items also has a continuation rise, as in sentence (10). The first three
names in this list have much higher pitches on their second syllables. The fourth
name, the last, falls—as is usual—at the end of a sentence.
We knew
A n
n a
L e n
n i e
M a
r y
and N o
r a
We
knew
A n
n a
L e n
n i e
M a
r y and
N o
r a
(10) We knew "Anna, "Lenny, "Mary, and *Nora.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
124 CHAPTER 5 English Words and Sentences
Note that yes/no questions can often be reworded so that they fit into this
rising pattern, signaling that there is more to come. The British speaker has a
rise on money, followed by a regular sentence ending with a fall on or not. The
American English speaker has a rise starting on money and continuing through
the or not, which again drops rapidly into a creaky voice at the end. This final
fall is not very evident on the recording (but it’s there), so the general impression
is of rising intonation at the end.
W i l l y o u me my
m o n e y
or n o t ?
m a i l
W i l l
y o u
m e
m y
m o n
o r
n o t ?
m a i l e y
(11) Will you "mail me my "money or *not?
It is useful to distinguish between two kinds of rising intonation. In one,
which typically occurs in yes/no questions, there is a large upward movement of
pitch. In the other, the continuation rise that usually occurs in the middle of sen-
tences, there is a smaller upward movement. These two intonations are often used
contrastively. Thus, a low rising intonation on an utterance means that there is
something more to come. There is a slightly rising intonation in the utterances in
(12) and (13). These are the kinds of utterances one makes when listening to
someone telling a story. They are equivalent to I hear you; please continue. In the
center of this illustration are two vertical lines, indicating the normal voice ranges
of the two speakers. The British English speaker (the upper pair of graphs) uses
about half his pitch range in these words. The American English speaker (the
lower pair of graphs) uses a slightly wider range.
Y e s G o o n
250 ms
(12) Yes. (13) Go on.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Intonation 125
If there is a larger rise in pitch, as in illustrations (14) and (15), there is a
change in meaning to something more like Did you say “Yes”? or Did you say
“Go on”? The British English speaker uses more than 75 percent of his full
range, and the American English speaker uses an even greater range. It should
be noted, however, that people are not entirely consistent in the way they use
this difference in intonation.
Y e s G o o n
250 ms
(14) Yes? (15) Go on?
Both rising and falling intonations can occur within the same tonic accent.
If someone tells you something that surprises you, you might have a distinct
fall–rise on the tonic syllable followed by a further rise on the remainder of the
intonational phrase. Both speakers in (16) follow this pattern.
m---------o---------m
your
will
m a r r y
a l a w
y
e
r ?
m--------o--------m
(16) Your *mom will marry a "lawyer?
There are also distinct intonation patterns one can use when answering, ad-
dressing, or calling someone. The answer to a question such as Who is that over
there? is shown in (17). The British English speaker has a falling intonation
over the lower half of his pitch range. The American English speaker has a rise
and then a fall to nearly the bottom of his range. When addressing someone,
perhaps indicating that it is their turn to speak, as in (18), there is a smaller
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
126 CHAPTER 5 English Words and Sentences
fall or, in the case of the American English speaker, a pitch change with half
the range of the answer to a question. Calling to someone normally involves a
fall over a larger interval than that in the response to a question. There is also a
stereotypical way of calling to someone not in sight with comparatively steady
pitches after the first rise, as in (19).
Laura
(17) (18) (19)
Laura
L a u
r a
(17) Laura (statement (18) Laura (addressing (19) Laura (calling
of the name); Laura); from a distance)
We can sum up many differences in intonation by referring to the dif-
ferent ways in which a name can be said, particularly if the name is long
enough to show the pitch curve reasonably fully. Curves (20) through (24)
show different pronunciations of the name Amelia. (20) is a simple state-
ment, equivalent to Her name is Amelia. (21) is the question, equivalent to
Did you say Amelia? (22) is the form with the continuation rise, which might
be used when addressing Amelia, indicating that it is her turn to speak. (23)
is a question expressing surprise, equivalent to Was it really Amelia who did
that? The British English speaker does this by an initial fall followed by a
high rise. The American English speaker follows the reverse procedure, a
sharp rise followed by a deep fall. Last, (24) is the form for a strong reac-
tion, reprimanding Amelia.
(20) (21) (22) (23) (24)
Several considerations emerge from this look at the intonation patterns of a
British and anAmerican speaker. Many of them apply to other accents of English,
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Target Tones 127
and to other languages. One of the most important points is that intonation can-
not be as neatly specified as other aspects of speech. In the first four chapters
of this book, English has been described mainly by considering phonemic con-
trasts. We have noted that there are 22 consonants in most forms of English and
a specific number of vowels in each accent. Each of the contrasting vowels and
consonants has certain phonetic properties. Contrasts in intonation are more dif-
ficult to pin down. Usually, in an intonational phrase, the last stressed syllable
that conveys new information is the tonic syllable. It has a falling pitch, unless
it is part of a sentence in which there is another intonational phrase to follow, in
which case there may be a continuation rise (or, at least, a lack of a final fall) in
the pitch. Questions that can be answered by yes or no usually have a rising into-
nation, one that is larger than the continuation rise. Questions beginning with a
question word such as where, when, what, why, how usually have a falling pitch.
But intonation is highly colored by individual variation. It is much more affected
by the speaker’s mood and attitude to the topic being discussed than are the
vowels and consonants that make up words in the discussion.
TARGET TONES
We have been considering intonation in terms of tunes that apply over whole
sentences or phrases, but there are a number of other ways in which intonation
can be described. Instead of considering the shape of the pitch curve over a
whole phrase, we could describe the intonation in terms of a sequence of high
(H) and low (L) target pitches. When people talk, they aim to make either a
high or a low pitch on a stressed syllable and to move upward or downward as
they go into or come away from this target. One system for representing pitch
changes of this kind is known as ToBI, standing for tone and break indices.
In this system, target tones H* and L* (called H star and L star) are typically
written on a line (called a tier) above the segmental symbols that represent
stressed syllables. A high tone, H*, can be preceded by a closely attached low
pitch, written L+H*, so that the listener hears a sharply rising pitch. Simi-
larly, L* can be followed by a closely attached high pitch, L*+H, so that the
listener hears a scoop upward in pitch after the low pitch at the beginning of
the stressed syllable. Sometimes, a stressed syllable can be high but never-
theless can contain a small step-down of the pitch. This, known as high plus
downstepped high, is written H+!H*, with the exclamation mark indicating the
small downstep in pitch. In special circumstances, to be discussed at the end
of this section, a downstepped high syllable, !H*, can itself be a pitch accent.
There are therefore six possibilities, shown in Table 5.5, that can be regarded
as the possible pitch accents that occur in English.
The last pitch accent in a phrase is called the nuclear pitch accent. The
ToBI system allows the phrase to be marked by an additional tone af-
ter the nuclear pitch accent. This tone, called the phrase accent, is written
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
128 CHAPTER 5 English Words and Sentences
H− (H minus) or L− (L minus). Finally, there is a boundary tone, which is
marked H% or L%, depending on whether the phrase ends on a rising or a
falling pitch. In this framework, all English intonations consist of a sequence
of tones formed as shown in Table 5.5. As you can see exemplified by the first
column, there may or may not be a number of pitch accents on stressed syl-
lables before the nuclear pitch accent. The second column shows the nuclear
pitch accents, one of which must always be present in a phrase. The part of
the intonational phrase after the nuclear pitch accent must be high or low, and
there must be a high or low boundary tone.
The ToBI system also allows us to transcribe the strength of the boundary be-
tween words by means of a number called a break index. If there is no break, as,
for example, in you’re (which is usually identical with your), the break index can
be marked as 0. This is a useful way of showing that a phrase such as to Mexico
is usually pronounced as if it were a single word—there’s no added break in to
Mexico as compared with that in tomorrow. Intervals between words are more
usually classified as having break index 1 (although there is usually nothing
that can be called a break between words). Higher levels of break indices show,
roughly speaking, greater pauses. A break index of 3 is usual between clauses
that form intermediate intonational phrases, and a break index of 4 occurs be-
tween larger intonational phrases, such as whole sentences.
The last five intonation curves we considered would be transcribed in a ToBI
transcription as follows (without indicating the break indices, which would
always be a 4 at the end of each of these utterances):
(20) A"melia. Tone tier [- H* L– L% -]
Simple statement in response to Segmental tier [- E m i … l i… E -]
What is her name?
TABLE 5.5 The ToBI system for characterizing English intonations. Each intonational
phrase (tone group) must have one item from each of the last three
columns, and may also have additional pitch accents marked on other
stressed syllables, as shown in the first column. The parenthesized accent,
(!H*), will be explained at the end of this section.
Optional
Pre-nuclear
Pitch Accents on Nuclear Phrase Boundary
Stressed Syllables Pitch Accent Accent Tone
H* H*
L* L*
L + H* L + H* L– H%
L* + H L* + H
H + !H* H + !H* H– L%
(!H*) (!H*)
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Target Tones 129
(21) A"melia? Tone tier [ L* H– H%% -]
A question, equivalent to Segmental tier [- E m i … l i… E -]
Did you say Amelia?
(22) A"melia— Tone tier [- L* L– H% -]
Addressing Amelia, indicating Segmental tier [- E m i … l i… E -]
that it is her turn to speak.
(23) A"melia!? Tone tier [- L+H* L– H% -]
A question indicating surprise. Segmental tier [- E m i … l i… E -]
(24) A"melia!! Tone tier [- L+H* L– L% -]
A strong reaction, reprimanding Segmental tier [- E m i … l i… E -]
Amelia.
The ToBI transcription for (20), [ H* L− L% ], is typical of a simple statement
with only one stressed syllable receiving a pitch accent. The part of the phrase
after the nuclear accent is low, and the phrase ends with a low boundary tone.
Similarly, the transcription for (21), [ L* H− H% ], is a typical tune for a ques-
tion that can be answered by yes or no, which ends with a fairly large pitch rise.
At the end of the next phrase, (22), there is a smaller rise of the kind that occurs
in an unfinished utterance, or in a list of words such as those exemplified in (10),
. . . Anna, Lenny, Mary, and . . . The way in which ToBI separates the large pitch
rise in (21)—the question rise—from the smaller rise in (22)—the continuation
rise—is by making the phrase tone L−, so that (22) has the tune [ L* L− H% ]
instead of [ L* H− H% ], as in (21). The low phrase tone prevents the final high
boundary from being so high. The stressed syllables of the final two tunes begin
with an L, ensuring that the H* indicates a sharp rise from a low pitch. Thus, in
(23), we have [ L + H* L− H% ], with a low phrase tone and a small pitch rise at
the end, much as in (22). Finally, (24), [ L + H* L− L% ], is like (23) in begin-
ning with a strong rise, but it ends with a low boundary tone.
The simple statements, questions, and other intonations that we discussed
earlier can be transcribed in a similar way.
(1) Simple statement. We know the new mayor.
Tone tier [- H* H* L–L% ]
Segmental tier [-wi… noÁ DE nu "m”r - ]
(6) Simple yes/no question. Will you mail me my money?
Tone tier [ H* L* H–H% ]
Segmental tier [wIl ju… meIl mi… maI mØni ]
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
130 CHAPTER 5 English Words and Sentences
(9) Two clauses. When you are winning, I will run away.
Break Index [ 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 4 ]
Tone tier [ H* L–H% H* H* L–L%]
Segmental tier [wEn ju… A… wInIN aI wIl rØn EweI ]
The break indices are shown in (9) above. At the end of the first intonational
phrase, there is a continuation rise represented by [ L− H% ], and a break index
of 4. All the words are closely joined together, so in each case the break index is 1.
Finally, we must consider how to transcribe another fact about English intona-
tion (which also applies to many other languages). The pitch in most sentences
has a tendency to drift down. Earlier, when discussing stress, we considered the
sentence Mary’s younger "brother wanted "fifty chocolate "peanuts, with stresses
on alternate words, Mary’s, brother, fifty, peanuts. If you say this sentence
with these stresses, you will find that there is an H* pitch accent on each of the
stressed syllables, but each of these high pitches is usually a little lower than the
preceding high pitch. This phenomenon is known as downdrift. We can repre-
sent this in the transcription by marking the H* pitch accents as being down-
stepped, a notion that was mentioned earlier in connection with a fall from a
high pitch within a syllable. In Table 5.5, we used an exclamation mark, “!”. We
can indicate that each of the H* tones is a little lower than the preceding one by
transcribing them as downstepped highs, !H*, in the tone tier for this sentence:
[ H* !H* !H* !H* L− L% ]
(25) Mary’s younger brother wanted fifty chocolate peanuts.
Note that successive H* pitch accents do not have to be downstepped. If
we had wanted to put a very slight emphasis on brother, indicating that it was
Mary’s younger brother, not her younger sister, who had this peculiar desire,
then we could have made the downstepping begin at “fifty” and said:
[ H* H* !H* !H* L− L% ]
(26) Mary’s younger brother wanted fifty chocolate peanuts.
The ToBI system is a way of characterizing English intonation in terms of a
limited set of symbols—a set of six possible pitch accents including a downstep
mark, two possible phrase accents, two possible boundary tones, and four pos-
sible break indices, going from 1 (close connection) to 4 (a boundary between
intonation phrases). It was designed specifically for English intonations, but,
with a few modifications, it may be appropriate for other languages as well.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 131
EXERCISES
(Printable versions of all the exercises are available on the CD.)
A. List the strong and weak forms of ten words not mentioned in this chapter.
For each word, transcribe a short utterance illustrating the weak form (as in
Table 5.1).
Example of
Word Strong Form Weak Form Weak Form
B. Give two new examples of each of the following kinds of assimilations, one
of the examples involving a change within a word, the other involving a
change across word boundaries. In each case, show the words in orthogra-
phy and in a narrow phonetic transcription, as in the examples. (Even if you
yourself do not say assimilations of the kind illustrated, make up plausible
examples. We have heard all the examples given.)
A change from an alveolar consonant to a bilabial consonant.
input [ImpÁt] Saint Paul’s [sm`"pOlz]
A change from an alveolar consonant to a dental consonant.
tenth [t”n1T] In this [In1 DIs]
A change from an alveolar consonant to a velar consonant.
synchronous ["sINkrEnEs] within groups [wID"IN grups]
A change from a voiceless consonant to a voiced consonant.
catty [-"kœdi] sit up [sI"d Øp]
or [-"kœ|i] [sI"| Øp]
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
132 CHAPTER 5 English Words and Sentences
C. Give five more examples of assimilation. Choose examples as different as
possible from any that have been given before.
[- -]
[- -]
[- -]
[- -]
[- -]
D. Make up pairs of phrases or sentences that show how each of the following
words can have two different stress patterns.
Example: continental
It’s a "continental "breakfast.
She’s "very conti"nental.
afternoon
artificial
diplomatic
absentminded
New York
E. Fill in plus and minus signs so as to indicate which syllables in the table be-
low have tonic accents, which have stress, and which have full vowels. You
may find it useful to refer back to Table 5.4.
computation compute inclination incline (verb)
tonic accent
stress
full vowel
F. About a hundred years ago, the following words had stress as shown. Some
of them still do for some people. But many of them (in Peter Ladefoged’s
speech, all of them) are stressed differently nowadays. Transcribe these
words and show the stress on each of them in your own speech. Then state a
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 133
general rule describing this tendency for the position of the stress to change
to a particular syllable.
an"chovy
ab"domen
"applicable
"controversy
"nomenclature
tra"chea
eti"quette
re"plica
va"gary
blas"phemous
a"cumen
Rule:
G. List three more sets of words showing the stress alternations of the kind
shown in Table 5.2.
"photograph pho"tography photo"graphic
H. Indicate the stress and intonation patterns that might occur in the situations
described for the following utterances. Draw curves indicative of the pitch
rather than using ToBI symbols.
(1) Can you pass me that book? (said politely to a friend)
(2) Where were you last night? (angry father to daughter)
(3) Must it be printed? (polite question)
(4) Who is the one in the corner? (excitedly, to a friend)
I. Make a segmental transcription and also show the tone tier with a ToBI tran-
scription of the following utterances for which the pitch curves have been
drawn in this chapter.
(1) We know the new mayor.
(4) A lion is a mammal.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
134 CHAPTER 5 English Words and Sentences
(5) A lion is a mammal.
(7) Will you mail me my money?
(8) When will you mail me my money?
(10) We knew Anna, Mary, Lenny, and Nora.
PERFORMANCE EXERCISES
A. Pronounce the following phrases exactly as they have been transcribed, with
all the assimilations and elisions. (Each of these transcriptions is a record
of an utterance actually heard in normal conversations between educated
speakers.)
“What are you doing?” [-"wÅdZE"duIn-]
“I can inquire.” [-"aIkN` N
"
"kwaIE-]
“Did you eat yet?” [-"dZi/j”/-]
“I don’t believe him.” [-aI"doÁmbE"livIm-]
“We ought to have come.” [-wi"OtfÆ "kØm-]
B. Working with a partner, try to transcribe the intonation of a few sentences.
You may find it difficult to repeat a sentence over and over again with the
same intonation. If you do, try to work from a recording. In any case, write
down the sentence and the intonation you intend to produce. Practice saying
it in this way before you say it to your partner.
C. Take turns saying nonsense words such as those shown below, transcribing
them and comparing transcriptions.
SkeIZdZ"minZe
"/ANkliTuntT
sfe"e/EmÆA
grOIpst"braIgz
D. Also make up lists of words for improving your memory span. These words
are more difficult if the stress is varied and if the sounds are mainly of the
same class (stops, front vowels, voiceless fricatives, etc.).
tipe"kiketi"pe
TOI"saITaÁ"fOISaÁTaÁ
"monANu"NonOmA
wo"/OIlaÁrA"rOlojO
bEbdIg"b”dgIbd”d"b”bdEd
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
PART III
GENERAL PHONETICS
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
136
6
Airstream Mechanisms
and Phonation Types
In this part of the book, we will start considering the total range of human pho-
netic capabilities, not just those used in normal English speech. We will look at
the sounds of the world’s languages, as in this way we can find stable, repeatable
examples of almost all the different speech sounds that people can make. To do
this, we will have to enlarge the sets of terms we have been using to describe
English. In the first place, all English sounds are initiated by the action of lung
air going outward; other languages may use additional ways of producing an
airstream. Second, all English sounds can be categorized as voiced or voiceless;
in some languages, additional states of the glottis are used. This chapter will
survey the general phonetic categories needed to describe the airstream mecha-
nisms and phonation types that occur in other languages. Subsequent chapters
will survey other ways in which languages differ. These foreign sounds should
be studied even by those who are concerned only with the phonetics of Eng-
lish, both because they throw light on general human phonetic capabilities and
also because they are important for a precise description of the shades of sounds
present in normal English utterances. In addition, many of them occur regularly
in pathological forms of English.
AIRSTREAM MECHANISMS
Air coming out of the lungs is the source of power in nearly all speech sounds.
When lung air is pushed out, we say that there is a pulmonic airstream mecha-
nism. The lungs are sponge-like tissues within a cavity formed by the rib cage
and the diaphragm (a dome-shaped muscle indicated by the curved line at the
bottom of Figure 1.3). When the diaphragm contracts, it enlarges the lung cavity
so that air flows into the lungs. The lung cavity can also be enlarged by raising
the rib cage, a normal way of taking a deep breath in. Air can be pushed out of
the lungs by pulling the rib cage down, or by pushing the diaphragm upward by
contracting the abdominal muscles.
In the description of most sounds, we take it for granted that the pulmonic
airstream mechanism is the source of power. But in the case of obstruent conso-
nants (stops and fricatives), other airstream mechanisms may be involved. Stops
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Airstream Mechanisms 137
that use only an egressive, or outward-moving, pulmonic airstream are called
plosives. Obstruents made with other airstream mechanisms will be specified by
other terms.
In some languages, speech sounds are produced by moving different bodies
of air. If you make a glottal stop, so that the air in the lungs is contained below
the glottis, then the air in the vocal tract itself will form a body of air that can be
moved. An upward movement of the closed glottis will move this air out of the
mouth. A downward movement of the closed glottis will cause air to be sucked
into the mouth. When either of these actions occurs, there is said to be a glot-
talic airstream mechanism.
An egressive glottalic airstream mechanism occurs in many languages.
Hausa, the principal language of northern Nigeria, uses this mechanism in the
formation of a velar stop that contrasts with the voiceless and voiced velar stops
[k, g]. The movements of the vocal organs are shown in Figure 6.1. These are
estimated, not drawn on the basis of x-rays.
In Hausa, the velar closure and the glottal closure are formed at about the
same time. Then, when the vocal folds are tightly together, the larynx is pulled
upward, about 1 cm. In this way it acts like a piston, compressing the air in
the pharynx. The compressed air is released by lowering the back of the tongue
while the glottal stop is maintained, producing a sound with a quality different
from that in an English [k]. Very shortly after the release of the velar closure,
the glottal stop is released and the voicing for the following vowel begins.
Stops made with a glottalic egressive airstream mechanism are called ejec-
tives. The diacritic indicating an ejective is an apostrophe [ ' ] placed after a
symbol. The Hausa sound we have just described is a velar ejective, symbolized
[k'], as in the Hausa word for ‘increase’ [k'a…ra~], which, as you can hear on the
Figure 6.1 The sequence of events that occurs in a glottalic egressive velar stop [k' ].
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
138 CHAPTER 6 Airstream Mechanisms and Phonation Types
CD, contrasts with [ka…ra~…] ‘put near.’ (The symbol […] indicates that the vowels
are long. The accents over the vowels indicate the pitch, a low tone. We will
discuss tones in Chapter 10.) The CD also illustrates the contrasts between the
Hausa words [kWa…ra~…] ‘pour’ and [kW'a…ra~…] ‘shea nut.’ It is possible to use an
ejective mechanism to produce fricatives as well as stops, as Hausa does in the
words [sa…ra~…] ‘cut’ and [s'a…ra~…] ‘arrange,’ which are also on the CD. Of course,
a fricative made in this way can continue only for a short length of time, as there
is a comparatively small amount of air that can be moved by raising the closed
glottis.
Ejectives of different kinds occur in a wide variety of languages, including
Native American languages, African languages, and languages spoken in the
Caucasus. Table 6.1 gives examples of ejectives and contrasting sounds made
with a pulmonic airstream mechanism in Lakhota, a Native American language.
The sounds of Lakhota differ from those of English in many ways, in addition
to having contrastive ejectives. Later in this book, we will discuss the unfamiliar
symbols in this table.
You can probably hear the difference between the Lakhota syllables [t 1u] and
[t1'u ] in the audio files that accompany Table 6.1, and these differences are also
apparent in the acoustic waveforms and spectrograms of the syllables shown in
Figure 6.2. Both of these syllables begin with a short burst of noise—the release
burst of the stop. In the case of the pulmonic egressive stop [t1], the vowel starts
about 30 milliseconds later, while in the glottalic egressive stop [t1' ], there is a
gap of over 120 milliseconds and then a second stop release burst (the second
burst is marked by the double-headed arrow that points at the release burst in the
waveform at the top of the figure and in the time-aligned spectrogram at the bot-
tom of the figure). This second stop release is the release of the glottal closure.
This is a clear acoustic cue telling us that the stop release burst in [ t1'u ] was
produced by a glottalic egressive airstream mechanism.
Some people make ejectives at the ends of words in English, particularly in
sentence final position.You might notice this in words such as bike with a glottal
stop accompanying the final [k]. If the velar stop is released while the glottal
stop is still being held, a weak ejective may be heard. See if you can superimpose
a glottal stop on a final [k] and produce an ejective. Now try to make a slightly
CD 6.1
CD 6.2
TABLE 6.1 Contrasts involving ejective stops in Lakhota. An ejective mechanism is
shown by a following apostrophe.
Ejective p'o t1'uSE k'u
‘foggy’ ‘at all costs’ ‘to give’
Voiceless Unaspirated paVo) t 1a t 1uwa kah
‘mallard’ ‘who’ ‘that’
Voiceless + Velar Fricative pxa t 1xawa kxant 1a
‘bitter’ ‘own’ ‘plum’
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Airstream Mechanisms 139
more forceful ejective stop. By now, you should be fully able to make a glottal
stop in a sequence such as [a/a], so the next step is to learn to raise and lower
the glottis. You can recognize what it feels like to raise the glottis by singing a
very low note and then moving to the position for singing the highest note that
you possibly can. Doing this silently makes it easier to concentrate on feeling
the muscular sensations involved. Putting your fingers on your throat above the
larynx is also a help in feeling the movements. Repeat (silently) this sequence—
low note, very high note—until you have thoroughly experienced the sensation
of raising your glottis. Now try to make this movement with a closed glottis.
There will, of course, be no sounds produced by these movements alone.
The next step is to learn to superimpose this movement on a velar stop. Say the
sequence [Ak]. Then say this sequence again, very slowly, holding your tongue in
the position for the [k] closure at the end for a second or so. Now say it again, and
while maintaining the [k] closure, do three things: (1) make a glottal stop; (2) if
you can, raise your larynx; and (3) release the [k] closure while maintaining the
glottal stop. Don’t worry about step (2) too much. The important thing to concen-
trate on is having a glottal stop and a velar closure going on at the same time, and
Figure 6.2 Acoustic waveforms and spectrograms of the Lakhota dental voiceless
unaspirated and ejective stops.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
140 CHAPTER 6 Airstream Mechanisms and Phonation Types
then releasing the velar closure before releasing the glottal stop. The release of the
velar closure will produce only a very small noise, but it will be an ejective [k'].
Next, try to produce a vowel after the ejective. This time start from the
sequence [AkA]. Say this sequence slowly, with a long [k] closure. Then, dur-
ing this closure, make a glottal stop and raise the larynx. Then release the [k]
closure while still maintaining the glottal stop. Finally, release the glottal stop
and follow it with a vowel. You should have produced something like [Ak'/A].
When this sequence becomes more fluent, so that there is very little pause
between the release of the velar closure and the release of the glottal stop, it
will be simply an ejective followed by a vowel—[ Ak'A ]. There is, of course,
still a glottal stop after the release of the velar stop and before the vowel, but
unless it is exceptionally long, we may consider it to be implied by the symbol
for the ejective.
Another way of learning to produce an ejective is to start from the usual
American (and common British) pronunciation of button as [—"bø/nÆ]. Try starting
to say button but finishing with another vowel [ø ] instead of the nasal [ n ]. If
you make sure you do include the glottal stop form of /t/, the result will prob-
ably be [—"bø/tø]. If you say this slowly, you should be able to convert it first into
["bø/t'/ø], then into [—"bøt'ø], and finally, altering the stress, into [bø"t'ø].
Eventually, you should be able to produce sequences such as [p'A, t'A, k'A]
and perhaps [tS'A, s'A] as well. Practice producing ejectives before, after, and
between a wide variety of vowels. You should also try to say the Lakhota words
in Table 6.1. But if you find ejectives difficult to produce, don’t worry. Many
people take years to learn to say them. Just keep on practicing.
It is also possible to use a downward movement of the larynx to suck air in-
ward. Stops made with an ingressive glottalic airstream mechanism are called
implosives. In the production of implosives, the downward-moving larynx is
not usually completely closed. The air in the lungs is still being pushed out, and
some of it passes between the vocal folds, keeping them in motion so that the
sound is voiced. Figure 6.3 shows the movements in a voiced bilabial implosive
of a kind that occurs in Sindhi (an Indo-Aryan language spoken in India and
Pakistan). Implosives sometimes occur as allophones in English, particularly in
emphatic articulations of bilabial stops, as in absolutely billions and billions.
In all the implosives we have measured, the articulatory closure—in this
case, the lips coming together—occurs first. The downward movement of the
glottis, which occurs next, is like that of a piston that would cause a reduction
in the pressure of the air in the oral tract. But it is a leaky piston in that the
air in the lungs continues to flow through the glottis. As a result, the pressure
of the air in the oral tract is not affected very much. (In a plosive [b] there is,
of course, an increase in the pressure of the air in the vocal tract.) When the
articulatory closure is released, there is neither an explosive nor, in a literal
sense, an implosive action. Instead, the peculiar quality of the sound arises
from the complex changes in the shape of the vocal tract and in the vibratory
pattern of the vocal folds.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Airstream Mechanisms 141
In many languages, such as Sindhi and several African and Native Ameri-
can languages, implosives contrast with plosives. However, in some languages
(for example, Vietnamese), implosives are simply variants (allophones) of
voiced plosives and are not in contrast with those sounds. The top line of Table
6.2 illustrates implosives in Sindhi. The symbols for implosives have a small
hook on the top of the regular symbol. For the moment, we will consider only
the first and second rows in Table 6.2, which illustrate ingressive glottalic
stops (implosives) in the first row, contrasting with regular pulmonic plosives
in the second row. Sindhi has unfamiliar places of articulation illustrated
CD 6.3
TABLE 6.2 Contrasts involving implosives and plosives with different phonation types
in Sindhi.
∫ani ᶑInu ˙atu ƒanu
'field' 'festival' 'illiterate' 'handle'
banu daru ∂o…ru Ôatu gu=u
'forest' 'door' 'you run' 'illiterate' 'quality'
[varianto]
panu taru †anu ca†u kanu
'leaf' 'bottom' 'ton' 'to destroy' 'ear'
pÓa=u tÓaru †Óaƒu cÓa†u kÓa=u
'snake hood' (district name) 'thug, cheat' 'crown' 'you lift'
bHa…=u dHa«u ∂Haƒu ÔHa†u gHa=I
'manure' 'trunk' 'bull' 'a grab' 'excess'
Figure 6.3 Estimated sequence of events in a Sindhi bilabial implosive [∫].
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
142 CHAPTER 6 Airstream Mechanisms and Phonation Types
in the third and fourth columns, which we will consider in Chapter 7.
The lower rows in the table illustrate phonation types that we will consider
later in this chapter.
Acoustic waveforms and spectrograms of two of the words in Table 6.2 are
shown in Figure 6.4. There are several differences in these displays relating to the
differences between the vowels and intervocalic consonants that we will return to
later in this book, but for now we would like to focus on the initial consonants [∂]
and [ᶑ ]. Both of these start with a short period of low amplitude voicing, which
in the spectrogram appears as a gray bar at the bottom of the spectrogram. This is
called the voice bar and is an acoustic property of all (phonetically) voiced stops.
So, both [ ∂ ] and [ ᶑ ] are voiced. Interestingly, the pulmonic voiced stop [ ∂ ]
has a longer voice bar than the glottalic ingressive stop [ᶑ ]. This characteristic
is present for the other Lakhota pairs in Table 6.2, but has not been reported as
a phonetic characteristic of the pulmonic/implosive contrast in other languages.
There is one other difference between [∂] and [ᶑ ] that is consistently present for
contrasts between implosives and plosives. You will notice that in the implosive
[ᶑ ], the voice bar grows louder over time, while in the pulmonic stop [∂], the
amplitude of the voice bar decreases over time. This difference is almost always
seen when we compare regular pulmonic stops and implosives—and might be a
good cue to look for as you practice making the distinction.
Figure 6.4 Acoustic waveforms and spectrograms of the Sindhi retroflex voiced and
implosive stops.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Airstream Mechanisms 143
We do not know any foolproof way of teaching people to make implosives.
Some people can learn to make them just by imitating their instructor; others
can’t. (Peter Ladefoged, incidentally, was one of the latter group. He did not
learn to make implosives until nearly the end of a year studying phonetics.
Keith Johnson learned to make implosives by imitating his instructor’s funny
pronunciation of “Alabama” and then realized that he also used the implosive
[ ƒ ] in imitating the noise of liquid pouring from a bottle [ ƒE ƒE ƒE ƒE ].)
The best suggestion we can make is to start from a fully voiced plosive. Say
[ AbA ], making sure that the voicing continues throughout the closure. Now
say this sequence slowly, making the closure last as long as you can while
maintaining strong vocal fold vibrations. Release the closure (open the lips)
before the voicing stops. If you put your fingers on your throat above the lar-
ynx while doing this, you will probably be able to feel the larynx moving
down during the closure.
There are straightforward mechanical reasons why the larynx moves down
in these circumstances. To maintain voicing throughout a [ b ], air must con-
tinue to flow through the glottis. But it cannot continue to flow for very long,
because while the articulatory position of [ b ] is being held, the pressure of
the air in the mouth is continually increasing as more air flows through the
glottis. To keep the vocal folds vibrating, the air in the lungs must be at an ap-
preciably higher pressure than the air in the vocal tract so that there is a pres-
sure drop across the glottis. One of the ways of maintaining the pressure drop
across the glottis is to lower the larynx and thus increase the space available in
the vocal tract. Consequently, there is a natural tendency when saying a long
[b] to lower the larynx. If you try to make a long, fully voiced [b] very forc-
ibly but open the lips before the voicing stops, you may end up producing an
implosive [∫]. You can check your progress in learning to produce implosives
by using a straw in a drink. Hold a straw immersed in a liquid between your
lips while you say [A∫A]. You should see the liquid move upward in the straw
during the [∫].
Historically, languages seem to develop implosives from plosives that
have become more and more voiced. In many languages, as we mentioned
earlier, voiced implosives are simply allophones of voiced plosives. Often,
as in Vietnamese, these languages have voiced plosives that have to be fully
voiced to keep them distinct from two other sets of plosives that we will
discuss in the next section. In languages such as Sindhi, for which we have
good evidence of the earlier stages of the language, we can clearly see that
the present implosives grew out of older voiced plosives in this way; the
present contrasting voiced plosives are due to later influences of neighboring
languages.
One other airstream mechanism is used in a few languages. This is the
mechanism that is used in producing clicks, such as the interjection express-
ing disapproval that novelists write tut-tut or tsk-tsk. Another type of click is
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
144 CHAPTER 6 Airstream Mechanisms and Phonation Types
commonly used to show approval or to signal horses to go faster. Still another
click in common use is the gentle, pursed-lips type of kiss that one might drop
on one’s grandmother’s cheek. Clicks occur in words (in addition to interjec-
tions or nonlinguistic gestures) in several African languages. Zulu, for example,
has a number of clicks, including one that is very similar to our expression of
disapproval.
The easiest click to start studying is the gentle-kiss-with-pursed-lips type. In
a language that uses bilabial clicks of this sort, the gesture is not quite the same
as that used by most people making a friendly kiss. The linguistic gesture does
not involve puckering the lips. They are simply compressed in a more grim man-
ner. Make a “kiss” of this type. Say this sound while holding a finger lightly
along the lips.You might be able to feel that air rushes into the mouth when your
lips come apart. Note that while you are making this sound, you can continue to
breathe through your nose. This is because the back of the tongue is touching the
velum, so that the air in the mouth used in making this sound is separated from
the airstream flowing in and out of the nose.
Now say the click expressing disapproval (with the blade of the tongue
touching the teeth and alveolar ridge), the one that authors sometimes write tut-
tut or tsk-tsk when they wish to indicate a click sound; they do not, of course,
mean [tøt tøt] or [tIsk tIsk]. Say a single click of this kind and try to feel how
your tongue moves. The positions of the vocal organs in the corresponding Zulu
sound are shown in Figure 6.5. At the beginning of this sound, there are both
Figure 6.5 The sequence of events in a dental click. Initially, both the tip and the back
of the tongue are raised, enclosing the small pocket of air indicated by the
dark shading. When the center of the tongue moves down, the larger, lightly
shaded cavity is formed. Then the tip moves down to the position shown by
the dashed line, and, a little later, the back of the tongue comes down to the
position shown by the dashed line.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Airstream Mechanisms 145
dental and velar closures. As a result, the body of air shown in the dark shaded
area in Figure 6.5 is totally enclosed. When the back and central parts of the
tongue move down, this air becomes rarefied. A click is produced when this
partial vacuum is released by lowering the tip of the tongue. The IPA symbol
for a dental click is [˘], a single vertical stroke extending both above and below
the line of writing.
Movement of the body of air in the mouth is called a velaric airstream
mechanism. Clicks are stops made with an ingressive velaric airstream mech-
anism (as shown in Figure 6.5). It is also possible to use this mechanism to
cause the airstream to flow outward by raising the tongue and squeezing the
contained body of air, but this latter possibility is not actually used in any known
language.
The sound described in Figure 6.5 is a dental click. If the partial vacuum is
released by lowering the side of the tongue, a lateral click—the sound some-
times used for encouraging horses—is produced. The phonetic symbol is [ ≤ ],
a pair of vertical strokes, again going both above and below the line of writing.
Clicks can also be made with the tip (not the blade) of the tongue touching the
posterior part of the alveolar ridge. The phonetic symbol for a click of this kind
is [!], an exclamation point (this time resting on the line of writing). These three
possibilities all occur in Zulu and in the neighboring language Xhosa. Some of
the aboriginal South African languages, such as Nama and !Xóõ, have an even
wider variety of click articulations. !Xóõ, spoken in Botswana, is one of the few
languages that have bilabial clicks—a sort of thin, straight-lips kiss sound, for
which the symbol is [>].
In the production of click sounds, there is a velar closure, and the body of
air involved is in front of this closure (that is, in the front of the mouth). Con-
sequently, it is possible to produce a velar sound with a glottalic or pulmonic
airstream mechanism while a click is being made. You can demonstrate this
for yourself by humming continuously while producing clicks. The hum-
ming corresponds to a long [ N ], a voiced velar nasal. We may symbolize the
co-occurrence of a nasal and a click by writing a tie bar [ ° ] over the two
symbols. Thus, a dental click and a velar nasal would be written [N° ˘]. In tran-
scribing click languages, the tie bar is usually left off, and simultaneity is
assumed.
Even if the soft palate is raised so that air cannot flow through the nose, the
pulmonic airstream mechanism can still be used to keep the vocal folds vibrat-
ing for a short time during a click. When the back of the tongue is raised for a
click and there is also a velic closure, the articulators are in the position for [g].
A voiced dental click of this kind is therefore a combination of [g] and [—˘] and
may be symbolized [— g˘] (omitting the tie bar).
At this point, we should note that, strictly speaking, the transcription of clicks
always requires a symbol for both the click itself and for the activity associated
with the velar closure. We transcribed the voiced click with a [g] plus the click
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
146 CHAPTER 6 Airstream Mechanisms and Phonation Types
symbol, and the nasalized click with [N] plus the click symbol. We should also
transcribe the voiceless click with [k] plus the click symbol. It is perhaps not
necessary for a beginning student in phonetics to be able to produce all sorts
of different clicks in regular words. But you should be able to produce at least
a simple click followed by a vowel. Try saying [ k˘ ] followed by [ A ]. Make a
vowel as soon after the click as possible, so that it sounds like a single syllable
[k—˘A] (using the convention that regards the [k] and the click as simultaneous, as
if there were a tie bar).
As a more challenging exercise, learn to produce clicks between vowels. Start
by repeating [k—˘A] a number of times, so that you are saying [k—˘Ak˘Ak˘A]. Now say
dental, post-alveolar, and lateral clicks in sequences such as [Ak—˘A, Ak!A, Ak≤A].
Make sure there are no pauses between the vowels and the clicks. Now try to
keep the voicing going throughout the sequences, so that you produce [ Ag—˘A,
Ag!A, Ag≤A ]. Last, produce nasalized clicks, perhaps with nasalized vowels on
either side [AN—˘A, AN<A, AN ≤A] (again with the nasal being simultaneous with the
click). Repeat with other vowels.
The spelling system regularly used in books and newspapers in Zulu and
Xhosa employs the letters c, q, x for the dental, post-alveolar, and lateral clicks
for which we have been using the symbols [—˘, <, ≤], respectively. The name of the
language Xhosa should therefore be pronounced with a lateral click at the begin-
ning. The h following the orthographic X indicates a short burst of aspiration
following the click. Try saying the name of the language with an aspirated lat-
eral click at the beginning. Table 6.3 shows a set of contrasting clicks in Xhosa.
Nearly all the words in this table are infinitive forms of words, which is why
they begin with the prefix [uku!].
TABLE 6.3 Contrasts involving clicks in Xhosa. The rows differ in phonation types, as
will be discussed later in this chapter.
Dental Post-alveolar Alveolar Lateral
Voiceless uku!k˘ola uku!k<o∫a u!k≤olo
unaspirated ‘to grind fine’ ‘to break ‘peace’
velar plosive stones’
Voiceless u!kuk˘Óo!la uku!k<ola uku!k≤Óo∫a
aspirated ‘to pick up’ ‘perfume’ ‘to arm oneself’
velar plosive
Murmured u!kugª ˘o$∫a uku!gª<oba uku!gª≤oba
velar plosive ‘to be joyful’ ‘to scoop’ ‘to stir up mud’
Voiced uku!N˘oma uku!N<ola uku!N≤i∫a
velar nasal ‘to admire’ ‘to climb up’ ‘to put on clothes’
Murmured uku!Nª˘ola uku!Nª<ala uku!Nª≤oNª≤a
velar nasal ‘to be dirty’ ‘to go straight’ ‘to lie on back, knees up’
CD 6.4
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Airstream Mechanisms 147
The CD also illustrates clicks in Zulu, a language closely related to Xhosa, and
in Nama and X!óõ, two Khoisan languages spoken in Namibia and Botswana.
You can find examples of these languages by going to the index of languages,
the index of sounds, or the map index, all of which are accessible from the foot
of the title page. They are also listed on the contents page for this chapter.
Table 6.4 summarizes the principal airstream mechanisms. Note that pulmonic
sounds can be voiced or voiceless. Glottalic egressive sounds—ejectives—are
always voiceless. Glottalic ingressive sounds—implosives—are nearly always
voiced by being combined with a pulmonic egressive airstream, but voiceless
glottalic ingressive sounds (voiceless implosives) have been reported in a few
languages, such as the Owerri dialect of Igbo, spoken in Nigeria. (Igbo exam-
ples are among the extra material on the CD, accessible through the index of
languages.) Velaric ingressive sounds (clicks) may be combined with pulmonic
egressive sounds so that the resulting combination can be voiced or voiceless.
These combinations can also be oral or nasal.
TABLE 6.4 The principal airstream processes.
Specific
Name
Brief for Stop
Airstream Direction Description Consonant Examples Vocal Folds
Pulmonic egressive lung air pushed plosive p t k voiceless or
out under the b d g voiced
control of the
respiratory
muscles
Glottalic egressive pharynx air ejective p' t' k' voiceless
compressed by
the upward
movement of
the closed
glottis
Glottalic ingressive downward implosive ∫ Î ƒ usually
movement of voiced by
the vibrating the pulmonic
glottis; pulmonic airstream
egressive
airstream may
also be involved
Velaric ingressive mouth air click ˘ < ≤ > combine
rarefied by the with the
backward and pulmonic
downward airstream
movement of for voiced
the tongue or voiceless
velar nasals
CD 6.5
CD 6.6
CD 6.7
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
148 CHAPTER 6 Airstream Mechanisms and Phonation Types
STATES OF THE GLOTTIS
So far, we have been considering sounds to be either voiceless, with the vocal
folds apart, or voiced, with the folds nearly together so that they will vibrate
when air passes between them. But in fact, the glottis (which is defined as the
space between the vocal folds) can assume a number of other shapes. Some of
these glottal states are important in the description of other languages, and in the
description of pathological voices.
Photographs of four states of the glottis are shown in Figure 6.6. These pho-
tographs were taken by placing a small mirror at the back of the mouth so that
it was possible to look straight down the pharynx toward the larynx. The top of
the picture is toward the front of the neck, the lower part toward the back. The
vocal folds are the white bands running vertically in each picture. Their position
can be adjusted by the movements of the arytenoid cartilages, which are under-
neath the small protuberances visible in the lower part of the pictures.
Figure 6.6 Four states of the glottis. Photographs by John Ohala and Ralph Vanderslice.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
States of the Glottis 149
In a voiced sound, the vocal folds are close together and vibrating, as in the
first photograph. In a voiceless sound, as in the second photograph, they are
pulled apart. This position will produce a completely voiceless sound if there is
little or no airflow through the glottis, as in the case of a voiceless fricative or
an unaspirated stop. But if there is considerable airflow, as, in an h-like sound,
the vocal folds will be set vibrating while remaining apart. In this way, they
produce what is called breathy voice, or murmur. The second photograph is
labeled “voiceless” because this is the usual position in voiceless fricatives. But
in an intervocalic [h] as in ahead, the vocal folds are in a very similar position.
In these circumstances, they will produce breathy voice, vibrating loosely, so
they appear to be simply flapping in the airstream. The third photograph shows
another kind of breathy voice. In this sound, the vocal folds are apart between
the arytenoid cartilages in the lower (posterior) part of the photograph. They
can still vibrate, but at the same time, a great deal of air passes out through the
glottis.
Murmured sounds occur in English in the pronunciation of /h / in between
vowels as in ahead and behind. In most of the speakers of English we have been
able to observe, the /h/ in these words is made with the vocal folds slightly apart
along their entire length, but still continuing to vibrate as if they were waving
in the breeze. The term “voiced h” is sometimes used for this sound, but it is
somewhat confusing as there is certainly no voicing in the usual sense. The term
“murmured h” is preferable. The symbol for this sound is [H].
Learn to distinguish between the murmured sound [ H ] as in aha and the
voiceless sound [h] as at the beginning of an English word such as heart. The
murmured sound is like a sigh produced while breathing heavily. Take a deep
breath and see how long you can make first [ H ] and then [ h ]. In the voice-
less sound [h], the air from the lungs escapes very rapidly, so that this sound
cannot be prolonged to any great extent. But you can make the murmured
sound [H] last much longer, as the flow of air from the lungs is slowed down
by the vibrating vocal folds. Note that [H] can be said on a range of different
pitches.
Now say [H] before a vowel. When you say [HA], you will probably find that
the breathiness extends into the vowel. But try to make only the first part of the
syllable breathy and produce regular voicing at the end. Finally, try to produce
the sequence [ HA ] after a stop consonant. Murmured stops of this kind occur
in Hindi and in many other languages spoken in India. These sounds will be
discussed more fully in the next section. But we can note here that in murmured
stops, the murmur occurs only during the release of the stop. There must be a
comparatively high rate of flow of air out of the lungs to produce murmur, and
this cannot happen during the stop closure.
It is fairly easy to produce the required flow rate for murmur during a vowel.
Some languages contrast plain and murmured vowels. Table 6.5 shows a set of
words in Gujarati, another language spoken in India. Murmured sounds are in-
dicated by placing two dots below the symbol. In Gujarati, the contrast between
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
150 CHAPTER 6 Airstream Mechanisms and Phonation Types
murmured or breathy voiced sounds and regular, modal voice can occur in both
consonants and vowels. In the first row, you can hear a three-way contrast be-
tween a murmured vowel, a murmured release of a stop, and a word that has
only modal voice.
In creaky voice, which is the other state of the glottis illustrated in Figure 6.6,
the arytenoid cartilages are tightly together, so that the vocal folds can vibrate
only at the anterior end (the small opening at the top of the photograph). Note
that the vocal folds appear to be much shorter in this photograph. This is partly
because the posterior portion at the bottom of the photograph is not visible
when the arytenoid cartilages are pulled together. But it is also the case that
in creaky voice, the folds are not stretched from front to back as they are on
higher pitches. It is not possible to make accurate measurements of the lengths
of the vibrating folds in these photographs, as the glottis is at varying distances
from the camera, but this probably accounts for only a small proportion of the
variation in length apparent in the photographs. Creaky voice is a very low-
pitched sound that occurs at the ends of falling intonations for some speakers
of English. You can probably learn to produce it by singing the lowest note that
you can—and then trying to go even lower. Creaky-voiced sounds may also be
called laryngealized.
In some languages, laryngealization is used to distinguish one sound from
another. Hausa and many other Chadic languages of northern Nigeria distin-
guish between two palatal approximants. One has regular voicing, rather like the
English sound at the beginning of yacht, and the other has creaky voice. The IPA
diacritic to indicate creaky voice is [ 0] placed under the symbol. Hausa orthog-
raphy uses an apostrophe (’) before the symbol for the corresponding voiced
sound, thus contrasting y and’y. The Hausa letters y and ’y correspond to IPA
[j] and [oj0]. Try differentiating between the laryngealized and nonlaryngealized
sounds in the Hausa words [ ja… ] ya (‘he’) and [ oj0a… ] ’ya (‘daughter’), which
are included on the CD with the other Hausa words discussed earlier in this
chapter.
A slightly more common use of laryngealization is to distinguish one stop
from another. Hausa and many other West African languages have voiced
stops [b, d] contrasting with laryngealized stops [b0, d0], which are sometimes
implosives. In these sounds, the creaky voice is most evident not during the stop
closure itself but during the first part of the following vowel. Similar sounds
occur in some Native American languages.
TABLE 6.5 Murmured vowels in Gujarati.
Breathy Plain
baªr ‘outside’ bªHar ‘burden’ bar ‘twelve’
m”ªl ‘palace’ m”l ‘dirt’
CD 6.1
CD 6.8
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Voice Onset Time 151
VOICE ONSET TIME
We saw earlier that the terms voiced and voiceless refer to the state of the glottis
during a given articulation. We also saw that the terms aspirated and unaspirated
refer to the presence or absence of a period of voicelessness during and after the
release of an articulation. The interval between the release of a closure and the
start of the voicing is called the voice onset time (usually abbreviated VOT).
The easiest way to visualize VOT is by reference to the waveform of a sound.
This is the technique used in Chapter 3 to discuss the differences between tie
and die. The VOT is measured in milliseconds (ms) from the spike indicating
the release of the stop closure to the start of the oscillating pattern indicating the
vibrations of the vocal folds in the vowel. If the voicing begins during the stop
closure (i.e., before the release), the VOT has a negative value.
The top part of Figure 6.7 shows the waveforms of the first parts of three of the
Sindhi words in Table 6.2: [daru] (‘door’), [taru] (‘bottom’), and [tharu] (name
of a district). The dashed line indicates the moment of release of the stop. A time
scale centered on that moment is at the bottom of the figure. In the waveform for
[da], at the top of the figure, there is voicing throughout the closure, the release,
and the vowel. This is a fully voiced stop that has a negative VOT of −130 ms.
In the next waveform, [ta], there are no voicing vibrations during the closure
(before the dashed line). This is, therefore, a voiceless stop. The voicing starts
very shortly after the closure, the VOT being less than 20 ms, making this an
unaspirated stop. To produce this stop, the vocal folds are apart during the whole
of the closure period but close together at the moment of release of the closure,
so that voicing starts as soon as there is sufficient airflow through the glottis. In
the middle of the closure, the vocal folds might be in a position similar to that
shown in the top right photograph in Figure 6.6.
The third waveform, [ tha ], shows an aspirated stop, with a VOT of about
50 ms. In producing this sound, the vocal folds are apart during the stop closure
and the glottis is still open at the moment of the release of the stop closure.
There is a continuum of possible voice onset times. Some languages, such
as Sindhi, have very fully voiced stops with a large negative VOT. Others, such
as English, have little or no voicing during the closure, unless the stop is pre-
ceded by a sound in which the vocal folds are already vibrating, in which case the
vibration may continue through the closure. Similarly, languages vary in the VOT
they use for aspirated stops. In the Sindhi example in the third row in Figure 6.7,
it is only 50 ms. In Navajo, as shown in the last row in Figure 6.7, aspirated stops
have a VOT of about 150 ms. When producing a strongly aspirated stop such
as this, the maximum opening of the vocal folds will be much larger than that
shown in the top right photograph in Figure 6.6. The maximum opening will oc-
cur at about the moment of release of the stop closure. In general, the degree of
aspiration (the amount of lag in the voice onset time) will depend on the degree
of glottal aperture during the closure. The greater the opening of the vocal folds
during a stop, the longer the amount of the following aspiration.
CD 6.3
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
152 CHAPTER 6 Airstream Mechanisms and Phonation Types
Different languages choose different points along the VOT continuum in form-
ing oppositions among stop consonants. This point is illustrated in Figure 6.8,
in which some of the possibilities that occur in different languages are shown
with reference to a scale going from most aspirated (largest positive VOT) at the
top to most voiced (largest negative VOT) at the bottom. The Navajo aspirated
stops, shown in the first column, have a very large VOT that is quite exceptional.
Navajo does not have a bilabial stop series, but for all the other languages, the
positions shown on the scale correspond to bilabial stops. As you can see, also in
the first column, a normal value for the VOT of English stressed initial /p/ would
be between 50 and 60 ms. English initial /b/, at the bottom of the first column,
Sindhi
Navajo
d a
a
a
h
h a
t
t
t
–100 0 100 200 ms
Figure 6.7 Waveforms showing stops with different degrees of voicing and aspiration.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Voice Onset Time 153
may have a VOT of about 10 ms, but, as indicated by the dashed line, it may be
less, and even slightly negative. After an initial /s/, English /p/ will have a VOT
much like English initial /b/.
Other languages make the contrast between phonemes such as /p, t, k/ and
/ b, d, g / in initial position with very different VOTs. Navajo contrasts initial
/k/ with a /g/ that is far from voiced; it has a VOT of over 40 ms. As this sound
is completely voiceless, it might be better to say that the contrast in Navajo is
between /kÓ/ and /k/, rather than between /k/ and /g/. However, both ways of
transcribing Navajo are perfectly valid. As we saw in Chapter 2, you can make
a broad transcription that shows the phonemic contrasts in a language using the
simplest possible symbols, or you can make a narrow transcription that shows
the phonetic detail. As long as the broad transcription is accompanied by a state-
ment that specifies how it should be interpreted, it is equally accurate. The choice
of symbol depends in part on the reason for making the transcription. In broad
transcriptions of English, it is sufficient just to use /b, p/. But if one wants to
show more phonetic detail, one can specify that the phoneme /b/ is a completely
voiceless [b9] in, for instance, that boy [Dœ/tb9OI]. Similarly, one might want to
Figure 6.8 Differences in voice onset time in different languages on a scale going from
most voiced (largest negative VOT) to most aspirated (largest positive VOT).
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
154 CHAPTER 6 Airstream Mechanisms and Phonation Types
show phonetic details such as the aspirated /p/ that occurs in pie [phaI] or the
unaspirated /p/ in spy [spaI].
The second column in Figure 6.8 shows how the sounds of French line up
with those of English and Navajo. The voiced stops in French (and Spanish, Ital-
ian, and many other languages) are nearly always fully voiced. The length of the
voicing varies, depending on the length of the closure, which is why we added
an arrow alongside French /b /. Voiceless stops in these languages are unaspi-
rated, making French /p/ similar to English initial /b/.
French / p / is even more like Gaelic / b /, which is virtually never voiced,
even between vowels. The Gaelic opposition between / b / and / p / is, in a
narrow phonetic transcription, /p/ versus /ph /. In the Gaelic spoken in the Outer
Hebrides of Scotland, the VOT of /ph / is around 65 ms, not nearly as long as that
in Navajo, but longer than that in English.
Some languages contrast three different voice onset times. Thai has voiced,
voiceless unaspirated, and aspirated stops, as shown in the final column in
Figure 6.8. Words illustrating these contrasts in Thai are given in Table 6.6. As
in the case of French, the voiced stops are fully voiced, with the duration of the
voicing depending on the length of the stop closure.
Many languages spoken in India, such as Hindi and Sindhi, have not only
the three possibilities that occur in Thai, but murmured stops as well. After
the release of the closure, there is a period of breathy voice or murmur before the
regular voicing starts. Some illustrative Hindi words are given in Table 6.7. The
breathy voice release of these stops is indicated by [H ], a raised, hooked letter h.
The Sindhi words in the last row of Table 6.2 also illustrate breathy voiced stops.
As shown in the tables, in addition to the breathy voiced stops, both Sindhi and
Hindi also contrast stops with three different voice onset times.
Figure 6.9 shows the waveforms of the Hindi dental stops in the second row
of Table 6.7. There is voicing during the stop closure of [d1] (in the top line), but
not during the stops in the second and third lines. The second line has a voiceless
unaspirated [t1] with a VOT of about 20 ms. The third line has an aspirated [t1h ],
with a VOT of almost 100 ms. In the fourth line, the [d1H ] has voicing during the
closure followed by a waveform that has some of the appearance of voicing—a
wavy line—but also has noise superimposed on it. This is breathy voicing. It is
TABLE 6.6 Stops in Thai.
Voiced ba$… d1a~…
‘crazy’ ‘curse’
Voiceless Unaspirated pa$… t 1a…
‘aunt’ ‘eye’
Voiceless Aspirated pÓa$… t 1Óa$…
‘cloth’ ‘landing place’
CD 6.9
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Voice Onset Time 155
difficult to say how long this breathy voiced aspiration lasts, as it shades into the
regular voicing for the vowel. During this breathy voicing, the vocal folds are
drawn into loose vibrations and do not come fully together.
The difference between voiceless unaspirated, aspirated, and murmured stops
(the last three rows in Figure 6.9) is largely a matter of the size and timing of the
opening of the vocal folds. In voiceless unaspirated stops, the maximum open-
ing of the glottis (which is not very great) occurs during the stop closure. In
(voiceless) aspirated stops, the glottal opening is larger and occurs later, near the
moment of release of the stop closure. In murmured stops, the glottal opening
is similar in size to that in voiceless unaspirated stops, but it occurs later, during
the release of the closure. Because there is a rapid flow of air through the vocal
folds at this time, the vocal folds vibrate while remaining slightly apart, thus
producing breathy voice.
Learn to produce a series of sounds with different voice onset times. Start by
producing fully voiced stops [b, d, g]. See how long you can make the voicing
continue during each of these sounds. You will find that you can make it last
longer during [b] than during [d] or [g0], because in [b], there is a fairly large
space above the glottis. Air from the lungs can flow through the glottis for a lon-
ger period of time before the pressure above the glottis begins to approach that
of the air in the lungs. The vocal folds can be kept vibrating throughout this pe-
riod. But in [g], there is only a small space above the glottis into which air can
flow, so the voicing can be maintained only briefly. Languages often fail to have
fully voiced velar stops. Note that Thai does not have a voiced stop contrasting
with a voiceless unaspirated stop at this place of articulation.
When you can produce fully voiced stops satisfactorily, try saying voiceless
unaspirated [ p, t, k ]. You may find it easiest to start with words like spy, sty,
sky. Say these words very slowly. Now say words like them, but without the
initial [s].
TABLE 6.7 Stops in Hindi.
Voiceless Voiceless Breathy
Unaspirated Aspirated Voiced Voiced
Bilabial pal pÓal bal bHal
‘take care of’ ‘knife blade’ ‘hair’ ‘forehead’
Dental t 1al t 1Óal d1al d1Hal
‘beat’ ‘plate’ ‘lentil’ ‘knife’
Retroflex †al †Óal ∂al ∂Hal
‘postpone’ ‘wood shop’ ‘branch’ ‘shield’
Post-alveolar Affricate t2SØl t2SÓØl d2ZØl d2ZHØl
‘walk’ ‘deceit’ ‘water’ ‘glimmer’
Velar kan kÓan gan gHan
‘ear’ ‘mine’ ‘song’ ‘bundle’
CD 6.10
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
156 CHAPTER 6 Airstream Mechanisms and Phonation Types
You will have less difficulty making aspirated stops, because they occur in
most forms of English—in words such as pie [ phaI] and tie [thaI]. But do try
pronouncing all of the Thai and Hindi words in Tables 6.6 and 6.7.
SUMMARY OF ACTIONS OF THE GLOTTIS
The vocal folds are involved in many different kinds of actions. They are used in
the production of implosives and ejectives, and in forming different phonation
types. These two types of activities are often not clearly separable. The implo-
sives of some forms of Hausa are as likely to be marked by creaky voice as by a
downward movement of the glottis, and Zulu has weak ejectives that could well
be considered simply as glottal stops superimposed on plosives. Consequently, it
is convenient to summarize all these activities in a single table. Table 6.8 shows
the principal actions of the glottis.
t
t
Figure 6.9 Waveforms showing the VOT of the stops in Hindi.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 157
EXERCISES
(Printable versions of all the exercises are available on the CD.)
A. Label the diagram below so as to show the sequence of events involved in
producing a voiced alveolar implosive.
TABLE 6.8 The principal actions of the glottis.
Glottal stop Vocal folds together /
Ejective Vocal folds together and moving upward p', t', k', s'
Implosives Closed vocal folds moving downward —∫9, Î9, ƒ(
Usually nearly closed vocal folds moving
downward with regular vibrations or ∫, Î, ƒ
creaky voice
Creaky voice Vocal folds held tightly together b0, d0, a0, e0
posteriorly, but vibrating (usually at a
low rate) anteriorly
(Modal) voice Regular vibrations of the vocal folds b, d (in, e.g.,
French),
a, e
Breathy voice Vocal folds vibrating without coming aª, eª
(murmur) fully together.
Often during a stop release ∫H, dH
Voiceless Vocal folds apart p, t, k, s
m9, n9, N(
Aspirated Vocal folds apart during the release pÓ, tÓ, kÓ, sÓ
of an articulation
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
158 CHAPTER 6 Airstream Mechanisms and Phonation Types
B. Complete the diagram below so as to show the gestures of the vocal organs
required for producing [ N≤
°o ] Add labels so that the sequence of events is
clear.
C. Measure (to the nearest 10 ms) the VOT in the waveforms of the stops in a
pie, a buy, a spy.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 159
D. Put a narrow transcription above the waveform of the phrase He started to
tidy it. The phrase has been split during the closure of the [t] in to. The loca-
tion of the [d] in tidy is also shown. Measure (to the nearest 10 ms) the VOT
in the waveforms of the stops.
First stop in started ___ ms.
Second stop in started ___ ms.
Stop in to ___ ms.
First stop in tidy ___ ms.
Second stop in tidy ___ ms.
E. Fill in the blanks in the following passage.
There are three principal airstream mechanisms: the airstream
mechanism, the airstream mechanism, and the air-
stream mechanism. In normal utterances in all the languages of the world,
the airstream is always flowing outward if the airstream mecha-
nism is involved. Stops made with this mechanism are called .
The only mechanism used in some languages to produce some sounds with
inward-going air and some sounds with outward-going air is the
airstream mechanism. Stops made with this mechanism acting ingressively
are called . Stops made with this mechanism acting egressively
are called . The mechanism used in language to produce sounds
only with inward-going air is the airstream mechanism. Stops
made with this mechanism are called . Stops may vary in their
voice onset time. In this respect, [ob, d, g] are stops, [p, t, k] are
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
160 CHAPTER 6 Airstream Mechanisms and Phonation Types
stops, and [pÓ, tÓ, k] are stops. The stops [bH, dH, gH
], which occur in Hindi, are called stops. The stops [b0, d0], which
occur in African languages such as Hausa, are called stops.
PERFORMANCE EXERCISES
A large number of non-English sounds were discussed in this chapter. About the
same number of additional sounds will be considered in the following chapter.
Beginning with the exercises given below, you should spend more time doing
practical phonetic work. Try to double the time you spend doing work of this
kind. If possible, you should spend about twenty minutes a day working with
a partner reviewing the material in the chapter and going through the exercises
given below.
A. Review the different types of phonation. Start by simply differentiating
voiced and voiceless sounds, saying:
(1) [AAAA9A9A9AAAA9A9A9]
Now add breathy-voiced (murmured) sounds to the sequence:
(2) [AAAAªAªAªA9A9A9]
Next, add creaky-voiced (laryngealized) sounds:
(3) [A0A0A0AAAAªAªAªA9A9A9]
Then make the sequence begin with a glottal stop:
(4) [/A0A0A0AAAAªAªAªA9A9A9]
Finally, practice saying this sequence in the reverse order:
(5) [A9A9A9AªAªAªAAAA0A0A0/]
B. Try to go in one smooth movement through all these states of the glottis, say-
ing, fairly quickly:
(1) [/A0AAªA9]
and the reverse sequence:
(2) [A9AªAA0/]
C. Repeat Exercises A and B slowly, quickly, reversed, etc., with other articula-
tions, for example:
(1) [/ m0 m mª m9 ]
(2) [/ n0 n nª n9]
(3) [/ N0 N Nª N9 ]
(4) [/ l0 l lª l9]
(5) [/ i0 i iª i9]
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Performance Exercises 161
D. Try to superimpose breathy voice (murmur) onto intervocalic consonants,
saying:
[Amª A, AnªA, AlªA]
Do not worry if the breathy voice is also evident on the adjacent vowels.
E. Now try adding breathy voice to stops. The release of the closure should be
followed by a period of murmur extending into the vowel:
[AbHA, AdHA, AgHA]
F. Similarly, add creaky voice (laryngealization) to intervocalic consonants,
saying:
[Am0A, An0A, Al0A]
G. Then produce stops with creaky voice (laryngealization):
[Ab0A, Ad0A, Ag0A]
Again, do not worry if the creaky voice is most evident in the adjacent vowels.
H. Say [AbA], making sure that you have a fully voiced intervocalic stop. Now
repeat this sequence a number of times, each time increasing the length of
the consonant closure. Try to make the consonant closure as long as you can
while maintaining the voicing.
I. Repeat Exercise H with the sequences [AdA] and [AgA].
J. Produce long, fully voiced stops before vowels: [bA, dA, gA]. Make sure that
there is a velic closure and that you are not saying [mbA, ndA, NgA] but are
correctly saying a long, fully voiced, oral stop.
K. Produce voiceless unaspirated stops before vowels: [ pA, tA, kA ]. You may
find it helpful to imagine that there is a preceding [s] as in spar, star, scar.
L. Say a series of stops with more aspiration than usual: [phA, thA, khA]. Make
sure there is a really long period of voicelessness after the release of the clo-
sure and before the start of the vowel.
M. Practice saying sequences of voiced, voiceless unaspirated, and aspirated
plosives: [bA, pA, phA], [dA, tA, thA], and [gA, kA, khA].
N. Try to produce as many intermediate stages as you can in each of these se-
ries. You should be able to produce each series with
(1) a long, fully voiced stop.
(2) a slightly shorter, partially voiced stop.
(3) a completely voiceless, but unaspirated, stop.
(4) a slightly aspirated stop.
(5) a strongly aspirated stop.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
162 CHAPTER 6 Airstream Mechanisms and Phonation Types
O. Practice these exercises until you are certain you can reliably produce a dis-
tinction between at least (1) voiced, (2) voiceless unaspirated, and (3) aspi-
rated stops at each place of articulation.
P. Extend this series by beginning with a laryngealized stop and ending with a
murmured stop. Say:
(1) b0A (2) d0A (3) g0A
bA dA gA
pA tA kA
pÓA tÓA kÓA
bHA dHA gHA
Q. Incorporate all these sounds into simple series of nonsense words. If you are
making up your own series to say to someone else, do not make them too dif-
ficult. Try saying something like the following:
(1) "temAs (2) "b”kAl (3) "godeN
"demAs "bH”gAl "gHoteN
"themAs "ph”khAl "koteN
"d0emAs "b0”g0Al "khod0eN
"dHemAs "p”bHAl "godHeN
R. Review the description of ejectives. When making an ejective, you should
be able to feel that you (1) make an articulatory closure (for example, bring
your lips together); (2) make a glottal stop (feel that you are holding your
breath by closing your glottis); (3) raise the larynx (place your fingers on
your throat to feel this movement); (4) release the articulatory closure (open
your lips); and (5) release the glottal closure (let go of your breath).
S. If you cannot produce the sequences [ p'A, t'A, k'A ], reread the section on
ejectives in hope of finding some useful hints that might help you.
T. Review the description of voiced implosives. Starting from a fully voiced stop,
try to feel the downward movement of your larynx. Try to say [∫A, ÎA, ƒA].
U. Review the description of clicks. Try to say a voiceless version of each click
between vowels [Ak—˘A, Ak<A, Ak—≤A], then a voiced version [Ag—˘A, Ag<A, Ag—≤A],
and finally a nasalized version [AN˘A, AN<A, AN≤A].
V. Incorporate all these sounds into simple series of nonsense words such as:
"dedAk "tip’uk "k’ok˘o
"pet’Ak "bAƒod "∫ek≤A
"∫edAg "ÎukAp’ "kAk˘o
"k’ebAp "t’eduƒ "t’ik˘i
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
163
7
Consonantal Gestures
The movements of the lips and tongue in English are only a small subset of
those that can be used for making consonants. Scores of other sounds can be
made, as we will see by considering different languages. An appropriate way to
describe consonantal gestures in the languages of the world is in terms of two of
their aspects: the targets of the gestural movements, commonly called the places
of articulation, and the way in which the target is approached, often thought of
as the manner of articulation. We will use these traditional terms, but always re-
membering that speech sounds involve gestural movements, not static positions
of the vocal organs.
Consonants that occur in other languages are well worth studying even by
those concerned mainly with the phonetics of English. Many of the sounds that
occur in other languages also occur in regional, accented, or disordered varieties
of English. As we noted at the beginning of the previous chapter, the best way to
study unfamiliar sounds is by observing them in languages in which they are
a regular, easily observable part of the sound system.
ARTICULATORY TARGETS
Many of the possible places of articulation that are used in the languages of
the world were defined in Chapter 1. Figure 7.1, which is similar to Figure 1.5,
shows three additional places that will be discussed below. The terms for all the
places of articulation are not just names for particular locations on the roof of
the mouth. They should be thought of as names for the numbered arrows. Each
term specifies where the arrow starts (the articulator on the lower surface that
makes this particular gesture) and where it ends (the part of the vocal tract that is
the target of the gesture).
A large number of non-English sounds are to be found in other languages.
Many of them involve using gestures in which the target, or the place of
articulation, is different from any found in English. For others it is the type of
gesture, what is traditionally called the manner of articulation, that is different.
We will illustrate the different targets by considering how each place of articu-
lation is used in English and in other languages for making stops, nasals, and
fricatives. The numbers in the following paragraphs refer to the numbered ar-
rows in Figure 7.1.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
164 CHAPTER 7 Consonantal Gestures
(1) The bilabial gesture is common in English, which has bilabial stops and
nasals [p, b, m]. But bilabial fricatives in English are simply allophones of the
labiodental sounds [f, v]. In some languages (for example, Ewe of West Africa),
bilabial fricatives contrast with labiodental fricatives. The symbols for the voiceless
and voiced bilabial fricatives are [F, B]. These sounds are pronounced by bringing
the two lips nearly together, so that there is only a slit between them. In Ewe,
the name of the language itself is [”~B”~], whereas the word for two is [”~v”~]. Try
to pronounce these contrasting words yourself. Ewe also contrasts voiceless
bilabial and labiodental fricatives. Contrasts involving all these sounds are
shown in Table 7.1.
We should also note here some other labial sounds not shown in Figure 7.1.
A few Austronesian languages spoken in Vanuatu have linguo-labials, in which
the tongue touches the upper lip. V’enen Taut has nasals, stops, and fricatives
made in this way. The diacritic for indicating a linguo-labial articulation is [ £],
a shape like a seagull, placed under the coronal symbol. The V’enen Taut for
“breadfruit” is [t£atei], and for “stone” is [naD£at]. These and other V’enen Taut
sounds are on the CD.
Figure 7.1 Places of articulation.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Articulatory Targets 165
(2) Many languages are like English in having the labiodental fricatives [f, v].
But probably no language has labiodental stops or nasals except as allophones
of the corresponding bilabial sounds. In English, a labiodental nasal, [M], may
occur when /m/ occurs before /f /, as in emphasis or symphony. Say these words
in a normal conversational style and see if your lower lip ever contacts your
upper lip during the nasal.
Some languages have affricates in which the bilabial stop is released into a
labiodental fricative. Practice these sounds by learning to say the German words
Pfanne ["pfanE] “bowl” and Pflug [pfluk] “plough.”
(3) Most speakers of both British and American English have dental frica-
tives [T, D] but no dental stops, nasals, or laterals except allophonically before
[T, D], as in eighth, tenth, wealth [eIt1T, tEn1T, wEl1T]. Many speakers of French,
Italian, and other languages typically have dental stops, nasals, and laterals. In
these languages, [t1, d1, n1] are not just coarticulated allophones that occur only
before [T, D], as in English. However, there is a great deal of individual variation
in the pronunciation of these consonants in all these languages. According to a
careful palatographic study, around one-third of Californian English speakers
have dental stops, and many French speakers have alveolar rather than dental
consonants—well over half of them in the case of the lateral /l/. Say words such
as tip, dip, nip, lip and try to feel where your tongue touches the roof of your
mouth.
Some languages, such as Malayalam, a Dravidian language spoken in south-
ern India, contrast dental and alveolar consonants. Examples of contrasting
Malayalam nasals are shown in Table 7.2. The table also includes other conso-
nantal gestures that are used in Malayalam but not in most forms of English. We
will discuss these in subsequent paragraphs.
(4) Alveolar stops, nasals, and fricatives all occur in English and in many
other languages. They need no further comment here.
(5) Retroflex stops, nasals, and fricatives do not occur in most forms of
English. The outstanding exception is the English spoken in India. Retro-
flex sounds are made by curling the tip of the tongue up and back so that the
CD 7.2
TABLE 7.1 Contrasting bilabial and labiodental fricatives in Ewe.
Voiceless bilabial fricative e!Fa! e!Fle~
‘he polished’ ‘he bought’
Voiceless labiodental fricative e!Fa! e!fle!‡
‘he was cold’ ‘he spit off’
Voiced bilabial fricative ”~B”~ e!Blo!
‘Ewe’ (the language) ‘mushroom’
Voiced labiodental fricative ”~v”~ e!vlo!
‘two’ ‘he is evil’
CD 7.1
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
166 CHAPTER 7 Consonantal Gestures
underside touches or approaches the back part of the alveolar ridge. The sym-
bols used by IPA for retroflex sounds include [†, ∂, =]. Remember that, just as
dental is a gesture that can be defined as an articulator (the tip of the tongue)
and a target (the upper teeth), so also retroflex describes a gesture involving the
underside of the tip of the tongue and a target, the back of the alveolar ridge.
Students sometimes imagine that the term retroflex describes a manner of ar-
ticulation, but in fact it is a place of articulation like dental and alveolar. At each
of these places of articulation, it is possible to produce stops, nasals, fricatives,
and sounds made with other manners of articulation. As we saw in Tables 6.2
and 6.7, the languages Sindhi and Hindi contrast several types of retroflex stops.
Malayalam (Table 7.2) contrasts three coronal gestures—dental, alveolar, and
retroflex. In addition, Malayalam has bilabial, palatal, and velar sounds, so that
it contrasts nasals with six basic types of gesture, six places of articulation, all of
which are exemplified in Table 7.2.
Because a retroflex gesture is made with the undersurface of the tip of the
tongue touching or near the back of the alveolar ridge, the blade (the upper sur-
face of the tip) of the tongue is usually a considerable distance from the roof of
the mouth. As a result, the tongue is somewhat hollowed, as shown in the dia-
gram of a retroflex fricative [ß] in Figure 7.2. Try making this sound yourself.
Start with [s], in which the tip of the tongue is raised toward the front part of the
alveolar ridge. Now, while maintaining the fricative noise, slowly slide the tip of
the tongue back, curling it up as you move it backward. You will be producing a
consonant [ß], which sounds something like [S], although the articulatory posi-
tion is different. (See (6) below for discussion of the articulatory position of [S].)
When you have learned to say [ ß ], try adding voice so that you produce
[Ω]. Alternate the voiced and voiceless sounds [ßßßΩΩΩßßßΩΩΩ]. Next, still with
the tip of the tongue curled up and back in this position, make the stops [ †a,
∂a]. Notice how the stops affect the quality of the following vowel, giving it a
sort of r-coloring at the beginning. Now produce the corresponding nasal [=].
Learn to say all these sounds before and after different vowels. Finally, try to say
the Malayalam words in Table 7.2. You may notice as you imitate these sounds
TABLE 7.2 Contrasts involving bilabial, dental, alveolar, retroflex, palatal, and velar
places of articulation in Malayalam, illustrating the necessity for six points
of articulation. As we saw in Chapter 3, dental articulations are indicated
by a subscript [ 1].
Bilabial Dental Alveolar
kØmmi pØn1n1i kØnni
‘shortage’ ‘pig’ ‘first’
Retroflex Palatal Velar
kØ==i kØ≠≠i kuNNi
‘link in chain’ ‘boiled rice and water’ ‘crushed’
CD 7.3
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Articulatory Targets 167
that your tongue tip moves during the retroflex stops, sliding forward from post-
alveolar toward a more alveolar place of articulation during the retroflex stop,
so that the preceding vowel has more r-coloring than the following vowel. This
occurs in Malayalam too. Figure 7.3 shows a spectrogram of the Malayalam
word [kØ==i] “link in chain,” in which we have traced with a white line the third
vowel “formant”—the third highest acoustic resonance of the vocal tract. The
third formant is known to go down in frequency for retroflex sounds. Notice in
Figure 7.3 that the third formant drops to a low value at the offset of the vowel
[Ø] preceding [==] and then at the end of [==] picks up at a somewhat higher
value at the start of the following vowel [i]. This acoustic dynamic is a reflec-
tion of the articulatory dynamics of the tongue tip sliding forward along the roof
of the mouth during [==].
Retroflex stops and nasals occur in many of the major languages of India,
and retroflex fricatives are not at all uncommon. They vary somewhat in the
degree to which the tip of the tongue is curled backward. In Hindi and other
languages of northern India, retroflex sounds often have the tip of the tongue
only slightly behind the most prominent part of the alveolar ridge, much as in-
dicated in Figure 7.2. In Malayalam and other languages spoken in the southern
India, the tip is curled farther back, so that the underside of the tip of the tongue
touches the roof of the mouth.
(6) The palato-alveolar gestures for [S, Z] differ from retroflex gestures in the
part of the tongue involved. A palato-alveolar gesture is one in which the target
on the upper surface of the mouth is about the same as for a retroflex sound—at
Figure 7.2 The articulation of the retroflex fricative [ß]. The dashed lines indicate the
position of the sides of the tongue.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
168 CHAPTER 7 Consonantal Gestures
the margin between the alveolar ridge and the front of the palate. But unlike
retroflexes, in this gesture, the front of the tongue is slightly domed, as opposed
to being hollowed. Compare Figure 1.10, which shows the position of the vocal
organs in the palato-alveolar fricative [S] as in shy, with the retroflex fricative in
Figure 7.2. Note that in both [ß] and [S], the maximum constriction of the vocal
tract occurs near the back of the alveolar ridge. But these two sounds are said to
have different places of articulation, because the terms specify different gestures.
The place of articulation designates both the target on the roof of the mouth
and the part of the tongue moving toward that target. In retroflex sounds, it is
the movement of the underside of the tip of the tongue that forms the gesture,
but in palato-alveolar sounds, the active articulator is the tongue blade.
Another way of distinguishing between retroflex and palato-alveolar sounds
is to call them all post-alveolar and, in addition, name the part of the tongue in-
volved. Sounds made with the tip of the tongue may be called apical, and those
made with the blade may be called laminal. Thus, the term retroflex is exactly
equivalent to apical post-alveolar, and palato-alveolar is equivalent to laminal
post-alveolar.
There are advantages in introducing the terms apical and laminal in that
they may also apply to other gestures. Dental sounds may be made with the
tip of the tongue, or with the blade of the tongue, and so may alveolar sounds.
With the use of these extra terms, we can distinguish between the apical dental
stops that occur in Hindi (Table 6.7) and the laminal dental stops that occur in
French. In Australian aboriginal languages, the difference between apical and
CD 7.4
Figure 7.3 A spectrogram of the Malayalam word [kØ==i] link in chain. The frequency of
the third formant is traced with a white line.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Articulatory Targets 169
laminal sounds is often very important. If you want to pursue this further, go
to the map index on the CD, and check out the aboriginal languages spoken in
Australia.
In English, the only palato-alveolar sounds are the fricatives and affricates
[S, Z, tS, dZ]. In other languages, such as French and Italian, there are nasals made
in either the same or a very similar position. These nasals are often, arbitrarily,
considered to be palatal sounds. No language that we know of makes a distinc-
tion between a palato-alveolar nasal and a palatal nasal. Some of the palatal
sounds in Italian will be discussed later in this chapter.
The IPA chart puts palato-alveolars into the post-alveolar column. A section
labeled “other symbols” also mentions alveolo-palatals and provides the sym-
bols [Ç, ¸]. These symbols are used for voiceless and voiced fricatives in Polish
and Chinese. Though similar to [S, Z], they have considerable raising of the front
of the tongue. They are also made in the post-alveolar region. Tables illustrating
contrasting fricatives in Polish and Chinese are on the CD. Both these languages
are interesting because they have dental or alveolar, post-alveolar (retroflex),
and alveolo-palatal fricatives. (Note: There are some disagreements among
authorities as to the best descriptions of these sounds.)
(7) Palatal sounds can be defined as being made with the front of the tongue
approaching or touching the hard palate, and for many speakers, with the tip of
the tongue down behind the lower front teeth. There is no clear-cut distinction be-
tween these sounds and palato-alveolar sounds. The only true palatal in English
is / j /, which is usually an approximant but may be allophonically a voiceless
fricative in words such as hue. The symbol for a voiceless palatal fricative is [C],
so this word may be transcribed phonemically as /hju/ and phonetically as [Cu].
Voiceless palatal fricatives occur in German in words such as ich [IC], meaning
I,’ and nicht [nICt], ‘not.’
Say [C] as in hue and then try to prolong this sound. Add voice so that you
make a fricative something like the [j] as in you, but with the front of the tongue
nearer the hard palate. The symbol [J], a curly-tailed j, is used for a voiced pala-
tal fricative. Say [CCCJJJCCCJJJ], making sure that the tip of the tongue is down
behind the lower front teeth. Now change the fricative [C] into a stop by raising
the front of the tongue still more, while keeping the tip of the tongue down. The
symbols for voiceless and voiced palatal stops are [ c, ƒ ]. Say sequences such
as [aca] and [aƒa], making sure that the front of your tongue touches the hard
palate but that the tip of the tongue is down. Then try making similar sequences
with a palatal nasal (for which the symbol is [≠], reminding one of [n] and [j]
combined).
Palatal nasals occur in several languages, including French, Spanish,
Italian, and many non–Indo-European languages. Try saying French words
such as agneau [a≠o] “lamb” and Spanish words such as Señor [se≠or] “Mr.”
Examples of Italian palatal nasals (and laterals) are on the CD. Palatal stops are
slightly less common than palatal nasals. They occur, for example, in Hungarian
(you can search for them on the CD), and they are part of the set of Sindhi
CD 7.5
CD 7.11
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
170 CHAPTER 7 Consonantal Gestures
stops discussed in the previous chapter and exemplified in Table 6.2 and on
the CD. Because of the shape of the roof of the mouth, the contact between the
front of the tongue and the hard palate often extends over a fairly large area. As
a result, the formation and release of a palatal stop is often not as rapid as in the
case of other stops, and they tend to become affricates.
(8) Velar stops and nasals [k, g, N] occur in English. But unlike other lan-
guages such as German, we no longer have velar fricatives. They are not, how-
ever, hard to make. Starting from a syllable such as [ ak ], build up pressure
behind the velar closure, and then lower the tongue slightly. The result will be a
voiceless velar fricative, which we write as [x]. The symbol for the correspond-
ing voiced sound is [ V ]. As with other fricatives, learn to say [ xxxVVVxxx ].
Then produce sequences such as [axa, exe, oVo, EVE].
Examples of words in other languages containing velar fricatives are Lakhota,
as shown in Table 6.1; German Achtung [ /axtÁN ] ‘warning’; Bach [ bax ]
‘Bach’ (proper name); and Spanish jamás [ xa"mas ] ‘never’ ojo [ "oxo ] ‘eye’
pago ["paVo] ‘I pay’ and diga ["diVa] ‘speak.’ The Spanish [V] is often not very
fricative, and may be more accurately transcribed using the symbol for a voiced
velar approximant, which is [ Â ]. The part of the tongue involved in making
velar sounds, the back of the tongue, is called the dorsum; these sounds are re-
ferred to as dorsal sounds.
(9) Uvular sounds are made by raising the back of the tongue toward the
uvula. In a broader grouping of sounds, they, like velar sounds, can be called
dorsal. They do not occur at all in most forms of English. But in French, a voiced
uvular fricative—[‰]—is the common form of r in words such as rouge [‰uZ]
‘red’ and rose [ ‰oz ] ‘rose,’ more like an approximant. The voiceless uvular
fricative, [X], also occurs in French as an allophone of /‰/ after voiceless stops,
as in lettre [ lEtX ] ‘letter.’ French differs from English in that it often has per-
severative assimilations in which, for example, the voicelessness of one sound
continues on through the following sound.
Uvular stops, written [q, G], and nasals, written [–], occur as idiosyncratic
pronunciations in English and as part of the regular sound systems of Eskimo,
Aleut, and other Native American languages. Table 7.3 illustrates contrasts
between uvular and velar stops and palato-alveolar affricates in Quechua, a
Native American language widely spoken in Bolivia, Chile, and Peru. Note
that Quechua has voiceless unaspirated plosives, aspirated plosives, and
ejectives.
One way of learning to produce uvular sounds is to start from a voiceless velar
fricative [x]. While making this sound, slide your tongue slightly farther back in
your mouth so that it is close to the uvula. The result will be the voiceless uvular
fricative [ X ]. Learn to make this sound before and after vowels, in sequences
such as [aXa, oXo, uXu]. You will find it easier to use back vowels at first; then
go on to sequences such as [ eXe, iXi ]. Next, add voice to this sound, saying
[XXX‰‰‰XXX‰‰‰]. Practice saying [‰] before and after vowels. Try saying the
French words cited in the first paragraph of this section, (9).
CD 6.2
CD 6.3
CD 7.6
CD 7.7
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Articulatory Targets 171
Once you have mastered the pronunciation of uvular fricatives, try changing
them into uvular stops. Say [ aXa ], then make a stop at the same place of
articulation, saying [aqa]. Now produce a voiced uvular stop [aGa] and a uvular
nasal [a–a]. Practice all these sounds before and after different vowels.
(10) and (11) The gestures for pharyngeal and epiglottal sounds involve
pulling the root of the tongue or the epiglottis back toward the back wall of
the pharynx. Many people cannot make a stop gesture at this position. Further-
more, it would be literally impossible to make a pharyngeal or epiglottal nasal.
Closure that deep in the vocal tract would prevent the airstream from coming
through the nose. But pharyngeal fricatives, shown by the symbols [©, ?], can
be made, and they do in fact occur in Semitic languages such as Arabic and
Hebrew. The Arabic word for ‘bath’ is [©ammaam], for ‘uncle’ [?amm]. The
articulation varies considerably in the Semitic languages, some speakers using
epiglottal and others pharyngeal gestures. These sounds also vary considerably
with regard to the degree of constriction. For many speakers, there is little or
no actual friction, so that approximants rather than fricatives are produced. The
voiced fricative made in this region usually has a great deal of laryngealization
(creaky voice), perhaps because the necessary constriction in the pharynx also
causes a constriction in the larynx. Neither Hebrew, Arabic, nor any of the other
Semitic languages distinguish between pharyngeal and epiglottal fricatives; but
some of the languages of the Caucasus contrast these two possibilities. The CD
has a recording of Agul, which contrasts voiceless pharyngeal [©] and epiglot-
tal [˝] fricatives.
At a first stage in learning phonetics, it is sufficient to be able to produce
either pharyngeal or epiglottal fricatives. If you try to constrict your pharynx as
much as possible, you will probably be doing so by retracting the epiglottis. Try
to produce the voiceless sound [©]. Now, if you can, produce this sound before
a vowel. Next, try to make the voiced sound [?], not worrying if it turns out to
have creaky voice. Produce these sounds in the Arabic words cited above.
Before finishing this section on gestures at different places of articulation,
we must note that some sounds involve the simultaneous use of two gestures.
The English approximant [w] has both an approximation of the lips (making it
CD 7.8
TABLE 7.3 Contrasts involving stops in Quechua.
Palato-alveolar Velar Uvular
t2Saka kujuj qa¥u
‘bridge’ ‘to move’ ‘tongue’
t2SÓaka kÓujuj qÓa¥u
‘large ant’ ‘to whistle’ ‘shawl’
t2S’aka k’ujuj q’a¥u
‘hoarse’ ‘to twist’ ‘tomato sauce’
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
172 CHAPTER 7 Consonantal Gestures
a bilabial sound) and of the back of the tongue and the soft palate (making it
a velar sound). Sounds that involve these two gestures are called labial velars,
or, in some more old-fashioned books, labiovelars.
Yoruba, Ewe, Tiv, and many other languages spoken in West Africa have
labial velar stops. Some of the languages spoken in this area also have labial
velar nasals. As in the case of nasal and voiced clicks, we can symbolize two
co-occurring articulations with a tie bar joining two symbols. The Yoruba for
‘arm’ is [ak°pa!] and for ‘adult’ is [a~g°ba~]. In these words, the two closures occur
almost simultaneously. One of the best ways of learning to say these sounds is
to start by making a bilabial click (a kissing sound, but with the lips being sim-
ply compressed and not puckered) between vowels. Say [a] ‘kiss’ [a] at first
slowly, and then as fast as you can. Then weaken the suction component of the
kiss, so that you are making little more than a labial velar articulation between
vowels. The result should be a labial velar stop much as in the Yoruba word
[ak°pa!], ‘arm.’ (More information about Yoruba labial velars can be found on the
CD by using the language index.)
This is a convenient place to review all the places of articulation we have
discussed so far. Table 7.4 is a consonant chart showing the symbols for all the
nasals, stops, and fricatives that have been mentioned, except for the epiglottal
consonants. Check that you know the values of all these symbols. Remember
that you can hear Peter Ladefoged’s pronunciation of them on the CD by click-
ing on the IPA chart.
TYPES OF ARTICULATORY GESTURES
Stops
We can begin our consideration of the different manners of articulatory
gestures that occur in the languages of the world by reviewing what has been
CD
contents
TABLE 7.4 Symbols for nasals, stops, and fricatives. As in all consonant charts, when
there are two symbols within a single cell, the one on the left indicates
a voiceless sound.
nasal m M n1 n = ≠ N – N°m
stop p b t1 d1 t d † ∂ c Ô k g q G k°p g°b
fricative F B f v T D s z s7 Ω S Z C J x V X ‰ © ?
bilabial
labiodental
dental
alveolar
retroflex
palato-alveolar
palatal
velar
uvular
pharyngeal
labial
velar
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Types of Articulatory Gestures 173
said already about stop consonants. Table 7.5 illustrates a number of different
types of stops, most of which have been discussed earlier in this book. The first
seven possibilities were discussed in Chapter 6. Make sure you understand all
these terms and know what all these stops sound like, even if you cannot make
them all yourself.
The only comment on the first seven sounds that it is necessary to add here—
where they are all listed together—is that no language distinguishes between
(5), an implosive [∫], and (6), a laryngealized (creaky-voiced) [b0]. Certain lan-
guages have the one sound, and others the other. In a few languages, both sounds
occur as allophones or as free variants of the same phoneme. They have not been
found in contrast with each other.
Stops with nasal release, the eighth possibility listed in Table 7.5, were dis-
cussed in relation to English in Chapter 3. Nasal plosion occurs in English at
the ends of words such as hidden and sudden. In some languages, however, it
can occur at the beginning of a word. Try to say the Russian word for ‘bottom’
which is [dno].
The next possibility listed in Table 7.5 is the prenasalized stop [nd], which
is in some senses the reverse of a nasally released stop. In a prenasalized stop,
the oral closure—in this case an alveolar gesture—is formed first, while the soft
palate is lowered. Then there is a short nasal consonant, after which the soft
palate is raised so that there is a stop. This stop is released by removing the oral
closure (in this case by lowering the tongue tip) while the soft palate remains
raised. Prenasalized stops occur in many African languages. Say the Swahili
words ndege [ndege] ‘bird, airplane,’ ntu [ntu] ‘wax.’ (Swahili is a language in
which the orthography itself is equivalent to a broad IPA transcription.) When
you make these sounds, be careful not to make the initial nasal component into
a separate syllable. Make it as short as possible.
CD 3.7
TABLE 7.5 Examples of stop consonants.
Description Symbol Example
1. voiced b banu (Sindhi ‘forest’)
2. voiceless unaspirated p panu (Sindhi ‘leaf’)
3. aspirated pÓ pÓa=u (Sindhi ‘snake hood’)
4. murmured (breathy) bH bHa…=u (Sindhi ‘manure’)
5. implosive ∫ ∫ani (Sindhi ‘field’)
6. laryngealized (creaky) b0 b0a…ta~… (Hausa ‘spoil’)
7. ejective k' k'a…ra~… (Hausa ‘increase’)
8. nasal release dn dno (Russian ‘bottom’)
9. prenasalized nd ndizi (Swahili ‘banana’)
10. lateral release t¬ t¬a~h (Navajo ‘oil, ointment’)
11. ejective lateral release t¬' t¬'e!e/ (Navajo ‘night’)
12. affricate ts tsaIt (German ‘time’)
13. ejective affricate ts' ts'a!al (Navajo ‘cradle’)
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
174 CHAPTER 7 Consonantal Gestures
Stops with lateral release (see (10) in Table 7.5) were previously discussed
in relation to their occurrence in English (for example, in little, ladle). In other
languages, they can occur initially in a word. Sometimes, as indicated by (11) in
Table 7.5, laterally released stops can occur with an ejective airstream mecha-
nism. On these occasions, the stop closure for [t] is formed, the glottalic egres-
sive (ejective) airstream mechanism is set in motion, and then the stop is released
laterally by lowering the sides of the tongue. The examples in (10) and (11) in
Table 7.5 are from a Native American language, Navajo. (Listen to examples on
the CD in the performance exercises for chapter 11.)
The only affricates that can occur initially in most forms of English are [tS, dZ].
Some dialects (for example, London Cockney) have a slightly affricated stop of
a kind that might be written [ts ] in words such as tea [tsEi]. Alveolar affricates
also occur in German, as shown in (12) in Table 7.5. In addition, German has
a bilabial affricate [pf], as in Pflug [pfluk] ‘plough.’ Affricates can also occur
with an ejective airstream mechanism. Example (13) in Table 7.5 is from
Navajo, which, in addition to the ejective [ts'], also has the affricate [ts] made
with a pulmonic airstream mechanism as in German.
Nasals
We will now consider the other manners of articulation used in the languages of
the world. Little more need be said about nasals. Like stops, they can occur voiced
or voiceless (for example, in Burmese, which can be found in the chapter 11
performance exersises on the CD). As voiceless nasals are comparatively rare,
they are symbolized simply by adding the voiceless diacritic [ 9] under the sym-
bol for the voiced sound. There are no special symbols for voiceless nasals.
Fricatives
There are two ways to produce the rough, turbulent flow that occurs in the airstream
during a fricative. It may be just the result of the air passing through a narrow gap,
as in the formation of [f]. Or it may be because the airstream is first speeded up by
being forced through a narrow gap and then is directed over a sharp edge, such as the
teeth, as in the production of [s]. Partly because there are these two possible mecha-
nisms, the total number of different fricatives that have been observed is larger than
the number of stops or the number of nasals. Table 7.4 shows ten pairs of fricative
symbols, compared with seven pairs of stop symbols and eight nasal symbols.
So far, we have classified fricatives as voiced or voiceless and as made with a
number of different articulatory gestures. But we can also subdivide fricatives in
accordance with other aspects of the gestures that produce them. Some authori-
ties have divided fricatives into those such as [s], in which the tongue is grooved
so that the airstream comes out through a narrow channel, and those such as
[T], in which the tongue is flat and forms a wide slit through which the air flows.
Unfortunately, not enough is known about fricatives to be sure how this distinc-
tion should be applied in all cases. It is also clearly irrelevant for fricatives made
with the lips and the back of the tongue.
CD 11
Perf. Ex.
CD 11
Perf. Ex.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Types of Articulatory Gestures 175
A slightly better way of dividing fricatives is to separate them into groups on
a purely auditory basis. Say the English voiceless fricatives [f, T, s, S]. Which
two have the loudest high pitches? You should be able to hear that [s, S] differ
from [f, T] in this way. The same kind of difference occurs between the voiced
fricatives [z, Z] and [v, D]. The fricatives [s, z, S, Z] are called sibilant sounds.
They have more acoustic energy—that is, greater loudness—at a higher pitch
than the other fricatives.
The sound patterns that occur in languages often arise because of auditory
properties of sounds. We can divide fricatives into sibilant and nonsibilant
sounds only by reference to auditory properties. We need to divide them into
these two groups to show how English plurals are formed. Consider words
ending in fricatives, such as cliff, moth, kiss, dish, church, dove, lathe, maze,
rouge, judge. Which of these words add an extra syllable in forming the plural?
If you say them over to yourself, you will find that they are all monosyllables in
the singular. But those that end with one of the sounds [ s, S, z, Z ]—that is,
with a sibilant fricative or an affricate containing a sibilant fricative—become
two syllables in the plural. It seems as though English does not favor two sibilant
sounds together. It breaks them up by inserting a vowel before adding a sibilant
suffix to words ending in sibilants.
Trills, Taps, and Flaps
The most common pronunciation of the sound written with the letter “r” in the
languages of the world is the trilled [r]. This is why the IPA uses the common
letter [r] for trill and the typographically unusual symbol [®] for the phoneti-
cally unusual rhotic approximate found in English. Some languages contrast a
long and short trilled [r]. You can listen to this contrast in Icelandic by look-
ing at the Icelandic page on the CD—use the language index to find the page.
The spectrogram in Figure 7.4 shows an Icelandic minimal pair contrasting
these sounds in the words [ sau…ra ] wound (gen. pl.) and [ saur…a ] sore (gen.
pl.). As the arrows in the spectrogram indicate, in the short [ r ] there is one
contact of the tongue on the roof of the mouth, while in the long [r…] there are
three contacts. In both cases, the tongue contacts in the trill are driven by an
aerodynamic force in much the same way that vocal fold vibration in voicing
is driven by airflow. So, even in the case of a very short trill in which there is
only a single contact with the roof of the mouth, the movement is different
from that in a tap, or a flap. In a trill, the tip of the tongue is set in motion
by the current of air. A tap or a flap is caused by a single contraction of the
muscles so that one articulator is thrown against another. It is often just a very
rapid stop gesture.
It is useful to distinguish between taps and flaps. In a tap, the tip of the tongue
simply moves up to contact the roof of the mouth in the dental or alveolar re-
gion, and then moves back to the floor of the mouth along the same path. In a
flap, the tip of the tongue is first curled up and back in a retroflex gesture, and
CD lg.
index
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
176 CHAPTER 7 Consonantal Gestures
then strikes the roof of the mouth in the post-alveolar region as it returns to its
position behind the lower front teeth. The distinction between taps and flaps is
thus to some extent bound up with what might be called a distinction in place of
articulation. Flaps are typically retroflex articulations, but it is possible to make
the articulatory gesture required for a flap at other places of articulation. The
tongue can be pulled back and then, as it is flapped forward, made to strike the
alveolar ridge or even the teeth, making alveolar or dental flaps. Flaps are dis-
tinguished from taps by the direction of the movement—from back to front for
flaps, up and down for taps—rather than by the exact point of contact.
Some forms of American English have both taps and flaps. Taps occur as
the regular pronunciation of / t, d, n / in words such as latter, ladder, tanner.
The flap occurs in words that have an r-colored vowel in the stressed syllable.
In dirty and sorting, speakers who have the tongue bunched or retracted for the
r-colored vowel will produce a flap as they move the tongue forward for the
non-r-colored vowel.
Trills are rare in most forms of English. The stage version of a Scottish accent
with trilled /r/ is not typical of most Scots. In Scottish English, /r/ is more likely
to be pronounced as a tap. The American pronunciation of petal with a voiced
alveolar tap in the middle will sound to a Scotsman from Edinburgh like his
regular pronunciation of pearl.
The distinction between trills and different kinds of taps and flaps is much
more important in other languages. But before this point can be illustrated, we
must review the symbols that can be used for different types of r sounds. In a
broad transcription for English, they can all be transcribed as /r/. But in a nar-
rower transcription, this symbol may be restricted to voiced alveolar trills. An
alveolar tap may be symbolized by the special symbol [|], and the post-alveolar
(retroflex) flap by [ « ]. The approximant that occurs in most Americans’ pro-
nunciation of /r/ may be symbolized by [®], an upside-down r. If it is important
to show that this sound is particularly retroflex, the symbol [ ’ ] may be used.
Figure 7.4 A spectrogram of the words [sau…ra] wound (gen. pl.) and [saur…a] sore
(gen. pl.) showing long and short trilled [r]. The arrows show tongue taps
during the trills.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Types of Articulatory Gestures 177
Most speakers of American English do not have a retroflex approximant, but for
those who do, [’] is an appropriate symbol in a narrow transcription. All these
symbols are shown in Table 7.6.
As illustrated in Table 7.6, Spanish distinguishes between a trill and a tap in
words such as perro [pero] ‘dog’ and pero [pe|o] ‘but.’ Similar distinctions also
occur in some forms of Tamil, a language of southern India. This language, like
Hausa (Nigeria), may also distinguish between an alveolar tap and a retroflex flap.
Trills may also have accompanying friction, as in the Czech example in Table 7.6,
which uses the IPA diacritic [ 6], meaning raised (and thus more fricative).
Learning to make a trill involves placing the tongue, very loosely, in exactly
the right position so that it will be set in vibration by a current of air. The easiest
position seems to be with the tongue just behind the upper front teeth and very
lightly touching the alveolar ridge. If you get the tongue in just the right position
and relaxed, you can blow across the top of it, setting it vibrating in a voiceless
trill. Many people find it easier to start with a voiceless trill and then add voicing
once they can make steady vibrations. The jaw should be fairly closed, leaving
a space of 5 mm between the front teeth. Check this by inserting the top of a
pencil between your teeth, and then removing it before making the sound. The
problem experienced by most people who fail to make trills is that the blade of
the tongue is too stiff.
Most people can learn to produce a voiced tap by adopting the typical
American English pronunciation of words such as Betty (which can be tran-
scribed as [ "bE|i ]). You should also be able to produce a retroflex flap. As we
have seen, many speakers of American English use this type of articulation in
sequences such as herding [hE±«IN], in which the tongue is curled up and back
after the r-colored vowel, and then strikes the back part of the alveolar ridge as it
moves down during the consonant.
When you have mastered all these sounds, try saying them in different con-
texts. You might also learn to say voiced and voiceless trills, taps, and flaps. Try
TABLE 7.6 Specific symbols for types of r, and for bilabial trills. Note the use of [À] as
a special symbol that can be defined and used when there is no prescribed
symbol.
r voiced alveolar trill [pero] (Spanish ‘dog’)
| voiced alveolar tap [pe|o] (Spanish ‘but’)
« voiced retroflex flap [ba!«a~…] (Hausa ‘servant’)
® voiced alveolar approximant [®”d] (English ‘red’)
r§ voiced alveolar fricative trill [r6”k] (Czech ‘rivers’)
R voiced uvular trill [RuZ] (ProvenCal French ‘red’)
Â voiced uvular fricative or [ÂuZ] (Parisian French ‘red’)
approximant
ı voiced bilabial trill [mıulim] (Kele ‘your face’)
* voiced labiodental flap [be!*u!] (Margi ‘flying away’)
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
178 CHAPTER 7 Consonantal Gestures
varying the place of articulation, producing both dental and post-alveolar trills
and flaps. Some languages, such as Malayalam and Toda, spoken in southern
India, contrast alveolar and dental trills. The word for ‘room’ in Malayalam is
[ara], whereas the word for ‘half’ is [ar1a]. The Toda rhotics on the CD illustrate
an even more complex situation in which three kinds of trill are contrasted.
The tongue tip is not the only articulator that can be trilled. Uvular trills oc-
cur in some dialects of French, although, as we have noted already, most forms
of French have a uvular fricative in words such as ‘rose’ [‰oz]. The symbol for
a uvular trill is [R]. There is no symbol to distinguish between uvular fricatives
and approximants because this phonetic difference is not used to distinguish
words in any language. Both sounds are symbolized by [‰].
Trills involving the lips occur in a few languages. The IPA symbol for these
sounds is a small capital [ı] (just as a small capital [R] is used for a uvular trill).
In Kele and Titan, two languages spoken in Papua New Guinea, bilabial trills
occur in a large number of words. The Titan for ‘rat’ is [mıulei]. To pronounce
the first part of this word you need to hold the lips loosely together while mak-
ing [m], and then blow the lips apart. Some people find it easier to trill the lips
than the tongue tip. If you are having difficulty making an alveolar trill [r], see
if you can get the sensation of making a trill by making a bilabial trill [ı]. Kele
and Titan bilabial trills are included on the CD.
Peter Ladefoged also reported hearing a labiodental flap—in Margi, of north-
ern Nigeria—in which the lower lip is drawn back inside the upper teeth and then
allowed to strike against them in passing back to its normal position. There is no
IPA symbol for this sound. We included this sound in Table 7.6 to demonstrate
how to symbolize a sound for which there is no IPA symbol. In all such cases, it is
possible to use an asterisk and define it, as we have done in the table.
Laterals
In Chapter 1, we regarded the term lateral as if it specified a manner of articula-
tion in a way comparable to other terms such as fricative, or stop, or approximant.
But this is really an oversimplification. The central–lateral opposition can be
applied to all these manners of articulation, producing a lateral stop and a lateral
fricative as well as a lateral approximant, which is by far the most common form
of lateral sound. The only English lateral phoneme is /l/ with, at least in British
English, allophones [l] as in led [l”d] and [:] as in bell [b”:]. In most forms
of American English, initial [l] has more velarization than is typically heard in
British English initial [l]. In all forms of English, the air flows freely without
audible friction, making this sound a voiced alveolar lateral approximant. It may
be compared with the sound [®] in red [®”d], which is for many people a voiced
alveolar central approximant. Laterals are usually presumed to be voiced ap-
proximants, unless a specific statement to the contrary is made.
Try subtracting and adding voice while saying an English [ l ] as in led.
You will probably find that the voiceless lateral you produce is a fricative, not
CD 7.9
CD lg.
index
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Types of Articulatory Gestures 179
an approximant. When the vocal folds are apart, the airstream flows more rapidly,
so that it produces a fricative noise in passing between the tongue and the side
teeth. The symbol for this sound is [¬], so in alternating the voiced and voiceless
sounds you will be saying [ lll¬¬¬lll¬¬¬ ]. It is possible to make a nonfricative
voiceless lateral, but you will find that to do this you will have to move the side
of the tongue farther away from the teeth. The alternation between a voiced and
a voiceless lateral approximant may be symbolized [llll9l9l9llll9l9l9].
It is also possible to make a voiced lateral that is a fricative. Try doing this by
starting from an ordinary [l] as in led, and then moving the sides of your tongue
slightly closer to your teeth. You may find it easier to produce this sound by start-
ing from the voiceless alveolar lateral fricative described in the previous paragraph
and then adding voicing, but making sure that you keep the fricative component.
To summarize, there are four lateral sounds under discussion: voiced alveolar
lateral approximant, [l]; voiced alveolar lateral fricative, [L]; voiceless alveolar
lateral approximant, [l9]; and voiceless alveolar lateral fricative, [ ¬ ]. No lan-
guage uses the difference between the last two sounds contrastively. But some
languages make a phonemic distinction between three of the four possibili-
ties. Zulu, for example, has a three-way contrast, as shown in the first row of
Table 7.7. As you can see in the second set of Zulu words in Table 7.7, after a
nasal, the voiceless fricative may be an ejective. And the final Zulu word in the
table illustrates an initial voiceless velar lateral ejective affricate, using the symbol
[˚] for a velar lateral. Listen to this sound on the CD, but don’t worry if you
can’t produce it in your first year of phonetics. Voiceless lateral fricatives can
also be exemplified by Welsh words such as [¬an] ‘church’ and ["k´Ò´Ò] ‘knife.’
The distinction between a central and a lateral articulation can be applied to
other manners of articulation in addition to approximants and fricatives. Trills
are always centrally articulated, but flaps can be made with either a central or a
lateral articulation. If, when making [|] or [«], you allow the airstream to flow
over the sides of the tongue, you will produce a sound that is intermediate in
quality between those sounds and [l]. This will be a voiced alveolar or retroflex
lateral flap. The symbol for either of these possibilities is [»]. A sound of this
kind sometimes occurs in languages such as Japanese that do not distinguish
between /r/ and /l/. But some African languages, for example Chaga, spoken in
East Africa, make a phonemic distinction among all three of these sounds.
TABLE 7.7 Some Zulu laterals (see text for the contrasts in each row).
1 la!la~ La!la~ Òânza~
‘sleep’ ‘play’ (imperfect) ‘vomit’
2 i!nLa~la~ i!n°tÒ’a~n°tÒ’a~
‘hunger’ ‘good luck’
3 k°˚’ina!
‘be naughty’
CD 7.10
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
180 CHAPTER 7 Consonantal Gestures
The central–lateral distinction can in some senses be said to apply to stops
as well. English stops with lateral plosion, as in little, ladle, can, of course, be
considered to be sequences of stop plus lateral. But the Navajo sound [t¬’], in
which the ejective airstream mechanism applies to both the stop and the lateral,
is appropriately called a lateral ejective. Similarly, we clearly want to distinguish
between the central and lateral clicks [!] and [≤].
Having seen that the central–lateral distinction can apply to a number of
different manners of articulation, we must now consider whether it applies to
gestures with different target places of articulation. Here, the limitations are ob-
vious. Generally speaking, laterals are made with the tip, blade, or front of the
tongue. They may be either dental (as in Malayalam and Toda), alveolar (as in
English), retroflex (also in Malayalam and other Indian languages), or palatal
(as in Italian). Velar laterals do occur. We noted a velar lateral in Zulu, but in
that language it does not contrast with other laterals in the same context. There
are, however, contrastive velar laterals in a few languages spoken in Papua New
Guinea such as Mid-Waghi, which you can find on the CD. The symbol for pala-
tal laterals is [¥]. Try saying Italian words such as famiglia [fa"mi¥¥a] ‘family’
and figlio [ "fi¥¥o ] ‘son.’ In both of these words, the lateral sound is doubled,
acting as the final consonant of one syllable and the first consonant of the next.
Additional examples of Italian laterals are in the material for this chapter on the
CD. Note that some forms of Spanish distinguish between [ ¥ ] and the simi-
lar sounding sequence [lj] in words such as pollo ["po¥o] ‘chicken’ and polio
["poljo] ‘polio.’ See if you can make this distinction. There are also retroflex lat-
erals, for which the symbol is []. Try to find these on the CD using the “Index
of sounds,” which can be accessed from the title page.
SUMMARY OF MANNERS OF ARTICULATION
Table 7.8 presents a summary of the manners of articulation we have been dis-
cussing. Note that the terms central and lateral have been placed separately,
to indicate that they can be used in conjunction with many of the terms in the
upper part of the table. This table also lists many of the symbols that have been
mentioned in the latter part of this chapter. You should be sure that you can pro-
nounce each of them in a variety of contexts. Again, don’t forget that you can
find examples of all of them on the IPA chart on the CD.
The only consonants we have not considered in detail in this chapter are ap-
proximants. Alveolar approximants—both central [®] and lateral [l]—have been
discussed. But sounds such as [w, j] as in wet, yet have not. Approximants of
the latter kind are sometimes called semivowels, or glides. It will be more ap-
propriate to discuss them after we have considered the nature of vowels more
fully. But in order to describe vowels, we must first leave the field of articulatory
phonetics and consider some of the basic principles of acoustic phonetics.
A summary of the terms required so far for describing consonant gestures is
given in the first exercise (see page 182). Note that in order to define a consonant
CD 7.11
CD 7.12
CD
contents
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 181
fully, you may need to answer up to eight questions about it: (1) What is the air-
stream mechanism? (2) What is the direction of the airstream? (3) What is the
state of the glottis? (4) What part of the tongue is involved? (5) What is the pri-
mary place of articulation? (6) Is it central or lateral? (7) Is it oral or nasal? and
(8) What is the manner of articulation? As we will see in Chapter 9, consonants
may be even more complicated, so in addition to stating all the characteristics
of the primary gesture, it may also be necessary to mention so-called secondary
gestures, such as added lip rounding.
EXERCISES
(Printable versions of all the exercises are available on the CD.)
There are fewer exercises at the end of this and subsequent chapters, because by
this stage in a course in phonetics it is appropriate for students to think in terms
of larger projects. A possible project for students of general linguistics is to find
a speaker of another language and give a description of the major phonetic char-
acteristics of that language. Students of English might try to do the same with
someone who has an accent of English that is very different from their own.
Speech pathologists might describe the speech of a particular child. In each case,
students should compile a list of words illustrating the major characteristics of
the speech of the person being analyzed. They should then make a recording of
TABLE 7.8 Manners of articulation.
Phonetic Term Brief Description Symbols
Nasal (stop) Soft palate lowered so that air m, n, N, etc.
flows out through the nose; complete
closure of two articulators
(Oral) stop Soft palate raised, forming a velic p, b, t, etc.
closure; complete closure of two
articulators
Fricative Narrowing of two articulators so f, v, T, etc.
as to produce a turbulent airstream
Approximant Approximation of two articulators w, j, l, ®, etc.
without producing a turbulent airstream
Trill An articulator set in vibration by r, R, ı
the airstream
Tap Tongue tip hitting the roof of the |
mouth; a single movement in a trill
Flap One articulator striking another «, »
in passing
Lateral With a central obstruction, so that l, ¬, L, », ¥, ≤
air passes out at the side
Central Articulated so that air passes out s, ®, w, etc.
the center
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
182 CHAPTER 7 Consonantal Gestures
this list of words and use it as a basis for their description. A good model to fol-
low is that of the International Phonetic Association, which publishes a series of
short (four- to six-page) papers describing the phonetic structures of a language.
Their recommended format for the description is in Sources at the back of the
book. Some students will be able to publish papers of this kind.
The table below lists most of the terms required for classifying consonants.
Make sure you know the meaning of all these terms. The exercises below refer
to the table.
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5)
Airstream
pulmonic
glottalic
velaric
Direction
egressive
ingressive
Glottis
voiced
voiceless
murmured
laryngealized
closed
Tongue
apical
laminal
(neither)
Place
bilabial
labiodental
dental
alveolar
retroflex
palato-alveolar
palatal
velar
uvular
pharyngeal
labial velar
(6)
Centrality
central
lateral
(7)
Nasality
oral
nasal
(8)
Manner
stop
fricative
approximant
trill
flap
tap
A. Give a full description of the following sounds, using one term from each of
the eight columns in the table above.
[b]
[tÓ]
[t’]
[¬]
[!]
[R]
B. List five combinations of terms that are impossible.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Performance Exercises 183
C. If we overlook secondary articulations such as rounding, most consonants
can be specified by using one term from each of these eight columns. But, in
addition to affricates such as [tS, dZ], one of the consonants listed in Chapter 2
cannot be specified in this way. Which consonant is this? How can this defi-
ciency be remedied?
D. Still without considering secondary articulations and affricates, what sounds
mentioned in this chapter cannot be specified by taking one term from each
of the eight columns?
PERFORMANCE EXERCISES
This chapter, like the last, introduced many non-English sounds. During this part
of the course, it is important to do as much practical work as time will allow.
But do not try to go too fast. Make sure you have thoroughly mastered the per-
formance exercises at the end of Chapter 6 before going on to do the exercises
below. Note that there are no performance exercises at the end of Chapter 8, so
you can allow more time for the exercises here and at the end of Chapter 6.
A. Learn to produce voiceless stops before [A] at a number of different places of
articulation. Begin by making a clearly interdental stop, [t1A], with the tongue
tip between the teeth. Next, make a very retroflex stop, [†A], with the tongue
tip curled back and up toward the hard palate. Now try to make as many
stops as you can with tongue positions between these two extremes. Using
the diacritics [ ™] and [ 2] to mean more forward and more retracted, respec-
tively, a series of this kind could be symbolized [t1™A, t1A, t™A, tA, t2A, †A , †2A].
Try to feel different articulatory positions such as these.
B. Repeat exercise A using a voiced stop:
[d1™A, d1A, d™A, dA, d2A, ∂A, ∂2A]
C. Repeat exercise A using a nasal:
[n1™A, n1A, n™A, nA, n2A, =A, =2A]
D. Repeat exercise A using a voiceless sibilant fricative of the [ s ] type. Note
that it is perfectly possible to make a sibilant dental fricative [s1], but a true
interdental sibilant is not possible.
[s1A, s™A, sA, s2A, ßA, ß2A]
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
184 CHAPTER 7 Consonantal Gestures
E. Repeat exercise A using a voiced sibilant fricative of the [z] type. Say:
[z1A, z™, zA, z2A, ΩA, Ω2A]
F. Make a series of voiceless fricative articulations with the tongue tip down.
Start with a palato-alveolar fricative [ S ] with the blade of the tongue. (Be
careful it is not made with the tip of the tongue up, which may be your normal
articulation of this sound.) Next, move the point of articulation backward by
raising the front of the tongue, so that you produce a palatal fricative [ C ].
Then move the articulation farther back, producing first [ x ] and then [ X ].
Finally, pull the tongue root back so that you produce a pharyngeal fricative
[©]. Try to move in a continuous series, going through all the articulations:
[S, C, x, X, ©]
G. Say these fricatives before vowels:
[SA, CA, xA, XA, ©A]
H. Repeat exercise F with the corresponding voiced sounds, producing the
series:
[Z, J, V, ‰, ?]
I. Say these fricatives before vowels:
[ZA, JA, VA, ‰A, ?A]
J. After you are fully aware of the positions of the tongue in all these fricatives,
try saying some of the corresponding voiceless stops. There is no significant
difference between palato-alveolar and palatal stops, and pharyngeal stops
do not occur, so just say:
[cA, kA, qA]
K. Repeat exercise J with the voiced stops:
[ÔA, gA, GA]
L. Repeat exercise J with the voiced nasals:
[≠A, NA, –A]
M. Consolidate your ability to produce sounds at different places of articulation.
Produce a complete series of nasals between vowels:
[AmA, An1A, AnA, A=A, A≠A, ANA, A–A]
N. Produce a series of voiceless stops between vowels:
[ApA, At1A, AtA, A†A, AcA, AkA, AqA]
O. Produce a series of voiced stops between vowels:
[AbA, Ad1A, AdA, A∂A, AÔA, AgA, AGA]
P. Produce a series of voiceless fricatives between vowels:
[AFA, AfA, ATA, AsA, AßA, ASA, ACA, AxA, AXA, A©A]
Q. Produce a series of voiced fricatives between vowels:
[ABA, AvA, ADA, AzA, AΩA, AZA, AJA, AVA, A‰A, A?A]
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Performance Exercises 185
R. Repeat all these exercises using other vowels.
S. Review the pronunciation of trills, taps, flaps, and similar-sounding approxi-
mants. Say:
[ArA, A|A, A«A, A®A, ARA, A‰A]
T. Some of these sounds are more difficult to pronounce between high vowels.
Say:
[iri, i|i, i«i, i®i, iRi, i‰i]
U. Make sure that you can produce contrasting lateral sounds. Say:
[lA, LA, ¬A, A, ¥A, tl9A, t¬’A, dlA]
V. Repeat exercise U with other vowels.
W. Incorporate all these sounds into simple series of nonsense words, such as:
Âe"sA/i tA"NoZe "p’exonu
"ÒupeΩo "be|eÒA do/e"Îo
fiVo"cA Bino"Ôe ße"Set’e
ko"ri∂o Re"¥AxA "Ge©e®u
"≠eqeFu "La=eXo mo"∫Ale
Remember that you should look at, as well as listen to, anyone saying
ear-training words.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
187
8
Acoustic Phonetics
We’ve looked at a few spectrograms in earlier chapters of this book. This chapter
is about the acoustic properties of speech that we can see in spectrograms, aiming
to teach you how to “read” spectrograms. Figure 8.1 shows a spectrogram of a
woman describing some of her experiences in politics. She says, “First campaign
I worked in was for John Kennedy in nineteen-sixty.” On the CD that accompa-
nies this book, you can listen to this sentence as it was originally recorded and
in two filtered versions. In the “high-pass” version of the sentence, the top part
of the spectrogram was allowed to pass and everything in the spectrogram below
2500 Hz was erased. Try looking at a spectrogram of the high-pass filtered file
in WaveSurfer and comparing it to the spectrogram in Figure 8.1. When you
listen to the high-pass filtered version of this sentence, you may notice that it
sounds very “tinny.” The fricative noises are quite prominent and the intona-
tion is pretty indecipherable. In the “low-pass” version, the bottom part of the
spectrogram was allowed to pass and all of the sound energy above 1000 Hz
was erased. This version of the sentence sounds more “boomy,” with prominent
vowels and intonation but not much fricative noise. Listening to filtered speech
(and looking at spectrograms of filtered speech) can give you an appreciation
of the information that is available in speech spectrograms. You can hear that
speech has high-frequency components and low-frequency components. In fact,
the sounds of language are distinguished largely by the detailed composition of
energy in the vertical dimension of the spectrogram (the frequency spectrum).
In this chapter, we will present the source/filter theory of speech production and
discuss many of the acoustic patterns that distinguish the sounds of language.
SOURCE/FILTER THEORY
In the first chapter of this book, we discussed how speech sounds can differ in
pitch, in loudness, and in quality. When discussing differences in quality, we noted
that the quality of a vowel depends on its overtone structure. Putting this another
way, we can say that a vowel sound contains a number of different pitches simulta-
neously. There is the pitch at which it is actually spoken, and there are the various
overtone pitches that give it its distinctive quality. We distinguish one vowel from
another by the differences in these overtones. The overtones are called formants,
and the lowest three formants distinguish vowels from each other. The lowest,
CD 8.1
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
188 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
formant one, which we can symbolize as F1, can be heard by tapping on your
throat. If you open your mouth, make a glottal stop, and flick a finger against your
neck just to the side and below the jaw, you will hear a note, just as you would if
you tapped on a bottle. If you tilt your head slightly backward so that the skin of
the neck is stretched while you tap, you may be able to hear this sound somewhat
better. Be careful to maintain a vowel position and not to raise the back of the
tongue against the soft palate. If you check a complete set of vowel positions [i, I,
e, ”, œ, A, O, Á, u] with this technique, you should hear the pitch of the first for-
mant going up for the first four vowels and down for the second four vowels.
The second formant, F2, goes down in pitch in the series of vowels [i, I, e,
”, œ], as can be heard more easily when these vowels are whispered. The third
formant, F3, adds to quality distinctions, but there is no easy way of making it
more evident.
How do these formants arise? The answer is that the air in the vocal tract acts
like the air in an organ pipe, or in a bottle. Sound travels from a noise-making
source (in voiced sounds, this is the vocal fold vibration) to the lips. Then, at
the lips, most of the sound energy radiates away from the lips for a listener to
hear, while some of the sound energy reflects back into the vocal tract. The addi-
tion of the reflected sound energy with the source energy tends to amplify energy
at some frequencies and damp energy at others, depending on the length and
shape of the vocal tract. The vocal folds are then a source of sound energy, and
the vocal tract (due to the interaction of the reflected sound waves in it) is a fre-
quency filter altering the timbre of the vocal fold sound. In phonetics, the timbre
of a vowel is called the vowel quality.
This same source/filter mechanism is at work in many musical instruments.
In the brass instruments, for example, the noise source is the vibrating lips in the
mouthpiece of the instrument, and the filter is provided by the long brass tube.
You can verify for yourself that the instrument changes the sound produced by
the lips by listening to the lip vibration with the mouthpiece alone (make a circle
with your index finger and thumb for a simulated trombone mouthpiece). Simi-
larly, in a marimba, the sound source is produced by striking one of the keys of
the instrument, and the filter is provided by the tubes that are mounted under-
neath each key. One reason the marimba is so much bulkier than a trombone is
Figure 8.1 Spectrogram of the utterance “First campaign I worked in was for John
Kennedy in nineteen-sixty.”
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Source/Filter Theory 189
that it has a separate source/filter system for each note in the scale, in the trom-
bone, there is only one source (lips) and one filter (the tube of the instrument),
and both are variable. The human voice is more like the trombone—our vocal
fold sound source can be made to vibrate at different pitches and amplitudes,
and our vocal tract filter can be made to enhance or damp different frequencies,
giving us the many different timbres that we hear as different vowels.
We said above that the filtering action of the vocal tract tends to amplify en-
ergy at some frequencies and damp energy at others, depending on the length
and shape of the vocal tract. The length factor is pretty easy to describe when
the shape of the vocal tract is simple. For example, if the vocal tract is shaped
like a garden hose—exactly the same diameter from glottis to lips—its resonant
frequencies can be defined by a simple formula:
Fn 5
12n 2 12 3 c
4L
This formula says that resonant frequency number n (where n 5 1, 2, 3 for
formants F1, F2, and F3) is equal to 1 subtracted from 2 times n, multiplied by
the speed of sound c, divided by four times the length of the vocal tract L. For
example, Peter Ladefoged’s vocal tract was 17.5 cm long, so the c/4L part of
the formula for his formant frequencies is 35,000/14 3 17.52 5 500. The con-
stant c is the speed of sound and tells us how quickly a sound wave travels from
the lips to the glottis as it bounces around inside the mouth. The first term in
the formula 12n 2 12 defines a sequence of multipliers for this basic frequency
value. So, Peter’s first resonant frequency (the F1) was 500 3 1 5 500 Hz;
the second formant (F2) was 500 3 3 5 1500 Hz; and the third formant (F3)
was 500 3 5 5 2500 Hz.
Different vocal tracts have different resonant frequencies. For example, Keith
Johnson’s vocal tract is about 16 cm long, so his formants will all be a little
higher, with the lowest formant (F1) at 35,000/14 3 162 5 547 Hz, the second
formant at 3 3 547 5 1641 Hz, and the third formant at 5 3 547 5 2734 Hz.
The length of the resonating portion of the vocal tract also differs substan-
tially for different speech sounds. In vowels, the whole vocal tract, from glottis
to lips, serves as the acoustic filter for the noise generated by the vibrating vocal
folds. In fricatives, the resonating portion of the vocal tract is shorter. For exam-
ple, in [s], the portion of the vocal tract that serves as the acoustic filter is from
the alveolar ridge to the lips. Thus, the lowest formant in [s] (with a vocal tract
length of only 2 or 3 cm) will have a much higher frequency than the F1 found
in vowels. This explains why the fricative noises were so noticeable in the high-
pass filtered version of the utterance in Figure 8.1. The only fricative that does
not have higher resonant frequencies than those found in vowels is the glottal
fricative [h]. In [h], the whole vocal tract, from glottis to lips, is involved.
In addition to the length of the vocal tract, the frequencies of the resonant
overtones, the formants, are determined by the shape of the vocal tract. We’ve
been assuming so far with the formula Fn 5 12n 2 12 3 c/4L that the vocal
tract has uniform diameter, as if it were a section of pipe. This is obviously
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
190 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
an incorrect assumption for most speech sounds. For example, in nasal conso-
nants, we have numerous side cavities branching off of the main passageway
from glottis to nose—the sinus cavities, as well as the mouth cavity. Similarly,
in lateral sounds, the shape of the vocal tract is complex. Rather than go into
detail for many different speech sounds, we will limit our focus here to vowel
sounds. For a more detailed account of vowel acoustics and the acoustics of
other speech sounds, see Peter Ladefoged’s book Elements of Acoustic Phonet-
ics or Keith Johnson’s book Acoustic and Auditory Phonetics. The acoustics of
vowels can be described in two ways: with tube models and with perturbation
theory. Both of these descriptions are useful—yet overly simple—descriptions.
They are discussed in the next two sections.
TUBE MODELS
The formants that characterize different vowels are the result of the different
shapes of the vocal tract. Any body of air, such as that in the vocal tract or that
in a bottle, will vibrate in a way that depends on its size and shape. If you blow
across the top of an empty bottle, you can produce a low-pitched note. If you
partially fill the bottle with water so that the volume of air is smaller, you will
be able to produce a note with a higher pitch. Smaller bodies of air are similar to
smaller piano strings or smaller organ pipes in that they produce higher pitches.
In the case of vowel sounds, the vocal tract has a complex shape so that the
different bodies of air produce a number of overtones.
The air in the vocal tract is set in vibration by the action of the vocal folds.
Every time the vocal folds open and close, there is a pulse of acoustic energy.
These pulses act like sharp taps on the air in the vocal tract, setting the resonating
cavities into vibration so that they produce a number of different frequencies,
just as if you were tapping on a number of different bottles at the same time.
Irrespective of the rate of vibration of the vocal folds, the air in the vocal tract
will resonate at these frequencies as long as the position of the vocal organs re-
mains the same. Because of the complex shape of the tract, the air will vibrate in
more than one way at once. It’s as if the air in the back of the vocal tract might
vibrate one way, producing a low-frequency waveform, while the air in front of
the tongue, a smaller cavity, might vibrate in another way, producing a higher-
frequency waveform. A third mode of vibration of the air in the vocal tract might
produce a sound of even higher frequency. What we actually hear in vowels is
the sum of these waveforms added together.
The relationship between resonant frequencies and vocal tract shape is
actually much more complicated than the air in the back part of the vocal tract
vibrating in one way and the air in other parts vibrating in another. Here we
will just concentrate on the fact that in most voiced sounds, three formants are
produced every time the vocal folds vibrate. Note that the resonance in the vocal
tract is independent of the rate of vibration of the vocal folds. The vocal fold
may vibrate faster or slower, giving the sound a higher or lower pitch, but the
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Tube Models 191
formant frequencies will remain the same as long as there are no changes in the
shape of the vocal tract.
There is nothing particularly new about this way of analyzing vowel sounds.
The general theory of formants was stated by the great German scientist Hermann
Helmholtz about one hundred fifty years ago. Even earlier, in 1829, the English
physicist Robert Willis said, “A given vowel is merely the rapid repetition of its
peculiar note.” We would nowadays say that a vowel is the rapid repetition (cor-
responding to the vibrations of the vocal folds) of its peculiar two or three notes
(corresponding to its formants). We can, in fact, go even further and say that not
only vowels but all voiced sounds are distinguishable from one another by their
formant frequencies.
The notion that vowels contain several different pitches at the same time is
difficult to appreciate. One way of making it clearer is to build up a sentence
from the component waves. The speech-synthesis demonstration on the CD
shows how this can be done. You can listen to the components of the sentence
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush in a synthesized version of Peter
Ladefoged’s voice. The first link below the table on the CD enables you to hear
just the variations in the first formant, which sounds like a muffled version of
the sentence. The vocal fold pulses have been produced at a steady rate, so that
the “utterance” is on a monotone. What you hear as the changes in pitch are the
changes in the overtones of this monotone “voice.” These overtone pitch varia-
tions convey a great deal of the quality of the voiced sounds. The rhythm of the
sentence is apparent because the overtone pitches occur only when the vocal
folds would have been vibrating. The amplitude (loudness) of the first formant is
turned up only at these times.
The second link below the table on the CD does the same for the second formant.
This time, the equivalent of a series of monotone vocal fold pulses has been used
to excite only the second formant. Again, the variations of these overtone pitches
convey much of the vowel quality. The same is not so true of the third formant by
itself, which you can hear by playing the third link. This formant adds to the overall
quality of the sound, but in this sentence, it does not play a very significant role.
The fourth link plays the sound of the three formants added together. With
this, the sentence becomes highly intelligible. A slight improvement in quality
occurs by adding some additional, fixed, formants, which you can hear by play-
ing the fifth link. At this point in the synthesis of the sentence, everything is
there except the bursts of noise associated with the releases of the stop conso-
nants and the turbulent noises of the fricatives. Play this link again and note that,
for example, the final [S] in bush is not there.
The sixth link enables you to hear the sounds of the bursts of noise and the
turbulence of the fricatives by themselves. When they are added in the correct
places, as they are for the seventh link, you can hear the entire sentence in a
monotone. The last link adds the fundamental pitch, which varies as the glot-
tal pulses recur at different intervals, so that the sentence is pronounced with
a reasonable intonation.
CD 8.2
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
192 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
PERTURBATION THEORY
We saw earlier with the formula Fn 5 12n 2 12 3 c/4L that even a tube with
a uniform diameter has simultaneous resonance frequencies—several different
pitches at the same time. Furthermore, these resonance frequencies change in
predictable ways when the tube is squeezed at various locations. This means that
we can model the acoustics of vowels in terms of perturbations of the uniform
tube. For example, when the lips are rounded, the diameter of the vocal tract is
smaller at the lips than at other locations in the vocal tract. With perturbation
theory, we know the acoustic effect of constriction at the lips, so we can predict
the formant frequency differences between rounded and unrounded vowels.
Here’s how perturbation theory works. For each formant, there are locations
in the vocal tract where constriction will cause the formant frequency to rise, and
locations where constriction will cause the frequency to fall. Figure 8.2 shows
these locations for F1, F2, and F3. In this figure, the vocal tract is pictured three
times, once for each formant, and is represented as a tube that has the same di-
ameter for its whole length and is closed at the glottis and open at the lips. This
is approximately the shape of the vocal tract during the vowel [E].
The letters “P” and “V” in the F1–F3 tubes indicate the location of pressure
maxima (P) and velocity maxima (V) in the resonant waves that are bouncing
back and forth between the lips and glottis during a vowel. The fact that three
resonant waves can be present in the vocal tract at the same time is difficult to
appreciate but true. The perturbation theory says that if there is a constriction
at a velocity maximum (V) in a resonant wave then, the frequency of that reso-
nance will decrease, and if there is a constriction at a point of maximum pres-
sure (P), then the frequency of the resonance will increase.
Given these simple rules for how resonant frequency changes when the shape
of the resonator changes, consider how to change the F1 frequency in vowels.
Constriction near the glottis (as found in low vowels) is closer to a pressure
maximum (P) than to a velocity maximum (V), so the F1 frequency will be
higher in low vowels than in schwa. Constriction near the lips (as found in high
vowels and round vowels) is closer to a velocity maximum, so the F1 frequency
will be lower in high vowels than in schwa. The rules apply in the same way to
change the frequency of F2 and F3. For example, there are two ways to raise the
Figure 8.2 Pressure (P) and velocity (V) maxima in the standing waves of the first three
vowel formants.
glottis lips
P V F1
P V P V F2
P V P V P V F3
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Acoustic Analysis 193
frequency of F2; one involves a very difficult constriction near the glottis, but
without tongue root constriction (which is near the first V in the F2 resonance
wave). The other involves constriction with the tongue against the roof of the
mouth. This is the most common maneuver used to raise the F2 frequency.
ACOUSTIC ANALYSIS
Phonetic scientists like to describe vowels in terms of numbers. It is possible to an-
alyze sounds so that we can measure the actual frequencies of the formants. We can
then represent them graphically, as in Figure 8.3. This figure gives the average of a
number of authorities’ values of the frequencies of the first three formants in eight
American English vowels. Try to see how your own vowels compare with these.
Figure 8.3 The frequencies of the first three formants in eight American English vowels.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
194 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
Do you have a much larger jump in the frequency of the second formant (which
you hear when whispering) between [”] and [œ] as compared with [I] and [”]?
Do you distinguish between hod and hawed in terms of their formant frequencies?
There are computer programs that can analyze sounds and show their com-
ponents. The display produced is called a spectrogram. We have seen spectro-
grams in prior chapters without much discussion of how to interpret them. Now
is the time for a little more detail. In spectrograms, time runs from left to right,
the frequency of the components is shown on the vertical scale, and the intensity
of each component is shown by the degree of darkness. It is thus a display that
shows, roughly speaking, dark bands for concentrations of energy at particular
frequencies—showing the source and filter characteristics of speech. There are
several free computer programs on the Web that can be used to make spectro-
grams. One of the best is WaveSurfer, from the Centre for Speech Technology
(CTT) at KTH in Stockholm, Sweden. It is included (with permission) on the top
level of the CD.You can open any of the sounds that you listen to on the CD and
make spectrograms. If your computer has a built-in microphone, try recording
your pronunciation of heed, hid, head, had and making spectrograms of them.
Figure 8.4 is a set of spectrograms of an American English speaker saying
the words heed, hid, head, had, hod, hawed, hood, who’d. Because the higher
Figure 8.4 A spectrogram of the words heed, hid, head, had, hod, hawed, hood, who’d as
spoken by a male speaker of American English. The locations of the first three
formants are shown by arrows.
CD 8.3
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Acoustic Analysis 195
frequencies of the human voice have less energy, the higher frequencies have
been given added emphasis. If they had not been boosted in this way, the higher
formants would not have been visible. The time scale along the bottom of the
picture shows intervals of 100 ms, so you can see that these words differ in
length. The words were actually said one after another, but they have been put
in separate frames as there was no point in showing the blank spaces between
them. The vertical scale goes up to 4000 Hz, which is sufficient to show the
component frequencies of vowels. Because the formants have greater rela-
tive intensity, shown by the darkness of the image, they can be seen as dark
horizontal bars. The locations of the first three formants in each vowel are
indicated by arrows.
There is a great deal of similarity between Figures 8.3 and 8.4. Figure 8.3 is
like a schematic spectrogram of the isolated vowels. Figure 8.4 differs in that it
represents a particular American English speaker rather than the mean of a num-
ber of speakers of American English. It also shows the effects of the consonant
at the end of the word (which we will discuss later), and the slightly diphthongal
character of some of the vowels. Note, for example, that the vowel [ I ] starts
with a higher second formant, and that the vowel [Á] has a large upward move-
ment of the second formant. There is also a small downward movement of the
second formant during [œ], indicating diphthongization of this vowel. In addi-
tion, there are some extra horizontal bars corresponding to higher formants that
are not linguistically significant. The exact position of the higher formants var-
ies a great deal from speaker to speaker. They are not uniquely determined for
each speaker, but they certainly are indicative of a person’s voice quality.
Figure 8.5 shows spectrograms of Peter Ladefoged’s form of British English.
It is similar to Figure 8.4, but not exactly the same because of the differences
in accent and other individual differences. His head was larger than that of the
American English speaker, so all his formants were slightly lower. Also, his
vowels were less diphthongal—they had longer steady states.
Whenever the vocal folds are vibrating, there are regularly spaced vertical
lines, close together, on the spectrogram. During a vowel, the vertical lines are
visible throughout a large part of the spectrogram. Each vertical line in the vow-
els is the result of the momentary increase of acoustic energy due to a single
movement of the vocal folds. We have seen that it is possible to observe the
pulses in a record of the waveform and from this to calculate the pitch. It is
equally possible to measure the pitch from observations of the vertical striations
on spectrograms. When they are close together, the pitch is higher than when
they are farther apart. At the bottom left of Figure 8.5, below the baseline but
just above the symbol for [ɒ], there are two small lines, 100 ms apart. Within
this tenth of a second, you can see that there are between eight and nine verti-
cal striations in the vowel formants. The vocal folds must have been vibrating
at about 85 Hz. This is not the best way of using spectrograms to determine
the pitch. As we will see, it is possible to make another kind of spectrographic
record that gives a better picture of the variations in pitch.
CD 8.4
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
196 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
The traditional articulatory descriptions of vowels are related to the formant
frequencies. We can see that the first formant frequency (indicated by the lowest
of the three arrows in the frame for each vowel) increases as the speaker moves
from the high vowel in heed to the low vowel in had. In these four vowels, the
first formant frequency goes up as the vowel height goes down, both for the
American English speaker in Figure 8.4 and for Peter Ladefoged in Figure 8.5.
In the four vowels in the bottom rows of Figures 8.4 and 8.5, the first formant
frequency decreases as the speaker goes from the low vowel in hod to the high
vowel in who’d. Again in these vowels, the first formant frequency is inversely
related to vowel height. We can also see that the second formant frequency is
much higher for the front vowels in the top row than it is for the back vowels
in the bottom row in each figure. But the correlation between the second for-
mant frequency and the degree of backness of a vowel is not as good as that
between the first formant frequency and the vowel height. The second formant
frequency is considerably affected by the degree of lip rounding as well as by
vowel height.
We can see some of the relationships between traditional articulatory
descriptions and formants when we plot the formant frequencies given in
Figure 8.3 along axes as shown in Figure 8.6. Because the formant frequencies
Figure 8.5 A spectrogram of the words heed, hid, head, had, hod, hawed, hood, who’d as
spoken in a British accent. The locations of the first three formants are shown
by arrows.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Acoustic Analysis 197
are inversely related to the traditional articulatory parameters, the axes have been
placed so that zero frequency would be at the top right corner of the figure rather
than at the bottom left corner, as is more usual in graphical representations. In
addition, the frequencies have been arranged in accordance with the Bark scale,
in which perceptually equal intervals of pitch are represented as equal distances
along the scale. As a further refinement, because the second formant is not as
prominent as the first formant (which, on average, has 80 percent of the energy
in a vowel), the second formant scale is not as expanded as the first formant
scale. (Remember that in Figures 8.4 and 8.5, and in all the spectrograms in this
book, the darkness scale does not correspond directly to the acoustic intensity
of each sound. The higher frequencies have been given added emphasis to make
them more visible.)
On a plot of formant frequencies, [i] and [u] appear at the top left and right of
the graph, and [œ] and [A] at the bottom, with all the other vowels in between.
Consequently, this arrangement allows us to represent vowels in the way that we
have become accustomed to seeing them in traditional articulatory descriptions.
In the preceding paragraphs, we have been careful to refer to the correlation
between formant frequencies and the traditional articulatory descriptions. This
is because, as we noted in Chapter 1, traditional articulatory descriptions are not
entirely satisfactory. They are often not in accord with the actual articulatory
Figure 8.6 A formant chart showing the frequency of the first formant on the ordinate
(the vertical axis) plotted against the second formant on the abscissa (the
horizontal axis) for eight American English vowels. The scales are marked in
Hz, arranged at Bark scale intervals.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
198 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
facts. For well over a hundred years, phoneticians have been describing vowels
in terms such as high versus low and front versus back. There is no doubt that
these terms are appropriate for describing the relationships between different
vowel qualities, but to some extent phoneticians have been using these terms as
labels to specify acoustic dimensions rather than as descriptions of actual tongue
positions. As G. Oscar Russell, one of the pioneers in x-ray studies of vowels,
said, “Phoneticians are thinking in terms of acoustic fact, and using physiologi-
cal fantasy to express the idea.”
There is no doubt that the traditional description of vowel “height” is more
closely related to the first formant frequency than to the height of the tongue.
The so-called front–back dimension has a more complex relationship to the
formant frequencies. As we have noted, the second formant is affected by both
backness and lip rounding. We can eliminate some of the effects of lip rounding
by considering the second formant in relation to the first. The degree of back-
ness is best related to the difference between the first and the second formant
frequencies. The closer they are together, the more “back” a vowel sounds.
Formant charts are commonly used to represent vowel qualities. To consoli-
date acoustic notions about vowels, you should now try to represent the vowels
in Figures 8.4 and 8.5 in terms of a formant chart. We have provided arrows that
mark what we take to be the formants that characterize these vowels. Measure
these frequencies in terms of the scale on the left of each figure. Make a table
listing the first and second formant frequencies and plot the vowels. A blank
chart is provided as a PDF file on the CD.
ACOUSTICS OF CONSONANTS
The acoustic structure of consonants is usually more complicated than that
of vowels. In many cases, a consonant can be said to be a particular way of
beginning or ending a vowel, and during the consonant articulation itself, there
is no distinguishing feature. Thus, there is virtually no difference in the sounds
during the actual closures of [b, d, g], and absolutely none during the closures of
[p, t, k], for at these moments there is only silence.
Each of the stop sounds conveys its quality by its effect on the adjacent vowel.
We have seen that during a vowel such as [”] there will be formants correspond-
ing to the particular shape of the vocal tract. These formants will be present as
the lips open in a syllable such as [b”]. They will have frequencies correspond-
ing to the particular shape that occurs at the moment that the lips come apart.
As the lips come farther apart and the vocal tract shape changes, the formants
will move correspondingly. As we saw in the section on perturbation theory,
and Figure 8.2, closure of the lips causes a lowering of all the formants. Conse-
quently, the syllable [b”] will begin with the formants in a lower position and
will be distinguished by their rapidly rising to the positions for [”]. Similarly, in
the syllable [”b], the formants in [”] will descend as the lip closure is formed.
CD 8.5
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Acoustics of Consonants 199
Whenever a stop is formed or released, there will be a particular shape of the
vocal tract that will be characterized by particular formant frequencies.
When you say bib or bab, for example, the tongue will be in the position for
the vowel even when the lips are closed at the beginning of the word. The for-
mant frequencies at the moment of release will be determined by the shape of the
vocal tract as a whole, and hence will vary according to the vowel. The apparent
point of origin of the formant for each place of articulation is called the locus
of that place of articulation. The point of origin of the formants will depend on
the adjacent vowels. This is because the position of that part of the tongue that
is not involved in the formation of a consonant closure will be largely that of the
adjacent vowel.
Figure 8.7 shows spectrograms of the words bed, dead, and the nonword
[ g”g ] spoken by an American English speaker.You can see the faint voicing
striations near the baseline for each of the final stops [ d, d, g ]. Evidence of
voicing near the baseline during a consonant closure is called a voice bar. Note
that this speaker, like many other speakers of English, has no voice bars in the
initial “voiced” stops.
In all three words, the first formant rises from a low position. This is simply a
mark of a stop closure and does not play a major part in distinguishing one place
of articulation from another. What primarily distinguishes these three stops are
the onsets and offsets of the second and third formants, which are traced with
white lines. At the beginning of the word bed, the second and third formants have
a lower frequency than they do at the beginning of the word dead. The second
formant is noticeably rising for the initial [b] from a comparatively low locus. In
the word dead, the second formant is fairly steady at the beginning and the third
formant drops a little. In [g”g], the second and third formants come close to each
other at the margins of the vowel, where the [g] consonants have the most influ-
ence over the formant frequencies. It is almost as if the F2 and F3 were going to
a common point. This coming together of the second and third formants, some-
times called a velar pinch, is very characteristic of velar consonants.
CD 8.6
Figure 8.7 Spectrograms of the words bed, dead, and the nonword [g”g] spoken by an
American English speaker.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
200 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
The corresponding voiceless stops, [p, t, k], are illustrated in Figure 8.8, in
the forms [pÓ”m], [tÓ”n], and [kÓ”N], of which only ten is an English word. We
chose these forms because the vowel [”] is a particularly good environment for
showing stop-consonant place-of-articulation differences. As with unaspirated
stops, the release of the aspirated stops is marked by a sudden sharp spike corre-
sponding to the onset of a burst of noise. After the release burst, there is a period
of aspiration noise marked by absence of energy in F1 and absence of the regular
vertical striations of voicing. The aspiration noise separates the burst from the
voiced portion of the vowel. The burst for [p] has the lowest frequency. For both
[t] and [k], the noise extends above the 4000 Hz shown in the spectrogram, as we
will see in later figures. The highest frequencies are actually in the [t] burst rather
than the [k]. If you whisper a sequence of consonants [t, t, t, k, k, k, p, p, p]
in that order, [ t, k, p ], you can hear that the highest pitch is associated with
[t], the next with [k], and the lowest with [p]. You can also hear that [t] is the
loudest, [k] next loudest, and [p] the least loud. The intensity of the [p] burst is
sometimes so low that there is hardly any evidence of a sharp spike in the spec-
trogram. Since the formant transitions after voiceless aspirated stops take place
during the period of aspiration, they are not as apparent in Figure 8.8 as they are
after the voiced stops in Figure 8.7. However, we have traced the centers of F2
and F3 in these spectrograms to help you see that the formants are also present
in the aspiration noise. In addition, the transitions into the final nasals from the
vowels before them are easily visible. The second and third formants are falling
(slightly) before [m]; the second and third formants are almost level before [n].
Most distinctive of all, the second and third formants are coming together for the
velar pinch before [N].
The nasal consonants [m, n, N] are also illustrated in Figure 8.8. A clear mark
of a nasal (or, as we will see, a lateral) consonant is an abrupt change in the spec-
trogram at the time of the formation of the articulatory closure. Each of the nasals
has a formant structure similar to that of a vowel, except that the bands are fainter
CD 8.7
Figure 8.8 Spectrograms of the forms [pÓ”m], [tÓ”n] (ten), and [kÓ”N].
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Acoustics of Consonants 201
and are in particular frequency locations that depend on the characteristic reso-
nances of the nasal cavities. In nasal consonants, there is usually a very low first
formant centered at about 250 Hz. The location of the higher formants varies,
but generally there is a large region above the first formant with no energy. This
speaker has a second, rather faint, nasal formant around 2000 Hz. The difference
between each of the nasals is often determinable from the different formant tran-
sitions that occur at the end of each vowel. There is a decrease in the second for-
mant of the vowel before [m], and formants two and three are coming together
for the velar pinch before the velar nasal at the end of [kÓ”N]. But the place cues
are sometimes not very clear.
Figure 8.9 shows the words fie, thigh, sigh, shy illustrating the voiceless frica-
tives. The frequency scale for these spectrograms has been increased to 8000 Hz,
as the highest frequencies in speech occur during fricatives. In [s] sounds, the
random noise extends well beyond the upper limits of even this spectrogram.
The spectrogram of the first word, fie, shows the diphthong that occurs in each of
these words. The first and second formants in this diphthong start close together
in the position for a low central vowel. They then move apart so that at the end
of the diphthong they are in locations similar to those in [ I ] in Figure 8.3. As
the formant pattern for the diphthong is the same in fie, thigh, sigh, shy, only the
first part has been shown for the last three words.
All these sounds have random energy distributed over a wide range of fre-
quencies. In [ f ] and [ T ], the pattern is much the same. What distinguishes
these two words is the movement of the second formant into the following
vowel, marked by arrows in the figure. There is very little movement in [ f ],
but in [ T ], the second formant starts at around 1200 Hz and moves down.
CD 8.8
Figure 8.9 A spectrogram of fie, thigh, sigh, shy. The frequency scale goes up to 8000 Hz
in this figure. The arrows mark the onsets of the second formant transitions.
Only the first word is shown in full. The second part of the diphthong has been
deleted for the other words.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
202 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
Because the differences between these two sounds are so small, they are often
confused in noisy settings, and they have fallen together as one sound in some
accents of English, such as London Cockney, which does not distinguish
between fin and thin.
The noise in [s] is centered at a high frequency, between 5000 and 6000 Hz
in Figure 8.9. In [S], it is lower, extending down to about 2500 Hz. Since both
[s] and [S] have a comparatively large acoustic intensity, they produce darker
patterns than [ f ] or [ T ]. They are also marked by distinctive formant transi-
tions. The apparent origin (the locus) of the second formant transition increases
throughout the four words fie, thigh, sigh, shy so that in shy, it is in a position
comparable to its location in the vowel [i] and falls considerably.
The voiced fricatives corresponding to [f, T, s, S] do not contrast at the begin-
nings of words. Accordingly, Figure 8.10 shows [v, D, z, Z] between vowels. These
voiced fricatives have patterns similar to their voiceless counterparts, but with the
addition of the vertical striations indicative of voicing. The fricative component of
[v] in ever is even fainter than the [f] in face and is really only visible at the start
of the following vowel. The vertical striations due to voicing are apparent through-
out the articulation. The same is true of [ D] in whether. As with their voiceless
counterparts, [f, T], it is the formants in the adjacent vowels that distinguish these
words. In this figure, both these fricatives are preceded by [”] and followed by [E±].
The second formants are much higher around [D] than around [v].
The fricative energy in the higher frequencies is very apparent in [z] and [Z].
There is a faint voice bar in [z], but in [Z], the voicing is hard to see. There are
only a few vertical striations due to voicing in the 6000- to 8000-Hz range at the
beginning of the fricative noise. The formant transition from [z] into the vowel
[E±] is level, but that from [Z] falls considerably. This last word, pleasure, also
enables us to see what happens when an aspirated stop such as [p] is followed
by an approximant such as [l]. Most of the [l] is voiceless, audible only by the
effect it has on the [p] burst and the aspiration noise.
CD 8.9
Figure 8.10 A spectrogram of ever, weather, fizzer, pleasure.
1
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Acoustics of Consonants 203
The last set of English consonants to consider are the lateral and central ap-
proximants, [l, r, w, j]. Figure 8.11 shows these sounds in the words led, red,
wed, yell. All these voiced approximants have formants not unlike those of vow-
els. The initial lateral in the first word has formants with center frequencies of
approximately 250, 1100, and 2400 (low intensity), which change abruptly in
intensity at the beginning of the vowel. As we noted above, a marked change in
the formant pattern is characteristic of voiced nasals and laterals. At the end of
a word, as in yell in Figure 8.11, there may be a less marked change. A final lat-
eral may have little or no central contact, making it not really a lateral but a back
unrounded vowel. A formant in the neighborhood of 1100 or 1200 Hz is typical
of most initial laterals for most speakers.
The second word in Figure 8.11 illustrates the approximant [ r ] in red.
(Remember that in the broad transcription of English used in this book, the sym-
bol [r] is used for the approximant [®].) The most obvious feature of this kind
of [r] is the low frequency of the second and third formants. The third formant
in particular has a very low frequency. In this example, its origin (above the
symbol [r]) is around 1600 Hz. There is a great deal of similarity between red
and the third word, wed, which is why young children sometimes have difficulty
learning to distinguish them. The approximant [w] also starts with a low posi-
tion of all three formants, but this time, it is the second formant that has the
sharpest rise. The movements of the formants for [w] are like those in a move-
ment away from a very short [u] vowel. Finally, the movements of the formants
for [j], as in yell or yes, are like those in a movement away from a very short [i]
vowel. Both [w] and [j] are appropriately called semivowels.
The vagueness of many of the remarks in the preceding paragraphs is meant
to convey that the interpretation of sound spectrograms is often not all straight-
forward. The acoustic correlates of some articulatory features are summarized in
Table 8.1. But in a book such as this, it is impossible to give a completely detailed
account of the acoustics of speech. The descriptions that have been given should
CD 8.10
Figure 8.11 A spectrogram of led, red, wed, yell.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
204 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
be regarded as rough guides rather than accounts of invariable structures that can
always be seen in spectrograms. When any of the segments described above oc-
curs in a different phonetic context, it may have a surprisingly different acoustic
structure.
INTERPRETING SPECTROGRAMS
All the words illustrated in spectrograms so far were spoken in a fairly distinct
way. In connected speech, as in the remainder of the spectrograms illustrating
this chapter, many of the sounds are more difficult to distinguish. Before reading
the next paragraph, transcribe the segments in Figure 8.12, given the informa-
tion that the utterance was She came back and started again, as spoken by the
speaker who produced the vowels in Figure 8.3.
Looking at the segments one at a time, we can see that the initial [S] sound is
similar to that in shy in Figure 8.9. The frequency scale is not as extended as that
in Figure 8.9 (so that more attention can be paid to the vowel formants), but it is
quite easy to see that this is [S], not [s] as in segment (12), which has a higher
frequency. The second segment, [i], has second and third formant frequencies
that are a little lower than in this speaker’s vowel in Figure 8.3. At the end of
segment (2), the second and third formants come together for the velar stop that
forms segment (3). This stop is followed by a burst of aspiration—marked as
segment (4)—before the onset of the vowel. The vowel in came, (5), is a diph-
thong, [eI], with a faint additional formant around 1100 Hz, associated with the
CD 8.11
TABLE 8.1 Acoustic correlates of consonantal features. Note: These descriptions
should be regarded only as rough guides. The actual acoustic correlates
depend to a great extent on the particular combination of articulatory
features in a sound and on the neighboring vowels.
Voiced Vertical striations corresponding to the vibrations of the vocal folds.
Bilabial Locus of both second and third formants comparatively low.
Alveolar Locus of second formant about 1700–1800 Hz.
Velar Usually high locus of the second formant. Common origin of second and
third formant transitions.
Retroflex General lowering of the third and fourth formants.
Stop Gap in pattern, followed by burst of noise for voiceless stops or sharp
beginning of formant structure for voiced stops.
Fricative Random noise pattern, especially in higher frequency regions, but
dependent on the place of articulation.
Nasal Formant structure similar to that of vowels but with nasal formants at
about 250, 2500, and 3250 Hz.
Lateral Formant structure similar to that of vowels but with formants in the
neighborhood of 250, 1200, and 2400 Hz. The higher formants are
considerably reduced in intensity.
Approximant Formant structure similar to that in vowels, usually changing.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Interpreting Spectrograms 205
nasalization of the vowel. At the end of the bilabial nasal (6), there is a short [b]
closure (7), in which the voicing is just barely visible. The upward transitions
after the bilabial stop at the beginning of [œ] (8) in back are much more evident.
There is no difficulty in seeing the coming together of the second and third for-
mants before the velar stop [k] (9). There is only a short period of aspiration,
not given a separate segment number, followed by a transition, the coming apart
of the second and third formants, before a neutral vowel, [E] (10). This is fol-
lowed by an alveolar nasal [n] (11).
The [s] (12) in started is followed by a short [t] (13), which is only slightly
aspirated (as is normal for [t] whenever it occurs after [s] in English). The fall-
ing second formant into the vowel, [ A ] (14), is typical of the transition from
[ t ] into [ A ]. The falling of the third formant for the last part of segment (14)
is associated with the r-coloring. Approximately the last half of the vowel is
rhotacized. The stop in (15) has a voice bar and could be symbolized by [|] in
a narrow phonetic transcription. For many people, including this speaker, past-
tense -ed forms after an alveolar stop have a fairly high second formant and a
low first formant. The vowel in segment (16) is probably better as [I] rather than
[E]. Segment (17), like (15), is a tap [|]. The vowel in segment (18) is also [I];
unstressed vowels before velar consonants are often [I] rather than [E]. The ve-
lar stop [g] in (19) is clearly marked by the coming together of the second and
third formants in the vowels on either side of it. The final syllable in again has a
fairly low vowel—formant one is about as high as it is in segment (8), the vowel
[œ] in back. Segment (20) could be transcribed as [”] or [œ]. Segment (21) is
the final nasal [n].
Now you should try segmenting a more difficult utterance. Figure 8.13 shows
a spectrogram of Peter Ladefoged saying, I should have thought spectrograms
were unreadable. This phrase was spoken in a normal, but rapid, conversa-
tional style. This time, instead of marking the separate segments, we have sim-
ply placed evenly spaced lines above the spectrogram so that we can refer to
CD 8.12
Figure 8.12 A spectrogram of She came back and started again.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
206 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
particular places. Try to write a transcription below these lines. Make sure the
symbols you write indicate correctly how the phrase was actually pronounced,
rather than how you might say it.
When given a problem like this, it is always best to find the obvious things
first. The voiceless fricatives [s] and [S] stand out from other sounds, so begin
by trying to find the [S] in should and the [s] in spectrograms. The [S] is at (3)
and the [s] is between (9) and (10). You can now start at the beginning, and find
the vowel [ aI ] in the first word. It is below (1) and (2), ending where the [ S ]
begins. You know that the [ s ] in spectrograms is between (9) and (10), so the
vowel in thought must be at (7), with the [t] after it at (8). What happens before
the vowel in thought and after the [ S ] in should? Is there any voicing in any
of the segments between these sounds? It seems as if the whole of the phrase
should have was pronounced without any voicing. There must be a [ t ] at (4)
and an [f] and a [T] at (6). A narrow transcription of the phrase I should have
thought is [aIStf ·TOt].
Now go on from the [s] in spectrograms, bearing these points in mind. Try to
transcribe spectrograms were unreadable, remembering that some of the sounds
you might have expected to be voiced might be voiceless. When you have done
this, read the next paragraph.
As you might expect, there is no aspiration after the [ p ] in spectrograms,
which is between (10) and (11). The vowel [”] at (11) is very short, but you can
see the coming together of the second and third formants for the [k] at (12). The
[ t ] is also at (12), and is highly aspirated, so that the following [ r ] is almost
completely voiceless (and hence in a narrow transcription [®9]). There is virtually
no voicing in the short [E] at (13). The velar stop [g] at (14) is released into [®],
easily located by the lowering of the third and fourth formants. The vowel [œ]
at (15–16) is followed by a long [m], with its faint formants occupying most of
(17) and (18). The fricative at the end of this word, below (18–19), appears to be
Figure 8.13 A spectrogram of I should have thought spectrograms were unreadable spoken
in a normal, but rapid, conversational style (British English).
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Interpreting Spectrograms 207
voiceless. It might be best, though, to transcribe it as [z9] rather than [s] because
of its lack of intensity.
One of the next most identifiable points is the drop in the third formant below
(21) at the end of the word were, showing that on this occasion there was an [®] in
this word. This is normal for most speakers of British English when the next word
begins with a vowel. The [w] at the beginning of this word, at (20), is distinguish-
able by the low second formant. The syllable [Øn] of unreadable is below (22) and
(23). The lowering of the third formant at (24) marks the beginning of the syllable
read, the high vowel [i] at (25) having a low first formant and a high second for-
mant. The very short [d] and [E] at (25–26) are followed by a comparatively long
[b] at (26–27), and the final syllabic [l`] at (27–28) looks like a back vowel.
If you want a more difficult exercise in interpreting sound spectrograms, look
at Figure 8.14 and see if you can say what it is. It is an ordinary English sentence
spoken by the British English speaker who said the vowels in Figure 8.4. You
will find it hard to determine the whole sentence, but some segments are quite
easy. For example, what must be there when the third formant is below 2000 Hz,
near (14–15)? Can you see a distinctive pattern of the second and third formants
at (26)? And perhaps also at (24–25)?
At the beginning, below (1), there is a small fricative noise near 3000 Hz.
Then, at (2), there is a vowel that might be [i] or [I]. A sharp break in the pat-
tern is followed at (3) by a segment with faint formants at about 250, 1300, and
2400 Hz. This break must indicate a nasal or a lateral, with a lateral being the
more probable here. If you look at Figure 8.3, you will see that the vowel at (5)
is something like [ œ ] or [ ” ]. This is followed by a fricative at (6) that could
only be [ T ] or [ f ]. At (7), there is a voiceless stop [ p ], [ t ], or [ k ], with the
aspiration at (8) being strong and at high frequency, making it most likely [t].
The vowel at (9) is again either [i] or [I], judging by the first two formants. The
second formant falls slightly in (10), indicating diphthongization.
CD 8.13
Figure 8.14 A spectrogram of an English sentence as described in the text.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
208 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
As there seems to be a pause after (10), we can stop there for a moment and
write out our possible transcription choices:
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10)
Q i l œ T t Ó I
I n, m, N ” f k, p i
Can you make a path through these possible choices? The second syllable
could be laugh or laughed or left, making a possible phrase He laughed or He
left. What was actually said was He left here, but it would be very difficult to get
this. You should, however, get segments such as those listed above.
Now look at the last part of the sentence in Figure 8.14, which is a bit easier.
There is a fricative at (13–14) that is [T] or [f], followed by a low third formant
at (15) indicating [®], and then a vowel at (16–17) in which the first formant is
lower and the second formant higher than anywhere else in the sentence, mak-
ing it clearly [i]. This gives us the syllable free or three. You can see a little bit
of voicing near the baseline at (17–18) during what is presumably a voiced stop.
The intensity of the burst, the high-frequency energy, and the level formants at
the onset of the vowel all suggest that this is [d]. The vowel at (20–21) is long
and almost as high (first formant low) and front (second formant high) as the
preceding vowel, making it probably [eI]. (23) is clearly a fricative looking like
[s], but, because of its lack of intensity, it may be [z] with voicing too faint to
be seen. There is a very short vowel at (24), and a good rule for such vowels is to
regard them as [E]. The velar pinch indicated that the consonant at (25–26) must
be a velar stop. The final long vowel at (27–29) is a diphthong, ending in a back
vowel (low second formant) like [Á].
Putting this last part together, we have:
(13–14) (15) (15–16) (17–18) (20–21) (23) (24) (25–26) (27–29)
f ® i d eI s ´ g ... U
T b z k
Read these possible transcriptions and you may be able to find a path that
gives you the whole sentence: He left here—three days ago.
Try another of these sentences on your own. Figure 8.15 is a spectrogram of
the British English speaker. The utterance is a normal English sentence, contain-
ing no proper nouns. As before, many of the sounds occur in new combinations,
which means that they have slightly different patterns. But if you start with the
more obvious sounds and use your knowledge of possible English words, you
should be able to succeed. Many readers of earlier editions of this book have
already done so.
The spectrograms that have been used to illustrate this chapter so far are
called wide-band spectrograms. They are very accurate in the time dimension.
They show each vibration of the vocal folds as a separate vertical line and in-
dicate the precise moment of a stop burst with a vertical spike. But they are
less accurate in the frequency dimension. There are usually several component
CD 8.14
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Interpreting Spectrograms 209
frequencies present in a single formant, all of them lumped together in one wide
band on the spectrogram.
It is a fact of physics that one can know either fairly precisely when a sound
occurred or, to a comparable degree of accuracy, what its frequency is. This
should be intuitively clear when you recall that knowing the frequency of a
sound involves observing the variations in air pressure over a period of time.
This period of time has to be long enough to ensure observations of a number
of repetitions of the variations in air pressure. You can either know that a pulse
from the vocal folds has happened (producing the vertical voicing striation in all
the spectrograms we have considered so far), or, if the piece of the sound wave
being analyzed contains two or three pulses of the vocal folds, you can tell how
far apart they are and hence know the frequency.
Spectrograms that are more accurate in the frequency dimension (at the ex-
pense of accuracy in the time dimension) are called narrow-band spectrograms.
Figure 8.16 shows both wide- and narrow-band spectrograms of the question
Is Pat sad, or mad? In the wide-band spectrogram, there are sharp spikes at the
release of each stop, for example, for the [ d ] at the end of the utterance. The
spikes are smeared in the time dimension in the narrow-band spectrogram. But
the frequencies that compose each formant are visible.
When the vocal folds vibrate, they produce what are called harmonics of their
fundamental frequency of vibration. Harmonics are vibrations at whole-number
multiples of the fundamental frequency. Thus, when the vocal folds are vibrat-
ing at 100 Hz, they produce harmonics at 200 Hz, 300 Hz, 400 Hz, and so on. In
a given vowel, the particular harmonics evident are those that correspond to the
resonances of the vocal tract shape occurring in that vowel.We put two small white
squares in the middle of the fifth, tenth, and fifteenth harmonics in the middle of
the vowels in sad and mad. The vocal folds are vibrating at about 118 Hz in sad,
so the fifth harmonic has a frequency of 5 3 118 5 590 Hz, the tenth harmonic
a frequency of 1180 Hz, and the fifteenth harmonic a frequency of 1770 Hz.
CD 8.15
Figure 8.15 A spectrogram of an ordinary English sentence containing no names
(British accent).
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
210 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
The first formant in sad is formed by the fifth and sixth harmonics, and the
principal components of the second formant are the fourteenth and fifteenth har-
monics. Compare this with the vowel in mad, which has formants very similar
to sad, both being examples of the/œ/phoneme. Near the beginning of the last
word, the third harmonic is the principal component of the first formant, and the
eighth harmonic the principal component of the second formant. As we have
noted, the quality of a vowel sound depends on the frequencies of the formants.
But the pitch depends on the fundamental frequency, which is determined by the
rate of vibration of the vocal folds.
In women’s voices, which usually have a higher pitch, the formants are some-
times more difficult to locate precisely. Figure 8.17 show spectrograms of a fe-
male speaker of American English saying the same set of vowels as those of the
male speaker in Figure 8.3. Even though these spectrograms have been made
with considerable care, choosing the most appropriate degree of narrowness of
the spectrogram to best show the formant frequencies, the harmonics still inter-
fere with the display of the formants. Notice, for example, the change in vowel
quality in the vowel [Á], which appears as a series of steps as different harmon-
ics become available to make up the formant. In a narrow-band spectrogram,
CD 8.16
Figure 8.16 Wide-band (upper part of the figure) and narrow-band (lower part) spectrogram
of the question Is Pat sad, or mad? The fifth, tenth, and fifteenth harmonics
have been marked by white squares in two of the vowels.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Interpreting Spectrograms 211
it is even more difficult to locate the centers of the formants when the funda-
mental frequency is high.
Narrow-band spectrograms are obviously useful for determining the
intonation—or tone—of an utterance. One can do this by looking at the funda-
mental frequency itself, but when this goes from, say, 100 to 120 Hz, the fre-
quency of the tenth harmonic will go from 1000 to 1200 Hz, which is much easier
to see. The actual pitch—or, to be more exact, the fundamental frequency—at any
moment will be one-tenth that of the tenth harmonic. As we saw in Chapter 5,
computers can analyze speech to give a good record of the fundamental fre-
quency (the pitch). But most fundamental frequency routines make occasional
errors when the pitch is too low, or when the vocal folds are not vibrating regu-
larly. In these cases, a narrow-band spectrographic analysis can be very useful.
We may now summarize the kinds of information that can and cannot be ob-
tained from spectrograms. The most reliable measurements will be those of the
length of the segments, for which purpose spectrograms are often even better than
waveforms. Differences among vowels, nasals, and laterals can be seen on spec-
trograms, whereas it may be impossible to see these differences in waveforms.
Spectrograms are usually fairly reliable indicators of relative vowel quality.
The frequency of the first formant certainly shows the relative vowel height
Figure 8.17 A spectrogram of the words heed, hid, head, had, hod, hawed, hood, who’d
as spoken by a female speaker of American English. The locations of the first
three formants are shown by arrows.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
212 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
quite accurately. The second formant reflects the degree of backness quite well,
but there may be confusions due to variations in the degree of lip rounding.
It is also possible to tell many things about the manner of articulation from
spectrograms. For example, one can usually see whether a stop has been weak-
ened to a fricative, or even to an approximant. Affrication of a stop can be seen
on most occasions. Trills can be separated from flaps, and voiced from voice-
less sounds. One can also observe the relative rates of movement of different
articulations.
Spectrograms cannot be used to measure degrees of nasalization, nor are they
much help in differentiating between adjacent places of articulation. For study-
ing these aspects of speech, other techniques are more useful.
INDIVIDUAL DIFFERENCES
The last subject that must be dealt with in this chapter is that of differences
between individual speakers. This is important for several reasons. First, we
often want to know whether a particular speech pattern is typical of a speech
community or whether the speaker might have some kind of idiosyncrasy.
Second, when trying to measure features that are linguistically significant, one
must know how to discount purely individual features. Third, now that acoustic
analyses of voices are used in forensic situations, we must discuss the validity of
speaker identification.
Individual variation is readily apparent when studying spectrograms. In sum-
marizing the uses of spectrograms, we were careful to say that they showed rela-
tive vowel quality. It is clearly true that one can use spectrograms such as that in
Figure 8.14 to tell that the speaker has a higher vowel in three than in the beginning
of the vowel in here. One can also use formant plots such as that in Figure 8.5 to
show that the average American English vowel in who’d is farther forward than
that in hawed. But it is not so easy to say whether the vowel in a given word as
pronounced by one speaker is higher or lower than that of another speaker.
In general, when two different speakers pronounce sets of vowels with the
same phonetic quality, the relative positions of these vowels on a formant chart
will be similar, but the absolute values of the formant frequencies will differ
from speaker to speaker. Figure 8.18 shows the formants for the vowels in heed,
hid, head, had, hod, hood, who’d as pronounced by two speakers of Californian
English. The Californian English of most university students does not distin-
guish between hod and hawed, or between cot and caught, so it was possible to
show only seven of the eight vowels in Figure 8.3. The relative positions of the
vowels in each set are similar, but the absolute values are different.
No simple technique will enable one to average out the individual character-
istics so that a formant plot will show only the phonetic qualities of the vowels.
One way to deal with this problem is probably to regard the average frequency of
the fourth formant as an indicator of the individual’s head size, and then express
the values of the other formants as percentages of the mean fourth formant
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Individual Differences 213
frequency. But this possibility is not open when the fourth formant frequencies
have not been reported for the sets of vowels being compared. An alternative
method is to assume that each set of vowels is representative of the complete
range of a speaker’s vowel qualities. Then we can express the formant frequency
of each vowel in terms of the total range of that formant in that speaker’s voice.
This method will minimize differences between extreme vowels, falsely assum-
ing that all speakers of all languages pronounce [i, A, u] in much the same way.
Phoneticians do not really know how to compare acoustic data on the sounds of
one individual with those of another. We cannot write a computer program that
will accept any individual’s vowels as input and then output a narrow phonetic
transcription.
Much of the work of the applied phonetician today is concerned with com-
puter speech technology and is directed toward improving speech-synthesis sys-
tems. The greatest challenges in the field of speech synthesis are concerned with
improvements in intonation and rhythm. Synthetic speech often sounds unnatu-
ral because the intonation is too stereotyped. To get the correct pitch changes,
one must know the speaker’s attitude toward the world in general and to the
topic under discussion in particular. In addition, the syntax of the utterance must
be taken into account, as well as various higher-level pragmatic considerations,
Figure 8.18 A formant chart showing some of the vowels of two speakers of Californian
English. The frequency of the first formant is plotted on the ordinate (the
vertical axis), and the frequency of the second formant is plotted on the
abscissa (the horizontal axis).
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
214 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
such as whether the word or a synonym of it has been used in a previous sen-
tence. The rhythm of the sentence depends not only on all the segmental influ-
ences discussed in earlier parts of this book, but also on the particular emphasis
that the speaker wishes to convey at that moment. If we are going to make syn-
thetic speech lively and interesting, we have to develop computer programs that
are very linguistically sophisticated and can also simulate human emotions.
Speech-recognition systems are largely the province of engineers, but pho-
neticians also play a part. For a long time, we have been able to use computers
to distinguish single words, such as the digits zero through nine. More recently,
several systems have been developed that can recognize limited sets of words in
task-specific situations, in which the computer can structure the dialogue. For
example, in an airline reservations system, the computer can ask, “Which day
of the month do you wish to travel? At what time? On what airline? To what
airport?” Each of these questions has only a limited set of possible answers.
Computers can do all this and more, with sufficient accuracy for commercial
purposes. But they cannot as yet serve as court reporters, producing an accurate
written transcript of ordinary speech as spoken by people with a wide range of
accents and different personal characteristics.
We will conclude this section with a few comments on speaker identifica-
tion in legal proceedings. Spectrograms of a person’s voice are sometimes called
“voice-prints,” and they are said to be as individual as fingerprints. This is a
greatly exaggerated claim. If it were true, it would be very useful. Banks would
be able to verify a depositor’s identity over the telephone, and the police would be
able to make a positive identification of criminals whose conversations had
been recorded. Some individual characteristics are recorded in spectrograms.
The position of the fourth and higher formants in most vowels is indicative of a
speaker’s voice quality rather than the linguistic aspects of the sounds. Similarly,
the exact locations of the higher formants in nasals depend to a great extent on
individual physiological characteristics of the speaker.
There are also a number of features observable on spectrograms that indicate a
speaker’s speech habits and do not depend on the speaker’s language. For example,
there is a great deal of individuality in the length and type of aspiration that occurs
after initial voiceless stops. The rate of transition of the formants after voiced stops
also varies from one individual to another. Individuals also vary considerably in
their mean pitch and in the range of fundamental frequencies that they use.
Nobody knows how many individuals share similar characteristics. There are
occasions when one might say that the voice on a particular recording is proba-
bly not the same as the voice on some other recording, and times when one might
say that the voice on a recording could be the same as the voice on another. An
expert’s opinion on the probability of two voices being the same certainly has
evidential value, the weight given to that evidence being for the jury to decide.
But this is not the best way of reporting the results of a comparison between two
voices. It is impossible to make a valid calculation of the probability of making
a correct identification in any particular case, as no two cases are ever the same.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 215
There are seldom two equally good recordings of the voices in question, with
both speakers talking for comparable amounts of time. The known and unknown
voices may be saying the same words, but they are seldom both talking natu-
rally, neither one being excited or worried about making a recording, and neither
one bored or angry. On any pair of recordings, it’s possible that the one voice is
disguised or deliberately imitating the other voice. In theory, it would be pos-
sible to set up experiments that take these points and many others into account
when comparing a particular pair of voices, but without elaborate prior testing,
it is literally impossible to calculate the statistical probability of being right or
wrong in a particular case.
The better way of reporting the results of an investigation into whether two
voices are the same is in terms of the likelihood ratio, the likelihood that the two
voices in question are the same as compared with the likelihood that they are
different. This is a more complex statistical measure, but it does not depend on
prior probabilities being known.
EXERCISES
(Printable versions of all the exercises are available on the CD.)
A. Put a transcription of the segments in the phrase Please pass me my book
above the waveform. Draw lines showing the boundaries between the
segments.
B. The spectrogram shows the phrase Show me a spotted hyena. Put a transcrip-
tion above it, and show the segment boundaries. In places where there are no
clear boundaries (as in the first part of hyena), draw dashed lines.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
216 CHAPTER 8 Acoustic Phonetics
C. In the following spectrogram, the segments have been delimited, some with
dashed lines as they do not have sharp boundaries. In each of the spaces
above the spectrogram, write a symbol for a sound that has the same manner
of articulation as that segment. Possible symbols for the first segment have
been filled in as examples. A few other segments that are particularly diffi-
cult to determine have also been filled in.
D. The spectrogram is of an ordinary English sentence, containing no names,
so obviously the third possibility shown for the first segment could not be
correct, as no English sentence could begin with [N]. Bearing in mind what
sequences of sounds are possible in English, write as many words or syllables
as you can. The sentence is a true statement.
E. Look at the sentence in Figure 8.15, a spectrogram for which the text is not
given. Say as much as you can about the different segments.
F. Using a speech analysis program like WaveSurfer, make spectrograms of
the sound files in CD 8.2. Measure the F1, F2, and F3 in bird, hand, two,
and bush. Given these measurements, which vowels are most similar to each
other? Does this way of measuring vowel similarity correspond with your
auditory judgment of their similarity?
G. Using the “4L” formula that relates vocal tract length and formant frequencies
[Fn 5 12n 2 12 3 c/4L], what are the formant frequencies for [ E ] of a
child whose vocal tract is 9 cm long?
H. Again using the same formula, calculate the resonances of a vocal tract
16 cm long when the person is breathing air c 5 35,000 cm/s versus helium
c 5 92,700 cm/s.
I. Looking at Figure 8.2, give the perturbation theory explanation for why F2 has a
low frequency in the high back rounded vowel [u]. Californian English [u] has
a somewhat higher F2 than is found in other varieties of English. Some people
say that the Californian [u] is “fronted,” while others think of it as “unrounded.”
Interestingly, perturbation theory doesn’t help resolve this question—why not?
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
217
9
Vowels and Vowel-like
Articulations
In previous chapters, we saw that there are three main aspects of vowel quality:
(1) vowel height, which is inversely proportional to the frequency of the first
formant; (2) backness, which is proportional to the difference between the fre-
quencies of the second and first formants; and (3) the degree of lip rounding,
which usually lowers both the second and the third formants. This chapter will
discuss these three features in greater detail and will also consider some addi-
tional, less prominent, features of vowel quality.
Figure 4.2 in Chapter 4 shows the relative auditory qualities of the English
vowels and diphthongs. As we mentioned at that time, the precise locations of
the points in this diagram reflected acoustic measurements, not mere auditory
impressions. It is, in fact, a formant chart, similar to that shown in Figure 9.1.
Some of the acoustic measurements were the formant frequencies reported in
Chapter 8. They were supplemented by measurements of the formant frequen-
cies of the other vowels and diphthongs, all taken from published sources. (For
bibliographical details, see the “Endnotes” at the back of the book.)
Most phoneticians would agree that Figure 9.1 is a fairly accurate reflection of
both the way in which American English vowels have traditionally been described
and the way in which listeners perceive the relative auditory qualities. During the
discussion of this diagram in Chapter 4, you probably made up your own mind as to
the extent to which it agrees with your perception of the relative distance between
vowels. But remember that if it seems inaccurate to you, this may be because your
accent is not identical to the form of American English represented in the figure.
CARDINAL VOWELS
When describing the vowels that occurred on a particular occasion, one may
not have access to measurements of the formant frequencies. Phoneticians who
want to describe the vowels of a certain dialect or of a certain speaker often have
to rely on their auditory abilities. They plot the vowels on a vowel chart, so that
anybody familiar with vowel charts can see where the points are and can infer
the quality of the vowels they are describing.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
218 CHAPTER 9 Vowels and Vowel-like Articulations
For a vowel chart to be truly interpretable, the vowels on it must be plotted
with reference to certain fixed points. These points must be known to both the
people originally plotting the vowels and the people who are going to interpret
their descriptions. The space within a vowel chart represents a continuum of
possible qualities. Before you can convey anything by saying that a certain vowel
is halfway (or a third of the way) between one vowel and another, you must be
certain that you and your readers share the same set of auditory reference vowels.
There are several ways in which known reference vowels can be provided.
In the first place, we can rely on the fact that a vowel chart shows the limits of
possible vowel quality. Thus, a point in the extreme upper left corner of the chart
represents a vowel with the highest and most front quality possible. If the tongue
were moved higher or more forward, a palatal consonant would be produced.
A vowel in the extreme lower right corner represents the lowest and most back
quality possible. Further movement of the tongue would produce a pharyngeal
consonant. This gives us two fixed reference points—[ i ] and [ A ]. Similarly,
the points in the other two corners of the diagram represent extreme acoustic
qualities, though their articulatory definition is not simple.
This use of a vowel chart is quite satisfactory for the description of vowels that
are near the corners of the possible vowel area. But it does not provide enough
fixed points for the description of other vowels. Recognizing this problem, the
British phonetician Daniel Jones proposed a series of eight cardinal vowels,
Figure 9.1 A combined acoustic and auditory representation of some of the vowels of
American English. (Compare Figures 4.2 and 8.9.)
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Cardinal Vowels 219
evenly spaced around the outside of the possible vowel area and designed to
act as fixed reference points for phoneticians (see Figure 9.2). In no case is the
quality of a cardinal vowel exactly the same as that of an English vowel. It can
happen that a particular language may have a vowel that is virtually identical
to a cardinal vowel. Several of the vowels of a conservative form of Parisian
French are very similar. But by definition, the cardinal vowels are arbitrary ref-
erence points.
Two of the cardinal vowels are defined in articulatory terms. Cardinal vowel
(1) is produced with the lips spread and the tongue as high and far forward as
possible without causing audible friction. It is therefore something like the vowel
[i], but with a more extreme quality. The symbol for it is also [i].
The other cardinal vowel that is defined in articulatory terms is cardinal vowel
(5). This vowel is made with the lips in a neutral position—neither spread nor
rounded—and with the tongue as low and as far back as possible. Accordingly,
it is something like some forms of the American English vowel [A] as in father,
hot or the British English vowel [Å] as in hot. The American [A], however, is
not usually made with the tongue as far back as possible, and the British [ Å ]
usually has slight lip rounding. The symbol for cardinal vowel (5) is [A].
Try to make cardinal vowels (1) and (5) in accordance with these descrip-
tions. Remember to have your lips fully spread when saying [ i ]. Make sure
your tongue is so close to the roof of the mouth that you would produce a voiced
palatal fricative [J] if you raised it any higher. Similarly, when producing [A],
make sure the tongue is pulled so far down and back in the mouth that you are
almost producing a voiced pharyngeal fricative [?] (not to be confused with a
glottal stop, which is [/]).
Cardinal vowels (2), (3), and (4) are defined as front vowels that form a series
of auditorily equidistant steps between numbers (1) and (5). As we saw in the
previous chapter, the acoustic definition of front vowels is that the distance be-
tween formant one and formant two is as great as possible. We can also specify
in acoustic terms what is meant by auditorily equidistant steps. It implies that
when these five vowels are plotted on a formant chart of the kind we have been
discussing, they will be represented by points that are equal distances apart.
(There are some complications in this respect that we will discuss later.)
Cardinal vowels (6), (7), and (8) are defined as vowels that continue from
number (5), with the same-size steps as in the first part of the series, but are as
back as possible (that is, with as small a distance as possible between formants
one and two). In order to continue with these same-size steps, the back vowels
have to become not only increasingly higher but also increasingly more rounded.
As a result, cardinal vowel (8) is in fact the highest, most back, most rounded
possible vowel—even though it is not defined in this way.
The symbols for cardinal vowels (2), (3), and (4) are [e, ”, a] respectively. The
symbols for cardinal vowels (6), (7), and (8) are [O, o, u]. Most of these vowels
have qualities something like those of the English vowels we have been symbol-
izing in a similar way. In accordance with the principles of the IPA, the symbols
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
220 CHAPTER 9 Vowels and Vowel-like Articulations
chosen for most of the English vowels are those of the nearest cardinal vowels. The
major exception is the vowel in fat, which, following the tradition of many English-
speaking phoneticians, has been symbolized by [œ] rather than [a].
The cardinal vowel system has been extensively used by phoneticians in the
description of a wide variety of languages. There are, however, a number of diffi-
culties in this respect. First, as Daniel Jones said in An Outline of English Phonetics
(London: Heffer, 1957): “The values of the cardinal vowels cannot be learned from
written descriptions; they should be learned by oral instruction from a teacher who
knows them.” It was for this reason that we did not suggest you try to produce
a complete series of cardinal vowels immediately after reading the descriptions
given above. Listen to the recordings of cardinal vowels on the CD, and try to find
someone who can listen critically to your imitations of them. With a good assis-
tant, it is possible to learn to produce them with a fair degree of accuracy.
A second problem with the cardinal vowel system is the notion of auditory
equidistance between the vowels. The traditional description of the cardinal
vowels arranges them on a plot as shown in Figure 9.2, in which the points are
not equidistant. Cardinal vowels (5), (6), (7), and (8) are much closer together
than (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5). This plot is somewhat in agreement with the no-
tion that vowel height corresponds inversely to the frequency of formant one,
and backness corresponds to the distance between formant two and formant one.
The line on the left-hand side of the figure slants because the degree of the dis-
tance between formants one and two decreases in going from [ i ] to [ A ]. It is
comparatively straight on the right-hand side because the distance between the
first two formants is much the same for these vowels; both formant one and for-
mant two go steadily down from [A] to [u].
Another problem with the cardinal vowel system is that there has been a great
deal of confusion over whether vowels are being described in terms of tongue
height or in terms of acoustic properties. Many phoneticians, and many text-
books on phonetics, talk about diagrams such as Figure 9.2 as if they specified
the highest point of the tongue. The distance between the points representing the
back vowels is therefore said to be less because the movements of the tongue are
said to be less (which is not actually true). The differences in auditory quality
are presumed to be the same in both front and back vowels, despite the supposed
smaller movements of the tongue in back vowels, because back vowels also have
increasing lip rounding. But diagrams such as Figures 9.1 and 9.2 do not really
specify the position of the highest point of the tongue. Figure 9.3 shows the
relative positions of the highest point of the tongue in a set of cardinal vowels.
These positions form an outline very different from that in Figure 9.2. The same
point can be made by referring to Figures 1.8 and 1.9, which show the articula-
tory positions of some of the vowels in Figure 9.1. The position of the highest
point of the tongue is not a valid indicator of vowel quality. We have tried to
avoid describing vowels in terms of tongue height, using instead the term vowel
height—meaning an auditory quality that can be specified in acoustic rather than
articulatory terms.
CD 9.1
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Cardinal Vowels 221
Despite these problems, the cardinal vowel system has worked fairly success-
fully. It has allowed the vowels of many languages and dialects to be described
with far greater precision than by any other method. The descriptions may have
been said in the past to be descriptions of tongue height, but in fact, phoneti-
cians had all along been making very accurate judgments of the frequency of
the first formant and the distance between the frequencies of the second and
first formants. Nowadays, the best way to describe vowels is by making acoustic
analyses and video recordings of a group of speakers—specifying their formant
frequencies and lip and jaw positions. But this is not always possible, and the
Figure 9.2 The cardinal vowels.
Figure 9.3 The highest points of the tongue as shown in a published set of x-rays of
cardinal vowels. The outline of the upper surface of the vocal tract is not clear
on the x-rays and is, therefore, estimated.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
222 CHAPTER 9 Vowels and Vowel-like Articulations
ability to make auditory judgments in terms of a set of reference vowels is still
a necessary skill for any phonetician.
SECONDARY CARDINAL VOWELS
The cardinal vowels have increasing degrees of lip rounding, [i] having spread
lips, [ A ] having a neutral lip position, and [ u ] being fully rounded. If we
consider vowels to be specifiable in terms of three dimensions, this implies that
the cardinal vowels fall on a plane in this three-dimensional space, as shown in
Figure 9.4. Most of the vowels of English would also fall on this plane, although
for many speakers of American English, [ u ] is a back vowel that is compara-
tively unrounded. As a result, F2 is comparatively high, and the location on the
chart appears to be farther forward than it would be if it were rounded.
As an aid in the description of vowels with different degrees of lip rounding,
there is a series of secondary cardinal vowels numbered (9) through (16). These
vowels differ from the eight primary cardinal vowels in having an opposite
amount of lip rounding. Cardinal vowel (9) is defined as a vowel with the same
tongue position as cardinal vowel (1), but with closely rounded lips. Cardinal
vowels (10) through (16) have the same tongue positions as cardinal vowels (2)
through (8), but continually decreasing—instead of increasing—lip rounding.
Cardinal vowel (16), therefore, is an unrounded version of cardinal vowel (8).
Figure 9.5 shows the symbols for these vowels, together with some additional
symbols for central vowels. The symbols [ ˆ ] and [ ¨ ] are used for unrounded
and rounded vowels midway between cardinal vowels (1) and (8). The symbol
[E] is not defined in terms of cardinal vowels but is used, as we have seen, for a
range of mid-central vowels. In addition, note that the symbol [Ø], which is the
symbol for an unrounded cardinal vowel (6), is often used for a lowered mid-
central vowel.
Even if you cannot make a complete set of the primary cardinal vowels, you
should try to make some of the secondary cardinal vowels. Practice round-
ing and unrounding your lips while saying cardinal vowel (1), so that you say
[ iy iy iy ]. Make sure you maintain an absolutely constant tongue position
and move only your lips. Next, repeat this exercise with cardinal vowel (2) or
some similar vowel of the [e] type. Remember that the rounding for [„] is not
as close as that for [ y ]. Last, try unrounding cardinal vowel (8), producing
[ uU uU uU ]. The usual difficulty here is in maintaining a sufficiently back
tongue position, as most dialects of English do not have a very back variety
of [ u ]. Note also that the secondary cardinal vowels you learn to produce by
doing these exercises are arbitrary reference points and not necessarily the same
as the vowels in any particular language. However, the vowels [y] and [„] are
fairly similar to the French front rounded vowels that occur in tu [ty] ‘you’ and
peu [p„] ‘small.’
Distances on an appropriately scaled acoustic vowel chart such as that
in Figure 8.6 are similar to auditory distances for vowels in the plane of the
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Secondary Cardinal Vowels 223
cardinal vowels. But this is not so for vowels with degrees of rounding unlike
those of the nearest cardinal vowels. Front vowels that are rounded or back vow-
els that are unrounded will be misplaced on a chart if we rely simply on acoustic
criteria. The degree of rounding is an independent dimension that must be stated
separately from the degree of height (the inverse of the first formant) and the
degree of backness (the distance between formant two and formant one). The
perspective of the vowel space in Figure 9.4 was chosen to reflect the formant
frequencies of the secondary cardinal vowels as much as possible. Secondary
cardinal vowel [y] will have a lower formant two, bringing it more to the right
of the figure, and secondary cardinal vowel [U] will have a higher formant two,
bringing it more to the left. But the first formant of each of these vowels is much
the same as the corresponding primary cardinal vowel.
Figure 9.4 A three-dimensional representation of the vowel space, showing that the
cardinal vowels fall on a plane that cuts across the space.
Figure 9.5 The symbols for some secondary cardinal vowels and some central vowels.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
224 CHAPTER 9 Vowels and Vowel-like Articulations
VOWELS IN OTHER ACCENTS OF ENGLISH
For those who do not know the cardinal vowels, an alternative method of de-
scribing vowels is to use as reference points the vowels of a particular dialect of
a language that is known to both the person making the description and the per-
son reading the description. This is what we have been trying to do in reference
to the vowels of American English as shown in Figure 9.1. If both the person
making the description and the person reading the description know what these
vowels sound like, then the points on Figure 9.1 provide good reference points.
When we remark, for example, that in some forms of New Zealand English, the
vowel in sacks is similar to the American English [ ” ] vowel in sex, then you
should be able to pronounce this word in this particular way. (You can listen
to a sample of New Zealand English in the recordings for transcription in the
appendix. Note the pronunciation of rat.)
Any language will serve to provide known reference points. For example,
when teaching English as a second language, one might use the vowels of the
first language of the students as reference points for comparison with the dialect
of English that one is trying to teach. If a chart of the vowels of this language
is not available, then the instructor’s first step should be to make one. This will
involve either comparing the vowels of this language with the vowels of some
language known to the instructor for which there is a chart available, or making
a recording of the vowels of the language in question and analyzing them using
a program such as WaveSurfer, which is on the CD.
There are published descriptions of the auditory quality of the vowels in a
large number of languages. There are also several sets of acoustic measurements
available. We can now make precise statements about many accents of English
by reference to the average formant frequencies of groups of speakers. The ac-
cent of American English represented in Figure 9.1 is fairly conservative, typical
perhaps of senior newscasters. The first two formants of a group of university
students in California are shown in Figure 9.6. We have already noted that this
accent does not contrast the vowels in cot and caught—they are both [A]. Now
we can see that younger Californians have a higher vowel (lower first formant)
in [ eI ] than in [ I ]. The high back vowels seem more front in that they have a
higher second formant. In the case of the vowel [Á] as in good, this is largely a
matter of unrounding. This vowel is often pronounced with spread lips.
Another change is going on in a number of northern cities in the United
States, such as Pittsburgh and Detroit. As you can see from Figure 9.7, in this
accent, [œ] has been raised (formant one has decreased) so that it is very close
to [”]. The back vowels have a lower second formant, making them all farther
back than in Californian English. This accent does distinguish [A] and [O].
Finally, among accents of English, consider the vowels in Figure 9.8, which
are the mean of a group of BBC English speakers. The main feature to be noted
here is the distinction between the three back vowels [A] as in father, cart, [Å]
as in bother, cot, and [O] as in author, caught. Note also that [Ø] has a very low
CD
Additional
Resources
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Vowels in other Accents of English 225
Figure 9.6 A plot of the first two formants of the vowels of a group of Californian English
speakers.
Figure 9.7 A plot of the first two formants of the vowels of (U.S.) northern cities English.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
226 CHAPTER 9 Vowels and Vowel-like Articulations
position in comparison with most forms of American English. British English
speakers distinguish the vowel [Ø] in cut from the vowel [∏] in curt (which does
not have any r-coloring) mainly by the frequency of the first formant.
VOWELS IN OTHER LANGUAGES
Next we will consider the vowels of three other languages for which acoustic
measurements are available. Vowel charts for all three languages are shown in
Figure 9.9. The sources for the data are listed at the end of the book.
Spanish has a very simple system, contrasting only five vowels. Note that the
symbols used in broad transcriptions of Spanish are [i, e, a, o, u]. Obviously,
these symbols do not have the same values in Spanish and in English, or in
descriptions of cardinal vowels.
Japanese also has a set of five vowels. In a broad phonetic transcription, these
might also have been transcribed [ i, e, a, o, u ]. But in a narrower transcrip-
tion that reflects the phonetic quality of the vowels more accurately, the high
back vowel could be transcribed as [ U ], as has been done in Figure 9.9. The
point representing this vowel has been distinguished from the others. It has been
marked by an asterisk to show that this vowel does not have the lip rounding
associated with the primary cardinal vowel in this area. It is not, however, re-
ally unrounded. The lips are fairly close together. In a more detailed phonetic
CD 9.2
CD 9.3
Figure 9.8 A plot of the first two formants of the vowels of BBC English.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Vowels in other Languages 227
analysis, one could say that there are two types of lip movements. In one, the
corners of the lips are brought forward, so that they are somewhat protruded,
and in the other, they are simply narrowed vertically so that they may be said
to be compressed. Note also that [e] in Japanese is slightly lower than it is in
Spanish. This is the kind of small difference between vowels that is easily and
conveniently expressible in terms of vowel charts.
Also shown in Figure 9.9 are the vowels of a conservative form of Danish.
(Danish is changing rapidly, and young Danes have different vowel quali-
ties.) Asterisks have been used to represent the quality of some of the Danish
vowels in Figure 9.9, but in this case it is to indicate that those vowels differ
from the primary cardinal vowels in the area by having more rather than less
lip rounding. Danish contrasts three front rounded vowels in words such as dyr
/dy…r/ ‘expensive,’ d„r /d„…r/ ‘dies,’ and dør (same spelling) /d{…r/ ‘door.’ (As
you can hear in the recording of these words on the CD, Danish /r/ is realized as
a pharyngeal approximant.) All the Danish vowels shown in Figure 9.9 can oc-
cur in long or short form. The front vowels, which are on the CD, are illustrated
in Table 9.1. The qualities of most of the short vowels are very similar to those
of the long vowels, but in the case of [ a, O, o ], the short versions are slightly
lower and more centralized.
The three charts in Figure 9.9 are good examples of the way in which vowels
may be described. They are in part descriptions of the relative auditory qual-
ity, in part articulatory descriptions. For the vowels in which the lip rounding
is the same as that of the primary cardinal vowels, they reflect the acoustic
CD 9.4
Figure 9.9 The vowels of Spanish, Japanese, and Danish. Front rounded vowels and back
unrounded vowels are indicated by asterisks.
TABLE 9.1 Contrasts in vowel length in Danish.
vi…d´ hvide ‘white’ vilE vilde ‘wild’ vi…lE hvile ‘rest’
ve…dE hvede ‘wheat’ menE minde ‘remind’ me…nE mene ‘mean’
v”…dE vœde ‘wet’ l”sE lœsse ‘load’ l”…sE lœse ‘read’
vœ…dE vade ‘wade’ mœsE masse ‘mass’ mœ…sE mase ‘mash’
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
228 CHAPTER 9 Vowels and Vowel-like Articulations
data exactly. In these cases, they are equivalent to plots of the first formant
frequency against the difference between the frequencies of the second and first
formants.
Front rounded and back unrounded vowels cannot be represented on a vowel
chart that assumes the degree of lip rounding is like that of the primary cardinal
vowels. In describing these other vowels, the degree of lip rounding must also be
specified. One way of doing this is to use asterisks rather than ordinary points. The
asterisks indicate that the lip rounding is more like that of the secondary cardinal
vowels than that of the primary ones. The locations of the asterisks indicate the
vowel qualities in much the same way that the points indicate the qualities of the
other vowels. It is as if they show what the formant frequencies would have been
had the lip rounding been like that of the primary cardinal vowels.
When we consider the actual formant frequencies of front rounded vowels and
back unrounded vowels, we can see why these vowels are not quite so common in
most languages. Adding lip rounding to front vowels lowers the higher formants.
As a result, a high front rounded [y] sounds as if it were between [i] and [u], as
we noted at the end of the preceding section when discussing Figure 9.4. Similarly,
[{], which is the front rounded vowel corresponding to [”], has a lower formant
two than [”]. When its formants are plotted on a chart, it appears nearer the center.
Conversely, removing lip rounding from the back vowel [u] to produce [U] raises
formant two, so that it would also be nearer the center of a formant chart. If the
vowels of a language are to be maximally distinct from one another, then the front
vowels will have to be unrounded, the back vowels rounded.
One of the forces acting on languages may be called the principle of sufficient
perceptual separation, whereby the sounds of a language are kept acoustically
distinct to make it easier for the listener to distinguish one from another. As a
result of this principle, in by far the majority of languages, the degree of lip
rounding can be predicted from the degree of backness and, to a lesser extent,
the degree of height. Front vowels are usually unrounded and back vowels are
usually rounded, with the degree of rounding increasing with the degree of
height. In this way, the vowels of a language are kept maximally distinct. Front
rounded vowels occur in a number of well-known languages spoken in Europe,
such as French, German, Dutch, and Swedish (all of which can be found on the
CD), but, in accordance with the notions of perceptual separation, they are not
particularly common among the languages of the world.
ADVANCED TONGUE ROOT
Differences in vowel quality can usually be described in terms of variations in
the degrees of height, backness, and lip rounding. But in some languages, there
are differences in vowel quality that cannot be described in these terms. For
example, in Akan, a West African language spoken mainly in Ghana, there are
two sets of vowels that you can hear on the CD. They differ primarily in the size
of the pharynx. In the one set, there are vowels in which the root of the tongue CD 9.5
CD Lg.
Index
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Rhotacized Vowels 229
is drawn forward and the larynx is lowered, so that the part of the vocal tract in the
pharynx is considerably enlarged. These vowels are called advanced tongue root
(or, more simply, +ATR) vowels. In the other set, there are vowels in which there
is no advancement of the tongue root or lowering of the larynx (−ATR vowels).
Figure 9.10 shows the shape of the vocal tract in two Akan vowels that differ in
this way. In the +ATR vowel [ e ], the whole tongue is bunched up lengthwise
in comparison with the −ATR vowel, here symbolized as [ i∞ ]. We should also
note that not all speakers of Akan make a distinction between these two vowels
in this way. Some seem to rely more on movements of the root of the tongue,
and others more on differences in larynx height. What matters for the distinction
between the two sets of vowels is that one should have a comparatively large
pharyngeal cavity and the other a comparatively small one.
In English, no pairs of vowels are distinguished simply by this tongue
gesture, although tongue root position varies to some extent in conjunction with
vowel height. The tense high vowels [ i ] and [ u ], as in heed and who’d, have
a more advanced tongue root than the lax mid-high vowels [ I ] and [ Á ], as in
hid and hood. However, the distinction between +ATR vowels and −ATR vow-
els is not the same as the distinction between tense and lax vowels in English,
which was discussed in Chapter 4. The two sets of English vowels are divided
by phonological considerations, such as the fact that tense vowels can occur in
open syllables and lax vowels cannot, rather than by a particular tongue gesture
or shape of the vocal tract.
RHOTACIZED VOWELS
As we saw in Chapter 4, many forms of American English have rhotacized vow-
els in words such as sir, cur, bird. We also noted that r-coloring can be produced
in more than one way. Figure 9.11 shows the tongue positions of three different
Figure 9.10 Narrow (−ATR, broken line) and wide (+ATR, solid line) vowels in Akan,
a language spoken in Ghana.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
230 CHAPTER 9 Vowels and Vowel-like Articulations
forms of American English [∏±]. Some speakers use one of these, others another.
As shown by the heavy black line, the gesture can involve the tongue being
bunched up in the center of the mouth, with the tip down and pulled back from
the lower teeth. An important feature of this kind of rhotic articulation is that
there is also a slight narrowing of the pharyngeal cavity. A second possibility,
shown by the thin black line, is a gesture in which the tip of the tongue is raised
to near the back of the alveolar ridge, forming a post-alveolar approximant. This
is accompanied by a narrowing of the pharyngeal cavity at a slightly higher
level. The third possibility, the gray line, is shown in the figure to indicate that
there may be in-between positions. If you are a speaker of this form of American
English, see if you can determine which of these articulations you use. One
way of getting helpful information is to insert a toothpick between the teeth
while you hold the position for the vowel [ ∏± ]. Does the toothpick touch the
upper surface of your tongue, or is your tongue tip raised so that it touches the
tip or the undersurface of the blade of the tongue? It seems likely that about
60 percent of speakers have the tip up, 35 percent have a bunched tongue position
with the tip down, and the remainder, a small number, have an intermediate po-
sition. You can hear an American English speaker producing rhotacized vowels
among those recorded for Chapter 2 on the CD. This speaker has his tongue
bunched up with the tip down and (almost certainly, although we have no x-ray
or other evidence) a constriction in the pharynx.
Rhotacization is an auditory quality, which, like height and backness, is most
appropriately defined in acoustic terms. In a rhotacized vowel (or portion of
a vowel) there is a marked lowering of the frequency of the third formant.
CD 9.6
CD 2.2
Figure 9.11 Possible tongue positions for the vowel [ œ ] in American English. The
tongue-tip-up post-alveolar approximant (thin black line) is the most
common, followed by the bunched tongue (solid black line). The gray line
indicates possible intermediate positions.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Nasalization 231
The frequencies of the first two formants determine the vowel height and back-
ness. The frequency of the third formant conveys comparatively little informa-
tion about either of these aspects of vowel quality. If you look back at Figure 8.3,
you will see that throughout the whole series of non-rhotacized vowels, the third
formant falls only slightly. But, as you can see in Figure 9.12, there is a large fall
in the frequency of the third formant in words such as deer and bear, in which
the ends of the vowels are considerably rhotacized in many forms of American
English. Furthermore, throughout most of the word heard, the third formant
may be low, indicating that even at the beginning of the vowel, there is a
rhotacized quality.
NASALIZATION
In all the vowels we have been considering in this chapter so far, the soft palate
has been raised so that there is a velic closure, and air does not flow out through
the nose. Vowels will be nasalized if the soft palate is lowered to allow part of
the airstream to escape through the nose. The “tilde” diacritic [~] may be placed
over any vowel to indicate that it is nasalized. Vowels of this kind are commonly
called nasal vowels.
Learn to produce a variety of nasalized vowels. Start by saying the low vowel
[œ)] as in man [mœ)n]. Alternate a series of nasalized and non-nasalized vowels,
saying [œ œ) œ œ) œ œ)]. You should be able to feel your soft palate moving up
and down when you say these vowels. Try to say a whole series of nasalized
vowels [i) e) ”) a) A) O) o) u)]. Alternate each of these vowels with its non-nasalized
counterpart. Many languages have contrasts between nasal and oral vowels.
French contrasts are illustrated on the CD.
Figure 9.12 A spectrogram showing the lowering of the frequency of the third formant
(and the second formant) during rhotacized sounds in a sentence in American
English.
CD 9.7
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
232 CHAPTER 9 Vowels and Vowel-like Articulations
Consonants such as [m, n, N] are, of course, nasals, but they are not nasalized,
since this term implies that part of the air goes out through the nose and part
through the mouth. Contrasts between nasalized and non-nasalized consonants
probably do not occur in any language, but some consonants, such as [w, j, ®, l],
may be nasalized if they occur next to nasalized vowels. In Yoruba, the word for
“they” is [w)O)!], with the whole syllable being nasalized.
SUMMARY OF VOWEL QUALITY
Table 9.2 summarizes the discussion of vowels. There are two features of vowel
quality—height and backness—that are used to contrast one vowel with another
in nearly every language, and there are four other features that are used less fre-
quently. Of the six features, the first three in the table reflect auditory properties,
each of which may be produced in more than one way from an articulatory point
of view, and the remaining three reflect relatively invariant articulatory prop-
erties with complex acoustic correlates that differ from vowel to vowel. Thus,
lip rounding generally lowers the second formant, but in the case of high front
vowels, it is predominantly the third formant that is lowered; similarly, ATR and
nasalization affect different formants in different vowels.
SEMIVOWELS
Without being too precise about the meaning of the terms syllable and syllabic
(a matter we will discuss in the next chapter), we can say that all sounds function
either as the peaks of syllables or at the syllable margins. Vowels are clearly at the
peaks of syllables and are syllabic. Consonants are generally not syllabic, although
some consonants such as [l] and [n] can be syllabic in words like shuttle [·SØtl`] and
button [·bØ/n`]. We can also divide sounds into those that have no obstruction in the
center of the mouth, which may be called vocoids, and those that have an obstruction.
The latter group, which will include most consonants, may be called nonvocoids.
This gives us a pair of divisions that we can arrange as shown in Figure 9.13.
Given this division, we can define vowels as syllabic vocoids and semivowels
as nonsyllabic vocoids. The term semiconsonant is sometimes used for syllabic
TABLE 9.2 The features of vowel quality.
Quality Correlates
height frequency of formant one
backness difference between frequencies of formant two and formant one
rhotacization frequency of formant three
rounding lip position
ATR width of the pharynx
nasalization position of the soft palate
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Semivowels 233
nonvocoids, but we will refer to them simply as syllabic consonants. Similarly,
nonvocoids are sometimes called true consonants, a term that could be appli-
cable whether they are syllabic or not.
Here we are concerned with semivowels, which are vocoids that function as
the beginning or end of a syllable. When at the beginning of a syllable, a semi-
vowel usually consists of a rapid glide from a high vowel position to that of the
following vowel. The semivowels in English are [ j ] and [ w ], which are like
nonsyllabic versions of the English high vowels [ i ] and [ u ], respectively. In
some languages (for example, French), there are the three high vowels [i, u, y].
In some of these languages, there is also a semivowel corresponding to the high
front rounded vowel [y]. The symbol for this sound is [μ], an inverted letter h,
which is intended to look a little like [ y ]. Examples of words contrasting the
three semivowels in French are given in Table 9.3.
Earlier in this chapter, we noted that Japanese has a high unrounded vowel
[U]. It does not have spread lips like [i] but lips that are fairly close together,
compressed vertically, with the corners neither drawn back as in a spread vowel
nor pulled together as in a rounded vowel. There is a Japanese semivowel bear-
ing the same relation to this vowel as [w] does to [u] in English. The symbol
for this semivowel is [Â].
Figure 9.13 Vowels are syllabic vocoids, semivowels are nonsyllabic vocoids, and
nonvocoids, whether syllabic or not, are consonants.
TABLE 9.3 Contrasts involving palatal, labial-palatal, and labial-velar approximants in
French.
Palatal Labial-Palatal Labial-Velar
Mj”t ‘crumb’ mμ”t ‘mute’ mw”t ‘sea gull’
lje ‘tied’ lμi ‘him’ lwi ‘Louis’
μit ‘eight’ wi ‘yes’
CD 9.8
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
234 CHAPTER 9 Vowels and Vowel-like Articulations
The gesture for a semivowel is like that for an approximant in that it can be
considered to have a particular place of articulation, like other consonants. We
have already noted that [j] is a palatal approximant, and [w] is a labial-velar ap-
proximant. The semivowel [μ] is a labial-palatal approximant. We have not dis-
cussed this place of articulation before because approximants are almost the only
sounds that are made in this region. The semivowel [Â] is a velar approximant.
When learning to produce the distinction between the French sounds / w /
and /Â/, note that the English /w/ is between the two French sounds. It is not
the same as French /w/. It is, of course, also true that /u/ in English is between
the two French sounds [u] and [y]. As is often the case, when a language does
not have to distinguish between two possibilities, it produces a sound that is be-
tween the two. Recall, for example, the quality of English vowels before [N] and
before [r], where there are no oppositions between tense and lax vowels.
To produce the French sound / w / as in oui [ wi ] “yes,” start from a high
rounded vowel that is fully back, like a cardinal [ u ]. Glide from this vowel
very rapidly to the following vowel. The result will be similar but not identical
to the English word we [ wi ]. Now try to say the French sound [ μ ] as in huit
[μit] “eight.” This time, start from the secondary cardinal vowel [y], and glide
rapidly to the following vowel.
It is also possible to consider the common form of English [®], as in red, as a
semivowel. In the same way that [w] may be said to be a nonsyllabic counter-
part of [u], so [®] as in red may be said to be a nonsyllabic version of the vowel
in American English fur. From a phonetic point of view, regarding [®] in red as a
semivowel may be a valid description. But from a phonological point of view, it
may not be appropriate in describing the sound patterns that occur in English.
SECONDARY ARTICULATORY GESTURES
It is appropriate to consider secondary articulations in conjunction with vowels
because they can usually be described as added vowel-like articulations. For-
mally defined, a secondary articulation is a gesture with a lesser degree of clo-
sure occurring at approximately the same time as another (primary) gesture. We
will consider four types of secondary articulation.
Palatalization is the addition of a high front tongue gesture, like that in [i], to
another gesture. Russian and other Slavic languages have a series of palatalized
consonants that contrast with their nonpalatalized counterparts. Palatalization
can be symbolized by [Δ] after a symbol. Russian words illustrating palatalized
sounds are given in Table 9.4.
The terms palatalization and palatalized are sometimes used in a slightly dif-
ferent way from the way in which we have been using them so far. Instead of
describing a secondary gesture, these terms may describe a process in which the
primary gesture is changed so that it becomes more palatal. Thus, sounds are
said to be palatalized if the point of articulation moves toward the palatal region
in some particular circumstance. For example, the English / k / in key may be
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Secondary Articulatory Gestures 235
said to be palatalized because, instead of the velar contact of the kind that occurs
in car [ kA® ], the place of articulation in key is changed so that it is nearer the
palatal area. Similarly, palatalization is said to occur when the alveolar fricative
[ z ] in is becomes a palato-alveolar fricative in is she [ IZSi ]. A further exten-
sion of the term palatalization occurs in discussions of historical sound change.
In Old English, the word for chin was pronounced with a velar stop [k] at the
beginning. The change of this sound into Modern English [tS] is said to be one
of palatalization, due to the influence of the high front vowel. All these uses of
the terms palatalization and palatalized involve descriptions of a process—
something becoming something else—rather than a secondary gesture.
Velarization, the next secondary articulation to be considered, involves rais-
ing the back of the tongue. It can be considered as the addition of an [ u ]-like
tongue position, but without the addition of the lip rounding that also occurs
in [u]. We have already noted that in many forms of English, syllable final /l/
sounds are velarized and may be written [:].
As an exercise, so that you can appreciate how it is possible to add vowel-like
articulations to consonants, try saying each of the vowels [i, e, E, a, A, O, o, u],
but with the tip of your tongue on the alveolar ridge. The first of these sounds
is, of course, a palatalized sound very similar to [lΔ]. The last of the series is one
form of velarized [:]. Make sure you can say each of these sounds before and
after different vowels. Now compare palatalized and velarized versions of other
sounds in syllables such as [nΔa] and [n◊a]. Remember that [n◊] with the velar-
ization diacritic [◊] is simply [n] with a superimposed unrounded nonsyllabic [u]
glide (that is, an added [U] glide).
Pharyngealization is the superimposition of a narrowing of the pharynx. Since
cardinal vowel (5)—[A]—has been defined as the lowest, most back vowel possi-
ble without producing pharyngeal friction, pharyngealization may be considered
as the superimposition of this vowel quality. One IPA diacritic for symbolizing
pharyngealization is [ º], the same as for velarization. If it is necessary to dis-
tinguish between these two secondary articulations, then the IPA provides an
alternative: using small raised symbols corresponding to velar and pharyngeal
TABLE 9.4 Contrasts involving palatalization in Russian.
formE ‘form’ fΔErmE ‘farm’
vItΔ ‘to howl’ vΔitΔ ‘to weave’
sok ‘juice’ sΔok ‘he lashed’
zof ‘call’ zΔof ‘yawn’
pakt ‘pact’ pΔatΔ ‘five’
bˆl ‘he was’ bΔil ‘he stroked’
tot ‘that’ tΔotΔE ‘aunt’
domE ‘at home’ dΔomE ‘Dyoma’ [nickname]
kuSEtΔ ‘to eat’ kΔuvΔEtkE ‘dish’
CD 9.9
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
236 CHAPTER 9 Vowels and Vowel-like Articulations
fricatives, representing a velarized alveolar nasal as [n◊] and a pharyngealized
alveolar nasal as [n≥]. Marking velarization and pharyngealization in this way is
also preferable when the use of the [ º] diacritic creates a symbol that is hard to
decipher.
There is very little difference between velarized and pharyngealized sounds,
and no language distinguishes between the two possibilities. In Arabic, there is
a series of consonants that Arabic scholars call emphatic consonants. Some of
these sounds are velarized, and some are pharyngealized. All of them can be
symbolized with the IPA diacritic [ º]. (Arabic scholars often use a subscript dot
[ . ].) There is some similarity in quality between retroflex stops and velarized
or pharyngealized stops, because in all these sounds, the front of the tongue is
somewhat hollowed.
Labialization, the addition of lip rounding, differs from the other secondary
articulations in that it can be combined with any of them. Obviously, palatal-
ization, velarization, and pharyngealization involve different tongue shapes that
cannot occur simultaneously. But nearly all kinds of consonants can have added
lip rounding, including those that already have one of the other secondary artic-
ulations. In a sense, even sounds in which the primary articulators are the lips—
for example, [p, b, m]—can be said to be labialized if they are made with added
rounding and protrusion of the lips. Because labialization is often accompanied
by raising the back of the tongue, it is symbolized by a raised [ W ]. In a more
precise system, this might be taken to indicate a secondary articulation that we
could call labiovelarization, but this is seldom distinguished from labialization.
In some languages (for instance, Twi and other Akan languages spoken in
Ghana), labialization co-occurs with palatalization. As palatalization is equiva-
lent to the superimposition of a gesture similar to that in [i], labialization plus
palatalization is equivalent to the superimposition of a rounded [i]—that is, [y].
As we have seen, the corresponding semivowel is [ μ ]. Accordingly, these
secondary articulations may be symbolized by a raised [μ ]. Recall the pronun-
ciation of [μ] in French words such as huit [μit] “eight.” Then try to pronounce
the name of one of the dialects of Akan, Twi [tμi].
Table 9.5 summarizes the secondary gestures we have been discussing. As
in some of the previous summary tables, the terms in Table 9.5 are not all mu-
tually exclusive. A sound may or may not have a secondary articulation such
TABLE 9.5 Secondary gestures.
Phonetic Term Brief Description Symbols
palatalization raising of the front of the tongue sΔ lΔ dΔ
velarization raising of the back of the tongue s◊ : b◊
pharyngealization retracting of the root of the tongue s≥ : b≥
labialization rounding of the lips sW lW dW
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 237
as palatalization, velarization, or pharyngealization; it may or may not be
labialized; and it may or may not be nasalized. To demonstrate this for yourself,
try to make a voiced alveolar lateral [ l ] that is also velarized, labialized, and
nasalized.
EXERCISES
(Printable versions of all the exercises are available on the CD.)
A. Look at the positions of the tongue in the English vowels shown in
Figure 1.12. It has been suggested (see “Notes”) that vowels can be described
in terms of three measurements: (1) the area of the vocal tract at the point of
maximum constriction; (2) the distance of this point from the glottis; and (3)
a measure of the degree of lip opening.
1. Which of the first two corresponds to what is traditionally called vowel
height for the vowels in heed, hid, head, had?
2. Which corresponds to vowel height for the vowels in father, good, food?
3. Can these two measurements be used to distinguish front vowels from
back vowels?
B. Another way of describing the tongue position in vowels that has been sug-
gested (see “Endnotes”) is to say that the tongue is in a neutral position in the
vowel in head and that (1) the body of the tongue is higher than in its neutral
position in vowels such as those in heed, hid, good, food; (2) the body of the
tongue is more back than in its neutral position in good, food, father; (3) the
root of the tongue is advanced in heed, food; and (4) the root of the tongue is
pulled back so that the pharynx is more constricted than in the neutral position
in had, father. How far do the data in Figure 1.12 support these suggestions?
C. In the seventeenth, eighteenth, and early nineteenth centuries (see “End-
notes” ), there were said to be three sets of vowels: (1) a set exemplified by
the vowels in see, play, father (and intermediate possibilities), which were
said to be distinguished simply by the degree of jaw opening; (2) a set exem-
plified by the vowels in fool, home, father (and intermediate possibilities),
which were said to be distinguished simply by the degree of lip rounding;
and (3) a set exemplified by the vowels now symbolized by [y, „] as in the
French words tu, peu ‘you, small,’ which were said to be distinguished by
both the degree of jaw opening and the degree of lip rounding. These notions
were shown in diagrams similar to that in Figure 9.14. How do they com-
pare with contemporary descriptions of vowels? What general type of vowel
cannot be described in these terms?
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
238 CHAPTER 9 Vowels and Vowel-like Articulations
D. Try to find a speaker of some language other than English. Elicit a set of minimal
pairs exemplifying the vowels of this language.You will probably find it helpful
to consult the pronunciation section in a dictionary or grammar of the language.
Listen to the vowels and plot them on a vowel chart. (Do not attempt this exercise
until you have worked through the Performance Exercises for this chapter.)
PERFORMANCE EXERCISES
The object of many of the following exercises is to get you to produce a wide va-
riety of vowels that are not in your own language. When you can produce small
differences in vowel quality, you will find it easier to hear them.
Figure 9.14 The vowel classification used by Helmholtz (1863), with key words suggested
by Ellis (1885).
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Performance Exercises 239
A. Say the monophthongs [i, e] corresponding to at least the first part of your
vowels in see, say. Try to make a vowel with a quality in between [i] and [e].
Then make as many vowels as you can in a series between [i] and [e]. Finally,
make a similar series going in the opposite direction—from [e] to [i].
B. Repeat this exercise with monophthongs corresponding to the following
pairs of vowels in your own speech. Remember to produce each series in
both directions.
[I–”]
[”–œ]
[œ–A]
[A–O], if occurring in your speech
[O–o] or [A–o]
[o–u]
C. Try moving continuously from one member of each pair to the other, slur-
ring through all the possibilities you produced in the previous exercises. Do
this in each direction.
D. For each pair of vowels, produce a vowel that is, as nearly as you can deter-
mine, halfway between the two members.
E. Repeat Exercises A, C, and D with the following pairs of vowels, which will
involve producing larger adjustments in lip rounding. Remember to produce
each series in both directions, and be sure you try all the different tasks sug-
gested in Exercises A, C, and D.
[i–u]
[e–o]
F. Now repeat all the same exercises, but with no adjustments in lip rounding,
using the following pairs of vowels. Go in both directions, of course.
[i–U]
[e–V]
[y–u]
[„–o]
G. Practice distinguishing different central vowels. When you have learned to
produce a high-central unrounded vowel [ˆ], try to produce mid- and low-
central unrounded vowels, which may be symbolized [ ´ ] and [ ∏ ]. Try
Exercises A, C, and D with the following pairs of vowels:
[ˆ–´]
[´–∏]
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
240 CHAPTER 9 Vowels and Vowel-like Articulations
H. Produce the following nasal and oral vowels. When making the nasalized
vowels, be careful to keep the same tongue position, moving only the soft
palate.
[i–i)–i]
[e–e)–e]
[œ–œ) –{]
[A–A)–A]
[o–o)–o]
[u–u)–u]
I. Now compare nasalized vowels with oral vowels that have slightly different
tongue positions. Say:
[i–i)–I–i)]
[e–e)–”–e) ]
[”–”)–œ–”)]
[u–u)–o–u)]
[o–o)–O–o) ]
J. Make sure you can produce a variety of different vowels by saying nonsense
words such as those shown below, preferably to a partner who can check
your pronunciation.
·petuz sy·t„t ·m”)nod
·tynob di·gUd pœ·nyt
·bUg”d mo·pAt ·degu)n
·nis„p gu·dob sy·to)n
·bœdid kU·typ ·k„b”)s
K. Learn to produce diphthongs going to and from a variety of vowels. Using
the vowel symbols with their values as in English, read the following, first
column by column, then row by row.
iI Ii ei ”i œi Ai Oi oi Ái ui Øi
ie Ie eI ”I œI AI OI oI ÁI uI ØI
i” I” e” ”e œe Ae Oe oe Áe ue Øe
iœ Iœ eœ ”œ œ” A” O” o” Á” u” Ø”
iA IA eA ”A œA Aœ Oœ oœ Áœ uœ Øœ
iO IO eO ”O œO AO OA oA ÁA uA ØA
io Io eo ”o œo Ao Oo oO ÁO uO ØO
iÁ IÁ eÁ ”Á œÁ AÁ OÁ oÁ Áo uo Øo
iu Iu eu ”u œu Au Ou ou Áu uA! ØA!
iØ IØ eØ ”Ø œØ AØ OØ oØ ÁØ uØ Øu
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Performance Exercises 241
L. Try saying some of these diphthongs in one-, two-, and three-syllable
nonsense words such as those shown below. These are good items to use in
ear-training practice with a partner.
tIop ·doeb·mOid sœo·tAoneu
tØep ·deub·mAud sOA·t”onIÁ
tAOp ·dIÁb·mØOd so”·tœunue
t”Ap ·doeb·moid sAØ·tØinui
toØp ·dÁ”b·nu”d sOI·tIunœA
M. Now extend your range by including front rounded and back unrounded
vowels as exemplified below.
iy ey Ay uy yi „i Ui y„ „y Uy
i„ e„ A„ u„ ye „e Ue yU „U U„
iU eU AU uU yA „A UA yu „u Uu
N. These vowels can also be included in nonsense words such as those shown
below for both performance and ear-training practice.
dUeb ·tyœb·meyd tUy·neAsØ„
di„b ·tuÁb·mu„d tue·n„usÁI
deub ·tO„b·mAud t”U·noysœu
doub ·t„Áb·mU”d tyI·n„ysoO
dœob ·tUAb·miod tA„·nAesIy
O. Practice all the vowels and consonants discussed in the previous chapters in
more complicated nonsense words such as the following:
VA·rot1iF NOv„·d1e= jœLU·∫eÎ
be·Ô”ZuD GACy·bIg sy·t'o∑”k˘
≠i·∂yx”n1 ße?O·pœz ¥”·n„k'œx
Tœ·–AkUS fi‰o·ce¬ k!i®u·god
Ω„·XoqOl heBU·Ôœt wup'O·k˘˘em
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
243
10
Syllables and
Suprasegmental Features
Throughout this book, there have been references to the notion syllable, but this
term has never been defined. The reason for this is simple: there is no agreed
phonetic definition of a syllable. This chapter will discuss some of the theories
that have been advanced and show why they are not entirely adequate. We will
also consider suprasegmental features—those aspects of speech that involve
more than single consonants or vowels. The principal suprasegmental features
are stress, length, tone, and intonation. These features are independent of the
categories required for describing segmental features (vowels and consonants),
which involve airstream mechanisms, states of the glottis, primary and second-
ary articulations, and formant frequencies.
SYLLABLES
The fact that syllables are important units is illustrated by the history of writ-
ing. Many writing systems have one approximately symbol for each syllable, a
well-known present-day example being Japanese. But only once in the history
of humankind has anybody devised an alphabetic writing system in which sylla-
bles were systematically split into their components. About three thousand years
ago, the Greeks modified the Semitic syllabary so as to represent consonants
and vowels by separate symbols. The later Aramaic, Hebrew, Arabic, Indic, and
other alphabetic writing systems can all be traced back to the principles first
and last established in Greek writing. It seems that everybody finds syllables
comparatively easy units to identify. But people who have not been educated in
an alphabetic writing system find it much more difficult to consider syllables as
being made up of segments (consonants and vowels).
Most syllables contain both vowels and consonants, but some, such as eye
and owe, have only vowels. Many consonants can also function as syllables.
Alveolar laterals and nasals (as at the ends of button and bottle) are common
in English, but other nasals may occur, as in blossom and bacon, particularly in
phrases such as the blossom may fade and bacon goes well with eggs, in which
the following sounds aid the assimilatory process. Fricatives and stops may
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
244 CHAPTER 10 Syllables and Suprasegmental Features
become syllabic in unstressed syllables as in suppose and today, which may be
[s`·poÁz] and [tÓ̀·deI] in a narrow transcription. People vary in their pronuncia-
tion of these words and phrases. For us, they are all syllabic consonants, but oth-
ers may consider all the examples in this paragraph as consisting of a consonant
and an associated [´].
Although it is difficult to define what is meant by a syllable, nearly every-
body can identify individual syllables. If you consider how many syllables there
are in minimization or suprasegmental, you can easily count them. Each of these
words has five syllables. Nevertheless, it is curiously difficult to state an objec-
tive phonetic procedure for locating the number of syllables and especially the
boundaries between syllables in a word or a phrase in any language, and it is
interesting that most people cannot say how many syllables there are in a phrase
they have just heard without first saying that phrase themselves.
In a few cases, people disagree on how many syllables there are in a word in
English. Some of these disagreements arise from dialectal differences in the way
particular words are spoken. For some, the word predatory has three syllables
because they say [·pr”dEtrI]. Other people who pronounce it as [·pr”dEtO®i] say
that it has four syllables. Similarly, there are many words, such as bottling and
brightening, that some people pronounce with syllabic consonants in the middle,
so that they have three syllables, whereas others do not.
There are also several groups of words that people pronounce the same way,
but nevertheless differ in their estimates of the number of syllables. One group
of words contains nasals that may or may not be counted as separate syllables.
Thus, words such as pessimism and mysticism may be said to have three or four
syllables, depending on whether the final [ m ] is considered to be syllabic. A
second group contains high front vowels followed by / 1 /. Many people will say
that meal, seal, reel contain two syllables, but others will consider them to have
one. A third group contains words in which / r / may or may not be syllabic.
Some people consider hire, fire, hour to be two syllables, whereas others (who
pronounce them in exactly the same way) do not. Similar disagreements also
arise over words such as mirror and error for some American English speakers.
Finally, there is disagreement over the number of syllables in a group of words
that contain unstressed high vowels followed by another vowel without an inter-
vening consonant. Examples are words such as mediate, heavier, Neolithic. Dif-
ferences of opinion as to the number of syllables in these words may be due to
differences in the way they are actually pronounced, just as in the case of preda-
tory cited earlier. But, unlike predatory, it is often not clear if a syllable has been
omitted on a particular occasion.
It is also possible that different people do different things when asked to say
how many syllables there are in a word. Some people may pay more attention
to the phonological structure of words than others. Thus, many people will say
that realistic has three syllables. But others will consider it to have four syllables
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Syllables 245
because it is like the word reality, which everybody agrees has four syllables.
Similarly, meteor will be two syllables for some people but three syllables for
those who consider it the same as the stem in meteoric.
Judgments on the number of syllables in words such as hire and hour may also
be affected by phonological considerations. Some people distinguish between
hire and higher and pronounce hour so that it does not end in the same way as
tower. These people are likely to consider hire and hour to be monosyllables
and higher and tower to have two syllables. But others who do not differenti-
ate between hire and higher and who pronounce hour in the same way as tower
may say that each of these words has two syllables. Thus, two speakers may pro-
nounce hire in exactly the same way, but one will consider it to have one syllable,
and the other two, because of the way in which they pronounce other words.
Having cited a number of words in which there are problems in determin-
ing the number of syllables they contain, it is important to remember that there
is no doubt about the number of syllables in the majority of words. Consider a
random list of words (the first word on each three-hundredth page of Webster’s
New World Dictionary): compline, gauger, maroon, radiometer, temperate.
There is complete agreement on the number of syllables in each of these words
except for the last (temperate). In the case of this word, the disagreement is not
over what constitutes a syllable, but whether the pronunciation is [·t”mprIt] or
[·t”mpErIt].
In looking for an adequate definition of a syllable, we need to do two things.
We must account for the words in which there is agreement on the number of
syllables, and we must also explain why there is disagreement on some other
words. One way of trying to do this is by defining the syllable in terms of the
inherent sonority of each sound. The sonority of a sound is its loudness relative
to that of other sounds with the same length, stress, and pitch. Try saying just the
vowels [i, e, A, o, u]. You can probably hear that the vowel [A] has greater so-
nority (due, largely, to its being pronounced with a greater mouth opening). You
can verify this fact by asking a friend to stand some distance away from you and
say these vowels in a random order. You will find that it is much easier to hear
the low vowel [A] than the high vowels [i, u].
We saw in Chapter 8 that the loudness of a sound depends mainly on its
acoustic intensity (the amount of acoustic energy present). The sonority of a
sound can be estimated from measurements of the acoustic intensity of a group
of sounds that have been spoken on comparable pitches and with comparable de-
grees of length and stress. Estimates of this kind were used for drawing the bar
graph in Figure 10.1. As you can see, the low vowels [A] and [œ] have greater
sonority than the high vowels [u] and [i]. The approximant [l] has about the
same sonority as the high vowel [i]. The nasals [m, n] have slightly less sonor-
ity than [i], but greater sonority than a voiced fricative such as [z]. The voiced
stops and all the voiceless sounds have very little sonority.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
246 CHAPTER 10 Syllables and Suprasegmental Features
The degrees of sonority shown in Figure 10.1 should not be regarded as exact
measurements. The acoustic intensity of different sounds may vary quite con-
siderably for different speakers. Thus, in a particular circumstance, one speaker
may pronounce [i] with a greater sonority than [l], whereas another may not.
We can now see that one possible theory of the syllable is that peaks of syl-
labicity coincide with peaks of sonority. This theory would explain why people
agree on the number of syllables in the majority of words. In words such as
visit, divided, condensation, there are clear peaks of sonority. In these words,
each of the syllable peaks has much more sonority than the surrounding sounds.
The theory also explains why there are disagreements over words such as prism,
seal, meteor. Different individuals may vary in the number of peaks of sonority
they have in some of these words. The final [m] in prism might have greater so-
nority than the preceding [z] for some people, but not for others. Similarly, the
[ l ] in seal and the second [ i ] in meteor might or might not constitute distin-
guishable peaks of sonority.
A sonority theory of the syllable will not, however, account for all the ob-
served facts. It obviously fails in a word such as spa. This word is one syllable,
but it must be said to contain two peaks of sonority. It consists of three segments,
the first and last of which have greater sonority than the second. A sonority theory
also fails to account for the difference in the number of syllables in the phrases
hidden aims and hid names. For speakers who do not have a second vowel in hid-
den, each of these phrases may contain the same sequence of segments, namely,
[hIdneImz] (disregarding the pronunciation with a glottal stop favored by some
Figure 10.1 The relative sonority of a number of the sounds of English.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Syllables 247
speakers [ hIdn/eImz ]). Therefore, there are the same number of peaks of sonor-
ity. But the first phrase has three syllables, and the second has two.
There are also a number of words that many people can pronounce with or
without one of the syllables. Typical of these words are paddling, frightening,
reddening. Each of these words can be said as two syllables, with the division
between them as shown by the inserted period: [·pœd.lIN, ·fraIt.nIN, ·r”d.nIN ].
Alternatively (still using an inserted period to show the syllable breaks), they
can be said as three syllables, with a syllabic nasal or lateral in the middle:
[·pœd.l`.IN, ·fraIt.n`.IN, r”d.n`.IN]. Some people claim that they make a distinction
between lightning (in the sky) [ ·laIt.nIN ] and lightening (making light) [ ·laIt.
n`.IN] and between codling (a little codfish) [·kAd.lIN] and coddling (pampering)
[·kAd.l`.IN]. In all these cases, a sonority theory of the syllable is inadequate. The
variations in the number of syllables cannot be said to be due to variations in the
number of peaks of sonority.
One way of avoiding this difficulty is to say that syllables are marked not by
peaks in sonority but by peaks in prominence. The relative prominence of two
sounds depends in part on what their relative sonority would have been if they
had had the same length, stress, and pitch, but it also depends in part on their
actual stress, length, and pitch. Then we can say that, for example, the [ n ] in
hidden aims constitutes a peak of prominence because it has more stress or more
length (or both) than the [ n ] in hid names.
The problem with this kind of definition is that one cannot state a cross-
linguistically valid procedure for combining sonority, length, stress, and pitch so
as to form prominence. Part of the problem is that the perceived prominence of
sounds relies on language-specific weighting of phonetic factors such as length
and sonority. And part of the problem is that what makes a sound prominent
is its position in a word. There is, thus, no way in which one can measure the
prominence of a sound. As a result, the notion of a peak of prominence becomes
a completely subjective affair—it does not really throw any light on how one
defines a syllable. A sound is prominent because it forms the peak of a syllable;
it is syllabic because it is prominent.
A completely different approach is to consider syllabicity not as a property
of the sounds one hears but as something produced by the speaker. A theory of
this kind was put forward by the psychologist R. H. Stetson, who suggested that
every syllable is initiated by a chest pulse, a contraction of the muscles of the rib
cage that pushes more air out of the lungs. Stetson made numerous observations
of the actions of the respiratory system. But his claims about the actions of the
muscles were nearly all deductions based on his observations of the movements
of the rib cage and his measurements of the pressure of the air in the lungs.
Unfortunately, subsequent direct investigations of the activity of the muscles
themselves have failed to confirm his theory. It is clearly untrue to say that every
syllable is initiated by a chest pulse.
Still another way of considering syllables is to regard them as units of plan-
ning in speech motor control. Some research on speech planning suggests that
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
248 CHAPTER 10 Syllables and Suprasegmental Features
syllable-size motor control plans are stored in a mental syllabary. The support
for this view comes from various sources. Consider, for example, the errors—
the slips of the tongue—that people make when talking. Perhaps one of the com-
monest is the interchanging of consonants, so that our dear old queen becomes
our queer old dean. In virtually all cases of errors involving the interchange of
consonants, it is not a matter of one consonant interchanging with any other
consonant. Instead, it is the case that there is an interchange between conso-
nants in the same place in the syllable. Observations such as these are hard to
explain unless we consider the syllable to be a significant unit in the produc-
tion of speech. Further evidence of a similar kind is provided by descriptions of
the sound patterns that occur in languages. We have seen in the earlier chapters
that it is difficult to describe English or, indeed, any language without consider-
ing syllables as units. Since phonological descriptions are of speakers’ phonetic
plans, it makes sense that planning units like syllables would be included in
phonological descriptions.
In summary, we can say that there are two types of theories attempting to
define syllables. First, there are theories in which the definitions are in terms of
properties of sounds, such as sonority (acoustic energy) or prominence (some
combination of sonority, length, stress, and pitch). Second, there are theories
based on the notion that a syllable is a unit in the organization and planning of
the sounds of an utterance.
In one sense, a syllable is the smallest possible unit of speech. Every utter-
ance must contain at least one syllable. It is convenient to talk of speech as be-
ing composed of segments such as vowels and consonants, but these segments
can be observed only as aspects of syllables. A syllable can also be divided for
descriptive purposes into its onset and rhyme. The rhyming part of a syllable
consists of the vowel and any consonants that come after it—a fairly familiar
notion. Any consonants before the rhyme form the onset of the syllable. The
rhyme of a syllable can be further divided into the nucleus, which is the
vocalic part, and the coda, which consists of any final consonants. Words such
as I and owe consist of a single syllable which has only a rhyme, which is also
the nucleus. They have neither an onset nor a coda. Words such as splint and
stripes are single syllables containing onsets with three consonants and codas
with two consonants.
Sometimes, it is difficult to say whether a consonant is the coda of one syl-
lable or the onset of another. How do you divide a word such as happy into
syllables? Some people will say it is [ ·hœ.pi ]; others regard it as [ ·hœp.i ].
Another solution is to consider the [ p ] as belonging to both syllables, and to
call it ambisyllabic. The result of doing this would be to transcribe happy as
[·hœpi] with no syllable division. Phoneticians disagree on the correct solution
to this problem, and we will not discuss it further here. In speech technology,
though, when a syllabification of English words is required, it is common to
use an algorithm that will tend to maximize onsets rather than codas—which
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Stress 249
would prefer [ ·hœ.pi ] over [ ·hœp.i ] and always avoid positing ambisyllabic
segments.
Languages differ considerably in the syllable structures that they permit. As
we have noted, English has complex onsets and codas. Hawaiian allows no more
than one consonant in an onset, and none in the coda, so that every word (e.g.,
Honolulu and Waikiki) ends in a vowel. Standard Chinese allows only nasal con-
sonants in the coda, producing words such as Beijing and Shanghai.
STRESS
As we discussed in Chapter 5, in English, stressed syllables in careful citation
forms are often pronounced unstressed in conversational speech. This indicates
that stress, as a property of English words, is to some extent only a potential
for phonetic realizations that give prominence to the “stressed” syllable. This
pattern, which we could call the “/ stress / as a potential for [stress]” pattern is
probably true for other languages as well. Therefore, when discussing the gen-
eral phonetics of stress, it is probably best to confine the discussion to the pro-
nunciation of citation speech.
Stress is a suprasegmental feature of utterances. It applies not to individual
vowels and consonants, but to whole syllables. A stressed syllable is pronounced
with a greater amount of energy than an unstressed syllable and is more promi-
nent in the flow of speech.
English and other Germanic languages make far more use of differences in
stress than do most of the languages of the world, having somewhat variable
word stress so that the location of stress is not always predictable from the
segmental structure of the word, for example, (to) insult versus (an) insult, or
below versus billow, or market versus Marquette. In many other languages,
the position of the stress is fixed in relation to the word. Czech words nearly
always have the stress on the first syllable, irrespective of the number of syl-
lables in the word. In Polish and Swahili, the stress is usually on the penulti-
mate syllable.
Variations in the use of stress cause different languages to have different
rhythms, but stress is only one factor in causing rhythmic differences. Because
it can appear to be a major factor, it used to be said that some languages (such
as French) could be called syllable-timed languages, in which syllables tend
to recur at regular intervals of time. In contrast, English and other Germanic
languages were called stress-timed in that stresses were said to be the domi-
nating feature of the rhythmic timing. We now know that this is not true. In
contemporary French, there are often strong stresses breaking the rhythm of
a sentence. In English, the rhythm of a sentence depends on several interact-
ing factors, not just the stress. Perhaps a better way of describing stress dif-
ferences among languages would be to divide languages into those that have
variable word stress (such as English and German), those that have fixed word
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
250 CHAPTER 10 Syllables and Suprasegmental Features
stress (such as Czech, Polish, and Swahili), and those that have fixed phrase
stress (such as French).
In contrast to the nature of syllables, the nature of stress is fairly well under-
stood. Stressed sounds are those on which the speaker expends more muscular
energy. This usually involves pushing out more air from the lungs by contracting
the muscles of the rib cage. In general, increased effort leads to increases in the
perceptual salience of segments, so aspirated stops will have longer aspiration,
voiceless consonants will be less likely to have voicing assimilation, and vowels
will have more peripheral vowel formants so high vowels are higher and low
vowels are lower, and so on. The increased perceptual salience of stressed sylla-
bles is also signaled by intonational gestures that result in more peripheral pitch,
higher high tones, and lower low tones, and stress generally involves increased
duration of stressed syllables.
When there is an increase in the amount of air being pushed out of the lungs,
there is an increase in the loudness of the sound produced. Some books define
stress simply in terms of loudness, but this is not a very useful definition if
loudness is considered to be simply a matter of the amount of acoustic energy
involved. We have already noted that some sounds have more acoustic energy
than others because of factors such as the degree of mouth opening.
A much more important indication of stress is the rise in pitch, which may or
may not be due to laryngeal action. You can check for yourself that an increase
in the flow of air out of the lungs causes a rise in pitch even without an increase
in the activity of the laryngeal muscles. Ask a friend to press against the lower
part of your chest while you stand against a wall with your eyes shut. Now say a
long vowel on a steady pitch and have your friend push against your chest at an
unexpected moment. You will find that at the same time that there is an increase
in the flow of air out of your lungs (as a result of your friend’s push), there will
also be an increase in the pitch of the vowel.
There is a final factor to note when discussing stress in English. We saw in
Chapter 5 that a syllable in English is either stressed or not stressed. If it is stressed,
it can be at the center of an intonational pitch change so that it receives a tonic
accent, which might be said to raise it to a more primary level of stress. If it is
unstressed, it can have a full vowel or a reduced vowel. In some views, a reduced
vowel implies that there is a lower level of stress, but in the view expressed here,
this is a matter not of stress but of vowel quality. We also saw that there are pairs of
words, such as (an) insult and (to) insult, that differ only in stress. What happens
when these words appear to lose their stress because of a heavy stress elsewhere
in the sentence? Consider a pair of sentences such as ‘He needed an increase in
price’ and, with an equally strong stress on ‘needed,’ He needed to increase the
price. Although speakers (and linguists) may have a strong impression that (an)
increase is stressed differently from (to) increase in these sentences, controlled
acoustic studies have failed to find any phonetic difference between them. This ap-
pears to be a case where the speaker’s knowledge of the potential for a difference
in the stress patterns of these words causes a phonetic hallucination.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Length 251
LENGTH
The individual segments in a syllable may also vary in length. The English of
the Scottish Highlands makes a length contrast between week [wik] and weak
[wi…k], both having the same monophthongal vowel quality. In most varieties of
English, variations in lengths are completely allophonic. We saw, for example,
that the vowel in bad is predictably longer than the vowel in bat because, other
things being equal, vowels are always longer before voiced consonants than be-
fore voiceless consonants.
Many other languages make considerable use of length contrasts. Long vow-
els contrast with short vowels in several languages. The CD language index will
guide you to examples in Estonian, Finnish, Arabic, and Japanese. You can also
hear Danish examples on the CD. Length may be shown by [ … ] placed after a
symbol or by doubling the symbol.
Contrasts between long and short consonants are not as common, but they do
occur. Luganda has contrasts such as [`kku!la~], meaning ‘treasure’, and [ku!la~],
meaning ‘grow up’. Italian has contrasts such as nonno [·nOnno] ‘grandfather’
versus nono [ ·nOno ] ‘ninth’ and Papa [ ·papa ] ‘Pope’ versus pappa [ ·pappa ]
‘porridge, baby food’. Long consonants (or vowels) that can be analyzed as dou-
ble consonants (or vowels) are called geminates. Italian geminates are also
illustrated on the CD.
The Italian geminate consonants can be compared with the contrasts between
English consonants in white tie [ waIt.taI ], why tie [ waI.taI ], and white eye
[waIt.aI]. The difference is that in Italian, a long consonant can occur within a
single morpheme (a grammatical term for the smallest meaningful unit). But in
English, geminate consonants can occur only across word boundaries, as in the
previous examples, or in a word containing two morphemes, such as unknown
[Øn·noÁn] or guileless [·gaIll”s]. Note, however, that some words that are his-
torically two morphemes, such as immodest, are usually pronounced with a sin-
gle consonant, [I·mAdIst].
Probably one of the most interesting languages in its use of length is Japanese.
Japanese may be analyzed in terms of the classical Greek and Latin unit called a
mora. A mora is a unit of timing. Each mora takes about the same length of time to
say. The most common type of Japanese mora is formed by a consonant followed
by a vowel. Japanese words such as [kakemono] ‘scroll’ and [su9kijaki] ‘beef stew’
each consist of four morae of this type. Note that in the latter word, the high vowel
/ u / is voiceless because it occurs between two voiceless consonants, but it still
takes about the same length of time to say as do the vowels in the other syllables.
Another type of mora is a vowel by itself, as in the word [iki] ‘breath’. This word
has two morae, each of which takes about the same length of time to say. A conso-
nant cannot occur after a vowel within a mora, but it too can form a mora by itself.
The word [nippoN] ‘Japan’ must be divided into four morae [ni p po N]. Although
it has only two vowels, it takes almost the same length of time to say [ nippoN ] as it
does to say [kakemono] or [su9kijaki].You can hear these three words on the CD.
CD lg.
index
CD 10.1
CD 10.2
CD 10.3
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
252 CHAPTER 10 Syllables and Suprasegmental Features
TIMING
Languages give the impression of different modes of timing. We have noted
that Japanese seems to be timed so that all morae have approximately the same
duration. Similarly, linguists have classified some of the Romance languages
(Spanish and French particularly) as “syllable-timed” languages because all
syllables seem to have the same duration in these languages. English and Ger-
man, on the other hand, seem to be timed so that stressed syllables come at
regular intervals (or so our systems of meter would tell us). Although these
impressions are stated in terms of units of timing, the most reliable correlates
of stressed versus syllable timing (and probably also mora timing) has to do
with the segmental makeup of syllables. So, although one factor that deter-
mines the perceived timing of a language is where the stresses fall, equally
important are factors such as whether the language contrasts long and short
vowels, whether sequences of vowels can occur, whether vowels in unstressed
syllables can be reduced, and what syllabic structures are allowed (notably
whether onsets and codas can include sequences of consonants). In Hawaiian,
there is never more than a single consonant between any two vowels, but in
English, there can be seven, as in the phrase texts spread [ teksts spr”d ]. In
Polish, there are even more, as you can find in the many examples of Polish
consonant clusters on the CD.
Differences in the permitted syllable structures affect the perceived timing of
a language. One way of describing timing differences is to consider how much
variation in length occurs within a sentence. In French, it seems as if the vowels
all have a fairly similar length, whereas in English, there are short vowels inter-
spersed with long ones. These kinds of differences can be quantified by calculat-
ing the pairwise variability index (PVI; see Sources). The PVI can be applied to
various units—just the vowels, the intervals between vowels (i.e., including the
consonants), or other stretches of speech. It is calculated by finding the average
ratio of all the adjacent units in the utterance. The procedure involves four steps,
which sound more complicated than they actually are when taken one at a time.
First, decide which interval is to be measured (e.g., vowel durations). Second,
calculate the difference in duration between each pair of adjacent intervals in the
utterance. Third, divide each result by the mean duration of each pair. Finally,
establish the average ratio of pairs. Expressed mathematically, this is
PVI 5 100 3 c a
m21
k51
`
dk 2 dk11
1dk 1 dk11 2/2
`/1m 2 12 d
where m is number of items in an utterance and dk is the duration of the kth item.
The index has been multiplied by 100 so as to avoid fractional values. As we
will see, there is a program on the CD that will do all the calculations for you.
The PVI for vowels has been calculated for many languages, some of which
are shown in Figure 10.2. It is clearly greater (i.e. the variability in duration
between adjacent vowels is larger) for the first four languages, Thai, Dutch,
CD lg.
index
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Timing 253
German, and English, shown in the figure with black bars. These are languages
that have heavy stresses and large variations in vowel length. The final four lan-
guages, French, Japanese, Spanish, and Chinese, are shown with white bars.
These languages have more constant vowel lengths. None of them have stresses
on particular syllables in words. Polish, the language with the gray bar in the
center of the figure, is closest to the last group of languages. Although it does
stress particular syllables (the penultimate syllables of words), it does not fit into
the group of languages that have strong rhythmic stresses because Polish stress
is not accompanied by great variability in vowel length. We should also note that
the position of Polish on this scale would have been different if the PVI had been
calculated to take into account the sequences of consonants. As we have seen,
Polish can have great variability in the number of consonants between vowels.
Figure 10.2 also shows that there are no clear-cut distinctions in timing between
languages. Insofar as the PVI is a measure of strong versus weak stress timing it
seems that languages have various degrees of this feature.
You can easily calculate the PVI for a set of vowel durations by using the
PVI Excel spreadsheet on the CD. (You will need to have Microsoft Excel on
your computer.) This will apply the formula to any set of measurements that
you paste in. The example on the spreadsheet shows the calculation for the vari-
ability in duration between adjacent vowels as discussed above, and for variabil-
ity in duration between adjacent syllables (i.e. including the consonants). See
Sources for further background.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Vowel
length
Pairwise
Variability
Index
Thai
Dutch
German
French
Japanese
Spanish
English
Polish
Chinese
Figure 10.2 Pairwise variability index for a number of languages.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
254 CHAPTER 10 Syllables and Suprasegmental Features
INTONATION AND TONE
The pitch of the voice is determined by several factors. The most important is
the tension of the vocal folds. If the vocal folds are stretched, the pitch of the
sound will go up. Altering the tension of the vocal folds is the normal way of
producing most of the pitch variations that occur in speech. In addition, as we
saw in the section on stress, an increase in the flow of air out of the lungs will
also cause an increase in pitch, so that stressed sounds will usually have a higher
pitch. Finally, variations in pitch occur in association with the variations in the
position of the vocal folds in different phonation types. Thus, creaky voice usu-
ally has a low pitch as well as a particular voice quality.
Many different kinds of information can be conveyed by variation in pitch.
As is the case with other aspects of speech sounds, some of this information
simply indicates the personal characteristics of the speaker. The pitch of the
voice usually indicates whether the speaker is male or female and, to some ex-
tent, what his or her age is. In addition, it conveys a great deal of nonlinguistic
information about the speaker’s emotional state—whether the person is calm
or angry, or happy or sad. As yet, nobody knows if the pitch changes con-
veying this sort of information are universal. But it is apparent that speakers
of many different languages have similar inflections when conveying similar
emotional information.
There also seem to be some universal aspects to the ways in which languages
use pitch differences to convey linguistic information. All languages use pitch to
mark the boundaries of syntactic units. In nearly all languages, the completion
of a grammatical unit such as a normal sentence is signaled by a falling pitch.
The last syllable (or the last stressed syllable) is on a lower pitch than it would
have been if it had been nonfinal. Conversely, incomplete utterances, such as
mid-sentence clause breaks where the speaker intends to show that there is
something still to come, often have a basically rising intonation. These and other
intonations of English were illustrated on the CD and discussed in Chapter 5. There
are, of course, exceptions to the two generalizations suggested earlier. In some
styles of English, for example, it is possible to have a rising intonation on many
sentences. But the use of a falling pitch to mark noninterrogative sentences
occurs in by far the majority of utterances.
Discourse information is also conveyed by intonation in English. For exam-
ple, the sentence But, he also wrote a very long one can be pronounced to con-
vey that the new information in the sentence is that the book is a long one, say
in the context of a preceding sentence like Peter has written a few short books,
by putting a high pitch accent on the word long. The same sequence of words
can also be used to convey that the new information is that the book is one that
Peter wrote, say in the context of a preceding sentence like Peter read a very
long book, by placing a high pitch accent on the word wrote. Try saying these
with the correct and incorrect accent placement to experience the importance of
intonation in conveying discourse information.
CD 10.4
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Intonation and Tone 255
In addition to syntactic and discourse functions, in many other languages,
pitch variations can be used to signal the meaning of a word. In Mandarin Chi-
nese, for example, the consonant–vowel sequence [ma] pronounced with a high
and level pitch means ‘mother’, but the same sequence pronounced with a high
falling pitch means ‘scold’.
Pitch variations that affect the meaning of a word are called tones. In the ma-
jority of the languages in the world, the meaning of a word depends on its tone.
All languages also use intonation, the use of pitch variations, to convey syntactic
information. The intonation patterns are superimposed on the tones in a way that
we will discuss later.
The simplest kind of tone language is that in which there are only two pos-
sible tones, high and low. In many Bantu languages, such as Shona (spoken in
Zimbabwe), Zulu, or Luganda, every vowel may be classified as being on a high
or on a low pitch. Thus, in Shona, the sequence [kùtSe!ra!], meaning ‘to draw wa-
ter’, has a low tone on the first syllable and a high tone on the second and third
syllables. But when this sequence is [kùtSe~ra~], with low tones on each syllable,
it means ‘to dig’.
Tones may be transcribed in many different ways. One of the simplest sys-
tems is to mark a high pitch by an acute accent over the vowel [ a! ] and a low
pitch by a grave accent [ a~ ]. Middle pitches can be left unmarked. This is the
kind of transcription we have been using in the examples cited in some of the
tables illustrating sounds not found in English (see, for example, Table 6.3,
showing contrasting clicks in Xhosa, and Table 7.1, showing Ewe fricatives). In
a language with three level tones, such as Yoruba (spoken in Nigeria), the mid
tone would be left unmarked. In this way, we could transcribe a three-way op-
position such as occurs in Yoruba: [ó wa!] ‘he comes’, [ó wa . . .] ‘he looked
for . . .’, [ó wa~] ‘he existed’ If the three tones included a high tone, a mid tone,
and a falling tone, as is the case in Ibibio, another language spoken in Nigeria,
then a circumflex accent (which is a conjunction of a high tone followed by a
low tone) can be used, as in the Ibibio examples on the CD.
Please note that the number-one mistake that phonetics students make in read-
ing IPA tone marks is to think that [a!] indicates a rising tone while [a~] indicates
a falling tone. This is wrong: [a!] indicates a high level tone in the IPA and [a~]
indicates a low level tone.
Speakers of English often find it hard to consider the tone as an important,
meaningful part of a word. But for speakers of a tone language, a difference in
tone is just as significant as a difference in consonant or vowel quality. If you are
trying to say ‘he looked for (something)’ in Yoruba, and you say [ó wa~] instead
of [ ó wa ], it will sound just as odd as if you had said he licked instead of he
looked in English.
Contrastive tones are usually marked over the vowel in a tone language. But
they are often properties of the syllable as a whole. They can also occur on
voiced consonants that can be regarded as syllabic. The Igbo (spoken in Nigeria)
for ‘I’m beautiful’ is [m! ma~ m! ma!]. Occasionally, tones occur on consonants
CD 10.5
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
256 CHAPTER 10 Syllables and Suprasegmental Features
that are not normally syllabic. In the section on length in this chapter, we tran-
scribed the Luganda word for ‘treasure’ as [`kku!la~], with a low tone mark be-
fore the first [k]. Obviously, the silence preceding a voiceless consonant cannot
be said on a low pitch. Only voiced sounds can have a high or a low pitch. This
tone had to be transcribed simply because (for reasons to be explained later) it is
a necessary unit when considering the sound pattern of Luganda as a whole.
Tone languages make two slightly different uses of pitch within a word. In the
examples given so far, differences in pitch have affected the lexical (dictionary)
meaning of a word. But many, if not most, tone languages also use pitch differ-
ences to make changes in grammatical (morphological) meaning. Thus, in Igbo,
the idea of possession—roughly the equivalent of of in English—may be ex-
pressed by a high tone. This high tone appears, for example, in the phrase mean-
ing ‘the jaw of a monkey’. The word for ‘jaw’ is [a~g°ba~], with two low tones.
The word for ‘monkey’ is [e~Nwe~], also with two low tones. But the phrase ‘the
jaw of a monkey’ is [a~g°ba! e~Nwe~], with a high tone on the second syllable of the
word for ‘jaw’. Thus the English word of can sometimes be represented simply
as a high tone on a particular syllable in Igbo.
Another example of the grammatical use of tone occurs in the tense system of
Edo, spoken in Nigeria, as shown in Table 10.1. In what may be called the time-
less tense (indicating a habitual action), there is a low tone on both the pronoun
and the verb. In what may be called the continuous tense (indicating an action
in progress), there is a high tone on the pronoun, a low tone on monosyllabic
verbs, and a tone going from low to high on disyllables. In the past tense, there
is a low tone on the pronoun, a high tone on monosyllabic verbs, and high to low
on disyllables.
Before considering more complicated tonal systems, you should check that
you can pronounce correctly all the tones that have to be pronounced in the ex-
amples cited in the previous paragraphs. You should, of course, say the high
tones on a pitch in the upper part of your own pitch range, and the low tones on
a pitch in the lower part. If you are working with a friend or with recordings of
a speaker of a tone language, be careful not to imitate their exact pitches, unless
they have just the same pitch range as you normally do. Contrastive tones must
always be considered relative to the presumed mean pitch of the speaker. (One
problem in doing fieldwork with speakers of tone languages if you have a rather
deep voice is that consultants will often say that you are mispronouncing a word
TABLE 10.1 The use of tone in part of the tense system of Edo.
Tense Monosyllabic Verbs Disyllabic Verbs
Timeless i~ ma~ ‘I show’ i~ hru~l”~ ‘I run’
Continuous !
i ma~ ‘I am showing’ !
i hru~l”! ‘I am running’
Past i~ ma! ‘I showed’ i~ hru!l”~ ‘I ran’
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Intonation and Tone 257
when you imitate them fairly exactly. To sound right, you should make a distinct
effort to say the tones not in the same way as the speaker, but on a somewhat
lower pitch.)
The tones in many languages can be described in terms of given points within
the speaker’s pitch range. If the speaker is aiming at a single target pitch for a
syllable, the tone can be regarded as a level tone. Luganda, Zulu, and Hausa
are examples of tone languages having basically just two tones, high and low.
Yoruba is an example of a tone language with three tones, high, mid, and low.
(Additional contour tones do occur in Yoruba, but they can be shown to be the
result of combining two of the tones within a single syllable.) The majority of
tone languages have two or three tones, but languages with four or even five
pitch levels do occur. Egede and Kutep (both spoken in Nigeria) have tones that
can be distinguished as being top, high, mid, and low.
A transcription system using grave and acute accents is sufficient for lan-
guages that have only a single tone target within a syllable. It can incorporate
languages with four tones by marking the lower of the two mid tones with a
horizontal bar, [a¤], and leaving the upper one unmarked. The IPA expands this
range by marking “extra-high” tone with two acute accents [a̋] and “extra-low”
tone with two grave accent marks [ȁ], giving a total of six possible tone levels.
But this kind of system using accents is not satisfactory for languages that have
more complex tones. In Mandarin Chinese, for example, there are four tones,
three of which involve significant pitch movements. Tones of this kind are called
contour tones. When making these tones, the speaker’s aim is to produce a
characteristic pitch movement, rather than a single target in the pitch range. In
addition to Chinese, many of the languages of Southeast Asia (for example, Thai
and Vietnamese) have contour tones. It should be noted, however, that these
well-known tone languages are not typical. Most of the tone languages in the
world have single pitch targets, or at most just a rising or falling pitch, for each
syllable.
One way of transcribing contour tones is to consider five equally spaced
points within the normal pitch range of a speaker’s voice: (1) low, (2) half-low,
(3) middle, (4) half-high, and (5) high. We can then describe a contour tone as
a movement from one of these points to another. We can represent this infor-
mation graphically. If we draw a vertical line to indicate the normal range of a
speaker’s voice, we can plot a simplified graph of the pitch to the left of this line.
In this way, we can form a letter-like symbol that represents the tone. Table 10.2
specifies the tones of Mandarin Chinese in three ways: (1) by giving each tone
an arbitrary number; (2) by tone letters in column 3; and (3) by the numbers for
the pitches depicted by the tone letter in column 4. The traditional numbers as-
signed to Mandarin tone are shown in the first column. These tones can be heard
on the CD.
Other tone letters designed in the same way can be used for the description of
tones in other languages. The tones of Thai are illustrated in Table 10.3 and on
the CD. Note how the numbers conventionally used in specifying Thai tones do
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
258 CHAPTER 10 Syllables and Suprasegmental Features
not have the same values as those conventionally used for Chinese in Table 10.2.
Tone 1 in Thai is a falling tone, whereas in Standard Chinese, it is a high-level
tone. In Thai, there is also a fifth tone, designated the common tone, which is left
unmarked in transcriptions.
Even in a tone language, the pitch of the voice changes continuously through-
out sequences of voiced sounds. There are seldom sudden jumps from one pitch
level to another. As a result, assimilations occur between tones in much the same
way as they do between segments. When a high tone precedes a low tone, the
low tone will usually begin with a downward pitch change. Conversely, a high
tone following a low tone may begin with an upward pitch movement. Consider-
ing two adjacent tones, it is usually the first that affects the second rather than
the other way around. There seems to be a tendency in the languages of the
world for tone assimilations to be perseverative, the tone of one syllable hanging
over into that of later syllables, rather than anticipatory, the tone of one syllable
changing because it anticipates that of the syllable yet to come.
Changes of tone due to the influence of one tone on another are called tone
sandhi. Sometimes, these changes are fairly complex. For example, in Standard
Chinese, the word meaning ‘very’ is [ hao214 ], with a falling-rising tone. But in
the phrase meaning ‘very cold’ it is pronounced with a high rising tone [ hao35
leN214 ]. In this way, Standard Chinese avoids having two falling-rising tones one
TABLE 10.2 The tones of Mandarin Chinese.
Tone Tone
Number Description Letter Pitch Example Gloss
1 high level ê 55 ma55 ‘mother’
2 high rising ü 35 ma35 ‘hemp’
3 low falling-rising Ä 214 ma214 ‘horse’
4 high falling ë 51 ma51 ‘scold’
TABLE 10.3 Tonal contrasts in Thai.
Tone Tone
Number Description Pitch Letter Example Gloss
1 low falling 21 ö naa21 (a nickname)
2 high falling 51 ë naa51 ‘face’
3 high rising 45 ü naa45 ‘aunt’
4 low falling-rising 214 Ä naa214 ‘thick’
“common” mid falling 32 ö naa32 ‘field’
CD 10.6
CD 10.7
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Intonation and Tone 259
after another. Whenever a tone 3 word is followed by another tone 3 word, the
low falling-rising tone is changed into tone 2—the high rising tone. As another
example of tone sandhi, we can consider what happens to compound words in
Shanghai Chinese, a related but different language from Standard Chinese. The
word for ‘sky’ is [tÓi], with a pitch fall that we could write as [51]. The word for
‘earth’ is [di], with a pitch rise [15]. Put together, these form the word for ‘“uni-
verse’” [tÓi5 di1 ], which has a pitch fall going from high on the first syllable to
low on the second. Thus, the pitch pattern associated with the first syllable has
extended over the whole compound word. This is the general rule in Shanghai
Chinese for compound words beginning with a syllable that is high falling when
it occurs in isolation. The word for ‘symphony’ is composed of the words mean-
ing ‘exchange’, ‘sound’, and ‘song’. When said in isolation, the first of these,
[tSiO51 ], has a high falling tone [51]; the second, [Siã35], has a mid rising tone
[35]; and the last, [tSÓio/5 ], has a short high tone [5]. But when put together to
form [ tSiO5 Siã3 tSÓio/1 ], ‘symphony’, the first syllable is high [5], the second mid
[3], and the third low [1].
As we mentioned earlier, tone languages also use intonational pitch changes.
In many tone languages, ordinary statements will have a generally falling into-
nation, and at least some questions will have a rising intonation over part of the
utterance. Doubt, anger, excitement, and many other emotional signals will be
conveyed by intonations similar to those in English, the distinctive tones of indi-
vidual words being superimposed on the overall patterns.
As in English, the regular intonation of a sentence often marks syntactic
boundaries. In most languages, there is a downward trend of the pitch over a
syntactic unit such as a sentence. This general pitch lowering is known as dec-
lination. In some languages, such as Hausa, declination involves the falling of
the mean pitch level throughout the sentence. Both high tones and low tones are
higher at the beginning of a sentence than they are at the end. A Hausa sentence
with alternating high and low tones such as [ ma!la~m I!nsù ja!na~ ba! sa~ na!ma~ ]
‘teacher their he gives them meat’ may have a high tone at the end of the sen-
tence that has about the same absolute pitch that a low tone had at the beginning
of the sentence.
In other languages, the declination may take a slightly different form. Instead
of both high and low tones falling, the low tones may remain at about the same
level throughout the sentence, so that the declination affects only the high tones.
In Luganda, this kind of declination takes the form of a rule whereby high tones
are lowered slightly whenever they are preceded by a low tone within the same
sentence. This is the reason that we marked the low tone at the beginning of
[ `kku!la~ ] ‘treasure’, even though it was on a voiceless consonant and could not
be pronounced. We know that there must be a low tone there because the high
tone in this word is slightly lower than it would have been if this (silent) low
tone had not been there.
To summarize, variations in pitch are used in a number of different ways.
In the first place, they convey nonlinguistic information about the speaker’s
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
260 CHAPTER 10 Syllables and Suprasegmental Features
emotional state and, to some extent, personal physiological characteristics.
Second, in all languages, differences in pitch convey one or more kinds of
linguistic information. The linguistic uses of pitch are intonation (the distinc-
tive pitches in a phrase), which in all languages conveys information about the
syntactic components of the utterance, and tone (the distinctive pitches within
a word), which may convey both lexical information about the meaning of the
word and the grammatical function of the word. Within tone languages, the
tones can be divided into contour tones, which require the specification of a
change in pitch within the syllable, and target tones, in which only a single
target height needs to be specified for each syllable, the pitch changes within
a syllable being regarded as simply the result of putting syllables together to
form a sentence.
STRESS, TONE, AND PITCH ACCENT LANGUAGES
It is clear that Chinese is a tone language, in which the meaning of a word is af-
fected by the pitch, and that English is not, despite the fact that we can describe
certain syllables in an English sentence as having high or low tones, as we saw
in Chapter 5. The “tones” in an English sentence do not affect the meaning of
the individual words, although they may affect the meaning of the phrase or
sentence. English has stress contrasts, such as below versus billow, but not tone
contrasts.
So far, we have been considering languages to be either stress or tone lan-
guages, but this is an oversimplification. There are some European languages in
which pitch apparently plays a role in distinguishing words. Swedish has stress
differences that can be described in much the same way as stress differences in
English. But it also has a pitch contrast between, for example, anden ‘the duck’
and anden ‘the ghost’. In the Stockholm dialect the word for ‘the duck’ has a
high pitch early in the word, whereas ‘“the ghost’” may have two pitch peaks.
Swedish phoneticians describe the difference as accent 1 versus accent 2. We
should note, however, that this is not really a difference in tone. The base form
of the word for ‘duck’ is / and /, with the suffix / -en / making it ‘the duck’. The
word for ‘ghost’ is / ande / with the suffix being simply / -n /. The difference
in the composition of the words accounts for the difference in pitch. Pitch may
be said to play a role in showing the forms of words in Swedish, but it does not
otherwise distinguish meanings.
Scottish Gaelic spoken in the Outer Hebrides has words that differ in pitch,
but again they are not really differences in tone. For example, duan / tuan / ‘song’
contrasts with dubhan / tuan / ‘hook’, the first word having a rising pitch, and
the second word falling steeply at the end. Although these two words have iden-
tical sequences of segments and often have the same length, the second word is
felt by speakers to have two syllables (as it did historically and still does in the
orthography), and this results in the two words having different pitch patterns.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Exercises 261
There are quite a number of Scottish Gaelic words that have lost intervocalic
consonants in this way, so it is possible to argue that the language is now becom-
ing a tone language.
Japanese is a more striking case of a language that is in some ways between
a tone language and a stress language. Words in Japanese have an accent on a
particular syllable in much the same way that English words have one or more
stresses. In Japanese, the accent is invariably realized as a high pitch, so that
Japanese is often called a pitch-accent language. Japanese words differ in the
placement of the accent, giving rise to contrasts such as / ka!kiga / ‘oyster’, /
kaki⁄ga / ‘fence’, / kakiga! / ‘persimmon’.
EXERCISES
(Printable versions of all the exercises are available on the CD.)
A. People differ in their judgments of the number of syllables there are in the
following words. Ask several people (if possible, include some children) to
say these words and then tell you how many syllables there are in each of
them. Try to explain, for each word, why people may differ in their judg-
ments, even if the people you ask are all in agreement.
laboratory
spasm
oven
prisoner
million
merrier
feral
B. List four words for which the sonority theory of syllabicity is inadequate in
accounting for the number of syllables present.
C. Make a list of ten words chosen at random from a dictionary. In how many
cases is there no doubt as to the number of syllables they contain? Explain
the reasons for the doubt in the case of the others.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
262 CHAPTER 10 Syllables and Suprasegmental Features
D. Look at dictionaries or introductory textbooks on four or five foreign lan-
guages not mentioned in this chapter. Try to state whether they have variable
word stress or fixed word stress, or whether stress does not seem to be a
property of the word.
E. Again by looking at dictionaries or introductory textbooks, find examples of
tone languages not mentioned in this chapter. For each language, try to state
how many contrasting tones it has, exemplifying the distinctions between
each of them with minimal pairs if possible.
F. In Luganda, many words fall into one or the other of two classes, each with a
different pattern of permissible tones, as exemplified in the lists below
I II
e~ki ⁄ta!bó ‘a book’ a~ka~sóziŸ ‘a hill’
òmú…!ntú ‘a man’ òmùka!ziŸ ‘a woman’
òlúgú…!dó ‘a road’ e~m̀bwá… ~ ‘a dog’
òkúwa!ka!na! ‘to dispute’ òkùsa!la~ ‘to cut’
Describe the permitted sequences of tones in each class. (In fact, Class II is
more complicated than is indicated by the data given here.)
G. Roughly speaking, when making a declarative statement in Luganda, the
initial vowel is dropped and the tones in Class I words become as shown
below:
kiŸta!bo! ‘it is a book’
lu~gu!… !do! ‘it is a road’
State the rule affecting the tones in this grammatical construction.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Performance Exercises 263
PERFORMANCE EXERCISES
A. Practice saying nonsense words with long and short vowels. Say partially
English phrases such as those shown below. Try to make the length of each
vowel independent of the quality, so that [ bIb ] is as long as [ bib ]—and
independent of the following consonant, so that [ bip ] is as long as [ bib ].
The syllables are included within a phrase so that you can make sure you
keep the overall rate of speech constant, but note that when the lengths are
changed, these will not sound like English words.
"se1 "bi…b E"g”n
"se1 "bib E"g”n
"se1 "b1b E"g”n
"se1 "b1…b E"g”n
"se1 "bi…p E"g”n
"se1 "bip E"g”n
"se1 "b1p E"g”n
"se1 "b1…p E"g”n
B. Repeat Exercise A with other syllables such as those shown below. Continue
using a frame such as “Say again.”
bu…d
bud
bÁd
bÁ…d
bu…t
but
bÁt
bÁ…t
C. Learn to differentiate between single and double, or geminate, consonants.
Say:
e"p”m o"num ø"zys
ep"p”m on"num øz"zys
"ep”m "onun "øzys
"epp”m "onnun "øzzys
D. Take a sentence that can be said with strong stresses recurring at roughly
regular intervals, such as
·What is the ·difference in ·rhythm in ·English and ·French?
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
264 CHAPTER 10 Syllables and Suprasegmental Features
Say this sentence with as regular a rhythm as you can, while tapping on the
stressed syllables.You should be able to say it slowly, then at a normal speed,
and finally fast, in each case tapping out a regular rhythm. Now try saying it
as a Frenchman just learning to speak English might say it, with each syllable
taking about the same length of time. Make regular taps, one corresponding
to each syllable throughout the sentence. Say the sentence first slowly, then
at a normal speed, and then fast, continuing to tap the rhythm in this way.
E. One of the best ways to learn about suprasegmental features is to say a short
sentence backward. To do this properly, you have to reverse the intonation pat-
tern of the sentence, make the aspiration come before rather than after voice-
less stops, and take into account all the variations in vowel and consonant
length due to the phonetic context. If you can make a recording of yourself
on a computer, you may be able to judge how successfully you can do this by
playing the recording backward, so that the reversed sentence should sound as
if it had been said normally. Begin with a fairly easy phrase such as
Mary had a little lamb.
Then go on with a more difficult one such as
Whose fleece was white as snow.
In each case, it is best to begin by making a narrow transcription of the
phrase, including the intonation pattern, and then to write this in reverse
order.
F. Practice tonal contrasts by learning to say the following set of words in
Ibibio, a language spoken in Nigeria. Ibibio has three tones: high [ ´ ], low
[ ` ], and falling [ ˆ ]. The six contrasting patterns in disyllabic words are
illustrated here. (Saying these words also gives you practice in saying the
labial velar [ k°p ], discussed in Chapter 7.)
Tone Sequence Example Gloss
high followed by high a!k°pa! ‘expanse of ocean’
high followed by low a!ku~ ‘priest’
high followed by falling a!k°pa$n ‘square woven basket’
low followed by high a~k°pa! ‘first’
low followed by low a~k°pa~ ‘species of ant’
low followed by falling a~k°pO$ ‘rubber tree’
CD 10
Perf. Ex.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Performance Exercises 265
G. Cantonese Chinese has a different tone system from Mandarin Chinese
(shown in Table 10.2). In Cantonese, there are six tones that occur on open
syllables and three that occur only on syllables containing a final consonant.
Say each of the following Cantonese words.
Description Pitch Tone Letter Example Gloss
high 55 â si ‘poem’
mid 33 î si ‘to try’
low 22 ô si ‘matter’
extra low 11 û si ‘time’
mid rising 35 ü si ‘to cause’
low rising 13 ï si ‘city’
high 5 â sik ‘to know’
mid 3 î sit ‘to release’
low 2 ô sik ‘to eat’
CD 10
Perf. Ex.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
267
11
Linguistic Phonetics
In this final chapter, we will review the approach to linguistic phonetics em-
bodied in the principles of the International Phonetic Association and in a
hierarchical phonetic descriptive framework that provides some basis for formal
phonological theory. The chapter will then end with a prospectus of cognitive
phonetic research touching on speech production and perception, and how they
shape language sound systems.
PHONETICS OF THE COMMUNITY AND OF THE INDIVIDUAL
Linguistic phonetic descriptions of the sort that you have learned about in this
book are, by and large, descriptions of the phonetics of the community. The rep-
resentations that we write in IPA, and analyze in formal phonology, are intended
to show the community’s shared knowledge of how to say the words of a lan-
guage. Shared phonetic knowledge is perceptible to other speakers (and thus to
the phonetician too) and is emergent from the aggregate behavior of the group
in the sense that it captures what community members accept as correct pronun-
ciation. For example, speakers of English generally agree that voiceless stops in
stressed syllables are aspirated and voiceless stops following [s] are not aspi-
rated. However, looking at a database of recorded utterances, we may find some
examples where voiceless stops in stressed syllables have been pronounced
without aspiration. For example, in fast speech, we may find the words on top
of pronounced as [E)dApE]. Despite the fact that such a pronunciation may oc-
cur, speakers of English agree that this is not really how these words should be
pronounced. Our shared phonetic competence is thus somewhat divorced from
normal speech and in practice is best revealed in careful speech.
We have also, at various points in the book, noted that speakers differ in in-
teresting ways. Indeed, there can be little doubt that the set of phonetic habits
and memories that each speaker possesses is different from those of every other
speaker of the language—so that no two people have exactly the same Eng-
lish, or French, or Japanese. Our description of the phonetics of the individual
involves describing the phonetic knowledge and skills that are involved in the
performance of language. As we have seen, certain aspects of the phonetics of
the individual can be captured using IPA transcription, just as we describe lan-
guage or dialect variation. Other aspects, though, are not as compatible with
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
268 CHAPTER 11 Linguistic Phonetics
the tools of linguistic phonetic description. Analysis of the individual’s phonetic
knowledge has only been occasionally touched on in this book because phonetic
performance involves private knowledge that is inherent in the individual’s ex-
perience of language and is usually only revealed in laboratory studies. Being
private, the phonetics of the individual is usually not the focus of the linguist
in speech elicitation, and it is difficult to describe even with spectrograms of
the person’s speech. Interestingly, though, the phonetics of the individual is the
locus of much of the explanatory power of phonetic theory, as we will see in the
last sections of this chapter. In the next two sections, we will review linguistic
phonetics (the phonetics of the community), and in the final sections, we will
discuss three aspects of the phonetics of the individual.
THE INTERNATIONAL PHONETIC ALPHABET
One way to review the key elements of linguistic phonetic description is to con-
sider the International Phonetic Alphabet. This is the set of symbols and diacrit-
ics that have been officially approved by the International Phonetic Association.
The association publishes a chart, which is reproduced (with permission) inside
the front and back covers of this book. This chart is really a number of separate
charts, which have been rearranged to fit the space in this book. At the top inside
the front cover, you will find the main consonant chart. Below it is a table show-
ing the symbols for nonpulmonic consonants, and below that is the vowel chart.
Inside the back cover is a list of diacritics and other symbols, and a set of sym-
bols for suprasegmental events, such as tone, intonation, stress, and length.
In the usual arrangement of the IPA chart, the material that we have divided
between the inside front and inside back covers appears on a single page, sum-
marizing a complete theory of linguistic phonetics. The IPA chart does not try to
cover all possible types of phonetic descriptions, including, for example, all the
individual strategies for realizing linguistic phonological contrasts, or gradations
in the degree of coarticulation between adjacent segments. Instead, it is limited
to those sounds that can have linguistic significance in that they can change the
meaning of a word in some language.
You should be able to understand all the terms in the consonant chart. If you
have any problems, refer to the glossary at the back of the book. The symbols in
this chart are arranged in such a way that if there are two items within a single
cell, the one on the right is voiced. This enables the consonant chart to be taken
as a three-dimensional representation of the principal features of consonants: the
target of the articulatory gesture (where it is made, across the chart), the type of
gesture (the manner of articulation, down the chart), and the state of the glottis
(within each cell).
The consonant chart thus summarizes the major features required for describ-
ing consonants. It even shows, by the use of shaded areas, which combinations
of features are judged to be impossible. Thus, it is considered that no language
could have a velar trill or tap—a sound in which the back of the tongue vibrated
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
The International Phonetic Alphabet 269
or moved in a ballistic tap gesture against the soft palate. The blank cells on the
chart—those that neither are shaded nor contain a symbol—indicate combina-
tions of categories that are possible but have not been observed to be distinctive
in any language. For example, it is perfectly possible for a language to have
a voiceless retroflex lateral fricative. No symbol was provided because there
was no documentation in the phonetic literature of a language containing such
a sound. But it in fact occurs in Toda, a Dravidian language spoken by about a
thousand people in the Nilgiri Hills in southern India. This language has a con-
trast between a voiced retroflex lateral approximant [] and a voiceless retroflex
lateral fricative. We will consider later how this sound should be symbolized.
Some of the other blanks and shaded areas simply reflect the judgments of
the phoneticians who drew up the chart. Go through each of these cells and
see whether you agree with its assignment as a blank or a shaded area. For
example, can you make a labiodental plosive? Some people with well-aligned
teeth can make a complete stop of this kind. But, given that not everyone in a
speech community will have well-aligned teeth, labiodental plosives may not
be as effective in language as other plosives. As another example, could you
make a pharyngeal plosive?You may be able to make a complete stop in the up-
per part of the pharynx, but there is no symbol for a sound of this kind because
it is not used contrastively in any known language. On the whole, the makers
of the chart have been fairly conservative in their addition of shading, putting it
in only when it was reasonably clear that the sound could not be produced. It is
quite certain that nobody could produce a voiced glottal stop (that is, a sound in
which the vocal folds were simultaneously vibrating with normal voicing and
were also held tightly together) or a pharyngeal nasal in which the air was com-
pletely stopped by a closure in the pharynx but nevertheless simultaneously
escaped through the nose.
When considering the status of the rows and columns on the chart, it is worth
considering the placement of [h] and [H]. Are these sounds really glottal frica-
tives? As we noted earlier, [h] usually denotes a voiceless transition into (or, in
some languages, out of) a syllable. Its place of articulation depends on the adja-
cent sounds. There is usually virtually no friction (turbulent airflow) produced
at the glottis. Also, [H] is best regarded as a state of the glottis without a specific
place; like [ h ], it is not a fricative. Both [ h ] and [ H ] might have been better
placed under “other symbols.”
Below the consonant chart is a set of symbols for consonants made with dif-
ferent airstream mechanisms. The IPA recognizes three possibilities: clicks,
voiced implosives, and ejectives. This does not mean that the IPA denies the
existence of voiceless implosives. It is simply that the IPA considers them too
rare to need separate symbols and would suggest using a diacritic. For example,
a voiceless bilabial implosive, which occurs in only a handful of languages, can
be symbolized by combining the voiceless diacritic with the voiced symbol,
forming [∫9]. The ejective symbol, ['], is like a diacritic in that it can be added to
many different consonants, including fricatives, as exemplified by [s'].
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
270 CHAPTER 11 Linguistic Phonetics
The vowel chart implies that there are three dimensions applicable to vowels:
front–back across the top of the chart, close–open on the vertical dimension, and
rounding specified by the relative locations of members of pairs of vowels. Again,
these are only the principal types of vowels. Other types, such as those that are na-
salized or have an advanced tongue root, can be symbolized by adding diacritics.
The “other symbols” at the top left on the inside back cover represent sounds
that could not be conveniently described in terms of the main sets of catego-
ries we have been considering. They include symbols for sounds with multiple
places of articulation (labial velar and labial palatal) and the epiglottal sounds,
which occur in Arabic, Hebrew, and some of the languages of the Caucasus.
These sounds would have been hard to place on the chart without adding further
columns with many empty cells.
The diacritic section of the chart allows a number of additional aspects of
sounds to be represented by adding a mark above or below the symbol for the
principal features of the sound. Some of the diacritics correspond to the provi-
sion of additional features or dimensions applicable to many different sounds.
Thus, additional states of the glottis are recognized by the provision of aspi-
rated, breathy-voiced, and creaky-voiced diacritics. More specific features, such
as particular tongue shapes, are recognized by providing diacritics for linguola-
bials, dentals, apicals, and laminals. Further vowel qualities can be symbolized
with many of the other diacritics.
In addition, the IPA provides for the representation of stress, length, tone, and
intonation. In the characterization of stress, only three possibilities are recog-
nized: primary stress, secondary stress, and unstressed. There are four possible
lengths: long, half-long, unmarked, and extra-short. The possibilities for tone
and intonation allow for five contrasting levels and numerous combinations.
The IPA does not provide a symbol for every contingency, so when phoneti-
cians come across some previously unrecorded event, they have to improvise.
Let us now return to the question of how to symbolize the voiceless retroflex lat-
eral fricative that occurs in Toda. One possibility that is always open to us is to
use an asterisk, and add, after giving a consonant chart or transcription of Toda:
“[À] represents a voiceless retroflex lateral fricative.” Another possibility is to
use the symbol for the voiced retroflex lateral approximant [] and add the dia-
critic [ 9], which indicates that the symbol to which this diacritic has been added
should be taken as representing a voiceless sound. It is sometimes difficult to
add a diacritic below a symbol that itself descends below the level of the writing
line. A possible solution is to put the [ 9] slightly in front of the [], making [ 9].
This symbol would really designate a voiceless retroflex lateral approximant,
and an explanatory note would still be needed, saying “[ 9] is a fricative rather
than an approximant.” However, this might almost be taken for granted, as no
language contrasts any kind of voiceless lateral fricative with a voiceless lateral
approximant made at the same place of articulation. Try saying a voiceless ver-
sion of an ordinary English [ l ]. You will probably find that you are making a
lateral [¬] with audible friction rather than a voiceless approximant.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
The International Phonetic Alphabet 271
The avowed aim of the IPA is to be able to symbolize all the distinctive
sounds in languages. The intent is to represent by separate symbols the sounds
that serve to distinguish one word from another in a language. The IPA would
like to do this, as far as possible, by using ordinary letters of the roman alphabet
or simple modifications of these letters. When this would mean the creation of
a large number of symbols for a set of related sounds, the IPA favors the use of
diacritics. This happens, for example, in the case of nasalized vowels or ejective
stops.
IPA symbols can be used in a variety of ways. There is no sense in which one
can speak of the IPA transcription of a given utterance. Many types of transcrip-
tion are possible, as we saw in Chapter 2 in the discussion of English phonology.
The relationship between some different types is summarized in Figure 11.1.
The first distinction is between a transcription that in some way reflects the
systematic, linguistic facts of the utterance being described, as opposed to one
in which the symbols are used just to provide an impressionistic record of the
sounds as heard—the kind of record that might be made by a speech pathologist
who has not yet found out anything about the patient, or a linguist hearing the
first few words in a language that had never been transcribed before. In theory,
an impressionistic transcription is one in which the symbols represent intersec-
tions of general phonetic categories.
Phoneticians very seldom make a totally impressionistic transcription. Gener-
ally, within a few minutes of starting to transcribe the utterances of a new patient
or a speaker of a language with which we have not worked before, we begin to
use symbols that rely on our linguistic hunches and preconceptions. We very
soon stop noting small differences between repetitions of the same utterance,
particularly if they are of the kind of which the speaker seems to be unaware.
Virtually the only occasion when a completely impressionistic transcription is
necessary is in the investigation of an infant’s prelinguistic babbling.
Within the class of systematic (phonetic) transcriptions, there are two
independent divisions. First, a transcription may be phonemic or allophonic.
A phonemic transcription is one in which all the different words in a language
are represented by the smallest possible number of different symbols. An
Figure 11.1 A schematic representation of some terms used for describing different types
of transcription.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
272 CHAPTER 11 Linguistic Phonetics
allophonic transcription is one that uses a larger number of distinct symbols so
that it can differentiate among systematic, allophonic differences in the sounds
of an utterance.
As we noted when discussing the sounds of English, phonemic and allophonic
transcriptionsarerelatedtoeachotherbyasetofstatementsthat,bytheirapplication,
convert the one form of transcription into the other. A phonemic transcription plus
the statements convey exactly the same information as an allophonic transcription.
The difference between these two types of transcription is simply in whether the
detailed phonetic information is made explicit within the transcription itself or
within the set of statements that accompanies the transcription.
The other kind of distinction among systematic phonetic transcriptions is that
between a simple and a comparative use of particular symbols. The simplest
IPA symbols are those that use ordinary letters of the roman alphabet, such as
[a] and [r]. More exotic letters such as [A, Å, ɐ] and [R, ®, |] convey greater
phonetic detail. A transcription using more unusual symbols is called a
comparative transcription, on the grounds that the use of more specific symbols
implicitly reflects a comparison between the general phonetic values of the
simple symbols and the more precise values of the exotic symbols. In general, as
we noted earlier, a broad transcription is one that is both phonemic (as opposed
to allophonic) and simple (as opposed to comparative). A narrow transcription
may show allophonic distinctions, or it may show more phonetic detail by using
more specific symbols, or it may do both these things.
When we think about transcriptions, we can see that formal phonology and
phonetic transcriptions are inextricably intertwined—both focus on the shared
phonetic knowledge of the community. It is generally recognized that phonol-
ogy must rest on accurate phonetic observations. But it is equally true that most
phonetic observations are made in terms of a phonological framework.
FEATURE HIERARCHY
The second way in which we will review linguistic phonetic descriptions is by
considering a hierarchical organization of linguistic phonetic features. A fea-
ture, in this sense, is a property of a sound and may be a quite general descrip-
tive term like “labial” or a more specific descriptive term like [bilabial]. At the
most specific level, a feature may be tied to a particular articulatory maneuver
or acoustic property. Thus, the feature [bilabial] indicates not only that the seg-
ment is produced at the lips but also that it involves both of them. Features may
be listed in a hierarchy, with nodes in the hierarchy defining ever more specific
phonetic properties.
The major phonetic dimensions of speech sounds are shown in Figure 11.2.
All sounds have some Supra-Laryngeal characteristics, some Laryngeal charac-
teristics, and some Airstream mechanism. The Supra-Laryngeal characteristics
can be divided into those for Place (of articulation), Manner (of articulation), the
possibility of Nasality, and the possibility of being Lateral.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Feature Hierarchy 273
A detailed specification of the Place feature is given in Figure 11.3. The first
division is into the major regions of the vocal tract, giving us the five features
Labial, Coronal, Dorsal, Radical, and Glottal. We used the first three of these
terms in Chapter 1. Now we are adding Radical to apply as a cover term for
[pharyngeal] and [epiglottal] articulations made with the root of the tongue. We
also have a feature Glottal, with only one value, [glottal], to cover various artic-
ulations, such as [h, /]. If we are to have a convenient grouping of the features
for consonants, we have to recognize that Supra-Laryngeal features must allow
for the dual nature of the actions of the larynx and include Glottal as a place of
articulation.
A sound may be articulated at more than one of the regions Labial, Coronal,
Dorsal, Radical, and Glottal. We have described sounds such as [μ] that simulta-
neously have articulations that have feature values [labial] and [palatal], and [w],
which is simultaneously [labial] and [velar]. Within the five general regions, Coro-
nal articulations can be split into three mutually exclusive possibilities: Laminal
(blade of the tongue), Apical (tip of the tongue), and Sub-apical (the under part of
Figure 11.2 The supraordinate features in a feature hierarchy.
Figure 11.3 Features dominated by the feature Place.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
274 CHAPTER 11 Linguistic Phonetics
the blade of the tongue). The mutually exclusive possibilities for each of these and
for the other places of articulation are shown at the right of Figure 11.3. Some of
these possibilities have not been discussed in this introductory textbook, but they
are all needed for describing the sounds of the languages of the world.
In a simple framework, it is sufficient to consider Coronal to be a terminal
feature like Labial and Dorsal, as shown in Figure 11.3. A more elaborate feature
hierarchy would include the apical/laminal distinction we discussed in Chapter 7.
In this way, we could deal with a wider range of languages, using the distinc-
tions shown in Figure 11.4. The features for possible manners of articulation are
shown in Figure 11.5. Four of the features we have been using—Stop, Frica-
tive, Approximant, and Vowel (without explicitly calling them features)—can be
Figure 11.4 An elaboration of the feature Coronal.
Figure 11.5 Features dominated by the feature Manner.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Feature Hierarchy 275
grouped together as aspects of another feature, Aperture. This grouping reflects
the fact that the four features Stop, Fricative, Approximant, and Vowel all de-
pend on the degree of closure of the articulators. In some older feature systems,
these possibilities are split into two groups, but it is now thought better to rec-
ognize that they form a continuum. The changes in the pronunciation of Peter
Ladefoged’s name, for example, fall on this continuum. The name is of Danish
origin. Peter pronounced it ["1œdIfoÁgId] in English, with consonants as they
once were in Danish. These stops first became fricatives, which later became
approximants in Danish ["lœ…DEfo…VED], later [·lœ…D̞Efo…V̟ED], and now perhaps
more like [ "lœ…D̞fo…wD ], making it apparent that there is a continuum going
from [stop] through [fricative] to [approximant]. (Note the use of the diacritic
[ §], meaning more open, turning the fricative symbols into symbols for approxi-
mants.) The name is simply two Danish words put together, lade, a barn, and
foged, something like a steward or bailiff; so Ladefoged = Barnkeeper. Spanish
also has a process whereby stops first become fricatives and then approximants.
The manner category Stop has only one possible value, [stop], but Fricative
has two: [sibilant] and [nonsibilant]. The possible values for Approximant and
Vowel will be discussed in the next paragraph, but first we should note that there
are two other Manner features, Trill and Tap, each of which has only a single
possible value, respectively [trill] and [tap]. The further relationships among all
the Manner features are beyond the scope of this book.
As shown in Figure 11.6, Approximant and Vowel dominate other features.
There are five principal features, the first of which, Height, has five possible
values [high], [mid-high], [mid], [mid-low], and [low]. As far as we know, no
language distinguishes more than five vowel heights. Backness has only three
values, [front], [center], and [back]. As we saw in Chapter 9, when discussing
Japanese [¨], there are two kinds of Rounding: Protrusion with possible values
[protruded] and [retracted], and Compression, with possible values [compressed]
and [separated]. The feature Tongue Root has two possible values: [+ATR] and
[−ATR]. Pharyngealized sounds may be classified as having the opposite of an
advanced tongue root and are therefore [−ATR]. The feature Rhotic has only one
possible value, [rhotacized].
Separate figures have not been drawn for the other two Supra-Laryngeal fea-
tures, Nasality and Laterality, as each of them is itself a terminal feature. Nasal-
ity has the possible values [nasal] and [oral]; Laterality has the possible values
[lateral] and [central].
The Laryngeal possibilities, shown in Figure 11.7, involve three features.
Glottal Stricture specifies how far apart the vocal folds are. Languages make use
of five possibilities: [voiceless]; [breathy voice], as we saw in languages such
as Hindi; [modal voice], which is the regular voicing used in every language;
[creaky voice] in languages such as Hausa; and [closed], forming a glottal stop.
Many in-between possibilities occur, but if we are simply providing categories
for the degrees of glottal opening that are used distinctively, these five are suf-
ficient. A separate feature, Glottal Timing, is used to specify voiceless aspirated
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
276 CHAPTER 11 Linguistic Phonetics
stops and breathy voiced aspirated stops. A third feature, Glottal Movement, is
also included among the Laryngeal features to allow for the specification of im-
plosives and ejectives. Some books, including previous editions of this book,
prefer to consider these sounds as simply involving a different airstream mecha-
nism. This is the way we began describing them at the beginning of Chapter 6.
At the end of that chapter, we included them in the summary of actions of the
glottis. As pointed out there, they interact with other Laryngeal features, and are
accordingly put at this point in the hierarchy.
The arrangement in Figure 11.7 leaves the Airstream feature, shown in
Figure 11.8, dominating only two features, Pulmonic and Velaric. Both of these
Figure 11.6 Features dominated by the features Vowel and Approximant.
Figure 11.7 Features dominated by the feature Laryngeal.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
A Problem with Linguistic Explanations 277
have only one value. In a more elaborate arrangement, it would be appropriate
to consider whether the pulmonic airstream mechanism varied in force, but this
possibility will not be considered here.
The figures in this chapter provide a hierarchical arrangement of the features
required to describe nearly all the sounds of the world’s languages. Try working
through this hierarchy from the top down so that you get a complete specifica-
tion of a variety of sounds. Table 11.1 gives a partial specification of a number
of English segments.
A PROBLEM WITH LINGUISTIC EXPLANATIONS
We now turn to a discussion of the phonetics of the individual. Current pho-
netic research and theory focuses to a large extent on topics such as speech
motor control, the representation of speech in memory, and the interaction of
speech perception and production in language change (the topics of the next
three sections), because it is in topics such as these that we find explanations
for language sound patterns. For example, we have given a name to the phe-
nomenon of “assimilation” and can describe it by saying that adjacent sounds
come to share some phonetic properties. But if we restrict ourselves to the
terminology and knowledge base of linguistic phonetics, we are restricted to
descriptions of sound patterns and not their explanation. In fact, explanations
that are restricted in this way often fall into the fallacy of reification—acting
as if abstract things are concrete. Here’s an explanation that falls into this trap:
Assimilation happens because there is a tendency in pronunciation for adjacent
sounds to share phonetic properties. This “explanation” is even more impres-
sive if we state it as a formal constraint on sequences of sounds: AGREE(x)
Adjacent output segments have the same value of the feature x. The problem
is that the explanation is just a restatement of the description. Assimilation
is when adjacent segments share features, so the “explanation” says nothing
more than that when we look at language we see that assimilation happens.
The explanation has this form: the tendency to assimilate (a cross-linguistic
generalization) exists because there is a tendency to assimilate (reified as a
specific “explanatory principle”). In the following sections, we look to the pri-
vate phonetic knowledge of the individual for a more satisfying way to explain
language sound patterns.
Figure 11.8 Features dominated by the feature Airstream.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
278 CHAPTER 11 Linguistic Phonetics
CONTROLLING ARTICULATORY MOVEMENTS
Underlying our linguistic description of [ p ], to take one simple sound as an
example of speech motor control, is a dizzying array of muscular complexity
involving dozens of muscles in the chest, abdomen, larynx, tongue, throat, and
face. And all of these must be contracted with varying degrees of tension in
TABLE 11.1 A partial feature specification of some English segments (vowels that may
not occur in all accents are omitted).
Place
Labial
[bilabial] p, b, m
[labiodental] f, v
Coronal
[dental] T, D
[alveolar] t, d, n, l, s, z
[post-alveolar] r
[palato-alveolar] S, Z
Dorsal [velar] k, g, N
Aperture
[stop] p, t, k, b, d, g, m, n
Fricative
[sibilant] s, S, z, Z
[nonsibilant] f, T, v, D
Approximant
Vowel
Height
[high] i, u,
[mid-high] I, Á, eI, oÁ
[mid] E, ∏
[mid-low] ”, O
[low] œ, A
Backness
[front] i, I, eI, ”, œ
[back] A, O, oÁ, Á, u
Rounding
[rounded] O, oÁ, Á, u
[unrounded] i, I, eI, ”, œ, A
Nasality
[nasal] m, n, N
[oral] (all others)
Laterality
[lateral] l
[central] (all others)
Laryngeal Glottal Structure
[voiceless] p, t, k, f, T, s, S
[(modal) voice] (all others)
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Controlling Articulatory Movements 279
specific sequence and duration of contraction. For example, in producing a lip
closure movement, there are two main muscles (depressor labii inferior and inci-
sivus inferior) that depress the lower lip, that is, pull the lower lip away from the
upper lip. These muscles must relax so as not to oppose the lip closure motion of
[p] too much. There are also two main muscles that when contracted will move
the lower lip toward the upper lip (obicularis oris inferior, mentalis). These two
must be given enough tension to overcome the tension of the lip-depressing
muscles. As the formulations above “too much” and “enough tension” imply, the
actual degree of tension needed for lip closure cannot be specified in absolute
terms but depends on the tension of the opposing muscles. Furthermore, the ten-
sion of the cooperating muscles must be coordinated. For instance, obicularis
oris inferior (OOI) and mentalis must trade off with each other so that if menta-
lis is not very tense for a particular [ p ], the OOI will compensate with greater
tension.
So coordination of the four main lower lip muscles is complicated and can’t
be specified with predetermined target “tension” levels because the actual de-
gree of muscle fiber activation for raising the lower lip in [ p ] depends on the
tension of the other lip muscles. But the situation is even more complex than this
because the lower lip moves up and down as the jaw moves up and down. So the
muscles that depress the jaw (geniohyoid, mylohyoid, and digastricus) must also
be coordinated with the muscles that raise the jaw (masseter and temporalis).
The activation of these jaw muscles depends on the tension of the lip muscles
and, just as the muscles within the lower lip may trade off with each other, so
also the jaw muscles may trade with the lip muscles so that in one [p], there is
more jaw movement, while in another, there is more lower lip movement, and in
yet a third [p], the upper lip does more work. Movement of the jaw also depends
on its starting location. If the jaw is already relatively closed, such as in the ut-
terance [ipi], there may be no need for it to move as part of the [p] production,
while in [apa], the jaw-closing muscles might be quite active.
The number of free parameters (separate muscle activations) that must be
controlled in speech has been called a degrees of freedom problem because a
flat control structure in which the tension of each muscle is separately controlled
presents a control problem of exceeding complexity. The solution to the degrees
of freedom problem that has been achieved in the speech motor control sys-
tem (and most other motor control systems, like swallowing, walking, reaching,
looking, etc.), is to organize the control system hierarchically in goal-oriented
coordinative structures.
For example, one of the gestures involved in saying [p] is lip closure. The
coordinative structure for lip closure is illustrated in Figure 11.9. This structure
specifies an overall task “close the lips” at the top node, and subtasks such as
“raise the lower lip” and “lower the upper lip” are coordinated with each other
to accomplish the overall task. Some subtasks also require further reduction
of the goal into smaller subtasks. For example, “raise the lower lip” is present
twice in the figure—first as a specification of the absolute position of the lower
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
280 CHAPTER 11 Linguistic Phonetics
lip (which is coordinated with the upper lip in accomplishing the task “close
the lips”) and second as a specification of the relative position of the lower lip
(which is coordinated with the jaw in accomplishing the task “raise the (absolute
position of) the lower lip”). The idea with coordinative structures is that each
gesture is defined in terms of subtasks, and thus there is no direct control from a
task like “close the lips” to the muscles. Instead, the muscles have more limited
goals and the degrees of freedom problem in coordination is solved by dividing
the overall task into smaller, simpler coordination problems.
One way that we know about the coordinative structures for speech is by
looking at how articulators and muscles may trade off with each other. For ex-
ample, when we track the locations of the upper and lower lips in a sequence
of [ pApApApApA ], we find that on some instances of [ p ], the lower lip may
raise more than it does on other instances of [ p ]. In those instances where
the lower lip doesn’t reach as far toward the upper lip, we find that the upper
lip compensates with a greater magnitude of movement toward the lower lip.
Similar patterns of compensation are seen for all of the subtasks illustrated in
Figure 11.9—the jaw and lower lip compensate for each other, and the OOI and
mentalis compensate for each other. These patterns of compensation, or trading
relations in speech, are motor equivalences—different motor activation patterns
producing the same result.
For further simple examples of coordinative structures, we will consider the
production of vowels. As you can see quite easily for yourself, it is possible to
produce the same vowel with many different jaw positions. Try to say [i] with
your teeth almost together, and then with them fairly far apart. There need be
very little, if any, difference in the sounds you produce. The same is true of many
other vowels. In fact, it is possible to produce a complete set of English vowels
with your teeth almost together or held apart by a wedge such as a small coin.
Obviously, the motor activity must be very different in these two circumstances.
close the lips
raise the
lower lip
lower the
upper lip
raise the
lower lip
raise the
jaw
OOI mentalis
Figure 11.9 Part of the coordinative structure involved in lip closure.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Memory for Speech 281
When the teeth are held far apart, you can feel the muscles of the tongue raising
it up in the jaw when you say [i]. When the teeth are close together, the raising
of the jaw itself contributes greatly to the lifting of the tongue for [i]. You can
also observe the results of the motor equivalence of different gestures that people
use when making vowels by watching them say the words heed, hid, head, had.
You will probably be able to see that some people lower the tongue by lowering
the jaw as they say this series of words. But others keep the jaw comparatively
steady and simply lower the tongue within the jaw.
Motor control nearly always involves considering speech production in more
detail than is necessary for the description of differences in meaning and is open
to much variation within and across speakers. This is why we say that speech
motor control involves private phonetic knowledge. In each of the cases we have
been considering, it is possible to produce the sounds in a variety of specific
physiological or articulatory ways. Thus, if two [ p ] sounds have the same lip
closure, they are linguistically equivalent, irrespective of the pattern of jaw and
lip coordination used to produce the closure. Similarly, the different jaw posi-
tions in vowels will not affect the position of the highest point of the tongue or
its shape relative to the upper surface of the vocal tract.
Although there is quite a bit more to speech motor control than this, we can
nonetheless see how investigation of speech motor control may offer some ad-
ditional insight into phonological patterns like assimilation. We are closer to an
explanation of assimilation by being able to note that the production of speech
is accomplished by ensembles of gestures that in essence compete for control of
the muscles of the vocal tract. One segment requires that the lower lip-raising
muscles be more active than the lower lip depressors, while an adjacent segment
requires the opposite pattern of activation. Because muscle activations come on
and off gradually over time, we have a good start of toward explanation of the
tendency for adjacent sounds to become like each other from patterms of ges-
tural activation (and motor control principles generally).
MEMORY FOR SPEECH
As we have seen, the speech to which we are exposed is quite diverse. Differ-
ent speakers of the same language will have somewhat different productions
depending on vocal tract physiology and their own habits of speech motor
coordination. We are also exposed to a variety of speech styles ranging from
very careful pronunciations in various types of public speaking to the quite ca-
sual style that is typical between friends.
This “lack of phonetic invariance” has posed an important problem for pho-
netic theory as we try to reconcile the fact that shared phonetic knowledge can
be described using IPA symbols and phonological features with the fact that the
individual phonetic forms that speakers produce and hear on a daily basis span a
very great range. The lack of invariance problem also has great practical signifi-
cance for engineers who try to get computers to produce and recognize speech.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
282 CHAPTER 11 Linguistic Phonetics
One way to account for phonetic variability across languages is to posit
language-specific phonetic implementation rules. This approach assumes a
universal set of phonetic features such as we find in the IPA, coupled with a lan-
guage-specific set of statements to specify the phonetic targets for each phonetic
feature. For example, both Navajo and Mandarin have voiceless aspirated stops,
but as we saw in Chapter 6, the VOT of the Navajo aspirated stops is much lon-
ger than the VOT of the Mandarin aspirated stops. The implementation approach
says that there is one feature [+ spread glottis], and that it is implemented differ-
ently in Navajo and Mandarin.
The phonetic implementation approach becomes more complicated when
we try to account for stylistic pronunciation variation. Part of the complication
comes from the fact that it is not plausible to assume that all languages have the
same set of reduction processes mapping careful speech into casual speech. For
example, as we discussed in a previous chapter, vowel devoicing in Japanese is
usually described as affecting the high vowels [i] and [ u ] only, with a statement
like “high vowels devoice between voiceless consonants.” The problem is that
mid vowels also devoice in Japanese—but this devoicing process is not categori-
cal. The mid vowel devoicing rule is something like “mid vowels devoice some-
times between voiceless consonants, with increasing probability of devoicing
as speech rate increases.” Devoicing is a phonetic reduction process, in which
contrastive phonetic information is lost or neutralized as a function of speech
rate or style. And although vowel devoicing does occur in other languages (see
if you get it in potato), it is by no means universal or uniform in character across
languages. Thus, each language needs a set of phonetic implementation rules to
account for stylistic variation.
The prognosis for the phonetic implementation approach becomes even more
dire when we look at individual differences among speakers. Anatomical differ-
ences between speakers, whether they be large differences such as those between
children and adults, or small differences related to the size and shape of the pal-
ate within an otherwise homogenous group, have an impact on speech motor
control. In response to variability of this sort, the phonetic implementation ap-
proach must hope that these sources of individual phonetic variation are quite
small relative to the larger—and presumably more rule-governed—sources of
variation. Experience in automatic speech recognition, which is still troublingly
unreliable for large-vocabulary multiple-talker systems, suggests that individual
variation is a substantial problem for the implementation model.
In this section, we have been discussing phonetic variability (across lan-
guages, styles of speech, and different speakers of the same language), yet the
section is entitled “memory for speech.” This is because the main alternative to
the phonetic implementation approach is a theory that focuses on how experi-
ences are encoded in memory. It is worth noting that the phonetic implementa-
tion view assumes that words are stored in memory in their most basic phonetic
form, from which we calculate phonetic variation using phonetic implementa-
tion rules. Given the problems of the phonetic implementation approach, an
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Memory for Speech 283
alternative theory—that many instances of each word are stored in memory—is
suggested. This exemplar theory of phonetics holds that variability is mem-
orized rather than computed. Figure 11.10 illustrates a phonetic category (for
example, the vowel [u]) in this theory. The axes of the figure stand for two pho-
netic dimensions, perhaps F1 and F2, or alternatively, the location and degree
of tongue-body constriction. Obviously, real phonetic spaces have many more
dimensions than this. Rather than posit the existence of an abstract phonetic
entity [u] from which each exemplar must be derived, in exemplar theory, the
representation of [u] is the set of exemplars. By cross-classifying each exemplar
as also an exemplar of citation speech or casual speech, the model also provides
a representation of these speech styles. As you can see, exemplar theory relies
heavily on stored exemplars using processes of selection and storage rather than
processes of transformation to define the range of variability found in speech.
Exemplar theories (as of this writing, there are many competing proposals
regarding the details of exemplar theory) offer a shift in perspective on several
core concepts in phonetics.
Language universal features Broad phonetic classes (e.g., aspirated vs.
unaspirated) derive from physiological constraints on speaking or hearing, but
detailed phonetic definitions are arbitrary—a matter of community norms. This
theory tends to disfavor cognitive universals and sees instead a role for physi-
ological or physical universals.
Speaking styles No one style is basic (from which others are derived),
because all are stored in memory. Bidialectal speakers store two dialects, and
all speakers control a range of speaking styles. Listeners may learn to recognize
new varieties of speech—regional dialects, or computer-mangled synthesis—by
storing exemplars of them.
Figure 11.10 A hypothetical cloud of [u] exemplars.
Casual forms
Citation forms
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
284 CHAPTER 11 Linguistic Phonetics
Generalization and productivity Interestingly, productivity—the hallmark
of linguistic knowledge in the phonetic implementation approach—is the least
developed aspect of exemplar theory.
Sound change The Neogrammarians (around the turn of the twentieth century)
argued that sound change is phonetically gradual and operates across the whole
lexicon. They conceived of this in an exemplar theory where sound change is a
gradual shift of the exemplar “cloud” as new instances are added. Note that in
the phonetic implementation model, phonetically gradual sound change requires
two distinct yet logically independent mechanisms—change in phonetic imple-
mentation rules, then, after a big enough shift, change in a feature value.
THE BALANCE BETWEEN PHONETIC FORCES
When we consider how sounds pattern within a language, we must take into ac-
count both the speaker’s point of view and the listener’s point of view. Speakers
often like to convey their meaning with the least possible articulatory effort. Except
when they are trying to produce very clear speech, they will tend to produce utter-
ances with a large number of assimilations, with some segments left out, and with
the differences between other segments reduced to a minimum. Producing utter-
ances in this way allows a speaker to follow a principle of ease of articulation. The
main way to reduce articulatory effort is by using coarticulations between sounds.
As a result of coarticulations, languages change. For example, in an earlier form of
English, words such as nation, station contained [s], so that they were pronounced
[ "nasion ] and ["stasion]. As a result of gesture overlap in some exemplars, the
blade of the tongue became raised during the fricative, in anticipation of the posi-
tion needed for the following high front vowel. Thus, the [s] became [S], [i] was
lost, and the unstressed [o] became [ǝ]. (The t was never pronounced in English. It
was introduced into the spelling by scholars who were influenced by Latin.)
Further examples are not hard to find. Coarticulations involving a change in
the place of the nasal and the following stop occurred in words such as improper
and impossible before these words came into English through Norman French.
In words such as these, the [n] that occurs in the prefix in- (as in intolerable and
indecent) has changed to [m]. These changes are even reflected in the spelling.
There are also coarticulations involving the state of the glottis. Words such as
resist and result are pronounced as [rǝ"zIst] and [rE"zØlt], with a voiced conso-
nant between the two vowels. The stems in these words originally began with
the voiceless consonant [s], as they still do in words such as consist and consult,
in which the [s] is not intervocalic. In all these and in many similar historical
changes, one or more segments are affected by adjacent segments so that there
is an economy of articulation. These are historical cases of the phenomenon of
assimilation, which we discussed at the beginning of Chapter 5.
Ease of articulation cannot be carried too far. Listeners need to be able to
understand the meaning with the least possible effort on their part. They would
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
The Balance between Phonetic Forces 285
therefore prefer utterances that have sounds that remain constant and distinct on
all occasions. Perceptually, what matters is that sounds that affect the meaning of
a word should be sufficiently distinct from one another. A language must always
maintain sufficient perceptual separation. Therefore, languages constrain speakers
so that they keep words sufficiently distinct. The language makes sure that there is
sufficient perceptual distance between the sounds that occur in a contrasting set,
such as the vowels in stressed monosyllables (as in beat, bit, bet, bat, etc.).
The principle of perceptual separation does not usually result in one sound af-
fecting an adjacent sound, as occurs with the principle of maximum ease of articu-
lation. Instead, perceptual separation affects the set of sounds that potentially can
occur at a given position in a word, such as in the position that must be occupied
by a vowel in a stressed monosyllable. Articulatory processes are syntagmatic, af-
fecting adjacent items in a sequence, whereas perceptual processes are paradig-
matic, affecting the set of items that can occur in a given place in a sequence.
We have already noted some of the ways in which languages tend to maximize
the perceptual separation between sounds. As we saw in Chapter 9, this tendency
explains why some vowel systems are more likely to occur than others. If the vowels
of a language are to be maximally distinct, the formant frequencies will be such that
the vowels are as far apart as possible when plotted on a vowel chart. Consequently,
there is a natural tendency in languages for vowels to be spaced at approximately
equal distances and on the outside of the possible vowel area. This tendency is most
evident in languages with a comparatively small number of vowels. Hundreds of
languages have only five contrasting vowels (e.g., Spanish, Hausa, Japanese, and
Swahili, to name four completely unrelated languages). In all these languages, the
vowels are roughly evenly distributed so that there are at least two front vowels and
two back vowels. No language has only five vowels unevenly distributed so that all
are front vowels. But there are, of course, many languages like English that have
five front vowels and an approximately similar number of back vowels.
If there is a possibility that a pair of contrasting sounds will occur in the same
place within a word, then there will be a tendency for the perceptual distance
between them to be increased. Conversely, whenever a language does not dis-
tinguish between two similar sounds, the actual sound produced will tend to be
between the two possibilities. Thus, as we have seen, English distinguishes be-
tween voiced and voiceless stops as in pie, buy. But this distinction cannot occur
after / s /. Consequently, the stop in spy is between these two possibilities (but
closer to the stop in buy).
Other examples of this phenomenon have also been mentioned. We saw that
before [N], English does not distinguish between tense and lax vowels. Conse-
quently, the vowel that occurs in, for example, sing has a quality between that
of [i] and [I]. Similarly, there is no distinction between tense and lax vowels
before [®]. The vowel in here in most forms of American English is also inter-
mediate between [i] and [I].
The principle of maximum perceptual separation also accounts for some of
the differences between languages. French has two high rounded vowels, [ u ]
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
286 CHAPTER 11 Linguistic Phonetics
as in tout [ t1u ] “all,” and [ y ] as in tu [ t1y ] “you.” These two possibilities are
kept distinct by one’s being definitely a front vowel and the other definitely a
back vowel. But English does not have this opposition. Consequently, the high
rounded vowel that occurs in, for example, who, two varies considerably. In
some dialects (for example, most forms of American English), it is a central
or back vowel, and in others (for example, some forms of Scottish English),
it is a front vowel not very different from French [ y ]. As far as this vowel is
concerned, what matters most in English is that it should be high and rounded.
Whether it is front or back is less important.
All these examples illustrate how languages maintain a balance between the
requirements of the speaker and those of the listener. On the one hand, there is
the pressure to make changes that would result in easier articulations from a
speaker’s point of view. On the other hand, there is the pressure from the lis-
tener’s point of view that there should be sufficient perceptual contrast between
sounds that affect the meaning of an utterance.
PERFORMANCE EXERCISES
The material at the end of this chapter will help you review many of the sounds
that have been described in previous chapters. It consists of real words in differ-
ent languages. If possible, compare your pronunciation of these words with that
of an actual native speaker. In any case, you should listen again to the sounds
on the CD. If the sounds are not available, try to pronounce the words just on
the basis of the transcription provided. You might begin your review by trying
to pronounce the data given in the following tables, which provide material on
specific languages. All the following tables are on the CD.
6.1 Lakhota (ejectives)
6.2 Sindhi (implosives)
6.3 Xhosa (clicks)
6.5 Gujarati (murmured vowels)
6.6 Thai (stops)
6.7 Hindi (stops)
7.1 Ewe (bilabial and labiodental fricatives)
7.2 Malayalam (places of articulation)
7.3 Quechua (palatal, velar, and uvular plosives and
ejectives)
Now try to say the following words.
A. Navajo
Navajo has a three-way stop contrast that will require your making voiceless
unaspirated and ejective stops that do not occur in English. There are also
several different affricates.
CD 6.2
CD 6.3
CD 6.4
CD 6.8
CD 6.9
CD 6.10
CD 7.1
CD 7.3
CD 7.7
CD 11
Perf. Ex. A
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Performance Exercises 287
Voiceless unaspirated Voiceless aspirated Ejective
tota txa̋…/ t'ah
‘not’ ‘three’ ‘just’
ha̋títsɪ tsÓah ts'ah
‘you will speak’ ‘awl’ ‘sagebrush’
t¬Óah niSt¬'a…
‘ointment’ ‘left’
t2S i!) t2SÓa…/ t2S'ah
‘day’ ‘beaver’ ‘hat’
bIkÓa̋… k'a…/
‘its surface’ ‘arrow’
B. Zulu
Zulu has a series of clicks which are similar to those in Xhosa.
Dental Alveolar Alveolar lateral
k˘a̋…gȁ k!ȁ…ka̋ k˘˘a̋…gȁ
‘to whitewash’ ‘to undo’ ‘to put into a fix’
k˘Óa…ga! k!Óa~…k!Óa~ k˘˘Óa!…ga
‘to identify’ ‘to rip open’ ‘to link horses’
g˘o~…∫a! g!o~…∫a! g˘˘o~…∫a!
‘to grease’ ‘to milk’ ‘to beat’
í~sí~…N˘e! í~sí~…N!e! í~sí~…N˘˘e!…le~
(kind of spear) ‘rump’ ‘left hand’
C. Burmese
Burmese contrasts voiced and voiceless nasals at four places of articulation.
Voiced nasals Voiceless nasals
ma$0 'lift up' m9a$0 'from'
na# 'pain' n9a# 'nose'
≠a# 'right' ≠9a# 'considerate'
Na$ 'fish' N9a$ 'borrow'
D. Greek
Greek is one of the comparatively few languages that contrast both voiced
and voiceless palatal and velar fricatives. It also has interdental fricatives.
Dental Palatal Velar
Tiki 'box' CE|I 'hand' xOma 'soil'
Diki 'trial' JE|I 'old men' Voma 'eraser'
CD 11
Perf.
Ex. B
CD 11
Perf.
Ex. C
CD 11
Perf.
Ex. D
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
288 CHAPTER 11 Linguistic Phonetics
E. Ewe
Ewe contrasts voiced and voiceless bilabial and labiodental fricatives both
intervocalically and in clusters with [ l ].
Voiceless
bilabial
e!Fa!
‘he polished’
e!Fle
‘he bought’
Voiceless
labiodental
e!fa!
æhe was cold’
e!fle$!
‘he split off’
Voiced
bilabial
”~B”~
æEwe’ (the language)
e~Blo!
‘mushroom’
Voiced
labiodental
”~v”~
‘two'
e!vlo!
‘he is evil’
F. Zulu
In addition to a complex set of clicks, Zulu has several different contrasts
involving laterals.
Voiced Voiced Voiceless
lateral lateral lateral
approximant fricative fricative/affricate
Alveolar la!la~ La!la~ ¬a$nza~
‘sleep’ æplay’ [imperfect] ‘vomit’
Nasal+ i!nLa~la~ i!nt°¬’a~nt°¬’a~
alveolar ‘hunger’ ‘good luck’
Velar k°l’i$na!
‘be naughty’
The exercises below review vowels and semivowels. As noted in Chap-
ter 9, the main features of vowel quality cannot be adequately described by
means of written descriptions. Listen to the recordings on the CD, and, if
you can, find native speakers of some of the languages listed below and try
to imitate their pronunciation.
Note that the symbols do not have the same values that they have in the
transcription of English.
G. French
French has twelve contrasting oral vowels. (Some speakers of French do not
make all these distinctions.)
li lit ‘bed’
le les ‘the’ [plural]
l” laid ‘ugly’
la la~ ‘there’
CD 11
Perf. Ex. E
CD 11
Perf. Ex. F
CD 11
Perf. Ex. G
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Performance Exercises 289
lA las ‘tired’
lO‰ Lore (name)
lo lot ‘prize’
lu loup ‘wolf’
ly lu ‘read’ [past participle]
lø le ‘the’ [masc. sing.]
l{‰ leur ‘their’
l”) lin ‘flax’
la) lent ‘slow’
lo) long ‘long’
l{)di lundi ‘Monday’
French also has three contrasting semivowels.
mj”t miette ‘crumb’
mμ”t muette ‘mute’
mw”t mouette ‘sea gull’
lje lie! ‘tied’
lμi lui ‘him’
lwi Louis ‘Louis’
μit huit ‘eight’
wi oui ‘yes’
H. German
German has so-called tense and lax vowels, which differ in both length and
quality. The symbol [ ʏ ] denotes a slightly lowered high front vowel—a
rounded version of [I].
bi…ten bieten ‘to offer’
be…tEn beten ‘pray’
b”…tEn bäten ‘asked’ [subjunctive]
ba…tEn baten ‘asked’
vʏ…tEn wüten ‘to rage’
b„…tEn böten ‘offered’ [subjunctive]
bu…tEn buhten ‘booed’
bo…tEn boten ‘boats’ [dative plural]
bItEn bitten ‘to ask’
b”tEn betten ‘beds’
latEn latten ‘bars’
bʏtEn bütten ‘tubs’
CD 11
Perf.
Ex. H
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
290 CHAPTER 11 Linguistic Phonetics
b{tiNEn Böttingen (town name)
bÁtE butter ‘butter’
bOtiC bottich ‘vat’
vaItEn weiten ‘to widen’
bOʏtE beute ‘booty’
baÁtEn bauten ‘built’
I. Swedish
Swedish has long and short vowels; the short vowels are followed by long
consonants. The symbol [ʏ] denotes a slightly lowered high front vowel—
a rounded version of [I]. The symbol [ɵ] denotes a more centralized high
rounded vowel—a slightly lowered [ ¨ ].
®i…ta rita ‘draw’
®e…ta reta ‘tease’
®”…ta räta ‘straighten’
hœ…® här ‘here’
®A…ta rata ‘refuse’
®o…ta Rota (name of a valley)
®u…ta rota ‘root’
®y…ta ryta ‘roar’
®„…ta ro·ta ‘rot’
hœ…® hör ‘hear!’
®¨…ta ruta ‘windowpane’
®It… ritt ‘ride’ [noun]
®”t… rätt ‘correct’ [adjective]
hœ®… herr ‘Mr.’
®at… ratt ‘steering wheel’
®Ot… rått ‘raw’
®Át… rott ‘rowed’
nʏt…a nytta ‘use’ [noun]
®{t… rött ‘red’
®ɵt… rutt ‘route’
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Performance Exercises 291
J. Vietnamese
Vietnamese has eleven vowels, including contrasting back rounded and un-
rounded pairs. Tones in this exercise are marked as follows: mid-level tone is
unmarked, high-rising tone has an acute accent [ ! ].
Front Back
unrounded rounded
ti
‘bureau’
tU
‘fourth’
tu
‘to drink’
te
‘numb’
tøØ
‘silk’
to
‘soup bowl’
t”!
‘to fall down’
ØN
‘favor’
tO
‘large’
œN
‘to eat’
tA
‘we/our’
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
293
Appendix A
Additional Material for Transcription
The full text of the story “Arthur the Rat,” recorded on the accompanying CD by
both British and American English speakers, was used by fieldworkers as they
conducted interviews for the Dictionary of American Regional English (Harvard
University Press). A similar story was used for recordings made by the Linguis-
tic Survey of Scotland. Both versions are based on a much older story called
“Grip, the Rat,” devised for dialect studies in the nineteenth century.
The first paragraph of this story and some additional freely spoken sen-
tences were recorded by speakers with accents typical of the following places:
Alabama, Edinburgh, London, Dublin, and New Zealand.
Arthur the Rat
Once there was a young rat named Arthur, who could never make up his mind.
Whenever his friends asked him if he would like to go out with them, he would
only answer, “I don’t know.” He wouldn’t say “yes” or “no,” either. He would
always shirk making a choice.
His aunt Helen said to him, “Now, look here. No one is going to care for you
if you carry on like this. You have no more mind than a blade of grass.”
One rainy day, the rats heard a great noise in the loft. The pine rafters were
all rotten, so that the barn was rather unsafe. At last the joists gave way and fell
to the ground. The walls shook and all the rats’ hair stood on end with fear and
horror. “This won’t do,” said the captain. “I’ll send out scouts to search for a
new home.”
Within five hours, the ten scouts came back and said, “We found a stone house
where there is room and board for us all. There is a kindly horse named Nelly,
a cow, a calf, and a garden with an elm tree.” The rats crawled out of their little
houses and stood on the floor in a long line. Just then, the old one saw Arthur.
“Stop,” he ordered coarsely. “You are coming, of course?”
“I’m not certain,” said Arthur, undaunted. “The roof may not come down
yet.”
“Well,” said the angry old rat, “we can’t wait for you to join us. Right about
face. March!”
Arthur stood and watched them hurry away. “I think I’ll go tomorrow,” he
calmly said to himself, but then again, “I don’t know; it’s so nice and snug
here.”
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
294 APPENDIX A
That night there was a big crash. In the morning some men—with some boys
and girls—rode up and looked at the barn. One of them moved a board and he
saw a young rat, quite dead, half in and half out of his hole. Thus the shirker got
his due.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
295
Appendix B
Suggestions for Contributors to the Journal of the International Phonetic
Association
There is no absolutely set form for contributions to the series “Illustrations of the
IPA.” Every language has its own peculiarities, and it is impossible to do more
than suggest guidelines so that as much uniformity as possible is maintained. In
general, a submission to this section of the Journal of the International Phonetic
Association (JIPA) should be relatively brief and not a full-fledged article on
the phonetics of the language. There are usually five sections: (1) Introduction,
(2) Consonant chart and discussion, (3) Vowel chart and discussion, (4) Prosodic
features, and (5) Illustrative passage in transcription. High-quality recordings of
all the material (not just the final passage) should accompany the submission.
They should be submitted, preferably, as WAV files with at least a 22-kHz sam-
pling rate. Include all words and narrative text in the target language occurring
anywhere in the Illustration.
(1) The one- or two-paragraph introduction should say where the language is
spoken, what kind of language it is, and who the speaker on the recording was.
(2) The consonant chart should be at the head of this section and should give
a set of IPA symbols for the consonantal phonological contrasts, arranged as on
the official IPA chart but using only such columns and rows as are needed. The
headings for columns should be chosen from the following in the order shown
(and with this use of capitals). If secondary articulations are listed in the table,
they should follow the column with no secondary articulation, as exemplified by
(Labialized Velar) in this list.
Bilabial
Labiodental
Dental
Alveolar
Post-alveolar
Retroflex
Palatal
Velar
(Labialized Velar)
Uvular
Pharyngeal
Glottal
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
296 APPENDIX B
The rows, in an order suggested by their order in the IPA chart, should be
chosen from the following. Note that Stop, a generic term, is not used, and the
row titles are given in the singular.
Plosive
Affricate
Ejective
Ejective affricate
Ejective lateral
Implosive
Click
Nasal
Trill
Tap or Flap
Fricative
Lateral fricative
Approximant
Lateral approximant
The consonant chart should be followed by a table of words illustrating
the consonants. These words should form as minimal a set as possible; at the
very least, each consonant should be followed by the same vowel, unless the
phonology makes this impossible. Each word should be given in transcription
and the local orthography (if any), and should be followed by an English gloss.
Following the table, there should be a paragraph or two giving a more precise
account of the consonants, using diacritics where necessary and noting significant
allophones. Authors are welcome to follow a less traditional phonological
format, but they should provide a traditional segmental description in addition to
their own formal description.
(3) Vowel symbols should be placed on a conventional IPA vowel chart, four
units across the top, three down the (right) side, and two across the bottom. Vowels
should be illustrated by near-minimal sets of contrasts in the same way as conso-
nants. The vowel chart should be followed by a discussion of the precise phonetic
qualities of the vowels and their principal allophones. Authors are encouraged to
include formant charts showing the mean values of the frequencies of the first
and second formants of a number of speakers, but this is in no way required. If a
formant chart is provided, it should, for preference, use a Bark scale and have the
origin at the top right, and the F1 scale double the expansion of the F2 scale.
(4) Prosodic characteristics should be presented in whatever way is appropriate
for the language. If there are lexical tones, they should be illustrated by minimal
sets arranged in a table, in the same way as in the tables illustrating vowels and con-
sonants. Contrasting stress or pitch accents should be similarly illustrated. Intona-
tional contrasts such as those characterizing statements, questions, yes/no questions
if different, echo questions, commands, and requests should be described briefly.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
APPENDIX B 297
(5) A transcription of a short text should be included, preferably a transla-
tion of the fable of the North Wind and the Sun as reproduced at the end of
this section. This passage is clearly inappropriate for some cultures and may
be replaced in whole or in part to make it more suitable for the particular lan-
guage or dialect. There is, however, some value in having the same piece for
as many languages as possible, and changes should not be made unnecessarily.
The transcription should use only the symbols listed in the preceding sections.
It should be preceded by any necessary interpretive comments accounting for
notable allophones or assimilations and followed by an orthographic version.
A literal, phrase-by-phrase translation may be included if appropriate. Authors,
even if they are speakers of the language themselves, should bear in mind that
it is usually advisable to make a recording of a representative speaker first and
then transcribe that recording, rather than asking a speaker to read a passage that
has already been transcribed.
A short list of references is often helpful.
These recordings and brief accounts of the phonetic structures of differ-
ent languages are widely used by students wanting a first glimpse of their
own or neighboring languages and by researchers seeking information on a
wide range of languages. The IPA would like to make them as accurate and
useful as possible within the constraints imposed by their being part of the
IPA Handbook.
As with all contributions to JIPA, manuscripts should be submitted to John
Esling, Editor of JIPA (esling@uvic.ca) at the address given in the journal. Ini-
tially, submissions should be in a form that can be conveniently read by editors
and reviewers. Tables and figures may be included in the same document as the
text. Electronically submitted files, e-mailed as identical AuthorName.doc and
AuthorName.pdf attachments or sent on disc, are preferable, although papers
may be submitted in hard copy in triplicate. Recordings of all word lists and
continuous passages should be attached as WAV files.
After a paper has been accepted for publication, authors must be prepared
to submit it in accordance with the Notes for Contributors in the journal. Most
standard word-processing formats (for either PC or Macintosh) are supported,
but please bear in mind that MS Word for PC is the most convenient once an
article has been accepted for publication. Phonetic transcriptions should make
use of the symbols and conventions of the Association’s alphabet in its latest
revision. Text should use 12 pt. Times font and IPAKiel or IPAKielSeven for
phonetic symbols if at all possible. SIL fonts or Unicode fonts, preferably those
similar in style to IPAKiel, may also be used.
The final version of all material accepted for publication must be submitted
in hard copy, preferably accompanied by an electronic copy. If an electronic ver-
sion is included, it is essential that it match the hard copy exactly.
The English version of the usual passage for recording and transcription
follows.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
298 APPENDIX B
The North Wind and the Sun
The North Wind and the Sun were disputing which was the stronger, when a
traveler came along wrapped in a warm cloak. They agreed that the one who
first succeeded in making the traveler take his cloak off should be considered
stronger than the other. Then the North Wind blew as hard as he could, but the
more he blew the more closely did the traveler fold his cloak around him; and
at last the North Wind gave up the attempt. Then the Sun shone out warmly, and
immediately the traveler took off his cloak. And so the North Wind was obliged
to confess that the Sun was the stronger of the two.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
299
Notes
Much of the data on particular languages in this book is from Peter Ladefoged’s
own fieldwork, usually conducted with the invaluable assistance of other lin-
guists who were more familiar with the languages being investigated. Many of
these data have been published, with appropriate acknowledgments to the lin-
guists who were the original sources, in Peter Ladefoged and Ian Maddieson,
Sounds of the World’s Languages (Oxford: Blackwell, 1996). Also, unless noted
otherwise, the sagittal sections of the vocal tract shown in this book are based on
x-ray tracings of Peter Ladefoged.
Chapter 1
The x-ray movie. The high-speed x-ray movie of Kenneth N. Stevens is
included in full on the CD. The original 35-mm cineradiography film was made
by Sven Öhman and Kenneth Stevens at the Wenner-Gren Research Laboratory at
Norrtull’s Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden, as described in an abstract of a paper by
Sven E. G. Öhman and Kenneth N. Stevens, “Cineradiographic studies of speech:
Procedures and objectives,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of Amererica
35, 1889 (1963), and in Kenneth N. Stevens and Sven E. G. Öhman, “Cineradio-
graphic studies of speech,” Quarterly Progress and Status Report, Speech Trans-
mission Laboratory, KTH, Stockholm, 2/63, 9–11 (1963). The original film was
described and analyzed in detail by Joseph S. Perkell in Physiology of Speech
Production: Results and Implications of a Quantitative Cineradiographic Study
(Cambridge: MIT Press, 1969).
The film was converted to DVD format and distributed at a conference at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in June 2004, honoring Profes-
sor Stevens, From Sound to Sense: 50+ Years of Discoveries in Speech Com-
munication. The film was part of the poster Articulatory KENematics: Revisiting
the Stevens Cineradiography, K. G. Munhall (Queen’s University), M. Tiede
(Haskins Laboratories), J. Perkell (Massachusetts Institute of Technology),
A. Doucette (Industrial Light & Magic), and E. Vatikiotis-Bateson (University
of British Columbia).
WaveSurfer. The acoustic analysis package WaveSurfer, mentioned in the exer-
cises at the end of Chapter 1, is available for free download and is also provided
in the “Additional Resources” folder on the CD. WaveSurfer is a free, open-
source, acoustic analysis program made available by KTH, Centre for Speech
Technology. Updates and further information on this program are at http://www.
speech.kth.se/wavesurfer/. WaveSurfer is easy to use, although it has only a
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
300 NOTES
rudimentary guide. Analyses can be made by right-clicking (control + click on
a Macintosh) whatever has been recorded and selecting “Create Pane.” This will
bring up a list of the possible analyses.
Chapter 2
The IPA. The Handbook of the International Phonetic Association is the de-
finitive, authoritative source on the International Phonetic Alphabet. Every seri-
ous student of phonetics should own a copy of the handbook. Here is a link to
the handbook publisher’s web site: http://www.langsci.ucl.ac.uk/ipa/handbook.
html.
Chapter 3
Consonants influenced by vowels. The data for Figure 3.6 were kindly pro-
vided by Anne Vilain, Pierre Badin, and Christian Abry based on MRI data that
they published in their 1998 paper “Coarticulation and degrees of freedom in
the elaboration of a new articulatory plant: Gentiane,” in Proceedings of the 5th
International Conference on Spoken Language Processing (R. H. Mannell &
J. Robert-Ribes, Eds.), vol. 7, pp. 3147–3150. Sydney, Australia, December
1998, http://www.icp.inpg.fr/%7Ebadin/Vilain_Abry_Badin_ICSLP_1998.
Chapter 4
Bunched vs. retroflex / r /. Originals of the MRI images of bunched versus ret-
roflex / r / in English were kindly provided by Mark Tiede. These data were dis-
cussed in Xinhui Zhou, Carol Y. Espy-Wilson, Mark Tiede, and Suzanne Boyce
(2007), “An Articulatory and Acoustic Study of ‘Retroflex’ and ‘Bunched’
American English Rhotic Sound Using Magnetic Resonance Imaging,” in Pro-
ceedings of Interspeech 2007, Antwerp, Belgium, pp. 54–57. Suzanne Boyce
added the following information. “The images come from two different subjects
sustaining /r/ for 13 to 20 seconds. The instructions were to sustain the /r/ as in
‘pour’. We also have ultrasound data from running speech from these subjects,
and the ultrasound data tell us that these subjects use similar tongue shapes dur-
ing real and nonsense words—although we have some ultrasound and tagged
MRI from subject 22 indicating he shows a more bunched tongue position in
intervocalic /gr/ context.”
English allophones. Many of the statements on English allophones in Chap-
ter 4 are based on observations by Professor Patricia Keating (UCLA) and her
students Dani Byrd, John Choi, and Edward Flemming of the TIMIT database,
as well as other databases that reflect the pronunciation of a large number of
American speakers of various dialects.
Voice talent. Professor Bruce Hayes (UCLA) spent many hours being the “Gen-
eral American” speaker.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
NOTES 301
Chapter 5
Two opposites. The illustration of vowel deletion in conversational speech was
drawn from the Buckeye Corpus (http://buckeyecorpus.osu.edu/) of phonetically
transcribed conversations, which is described in Mark A. Pitt, Keith Johnson,
Elizabeth Hume, Scott Kiesling, and William Raymond, “The Buckeye corpus
of conversational speech: Labeling conventions and a test of transcriber reliabil-
ity,” Speech Communication 45(1), 89–95 (2005).
Musical Obama. The rhythmic transcription of the first 47 seconds of Barack
Obama’s Iowa acceptance speech was produced by Keith Johnson’s UC Berkeley
colleague Richard Rhodes using the Macintosh application Garage Band.
Chapter 6
How to make a click. The sequence of articulatory events in a click noise illus-
trated in Figure 6.5 is based on an x-ray study reported by Anthony Traill in his
1985 book Phonetic and Phonological Studies of !Xoo Bushman (Quellen zur
Khoisan-Forschung 5: Helmut Buske, Hamburg).
The glottis. The photographs of the glottis in Figure 6.6 were taken by John
Ohala and Ralph Vanderslice. Ohala says regarding these photos, “Those were
the vocal cords of the (recently) late Ralph Vanderslice. My job was the sort of
‘macrophotography’ (with my then trusty Nikon), using a telephoto lens plus
an extension tube and a ring strobe (one that fits around the lens—to give even
lighting). But the real technical credit is Ralph’s who could tolerate an over-
size mirror (about 3 cm diameter, if I recall correctly)—and he literally had to
‘mount’ this mirror since it was affixed to a stationary device—there was no
other way for me to get good focus on each pic.”
Chapter 7
Dental stops in California. The “careful palatographic study” mentioned in the
discussion of dental sounds in English was done by Peter Ladefoged’s student
Sarah Dart in her 1991 Ph.D. dissertation “Articulatory and Acoustic Properties
of Apical and Laminal Articulations,” which was published as UCLA Working
Papers in Phonetics number 79.
Chapter 8
First campaign. The illustration of low- and high-frequency components in
Figure 8.1 was drawn from the Buckeye Corpus of phonetically transcribed con-
versations, which is described in Mark A. Pitt, Keith Johnson, Elizabeth Hume,
Scott Kiesling, and William Raymond, “The Buckeye corpus of conversational
speech: Labeling conventions and a test of transcriber reliability,” Speech Com-
munication 45(1), 89–95 (2005).
Vowel formants. The acoustic data on the formant frequencies of vowels
(Figure 8.5) are from G. E. Petersen and H. L. Barney, “Control methods used in
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
302 NOTES
a study of the vowels,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of America 24, 175–84
(1956); and A. Holbrook and G. Fairbanks, “Diphthong formants and their
movements,” Journal of Speech and Hearing Research 5, 38–58 (March 1962).
Bark frequency. The relation between frequency in Hz and pitch in Bark scale
is given in M. R. Schroeder, B. S. Atal, and J. L. Hall, “Objective measure of
certain speech signal degradations based on masking properties of human au-
ditory perception,” in B. Lindblom and S. Öhman (Eds.), Frontiers of Speech
Communication Research (pp. 217–229) (New York: Academic Press, 1979).
Chapter 9
Vowels of English. The acoustic data on the formant frequencies of vowels
(Figure 9.1) are from G. E. Petersen and H. L. Barney, “Control methods used in
a study of the vowels,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of America 24, 175–84
(1956); and A. Holbrook and G. Fairbanks, “Diphthong formants and their
movements,” Journal of Speech and Hearing Research 5, 38–58 (March 1962).
Tongue position in cardinal vowels. The x-rays of cardinal vowels used in
Figure 9.3 were published in S. Jones, “Radiography and pronunciation,” British
Journal of Radiology, New Series, 3, 149–50 (1929).
Vowels of English dialects. The data for the plots of different accents of English
are from R. Hagiwara (1995), “Acoustic Realizations of American /-r-/ as Produced
by Women and Men,” unpublished Ph.D. dissertation, University of California,
Los Angeles (Californian English); J. Hillenbrand, L. A. Getty, M. J. Clark, and
K. Wheeler, “Acoustic characteristics of American English vowels,” Journal of
the Acoustical Society of America 97(5), 3099–3111 (1995) (northern cities); and
D. Deterding (1990), “Speaker Normalisation forAutomatic Speech Recognition,”
unpublished Ph.D. dissertation, University of Cambridge (BBC English).
Vowels in other languages. The data on Spanish vowels are from Pierre Delat-
tre, “Comparing the vocalic features of English, German, Spanish and French,”
International Review of Applied Linguistics 2, 71–97 (1964). The data on Japa-
nese vowels are from Han Mieko, Japanese Phonology (Tokyo: Kenkyuusha,
1962). The data on Danish vowels are from Eli Fischer-Jørgensen, “Formant fre-
quencies of long and short Danish vowels,” in E. S. Firchow et al. (Eds.), Studies
for Einar Haugen (The Hague: Mouton, 1972).
The tongue shape of ATR. Figure 9.10 is based on Mona Lindau’s x-rays of the
Akan vowels (see Mona Lindau Webb (1987) Tongue mechanisms in Akan and
Luo. UCLA Working Papers in Phonetics, v. 68, p. 46–57).
Bunched vs. retroflex / r /. The data on American English /-r-/ are also from
Robert Hagiwara’s 1995 UCLA Ph.D. dissertation.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
NOTES 303
Exercise A. The description of vowels mentioned in Exercise A is published
in Kenneth N. Stevens and Arthur House, “Development of a quantitative de-
scription of vowel articulation,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of America 27,
484–493 (1955).
Exercise B. The description mentioned in Exercise B was suggested by
Morris Halle and Kenneth N. Stevens (1969) in their article “On the feature
‘advanced tongue root’” (Quartely Progress Report. 94, pp. 209–215. Cambridge
MA: MIT, Research Laboratory of Electronics). Historical descriptions of vow-
els mentioned in the third exercise may be found in Hermann Helmholtz, Sen-
sations of Tone (New York: Dover Publications, Inc., 1954). First published in
German in 1863, the fourth edition was translated by A. J. Ellis and published
in English in 1885. Reprinted by New York: Dover Publications, Inc., 1954.
Chapter 10
Measuring speech timing. The account of the PVI (pairwise variability in-
dex) is based on discussions with Esther Grabe, who also developed the Excel
spreadsheet on the CD for calculating this index. See E. Grabe and E. L. Low,
“Durational variability in speech and the rhythm class hypothesis,” Papers in
Laboratory Phonology, 7 (The Hague: Mouton, 2000).
Chapter 11
Coordination for [p]. Figure 11.9 is based on one from Mary Beckman’s great
course handout, titled “Notes on Speech Production.” Dr. Beckman’s influence
on this edition of the Course is also evident in Chapter 5.
Neogrammarian exemplars. Many thanks to Professor Andrew Garrett for
pointing out the following quotation from Hermann Paul’s (1920) Prinzipien der
Sprachgeschichte (5th ed. Halle: Niemeyer. First edition 1880, 2nd ed. 1886), in
which Paul clearly outlines the connection between exemplar memory (“earlier
and later production of the same utterance”) and sound change:
To understand the phenomenon we call sound change (Lautwandel), we
must clarify the physical and psychological processes that take place in
the production of an utterance: first, the motions of the speech organs
. . . second, the series of sensations by which these motions are necessar-
ily accompanied, the articulatory sensations (Bewegungsgefühl) . . . third,
the acoustic sensations (Tonempfindungen) produced in listeners, among
whom speakers themselves belong under normal circumstances. Even af-
ter the physical excitement has disappeared, an enduring psychological ef-
fect remains, representations in memory (Erinnerungsbilder), which are of
the greatest importance for sound change. For it is these alone that connect
the intrinsically separate physiological processes and bring about a causal
relation between earlier and later production of the same utterance.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
305
Glossary
Note: The explanations given in this glossary should be regarded not as formal
definitions but as general guides for use in review. Bold words within the defini-
tions have separate entries in this glossary.
advanced tongue root (ATR) Having the
root of the tongue pulled forward so as to
widen the pharynx (and, often, to raise the
body of the tongue nearer to the roof of the
mouth). Pharyngeal sounds are [−ATR], as
the pharynx is narrowed.
affricate A stop followed by a homorganic
fricative.
allophone A variant of a phoneme. The
allophones of a phoneme form a set of
sounds that (1) do not change the meaning
of a word, (2) are all very similar to one
another, and (3) occur in phonetic contexts
different from one another—for example,
syllable initial as opposed to syllable final.
The differences between allophones can be
stated in terms of phonological rules.
alternations Variations in words that can
be described in terms of phonological rules;
for example, the difference between [ aI ]
and [ I ] in divine, divin(ity).
alveolar An articulation involving the
tip or blade of the tongue and the alveolar
ridge, as in English [ d ] in die.
alveolar ridge The part of the upper sur-
face of the mouth immediately behind the
front teeth.
alveolo-palatal Post-alveolar consonant
produced with significant raising of the
front of the tongue toward the palate.
ambisyllabic Belonging to two syllables.
A consonant such as [ p ] in happy is some-
times said to be ambisyllabic.
anticipatory coarticulation An action
in which one of the speech organs that is
not involved in making a particular sound
moves toward its position for a subsequent
sound. For example, the rounding of the
lips during [ s ] in swim is due to the antici-
pation of the lip action required for [ w ].
apical An articulation involving the tip of
the tongue.
approximant An articulation in which one
articulator is close to another but without
the tract being narrowed to such an extent
that a turbulent airstream is produced. In
many forms of English, / j, l, r, w / are
approximants.
articulation The approach or contact of
two speech organs, such as the tip of the
tongue and the upper teeth.
articulator One of several parts of the
vocal tract that can be used to form speech
sounds.
arytenoid cartilage One of a pair of
structures at the posterior ends of the vocal
folds. Their movements control phonation
types.
aspiration A period of voicelessness after
the release of an articulation, as in English
in pie [ pÓaI].
assimilation The change of one sound
into another making it more similar to a
neighboring sound, as in the change of
underlying [ n ] to [ m ] in input [ ·ImpÁt ]
or of underlying [ z ] to [ Z ] in does she
[ ·dØZSi ].
back (of the tongue) The part of the
tongue below the soft palate.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
306 GLOSSARY
back vowel Vowel in which the body of
the tongue is in the back part of the oral
cavity (mouth). The vowels [ u, o, O, A ]
form a set of back reference vowels.
Bark scale A scale in which equal inter-
vals of pitch as perceived by listeners are
represented by equal distance on the scale.
bilabial An articulation involving both
lips, as in English [ m ] in my.
binary feature A feature (for example,
Lateral) that can be used to classify sounds
in terms of two possibilities.
breathy voice Another name for murmur;
a type of phonation in which the vocal
folds are only slightly apart so that they
vibrate while allowing a high rate of airflow
through the glottis, as in Hindi [ bH ].
broad transcription A transcription that
does not show a great deal of phonetic detail;
often a simple phonemic transcription.
cardinal vowels A set of reference vowels
first defined by Daniel Jones. The vowels
of any language can be described by stating
their relationships to the cardinal vowels.
citation form The form a word has when it
is cited or pronounced in isolation.
click A stop made with an ingressive
velaric airstream, such as Zulu [ ≤ ].
closed syllable A syllable with a consonant
at the end, as the first syllables in English
magpie, pantry, completion.
coarticulation The overlapping of adjacent
articulations.
coda The consonants occurring after the
vowel in a syllable.
contour tone A tone in a language such as
Chinese that must be specified as a gliding
movement within the pitch range.
coordinative structure The functional
organization of a group of muscles into
a hierarchical structure of goal-oriented
control units that accomplish subtasks of a
phonetic task like closing the lips.
coronal A term for sounds articulated with
the tip or blade of the tongue raised toward
the teeth or the alveolar ridge (or, some-
times, the hard palate), such as [ T, s, t ].
creaky voice See laryngealization.
declination Gradual intonational pitch fall
over the course of an utterance.
degrees of freedom problem In speech
motor control, the control problem caused
by needing to control a great number of
independent muscles. See coordinative
structure.
dental Refers to sounds made with the
tongue touching the teeth.
diacritic Small added mark that can be
used to distinguish different values of a
symbol. For example, the addition of [ º]
distinguishes a velarized from a nonvelar-
ized sound, as in [ lº ] as opposed to [ l ].
diphthong A vowel in which there is a
change in quality during a single syllable,
as in English [ aI8] in high.
dorsal Describing a sound articulated with
the back of the tongue.
dorsum The back of the tongue.
downdrift The tendency for the pitch to
fall throughout an intonational phrase.
downstep Optional lowering of a high
pitch accent or high tone after a similar
high pitch accent or high tone.
ease of articulation A phonetic force that
impacts linguistic sound systems so that
patterns that are easier to produce are more
likely than difficult patterns.
ejective A stop made with an egressive
glottalic airstream, such as Hausa [ k' ].
epenthesis The insertion of one or more
sounds in the middle of a word, such as the
pronunciation of sense as [ s”nts ].
exemplar theory The idea that phonetic
categories are represented in the mind as
a set of all of the examples of the category
that the speaker has produced and/or heard.
feature A phonetic property of a sound.
Some features like Coronal are fairly gen-
eral, while others like Laminal Dental are
more specific.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
GLOSSARY 307
filter In acoustic phonetics, a filter is
an acoustic tube that enhances some fre-
quency components of a sound source
while decreasing the amplitudes of other
components.
flap An articulation in which one
articulator, usually the tongue tip, is
drawn back and then allowed to strike
against another articulator in returning
to its rest position.
formant A resonating frequency of the air
in the vocal tract. Vowels are characterized
by three formants.
frequency The rate of oscillation in air
pressure in a periodic sound wave.
fricative Narrowing of the distance
between two articulators so that the airstream
is partially obstructed and a turbulent airflow
is produced, as in English [ z ] in zoo.
front vowel Vowel in which the body of
the tongue is in the front part of the oral
cavity (mouth). The vowels [ i, e, ”, a ]
form a set of front reference vowels.
full A full, unreduced form of a word is a
production that exhibits all or most of the
phonetic information that is present in a
citation production.
geminate Adjacent segments that are the
same, such as the two consonants in the
middle of Italian folla [ ·folla ] ‘crowd’.
gesture Abstract representation of the
motor control plans for linguistically
significant vocal tract actions. See also
coordinative structure.
glottal An articulation involving the glot-
tis, as [ / ] in many forms of English button
[ ·bØ/n` ].
glottal stop glottal “catch” A stop sound
produced by pressing the vocal folds tightly
together.
glottalic airstream mechanism Move-
ment of pharynx air by the action of the
glottis. Ejectives and implosives are pro-
duced with a glottalic airstream mechanism.
glottis The space between the vocal folds.
hard palate The bony structure that forms
the roof of the front part of the mouth.
homorganic Made with the same place of
articulation. The sounds [ d ] and [ n ], as in
English hand, are homorganic.
implosive A stop made with an ingressive
glottalic airstream, such as Sindhi [ ∫ ].
impressionistic transcription A transcrip-
tion in which the symbols indicate only the
general phonetic value of the sounds.
intensity The amount of acoustic energy
in a sound.
interdental Articulated with the tongue
between the upper and lower teeth. Many
speakers of American English use an inter-
dental articulation in words such as thick,
thin.
intonation The pattern of pitch changes
that occur during a phrase, which may be a
complete sentence.
intonational phrase The part of an
utterance over which a particular intonation
pattern extends. There may be one or more
tone groups in an English sentence.
labial An articulation involving one or
both lips, such as [ f, v, m ].
labial velar (labiovelar) An articulation
involving simultaneous action of the back
of the tongue forming a velar closure and
the lips forming a bilabial closure.
labialization A secondary articulation in
which lip rounding is added to a sound, as
in English [ S ].
labiodental An articulation involving the
lower lip and the upper front teeth.
laminal An articulation made with the
blade of the tongue.
laryngeal The region of the vocal tract at
the glottis in which consonantal articula-
tions such as [ h, / ] are made.
laryngealization Another name for creaky
voice; a type of phonation in which the
arytenoid cartilages hold the posterior end
of the vocal folds together so that they can
vibrate only at the other end, as in Hausa [ b0 ].
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
lateral An articulation in which the air-
stream flows over the sides of the tongue,
as in English [ l ] in leaf.
lateral plosion The release of a plosive by
lowering the sides of the tongue, as at the
end of the word saddle.
lax A term with no specific phonetic cor-
relates, used when dividing vowels into
classes on phonological grounds. In Eng-
lish, the lax vowels are those that can occur
in monosyllables closed by [ N ], such as
sing, length, hang, long, hung.
length The lingustic use of physical dura-
tion to distinguish words. See geminate.
linguo-labial Articulated with the tongue
near or contacting the upper lip.
lip rounding The action of bringing the
corners of the lips toward one another so
that the mouth opening is reduced.
liquid A cover term for laterals and various
forms of r-sounds.
locus The apparent point of origin of the
formants for each place of articulation.
loudness The auditory property of a sound
that enables a listener to place it on a scale
going from soft to loud without considering
the acoustic properties, such as the intensity
of the sound.
mid-sagittal section A view of the midline
vocal tract as if the head was cut down the
middle from the forehead to the chin.
monophthong A vowel in which there is
no appreciable change in quality during a
syllable, as in English [ A ] in father. Com-
pare diphthong.
motor equivalence Production of one
sound by two different gestures of the vocal
organs.
multivalued feature A feature such as
Height that can be used to classify sounds
in terms of more than two possibilities.
murmur Another name for breathy voice;
a type of phonation in which the vocal
folds are only slightly apart so that they
vibrate while allowing a high rate of airflow
through the glottis, as in Hindi [ bH].
narrow transcription A transcription that
shows phonetic details (such as, in English,
aspiration, length, etc.) by using a wide
variety of symbols and, in many cases,
diacritics.
nasal A sound in which the soft palate is
lowered so that there is no velic closure and
air may go out through the nose, as in Eng-
lish [ m ] in my.
nasalization Lowering of the soft palate
during a sound in which air is going out
through the mouth, as in the vowel [ œ) ]
between nasals in English man.
nasal plosion The release of a plosive by
lowering the soft palate so that air escapes
through the nose, as at the end of the word
hidden.
nasal stop A complete stoppage of the
oral cavity so that the airstream passes only
through the nose. Usually, nasal stops are
simply called nasals.
nasal vowel A vowel in which part of the
airstream passes out through the nose.
nucleus The center of a syllable, usually
just the vowel.
obstruent A fricative, stop, or affricate.
onset A consonant that occurs before the
vowel in a syllable.
open syllable A syllable without a con-
sonant at the end, as the first syllables in
English beehive, bylaw, sawing.
oral stop Complete stoppage of both the
oral and nasal cavities, as in [ b, d, g ].
palatal An articulation involving the front
of the tongue and the hard palate, as in
English [ j ] in you.
palatalization A secondary articulation
in which the front of the tongue is raised
toward the hard palate, as in the so-called
soft sounds in Russian.
palato-alveolar An articulation between
the tongue blade and the back of the alveo-
lar ridge.
palatography A technique for showing
articulatory contact. In one form, the
308 GLOSSARY
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
tongue is covered with a marking medium,
and then, after a word has been articulated,
it is possible to observe where the medium
has been transferred onto the roof of the
mouth.
perseverative coarticulation The per-
sistence of an aspect of the articulation of
one sound into the following sound, for ex-
ample, the laryngealization of a vowel after
a glottal stop.
pharyngeal An articulation involving the
root of the tongue and the back wall of the
pharynx, as in the Arabic [ ? ].
pharyngealization A secondary articu-
lation in which the root of the tongue is
drawn back so that the pharynx is narrowed,
as in some so-called emphatic consonants
in Arabic.
phonation Vibration of the vocal folds in
voicing.
phoneme The smallest distinctive unit in
the structure of a given language. See also
allophone.
phonetic implementation Accounting
for phonetic variability by writing
rules that show the relationship between
abstract phonological representations and
cross-linguistic, dialectal, or individual
variants.
phonology The description of the sys-
tems and patterns of sounds that occur in a
language.
pitch The auditory property of a sound
corresponding to a musical note that
enables a listener to place it on a scale
going from low to high.
plosive A stop made with a pulmonic air-
stream mechanism, such as in English [ p ]
or [ b ].
post-alveolar A sound produced with
constriction between the alveolar ridge and
the palate.
prominence The extent to which a sound
stands out from others because of some
combination of its sonority, length, stress,
and pitch.
pulmonic airstream mechanism The
movement of lung air by the respiratory
muscles. Most sounds are produced with a
pulmonic airstream mechanism.
r-colored Vowels that are essentially some
form of a syllabic rhotic approximant [’`].
radical An articulation made with the root
of the tongue.
reduced A reduced form of a word is a
production that exhibits significant devia-
tion from a citation production, including
reduced vowels and deleted segments.
reduced vowel A vowel that is pronounced
with a noncontrasting centralized quality,
although in the underlying form of a word it
is part of a full set of contrasts. The second
vowel in emphasis is a reduced form of the
vowel / œ /, as in emphatic.
reification A logical fallacy in which ex-
planatory force is attributed to the observation
to be explained. For example, this explana-
tion falls into this fallacy:Assimilation tends
to happen in language because there is a
universal constraint on phonologies called
AGREE(x) that requires that adjacent seg-
ments have the same value of the feature x.
release burst A burst of noise produced
when a stop consonant is released.
retroflex An articulation involving the
tip of the tongue and the back part of the
alveolar ridge. Some speakers of English
have retroflex approximants in rye and err.
Retroflex stops occur in Hindi and other
languages spoken in India.
rhotacization The auditory property
known as r-coloring that results from the
lowering of the third formant.
rhotic A form of English in which / r / can
occur after a vowel and within a syllable in
words such as car, bird, early. Most forms
of Midwestern American English are rhotic,
whereas most forms of English spoken in
the southern part of England are nonrhotic.
rhyme The vowel (nucleus) and any
consonants occurring after the vowel in a
syllable.
GLOSSARY 309
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
roll See trill.
rounded A sound with added lip rounding.
secondary articulation An additional con-
striction that is at a different place of articu-
lation from that in the primary articulation.
The English alveolar lateral at the end of
a syllable, as in eel, is often made with the
back of the tongue raised, and thus has the
secondary articulation of velarization.
segment A unit of sound of the size of a
consonant or vowel.
semivowel A sound articulated in the same
way as a vowel, but not forming a syllable
on its own, as in [ w ] in we.
sibilant A speech sound in which there is
high-amplitude, turbulent noise, as in Eng-
lish [ s ] and [ S ] in sip and ship.
soft palate The soft, movable part of the
palate at the back of the mouth.
sonority The loudness of a sound rela-
tive to that of other sounds with the same
length, stress, and pitch.
source In acoustic phonetics, a sound
source that is subsequently filtered by the
vocal tract. Voicing, frication, and burst
noises are the main sound sources in human
speech.
spectrogram A graphic representation of
sounds in terms of their component fre-
quencies, in which time is shown on the
horizontal axis, frequency on the vertical
axis, and the intensity of each frequency at
each moment in time by the darkness of the
mark.
stop Complete closure of two articulators.
This term usually implies an oral stop—that
is, complete closure of two articulators and
a velic closure, as in English [ b ] in buy.
But nasals, as in English [ m ] in my, can
also be considered stops.
stress The use of extra respiratory energy
during a syllable.
strong form The form in which a word is
pronounced when it is stressed. This term is
usually applied only to words that normally
occur unstressed and with a weak form,
such as to, a.
suprasegmental Phonetic feature such as
stress, length, tone, and intonation, which
is not a property of single consonants or
vowels.
syllable A unit of speech for which there is
no satisfactory definition. Syllables seem to
be necessary units in the mental organiza-
tion and production of utterances.
systematic phonetic transcription A tran-
scription that shows all the phonetic details
that are part of the language and can be
stated in terms of phonological rules.
tap A rapid movement of the tip of the
tongue upward to contact the roof of the
mouth, then returning to the floor of the
mouth along the same path.
target position An idealized articulatory
position that can be used as a reference
point in describing how a speaker produces
utterances.
tense A term with no specific phonetic
correlates, used when dividing vowels
into classes on phonological grounds. In
English, the tense vowels are those that can
occur in stressed open syllables such as bee,
bay, bah, saw, low, boo, buy, bough, boy,
and cue.
ToBI A system for transcribing the intona-
tion of utterances in terms of a sequence
of pitch accents—H(igh) and L(ow) and
combinations—on stressed syllables, into-
national phrases, and boundaries, together
with a set of break indices indicating the
degree of connection between adjacent
words ranging from 1 (close connection) to
4 (maximum break).
tone A pitch that conveys part of the mean-
ing of a word. In Chinese, for example,
[ma] pronounced with a high level tone
means ‘mother’, and with a high falling
tone means ‘scold’.
tone sandhi A change of tone due to the
influence of neighboring tones.
tonic accent See tonic syllable.
310 GLOSSARY
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
tonic syllable The syllable within a tone
group that stands out because it carries the
major pitch change.
trill An articulation in which one articula-
tor is held loosely near another so that the
flow of air between them sets them in mo-
tion, alternately sucking them together and
blowing them apart. In some forms of Scot-
tish English, [ r ] in rip is trilled.
unrounded See rounded.
uvular An articulation involving the back
of the tongue and the uvula, as in French
[ ‰ ] in rouge [ ‰uZ ].
velar Describes an articulation that in-
volves the back of the tongue and the ve-
lum, or the soft palate, as in English [ g ]
in guy.
velar pinch A visual pattern often seen on
spectrograms of velar sounds. The F2 and
F3 are quite close to each other.
velaric airstream mechanism Move-
ment of mouth air by action of the tongue.
Clicks are produced with a velaric airstream
mechanism.
velarization A secondary articulation in
which the back of the tongue is raised to-
ward the soft palate. In many forms of Eng-
lish, syllable final [ lº ] as in hill is strongly
velarized.
velic Involving the upper surface of the ve-
lum, or soft palate, and the pharynx. A velic
closure prevents air from escaping through
the nose.
velum The soft, movable part of the palate
at the back of the mouth.
vocal tract The air passages above the
vocal folds. The vocal tract consists of the
oral tract and the nasal tract.
vocoid A sound with no obstruction in the
center of the mouth. Vowels and semi-
vowels are vocoids.
voice bar A dark area near the baseline in
a spectrogram, indicating voicing during a
consonant.
voice onset time The moment at which
the voicing starts relative to the release of
a closure.
voiced Having vibrations of the vocal folds
during an articulation, as in English [ m ] in
me. In a partially voiced sound, vocal fold
vibrations occur during only part of the ar-
ticulation, as often in English [ d ] in die.
voiceless Pronounced without vibrations of
the vocal folds, as in English [ s ] in see.
vowel quality The timbre of a vowel
caused almost entirely by the frequencies of
the vowel formants (see formant).
weak form The unstressed form of any
word, such as but and as, that does not
maintain its full form when it occurs in con-
versational speech.
GLOSSARY 311
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
313
Further Reading
Phonetics has been studied for many centuries. This list is limited to some of the
more important books that have been published in the last forty or fifty years. Of
course, many important findings have appeared in journals rather than in books.
If you want to keep up to date in the subject, try looking at the following jour-
nals: Journal of the International Phonetic Association, Journal of Phonetics,
Journal of Speech and Hearing Research, Language and Speech, and Phonetica,
as well as more specialized journals in other fields, such as acoustics (notably
the Journal of the Acoustical Society of America), linguistics, speech pathology,
and particular language areas. And, of course, check the websites of professional
linguistics organizations.
Phonetic Dictionaries
Jones, Daniel, James Hartman, Jane Setter, and Peter Roach. English Pronoun-
cing Dictionary. 17th ed. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2006.
Wells, John. Longman Pronunciation Dictionary. 3rd ed. Harlow: Pearson ESL,
2008.
Both these dictionaries are great reference books that all students of phonetics
should consult.
Upton, Clive, William Kretzschmar, and Rafal Konopka. Oxford Dictionary
of Pronunciation for Current English. New York: Oxford University Press,
2003. This is a comparatively new dictionary described by the publisher as “a
unique survey of how English is really spoken in the twenty-first century.”
General Books on Phonetics
Abercrombie, David. Elements of General Phonetics. New York: Aldine, 1967.
A classic book on a number of the most important concepts in phonetics. It
is very easy to read and a good introduction to the topics selected, but it is
somewhat limited in scope.
Ball, Martin, and Joan Rahilly. Phonetics: The Science of Speech. London:
Edward Arnold, 1999. This is a good book on speech science—the study of
the phonetics of the individual—with helpful sections on the technology used
to study speech production and perception.
Catford, John C. Fundamental Problems in Phonetics. Bloomington: University
of Indiana Press, 1977. Not a beginner’s book, but a good account of the pho-
nation types and aerodynamic processes involved in speech production.
Celce-Murcia, Marianne, Donna Brinton, and Janet Goodwin. Teaching Pronun-
ciation: A Reference for Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
314 FURTHER READING
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1996. A good phonetics book for
ESL teachers.
Clark, John, Colin Yallop, and Janet Fletcher. An Introduction to Phonetics and
Phonology. 3rd ed. Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell, 2007. Covers much the same
ground as here but more specifically aimed at linguists.
Hardcastle,William,andJohnLaver.TheHandbookofPhoneticSciences.Oxford:
Blackwell, 1997. A comprehensive book containing chapters by leading au-
thorities on all aspects of phonetics.
International Phonetic Association. The Handbook of the International Phonetic
Association. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1996. A reference
book that every student of phonetics should own.
Johnson, Keith. Acoustic and Auditory Phonetics. 2nd ed. Oxford: Wiley-Black-
well, 2003. A comprehensive introduction to acoustic phonetics, paying spe-
cial attention to how we hear sounds.
Ladefoged, Peter. Vowels and Consonants. 2nd ed. Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell,
2005. A shorter, simpler, more casual introduction to phonetics than this
book.
———. Elements of Acoustic Phonetics. 2nd ed. Chicago: University of Chi-
cago Press, 1996. A basic account of just those aspects of acoustics that are
relevant for students of phonetics.
———. Phonetic Data Analysis: An Introduction to Fieldwork and Instrumental
Techniques. Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell, 2003. This is intended to be a how-to
book—how to do phonetic fieldwork, how to make phonetic analyses.
Ladefoged, Peter, and Ian Maddieson. Sounds of the World’s Languages. Oxford:
Wiley-Blackwell, 1996. An attempt to give a comprehensive account of all
the different sounds that have been reported in the world’s languages.
Laver, John. Principles of Phonetics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
1994. An extensive overview of the field.
Maddieson, Ian. Patterns of Sounds. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
1984. A survey of the sound systems of more than 300 languages, providing a
basis for a description of a number of universal phonetic tendencies.
Pickett, J. M. The Acoustics of Speech Communication: Fundamentals, Speech
Perception Theory, and Technology. Boston: Allyn and Bacon, 1999. This
book goes further than other introductory books on acoustic phonetics, dis-
cussing several aspects of speech perception and speech technology.
Pike, Kenneth. Phonetics: A critical account of phonetic theory, and a technique
for the practical description of sounds. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan
Press, 1943. This is a classic book for advanced students.
Pullum, Geoffrey, and William Ladusaw. Phonetic Symbol Guide. 2nd ed.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1996. An invaluable reference book
describing a wide variety of phonetic symbols, including all the symbols of
the IPA.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
FURTHER READING 315
Roach, Peter. English Phonetics and Phonology: A Practical Course. 3rd ed.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 2000. A good book for those espe-
cially interested in English.
Stevens, Kenneth. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge: MIT Press, 1999. Clearly the
leading technical book, describing everything that is known about the acous-
tics of speech.
Zemlin, Willard. Speech and Hearing Science, Anatomy and Physiology. 4th ed.
Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, 1998. A good account of the anatomy and
physiology of the vocal organs.
Useful Web Sites
The IPA. The home page of the International Phonetics Association http://www.
langsci.ucl.ac.uk/ipa/ has many very helpful links, including links to sound files
illustrating the IPA and links to free and professional IPA fonts, as well as infor-
mation about how to join the IPA and get the IPA journal.
Speech analysis software. We can recommend two free acoustic analysis soft-
ware tools for waveform editing, spectral analysis, and more. Wavesurfer is a
useful and very flexible program: http://www.speech.kth.se/wavesurfer/. Praat
is also a very popular speech-analysis program: http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/
praat/.
Phonetics on YouTube. Keith Johnson maintains (and would welcome sug-
gested additions to) a YouTube channel with links to phonetics-related movies,
ranging from physics lectures to drunken amateur laryngoscopy: http://www.
youtube.com/user/keithjohnsonberkeley.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
317
Acoustic phonetics
acoustic analysis, 193–198
consonants, 198–204
individual differences, 212–215
overview, 6
perturbation theory, 192–193
source/filter theory, 187–190
spectrogram interpretation, 204–212
tube models, 190–191
Advanced tongue root (ATR),
228–229
Affricates, 15–16, 67, 174
Airstream process
features, 272–277
glottis actions, 148–150, 156–157
mechanisms, 136–148
overview, 5, 6
voice onset time, 151–156
Akan language, 228
Aleut language, 170
Allophones, 46–48, 65–66, 72–77,
100–102
Allophonic transcriptions, 271–272
Alternations, 110, 113,
Alveolar lateral approximants, 179
Alveolar ridge, 8, 9, 12
Alveolar stops, 74–75, 165, 204
Alveolo-palatals, 169, 273
Ambisyllabic, 248–249
American English
consonant sounds, 38, 74
dental fricatives, 165
diphthongs, 92–93
intonational phrases, 119–127
regional differences, 40, 41, 64–65, 224
rhotacization, 94–96, 229–230
stress in, 249–250
timing, 252–253
tones, 260
velarization, 68–69
vowel sounds, 39, 41, 42, 87–92,
219, 224
Amplitude, 7
Anticipatory coarticulation, 70
Aperture, 274–275, 278
Apical sounds, 168–169, 274
Approximants, 15, 68–69, 108, 179, 204,
274–276
Arabic language, 171, 270
Articulations
central, 179–180
controlling, 278–281
defined, 4
ease of, 284
formant frequencies and, 197–198
manners of, 14–17
secondary, 234–237
structures of, 8–13
Articulatory process, 5, 6
Arytenoid cartilages, 148–150
Aspiration, 57, 151, 157
Assimilation, 111, 277
ATR (advanced tongue root), 228–229
Auditory vowel space, 88–89
Australian aboriginal languages, 168–169
Backness, 21, 217, 220, 223, 228, 230–232,
275–276
Back vowels, 20, 88–89, 102
Bilabial gestures, 11, 164–166, 172, 174,
177–178, 204, 273
Break index, 128, 130
Breathy voice, 148–149, 157
British English. See also Cockney English
approximants, 68–69
consonant sounds, 35, 38
dental fricatives, 165
dipthongs, 92–93, 94–95
Index
Note: Terms in bold also appear in the Glossary.
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
318 INDEX
British English (Continued)
intonational phrases, 119–127
rhotacization, 94–96
vowel sounds, 39, 41, 42, 89–92, 219,
224–226
Broad transcription, 47
Burmese language, 174
Canadian English, 64–65, 92
Cardinal vowels, 217–223
Central articulation, 179–180
Chadic languages, 150
Chaga language, 179
Chinese language, 169, 249, 253, 255,
257–260, 282
Citation form, 33, 107–109
Clicks, 143–147
Closed syllables, 98–99
Coarticulation, 70–71, 284
Cockney English, 38, 92, 174. See also
British English
Coda, 248–249
Connected speech
vs. citation speech, 33, 107–109
intonation, 118–127
sentence rhythm, 116–118
stress in, 111–116
Consonants
acoustics of, 198–204
affricates, 67
allophonic rules, 72–77
approximates, 68–69
articulation of, 14–17, 163–172, 180–181
charts of, 42–43
coda, 248–249
diacritics, 77
flaps, 175–178
fricatives, 65–66, 174–175
homorganic, 63
laterals, 178–180
nasals, 67–68, 174, 200–201
overlapping gestures, 69–72
places of obstruction, 10–13
stops, 57–65, 172–174, 200
taps, 175–178
transcription of, 35–38
trills, 175–178
waveforms of, 17–19
Continuation rise, 120–121, 123–124,
126–127
Contour tone, 257, 260
Coordinative structures, 279–280
Coronal articulations, 10, 64, 273–274
Creaky voice, 148–150, 157
Czech language, 177, 249, 250
Danish language, 227
Declination, 259
Degrees of freedom problems, 279
Dentals, 12, 75, 144–146, 165, 273
Devoicing, 282
Diacritics, 46, 77
Dictionaries, 85–86
Diphthongs, 39, 92–93, 101–102
Dorsal articulations, 10, 273
Downdrift, 130
Downstep, 127, 130
Dutch language, 228, 253
Ease of articulation, 284
Edo language, 256
Egede language, 257
Ejectives, 137–140, 147, 156–157
English Pronouncing Dictionary, 85
Epenthesis, 76
Epiglottal sounds, 171–172, 273
Epiglottis, 9
Eskimo language, 170
Ewe language, 164, 165, 172
Exemplar theory, 283–284
Falling contour, 121–122, 125, 127
Features, 272–277
Filter, 187–190, 194
Fixed phrase stress, 250
Fixed word stress, 249–250
Flaps, 15, 175–178
Formants
acoustic analysis, 193–198
consonants and, 198–203
individual differences, 212–215
overview, 23
perturbation theory, 192–193
source/filter theory, 187–189
spectrogram analysis, 204–212
tube models, 190–191
vowel chart, 218
French language
overlapping gestures, 70
perceptual separation, 285–286
places of articulation, 165, 168–170
stress, 249, 250
timing, 252, 253
trills, 178
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
INDEX 319
voice onset time, 153, 154
vowels, 228, 233, 234
Frequency, 24. See also Acoustic
phonetics
Fricatives
acoustic correlates, 204
allophonic variations, 65–66
aperture and, 274–275
bilabial, 164, 165
dental, 165
labiodental, 164–165, 172
mechanism of, 14–15
palatal-alvelar, 167–172
retroflex, 167–168
sibilant, 174–175
in spectrograms, 108
symbols for, 172
Front vowels, 20, 88–89
Full vowels, 97, 108
Gaelic languages, 154, 260
Geminates, 251
German language, 165, 169, 170, 174, 228,
249, 252, 253
Gestural targets, 69–72
Gestures
bilabial, 11, 164–166, 172, 174,
177–178, 204, 273, 279
overlapping, 69–72, 102, 284
palato-alveolar, 12, 167–172, 273
retroflex, 12, 94, 165–169, 172,
175–177, 179–180, 204, 273
secondary articulatory, 234–237
Glottal articulations, 273, 275–276
Glottalic airstream mechanism, 137
Glottal stops, 16, 61–63, 73–74, 137–140,
156–157
Glottis, 137, 148–150, 156–157
Greek language, 243
Gujarati language, 149–150
Hard palate, 9
Hartman, James, 85
Hausa language, 137–138, 150, 156, 177,
257, 259
Hawaiian language, 249, 252
Hebrew language, 171, 270
Height, 20–23, 70, 94, 217, 220–221, 223,
228–232, 275–276
Helmholtz, Hermann, 191
High plus downstepped high, 127
Hindi language, 149, 154–156, 166–168
Homorganic consonants, 63, 76
Hungarian language, 169
Ibibio language, 255
Icelandic language, 175
Igbo language, 147, 255–256
Implosives, 140–143, 147, 150, 156–157
Impressionistic transcription, 48
Indian English, 165
Individual differences, 212–215
Intensity, 194–195
Interdental, 12
International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), 255,
268–272
International Phonetic Association, 36,
267–268
Intonation
defined, 24
rising and falling contour, 121–122,
124–125, 127
ToBI system, 127–130
tone and, 254–260
tonic accents, 114–115, 119–127, 125
Intonational phrase, 118–123, 125,
127–128, 130
IPA. See International Phonetic
Alphabet
Italian language, 165, 169, 180, 251
Japanese language, 179, 226–227, 233, 243,
251, 253, 261, 282
Jones, Daniel, 85, 218, 220
Kele language, 178
Khosian language, 147
Konopka, Rafal, 86
Kretzschmar, William, 86
Kutep language, 257
Labial articulations, 10, 273
Labialization, 236
Labial velars, 171–172
Labiodental, 11, 164–165, 172, 177,
178, 273
Lakhota language, 138–140, 142
Laminal sounds, 168–169, 274
Laryngeal characteristics, 272–278
Laryngealized sounds, 150
Larynx, 9
Laterals, 15, 178–180, 204, 273, 278
Lax vowels, 98–100
Length, 251
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
320 INDEX
Linguistic phonetics, 268–277
Linguo-labials, 164
Lip movements, 279–280
Lip rounding, 20, 66, 70–71, 217,
219–222, 226–228, 232, 236
Liquid, 74
Locus, 199
Longman Pronunciation Dictionary
(Wells), 85
Loudness, 7
Luganda language, 251, 255, 256, 257
Malayalam language, 165–168, 172,
178, 180
Manner, 273–275
Margi language, 178
Mid-Waghi language, 180
Midwestern English. See American English
Modal voice, 150, 157
Monophthongs, 90, 92–93, 96
Mora, 251
Motor control, 278–281
Motor equivalences, 280
Murmur, 148–149, 157
Nama language, 145, 147
Narrow transcription, 47
Nasals
acoustic correlates, 204
clicks, 146
consonants, 67–68, 174, 200–201
features, 274–278
palatal, 169–170
in spectrograms, 108
stops, 14
syllabic, 74
symbols for, 172
variations, 67–68
velar, 145–147, 170
voiceless, 174
vowels, 101, 231–232
Nasal tract, 4
Navajo language, 151–154, 174, 180, 282
Neogrammarians, 284
Newton, Isaac, 23
New Zealand English, 224
Nuclear pitch accent, 127–128
Nucleus, 248
Obama, Barack, 117
Obstruents, 73, 136–137
Old English, 235
Onset, 248
Open syllables, 99–100
Oral stop, 14
Oral tract, 4
Oro-nasal process, 5, 6, 13
An Outline of English Phonetics
(Jones), 220
Overlapping gestures, 69–72, 102, 284
Overtone pitches, 21
Owerri dialect, 147
Oxford Dictionary of Pronunciation for
Current English, 86
Pairwise variability index (PVI), 252
Palatal, 13, 169–170
Palatalization, 234–235
Palato-alveolar gestures, 12, 167–172, 273
Perceptual separation, 285
Perturbation theory, 192–193
Pharyngealization, 235–236
Pharyngeal sounds, 171–172, 273
Pharynx, 9
Phonation process, 5, 6
Phonemes, 34–38, 69–72
Phonemic transcriptions, 35, 271–272
Phonetic implementation rules, 282
Phonetic transcription, 33
Phonetic variability, 281–283
Phonology, 33, 45–48, 271–272
Phrase accent, 127–128, 130
Pitch, 7, 21–24, 118, 250, 254–261
Places of articulation, 8–13, 163–172,
180–181, 272–278
Plosives, 14, 64, 137
Polish language, 169, 249, 250, 253
Post-alveolar, 12
Prominence, 247–248
Pulmonic airstream mechanism, 136–138
PVI (pairwise variability index), 252
Quality of sound, 7
Quechua language, 170–171
Radical articulations, 273
r-colored vowels, 94
Reduced vowels, 97–98, 101, 107, 114
Reification, 277
Release burst, 138
Retroflex gestures, 12, 94, 165–169, 172,
175–177, 179–180, 204, 273
Rhotacization, 94–96, 229–231, 275–276
Rhyme, 248
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
INDEX 321
Rhythm, 116–118
Rising contour, 121–122, 124–125
Roach, Peter, 85
Roll, 15
Rounded vowels, 20, 228, 275–276
Russell, G. Oscar, 198
Russian language, 234–235
Scottish English, 176
Secondary cardinal vowels, 222–223
Segments, 243
Semivowels, 232–234
Sentence rhythm, 116–118
Setter, Jane, 85
Shona language, 255
Sibilants, 15, 175, 274–275
Sindhi language, 140, 142–143, 151–152,
154, 166, 169–170, 173
Slips of the tongue, 247–248
Soft palate, 9
Sonority, 245–247
Sound waves, 6–8
Source/filter theory, 187–190
South African languages, 145
Spanish language, 169–170, 177, 180,
226–227, 252, 253
Speaker identification, 214–215
Spectrograms
individual differences, 212–215
interpretation, 204–212
overview, 194–198
types of sounds in, 108
Speech motor control, 278–281
Speech planning, 247–248
Speech synthesis, 213–214
Stetson, R. H., 247
Stops. See also Ejectives; Plosives;
Retroflex gestures
acoustic correlates, 204
alveolar, 74–75, 165
aperature and, 274–275
consonants, 57–65, 200
dental, 165
fricatives and, 65–66
glottal, 16, 61–63, 73–74, 137–140,
156–157
release burst, 138
in spectrograms, 108
symbols for, 172
types of, 14, 172–174
velar, 77, 137–140, 155, 170
Stress, 23, 111–118
Stressed syllables, 97–98, 101, 249–250
Strong form of words, 109
Sub-Apical sounds, 274
Supra-Laryngeal characteristics,
272–277
Suprasegmentals, 23–24, 249
Swahili, 35, 173, 249, 250
Swedish language, 228, 260
Syllables
definition of, 243–245
intonation and tone, 254–260
length, 251
onset and rhyme, 248–249
prominence, 247–248
sonority, 245–247
stress, 97–98, 101, 249–250
timing, 252–253
Symbols, 36f, 39, 45–48
Synthetic speech, 213–214
Systematic phonetic transcription, 48
Tamil language, 177
Taps, 15, 74–75, 175–178, 274–275
Tense vowels, 98–100
Thai language, 154–156, 253, 257
Tier, 127–130
Timing, 252–253
Titan language, 178
Tiv language, 172
ToBI system, 127–130
Toda language, 178, 180, 269, 270
Tone and break indices, 127–130
Tone languages. See Tones
Tones, 254–260
Tone sandhi, 257
Tongue, 9, 275–276
Tonic accents, 114–115, 119–122, 125
Transcription
allophonic, 271–272
broard vs. narrow, 47
of consonants, 35–38
dictionaries, 85–86
impressionistic, 48, 271
limitations of, 110–111
phonemic, 35, 271–272
phonetic, 33
phonology, 45–48
symbols for, 36, 39
systematic phonetic, 48, 271
of vowels, 38–42
Trills, 15, 175–178, 274–275
Tube models, 190–191
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
322 INDEX
Unrounded vowels, 20
Unstressed syllables, 96–98, 101
Upton, Clive, 86
Uvula, 9, 170–171
Vanuatu language, 164
Variable work stress, 249
Velar
acoustic correlates, 204
defined, 13
features, 273
labial, 171–172
pinch, 199
stops, 77, 137–140, 155, 170
Velaric airstream mechanism, 145
Velarization, 68–69, 235
Velar nasals, 145–147, 170
Velic closure, 9
Velum, 9
V’enen Taut language, 164
Vietnamese language, 141, 143, 257
Vocal folds, 4, 188–191, 195, 204,
208–211
Vocal tract, 4, 188–189, 188–190, 192,
198–199, 209
Vocoids, 232
Voice bar, 199
Voiced sounds
approximants, 68
defined, 4
fricatives, 65–66
glottis state in, 148–149, 157
laterals, 178–180
rules for, 73–75
stop consonants, 57–62, 64, 204
vowel allophones and, 100
Voiceless sounds.
approximates, 68–69
fricatives, 65–66
glottis state in, 148–149, 157
laterals, 178–180
rules for, 73–76
stop consonants, 57–58, 60–62, 64, 200
vs. voiced sounds, 4
vowel allophones and, 100–101
Voice onset time (VOT), 151–156
Vowels
acoustic analysis, 193–198
advanced tongue root, 228–229
allophonic rules, 100–102
American and British, 89–92
aperture and, 274–275
approximants and, 275–276
articulation of, 19–21
auditory space, 88–89
backness, 21, 217, 220, 223, 228,
230–232
cardinal, 217–222
charts, 44–45, 218, 222–223, 226–227
coordinative structures and, 280
diphthongs, 92–93
height, 20–23, 70, 94, 217, 220–221,
223, 228–232, 275–276
individual differences, 212–215
lip rounding, 20, 66, 70–71, 217,
219–222, 226–228, 232, 236
nasals, 231–232
in other English accents, 224–226
in other languages, 226–228
perturbation theory, 192–193
quality, 87–88, 188, 232
reduced, 97–98, 101, 107, 114
rhotacization, 94–96, 229–231
secondary articulatory gestures, 234–237
secondary cardinal, 222–223
semivowels, 232–234
sounds of, 21–23
source/filter theory, 187–190
in spectrograms, 108, 204–212
tense and lax sets, 98–100
transcription and phonetic dictionaries,
85–86
transcription of, 38–42
tube models, 190–191
unstressed syllables, 96–98, 101
Waveforms, 7, 17–19
WaveSurfer, 194
Weak form of words, 109
Wells, John, 85
Willis, Robert, 191
Xhosa language, 145–147, 255
!Xóõ language, 145, 147
Yoruba language, 172, 255, 257
Zulu language, 144–147, 156, 179,
255, 257
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
THE INTERNATIONAL PHONETIC ALPHABET (revised to 2005)
(continued from inside front cover)
DIACRITICS Diacritics may be placed above a symbol with a descender, e.g., N(
9 Voiceless n9 d9 ª Breathy voiced bª aª 1 Dental t1 d1
3 Voiced s3 t3 0 Creaky voiced b0 a0 ¡ Apical t¡ d¡
Ó Aspirated tÓ dÓ £ Linguolabial t£ d£ 4 Laminal t4 d4
7 More rounded O7 W Labialized tW dW ) Nasalized e)
¶ Less rounded O¶ Δ Palatalized tΔ dΔ ˜ Nasal release d˜
™ Advanced u™ ◊ Velarized t◊ d◊ ¬ Lateral release d¬
2 Retracted e2 ≥ Pharyngealized t≥ d≥ } No audible release d}
· Centralized e· º Velarized or pharyngealized :
+ Mid-centralized e+ 6 Raised e6 (®6 = voiced alveolar fricative)
` Syllabic n` § Lowered e§ (B§= voiced bilabial approximant)
8 Non-syllabic e8 5 Advanced Tongue Root e5
± Rhoticity E± a± ∞ Retracted Tongue Root e∞
∑ Voiceless labial-velar fricative Ç ¸ Alveolo-palatal fricatives
w Voiced labial-velar approximant » Alveolar lateral flap
μ Voiced labial-palatal approximant Í Simultaneous S and x
˝ Voiceless epiglottal fricative
¿ Voiced epiglottal fricative Affricates and double articulations
can be represented by two symbols kp
° ts
•
÷ Epiglottal plosive joined by a tie bar if necessary.
OTHER SYMBOLS
SUPRASEGMENTALS TONES AND WORD ACCENTS
" Primary stress
` Secondary stress
`foÁnE"tISEn
… Long e…
Ú Half-long eÚ
* Extra-short e*
˘ Minor (foot) group
≤ Major (intonation) group
. Syllable break ®i.œkt
• Linking (absence of a break)
LEVEL CONTOUR
e_ or â Extra ě or ä Rising
high
e! ê High e$ ë Falling
e@ î Mid e% ü High
rising
e~ ô Low eﬁ ï Low
rising
e— û Extra e& Ë Rising-
low falling
Õ Downstep ã Global rise
õ Upstep Ã Global fall
Copyright 2010 Cengage Learning, Inc. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.
