G. A. KOULAOUZIDES
24
the hierarchical structures (McCabe, 1996). According to Inglis (1997)
empowerment of this kind aims to lead workers to espouse the values and practices
of their supervisors and work with them to improve the competitiveness, quality,
innovation, dedication and above all productivity and profit. While one may
disagree with the previously mentioned criticisms, it is obvious that such
connotations of the term empowerment are far away from the Freirean approach,
and it is constrained to the limits of an instrumental understanding of training
which seem to serve only economic interests (Usher et al., 1997).
However, the above critique does not mean that empowerment can not be a
feasible outcome in continuing training program. There are many examples of
designing training programs, particularly in the context of the theory of
transformative learning, where critical reflection, dialogue and development of
proposals for organizational change, may lead to a form of empowerment that will
provide participants with necessary skills to improve their employment conditions
and at the same time will also assist in establishing a collective vision for the
organization in which they are employed (Marsick, 1990; Watkins, Marsick, &
Faller, 2012).
CONCLUDING REMARKS
Fostering critical reflection and consequently the empowerment of adult learners
are educational elements that are realistic in any kind of adult education programs.
To my understanding, to empower adult learners means to foster them to reflect
critically on their experiences and make them competent to act individually and
collectively to achieve their personal and social objectives that meet the needs that
they have identified and prioritized as important.
Empowerment as a learning objective becomes meaningful when it is linked to
the real and everyday environment of adult life. The learning process aimed at
empowering incorporates individual development with social and public life,
through the provision of knowledge, the development of social skills, and the
development of exploratory skills of critical reflection on the society, power
relations, inequality and ability for change.
But regardless of the proven necessity and the consequent invitations for such
adult educational strategies it is very unclear whether those learning outcomes are
integrated into the official educational policies on international and national levels
and are actually implemented in the real world of adult education. The next
chapters included in this volume attempt to shed some light on this issue by
presenting policies and practices from different countries of Southeastern Europe.
REFERENCES
Archibald, T., & Wilson, A. (2011). Rethinking empowerment: Theories of power and the potential for
emancipatory praxis. Retrieved from: http://newprairiepress.org/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=3127
&context=aerc
Ayupp, K., & Chung. T. H. (2010). Empowerment: Hotel employees’ perspective. Journal of Industrial
Engineering and Management, 3(3), 561–575.
CRITICAL REFLECTION AND EMPOWERMENT IN ADULT EDUCATION PRACTICE
25
Belenky, M., Clinchy, B., Goldberger, N. R., & Tarule, J. M. (1986). Women’s ways of knowing. New
York: Basic Books.
Bergenhenegouwen, G. J. (1996). Competence development – A challenge for HRM professionals:
Core competences of organizations as guidelines for the development of employees. Journal of
European Industrial Training, 20(9), 29–35.
Boal, A. (2001). Hamlet and the baker’s son: My life in theatre and politics. New York: Routledge.
Brookfield, S. (1988). Training educators of adults. New York: Routledge.
Brookfield, S., & Holst, J. (2011). Radicalizing learning: Adult education for a just world. San
Franscisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.
CEDEFOP. (2012). Skill mismatch: The role of the enterprise. Luxembourg: Publications Office of the
European Union.
Council of the European Union. (2011). Resolution on a renewed European agenda for adult learning.
Retrieved from: http://register.consilium.europa.eu/pdf/en/11/st16/st16743.en11.pdf
Freire, P. (1973). Education for critical consciousness. New York: Seabury Press.
Freire, P. (1994). Pedagogy of hope: Reliving pedagogy of the oppressed. New York: Continuum.
Freire, P. (1996). Pedagogy of the oppressed. London: Penguin Books.
Freire, P. (1998). The adult literacy process as cultural action for freedom. Harvard Educational
Review, 68(4), 499–521.
Harvey, B. (2011). Non-employee critical HRD: Empowerment and communities. Journal of European
Industrial Training, 35(2), 176–183.
Hyland, P., Sloan, T., & Barnett, D. (1998). Changing culture through empowerment. Journal of
European Industrial Training, 22(9), 349–353.
Imel, S. (1999). How emancipatory is adult learning? (Myths and realities No. 6). Columbus, OH:
ERIC Clearinghouse: Adult, Career, and Vocational Education. Retrieved from
http://www.eric.ed.gov/PDFS/ED436663.pdf
Inglis, Τ. (1997). Empowerment and emancipation. Adult Education Quarterly, 48(1), 3–17.
Jarvis, P. (1990). International dictionary of adult and continuing education. London: Routledge.
Kappelman, L., & Richards, T. (1996). Training, empowerment, and creating a culture for change.
Empowerment in Organizations, 4(3), 26–29.
Kegan, R. (1982). The evolving self: Problem and process in human development. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
Kegan, R. (1994). In over our heads: The mental demands of modern life. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
Marsick, V. (1990). Action learning and reflection in the workplace. In J. Mezirow (Ed.), Fostering
critical reflection in adulthood: A guide to transformative and emancipatory learning (pp. 23–46).
San Francisco, CA: Jossey Bass.
McCabe, D. (1996). The best laid schemes of TQM: Strategy, politics and power. New Technology,
Work and Employment, 11(1), 28–38.
Mezirow, J. (1991). Transformative dimensions of adult learning. San Francisco: Jossey Bass.
Mezirow, J. (1997). Adult education and empowerment for individual and community development. In
B. Connolly, T. Fleming, D. McCormack, & A. Ryan (Eds.), Radical learning for liberation (pp.
10–23). Maynooth: MACE.
Mezirow, J. (1998). Transformative learning and social action: A response to Inglis. Adult Education
Quarterly, 49(1), 65–76.
Mohajer, N., & Earnest, J. (2009). Youth empowerment for the most vulnerable: A model based on the
pedagogy of Freire and experiences in the field. Health Education, 109(5), 424–438.
OECD. (2009). Promoting consumer education. Retrieved from: http://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/
education/promoting-consumer-education_9789264060098-en
Rindner, E. C. (2004). Using Freirean empowerment for health education with adolescents in primary,
secondary, and tertiary psychiatric settings. Journal of Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Nursing,
17(2), 78–84.
G. A. KOULAOUZIDES
26
Sayles-Hannon, S. (2007). Feminist and liberatory pedagogies: Journey toward synthesis. The
International Journal of Diversity in Organizations Communities & Nations, 7(2), 33–42.
Shor, I. (1992). Empowering education: Critical teaching for social change. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Shor, I. (1993). Education in politics: Paulo Freire’s critical pedagogy. In P. McLaren & P. Leonard
(Eds.), Paulo Freire: A critical encounter. London: Routledge.
Shor, I., & Freire, P. (1987). What is the “dialogical method” of teaching? Journal of Education, 169(3),
11–31.
Shrestha, S. (2003). A conceptual model for empowerment of the female community health volunteers
in Nepal. Education for Health, 16(3), 318–327.
Stromquist, P. (1995). The theoretical and practical bases for empowerment. In C. Medel-Anonuevo
(Ed.), Women, education and empowerment: Pathways towards autonomy. Report of the
International Seminar held at UIE, January 27–February 2, 1993, Hamburg, Germany. Paris:
UNESCO.
UNESCO-UIL. (2012). Looking forward with LIFE: Literacy Initiative for Empowerment. Hamburg:
UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning.
Usher, R., Bryant, I., & Johnston, R. (1997). Adult education and the postmodern challenge: Learning
beyond the limits. London: RoutledgeFalmer.
Watkins, K., Marsick, V., & Faller, P. (2012). Transformative learning in the workplace. In E. Taylor,
P. Cranton, & Associates (Eds.), The handbook of transformative learning (pp. 373–387). San
Francisco, CA: Jossey Bass.
George A. Koulaouzides
School of Humanities
Hellenic Open University
G. A. Koulaouzides & K. Popović (Eds.), Adult Education and Lifelong Learning in Southeastern
Europe, 27–39.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
MARTA GREGORČIČ AND SABINA JELENC KRAŠOVEC
3. PEDAGOGICAL DIMENSIONS OF
PARTICIPATORY DEMOCRACY
Learning through Self-Organized Communities and Participatory
Budgeting in Maribor
INTRODUCTION
The central issue of this chapter is a case study of the pedagogical dimensions of
the participatory democracy that was developed by self-organized district
community assemblies in Maribor, the second largest city in Slovenia, in the
beginning of 2013. Participatory democracy refers to the autonomous, local
involvement of people in decisions that affect their lives (Held, 2006), to a “living
democracy” experiment (Fung & Wright, 2003) and to participatory budgeting
(PB) as an institutional invention of redistributive democracy, a system of co-
governance in which self-organized citizens and engaged civic society exert public
control over the municipality “by means of institutionalized forms of cooperation
and conflict” (de Sousa Santos, 2005, p. 308). By 2015, when the first PB program
officially appeared in one of the district communities of Maribor, between 1,269
and 2,778 cities worldwide claimed to run some form of participatory co-
governance (Sintomer, Herzberg, & Röcke, 2014). Although PB in Maribor
evolved relatively late, it possesses certain political, social and cultural specifics
that could be relevant for further studies on participatory democracy and active
citizenship from different disciplinary approaches. However, this chapter focuses
in particular on the relationship between informal learning and participatory
democracy.
PB is most often defined as a democratic practice of deliberation and decision-
making in which community members in assemblies directly decide how to spend
part of the public budget. Sintomer et al. (2014, p. 29) proposed five minimal
requisites to differentiate PB from other participatory practices: the financial
dimension has to be discussed; the city level has to be involved; the process has to
be repeated; there has to be some form of public deliberation; and some
accountability is required. All five criteria, along with many others that have been
proposed by other scholars (the empowerment of civil society; extensive social and
mutual learning combined with civic and political education (Pateman, 1988; Bista
& Cowell 2012; Biesta, 2014; Wildemeersch, 2014); thematic workgroups
(Wilhelmson, 2002); social actions addressed to local and national government;
know-how, assignments and role rotation (Hall, 2012; Lave, 2009) were met in the
case of Maribor.
M. GREGORČIČ & S. JELENC KRAŠOVEC
28
Our case study is based on the pioneering work of Schugurensky (2002; 2004;
2006a; 2006b; 2010; 2013) and his colleagues (Cohen, Schugurensky, & Wiek,
2015; Lerner & Schugurensky, 2007; Schugurensky, Mündle, & Duguid, 2006),
who proved that participatory democracy not only contributes to the construction
of more transparent, efficient, equitable and democratic ways of governing, but
also that it provides a privileged learning site, because in addition to a variety of
civic virtues such as solidarity, tolerance, openness, responsibility and respect,
citizens also develop social, cultural and political capital, and thus the capacity for
self-governance and for influencing political decisions (Schugurensky, 2010, p.
11).
The next section briefly explains the social and political background of Maribor
and introduces the participatory process that emerged after the popular uprising in
November 2012. The third section specifies the methodological approach and
elucidates the application of Schugurensky’s instrument of learning and change to
the Slovenian context. The forth section discusses the knowledge, skills, attitudes
and practices gained by the active citizens in Maribor and reveals how the self-
organized community assemblies created epistemic communities where new
knowledge is produced, shared and communicated, and where several social
learning strategies are generated through the process of learning and change. The
last section highlights research that has dealt with informal community learning in
participatory democracy process, summarizes main findings of our case study and
anticipates our further writings.
BACKGROUND OF PARTICIPATORY DEMOCRACY DEVELOPMENT
IN MARIBOR
The result of the global financial crisis and economic downturn in 2008 was
socialism for the rich and capitalism for the poor. It was in fact “the privatization
of gain and the socialization of loss” (Stiglitz, 2010), forcing citizens to shoulder
the debt through economic austerity measures that had different implications in
different continents. These circumstances combined with local specifics sparked
protests and riots throughout Europe, including Maribor in Slovenia. In this context
Maribor, a city of 100,000 people located near the Austrian border, and Slovenia’s
second largest, woke up in the nightmare of the crisis and austerity policy, and
almost fifteen per cent of its citizens went on the streets shouting “Gotof je!” (He is
done!), uncompromisingly demanding the prompt resignation of the corrupt mayor
and the city council in November 2012.
Maribor became one of the important transit, cultural and industrial centers of
socialistic Yugoslavia soon after the Second World War and was renowned for
having an excellent multicultural workforce from the federal republics and leading
metal, electro, textile, bus and truck factories. In 1988 workers in the TAM bus and
truck factory first drew attention to the failure of socialistic industrialization, when
heavy industry collapsed, unemployment skyrocketed and the impoverished
population soon faced a difficult period of neo-liberal plundering, corruption, and
clientelism, which has remained until the present day. Twenty-five years after the
PEDAGOGICAL DIMENSIONS OF PARTICIPATORY DEMOCRACY
29
impressive protests of TAM workers that gained solidarity throughout Yugoslavia,
new social unrest in Maribor, including huge protests, riots, marches and social
movement organizations, again inspired solidarity protests all over Slovenia and
led to the resignation of the mayor of Maribor on December 6, 2012 and the prime
minister of the national government on March 20, 2013.
In Maribor two to three hundred activists gathered every evening at the end of
2012, discussed the heated situation and considered the social change in Porto
Alegre, Brazil and elsewhere (Zapatistas movement in Mexico and many other
counter-hegemonic struggles in Latin America, co-governance in the Spanish city
Marinaleda, PB in the French city Grenoble, e-PB in Reykjavík in Iceland, etc.).
Concerned that a huge social mobilization would end in disappointment and no real
change, and already facing disagreement in priorities and goals between each other,
they established the City-wide Assembly Initiative (CAI). CAI pursued a twofold
goal: to make the “content” of the protests visible, articulated and authentic instead
of escalating the physical confrontation with the police on the streets and later
impose some form of co-governance or participatory democracy experiment (not
knowing at that time which practice would be best for Maribor nor how to
implement it). CAI led demonstrations, occupations and sits-in in the municipality,
and immediately after the resignation of the mayor and even before the new
election introduced PB practices. The PB discussion flooded the election campaign
and public discourse.
Our case study investigated two interrelated groups of active citizens: the
initiators of the PB in Maribor, the so-called moderators working under the CAI
and assembly members at the Self-organized Districts and Self-organized Local
Communities (SDC and SLC). SDCs and SLCs were organized in 11 out of 17
districts and local communities in Maribor and thus included slightly more than
half of the citizens of Maribor during our research.1
CAI mostly consisted of 30
young people aged between 23 and 40 who were students, working class activists
and NGO members with extensive experience in direct democracy practices and a
wide range of civic engagement in the last decade, while SDC and SLC assembly
members consisted mostly of retirees aged between 55 and 83 from middle and
working class origins who had fully experienced the socialist period. Although a
small number of people under 30 years also attended assembly meetings, the age
group between 30 and 50 years was strongly underrepresented. SDC and SLC
consisted of 10–80 assembly members, but the number varied depending on the
problems and open issues in each community.2
Males prevailed in some CSDs and
SLCs while gender polarization in CAI was balanced. The interrelation of both
groups soon proved fundamental for the dynamic of the whole process. In addition
to highlighting the importance, need and effect of intergenerational cooperation, it
also indicated achievements that would not have been realized without
intergenerational solidarity.
M. GREGORČIČ & S. JELENC KRAŠOVEC
30
METHODOLOGY AND SCHUGURENSKY’S INSTRUMENT
The pedagogical dimensions of participatory democracy in Maribor were
researched in four stages: militant research, passive observation of the process, a
focus group and twelve semi-structured interviews. To explore the learning and
change experienced by participating citizens, we adopted Schugurensky’s
instrument (2002, 2006a, 2013) where the learning outcomes are classified in four
categories: a) knowledge, b) attitudes and values, c) skills and d) dispositions and
practices, or KASP in short form, with which the cognitive, emotional and social
dimensions of informal learning are covered. Since informal learning is not always
conscious and intentional and occurs through lived experiences and group
socialization, learning during PB experiences is also invisible and unconscious to
most active citizens as well as researchers. Schugurensky (2006a, 2013) has
overcome this methodological challenge through prompts that trigger conversation
and elicit the tacit knowledge of active citizens. Eventually, 55 indicators were
selected as a guide for complex qualitative research that includes an ethnographic
and participatory approach based on stories and reflections of learning and change
conveyed by the citizens. Schugurensky’s instrument has been adopted and
adjusted for the Slovenian context; indicators were elaborated from his previous
studies and re-modified to correspond to Slovenian political and social reality.
The first stage of our case study – militant research as perceived by Colectivo
Situaciones (2003, 2005) – took place between January 2013 and May 2013 with
CAI and the first five established SDCs since the first author of this chapter has
been an active member of CAI since the beginning. The second stage, passive
observation and follow-up of the process, has been carried out by the first author of
this chapter until the present time. Although she moved from Maribor, she
discussed the process with all key moderators and visited them numerous times. In
addition, she followed up the whole process on a daily basis via an internal CAI e-
moderator group, where she observed the successes and difficulties that emerged
during the process. In this way she became a passive observer. She did not suggest
or comment on anything or interfere in any way since she was no longer an active
member of CAI. The third stage of our case study was a focus group in the first
established SDC of Nova vas conducted on 7 January 2016 (with 12 assembly
members). The concise discussion lasted one hour and contributed fruitful self-
reflection on the pedagogical dimensions of participatory democracy; however, it
also raised a number of questions concerning other fields (policy, participation,
media, etc.).
The last and the main stage of our case study was consisted of twelve semi-
structured interviews conducted between December 2015 and March 2016 with 6
moderators and six assembly members (six males and six females, of which six
were retired, four were employed, one was a student and one was unemployed),
ranging in age from 25 to 83. The interviews lasted between one and a half and two
hours and were organized in five parts. The first part consisted of 14 open-ended
questions about the participants’ prior history of civic engagement, their lifelong
civic learning and reasons for joining participatory democracy practice. The second
part consisted of six open-ended questions on the strengths and weaknesses, the
PEDAGOGICAL DIMENSIONS OF PARTICIPATORY DEMOCRACY
31
empowerment and shortcomings arising in their personal life as a result of the
participatory democracy process. The interviewees were asked and encouraged to
give examples, to describe a concrete event or situation and to share their personal
stories about their engagement in participatory democracy in this and the next two
parts of the interview.
In the third part they were asked to list what they gained throughout the process
according to the four KASP categories of learning defined by Schugurensky (2002,
2006a, 2013). For each stated indicator the interviewees were asked to rate it on a
5-point Likert scale: if their KASP improved or positively changed, they could
choose 4 (better) or 5 (much better), but when there was a negative change, they
could choose 2 (worse) or 1 (much worse). The number 3 marked the KASP
position before they entered participatory democracy practices. In the fourth part
the interviewees were asked to rate 70 counted indicators on the same 5-point
Likert scale. The indicators were based on previous observations, Schugurensky’s
research and knowledge about the specific municipality and local/national context.3
Although we assumed that most indicators would overlap with the third part (and
in fact they did), we tried to ‘capture’ all relevant indicators that the interviewees
might unconsciously not list or simply forget. The last part concluded the interview
with three open questions on community learning, intergenerational learning and
related quality of life.
RESEARCH FINDINGS REGARDING LEARNING AND CHANGE
Through the first two parts of the interview most of the CAI interviewees listed an
extensive range of local civic engagement practices that they had experienced prior
to being involved in the PB process. Half of them had also had important work
experience in nongovernmental organizations. Libertarian horizontal practices by
definition call into question old habits and beliefs, and raise new options for
participation and action. They are prime sites for critical learning or
“conscientization” in Freirean terms and provide many opportunities for learning
active citizenship. In addition, prior to being involved in the PB process CAI
interviewees reported active learning on very different issues (foreign language
courses, learning bureaucratic skills, studying emancipatory theories and practices,
etc.), while SDC and SLC assembly members reported a diverse and broad
knowledge of self-management, which they had experienced in the socialistic
period. In a sense it was a social learning process in communities of practice, as
perceived by Lave (1991), exercised in work and neighborhood environment in
1970s and 1980s, and in humanitarian and voluntary work, etc.; they also reported
social alienation and apathy after the change of the regime and the state in 1991.
In our case study the interviewees reported that they had experienced significant
learning and change from their involvement in participatory democracy. As
indicated in Schugurensky’s studies (2002, 2006a, 2013), our interviewees’
attitudes, values, feelings, and dispositions also changed noticeably in a variety of
areas. The average of all self-reported changes for 70 indicators was exactly 1,
wherein the maximum average increase could be 2 and the minimum 0.01. The
M. GREGORČIČ & S. JELENC KRAŠOVEC
32
average is high despite the fact that two indicators were evaluated extremely
negatively (trust in politicians (–0.83) and trust in the municipality government
(–1.17)), what proved to be symptomatic for most of PB experiments in the first
few years (see de Sousa Santos, 2005; Sintomer et al., 2014; etc.).
Table 1 identifies the 30 highest ranked indicators in our research with a
reported value change higher than 1. The numeric change in the table summarizes
only the average value increase for each indicator, and not the quality of the
change, which means that one interviewee, might substantially improve an already
good knowledge on a specific topic while another reveal a new area or specific
issue during the PB process. In addition, the numeric changes reflect the self-
assessment and self-perception of the interviewees. To avoid the above-stated
limitations, the following interpretation of the research findings combines all four
stages of our case study, focused on personal stories and learning situations and
Table 1. Indicators of learning and change (˃1) ranked by average increase
KASP Indicators of learning and change Ave. increase
K knowledge of management and work of public enterprises 1.66
K understanding of needs of own community or group 1.58
K understanding of needs of other communities 1.58
K knowledge of discussion necessary for consensus building 1.50
K knowledge of ‘active’ listening on the assemblies 1.50
S ability to make collective decisions 1.50
S ability to engage in teamwork and cooperation 1.50
A appreciate citizens participation more than before 1.50
A feeling of being heard 1.50
S ability to rank and prioritize demands 1.45
S ability to achieve consensus 1.42
S ability to listen carefully to others 1.42
P writes public letters, petitions, argument problems for media 1.42
P proposes ideas/solutions for community problems 1.42
S ability to resolve conflicts 1.36
A confidence in capacity to influence political decisions 1.33
A accepts and tolerates conflict 1.27
S ability for intergenerational exchange 1.25
S ability to speak in public with clarity 1.25
S ability to build an argument, argue, persuade 1.25
A concern for the problems of the city 1.25
A double number of friends 1.25
P strengthen intergenerational cooperation 1.25
K knowledge of criteria/mechanisms used to allocate public funds 1.17
S ability to monitor and keep track of actions of city government 1.08
S ability to contact government agencies and officials 1.08
S ability to negotiate, bargain, build alliances 1.08
A now happier than before 1.08
A tolerance and respect for others 1.08
K knowledge of municipal politics and local affairs 1.02
PEDAGOGICAL DIMENSIONS OF PARTICIPATORY DEMOCRACY
33
change observed through interviews; however, due to space constraints, the results
connected to the proposed indicators are highlighted.
The most significant learning occurred in the area of knowledge, as presented in
Table 1, and most of the changes occurred in the area of skills. Although practices
was the least frequently cited area of KASP, it appeared that the interviewees most
often exercised it and that most of the changes in the city were gained through new
political actions, cooperation and mutual exchange.4
Our interviewees stressed that
involvement in participatory democracy has strongly influenced their personal
values and attitudes; many have not only doubled their number of friends and
“significantly expanded their social environment” but have found “a new family”,
a new social community, and “a new meaning in life”, and they have become
happier, more self-confident and more tolerant. In addition to all just mentioned
attitudes and those presented in Table 1, the interviewees reported a greater
concern for the problems of the neighborhood, stressed higher interest in
community participation, expressed greater responsibility for the preservation of
the city and enhanced respect for some (groups of) people, especially for the
younger and older members of the community, Roma people, migrants, refugees
and gay and lesbian groups.
Knowledge of the management, obligations and work of public enterprises, a
deeper understanding of the needs of their own community and other communities,
knowledge of constructive discussion necessary for consensus reaching and
knowledge of “active” listening were the most significant changes in the area of
knowledge. Besides knowledge about public funds and municipal politic,
interviewees deepened their knowledge of city government, jurisdictional
responsibilities, citizens’ rights and duties, etc. As observed by one of the
interviewees, CAI became “a great civilizational factor in the city. It is a school of
democracy for everyday use”. Moderators indeed took over the role of educating
assembly members about the rules and methods for assembly meetings, principles
of direct action, tools of non-violent communication, about specific topics
concerning social transformation, communicated and disseminated achievements
and finally, linked SDC and SLC with local, national and international
professionals, related groups and practices. This process combines diverse forms of
informal learning, including situational and social learning (Wenger 1998; 1999;
Pateman, 1988), learning-by-struggling and learning-in-struggle, characterized by
counter-hegemonic movements (Gregorčič, 2011), community learning (Longo,
2007; Thompson, 2002), intergenerational learning (Schmidt-Herta, Jelenc
Krašovec, & Formosa, 2014; etc.), emancipatory learning (Inglis, 1997), and
transformative learning (Mezirow, 1997; Illeris, 2014; Dirkx, 1998).
On the other hand, SDC and SLC assembly members’ main activities became
civic engagement, which had characteristics of situated learning in communities of
practice (Lave, 1991). They developed heterogeneous forms of informal
organizations (such as work groups, action groups, initiatives and roundtables)
according to the problems and needs in the specific community and if necessary
connected SDC and SLC representatives on common topics, issues and problems
in a newly established council. Both groups consisted of active citizens that worked
M. GREGORČIČ & S. JELENC KRAŠOVEC
34
according to the principles of horizontality, inclusion of diversity, non-
discrimination, consensus decision-making, democracy and common interest. As
observed by one of the interviewees: “The meaning of power has changed. There is
no more hierarchy and no more powerlessness. Everyone has discovered their
personal strengths and a new structure is taking shape, a horizontal network
structure”. Rather accidentally, the interaction between moderators and assembly
members fostered the participatory democratic process as well as significantly
contributed to learning outcomes.
Most of the interviewees were surprised by the findings that they learned more
about public enterprises than about the municipality. Although liberalization of the
economy has happened slowly in Slovenia, the ruthless plundering perpetrated by
managers of public administrations and enterprises has only recently been
disclosed. In this regard the active citizens of Maribor started to discover
corruption, theft, and clientelism and unplanned popularize civic engagement.
Public funds allocation and knowledge about public enterprises became very
important in the participatory process.5
Although in these particular cases most
interviewees were not familiar with the issue before entering the democratic
process, they became very self-confident and presented sophisticated arguments
during public discussions and especially during negotiations and conflicts with city
authorities and directors of public enterprises.
The political culture of community organizations in Maribor has changed
tremendously since PB started there. Through the transformation from a culture of
protest and confrontation to a culture of conflict and negotiation (de Sousa Santos,
2005, 335) interviewees gained many new skills, including cooperation, consensus
building, ‘careful listening’, digital literacy and analytical skills. The ability to
make a collective decision and to engage in teamwork and cooperation were the
most valued changes identified by the interviewees. The interviewees also
developed the ability to organize group work, develop and defend proposals and
projects, interpret official documents and seek out relevant social and political
information, as well as social skills and leadership skills. The ability to rank and
prioritize demands proved to be one of the most frequently gained new skills in the
PB process in Schugurensky’s studies. Among the 12 most ranked skills in Table 1,
consensus building and intergenerational cooperation and exchange deserve special
attention, so we plan to explore these skills in more detail in another article.
CONCLUSION AND DISCUSSION
Since first emerging in 1989 in Porto Alegre, Brazil PB significantly redistributed
wealth towards the poor, increased transparency, improved quality of life, and
reduced crime and corruption (de Sousa Santos, 2005; Goldfrank, 2011; Abers,
2000; Baiocchi, 2005; Schugurensky, 2013). Although PB in Porto Alegre initially
arose as an innovative, popular and revolutionary response to economic crisis,
corruption, and clientelism, and as a ‘bottom-up process’ for social and political
change, it eventually spread to other cities around the world with new intentions
and goals. PB projects were mostly implemented and incentivized with the aid and
PEDAGOGICAL DIMENSIONS OF PARTICIPATORY DEMOCRACY
35
recommendations of the World Bank, United Nations, OECD, UNESCO, USAID,
and European Union (URB-AL) as a “top-down process” and ‘neo-colonial
approach’ through the rhetoric of ‘inclusive democracy’, “active citizenship”,
“modernization and accountability of public sector”, etc., to advance and
strengthen a neoliberal agenda, privatization, liberalization, deregulation, reducing
the role of the state, and rather weaken and fragment than enforce civic
engagement and empowerment (for these arguments see Cammack, 2004; Jackson,
2005; Rückert, 2007; Masser, 2013).
In many such cases PB simply became an instrument to help national
governments or cities ‘to legitimize old (or new) consultation practices that give
citizens no power to decide spending’ (Lerner, 2011, p. 31) or simply an e-voting
instrument with no group or face-to-face cooperation, self-organization or
collective civic engagement. This is exemplified by Eastern Europe, where very
few cities have seen considerable improvement in social justice through PB
projects (Sintomer et al., 2014, p. 35). Unlike World Bank’s founded PB projects
in Albania and Bosnia, which are subjects of above stated criticism, the cases of
short-term pilot projects (such as in Pula, Mali Lošinj and Karlovac in Croatia), or
national projects as it is the case of Estonia, there are encouraging examples from
Poland, where the initial PB programs of public-private partnership has been
transformed into more participatory process.
Although changes in Maribor were unplanned and occurred in different contexts
and in places with specific backgrounds, with no founds or external interference,
the results have been remarkable. Maribor is becoming a rare city in Eastern
Europe with an intensive bottom-up decision-making process, strong and
articulated self-organized community pressure groups and a goal for wider social
and political change. Unfortunately, this has come with constant difficulties with
city authorities, where ‘institutionalized forms of cooperation and conflict’ (de
Sousa Santos, 2005) already demonstrated the extent and tirelessness of “techno-
bureaucratic culture” (de Sousa Santos, 2005). CAI became an attractive
experiment for Slovenian municipalities, and even more so for many European
social struggles, such as the campaigning of “the Ministry of Space collective”,
resisting Savamala in Belgrade, and other cultural and political initiatives in
different EU countries in 2016. Some well-established grassroots PBs, such as
Lisbon, are particularly interested in CAI’s effective moderation and consensus
building techniques, which have proved to encourage constructive, inclusive,
nonviolent and fruitful public discussions in different contexts.
Since PB is a very dynamic social and political process, many national and
international organizations are more interested in its technical virtues (efficiency
and effectiveness in resource distribution and utilization) than in its democratic
virtues (sustainability of a complex system of participation and distributive justice)
(de Sousa Santos, 2005, p. 357). In addition, the learning virtues of PB have largely
been ignored, with the exception of the already presented pioneering work of
Schugurensky. Our case study revealed that in fact the pedagogical dimensions of
PB on the individual and collective level mark the main change or shift that
occurred in the PB experiment, where the learning outcomes of the PB process
M. GREGORČIČ & S. JELENC KRAŠOVEC
36
influenced personal and group development and quality of life much more than the
actual outcome of PB. Some authors pursue this idea within the discussions on
revolutionary citizenship as pedagogy of resistance (McLaren & Farahmandpur,
2001; Pontual, 2014); education and empowerment (Salgado, 2015; Koga, 2007;
McLaren, 2000), pedagogical dimensions of counter hegemonic movements (Borg,
Buttigieg, & Mayo, 2002; Holloway, 2001; Gregorčič, 2011), ‘educational effect’
of participatory democracy practice (Pateman, 1988; Schugurensky, 2010; Lerner
& Schugurensky 2007; Wildemersch, 2012, etc.).
Although Schugurensky’s instrument for eliciting informal, community and
social learning and tacit knowledge is not the only methodological approach to
capture self-reflection on informal learning and, as author himself has pointed out,
has some limitations (Schugurensky, 2006a; 2006b), we identified its advantages
before doing the research and confirmed them when the research was completed, as
the analysis of learning outcomes proved that much more is gained from the semi-
structured interview guide with proposed and ranked indicators than from the open-
ended questions on informal learning and the codification method. Our case study
confirmed, like Schugurensky’s studies (Lerner & Schugurensky, 2007;
Schugurensky, 2013; etc.), that interviewees acquired instrumental and technical
knowledge about politics and citizenship, developed analytical, leadership and
deliberative skills, and, even more importantly, that they have translated the new
understanding, abilities and dispositions into new emancipatory practices, social
struggles, solidarity actions and libertarian behaviors. They have developed
emancipatory learning that includes not only understanding existing power
structures but also how to resist and challenge these structures and their underlying
ideologies (Inglis, 1997).
The results of our case study showed remarkable changes among our
interviewees in the broad-based area of KASP due to the variety of new informal
learning practices that emerged among the self-organized and active citizens of
Maribor. As many scholars have argued, the most effective learning is embedded
in action, and above all in group action (Foley, 1998; Wildemeersch, 2012;
Wilhelmson, 2002). Schugurensky’s findings confirmed that participatory
democracy provides a powerful learning experience in a wide variety of fields, and
revealed not only what citizens learned but also how they learned. In this regard,
we intend to reveal an extensive analysis of the results as well as an in-depth
interpretation of specific aspects of learning in future articles.
NOTES
1
SDCs and SLCs meet throughout the year with two months interruption during the summer holidays
and have done so for the last three years with the goal of expanding to all district and local
communities in Maribor so that participatory budgeting would soon take place in the whole city.
2
To illustrate the dynamic of SDC and SLC we must add some examples: the question of sewage in
Kamnica prompted more than 80 citizens to regularly attend assembly meetings until the problem
was solved, and in Nova vas slightly before the heating season 100 citizens attend assembly
meetings every year. In the case of SDC Radvanje, which until now has been the only SDC with PB
(since 2015), citizens have been activated on many levels, but participation in assembly meetings
PEDAGOGICAL DIMENSIONS OF PARTICIPATORY DEMOCRACY
37
has not increased dramatically. However, eleven percent of citizens voted on decision-making day
while the quorum was set at five percent. Although the number of assembly meetings varied, on
average ten to fifteen people would attend a meeting. There was greater involvement during
community actions such as cleaning the surroundings, woods and playgrounds, and direct actions
where 50 or 100 people of all ages would join.
3
Our case study diverged from Shugurenskys’ research in many ways since his interviewees were
asked to rate their KASP on the 5-point Likert scale twice (before participating in the PB process
and at the moment of the interview), they were active in the PB process for a long period (one or
even two decades) and the indicators were designed for a specific research field.
4
An example of one of the results of the collaborative practices is the declaration of the city of
Maribor as part of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership free zone in July 2016 after
only three months of actions.
5
We revealed that among 12 interviewees only two had dealt with these two issues personally or
professionally before entering the PB process; that this issue had already become relevant and
required examination during the popular uprising in Maribor; that in this regard CAI moderators
organized several educational workshops with experts on this topic; that some SDCs and SLCs
organized special working groups; and that most of the interviewees began to monitor and keep
track of the public budget.
REFERENCES
Abers, R. (2000). Inventing local democracy: Grassroots politics in Brazil. Boulder: Lynne Rienner
Publishers.
Baiocchi, G. (2005). Militants and citizens: The politics of participatory democracy in Porto Alegre.
Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Biesta, G. (2014). Learning in public places: Civic learning for the Twenty-First century. In G. Biesta,
M. De Bie, & D. Wildemeersch (Eds.) Civic learning, democratic citizenship and the public sphere
(1-11). Dordrecht, Heidelberg, New York, London: Springer.
Biesta, G., & Cowell, G. (2012). How is community done? Understanding civic learning through
psychogeographical mapping. International Journal of Lifelong Education, 31(1), 47–61.
Cammack, P. (2004). What the World Bank means by poverty reduction, and why it matters. New
Political Economy, 9(2), 233–262.
Cohen, M., Schugurensky, D., & Wiek, A. (2015). Citizenship education through participatory
budgeting: The case of Bioscience high school in Phoenix, Arizona. Curriculum and Teaching,
30(2), 5–26.
Colectivo Situaciones. (2003). Sobre el militante investigador. Retrieved December 26, 2015, from
http://eipcp.net/transversal/0406/colectivosituaciones/es
Colectivo Situaciones. (2005). Something more on research militancy: Footnotes on procedures and
(in)decisions. Ephemera, 5(4), 602–614.
De Sousa Santos, B. (2005). Participatory budgeting in Porto Alegre: Toward a redistributive
democracy. In B. de Sousa Santos (Ed.), Democratizing democracy. Beyond the liberal democratic
canon (pp. 307–376). Londores: Verso.
Dirkx, J. M. (1998). Transformative learning theory in the practice of adult education: An overview.
PAACE Journal of Lifelong Learning, 7, 1–14.
Goldfrank, B. (2011). Deepening local democracy in Latin America: Participation, decentralization,
and the left. University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press.
Gregorčič, M. (2011). Potencia. Samoživost revolucionarnih bojev [Potentia. The self-determination of
revolutionary struggles]. Ljubljana: Založba /*cf.
Foley, G. (1998). Clearing the theoretical ground elements in a theory of popular education.
International Review of Education, 44(2), 139–153.
M. GREGORČIČ & S. JELENC KRAŠOVEC
38
Fung, A., & Wright, E. O. (2003). Deepening democracy: Institutional innovation in empowered
participatory governance. London/New York: Verso.
Hall, B. L. (2012). ‘A giant human hashtag’: Learning and the #occupy movement. In B. Hall, D. E.
Clover, J. Crowter, & E. Scandrett (Eds.), Learning and education for a better world: The role of
social movements (pp. 127–139). Rotterdam: Sense Publishers.
Hart, M. (1990). Liberation through consciousness raising. In J. Mezirow (Ed.), Fostering critical
reflection in adulthood: A guide to transformative and emancipatory learning (pp. 47–73). San
Francisco, CA: Jossey Bass.
Held, D. (2006). Models of democracy (3rd ed.). Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Illeris, K. (2014). Transformative learning and identity. London, New York: Routledge.
Inglis, T. (1997). Empowerment and emancipation. Adult Education Quarterly, 48(1), 119–134.
Jackson, J. T. (2005). The globalizers: Development workers in action. Baltimore: The John Hopkins
University Press.
Koga, T. (2007). Creating citizens for whom? Participatory budgeting and citizenship learning in
Japan. B.A., Waseda University.
Lave, J. (1991). Situating learning in communities of practice. In L. B. Resnick, J. M. Levine, & S. D.
Teasley (Eds.), Perspectives on socially shared cognition (pp. 63–82). Washington DC: American
Psychological Association.
Lave, J. (2009). The practice of learning. In K. Illeris (Ed.), Contemporary theories of learning (pp.
200–208). London and New York: Routledge.
Lerner, J. (2011). Participatory budgeting. Building community agreement around tough budget
decision. National Civic Review, 100(2), 30–35.
Lerner, J., & Schugurensky, D. (2007). Who learns what in participatory democracy? Participatory
budgeting in Rosario, Argentina. In R. van der Veen, D. Wildemeersch, J. Youngblood, & V.
Marsick (Eds.), Democratic practices as learning opportunities (pp. 85–100). Rotterdam: Sense
Publishers.
Longo, N. V. (2007). Why community matters: Connecting education with civil life. Albany, NY: State
University of New York Press.
Masser, K. (2014). Participatory budget as its critics see it. Retrieved June 29, 2016,
http://www.buergerhaushalt.org/en/article/participatory-budgeting-its-critics-see-it
McLaren, P. (2000). Che Guevara, Paolo Freire, and the pedagogy of revolution. Maryland: Rowan &
Littlefield.
McLaren, P., & Farahmandpur, R. (2001). Educational policy and the socialist imagination:
Revolutionary citizenship as a pedagogy of resistance. Educational Policy, 15(3), 343–378.
Mezirow, J. (1997). Transformative learning: Theory to practice. In P. Cranton (Ed.), New directions for
adult and continuing education, 74. Transformative learning in action: Insights from practice (pp.
5–12). San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.
Pateman, C. (1988 [1970]). Participation and democratic theory. New York: Cambridge University
Press.
Pontual, P. (2014). Building a democratic pedagogy. Participatory budgeting as a ‘School of
Citizenship’. In N. Dias (Ed.), Hope for democracy. 25 years of participatory budgeting worldwide
(pp. 427–429). São Brás de Alportel, Portugal: InLoco Editions.
Rückert, A. (2007). Producing neoliberal hegemony? A neo-Gramscian analysis of the PRSP in
Nicaragua. Studies in Political Economy, 79, 91–118.
Salgado, M. (2015). Call this democracy? Education and empowerment through participatory city
budgeting. Journal of Urban Regeneration and Renewal, 8(2), 199–209.
Schmidt-Herta, B., Jelenc-Krašovec, S, & Formosa, M. (Eds.). (2014). Learning across generations in
Europe: Contemporary issues in older adult education (Research on the education and learning of
adults, 2). Rotterdam: Sense Publishers.
Schugurensky, D. (2002). Transformative learning and transformative politics: The pedagogical
dimension of participatory democracy and social action. In E. V. O’Sullivan, A. Morrell, & M. A.
PEDAGOGICAL DIMENSIONS OF PARTICIPATORY DEMOCRACY
39
O’Connor (Eds.), Expanding the boundaries of transformative learning. Essay on theory and praxis
(pp. 59–76). New York: Pelgrave.
Schugurensky, D. (2004). The tango of citizenship learning and participatory democracy. In K. Mündel,
& D. Schugurensky (Eds.), Lifelong citizenship learning, participatory democracy and social
change (pp. 326–334). Toronto: Transformative Learning Center, OISE/UT.
Schugurensky, D. (2006a). Strategies to elicit informal learning and tacit knowledge: Methodological
notes from the field. Paper presented at the conference Rethinking work and learning: Research
findings and policy challenges organized by the Research Network on Work and Lifelong Learning,
Toronto, June 4–5, 2006.
Schugurensky, D. (2006b). This is our school of citizenship: Informal learning in local democracy. In Z.
Beckerman, N. C. Burbules, & D. S. Keller (Eds.), Learning in places: The informal educational
reader (pp. 163–182). New York: Peter Lang AG.
Schugurensky, D. (2010). Introductory essay: Citizenship learning for and through participatory
democracy. In E. Pinnington & D. Schugurensky (Eds.), Learning citizenship by practicing
democracy: International initiatives and perspectives (pp. 1–16). Newcastle upon Tyne: Cambridge
Scholars Publishing.
Schugurensky, D. (2013). Volunteers for democracy: Informal learning through participatory budgeting.
In F. Duguid, K. Mündel, & D. Schugurensky (Eds.), Volunteer work, informal learning and social
action (pp. 159–176). Rotterdam, The Nederlands: Sense Publisher.
Schugurensky, D., Mündel, K., & Duguid, F. (2006). Learning from each other: Housing cooperative
members’ acquisition of skills, knowledge, attitudes, and values. Cooperative Housing Journal, 2–
15.
Sintomer, Y., Herzberg C., & Röcke, A. (2014). Transnational models of citizen participation: the case
of participatory budgeting. In N. Dias. (Ed.), Hope for democracy. 25 years of participatory
budgeting worldwide (pp. 28–44). São Brás de Alportel, Portugal: InLoco Editions.
Stiglitz, J. E. (2010). Freefall: America, free markets, and the sinking of the world economy. New York:
WW Norton & Company.
Thompson, J. (2002). Community education and neighbourhood renewal. Leicester, UK: NIACE.
Wenger, E. (1998). Communities of practice: learning, meaning, and identity. Cambridge University
Press.
Wildemeersch, D. (2012). Imagining pedagogy in public space: Visions of cultural policies and
practices in a city in transformation. International Journal of Lifelong Education, 31(1), 77–95.
Wildemeersch, D. (2014). Displacing concepts of social learning and democratic citizenship. In G.
Biesta, M., De Bie, & D. Wildemeersch (Eds.) Civic learning, democratic citizenship and the public
sphere (pp. 15–28). Dordrecht, Heidelberg, New York, and London: Springer.
Wilhelmson, L. (2002). On the theory on transformative learning. In A. Bron & M. Schemmann (Eds.),
Social science theories in adult education research (pp. 180–210). Münster: LIT Verlag.
Marta Gregorčič
Department of Educational Sciences
Faculty of Arts, University of Ljubljana
Sabina Jelenc Krašovec
Department of Educational Sciences
Faculty of Arts, University of Ljubljana
G. A. Koulaouzides & K. Popović (Eds.), Adult Education and Lifelong Learning in Southeastern
Europe, 41–51.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
KONSTANTINOS MARKIDIS AND IRA PAPAGEORGIOU
4. COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT THROUGH
LABOR EDUCATION
The Case of Women Unionists of the General Confederation
of Greek Workers
INTRODUCTION
In this chapter, we explore the experience of women trade unionists who
participated in a labor education program. Empowerment was a central element in
the design of this program, although not explicitly an intended learning outcome.
This chapter analyses the views of the project’s key actors on empowerment as an
educational need. In order to do that, we first need to define the concept of
“community empowerment”, the kind of empowerment endorsed through labor
education. To better understand the context of the study, we then explain the term
labor education and provide details on the project of women’s labour education of
the General Confederation of Greek Workers. Applying the method of grounded
theory, we then explore empowerment as an educational need and learning
objective.
COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT AND ADULT EDUCATION
The term “empowerment” has become a ubiquitous buzz-word, used even with
conflicting meanings. As such, one needs to carefully analyze and clarify the
concept, especially regarding the context, the target group and its social target. The
notion of empowerment has been to a great extent appropriated by politicians and
managers. The management literature focuses exclusively on individual
empowerment as a means for making employees feel more valued, satisfied,
creative and – as a result – productive.
Within the field of education, empowerment can be conceived differently,
depending on the theoretical framework. An approach that links to the human
resources theory or even to the liberal tradition, aims for individual students to be
empowered so that they can be successful, regardless of the social group that they
might belong in and regardless of possible conflicting interests within the group.
On the other hand, the social purpose approach to education links individual with
community empowerment (Zoniou, 2016; Wallerstein & Bernstein, 1994).
Trade union education has developed from the workers’ movement. It therefore
draws from the social purpose tradition of adult education that endorses social
responsibility and social justice, instead of individual empowerment in isolation
K. MARKIDIS & I. PAPAGEORGIOU
42
from one’s community and social context. Empowerment within this field therefore
is seen as taking place within a specific social context. It entails the transformation
of communities, as the members of these communities engage in transformative
learning. It is both a process and an outcome. Its core elements are the perception
of individuals as social actors, critical thinking, connectedness to others, personal
and social capacity building and transformed power relations. Community
empowerment is therefore defined as a social action process in which individuals
and groups act to gain mastery over their lives in the context of changing their
social and political environment (Wallerstein & Bernstein, 1994, p. 142).
TRADE UNIONS AND ADULT EDUCATION
Education in the Trade Union Movement
The literature on unions and workers’ education is very limited due to the terms’
political connotation and acknowledgement of a class society (Sauviat, 2015). Yet,
education has been at the core of union action since the beginning of both unions
and of adult education, i.e. since the 19th century (Fieldhouse, 1996). For the
contemporary labor movement, education is still – if not more – important. As
educationalist Eduard C. Lindeman (1961, p. 27) predicted almost a century ago,
the trade unions of the future will be a creating, not merely a fighting
organization…Workers’ education, already the most vital sector of the adult
education movement, forecasts a new phase of industrial readjustment: the
displacement of the use of force by the use of intelligence.
Indeed, adopting Marsick’s and Watkins’ definition (1999), Crooper (2006, p.28)
describes contemporary trade unions as “learning organizations”, organizations
who learn continuously and who – through this process – transform themselves.
Hundreds of thousands are involved in formal educational activities in union
schools throughout the world every year (ILO, 2007). Unions deliver three
different types of educational activities:
– Workers’ education, which is general education programs for working people,
aimed at their educational attainment,
– Union education, that is training on functional issues for members in the
operation of their union and on issues of critical interest for the unions,
– Labor studies, which is an academic-like impartial and critical study of labor in
society.
The term “labor education” refers to the two latter categories (ILO, 2007). It is in
these categories that this chapter focuses on.
The aim of labor education – as well as of workers’ education – is to enable
unions to better represent workers and to influence work and learning from the
standpoint of labor. Therefore, labor education is a capacity-building vehicle for
both unions themselves and for their members, but with collective purposes in
mind (Bratton et al., 2003). Accordingly, the International Trade Union
Confederation states that it is called upon to empower working women and men
COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT THROUGH LABOUR EDUCATION
43
through educational programs that reflect the Confederation’s main lines and
which are built into its action plans (as cited in ILO, 2007, pp. 5–6).
Underpinning Educational Theories
Labor education throughout the world shares certain characteristics, which one can
link with the social purpose adult education theoretical framework. These are the
participatory and experiential approach, critical reflection, the focus on the
collective rather than the individual, the political agenda, etc. The labor movement,
influenced by the writings of Antonio Gramsci and Paulo Freire, incorporated
elements of their theory and methodology into its educational programs (Sauviat,
2015). More specifically, labor education draws from the Gramscian perception
regarding the role of educational activities in helping the working class challenge
ideological hegemony through critical reflection. Moreover, it is the role of labor
educators to act as organic intellectuals (Mayo, 1999). Additionally, Freire has
been influential for labor education by developing a pedagogy that aims at
conscientization – the gaining of critical consciousness of one’s situation as a
historically-situated changeable reality (Freire, 1973). The respect of the workers’
experiences and collective learning through dialogue in study circles are
methodological influences of Gramsci and Freire to labor education (Sauviat,
2015).
Besides these original influences, several adult education theorists have since
contributed towards the pedagogy for empowerment. Brookfield, influenced by
Freire and the Frankfurt School, focuses on an education that endorses critical
reflection, i.e. an education that examines hidden power relations and hegemonic
assumptions and that challenges socio-political and cultural values that guide our
actions. The educational objective for Brookfield is the taking up of informed
action. In this way, Brookfield brings together critical theory’s concept of
hegemony and transformative learning theory’s idea of critical reflection on
assumptions, developing autonomous individuals who are empowered to act upon
their collective reality (Brookfield, 2012).
Similarly, Mezirow (2000), in his philosophy of adult education, links self with
collective empowerment, claiming that when learners become critically reflective
on the social factors that have shaped the way they think, they are also empowered
to make collective action to ameliorate them. Indeed, he argues that adult educators
are generally committed to create enabling conditions for materializing the ideal of
a just society. To achieve that goal, adult educators generate protected learning
environments in which the conditions of social democracy are fostered. This has
implications on curricula, teaching methods, learning materials, power relations
between tutor and students, as well as on educators’ professional development. As
we will see below, labor education in Greece has been influenced by these
educational theories, with implications on all practical aspects of implementation.
K. MARKIDIS & I. PAPAGEORGIOU
44
THE INSTITUTE OF LABOUR: WOMEN’S LABOUR EDUCATION
The Scientific Institution of the Greek Labor Movement
The Labor Institute (INE GSEE) of the Greek General Confederation of Labor
(GSEE) was founded in 1990 as the scientific and research organization of the
trade unions in Greece, in order for GSEE to make substantiated interventions at
social and economic level, in employment, production and social security. More
specifically, a goal of INE GSEE is to develop and communicate know-how
concerning union education, adult education and vocational training (educational
theories, educational methods/techniques, development of educational material,
etc.).
This know-how has been developed through studies and most importantly
through the implementation of educational programs. Moreover, studies and
projects with women, unemployed, NEETs, migrants etc. are complemented by a
wide range of support actions. INE GSEE also participates as a representative of
GSEE in social dialogue regarding employment policies, vocational training and
labor market at European (as representatives of GSEE in ETUC), national, and
local level.
Labor Education for Women
Part of the above actions was a labor education project aiming at strengthening the
participatory, revindicating and negotiating power of women and particularly at
promoting and ensuring the active participation of women workers in positions of
responsibility at all levels and types of trade unions. The project titled Promotion
and Strengthening of Women’s Participation in Trade Unions and Their
Representation Bodies was designed and implemented from INE GSEE in
collaboration with GSEE. It involved educational activities, in order for participant
women unionists to gain knowledge, skills, and to build support networks that can
empower them to become key actors for the promotion of women’s issues within
and through trade unions. Based on a qualitative and quantitative research,
presenting personal, employment, educational and professional characteristics of
women taking part in representation bodies of trade unions, as well as of factors
affecting the active participation of women in trade unions, and of what women
need from unionism, women took part in participative and experiential workshops.
These workshops were on the subject of trade unionism and on the effective
promotion of gender equality on labor relations, social security and insurance, as
well as on other topics of interest to each of the women’s groups. Informed action
through empowered participation in trade unions was the wider aim of this project.
More specifically, workshops dealt with the fields of Individual Labor Law,
Collective Labor Law, Women’s Empowerment during Collective Representation,
Social Insurance and Social Security, Principles and Methods of Social
Networking, Stress Management, Work-Life Balance and Assertiveness – all with
a gender perspective and in a way that drew from the participants’ experiences.
COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT THROUGH LABOUR EDUCATION
45
Not only the topics, but also the time and venue of the workshops were designed
according to the participants’ needs. Workshops were conducted throughout
Greece and in collaboration with the regional Labor Centers and/or the Sectoral
Federations.
A key aspect of these workshops was that they were organized by the local or
sectoral Gender Equality Office, which was established through the project, so that
participants could then assemble around the Office and form a community that
would put forward their interests. These Gender Equality Offices, one central, four
sectoral and eight regional, acted as an open space for women, a place where they
could also receive counseling, information and opportunities for networking. The
characteristics of labor education that we reviewed above, such as active
participation, experientiality, critical reflection and situatedness, were all
underpinning elements of this program. Moreover, given that it was a program
targeting women, the teaching approaches were influenced by feminist theory, thus
valuing dialogue and relational knowledge (Belenky & Stanton, 2000).
Context of Crisis and Women’s Labor
Having highlighted the value of situatedness, at this point, we have to highlight the
context within which the program was implemented – that is the context of the
economic crisis, a context that has had unequal effects on genders. Austerity
measures, combined with the deregulation of the protective legal framework, have
led to the exacerbation of both direct and indirect discrimination against women in
terms of pay and working conditions. The over-concentration of women in
precarious and low-paid jobs and their deteriorating working conditions is notable.
As a result of this deregulation and the abolition of minimum levels of labor
protection, one can record a widening pay gap, delay or even non-payment of work
time, moral and sexual harassment, working overtime without additional
remuneration, pressure from employers to working mothers not to make use of
parental leave, unilateral negative conversion of contracts as well as the expulsion
of pregnant women into resignation (ETUC, 2011).
At the same time, the collapse of social welfare benefits and services, the drastic
reduction of household income and the increase of prices and have lead many
women to provide work for the family, i.e. without pay. Because of the dominant
stereotyped social role of genders, unpaid work is not equally distributed, resulting
to women undertaking a secondary role in the labor market. This leads to putting
women at further risk of poverty, dependence and precariousness (Varchalama et
al., 2015). As such, women’s labor education takes on a new and crucial role.
EXPLORING WOMEN’S LABOR EDUCATION
Researching Empowerment through Grounded Theory
From the above, the central question of our study arises: which theory can provide
empirically grounded interpretations of the “empowerment” concept as an
expressed educational need in the specific educational and socio-political context
K. MARKIDIS & I. PAPAGEORGIOU
46
of women’s labor education? To answer this question, we relied on the theoretical
tradition of grounded theory, given that it promotes an understanding of social
interactions and representations, organized in complex theoretical forms (Glaser &
Strauss, 1967).
For our study, we focused on the key actors of the project’s Gender Equality
Offices:
– The support officers, social scientists recruited for the project based on their
professional profile in social counseling, training and management, and
– The political executives, elected trade unionists appointed by their unions on the
basis of their experience and activity on gender matters in order to function as
agents of the union Movement political positions.
Six support officers and three political executives from seven Gender Equality
Offices were questioned on the concept of empowerment as a specific educational
need for women members of trade unions. The nine participants were selected from
a total population of twenty-six officers and executives according to the theoretical
sampling method, based on their potential for contributing towards the under
development theory.
Following the procedures of grounded theory, the interviews received by the
political executives functioned as an analytical criterion for assessing the
conditions that shape the processes of empowerment within the social and political
framework of the Gender Equality Offices. Moreover, from a methodological point
of view, the examination of different experiential perspectives would facilitate the
emergence of the comprehensible theoretical construct.
The interviews took place either in person or by phone and ran from thirty to
sixty minutes. Sometimes additional information or clarifications were requested
when deemed necessary. Following that, the interview data were correlated with
the project’s initial research on women unionists’ characteristics and needs. The
concept of educational need was the main focus of the interviews, with researchers
attempting to explore the subjective meaning interviewees attribute to it, as well as
the possible correlation between educational need and intended social action.
FINDINGS
Analysis
The data analysis procedures in grounded theory include three different types of
coding: open, axial and selective. At each stage of coding, individual categories are
reorganized and reordered so that data is saturated, requiring new topics and
broader categorizations. The open coding of the interviews allowed the emergence
of the following seven categories “in vivo” (Strauss & Corbin, 1990).
COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT THROUGH LABOUR EDUCATION
47
Open Coding
Educational framework
Labor education in Greece has historically been developed as part of non-formal
adult education with the ultimate goal of empowering trade unions by developing
specific skills for trade union members (negotiation skills, communication skills,
knowledge and information in economics and industrial relations). This is in
accordance with labor education internationally, aiming to act as a capacity-
building vehicle for both unions and their members (Bratton et al., 2003).
Exploring the personal motivation and empowerment to participate in trade unions
by understanding and analyzing the subjective conditions which make it easier or
harder for them to participate is not a basic parameter of investigating the
educational needs of trainees. The existence of the necessary incentives to
participate is given and is not subject to the training process.
Socio-economic crisis
A key emerging category refers to the economic and social conjuncture as a
generalized “crisis”. The crisis was a common reference in all interviews,
recognizing it as the main underlying cause for low female participation in trade
unions, given the much higher unemployment rate and greater employment
precariousness. The low participation of women in trade unions was interpreted as
an effect of the deregulation of the labor market, leading them to informal sectors
of the economy and the provision of non-productive family work. These references
show the historical situatedness of the project. Also, they frame labor education
within the need for social change.
Learning outcomes
The category of learning outcomes reflects a major concern regarding effective
coverage of clearly defined learning needs in terms of specific skills and
knowledge. The perception of interviewees on learning outcomes is shaped by a
formalistic view of what is considered useful for an action at any particular
moment. It is interesting to note that the issue of empowerment to participate and
to strengthen the will of union members is not perceived as a learning outcome,
given that it cannot be identified with specific educational practices, nor can it be
measured as an autonomous learning outcome.
Individual skills
The individual skills required for effective labor action are more relevant to
specific thematic and training modules and not to personal mobilization paths.
Skills are acquired because of educational action and not as a product of a learning
transformation of social experience. By individual skills, the interviewees seemed
to refer at the same time to two different concepts: skills as individualized learning
achievements, and skills as elementary components of learning content and
learning outcomes.
K. MARKIDIS & I. PAPAGEORGIOU
48
Collective action
Collective action appears to be the final objective of the learning process, but at the
same time it is difficult for interviewees to interconnect it with specific learning
outcomes and the process of acquiring specific skills and knowledge. Empowering
trainees to actively participate in trade unions presupposes political processes that
cannot be identified independently within the training program. The educational
framework is structured in such a way that it does not allow the direct connection
between learning outcomes and effective commitment of the members to collective
labor action.
Bottom-up process
The educational process itself is understood as part of the political processes taking
place within trade unions. It is an alternative perception of the educational
framework as an extended field of political processes which facilitates the
participation of all members precisely because of its “educational” and not “exactly
political” nature.
Axial Coding
After identifying the main topics and the main categories, a new categorization
process was developed known in grounded theory as an axial coding. The axial
categorization involves identifying a single category as a central phenomenon and
exploring its relationships with the other categories (Charmaz, 2006). This coding
process resulted in a model of categorical relations which formed the basis for the
construction of the theory through the final process of selective coding. Figure 1
shows the axial coding model as a causal mechanism.
Selective Coding
The third part of the process was devoted to the selective coding of the data,
through which a narrative was formed linking all categories. As a final product of
this process, a set of propositions emerges, forming the final derivatives of the
analytical process, as consequences of the theoretical model described in Figure 1.
A fundamental contrast
Women’s educational needs regarding labor education were linked with issues of
active participation in trade unions. We identified two basic but contrasting trends
in describing the educational experience of our subjects. The first trend looks for
the reason for limited participation in the lack of knowledge and the limited
possession of political and social skills by female workers. This position is mainly
defended by the support officers, who pose as a prerequisite for empowering
female unionists to cover what they perceive as a skills’ gap. The second trend, on
the other hand, considers that limited participation is due to specific gender
discrimination strategies within trade unions. This position is mainly adopted by
COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT THROUGH LABOUR EDUCATION
49
Figure 1. Axial coding: a model of empowerment as “generic learning outcome” in
women’s trade unions training
political executives, who perceive union training as a tool for awareness and
empowerment of union members. While recognizing the importance of identifying
specific learning outcomes in terms of skills, they defend a wider and more
political perception of skills adapted to collective action. Accordingly, in the first
case, it is proposed to fill the skills’ gap with special training programmes that
cover female trade unionists’ individual needs. In the second case on the other
hand, the issue of competitive gender relations and the critical modification of the
content of labor education is clearly set out as an instrument for the community
empowerment and mobilization.
Learning outcomes transformation
The primary contrast we have just mentioned, at the level of expected learning
outcomes, seeks to combine two distinct external constraints. The first one appears
to be aimed at maintaining the educational framework and in this respect, is more
Conjuncture
Trade union action
is being developed
in specific time and
local contexts that
evolve at great
speed in times of
exacerbation of
class antagonisms.
Causal
relationships:
A fundamental
contrast
Socio-cognitive
strategies
Empowerment
appears to be a
“generic collective
skill” that responds
to more general
requests for
mobilization and
political
participation of
women in trade
unions.
Empowerment as a
collective learning
outcome permits
educational designs
that are not limited
by the need for
rigorous
determinations in
terms of individual
skills and specific
knowledge.
The limited
participation of
women in trade
unions is
perceived
because of the
lack of political
strategies aimed
at increasing
their
commitment to
collective
action.
The limited
participation of
women is
interpreted as a
result of the
lack of specific
individual skills
and limited
trade union
knowledge.
Transforming
learning
outcomes:
Maintaining the
training
framework,
targeting the
social and
political
mobilization of
women workers.
Consequences
Educational design and
learning outcomes
determination can not
be always confined to
obtain personalized
skills and specific
knowledge.
Effective trade union
training requires also
the use of generic
learning outcomes that
maintain the
educational
framework, while
encouraging collective
action.
This is most important
when it comes to
people who are facing
obstacles to their
political participation
and when social
conjecture is not
favorable.
K. MARKIDIS & I. PAPAGEORGIOU
50
compatible with the individualized perception of learning needs regarding political
and social skills. Instead, the latter aims to create a climate of community
empowerment, which could also be developed through non-educational processes.
In other words, at the level of learning needs and outcomes, the issue arises as a
quest for the optimal combination of a double constraint: maintaining an effective
educational framework without betraying the collective political processes of trade
unions.
Socio-cognitive strategies
Knowledge and skills for action are a prerequisite for political mobilization
according both to support officers and political executives. Especially within the
current circumstances and social conjecture, women unionists need to fill this
educational gap. Considering empowerment as a “generic collective skill” responds
to these more general requests for mobilization and political participation of
women in trade unions, by adopting a particular socio-cognitive strategy.
According to this strategy, empowerment is called to act as an intermediate link
between the individuality of skills and the political project for collective action.
The same skills, depending on whether they are considered as “empowering” or
not, appear to be invested by different characteristics and targeting. For example,
the “empowering” perception of knowing labor law, aims to increase the awareness
of trade union members about social rights motivating collective action. As such,
the same knowledge that acts as a prerequisite for acquiring an individual skill,
remains equally useful in the context of labor education. Yet, it has a clearly
different targeting, aiming at forming political executives as distinct individualities.
Thus, community empowerment as a collective learning outcome permits
instructional designs that are not limited by the need for rigorous determinations in
terms of individual skills and specific knowledge.
COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT AS AN EDUCATIONAL NEED
From the above, one can conclude that educational design in labor education
cannot be confined to identifying educational needs at individual level and thus to
setting intended learning outcomes solely as personalized knowledge and skills.
Instead, effective labor education, applying a social purpose approach to education,
requires the use of generic learning outcomes, such as community empowerment.
Community empowerment functions as both a process and an outcome,
maintaining the educational framework while encouraging collective action, so that
women trade unionists can gain mastery over their lives and become social actors,
shaping their socio-political environment (Wallerstein & Bernstein, 1994).
REFERENCES
Belenky, M., & Stanton, A. (2000). Inequality, development and connected knowing. In J. Mezirow and
Associates (Eds.), Learning as transformation: Critical perspectives on a theory in progress. San
Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.
COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT THROUGH LABOUR EDUCATION
51
Bratton, J., Helms-Mills, J., Pyrch, T., & Sawchuk, P. (2003). Workplace learning: A critical
introduction. Toronto: Garamond Press.
Brookfield, S. D. (2012). Teaching for critical thinking. San Frascisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.
Charmaz, K. (2006). Constructing grounded theory. London: Sage.
Cooper, L. (2006). The trade union as a learning organisation? A case study of informal learning in a
collective, social-action organisational context. Journal of Education, 39, 39–46.
European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC). (2011). 4th annual ETUC 8th March Survey 2011.
Brussels: ETUC.
Fieldhouse, R. (1996). The ninetenth century. In R. Fieldhouse & Associates (Eds.), A history of modern
British adult education. Leicester: NIACE.
Freire, P. (1973). The pedagogy of the oppressed. New York: Seabury Press.
Glaser, B., & Strauss, A. (1967). The discovery of grounded theory: Strategies for qualitative research.
Weidenfeld & Nicolson: London
Institute of Labor (INE GSEE). (n.d.). Profile INE GSEE. Retrieved from: http://www.inegsee.gr/
profil-ine/ (accesed 18 May 2017).
International Labor Office (ILO). (2007). The role of trade unions in workers’ education: The key to
trade union capacity building. Background paper, International Workers’ Symposium. Geneva, 8–
12 October 2007.
Lindeman, E. (1961). The meaning of adult education, New York: New Republic.
Marsick, V. J., & Watkins, K.E. (1999). Facilitating learning organisations: Making learning count.
Brookfield, VA: Gower.
Mayo, P. (1999). Gramsci, Freire and adult education: Possibilities for transformative action. London:
Zed Books.
Mezirow, J. (2000). Learning to think like an adult. Core concepts of transformation theory. In J.
Mezirow and Associates (Eds.), Learning as transformation: Critical perspectives on a theory in
progress. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.
Sauviat, L. (2015). In search for political consciousness. The role of workers’ education. Geneva:
International Labor Office/Global Labor University.
Strauss, A., & Corbin, J. (1990). Basics of qualitative research: Grounded theory procedures and
techniques. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.
Varchalama, E., Boukouvalas, K., & Papageorgiou, I. (2015). I simmetoxi ton gunaikon sta organa
dioikisis ton sindikalistikon organoseon domis tis genikis sinomospondias ergaton Elladas. Athens:
INE GSEE.
Wallerstein, N., & Bernstein, E. (1994). Introduction to community empowerment, participatory
education and health. Health Education Quarterly, 21(2), 141–148.
Zoniou, Ch. (2016).I simvoli tou theatrou tou katapiesmenou kai allon dramatikon tehnikon stin
anaptixi tis diapolitismikis ikanotitas ton ekpaideutikon. Thesis, University of Thessaly, Volos.
Konstantinos Markidis
Centre of Educational Policy
General Confederation of Greek Labor
Ira Papageorgiou
Institute of Labor
General Confederation of Greek Labor
G. A. Koulaouzides & K. Popović (Eds.), Adult Education and Lifelong Learning in Southeastern
Europe, 53–63.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
TIHOMIR ŽILJAK
5. EUROPEANIZATION AND POLICY INSTRUMENTS
IN CROATIAN ADULT EDUCATION
INTRODUCTION
The European Union declaratively doesn’t have a single education policy, but its
goals, instruments, agencies and discourse practices form a unique framework for
national policies on adult education. The level of implementation of national
specificities according to those goals depends on the individual member states,
their power and influence as well as the activity of each national government. This
chapter describes the case of Croatian adult education. It examines the educational
policy in this field after entering the EU by a government which has limited power
in influencing general European education policies. In Croatia, adult education
policy was constituted and implemented in two phases. The first phase was the
transition period after 1990 which was formed in the national dimension. The
second phase was the Europeanization period (after 2000) which transferred on a
national level the European goals of adult education. This chapter deals with the
later, the Europeanization phase. It analyzes the definition of adult education, its
basic goals and the instruments used in achieving them. Using the paradigm of the
qualifications framework as an instrument of imposing changes in education, it
further analyzes the influence of the EU on national policies. Finally, it provides a
conclusion about the implementation of goals, ideas and interests into the
instruments which carry out the Europeanization of adult education policies.
THE EU AND DEFINING ADULT EDUCATION IN CROATIA
The process of defining the goals of adult education in the Republic of Croatia can
be observed through two phases of transitional changes. The first phase was from
1990 to 2000, during the period of the dissolution of Yugoslavia, terminating the
socialist system and forming the independent state (Žiljak, 2013). During that
period, adult education distanced itself from the previous socialist ideas and
practices. It was marginalized and its institutional foundation was threatened by
war, privatization and political influences. Adult education was mostly cut down to
traditional adult education (vocational retraining and foreign language courses), as
supplementary education to primary schooling (Pongrac, 1999).
In the final years of the 1990s and after the year 2000, there was a shift
connected to the beginning of Croatia’s entrance into the EU. This could be
identified as a critical juncture (Collier & Collier, 1991) in which there was a
search for new answers or paths to the accumulated and unresolved education
T. ŽILJAK
54
issues. The path for the EU policy goals was chosen. Although adult education was
not the focus of the pre-accession negotiations and goals, the European dimension
became crucial in rethinking adult education. This process could be explained as
Europeanization, i.e. the attempts to make European goals and understanding of
adult education discursive and the basic normative framework for local policies
(Radaelli, 2006; Žiljak, 2013). In the case of Croatia, this is the one-way transfer –
from the EU or other EU states to Croatia. There are no ideas in this case to be
uploaded from Croatia to the EU level, or transfer of Croatian policies to other
states. In such an institutionalized context after the year 2000, adult education was
defined as part of the lifelong learning strategy under the influence of the relevant
EU and UNESCO documents from the mid-nineties. The translated documents
were the Delors Report, the Memorandum on Lifelong Learning and the Hamburg
Declaration on Adult Learning.
In the process of defining adult education within lifelong learning in Croatia it is
practical to examine three policy dimensions in this period (from 2000 up to now):
– Equating (explicitly or implicitly) adult education with lifelong learning. The
first proposal for a Law on Adult Education after 2000 was titled Law on
Lifelong Learning.
– Equating adult education with continuing vocational education. This approach
can be traced in the Strategy on Adult Education from 2004 where it is defined
as a “second educational opportunity for the employed, unemployed, war
veterans, managers” (Vlada, 2004, pp. 12–18).
– Understanding adult education as a unique education form within lifelong
learning (Strategija, 2014).
From the above it may be concluded that there is ambiguity in defining adult
education. This is partly the result of various local interests and theoretical doubts,
and partly the outcome of differences in understanding on transnational levels
(Popović, 2014). Most documents and implementation practices are closest to the
definition by the Croatian Bureau of Statistics (CBS/DZS) in which adult education
is firstly defined as continual (formal) vocational education or compensational
general education:
Adult Education is aimed at providing education for adults who have not
obtained an adequate education in the course of regular schooling and those
who want to get more of vocational education. (CBS, 2014, p. 26)
GOALS
After the year 2000, Croatia has adopted Lisbon goals as its own, and lifelong
learning was primarily aimed at development, increasing employment rates,
employability and economic competitiveness. In that respect, strengthening refers
only to the reinforcement of the workers’ professional competences. Personal
empowerment that would include civil and social competences is disregarded or
reduced. Instead of critical thinking, priority is given to teamwork and completing
team work tasks.
EUROPEANIZATION AND POLICY INSTRUMENTS IN CROATIAN ADULT EDUCATION
55
Goals regarding the social dimension and active citizenship were after 2000
only present in the attempt of introducing education on human rights for adults and
in the activity of human rights associations and non-governmental organizations
(Šalaj & Žiljak, 2007). According to that, adult education in Croatia is seen as a
key part of lifelong learning in the process of Europeanization with its main goal
increasing employability of individuals, economic growth and competitiveness. In
practice but also in academic research, the programs prioritizing personal
development and critical thinking are neglected. Adult education for sustainable
development, human rights, creative development and third age education are
neglected as well. What has already been marked as a priority in the Lisbon
process was consistently carried out in the process of Europeanization of the
Croatian education policy and reduced to one dimension: education and training of
adults for acquiring new employability skills.
Therefore, Croatia does not differ greatly from the dominant trend in the
European Union where the significance of adult learning is mostly placed in
acquiring new competences and training for the labor market. In a thorough
analysis, Rasmussen shows that there was a certain degree of balance between the
economic and social goals at the beginning of the Lisbon process. With the start of
the economic crisis and difficulties in political unification, adult education goals
were reduced to employability and economic competitiveness (Rasmussen, 2014,
p. 25). For example, citizenship adult education in the EU is only mentioned during
major political crisis (Lucio-Villegas, 2009). Within the recent migrant and refugee
crisis continuing vocational education (whose purpose in this case is the
professional integration of migrants) and intercultural education are given biggest
importance. The paradox lies in the fact that the causes of the migration and refugee
crisis are political issues and education of migrants is reduced to integration into the
labor market (with cultural integration) while critical political education is
disregarded1
. This challenge of adult learning being cut down to the sole purpose of
employment and paid work while neglecting other goals as relevant, was recognized
in numerous works (Moir & Crowther, 2014; Mohorčič Špolar & Holford, 2014).
One might conclude that Croatian education actors were successful in recognizing
only the basic messages of the Lisbon and post-Lisbon processes. The case of
Croatia is only proof of a successful merging of the dominant European approach
with the local educational goals.
It is a paradox that this approach disregarded part of a national tradition of adult
education. In his 1907 program text on founding the first Open University for adult
education, Albert Bazala concluded that adult education must strengthen
individuals as free and responsible citizens. “Without cultural, scientific, moral,
aesthetic development it is not possible to do civil or family duties, there is no
political freedom without it” (Bazala, 1997).
LOGIC OF APPROPRIATENESS
The case of Croatia could be described as Europeanization of education guided by
logic of appropriateness. Schimmelfennig (2012) describes two institutional logics
T. ŽILJAK
56
of change in the process of Europeanization. One is the logic of consequences
(driven by the EU through sanctions and rewards that alter the cost-benefit
calculations). The other is the logic of appropriateness when states learn from each
other, use other’s positive experiences:
Target states are persuaded to adopt EU rules if they consider these rules
legitimate and identify with the EU. These mechanisms can be implemented
either through intergovernmental interactions (bargaining or persuasion) or
through transnational processes via societal actors within the target state … if
they perceive them (EU rules, TZ) as solutions to their problems, either based
on instrumental calculations or the appropriateness of the EU solutions.
(Schimmelfennig, 2012, p. 6)
Education policy is part of the later area, which was not critical in negotiations
with the EU (as freedom, justice or free movement of goods), adult education is
also part of the cooperation framework through programs and the so-called open
method of coordination (OMC), which aims to the convergence of national policies
and attainment of shared objectives. It includes fixed guidelines, quantitative and
qualitative benchmarks and indicators, translating the European guidelines into
national and regional policies, periodic monitoring, evaluation and peer review
(Rasmussen, 2014, p. 23). Focus groups, regional meetings, peer learning
activities, workshops and research studies play a special part in it. Benchmarks and
indicators are expressed in numbers and become crucial elements of evaluating
policy success. Grek and Lawn see it as “numbers have become an objective,
irreversible ‘truth’; context could only complicate or question it, hence it is
unwelcome” (Lawn & Grek, 2012, p. 99).
In achieving European education goals, experts and standardization process are
part of persuasive and attracting power which draws actions. The role of experts is
especially significant in defining the categories, choosing data and producing a
standard through networks. Grek and Lawn conclude that this way, experts enable
“governing without government” (Lawn & Greek, 2012, p. 70).
INSTRUMENTS
Policy instruments are aimed at realizing key ideas and interests. Bemelmans-
Videc, Rist and Vedung analyzed different types of instruments in detail and
concluded that their distribution relies on the analysis of power and obligation. It is
significant that the actors will use: obligation via regulation, incentive via
economic resources or persuasion using information. Accordingly, he names the
three groups of instruments Carrots, Sticks, and Sermons (Bemelmans-Videc, Rist,
& Vedung, 2003). An important finding was made by Lascoumes and Le Gales
(2007, p. 7), showing that instruments have their technical features, techniques and
procedures but they are not just a group of neutral tool-kits. They have technical
features (as tools), but then again they contain the understanding of organizing and
managing the process.
The analysis of selecting instruments clearly shows how ideas, interests and
institutions play a crucial part as variables in explaining change (McDonnell,
EUROPEANIZATION AND POLICY INSTRUMENTS IN CROATIAN ADULT EDUCATION
57
2009). The selection of instruments and utilizing various instruments can’t be
explained simply by some of the aforementioned elements or variables. The
interaction of all these elements influences the selection and final choice of the
instrument. Context creates a framework for the whole process of selection and its
varying nature creates uncertainty, which makes actors permanently redefine the
problem, search for a solution and choose or produce appropriate instruments
(Linder & Peters, 1989). The institutional context includes government capacities,
fiscal resources, political support and opposition, information (political, strategic
and analytical), last presidential elections. The context of education was defined by
Croatia’s entrance in the EU (applicant countries and new members have less
influence) and relatively weak national professional, economic and political
resources for adult education. The instruments used in implementing education
policies can be analyzed in various ways, but most often there is reference to
financial incentives, legal resolutions, public campaigns and different types of
informing, reorganizing, and empowering institutions (McDonnell, 2009).
All these elements are present in Croatia. Public campaigns are most visible in
the Lifelong Learning Week which has been held regularly since 2002 and follows
the UNESCO International Adult Learners Week initiative. Lifelong Learning
Week2
includes activities in all of Croatia and is coordinated by the Agency for
Vocational and Adult Education (ASOO) with the help/funding of the European
Social Fund (ESF). It is one of the priorities stated in the Operational Program
Efficient Human Resources 2014–2020. The second activity, also managed by the
Agency, is the European EPALE Project3
(the European internet platform for
sharing and spreading information on adult education). Data and information on
adult education are mostly collected in ASOO data bases, partly in the Croatian
bureau of Statistics (such as the Survey on labor activity, etc.).
The state regulates adult education through its legal directives. The ministries
and agencies control the creation and implementation and approve new programs
of formal education. In this case, the state and its agencies are not partners with the
institutions which prepare the programs but are government regulators who pass or
don’t pass propositions of programs or their implementation. Creating a program is
based on the concept of learning outcomes and strictly selected acceptable
discourses which can describe the outcomes. As key elements for this purpose,
standards from the Croatian Qualifications Framework (CROQF) are introduced.
The programs must have an argument that proves they guarantee employment.
Transition to concepts of learning outcomes is crucial in creating the formal adult
education program.
Since most participants in education are those who pay for their own education
(Bejaković, 2015) financial support is most often given to citizens for vocational
training mediated by the Croatian Employment Service or some local initiatives
(e.g. compensation for work activities in the city of Zagreb) and paid elementary
education for adults. Support from the Croatian Employment Service is cyclical
(they often overlap with elections), and support from employers is far less than in
other states. Strengthening of resources is financed by European funds or
application calls by ministries. Ministries, agencies and services are mediators in
T. ŽILJAK
58
the distribution of European funds for the growth of resources in adult education
institutions. Organizations which usually hold informal programs have the
opportunity to access funds for these activities through the National Foundation for
Civil Society Development. In the Operational Program for Efficient Human
Resources (the foundation for using the European Social Fund resources) using the
resources from ESF to develop adult education policies and lifelong learning
policies goes beyond policy coordination and into a redistributive manner
(according to Wallace) where the EU resources are used for certain policy goals.
This is also valid for Lifelong Learning Week, using the Erasmus program for
EPALE or developing new adult education programs. The goals of all these
programs are in line with the basic EU goals and are clearly linked to individual
employability. This is in line with Rasmussen’s findings which showed that using
the EU funds has great influence on changing the understanding of policies and
choosing goals, especially in low-income regions (Rasmussen, 2014, p. 31).
Curriculum globALE is an important program for increasing resources in adult
education; it was made by the Department of International Cooperation of the
German Adult Education Association and the German Research Institute of adult
education. Their goal is to achieve support for the professionalisation of adult
education by determining the basic competences as a reference framework of
competences for teachers of adults (Dijanošić & Popović, 2013). Using this
experience, as well as transfer of craftsman education from Bavaria to Croatia, one
might say that in this case Europeanization partly goes via Germany to Croatia.
There are no significant initiatives from national actors for creating EU adult
education policies visible in the reports of the EU authorities and organizations.
For instance, in the report for the period of 2014 and 2015, there is no data on the
involvement of Croatian representatives in the Working Group on adult learning,
although it is clear from the documents that they were present at some meetings.
This may cause difficulties in identifying local policy stakeholders and supporters
in the field of adult education.
The results of these policy instruments are scarce and Croatia is a country with
one of the lowest rates of adult involvement in the processes of education (ranges
between 2.5% and 3.1%). In the success analyses of achieving European education
goals, Croatian adult education rates far worse than formal education. This creates
the opportunity to reevaluate the efficiency of instruments and analyze them in
more detail, stimulate or validate other forms of adult learning which surely exist
and are not only part of a formal continual vocational training. Croatia is carrying
out European goals which are not implemented with enough success, and with
modest participation in shaping or redesigning them.
THE CASE OF THE QUALIFICATION FRAMEWORKS
The case of qualification frameworks shows that a European initiative is
influencing change in Croatian adult education policies. From the beginning, EU
activities in developing the European Qualification Framework (EQF) were aimed
at aligning education with labor market needs, competitiveness and innovation
EUROPEANIZATION AND POLICY INSTRUMENTS IN CROATIAN ADULT EDUCATION
59
(Žiljak, 2007). EQF has been an important education tool for around a decade, and
its importance has been confirmed in new documents on the EU education goals (A
New Skills Agenda for Europe, 2016). The description itself clearly shows that the
framework is based on identifying learning outcomes (skills, competences). By
aligning the contents and the comprehension of it, the aim is to stimulate
convergence of educational processes in the EU. It is crucial to align learning
outcomes which, however, EC lists under quotation marks (A New Skills Agenda
for Europe, 2016, p. 5).
In her analysis, Pia Cort (2010) shows that the EQF is not a neutral policy tool.
She shows that it is an education policy instrument which contains a defined
comprehension of education, value and the basic notion of change. The example of
a qualifications framework supports Gales’ thesis that instruments are at the
same time both tools and institutions (Lascoumes & Le Gales, 2007, 8). These
institutions contain within them certain values, ideas and intentions of the actors.
Qualification frameworks enclose the elimination of the themes of equality, justice
and redistribution, and impose a codification of an agenda for competitiveness,
flexibility, workfare, employability, etc.
In Croatia, the process began in March, 2006 with the establishment of the
Commission for drafting the CROQF only to put into effect the Law on CROQF in
2013. This was followed by key implementation phases: acquiring subordinate
legislation acts, defining institutional procedures, developing the occupations and
qualifications standards. The qualifications framework became nearly a crucial
instrument of reform: “Changes in the education system need to be rounded up by
a reform of the national qualifications frameworks” (JAP, 2008, p. 22). CROQF
should aspire to those goals which are, according to Young, defined as a larger
rationality of the system and a generator of education reforms (Werquin, 2007, p.
463). It is these goals which are used as the main instigators of change, especially
in adult education programs.
The initiative for the making of the CROQF and linking it with the EQF came
from an exterior environment. It slowly became the topic of discussions in 2003
which was supported by the European Training Foundation (ETF) within the
Strategy for Adult Education. Their experts helped define basic goals, encouraged
local associates and the exchange of good practices in implementing these
initiatives. They were in charge of encouraging partners in Southeast Europe to
gain experience and means for creating their own education initiatives which
would be aligned with European trends (Mc Bride, 2005). This role as international
consultants is visible from the Government of Croatia’s operational team records
which is implementing the qualifications framework. At the first workshop in May,
2008 it was ETF experts (Vincent Mc Bride and Jean Gordon) who presented and
elaborated the purpose of developing a framework using descriptors. During the
whole process and with the participation of local public policy makers, (vice-
president of the Government, leaders and key experts from the Operational team)
external consultants and European authorities were promoters of the idea of a
national framework as a part of a whole with the European Qualifications
Framework. In the implementation, members of the EQF Advisory Group
T. ŽILJAK
60
participated in the evaluation of what has been accomplished so far in the shared
task. The main task of the international experts was to assist the Referencing
Working Group in drafting the National Referencing and Self-certification Report.
“The role of the international experts was…to assure the credibility of the
referencing process …” (MZOS, 2014). With exceptional help from experts, there
are no local reflections or reevaluations of the EQF concept. For example, the
National and University Library in Zagreb holds only three local professional
articles on the qualifications framework (two of which are by authors who
participated in its implementation). This is why the process of Europeanization of
qualifications frameworks is marked by a mimetic downloading model and its
adjustment to local conditions, rather than creative adaptations by local actors.
This starring role of consultants makes it more difficult to distinguish voluntary
from obligatory transfer. There is no pressure to engage them, but they are crucial
persons who tie the national with the European level, who understand both sides of
the same process and can transfer the comprehension of key terms (framework,
qualification, descriptors). Consultants are in this case policy brokers, or according
to Lawn and Grek (2012, p. 75), idea brokers located in the interface between
national and EU level.
Besides professional help, the influence of EU funds on implementing a
CROQF project called Further Development of the CROQF is also important. The
project is funded by the IPA resources (85% EU funds and 15% Croatian funds) in
the amount of 1,468,000 Euros (MSES, 2010).
In the CROQF, learning outcomes are crucial as a result of formal, informal and
non-formal learning in the process of lifelong learning. (Zakon o Hrvatskom
kvalifikacijskom okviru, 2013). At the same time, the concept of learning
outcomes has a growing significance within the Croatian education policy (Žiljak,
O., 2013). Accordingly, the entire system is planned to be built on the basis of
occupational standards and qualifications standards based on learning outcomes,
and aligned with the needs of the labor market, individuals, and society altogether.
So a coordinated European concept of outcomes is the foundation for standardizing
education necessary for the labor market. Implementing the EQF is carried out as a
link between the Croatian education system and the European education area.
Understanding and calibrating the qualifications framework was carried out based
on defining European guidelines with the help and supervision of European actors.
In its core, the qualifications framework supposes an education system based on
learning outcomes. One may conclude that qualifications frameworks present a
forced solution; normative pressure can be used for technocratic legitimation. The
ministries and agencies are implementing the concept of learning outcomes, a
standard of CROQF, as a technical issue of implementing the commonly accepted
goals. Using them, some important issues on the level of the EU are carried out and
transferred via policy brokers and epistemic communities in Croatia. This attitude
towards European proposals sustains the power balance between the EU and
national actors and shows the level of local resources. In the process of
Europeanization, all voices do not have equal volume. Therefore, one side of the
medal is the asymmetric power between actors, and the other is the level of activity
EUROPEANIZATION AND POLICY INSTRUMENTS IN CROATIAN ADULT EDUCATION
61
of some governments (Klatt, 2014, p. 59). Croatia was not an active participant in
proposing a solution in the process of Europeanization. It didn’t stand out with any
suggestions for development (Žiljak, 2007), there are no visible proposals of key
documents (such as modest participation in the discussion on proposals for key
documents on adult education).
CONCLUSION
Adult education in Croatia has been carried out as part of the process of
Europeanization of the Croatian education policy after the year 2000. The EU and
its instruments and governance influence the comprehension of adult education,
goals and institutional changes. The instruments themselves contain key goals and
European/national interests (economic development, competitiveness and
employability). Transfer of goals, comprehension and instruments is voluntary, and
Croatia is guided by the logic of appropriateness. It is carried out at the time of
Croatia’s acceptance into the EU. The power of the EU as one of the creators of
education discourse is much stronger than that of a state which is transferring it in
the form of its acceptance treaty. Local and professional actors show no initiative
in the process and have no resources to remodel or significantly re-conceptualize
the basic instruments or goals. This is clearly visible in the transfer of the
qualifications framework concept and the concept of learning outcomes. They
contain the ideas which influence the reform of adult education programs and the
broader education system. The impact of this whole process is reducing adult
education to VET in which the aim of cultivating an empowered personality and
the associated critical thinking skills is lost. Only professional competences of
workers are strengthened. However, not even these results are satisfactory (poor
results with adults participating in education and their employability) which points
to the need for re-evaluating the instruments and roles of all the actors in their
implementation.
NOTES
1
Lists of adult education projects on the EAEA (European Association for the Education of Adults)
web site titled Refugees. Retrieved from http://www.eaea.org/en/policy-advocacy/adult-education-
and-the-refugee-crisis.html. Similar approach in the program New Skills Agenda for Europe (2016):
“Identifying migrants’ skills early on can help determine the first steps needed to integrate them into
their host society and the labour market. This may involve referring them to appropriate training
(including language training, business training or apprenticeships available through the European
Alliance for Apprenticeships), or to employment services” (p. 9).
2
Tjedan cjeloživotnog učenja (http://www.cjelozivotno-ucenje.hr/).
3
EPALE (https://ec.europa.eu/epale/hr/about).
REFERENCES
Bazala, A. (1907). Pučka sveučilišna predavanja. (Njihova uredba i svrha). Reprint 2007. Zagreb:
POUZ.
T. ŽILJAK
62
Bejaković, P. (2015). Financiranje obrazovanja odraslih i cjeloživotnog učenje. Manuscript submitted
for publication.
Bemelmans-Videc, M. L., Rist, R. C., & Vedung, E. (Eds.). (2003). Carrots, sticks and sermons: Policy
instruments and their evaluation. New Brunswick, NJ: Transaction Publishers.
Collier, R. B., & Collier, D. (1991). Shaping the political arena: Critical junctures, the labor movement,
and regime dynamics in Latin America. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Cort, P. (2010). Stating the obvious: The European Qualifications Framework is not a neutral evidence-
based policy tool. European Educational Research Journal, 9(3), 304–316.
Croatian Bureau of Statistics (CBS). (2014). Statistical yearbook of the Republic of Croatia 2014.
Zagreb: Državni zavod za statistiku. Retrieved from http://www.dzs.hr/Hrv_Eng/ljetopis/2014/
sljh2014.pdf
Dijanošić, B., & Popović, K. (2013). Curriculum globALE – Program za učenje i obrazovanje odraslih.
Andragoški glasnik, 17(2), 101–116.
Delors, J. (Ed.). (1996). Learning: The treasure within. Report to UNESCO of the International
Commission on Education for the Twenty-first Century. Paris: UNESCO. [Croatian translation:
Delors, J. (1998). Učenje: Blago u nama: Izvješće UNESCO-u Međunarodnog povjerenstva zarazvoj
obrazovanja za 21. stoljeće. Zagreb: Educa.]
European Commission. (1995). White paper on education and training – Teaching and learning –
Towards the learning society. COM (95) 590 final. Brussels: European Commission.
European Commission. (2000). A memorandum on lifelong learning. Commission Staff Working Paper
SEC (2000) 1832. Brussels: European Commission. [Croatian translation: Memoradnum o
cjeloživotnom učenju. Zagreb: HZPOU. Retrieved from http://www.hzpou.hr/?gid=5&aid=26]
European Commission. (2015). Improving policy and provision for adult learning in Europe. Report of
the Education and Training 2020 Working Group on Adult Learning 2014–2015. Luxembourg:
Publications Office of the European Union.
European Commission. (2016). A new skills agenda for Europe. Working together to strengthen human
capital, employability and competitiveness. Communication {SWD(2016) 195}. Brussels: European
Commission.
JAP Vlada/Europska komisija. (2008). Zajednički memorandum o prioritetima politike zapošljavanja
Republike Hrvatske.
Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and Agency for Science and Higher Education. (2014).
Referencing and self-certification report of the Croatian Qualifications Framework to the European
Qualifications Framework and to the Qualifications Framework of the European Higher Education
Area. Zagreb: Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
Klatt, M. (2014). Understanding the European Union and its political power. In M. Milana & J. Holford
(Eds.), Adult education policy and the European Union. Theoretical and methodological
perspectives (pp. 53–72). Rotterdam: Sense Publishers.
Lascoumes P., & Le Gales P. (2007). Introduction: Understanding public policy through its
instruments—From the nature of instruments to the sociology of public policy instrumentation.
Governance, 20(1), 1–21.
Lawn, M., & Grek, S. (2012). Europeanising education: Governing a new policy space.
Oxford: Symposium Books.
Linder, S., & Peters, G. (1989). Instruments of government: Perceptions and contexts. Journal of Public
Policy, 9(1), 35–58.
Lucio-Villegas, E. L. (2009). Citizenship as politics. International perspectives from adult education.
Rotterdam: Sense Publishers.
Mc Bride, V. (2005) Using the Copenhagen Process to facilitate national qualification framework
strategies in South Eastern Europe. European Journal of Education, 40(3), 315–321.
McDonnell, L. M. (2009). Political science perspective on education policy analysis. In G. Sykes, B. L.
Schneider, D. N. Plank, & T. G. Ford (Eds.), Handbook of education policy research (pp. 57–71).
London: Taylor & Francis Routledge.
EUROPEANIZATION AND POLICY INSTRUMENTS IN CROATIAN ADULT EDUCATION
63
Ministry of Science, Education and Sport (MSES). (2010). Presentation of the project “Further
Development of the Croatian Qualification Framework (CROQF)”. Retrieved from
http://public.mzos.hr/Default.aspx?art=9926
Mohorčič Špolar, V. A., & Holford, J. (2014). Adult learning: From the margins to the mainstream. In
M. Milana & J. Holford (Eds.), Adult education policy and the European Union theoretical and
methodological perspectives (pp. 35–52). Rotterdam: Sense Publishers.
Moir, S., & Crowther, J. (2014). Learning for employability? Ideas to reassert a critical education
practice in communities. Cuestiones pedagógicas: Revista de ciencias de la educación, 23(2013/14),
43–64.
Operativni program učinkoviti ljudski potencijali 2014.–2020. (2014). Retrieved from
http://www.strukturnifondovi.hr/op-ucinkoviti-ljudski-potencijali-2014-2020-780
Pongrac, S. (Ed.). (1999). Adult education in Croatian society. Rijeka: Faculty of Philosophy, Rijeka
University (Croatia).
Popović, K. (2014). Globalna i evropska politika obrazovanja odraslih- koncepti, paradigme i pristupi.
Beograd: Institut za pedagogiju i andragogiju Filozofskog fakulteta Univerziteta u Beogradu i
Društvo za obrazovanje odraslih, Beograd.
Radaelli, C. M. (2006). Europeanization: Solution or problem? In M. Cini & A. K. Bourne (Eds.),
Palgrave advances in European Union studies (pp. 56–76). Basingstoke: Palgrave.
Rasmussen, P. (2014). Adult learning policy in the European Commission. In M. Milana & J. Holford
(Eds.), Adult education policy and the European Union. Theoretical and methodological
perspectives (pp. 17–34). Rotterdam: Sense Publishers.
Šalaj, B. & Žiljak, T. (2007). Programi građanskog obrazovanja i osposobljavanja u nevladinim
organizacijama u Republici Hrvatskoj (rezultati istraživanja 2005.-2007). Zagreb: nacionalna
zaklada za razvoj civilnog društva.
Schimmelfennig, F. (2012). Europeanization beyond Europe. Living. Reviews in European Governance,
7(1), 5–25.
Strategija obrazovanja, znanosti i tehnologije. (2014). Narodne novine, 124/2014.
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) (1997). CONFINTEA V –
Adult education. The Hamburg Declaration. Paris: UNESCO. [Croatian translation: Hamburška
deklaracija o obrazovanju odraslih. (1997). Andragoški glasnik, 3/1998.]
Vlada Republike Hrvatske. (2004). Strategija obrazovanja odraslih. Povjerenstvo za obrazovanje odraslih.
Retrieved from public.mzos.hr/fgs.axd?id=11253
Werquin, P. (2007). Moving mountains: Will qualifications systems promote lifelong learning?
European Journal of Education, 42(4), 459–484.
Young, M. (2007). Qualifications frameworks: Some conceptual issues. European Journal of
Education, 42(4), 445–459.
Zakon o Hrvatskom kvalifikacijskom okviru. (2013). Narodne novine, 22/2013.
Žiljak, O. (2013). Ishodi učenja i inkluzivna edukacija učenika s intelektualnim teškoćama. Revija za
socijalnu politiku, 20(3), 275–291.
Žiljak, T. (2007). Europski okvir za nacionalne obrazovne politike. Anali Hrvatskog politološkog
društva, 3(1), 261–281.
Žiljak, T. (2013). Dvije faze obrazovne politike u Hrvatskoj nakon 1990. godine. Andragoški glasnik,
1(17), 7–25
Žiljak, T., & Molnar, T. (2015). Croatian Education policy in the EU context. In D. Lajh & Z. Petak
(Eds.), EU public policies seen from a national perspective: Slovenia and Croatia in the European
Union (pp. 279–298). Ljubljana: Faculty of Social Sciences.
Tihomir Žiljak
University of Zagreb
G. A. Koulaouzides & K. Popović (Eds.), Adult Education and Lifelong Learning in Southeastern
Europe, 65–74.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
ZORAN VELKOVSKI
6. ADULT EDUCATION AS AN
ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE
A Critical View of Adult Education Policy Development
in the F.Y. Republic of Macedonia
INTRODUCTION
During the period from 1945 to 1991, Macedonia was a constituent republic of the
former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. On September 8, 1991, the
people of the Republic of Macedonia decided through a referendum to separate
from the Yugoslav federation, thus founding the sovereign and independent state it
is today. According to its Constitution, the Republic of Macedonia is a
parliamentary democracy. The purpose of this chapter is to critically review the
historical development and evolution of adult education policy in our country. For
this scope I will discuss and examine policy development in two different periods:
(a) from 1945 to 1991 and (b) from 1991 to present. In the end, I will try to
summarize this analysis in the light of the current driving forces of educational
policy development in Europe trying to identify the future role of adult education
in our country.
ADULT EDUCATION POLICY AND PRACTICE FOLLOWING WORLD WAR II
The development of adult education in the Republic of Macedonia shares the same
fate as in all the other republics that emerged from the former Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia, of which Macedonia was a constituent part until its
independence in 1991. In its early stage of development, adult education was
characterised by pronounced expansion and extensiveness, but also by disharmony.
These features were largely a result of two essential factors: low levels of
education attainment and qualifications of the population at the end of World War
II, and the need for economic strengthening and modernisation of the country’s
war-torn economy.
The need for an expansion of educational provision and the consequent
improvement of the population’s educational level in this period becomes very
clear in the light, on one hand, of the fact that over 40% of Macedonia’s population
at the end of the War was illiterate and the level of its professional skills
disastrous,1
and on the other hand of the struggle of the state for fast industrial
development and establishment of a new socio-political order. Thus, a
comprehensive body of legislation governing education was adopted, and it was
Z. VELKOVSKI
66
decided to commence the development and organisation of literacy courses and
general education courses for adults.2
The intensive delivery of literacy courses established the platform for the future
architecture of adult education. The architecture epitomised a cultural,
emancipatory, social and labour-oriented function. It opened the door for a large
number of different initiatives, and for the establishment of a broad network of
institutions, including cultural centres, community colleges, people’s universities,
people’s libraries and reading corners, domestic skills schools, cultural and artistic
associations, theatres, museums and cinemas. These institutions comprised the
organisational structure and represented the conceptual and mobilising force for
adult education. In parallel to the robust initiatives for raising literacy levels,
activities were implemented for raising the overall cultural level and development
of ideological and political awareness and interest for learning among the general
population.
Adult education in this period is characterised by its erratic and non-systematic
approach, which was evident in the introduction and termination of activities, its
pronounced pragmatic and short-term nature and desire to achieve immediate
effects.3
Thus, we may easily argue that its ideological and political basis was non-
emancipatory. However, its institutional and organisational diversity, breadth,
comprehensive coverage, humanistic approach, equality of opportunities and
accessibility for all cannot be disregarded or disputed. This stage in the
development of adult education was strongly supported by the authorities and it
was enthusiastically taken on board and utilised by the vast majority of the
population.
Whilst adult education lacked systematic positioning as its expansion was
caused by the need for addressing the severe illiteracy and for raising the
educational and cultural levels of the general population, nevertheless this
compensatory role reveals elements of the future andragogical system and
directions of the future development of andragogical theory and practice.
The strong demand for an educated and qualified workforce necessary for the
country’s development needs caused inconsistencies not only in the design of
education policies (in the form of pronounced state regulation and control of
education) but also in their implementation.4
Speedy and short deadlines were
pursued at the expense of quality of the educational work with adults. This
situation is characteristic not only of adult education but also of education in
general during this era.
This approach, accompanied by the urgency of implementation for the purpose
of eliminating severe underdevelopment, defines the dominant educational and
enlightenment features of adult education in this period. Adult education does not
take the form of organised systematic education based on systematic acquisition of
knowledge from specified scientific, cultural, artistic or vocational technical areas
and facilitation of relevant practical skills.5
The starting disadvantages related to the low educational attainment levels of
the country’s population and lack of qualified workforce accessible to the
economy, combined with rapid scientific and technological progress, demonstrated
ADULT EDUCATION AS AN ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE
67
in the coming period all their deficiencies. Unfortunately, Macedonia has been
experiencing, until recently, the residual consequences of this past.
The period 1950–1985 included a gradual construction of a modern system of
adult education to meet the economic, political and cultural demands of the
population, by developing prolific, modern, organised, systematic and well
conceptualised educational work and a system which was in tune with the pertinent
theories of the adult education practices in the developed countries. The results
speak for themselves. If in 1952 there were only 28 schools for adults with 1,177
learners, 1961 saw 205 schools with 12,825 learners. Unfortunately, these numbers
decreased between 1961 and 1980 to 55 schools with 9,552 learners.6
In 1960, the Federal Assembly adopted a Resolution for Education of
Vocational and Professional Workers,7
attempting to remedy the mistakes made by
the previous centralistic planning. After realising that centralistic planning is
inefficient and inappropriate in an environment of rapid industrialisation and
modernisation of technology, the need to hand over education policies to the
economy emerged as a necessity, orienting adult education towards the demands of
the labour market.
If the cultural, social and emancipatory function of the adult education system
was praiseworthy, that could not be said of its role in the development of the
workforce. With all due respect to the improvement of the education attainment
and skills of the workforce, it failed to live up to the expectations. The creation of
education policies in former Yugoslav times was directly dependent on the
commitment to the full employment policy. Education input and output were
directly linked with and depended on the situation of the labour market and the
number of the unemployed, differentiated by sectors. This policy was founded on
the understanding that each final educational profile (graduate) that the education
system “churned out” onto the labour market had to have a suitable labour
equivalent, i.e. a suitable job.
Hiring of new workers was conducted irrespective of the real objective needs of
the economy. This was a facade of a labour market regulation, and in the majority
of cases resulted in a severe drop in productivity and in a continuous increase of
over-employment as a special type of hidden unemployment, which revealed all of
its austerity at the transition to the market economy. These practices brought about
an increase in the number of workers occupying jobs for which they lacked the
appropriate qualifications and professional abilities; an increase in the number of
the employed without working assignments; a drop in the productivity of
enterprises; poor utilisation of facilities and an increase in the number of
unemployed qualified persons. The extent to which these decisions were flawed is
exemplified by the fact that in 1986, 36.14% of public sector workers occupied
jobs which required higher level of qualifications.8
It becomes clear that the
projection for staff development, i.e. the balancing of education supply with
demand was flawed and lacked a quality long-term strategy.
Vocational education and training of adults was organised in the past, and partly
even now, according to three models: on-the-job training model, sandwich training
model (work-education-work) and dual training model. Unlike on-the-job training
Z. VELKOVSKI
68
and dual training models, the sandwich training model did not find a foothold in
our country at all. Evidently the economic environment and the organisation of the
economic system did not create a fertile ground for its development. We can only
speculate that maybe the complacency offered by the security of a job-for-life, and
the relative equality of pay prevented the spread of the sandwich training model
concept. The other two models were widely used in the education of workers, with
the active involvement of education institutions, both formal and non-formal.
Andragogical institutions played a significant role in the delivery of vocational
education and training. The cooperation between enterprises and institutions for
adult education was a regular practice until 1974, when with the adoption of the
new constitution the state withdrew from its role and involvement in the operation
of these institutions. Vocational training organised by institutions for adult
education became predominantly focused on sets of competences instead of full
qualifications. It marked the beginning of the decline of the adult education system.
One of the most significant, if not the largest, failures in education policy design
in the Socialist Republic of Macedonia, adversely affecting adult education, is the
adoption of the so-called “Law on Vocationally Oriented Education” (1985). The
initial intention for transforming the education system in accordance with the
demands of the technical-technological development and differentiation of labour
turned into its own mockery during its implementation, especially in the process of
employment of graduates.
The reform of the education system following the concept of vocationally-
oriented education offered only on the surface a good perspective for institutions
for adult education. It purported that adult education positioned in this way would
be able and in a position to develop a rich andragogical activity primarily in
education for acquiring a qualification, for acquiring a different qualification, and
for refreshment of an existing qualification; in research of education needs of
enterprises; and in employment, selection of workers and planning of staff
development, among other areas. However, allowing schools to educate and up-
skill workers with vocational qualifications (levels 1 to 4), considerably “tied the
hands” of andragogical institutions and reduced their area of operation. Instead of
the expected connection and cooperation in the development of workers for the
needs of the economy, the opposite happened, namely the gap between the formal
pedagogical and the andragogical pathways began to widen. This situation resulted
in a reduction of a number of responsibilities of adult education and its financial
and institutional impoverishment. Adult education lost in this case the right to
award officially acknowledged qualifications, which brought about didactic
impoverishment of the andragogical practice. The loss of state financial support, on
one hand, and necessity to operate on the free market in an environment of a weak
economy, on the other, facilitated the decline of adult education.
The introduction of the system of vocationally-oriented education coincided
with the further decline, regression and erosion of adult education,9
and with the
unwarranted and unjustified closing of a number of institutions for adult education
(workers’ universities, company education centres, evening schools for adults,
centres for education of managers, etc.).10
ADULT EDUCATION AS AN ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE
69
Regardless of its declarative equality with mainstream schooling, especially
highlighted in the Agreement between the Socialist Republics and Socialist
Autonomous Provinces for Common Grounds of the System of Education (Novi
Sad, 1981), adult education failed to secure real equal treatment in the country. The
idea that we “will merge the school and the workers’ university”11
was yet another
poorly articulated and impracticable phrase which has sadly been trickling down
until today.
In this period, 12.2% of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia’s adult population
was illiterate,12
62.35% of the employed lacked vocational qualification, and over
40% of employees in public sector occupied positions that require a higher
qualification than the one they possessed.13
With this recognition, it is difficult to
understand the attempt to downgrade adult education and marginalise its role in the
strategies for future development. It was disregarded that without the support of
adult education, the newly introduced vocationally-oriented school could not
achieve the declared goals of the reform.14
The idea that the school is sufficiently
powerful to balance the educational and cultural shortcomings evident in the family
and work environments is an illusion, characteristic for the collectivistic and
ideologically petrified way of thinking according to which the collective has
unlimited compensatory power. In 1986, 17.77% of the public sector workforce
were qualified workers, 29.76% had only primary education, 10.17% had
incomplete primary education and 4.39% had attended no education at all, which
means that 62.09% of the public sector workforce had unsatisfactory education
attainments.15
The educational structure of the workforce was further exacerbated
by the situation of the unemployed, whose education attainments were even worse.
The notion that insufficient educational attainment and skills are characteristic
only of the older share of the population persists sadly to this day, claiming that
with its “dying out”, on one hand, and the coming of the new “educated” youth, on
the other, favourable educational attainment levels and structure will be achieved
in the country. This is not only a morbid observation but also a highly inaccurate
one. Entire generations do not “exit” all at once from the “social stage” to make
room for the next generations; they live intertwined for longer time periods,
creating fertile ground for possible influence of destructive mechanisms in the
overall economic, political, educational and cultural development of the country.
Institutions for schooling and skilling of adults were affected in this period by
significant drop-out in attendance and reduction in educational activities. Primary
and secondary education of adults lost large numbers of learners, and secondary
education of adults ceases to exist as of 1988. The crisis was evident both in the
decline of education mobility of adults and also in the andragogical institutions
themselves. Workers’ and people’s universities had to reduce their operation and
focus on enrolling learners who had failed to acquire sufficient skills in the process
of their schooling or who had for various reasons left formal education. The
number of learners at workers’ universities dropped by 68.18%, i.e. from 38,842 in
1984/85 to 12,358 in 1990/91.16
As a consequence of education policies and
domination of market oriented andragogical operation, as of 1985 people’s
universities ceased to exist in Macedonia, whereas cultural centres were either
Z. VELKOVSKI
70
closed or carried out all sorts of activities except their primary function – social,
cultural and educational mobilisation of the population. The work of the workers’
universities was evidently curtailed and their financial status declined; with the
exception of a few located in bigger urban centres (primarily Skopje) the majority
operated only symbolically on a commercial basis and with limited offerings.
THE ERA OF INDEPENDENCE: 1991–TODAY
The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia dissolved in the nineteen nineties,
and the Republic of Macedonia became an independent country in 1991. It became
a member of the United Nations in 1993. In April 2001, Macedonia signed a
Stabilization and Association Agreement with the European Union, and in 2005 it
was awarded the status of an EU full membership candidate country. Thus,
Macedonia clearly announced its determination and aspirations for full
membership in the EU, NATO, and all global and European integrative processes.
This is the top priority of the government, supported by all political parties and the
entire society, and it is the only political issue on which there is a full consensus
among all stakeholders.
The overall organisational and reform interventions in the “new” state
completely marginalised adult education, treating it as a minor activity at the
bottom of the priority list of the country’s education policies. It only became
attractive when specific problems or flaws in education emerged that the formal
schooling system had failed to address, and after all potential solutions, i.e.
political measures, had been exhausted. Most often, adult education was resorted to
through projects as an alternative solution to problems.
Left to its own devices, adult education has been slowly “disappearing”.
Activities realised in workers’ universities, primary schools for adults and
municipal and culture centres are being reduced to the minimum. The drop in the
number of learners as well as of staff after 1990 is due to a number of reasons,
among which the most obvious are:
– Social transformation made a number of activities disappear that had previously
attracted large number of learners, primarily courses for socio-political
education and civil defence courses,
– Economic crisis caused companies to lose interest in investing in their workers’
further training,
– Transformation of social capital caused the closure, reduction or division of
significant proportion of large enterprises,
– Impoverishment of the population brought about reduced educational mobility.
Until 2008, adult education in the Republic of Macedonia was in a serious crisis.
Former institutions for adult education (workers’ universities and people’s
universities) dissolved and adult education was in chaos. In 2008, the country
adopted its first Law on Adult Education,17
which aimed at regulating formal and
non-formal education of adults, institutions for adult education and programmes.
ADULT EDUCATION AS AN ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE
71
The law provided for the establishment of the Centre for Adult Education,
institution competent for regulation of adult education.
Despite its intentions for regulating adult education, this law sparked strong
reactions, primarily from education service providers, especially in regard to the
process of verification of programmes and licensing of institutions. The reason was
the absence of bylaws and clear guidelines. Almost ten years after, shortcomings of
the law have still not been remedied and bylaws have not been adopted. This
speaks loudly about the treatment of adult education by the state. If in the past,
adult education displayed signs of an integrated element of the overall education
system; today it lacks the architecture of a system and is not treated as
indispensable and imperative constituent part of the overall education system.
Adult education seems to share the fate of the school system, which has since
independence been constantly confronted with challenges and initiatives with
different values.
Each educational tier is a world unto itself and at the same time a functional and
inseparable part of the entirety of the education system. Therefore, reforms in adult
education must be viewed only in the context of the reforms of the overall
education system. Efforts so far have been plagued by a series of contradictions
and weaknesses, precisely due to disjointed and isolated approaches and
interventions.
In the first ten years since independence, a number of interventions were
initiated in the education system, primarily on project level. The goal of these
initiatives was the improvement of the quality of education. Unfortunately, most of
them were implemented in isolation from each other and in an environment
wrought with political influence and tensions, marginalising the significance of the
impact of education reform.
In the second decade of the country’s independence, reforms in education
followed largely the foundations laid in the Phare VET Reform, the National
Programme for Development of Education in the Republic Macedonia 2005–
2015,18
Strategy for Adult Education (2010),19
Strategy for Vocational Education
and Training in a Lifelong Learning Context 2013–2020,20
Law Vocational
Education and Training (2006),21
Law on Adult Education (2008)22
and other 
various laws and bylaws, the Bologna Process in Higher Education, the Nine-Year
Primary Education Concept, the Compulsory Secondary Education Concept, the
Integral Vocational Education and Training Policy, and the national goal-oriented
strategic documents for national and local economic development, for poverty and
unemployment reduction, and for improving the culture of living.
The ultimate goal of all these activities was improvement of the quality of
education. Unfortunately, the majority of interventions were carried out in an
environment of intensive political tensions which marginalised the importance of
education reforms. Implemented under the shadow of political rivalry, they
manifested a number of inconsistencies and faults:
– Activities were undertaken without the existence of strategic documents that
would define state priorities in the area of education.
Z. VELKOVSKI
72
– In cases when there were strategic documents pertaining to specific tier(s),
regardless of their quality, due to the frequent turnover of political parties and
personnel, the ruling party ignored those that had been prepared by the previous
one, and so on.
– Reforms were characterised by poor coordination, slow bureaucratic procedures
and inefficiency. Reforms were carried out by politically (party) affiliated
national experts, who due to their poor competences, did not have the capacity
to implement reforms.
– To compensate for the “poor” quality of national experts, international experts
were hired who were not familiar with the situation in the country, which
resulted in unnecessary activities and the waste of time and money.
– National and international implementers acted without efficient coordination.
Thus, there were overlaps and some crucial issues fell through the cracks, with
significant funds being used on issues pertinent to some other countries, but not
for our own.
– Concepts and policies characteristic of developed countries were adopted
without critical inquiry into their relevance for our country.
Despite the existence of various analyses of the situation in education, many new
analyses were prepared, frequently leading to the same conclusions already present
in existing documents. The reform of education lacked an integrated approach.
Most interventions were limited to specific segments (teacher training, HIV/AIDS
prevention, Roma education, development of curricula for a specific level or
specific subject, provision of PCs to schools where due to infrastructural, human or
organisational weaknesses they were hardly used; interventions were made in
primary education without link and coordination with preschool and secondary
education, VET reforms were carried out without coordination with primary,
higher and adult education, etc.). State institutions, frequently stuck in their own
bureaucratic procedures, due to slow decision-making, lack of clear vision on the
strategic outcomes, and the poor professional and managerial competences, were
more of an obstacle in the reform processes than an asset.
WHAT IS THE FUTURE ROLE OF ADULT EDUCATION IN MACEDONIA
Internal transformation processes and planetary globalisation processes have made
a strong impact on the redesign of the overall structure of society, giving rise to the
need for national and international cooperation and compatibility of systems, and
thus also to innovating the role and structure of adult education as a significant and
effective agent of change.
The need for a strategic approach to transformation of adult education is a
consequence not only of changes on a national level, but also of the general and
external, i.e. global, influence factors that shape adult education in other countries.
In essence, the core of the modern process clearly positions the needs of the
labour market as the foundation for designing adult education programmes. Each
document developed in this process emphasises the labour market and the need to
develop competences for work as the primary goal that all educational institutions
ADULT EDUCATION AS AN ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE
73
should aspire to. “Homo politicus” made room for “homo faber”, creating the basis
for production of good workers who know much and are very capable in their
vocational area, but know very little or are incapable in other areas of human
manifestation.
This technological determinism, which has as a consequence the production of
“good workers”, will seriously marginalise the efforts of adult education systems
for educating persons with general culture and civil values, creative and self-aware
individuals, capable of self-development and development of society as a whole.
For these reasons, adult education has been increasingly assuming the role of an
alternative medicine, of something that is outside of the formal system and serves
the purpose of remedying what the formal education system lets “slip through the
cracks”, has failed to prevent, or managed to spoil, losing in the process its creative
and emancipatory role and its place as an integral element of the overall education
system.
There is no doubt that education and training have difficulties in adapting to
emerging changes and carry part of the blame for the slow resolving of social
challenges. The set-up of education and training offers few opportunities for timely
reaction and adaptation to the dynamics of change in the area of labour and life in
general. However, it is also true that demands made of education and training in an
environment of unresolved and inconsistent relations in the economy and in
society, and of marginalised position in budget allocation processes, are unfair and
unrealistic. How should the adult education system be positioned in Macedonia,
what kinds of mechanisms should it have at its disposal and which goals should it
strive towards, in order to prepare adults for all the challenges and changes they
face and will face in the course of their lives?
Education today should realise two main goals: one founded on global values
and serving developmental standards for the contemporary world (cooperation,
compatibility, competitiveness, integration, etc.), and one rooted in the national
culture and values, serving the resolution of domestic problems and developmental
directions. Only time will tell whether we will learn, and when, that adult
education is not an alternative remedy that can cure failed treatments of the
problem of “educational handicap”, but that it is an integral part and equal partner
in the overall education system.
NOTES
1
National History Institute (1964). Antifascist Assembly for the National Liberation of Macedonia
(1944–1964), Collection of Documents, 322, Skopje.
2
Ibid., 322
3
Samolovcev, B. (1985). Forty years of independent development of education in Macedonia (1943–
1983), Adult Education. Skopje: Prosvetno delo.
4
Kamberski, K. (1994). From primary education to university. Skopje: Prosvetno delo.
5
Samolovcev, B. (1963). Adult education before and today, p. 135, Zagreb: Znanje.
6
Statistical Yearbooks of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia, 1969, 1975 and 1980.
7
Official Gazette of SFRY, 1960, No. 5.
8
Statistical Yearbook of the Republic of Macedonia, 1992.
Z. VELKOVSKI
74
9
Resolution of the IV Congress of the Andragogues of Yugoslavia, Zagreb, Andragogy, 1985, No.7–
10, pp. 354–373.
10
Ibid., p. 358.
11
Kranjc, A. (1980). Development of the theory of andragogy in the light of the transition into a single
system of vocationally-oriented secondary education. Andragogy, Nos. 1–2, 3–16.
12
According to the 1981 Census, persons over 50 represent 73.49% of the total number of illiterate
population, and persons aged 35-49 represent 18.87%.
13
Statistical Yearbooks of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia, 1982.
14
The same conclusion can be found in Resolution of the IV Congress of the Andragogues of
Yugoslavia from 1985.
15
Statistical Yearbooks of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia, 1989.
16
Statistical Yearbooks of the Republic of Macedonia, 1992.
17
Law on Adult Education,Official Gazette of the RM, No.7 from 15.01.2008.
18
Ministry of Education and Science (2005). National programme for development of education in the
Republic of Macedonia 2005–2015, Skopje.
19
Ministry for Education and Science (2013). Strategy for adult education, Skopje.
20
Ministry for Education and Science (2013). Strategy for vocational education and training in a
lifelong learning context 2013–2020 Skopje.
21
Law on vocational education and training, Official Gazette of the Republic of Macedonia, No. 71
from 08.06.2006.
22
Law on Adult Education, Official Gazette of the Republic of Macedonia, No. 7/08, Skopje.
Zoran Velkovski
Institute of Pedagogy
Ss. Cyril and Methodius University, Skopje
G. A. Koulaouzides & K. Popović (Eds.), Adult Education and Lifelong Learning in Southeastern
Europe, 75–87.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
SNJEŽANA ŠUŠNJARA, SANDRA BJELAN-GUSKA,
LEJLA KAFEDŽIĆ AND LEJLA HODŽIĆ
7. THE (IN)SUFFICIENCY OF LEGAL REGULATION
REGARDING ADULT EDUCATION IN
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
INTRODUCTION
This chapter presents contemporary issues and legislation related to education and
in particular to adult education in Bosnia and Herzegovina (hereafter BiH). Our
country is facing many challenges in education in general. To begin with,
educational institutes and institutions do not follow common guidelines and
directives at the highest administrative government level. On the other hand, the
concept of adult education is an issue in BiH since its contemporary focus is on the
labor market and the extensive application of “skills” and “efficiency” concepts
seem to have created misunderstandings and identity problems that need
articulation. The promotion of adult education in such a weak, economy-driven
understanding carries a significant risk, since it seems to put the well-being of the
learners and society in second place. In this chapter, firstly, we will follow a social
constructivist approach, to argue that a fundamental misapprehension has arisen
regarding the purpose of adult education.
We will present the complete absence of a real discussion on policy issues,
practice initiatives, resource requirements and project planning. Another issue that
adult education in BiH is experiencing is the lack of systematic research and
comprehensive data on the operation of adult education providers. The majority of
the projects and programs were implemented by European organizations and their
experts. The first attempt for a systematic analysis was undertaken in 2003 by an
ETF expert team which established that adult education is institutionally and
legally fragmented and marginalized, especially in relation to its vocational
education and adult training dimensions. The review of the existing strategic
framework of Bosnia and Herzegovina reflects on the commitment of the state in
meeting its objectives in the field of adult education.
Our conclusion and suggestion is that in BiH there is a need for common and
direct policy decisions in order to cope with the complexity of the situation. We
indicate that the economy-oriented perspective of adult education that seems to
prevail in the country diminishes its role only to economic interests and this stands
in opposition with its critical and emancipatory dimension.
S. ŠUŠNJARA ET AL.
76
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: A COMPLEX POLITICAL STRUCTURE
Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country composed of two separate entities: the
Federation of BiH and the Republic of Srpska. Moreover, the Brčko District of BiH
operates as a self-governing separate administrative unit as well as condominium
under the dual sovereignty of Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the
Republic of Srpska.
The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina1
delineates the institutional
framework and defines the distribution of responsibilities within the country.
However, the Constitution does not clearly specify a jurisdiction in the field of
education at the state level. The corresponding Article VI.3 proclaims that all
responsibilities and functions, which are not specifically assigned to the state of
Bosnia and Herzegovina and its institutions, are the responsibility of each of the
aforementioned entities. Therefore, the responsibility for education and
consequently adult education is assigned to both the two entities and Brčko District
as well as to the ten cantons of the Federation!
The existence of various educational systems and different educational policies
is inevitable, since the educational system in BiH appears to be decentralized at the
state level. However, at the same time education in the Republic of Srpska is
centralized while education in the Federation of BiH is decentralized; in reality the
Federal Ministry of Education & Science has a coordinating role over the cantonal
ministries of education in the Federation of BiH. But, at the same time there is no
ministry of education operating and designing policies at the state level.
The Ministry of Civil Affairs has a department for education and is responsible
for the coordination of activities and the harmonization of strategies of the entity
authorities and is generally involved in the task of defining their strategy in
education. Moreover, this ministry implements several tasks related to the
coordination of EU programs, the monitoring of the implementation of agreements
and of strategic documents in the field of education (formal and informal). It also
deals with the realization of European conventions and declarations concerning
education.
On a different level the coordinating bodies for the education sector in BiH are:
the Ministers of Education Conference, which has as a task the coordination of all
14 ministries in BiH, and the Council for General Education made up of
representatives of teachers and teachers of primary and general secondary schools,
teachers’ colleges, pedagogical institutes.2
The Council is a professional and
independent advisory body for decision making with regard to policy actions in the
field of preschool, primary and secondary general education. The tasks of the
Council are the monitoring, analysis, assessment of the situation and needs of the
education system and the BiH society, providing opinions, advice and
recommendations on priority activities and courses of action in the field of
preschool, primary and secondary general education in order to achieve the
successful implementation of educational reforms and integration of BiH in the
educational field of the EU. The Council’s role is to contribute to quality
improvement and the modernization of general education, as well as to foster a
partnership between the key actors in education and the cooperation of the
LEGAL REGULATION OF ADULT EDUCATION IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
77
education sector with social partners, and the entire community.3
In addition, the
Rectors’ Conference is another established institution that determines and
represents the common interests of the universities in BiH; it cooperates with
institutions in the field of education and acts as an advisory body to implement the
higher education reform.4
It is quite apparent from the above that financing an
education system that follows such a structure is complicated and expensive. As
Pašalić-Kreso mentions:
From the very beginning, the Constitution created a decentralized,
asymmetric, and defective education management system that has
undermined unity in educational policies, common educational goals,
common values, positive and patriotic feelings for one’s country and
homeland, etc.5
The aforementioned description illustrates that the distribution of
responsibilities in the field of education resulted in a highly fragmented and
diffused legal and institutional system of education. This problematic structure has
a direct effect in the development and application of policies in all fields of
education including adult education. In the next section, we will present briefly the
complex and overlapping documents that are supposed to facilitate the operation of
adult education in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
RELEVANT DOCUMENTS IN THE FIELD OF ADULT EDUCATION RECOGNIZED
IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
As it has been already pointed out, the web of legal bodies and organizations
related to education is very complex. The government is acting in 14 separate
administrative bodies and this means that 14 ministries operate with their own law-
making, administrative procedures and educational systems. Having in mind the
constitutional order of the Federation of BiH, it can be observed that the
competence for education is divided between the cantonal and entity level.6
In the
Medium term development strategy of BiH 2004–2007,7
education was considered
to be one of the country’s main priorities. One of the priorities of this strategy was
stated to be a well organized adult education system which could generate prompt
reactions relevant to changes in the labor market, contributing significantly towards
resolving the problem of unemployment.8
An additional step made during the period of 2004–2007 was the establishment
of a working group for the development of a strategic document with reference to
the legislation of Adult Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This group was
established by the Institute of International Cooperation of the German Adult
Education Association Office in Sarajevo in cooperation with Organization for
Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) Mission in BiH and the Ministry of
Civil Affairs. The result of this cooperation was an international conference titled
“Lifelong Learning and Adult Education – Key Factors for Economic and Social
Regeneration in Southeastern Europe” which was held in Sarajevo in 2006, three
years after signing of the Declaration on Lifelong Learning in Skopje. The
S. ŠUŠNJARA ET AL.
78
aforementioned strategic document was developed and diffused by the Ministry of
Civil Affairs and other relevant institutions. As a result, adult education in BiH has
been determined by the following strategic documents which are presented
according to the level of authority.
State Level
A. The Framework Law on Primary and Secondary Education in Bosnia and
Herzegovina (adopted in 2003)
This framework was developed in order to regulate primary and secondary
education. However, within its articles, adult education has also been mentioned.
More specifically the organization of adult education has been especially defined
by article 20 as follows:
The education of adults shall include professional training, supplementary
training, re-training and other activities ensuring lifelong learning. Education
of adults shall be governed in more detail in the laws of entities, cantons and
the Brčko District of BiH, in line with the principles and standards defined in
this Law.
This law also defines that “Education of adults shall be organized in specific
subjects and for the purpose of their professional and personal advancement”,
while at the same time the framework defines that:
Adult students shall be charged for their training. The amount of the fees
shall be determined by the school board with the consent of the relevant
ministry of education.9
B. The Framework of the Law of Secondary Vocational Education and Training in
Bosnia and Herzegovina (adopted in 2008)
This framework determines the principles of the organization of secondary
vocational education and training. Moreover, it determines issues related to
institutions, the main issues related to curriculum, the standards of evaluation,
exams, the school autonomy, the basis of managing and financing as well as other
questions important for the function and development of this field of education.10
The Article 4 of this Law determines that all legal documents should specifically
include terms for vocational education and adult training which are related to
continuing professional education, additional training, retraining and other
activities that ensure lifelong learning. It also includes procedures related to the
establishment of the official validation of issued diplomas and certificates.
C. The Development of the Strategy Document of Vocational Education and
training for Bosnia and Herzegovina
According to this document, adult education is every kind of formal and non-
formal education of citizens who do not have the status of pupils or students.
Vocational schools in BiH used to organize training for adults following the
LEGAL REGULATION OF ADULT EDUCATION IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
79
curriculum of the existing programs of formal education. Adult education in BiH is
a continuing process which started in the 1920’s and has been strengthened by new
strategic trends.11
In practice there are many educational programs and projects for
adults but their work is neither connected by mutually defined standards and
principles nor by legal regulations. This kind of education is usually financed by
the participants themselves and only in special cases by companies or employment
agencies.
D. Strategic Directions of Development of Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina
with the Implementation Plan, 2008–2015 years (adopted in 2008)
This is a document which sets the basic principles of educational development in
BiH up to 2015. This document followed the existing results in educational reforms
based on the mid-term development strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina and
adopted documents of strategic development of specific fields of education. The
document is based on the global approach to education that was defined in the
Millennium declaration of the UN and the aims of the European Union regarding
the modernization of quality and efficacy of education and training as well as their
approachability and mobility within the common European field. The constitutive
part of this document is a plan of implementation of short-term goals (2008), mid-
term goals (2009-2010) and long-term goals (2011-2015). In the field of adult
education and training, objectives and are defined as follows:
Short-term objectives:
– To establish a register of the existing adult education institutions and training
providers.
Medium-term objectives:
– To adopt a Framework Law on Adult Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
– To develop standards and procedures for the certification of the adult education
and training institutions.
– To develop models of the adult education and training evaluation of the offered
programs.
– To develop a BiH Adult Literacy Strategy.
Long-term objectives:
– To develop the qualification framework for adult education.
– To establish a network of adult education, information and counselling
institutions and centres.
– To reduce the illiteracy rate from the 5% to 2%.12
E. The Qualification Framework (QF) in Bosnia and Herzegovina
The QF was adopted in 2011 and it is an instrument which ensures the utilization
and application of standards for education, knowledge, qualifications and expertise
and defines the procedure for the certification of providers of educational services.
S. ŠUŠNJARA ET AL.
80
The qualifications framework is a tool that aims towards making possible the
transfer, transparency and recognition of qualifications which are defined as
learning outcomes.13
F. Adult Education Principles and Standards in BiH
This document was developed in the framework of the European Union project
entitled Capacity Building for Human Resource Development in BiH (IPA 2009).
With the proposal of the Ministry of Civil Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina the
Council of Ministers has adopted this document in 2014.
G. Strategic Platform Development of Adult Education in the Context of Lifelong
Learning in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2014–2020
This document was also approved under the same project.14
This platform defines
the global directions for the development of adult education in BiH for the
aforementioned period in the context of lifelong learning. This is a key document
for a systematic inter-sector approach to strategic planning of development of adult
education in BiH. It also initiates the necessary reform processes in this field.
The Level of the Republic of Srpska
The Adult Education Law
This law was adopted in the Republic of Srpska in 2009.15
The law regulates the
structure and management of the adult education system. Adult education is
considered as an integral part of the educational system of the Republic of Srpska
and provides education, professionalization and training for adults. Within the
framework of this law an Institute of Adult Education operates in the Republic of
Srpska under the Ministry of Education and Culture. The Institute is the main
organization for the development of the adult education activities.
The Level of the Federation of BiH
A. Strategic Direction for Development of Career Orientation in the Federation of
BiH, 2015–2020
This document declares that every individual has the right to access to resources
that could be useful in lifelong career development, especially in a modern
challenging situation which is related to the labor market. The Federation of BiH
has recognized the importance of the development of career orientation and better
connectivity of education with labor market needs. The starting basis for this
approach is based on this policy document.
B. The Draft Law on the Principles of Adult Education in the Federation of BiH
This draft law has the following objectives: the creation of a basis for sustainable
socio-economic development on local, cantonal, entity and state level; the increase
of professional mobility and flexibility of active labor population; the decrease of
poverty; the realization of justice, social inclusion and trans-generational solidarity.
LEGAL REGULATION OF ADULT EDUCATION IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
81
Moreover, it also aims to ensure a certain level of high quality concerning personal,
family, natural and social environment; the development of democracy, inter-
culture and tolerance and to ensure integration into the European social and
economic area.
Having in mind all of the aforementioned it is apparent that adult education seems
to be only recognized as a peripheral part of the education system and is very
poorly defined. The more detailed regulation of this field and structure of the
system of adult education are left to entities and the Brčko District of BiH.16
However, all legislation that is related to the entity and cantonal level has to be in
concordance with the existing framework laws at the state level. As it was
presented, the Republic of Srpska has made significant efforts to adopt the
abovementioned legislations. Six of ten cantons in the F of BiH have also adopted
laws on the principles of adult education. However, two of them made only draft
laws and two cantons failed to do even this. Almost all the cantons that adopted a
law, have also adopted legislation that was supposed to ensure better
implementation of the law in practical life. Hence, regardless of the strategic
commitment of the cantons for the development of adult education, the real
advocacy and promotion of adult education and lifelong learning as an imperative
in modern society and the way to answer the challenge on a personal and social
level was never quite understood.
There is still a lack of awareness of the need for adult education and
understanding of the potential of lifelong learning by the competent authorities, as
well as from individuals. The legal regulation of adult education is oriented only to
general objectives that are determined and defined. Going deeply into these
objectives, it is important to realize that adult education can meet the corrective
role of facilitating, among other things the completion of primary education, the
acquisition of functional literacy and the development of critical thinking. The
need for providing opportunities for the completion of primary education is
determined by a large number of illiterate adults in BiH. The next group of
objectives that is determined in most regulations refers to the acquisition of initial
professional training qualifications. Bearing in mind the number of unqualified
unemployed adults it seems necessary to establish a system of adult education that
is comprehensive, relevant, flexible, effective and efficient. When it comes to the
labor market, adult education represents an opportunity for acquiring relevant
knowledge and skills, in order to enable unemployed people to enter or return to
the labor market.
Therefore, the goals that ensure further education and training; additional
training and the retraining of adults are inevitable. Specifically, in the area of labor,
the concept of permanent employment is replaced by the notion of long-term
employability, which can be realized through lifelong learning.17
These goals are
also relevant to the constant growth of general competencies related to personal,
family, social and natural life contexts of adults as well as to the mobilization of all
available resources and the constant growth of human potential values. Given the
importance of non-formal and informal learning towards the employability of the
S. ŠUŠNJARA ET AL.
82
individual, there is a need for improving the understanding and evaluation of non-
formal and informal learning. The existing legislation regulates the establishment
of a system of recognition and validation of non-formal, informal learning and
prior learning. For example, the introduced Competency Passport may become a
tool for a systematic reflection on personal biography and presentation of the skills
and abilities that a person posses.18
It is also apparent that the aforementioned legal documents do not explicitly set
emancipation as the final aim of adult education. To our understanding this is a
problem, since adults should be involved in everyday life situations by using their
full potential. The realization of the lifelong learning concept that includes a
critical approach to reality is essential for the prompt move of BiH towards a
learning society and integration into the European social and economic space.
Empowerment is a learning outcome of emancipating processes and this has to be
done with the general understanding that adult education and lifelong learning aims
towards social and political transformation.19
Decision-makers have to recognize
that strengthening critical thinking skills as well as the innovation and creativity
competencies of adults are still a challenge in BiH.
ADULT LEARNING & EDUCATION IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Research studies in the field of adult learning simply do not exist at the state level.
As we have already mentioned, what does exist are just partial studies done by
local or foreign non-governmental organizations.20
Therefore, there is no
systematical study of adult education and relevant information about organizations
which deal with adult education, about programs, number of participants, forms of
financing is limited.
The first significant analysis in the field of adult education after the war (1992-
1995) was done by an ETF expert team in 2003. Some of the most important
conclusions of that study were: a) the existence of institutional and legal
fragmentation of the adult education sector, b) the marginalization of adult
education especially in all areas of the continuing vocational education and training
system and c) the existence of a vast disharmony between vocational profiles and
the needs of the labor market.21
Another research study22
done by the “Research and Organizational
Development Association – RODA” presented an outline on the institutional
framework of Adult Education, educational programs and personnel. According to
that study the institutional framework includes: the public sector – primary and
secondary schools which provide classes for adults and the centers for vocational
education and training; the private sector – foreign language schools, driving
schools and working organizations; the non-governmental sector – NGOs,
economic chambers, syndicates, professional associations. The educational
programs for adults were programs of primary education for adult as a reduced
version of the programs for children; programs for adults in the field of vocational
education and training that were conditioned by the accessible classification of
vocations in the secondary school system; private and non-governmental sector
LEGAL REGULATION OF ADULT EDUCATION IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
83
programs which do not award publicly recognizable certificates. Regarding the
teaching staff it was reported that they were not operational and did not possess the
adequate qualification to work with adults. Moreover, it was reported that, the
number of adult education organizations is relatively small and not suitable for
education and training of individuals and their preparation for the labor market.23
Bosnia and Herzegovina has only seven workers’ universities and adult education
centers (before 1992 the number was 56) and two centers for continuing vocational
education and training. The workers’ universities were centres for literacy, adult
education, vocational and other training that had been verified by the state during
the former Yugoslavia. Finally it was stated that the number of primary and
secondary schools which additionally provide education and training for adults was
not satisfactory.24
As far as participation is concerned, there is no sufficient data. In general, the
unemployed people are not motivated to participate in the programs arranged for
them. They are willing to participate only if future employment is ensured.25
On
the one side, the rapid technical and scientific development in many areas in BiH
requests skilled labor forces and on the other side we see unemployed people.
Therefore, permanent professionalization and innovation of knowledge is a crucial
thing. The employers in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not aware of the importance
of adult education. A modest number of employers, from the private sector have
recognized the need for a possible development of their companies and the
importance of involvement of their employees in the process of additional
education. More often than not, this education is realized in foreign countries
because institutions for particular types of professions do not exist in Bosnia and
Herzegovina.26
In a time of economic recession when unemployment generally
prevailed and the quality of existing work decreased, it is important to pay
attention to the role of adult education. Namely, in a situation when more than half
of the working population in countries of the Eastern and South-East Europe are
unemployed, this could be the reason that lay behind the broad transfer towards an
outcome-based education.27
However, adult education in BiH is not considered as an important or strategic
component of economic and social development. It is arranged as a matter of
personal interest. Therefore it does not resolve issues such as unemployment or the
reorganization of labor. The current system of education produces discrimination
of the economically active population removing the opportunity to use additional
training or education. It seems that adult education operates with the same
curriculum and methodology as regular education in vocational schools. In spite of
the fact that adult education is documented in BiH it does not take a strategic place
and it is not institutionalized.28
The growing interest in adult education at the NGO
level but also at the national level in countries without a long tradition in this field
but within approved legislative level is here seen as an opportunity to return to a
previously neglected area of education in the local agenda, as Hyland claims.29
Education and training are key generators of economic and social recovery and
the further development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as its integration into
the EU and global processes. In the new era of knowledge and economic order on
S. ŠUŠNJARA ET AL.
84
the international and European level, the conception of lifelong learning is
developed and presented as different kinds of knowledge, skills, values and
attitudes through education. This sort of education becomes an interest of main
importance. The process of learning or obtaining knowledge should sufficiently
respond to the challenges of modern society represented by constant economic,
social, technical and technological changes.30
Current and rapid changes in the
labor market demands better effectiveness, productivity, originality and
competitiveness.
In the era of economic uncertainty, lifelong learning is of great necessity as a
suitable answer to present challenges and needs in a less developed society such as
BiH. This country faces numerous challenges in the economic and social field. The
transition to a market economy, privatization and the emergence of small and
medium enterprises is a result that has provoked a structural disparity in the labor
market, disproportion between supply and demand for labor in terms of
professions, education and qualifications. Globalization requires fast adaptation,
constant development and innovation in the work of the enterprises as well as the
presentation and application of new technologies in many segments of the
economy. Employment for an undetermined period or one job for life is not
realistic any more. Therefore, investing in human resources has become of great
importance in a time of the current trends of restructuring the economy, reducing
the problems of poverty, unemployment and social exclusion.31
At the level of
everyday social life, the situation in BiH is still very hard and challenging for an
individual. For example, the individual who is ready to accept new concepts of
education and transform her or himself, who is ready to obtain new skills or
competences in accordance to adopt new knowledge can or cannot attain a better
working position or get a better salary.
The BiH population has lost confidence in the institutions, whatever they are, as
well as the culture of learning and we need to work harder in order to promote
reforms and restore the trust of citizens and responsible system of values
established.
CONCLUSION
Bosnia and Herzegovina faces key socio-economic challenges and overcoming
them presents a difficult process. The society of this country is also in transition to
a democratic society. This process requires better social organization and the
implementation of numerous reforms in all spheres of society. Hence, with the
generally poor economic situation and lack of progress in all parts of society, the
labor market in Bosnia and Herzegovina is characterized by a very high
unemployment rate, an activity rate at a low level, the disparity of supply and
demand in the labor market and inadequate labor mobility.
At the same time, Bosnia and Herzegovina is a potential candidate for
membership in the European Union and as a signatory to a series of international
documents, is required to complement policies and legislation in the field of adult
education with the agreed principles and goals as well as to ensure their full and
LEGAL REGULATION OF ADULT EDUCATION IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
85
successful implementation over the whole territory of the country. In this regard,
Bosnia and Herzegovina has an obligation to establish and develop the concept of
lifelong learning and the model that includes adult education. On the basis of all of
the above mentioned, it is apparent that the legal and institutional basis for a more
efficient and effective reform process in Bosnia and Herzegovina already exists but
its implementation is something that needs a better approach.
The establishment of a system of adult education requires investment in terms of
employing people and the funding of certain programs of education that could
contribute to economic development. However, the common people’s opinion is
that these reforms could meet the needs of individuals but the labor market is not
very optimistic. Moreover, adult education is considered to be a cost and not an
investment. The readiness to develop capacity within schools or public authorities
responsible for education, to design and promote projects that could provide
support from European Union funds for the establishment and development of
adult education system is not really present in practice.
It seems that some ministries of education, especially those in the small cantons
of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, do not have the capacity or political
willpower to implement the arranged changes. The fragmentation of the education
system has severely limited the mentioned reform. Existing administrative
separation and the uncertain structure of responsibilities among the variety of
authorities in the decision-making and implementation process have resulted in an
ineffective solution of the problem. The present situation causes problems in
making practical and rational steps to bring about results in the medium-term. The
existing system is fragmented and not coherent without a developed network of
organizations that could organize education for adults. Hence, the following
problems have also appeared concerning adult education. When it concerns
training modules, clarification between the training modules and the provided
qualifications are missing. Final certificates do not reflect subjects, modules and
hours of learning. Therefore, this could cause a problem in the labor market.
Teacher training is inadequate and social partner relations are ineffective. The
available educational equipment is considered to be of poor quality and inadequate,
especially in laboratories and workshops used for vocational subjects. All these
facts have only confirmed that adult education is still an unknown field for those
who make laws or organize career centers. It could be concluded that
implementation capacities still need to be strengthened.
Relations and organization at all levels of government all over the country are
also inadequate, even though formal requirements are being established. For
example, in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina the government does not
have strong a capacity to coordinate policy issues with its cantons even in the areas
of mutual and shared responsibility as it has been prescribed in the Constitution.
The importance of policy preparation at the ministry level is not sufficiently
acknowledged. Most ministries have the tendency to proceed with draft legislation,
without a previous systematic analysis. This absence of impact assessment often
results in shortcomings concerning the subsequent successful implementation of
legislation and the objectives of public policies usually remain unaccomplished.
S. ŠUŠNJARA ET AL.
86
Another undesired effect is the potential for excessive legal regulation, which
represents a real burden on society. Some improvements have been made in this
direction at the state level, where policy leadership and administrative skills have
been improved in the Education Department of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and
the Agency for Pre-primary, Primary and Secondary Education VET Department.
In general, there is a shortage of professionals with modern educational
leadership skills (policy development, legislative and regulatory work,
performance evaluation, resource management, organization of transparent and
precise information systems) and good professional managers in public
administration. It appears that Bosnia and Herzegovina is still searching to improve
the quality and efficiency of education and training for adults.
NOTES
1
The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) is annex 4 of the General Framework Agreement
for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina (GFAP) of 14 December 1995. According to the Constitution,
Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of two entities, the Federation of BiH (FBiH) and the Republic of
Srpska (RS).
2
The decision on the appointment of members of the General Education in BiH (“Official
glasnikBiH”, No. 86/11).
3
Study on Adult Education in Posavina region, 2015, p. 26.
4
Ibid, p. 26.
5
Pašalić-Kreso, A. (2008). The war and post-war impact on the educational system of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. International Review of Education 54, 3–4.
6
Study on Adult Education in Posavina region, 2015, p. 32.
7
http://dep.gov.ba/dokumenti_politika/srednjorocna_razvojna_strategija/
8
National Report on the development and State of the Art of the Adult Learning and Educationa
(ALE), 2008, p. 8.
9
Official Gazette of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No. 18/03.
10
Official Gazette of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No. 63/08.
11
National Report on the development and State of the Art of the Adult Learning and Education
(ALE), 2008. p.7
12
Institutional and Capacity Building of Bosnia and Herzegovina Educationa System, Final document,
2008, p. 38.
13
Official Gazette of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No. 31/11.
14
Education for All 2015 National Review Report: Bosnia and Herzegovina.
15
Official Gazette of the Republic of Srpska, No. 59/09.
16
Study on Adult Education in Posavina region, 2015, p.28.
17
Study on Adult Education in Posavina region, 2015, p.13.
18
See more on: http://www.obuke.ba/News/Detalji/37#sthash.2EKCqRSX.dpuf
19
Inglis, T. (1997). Empowerment and Emancipation. Adult Education Quarterly, 48(1), 119–134.
20
Such as the Research and Organizational Development Association – RODA – Contribute of the
nongovernmental sector to the system Development of Adult Education in BiH, “European Training
Foundation” – Human Resource Development – Country Analysis Bosnia and Herzegovina and the
Philosophical Faculty – Department for Pedagogy – Research on Adult Education in BiH, 2003 etc.
National Report on the development and State of the Art of the Adult Learning and Educationa
(ALE), 2008, p. 12.
21
National Report on the development and State of the Art of the Adult Learning and Education
(ALE), 2008, p. 12.
22
Ibid., p.13.
LEGAL REGULATION OF ADULT EDUCATION IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
87
23
Ibid., p. 11.
24
Ibid., p. 11.
25
Ibid., p. 11.
26
Ibid., p. 11.
27
Lopez-Fogues, A. (2016). A social justice alternative for framing post-compulsory education: A
human development perspective of VET in times of economic dominance, Journal of Vocational
Education and Training, 68(2), 161–177, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13636820.2015.1129357
28
National Report on the development and State of the Art of the Adult Learning and Education
(ALE), 2008, p. 11.
29
Hyland, T., (2014). Reconstructing vocational education and training for the 21st century. Sage
Open, 4(1), 1–10. doi:10.1177/2158244013520610
30
Study on Adult Education in Posavina region, 2015, p. 7.
31
The birth rate in Bosnia and Herzegovina has started to decline since 2007. See thematic newsletters
Agency for Statistics of Bosnia and Herzegovina available at http://www.bhas.ba/index.php?option=
com_publikacija&view=publikacija_pregled&ids=1&id=5&n=Stanovništvo
Snježana Šušnjara
University of Sarajevo
Sandra Bjelan-Guska
University of Sarajevo
Lejla Kafedžić
University of Sarajevo
Lejla Hodžić
University of Sarajevo
G. A. Koulaouzides & K. Popović (Eds.), Adult Education and Lifelong Learning in Southeastern
Europe, 89–100.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
CHRISTINA HAJISOTERIOU
8. ADULT EDUCATION IN CYPRUS
Current Affairs, Challenges, and Future Prospects
INTRODUCTION
Postmodernity has created an era of change, within which adult education is called
to respond to a wide range of new socio-cultural, political, and economic
phenomena (Hajisoteriou & Angelides, 2016). Following this observation, we
might argue that the epochal dimensions of this new era, such as globalisation,
wide scale human migration, and global recession, have put an increased pressure
on countries around the world to build successful adult education and lifelong
learning policies and strategies for various reasons including social cohesion,
economic development. Chinnammai (2005, p. 2) argues that “the future of
countries often lies within their ability to compete in a global market where
industrial-based economies are replaced by knowledge-based industries realizing
the importance of knowledge, skills and the intellectual capacity to meet the
challenges of accelerated change and uncertainty”. Uncontestably, countries that
are unsuccessful in the aforementioned endeavours will pay not only the social cost
of the “ghettoization” and segmentation of their societies, but also a financial cost
because of higher rates of unemployment. Despite concerns raised by the
international literature, in the Cypriot context, previous research cautions that
Cyprus is still seen as ill prepared to enhance quality and efficiency in adult
education (e.g. Vrasidas et al., 2013; GHK, 2011; DIMA Project, 2016; Gravani &
Ioannidou, 2016). In this chapter, we aim to map the current state of affairs with
regards to Adult Education in Cyprus by gaining an insight to the provision of
formal, non-formal, and vocational adult education services, the challenges that
inhibit its development, and the future prospects for its improvement. In order to
better understand such examination, we should firstly set it in context. In the
following section, we briefly present the socio-political context of Cyprus with
references being made to adult education.
THE SOCIO-POLITICAL CONTEXT OF ADULT EDUCATION IN CYPRUS
Cyprus is a young democracy that became an independent republic in 1960.
Previously, Cyprus was under the Ottoman rule from 1571 to 1878, and thereafter
part of the British Empire from 1914 to 1959 (as a Crown colony from 1925 to
1959). The 1960 constitution of the Republic recognises the Turkish-Cypriot and
Greek-Cypriot groups as the two major communities of the island, and Maronites,
C. HAJISOTERIOU
90
Armenians and Latins as religious minorities. The conflict between the two major
communities led to the division of the island in 1974. As a result, the Turkish-
Cypriots moved in the North, while the Greek-Cypriots were relocated in the
South. As the Greek-Cypriot government is recognised as the de jure government
of the island, this chapter focuses only on the Greek-Cypriot context. The growth
of the tourist and business industries and the economic boom in the mid-1980s has
gradually resulted in the mass influx of immigrant workers. Although, the Republic
of Cyprus has entered the European Union (EU) in 2004, the acquis
communautaire remains suspended in the North. More recently, Cyprus has been
severely affected by the recent global economic crisis leading to its 2013 bailout by
the Eurogroup, the European Commission, the European Central Bank, and the
International Monetary Fund and the subsequent implementation of strict austerity
measures.
The history of adult education in Cyprus is rather short. The Cypriot socio-
political context has greatly influenced the formation of its education system, in
general, but also of adult education, in particular. Taking into consideration that the
period of the Ottoman rule was even restrictive of basic education, we may argue
that there was no place for adult education. Although, primary education was
developed during the British rule, the limited character of secondary education
inhibited, in turn, the establishment of adult education (Persianis, 1996;
Hajisoteriou, 2011). The first and only effort to setting the cornerstone of adult
education was the formation of the afternoon Adult Education Centres in 1952 that
is by the end of the British rule. (We explain the operation of the Centres in the
section ‘Provision of Non-Formal Adult Education’ below.)
Prior to its independence, Cyprus had a rural economy leading to the absence of
a working class. Accordingly, there was not an apparent need for the state, neither
for other organisations, to develop vocational training or liberal adult education
policies and programmes (Gravani & Ioannidou, 2016). As a result of Cyprus’
independence, the opening of new administrative posts in the governmental
structure necessitated the development of adult education allowing civil servants to
achieve the required qualifications (Persianis, 1996). At the same time, many ex-
fighters (against the British rule) – people who often had not achieved high
educational qualifications during their youth – established the new state by
acquiring positions of authority. According to Persianis, the acquisition of
academic qualifications by this group of people entailed the main reason for the
establishment of adult education in Cyprus. Additionally, Gravani and Ioannidou
(2016, p. 35) explain that ex-fighters “were registered to Greek universities to
upgrade their skills, exhibiting the good paradigm of the adult student in a society
in which this model was unfamiliar”.
We have already argued that the post-colonial period (1960–1974) has been
marked by the centrality of agriculture in the economic activity. The dominance of
agriculture in the economic sector resulted in relatively higher growth of the rural
rather than the urban areas of the island. However, the post-independence period
demonstrated a relatively rapid development of the industrial sector and the tourist
and service industries. Ironically, the 1974 partition of Cyprus set, by default, the
ADULT EDUCATION IN CYPRUS
91
preconditions for rapid economic development of its southern part. The division of
the island resulted in the economic and geographical dislocation of around 200,000
Greek-Cypriots, who were forced to move from the North to the South. Greek-
Cypriot refugees formed a “large property-less urban proletariat” (Anthias, 1987:
195), which altered the employment patterns and economic organisation. They
functioned as an urban labour force that provided cheap labour for the light
manufacturing and service sectors of the economy. Gravani and Ioannidou (2016)
explain that Adult Education programmes were organised in refugee camps aiming
to help refugees build new skills and competences in order to be reintegrated in the
work market, but also to achieve social cohesion. Similarly, the Ministry of Labour
and the United Nations offered a range of vocational training courses.
A substantial turn towards Adult Education has been made after Cyprus’
accession to the EU in 2004. A milestone in Adult Education policy in Cyprus has
been the ratification of the National Lifelong Learning Strategy 2007–2013 by the
Council of Ministers, in November 2007. The 2007–2013 Strategy (General
Management of European Programmes, 2014) highlighted the following areas of
concern regarding:
– The promotion of all Cypriot citizens’ access to education and training systems,
while drawing links to the labor market;
– The launch of research that evaluates the socio-economic outcomes of lifelong
learning activities;
– The improvement of infrastructure for improving lifelong learning activities;
– The attainment of efficient governance mechanisms and tools in lifelong
learning systems.
In May 2011, Cyprus submitted its National Reform Programme towards
EU2020 aiming to promote development, employability and social integration
(Cyprus Planning Bureau, 2011). The National Lifelong Learning Strategy 2014–
2020 (Cyprus Planning Bureau, 2014) echoes the 2007–2013 one by setting four
priority axes, pointing out the need to:
– Promote access and participation in lifelong learning for all and recognition of
learning outcomes;
– Improve the quality and efficiency of education and training;
– Promote research and development for the support of lifelong learning;
– Promote employability (integration / re-integration into the labour market).
Despite these improvements, Cyprus lacks an official national definition of adult
education. The concept has been only implicitly defined as the provision of formal
and non-formal education, alongside vocational education and training to adults
(VET) (Vrasidas et al., 2013). What one might argue is that adult education in
Cyprus is equated to formal education of adults who abandoned formal education,
lifelong learning, and continual vocational education. Nevertheless, according to
the DIMA Project (2016), due to the absence of an official definition of adult
education, Cyprus unofficially endorses the EU definition of the term, which is
however not explicitly used in any official policy documentation of the state. In
C. HAJISOTERIOU
92
terms of funding, adult education in Cyprus is financed by both European (i.e.
European Social Fund) and national public funds. Gravani and Ioannidou (2016:
36) explain that “a system of private services for adult education, especially
vocational training (such as language or ICT providers) on a profit-oriented basis
in a demand-driven market has appeared only recently and expanded after Cyprus
accession to the EU”. As Cyprus endorses the EU definition of adult education, in
the following sections, we attempt to discuss the provision of: (i) formal; (ii) non-
formal; and (iii) vocational Adult Education.
THE PROVISION OF FORMAL ADULT EDUCATION
Formal adult education in Cyprus mainly targets the working force in Cyprus
allowing them to achieve official qualifications that will help them reach their
potentials, while reinforcing their career prospects. Formal adult education is
offered at various levels of the education system, including secondary, post-
secondary non-tertiary education, and higher education. To begin with, at the
secondary-education level, the Ministry of Education and Culture operates evening
Gymnasiums and evening Technical Schools, which provide adults, who dropped
out of school earlier in their lives, the opportunity to pursue and complete their
secondary education. These schools are forums where adults may update their
skills and competencies in their current professions, acquire new skills to enter new
professions, achieve necessary qualifications to continue their education and
training in institutes, colleges, or universities. Students enroll – free of charge – in
evening Gymnasiums and Technical Schools for one to four years, according to
their education level. The programmes offered adopt the same teaching
methodologies and procedures, and also have the same legal status as the
equivalent formal programmes of day schools. The first evening technical school
operated in the Technical School of Nicosia since the school year 1999-2000, while
the second Evening Technical School was established in Limassol in 2012. In both
evening Gymnasiums and evening Technical Schools, adults take final exams at
the end of every school year, while they are also awarded a Graduation Diploma by
the end of their education.
Since 2012, post-secondary non-tertiary education in Cyprus is provided by
Post-Secondary Institutes of Vocational Education and Training, which offer
all types of vocational education and training. The Institutes aim to provide
adult graduates of secondary education with both academic and technical
knowledge, while excelling their professional and practical skills. The courses
offered are:
– Management of natural gas industrial and residential installations;
– Gas handling pipes welding and industrial structures;
– Specialist baker and confectioner;
– Computer networks and communications;
– Electrical and industrial refrigeration installations;
– Installation and maintenance of photovoltaic systems and wind turbines;
ADULT EDUCATION IN CYPRUS
93
– Industrial and residential automation;
– Organic vegetable production.
The duration of the programmes is two years, while classes are offered on a five-
day basis. The programme also includes practice in enterprises. Upon the
completion of the programme, participants are awarded the qualification of ‘Higher
Technician’.
Last but not least, the public and private universities and colleges in Cyprus
provide post-secondary non-tertiary education programmes at the higher education
level that lead to university degrees. There are three public universities in Cyprus,
namely: (i) The University of Cyprus; (ii) The Cyprus University of Technology;
and (iii) The Open University of Cyprus. There are also big five private
universities: (i) The University of Nicosia; (ii) The European University; (iii)
Frederick University; (iv) Neapolis University, and (v) The University of Central
Lancashire – Cyprus. The Cyprus Institutes of Management (CIM) and the Cyprus
International Institute of Management (CIIM) are two other universities offering
programmes in management studies. Post-graduate programmes in management
are also offered by the Mediterranean Institute of Management. Most of the
aforementioned universities also operate distance-learning postgraduate
programmes. There are also 40 private Institutions of Higher Education, which
despite of not having a University status, offer academic and vocational
undergraduate and post-graduate programmes of study.
THE PROVISION OF NON-FORMAL ADULT EDUCATION
The most important providers of non-formal adult education in Cyprus include: the
Adult Education Centres, the State Institutes of Further Education, the Pedagogical
Institute of Cyprus, the Cyprus Academy of Public Administration, and other
private providers including universities, colleges, and NGOs. Firstly, the Adult
Education Centres operate under the auspices of the Ministry of Education and
Culture. In 1952, the first Adult Education Centres were established in the rural
areas of the island. Right after the independence of the Cyprus Republic in 1960,
the state operated 175 centres numbering 3750 members. Since the partition of the
island in 1974 to date, the institution has augmented to include also most urban
areas in the areas controlled by the Greek-Cypriot government. Adult Education
Centres are responsible for providing general adult education within the framework
of the National Lifelong Learning Strategy. They mainly aim towards the personal
development of all adult citizens of the country in terms of their social, financial
and cultural growth. In more detail, the institution seeks to serve an education
equality agenda in terms of providing education opportunity to all adults, in
general, but most importantly to disadvantaged groups and individuals, such as
school leavers, older workers, people with low or no qualifications, women,
unemployed etc. The Centres offer a variety of interdisciplinary courses that take
place in the afternoon or evening hours to adults aged 15 and above. The provided
courses focus in the fields of foreign languages, arts and crafts, cultural
C. HAJISOTERIOU
94
programmes, health and other issues. The tuition fees are extremely low and are
waved for pensioners (aged 65 and over). The centres grant certificates of
attendance. However due to the absence of a credit system, such certificates have
rather a minor impact to employment prospects.
Secondly, the Ministry of Education and Culture operates the State Institutes of
Further Education both in urban and rural areas. These Institutes offer various
programmes, such as English, French, Italian, German, Russian, Greek for
foreigners, Turkish, Accounting, Computer Studies, preparatory courses for the
entrance exams to Greek Universities and the University of Cyprus, intensive
support courses for Gymnasium and Lyceum. The courses are offered to both
adults and pupils subject to subsidised fees. No tuition fees apply to unemployed
university graduates, blind telephone operators, soldiers coming from low-income
families, and political refugees. Ninety-minute classes take place twice a week.
Attendees may take exams by the end of the academic year, while a Certificate is
provided to successful ones. In real-life situations, most of the attendees are
students of higher secondary education who need additional tutoring for their
entrance examinations to Greek and Cypriot universities or for other external
examinations (e.g. EDCL, GCEs).
Thirdly, the Open School is an additional provider of non-formal adult
education. During the school year 2005, the institution was launched on a pilot
basis in some Municipalities. Four years later the institution was extended in five
more Municipalities (Larnaca, Limassol, Ayia Napa, Aglantzia, and Lakatamia).
Open Schools operate in the premises of public schools and provide a variety of
afternoon and evening activities including sports, theatre, dancing, music, and
other cultural activities. Open Schools also offer Greek language courses to
foreigners (Gravani & Ioannidou, 2016). Moreover, Open Schools organise
exhibitions (e.g. Art exhibitions) or lectures on socio-economic, educational,
scientific and other topics. Open Schools also organise computer and
environmental education courses.
Fourthly, the Pedagogical Institute of Cyprus is an additional provider of non-
formal adult education to pre-primary-, primary-, and secondary-level teachers.
The Institute operates under the auspices of the Ministry of Education and Culture
and offers both obligatory and optional training courses. It is notable that the
Institute is responsible for the compulsory pre-service training of secondary-level
teachers. According to Keravnou-Papailiou (2005), the Institute pays particular
attention to the systematic training of school leaders. Moreover, the Pedagogical
Institute runs seminars for parents focusing on issues including environmental
education, psychology of education, and the integration of the new curriculum at
schools (Gravani & Ioannidou, 2016).
Fifthly, during the last decade, Free Universities have been established both in
urban and rural areas of the island. These are: (i) The Zenonion Free University;
(ii) The Famagusta Free University in Limassol; (iii) The Ierokipion Free
University; (iv) The Cypriot Diaspora Free University in London; (v) The
Salaminion Free University of Famagusta; (vi) The Pyrgos Tillirias Free
University; (vii) The Free University of the Occupied Municipalities of Keryneia;
ADULT EDUCATION IN CYPRUS
95
and (viii) The Troodos Free University. Free Universities operate in collaboration
with local authorities and other social partners. They offer lecture series on various
topics in order to promote lifelong learning, social and culture development.
Last but not least, the Cyprus Academy of Public Administration’s (CAPA)
offers workshops and seminars to civil servants. Its mission is ‘to contribute to the
efficiency, effectiveness and continuous improvement of the Public Service for the
benefit of the individual citizens and society at large, mainly through the
formulation and implementation of a comprehensive learning policy for the Public
Service, at individual, group and organisational levels’ (CAPA, 2017).
Correspondingly, its vision is ‘to make a significant contribution to the creation of
a modern, citizen centred Public Service, being ourselves a model public service
organisation – a learning and development organisation that practices what it
preaches and enjoys local, European and international recognition’ (CAPA, 2017).
CAPA claims to use participative, experiential and interactive methodologies, such
as discussions, brainstorming, working in groups, case studies, role playing, films
and training exercises. Certificates of participation, which are awarded to
attendees, may be taken into consideration for promotion purposes.
THE PROVISION OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING (VET)
The third form of adult education in Cyprus entails the provision of Vocational
Education and Training (VET). According to Vrasidas et al. (2013), VET in
Cyprus “aims to improve the skills of people working in technical fields and offer
training to unskilled or semi-skilled workers”. The providers of VET extend from
state or semi-governmental institutions to private entities. The most commonly
cited providers of VET in Cyprus are the Cyprus Productivity Centre, the state
Technical Schools through the programme of afternoon and evening classes, and
other private providers, which offer VET programmes that are subsidised by the
Human Resource Development Authority (HRDA). However, we should not
consider the Human Resource Development Authority as a mere provider of VET
programmes or other training. HRDA is a semi-governmental organisation aiming
to create the conditions for the planned and systematic training and development of
human resources in Cyprus in order to meet the needs of the Cyprus economy. The
Human Resource Development Levy that is paid by all employers or companies in
the private and semi-governmental sectors (but not the government as employer)
finances HRDA. Accordingly, various private enterprises or semi-governemental
organisations offer a range of vocational training courses that are subsidised by
HRDA.
One of the most central providers of VET in Cyprus is the Cyprus Productivity
Centre’s (CPC). CPC was established in 1963 in order to offer a variety of
management development programmes, on the one hand, but also up-grading and
ab-initio vocational training programmes for technicians (Keravnou-Papailiou,
2005). In examining its mission, CPC claims that its long-term objective is to ‘to
assist private and public organisations to utilise their human and capital resources
in the best possible way so as to increase productivity’ (CPC, 2017). At the same
C. HAJISOTERIOU
96
time, the Centre argues that due to Cyprus’s accession in the EU (in 2004) and the
Eurozone (in 2008), it also aims to support ‘the facilitating the adjustment of
citizens, organisations, enterprises, the social parties and the state, to globalisation’.
In summary, CPC is responsible for: (i) the management of European
Programs such as Europass; (ii) the Mediterranean Institute of Management (MIM)
and other international activities; (iii) education and training in management
development and promotion of LLL and Productivity in Cypriot companies and
organisations; (iv) ‘Health and Safety in the workplace’: a training scheme for
newly recruited young persons on issues of Health and Safety; (v) providing
support services to the Ministry of Labour, Welfare and Social Insurance (e.g.
advisory services, administrable support and knowhow) (CPC, 2017).
Finally, an additional provider of VET in Cyprus is the Ministry of Education
and Culture via its Technical Schools operates afternoon and evening classes.
Adults attend evening classes in the area of specialisation they have chosen
themselves. Classes take place twice a week for a time period of 3 academic years,
while adults take final exams by the end of every year. Upon the completion of the
programme, the participants receive a Diploma on their specialisation, which is
nonetheless only recognised in the work market. Alternatively, adults may follow a
one-year programme of pure training that consists of 80 hours of weekly evening
classes. Adults take no examinations and receive a certificate of attendance by the
end of the programme. It is noteworthy that adults’ participation in the
aforementioned programmes is subject to tuition fees. Both programmes of
afternoon and evening classes of Technical Schools target adults who have
adequate knowledge of the Greek language, and who are early school leavers,
secondary education graduates, or higher-education graduates.
CHALLENGES TO ADULT EDUCATION IN CYPRUS
Unfortunately, adult education still remains something of a “black box” in the
Cypriot research agenda. Arguably, there is a shortage of published research
examining and evaluating the methodologies and processes, but also the outcomes
of adult education in Cyprus. Gravani and Ioannidou (2014) highlight the lack of
research and assessments on performance-pertinent factors – including provided
programmes and participation rates – and quality-related features – including
frameworks, strategies, and practices of quality assurance. Nevertheless, the
current state-of-the-art attempts to (intuitively) portray some of the problems and
barriers inhibiting the advancement of adult education in Cyprus. This section
attempts to sum up the challenges to adult education in Cyprus with references
being made to participation rates, opportunities to marginalised groups, funding,
and quality assurance.
To start with, participation in adult education is one of the major problems
particularly for formal provision. On the one hand, Cyprus exceeds the EU
percentages on participation in non-formal education and training (e.g. 39.5%
compared to 32.7% in 2007) (GHK, 2011). On the other hand, however, Cyprus is
way below European rates regarding participation in formal education and training
ADULT EDUCATION IN CYPRUS
97
(e.g. 2.9% compared to 6.3% in the 2007) (GHK, 2011). It is worth-mentioning
that people with lower education attainment levels present considerably lower
participation levels in non-formal education and training in contrast to upper
secondary or higher education graduates. According to the 2011 Cyprus Report on
the Action Plan on Adult Learning, this is justified to the fact that the Human
Resource Development Authority mostly subsidises non-formal training for
already employed adults. Gravani and Ioannidou (2016) point out that participation
in non-formal education and training is also negatively influenced by the fact that
Cyprus lacks a system of recognition and validation of previous learning or work
experience.
Moving a step forward, participation of vulnerable groups is an additional
challenge to adult education in Cyprus. Cyprus has yet to develop explicit policies
and strategies, nor has set specific benchmarks regarding the participation of
groups that face the risk of marginalisation, such as people with disabilities,
migrant or minority groups, economically inactive women, senior citizens, and
long-term unemployed (GHK, 2011; DIMA Project, 2016). The aforementioned
groups often lack the financial resources or the necessary qualifications to enter
specific programmes of Adult Education. At the same time, their access to
information about the provided opportunities of adult education is limited. Last but
not least, policy overemphasises and prioritises very high on the agenda the goal of
employability leading to a market-oriented approach to adult education.
Researchers of the DIMA Project warn about the consequences of such approach
on vulnerable groups who are seen as less profitable for the market, and are thus
they being excluded from further education or training opportunities.
The aforementioned observation leads us to inadequate funding as a substantial
impediment to widening participation in and improving the quality of adult
education in Cyprus. The DIMA Project (2016) traces a decoupling between the
high national funding for education in contrast to other European counties (6.5% of
the GDP compared to the EU average of 5%) and investment in adult education
(only 1–1.9% of the total budget goes to adult education). Similarly, Gravani and
Ioannidou (2016) caution that Cyprus suffering by the recent economic crisis that
caused the implementation of austerity measures may further militate against the
provision of quality adult education. Moreover, the limited funding inhibits the
improvement of the working conditions of adult education educators and trainers,
and in turn the provision of quality adult education. Most educators and trainers are
employed on temporary or part-time basis leading to their financial insecurity,
while restraining their opportunities for career advancement (DIMA Project, 2016).
As a result, the professionalisation of adult education staff is severely affected
(Gravani & Ioannidou, 2014).
In conclusion, a further challenge to adult education in Cyprus is the inadequacy
of statistics regarding adult literacy or skills. This is due, inter alia, to the fact that
Cyprus has never participated in international assessments such as the International
Adult Literacy Survey (IALS) or the Adult Literacy and Life Skills Survey (ALL)
(Vrasidas et al., 2013). The absence of pertinent evaluations and assessments raises
concerns over assuring the quality of the provided adult education in Cyprus
C. HAJISOTERIOU
98
(DIMA Project, 2016). Furthermore, Gravani and Ioannidou (2016) in their
research report on data suggesting that most of the institutions providing adult
education that participated in their survey claimed no quality assurance
mechanisms.
FUTURE PROSPECTS OF ADULT EDUCATION IN CYPRUS
In the drive to promote lifelong learning, adult education has been set as one of the
priorities of national state policies, especially after Cyprus’ accession to the EU in
2004. Arguably, the need to develop a more effective education scheme within the
European agenda of lifelong learning and continuous professional development is
imperative, so that adults may successfully correspond to societal challenges
attached to contemporary socio-political and economic phenomena. In a similar
vein, Vrasidas et al. (2013) claim that “with unemployment rising and the need to
reskilling the workforce, adult education will be an important instrument for EU
countries to fight the economic crisis”. However, in the context of the EU, Cyprus
is one of the member-state countries that have brief experience on Adult Education.
What we argue is that Cyprus’ cooperation with EU countries, which have a
longer experience in adult education, may potentially become an impetus for the
formulation and implementation of successful policies and strategies in the field.
Comparative studies may help promote developments in adult education in Cyprus
aiming to meet the goals of increased accessibility and training, dissemination of
information and guidance services, enhanced professionalism of adult education
staff, and the sustainment of quality assurance.
Adult education policies in Cyprus should primarily reinforce attempts to ensure
increased accessibility and participation. In response to the EU 2020 benchmark on
participation, Cyprus has set 12% as its target (DIMA Project, 2016). Nonetheless,
in the absence of national-level research on the barriers to increased accessibility,
empirical research should be conducted towards this direction (Gravani &
Ioannidou, 2014). Groups facing the risk of societal and economic marginalisation,
such as the long-term unemployed, economically-inactive women, and the elderly,
should be given more opportunities to participate. For example, early school
leavers are one of these groups. It is thus of great importance that the Ministry of
Education and Culture extend the institution of evening second-chance high- or
technical-schools beyond urban cities to rural areas, while making them more
appealing to diverse learners by tailoring the provided learning experience to the
participants’ learning styles, interests, and needs.
Secondly, dissemination of information and guidance services should open up to
reach all population groups. We endorse suggestions disclosed in the 2011 Country
Report on the Action Plan on Adult Learning on Cyprus about the establishment of
Centres of Guidance and Counselling, where qualified counsellors will provide
their services to various population groups, while also establishing a National
Forum on Lifelong Guidance. Additionally, in designing and implementing more
accessible programmes of adult education, it is critical to acknowledge
affordability and funding incentives, but also flexibility and convenience. Funding
ADULT EDUCATION IN CYPRUS
99
– for fee subsidisation purposes – should be also provided for programmes
targeting adults that lack higher education. Moreover, for purposes of flexibility
and convenience, online programmes should extend beyond University education,
to encompass the provision of non-formal and vocational adult education. At the
same time, financial and other incentives should be provided for purposes of in-
company learning activities (GHK, 2011).
Thirdly, enhancing the professionalism of educators and trainers working in the
field of adult education entails an essential step towards the improvement of Adult
Education provision. The Certification of Training Providers and the Certification
of Vocational Qualifications – merely an assessment system – which was only
recently introduced is seen as a step forward in reinforcing adult educators’
professional status (Zenios, 2013). However, Gravani and Ioannidou (2014) warn
against the absence of formal training of adult educators on how to teach adults in
the contexts of formal, non-formal, and vocational Adult Education. To this end,
we highlight the necessity to strengthen both the professional status and role, and
the competences and skills of educators and trainers. We suggest that a national
framework should be developed to regulate and accredit qualifications, training,
and competences of adult educators and trainers. Moreover, financial incentives
should be provided to educators and trainers for supplementary training, and higher
education (e.g. completion of postgraduate courses in adult education). Higher-
education institutions may play a pivotal role in the initial education and training of
adult educators-to-be, providing them not only the subject-matter knowledge, but
also the know-how and the pedagogical skills and competences that are necessary
for teaching adults.
Last but not least, quality assurance should be highly prioritised on the agenda
of national policy-making in the field of adult education. It is notable that the
Cyprus Lifelong Learning Strategy 2014-2020 draws attention to improving quality
and efficiency of education and training (Cyprus Planning Bureau, 2014). On a
similar vein, the DIMA Project (2015) highlighted the need to set accountability as
a priority axis of Cypriot policies. It thus suggests the establishment of an
interdepartmental committee (including social partners) that will be responsible for
policy monitoring and evaluation, validating informal and non-formal skills, and
measuring participation levels. In the same spirit, GHK (2011) proposed the
establishment of the Cyprus Quality Assurance and Accreditation organisation,
which will be responsible for externally evaluating adult education institutions. We
suggest that central to sustaining quality should be the active and meaningful
involvement of all key actors in any improvement efforts by providing
opportunities to both privileged and oppressed groups to define the problems and
suggest possible solutions to the issue of their further education. In conclusion,
future research should shed light on key stakeholders and all actors’ perceptions on
the successful components of improvement efforts for promoting quality adult
education.
C. HAJISOTERIOU
100
REFERENCES
Anthias, F. (1987). Cyprus. In C. Clarke & T. Payne (Eds.) Politics, security and development in small
states (pp. 184–200). Allen & Unwin.
CAPA – Cyprus Academy of Public Administration. (2017). Cyprus Academy of Public Administration:
Mission, vision and values. Retrieved from http://www.mof.gov.cy/mof/capa/cyacademy.nsf/
page06_en/page06_en?OpenDocument (accessed 25 April 2017).
Chinnammai, S. (2005). Effects of globalisation on education and culture. Paper presented at the ICDE
International Conference, November 19–23, New Delhi.
CPC – Cyprus Productivity Centre. (2017). CPC mission. Retrieved from http://www.mlsi.gov.cy/mlsi/
kepa/kepa_new.nsf/kepa02_en/kepa02_en?OpenDocument (accessed 14 May 2017).
Cyprus Planning Bureau. (2011). Cyprus national reform programme 2011 – Europe 2020 strategy for:
Smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. Retrieved from http://ec.europa.eu/europe2020/pdf/
nrp/nrp_cyprus_en.pdf (accessed 20 May 2017).
Cyprus Planning Bureau (2014). National strategy for lifelong learning 2014–2020. Republic
of Cyprus. Retrieved from http://www.dgepcd.gov.cy/dgepcd/dgepcd.nsf/page41_en/page41_en?
OpenDocument (accessed 25 May 2017).
DIMA Project. (2016). State of the art in adult education: Strategies, policies, and tools. Retrieved from
www.dima-project.eu (accessed 27 April 2017).
General Management of European Programmes. (2014). 2nd Progress Report of National Lifelong
Learning Strategy 2007-2013 for the period 2010-2014. Retrieved from http://www.dgepcd.gov.cy/
dgepcd/dgepcd.nsf/page41_en/page41_en?OpenDocument (accessed 29 May 2017).
GHK, Research voor Beleid. (2011). Country report on the Action Plan on Adult Learning: Cyprus.
France.
Gravani, M. N., & Ioannidou, A. (2016). Mapping adult and continuing education in Cyprus: Key
challenges for the future. The International Journal of Adult, Community, and Professional
Learning, 23(4), 33–44.
Gravani, M. N., & Ioannidou, A. (2014). Adult and continuing education in Cyprus, Bielefeld: W.
Bertlesmann.
Hajisoteriou, C., & Angelides, P. (2016). The globalisation of intercultural education. The politics of
macro-micro integration. London: Palgrave-Macmillan.
Hajisoteriou, C. (2011). From nation-building to Europeanisation: the influence of history on Cypriot
education. The Cyprus Review, 23(1), 65–79.
Keravnou-Papailiou, E. (2005). Adult education in Cyprus. Paper presented at the Grundvig 3
Conference ‘Quality of training activities’. Retrieved from https://www.cut.ac.cy/digitalAssets/
108/108056_O12-Adult-Education-Cyprus-Keravnou-presentation.ppt (accessed 2 May 2017).
Persianis, P. (1996). The British colonial education ‘lending’ policy in Cyprus (1878–1960): An
intriguing example of an elusive ‘adapted education’ policy. Comparative Education, 1, 45–68.
Vrasidas, C., Charalambous, C., & Themistokleous, S. (2013). Adult education in Cyprus.
Retrieved from http://www.infonet-ae.eu/background-reports-national-affairs-33/1275-adult-
education-in-cyprus (accessed 25 April 2017).
Zenios, I. (2013). The trainer of vocational training as part of the two HRDA certification systems: The
certification of training providers and the certification of vocational qualifications. Retrieved from
www.moec.gov.cy/aethee/omadiki_mathisi/dek_2013/ioannis_zenios_human_resource_developmen
t_authority_cyprus.pdf (accessed 17 May 2017)
Christina Hajisoteriou
School of Education
University of Nicosia
G. A. Koulaouzides & K. Popović (Eds.), Adult Education and Lifelong Learning in Southeastern
Europe, 101–114.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
SIMONA SAVA AND ANCA LUŞTREA
9. PARTICIPATION RATES IN LIFELONG LEARNING
Why is Romania not so Successful?
INTRODUCTION
In this chapter, we will attempt to analyse the participation rates in lifelong
learning in Romania. The development of participation in lifelong learning in the
last 20 years is shortly presented and compared with participation rates in other
European countries on the basis of the Adult Education Survey (AES). The main
concern of the chapter is to investigate the possible reasons for the relatively low
participation in lifelong learning, considering the history of adult education in
Romania, the characteristics of the population, the structure and the current
situation of the educational system, the needs and developments of the labour
market in Romania and other cultural factors.
PARTICIPATION RATES IN ADULT EDUCATION
Adult education is in many countries in Europe the biggest educational sector,
taking into consideration the number of learners and the total amount of invested
resources. Adult education covers the longest period of a person’s lifetime, usually
beyond the sixth and seventh decade of life. Hence, when we discuss lifelong
learning especially in the field of policy development we generally refer to adult
education and learning. The available data about adult education is less well-
founded than data in other educational fields, like primary, secondary and higher
education. This is due to the fact that adult education is carried out in almost all
societal branches, by a lot of different institutions and people, based on very
heterogeneous systems of financing and organization.
The most commonly available data on adult education – and yet the most vital –
is data about the learners who participate in adult education courses. The typical
surveys on participants in adult education usually cover demographic data such as
sex, age, qualifications and professions, accompanied by personal interests, social
backgrounds, motivations and preferred learning processes.
From a methodological point of view, the comparative analysis of these data is
quite problematic. The trouble starts with the very question of age – from what age
does adult education commence? The definition is contradictory among different
countries. Very often we consider as an adult learner a person who has finished his
or her first professional qualification and thus university students in most countries
are not considered as adult learners according to this classification. In other cases,
S. SAVA & A. LUŞTREA
102
the age criterion is taken mainly into consideration and in general the age of
eighteen is considered as the entrance point to adulthood. In more open designs
however, everybody is counted regardless of the age factor as long as he or she
participates in an adult education activity.
In Romania, participation rates are measured by the National Institute of
Statistics which follows the methodological standards of Eurostat. These
measurements are part of the monitoring progress in the European Member States
towards the EU 2020 strategy for growth and there were used to support the Lisbon
2010 agenda for the creation of a European knowledge-based economy. In this
framework the age of eighteen is considered as the threshold to adulthood.
Nevertheless, since employment contracts in Romania can start from the age of
sixteen a person with an apprenticeship contract is considered equally as an adult
education participant as a person who enrolled in second chance educational
institution.
The second question is how to measure participation? What period of time to
take into consideration? Do we consider the last three years, the last three months,
the last year or the last month, before the survey? In the Adult Education Survey in
Europe (hereafter AES) participation is defined as the participation during the last
twelve months before the survey’s implementation (for people aged 25–64), and
this data is part of the official EU statistics on lifelong learning. However, the
technical study of the Joint Research Centre of the European Commission (JRC),
titled Adult Participation in Lifelong Learning. The impact of using a 12-months or
4-weeks reference period, pointed out that the different reference periods do not
actually result in major differences (Goglio & Meroni, 2014). Therefore, the last 4-
weeks period is often used as the reference period, since it was the timeframe
which was considered in the older known similar study (from 1983) of the
International Labor Force Survey for people older than the age of fifteen.
A third fundamental and very crucial question is: what is considered as adult
education? From the moment the European Union defined three types of learning –
formal, non-formal, informal – adult education and learning has had its focus on
non-formal education. However, for some years now activities that take place in
the area of informal learning have been considered to be part of adult learning.
Since in this area it is hard to talk about participation, because we are not talking
about organized educational processes, the respective data is often not integrated in
country statistics. In Romania, which is a rather certificate-oriented country,
people tend to consider that they have participated in an adult education activity
mainly if it is about a course that leads to a certificate. This is one of the reasons
that participation rates appear to be quite low. To put it in simple words,
Romanians tend to answer positively about their participation only when they have
taken part in a course that leads to the acquisition of a certificate.
Lastly, it is difficult to define clearly the content categories or the type of adult
education in which somebody has participated. In several statistics a distinction has
been made among general and vocational adult education. The current version of
AES has three categories: adult education inside the company, individual
vocational adult education and non-vocational adult education. In Romania, the
IMPROVING PARTICIPATION RATE OF ADULTS IN LIFELONG LEARNING
103
focus is pretty much on vocational adult education (“formarea profesională a
adultilor”). Government funds are usually directed towards this route and in the
common discourse “training” is understood as professional training and not for the
holistic formation of a person (i.e. the concept of the German word “bildung”). It is
not a rare phenomenon to translate “education and training” as “educatie si
formare profesionala” which again refers only to professional education, even in
official policy documents. On the other hand, the term general adult education is
rarely used, and this actually indicates the low interest for it from policy makers.
Instead, when the discussion is around this kind of education, other terms such as
adult basic education or even apprenticeship are rather used even though both of
them have a different meaning.
The Romanian system of adult education is very much driven towards enabling
adults to cope with the challenges of the labor market, preparing them to be
efficient employees. The efforts, and the consequent support to prepare adults to
become active, critical and involved citizens, people able to cope with the
processes of democratic societies are almost non-existent (at least in terms of
structured, systematic educational provisions by public authorities). Educational
provision related to “political education”, “education for democratic citizenship” is
not even used as a term because their inclusion in policy documents is considered
somehow to have “strange” connotations. However, such educational offers and
programs can be found in governmental programs or in the catalogues with
relevant provisions in Peoples’ Universities in countries like Germany or Denmark
or Sweden and in general countries which happen to have a high participation rate
in adult education and lifelong learning.
Given this framework for measuring participation, the rate’s analysis follows
four directions: personal, social, structural and educational. The personal factors
are exemplified by demographic characteristics, such as age, gender, profession,
educational level, employment status and place of residence. The social ones
consist of background, family, and peer group particularities. The structural factors
are determined by the regional and economic situation, infrastructure, employment
rate, etc. Finally, the educational factors relate to the learning opportunities offered
by the different institutions. Moreover, it is important to be aware of the “bounded
agency” (Rubenson & Desjardins, 2009), which sees the individual in the context
of structures, laws and pressures mainly in the labour market. In the political
discussion, the participation rate in adult education is one of the most important
indicators for the development of the society not only in relation to the economic
progress of each society but also in relation to citizenship and welfare.
EUROPEAN COMPARISON: BENCHMARKS AND POLICY ANALYSIS
Beyond any methodological considerations or problems as those mentioned before
it is apparent that participation rates in adult education are important benchmarks
in the European Union linking to the general aim of global competitiveness, smart,
inclusive and sustainable growth (EU, 2012, 2015; UNESCO, 2015; UN et al.,
2015).
S. SAVA & A. LUŞTREA
104
Since the establishment of the Lisbon goals in 1999 where the emphasis was
placed on developing the competences of the workforce in the European member
states, participation in adult education has been considered to be an important part
of a societal and economical strategy. Consequently, an emphasis was placed on
collecting more information about the educational systems, including adult
education (e.g. the “Education and Training Monitor” report which is published
yearly since 2012). Taking into consideration the different starting points and
situations in diverse adult education systems, the benchmark for the participation
rate in adult education is set as an average between more developed countries (like
the Nordic ones) and less developed ones (like in the east and the south of Europe).
Currently, the European benchmark for the participation rate in adult education, to
be reached in 2020, is 15%, but some countries like Romania were allowed to
negotiate a lower target (that is 10%), based on their progress up to 2010. It is
noteworthy to mention that in Romania the participation rate at the end of 2010
was close to 1.5% after many years of monitoring this progress while the first data
on participation was nearly 0.9%.
The factors influencing individual participation are known in most European
countries, and these barriers for participation exist almost everywhere in the world
(Rubenson & Desjardins, 2009). The complex factors for participation are
described as “lifelong learning regimes”, and they include individual, structural
and political aspects. But for a coherent comparison amongst countries what is
really missing is a systematic description of the educational systems and especially
of factors like access, counselling, quality management, certification processes and
many more.
A study on national conditions of lifelong learning, carried out by Research voor
Beleid (Broek, Buiskool, & Hake, 2010) assessed the quality of the systems based
on peer interviews and following a qualitative research analysis design. This, and
other studies, carried out for the European Commission had as an aim to give a
better understanding of the impact of different policy measures in the member
states (EU, 2012, 2015; Federighi, 2013). Indeed, these studies demonstrated
differentiated factors that may contribute towards a well-developed adult education
system that will also have high participation rates. Among these factors the
emphasis is placed on the following: a functioning organisational structure of adult
education, clear responsibilities and integration of social partners, a cultural
appreciation of adult learning, sufficient financing, flexible and regionally
sufficient and fitting provisions and other support systems (counselling etc.).
Conditions like the aforementioned are present in countries like Sweden, Denmark
and Finland, followed by Germany, Netherlands and Austria. In these countries
public financial support exists for institutions as well for learners. Also, in the
Nordic countries there is a long tradition of a shared culture of lifelong learning.
Looking at the European policy making in adult education (which is guided by
the Open Method of Coordination concept) there is a big effort to harmonize
existing differences by various methods like projects, policy support tools, constant
monitoring and differentiated benchmarks. But, in the last 15 years since the
existence of a comparable monitoring process of the participation rates
IMPROVING PARTICIPATION RATE OF ADULTS IN LIFELONG LEARNING
105
implemented by Eurostat, the existing data do not show big variations, i.e. the low
performing countries, among which is Romania, remain at the bottom of the
continuum, and the well performing ones, the Nordic states, remain as leading
ones. Some countries where significant improvements have been observed are
more the exceptions of a general norm rather than an actual achievement of an
integrated European policy implementation (e.g. Estonia).
Therefore, analytical studies have to go beyond this data, finding out the
possible answers for this rather unchanging data, as well as solutions for increasing
the participation rate. In this respect, it is significant to look at countries that
present a more consistent improvement, but also at countries which present more
similarities regarding their socio-economic and cultural background (i.e. states
from the former communist block) or those that share analogous sizes and
problems (e.g. a more dedicated peer learning activity is to be considered among
Poland and Romania). Otherwise, countries like Romania will continue to be
demotivated seeing their continuing efforts to have no actual impact on
improvement. In the case of Romania, country specific recommendations (EC,
2016) are quite limited, addressing more the public employment service’s
improvements, and just mentioning the enduring very low participation rate, but
without any concrete suggestions or directions to follow.
For instance, during the 2007–2013 period Romania had as an aim a
participation of about 1.6 million adults, considering that in this way the country
percentage will reach a 10% rate. In this period, a bit less than 1.3 million adults
participated in different educational programs (MNESR, 2015). In spite of this the
participation rate did not increase. So, what is going wrong? Why doesn’t the
participation rate increase in our country?
REASONS FOR LOW PARTICIPATION IN ROMANIA
In this section we will examine some possible explanations for the low
participation in Romania, in relation to the different contextual, structural,
financial, politic, and quality related provisions for the education for adults (Nuissl,
2010) and in conjunction with what have been identified as “building blocks for
successful adult learning policies” (EU, 2015).
Historical Background
In Romania, a big step in setting up an educational system for adults was made at
the end of 19th century and the beginning of 20th century, when Spiru Haret, was
the Minister of Education. In 1904, he developed the Regulation Governing the
Schools for Adults (Haret, 2014). These schools were organized as adult education
institutions covering a wide range of activities from primary education for adults,
free courses of general interest organised in cultural circles (mainly in the villages),
and apprentice schools. These institutions for adults played a significant role,
mainly in rural areas, where the educational infrastructure was very poor,
contributing to raising the educational and cultural level of the population. Due to
S. SAVA & A. LUŞTREA
106
the almost 2.000 schools for adults, set in urban and rural areas, the illiteracy rate
decreased from 78% in 1899, to 61% in 1912 (Haret, 2014).
During the communist period, these fine institutions for adults turned into
cultural houses in urban areas and cultural homes in rural areas, a large network of
institutions (numbering about 200 cultural houses, 2000 cultural homes, and 3000
people’s universities, see Sava & Matache, 2003), running under the coordination
of the Ministry of Culture. After the fall of the communist regime in 1989, the
responsibility for these institutions was transferred to the local administration
authorities, and a large proportion of them unfortunately were closed. Even in the
occasional cases where these institutions were preserved, they are now considered
more as cultural rather than as educational institutions, since their label as cultural
houses or homes or even as people’s universities signifies in the Romanian
mentality such an operation. Indeed, the funds that these institutions receive today
from local administration is more about organizing cultural activities like festivals,
concerts, and not for organizing courses for adults.
In different papers, an annotated historic evolution of adult education in
Romania has been presented (i.a. Sava & Matache, 2003; Sava, 2008, 2010). In
these papers the recent history (after 1989) has been explained, towards a better
understanding of the actual context and the level of development of the adult
education system. During this period the communist ideological influence
diminished and the centralized control was replaced. Generally, a big shift towards
vocational oriented adult education could be noticed, as public money was spent
mainly on this type of adult education and mainly to support unemployed adults or
low skilled ones. General or liberal adult education, community education, and
education for democratic citizenship or in other words educational provisions for
adults that aim to personal empowerment and development of critical thinking was
fundamentally not supported by public financing. The direct result of this political
decision was the financial destruction of most of the educational institutions that
were offering such provisions.
However, a big step forward for general adult education was the Law of
Education 1/2011 where there is a distinct chapter on adult education and lifelong
learning. The law establishes, among other things, adult community centres
dedicated to lifelong learning. The concept of their operation is quite generous,
constituting a major step towards an integrated educational system for adults.
Unfortunately, this is concept remains still on paper. Its implementation has not
started yet since neither the budget is foreseen for these institutions, nor the
normative methodology about their functioning was introduced. In the National
Strategy for Lifelong Learning (hereafter NSLL) for 2015–2020 (MNESR, 2015)
resources are foreseen for only a few of these centres because they are considered
too expensive.
So, a lack of political will can be easily noticed, from the fact that the needed
resources for the implementation of the policy formulation are not assured. To this,
we can add also a lack of coherent and comprehensive vision in the solutions
proposed. In the NSLL there is a clear diagnosis, for instance, on the ageing
society, low participation in rural areas (almost half of the population of Romania
IMPROVING PARTICIPATION RATE OF ADULTS IN LIFELONG LEARNING
107
is living in rural areas, etc.) but in the solutions proposed there are hardly any
sections addressing the elderly people or the educational provision in the rural
areas. Furthermore, the NSLL, being formulated with the support of experts from
the World Bank, has a clear neo-liberal focus, sometimes being difficult to
distinguish between this strategy and the specifications of the National Strategy for
Education and Vocational training in Romania (2014–2020) or the Strategy for
Employment of Labor Force (2014–2020). There is a lot of overlapping between
these strategies, but nevertheless their conditions are not really followed, as there is
a significant delay in implementing all the Action Plans accompanying them.
However, and beyond any other conclusion it is clear and rather disappointing the
fact that inn the NSLL, general adult education is basically ignored and the
Ministry of Culture, which has the responsibility for such provisions, was not
invited when the strategy was conceptualized and adopted.
Structural and Economical Context
The lack of political power to implement the strategical aims is not the only
explanation for the low participation of adults in lifelong learning. Romania is
among the countries with the biggest increase in the outgoing migration, as the UN
report on migration shows in 2016. Nowadays, about 4 million Romanian adults
are living abroad (that is almost one fifth of the population!). However these adults
are still counted as part of the population and this fact generates wrong results
since for them it is obvious that they cannot participate in any adult learning
activities in Romania. Moreover, half of the existing population lives in rural areas,
where as we have mentioned above there is a poor educational infrastructure and
few learning provisions.
In addition, we should recognise that in our days, a big role in the adult
education system is played by the employers. The employers in Romania, mainly
the ones from Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) are not investing in the
education of their adult employees, in spite of being forced by the labor legislation
to do so. So far the state has failed to adopt attractive and functional measures for
stimulating a real employers’ involvement. Simple measures like tax subsidies for
on the job training are not yet adopted. Active measures like subsidies for training
are not so attractive, due to the bureaucratic burn that they carry. In this
framework, the financial barrier is quite important for the individual adults, and in
addition they are not encouraged to spend money for their education, since they do
not have any benefit through tax reduction for instance, or some form of an
individual learning account (i.e. a well-known policy tool to stimulate participation
in adult education by contributing partly with public money, once the adult also
pays for his/her education) or something similar.
Furthermore, while thinking about the knowledge society and the information,
competence based society, the well trained adults able to cope with the challenges
of such a society, are more of a vision than a reality. According to Eurostat data, in
2015, Romania had the lowest percentage of regular internet users in the EU (52%
compared to 76% in the EU) and 32% of the population had never used the internet
S. SAVA & A. LUŞTREA
108
(16% in the EU). Less than half (46%) of the workforce possesses basic or above
basic digital skills (72% in the EU), a fact which has been having a negative
influence on Romania’s economic growth (EC, 2016). Romania did not take part in
the PIAAC study, so there is no accurate data about the level of competence of the
current population (and thus workforce) in Romania. But if we combine data like
the 18% early drop out from school, with the low performance recorded in the
PISA study for the ones remaining in the educational system, and with the 1.3%
participation in lifelong learning, then the overall picture does not look very
promising.
Educational System
The educational system of adults is quite fragmented, with parts of the system
better regulated, supported and functioning (for instance, the professional training,
or the evaluation and validation of competences), and parts of the system with
quite limited and inconstant provision, usually project based, or even not taken into
consideration by actors involved in adult education. Therefore, comprehensive data
about the real participation in adult education is quite difficult to collect.
There is still no dedicated inter-ministry department or institution, or even a
ministry acting as an umbrella organisation (e.g. the department of education). The
lack of an overall coordination of adult education makes difficult the development
of a holistic vision for the system and this adds another limitation in available data.
This missing holistic vision as well as its consequent integrative policy measures
can also be seen in the NSLL. This integrative view is also missing for parts of the
system, e.g. the liberal adult education. In this document there is a big emphasis on
the counselling services, as they create bridges between the different parts of the
system, but the emphasis is bigger than the one on the educational provision itself.
The different types of educational provisions distinctly mentioned in the NSLL
show a quite limited vision about adult education, as large parts of adult education
such as: community education, general adult education, and civic education for
democratic citizenship, family education, education for elderly people etc. are
largely absent, and the emphasis instead is placed more on the formal educational
institutions. As already mentioned, the plans for community centers for lifelong
learning have still not been implemented, even though their concept has existed for
more than five years. This is a very serious restriction of the NSLL document
which remains still the fundamental document for lifelong learning in Romania.
In our understanding, adult education should support the empowerment of adults
and the development of soft skills. It should promote critical thinking, and it should
result in open-minded adults who are actively engaged in their society. However,
this vision and efforts in this direction are too weak despite the fact that in many
policy documents there are paragraphs dedicated to the necessity of corruption
reduction, increase of participation in elections and community life especially for
those living in communities with poor educational and cultural infrastructure.
Nevertheless, what can be noticed as a positive trend is that communication,
learning and interaction through social media is to a certain level triggering
IMPROVING PARTICIPATION RATE OF ADULTS IN LIFELONG LEARNING
109
collective thinking and is helping citizens to be engaged. It is giving a voice
through which the underprivileged can express attitudes and participate, even
sanctioning in a direct way the governing leaders for their mistakes. The street
protests in the last two years for instance, are expressions of an increased level of
civic behaviour/involvement, and have served to give clear feedback from civic
society on the activities of public authorities. Such manifestations have come from
well-informed, educated, and critical citizens, who are less open to manipulation,
forming cohesive and active communities. Unfortunately, there is an inter-
generational gap in terms of the use of social media. This fact is a clear indication
that an increased effort has to be employed in non-formal learning and education in
order to enhance digital literacy and avoid a new social divide.
The limited educational infrastructure for adults in small towns and in rural
areas is an additional reason for concern. This concern becomes even bigger, as in
such communities even the schools for children are closed down, due to the
demographic trends and the kids are now transported to bigger villages in the
broader area. So, what Spiru Haret had managed to build up as system of
institutions one century ago, is now slowly being removed, with a big danger for
the social existence of communities, mainly in rural areas.
Furthermore, following the recommendations of the European Commission, in
the process of fulfilling the conditions for joining the EU, and later on for aligning
to the agreed targets, the institutions set up were mainly related to professional
training and qualifications (i.e. National Agency for Qualifications, with its former
names – considered as an umbrella organization, National Agency for
Employment, with its regional and county branches). Institutions related to general
adult education were not in focus and therefore their dramatic decrease was a
consequence. The focus on skills and competences in EU impacts the institutional
developments in Romania, as country recommendations go only in the direction of
vocational education. Thus, the government is leaving aside the traditional network
of institutions for adult education, and in the last ten years there has been almost no
support or national policy measures to stimulate the activities of the community
centres for the education of adults, whatever name they might have.
The lack of data on overall participation in adult education is perceived as a
problem in the NSLL as well, both in terms of specialized research institutions to
be supported, and in terms of dedicated financial resources. Also, for a more
systematic view of the educational system for adults, a data base with provisions
and demands for education of adults is foreseen. But these are desiderata on paper,
as strategy is still to be implemented.
Individual Approaches
There are several individual reasons for a low participation of adults. Some of the
well-known ones everywhere (i.e. financial, time constraints, and competing tasks,
facile access to attractive educational provisions etc.) have a particular intensity in
Romania. For instance, 52% of the adult population in Romania considers that
finance is the most important obstacle to further education, the highest percentage
S. SAVA & A. LUŞTREA
110
in the EU. In addition, adult education provision and benefits are not widely known
among adults, as information campaigns are quite limited, and adults tend to be
more home-oriented and consumers of television. Validation of prior learning is
not supported as an active measure towards employment, so the adults do not see
the benefits of their learning within an overall ensemble. The links between the
different paths and parts of the system are not transparent and functional enough.
In order to benefit from the validation path, adults have to pay themselves, as
employers do not trust / value this enough yet.
As Daniel David mentioned in his book highlighting the psychology of the
Romanian people (2015), the Romanians have a low trust in people, not managing
therefore to have effective cooperation. This situation may be improved through
adult education as many studies have point out (Dinis da Costa et al., 2014; Field,
2015). However, adults participating in educational provisions are quite
enthusiastic about it, highlighting a lot of its benefits (Sava, 2015), and their voice
needs to be taken more into account while setting up policy measures aiming to
stimulate their participation in learning.
PERSPECTIVES FOR THE FUTURE
The main strategic documents with visions for the future (UN et al., 2015;
UNESCO, 2015; EAEA, 2016; EU, 2016) highlight the building blocks for
sustainable development, which ensure “inclusive and equitable quality education
and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all” (UN et al., 2015).
The studies stress good practices in building up a learning society/city/
community (Yang & Yorozu, 2015) and list the lessons learnt with needed
measures to foster an increased participation rate. Among them, we list the
following as the most crucial:
‒ Political will (a measure stressed by European Commission in 2016 – as a
recommendation for Romania);
‒ Comprehensive concept of lifelong learning, accompanied by a consequent
implementation;
‒ Quantitative expansion and quality enhancement of the lifelong learning system,
with functioning networks of institutions, and active participation of all
stakeholders;
‒ Backing up with financial resources of all foreseen actions, plus financial
support for other necessary determined and systematic efforts.
Furthermore, viable structures and responsibilities are to be transferred at
regional and local level, with the related capacity building actions in order for the
different initiatives to be better articulated in a more coherent and tailored
provision and thus become more visible and attractive for adults.
For Romania, we would like to stress the importance of the need to support
active participation and resources for any alternative route to neo-liberal global
capitalism. This need is in line with warnings pointed out by different researchers
IMPROVING PARTICIPATION RATE OF ADULTS IN LIFELONG LEARNING
111
while analyzing the trends in political discourse (Popovic & Maksimovic, 2016;
Lima & Guimares, 2011; Tuckett & Popovic, 2015; Barros, 2012).
The dominant focus on skills and the trend towards instrumentalization and
labor market needs paces social and community values in danger and threatens the
personal development of individuals as creative, critical, tolerant, resilient,
humanistic individuals (Zarifis & Gravani, 2014; Laot, 2014; Belanger, 2016). The
need for social cohesion in the lifelong learning discourse is now more than ever
required to address the issues of migration, terrorism, and “parallel societies”
(Milana, 2014). Solutions for popular education and community participation
should be revised (Holford, 2016), together with creative solutions encouraging
innovation at all levels, and ownership by the local stakeholders (ETF, 2015).
This was a tradition that proved to have positive effects in Romania, mainly up
until the Second World War, both for reducing the literacy rate, and for community
development. If the government supports only vocational adult education, then the
number of open and engaged adults, flexibly taking different learning paths, will be
less and less. Complementarily, the percentage of NEETs and of hard to reach
adults will increase. Therefore, dedicated focus on all dimensions of adult
education must not be lost in the neo-liberal discourse about lifelong learning
(Chisholm, 2013; Guimaraes & Antunes, 2014; Tores, 2011; Mohorčič Špolar &
Holford, 2014; Panitsides & Anastasiadou, 2015). It should be reaffirmed that
balanced/equal efforts and resources must be dedicated to all groups of adults,
irrespective of their age, social situation or background (Schuller & Watson, 2009).
Adult education actors have to move away from the adaptive and defensive
strategies (Olesen & Wildemeersch, 2012).They should highlight the mainstream
role of adult education in the competence, knowledge-based society towards the
formation of an empowered adult, able to undertake his/her own transformative
role (Belanger, 2016; Koulaouzides, 2014) striving, in this respect, for the
necessary determined and consequent actions and governance, supply and take up
(EU, 2012, 2015; UNESCO, 2015; Council of Europe, 2011). This means, at the
same time, striving for improved quality of educational provision (by improved
status of adult educators as well), but also a dedicated capacity building for the
education of adults, at local, regional, national level.
However, more in depth research data is needed for the development of more
efficient and specific measures meant to increase the participation rate in all fields
of adult education. This data should explain the causes of a low participation rate,
in such a diverse landscape like the Romanian one and should also lead to better
data collection. Summing up, in our view and to be able to increase participation
rates in adult education in Romania, there is urgent need for committed efforts in at
least five parameters:
‒ We need strong politic determination, to implement the action plans adopted in
NSLL;
‒ We need the support of a balanced system for adult education, with vitalising
the adult community centres and with more direct provisions aimed at
empowerment and critical thinking;
S. SAVA & A. LUŞTREA
112
‒ We need an upgraded data collection and research methodology with an
appropriate database on the educational system for adults;
‒ We need to increase the quality of the learning provisions, both through better
trained professionals, and by decentralizing the responsibilities and resources,
with the associated capacity building; and finally
‒ We need functional financial schemes, both for employers, adults and providers.
REFERENCES
Barros, R. (2012). From lifelong education to lifelong learning. Discussion of some effects of today’s
neoliberal policies. European Journal for Research on the Education and Learning of Adults, 3(2),
119–134.
Bélanger, P. (2016). Self-construction and social transformation. Lifelong, lifewide and life-deep
Learning. Hamburg: UNESCO.
Broek, S. D., Buiskool, B. J., & Hake, B. (2010). Impact of ongoing reforms in education and training
on the adult learning sector. Zoometer: Research voor Beleid.
Chisholm L. (2013). Exploring the future of lifelong learning: Advocacy, research and footprinting.
International Review of Education, 59, 373–382. doi: 10.1007/s11159-013-9363-3.
Council of the European Union. (2011). Council Resolution on a renewed European agenda for
adult learning. http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:C:2011:372:0001:0006:
en:PDF
David, D. (2015). Psihologia poporului roman. Iași: Polirom.
Dinis da Costa, P., Rodrigues, M., Vera-Toscano, E., & Weber, A. (2014). Education, adult skills and
social outcomes: Empirical evidence from the survey on adult skills (PIAAC 2013). Luxembourg:
Publications Office of the European Union. doi: 10.2788/66192
European Association for the Education of Adults. (2016). Manifesto on adult learning. Brussels:
EAEA.
European Commission/EACEA/Eurydice. (2015). Adult education and training in Europe: Widening
access to learning opportunities. Eurydice Report. Luxembourg: Publications Office of the
European Union. doi: 10.2797/75257
European Commission. (2016). European semester documents for Romania 2016, Country-specific
recommendations 2016 – Commission recommendation. http://ec.europa.eu/europe2020/europe-
2020-in-your-country/romania/country-specific-recommendations/index_en.htm
European Training Foundation (ETF). (2015). Supporting public policy making through policy analysis
and policy learning. Torino: ETF.
European Union. (2012). Strategies for improving participation in and awareness of adult learning.
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union. doi: 10.2766/26886
European Union. (2015). An in-depth analysis of adult learning policies and their effectiveness in
Europe. Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union. doi: 10.2767/076649
European Union. (2016). New skills agenda for Europe. Brussels.
Federighi, P. (2013). Adult and continuing education in Europe: Using public policy to secure a growth
in skills. Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union. doi: 10.2777/98975
Field, J. (2015). Social ties, agency, and change: education and social capital in adult life. In Yaojun Li
(Ed.), Handbook of research methods and applications in social capital (pp. 292–306). Cheltenham:
Edward Elgar.
Goglio, V., & Meroni, E. C. (2014). Adult participation in lifelong learning. The impact of using a 12-
months or 4-weeks reference period. Technical briefing. Luxembourg: Publications Office of the
European Union.
IMPROVING PARTICIPATION RATE OF ADULTS IN LIFELONG LEARNING
113
Guimarães, P., & Antunes, F. (2014). An inconsistent policy: Lifelong learning and adult education
policy towards a competitive advantage. In G. K. Zarifis & M. N. Gravani (Eds.), Challenging the
“European Area of Lifelong Learning”. A critical response (pp. 75–86). Dordrecht, Heidelberg,
New York, London: Springer.
Haret, S. (2014). Laws and normative acts on school and education. Cluj Napoca: Presa Universitara
Clujeana.
Holford, J. (2016). The minuses of sustainability: Adult education, citizenship and the dead end of
neoliberalism. International Review of Education, 62, 541–561. doi: 10.1007/s1159-016-9591-4
Koulaouzides, G. (2014). Learning and transformation: are we not transformed a little, every time we
learn? In Proceedings of the 1st Conference of ESREA’s Network “Interrogating Transformative
Processes in Learning and Education: An International Dialogue” (pp. 43–49). Athens, Greece:
ESREA & Hellenic Adult Education Association.
Laot, F. (2014). Collective dimensions in lifelong education and learning: Political and pedagogical
reflections. In G. K. Zarifis & M. N. Gravani (Eds.), Challenging the “European Area of Lifelong
Learning”. A critical response (pp. 285–298). Dordrecht, Heidelberg, New York, London: Springer.
Lima, L., & Guimaraes, P. (2011). European strategies in lifelong learning. Leverkusen/Opladen:
Barbara Budrich Publishers.
Milana, M. (2014). Incentives and disincentives to invest in human resources. In G. K. Zarifis & M. N.
Gravani (Eds.), Challenging the “European Area of Lifelong Learning”. A critical response (pp.
61–74). Dordrecht, Heidelberg, New York, London: Springer.
Mohorčič Špolar, V., & Holford, J. (2014). Adult learning: From the margins to the mainstream. In M.
Milana & J. Holford (Eds.), Adult education policy and the European Union. Theoretical and
methodological perspectives (pp. 35–52). Rotterdam: Sense Publishers.
Ministry of National Education and Scientific Research (MNESR). (2015). National strategy of lifelong
learning, 2015–2020. Bucharest: MNESR.
Nuissl, E. (2010). From teaching to learning and back. In S. Sava (Ed.), 10 ani de dezvoltare europeană
a educaţiei adulţilor. Realizări şi provocări în atingerea obiectivelor Lisabona 2010 (pp. 33–38).
Timişoara: Ed. Eurostampa.
Olesen, H., & Wildemeersch, D. (2012). The effects of policies for the education and learning of adults:
From ‘adult education’ to ‘lifelong learning’, from ‘emancipation’ to ‘empowerment’. The European
Journal for Research on the Education and Learning of Adults, 3(2), 97–101.
Panitsides, E. A., & Anastasiadou, S. (2015). Lifelong learning policy agenda in the European Union:
A bi-level analysis. Open Review of Educational Research, 2(1), 128–142. doi: 10.1080/
23265507.2015.1043936
Popović, K., & Maksimović, M. (2016). Critical discourse analysis in adult education. What we mean
when we talk about lifelong learning? In A. Pejatovic, R. Egetenmeyer, & M. Slowey (Eds.),
Contribution of research to improvement of adult education quality (pp. 277–294). Belgrade:
Institute for Pedagogy and Andragogy, University of Belgrade.
Rubenson, K., & Desjardins, R. (2009). The impact of welfare state regimes on barriers to participation
in adult education. Adult Education Quarterly, 59(3), 187–207.
Sava, S. (2008). Trends in adult and continuing education in Romania, a country in transformation. In
Report 2/2008. Bielefeld: vbw.
Sava, S. (2010). Educaţia adulţilor în România în ultimii 10 ani [Adult education in Romania in the last
decade]. In S. Sava (Ed.), 10 ani de dezvoltare europeană a educaţiei adulţilor. Realizări şi
provocări în atingerea obiectivelor Lisabona 2010 (pp. 44–50). Timişoara: Ed. Eurostampa.
Sava, S. (2015). Beneficiile invatarii de-a lungul intregii vieti; Implicatii pentru politica educatională
din Romania [Benefits of lifelong learning – Implications for the educational policy in Romania]. In
S. Sava (Ed.). Perspective pentru cercetarea in educatie [Perspectives for researching in education].
Bucuresti: Ed. Universitara
Sava, S., & Matache, M. (Eds.). (2003). Portret of adult education in Romania. Bucharest: Simlec P.
Schuller, T., & Watson, D. (2009). Learning through life. Inquiry into the future of lifelong learning.
Leceister: NIACE.
S. SAVA & A. LUŞTREA
114
Tores, R. M. (2011). Lifelong learning: Moving beyond Education for All. In Y. Jing & R. Valdes-
Cotera (Eds.), Conceptual evolution and policy developments in lifelong learning (pp. 40–50).
Hamburg: UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning.
Tuckett, A., & Popovic, K. (2015). Plus ca change, plus c’est la meme chose: Adult literacy since 2000
– A civil society perspective. Andragogical Studies – Journal for the Study of Adult Education and
Learning, 1, 25–40.
UN, UNESCO, UNICEF, World Bank, UNFPA, UNDP, UN Women, & UNHCR. (2015). Education
2030, Incheon Declaration – Towards inclusive and equitable quality education and lifelong
learning for all. http://www.uis.unesco.org/Education/Documents/incheon-framework-for-action-
en.pdf
UNESCO. (2015). UNESCO recommendation on adult learning and education. Hamburg: UNESCO-
UIL. http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0024/002451/245179e.pdf
Yang, J., & Yorozu, R. (2015). Building a learning society in Japan, the Republic of Korea and
Singapore. Hamburg: UNESCO-UIL.
Zarifis, G. K., & Gravani, M. (2014). Reinstating the invisible: A proposed framework for European
learning collectives. In G. K. Zarifis & M. N. Gravani (Eds.), Challenging the “European Area of
Lifelong Learning”. A critical response (pp. 299–306). Dordrecht, Heidelberg, New York, London:
Springer.
Simona Sava
Department of Education Sciences
West University of Timisoara
Anca Luştrea
Department of Education Sciences
West University of Timisoara
G. A. Koulaouzides & K. Popović (Eds.), Adult Education and Lifelong Learning in Southeastern
Europe, 115–130.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
SANJA DJERASIMOVIĆ AND MAJA MAKSIMOVIĆ
10. BECOMING EUROPEAN
Serbian Adult Education Policy Discourse through the Decades
INTRODUCTION
In his seminal 1984 examination of the postmodern condition and the nature of
knowledge in what was seen as a (Western) society entering a post-industrial era,
Lyotard noted that knowledge had become valorized, a currency that enabled the
individual to become an economic subject and enter into a social contract – an
observation that constructs an individual at the turn of the century as encapsulating
the interlinking spheres of educational, economic, and political. Another important
point concerned the function of knowledge in a system (society, state) realised
through the means of its legitimation: the legitimacy of knowledge had now
become underlined by a technological, rather than a normative rationality. In other
words, the running of a societal eco-system was now not driven by questions of
what is right, just, or moral, but of how to achieve optimal levels of performativity
and efficiency.
Travel some 20 years into the future, and authors such as Novoa (2007) bemoan
the discourse of the “obvious” in European (adult) education policy, based around
topoi of efficiency, rigor, accountability, and benchmarking, steering
competitiveness (in performance) among nation states and equating citizenship
with employability for their denizens, a discourse created by a diffuse body of
“neutral” experts, the latter ensuring its legitimacy and authority. This is the
discourse intended to create a 21st century European: a “learning” European, ever
since the 2000 Lisbon Agenda recognised (adult) education as a key resource for
the (economic) development of European Union and its member states.
The focus of this paper will not be a critical examination of the contemporary
European adult education policy, which has been done profusely and persuasively
by various colleagues in recent years (see, e.g. Jarvis, 2014; Mohorčič Špolar et al.,
2014; Popović, 2014; Popović & Maksimović, 2012), but rather its effects on
policy (learning1
) in contexts which have a significant tradition of constructing an
alternative adult education discourse. We will discuss here the assumptions
underlying the current transfer of educational discourse (Silova, 2004; Steiner-
Khamsi, 2004) in adult education policy in Serbia, an EU candidate country,
following a disruption and (dis)continuation of an earlier narrative, in the country’s
efforts to shed the epithet of the Other, and finally become European.
S. DJERASIMOVIĆ & M. MAKSIMOVIĆ
116
Building on the incisive analysis of Serbia’s post-2000 adult education strategies
conducted by Despotović and Popović in 2014, which saw Serbian adult education
strategies move from a UNESCO-influenced “enlightening-empancipatory” (p. 56)
in 2001 to EU/World Bank-influenced discourse based on human capital and
economic development by 2012, in our paper we place the development of Serbia’s
post-2000 adult education policy discourse in a historical perspective, as we draw
parallels with its early iterations, as formed in communist Yugoslavia.2
In this process, we are drawing on the policy analysis theorization in the context
of post-communist Europeanization (primarily that of discourse transfer), however
also adopting a post-colonial framework as applied to the construction of the
Balkans, and inspired by Said’s orientalism. This borrowing from the field of
Balkan studies is useful in contextualising Serbia’s adult education reform in the
process of the country’s post-communist transition and in shedding some light on
premises underlying the policy mechanisms of discourse transfer.
SERBIA’S TRANSITION AND THE INEVITABILITY OF EUROPEANIZATION
A comprehensive permanent socialist education and upbringing of youth and
adults is to be organised in a way that significantly contributes to the
formation of a free, versatile socialist personality, and is a necessary factor of
development of socialist relationships in a society based around the principle
of self-management, and of the productive force of the society. […]
Professional and political education and upbringing, upbringing for creativity
of labour, links between education and teaching, and productive and other
socially useful labour, life, practice of self-management, and the everyday
struggle of the working class, are to run through the whole system and the
content of education and upbringing as chief marks and one of the basic
principles of socialist education and upbringing based on self-management,
and the comprehensive action of all factors of education and upbringing. […]
All forms and levels of education and upbringing need to be developed as
aspects of a comprehensive concept of permanent education. (League of
Yugoslav Communists (LYC), 1981, pp. 324–326)
Adult education’s mission is to provide the adult citizen with a right to
education and lifelong learning, thereby contributing to their personal and
professional development, better employment, and social participation. Adult
education, as an integral part of the comprehensive education system, and a
manifestation of the lifelong learning concept, has the following functions: to
respond to the needs of the job market and of individuals who seek new
knowledge and skills; increase employability; enable professional mobility
and flexibility of the employable section of the population; increase the value
of human capital as well as the potential for socio-economic sustainable
development of the state and its integration in global economy; contribute to
the decrease of poverty, increase of inclusivity and inter-generational
BECOMING EUROPEAN
117
solidarity and quality of life, the development of democracy, inter-cultural
sensitivity, and tolerance. (Government of Republic of Serbia, 2012, p. 150)
How is this journey to be explained? Almost twenty years ago, Serbia had its
“democratic revolution”, ending a decade of a semi-authoritarian (Levitsky and
Way, 2005) regime that followed in the break-up of the federal state of Yugoslavia
and the demise of its version of communism in 1990. Following a stilted transition
and a decade of limited reform of the education system, the new elites were keen to
catch up with other European, formerly socialist, countries on their way back to
Europe (Birzea, 1994). Such determination is powerfully expressed in the words of
the first prime minister of the 21st century post-authoritarian Serbia:
It is our goal, and we see this as happening, for Serbia to be an official
candidate for the European Union in 2004. In 2010, Serbia will be a full
member of the European Union. We will remove all obstacles on that path,
whether they bear the name of Milošević, or whether they bear the name of
laws. There are no obstacles that can stop us on this path. Just as a person
who had been kept under water for 50 years desires to breathe air, Serbia
cannot be stopped on its way to oxygen that is Europe – a family of
democratic, modern, developed countries. (Zoran Đinđić, addressing the
Assembly of the Democratic Party in 2001)
In this process, Serbia was to shed the legacy of what has been in the vocabulary
of post-communist reform literature described as the “relatively backward region”
(Radó, 2001, p. 11) to which it belonged, and join the ranks of the developed – the
inspiration for this was certainly not lacking, as the likelihood of the outcome of
such transformation was evident in the fact that some parts of the formerly socialist
Europe were at EU’s doorstep at that very moment (seven of them joined in 2004).
In all of this, transition was constructed as a movement from a clearly defined
point of departure to a clearly defined, attainable destination (Fairclough, 2006),
paradoxically placed against the very nature of transition as bound to the
unfinished, ruptured, ambiguous (post)modernity (Majstorović, 2007). Later
studies of post-communist transition in education (see e.g. Post-Socialism is Not
Dead, edited by Silova in 2010) did eventually start to recognise this fluidity, as
the concept of a linear trajectory was replaced with glocalization and hybridity.
Now, in the context of transnational and diffused governance of policymaking, the
emphasis was not on a straightforward adoption of policies, but rather a transfer of
discourses, abstract universalisms (Schriewer, 2003) and “flags of convenience”3
(Lynch, 1998), that were to ensure or at least signal the “correct” path of the
reform, but which were in educational reality layered and sometimes enmeshed
with existing and past practices. This dichotomy of discourse/practice is in itself
problematic (Djerasimovic, forthcoming), but the accent here is not really on
discrepancies between “policyspeak” (Halasz, 2012; Steiner-Khamsi, 2014) and
policy enactment, but really on the assumptions behind the perceived necessity of
signalling of what is accepted as a correct path in the first place.
S. DJERASIMOVIĆ & M. MAKSIMOVIĆ
118
The identity polarities and attendant power relationships that will be discussed
below are further obscured by the seemingly globally dispersed nature of
policymaking and agenda setting, which has seen the centers of power move from
nation states and become placed in the private and transnational spheres of
economic influence (Sassen [2008] in Oke 2009), bestowed onto the
unquestionable authority of international organizations4
(IOs) fuelled by
technocratic rationality. The latter, Moutsios (2012) suggests, divorced policy from
(geo) politics – and the questioning and debate that comes with it – as politics
yielded before the authority of expert bureaucracies. Another aspect of
globalization has been the shaping of the global narrative – in this case one of the
purposes and functions of adult education – seen to take part in the “center” and
expand outwards, with the contexts it reaches on its journey behaving in a reactive,
rather than actively constitutive way, towards it (Albrow [1997], in Oke, 2009).
The uneven power relationships inherent in inhabiting and performing the
discourse without actively contributing to its construction – as might be the case
with Serbia’s adoption of the IO-constructed adult education narratives of skills,
performance, and the indisputable rein of the market and human capital, will also
be examined in the acceptance of backward/developed binaries, that, driven by the
need to erase the negative imagery of belonging (in this case, to the post-socialist
Europe and the Balkans), often belie historical conversations and richness of the
educational discourse, presenting contemporary educational solutions as having no
alternative.
It is important to note that we recognise the historical processes as non-linear
and discontinuous, shaped by dominant power relations and epistemic truths as
things are no longer perceived, described, expressed, characterised, classified, and
known in the same way from one era to the next (Foucault, 2002). Therefore, the
aim of the analysis is not to explain the unbroken progress of adult education in
Serbia, but rather to shed the light on somewhat forgotten developments that took
place in the communist past that were reinvented by being assimilated by EU-
driven concept of lifelong learning as an expression of the ideological breaking
from the old regime. We approach in this way the two documents that were
produced before the clash of Yugoslavia which had considerable influence on the
formation of the system of adult education within the existing system of education.
One of these two documents is The Resolution of the Federal National Assembly
on Education of Professional Personnel from 1960 that followed the significant
changes from state administrated economy to the market orientated. The companies
become more independent, which consequently increased their responsibility
toward education of their workers. The big companies established centers for
education and training which shaped the Yugoslav system of professional
education. The Resolution was the first step in establishing the system of adult
education (Despotović, personal correspondence, September 14, 2016). The second
document is the Resolution on the Tasks of the League of Yugoslav Communists
(LYC) in the Socialist Transformation of Education, a document produced as a
result of the Tenth Congress of LYC 1974, which initiated the affirmation of the
concept of permanent education, introduced on the global scale through the
BECOMING EUROPEAN
119
UNESCO report in 1972. The Resolution was an expression of the number of
reforms that were formulated in order to establish a new system of governance –
self-managing socialism, as a solution to the crisis of the post-war progress and an
end of the communist euphoria, that also saw the considerable rise in
unemployment (Baćević, 2006). “The extensive and centrally run growth model
had exhausted itself by the end of the 1950s and could find no answers to the need
for a diversification of production”5
(Kanzleiter, 2011). The Yugoslav experiment
was an attempt to overcome etatism and find a new architecture that would go
beyond bureaucratised “state socialism” of the East.
We will consider the adult education narratives produced therein alongside those
in three major policy documents from the post-2000 period, in order to illuminate
distinct moments in the journey of the adult education discourse shaped by socio-
political conditions, but also importantly, a transformation of the imagining of
belonging, and the relationship between the national and global – from a non-
aligned Yugoslavia in the 1960s and 70s, to a post-socialist, post-nationalist
Serbia-in-the-Balkans of the 2000s. The discursive moments from the latter period
include that of the country’s “opening” (up to Europe, and to the wider world,
following the ousting of Milošević in 2000), captured in the document on Strategic
Directions of Development of Adult Education in 2001, followed by what was
recognised by Despotović and Popović (2014) as an exclusive political interest for
adult education documented in two major strategies, the Strategy of Adult
Education Development in the Republic of Serbia (2006) and Strategy for
Education in Serbia by 2020 (2012).
THE BALKANS IN THE PROCESS OF EUROPEANIZATION
As the historian Diana Mishkova (2008) reminds us, a dialogue with Edward
Said’s approach to Orientalism can be very valuable in the analysis of the history
of the Balkans. Since 1990 many scholars set the analysis of discursive
mechanisms shaping the Balkans within the framework of Orientalism (see
Todorova, 1997; Petrović, 2014; Bakić-Hayden & Hayden, 1992; Bakić-Hayden,
1995; Hammond, 2004, 2006; Mishkova, 2008). Although it was inspired by the
deconstruction of the meanings of Orient in the West, the image of the Balkans
does not share the same symbol of a dreamy and a faraway land.6
While the Orient
encapsulates the flight from civilization, “the Balkans, on the other hand, with their
unimaginative concreteness, and almost total lack of wealth, induced a
straightforward attitude, usually negative, but rarely nuanced” (Todorova, 1997,
p. 14). Balkan is not a geographical area – it is a symbolic representation of
European periphery. It is perceived as a “contagious disease”, “infectious sore in
the soft underbelly of Europe” (Goldsworthy, 1998, p. 2) that the modernised West
needs to monitor. The “backwardness” of Balkan countries is not a benign image,
but the one that has root in essentialism and holds immense potentiality for action.
As Bakić-Hayden (1995) highlights “violence in the Balkans has been not only a
description of a social condition but considered inherent in the nature of its people”
(p. 918).
S. DJERASIMOVIĆ & M. MAKSIMOVIĆ
120
By defining the Balkans as negatively, exceptionally transitional, the West is by
contrast conceptualized as (comfortingly) monolithic (Goldsworthy, 1999), this
construction of stability needed and imposed in order to counter the uncomfortably
fluid modernity that is the characterization of late capitalism. Conversely, the
Balkan nations have been all too eagerly accepting this promise of certainty and
stability, thus reinforcing the polarization between the civilized Europe and the
brute, “dirty, lost” Balkan states, as evident in Majstorović’s (2007) piercing
analysis of discourse of Europeanization in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The process
of Europeanization that assumes essential differences between “core Europe” and
the countries that are on the margins of the continent (such as East and
Southeastern Europe), which, in order to modernize, have to grow into liberal and
economically more progressive societies, has in the context of the Balkans been
literally constructed as a process of “stabilization”, as per the Stabilization and
Association Process launched in 1999. Petrović (2014) further suggests that the
political concept of the (Western) Balkans will altogether disappear once the
countries located between Croatia in the west, Hungary in the north, Romania and
Bulgaria in the east and Greece in the south, join the EU.
The image of Serbia has been historically constructed as “an unfinished state”
(Ristić, 2007), a country in between West and East, North and South, whose
position in geopolitical affairs is strongly shaped by the metaphor of the Balkans,
away from the center, and away from the “old western European” countries that
hold the key to prosperity and democracy. Whilst this geopolitical in-betweenness
was in the communist Yugoslavia construed as strength, by the 21st century, with
the wars and the destruction of the 1990s, Serbia has been transformed into Serbia-
in-the-Balkans. The country’s political reforms following its “democratic
revolution” in 2000 have been strongly shaped by the process of stabilization and
accession to the EU, seen as a way forward and out of the backward socialist past
and hazardous nationalistic tendencies that were dominant political discourse in the
90s. With them came the acceptance of the imagination of post-communism
according to which transition to democracy as a radical reconstruction starts from
scratch, with the “children” of Eastern Europe “unable to organise their lives
democratically without guidance from another” (Buden [2009] in Petrović, 2014,
p. 10), made even more radical in the post-war context with the assumption by the
international community that societies needed to be built anew, without interest in
what was there before (Helms [2003] in Petrović, 2014, p. 10) in terms of
practices, policies, and crucially, in terms of knowledge. This has parallels with
Todorova’s (2010) observation that “contemporary East European intellectuals
[…] increasingly see themselves in a subordinate position vis-à-vis the centers [sic]
of knowledge production and dissemination in the West, and some explicitly speak
of intellectual neoimperialism, neocolonialism or self-colonization, whence the
identification with postcoloniality” (p. 177).
Within the accession process, candidate countries have been interpreted as
receivers of successfully tested and implemented models from the West – models
that are themselves subject to extensive critique on the European level, as indicated
in the introductory paragraphs to this paper. As Petrović (2014) notes,
BECOMING EUROPEAN
121
“Europeanisation is a two-way street when it comes to shaping EU policy
measures, whereas Europeanisation East, at this stage, seems to be more of a one-
way street” (p. 207). Since there are no established mechanisms for non-EU or
candidate countries to influence and shape policy measures, peripheral societies
become passive receivers of practices coming from the centre, and in order for a
country outside of the EU to be commended for “good behaviour”, the suggested
measures have to be adopted and implemented. Throughout this process of
transition and reform, “Western Europe perceives itself as a model for
Europeanness and simultaneously a normative arbiter deciding who and what are
European” (Petrović, 2014, p. 12).
As an unfinished state, we argue that Serbia is in terms of (education) policy
making in the constant process of becoming – in this case becoming European
through taking over the dominant narratives of efficacy and performativity during
the process of never-ending educational reform. Adult education is not an
exception: although the practice and science of adult education, known in Serbia as
andragogy, and their effect on policy, had been highly developed until the
devastation of the 1990s, we argue that there has been significant deletion of
history on the level of policy making. The history had to be deleted due to the
“shameful past”: everything that was related to communism was about to be
reinvented by putting on the new clothes made of European values of democracy,
rationality and progress, which is reflected in process of transformation of practice
of adult education in Serbia into an area of lifelong learning.
HISTORICAL PATH AND THE TRANSFORMATIONS OF THE SERBIAN ADULT
EDUCATION DISCOURSE
The discussion of the historicity of the Serbian adult education discourse is
afforded by the relative continuity maintained by the national academic and
professional communities over the last several decades. Although theorizations of
post-communist education reforms tend to emphasize the rupture and the
subsequent construction of an entirely new educational discourse on the rabble of
the Berlin wall with the purpose of negating the communist past, we propose here a
theorization of the post-communist educational discourse as developed from –
rather than in opposition to – its earlier form, particularly bearing in mind our
perspective of non-linearity of historical development stated earlier in the text.
The Group for Andragogy within the Department for Pedagogy of Belgrade
University was established in 1983, which was a support to a strong professional
identity of adult educators. Interest in adult education was however expressed as
early as 1957, with the publication of the Theses on Adult Education by the Central
Council of Yugoslavian Unions. Yugoslavian andragogues had for decades, and
prior to the official institutionalization of the discipline, supported the efforts to
influence policy makers to recognize and support the development of this often
side-lined area of educational system. Various mechanisms and tools were used to
impact social actors to notice and admit the important role of adult education in
socio-economic development. For example, even before the establishment of the
S. DJERASIMOVIĆ & M. MAKSIMOVIĆ
122
Group for Andragogy, the strong professional interest and practice led to regular
congresses on adult education, organised between 1969 and 1990 to discuss
contemporary issues and build the professional identity of the community. Each
event produced a resolution aimed at mapping the state of adult education and
recommending further areas of influence. For example, the resolution articulated
during the second congress noted that adult education had been recognised as
integral part of the educational system. The development of the practice was seen
as joined with the development of the andragogical thought, with the conclusion
that “[…] the coordination between theoretical efforts and legislative is successful”
(Association of the Societies of Yugoslavian Andragouges, 1981, p. 315) – an
important, and apparently organic, development in the drive to further the science
of andragogy, improve the practice, and obtain recognition and support from
policymakers for both.
The 1960 Federal Assembly Resolution on Education of Professional Personnel
already recognised the need for all concerned actors – the government, educational
institutions at all levels (including the open and workers’ universities), companies,
and crucially, workers themselves – to collaborate on the development of a
democratic, open, and flexible educational system that would have adult education,
recognised as the basic human right, as its integral part. Education was intended as
professional learning, but also as laying the ground for education that would
continue throughout one’s working life, in various sites and forms, including
distance education. In the spirit of Marxism, the conditions were to lead to a
formation of a worker, a manager, a wide Marxist personality. In the Yugoslavian
self-management variant the workers’ autonomy was particularly emphasised, as
they were given the power of self-determination and decision-making through
union activity. Education itself appeared as a tool of catching up with scientific and
technological innovations, in a Yugoslavia that aimed to be on par with the
(technologically) developed world, but determined to keep its position between the
East and West (here geopolitical, rather than cultural, symbols).
The 1974 League of Communist Resolution on Education, now some years
further on from the post-war euphoria and the defining of internal system and
external positioning, insisted on education as the means of social reproduction and
increased productivity. Overall, aims of education followed a humanist and
socialist/emancipatory rationale (guided by notions of creativity, productivity,
responsibility, international outlook, inter-ethnic solidarity, elimination of
inequality), and the influence of international discourse was recognised, though not
explicitly stated, in the appearance of the concept of permanent education and self-
education that also appeared for the first time in UNESCO’s Learning to Be in
1972. Although professional learning and workers’ education still had an important
place, the emphasis was also on creativity of work, and its social, political, ethical
and environmental aspects. The construction of the educational system itself still
maintained flexibility and responsiveness – to workplace, and other sites of
learning – and openness to teaching and learning innovation, learners’ needs and
experiences.
BECOMING EUROPEAN
123
This state discourse shaped and reshaped by Yugoslavian academics,
practitioners, and the officials of the communist party, experienced a violent break
in the 1990s. in the circumstances of the federation’s dissolution, Serbia’s
authoritarian regime, and its financial and structural devastation in the context of
isolation and war. The academics and the practitioners kept the conversation going
within the academic as well as third sector spheres, acing as the factors of
disruption (of the regime) (Despotović & Popović, 2014), advocating the
importance of adult education, and keeping ties with global developments and
international partners in the sector. So when Serbia’s first comprehensive post-
communist education reform began in 2001 with the newly formed democratic
government firmly, and not with a little urgency, proclaiming “democratisation,
modernisation, and Europeanisation” as its authoritative guiding principles,7
adult
education professionals and academics, organised around the newly formed NGO
Adult Education Society (established in 2000) began to advocate for the
recognition of the field (Popović, 2000). Such internal advocacy was necessary
since the new government was more interested in the reforms of the school system,
however, external factors, such as IOs and (I)NGOs that had already provided
support to the andragogue community within the third sector during the 1990s,
began having an effect on policy directions.
This resulted in the production of a document on Strategic Directions for
Development of Adult Education in 2001, when the working group, drawn in part
from the ranks of the Adult Education Society, submitted to the new government a
digest of key European policy trends marrying a neo-liberal market ideology of
individuation and responsibility projected by the nascent lifelong learning creed, a
technocratic, skilled-oriented OECD philosophy, and the humanist approach of
personal development, social cohesion, and global peace and tolerance advocated
by UNESCO (Popović, 2014; Popović & Maksimović, 2012). European discourse,
as constructed in key documents (including the 2000 Memorandum on Lifelong
Learning and the 1995 White Paper on Education and Training) appeared
alongside those of UNESCO and OECD, as an example rather than an indisputable
dictate for the national policy, and the authors insisted on learning from
international experience, and more specifically, experience of transition elsewhere.
However, European structural and legislative solutions did seem to have an aura of
authority in the (strongly expressed) recommendations for structural reform of the
(adult) education system in Serbia. The normative aspect of the discourse, on the
other hand, was decidedly humanist, as adult education was proposed not primarily
as a strategic measure of achieving government goals8
– of economic and
democratic development, and Serbia’s international integration – but
overwhelmingly promoted as a path towards development on the level of the
individual, of the family, society, the political and economic system, and the
environment: a tool in achieving personal fulfilment and societal flourishing.
Although the authors presented the way in which “modern Europe” or
“contemporary society” were described in EU and OECD documents (with accent
on knowledge and skills as a way of countering the economic, technological, and
political challenges of the modern world), there was a lack of a normative
S. DJERASIMOVIĆ & M. MAKSIMOVIĆ
124
prescription with regards to Serbia’s relationship with this image. The one time
where an explicit agreement with international discourse was expressed, was in
finding in the UNESCO 1996 Report a true “meaning and function of education”,
as a contribution to humanity’s aspiration towards the ideals of peace, freedom,
and social justice (Ministry of Education and Sport, 2002, p. 6).
BECOMING EUROPEAN
There was a certain freedom in this apparent availability of options, freedom
similarly expressed by some of the other 2001-2003 Serbian education reform
actors in Djerasimovic (2015), granted by a combination of the international
community’s support after the democratic revolution, and the national
policymakers’ state of readiness to begin the reform built on their 1990s activity in
academia and the third sector, and the familiarity with the experience of other
countries in post-communist transition. Nevertheless, the imperative to guide the
choice between options was, among the educational as well as political elite,
unquestionably one of “return”. Although the post-communist “myth of return”
(Bozóki, 2002) (to Europe, to normalcy, to a linear course of history somehow seen
to have been interrupted by communism) was in Serbia’s case not solely a deletion
of communism, but a return to the somewhat fragmented, then pieced together,
imagery of belonging that spanned the post-Ottoman period, and in fact included
the openness and academic productivity of communist Yugoslavia, the process of
EU integration nevertheless led to the abandonment of now forgotten historical
practices influenced by the undesirably red-hued political interest in adult
education.
Thus, by 2010s, with Serbia firmly, albeit slowly, en route to EU candidacy, this
apparent wealth of options – generated both by the global and the Yugoslavian
discourses over the decades – had become largely reduced to those endorsed by the
EU. The gentle embrace between Serbia and the neo-liberal ideology guiding the
European discourse of lifelong learning has now become a stable marriage, as the
national research and practitioner communities adopted the narratives of skills,
performance, and measurement, constructed during the seemingly never-ending
process of EU integrations, with the correspondence in the construction of learning
in the function of economy and technological development obvious between
Serbia’s and EU policy documents:
The crisis has highlighted the major role which adult learning can play in
achieving the Europe 2020 goals, by enabling adults — in particular the low-
skilled and older workers — to improve their ability to adapt to changes in
the labour market and society. Adult learning provides a means of up-skilling
or reskilling those affected by unemployment, restructuring and career
transitions, as well as makes an important contribution to social inclusion,
active citizenship and personal development. (European Council, 2011, p. 1)
Adult education has to respond to the needs of the labour market and the
needs of individuals, must be corrective of the formal education system, a
BECOMING EUROPEAN
125
sub-system that is flexible and innovative enough to adapt to demands set by
new technologies and sustainable development. […] The development of this
strategy relied on experience and good practice found in EU countries, while
respectful of cultural and national specificity of the Republic of Serbia. This
strategy is based on the EU lifelong learning policy expressed in European
Commission document ‘ET 2020’, i.e. its programme ‘new skills for new
jobs. (Government of Republic of Serbia, 2012, p. 5)
Both 2006 and 2012 Serbian adult education strategies convey the primacy of
economic development as a force dictating the shape of education and its priorities.
The country’s international strategic position and political relationships are also
placed in a state of dependence on the competitiveness of its industry, while the
political stability is the function of enabling openness to foreign capital. Local
community development is equally constructed as dependent on economic growth,
with the environmental narrative appearing only once, and in relation to sustainable
development. Development appears throughout as a self-evident necessity, with an
educated workforce as its tool.
Complementary narrative in the construction of the desired society is that of
knowledge-based individuals and their role in the social development guided by the
principles of inter-generational cohesion, inter-cultural behaviour, tolerance, and
democracy. However, these social values seldom feature in the text, and when they
do, they appear as an unattached string of catchphrases outside of a context that is
overwhelmingly defined (even in their immediate textual proximity) by the
concepts of employability, worker flexibility and mobility, market demands and
the necessity of development for the purposes of global integration that dominate
the rest of the text. Equally out of place, a collocation “aging society, migration,
and needs of marginalised groups” appears once, ungrounded, discursively
disconnected, like an after-thought. “Aging society” does get another mention, as
an identified risk as well as an opportunity to make the most of the “human
potential” – the resource-oriented ideology of human capital taken to the extreme.
In contrast with the earlier iterations of the discourse noted above, learning (as
opposed to education) is now instrumental and functional, with its four out of six
listed functions that appear in the 2006 strategy following an economic rationale,
and the remaining two being EU integration and social protection. Learning
appears overwhelmingly as a support to economic development, in the service of
productivity and competitiveness as societal goals. Learners become “workforce”
(compared to earlier individuated, empowered workers), and knowledge is relevant
if it is correspondent to the needs of the market, with even “life skills” and “social
skills” in the service of finding employment/planning a career. Throughout the
documents, EU/European standards appear as a main comparator, the tool of
authority and legitimation, and EU/Europe as society’s destination, with the
necessity of harmonization of education expressed with a repeated and dominant
modal “must”. On a level of employing symbolic capital (Bourdieu, 1991), the
copious referencing of Europe and EU (the two, significantly, always
interchangeably used in 2006 and 2012 strategies), serves to mark a determination
S. DJERASIMOVIĆ & M. MAKSIMOVIĆ
126
to reframe the collective identity from the deficiently “Balkan” to the desirably
“European”. This is further exemplified in the document on the attainment
standards in adult education, which dictates that the learner should demonstrate not
only the knowledge of EU founding principles, but also an “application of
European values in his/her decision-making” (Ministry of Education, Sport and
Technological Development, 2013, p. 32). These European values, meanwhile, are
undefined, unelaborated, unquestionable, obvious.
Returning to the discursive fragments in Serbia’s adult education policy
examined earlier, we can see that some elements of the adult education discourse
do exhibit certain continuity – namely the recognition of adult education as a
mechanism that, rather than as an add-on, is an integral element of the educational
system, and as such points to the long-standing concern with the continuous
learning process. However, this can hardly be seen as an uninterrupted narrative –
in fact, what we are witnessing is a movement from the concept of permanent
education, which had a very strong local source in the work of Yugoslavian
andragogues – to the ideology of lifelong learning, produced outside of the national
discourse, and accepted by the Serbian policymakers in the process of (at this point
still discursive and symbolic) Europeanization, via a complete side-lining of adult
education during the 1990s. In terms of employed policy mechanisms, this amounts
to externalization of discourse, whereby its elements are transferred from
elsewhere (EU discourse), rather than developed from own experience through
self-referentiality (Schriewer, 2003). The underlining premise, as argued
throughout this paper, has been a perceived necessity of the deletion of history with
a view to becoming European.
The more conspicuous differences between the Yugoslavian and post-2000
Serbian discourses are supplied by the effects of Marxist vs. neo-liberal ideology.
In the recent iteration of the adult education discourse, the focus is on learning,
rather than institutionally provided education; there is a primacy of skills in the
function of inevitable development, and individuals are constructed as driven by
personal motivation (towards employability, mobility, and self-development) and
grouped around various collective markers (of age, ethnicity, etc. – hence the need
for “intergenerational understanding” and “tolerance”), in contrast with the earlier
constructed image of a society moving as a whole towards a collective goal.
“Educational system” as well, has moved from being a flexible societal institution
shaped by, as well as driving forward, the needs and priorities of relevant actors, to
becoming a “world of learning”, conceived as a world of resources, investment,
capital, gain, and effective and efficient use, the outcomes of learning judged
according to universalised measures of quality.
CONCLUDING REMARKS
In 2011, the leader of the first EU project aimed at the development of the system
of vocational and adult education in Serbia commented in this way on the slow
pace of the project implementation:
BECOMING EUROPEAN
127
One of the problems concerns the law on adult education on which we’ve
been waiting for years. All countries in the region have one and the Strategy
was adopted here in 2006. What could serve as a justification is that rushing
it should be avoided in order to avoid another “impossible compound” as was
the case in other areas during these transitional years. However, the question
is how much this “slowness” will bear fruit. (Trevor Cook, interviewed for
Vreme newspaper)
Such authoritative concern with the processes of reforms in the region, derived
as much from the post-communist processes of integration as with EU’s calls for
stability in the Balkans, made one of the priorities of the Lisbon Strategy
(Despotović, 2016), has been met on the part of Serbia with an embrace of
desirable reforms through a policy discourse whose construction involved
renaming and abandoning of the old practices and the acceptance of the imposed
criteria of success of the new ones. Although the system of adult education had
already matured in former Yugoslavia, Serbia, now a part of the “Western
Balkans” engaged in an act of voluntary self-colonization (Petrović, 2014).
In one sense, Serbia’s becoming an EU candidate country in 2012, the year that
dates the latest government adult education strategy, would have made it likely for
its adult education policy to be reflected in, or “harmonized” with – to use the
language of Serbian policymakers – that of the EU, especially since the 2006 and
2012 strategies were developed following projects supported from EU funds
(Popović & Despotović, 2014). Additionally, one can explain this as a
straightforward transfer of educational discourse in the post-communist context
(Steiner-Khamsi, 2000; Silova, 2004), the mechanism of signalling the “correct”
course of the reform internationally, or legitimising certain decisions internally by
emulating the external source of authority. But to dismiss such mechanisms as
expected, obvious, or even natural, would be to indulge in sceptical reductionism.
Our purpose here was a step towards exploring the premises behind the seemingly
indisputable legitimacy and authority of “Europe” as a symbolic space, while
reflecting on the historical ruptures and continuities in Serbia’s adult education
discourse, with the purpose of avoiding the dangers of a synchronic analysis that
would itself have been guilty of the act of deletion and negation.
NOTES
1
In her analysis of EU mechanisms in national policymaking, Alexiadou (2014) emphasises policy
learning (in contrast to borrowing/lending/transfer) as a mechanism that changes behaviour of actors
involved and is more long term in its effects, as it is reflective and developmental, aiming to not only
change policy, but alter assumptions on which policymaking is built. She notes that ‘a surface policy
learning process could produce institutionalised policy objectives at the level of national policy
making’ (p. 128).
2
Of which Serbia had been part until the federation’s dissolution in 1990.
3
Lynch uses the concept to denote themes prioritised by developing countries’ reforms that are likely
to align with those of international donors, and thus likely to attract funding.
4
In the case of adult education and its more recent iteration found in lifelong learning, these are
primarily OECD, EU, World Bank, and UNESCO (Popović, 2014).
S. DJERASIMOVIĆ & M. MAKSIMOVIĆ
128
5
http://www.transform-network.net/journal/issue-092011/news/detail/Journal/workers-self-
management-in-yugoslavia-an-ambivalent-experience.html
6
See Mazower (2000) on the “violence, savagery, primitivism” (p. 4) that had occupied the Western
imagination of the Balkans towards the end of the 19th and the beginning of the 20th century.
7
The collocation of the three dominated the education reform discourse (Djerasimovic, 2015).
8
The two were brought into connection only on two occasions in the text.
REFERENCES
Alexiadou, N. (2014). Policy learning and Europeanisation in education: The governance of a field and
the transfer of knowledge. In A. Nordin & D. Sundberg (Eds.), Transnational policy flows in
European education: the making and governing of knowledge in the education policy field (pp. 123–
140). Oxford: Symposium Books Oxford Studies in Comparative Education.
Association of the Societies of Yugoslavian Andragogues. (1981). The resolution of the second
congress of andragogues 1973. In D. Filipović, Andragoška misao i akcija. Beograd: Privredno-
finansijski vodič.
Baćević, J. (2006). Pogled unazad: Antropološka analiza uvodjenja usmerenog obrazovanja u SFRJ.
Antropologija, 1, 017.
Bakić-Hayden, M. (1995). Nesting orientalisms: The case of former Yugoslavia. Slavic Review, 54(4),
917–931.
Bakic-Hayden, M., & Hayden, R. M. (1992). Orientalist variations on the theme “Balkans”: Symbolic
geography in recent Yugoslav cultural politics. Slavic Review, 51(1), 1–15.
Bianchini, S., Schöpflin, G., & Shoup, P. (Eds.). (2002). Post-communist transition as a European
problem. Ravenna: Longo Editore.
Birzea, C. (1994). Educational policies of the countries in transition. Strasbourg: Council of Europe
Press.
Bourdieu, P. (1991). Language and symbolic power (edited and introduced by J. B. Thompson).
Cambridge: Polity Press (first edition 1977).
Bozóki, A. (2002). Democratic design and ‘return’ to Europe: Discourses of the roundtable talks of
1989. In S. Bianchini, G. Schöpflin, & P. Shoup (Eds.), Post-communist transition as a European
problem (pp. 31–57). Ravenna: Longo Editore.
Commission of the European Communities. (1995). White paper on education and training. Teaching
and learning: Towards a developed society. Retrieved from: https://publications.europa.eu/en/
publication-detail/-/publication/d0a8aa7a-5311-4eee-904c-98fa541108d8/language-en
Commission of the European Communities. (2000). Memorandum on lifelong learning. Retrieved from:
http://pjp-eu.coe.int/documents/1017981/1668227/COM_Sec_2000_1832.pdf/f79d0e69-b8d3-48a7-
9d16-1a065bfe48e5.
Delors, J. (1996). Learning: The treasure within. Report of the International committee for education
for XXI century before UNESCO. Retrieved from http://www.unesco.org/education/pdf/15_62.pdf
Despotović, M. (2016). Obrazovanje odraslih na Balkanu: Jedan empirijski pregled. Beograd: Društvo
za Obrazovanje Odraslih i DVV International.
Despotović, M., & Popović, K. (2014). Strategije obrazovanja odraslih u Srbiji – želje, potrebe,
mogućnosti i rezultati. In B. Knežić, A. Pejatović, & Z. Milošević (Eds.), Modeli procenjivanja i
strategije unapredjivanja kvaliteta obrazovanja odraslih u Srbiji (pp. 47–69). Beograd: Institut za
pedagogiju i andragogiju.
Djerasimovic, S. (2015). Formation of the civic education policy as a discursive project in post-2000
Serbia. Unpublished doctoral thesis. University of Oxford.
Djerasimovic, S. (2018, forthcoming). A 21st century European citizen: Construction of the Serbian
civic education discourse and its comparison with England. In I. Silova & M. Chankseliani (Eds.),
Comparing post-socialist transformations: Education in Eastern Europe and former Soviet Union.
Oxford Studies in Comparative Education. Oxford: Symposium Books.
BECOMING EUROPEAN
129
Đinđić, Z. (2001). Speech at the Assembly of the Democratic Party [Data file]. Retrieved from
http://www.zorandjindjic.org/citati
European Council. (2011). Council Resolution on a Renewed European Agenda for Adult
Learning 372/1. Retrieved from http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:
32011G1220(01)&from=EN
Fairclough, N. (2006) Language and globalisation. New York: Routledge.
Foucault, M. (2002). The order of things: An archaeology of the human sciences. Psychology Press.
Goldsworthy, V. (1998). Inventing Ruritania: The imperialism of the imagination. Yale University
Press.
Goldsworthy, V. (1999). The last stop on the Orient Express: The Balkans and the politics of
British in(ter)vention. Balkanologie. Revue d'études pluridisciplinaires, 3(2). Retrieved from:
http://balkanologie.revues.org/749
Government of Republic of Serbia. (2012). Strategy for education in Serbia by 2020. The Official
Gazette of Republic of Serbia, 107/2012.
Government of Republic of Serbia. (2007). Strategy for development of adult Education in the Republic
of Serbia. The Official Gazette of Republic of Serbia, 1/2007
Halász, G. (2012) Policy cultures and education policy: A Central and Eastern European perspective. In
K. Seashore Louis & B. van Velzen (Eds.), Education policy in an international context: Political
culture and its effects (pp. 213–220). New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Hammond, A. (2004). The uses of Balkanism: Representation and power in British travel writing,
1850–1914. The Slavonic and East European Review, 82(3), 601–624.
Hammond, A. (2006). Balkanism in political context: from the Ottoman Empire to the EU. Westminster
Papers in Communication and Culture, 3(3), 6–26.
Jarvis, P. (2014). From adult education to lifelong learning and beyond. Comparative Education, 50(1),
45–57.
League of Yugoslav Communists. (1981). Resolution on the Tasks of the League of Yugoslav
Communists (LYC) in the Socialist Transformation of Education, 1974. In D. Filipović, Andragoška
misao i akcija. Beograd: Privredno-finansijski vodič.
Levitsky, S., & Way, L. (2005). International linkage and democratization. Journal of Democracy,
16(3), 20–34.
Lyotard, J. (1984). The postmodern condition: A report on knowledge. Manchester: Manchester
University Press.
Majstorović, D. (2007). Construction of Europeanization in the High Representative’s discourse in
Bosnia and Herzegovina. Discourse & Society, 18(5), 627–651.
Mazower, M. (2000) The Balkans. London: Phoenix Press.
Minstry of Education and Sport. (2002). Strateški pravci razvoja obrazovanja odraslih [Strategic
directions of development of adult education]. In Minstry of Education and Sport, Quality education
for all – A way toward a developed society. Belgrade: Minstry of Education and Sport.
Ministry of Education, Sport and Technological Development. (2013). Code on general attainment
standards for basic adult education – Civic education. The Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia,
50/2013.
Mishkova, D. (2008). Symbolic geographies and visions of identity: A Balkan perspective. European
Journal of Social Theory, 11(2), 237–256.
Mohorčič Špolar, V., Holford, J., & Milana, M. (2014). Adult education and lifelong learning in
postcommunist countries. European Education, 46(4), 3–8.
Moutsios, S. (2010). Power, politics and transnational policy-making in education. Globalisation,
Societies and Education, 8(1), 121–141.
Nordin, A., & Sundberg, D. (Eds.). (2014). Transnational policy flows in European education: The
making and governing of knowledge in the education policy field (pp. 123–140). Oxford:
Symposium Books Oxford Studies in Comparative Education.
Novoa, A. (2007). The ‘right’ education in Europe: When the obvious is not so obvious! Theory and
Research in Education, 5(2), 143–151.
S. DJERASIMOVIĆ & M. MAKSIMOVIĆ
130
Oke, N. (2009). Globalizing time and space: Temporal and spatial considerations in discourses of
globalization. International Political Sociology, 3, 310–326.
Popović, K. (2014). Globalna i evropska politika obrazovanja odraslih – koncepti, paradigme i pristupi.
Belgrade: Institute for Pedagogy and Andragogy, Faculty of Philosophy, University of Belgrade;
Adult Education Society.
Popović, K., & Maksimović, M. (2012). Kvalitet obrazovanja odraslih u Evropi kao diskurzivna praksa.
In Š. Alibabić, S. Medić, & B. Bodroški Spariosu (Eds.), Kvalitet u obrazovanju. Beograd: Institut
za pedagogiju i andragogiju Filozofskog fakulteta Univerziteta u Beogradu.
Petrović, T. (2014). Introduction: Europeanization and the Balkans. In T. Petrović (Ed.). Mirroring
Europe: Ideas of Europe and Europeanization in Balkan societies (pp. 3–19). Leiden, Boston: Brill.
Radó, P. (2001) Transition in education. Budapest. Open Society Institution.
Ristić, I. (2007). Serbian identity and the concept of Europeanness. Panoeconomicus, 2, 185–195.
Schriewer, J. (Ed.). (2000). Discourse formation in comparative education. Frankfurt am Main: Peter
Lang.
Schriewer, J. (2003). Globalisation in education: Process and discourse. Policy Futures in Education,
1(2), 271–283.
Seashore Louis, K., & van Velzen, B. (Eds.). (2012). Education policy in an international context:
Political culture and its effects. New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Silova, I. (2004). Adopting the language of the new allies. In G. Steiner-Khamsi (Ed.), The global
politics of educational borrowing and lending (pp. 75–87). New York: Teachers College Press.
Silova, I. (Ed.). (2010a). Post-socialism is not dead: (Re)reading the global in comparative education.
International Perspectives on Education and Society, Vol. 14. Bingley: Emerald Books.
Silova, I. (2010b). Rediscovering post-socialism in comparative education. In I. Silova (Ed.), Post-
socialism is not dead: (Re)reading the global in comparative education (pp. 1–24). International
Perspectives on Education and Society, Vol. 14. Bingley: Emerald Books.
Steiner-Khamsi, G. (2000). Transferring education, displacing reforms. In J. Schriewer (Ed.), Discourse
formation in comparative education (pp. 155–188). Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Steiner-Khamsi, G. (Ed.). (2004). Global politics of educational borrowing and lending. New York:
Teachers College.
Steiner-Khamsi, G. (2014). Cross-national policy borrowing: Understanding reception and translation in
Asia Pacific Journal of Education, 34(2), 153–167.
Todorova, M. (1997). Imagining the Balkans. New York, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Todorova, M. (2010). Balkanism and postcolonialism or on the beauty of the airplane view. In C.
Bradatan & S. Oushakine (Eds.), Marx’s shadow: Knowledge, power, and intellectuals in Eastern
Europe and Russia (pp. 175–195). Lanham, Boulder, New York, Toronto, Plymouth UK: Rowman
and Littlefield.
Vreme. (10 November 2011). Slow changes [Spore promene]. Retrieved from http://www.vreme.com/
cms/view.php?id=110859
Sanja Đerasimović
College of Humanities
University of Exeter
Maja Maksimović
Faculty of Philosophy
University of Belgrade
131
ABOUT THE CONTRIBUTORS
Sandra Bjelan-Guska studied pedagogy and education. She is currently employed
as senior teaching assistant at the Department of Pedagogy, Faculty of Philosophy
at the University of Sarajevo. She finished her Ph.D. thesis in the didactics of
university education. Moreover, she is interested in family pedagogy, methodology
of adult teaching and learning and ballet pedagogy. She has published several
papers as author and co-author, edited conference proceedings and participated in
many projects, seminars, trainings and conferences.
Sanja Djerasimović is a research fellow at the University of Exeter, where she
studies academic identities and knowledge production and use in social sciences
and humanities disciplines. She holds an MA in Lifelong Education from the
University of Nottingham and a DPhil in Education from the University of Oxford,
where she held teaching and research posts before moving to Exeter. She has
studied and written on education reform in the post-communist context, policy
transfer in the context of globalisation, and citizenship education. Her overarching
research interests are in the spheres of educational policy, governance, and the use
of discourse theory in educational research.
Marta Gregorčič is a sociologist and assistant professor of adult education at the
Department of Educational Sciences, Faculty of Arts at the University of Ljubljana.
She researches neoliberalism, counter-hegemonic movements and new
epistemologies from the Global South. She has published and edited more than 10
books on development, migration, antiracism, social ecology and libertarian
horizontal practices of the oppressed. In her recent work she focuses on learning-
by-struggling and learning-in-struggle of different autonomous and self-
determining communities, socio-cultural animation and informal learning of older
adults.
Christina Hajisoteriou is a lecturer of intercultural education at the University of
Nicosia, Cyprus. Previously she has served as a primary school teacher. She has
received the Degree of the Doctor of Philosophy by the University of Cambridge,
UK. She was also awarded her MPhil in Educational Research by the same
university. Her research interests relate to intercultural education, migration,
globalisation, Europeanization, identity politics, and social cohesion. Her latest
book is entitled Intercultural Dialogue in Education. She has published widely in
international peer-reviewed academic journals, handbooks, and edited volumes.
She has also participated in EU-funded research projects on intercultural education.
Her most recent book is titled ‘The Globalisation of Intercultural Education: The
politics of macro-micro integration’.
Lejla Hodžić studied Science of Education at the University in Sarajevo, where
she works as an Assistant Professor. She teaches school pedagogy and sociology of
ABOUT THE CONTRIBUTORS
132
education and often deals with the education of marginalized groups of children
and youth. She has published many papers in journals and conference proceedings.
She has participated in different projects at the University and in numerous
activities of nongovernmental national and international organizations.
Sabina Jelenc Krašovec is associate professor of adult education at the University
of Ljubljana, Faculty of Arts, Department of Educational Sciences. Her research
work is focused on the adult and older adults’ learning, intergenerational learning
and solidarity in rural and urban communities and influences of different social
contexts on well-being of various groups of adults. Her topics are also counselling
and guidance in adult education and education and learning of vulnerable groups of
adults. She is scientifically active on national and international level, and published
many scientific articles, several books and chapters in scientific books. She is a
chief editor of the journal Andragogical Perspectives.
Lejla Kafedžić studied pedagogy and education. She is employed as an associate
professor at the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Sarajevo. She is
particularly interested in the following areas of pedagogical disciplines: special
pedagogy, family pedagogy and adult education. She has published and translated
numerous papers from different fields of pedagogy, participated in the realisation
of a number of projects, and has attended several seminar, trainings, and
conferences.
George A. Koulaouzides studied mathematics and adult education. He teaches
theory and practice of adult education at the Hellenic Open University and the
Democritus University of Thrace. He has designed the well-known accredited
training program for the instructors of the National Centre for Public
Administration in Greece and has a vast experience in training of trainers. George
is considered as the person who guided the internationalization of the Greek adult
education community. His research interests are learning, transformative learning,
educational biography and critical reflection. He has translated three books on
adult education, edited journals and several textbooks. His published work counts
more than 75 papers in journals, edited volumes and conference proceedings.
Anca Luştrea is assistant professor at the Department of Educational Sciences at
the West University of Timisoara. She has a Ph.D. in Educational Psychology
(psychology of learning), from Babes-Bolyai University of Cluj-Napoca. She
serves as the principal supervisor psychologist in Special Education since 2013 and
has a rich experience in the theory and practice of special and inclusive education,
mainly in special didactics. She is an adult education trainer since 2008 and a board
member of the Romanian Institute for Adult Education. Her key areas of research
interest include special didactics, inclusion, case management in special education
and the psychology of deaf children.
ABOUT THE CONTRIBUTORS
133
Maja Maksimović is assistant professor at the Department for Pedagogy and
Andragogy, Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Belgrade and a researcher
at the Institute for Pedagogy and Andragogy. Maja has a diploma in andragogy,
obtained in Belgrade, Serbia, MA in Counselling Studies obtained at the University
of Nottingham, UK, and PhD in Andragogy, Faculty of Philosophy, University of
Belgrade. She is a deputy editor of the adult education journal Andragogical
Studies and the author of numerous publications. Since 2014 she has been a
member of the executive board of the European Association for the Education of
Adults.
Konstantinos Markidis is a sociologist of education and labor. He studied
sociology and pedagogy in Thessaloniki and Paris. He has taught sociology of
education, educational sciences and non-formal education at University Paris 8
Vincennes-Saint-Denis in France and since 2012 he is scientific collaborator
at the Centre of Educational Policy – General Confederation of Greek Labour
(KANEP/GSEE).
Ira Papageorgiou studied linguistics and politics, continuing her studies in adult
education and community development. She is a scientific associate of the Labour
Institute of the Greek General Confederation of Labour, designing and
implementing lifelong learning projects, as well as a tutor at the Hellenic Open
University in the field of Adult Education. Her work has been published in books
in Greek and in national and international journals. Her research has mainly dealt
with the issues of active citizenship, interculturalism and the role of adult
educators.
Katarina Popović is associate professor in the Department of Andragogy at the
University of Belgrade and Secretary General of the International Council for
Adult Education. Katarina has been instrumental in the revitalization of the adult
education school of thought in the Balkan region. Her scholarly work has helped to
regain the scientific legitimacy to adult education in the whole region of
Southeastern Europe. She serves in several journal editorial boards and is an editor-
in-chief of Andragogical Studies. From her different posts she has influenced the
national and international academic and pragmatic development of adult education.
Simona Sava is professor of adult education at the West University of Timisoara.
She got her PhD from the University of Bucharest on distance education and
habilitated there in 2015 on adult education. Beside this, she was director of the
Romanian Institute of Adult Education from 2000 to 2015. Her main research
topics are: professionalization in adult education, validation of competencies and
educational policy on national and international level. She worked and continues to
work for national and international bodies such as the European Commission. She
is a consultant of the Romanian Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labor, the
Ministry of Information and Communication, DG Employment and others. Her
publications include more than 70 papers and 15 books.
ABOUT THE CONTRIBUTORS
134
Snježana Šušnjara is associate professor at the Faculty of Philosophy, University
of Sarajevo. She holds graduate degrees from the Central European University,
Hungary, the University of Sarajevo and the University of Joensuu, Finland where
additionally she finished her Ph.D. She has published more than 50 articles, two
books and she has been the editor of several books. She has participated in a many
international conferences about the historical sphere, human rights, gender issues,
social-anthropology, pedagogical-psychological research, comparative pedagogy
and multicultural education. She is particularly interested in the following areas of
pedagogical disciplines: history of pedagogy, education and special pedagogy,
adult education and methodology of teaching and learning.
Zoran Velkovski studied Pedagogy and Adult Education. He teaches theory and
practice of adult education at the Institute of Pedagogy, Faculty of Philosophy at
the Ss. Cyril and Methodius University in Skopje. He has served as Director of the
Pedagogical Bureau of the Republic of Macedonia and as Vice-rector for Teaching
Affairs at the Ss. Cyril and Methodius University in Skopje. He has published or
contributed to over 100 publications and was team leader or member in over 50
domestic or international science research projects and external evaluator of
national and international projects. He is author or co-author of some of the
country’s most pertinent strategic documents including National Programme for
Development of Education 2005–2015”, Country Strategy for Vocational
Education and Training 2013–2020, Adult Education Strategy 2000–2005, Strategy
for the Development of the Ss. Cyril and Methodius University 2004–2008.
Tihomir Žiljak studied political sciences and received his PhD at University of
Zagreb. He is Head of the Department for Lifelong Learning, Development and EU
Programs at the Public Open University of Zagreb and assistant professor of
Education Policy, Europeanization of Public Policies, Comparative Public Policy at
the University of Zagreb (Croatia) and the University of Mostar (Bosnia and
Herzegovina). He has spent his entire professional career in adult education as a
program manager, teacher, director, researcher and advocate for adult education.
He is a former president and a current vice president of Croatian Andragogy
Society. He is a member of editorial board of several public policy journals and
former editor in chief of the Andragogy Journal. He has published articles on adult
education and lifelong learning policy in journals and books in Croatian, English
and Russian and co-edited five books of proceedings from international adult
education conferences.
