The Socio-Cultural Context of Cameroonian Pidgin 19
effectively communicate to a wider audience. Drama for development and
several films are conveyed in the language while politicians use it during
political campaigns to effectively explain their political agenda to the
population. Therefore, the popular songs, the movies, and the radio and the
television programs in Pidgin have a tremendous impact on the Cameroonian
society.
Besides, the educated class and institutions that were against the use of
the language are beginning to hold their breath and accept that the
language is a dynamic factor in social life and has consequently gained the
momentum that calls for standardization in order to ensure its full potential
as a language. What guarantees the growth of a language are the socio-
cultural and economic factors. If a language is not harmful to the
established traditions and instead promotes cultural dynamism, political
assimilation and social integration as Cameroonian Pidgin has proven,
then it becomes necessary for it to be developed and preserved.
The fact is that Pidgin has firmly established itself in the socio-cultural,
economic and the political lives of Cameroonians. With its rapid growth
favoured by its multicultural and multilinguistic contexts and considering
that the language has been proven as facilitating social, political and
cultural integration, there is strong evidence that the future of the language
is guaranteed. For this to happen, individuals, educational establishments,
and the government have to consider the language as a valuable tool for
national development. It should not be seen as a threat to the English or
the French language. The decline in the use of Standard English in the
country is to be blamed on a number of factors the most significant being
the absence of clearly designed objectives and goals in curriculum
planning for the English language in schools. Even where they exist, there
is no proper follow up to ensure their effective implementation. Once these
factors are rectified, it is certain that the blame of the failure to speak and
write Standard English will no longer be laid on the influence of Pidgin.
Finally, Pidgin may be considered a “globalizing” language in Central
and West Africa given its extensive use in the informal and the formal
contexts. It has become a home language or one of the home languages of
the urban groups. It is being used by the younger generations in a wide
range of contexts, and it is thriving well in the highly multicultural and
multilingual contexts across the regions. It is, therefore, high time that
governments in these regions began to think of legitimizing the language
since it is the only non-European language to cross the national and the
regional borders.
CHAPTER TWO
THE WRITING SYSTEM, SOUNDS
AND WORD FORMATION
2.1 The writing system
Cameroonian pidgin does not yet have an accepted writing system or
a recognized pronunciation code. So far, each speaker, writer or researcher
uses the language in a way that suits his or her purposes. While spoken
Pidgin is very current and alive in Cameroon, used by people from all
sectors of life, written Pidgin is still very much in the embryonic stage.
The Pidgin translations of the New Testament by the Bible Society of
Cameroon (2000) and the religious material written by Bishop Pius Awah
such as the Pidgin English Prayer Book (2005) are possibly the largest
textual corpora existing in Pidgin. Besides, written Pidgin can only be
found on a few posters, message boards, bumpers of taxis, dialogues in
some literary texts, for example in Butake’s Lake God, in some poems by
John Menget and in prose fiction by Nkemngong Nkengasong. Each of
these categories of Pidgin writers uses a writing system based on the
individual’s upbringing, his/her education and the purpose for writing. The
variations in the writing system of Cameroonian Pidgin are illustrated in
the five excerpts that follow—an excerpt from a literary work by Bole
Butake, two excerpts transcribed from the music of the popular
Cameroonian musician, Lapiro de Mbanga, and two excerpts from
Christian literature.
An excerpt from Bole Butake’s play Lake God.
Fon: (To Dewa) You bin talk all da foolish talk?
Dewa: Kai! Me no talkam noting, Mbe. Allah! Me no talkam
noting.
Fon: Na weti happen?
Dewa: Cow dong go drinki wata fo Ngangba sai we na kontri fo
Bororo.
The Writing System, Sounds and Word Formation 21
Fon: Fo sika sey me tell you fo go shiddon dere da wan mean
sey na wuna kontri?
Dewa: No bi na gomna don talk sey na place fo cow?
Fon: Which gomna, you bloody fool? You look the palava wey
you don bringam fo my head?
Dewa: Allah! Me no bringam no trobou fo Mbe.
Fon: You go pay all da chop wey you cow don choppam.
(Butake 1999: 16)
English Translation
Fon: (To Dewa) Did you say all those foolish words?
Dewa: Kai! I said nothing, Mbe. Allah! I said nothing.
Fon: What happened?
Dewa: Cattle drank water on the other side of Ngangba which is
the Bororo country.
Fon: Because I asked you to live there means that it is your
country?
Dewa: Is it not the government who said that it is the cattle
rearing ground?
Fon: Which government, you bloody fool? Have you seen the
trouble you have brought to bear on me?
Dewa: Allah! I did not bring any trouble to Mbe.
Fon: You will pay for all the crops that your cattle have eaten.
(My translation)
The dialogue in the extract involves a cattle rearer whose accent and
choice of words like “kai” and “Allah” betray his northern origin and the
Fon, the traditional ruler of a grass field tribe, can also be identified by his
choice of words. However, the Pidgin that Butake uses in some dialogues
in his play, as exemplified above, does not provide clues for a systematic
analysis of the language. There is a mixture of English words, vernacular
and at times a conscious distortion of English words to sound like Pidgin.
Words like “foolish”, “cow”, and “bloody fool” are certainly an anglicized
version of his pidgin, while words like “gomna”, “kontri” and “trobou” are
derived from the English words “government”, “country”, and “trouble”
respectively. It is difficult to explain from Butake’s text why some words
are spelled in Standard English while others, drawn from the same source
language, are spelt differently. Briefly speaking, there is hardly any
consistency in Butake’s writing system. Butake, like most Cameroonian
writers who include Pidgin in their fictional works, writes the Pidgin the
way he/she conceives it to be. Consequently, his written and the spoken
Pidgin tend to be idiosyncratic. What is, however, evident in the Pidgin
Chapter Two
22
sample taken from Butake’s play is that its structural patterns are similar to
the other varieties.
Here are two transcriptions of a song by Lapiro de Mbanga by two
researchers. The song, titled “Mimba wi” (“Remember Us”), is an appeal
to those who wield political power not to disregard the less privileged. The
first transcription is by Henry Kah Jick:
You wan dame you mimba wi
You wan sule you mimba wi
You wan motu you mimba wi oh,
Oh-Mimba wi o oh
O oh Mimba wi
Wi no wan kikoh
Wi no wan go for gata
Wi de da so for ndengwe
A beg mimba we ooh-yes
Wi no wan problem para
Wi no wan go for ndengi
Wi de fine da so garri
For help our own family ooh. (Jick 2015: 116-117)
The second transcription is by Enongene Mirabeau Sone:
You wan damé you mimba wi
You wan sulé you mimba wi
You wan motu you mimba wi oh,
Oh- mimba we ooo
Ooh mimba we
Wi nэ wan kikoh
Wi nэ wan go for ngata
Wi de da sэ for ndengwe
A beg mimba we ooh-yes.
Wi nэ wan problem para
Wi nэ wan go for ndengi
Wi di fine da sэ garri
For helep wi own family ooh (Sone 2009: 21-22)
The English Translation:
The Writing System, Sounds and Word Formation 23
When you want to eat remember us
When you want to drink remember us
When you want to sleep remember us
Oh! Remember us ooh
Oh! Remembers us
We don’t want to be thieves
We don’t want to go to prison
We are only surviving
I am pleading remember us
We don’t want to become pick pockets
We don’t want to go to [Ko]ndengi
We are looking only for garri
To help our own families.
(My translation)
It was not possible to find the original lyrics written by the singer. The
versions written by Jick and Sone are probably the way they each listened
to the song and transcribed it. There are differences in spellings,
especially, in words like “gata” (Sone’s version) and “ngata” (Jick’s
version) and in expressions like “help our” (Jick’s transcription) and
“helep wi” (Sone’s transcription). The differences reveal the idiosyncratic
factors which sometimes influence the writing system of Pidgin. Sone’s
version is closer to the recognizable structure of Pidgin in the sense that he
tries to capture the language as the singer uses it and he also introduces
phonetic symbols in words like “damé”, “sulé”, “nэ”, and “sэ” to guide the
reader.
Below are three passages, the first is taken from Pidgin English Prayer
Book written by Pius Awa (2005), the second from Gud Nyus fo Ol Pipul
translated by the Bible Society of Cameroon (2000) and the third from the
original English Version of the Gospel of Luke 23: 27-31. The first two
passages are Pidgin translations of the extract from the original English
version: Luke 23:27-31.
An excerpt from Pidgin English Prayer Book written by Pius Awa:
Plenty people them been follow Jesus; and some woman them too, whe
them been cry, and them sorry for he. Jesus he been turn and he talk for
them say, “Woman for Jerusalem, una no must cry for me; una must cry
for unaself and for una pikin. Because day e de come whe people them go
talk say, ‘Glad e be for woman whe he no fit born; for belly whe e no been
get pikin; and for bobby whe e no been give chop for pikin.’ For that time
people them go begin talk for big hill them say, ‘Fall for we skin’ and for
Chapter Two
24
small hill them say, ‘Cover we’. Because if them de make so for stick whe
e never dry, how for the one whe e done dry?” (Awa 2005: 120)
The following is an excerpt taken from Gud Nyus fo Ol Pipul by the Bible
Society of Cameroon. It is a translation of the same passage from the Bible
as seen above: Luke 23: 27-31:
Plenti pipul dem bin folo go witi Jesus. Som wuman dem tuu dem bin di
krai an di sori fo yi. Jesus e ton an e tok fo dem sei, “Wuman dem fo
Jerusalem, meik wuna no di krai na mi, wuna krai na wuna sef and wuna
pikin dem; foseika dei di kam weh pipul dem go tok sei, ‘E fain fo wuman
weh e no di born; e fain fo bele weh e no bin born pikin; e fain fo bobi weh
pikin e no bin sok’am!’ Fo daa tam, pipul dem go begin tok fo mauntein
dem sei, ‘Fol fo ontop wi’ an fo hil dem sei, ‘kova wi’. If dis ting e di
happen so weh stik e nova drai, den hau e go bi fo tam weh stik e don
drai?”
Below is an excerpt taken from the original English Version of the Gospel
of Luke 23: 27-31:
27
And there followed him a great company of people, and of women,
which also bewailed and lamented him. 28
But Jesus turning onto them said,
Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for
your children. 29
For, behold, the days are coming, in [the] (sic) which they
shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bear, and the
paps which never gave suck. 30
Then shall they begin to say to the
mountains, Fall on us; and tell the hills, Cover us. 31
For if they do these
things in a green tree, what shall be done in the dry? (The Holy Bible
1989: 63).
One observes in the passage from Pius Awah’s Pidgin English Prayer
Book that the writing system is highly anglicized. This is the variety of
Pidgin used by people who have a mastery of the English language and
who are conscious of their English pronunciations. Apart from a few
words like “whe”, “una”, “pikin” and “bobby”, the rest of the 133 words in
the extract are written using the English spelling system. In everyday
conversation, it is rare to find someone who speaks Pidgin with a detailed
attention to the Standard English pronunciation. However, as is the case
with the excerpt taken from Butake’s play, the uniqueness of the
grammatical structure of Pidgin in the biblical passage is very obvious.
The transcription in the excerpt from Gud Nyus fo Ol Pipul by Bible
Society of Cameroon actually captures the speech patterns of most Pidgin
speakers in the country, especially the Kumba variety. It reveals that the
The Writing System, Sounds and Word Formation 25
Pidgin speaker and the writer are conscious of how the indigenous
languages influence the language. Words are written the way they are
pronounced, as is the case with many indigenous languages. In other
words, the Pidgin passage extracted from Gud Nyus fo Ol Pipul reflects
the Pidgin spoken in everyday life in Cameroon. It is the most accurate of
the five Pidgin varieties (Butake, Jick, Sone, Awah, and The Bible Society
of Cameroon) examined above. Nevertheless, there are still some symptoms
of anglicized orthography which do not really occur in real speech. In
words like “sei” (say), “meik” (make), “preiya” (prayer) for example, the
diphthong /ei/ is hardly pronounced. However, apart from the spellings
which still bear traces of anglicized pidgin, the translation into Pidgin of
the New Testament by The Bible Society of Cameroon is a tremendous
success. It can be considered the longest narrative in Pidgin which
provides a suitable corpus for studying many aspects of the language.
While some users adopt the English writing system and others
transcribe the indigenous speech production like the Christian missionaries
have done, others (especially linguists) are still at pains to come out with a
regular writing system for Cameroonian Pidgin. Consequently, there is
still a lot of disparity in some of the problem areas of the lexicology of
Cameroonian Pidgin as summarized in the following table:
Table 2 - 1: Differences in the writing system
Kumba
standard
Phonetic
transcription
Spelling
1
Spelling
2
Spelling
3
English
sho /‫ݕ‬ó/ shou sho shu show
fain /fáin/ fayn fain fayn fine
stik /stik/ sitik stic sitic stick
weti /wéti/ wheti whetti wetin what
dai /dái/ day dayi dae die
helep /hélép/ hellep hep helep help
trobu /tróbù/ trobul troble trobou trouble
wu /wú/ whu hu wuh who
we /wé/ whe wey weh which,
whom
ya /ya/ yo yah yua your
slip /slip/ silip shilip shelip sleep
The table above shows the examples of the disparity in the writing
system as well as the pronunciation of the words. The examples of the
writing system used in this book are those presented in the first column of
Chapter Two
26
the table. The analysis of tape-recorded material was able to confirm that
the ordinary user of the language most often ignores the anglicized speech
patterns.
A common problem area in the orthography of Cameroonian Pidgin is
the use of de which has different meanings. Several orthographic forms
exist depending on the users: dey translated as “there”, dei translated as
“day”, and di translated as “is” or “are”. While these variations sound
confusing, a keener ear will identify the /de/ sound to mean the definite
article “the”, the auxiliary verb “is” or “am”, the adverb “there”, or it is
translated as “day”. What distinguishes the different uses of the word is a
matter of tone. The de with the vowel /e/ pronounced at low tone means
either “the” or “is” or “am”. The one pronounced at the middle tone /de/
means either “there” or “day”. There is a further nuance in the use of de
and di for “am” and “are”. If one listens carefully to the oral production of
Pidgin, he/she will notice that the following two words de and di mean the
same thing but are used in different contexts:
A de. “I am.”
A di chop. “I am eating.”
The word de is used in simple sentences as follows:
A de. “I am.”
Yu de. “You are.”
I de. “It/she is.”
Wi de. “We are.”
Wuna de. “You are.”
Dem de. “They are.”
Di is used in the sentences longer than simply A de. The reason being
that de does not necessarily mean “I am” but “Am there”. In the context of
this work, di is used in the sentences which do not end at the level of the
auxiliary verb de.
Several other words which are sourced from the English language do
not necessarily adopt the English spelling system. In many cases, some
segments in English are dropped. Words with “ee” which in English
suggest the long /i:/ sound are shortened and the “i” phoneme is used
instead of the “ee” as in words like ship (“sheep”), bif (“beef”), tri (“tree”),
kip (“keep”), and si (“see”). Other cases include English words with “oo”
which represent the /u/ sound in English. Pidgin words borrowed from
English with such spellings are spelled with a “u” as follows: buk
(“book”), luk (“look”), huk (“hook”) and shut (“shoot”). Similarly, English
The Writing System, Sounds and Word Formation 27
words spelled with “ou” like “house” are spelled haus in Pidgin and those
with “ow” as in “cow” and “fowl” are spelled kau and fau respectively.
Also, the English words that end with “l” or “le” like “people”,
“pineapple”, “bible” and “fowl” are written as pipu, panapu, babu and fau
respectively. The voiced alveolar plosive sound /d/ in the words borrowed
from English is omitted in words like han translated as “hand”, san-san
translated as “sand”.
Since the pronunciation of many of the loan words from English and
French is influenced by the indigenous language pronunciations, the
writing system cannot be the same as in the source languages. Words like
kapinta (“carpenter”), televishon (“television”), eroplen (“airplane”),
jandam (“gendarme”), komandang (“commander”), are easily identified
and their meanings remain unchanged in both English and Pidgin. An
important rule for Cameroonian Pidgin is that words are written the way
they are pronounced. If an English man went to a neighbourhood in
Kumba looking for a /‫ޖ‬k‫ޝܤ‬pܼntԥ/ he will hardly find one, except he is
looking for a /kápínta/. Words which are easily identified as loans from
English and whose meanings remain unchanged are excluded from the
glossary of Pidgin words.
The writing system used by the Bible Society of Cameroon is similar
to the one used in this book. The main difference however, is that whereas
the biblical stories translated by the Bible Society of Cameroon express a
culture that is alien to Cameroonians, the attempt in this book is to
describe the language in a way that best defines the Cameroonian culture
in its natural context. The multitude of Pidgin proverbs and a glossary of
Pidgin words and expressions have been included from the appendix and
the glossary sections of this book to bring out the true cultural value of
Cameroonian Pidgin.
2.2 The sound system
The phonological features of Cameroonian Pidgin are simple compared
to the complicated phonological system of the English language. It is
based on the system adopted by many linguists of Creole-based Pidgin in
West Africa. However, different countries try to come up with particular
spelling systems depending on the different source languages in the
country. Although Pidgin is losing some of its phonological peculiarities
when spoken by some educated Cameroonians (Ngefac and Sala 2006),
one cannot also deny that there is still rampant infiltration of the sound
patterns from the indigenous languages, especially the tonal aspect. Also,
for most of the educated class of pidgin speakers we cannot ignore the
Chapter Two
28
frequent interference of Pidgin in spoken and written English. It has also
been noted that the growing influence of French in the development of
Cameroonian Pidgin may in the long run not make English the main
source of Cameroonian Pidgin.
Cameroonian Pidgin sounds are made up of both vowels and
consonants that are significantly influenced by indigenous languages and,
to a limited extent, the English and the French languages.
2.2.1 Vowel sounds
Vowels in Cameroonian Pidgin are all short length. In other words,
there are hardly any long vowels in the Pidgin as is the case with English
words like “cute” long /u:/ and “hope” long /o:/. Pidgin vowels can
combine to form diphthongs such as /au/ in haus (“house”), /ia/ as in bia-
bia (“hair”), /ai/ as in bai (“buy”) and /ie/as in fie (“fear”). In the cases
where the loan words come from English the diphthongs and triphthongs
are shortened as shown in the following words: “how” is shortened to ha,
“now” becomes na. “How now?” becomes Ha na? “fire” pronounced
/faܼ‫ۑ‬/ becomes faya /fáya/, “wire” pronounced /waܼ‫ۑ‬/ becomes waya
/wáya/, “wait” pronounced /weit/ in English becomes wet /wet/ in pidgin.
The vowel system is most often determined by the tone which suggests the
meanings of some words as shall be explained later.
The process of inserting vowel sounds into the consonant clusters in
some loan words from English, known as “epenthesis”, is a common
feature of Pidgin. For example, English words like “skin”, “small” and
“help” become sikin, simo and helep, respectively. Other examples include
silip for “sleep”, siku for “school” and sitik for “stick”. Sometimes English
vowels lose their stress patterns as well as their original vowel sound in
favour of the tonal aspect in pidgin. “Water” /‫ޖ‬w‫ޝܧ‬tԥ/ is pronounced /watá/;
and “monkey” /‫ޖ‬m‫ݞ‬ƾki/ is pronounced /m‫ܧ‬ƾkí with a rising tone at the end.
Because of the tonal aspect of Pidgin, every vowel represents a sound
unlike in English in which some vowels are redundant as the “e” in “bite”
and “monkey”.
There are twelve vowel sounds in Cameroonian Pidgin: i, ia, ie, e, ‫ܭ‬, a,
ai, au, o, ‫ܧ‬, oi, and u. Both the sound patterns and the writing systems are
illustrated below.
The Writing System, Sounds and Word Formation 29
Table 2 - 2: Vowel sounds
Grapheme Phoneme Pidgin
word(s)
Pidgin
transcription
English
word(s)
i /i/ chit /chit/ cheat, beat,
seat
ia /ia/ bia-bia /bia-biá/ hair
ie /iİ/ fie /fiİ/ fear
e /e/ ples /ples/ place, change,
make
‫ܭ‬ /‫ܭ‬/ kene-kene /kਦnਦ-kȑnȑ/ slippery
a /a/ bag, hat, fat /bag/ bag, heart, fat
ai /ai/ bai /bai/ buy, kind, bite
au /au/ haus /haus/ house, how,
fowl
‫ܧ‬ /‫ܧ‬/ pot, tok /p‫ܧ‬t/ pot, talk
oi /‫ܧ‬i/ boi /b‫ܧ‬i/ boy
o /o/ got /got/ goat, goal,
gold
u /u/ fulэp, kuk /fulop/ full, cook
2.2.2 Consonant sounds
Cameroonian Pidgin uses fewer segmental features when compared to
English. Noticeable examples are found at the level of fricative
consonants. Voiced dental fricatives such as /ð/, found in English words
like “this” [ðis], are pronounced in Pidgin [dis]. Voiceless dental fricatives
/‫ڧ‬/ as in English “thing” [‫ڧ‬iƾ] and “thank” [‫ڧ‬æƾk] are pronounced in
Pidgin ting [tiƾ] and tank [taƾk] respectively. Also, the sound [ð] in words
like “father” or “mother”, pronounced respectively, as [‫ޖ‬f‫ޝܤ‬ðԥ], and
[‫ޖ‬m‫ݞ‬ðԥ] in the English language are pronounced differently in Pidgin as:
Chapter Two
30
/fáda/, /m‫ܧ‬ғda/ respectively. “That” is pronounced /dát/.
The other peculiarities of the Cameroonian Pidgin sounds are the
palatal velar /݄/ and the velar nasal /ƾ/. The palatal velar is greatly
influenced by the indigenous languages as in words like nyanga /݄yàƾgá/
(“stylishness”) and nyamfuka /݄yàmfùkà/ (“beast”). The velar nasal sound
exists in English, but it is hardly used at the beginning of words. Examples
in Pidgin are found in words like ngum /ƾgum/ (power, strength); ngondele
/ƾg‫ܧ‬ndélè/ (young woman). Another significant vowel sound drawn from
native languages is the bilabial plosive /gb/ in words like agbada /àgbádá/
and ogbono /‫ܧ‬Ғgb‫ܧ‬Ғn‫ܧ‬Ғ/. The voiceless plosive that represents the /k/ sound is
very strong in Pidgin to the extent that the hard “c” is hardly noticeable. In
these cases, “corn” in English is written kon and pronounced /k‫ܧ‬ғn/,
“carpenter” is written kapinta and pronounced /kápínta/. Similarly, the
voiced labio-dental fricative /v/ which comes at the end of some words
sourced from English is usually replaced with the voiceless labiodental
fricative /f/. Words like faif (“five”) and draif (“drive”) are pronounced
/faif/ and /draif/ respectively. There are altogether twenty-three consonant
sounds in Cameroonian Pidgin represented by b, ch, d, f, g, gb, h, j, k, l, m,
n, ny, ng, p, r, s, sh, t, v, w, y, z. The sound patterns and the writing system
are illustrated in the table below.
Table 2 - 3: Consonant sounds
Grapheme Phoneme Pidgin Phonetic
transcription
English
b /b/ bakala /bàkálá/ hair braid
ch /‫ݹ‬/ machis /máchís/ matches
d /d/ dogo /dógó/ tall person
f /f/ fufu /fùfú/ pounded
cocoyam
g /g/ gombo /gombó/ tips, bribe
gb /gb/ ogbono /‫ܧ‬Ғgb‫ܧ‬Ғn‫ܧ‬Ғ/ slimy seed used
for sauce
h /h/ hala /hála/ shout
j /‫ݶ‬/ juju / ‫ݶ‬ù‫ݶ‬ú/ masquerade,
sorcery
k /k/ katakata /kàtàkátá/ disorder
l /l/ alambu /alámbù/ hurricane lamp
m /m/ moni /m‫ܧ‬Ғní/ money
n /n / nana / nàná / young pretty
girl
The Writing System, Sounds and Word Formation 31
n /݄/ nyanga /݄yàngá/ stylishness
ng /ƾ/ ngumba / ƾgùmbá/ cutting grass
p /p/ potopoto /p‫ܧ‬Ғt‫ܧ‬Ғ-p‫ܧ‬ғt‫ܧ‬ғ/ mud
r /r/ reme /rémé/ mother
s /s/ sawa /sáwà/ sour
sh /‫ݕ‬/ ashawo /àsháwó/ prostitute
t /t/ arata /árátà/ rat
v /v/ fiva /fívà/ fever
w /w/ wata /wàtá/ water
y /j/ wayo /wajó/ dishonesty
z /z/ zam-zam /zàm-zàm/ rough person
Generally, the influence of the local languages on the sound patterns of
Pidgin is quite significant. That is why speaking or writing Pidgin as an
educated person cannot be considered a model for the language, given that
its orthography and pronunciation are the product of several factors other
than the English language.
2.2.3 Tonal language
Several studies recognize tone as a feature which is used to distinguish
meaning in Cameroonian Pidgin (Menang 2004: 915). However, because
of its variety of sources, Pidgin pronunciation is not as systematic as in
English or French. It is, therefore, difficult to identify the words which are
marked by tone or stress. For the tone to be marked appropriately, one
needs to know the source of each word. This is certainly beyond the scope
of this book. Thus, the basic principle of pronunciation in Cameroonian
Pidgin, as applied in this context, is guided by the theory that
Cameroonian Pidgin is a tonal language since the indigenous languages
which are tonal in nature play a major role in determining the way the
words are pronounced in the ordinary Cameroonian speech.
Dwyer and Smith (qtd. in Menang 2004: 915) identify three tone types
in Cameroonian Pidgin: a strong high tone, a weak low tone and a low
tone. The high and low tones are more easily identifiable than the weak
low tones. Diatrics are used to mark the low tone ( ) and high tone (ǯ)
while the weak low tone or what may also be called middle tone, is
unmarked. The dominant tones are the low and the high tones. In some
words all the three tones can be identified. The following words, for
example, begin with high tones, followed by middle tones and end with
low tones:
Chapter Two
32
Samboko /sámbokò/ “buckle”
Takembeng /tákembèng/ “an aged and assertive woman”
Some words may not have the systematic rise and fall of the tones as in the
examples given above, but they may have one, two or three of the tones
that appear in any order.
Examples:
Palava /palávà/ “problem”
Panapu /panápù/ “proverb” or “wise statement”
Katanga /katáƾgà/ “cow hide”
Bensikin /bénsìkin/ “moto-cycle taxi”
Lamido /lamídò/ “ruler in the northern regions of Cameroon”
Wahala /wahálà/ “trouble, problem”
Tone is a determining factor for understanding the meanings of words
in Cameroonian Pidgin, especially in tone-based minimal pairs.
Examples:
Sáwá (HH) “the coastal people of Cameroon”
Sáwà (HL) “sour”
Pàpá (LH) “father” or “daddy”
Pápà (HL) “dandy fellow”
P‫ܧ‬Ғp‫ܧ‬ғ (LH) “pawpaw”
P‫ܧ‬ғp‫ܧ‬Ғ (HL) “proper”
Bábà (HL) “barber”
Bàbá (LH) “seer”, “fortune teller” or “old man”
Mbó-mbò (HL) “namesake”
Mbò-mbó (LH) “vagina”
Wákà (HL) “walk”, “journey”
Wàká (LH) “pay one a visit”
(See more examples of tone transcription in the glossary of the words and
the phrases at the end of the book).
The Writing System, Sounds and Word Formation 33
2.3 Word formation
The sources of Cameroonian Pidgin words are varied. Many words are
derived from borrowing, while other words are formed by reduplication,
compounding, metaphorical extensions, clipping, and euphemisms.
2.3.1 Borrowing
Borrowing is the principal source of the Cameroonian Pidgin lexicon.
The superstrate language is the English language, but the indigenous
languages and French are leaving their mark significantly on the Pidgin.
Some of the main indigenous sources include Bakweri, Lamso, Duala,
Ngemba, Nweh and Bamileki. Historical sources include Portuguese,
German and French, while some of the lexical items are derived from the
indigenous languages in neighbouring Nigeria, including Igbo, Yuroba and
Hausa. They are illustrated in the following table:
Table 2 – 4: Some Pidgin words and their origins
Word Phonetic
transcription
Origin English
equivalent
Ngondele /ƾg‫ܧ‬Ғndélè/ Duala
(Cameroon)
maiden
Nayo-nayo /náj‫ܧ‬Ғ-naj‫ܧ‬Ғ/ Duala
(Cameroon)
gently
Banja /bàn‫ݶ‬à/ Bakweri
(Cameroon)
ribs
Nyamfuka /݄jàmfùkà/ Kom (Cameroon) beast
Sanja /sànjà/ Mungaka
(Cameroon)
large loin cloth
Wahala /wahálà/ Yuroba (Nigeria) trouble/problem
Dosie /dosíè/ French documents
Mpang /mpàƾ/ French trousers
Kale /kàlé/ French hooked up
Pikin /pikín/ Portuguese child
dash /dá‫ݕ‬/ Portuguese gift
Sabi /sàbí/ Portuguese know
English is not mentioned in the table, but for most of the words borrowed
from English, there are visible changes in their morphology. Examples
include pósa (“purse”), hála (“holla”), trokí (“tortoise”), and móp
Chapter Two
34
(“mouth”). Cases of morphological changes in words apply to the other
donor languages such as French and Portuguese.
One of the key aims of this book is to illustrate the growing influence
of French on Cameroonian Pidgin. As it was discussed in Chapter One,
French is becoming a major source language because Anglophone, as well
as Francophone Cameroonians, most often include French words and
expressions in the language. Table 2 - 5 below provides examples of
French influence on Pidgin.
Table 2 – 5: Examples of regularly used French words in Pidgin
Pidgin Transcription French English
eskro /eskró/ escroquerie crookery
nominacion /n‫ܧ‬Ғminasioƾ/ nomination appointment
doze /dozé/ doser cover with
aroze /àrozé/ arouser celebrate an
achievement
debruye /debrujé/ debrouiller struggle
reso /rezó/ reseau network
shome /‫ݕ‬omé/ chomer go about jobless
bolo /bòló/ boulot job
konsta /k‫ܧ‬nstá/ constat inquiry
nivo /nivó/ niveau level, status
katie /katié/ quartier neighbourhood
Sometimes, in a single expression, one can identify two or more loan
words.
Example:
Tu kolo fap sang.
“Two thousand five hundred francs.”
The expression, thus consists of words loaned from three sources:
English indigenous language French
Tu/ “two” kolo/ “thousand” sang/ “cent”
Fap/five
Note should be taken of the similarity between the structural formation of
Cameroonian Pidgin and Camfranglais. As the name suggests, it is a
The Writing System, Sounds and Word Formation 35
variety of Pidgin spoken mostly among the Francophone school children.
Table 2 – 6 illustrates this.
Table 2 – 6: Examples of Camfranglais sentences
Camfranglais French English
On go On va/allons Let’s go
Il fia meme quoi? Il a même peur de
quoi?
What is he even afraid of?
Je sofa ici beta je
go.
Je souffre ici mieux
je part.
I’m suffering here, it’s
better I leave.
J’ai hia moh. Je me suis amusé I have enjoyed myself
Je wanda. Je doute/Je me
demande.
I wonder.
Il a chuke la nga. Il a eu des relations
sexuelles avec la
fille.
He has had sex with the girl.
Le ticha ariv. Le professeur
arrive.
The teacher is coming.
In the table above, one will notice the frequency of occurrence of the
words and expressions from English and French and from the vernacular
languages as well. Camfranglais is becoming a significant language for a
particular class of people, especially, the Francophone students. However,
the line between Camfranglais and Cameroonian Pidgin is becoming less
visible, particularly with the continuous integration of the English, the
French and the indigenous languages.
Example:
Je veux buy le pain mais je n’ai pas le nkap.
“I want to buy bread, but I don’t have money.”
In the example above, “Je veux” is French, “buy” is English, “mais je n’ai
pas le” is French and “nkap” is Ngemba.
Another popular phenomenon is manifest when Pidgin speakers
introduce especially French verbs in ordinary speech. Pidgin verbs like
jere (French “gerer’, English “to manage”); sove (French “sauver”,
English “save”), jongle (French “jongler”, English “juggle”, or “play
with”) consistently form part of the Cameroonian Pidgin lexicon.
Chapter Two
36
Examples:
Mi an yu go jere’am.
“You and I will manage the situation.”
Na ma reme bin sove mi.
“It’s my mother who saved me.”
A beg, no jongle mi.
“Please, don’t juggle/play/confuse me.”
One can, therefore, hardly identify the systematic structural differences
between Camfranglais and Cameroonian Pidgin since, according to Schröder
(2003:76), the grammatical markers in Camfranglais and Cameroonian
Pidgin are similar.
2.3.2 Reduplication
Reduplication occurs in the formation of adverbs when the root word is
repeated for emphasis. In most cases, the rising tone usually falls on the
repeated segment.
Examples:
Waka-wáká “vagabond”
Ple-plé “playful”
Ton-tón “roam about”
Hori-hórí “be in extreme haste”
krai-krái “crying always
Kata-kátá “disorder”/ “confusion”
In some words, the tone falls on the first syllable.
Examples:
Náyo-nayo “gently”
smó-smo “bit by bit, gently”
2.3.3 Compounding
Many words in Cameroonian Pidgin are formed by combining elements of
the various word classes. This is referred to as compounding, which
involves the merging of two or more elements expressing different ideas.
The Writing System, Sounds and Word Formation 37
Compounding in Cameroonian Pidgin is very flexible, especially, because
of the peculiar multilingual and multicultural context of Cameroon. In
some situations, compounding is hyphenated and in some cases the initial
word describes the next one.
Examples:
Adjectives compounded with nouns:
Long-trot “glutton”
Bad-bele “jealousy”/ “envy”
Buzi-bodi “busy person”
Swit-mop “convincing tongue”
Bik papa “grandfather”
Smo haus “toilet”
Nouns compounded with nouns:
God-pikin “Christian”
Haus-boi “male servant”
Bebi-gel/boi “girl”/ “boy child”
Grong-kako “earthly things”
Kontri-fau “locally-bred chicken”
Pikin-fau “chick”
Pikin-kau “calf”
Verbs compounded with nouns:
chop-chie “successor”
dai-man “corpse”
jam-bodi “extremely busy person”
trong-hed “heady”
mek-mop “boast”
Multiple compounding:
fo-wan-nain “fraudster”
man-pikin-han “right hand”
kain-bai-kain “assorted”
smo-no-bi-sik “essential balm”
2.3.4 Metaphorical extensions
Metaphorical extensions are words with semantic changes whose
meanings have metaphorical implications.
Chapter Two
38
Examples:
Kam-wi-ste “unmarried couples living together”
Nak sikin “troubling oneself”
Hia mo “enjoy”
Helep sikin “sustain life”
Sase “grammar” (often English)
Kokonot hed “coconut head”, “dunce”
Shek sikin “prove one’s worth”, “show excitement”
Kola “bribe”
2.3.5 Syllable extension
Syllable extension occurs when words borrowed from another language
are stretched out by the addition of a syllable. Although it is often ignored
by educated speakers, syllable extension is a regular feature of the
language, evident in the use of words borrowed from English like tanap
(“stand”), waka (“walk”), helep (“help”).
Examples:
A si yi taim we i bin tanap fo go.
“I saw him when he stood to go.”
Trong man helep yi sef.
“A tough man helps himself.”
I no fit waka.
“She/He cannot walk.”
2.3.6 Clipping
Clipping involves the shortening of words without altering their original
meanings. Word formation is achieved by removing the syllables at the
beginning or the end of words such as “Dok” from “doctor”, “Doki” from
“document”, “Sis” from “sister”, “Bro” from “brother”, “chus” from
“excuse” (as in “chus mi” meaning “excuse me”) and “muv” from
“remove”.
Examples:
A beg, chus mi, a no go du’am egen.
“Please, forgive me, I won’t do that gain.”
The Writing System, Sounds and Word Formation 39
A beg chus mi, a don du bad ting.
“Please, excuse me, I have done evil.”
Bro, muv da doki fo ma nkwa.
“Brother, remove that document from my bag.”
2.3.7 Euphemisms
Cameroonian Pidgin has many subtle words and expressions which are
used to replace vulgar ones. They are called euphemisms and they include
words and expressions like “Smo ting” (“concubine”), “Komot wit” (“flirt
with”), “Kova ai” (“die”), “Manech” (“struggle”), “Kola” (“bribe”).
Examples:
Jakelin bi Jak yi smo ting.
“Jacqueline is Jack’s concubine.”
Jak di komot wit Jakelin.
“Jack flirts with Jacqueline.”
Jak kach eds an i kova ai.
“Jack contracted AIDS and died.”
Jakelin tu di jos manech.
“Jacqueline is just struggling.”
Jakelin mimba ha i fo gi dai kola.
“Jacqueline wonders how she could give death a bribe.”
2.3.8 Intensification
Some pidgin words are derived from the reduplication of the root word
so as to intensify their meanings. Such words include “wel wel”
(“extremely good”), “chopi chopi” (“always eating”), “krai krai” (“always
crying”), “hori hori” (“too much in a hurry”). The meanings of such
expressions are more explicit in context.
Examples:
Dem sho’am wel wel.
“They dealt with it/him/her very well.”
Chapter Two
40
Dat fat man na chopi chopi.
“That fat man is a glutton/always eating.”
I pikin de krai krai.
“His child is always crying.”
Hori hori brok trosa.
“Too much haste tears the trousers.”
2.3.9 Affixation
Affixation involves the root segments that begin a word known as
prefixes and those that end a word known as suffixes. The most frequent is
the prefix ova and the suffix ’am.
Examples:
Ovakofi “too much confidence”
Ovafain “very beautiful”
Ovasabi “show off”
The suffix am is used mostly as an extension of the transitive verb form. It
means “it”, “him” or “her”, and it functions as the object of the verb. It
extends or makes the meaning more complete when used as the suffix of
the verb. For example, when the suffix ’am is added to the verb chuk
(“pierce” in English), it reads chuk’am meaning “pierce it”. Unlike other
suffixes that become part of the morphology of a word, ’am is almost
independent. For this reason, an apostrophe is used to separate it from the
main word since it is the inflectional ending of a word.
Examples:
Move dat clos put’am fo haus.
“Remove that dress and keep it in the house.”
Chuk’am wit nel.
“Pierce it with a nail.”
A bi trow’am fo bush.
“I threw it in the bush.”
I bi kosh’am wel wel.
“She/He insulted him/her very well.”
The Writing System, Sounds and Word Formation 41
Verbs ending with vowels usually have a consonant before am. In such
situations, a word like kova (“cover”) becomes kovar’am (“cover it”); sme
(“smell”) becomes smel’am (“smell it”); bai (“buy”) becomes bay’am
(“buy it”); no (“know”) becomes now’am (“know it”).
Examples:
Kovar’am mek flai no enta.
“Cover it, let flies not enter.”
If yu smel’am yu go si se i fain.
“If you smell it you will realise that it is good.”
Dem go bay’am sote i finish.
“They will buy it until it is finished.”
A no now’am bet a don hier’am.
“I don’t know it, but I have heard about it.”
The aim of this chapter has been to explain and exemplify the principles
of writing and pronunciation as well as the word formation processes in
Cameroonian Pidgin. Three issues, however, need to be reiterated. In the
first place, the standard orthography for Cameroonian Pidgin is mostly
influenced by the indigenous languages, especially, their tone-based
characteristic. Secondly, it is noted that, although Cameroonian Pidgin is
sourced from several languages, the French language is increasingly
becoming a major source language. Finally, since every grammar of a
language deals with words, it was necessary to examine the way words in
Cameroonian Pidgin are written and pronounced and to explain the word
formation processes in order that the rules governing the composition of
these words in terms of the structure of the language can be understood.
The major and the minor word classes respectively, are discussed in the
next two chapters.
CHAPTER THREE
MAJOR WORD CLASSES
The major word classes consist of the lexical words which are the main
carriers of meaning. They typically include nouns, verbs, adjectives and
adverbs. The nouns are the most prevalent words followed by the verbs.
Many words may belong to more than one word class. For example,
“chop” is both a noun and a verb. The word katakata can be used as a
noun, a verb and an adjective. Some Pidgin words may have multiple
meanings. For example, “mimba” may mean “remember”, “remind”,
“think”, “imagine” or “be self-conceited”. In these cases, the contexts
determine the various senses in which the words are used.
Examples:
A mimba se wi bi get fo mitop tude.
“I remember that we had to meet today.”
Wai yu no bi mimba mi de de fo ya mare?
“Why didn’t you remind me of the date of your wedding?”
I mimba se a bi mugu.
“He thinks that I am a fool.”
Onku no eva mimba se i go puo somde.
“Uncle never ever imagined that he will be poor one day.”
De man don get moni, na so i di mimba!
“The man has money, the reason he is so self-conceited!”
In some cases, the meanings of words may alter slightly depending on the
contexts in which they are used. A word like wowo, translated into
English, means “ugly” as in wowo fes (“ugly face”). In another context, it
can be translated as “bad”, for example, wowo sme (“bad smell”/ “odour”),
wowo chop (“unappetizing food”) and wowo fashon (“poor behaviour”).
More examples of words with multiple meanings are found in the glossary
at the end of the book. The morphology of each member of the word class
is explained below.
Major Word Classes 43
3.1 The noun and noun phrases
The frequency of occurrence of the noun phrase in Cameroonian
Pidgin, as in many other languages, is very high. This is because within
the sentence or clause structure, the noun functions as a subject, an object
or a complement, dominating all the other word classes within the
sentence. Pidgin nouns, like their English equivalents, identify persons,
places, things or ideas. They are also classified as common, proper, and
concrete nouns.
The noun phrase is identified mainly by a noun or a pronoun.
Examples:
Pipu dem lek fo get moni.
“People like to earn money.”
A don taya.
“I am tired.”
Tam don stat pas.
“It’s getting late.”
They may also be identified by determiners and nouns.
Examples:
Dat haus dem ova die.
“Those houses are very expensive.”
Wi kombi dem don go fo vilech.
“Our friends have gone to the village.”
Sometimes the noun phrase begins with a quantifier like som (“some”) or
ol (“all”).
Examples:
Som pipu dem bin waka fo eroplen.
“Some people travelled by plane.”
Ol dat pikin dem di go sku fo tong.
“All those children attend school in town.”
Chapter Three
44
Plenti moto dem de fo garash.
“There are many cars in the garage.”
The noun phrase may be postmodified by prepositions.
Examples:
De haus fo kona.
“The house at the corner.”
De man wit yi pikin.
“The man with his child.”
It may also be modified by the relative clause.
Examples:
De man we i bin kam hia yestade.
“The man who came here yesterday.”
De wuman we i bin bon fo pikin dem.
“The woman who gave birth to four children.”
De haus we i papa bin bil’am.
“The house which his father built.”
3.1.1 Countable nouns
Cameroonian Pidgin does not inflect for number. Unlike in English,
Pidgin nouns are not affected by morphological changes as in the case of
derivational affixes which mark plurality with “s” in words like “rats” or
“eggs”. Plurality is usually achieved with the placement of the dem marker
after the noun.
Examples:
Arata dem don chop de bred.
“Rats have eaten the bread.”
De eg dem don brok.
“The eggs are broken.”
Pipu dem go soso tok.
“People will always talk.”
Major Word Classes 45
Plurality is also realized by the use of numerals.
Examples:
Yi masa bon tu pikin fo opsai.
“Her husband has two children out of wedlock.”
De moto bin kil faf pipu.
“The vehicle killed five people.”
Wan han no fit tai bondu.
“One hand cannot tie a bundle.”
Even when the numerals are used, dem is often also used to make plurality
more evident. The first two examples above can be modified by simply
adding dem, but that does not change the sense in the English translation
as is the case with the following examples:
Yi broda get tu pikin dem.
“Her/His brother has two children.”
De moto bin kil faf pipu dem.
“The vehicle killed five people.”
Plurality can further be achieved by the use of reduplication.
Examples:
Plenti-plenti fama dem no sabi buk.
“So many farmers are uneducated.”
Mango-mango fulop basket.
“There are so many mangoes in the basket.”
Pipu-pipu fulop maket.
“The market is filled with so many people.”
3.1.2 Uncountable nouns
Uncountable nouns in Cameroonian Pidgin, like those in English, refer
to abstract ideas or physical objects which cannot be counted as individual
items such as wata (“water”), rais (“rice”) and moni (“money”). In such
cases, the plural marker dem is not used, as is the case with countable nouns.
Chapter Three
46
Examples:
Gi de pikin wata.
“Give the child water.”
A di chop rais.
“I eat rice. /I am eating rice.”
Yusofa get moni.
“Yusofa has money.”
Uncountable nouns are measured in units of quantity.
Examples:
wan pan rais “a dish”/ “plate of rice”
tu matua san-san “two lorries of sand”
faf jog matango “five jugs of palm wine”
wan bondu koki “a bundle of ‘koki’”
tiri kop wata “three cups of water”
The essential difference observed above is the absence of the preposition
“of” in Pidgin. In the Pidgin context also, the plural marker dem is hardly
used even when the quantity is above “one”. Expressions like smo
(“small”), plenti (“plenty”) or anini (“a very small quantity”) are used to
indicate quantity with the uncountable nouns.
Examples:
Bring mi smo wata.
“Bring me a bit of water.”
A di chop plenti rais.
“I eat a lot of rice.”
De chop na anini.
“The food is very small in quantity.”
3.1.3 Gender
In Cameroonian Pidgin, the pronoun system does not show gender
differences as is the case in English. The English language uses the
pronoun “he” to identify the male and the pronoun “she” to identify the
Major Word Classes 47
female. Unlike in English, the third person singular personal pronoun i
represents all the gender cases: “he”, “she”, and “it” in Cameroonian
Pidgin. As a possessive pronoun, yi stands for “his”, “hers” or “its”. The
expression yi on is translated as “his own”, “her own” or “its own, and yi
sef is translated as “himself”, “herself” or “itself” in English.
Examples:
I don ol plenti.
“It/He/She is too old.”
Gi yi on.
“Give its own/his own/her own.”
I don doti yi sef.
“It/He/She has messed up itself/himself/herself.”
Gender distinction is achieved in other situations by the placement of the
word man (“man”) or wuman (“woman”) before the noun as seen in the
expressions wuman pikin (“female”) and man pikin (“male”).
Examples:
Manga get faf man pikin dem.
“Manga has five sons.”
Manga get faf wuman pikin dem.
“Manga has five daughters.”
Furthermore, specific words are used English to determine the sex of
animals like “ram” for the male sheep and “ewe” for the female sheep;
“bull” for the male and “cow” for the female, “lion” for the male and
“lioness” for the female. Such gender cases in Pidgin are marked by the
addition of man or wuman before the name of the animal, as in wuman kau
(“cow”), man kau (“bull”), man got (“he-goat”) and man ship (“ram”).
Examples:
Wuman kau yi mit di tanga.
“The meat of a female cow is very tough.”
Na wuman lion di fain chop.
“It’s the lioness that hunts for food.”
Chapter Three
48
Man pikin got fain fo pepe sup.
“A he-goat is good for pepper soup.”
Man ship di sme tu moch.
“A ram smells so much.”
3.2 The verb and the verb phrase
Pidgin verbs do not have the morphological changes that indicate the
tense and the aspect as is the case with English. English has four basic
verb forms: the base form, for example, “walk”, the –ing form for
example, “walking”, the past tense “walked”, and the past participle “has
walked”. The base form of the Pidgin verb, unlike in English, remains the
same throughout, and the tense and the aspect are specified only by the
placement of the auxiliary and the modal verbs like di, bin, and don as
illustrated below:
(Base form)
A waka. “I walk.”
(-ing present continuous)
A di waka. “I am walking.”
(Past tense)
A bin waka. “I walked.”
(Past continuous)
A bin di waka. “I was walking.”
(Past perfect)
A bin don waka. “I had walked.”
The verb fo bi (“to be”) is an irregular verb which can be used as a linking
verb as well as an auxiliary verb. The various forms are as follows:
Infinitive: fo bi (“to be”)
Examples:
Na so i get fo bi.
“That’s the way it’s supposed to be.”
I no izi fo bi ticha.
“It’s not easy to be a teacher.”
Major Word Classes 49
Present: bi (“am”, “is”, and “are”)
Examples:
Tom bi dokita.
“Tom is a doctor.”
Ashawo no bi wok.
“Prostitution is not a vocation.”
Past: bin (“was” and “were”)
Examples:
Yi masa bin kam.
“Her husband came.”
De pikin bin chop flop.
“The child ate to his/her satisfaction.”
Pidgin verbs can be transitive or intransitive. As in English, a transitive
verb in Pidgin is an action verb with a direct object. They give action
specifically to a direct object, especially verbs like nak (“play”), kuk
(“cook”), and brok (“break”).
Examples:
Eto’o di nak ndamba wel wel.
“Eto’o plays football very well.”
I di kuk chop pas i wuman.
“He cooks food better than his wife.”
Pikin bi brok de glas fo windo.
“A child broke the window pane.”
On the other hand, an action verb with no direct object is intransitive. Such
verbs include kam (“come”), shidong (“sit”), and slip (“sleep”).
Examples:
Tom bi kam hia yestade.
“Tom came here yesterday.”
Chapter Three
50
A no fit shidong fosika se a get boil.
“I can’t sit because I have a boil.”
De dog di slip fo yi haus.
“The dog sleeps in its house.”
3.2.1 The verb phrase: tense and aspect
The verb phrase contains a main verb, followed by any other
information complementing the verb, such as the direct and/or the indirect
object but not the subject.
Example:
De tif man bin put de moni kwik-kwik fo yi nkwa.
“The thief quickly put the money in his bag.”
The expression put de moni kwik-kwik fo yi nkwa is a verb phrase. It
consists of the verb put. Its dependents are the object de moni and the
complement kwik-kwik fo yi nkwa. However, it does not include de tif man
which is the subject of the sentence.
The verb phrase indicates the tense, which gives information about
time.
Examples:
A di chop. (Present tense)
“I eat.”
A bin chop. (Past tense)
“I ate.”
A go chop. (Future tense)
“I will eat.”
It indicates aspect, which gives information on the speaker’s perspective
on time.
Examples:
(Simple aspect)
Wuna bin tok.
“You spoke.”
Major Word Classes 51
(Progressive aspect)
Wuna bin di tok.
“You were speaking.”
It also indicates voice, whether it is active or passive.
Examples:
(Active voice)
Dem bin spoil’am.
“They destroyed it.”
(Passive voice)
I bin spoi.
“It was destroyed.”
3.2.2 The Present Simple
The present simple is identified by the use of the auxiliary verb di. As
explained earlier, its form changes from di to de when the sentence is
made up of only the subject and the verb. The expression A de seems to
take its origin from the English expression “I am there”. The adverb
“there” is simply shortened to de and it plays the role of an auxiliary verb
in Pidgin. De as an auxiliary verb translated into English means “am” or
“is”. For example, the sentence: I de de. is translated as “It is there”.
Therefore, when de comes immediately after a noun or a pronoun it
functions as an auxiliary verb. A keen listener to the “native speakers” of
Pidgin will notice these nuances in their various contexts.
Examples:
A de “I am.”
Yu de “You are.”
I de “He/She/It is.”
Wi de “We are.”
Wuna de “You are.”
Dem de “They are.”
Unlike the English equivalents, the present simple tenses in Pidgin can
stand on their own (as in the examples above) without depending on the
main verb. This happens regularly in normal greetings.
Chapter Three
52
Examples:
Wuna de? “Are you?”
Yes, wi de. “Yes, we are.”
Or in a more complex form:
Ha dem de? “How are they?”
Dem jos de. “They are just there.”
The auxiliary de can be followed by a complement and not a direct object.
Examples:
De ol pa de fo kontri.
“The old man is living in the village.”
Yi pikin dem de fain.
“His children are doing well.”
Kanse elekshon de fo sonde.
“Council elections are scheduled for Sunday.”
The auxiliary de is better understood in the context of the following
dialogue between Dogo and Apara
Dogo: Ha na, Apara?
“How is it, Apara?”
Apara: A de. Ha fo ya pikin dem?
“I am. How are your children?”
Dogo: Dem de.
“They are.”
Apara: Ya got dem?
“Your goats?”
Dogo: Dem de.
“They are.”
Apara: Ya wuman dem?
“Your wives?”
Dogo: Dem de.
“They are.”
Apara: Ha fo ol man?
“How is everyone?”
Dogo: Ol man de fain.
“Everyone is doing well.”
Major Word Classes 53
Apara: Ha fo yu sef-sef?
“How are you yourself?”
Dogo: Lef mi o! Kontri don trong.
“Leave me o! Life has become difficult.”
The auxiliary de changes its form to di when the verb is followed by a
main verb or when it helps to reinforce the main verb.
Examples:
A di chop.
“I eat”/ “I am eating.”
You di chop.
“You eat.”
I di chop.
“He”/ “She”/ “It eats”/ is eating.”
Wi/wuna/dem di chop.
“We”/ “You”/ “They eat”/ “are eating.”
In the cases where the auxiliary bi is followed by an object and not a main
verb, bi replaces di.
Examples:
A bi soja.
“I am a soldier.”
Godsabi bi moni man.
“Godsabi is a rich man.”
Soja dem bi trong pipu.
“Soldiers are tough people.”
Ticha dem bi beta pipu.
“Teachers are worthy people.”
The copula na may also function as an auxiliary verb in the place of bi. It
is a more favourable alternative to bi in the second, third and fourth
sentences above.
Chapter Three
54
Examples:
Godsabi na moni man.
“Godsabi is a rich man.”
Soja dem na trong pipu.
“Soldiers are tough people.”
Ticha dem na beta pipu.
“Teachers are worthy people.”
Na sometimes replaces bi, especially, in the affirmative statements or the
sentences beginning with “This is”, “That is”, and “He/she/they”.
Examples:
Na ma broda dis.
“This is my brother.”
Na de ting dat.
“That is the thing.”
Na yi di hala.
“He/she is the one shouting.”
Na dem di sing.
“They are the ones singing.”
The grammatical functions of the copula na will be discussed fully in
chapter 4, section 4.5.
3.2.3 The Present progressive
The present progressive has the same structure as the present simple.
The difference can only be understood in the context as shown in the
following dialogue between Mantrobu and his son, Godsabi.
Mantrobu: Weti yu di du?
“What are you doing?”
Godsabi: A di chop.
“I am eating.”
Mantrobu: Weti yu di chop?
“What are you eating?”
Godsabi: A di chop kokobiako.
“I am eating mushrooms.”
Major Word Classes 55
In differentiating between the present simple and the present progressive,
the context is important. For example, the tense aspect will be different
when the sentences in the dialogue are extended as follows:
Mantrobu: Weti yu di du fo sku?
“What do you do in school?”
Godsabi: A di len buk dem.
“I read books.”
Mantrobu: Weti yu di chop fo sku?
“What do you eat at school?”
Godsabi: A di chop planti an ndole.
“I eat plantains and ‘ndole’”.
In the examples above, the structures remain the same but the aspects
change. The other examples include:
A di wash.
“I bathe”/ “I am bathing.”
A di ton-ton.
“I stroll”/ “I am strolling.”
Matua di kam.
“The vehicle comes.”
3.2.4 The present perfect
The present perfect is marked by the auxiliary verb don. Note that don
does not change the form of the main verb as is the case with the English
perfective tense which experiences an inflection in the main word. For
example, “eat” becomes “has eaten” and “walk” becomes “has walked”. In
Pidgin, the presence of don puts the verb in its appropriate present perfect
tense without changing the form of the main verb.
Examples:
A don chop.
“I have eaten.”
Wi don chop.
“We have eaten.”
Dem don komot.
“They have gone out.”
Chapter Three
56
Oyibo man don kam.
“The white man/European has come.”
Godsabi don dring mimbo.
“Godsabi has drunk wine.”
Unlike in English where “have” functions both as an auxiliary verb and the
main verb, don which is a Pidgin word for English “have”, functions only
as an auxiliary verb.
The word get in Pidgin also means “have” and functions as the main
verb.
Examples:
Mantrobu get moni.
“Mantrobu has money.”
A get fiva.
“I have a fever.”
I get trobu.
“She/he has problems.”
Dem get gulok.
“They are lucky.”
The negative forms of the statements are indicated by no get.
Examples:
Mantrobu no get moni.
“Mantrobu doesn’t have money.”
A no get fiva.
“I don’t have a fever.”
I no get trobu.
“She/he doesn’t have problems.”
Dem no get gulok.
“They are not lucky.”
Get also functions in idiomatic expressions.
Major Word Classes 57
Examples:
Namondo get bele.
“Namondo is pregnant.”
Yi fes pikin get sens plenti.
“His first child is very intelligent.”
Na dia brother dem get kontri.
“It is their brothers ruling the country.”
3.2.5 The past simple
The word bin is a past tense marker which usually precedes the main
verb. It comes after the subject of the verb and indicates that the action
experienced in the verb is anterior to the time of the speech.
Examples:
A bin chop bred.
“I ate bread.”
Yu bin go waka.
“You went on a journey.”
Masa Marewe bin tok tru.
“Mr Emmanuel spoke the truth.”
Ticha dem bin hia de palava.
“Teachers listened to the problem.”
Where bin is not followed immediately by a main verb, but by a noun
complement, either bi or de is used.
Examples:
A bin bi/de trong man.
“I was a tough man.”
Ma papa bin bi/de na soja.
“My father was a soldier.”
Anton bin bi/de na katakata man.
“Anton was a disorganised man.”
Chapter Three
58
Wuna bin bi/de ngondele dem.
“You were young women.”
3.2.6 The past perfect
The past perfect involves the combination of two auxiliary verbs: bin
and don.
Examples:
A bin don fix’am.
“I had fixed it.”
I bin don bai haus.
“He had bought a house.”
Wuna bin don komot.
“You had gone out/left.”
Mbele dem bin don hia hot.
“The police had felt the pain.”
3.2.7 The past progressive
The auxiliary verbs bin and di, used before the main verb, express the
past progressive aspect.
Examples:
A bin di wosh.
“I was bathing.”
Sku pikin dem bin di tok.
“School children were conversing.”
Godsabi bin di sing wit gratia.
“Godsabi was singing with grace.”
Yusofa bin di kuk kokobiako.
“Yusofa was cooking mushrooms.”
Major Word Classes 59
3.2.8 The infinitive
The infinitive form is mostly indicated by the word fo, pronounced /f‫ܧ‬Ғ/,
which is the equivalent of English “to”. The infinitive verb can be used in
several ways:
It is used as the subject of the sentence.
Example:
Fo tif na bad ting.
“To steal is evil.”
It can be an adjectival or an adverbial phrase that expresses a purpose or
an intent.
Example:
Yi wok na fo fix komputa dem.
“His job is to repair computers.”
It follows a direct subject.
Example:
I bin kol mi fo tel mi de nyus.
“He called me to tell the news.”
It is used before several other verbs as in fo chop (“to eat”), fo waka (“to
walk”) and fo tif (“to steal”).
Examples:
A di go haus fo chop.
“I am going home to eat.”
Masa Yo get fo waka tumoro.
“Mr Yo has to travel tomorrow.”
De moni man yi pikin sabi fo tif.
“The wealthy man’s son knows how to steal.”
Chapter Three
60
3.2.9 The future
The main indicator of the future tense is the auxiliary verb go, which is
translated as “will” or “shall”. It is usually placed between the subject and
the main verb. The future tense has several aspects including the future
simple, the future perfect, the future progressive and the future perfect
progressive. The future simple indicates that an action is in the future at
the time of speaking or writing.
Examples:
A go tok fo ma masa.
“I will inform/report to my boss.”
Kamarun go fain som de.
“Cameroon will do well someday.”
I go go fo wait man kontri smo tam.
“He will travel to Europe very soon.”
The future perfect tense indicates that an action would have been
completed at some point in the future. In other words, it is the past in the
future.
Examples:
A go don slip.
“I would have slept.”
Yi papa go don kam.
“His father would have come.”
De chop go don spoi.
“The food would have been spoiled.”
The future progressive often indicates an action which is taking place at a
point in the future.
Examples:
Dem go di go.
“They will be going.”
Major Word Classes 61
Pipu dem go di dans.
“People will be dancing.”
Wok pipu dem go di dring mimbo.
“The workers will be drinking wine.”
Kristen dem go di preya.
“The Christians will be praying.”
The future perfect progressive indicates a continuous action that will be
completed at some point in the future.
Examples:
De kapinta go don di finish.
“The carpenter would have been finishing.”
I go don di slip.
“He would have been sleeping.”
Dem go don di go.
“They would have been going.”
3.3 Auxiliaries
Like their English equivalents, Cameroonian Pidgin auxiliary verbs are
function words used in a variety of ways to build up the grammatical
meanings of the clauses or sentences. Most importantly, they are the
medium for marking Pidgin tenses and aspects. The most common ones
are bi (“is” and “are”), di (“am” and “are”), don (“have”) and de (“am”
and “are”).
The auxiliary bi (“am” or “is”) is used when it comes immediately before
an object.
Examples:
A bi man.
“I am a man.”
Yusofa bi ticha.
“Yusofa is a teacher.”
Chapter Three
62
Ashawo no bi wok.
“Prostitution is not a vocation.”
The auxiliary verb di is used with the main verb. It is important to note
that when its present simple form is translated into English, the auxiliary
verb is lost.
Examples:
Njo di poch.
“Free things purge.”
Moni di tok.
“Money speaks.”
The auxiliary verb don (“have”) is often used as the past perfect form of
di.
Examples:
A don chop bred.
“I have eaten bread.”
Wuna don chop bred.
“You have eaten bread.”
The auxiliary de can stand alone as in A de (“I am”) or Dem de (“They
are”) or they may help to express a feeling or indicate a position with the
use of the preposition fo.
Examples:
Dem de fain.
“They are doing well.”
Aka de fo haus.
“Aka is in the house.”
De buk de fo tebu.
“The book is on the table.”
The auxiliary bin (“was”) is a past tense marker which usually precedes
the main verb.
Major Word Classes 63
Examples:
De pikin bin chop ol de planti.
“The child ate all the plantains.”
Yi mami bin go waka.
“His mother went on a journey.”
De mbele dem bin tok de palava.
“The policemen discussed the matter.”
The two auxiliary verbs bin and bi are jointly used as past tense markers
when they precede an object or an adverbial clause.
Examples:
Ma bik papa bin bi soja.
“My grandfather was a soldier.”
Ol de famili dem bin bi fo insai moto.
“The whole family was in the vehicle.”
Wi presiden bin bi na god man.
“Our president was a man of God.”
3.3.1 Modals
Modals are a subcategory of auxiliary verbs. In practice, they are not
used without the main verb. Modals in Cameroonian Pidgin include go
(“will”, “shall”), fit (“may”, “can”, “could”), fo (“could”) go fit (“would”),
sopos fo (“should”) and mos (“must”).
Examples:
A go waka.
“I will/shall walk.”
A fit waka.
“I can/may/could walk.”
A go fit waka.
“I would walk.”
Chapter Three
64
A sopos fo waka.
“I should walk.”
A mos waka.
“I must walk.”
The modal verbs, like those in English, are used to express ability,
obligations, possibility, and intention. They include: fit (“can” and “may”);
get fo (“have to”); mos (“must”); fo fit (“could have”) and sopos fo (“ought
to”).
Examples:
(Ability)
A fit klam pamtri.
“I can climb a palm tree.”
Awuro fit dring wan jog matango.
“Awuru can drink a jug of palm wine.”
(Possibility)
Ren fit fol tumoro.
“It may rain tomorrow.”
Jonas fit kam fo haus tude.
“Jonas may come home today.”
(Obligation)
A mos chop achu bifo a slip.
“I must eat ‘achu’ before I go to bed.”
Yu sopos fo bil haus fo kontri.
“You ought to build a house in the village.”
(Intention)
A get fo go fo Kumba neks wik.
“I have to travel to Kumba next week.”
I fo fit bai moto wit de moni.
“He could have bought the car with the money.”
(Conditional)
If a bi yu, a go dinai.
“If I were you, I would refuse.”
Major Word Classes 65
If i bi get moni i fo hai’op tu moch.
“If he had money, he would have been very arrogant.”
(Request or offer)
Yu go lek fo dring ti?
“Would you like to drink tea?”
A go lek se yu mare mi.
“I would like that you get married to me.”
3.3.2 Modal cluster: get fo
Get (“have” or “has”) is one of the most common modal cluster verbs
used in Cameroonian Pidgin. When used with the preposition fo (in
English ‘to’) it becomes get fo, expressing several meanings in different
contexts.
Get fo is used in the affirmative form to talk about a necessary
obligation. In this case, get fo is always followed by a verb.
Examples:
A get fo chop.
“I have to eat.”
Yu get fo gi chop-moni ol taim.
“You have to give food money always.”
Get fo can be used to indicate the future; that is, if plans were already
made to do something or if one is obliged to do something in the future.
Examples:
Onku Sam get fo go waka tumoro.
“Uncle Sam has to travel tomorrow.”
I get fo go Englan.
“He has to travel to England.”
A get fo bai nyu televishon.
“I have to buy a new television.”
Get fo is used to give advice.
Chapter Three
66
Examples:
Yu get fo shem.
“You should be ashamed.”
Yong boi dem get fo wok plenti.
“Young boys have to work very hard.”
Get fo indicates duty or correctness.
Examples:
Yu get fo di waka.
“You ought to be walking.”
De wok get fo don finish.
“The work ought to have been completed.”
It indicates an action that is probable.
Examples:
Bang dem get fo stat pe tude.
“Banks ought to start paying today.”
De panapu get fo don rap.
“The pineapple ought to have been ripe.”
3.4 The imperative
Imperatives are also called command verbs in Pidgin. Commands,
instructions and suggestions can be given using a single verb form.
Examples:
Chop. “Eat.”
Wekop. “Rise.”
Waka. “Walk”/ “move.”
Trowe. “Throw away.”
Sometimes, to give commands or instructions to a specific person or
persons, the pronoun is put before the verb.
Major Word Classes 67
Examples:
Asong, waka. “Asong, walk/move.”
Muke, chop. “Muke, eat.”
Tanyi, jorup. “Tanyi, rise.”
Yu, shorop. “You, shut up.”
The second person plural pronoun wuna may be used for a group of
persons.
Examples:
Wuna waka. “You walk/move.”
Wuna chop. “You eat.”
There is also the imperative form, mek, which is usually accompanied by a
pronoun and a verb. Translated into English mek would mean “let”.
Examples:
Mek a go.
“Let me go.”
Mek wi waka kwik.
“Let’s walk/move fast.”
Mek i chop planti wit ndole.
“Let him/her eat plantains and ndole.”
Mek dem dans kontri dans.
“Let them dance a traditional dance.”
3.5 Verb + noun phrase
Certain verbs combine with nouns to create meanings which may not
actually stand for what the words themselves mean. They become idioms.
The verbs include mek (“make”), ple (“play”), put (“put”), mash
(“smash”), fain (“look for”), nak (“hit”), and chop (“eat”) as exemplified
below:
Examples with the verb mek:
Chapter Three
68
Mek jes “react”
Mek sho “brag”
Mek wayo “act in a dubious manner”
Mek ere “fumble”
Mek ai “signal by a twitch of the eyelid”
Examples with the verb ple:
Ple laif “enjoy oneself”
Ple man “outsmart someone”
Ple njambo “gamble”
Ple big “show off”, “be self-conceited”
Examples with the verb put:
Put faya “stimulate”, “cause to intensify”
Put mop “interfere”
Put man yi bak fo dong “subdue, overthrow, conquer someone”
Put han “assist”
Examples with the verb mash:
Mash faya “accelerate”
Mash potopoto “step in mud”
Examples with the verb fain:
Fain palava “provoke”, “create problems”
Fain pikin “make efforts to get pregnant”
Fain moni “work to earn wages”
Fain wuman “seduce a woman”
Examples with the verb nak:
Nak ndamba “play football”
Nak njakri “talk in a satirical manner”
Nak tori “converse”
Nak kanda/nak sikin “overwork oneself”
Examples with the verb chop:
Chop faya “brave a situation”
Chop chie “succeed” (especially as heir)
Chop mop “kiss”
Chop njangi “benefit from a thrift and loan scheme”
Chop moni “spend money”
Major Word Classes 69
There are other possible verb combinations with adjectives, but they are
not as prominent as the verb + noun combination.
Examples:
Hia fain “enjoy oneself”
Hia bad “suffer”
3.6 Negations
Negations are words that are used to express negative ideas. In
Cameroonian Pidgin these, words include no and noba. The word no
indicates negative forms when they precede auxiliary verbs like bi and di
and words like wan or get fo.
Examples:
A no wan palava.
“I don’t want problems.”
A no bi fulish man.
“I am not a foolish man.”
A no di chop shwain bif.
“I don’t eat pork.”
A no get fo chop plenti.
“I don’t have to eat too much.”
Sabi no di haid.
“Knowledge doesn’t hide.”
The word noba is sometimes used to mean “not” in English, especially
with the present perfect tense markers like “have not” or “has not”:
Examples:
A noba chop.
“I have not eaten.”
I noba si’am.
“He has not seen it.”
Chapter Three
70
Dem noba go sku.
“They have not gone to school.”
In other instances, noba is used to indicate an unspecified past.
Examples:
A noba go oyibo kontri.
“I have never been to the Whiteman’s country.”
De trenja noba chop eru.
“The visitor has never eaten ‘eru’.”
Mimbo noba finish fo Kamarun.
“Wine has never been scarce in Cameroon.”
Double or triple negations usually occur, especially, for emphasis. In such
cases, the words noba and noting or no and noting are used for double
negations and noba, no and noting or no and no and noting are triple
negations that are most frequently used.
Examples:
(Double negations)
A noba chop noting.
“I have not eaten anything.”
A no no noting.
“I don’t know anything.”
(Triple negations)
A noba chop no noting.
“I have not eaten anything.”
A no no no noting.
“I don’t know anything.”
3.7 The adjective
Adjectives in Pidgin, like their English equivalents, describe a noun or
a pronoun.
Examples:
Major Word Classes 71
Wowo man “ugly man”
Yeye wuman “careless woman”
Fain klos “beautiful dress”
Wayo oga “cunning/dubious boss”
Sofa pikin “struggling child”
Plenti ndiba “so much water”
Kain bai kain pipu “different kinds of people”
Adjectives usually come before or after the words they modify.
Examples:
Ma oga don bai nyu moto.
“My boss has bought a new vehicle.”
Dat ma oga yi moto nyu.
“That my boss’ car is new.”
There are five basic kinds of Pidgin adjectives. These include the
descriptive or quality adjectives, the predicative adjectives, the possessive
adjectives, the demonstrative adjectives and the comparative adjectives.
3.7.1 Descriptive adjectives
Descriptive adjectives define the quality of the nouns in terms of the
colour: wait (“white”), blak (“black”), yelo (“yellow”); sizes: bik (“big”),
smo (“small”); the taste: swit (“sweet”), sawa (“sour”), bita (“bitter”); age:
ol (“old”), yong (“young”); a state: fain (“good”, “well”, “beautiful”),
wowo (“ugly”), doti (“dirty”), somkain (“strange”), tait (“tight”/
“narrow”).
Examples:
De ticha lek fo wie blak kot.
“The teacher likes wearing a black jacket.”
Yi papa di ste fo som bik haus.
“His father lives in a big house.”
Pikin dem lek fo chop swit ting dem.
“Children like eating sweet things.”
De pasto na ol man.
“The pastor is an old man.”
Chapter Three
72
Yi broda bin mare fain wuman.
“His brother married a beautiful woman.”
3.7.2 Predicative adjectives
Predicative adjectives generally come after a linking verb like di or de
translated as “is”.
Examples:
Kumba di kenekene fo drai sisin.
“Kumba is slippery in the dry season.”
Ol man de fain fo kontri.
“Everybody is doing well in the village.”
Bad moni di hot fo mop.
“Ill-gotten money is hot in the mouth.”
However, in some situations, the adjectives do not really have a linking
verb. They come just after the subject of the sentence, but when translated
into English, the presence of a linking verb is felt.
Examples:
De pikin trong hed.
“The child is stubborn.”
De palava hot.
“The matter is serious.”
I kombi tol.
“His friend is tall.”
3.7.3 Possessive adjectives
Possessive adjectives are used to show that something belongs to
someone. They are similar to the possessive pronouns. The only difference
is that as adjectives, they modify nouns or noun phrases. Words like wi
(“our”), ma (“my”), ya (“your”), yi (“his”/ “her”), wuna (“your”), and dia
(“their”) indicate possession.
Examples:
Major Word Classes 73
A no go beg yi fo gi bak ma moni.
“I will not beg him to refund my money.”
Smo no bi sik, Kamarun na wi kontri.
“Smallness is not an illness, Cameroon is our country.”
Dat bik haus fo kona maket na dia on.
“That big house near the market is theirs.”
De mami don gi yi pikin chop.
“The mother has given her child food.”
No put oya fo ya klos.
“Don’t soil our dress with oil.”
Lokot wuna kako, opsai trong.
“Be careful with your luggage, it’s dangerous outside.”
3.7.4 Demonstrative adjectives
Demonstrative adjectives are similar to the demonstrative pronouns.
However, as adjectives they refer to specific things. The words include dis
(“this”), dat (“that”), dat + noun + plural marker dem.
Examples:
Dis palava trong pas ol man.
“This matter is above everyone.”
Dat man na mbele.
“That man is a policeman.”
Dat matua dem go spoi fo rod.
“Those vehicles will have a breakdown on the road.”
3.7.5 Comparative adjectives
Comparative adjectives indicate that something is of more or less
quality than the other. In English, the comparative and the superlative
adjectives are formed by adding the inflexional markers “-er” or “-est”
respectively at the end of the main words as in the case of “sweet”:
“sweeter” or “sweetest”. Comparative adjectives in Cameroonian Pidgin,
on the other hand, are often indicated with words like pas (“more than”),
lek (“like”, “as”), and rich (“as much”/ “many as”).
Chapter Three
74
Examples:
Anyi no buk pas yi broda.
“Anyi is more educated than her brother.”
De mimbo di bita lek meresin.
“The wine is as bitter as medicine.”
Atem no get pawa rich i smo broda.
“Atem doesn’t have as much strength as his younger brother.”
Most often, adjectives come immediately after the subjects, unlike in
English where adjectives are preceded by auxiliary verbs. This happens
when there is the use of the simile lek (“as” or “like”).
Examples:
I blak lek chako.
“He is as dark as charcoal.”
Yu shot lek tumbu.
“You are as short as a maggot.”
Ma han trong lek ayon.
“My hand is as solid as iron.”
3.7.6 Intensifiers
Adjectives may function as intensifiers through reduplication, that is,
by repeating the root word. Some of the words in this category include fain
fain, smo smo, bik bik, and drai drai, which when translated into English
will imply “very”.
Examples:
I mare fain fain wuman dem.
“He’s married to very beautiful women.”
I lek smo smo kongosa dem.
“She likes very little gossips.”
Yi kontri na drai drai ples.
“His village is a very dry place.”
Major Word Classes 75
A prominent intensifier in Pidgin is the word soso which in English means
“only”, “mainly”, and “very”. Although the word itself is notorious for
changing the meaning of the sentence, it primarily shows the intensity of
the adjectives. It further modifies the adjectives and the other modifiers.
Examples:
Na soso fain wuman dem i di folo.
“He dates only very beautiful women.”
Na soso bik bik planti de fo yi fam.
“He has very healthy plantains in his farm.”
De wuman di soso waka.
“The woman is always travelling.”
3.7.7 Quantifiers
Quantifiers are words which give information about numbers or
quantity. Sometimes they are used in the place of determiners. The word
plenti is a polysemous word which represents several quantifiers in
English, including “a lot of “, “much”, “several”, and “so many”.
Examples:
Agi yi masa get plenti moni.
“Agnes’ husband has a lot of money.”
I fain fo dring plenti water.
“It’s good to drink much water.”
De katapila bin brok plenti haus dem.
“The bulldozer destroyed so many houses.”
Ma bik papa bin get plenti wuman dem.
“My grandfather had so many wives.”
Adjectives are highlighted in this popular Kumba song:
Ma mami tel me se no go Kumba wata
wandafu
A go Kumba wata a si somting
Wandafu
Big big ngondele smo bobi
Chapter Three
76
wandafu
Smo ngondele big big bobi
Wandafu
English rendition:
My mother told not to go to the Kumba River
Wonderful
I went to the Kumba River and saw something
Wonderful
A big maiden with very small breasts
Wonderful
A small maiden with very big breasts
Wonderful.
(My translation)
3.8 The adverb
Pidgin adverbs, like their English counterparts, modify verbs,
adjectives and sometimes adverbs. Adverbs that modify the verbs are
identified by the repetition of the root words.
Examples:
Waka kwik-kwik. “Walk quickly.”
Kari’am smo-smo. “Carry it bit by bit.”
Put’am smo-smo. “Insert it gently.”
Saka molo-molo. “Dance gently.”
An adverb like ova (“too much”) qualifies the verb, especially in terms of
the degree to which the action is enacted.
Examples:
De fama bin ova wok.
“The farmer worked too much.”
De woman di ova tok.
“The woman talks too much.”
De shwain di ova chop.
“The pig eats too much.”
Adverbs also modify adjectives, especially, in the use of words like tu
Major Word Classes 77
(“too”) which indicate the degree or the condition of the subject.
Examples:
Yi masa tu wowo.
“Her husband is very ugly.”
Yi woman tu fain.
“His wife is very beautiful.”
De rod tu kenekene.
“The road is very slippery.”
Sometimes comparative adjectives are used for emphasis by the simple
repetition of the root word. Implicitly, there is an adverbial element in the
repetition which is noticeable when translated into English, especially,
with the use of the word “very”.
Examples:
I don bring yu fain fain ting.
“He has brought you something very nice.”
De nebo lek smo smo palava.
“The neighbour likes very little problems.”
Troki get shot shot fut dem.
“A tortoise has very short legs.”
A bi sen ma papa big big moni.
“I sent my father a lot of money.”
I go spoi yi mare wit smo-smo tok.
“She will ruin her marriage with very little gossips.”
Adverbs may also qualify prepositional phrases.
Examples:
Dem kach de tif man jos fo opsai.
“The thief was caught just outside.”
I di brok faya wud fo kona haus.
“She is splitting wood near the house.”
Chapter Three
78
As seen above, the major word classes in Cameroonian Pidgin, as in
the other languages, carry the content or the essential meaning, while the
minor word classes discussed in the next chapter show the grammatical
relations between the content words in the structure of the language.
CHAPTER FOUR
MINOR WORD CLASSES
The minor word classes are made up of the words which help in the
construction of the grammar of the language. They do not alter the basic
content of the sentence, but they often help to make the sense complete.
As in the English language, the minor word classes in Cameroonian Pidgin
may also be called function words or grammatical words. They include
pronouns, prepositions, conjunctions, determiners, interjections and the
discourse markers.
4.1 Pronouns
The pronoun is a member of the minor word classes. It usually replaces
the noun and the noun phrase. There are seven kinds of pronouns in
Cameroonian Pidgin. These are the personal, the demonstrative, the
relative, the interrogative, the reflexive, the possessive and the indefinite
pronouns.
4.1.1 Personal pronouns
Personal pronouns in Pidgin have both the singular and the plural
forms as in English. The singular forms are: a (“I”), yu (“you”) and i (“it”/
“he”/ “she”) and the plural forms are: wi (“we”), wuna (“you”) and dem
(“they”).
Examples:
A bi man.
“I am a man.”
Yu bi woman.
“You are a woman.”
I bi denja.
“He/she/it is dangerous.”
Chapter Four
80
Wi bi Kamarun pipu.
“We are Cameroonians.”
Wuna no di sofa.
“You (plural) are not suffering.”
Dem di sofa.
“They are suffering.”
4.1.2 Demonstrative pronouns
Demonstrative pronouns are obtained by the use of dis (“this”) or dat
(“that”) for singular cases. They identify or refer to the nouns.
Dis masa (singular) “This man/mister/boss.”
Dat monki (singular) “That monkey.”
The plural forms of the demonstrative pronouns are not affected by
morphological changes as seen in words like “these” and “those” in
English. The word dem, is often the plural marker for most nouns. The
same applies to demonstrative pronouns. Thus, the English words, “these”
and “those” can be identified in Pidgin by the placement of the dem
marker after the nouns in the pronominal phrases beginning with dis and
dat.
Examples:
Dat monki dem (plural). “Those monkeys.”
Dis masa dem (plural). “Those gentlemen.”
As determiners, the demonstrative pronouns actually modify the nouns
that follow.
4.1.3 Relative pronouns
In Cameroonian Pidgin, a relative pronoun may be used to link a
phrase or a clause to a noun or a pronoun. There are two key relative
pronouns in Pidgin: we and se. The relative pronoun we pronounced /wé/
is the main form. Translated into English, it represents such words as
“which”, “who”, “that”, “whose”, “whom”, and “when”. The word se is
pronounced /sé/ and translated into English as “that” or “which”.
Minor Word Classes 81
Examples:
Dat masa we i bin kam hia na ma moyo.
“The man who came here is my in-law.”
De palava we a getam na moni.
“The problem which I have is money.”
De ting we yu don du mi mop no fit tok.
“The thing that you have done to me the mouth cannot speak.”
Ma papa bin enta haus tam we de aksiden bin hapin.
“My father entered the house when the accident took place.”
I bin mare de masa we i bin lek’am plenti.
“She married the man whom she loved so much.”
A get som ma kombi we yi papa de wori.
“I have a friend whose father is troublesome.”
Similarly, the pronoun se translated as “that” or “which” is used to introduce
relative clauses.
Examples:
Yi wuman tok se i go komot de mare.
“His wife said that she will quit the marriage.”
The palava fo de na se moni don finish fo moni haus.
“The problem there is that there is no money in the bank.”
Ya mami no se a di chop nyamangoro.
“Your mother knows that I eat snails.”
4.1.4 Interrogative pronouns
Interrogative pronouns are both simple and complex. Simple
interrogative pronouns stand on their own. They do not rely on the other
words for their meanings, and they usually elicit precise answers. They are
Wu (“Who”), Weti (“What”), Hau (“How”), Wish (“Which”), Wai
(“Why”), Wen (“When”), Wusai (“Where?”). Simple interrogative
pronouns are made of just one word.
Examples:
Chapter Four
82
Who bi kam hia?
“Who came here?”
Weti de man bi bring?
“What did the man bring?”
Hau i bi di waka?
“How was he moving?”
Wen de man bin kam?
“When did the man come?”
Wai de man bin kam?
“Why did the man come?”
Wusai de man bin komot?
“Where was the man coming from?”
Complex interrogative pronouns are made of compound words which can
also stand on their own, especially in the dialogues involving questions
which require specific straight answers such as Wus man? (“Who?”), Wich
tam? (“When?”), Fosika weti? (“Why?”), and Wich ting (“What?”).
Complex interrogative pronouns are very distinct when used in sentences.
Examples:
Wich ting yu di chop?
“What are you eating?”
Wus man bin kuk de chop?
“Who cooked the food?”
Wich tam dem bin kuk de chop?
“When was the food cooked?”
Foseke weti yu di chop na?
“Why are you eating now?”
The interrogative pronoun wu (“who”) combined with the possessive
pronoun yi (“his/her”) becomes wu yi. When translated into English it
means “whose”.
Examples:
Minor Word Classes 83
Wu yi moto di komot smuk plenti?
“Whose car is emitting a lot of smoke?”
Wu yi basko di ron wel wel?
“Whose bicycle runs very well?”
Wu yi palava pas oda man yi on?
“Whose problem is more than the other person’s?”
Sometimes the interrogative pronouns begin with the copula na for the
purpose of emphasis.
Examples:
Na wu bi big man fo Amerika?
“Who is the president of America?”
Na weti di hapin wit ya kombi?
“What is wrong with your friend?”
Na ha maket bi pas tude?
“How were the sales today?”
Na wich de yu bin bai televishon?
“When did you buy a television?”
4.1.6 Reflexive pronouns
Reflexive pronouns are the combination of the personal pronoun with
the word sef. Most often, the word sef is repeated for the purpose of
emphasis. In this context, the first person singular pronoun a changes to
mi.
Examples:
mi sef sef “myself”
yu sef sef “yourself”
yi sef sef “himself/herself/itself”
wi sef sef “ourselves”
wuna sef sef “yourselves”
dem sef sef “themselves”
Reflexive pronouns are more explicit in the following dialogue between
Mantrobu (Man) and Marewe (Mar).
Chapter Four
84
Man: (Na) wus man di wosh ya klos?
“Who washes your dresses?”
Mar: (Na) mi sef sef.
“(It is) myself.”
Man: (Na) wus man bin chapia wuna fam?
“Who cleared your farm?”
Mar: (Na) wi sef sef.
“(It is) ourselves.”
Man: (Na) wus man bin gi Yusofa mimbo?
“Who gave Yusofa wine?”
Mar: (Na) yi sef sef bay’am.
“She bought it herself.”
4.1.7 Possessive pronouns
Possessive pronouns are usually constructed by the addition of on at
the end of the pronoun. The other pronouns remain the same except that a
changes to ma and yu changes to ya.
Examples:
Ma on. “mine”
Ya on. “yours”
Yi on. “his/hers”
Wi on. “ours”
Wuna on. “yours”
Dia on. “theirs”.
Possessive pronouns are more obvious in the answers elicited by the
following question.
Na wus man get dis haus?
“Who owns this house?”
Na ma on. “It’s mine.”
Na ya on. “It’s yours.”
Na yi on. “It’s her’s/his.”
Na wi on. “It’s ours.”
Na wuna on “It’s yours.”
Na dia on. “It’s their’s.”
Minor Word Classes 85
4.1.8 Indefinite Pronouns
The indefinite pronouns, ene man (“anyone”), ol man (“everyone”), no
wan (“none”), and no man (“nobody”), do not substitute for nouns but
they function on their own as nouns.
Examples:
No bi ene man we i fit draif moto.
“It’s not everyone who can drive a car.”
Ol man fo dis haus di dring mimbo.
“Everyone in this house drinks wine.”
No man no fit tok se i no di tok lai.
“No one can say that he/she doesn’t lie.”
I noba si no wan.
“He has seen none.”
No man no kam hia.
“Nobody came here.”
4.2 Prepositions and prepositional phrases
Cameroonian Pidgin prepositions describe the relation between the
words in a sentence. It links the noun, the pronoun or the noun phrase to
the other parts of the sentence. Prepositional phrases are generally made
up of a noun phrase, a pronoun or a clause in which the subject of the
sentence is found.
Examples:
Preposition + noun
A bi lef ma masa fo haus.
“I left my husband at home.”
Ova enjoimen de fo Kumba.
“There is excessive enjoyment in Kumba.”
Chapter Four
86
Preposition + pronoun
Fada wan go fo de kraidai wit mi.
“The priest wants to attend the death celebration with me.”
Ma mbombo yi kombi don go wit yi.
“My namesake’s friend has left with him.”
Preposition + clause
Wi enta insai som fain fain shop dem.
“We visited some very nice shops.”
De big de de fo Sonde fo de oda wik.
“The feast day is on Sunday of the other week.”
The most significant prepositions in Cameroonian Pidgin are the
polysemic fo and the postpositional prepositions.
4.2.1 The polysemic fo
Apart from functioning as the marker of the infinitive verbs, fo as a
preposition, has a polysemic functionality in the sense that it stands for
several prepositions in English, including “for”, “on”, “in”, “at”, “to”, and
“by”. Actually pronounced /f‫ܧ‬Ғ/ in a lower tone, it is derived from the
English word “for” but it has more semantic versatility than its English
equivalent. Here are some of the differential significations of fo in
Cameroonian Pidgin:
Fo represents the normal function of “for” in English.
I bi palamenterian fo wi sai.
“He/She is the parliamentarian for our area.”
Ma kontri man get komputa fo sel’am.
“My kinsman has a computer for sale.”
It is used to indicate the purpose.
Dat matua na fo kari kako.
“That vehicle is for carrying goods.”
A go sen ma moni fo njangi.
“I will send my money for the ‘contributions’.”
Minor Word Classes 87
It is used to indicate possession.
Anti Karin na big sista fo ma mami.
“Aunt Kareen is my mother’s elder sister.”
Dat chop na fo ya papa.
“That food is for your father.”
It is used to indicate time and place.
Choch di stat fo tiri oklok.
“The mass will begin at three o’clock.”
Ma masa de fo haus.
“My husband is at home.”
It is used to indicate direction.
Mami Magrita di go fo Kumba.
“Mami Margaret is going to Kumba.”
Makta di ste fo kona choch.
“Magdalene lives near the church.”
It acts as a modal verb.
Yu fo dring plenti wata.
“You would have drunk a lot of water.”
Yu fo waka insai ren.
“You would have walked in the rain.”
Fo can also stand for other prepositions in English, including “on”, “at”,
“by”, “in/inside”, “for”, “of” and “with”. They have the following
complex forms: fo on top (“on”), fo insai (“in”), fo kona (“beside”), fo bak
(“behind”) and fo fron (“in front”).
Examples:
Put’am fo on top tebu.
“Put it on the table.”
Put’am fo insai ngongong.
“Put it in a tin.”
Chapter Four
88
A de jos fo kona.
“I am just around.”
Onku fo go fo hospita.
“Uncle would have gone to the hospital.”
In interrogatives, fo also functions as an auxiliary verb.
Examples:
Ha fo ya mami?
“How is your mother?”
Ha fo Kata yi pikin dem?
“How are Catherine’s children?”
Ha fo ya mami yi sik?
“What about your mother’s illness?”
Ha fo yi papa yi plenti wuman dem?
“What about his father’s many wives?”
Fo can also stand for the preposition “about”, a word which shows
concern for something, especially, in interrogative sentences.
Ha fo ma moni?
“What about my money?”
Ha fo de kola?
“What about the kolanut?”
Other prepositions include afta (“after”) and bifo (“before”).
Examples:
A pre se ren no fol afta tumoro.
“I pray (that) it shouldn’t rain the day after tomorrow.”
A pre se mek ren fol bifo ivining tam.
“I pray that it should rain before the evening.”
Minor Word Classes 89
4.2.2 Postpositional prepositions
A peculiarity of the Cameroonian Pidgin preposition is that it
postmodifies the noun or the pronoun. It involves a syntactic phenomenon
which is dominant in some Cameroonian languages, whereby the
preposition comes after the pronoun or the noun. Complex prepositions
like fo bak (“behind”), fo fron (“in front”), and fo kona (“around”,
“beside”, and “near”), are separated by pronouns or noun phrases.
Examples:
I bin tanap fo ma bak.
“He stood behind me.”
No bigin dans lek kresman fo ma fron.
“Stop dancing like a madman in front of me.”
A bin put de mimbo fo onku yi kona.
“I put the wine near uncle.”
4.3 Conjunctions
Cameroonian Pidgin conjunctions syntactically link equal words,
phrases and clauses. There are two types: the coordinating conjunctions
and the subordinating conjunctions.
4.3.1 Coordinating conjunctions
The coordinating conjunctions give equal emphasis to two main
clauses. In other words, they co-ordinate the two ideas registered in the
two separate clauses. The main coordinating conjunctions include an
(“and”), bet (“but”), so (“so”), and na se (“just that”).
Examples:
Jonas di dring plenti mimbo an i di smoke siga.
“Jonas drinks a lot of wine and he smokes cigarettes.”
Fama di wok lek jakas bet i no di get plenti moni.
“A farmer works like a jackass, but he doesn’t earn much money.”
I no tok ashia fo mi, so a go tok fo yi papa.
“He didn’t tell me he was sorry, so I will talk to his father.”
Chapter Four
90
Troki lek boksing na se yi han shot.
“The tortoise likes boxing, it’s just that its hands are short.”
4.3.2 Subordinating conjunctions
A subordinating conjunction is used to link a dependent clause to the
main or independent clause. In other words, it subordinates one idea to
emphasize the other. They include afta (“after”), fosika se (“because”), lek
se (“as if”), sote (“until”), if i bi se (“if it is that”), and na se (“just that”).
Subordinate conjunctions have five subclasses which indicate cause, time,
and condition.
Cause: Causal conjunctions introduce the subordinate clause of reason
with words like ha we (“since”), fosika or fosika se (“because”), and fo se
(“in order that”).
Examples:
Chop go komot fain ha we ren don fol.
“Crops will grow well since rain has fallen.”
A no kuk plenti chop fosika se moni no de.
“I didn’t prepare enough food because there was no money.”
Tanyi yi haus bi chakara fosika njumba palava.
“Tanyi’s household collapsed because of concubinage matters.”
Kamarun man no di complen fo se mek pis bi fo kontri.
“The Cameroonian doesn’t complain in order that there should be peace in the
country.”
Time: The conjunction introduces time clauses as in tam we (“when”),
sote (“until”), afta (“after”), and bifo (“before”).
Examples:
A go go Yawinde tam we salari don komot.
“I will go to Yaounde when salaries are out.”
Shidon fo de sote ren kot.
“Sit there until the rain ceases.”
I go go mek yi hed afta yi masa don chop.
“She will be going to style her hair after her husband has eaten.”
Minor Word Classes 91
Wuna bin don komot bifo ren stat.
“You had gone out before the rain started.”
Place: It introduces the subordinate clauses referring to time with words
like we (“where”) and ene sai (“wherever”).
Examples:
Got di chop na fo ples we dem tai yi.
“A goat eats where it is tethered.”
De masa go wok ene sai we dem sen yi.
“The man will work wherever he is sent to.”
Condition: Conditional conjunctions introduce subordinate conditional
clauses. They are if (“if”), weda (“whether”), and sep se (“except that”).
Examples:
A go join njangi if ma salari stat pas.
“I will join the thrift and loan scheme if I start receiving my salary.”
I di go fam weda ren fol or i no fol.
“He goes to the farm whether it rains or not.”
Wi mos ki kau fo krisimi sep se moni no de.
“We must slaughter a cow at Christmas except that there is no money.”
4.3.3 Se as a subordinating conjunction
The subordinating conjunction se introduces a subordinate clause as
the subject or the object of the main verb. It also links words connected
with reporting. Such words include tok se (“say that”), ting se (“think
that”), sho se (“sure that”) and min se (“means that”). The se-clause is the
equivalent of the “that-clause” in English, especially when it introduces a
subordinate clause. However, in English informal speech, the word “that”
is often omitted.
Examples:
I tok se palava no de.
“He says (that) there is no problem.”
Chapter Four
92
Yu ting se yu go fit?
“Do you think (that) you will be able?”
A sho se yi masa go kam tumoro.
“I am sure (that) his boss will arrive tomorrow.”
Dat min se kontri go waka.
“It means (that) the country will move on.”
The subordinating conjunction se also links certain verbs which are
followed by the indirect objects. The verbs tel (“tell”) langwa (“confide”),
promis (“promise”) and wori (“worry”) also indicate reporting.
Examples:
Yi mbombo tel mi se i don bon.
“Her namesake told me (that) she had put to bed.”
De kwakanda langwa mi se i go mari smo tam.
“The bachelor confided in me (that) he will marry soon.”
Atem promis dem se dem go chop boning fish fo Limbe.
“Atem promised them (that) they will eat roasted fish in Limbe.”
Emade di wori yi mami se mek i gi yi moni.
“Emade worries her mother (that) she should give her money.”
The sentence may be made very long and complex with the use of several
se-clauses.
Example:
I bi tok se i go tel yi se mek i no se i no bi koret man.
“He said (that) he will tell him (that) let him know (that) he is not a good
man.”
4.4 Determiners
Pidgin determiners are words, phrases or affixes that are used to
highlight the noun or define something or someone. There are three forms
of determiners in Cameroonian Pidgin: articles, demonstrative determiners
and possessive determiners.
Minor Word Classes 93
4.4.1 Articles
The main article in Cameroonian Pidgin is de which corresponds to the
English word “the”. The definite article matches with countable and
uncountable nouns.
Examples:
De wuman fain.
“The woman is beautiful.”
De wuman dem fain.
“The women are beautiful.”
De pipu dem di wok.
“The people are working.”
De palava di hot.
The matter is serious.”
The indefinite articles are not directly expressed as is the case with “a” in
the English language. They are usually expressed by som and rarely with
the use of numbers like wan (“one”) or tu (“two”). Generally, som may
stand for a definite article, especially in a sentence in which the plural
marker dem is absent.
Examples:
Som masa bin kam hia. (Singular)
“A man came here.”
Som masa dem bin kam hia. (Plural)
“Some men came here.”
Note also that unlike in English, not all the statements or declarative
sentences take the articles.
Examples:
Tif man yi rod no di stret.
“A thief’s road is never straight.”
Man yi mbanga na yi oye.
“A man’s palm nuts are his oil.”
Chapter Four
94
Bed no di tel yi fren se ston di kam.
“A bird never tells its friend that a stone is coming.”
4.4.2 Demonstrative determiners
Demonstrative determiners indicate the identity of the nouns referred
to with the use of words like dat (“that”) and dis (“this”). The
demonstrative determiners in the plural forms are marked by dem.
Examples:
Dat boi na grafi.
“That boy is from the grass field.”
Dat boi dem na grafi.
“Those boys are from the grass field.”
Dis boi na grafi.
“This boy is from the grass field.”
Dis boi dem na grafi.
“These boys are from the grass field.”
4.4.3 Possessive determiners
Possessive determiners identify the things referred to by the pronouns
including ma (“my”), ya (“your”), yi (“his/her”), wi (“our”), wuna
(“your”), and dia (“their”).
Examples:
A di fain ma moni.
“I am looking for my money.”
I don bring ya moni.
“He has brought your money.”
Tom don finish yi haus.
“Tom has completed his building.”
Yu neva hia wi trobu.
“You have not heard our problem.”
Oga don gi wuna chop.
“The boss has given you food.”
Minor Word Classes 95
Dem di wash dia klos.
“They are washing their dresses.”
The demonstrative and the possessive determiners can be replaced with the
articles de or som which is not the case when the words are used as
possessive pronouns.
Examples:
A di fain ma moni, can simply read, A di fain de moni.
I don bring ya moni, can simply read, I don bring som moni.
Pidgin determiners are further subdivided into predeterminers as in ol
(“all”), determiners as de (“the”), postdeterminers usually in terms of
numbers like wan (“one”), tu (“two”), or tiri (“three”) and quantifiers like
plenti (“many”).
Examples:
The predeterminer ol
Ol man di shit.
“Everybody excretes.”
Ol pikin dem lek ple.
“All the children like playing.”
The determiners de
De man sabi wok fo komputa.
“The man works well with the computer.”
De pipu dem sabi rod.
“The people know the road.”
The postdeterminers tiri or plenti
De tiri pipu dem don kam.
“The three people have arrived.”
De pipu dem no ples fo slip.
“The people know where to sleep.”
Chapter Four
96
The quantifiers plenti
Plenti pipu dem bin go prizin.
“Many people went to prison.”
Plenti kristen dem bin go de dai.
“Many Christians attended the funeral.”
4.5 The copula na
There is a common usage, which makes the declarative statements and
the interrogatives in Pidgin more precise. This is the use of the feature na,
which translated into English means “is”.
Examples:
Tude na Sonde.
“Today is Sunday.”
Sam na wayo man.
“Sam is a dubious person.”
Dat boi fo de na ma pikin.
“That boy is my child.”
Sometimes na, translated into English, means “it is”.
Examples:
Na ma onku we i kam hie.
“It is my uncle who came here.”
If no bi na yu, na ya broda.
“If it is not you, it is your brother.”
Na ma nem ol man go kol’am.
“It is my name everyone will call.”
Na is used at the beginning of the interrogative sentences for the purpose
of emphasis. However, the questions still make sense without the use of
na, especially when there is no emphasis intended.
Examples:
Minor Word Classes 97
Na weti yu di chop?
“What are you eating?”
Na wich man bin kuk de chop?
“Who cooked the food?”
Na wich tam i bin kuk de chop?
“When did the person cook the food?”
Na ha i bin kuk de chop?
“How did she cook the food?”
Notice that na comes at the beginning of each interrogative sentence.
When translated directly into English, the first question, for example,
reads: "It is what you are eating?" The answer maintains the na as in Na
nyamangoro a di chop. Na is a linking feature with an independent
meaning which relates to the other elements of the clause as a subject and
a complement. This reflects a typical West African language structure. In
the answers to the questions above, the word na may appear at the
beginning or in the middle of the sentences.
Examples:
Na nyamangoro a di chop.
“It’s snails I am eating.”
A di chop na nyamangoro.
“I am eating snails.”
Na Mami Yosofa kuk’am.
“It’s Mami Yosofa who cooked it.”
Mami Yosofa, na i kuk’am.
“Mami Yosofa cooked it.”
Na jos na i kuk’am.
“It’s just now she cooked it.”
I kuk’am na jos na.
“She has just cooked it.”
Na fo maket i bay’am.
“It’s in the market she bought it.”
Chapter Four
98
I bay’am na fo maket.
“She bought it in the market.”
Na wit fayawud i kuk’am.
“It’s with firewood she cooked it.”
I kuk’am na wit fayawud.
“She cooked it with firewood.”
In some sentences, na can be ignored and the sense of the sentence will
not be affected in any way. For example, A di chop na nyamangoro can
also read: A di chop nyamangoro. The word na is very often used at the
beginning of the interrogative sentences for the purpose of emphasis.
Examples:
Na fo wusai de moni komot?
“Where is the money coming from?”
Na weti bin hapin fo maket?
“What happened in the market?”
Na wich man di folo Kata?
“Who is dating Catherine?”
Na fosika weti yu di tai fes?
“Why are you frowning?”
Na ha de tif man enta de haus?
“How did the thief enter the house?”
The copula na is further used in declarative sentences for emphasis. This
function can be identified in the sentence which answers the following
question:
Yu di go fo Tiko?
“Are you going to Tiko?”
Answer:
A di go na fo Kumba.
“I am going but to Kumba.”
In the answers given above, the emphasis is placed on “Kumba” not
Minor Word Classes 99
“Tiko”. Similarly, the word na highlights the possibility of making a
choice when the following question is asked:
Yu go chop na miyondo o planti?
“Will you eat ‘miyondo’ or plantains?”
Answer:
A go chop na planti.
“I will eat plantains.”
Equally, na is used to refer to the conjunction “but”.
Examples:
I bi put’am na fo de.
“He put it but there.”
Kumba di kenekene na fo drai sisin.
“Kumba is slippery but in the dry season.”
4.6 Interjections
Interjections are the words or the short utterances that express
emotions and can stand on their own. Pidgin interjections are normally
followed by exclamation marks. Examples include: Webe! Ekie! from
indigenous languages; wala! from French “violà”, and wandafu! from
English “wonderful”. Although interjections are exclamatory in structure,
they are mostly single utterances, whereas exclamatory sentences are
complete sentences. Interjections usually begin the sentence and set its
tone.
Examples:
Wandafu! Kamarun don nak Najiria fo ndamba.
“Wonderful! Cameroon has beaten Nigeria in football.”
Wala! Yu don do koret ting.
“Wala! You have done the right thing.”
Webe! Ting dem we i di hapin tode mop no fit tok.
“Webe! Things that happen today the mouth cannot speak.”
Chapter Four
100
Kumba! Wuna kam si somting.
“Kumba! You should come and see something.” (Something very unusual,
horrifying).
4.7 Discourse markers
Discourse markers are the pidgin words or the phrases which are
generally syntax-independent. They are used primarily for emphasis, for
revealing the speaker’s attitude and for the general embellishment of the
discourse, but they do not alter the meaning of the sentence. They include:
na, yu si’am, yu hia na, eheh, no bi so, na so, and eeh.
Examples:
Yu don hia de palava, na.
“You have listened to the problem, now.”
I bin trowe wi, yu si’am?
“He abandoned us, do you see?”
Na so, yu don bigin sho wi wahala.
“It’s so, you have started giving us trouble.”
A se eh, mek wi bigin waka.
“Please, let’s start moving.”
Dis klos na okrika, o.
“This dress is second hand, o.”
Ehen, na okrika.
“Yes, it is second hand.”
4.8 Ideophones
Ideophones are discussed in this section because of their prominence in
Cameroonian Pidgin. They can be considered as a grammatical category
not necessarily as phonological markers. They are words with vivid
representations of the ideas in sounds. In other words, they imitate sounds,
noises of actions and a wide range of features which are sometimes
invented depending on the speaker’s mood. Derived from the indigenous
languages, they are a significant feature of the oral narratives in the
African languages and they translate the aspects of such orality into
speech. Ideophones are a typical feature of Cameroonian Pidgin sounds. It
Minor Word Classes 101
is a very productive class of words which vividly represents the ideas in
sounds. They evoke sensory experiences in terms of sound, feelings, sight,
smell, taste, colour, action, and shape. While ideophones can be nouns like
chukuchuku (“thorn”) and verbs like ningi-ningi (“tickle”), the sensory
experiences they evoke mostly have adjectival and adverbial functions
which permit the audience to vividly perceive the sensory experience.
Through the use of ideophones, the speaker reveals his or her attitude
toward what is being described. Ideophones may evoke onomatopoeic
sounds (Pek and Yankah 2004: 359-360).
Examples:
Gbam! The sound of a heavy object crashing on a hard surface or a
sudden occurrence.
They may evoke the activity or state of affairs.
Examples:
Chakara “scattered”
Chukuchuku “thorn”
Pap “weak”
Yayato “welcome”
Ningi-ningi “tickle”
Gburugburu “unsteady action”, “rumbling sound”
Reduplications figure quite prominently in ideophones. The root words are
repeated, but such repetitions bring out the ideas in the sounds. They
characterize a distinct class of words with a simple syllable configuration
that makes them repetitive and lengthy for the purpose of emphasis. More
importantly, they perform adjectival functions:
Examples:
Nyama-nyama “messy”
Shap-shap “very early”
Zam-zam “rough disorganized person”
Kene-kene “slippery”
As seen in the examples above, ideophones convey an idea, the rhythm of
an action, and the colour or the smell of something. They also perform the
role of the adverb.
Chapter Four
102
Examples:
Nayo-nayo “very gently”
Kwik-kwik “very quickly”
Molo-molo “majestically”
The grammar of a language is complicated by the use of the minor
word classes that help to build up its linguistic structure. It has been
explained that the sense and the structure of the language change with the
inclusion of the elements of the minor word classes. Consequently, the
distinctive quality of Cameroonian Pidgin is evident in the way the minor
word classes are used and how they modify the sentence structures.
CHAPTER FIVE
SENTENCE STRUCTURES AND TYPES
The main components of the Cameroonian Pidgin sentence, like its
English equivalent, are the subject, the verb, the object and/or the
complement. It has three sentence structures and four common types
which convey the complete meaning.
5.1 Sentence structures
There are noticeable structural patterns of the Cameroonian Pidgin
sentences which are similar to those in English. These are the simple, the
compound and the complex sentences. However, there are serial verb
constructions and serial pronoun constructions which make some Pidgin
sentences more complex. These types of sentences are mostly influenced
by the indigenous languages. We begin with the simple, the compound and
the complex sentences before discussing the serial verb and the serial
pronoun constructions.
5.1.1 Simple sentences
Simple sentences are the most common sentence structures in
Cameroonian Pidgin. They are sentences which have only one independent
clause comprising a subject, the auxiliary di and a verb. Remember that
the auxiliary di also indicates the progressive case. Consequently, the
examples below may stand for the present simple as well as the present
progressive tenses.
Examples:
A di wok.
“I work.” / “I am working.”
Dog fau di wosh.
“A duck bathes.” / “A duck is bathing.”
Chapter Five
104
De dog di bak.
“The dog barks.” / “The dog is barking.”
Simple sentences may be made up of compound words and phrases,
especially at the levels of the subject and the direct object.
Examples:
(Subject)
Yi Papa an yi mami di wok fam.
“His father and mother work on the farm.”
(Direct Object)
De maneja wit yi wok pipu dem bin ho miting.
“The manager and his workers held a meeting.”
5.1.2 Compound sentences
Compound sentences in Pidgin are made up of two independent
clauses linked by a coordinating conjunction. Unlike in English, the
subject is repeated in the second clause. In other words, if the conjunction
is removed the two clauses will stand as independent sentences.
Examples:
De boi dem bin ple an dem bin win de prais.
“The boys played and won the prize.”
Yi papa di jelos an i di wiket.
“His father is jealous and wicked.”
I di kuk an i di klin haus.
“She cooks and cleans the house.”
Atang di tif an i di folo pipu dia wuman dem.
“Atang steals and dates people’s wives.”
5.1.3 Complex sentences
Complex sentences comprise a subordinate clause and an independent
clause. A subordinate clause may have both a noun and a verb, but they
may not express a complete thought.
Sentence Structures and Types 105
Examples:
De wuman we i wie de blak klos na ma sista.
“The woman who wears the dark dress is my sister.”
Ma papa bin glad tam we a bin pas de ezam.
“My father was happy when I passed the examination.”
Weti we yu want’am, a go giv’am fo yu.
“Whatever you want, I will give it to you.”
5.1.4 Serial verb constructions
Serial verb constructions occur when two or more verbs are placed
together without being linked by a conjunction.
Examples:
Manenja kol ol man pe yi moni.
“The manager invited everyone and paid him/her.”
I tek stik nak de snek.
“He took a stick and hit the snake.”
At times, the verbs are not followed by the direct objects as exemplified
above. Rather, a verb comes immediately after another verb without the
use of the auxiliary verb.
Examples:
Kam si weti di hapin.
“Come and see what is happening.”
De pa bin wekop go.
“The old man stood up and left.”
Manga go tel yi papa se i wan mare.
“Manga went and told his father that he wants to get married.”
Dem don yus’am tek ple politik.
“They have used it to do politics.”
Often, two or more serial verbs form a sentence. Such common
expressions in Cameroonian Pidgin abound.
Chapter Five
106
Examples:
Go tok. “Go and report.”
Go dai. “Go and die.”
Begin di ple. “Continue to joke.”
Serial verbs are the syntactic phenomena which create speech economy
without altering the meaning of the sentence.
5.1.5 Serial pronoun construction
Another regular feature of the complex sentence structure is the serial
occurrence of the pronoun. Each clause can stand on its own, especially, if
the coordinating conjunction is removed. A careful examination of the
following extracts taken from Pidgin English Prayer Book and Gud Nyus
fo Ol pipul discussed in Chapter Two will illustrate this feature clearly.
Jesus he been turn and he talk for them say…
Glad e be for wuman whe he not fit born…
(Awa Pidgin English Prayer Book 120)
Jesus e ton an e tok fo dem sei…
E fain fo wuman weh e no di born…
(Gud Nyus fo Ol Pipul by the Bible Society of Cameroon, Luke
23:27-31.)
Although both texts differ in terms of the orthography, the sentence
structures are similar in terms of the repetitions of the pronoun “he” and
“e” respectively. A literal translation of the two statements into English
will read as follows:
Jesus he turned and he said to them….
Blessed it is for a woman who she does not deliver…
But Jesus turning onto them said…
Blessed are the barren and the womb that never bear…
In Cameroonian Pidgin, the pronouns reoccur in a sentence so long as the
coordinating clauses are linked by a conjunction.
Example:
Sentence Structures and Types 107
Tom bi go chop haus an i bi chop an i dring mimbo an i komot go we i no pe.
“Tom went to the restaurant, ate, drank wine, and left without paying.”
5.2 Sentence types
The four major sentence types in Cameroonian Pidgin are the
declarative, the interrogative, the imperative, and the exclamative sentences.
5.2.1 Declarative sentences
Declarative sentences are the most common sentence types. They are
often used for making statements of facts or stating ideas consisting of a
subject and a predicate. The essence of these types of sentences is to give
information. As in English, the Pidgin declarative sentences have the
simple and the compound subjects. There are five basic patterns around
which most declarative sentences are built. The subject-verb (SV) and the
subject-verb-object (SVO) are the basic sentence structures of
Cameroonian Pidgin. Other Pidgin sentence patterns are fairly complex.
Examples:
SV A di chop.
“I eat.”
SVO A di chop planti.
“I eat plantains.”
S-adjective I fat.
“He/she is fat.”
SV-adverb I di waka smo-smo.
“He walks slowly.”
Or Mantrobu de fo hia.
“Mantrobu is here.”
SV-noun Asong na dokita.
“Asong is a doctor.”
The auxiliary verb di in the subject verb (SV) above is also a marker of the
progressive tense “eating”. In addition, the Subject-adjective (S-adjective)
sentence pattern exemplified above is a common and a peculiar structure
in Cameroonian Pidgin. This type of sentence pattern does not take the
auxiliary verb bi or di or the main verb, but they are complete sentences in
their own right.
Examples:
Chapter Five
108
A to. “I am tall.”
Yu fain. “You are beautiful.”
Moni fain. “Money is good.”
Laif swit. “Life is good.”
In the more complex declarative sentences, some of the main clauses do
not take the auxiliary or the main verb but maintain the S-adjective
structure.
Examples:
Kres fain na waka tu moch.
“Madness is good, but it’s too much trekking.”
Laif de na moni jam.
“There is life, but money is lacking.”
De kako ova hevi an de bag big.
“The cargo is too heavy and the bag is big.”
Pidgin also has complex declarative sentences which contain an
independent clause and a subordinate clause.
Examples:
A go wet sote yu kam bak bifo a chop.
“I will wait until you return before I eat.”
Wi bin go fo maket fo bai chop.
“We went to the market to buy food.”
De majistret bin hala de tif man fo kot.
“The magistrate shouted at the thief in court.”
There are also compound declarative sentences that contain two
independent clauses.
Examples:
De wuman go kam fo Sonde an wi go go fo choch.
“The woman will come on Sunday and we will go to church.”
De wuman yi man na telo, i di wok plenti.
“The woman’s husband is a tailor, he works very hard.”
Sentence Structures and Types 109
Compound declarative sentences are linked by conjunctions or transition
words like fosika se (“because”) that also function as conjunctions.
Example:
Yi mami kam bak fo kontri fosika se i no bi get wok.
“His mother returned to the country because she had no work.”
5.2.2 Interrogative sentences
Interrogative sentences are sentences that ask questions. In Cameroonian
Pidgin, the answers are given depending on the type of questions asked.
There are four main types of questions: the questions that require
“Yes/No” answers, the “W-” questions, the tag questions and the choice of
alternative questions.
The questions that require “Yes” or “No” answers.
Examples:
Questions Answers
Yu sabi tok Pijin? Yes
“Do you speak Pidgin?” “Yes.”
Wuna di chop dog? No
“Do you (plural) eat dog meat?” “No.”
Dat bobo don mare? No
“Is that filibuster married?” “No”
Mbele dem de fo rod? Yes
“Are policemen on the road?” “Yes.”
The W—questions have already been discussed under interrogative
pronouns. Unlike the questions that require the “yes” or “no” answers,
they call for definite statements as answers.
Examples:
Weti bi ya nem?
“What is your name?”
Chapter Five
110
Ma nem na Atungshiri.
“My name is Atungshiri.”
Wu bi ya papa?
“Who is your father?”
Ma papa na masa Mantrobu.
“My father is Mr Mantrobu.”
Wich tam yu di go bolo?
“When are you going to work?”
A di go fo san tam.
“I am going at noon.”
Wusai yu don kip ma posa?
“Where have you kept my purse?”
Na yi dat fo ontop bed.
“That is it on the bed.”
Interrogative questions are flexible because when converted their
structures still make sense. Such structural patterns are influenced by those
of the indigenous languages. Instead of beginning with the W-questions,
they begin with the pronouns ya, and yu and end with the W-question
marker. However, when they are translated directly into English the
sentence structure becomes awkward.
Examples:
Ya nem na weti?
“Your name is what?”
Ya papa na wu?
“Your father is who?”
Yu di go bolo wich tam?
“You are going to work which time?”
Yu don kip ma posa fo wusai?
“You have kept my purse where?”
Question tags also help to build up the interrogative sentences. They are
short questions placed at the end of the declarative statements. A few
examples exist in Pidgin as illustrated below.
Sentence Structures and Types 111
Yu di mare fo krisimi, no bi so?
“You are wedding at Christmas, isn’t it?”
Ma klos ova big fo ma sikin, ha yu si’am?
“My dress is oversized, how do you see it?”
Choice or alternative questions provide for two or three alternative
answers.
Examples:
You go chop yam an bins or gari an okro sup?
“Will you eat yams and beans or garri and okra soup?”
Masa Mantrobu di go na fam o i di go na choch?
“Is Mr Mantrobu going to the farm or to the church?”
5.2.3 Imperative sentences
Imperative sentences are usually the short and the simple sentences
that issue commands. Such sentences may be made of only one word:
Examples:
Lokot. “Watch out.”
Komot. “Get away.”
Jorop. “Rise.”
They may involve two or more words.
Examples:
Na na. “Immediately.”
Komot fo de. “Leave that place.”
Waka kwik-kwik. “Walk faster.”
Dring de meresin. “Drink the medications.”
Do’am na-na. “Do it immediately.”
Imperative sentences also make requests through the use of the word mek.
Examples:
Chapter Five
112
Mek wi bigin go.
“Let’s start going.”
Mek ren fol.
“Let rain fall.”
Mek wi tok fes.
“Let’s discuss first.”
Mek Kamarun go bifo.
“Let Cameroon progress.”
Negative imperative sentences begin with the word no:
Examples:
No fain palava.
“Don’t look for trouble.”
No mek ere.
“Don’t make a mistake.”
No shem fo tok tru.
“Don’t be ashamed to speak the truth.”
No kosh big man.
“Don’t insult an elder.”
5.2.4 Exclamatory sentences
Exclamatory sentences express strong emotions like joy, surprise,
excitement, sorrow, happiness, and anger in everyday Cameroonian
Pidgin.
Examples:
Fo Kumba hia! (Emphasis)
“Here, in Kumba!”
A swe God! (Confirmation)
“I swear to God!”
Na wanda! (Surprise)
“Not surprising!”
Sentence Structures and Types 113
Si mi oh! (surprise)
“Look at me oh!”
Na wa o! (Excitement)
“It’s serious oh!”
Yu no di shem! (Disgust)
“You are not ashamed!”
Yu tu moch oh! (Excitement)
“You are extraordinary!”
I don hapin! (Sorrow)
“It has happened!”
Ma mami eh! (Surprise)
“My mother eh!”
Na so! (Confirmation)
“That’s it!”
5.2.5 Greetings and reaction utterances
Greetings and reactions are sentences which communicate, but do not
have regular structures. In other words, their structures cannot be
determined by a logical syntactic agreement as in the subject-verb-object
structure.
A common greeting expression in Cameroonian Pidgin is ashia. Ashia
is a word that suits multiple situations, including the ordinary greetings,
the expression of sympathy, well-wishing, a form of encouragement, and
the cynical responses to situations. The word can be used as an isolated
case in the context, but its meaning is clear when combined with other
words. It should, however, be noted that it is difficult to give a faithful
translation into English for most of the expressions. Accordingly, they can
only be explained.
Examples:
Ashia fo wok. An expression of encouragement to someone or
people who are working.
Ashia fo wuna. This is ordinary greeting and well-wishing. It can
also be words of encouragement to people
working.
Chapter Five
114
Ashia ya. An expression of sympathy. The second word,
ya, is pronounced with a rising tone /já/.
Ashia fo yu/wuna/dem. This depends on the context. It may be a cynical
response to an individual or a group of people
who have done something wrong. It can be an
expression of encouragement to individuals or a
group of people.
Other common greeting expressions include:
Kam gud. “Welcome.”
Ha kontri? “How is life?” (Kontri used in this context to
represent all aspects of life)
Yu de? “Are you there?”
Ha fo yu? “How are you?”
Beta de? “Are you doing well?”
Waka fain. “Safe journey.”
Eh, wuman eh! “Eh, woman eh!” (An expression of
encouragement to women who have achieved
something.)
Reaction utterances may either indicate acceptance or denial or become
structures in their own right, although they do not rely on the logical word
patterns for their meanings to be understood. In such cases, the context of
usage is important. Reactions of acceptance are expressed in the form of
exclamations or interjections.
Examples:
Yes—oo! Acceptance with emphasis.
Na tru! Acceptance of truth.
A gri. Translated as “I agree” or “I accept”.
Reactions of denial are also expressed in the form of exclamations or
interjections.
Examples:
No mi—o! (Denial in high pitch for emphasis).
“Not I!”
No—o! (Denial in high pitch for emphasis).
“No!”
Sentence Structures and Types 115
A no no mi! (Denial with emphasis on the two first person pronouns A and mi).
“I don’t know!”
Generally, Cameroonian Pidgin has its peculiar sentence structures.
The English translations provided, especially in this chapter may not be
very exact, but they at least provide the reader with clues to their
meanings. One of the examples above: Yu no di shem! is translated as
“You are not ashamed!” Shem in Pidgin functions as an active verb and as
a noun, but “ashamed” which is the English translation functions as an
adjective. Consequently, treating the morphological and structural
differences between Cameroonian Pidgin and English is beyond the scope
of this book.
APPENDIX
PIDGIN PROVERBS AND SAYINGS
1. Ai no di shut bif.
“The eye never shoots a game.”
2. Ai we i di krai di sti si rod.
“The eye that cries still sees its path.”
3. Ai we i si somting get shie fo dat ting.
“The eye that sees something gets a share of it.”
4. Afta laif na dai.
“After life is death.”
5. Akwara gi mi botom bele ku ma hat.
“Prostitute, give me your belly bottom to cool my heart.”
6. Akwara man pikin di wash fo ol wata.
“A male prostitute bathes in every stream.”
7. Akwara wuman no di jam ples fo slip.
“A prostitute never lacks where to spend the night.”
8. Arata dai na yi mop.
“If a rat dies, it is its mouth.”
9. Arata dring mimbo ha i no fit slip fo kat yi bed.
“No matter how drunk a rat is it cannot lie on a cat’s bed.”
10. Arata na big man fo i ho.
“A rat is a master in its hole.”
11. Arata no di hapi wen pusi bon pikin.
“A rat is never happy when a cat gives birth to a kitten.”
12. Arata no di mek nyanga for pusi yi domot.
“A rat does not show off at a cat’s door.”
13. Ashawo no bi wok, na manechemen.
“Prostitution is not a job, it is managing a situation.”
14. Ashia no di helep bet i di ku hat.
“To say “sorry” does not help but it appeases the mind.”
15. Bad moni di hot fo mop.
“Ill-gotten wealth is hot in the mouth.”
16. Bad nyus di waka kwik-kwik.
“Bad news moves very fast.”
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 117
17. Bad ting no di kam yi wan.
“Misfortune does not come alone.”
18. Balok no di ring bel.
“Ill luck never rings a bell.”
19. Banana we i go raip mos raip.
“A banana that will be ripe must get ripe.”
20. Bed we i di mimba yi kombi dem no di mis rod.
“The bird that thinks of its friends does not miss the way.”
21. Bifo yu wan pik kola luk tri we i komot fo de.
“Before you pick a kolanut, look up the tree from which it fell.”
22. Bifo, bifo no bi na.
“As it was in the past, not now.”
23. Bele di bon ndon.
“The womb delivers wonders.”
24. Bele no di no Sonde.
“The belly doesn’t know Sunday.”
25. Ben-sikin gi chop fo masa.
“Bend low to serve food to the husband.”
26. Ben-ben rod ova long.
“A winding road is very long.”
27. Beta de fo okro sup.
“There is something good in okra sauce.”
28. Beta sup no di ste fo pot.
“Delicious sauce never lasts in the pot.”
29. Big las no di hevi de man we i get’am.
“Big buttocks are never heavy for the one who carries them.”
30. Big man big shit.
“A responsible man, big excreta.”
31. Big man yi shit no di sme.
“A responsible man’s faeces doesn’t smell.”
32. Bed we i di mek nois plenti no di tie haus.
“A bird that makes so much noise never builds a nest.”
33. Bed we i di dans fo rod di hia drom fo bush.
“A bird that dances on the road hears a drum in a bush.”
34. Bed no di tel yi fren se ston di kam.
“A bird never tells its friend that a stone is coming.”
35. Blain man no di foget rod fo yi mop.
“A blind man never misses the road to his mouth.”
36. Blain man no fit si ivin fo drim.
“A blind man does not see even in a dream.”
37. Blain man wan slip i di kova yi ai dem.
Appendix
118
“When a blind man wants to sleep he covers his eyes.”
38. Blod di flo na insai ven.
“Blood flows only in the vein.”
39. Bobi get pawa.
“Breasts have power.”
40. Bodi de insai clos.
“The body is clothed.”
41. Bodi no bi fayawud.
“The human body is not wood.”
42. Bushfau bin se i no lek ple fo nek we trap don ho yi fo nek.
“A partridge said it didn’t like play on the neck when a trap had
caught it on the neck.”
43. Buzi no di wosh bet i di eva clin.
“Busy doesn’t take a bath but it is always clean.”
44. Chie di wet butoks.
“A chair waits for buttock.”
45. Chako di kosh pot se i blak.
“Charcoal insults a pot that it is black.”
46. Chop a chop kontri waka.
“Eat and I also eat, the country moves on.”
47. Chop brok pot.
“Eat and break the pot.”
48. Chop moni lif ma hed.
“Spend the money and forego my head.”
49. Chop we wuman chop fo net di sho fo yi bele fo de tam.
“The food a woman eats in the night shows on her belly during
the day.”
50. De man we i boro yu trosa go olwes di luk ya wes.
“The person who lends you a pair of trousers will always look at
your waist.”
51. De man we i shit fo grong fit foget, bet de man we i di swip de
shit no fit foget.
“The person who defecates on the ground will forget but the one
who clears off the faeces doesn’t forget.”
52. De rod we tif man waka na yi dem go tek fain yi.
“The road that a thief uses is the same road that will be used to
trace him.”
53. De brek devu fo opsai.
“The day breaks when the devil is still around.”
54. Dem di prais got fo maket na ha we i stan.
“The price value of a goat in the market depends on the way it
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 119
stands.”
55. Dia on afofo dem di kol’am “gin”, wi on afofo dem di kol’am
ilisit.
“Their own locally brewed whiskey they call gin, ours they call
illicit.”
56. Dem bi se mek dog chop fo kumbu i se i go chop na fo grong.
“A dog was told to eat in a dish but it said it preferred to eat on
the ground.”
57. Dem no di bai fau fo insai kenja.
“A chicken is never bought in a cage.”
58. Dem no di krak mbanga wit botu.
“Palm kernels cannot be cracked using a bottle.”
59. Dem no di fos monki fo chop banana.
“A monkey is never forced to eat bananas.”
60. Dem no di gi pikin nem we i sti de fo bele.
“One cannot name a child who is still in the womb.”
61. Dem no di tel blain man se maket don klos.
“No one tells a blind man that the market has closed.”
62. Dem no di tel blain man se san-san de fo gari.
“A blind man is never told that there is sand in garri.”
63. Dem no di tel blain man se ren di fol.
“A blind man is never told that it is raining.”
64. Dai man no di fie berigrong.
“A corpse does not fear the grave.”
65. Dai na njangi.
“Death is like a contribution, each person takes his/her turn.”
66. Du mi a du yu, God no go vex.
“Tit for tat, God will not be angry.”
67. Dog bi tok se i shit fo haus fosika se rop bi de fo yi nek.
“The dog said that it excreted in the house because there was a
chain on its neck.”
68. Dog we i go dai no di hia saun fo bel.
“A dog that will die does not hear the sound of the bell.”
69. Dog we i no di hia yi masa yi wisel go los som de.
“The dog that doesn’t hear its master’s whistle will get lost one
day.”
70. Dog we i no get tel na God di draiv’am flai.
“God sends away flies from dogs that do not have tails.”
71. Doti na sik.
“Dirt is illness.”
72. Doti no di kil blak man.
Appendix
120
“Dirt does not kill a black man.”
73. Dronka man yi ai di multiplai ol ting we i si’am.
“A drunkard’s eye multiplies everything it sees.”
74. Drai faya wud di fol na fron man we i no get ax.
“Dry wood falls only in front of one who doesn’t have an axe.”
75. Dog fau don tai rapa.
“A duck is wearing a loin cloth.”
76. Elefan big ha i no fit cos etkwek.
“No matter how big an elephant is it cannot cause an earthquake.”
77. Ene akwara get yi spaisis.
“Every prostitute has her spices.”
78. Ene ben-ben pot get yi kova.
“Every twisted pot has a lid.”
79. Ene man di klap na fo yi on juju.
“Every person claps for his masquerade.”
80. Ene man di dro blanket na fo yi on sai.
“Each person pulls the blanket to his side.”
81. Ene wakaman go si ting we i di fain’am.
“Every vagabond will find what he/she is looking for.”
82. Emti han no di go fo mop.
“An empty hand does not visit the mouth.”
83. Ere fo mbutuku na dame fo ndos.
“A weakling’s error is food for a trickster.”
84. Fain pot sup na moni kuk’am.
“It is money that prepares a delicious pot of soup.”
85. Fain wuman na moni.
“A beautiful woman is money.”
86. Fain wuman no di slip hungry.
“A beautiful woman doesn’t go to bed hungry.”
87. Faya we na bik pipu join’am no di bon man.
“A fire assembled by adults doesn’t burn one.”
88. Fayawud we faya don nak’am i no di trong fo kach.
Wood that has been touched by fire is not difficult to light.
89. Fish no di swim fo ol wata.
“Fish does not swim in every stream.”
90. Fo kari fayawud we i get ant dem.
“To carry firewood that has ants.”
91. Fo kari wata fo kop ton’am fo insai wel.
“To carry water in a cup and turn it into a well.”
92. Fo ki man kam yi dai.
“To murder someone and attend his funeral.”
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 121
93. Fo sabi chapia fam no bi fo buk dem di rid’am.
“The skill of cutting grass in a farm is not read in a book.”
94. Fo chapia gras no bi fo kut tri.
“To cut grass is not the same thing like to fell a tree.”
95. Fo de fo kona wata di wosh han wit spit.
“To on the banks of a stream and wash your hands with spittle.”
96. Fo fain na wahala.
“To be beautiful is a problem.”
97. Fo get moni no had, na fo manech’am i had.
“To acquire wealth is not difficult, managing it is the problem.”
98. Fo gi wuman bele no min se yu go slip yi ol nait.
“To make a wuman pregnant, you must not have sex with her for
the whole night.”
99. Fo laf fo moning tam no min se yu slip fain.
“To laugh in the morning does not mean that you had a peaceful
sleep.”
100.Fo moni palava faif fran no di folo yi broda.
“In money matters five francs does not follow its brother.”
101.Fo ron ren enta fo chukuchuku.
“To escape from rain and enter thorns.”
102.Fo sel got ho yi rop.
“To sell a goat and not let go of the cord.”
103.Fo shit fo man yi rod.
“To excrete on one’s road.”
104. Fo trowe wata fo dog fau yi bak.
“To throw water on a duck’s back.”
105. Fo wowo na gen.
“To be ugly is gainful.”
106. Fau blak lek weti, i go soso shit wait eg.
“No matter how black a hen is, it will always lay white eggs.”
107. Fau we i ron fo Sabongari go fo Duala go sti enta pot sup.
“A hen which escapes from Sabongari to Douala will still end up
in a pot of soup.”
108. Fau we i no di hia rod go hia insai pot sup.
“A hen that does not follow instructions will do so in a pot of
soup.”
109. Frog we i di ova jom-jom go wan de enta fo yi mami yi pot sup.
“A frog that jumps too much will end up in its mother’s pot of
soup.”
110. From fraipan to faya.
“From a saucepan into fire.”
Appendix
122
111. Frotambo bi se i sabi ron bet i no no wusai fo go.
“A hare said it knows how to run but it doesn’t know where to
go.”
112.Gari hai pas wata.
“Garri swells beyond water.”
113.Gel we i lif yi banana dem toch’am dem no go bay’am egen.
“A girl who leaves her banana to be touched will not have
someone to buy it.”
114. Fo gi man wuman gi bed.
“To give a man a woman and provide him with a bed.”
115.Go fo bifo fo bak.
“Go forward then backwards.”
116.Got di chop na fo ples we dem tay’am.
“A goat eats where it is tethered.”
117.Got fit klaim kokonot na tam we de kokonot don fol.
“A goat can climb a coconut tree only when it has been felled.”
118.Got we i di chop yam mek i redi fo gi yi hed wen yam festiva i
kam.
“A goat that eats yams should be prepared to give its head on the
day of the yam festival.”
119.God di hia na fes tok.
“God listens only to the first statement.”
120.God no di slip.
“God does not go to sleep.”
121.God krach maches Satan bon man.
“God strikes the matches, Satan burns man.”
122.God we i gi man krokro na i di giv’am nel dem fo krach’am.
“God who gives man scabies also gives him nails to scratch
them.”
123.Got we i di folo dog go waka go chop pu.
“A goat that follows a dog to go on a journey will eat faeces.”
124.Gud kombi beta pas bad broda.
“A good friend is better than a bad brother.”
125.Gulok no bi meresin.
“Good luck is not sorcery.”
126.Gud no di los.
“Virtue never gets lost.”
127.Grong bif no di waka fo de tam fo noting.
“The rat mole does not move in the day without a purpose.”
128.Grong no di fu man.
“The earth never deceives a man.”
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 123
129.Hala no di sof wahala.
“Shouting does not solve a problem.”
130.Hang yo klos fo ples we ya han fit rich.
“Hang your dress at the reach of your hand.”
131.Hongri man no di si rod.
“A hungry man doesn’t see the road.”
132.Hop de fo dog we i sti lif pas layon we i dong dai.
“There is more hope in a living dog than in a dead lion.”
133.Ha man go do?
“What can one do?”
134.Hori-hori brok trosa.
“Too much hurry tears the trouser.”
135.Iye we i no di hia advais go folo hed fol fo gron wen dem kot’am.
“The ear which does not listen to advice will fall off with the
head when it is cut off.”
136.I fain fo ben tri wen i stil smo.
“It is best to bend a tree when it is still young.”
137.I fain fo gada fayawud tam we ples di shain.
“It is advisable to gather wood when there is still daylight.”
138.I no fain fo shem dai.
“It is never good to die of shame.”
139.If ai bi di shut bif ol man fo bi na hontaman.
“If the eye could shoot a game everyone would be a hunter.”
140.If blanket shot, yu ben ya fut.
“If the blanket is short you bend your legs.”
141.If cresman bi dong nak yu, yu go ron if yu si mekanik.
“If a mad man has once hit you, you will escape at the sight of a
mechanic.”
142.If finga ste plenti fo shitho i go kari shit.
“If the finger lasts long in the anus it will carry faeces.”
143.If koki neva sawa dem no di mimba pikin we i no get mami an
papa.
“If the “koki” doesn’t get sour no one will think of orphans.”
144.If layon se i no di chop mit, yu no go put yo hed fo yi mop.
“It is not because a lion says it does not eat meat that you will put
your head in its mouth.”
145.If laif di sho yu pepe, mek pepe-sup wit’am
“If life is showing you pepper, make pepper soup out of it.”
146.If man kik yu fo bak no vex: I di mimba yu se yu de fo yi fron.
“If someone kicks you from behind don’t be angry: he/she is
reminding you that you are before him/her.”
Appendix
124
147.If man ste fo latrin tu moch, i go foget se shit di sme.
“If one spends a long time in the toilet he/she will forget that
faeces smell.”
148.If monki denai banana babun go chop.
“If a monkey refuses bananas baboons will eat.”
149.If ngobna yi bele di komot fo fron, no se kontri di go fo bak.
“If the government’s stomach is protruding in front, know that
the country is going backwards.”
150.If pikin don stat ansa yi papa bak, no se i don stat do ting we
papa an mami dem di do’am.
“If a child starts answering back to his father, understand that he
has started doing what his father and mother do.”
151.If solt pas fo koki na pikin dem go chop big shie.
“If there is excess salt in ‘koki’ children will eat the greatest
share.”
152.If snek bait yu yu si milipid yu ron.
“If you are bitten by a snake, flee at the sight of a millipede.”
153.If win no blo, yu no go si fau yi enos.
“If the wind does not blow you cannot see the anus of a hen.”
154.If wuman dinai man pikin chop na soso man pikin go chop’am.
“If a woman refuses a man food, it is still a man that will eat it.”
155.If yu bait mi fo ma nos yu no fie kata, a go bait yu fo ya enos a no
go fie shit.
“If you bite my nose without fear of influenza, I will bite your
anus without fear of faeces.”
156.If yu bit pikin wit yo lef han, yu mos use yo rait han fo bring’am
nie yu.
“If you beat a child with your left hand you must use your right
hand to pull him toward you.”
157.If yu kach pikin fau an yi mami krai, no fie, hol’am; bet if de
mami-fau luk yu i no krai, put’am daun yu ron.
“If you pick up a chick and the mother hen squawks, don’t be
afraid, keep it; but if the mother watches you without squawking
put down the chick and flee.”
158.If yu di fie se pipu dem go laf you, no se tam go kam we dem go
krai fo yu.
“If you are afraid that people will mock you, know that there will
be time when they will mourn for you.”
159.If yu di haid insai bush, no make faya.
“If you are hiding in a bush don’t make a fire.”
160.If yu fain’am yu go si’am.
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 125
“If you look for, you will find it.”
161.If yu go fo manawa yi haus i go wekam yu wit bait.
“If you visit a wasp’s nest it will welcome you with a sting.”
162.If yu kari an dem tek go fo ya haus, no se lizad dem go kam yu
waka.
“If you carry ants into your house know that lizards will visit
you.”
163.If yu lek problem dem, mare fain wuman.
“If you like to have problems, get married to a beautiful woman.”
164.If yu muf ya ai se yu no wan si ya enemi, ha yu go si yo fren?
“If you pluck off your eyes because you don’t want to see your
enemy how will you see your friend?”
165.If yu neva yus ya tu han dem fo kari fulish yu no go bai sens.
“If you have never used your two hands to carry foolishness you
will never buy wisdom.”
166.If yu neva fol yu no go fain waka stik.
“If you have never fallen you will never look for a walking
stick.”
167.If yu si man yi bak no se yi bele de fo fron.
“If you see a man’s back know that his belly is in front.”
168.If yu si pikin fo monki wie kot, dat min se yi papa na telo.
“If you see the child of a monkey wear a coat it means his father
is a tailor.”
169.If yu si planti dem fo daun fo moning tam no se win bi pas fo nait.
“If you find plantains on the ground in the morning, know that a
wind passed in the night.”
170.If yu si rat ron enta faya no se ting we i di folo yi hot pas faya.
“If you see a rat run into a fire know that what is chasing it is
hotter than fire.”
171.If yu swit lek banana monki go chop yu.
“If you are as sweet as bananas monkeys will eat you.”
172.If yu tek ya mop blo faya yu go los’am yu sef.
“If your use your mouth to raise the flames you will put it off
yourself.”
173.If yu tai monki rapa i go stil claim tri.
“If you wrapped a monkey with a cloth it will still climb a tree.”
174.If yu wan get plenti mek yu lek de wan we yu fes get’am.
“If you want to acquire so much you must appreciate the one you
already have.”
175.If yu no di wosh bitalif ya han no go bita.
“If you don’t wash the bitter vegetables your hands will never
Appendix
126
have bitter taste.”
176.If pikin wosh yi han i go chop wit bik pipu.
“If a child washes his hands he will eat with adults.”
177.If ya masa get plenti wuman dem, de onle we fo enta yi rum na fo
kuk i fain chop.
“If your husband has many wives, the best way to enter his room
is to prepare him a delicious meal.”
178.If ya mbanga raip tode, oda man yi on go raip tumoro.
“If your palm nuts are ripe today some other person’s own will be
ripe tomorrow.”
179.If yu no mash dog yi tel i no go bait yu.
“If you do not step on a dog’s tail it will not bite you.”
180.Jam pas dai monki chop pepe.
“Poverty is more than death, that’s why a monkey eats pepper.”
181.Jelosi na puo, kongossa na dai.
“Jealousy is poverty, gossiping is death.”
182.Kaki no bi leda.
“Khaki is not leather.”
183.Kam-no-go mos go.
“Settlers must one day return to their roots.”
184.Kapenta no di get fain chie fo yi haus.
“A carpenter doesn’t have a good chair in his house.”
185.Kasava tude fit bi gari tumoro.
“Cassava today can become garri tomorrow.”
186.Kau we i no get tel na god di draiv’am flai.
“A cow that does not have a tail, it’s God who sends away flies.”
187.Kau we i no get tel, na fo yi sikin flai dem di ho miting.
“A cow that does not have a tail, it is on its body that flies hold
their meeting.”
188.Kau we i hori fo go Amerika go kam bak lek kon bif.
“A cow that hurries to America will return like corned beef.”
189.Kil man pe.
“To kill a man and pay for the crime.”
190.Kokroch no fit ron fo midu fau dem.
“A cockroach cannot escape amongst fowls.”
191.Koko lif bin ova sof, i ton sup fo pipu we dem no get tit.
“Cocoyam leaves became too soft that they became sauce in the
mouths of people who don’t have teeth.”
192.Kola na futbol fo mop we i no get tit.
“Kolanut is football in a mouth that has no teeth.”
193.Kombi we i nie, i pas boda we i fawe.
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 127
“A close friend is better than a distant brother.”
194.Kongosa na fie.
“Gossiping is fear.”
195.Kongosa na wich.
“Gossiping is witchcraft.”
196.Koni man dai, koni man beriy’am.
“A cunning man dies, a cunning man buries him.”
197.Koni man wit konto man fit ste fo wan haus.
“A cunning fellow and a stingy fellow can live in the same
house.”
198.Kontri trong ha kresman no di jam ting fo chop.
“No matter difficult times are, a madman never lacks what to
eat.”
199.Kres fain na waka tu moch.
“Madness is good but it involves too much trekking.”
200.Kres man na kres man.
“A mad man is a mad man.”
201.Krobo hed di do weti insai salun?
“What is a bald-head doing in a hair salon?”
202.Krokro di kach na man we i no ha fo krach’am.
“Scabies attack only a person who knows how to scratch it.”
203.Krokro no di jam las.
“Scabies never lack buttocks.”
204.Kru bonga kru tu.
“Eat smoke tilapia and eat the head.”
205.Kutlas no no yi masa.
“A cutlass does not know its master.”
206.Kutlas we i no di shap fo stik di shap fo sikin.
“A cutlass that is not sharp on a stick is sharp on flesh.”
207.Kumba di kenekene na fo drai sisin.
“Kumba is slippery only in the dry season.”
208.Langa man yi trot no di drai.
“A greedy man’s throat never gets dry.”
209.Latren fo kona haus di sme.
“A latrine near the house smells.”
210.Lezi man yi kutlas di shap na fo planti.
“A lazy man’s cutlass is sharp only on plantain stems.”
211.Leta long pas envelop.
“The letter is longer than the envelope.”
212.Lai no swit.
“Lies are not sweet.”
Appendix
128
213.Laif de lek basko; fo get balans yu get fo di waka.
“Life is like a bicycle; to maintain balance you have to be
moving.”
214.Laif de na moni jam.
“There is life but money is lacking.”
215.Laif na fo tek’am molo-molo.
“Life is to be faced in a gentle manner.”
216.Laif na njambo.
“Life is gambling.”
217.Laif no di gi yu weti yu lek’am bet weti we yu want’am.
“Life does not give you what you like but what you want.”
218.Laif we fait no de na laif we i no di waka.
“A life in which there is no struggle is a life in which there is no
victory.”
219.Layon no di bon dog.
“A lion does not deliver a dog.”
220.Layon no di chop bif we diferen man kil’am.
“A lion does not eat meat killed by some other person.”
221.Lif we i swit na i di kil got.
“The leaf that is sweat is what kills a goat.”
222.Lok arata yi ho wit granot.
“Block a rat’s hole with groundnuts.”
223.Lokot man we na tu sai kotras.
“Be careful with a man who is like a double-edge cutlass.”
224.Lokot wen yu spit fo win, lek i go kam bak fo yu.
“Be careful when you spit in the wind because the spittle will
come back to you.”
225.Lokot ya gari, san-san plenti fo opsai.
“Be careful with your garri because there is a lot of sand around.”
226.Long mop no gud.
“A long mouth is not good.”
227.Lof no di si mistek.
“Love does not see mistakes.”
228.Ma bele no be sto.
“My stomach is not a store.”
229.Ma moni na Mokolo no bi Ngoaekele.
“My money is Mokolo not Ngoaekele.”
230.Mami kovar’am oya di trowe.
“Mother cover it, oil is overflowing.”
231.Man kuk sup i tis’am.
“If a man cooks soup he should taste it.”
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 129
232.Man yi enemi na fo luking glas.
“A man’s enemy is in the mirror.”
233.Man no bi God.
“Man is not God.”
234.Man no di dai tu tam.
“One does not die twice.”
235.Man no dai man no res.
“If one is not dead, he will never have rest.”
236.Man no dai man no rotin.
“If one is not dead he would not get rotten.”
237.Man no fit fait taiga wit empti han.
“One cannot fight a tiger with bare hands.”
238.Man no fit mejo snek we i noba dai.
“One cannot measure a snake when it is not yet dead.”
239.Man no fit slip wit anoda man yi ai.
“One cannot sleep with another person’s eye.”
240.Man no ron.
“Let no one give up.”
241.Man pas man.
“A man is above another.”
242.Man pas yu, yu kari yi bak.
“If a man is above you, carry his bag.”
243.Man pikin na yi kanas.
“A man is his testes.”
244.Man pikin na yi poket.
“A man is his pocket.”
245.Man pikin na yi wes.
“A man is his waist.”
246.Man pikin no di wowo.
“A man is never ugly.”
247.Man shot ha i go soso si mun.
“No matter how short a man is he will still see the moon.”
248.Man we dem di muf karangwa fo yi hed get fo tang God.
“A person on whose head lice are removed must be grateful to
God.”
249.Man we i di slip wit wuman i no di drim.
“A man who sleeps with a woman does not dream.”
250.Man we i di wet gulok go wet fo plenti tam.
“A person who waits for good luck will wait for a long time.”
251.Man we i klaim plum tri mos chop blak wan.
“A person who climbs a plum tree must eat black ones.”
Appendix
130
252.Man we i di chop yi wan go fait yi wan.
“A person who eats alone will fight alone.”
253.Man we i di fe fo plan di plan fo fe.
“A person who fails to plan, plans to fail.”
254.Man we i di go bush no di jam bif.
“A person goes to the forest never lacks meat.”
255.Man we i di kari pot fo okro sup fo han and man we i di kari fufu
fo yi hed, na wu go fain wu?
“A person who carries a pot of okro soup in his hand and the one
who carries fufu on his head: who will look for the other?”
256.Man we i di lokot got no di tif got.
“A man who takes care of goats never steals goats.”
257.Man we i di poch no di fie dak.
“A person who is purging should not be afraid of darkness.”
258.Man we i di sel egs no di stat fait fo maket.
“A person who sells eggs does not start a fight in the market.”
259.Man we i di waka neket no di put han fo poket fo trosa.
“A man who walks naked cannot put his hands in the trouser
pocket.”
260.Man we i di wok fo nait di slip na fo de tam.
“A person who works in the night sleeps only during the day.”
261.Man we i bon yi biabia na yi di fes smel’am.
“A person who burns his hair will first smell it.”
262.Man we i di fix faya mek i no di fie smuk.
“A person who makes a fire should not be afraid of smoke.”
263.Man we i get wing dem fo flai mek i go bifo. A go waka kunya
kunya sote a rich.
“He who has wings to fly let him go ahead. I will walk slowly
until I arrive.”
264.Man we i no di gro na fren fo smo pikin dem.
“A person who does not grow is a friend to children.”
265.Man we i no sai we i komot i no sai we i di go.
“A person who knows where he/she is coming from knows where
he/she is going to.”
266.Man we i no di luk fo fron go rimen fo bak.
“A man who does not look ahead will remain behind.”
267.Man we i no no kontri fashon na los kontri.
“A person who does not master his culture is a lost person.”
268.Man we i shit fo yi rod.
“A person who excretes on his path.”
269.Man wok i chop.
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 131
“(If) a person labours he should also eat.”
270.Man yi bele no di sho di kana chop we i di chop.
“One’s belly does not reveal the kind of food he eats.”
271.Man yi hed na yi nek di kary’am.
“Each man’s head is supported by his neck.”
272.Man yi haus no di fawe fo yi.
“One’s house is never far away from him/her.”
273.Man yi las na trosa kovar’am
“One’s genitals are covered by trousers.”
274.Man yi man na man yi man.
“A man’s man is a man’s man.”
275.Man yi mbanga na i oya.
“One’s palm nuts are his/her oil.”
276.Man yi pikin dem na yi moni.
“One’s children are his money.”
277.Man yi pikin i shit no di sme yi.
“The faeces of a child does not smell his parent.”
278.Man yi shit no di sme yi.
“One’s faeces never smells him.”
279.Man yi ting na man yi ting.
“One’s thing is his.”
280.Man we i di ron kwik-kwik di fol kwik-kwik.
“A person who runs fast falls fast.”
281.Mango no di raip wan tam.
“Mangoes do not get ripe at once.”
282.Mare na tai-hat.
“Marriage is determination.”
283.Matua no di no draiva.
“A lorry does not know the driver.”
284. Manyanga oya di shain na fo fes we dem rob’am wit’am.
“Palm kernel oil shines only on the face on which it is rubbed.”
285.Mbanga no raip bed no go branch.
“If palm nuts are not ripe birds will never visit them.”
286.Mboma bi tok se i go bik befo i get leg dem.
“The python said it would develop legs when it grows up.”
287.Mbutuku na mbutuku.
“A worthless man is a worthless man.”
288.Meresen man we i no yi wok no di put sainbod.
“A good native doctor does not put a signboard.”
289.Milipid bi se waka fain fo moning tam.
“A millipede said that a journey is good in the morning.”
Appendix
132
290.Mimba de ples we yu komot bifo yu put ya fut fo fron.
“Remember where you are coming from before you step
forward.”
291.Mimbo di swit na tam we man don dronk.
“Wine tastes good only when one is drunk.”
292.Miyondo di laf koki se dem don tai yi nek we dem don tai ol yi
sikin.
“‘Miyondo’ laughed at ‘koki’ because its neck was tied with a
rope whereas all its body was tied with ropes.”
293.Moni di chakara kombi.
“Money sets friends apart.”
294.Moni di swit fo chop.
“Money is good to spend.”
295.Moni di tok.
“Money speaks.”
296.Moni fo han bak fo grong.
“Money in the hand, back on the ground.”
297.Moni fo njangi na fo tebu.
“Money for contribution is put on the table.”
298.Moni had wuman no no.
“Money is difficult to earn but a woman does not know.”
299.Moni mis rod.
“Money misses its track.”
300.Moni na fim.
“Money is like a film.”
301.Moni na trenja.
“Money is a visitor.”
302.Moni no di finish, na man di finish.
“Money never gets finished, it is man who gets finished.”
303.Moni no get kolo.
“Money does not have colour.”
304.Moni no lek mbanya.
“Money does not like a co-spouse.”
305.Moni palava don ton na jinja.
“Money matters have become like ginger.”
306.Moni man chop fain ting, puo man i shan-dai.
“A wealthy man eats good things, a poor man resists death.”
307.Moni di kio sik bet i no di kio dai.
“Money can cure illness but it cannot cure death.”
308.Monki di wok babun di chop.
‘A monkey works, the baboon eats.’
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 133
309.Monki no di bon dog.
“A monkey does not give birth to a dog.”
310.Monki no fain bet yi mami lek’am.
“The monkey is not beautiful but its mother likes it.”
311.Monki no di ol fo klaim tri.
“A monkey is never too old to climb a tree.”
312.Mop we i di tok i no di jam ting fo chop.
“The mouth that speaks does not lack what to eat.”
313.Mop we i don dring bobi no di foget tes fo melek.
“The mouth that has sucked breast never forgets the taste of
milk.”
314.Moto no mo.
“Excreta is not good.”
315.Muhamed na Jesus yi broda, dem papa yi big papa na Ablaham.
“Mohammed is Jesus’s brother, their father’s grandfather is
Abraham.”
316.Mumu no ha fo sing fo Sonde.
“A dumb person knows how to sing on Sunday.”
317.Na klos fo ofan pikin di fain fo giv’am fo trenja.
“It is an orphan’s dress that is good to be given to a stranger.”
318.Na condishon mek njanga yi bak ben.
“It is condition that caused crayfish to develop a bent back.”
319.Na de nem we dem gi dog na yi de dog di ansa.
“It is the name that is given to a dog that the dog answers.”
320.Na fulish man di lik oya fo bak botu.
“It is a foolish man that licks oil on the back of a bottle.”
321.Na fren fo tif man no tif man.
“It is a thief’s friend that knows the thief.”
322.Na God di klin dog yi las.
“It is God who cleans a dog’s anus.”
323.Na God di krak mbanga fo man we i no get han.
“It is God who cracks nuts for those who do not have hands.”
324.Na God di shef monki yi hed.
“It is God who shaves a monkey’s head.”
325.Na from klap we dem di enta dans.
“It is from clapping that one joins a dance.”
326.Naif no di no wu bi yi masa.
“A knife does not know who its master is.”
327.Na langa flai dem di bery’am wit dai man.
“It is a greedy fly that is buried with a corpse.”
328.Na las tam bi tam.
Appendix
134
“It is the last time that is time.”
329.Na man di los.
“It is a man that loses.”
330.Na man pikin got yi sme di mek pepe sup.
“It is the scent of the he-goat that makes pepper soup.”
331.Na man we i di go Modeka sabi ha bonga di kos.
“It is the person who visits Modeka who knows the cost of
bonga.”
332.Na man we i di slip fo sik haus di no ha we sik di hot fo nait.
“It is one who sleeps in the hospital who knows how serious the
illness is in the night.”
333.Na man we i kil man di ova krai.
“It is the person who kills a man that weeps too much.”
334.Na man we i shit i no waip las we flai dem di folo’am.
“It is a person who excretes and does not wipe his anus that is
followed by flies.”
335.Na man we i mare kripu i no hau we i di slip wit’am.
“It is a person who marries a cripple who knows how to sleep
with him/her.”
336.Na man we yi bele di poch di no ha meni tumbu dem de fo latren.
“It is only a man who is purging who knows how many maggots
are in the latrine.”
337.Na man yi man di kil yi.
“It is one’s friend that kills him.”
338.Na man yi wok bi yi chop.
“It is a man’s work that is his food.”
339.Na moni man di mare plenti wuman dem.
“It is a wealthy man that marries many wives.”
340.Na monki we i di si honta yi fes di tek bulet.
“It is the monkey that looks at a hunter’s face that receives the
bullet.”
341.Na mop we i di chop onion di mek ai krai.
“It is the mouth that eats the onion that makes the eye to cry.”
342.Na nkong di kil dog.
“It is petting that kills a dog.”
343.Na ol brum di swip haus fain.
“It is an old broom that sweeps the house better.”
344.Na ol brum no ol kona fo haus.
“It is an old broom that knows all the hidden parts of a house.”
345.Na ruf di kova trobu fo insai haus.
“It is the roof that covers the problems within a household”
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 135
346.Na wan stik maches di mek plenti faya.
“It is a stick of match that makes plenty of fire.”
347.Na wen ren stop we de peson we kari ombrela no se i di kari lod.
“It is when rain ceases that the person carrying an umbrella
knows that he/she is carrying a load.”
348.Na onli devu di shidong fo fron choch.
“It is only the devil that sits in front of the church.”
349.Na onli man we i de insai ren no se i di krai.
“It is only one who is in the rain that knows that he/she is
crying.”
350.Na onli wuman no papa fo yi pikin.
“It is only a woman that knows the father of her child.”
351.Na pikin fo pasto no ol rod we tif pipu dem di pas.
“It is the pastor’s child that knows the road where thieves pass.”
352.Na poket di tok.
“It is the pocket that speaks.”
353.Na puo man di tok se gines di bita.
“It is a poor man who says that Guinness is bitter.”
354.Na puo moyo di wok plenti fo dai ples.
“It is a poor in-law that works so hard at a funeral place.”
355.Na ren di fes fol bifo i toch grong.
“Rain falls first before it touches the earth.”
356.Na smo flai di put elefan yi bak fo grong.
“It is a little fly that puts an elephant’s back on the ground.”
357.Na tif man di no tif man.
“It is a thief that knows a thief.”
358.Na ting we yu di luk’am trowe ai we ya nebo di tek pas yu.
“It is what you see and ignore that your neighbour uses to surpass
you.”
359.Na wan koko di spoi fufu.
“It is one cocoyam that spoils the fufu.”
360.Na wayo man di nok do fo dai ples.
“It is a cunning man that knocks at the door at a funeral place.”
361.Na wuman we i di sel rotin fish no flai we i get koni ai.
“It is a woman who sells rotten fish that knows which fly has
squinted eyes.”
362.Na wuman we i noba si trobu i di hol yi bobi tam we i di ron.
“It is a woman who has never faced problems who holds her
breast while running.”
363.Na ya mbanga di comot oya.
“It is your palm nuts that produce oil.”
Appendix
136
364.Na ya on tude, anoda man yi on na tumoro.
“It is your turn today, tomorrow is another person’s.”
365.Nebo helep nebo.
“A neighbour helps a neighbour.”
366.Ngeme di kil pas sik.
“Poverty kills more than illness.”
367.Nyus pepa fo tude na yi dem go tek tai soya tumoro.
“Today’s newspaper is what will be used to wrap soya
tomorrow.”
368.Njanga na fish.
“Crayfish is fish.”
369.Njangi moni no no dai.
“Financial contributions do not know death.”
370.Njangi na fo bak’am.
“Thrift and loans borrowed are to be refunded.”
371.Njo di poch bele.
“Free things purge.”
372.Njumba no bi mare.
“Concubinage is not marriage.”
373.No bi all mbanga di komot oye.
“It is not all palm nuts that produce oil.”
374.No bi al ting we ai di si we mop fit tok’am.
“It is not everything that the eye sees that the mouth can say.”
375.No bi na pesin we i fes kol polis na yi di win kes.
“It is not the person who first complains to the police that wins
the case.”
376.No chop krisimi foget Sonde.
“Do not feast on Christmas day and forget Sunday.”
377.No chop plom we yu no si tri we i komot.
“Do not eat plums without seeing the tree from which they are
harvested.”
378.No denai fau chop eg.
“Do not reject a hen and eat its eggs.”
379.No drin parasetamo fo diferen man yi hedek.
“Do not take paracetamol for someone else’s headache.”
380.No luk Hausa man fo yi chang shus.
“Do not judge a Hausa man from his plastic shoes.”
381.No mek gbru-gbru dai kwik.
“Do not be so overzealous and die early.”
382.No man no di go wata fo moning kam bak wit doti wata.
“No one goes to the stream in the morning and returns with dirty
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 137
water.”
383.No mata ha we ya tempa i di hot, i no fit boil bins.
“No matter how hot your temper is, it cannot boil beans.”
384.No put san-san fo ma gari.
“Do not put sand in my garri.”
385.No tek ple fo fut go kona ai.
“Do not take a play that can be done on foot nearer the eye.”
386.No trobu fosika se trobu go trobu yu.
“Do not trouble trouble because trouble will trouble you.”
387.No use shem chop poison.
“Do not eat poison out of shame.”
388.No wori bin kil Njaman.
“ ‘No worry’ killed a German.”
389.Nyanga di slip trobu di wek-op.
“Pride is asleep and trouble wakes up.”
390.Ogbono sup no di denai kumbu esep se yu trow’am.
“Ogbono soup does not deny a dish except that you let it fall.”
391.Ol ben-ben rod get yi kona.
“All winding roads have their bends.”
392.Ol fo God.
“God controls everything.”
393.Ol wata di kwench faya.
“All water puts out flames.”
394.Oye trowe insai yi njama-njama.
“Oil pours in his vegetables.”
395.Wan butok no fit kari shitho.
“One buttock cannot carry an anus.”
396.Wan de monki go chop pepe.
“One day a monkey will eat pepper.”
397.Wan hand no di tai bondu.
“One hand cannot tie a bundle.”
398.Ova don na mbut.
“Too much cleverness is a weakness.”
399.Ova moni na sufa.
“Excessive wealth is suffering.”
400.Palapala no bi fait.
“Wrestling is not a fight.”
401.Palapala di ton fait.
“Wrestling can turn into a fight.”
402.Palava fo man an yi wuman, no put ya mop de.
“In matters concerning husband and wife, do not intervene.”
Appendix
138
403.Palava fo man and wuman na hed haus di kovar’am.
“The problems between husband and wife, it is the roof that
covers them.”
404.Panapu no di bita fo mop, na tru tok di bita.
“A proverb is never bitter in the mouth, it is the truth that is
bitter.”
405.Papa kovar’am miyondo di kut-kut.
“Father, cover it, miyondo is cutting into bits.”
406.Pasto we i no get moni for bai gol jewel for yi wuman i se ol dat
na vaniti.
“The pastor who lacks money to buy gold jewellery for his wife
says all that is vanity.”
407.Pikin we i no di hie yi papa go kari wata fo basket somde.
“The child who does not obey his father will carry water in a
basket one day.”
408.Pipu we dem di shit fo nait no ol flai dem we dem no di slip.
“People who excrete in the night know which flies do not sleep.”
409.Pepe we i go hot dem di now’am fo i lif.
“Pepper that will be hot is known from its leaves.”
410.Pesin we dem di shef yi hed no i di chiu mbanga.
“A person whose head is being shaved does not chew nuts.”
411.Pesin we i dai an pesin we i los, dem go mitup somde.
“A dead person and a missing person will meet each other one
day.”
412.Pesin we i get krokro no di wie wait trosa.
“A person who has scabies does not wear white trousers.”
413.Pesin we i get mop no fit mis rod.
“He who has a mouth never misses the road.”
414.Pikin we dem kari’am fo bak no no ha we waka long.
“The child that is straddled on the back does not know how long
the journey is.”
415.Pikin we dem jos bon’am no di get krokro fo fes.
“A new-born child does not have scabies on the face.”
416.Pikin we i di pis fo bed no no se moning tam go rich.
“The child who urinates in bed does not know it will soon be
morning.”
417.Pikin we i go sku no di los.
“A child who goes to school never loses.”
418.Pikin we i no sufa no fit si klin rod.
“A child who has not suffered cannot see a clear road.”
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 139
419.Pikin we i se yi mami no go slip i tu no go slip.
“The child who says his/her mother will not sleep will not sleep
too.”
420.Pikin we i no get mami an papa i di swim na fo kona wata.
“A child who does not have a father and a mother swims near the
banks of a river.”
421.Planti fo kona hil de wet na win.
“A plantain at the edge of a cliff waits for the wind.”
422.Ple-ple dog bon pikin wit yi mami.
“Playfully, a dog delivers a child with its mother.”
423.Politik na njangi, yu krach ma bak a krach ya on.
“Politics is a contribution, you scratch my back and I scratch
yours.”
424.Puo man i ting no di tanap.
“A poor man’s penis does not get erect.”
425.Puo man no di vex.
“A poor man does not get angry.”
426.Pot di hot bet koki noba dinai pot.
“The pot is hot but “koki” never rejects the pot.”
427.Pusi no di bon arata.
“A cat never delivers a rat.”
428.Pusi no di bon dog.
“A cat does not deliver a dog.”
429.Pusi no di mek fren.
“A cat does not make friends.”
430.Pusi no di mek nyanga fo arata yi domot.
“A cat does not brag around a rat’s hole.”
431.Pusi no di wosh bet yi di clin ol tam.
“The cat does not bathe but it is always clean.”
432.Ren di fol fo ol man yi sikin.
“Rain falls on everyone.”
433.Ren no di fol onli fo ontop wan man i haus.
“Rain does not fall on a single roof.”
434.Rat we i folo lizad enta ren na afta i go hier’am.
“A rat that follows a lizard into the rain will feel it only after.”
435.Rich man yi shit di ova sme.
“A rich man’s excreta smells too much.”
436.Sabi no di haid.
“Knowledge is never hidden.”
437.Sens de lek boma tri, man yi wan no fit kariy’am.
“Wisdom is like a baobab tree, no one can carry it alone.”
Appendix
140
438.Sens na ki we i di open ol do dem.
“Wisdom is the key that opens all doors.”
439.Sens pas king.
“Intelligence surpasses a king.”
440.Shit fo haus no di sme.
“Faeces in the house does not smell.”
441.Shit no get chuku-chuku bet pipu di fie fo mach’am.
“Faeces does not have thorns but people dread stepping on it.”
442.Shoda no fit tol pas hed.
“The shoulder can never grow beyond the head.”
443.Smuk no bi faya.
“Smoke is not fire.”
444.Slip no bi dai.
“Sleep is not death.”
445.Smo no bi sik, Kamarun na wi kontri.
“Smallness is not a defect, Cameroon is our country.”
446.Smo pikin kutlas di shap na fo moning tam.
“A child’s cutlass is only sharp in the morning.”
447.Smo-smo kach monki.
“Little by little you catch a monkey.”
448.Snek di chench kanda.
“The snake changes its skin.”
449.Snek no di waka bak-bak.
“The snake does not move backward.”
450.Sof pikin fo trong kontri.
“A gentle child in a difficult country.”
451.Sufa na sens.
“Suffering is wisdom.”
452.Swit matango no nid sainbod.
“Good palm wine does not need a signboard.”
453.Tek bon nak dog.
“Use a bone to hit a dog.”
454.Tek rop tai got, tek got tai rop, ol na wan ting.
“Use a rope to tie a goat or use a goat to tie a rope is the same
thing.”
455.Tek ya ai chop krisimi.
“Use eyes to feast Christmas.”
456.Tol man di eva fie se i go fol.
“A tall person is always afraid to fall.”
457.Tit fo snek no get palava wit troki yi bak.
“A snake’s teeth have nothing to do with a tortoise’s back.”
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 141
458.Tif man yi fut de na fo mod.
“A thief’s leg is in the mud.”
459.Ting dem had bet fau di drin wata luk up.
“Things are difficult but a hen drinks water and looks up.”
460.Ting we i di du kaka na yi di du kofi.
“What happens to cocoa will happen to coffee.”
461.Ting we ol man fit shidon si, smo pikin no fit stand si’am.
“What an old man can see sitting, a child cannot see it standing.”
462.Ting we yu lek’am na yi di kil yu.
“What you like is what kills you.”
463.Tif man yi meresin na tif man.
“A thief’s solution is a thief.”
464.Tif man yi rod no di stret.
“A thief’s road is never straight.”
465.Tiko drin Kumba drong.
“Tiko drinks, Kumba gets drunk.”
466.Tit no di fait wit tong.
“The teeth do not fight with the tongue.”
467.Tode na tode.
“Today is the day.”
468.Tok fo mop no bi kago fo hed.
“What one says is not what he/she can carry.”
469.Tok no di jam fo ndos yi mop.
“A trickster never lacks what to say.”
470.Tok tok bed no di bil haus.
“A noisy bird never builds a nest.”
471.Tori no di jam fo mop we chop no de.
“A story never lacks in a mouth in which there is no food.”
472.Tori no di jam mop fo tok’am.
“A story never lacks the mouth to tell it.”
473.Tori long na tam shot.
“The story is long but time is short.”
474.Tori swit sote tif man laf fo mbanda.
“The story is so interesting that a thief laughs in the barn.”
475.Trobu no di ring bel.
“Misfortune doesn’t ring a bell.”
476.Troki bi get sens i waka wit yi haus.
“The tortoise was wise and moved with its house.”
477.Troki bi kosh yi fren se i get honch bak.
“A tortoise insulted its friend that it had a hunch back.”
478.Troki bi se i lek boxing na onli se yi han shot.
Appendix
142
“A tortoise said it liked boxing only that its hand is short.”
479.Troki no di waka kwik kwik bet i di rich sai we i di go.
“The tortoise does not move fast but it arrives at its destination.”
480.Troki se i sabi dans but i bak na ston.
“A tortoise said it knows how to dance but its back is stone.”
481.Trong man helep yi sef.
“A tough man helps himself.”
482.Trobu mitup nyanga boi.
“Problems meet a dandy fellow.”
483.Tumbu di waka insai shit bet yi wait sikin no di chench.
“Maggots move in excreta but its white skin does not change.”
484.Tumbu no stik we i di enta.
“Maggots know what tree it inhabits.”
485.Tumbu dem no get fut but dem di waka.
“Maggots do not have feet but they move.”
486.Tu pipu no fit haid ting.
“Two people can never hide a thing.”
487.Upsai don spoi.
“The world is spoiled.”
488.Upsai trong.
“The world is difficult.”
489.Waka man no di kuk kanda.
“A traveller never cooks cow hide.”
490.Waka man no di jam tori for tok.
“A traveller never lacks a story to tell.”
491.Wan bangu no fit hala.
“One bangle does not make noise.”
492.Wan de wan de, monki go go maket i no go kam bak.
“Some day or the other the monkey will go to the market and will
not return.”
493.Wan han no fit tai bondu.
“One hand cannot tie a bundle.”
494.Wata go lef ston.
“Water moves and leaves behind the stone.”
495.Wata fo bif na bif.
“Water from meat is meat.”
496.Wata no di pas fo fores we i no brok tri.
“A stream does not move in the forest without felling trees.”
497.Wayo man no di jam tori.
“A trickster never lacks a story.”
498.Wen flai enta elefan yi iye elefan no fit slip.
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 143
“When a fly enters an elephant’s ear, the elephant cannot sleep.”
499.Wen han rob fut, fut tu di rob han.
“When the hand rubs the leg, the leg too rubs the hand.”
500.Wen kresman di waka neket na yi pipu dem di shem.
“When a madman walks naked it is his relations that are
ashamed.”
501.Wen honi bait yu, yu si flai yu go ron.
“When a bee stings you, you will flee at the sight of a fly.”
502.Wen mango si gut hat man i di fol fo yi fron.
“When a mango sees a kind man it drops in front of him.”
503.Wen mami got di chop, pikin got di luk yi mop.
“When a mother goat eats, the young one observes its mouth.”
504.Wen puo enta fo do, lof di komot fo windo.
“When poverty enters through the door, love leaves through the
window.”
505.Wen soja man slap you, yu go no se mbele na ya fren.
“When a soldier slaps you, you will know that a policeman is
your friend.”
506.Wen wuman kari bele, yi stai fo slip di chench.
“When a woman is pregnant, her style of sleeping changes.”
507.Wen ya broda de fo ontop plom tri yu go chop blak wan dem.
“When your brother is on a plum tree you will eat black ones.”
508.Wen ya sista di klaim lada no luk yi las.
“When your sister is climbing a ladder do not look at her
genitals.”
509.Weti ai di si mop no fit tok ol ting.
“What the eye sees the mouth cannot say everything.”
510.Weti basko di do fo petro steshon?
“What is a bicycle doing at a petrol station?”
511.Weti mumu di do insai kwaya?
“What is a dumb fellow doing in a choir?”
512.Weti tomato get fo okro sup?
“What has tomato got to with okro sauce?”
513.Wich bed no di krai fo de tam.
“The owl does not cry during the day.”
514.Wich man no di enta fo haus fo de tam.
“A wizard does not enter the house during the day.”
515.Wuman no di haid yi las de we i di bon.
“A woman does not hide her vagina on the day she is giving
birth.”
516.Wuman no fit pis fo botu we i no get fonel.
Appendix
144
“A woman cannot urinate in a bottle without a funnel.”
517.Woman we i get pikin, na yi sabi sofa fo pikin.
“A woman who has a child understands the sufferings of the
child.”
518.Wuman we i get plenti moni i di ton bi man pikin.
“When a woman has a lot of money she becomes a man.”
519.Wuman we i di kuk wowo chop no lek trenja.
“A woman who cooks bad food doesn’t like visitors.”
520.Wuman yi bele no di eva haid onda kalabash.
“A woman’s belly cannot hide under a calabash.”
521.Wok fo CDC tek pe fo Maketing Bod.
“Work at CDC, ask for wages from Marketing Board.”
522.Yawa don gas.
“Yawah has farted.”
523.Ya hed big pas, no min se yu get sens pas.
“Because your head is bigger does not imply you are wiser.”
524.Yu de fo kona riva de aks man we i de fo desat fo gi yu wata.
“You are on the banks of a river and you are asking someone in
the desert to give you water.”
525.Yu di pas fo bak wind pik fayawud.
“You benefit from the wind to gather firewood.”
526.Yu du gud, yu du fo yu sef; yu bad yu du fo yu sef.
“If you do good you do so for yourself, if do evil you do so for
yourself.”
527.Yu no fit kari intestan we you no kari shit.
“You cannot carry intestines without carrying faeces.”
528.Yu no fit shut wich bed if yu di fie yi ai dem.
“You cannot kill an owl if you are afraid of its eyes.”
529.Yu fit no genteman na tam we yi bele di poch.
“You know a gentleman when he has diarrhoea.”
530.Yu get krokro bet yu no get nel dem fo krach’am.
“You have scabies but you do not have nails to scratch it.”
531.Yu no fit kari wata fo insai basket.
“You cannot carry water in a basket.”
532.Yu no fit chop solt denai yi ngongong.
“You cannot consume salt and reject its container.”
533.Yu no fit de fo kona wata di krai sop fo ya ai.
“You cannot lament that soap has entered your eyes when you are
near a stream.”
534.Yu no fit de fo kona riva di wosh ya han wit spit.
“You cannot wash your hands with spittle while on the banks of a
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 145
river.”
535.Yu no fit de fo insai latren yu di aks weti di sme.
“You cannot ask what is smelling when you are inside a latrine.”
536.Yu no fit mek drom i pas yu fo nak’am.
“You cannot make a drum and to play will be above you.”
537.Yu no fit pik kokonot onda las mango.
“You cannot pick a coconut under a mango tree.”
538.Yu no fit trowe ston yu wan folow’am fo si wusai i go fol.
“You cannot throw a stone and run after it to see where it will
fall.”
539.Yu wash pig na hau i go stil enta mod.
“No matter how much you clean a pig it will still get into mud.”
540.Yus ya ai fo si tode, if no bi so yu go yus’am fo krai tumoro.
“Use your eyes to see today, if not you will use them to cry
tomorrow.”
GLOSSARY OF PIDGIN WORDS
AND EXPRESSIONS
A
Abanda /abàndà/ also botu dans /b‫ܧ‬ғtu daƾs/ n a modernized traditional
and romantic dance involving strict application of rules
Abeg /abég/ adv please
Aboki /abókí/ n also atukase, hairstyle with a line in the middle or on the
side of the forehead.
Achakasara /àҟàkàsárà/ n a wild plant; someone who acts beyond control
Achi faya /á‫ݹ‬i fáyà/ n wood ash
Achu /à‫ݹ‬ú/ n meal of pounded colocashia eaten with yellow or black soup;
typical of the North West Region of Cameroon
Achumbo /à‫ݹ‬ùmbò/ also pof-pof /p‫ܧ‬f-p‫ܧ‬ғf/ n fried flour dough eaten with
beans
Afe nkap /àfȑ nkáp/ np money matters
Afofo /àf‫ܧ‬ғf‫ܧ‬ғ) n local gin brewed from stale palm wine
Agbada /àgbádá/ n large traditional garment worn mostly by people from
the northern regions of Cameroon
Agi /àgí/ n short form for Agnes
Ajasko /à‫ݶ‬áskò/ n dance with fanciful footwork and swinging of the
trunk
Ajebota /à‫ݶ‬èbótà/ n child from a rich wealthy home; pampered or spoiled
child
Akamakam /àkàmákàm/ n hide and seek game usually by children
Akamo /àkàmò/ n thick mucus secreted by the respiratory system
Akamu /àkàmù/ also pap /pap/ n soft food made from corn
Akangwa /àkáƾwá/ n limestone
Akwara /àkwàrà/ prostitute
Akwara man pikin /àkwàrà mán pikín/ n lecher; womanizer, male
prostitute
Ala’a /àlá’à/ n a celebration; ritual ceremony usually involving a large
group of people
Alambu /àlámbù/ n hurricane lamp
Alaska /àláska/ n ice cream
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 147
Alungá /àlùƾgá/ n bucket, pail
Alung-achaba /álùƾgáchábà/ n a royal dance performed by the Nweh
people of the South West region of Cameroon
Ambasibe /àmbásibé/ n stylish dance of the Douala people
Ami man /ámi man/ np soldier
Anglo /angló/ n short form for “Anglophone”
Anini /àníní/ n a small particle, a tiny bit of something
Anti /àntí/ n aunt
Apaga /àpágà/ n trouser tight on the hips but with large legs
Apolo /àpólò/ n also konjong /k‫ܧ‬Ғn‫ܧݶ‬Ғƾ/ n conjunctivitis
Arata /árátà/ n rat
Ashawo /à‫ݕ‬áwó/ n free girl, prostitute
Ashia /á‫ݕ‬ia/ n greetings, expression of sympathy, used as a sort of
encouragement or disgust
Ashuabi /a‫ݕ‬uàbí/ n cloth or dress which identifies a social or family group
at a ceremony, most often worn during funeral or death celebration
Asiko /àsíkò/ n a traditional dance of the Bassa people performed by
twisting the waist while making movements on toes
Aso /àsò/ n acquaintance, close associate
Atukase /àtúkasé/ n also aboki, men’s hairstyle, usually with line on the
side or middle of the forehead running inward
Awara /àwárá/ n Nigeria
Awarawara /àwáráwarà/ n smuggling, shady business
Awuf /awuf/ n free; without charge
B
Baba /bàbá/ n father, old man, witchdoctor; strap a child or someone on
the back
Baba /bábà/ n barber
Bad bele /bád bਦlȑ/ np wickedness
Bahad /bahád/ adj wicked; vt have ill feeling toward another person,
commit acts of cruelty against someone; n wickedness
Bak fut /bàk fút/ n heel
Bak Han /bàk hán/ n elbow
Bakala /bàkálá/ n hair style with long hair braids
Bakosi /bàkósí/ n tribe in Kupe Manengumba Division of the South West
region of Cameroon.
Baksai /bàksái/ n behind, backyard, buttocks
Bakundu /bàkùndú/ adj a clan in Meme Division of the South West
Region of Cameroon; n language spoken by the Bakundu people
Glossary of Pidgin Words and Expressions
148
Bakweri /bàkwèrì/ n a tribe in the Fako Division of the South West
Region of Cameroon; language spoken by the people
Balatine /bàlàtìné/ vt seduce usu a girl or a woman
Bambe /bàmbè/ n unskilled labour; unskilled labourer
Bamenda bak /bàménda bak/ n bag woven with raffia fibre esp by the
people of the North West Region of Cameroon
Bana /bàná/ n short form for Barnabas
Bangwa /báƾwá/ adj the Nweh people of Lebialem Division of the
South West Region of Cameroon; n language spoken by Nweh people
Bangwa man /báƾwá man/ np an origin of Nweh
Banga /bángà/ n marijuana
Banja/bàn‫ݶ‬à/ n ribs
Banso /bánsó/ adj referring to the Nso people in the Bui Division of the
North West region of Cameroon; language spoken by the people.
Banyol /bà݄j‫ܧ‬ғl/ n luxury car
Banza /bánzá/ vt roam about aimlessly
Banza man /bánzá man/ np loafer
Barombi lek /bàrómbì lék/ np Lake Barombi Mbo, a crater lake in Kumba
Basko salot /báskó sàlot/ n greetings performed by a casual wave of the
hand; greet someone snobbishly
Basko /báskò/ n bicycle
Bato /bàtò/ vt sell
Bay’am sel’am /báyàm sélàm/ n retailer, petty trader
Bekwadi /bekwádí/ n irrelevant, foolish talk
Belefu /bèlèfú/ adj full up, satisfied
Bele /bèlé/ n belly, stomach
Bele bait /bèlé-bait/ n stomach ache
Ben-bak /bèn-bák/ vt move with pride, especially with raised shoulders
Ben-ben fut /bèn-bén fút/ np curved legs
Ben-ben /bèn-bén/ adj twisted, not straight
Bensikin /bénsìkin/ n motorcycle-taxi, dance with strong rhythm of
Bamilike origin
Berigrong /bèrìgr‫ܧ‬ғƾ/ n grave; cemetery
Bia-bia /bià-biá/ n hair; beard
Bia-bia mop /bià-biá m‫ܧ‬ғp/ np bearded chin, mustache
Bif /bif / n meat; insult referring to one as a beast or an animal
Bifo-bifo /bìf‫ܧ‬ғ-bif‫ܧ‬/ adv as it was before; as it was in the past
Bik man /bík man/ n boss; high level personality
Bik masa /bík másà/ n husband’s father
Bik mami /bík-màmi/ n grand mother
Bik-mop /bìk m‫ܧ‬ғp/ n boasting; mek big mop /mék bìk m‫ܧ‬ғp/ vt to boast
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 149
Bik papa /bík-pàpá/ n grandfather
Biko /bíko/ adv please; n a polite way of drawing attention
Bikutsi /bìkútsí/ n music and dance style of the Beti people
Bish’am /bísham/ adj worried, disturbed
Bizik /bizík/ n business
Bla-bla /blà-blà/ n senseless utterances
Blak bush /blák bu‫ݕ‬/ n virgin forest
Blakot /blàc‫ܧ‬ғt/ n penis
Bo’o /bo’ó/ n acquaintance; friend
Bobi tanap /b‫ܧ‬Ғbí tánáp/ np stiff breasts; young girl having stiff breasts
Bobi /b‫ܧ‬Ғbí/ n breasts
Bobo /b‫ܧ‬Ғb‫ܧ‬/ n fashionable guy; self-conceited fellow
Bodi /b‫ܧ‬Ғdí/ n breast wear
Boi-boi /b‫ܧ‬ғí-b‫ܧ‬i/ n steward, houseboy
Bole /b‫ܧ‬ғlé/ vt finished, dead
Bolo /b‫ܧ‬Ғl‫ܧ‬Ғ/ n medicine
Bolo /bòló/ n work
Bolo-bolo /bòlò-bóló/ n balloon
Boma tri /bómà tri/ n baobab tree
Bong-blan /b‫ܧ‬ғƾ-blaƾ/ n see mukala; light skinned person, albino
Bon haus /b‫ܧ‬Ғn haus/ n birth celebration
Bonbon /b‫ܧ‬Ғƾb‫ܧ‬ғƾ/ n candies
Bone /b‫ܧ‬Ғné/ vt frown; be angry
Bonga /bóngà/ n smoked tilapia
Botu dans /b‫ܧ‬ғtù daƾs / n see also abanda n bottle dance
Botom bele /b‫ܧ‬Ғt‫ܧ‬ғm belé/ n groins, genitals
Bro /br‫ܧ‬ғ/ n short form for brother
Branshe /bràn‫ݕ‬é/ vt appear sexy esp in one’s way of dressing; n one who
dresses in sexy attraction
Brikolash /brìkòlá‫ݕ‬/ n patched-up work; work not done with skill
Brok /brok/ vt break; to be poor
Brok’am /brókàm/ vp break it
Buba /bùbá/ n blouse
Buk man /bùk man/ n a literate or educated person
Bush kau /bú‫ݕ‬ kau/ n buffalo
Bush lam /bú‫ݕ‬ lam/ np (also alambu) hurricane lamp
Bush man /bú‫ݕ‬ man/ n primitive person; villager
Bush mit /bú‫ݕ‬ mit/ n game
Bush fau /bú‫ݕ‬ fau/ n partridge
Bushfola /bú‫ݕ‬f‫ܧ‬la/ n bush faller; one who migrates to a foreign country
through obscure means in search of better life
Glossary of Pidgin Words and Expressions
150
Bush pik /bú‫ݕ‬ pik/ n boar
C
Chacha /‫ݹ‬à‫ݹ‬à/ adj brand new
Chaka /‫ݹ‬àkà/ n shoes
Chakara man yi head /‫ݹ‬àkárá man yi hed/ vp cause one to become
confused; cause one to go mad
Chakara man /‫ݹ‬àkárá man/ n disorganised person
Chakara ples /‫ݹ‬àkárá ples/ vp set things or places in disorder
Chakara /‫ݹ‬àkárá/ vt scatter, dismantle; adj disorganised
Chang shus /‫ݹ‬àƾ ‫ݕ‬us/ n plastic shoes
Chang-chang /‫ݹ‬áƾ-‫ݹ‬áƾ/ n coins
Chench waka /‫ݹ‬én‫ݹ‬ wáka/ n one who is not straightforward; vt change
direction
Chans /‫ݹ‬ans/ n free time; vt gi chans /gi ‫ݹ‬ans/ give way
Chapia /‫ݹ‬àpia/ vt cut into pieces, cut esp grass
Chekere /‫ݹ‬èkèrè/ n large sieve for corn or cassava flour; vt to sieve esp
ground corn or cassava to extract fine flour
Chen /‫ݹ‬en/ n jewelry, chain
Chench /‫ݹ‬en‫ݹ‬/ n (of money) break into smaller units, balance
Chik /‫ݹ‬ik/ n girl, girlfriend
Chikin palo /‫ݹ‬íkín pal‫ܧ‬/ np house in which roast chicken and drinks are
sold
Chinda /‫ݹ‬indá/ n attendant, servant, spokesperson of the Fon or chief
Chiu /‫ݹ‬iu/ vt express anger, annoyance
Chochoro /‫ܧݹ‬ғ‫ݹ‬‫ܧ‬ғr‫ܧ‬ғ/ n small, tiny, insignificant, negligible
Choko /‫ݹ‬òkò/ n tip; vt give a tip
Chop /‫ܧݹ‬ғp/ n food; vt eat
Chop-brok-pot /‫ܧݹ‬ғp-brok-p‫ܧ‬t/ n selfish and extravagant fellow, someone
who does not save for the future
Chopchie /‫ܧݹ‬ғp‫ݹ‬ie/ n successor, heir
Chop faya /‫ܧݹ‬ғp fayà/ n take risks, persist
Chop flop /‫ܧݹ‬ғp fl‫ܧ‬p/ vp eat to one’s fill
Chop fo yong boi /‫ܧݹ‬ғp fo y‫ܧ‬Ғƾ b‫ܧ‬i/ np food for a young man, a pretty
woman
Chop fo yong gel /‫ܧݹ‬ғp fo y‫ܧ‬Ғƾ gel/ np food for a young woman, a
handsome man
Chop-haus /‫ܧݹ‬Ғp-haus/ n restaurant
Chop kola /‫ܧݹ‬ғp kólà/ vp receive incentive, tip, bribe
Chop laif /‫ܧݹ‬ғp laif/ vp enjoy oneself
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 151
Chop mop /ch‫ܧ‬ғp m‫ܧ‬p/ n kiss
Chop soya /‫ܧݹ‬ғp soyà/ vp take a bribe
Chop dai /‫ܧݹ‬ғp-dai/ n glutton
Chop-moni /‫ܧݹ‬p m‫ܧ‬Ғní/ np feeding allowance
Choronko /‫ݹ‬òrónko/ n telephone
Chuk /‫ݹ‬uk/ vt pierce, insert
Chuk-ai /‫ݹ‬uk-ai/ np curious and observant person, determined person
Chuke /‫ݹ‬uké/ vt pierce, have sex; taste
Chuk-hed /‫ݹ‬ùk-hed/ n porter, carrier, loader
Chuku-chuku bif /‫ݹ‬ùkù-‫ݹ‬úkú bif/ n porcupine
Chuku-chuku /‫ݹ‬ùkù-‫ݹ‬úkú/ n thorn
Chus /‫ݹ‬us/ vt excuse
D
Dai bodi /dai b‫ܧ‬Ғdí/ n corpse
Dak ai /dàk ai/ n a state of being unable to perceive or understand because
of the intrigues of someone; ple man dak ai vp prevent one from
perceiving or understanding
Dai laf /dai laf/ vp laugh excessively
Dame /dàmé/ vt eat; n food
Dangwa /dáƾgwá/ vt trek
Dash /dá‫ݕ‬/ vt give someone a present; n gift
Daso /dás‫ܧ‬/ adv just that, only
Dantite /dàntité/ n identity card
Debruye /dèbruyé/ vt struggle to survive
Debruya /dèbruya/ n struggler
Die /die/ ad expensive
Dio /dio/ n Divisional Officer
Dem /dèm/ pron they
Dem sef /dèm sef/ pron themselves
Dima-dima /dima-dímá/ adj confusing
Do /do/ n money
Do-bebi /d‫ܧ‬Ғ-bèbí/ n doll
Dodo /dodo/ n fried plantains
Dokfau /d‫ܧ‬Ғkfau/ n duck
Dogo /dógó/ n tall person
Doki /d‫ܧ‬Ғkí/ n documents (especially forged ones)
Dokita /d‫ܧ‬kita/ n doctor
Domo /dómó/ vt beat
Domot /dòm‫ܧ‬t/ n door, entrance
Glossary of Pidgin Words and Expressions
152
Don /d‫ܧ‬ғƾ/ vt have, has, had
Don man /d‫ܧ‬ғn man/ n sophisticated person, complex man
Dong-dong /d‫ܧ‬ƾ-d‫ܧ‬ƾ/ adv calmly, quietly
Doti /d‫ܧ‬tí/ n dirt; adj dirty
Doti bed /d‫ܧ‬Ғtí bed/ n sparrow
Doti-ples /d‫ܧ‬tí-ples/ n refuse dump
Dromata /dr‫ܧ‬Ғmatá/ n draught meter
Dronka man /dr‫ܧ‬Ғƾkà man/ np drunkard
Dros /dr‫ܧ‬Ғs/ n pants
Du weti du weti /dú wéti dú wéti/ adv phrase no matter what happens
E
Ebua /ebua/ n cripple
Efulefu /efulefu/ adj imbecile
Egusi /egúsí/ n melon seeds
Ekete /ekete/ adj worn-out
Ekwang /ékwáƾ/ n grated cocoyams prepared like porridge
Elefan dans /ȑlȑfán dans/ n typical Bakweri dance with frightful masks
Elefan gras /ȑlȑfan grás/ n tall weed with soft stem
Emanu /emanú/ n short form for Emmanuel
Emti las /émptí las/ adj naked
Epake /épaké/ n act of snatching; vt snatch
Epese /epese/ n traitor
Ere /ȑrਦ/ n mistake
Eru /éru/ n delicious vegetable having tough leaves
Eskro /eskro/ n swindler; vt swindle
Ewake /èwàkè/ n gorilla
F
Fai /fáí/ n Nso traditional title
Fain /fáin/ adj good, well
Fain palava /fain palávà/ vp look for trouble or problems
Fain wuman /fáin wuman/ adj phrase beautiful woman; vt date a woman
Famla /fàmlá/ n mystical evil society
Fashon /fá‫ܧݕ‬n/ n behavior, conduct, style
Faya /fáya/ n fire
Fiango /fiaƾgó/ n a very popular neighbourhood in Kumba
Fingong /fiƾg‫ܧ‬Ғƾ/ n traitor
Fiva /fíva/ vt resemble; n fever
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 153
Fes bon /fés b‫ܧ‬n/ np eldest child
Fl‫ܧ‬p /flop/ adj fill/full-up
Fo ai /f ‫ܧ‬ғ ai/ np four eyes, spirit child or person
Fo-o-fo /f ‫ܧ‬ғ-o-f‫ܧ‬/ np dog meat
Fok /f‫ܧ‬ғk/ vt sex
Fo pepe man /f‫ܧ‬Ғ pépé man/ vp to make someone suffer
Fo tif /f‫ܧ‬Ғ tif/ vt to steal
Fo waka man /f‫ܧ‬Ғ waká man/ vp to visit someone
Fo wosh han /f‫ܧ‬Ғ w‫ݕܧ‬ han/ vp to have nothing to do with somebody or
something
Fol bush /f ‫ܧ‬ғl bu‫ݕ‬/ vp travel abroad using obscure methods, especially, in
search of better life
Folo wuman /fóló wuman/ vp date a woman
Folo-bak /fòlò-bak/ n immediate younger brother or sister
Folo-folo /fòlò-fóló/ vt flirt
Fomfu /f‫ܧ‬Ғmfu/ vt behave foolishly
Fon /f‫ܧ‬ғn/ n chief, traditional ruler in the grass field region of Cameroon
Fosika weti /f‫ܧ‬Ғséka wéti/ adv why, for what reasons
Fosika se /f‫ܧ‬Ғséká sé/ conj because
Fotambo /fotámbo/ n office boy
Fo-wan-nain /fó-wan-nain/ n fraud, deception, scam; person with such
characteristics
Fraipan /fraipán/ n saucepan
Froba /frobá/ vt miss, lose
Frog /fr‫ܧ‬ғg/ n derogatory name for francophone
Frotambo /fròtámbo/ n hare
Fufu /fùfú/ n staple food of pounded cocoyam or cassava or maize flour
Funge /fùƾgè/ n Nigerian petrol sold illegally in Cameroon
G
Ganakoh /gànàk‫ܧ‬Ғ/ n herdsman
Gari boi /gari b‫ܧ‬i/ np irresponsible boy
Gari /gàrí/ n ground and parched cassava
Gas /gás/ n fart; vt fart
Gato /gató/ n cake
Gazoa /gazóa/ n gas oil, fuel
Gbam /gbàm/ n sound of a heavy object crashing on a surface; exclam
that’s it.
Gie bak-bak /gie bák-bak/ np reverse gear
Gi wuman bele /gí wuman belé/ vp impregnate a woman
Glossary of Pidgin Words and Expressions
154
Go bifo /gó bifó/ vt progress, make progress
God buk /g‫ܧ‬ғd buk/ n Holy Bible
Gombo /gombó/ n bribe, benefit
Gongorong /góƾgóróƾ/ n very old lorry
Grafí /grafi/ n grass field
Grafi man /grafi man/ np person from the grass field region of Cameroon
Gratia /grátia/ n grace
Greta /gréta/ n a device with a rough surface for chopping food items into
bits; vt chop into bits using the device.
Grigri /grígrí/ n magical objects or charm
Grong kako /gr‫ܧ‬ғƾ kákò/ np earthly things, material possession
Grong /gr‫ܧ‬ƾ/ n ground, earth
Grong bif /gr‫ܧ‬Ғƾ-bif/ n rat mole
H
Haf-dai /háf-dái/ np in a coma; adj near death
Hai laif /háí láif/ n Ghanaian rhythm popular in Cameroon in the 1960s
and 70s
Hai-op /hái-‫ܧ‬p/ vp brag
Hala /hálà/ vt shout
Hambog /hámbóg/ vt disturb; n disturbance
Hanki /hankí/ n handkerchief
Hau-fo-du /hau-fo-du/ adv phr just for the sake of it
Ha /hau/ adv how
Haus /haus/ n house
Hausa /hausá/ adj referring to the people of the northern regions of
Cameroon
Hausa man /hausá man/ n an origin of the northern regions of Cameroon
Hausa kwata /hausá kwátà/ n residential area of the Hausa people in
kumba and other towns in Anglophone Cameroon
Haya-haya /háyá-hàyà/ n mad rush
Hed man /héd man/ np group leader
Hed-tai /hèd-tai/ n headscarf
Helele /hélélé/ n wonder, beyond understanding
Helep /hélép/ n help; vt help
Hia bad /hia bad/ vp suffer, be in pain or difficulty
Hia hot /hiá h‫ܧ‬t/ vp feel pains, suffer
Hia mo /hiá m‫ܧ‬ғ/ vp feel good
Hia fain /hiá fain/ vp enjoy, feel good
Hia sikin /hiá sikin/ vp enjoy oneself
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 155
Hia /hia/ vt hear
Hinh-honh /hinh-h‫ܧ‬nh/ n name given to the Chinese in Cameroon
I
Ibo koko /íbò kòkó/ n colocasia
Iye /ije/ n ear
Ibo /ibo/ n language spoken by Nigerian residents in Cameroon
Ibo man /ibo man/ np native speaker of Ibo
Ibo kwata /íbo kwáta/ np residential area for the Ibos in Kumba
Iroko /iróko/ n a clan in the Southwest region of Cameroon
Iyaa /iyáa/ interj expression of surprise
J
Ja /‫ݶ‬á/ vt read intensively, study
Jaf /‫ݶ‬áf/ vt enjoy
Jagajaga /‫ݶ‬àgàjágá/ adj ragged, scattered, worn-out
Jakas /‫ݶ‬àkas/ n labourer, slave; one who does all the work without
complaining
Jakatu /‫ݶ‬àkàtú/ n garden egg
Jam /‫ݶ‬ám/ vt lack; n poverty
Jambodi /‫ݶ‬àmb‫ܧ‬di/ n extremely busy situation; one who troubles
himself with sorts of things
Jandere /‫ݶ‬ándèrè/ vt feel fine; adj well off
Jeje /jéjé/ adj polite, gentle
Jek’am /‫ݶ‬ék’am/ vp lift it
Jere /jeré/ vt manage a situation
Jigida /‫ݶ‬igidá/ n waist beads
Jinja /‫ݶ‬ín‫ݶ‬à/ adj ginger, hot, spicy
Jinjar’am /‫ݶ‬injar’am/ vp hurt him or her
Jobajo /‫ݶ‬oba‫ݶ‬o/ n brand of a locally brewed beer
Joli /‫ݶ‬olí/ vt enjoy, jubilate
Joli-joli /‫ݶ‬olí-‫ݶ‬olí/ n enjoyment
Jong /‫ܧݶ‬Ғƾ/ vt get drunk
Jongle /‫ܧݶ‬ƾglé/ vt juggle, play with, confuse someone
Jorop /‫ݶ‬óróp/ vt rise
Juju haus /‫ݶ‬u‫ݶ‬ú haus/ n sacred society
Juju /‫ݶ‬u‫ݶ‬ú/ n masquerade, sorcery
Jum-jum /jum-júm/ vt run about excitedly or without control
Glossary of Pidgin Words and Expressions
156
K
Kaba /kàbà/ n ample gown worn by women
Kaba ngondo /kàbà ƾgóndó/ np large flourishing gown worn especially
by Douala women during the celebration of the Ngondo festival
Kaba selule /kàbà sèlùlȑ/ np ample flourishing gown which ends at knee
level worn by women
Kach faya /ká‫ݹ‬ fáyà/ vp take risks
Kafiash /kàfiá‫ݕ‬/ n confusion, crowdedness
Kain-ba-kain /káin ba kain/ adj varied, different kinds
Kaka /kaká/ n cocoa
Kako /káko/ n cargo
Kalaba chok /kalabá ‫ܧݹ‬k/ n hard white clay eaten for food
Kalabot /kàlàbót/ n plank house
Kale /kalé/ adj hooked
Kale-kale /kalé-kalé/ n police or military hold-up
Kam gud /kám gud/ interj welcome
Kamtok /kàmt‫ܧ‬k/ n another appellation for Cameroonian Pidgin
Kana /kána/ adj kind of
Kanas /kánás/ n testes
Kanda stik /kandá stik/ n charm, herbal potion
Kanda /kandá/ n skin, peelings; animal hide; belt
Karampong /kàràmp‫ܧ‬ғƾ/ n boots
Karangwa /kàràƾgwá/ n lice
Kari bele /kárí belé/ vp be pregnant
Kari faya /kárí fáyà/ vp of person or object involved in a disturbing issue
Kasingo /kàsingó/ n cane for whipping one who commits an offence
Kasnet /kàsnet/ n fishing net
Kas /kás/ market for used spare parts of vehicles, appliances, roofing
materials, etc.
Kata bif /kàtá bif/ n pangolin
Kata /kàtá/ n influenza
Kata /kàtá/ n soft material put on the head before placing a load
Katakata /kàtàkátá/ n disorder; adj disorganised
Katanga /katánga/ n (see kanda) cow hide, skin
Katika /katíkà/ n organizing boss especially in gambling
Kahti-kahti /káhtí-káhtí/ n roast chicken soaked in palm oil
Kawolo /kàwóló/ n book
Kende /kèndé/ n craft
Kenekene mop /kènèkéné m‫ܧ‬p/ np a flippant person
Kenekene /kènèkéné/ adj slippery; vt be slippery
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 157
Kenekene sup /kènèkéné sup/ np soup made of sticky vegetables
Kenge /kèngé/ n person with little skill especially in a game
Kenja /kénjà/ n cage
Kileshi /kílé‫ݕ‬í/ n well-spiced dried beef sliced in thin layers
Kilo /kilò/ n instrument for measuring weight
Kini /kiní/ n kneel
Kiribu /kiríbù/ n corn
Kitu /kítu/ n (see mbélé) policeman
Klando /klandó/ adj clandestine; n one who behaves in a clandestine
manner
Klindong /klìnd‫ܧ‬ƾ/ n the act of cutting down grass until the soil is
revealed
Klos /klos/ n dress, cloth
Koba–koba /kobá-kòbá/ n peacock
Koki /k‫ܧ‬Ғkí/ n a meal of ground beans, mixed with palm oil, tied in leaves
Ko-ko /k‫ܧ‬Ғ-k‫ܧ‬Ғ/ n a very dull person who can be used at will, some one
without a will power or opinion who is easily moved around.
Kok-kok /K‫ܧ‬ғk-k‫ܧ‬ғk/ n shoe mender, mobile cobbler
Koko /kokó/ n cocoyam
Kokobiako /kokobiako/ n mushroom
Kola /kólà/ n fruit with bitter taste having symbolic cultural value
Kolo /koló/ n madness
Kolo /kòlò/ n a thousand francs
Kam-no-go /kám-no-go/ n a pejorative appellation for settlers, body
rashes
Komandia /k‫ܧ‬mandià/ vt command, give orders
Kombi /k‫ܧ‬ғmbi/ n friend, colleague
Kombo /kómbò/ n dish
Komise /k‫ܧ‬Ғmisİ/ n commissioner
Komot /k‫ܧ‬Ғm‫ܧ‬t/ vt leave, go out, coming from
Komplis /k‫ܧ‬Ғmplis/ n accomplice
Kam-wi-ste /kám-wi-ste/ np concubinage
Kondi /k‫ܧ‬Ғndì/ n laps, muscles
Kondo /k‫ܧ‬Ғnd‫ܧ‬ғ/ n epaulette
Kondre /k‫ܧ‬Ғndrè/ adj local, indigenous, n a local dish
Konfians /k‫ܧ‬ƾfiaƾs/ n confidence
Konga /kòngá/ n Indian bamboo
Kongosa /kongosá/ n gossip
Koni /k‫ܧ‬Ғní/ adj cunning
Konjo /k‫ܧ‬Ғnj‫ܧ‬/ vt guess
Kongo mit /kóƾgó mit/ np snails see also nyamangoro
Glossary of Pidgin Words and Expressions
158
Konku /k‫ܧ‬Ғnkú/ n competitive examination
Konta /kontá/ n tar
Konto /kóntó/ adj selfish, stingy; vt to behave in a selfish manner
Kontri fashon /k‫ܧ‬Ғntrì fá‫ܧݕ‬Ғn/ n cultural practice, traditional rites and rituals
Kontri man /k‫ܧ‬Ғntrìman/ n villager, kinsman, tribesman
Kontri nem /k‫ܧ‬Ғntri ném/ n surname
Kontri sonde /k‫ܧ‬Ғntrì sóndè/ n a village’s spiritual day
Kontri tok /k‫ܧ‬Ғntrìtok/ n mother tongue, vernacular
Kontri /k‫ܧ‬Ғntrì/ n primitive, village, local, indigenous
Kosam /kosam/ n locally made yogurt
Kosh-kosh /Kòsh-kòsh/ n high heel shoes
Kot ai /k‫ܧ‬ғt ai/ vt blink on one eye as a signal
Kot /k‫ܧ‬ғt/ n wound, sore
Koting gras /k‫ܧ‬Ғtìƾ gras/ n hedgehog
Kot posa /k‫ܧ‬Ғt p‫ܧ‬ғsa/ n pick pocket
Kote /kòté/ vt contribute, stake as in gambling, bet
Kosh /k‫ܧ‬ғ‫ݕ‬/ n insult, curse; vt insult, curse
Koshot /k‫ܧ‬Ғ‫ݕ‬‫ܧ‬t/ n short-cut
Kot kafe /k‫ܧ‬ғt kàfé/ vt to greet someone as in the military, show respect
Kot man yi fut /k‫ܧ‬ғt man yi fut/ vp to undercut someone
Koting gras /k‫ܧ‬Ғtìƾ gras/ n cane rat
Kova bie /k‫ܧ‬Ғvà bie/ n beer cork
Kova pot /k‫ܧ‬Ғvàpot/ n lid of a pot
Kraidai /kraidái/ n funeral celebration
Kram /kram/ n memorize
Kres /kres/ vt go mad; n madness
Kresman /kresman/ n madman
Krisimi /krisimi/ n Christmas
Krobo /krobó/ n bald; vt to shave to the scalp
Krokro /kr‫ܧ‬Ғkr‫ܧ‬ғ/ n scabies, rashes
Ke-Tong /Kétoƾ/ n popular acronym for “Kumba Town” actually written
in English “K-Town”.
Kumba bred /kùmbà bred/ np soft rectangular bread originally baked in
Kumba but it is now baked in major towns of the country with the
same brand name
Kumba wata /kùmbà wàtá/ np name of a river that passes through the
town of Kumba
Kumbu /kúmbù/ n sizeable dish
Kukuma /kúkúmá/ n boss, master
Kum-kum /kùm-kùm/ n cassava flour
Kuncha /kùnchá/ n sponge
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 159
Kunya-kunya /kù݄yà-kù݄yà/ adj stealthily
Kunyam /kú݄yàm/ n pig
Kutu /kútú/ n army
Kwa /kwà/ n bag
Kwa /kwá/ vt dupe
Kwacha masa /kwà‫ݹ‬à másà/ n night-soil-man
Kwacha /kwà‫ݹ‬à/ n locally brewed beer from corn
Kwak /kwak/ vt throw someone down by kicking his feet
Kwankanda /kwáƾkàndá/ n bachelor
Kwakoko /kwákòkó/ n grated cocoyam meal
Kwandang /kwàndàƾ/ n tobacco
Kwara-kwara /kwará-kwàrà/ n mat or coverlet made from bamboo
Kwata-kwata /kwátá-kwátá/ adv completely
Kwifon /kwíf‫ܧ‬Ғn/ n a traditional regulatory society of the grass field region
Kwik-kwik /kwík-kwík/ adj fast
L
Lai man /lai mán/ n liar
Lamba /lámbà/ n swampy area
Lamido /làmído/ n chief or king of a tribe in the northern regions of
Cameroon
Lamsi /lámsi/ n orange
Lamso /lámnsó/ n language spoken by the Nso people of the North West
region of Cameroon
Langa /làngà/ n greed
Langa trut /làngà trut/ np greedy person
Lan boi /làn b‫ܧ‬i/ n apprentice
Langwa /láƾwá/ n tell confidentially, hint at something
Las mimbo /làs mimbo/ n dregs
Lás /lás/ n buttocks, genitals, bottom, least in order of merit
Las-bon /làs-b‫ܧ‬n/ n last child
Las koko /làs kòkó/ n the least thing or person in rank or order of merit
Lef /lef/ vt stay, remain, leave
Lefam /léfàm/ vp leave it, let go something
Lek /lek/ vt like
Lewa /léwa/ n school
Lofo /lofo/ n not original, imitation, fake
Lok /l‫ܧ‬ғk/ vt close, lock up
Lok pesin /l‫ܧ‬ғk pésin/ vp cause a person to be detained at the police station
Loko /loko/ adj fake
Glossary of Pidgin Words and Expressions
160
Loko /lóko/ n room
Lokot /lók‫ܧ‬ғt/ vp be careful, watch out
Long /l‫ܧ‬ғƾ/ n house
Long-sens /l‫ܧ‬Ғƾ-sens/ adj wise
Long trot /l‫ܧ‬ғƾ-trot/ n greed
Los kontri /l‫ܧ‬Ғs kóntri/ n one who does not belong to any group, family,
tribe; generally a person who cannot trace his/her origins
Los-sens /l‫ܧ‬Ғs-sens/ adj absent-minded
Luk man wit bad ai /luk man wit bad ai/ vp look at someone with spite
Luking glas /lùkìƾ glas/ n mirror
M
Mai-mai /máí-máí/ n bean cake
Mafo /máfò/ n queen mother, women leader
Magi /màgi/ n short form for Margaret, favourite spice for sauces sold in
cubes
Magida /màgídá/ n name given to Muslims of Northern Cameroon
Magrita /màgríta/ n Margaret
Makabo /màkàbò/ n cocoyam
Makandi /màkàndí/ n buttocks
Makara /màkàrà/ n fried cassava balls
Makara pati /màkàrà pàtí/ n initiation ceremony or ritual at the start of
apprenticeship usually by eating and drinking
Maki /màkí/ n terrorist
Makta /màktà/ n short form for Magdalene
Makosa /makósa/ n popular Douala music from the littoral region of
Cameroon
Malam /málàm/ n herbalist, esp from Northern Cameroon
Mami bakala /mami bakálá/ n ten thousand francs note
Mami-nyanga /mamí ݄jaƾgá/ np a woman who pays much attention to her
make-up
Mami pikin /mami pikin/ n nursing mother
Mami wata /mami watá/ n mermaid, goddess
Mami /màmí/ n mother
Mami /mámí/ n a young flirtish woman
Man fau /mán faù/ n cock
Man fo para /mán fò pàrà/ n pick-pocket
Man han /mán han/ n right hand
Man pikin /mán pikin/ n male
Manawa /mànàwá/ n wasp
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 161
Mangambe /máƾgàmbȑ/ n music and dance from Bangangte in the West
Region of Cameroon
Manjong /mánj‫ܧ‬ƾ/ n heroic dance, cultural group from the West and
North West Regions of Cameroon
Manjunga /mànjúngà/ n red wine
Manyaka /mànyáká/ adj extremely difficult situation
Manyanga /mànyàngà/ n palm kernel oil
Manyi /mànyì/ n mother of twins
Mapito /màpítò/ n clitoris
Mash /ma‫ݕ‬/ vt smash
Masa /másà/ n mister, husband, patron, man
Mata /mátà/ n mat
Matango /màtàngò/ n palm wine
Matua /màtua/ n vehicle, lorry, car
Matutu /màtùtù/ n see also mbu raffia wine
Mbale /mbálè/ n statement made in the act of swearing
Mbam /mbàm/ n money
Mbamba /mbámbá/ n skin disease that roots off hair on the sides of the
head
Mbanda /mbàndà/ n barn
Mbang /mbàƾ/ n stick
Mbanga /mbàƾá/ n palm nuts
Mbanja /mbànjà/ n ribs
Mbanya /mbányá/ n one of two or more women married to the same
husband
Mbaya /mbàyà/ n acrobatic dance of the Wimbum people in the North
West region
Mbele /mbélé/ n policeman
Mbeng /mbਦƾ/ n another name for Douala
Mbenge /mbਦngਦ/ n city, foreign country
Mbin /mbìn/ n see kanas testes
Mboh /mb‫ܧ‬ғ/ n groundnut paste
Mboko /mbókò/ n fraudster
Mboma /mbòmà/ n python
Mbombo /mbómbò/ n namesake
Mbombo /mbòmbó/ n vagina
Mbongo-chobi /mbòƾgó ‫ܧݹ‬Ғbí/ n dark soup prepared with mixed plants
usually with fish or meat
Mbra /mbrà/ n menses
Mbreshin /mbrè‫ݕ‬ín/ n kerosene
Mbu /mbù/ n see matutu raffia wine
Glossary of Pidgin Words and Expressions
162
Mburu /mbúrú/ n money
Mbut /mbùt/ n coward, weakling, short for mbutuku
Mbutuku /mbùtúkù/ n worthless man
Meresen man /mèrèsèn man/ n witch doctor, native doctor
Mek ai /mék ai/ vp seduce someone with eyes
Mek fulish /mék fuli‫ݕ‬/ vp behave in a stupid manner
Mek mop /mék m‫ܧ‬p/ vt boast
Mek nyanga /mék nyàngá/ vp show pride
Mek pipi /mék pìpí/ vp urinate
Mek sho /mék sho/ vt brag
Mek tush /mék tu‫ݕ‬/ vt display style
Melek /mélék/ n milk
Meng /méƾ/ vt die
Merenge /mèréngè/ n stylish dance with swinging of waist
Mi sef /mi sef/ pron myself
Mimba /mímbà/ vt think, remember, remind; adj self-conceited
Mimbo /mímbò/ n alcoholic drink
Mimbo-haus /mímbo-haus/ n bar
Mini-mino /mìní-min‫ܧ‬/ n flirtish young woman
Miyondo /mìy‫ܧ‬ғnd‫ܧ‬ғ/ n gratered cassava cooked in long bundles
Mo /m‫ܧ‬ғ/ n enjoyment
Mokala /mòkálá/ n albino
Mokanjo /mòkàn‫ݶ‬ò/ n cod fish
Mokuta /mòkùtà/ n jute bag
Mola /mòlá/ n friend, fellow, name given to an acquaintance
Mololo /mòlóló/ n smoked herring
Molo-molo /moló-molo/ adv gently, majestically
Molongo /molóngó/ n see kasingo a cane for whipping
Moni /m‫ܧ‬Ғní/ n money
Moni man /mòní man/ np wealthy man
Montoli /mòntòlí/ n hernia that leas to the swelling of the scrotum
Mop /m‫ܧ‬ғp/ n mouth
Moto boi /mòtò b‫ܧ‬í/ np lorry driver’s assistant
Moto /m‫ܧ‬Ғt‫ܧ‬Ғ/ n faeces; vt defecate
Motofut /mòtòfut/ n tyre
Moyo /mòyó/ n in-law
Mpang /mpàƾ/ n trousers
Mpeng /mpèƾ/ n power
Mugu /múgù/ n fool
Mukenge /mùkèngé/ n ant
Mumu /múmú/ n a dumb person
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 163
Mundia /mùndiá/ adj world class, very high profile, internally recognized
Mungaka /mùngákà/ n language spoken by the people of Bali Nyonga in
Mezam Division of the North West Region of Cameroon
Mungang /mùƾgàƾ/ n charm
Mungwin /mùƾgwín/ n edible grasshopper
Musanga /mùsáƾgá/ n cowries, necklace
Mutumbu /mùtùmbu/ n music
Muf /múf/ vt remove, leave
Muf de /múf dé/ vt get out of there
N
Na /nà/ np it is, is; adv now
Nak /nák/ vt hit, beat, knock
Nak kanda /nák kàndá/ vt suffer, struggle
Nak ndamba /nák ndàmbà/ vp play football
Nak njakri /nák njàkrì/ vp make jokes
Nak sikin /nák sikin/ vp bother, suffer or trouble oneself
Nak tori /nák tòrí/ vt discuss, converse
Nak’am /nákàm/ vp hit it, him or her
Nana /nàná/ n lean pretty girl
Na-na /ná-na/ adv immediately, just now
Nang /nàƾ/ vt sleep
Nangamboko /nàƾgàmbókò/ n vagabond, street person
Nayo-nayo /náy‫ܧ‬-nay‫ܧ‬Ғ/ adv gently, carefully
Nchango /n‫ݹ‬áƾgò/ n one of the two or more men married from the same
family
Ndamba /ndàmbà/ n football
Ndang /ndàƾ/ n identity card
Ndenge /ndéƾgè/ n guitar
Ndiba /ndíbá/ n water
Ndinga man /ndìƾgá man/ np satirical, critical person.
Ndole /ndòlé/ n cherished Cameroonian vegetable with bitter taste
Ndolo /ndóló/ n love
Ndon /nd‫ܧ‬Ғn/ n wonder
Ndos /ndos/ n crafty fellow, trickster
Ndutu /ndùtù/ n ill luck
Ne-ne /ne-né/ n eye glass
Net /nét/ n night
Nfon /nf‫ܧ‬Ғn/ n title given to the chief of the Bafaws in Kumba
Nga /ngà/ n young lady, girl friend
Glossary of Pidgin Words and Expressions
164
Ngambe /ƾgámbé/ n soothsaying
Ngambe man /ƾgámbé man/ n soothsayer
Ngata /ƾgàtà/ n prison
Ngeme /ƾgémè/ n poverty
Ngengeru /ƾgèƾgèrú/ n light-skinned person, albino
Ngoh /ƾg‫ܧ‬ғ/ n termites, the specie that is eaten
Ngobna /ƾg‫ܧ‬ғbnà/ n government
Ngola /ƾgólà/ n another name for Yaounde
Ngoma /ƾgómà/ n 50 francs coin
Ngombe /ƾg‫ܧ‬Ғmbਦ/ n iguana, deaf person
Ngondere /ƾg‫ܧ‬Ғndére/ n maiden, young woman
Ngondo /ƾgóndó/ n Douala cultural festival
Ngong /ƾg‫ܧ‬ғƾ/ n coward, timid person
Ngongong /ƾgóƾgóƾ/ n container, can, tin
Ngoya /ƾg‫ܧ‬yà/ n oil
Ngrimba /ƾgrìmbà/ n fetish power
Ngum /ƾgùm/ n strength, power, energy
Ngumba haus /ƾgumbá haus/ n sacred society
Ngumba /ƾgumbá/ n cult
Ngundu /ƾgúndú/ n work done without reward
Ni /ní/ n elder brother, title given to elders
Nainti-nain sens /nainti náín séns/ adj of the people of Lebialem in the
South West Region of Cameroon rated as having very high
intelligence.
Ninga /níƾgà/ n slave
Ningi-ningi /niƾgí-niƾgi/ vt tickle
Niton /nít‫ܧ‬Ғƾ/ n navel
Nja /n‫ݶ‬á/ n girl
Njaka /n‫ݶ‬áká/ adj dull; n particle, small person
Njakatu /j‫ݶ‬akatú/ n egg plant
Njakri /n‫ݶ‬àkrì/ n joke
Njaman /n‫ݶ‬ámàn / adj having German attributes, German
Njaman man /n‫ݶ‬áman man/ n person of German origin
Njama-njama /n‫ݶ‬àmà-n‫ݶ‬ámá/ n vegetable
Njambo /n‫ݶ‬ámbò/ n gambling
Njang /n‫ݶ‬àƾ/ n dance of the Akum people of the North West region of
Cameroon
Njanga /n‫ݶ‬àngà/ n shrimps
Njangi /n‫ݶ‬àƾgí/ n welfare scheme by a group of persons acting on
common grounds; financial contributions or other contributions to such
a scheme in which one person or more benefit at a time
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 165
Njanja moto /n‫ݶ‬ánjá mòtò/ n a species of dried fish
Njansa /n‫ݶ‬ánsá/ n spices harvested from giant forest tree
Njariba /n‫ݶ‬àribà/ n nonsense
Njeme /n‫ݶ‬émè/ n sperms
Njo /n‫ܧݶ‬ғ/ adj free of charge
Njogmasi /n‫ܧݶ‬gmásí/ n unpaid labour
Njoka /njóká/ vt enjoy; n enjoyment
Njumba /n‫ݶ‬ùmbà/ n love, concubine
Njumba maket /n‫ݶ‬ùmbà mákét/ n meeting place for negotiating sex
partners
Njumba palava /njùmbà palávà/ np love matters
Nkane /ƾkહnè/ n prostitute
Nkap /ƾkáp/ n money
Nkende /ƾkéndè/ n chaffs
Nkolo /ƾkòlò/ n a thousand francs
Nkong /ƾk‫ܧ‬Ғƾ/ n pet
Nkwa /ƾkwà/ n coastal people
Nkwi /ƾkwí/ n sticky soup
Noba /nóbà/ adv never, have not
Nok-do /n‫ܧ‬Ғk-d‫ܧ‬/ n marriage proposal
Ntang /ntàƾ/ n house
Ntong /nt‫ܧ‬Ғƾ/ n good luck
Nya’a /݄ja’á/ vt nasty-looking
Nyamangoro /݄jàmàƾg‫ܧ‬ғr‫ܧ‬ғ/ n snail
Nyama-nyama /jàmà-jámá/ adj messy
Nyamfuka /݄jamfuka/ adj beast
Nyanga /njàƾgá/ n style, beauty, make-up, act of bragging
Nyang-nyang /݄jáƾ-݄jáƾ/ adj very new, brand new
Nyangi /݄jáƾgi/ n an origin of Mamfe in Manyu Division of the South
West region of Cameroon; a word often associated with prostitution
Nyango /݄jangó/ n woman, maiden
Nyati /݄játí/ vt move stealthily, tiptoe
Nyongo /݄jòngo/ n witchcraft, cult
Nzolo /nz‫ܧ‬Ғl‫ܧ‬ғ/ n act of sending between one’s legs esp in football
O
Ojoro /ò‫ݶ‬óró/ n tricks, blindfolding
Oga /ògá/ n patron, boss, person in charge
Oga madam /ògá madam/ n female boss
Glossary of Pidgin Words and Expressions
166
Ogbono /‫ܧ‬Ғgb‫ܧ‬Ғn‫ܧ‬Ғ/ n African mango seed used as spices for sauce, also
called bush mango seeds
Ogbono soup /‫ܧ‬Ғgb‫ܧ‬Ғn‫ܧ‬Ғ súp/ np soup made with ground “ogbono” seeds
Okada /òkádà/ n motor-cycle taxi
Okada man /òkádà man/ np motor-cycle rider
Okrika /òkrìkà/ n second-hand dresses or goods
Ol man /‫ܧ‬ғl man/ pron everybody
Onku /‫ܧ‬Ғƾkú/ n uncle
Open ai /‫ܧ‬pèn ai/ n intimidation; vp threaten, intimidate eg mek open ai
Opozan /òpòzán/ n subversive person
Opstie /‫ܧ‬ғpstie/ n storeyed building
Otomokwo /òtòmòkw‫ܧ‬Ғ/ n fetishes, totems, charms
Ova /òvà/ adv too much
Ova kofi /òvà kòfí/ adj too much confidence
Ova-sabi /òvà-sàbí/ n too much show-off of knowledge
Óva-sai /óvà-sái/ n across the stream, river or valley
Oya /ójá/ adv immediately, straightaway
Oyibo kontri /òjìbó k‫ܧ‬ғntri/ np European country, Europe
Oyibo /òjìbó/ adj Whiteman, European
P
Pa /pá/ n father, old man
Pacha /pà‫ݹ‬á/ n bias, partiality, discrimination
Padiman /pàdìman/ n close friend, companion
Pakop /pák‫ܧ‬ғp/ adj full-up, filled to capacity
Palapala /pàlàpálá/ n wrestling
Palava /palávà/ n problem, trouble
Pami /pàmí/ n palm wine
Panama /pánámá/ n virus
Panapu /pànápu/ n proverb, wise saying; pineapple
Pap /páp/ adj weak, usually referred to a person who is weak
Paple /pàplé/ adj insane
Para /pàrà/ vt steal, to pickpocket
Pem /pȑm/ vt reserve
Penya /pé݄já/ adj new
Peti /pètí/ n younger person, less experienced person or one lower in status
Peti treda /pètí trédà/ np small scale trader
Patrong /pàtr‫ܧ‬ƾ/ n boss, master
Pia /pia/ n avocado
Pijin /pí‫ݶ‬ìn/ n Pidgin
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 167
Pikin /pìkín/ n child
Pima /pímà/ n clitoris, vagina
Pis /pis/ vt urinate; n urine
Pipi /pìpí/ n urine
Planti /plàntí/ n plantains
Plantishon /plànti‫ݕ‬òn/ n plantation
Ple laif /plé laif/ vp revel
Ple njambo /plé n‫ݶ‬ámbò/ vt gamble
Poch /p‫ܧ‬ғ‫ݹ‬/ n purge; vt purge
Pok /pók/ vt have sex
Popo /p‫ܧ‬ғp‫ܧ‬Ғ/ adj proper, real, original
Posa /pósà/ n purse
Pof-pof /p‫ܧ‬Ғf-p‫ܧ‬ғf/ n flour dough fried in balls
Poto-poto /p‫ܧ‬Ғt‫ܧ‬Ғ-p‫ܧ‬ғt‫ܧ‬ғ/ n mud
Prinsi /prìnsí/ n principal
Put han /pút han/ vp help
Put palava fo grong /pút paláva f‫ܧ‬ gr‫ܧ‬ƾ/ vp put the matter on the ground;
in English: put the matter on the table
Pum /pùm/ vt escape, sneak away
Pungo /púngò/ n division
Put faya /pút fáyà/ vp inflame, propagate
Put han /pút han/ vt help
Put hed fo somting /pút hed f‫ܧ‬Ғ s‫ܧ‬mtiƾ/ vp concentrate, be serious about
what one is doing
Put mop fo man yi ting /pút m‫ܧ‬p f‫ܧ‬Ғ man yi tiƾ/ vp interfere with
someone’s affair
R
Rapa /ràpá/ n large cloth worn round the waist
Rapin /rápìn/ n polythene, plastic bag
Ret feda /rét fédà/ np red feather, status marker fitted on a cap by title
holders
Ret oya /rȑt óyà/ np palm oil
Reme /rémé/ n mother
Repe /répé/ n father
Rezo /rİzó/ n network
Roba gon /roba g‫ܧ‬n/ np catapult
Glossary of Pidgin Words and Expressions
168
S
Sabi /sàbí/ vt know
Saka /sáká/ vt dance
Salaka /sáláka/ n ritual involving the offering of sacrifice to a god or
ancestor; invitation to a group of people, families, and clansmen to
give them food and drinks as an act of atonement
Salamanda /sàlàmándà/ n shoes with thick high heels
Samara /samará/ n leather slippers and sandals made in North Cameroon
Samboko /sámbokò/ n buckle
Sanga /sàƾgà/ n corn
Sanja /sànjà/ n large loin cloth attire worn by the people of the forest and
coastal regions
San-san boi /san-sán b‫ܧ‬i/ np irresponsible boy
San-san /san-sán/ n sand
San tam /sán tam/ n afternoon
Sango /sáƾgó/ n form of address to a man, “Mr”.
Sankonfians /sáƾk‫ܧ‬Ғƾfians/ also sankon /sáƾk‫ܧ‬Ғƾ/ n lacking confidence,
two-rope plastic slippers
San peyi /sáƾ péji/ np police van for conveying criminals
Santiman /saƾtimáƾ/ n feeling
Sap /sáp/ vt dress well, adj well dressed
Sapak /sapák/ n type of fish
Sara /sárá/ n white man
Sase /sàsè/ n high sounding English grammar
Sawa /sáwá/ n coastal people of Cameroon
Se /sé/ pron that
Seven do /sévén d‫ܧ‬/ np a neighbourhood inhabited by prostitutes
Sevis /sévìs/ n waiter, waitress
Sha /shà/ n corn beer
Shak /shák/ vt drink heavily esp alcohol
Shan-dai /‫ݕ‬án-dai/ vt persevere, be determined, resist
Shans /‫ݕ‬áns/ n luck
Shantie /‫ݕ‬antie/ n building site
Shap ai /shap ai/ vt be observant
Shap sikin /sháp sìkin/ vt be active
Shap-shap /‫ݕ‬áp-‫ݕ‬áp/ adv very early
Shek sikin /‫ݕ‬ék sìkin/ vt react, make a gesture
Shek-shek /‫ݕ‬ék-‫ݕ‬ék/ vp show panic, be unsteady
Sherikoko /‫ݕ‬erikoko/ n loved one, darling
Shey /‫ݕ‬é/ n Nso traditional title
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 169
Shidong /‫ݕ‬ìd‫ܧ‬ƾ/ vt sit down, stay
Shidon luk /‫ݕ‬ìd‫ܧ‬ғƾ-luk/ np wait-and-see attitude
Shifta /‫ݕ‬íftà/ n sieve; vt to sifter
Shing /‫ݕ‬ìƾ/ vt resist
Sis /sis/ n short for sister
Shit fo man yi rod /‫ݕ‬ít f‫ܧ‬ man yi rod/ vp excrete on one’s path, mess up
one’s own fortune
Shitho /‫ݕ‬itho/ n anus
Sho man pepe /‫ݕ‬ó man pépè/ vp deal with someone
Sho man /‫ݕ‬ó man/ vp deal with someone e.g. show yi (deal with him/her)
Sho-sho /‫ݕ‬ó‫ݕ‬o/ n braggart, vt show off
Shuga-shuga /‫ݕ‬úgá-‫ݕ‬ugà/ n chlamydia
Shumbu /‫ݕ‬ùmbù/ n chimpanzee
Shushu /‫ݕ‬u‫ݕ‬u/ n darling, loved one
Si pepe /sí pépè/ vp experience difficulty
Si rod /sí rod/ vp find a way out
Sikin /sikin/ n body
Slip wuman /slíp wuman/ vp have sex with a woman
Smo broda /sm‫ܧ‬ brodà/ n younger brother
Smo haus /sm‫ܧ‬ haus/ n toilet
Smo masa /sm‫ܧ‬ másà/ np younger brother of a husband
Smo tam /sm‫ܧ‬ tam/ adv very soon
Smo ting /sm‫ܧ‬ tiƾ/ n concubine
Sofli /s‫ܧ‬ғfli/ adv gently
Sofli-sofli /s‫ܧ‬ғfli-s‫ܧ‬fli/ adj very gently
Somkain /s‫ܧ‬mkain/ adj strange
Sori /s‫ܧ‬ғri/ n pity; vt pity someone
Soso /sósó/ adv mostly, always
Sote /sóté/ adv until
Sove /sové/ vt relieve (someone) of a burden, save
Soya /s‫ܧ‬ғya/ n roast meat; fig. tip, bribe
Stad /stád/ n stadium
Steshon /sté‫ܧݕ‬n/ n reserved areas for administrative offices and residences
for top civil servants in Anglophone Cameroon
Sule /sùlé/ vt get drunk
Sweta /swetà/ n pullover
Swit-móp /swit-m‫ܧ‬p/ n art of flattery
T
Taata /taátà/ n decision maker, overlord
Glossary of Pidgin Words and Expressions
170
Tabala /tábálá/ n hopscotch
Tai fes /táí fes/ vp bear creased brows as a sign of being angered or upset
Tai han /tài hán/ adj tight-fisted; vt be tight-fisted
Tai haus /ái haus/ vp build a house
Tai kanda /tái kandá/ vp fasten one’s belt, get ready to face difficulties
Tai tit /tàitit/ vp hold firm, persevere
Tai-hat /tái-hat/ vp muster courage, determine; n determination
Tait /táìt/ adj firm, narrow
Takembeng /tákembèƾ/ n female sacred society in the North West region
involving very old women; an aged and assertive woman
Tam /tám/ n time
Tanap /tánáp/ vt stand, stand up; adv stiff
Tanga /tàƾá/ adj stiff, tough, durable esp an object; (of a person) difficult
to subdue
Tanyi /tánji/ n father of twins
Tara /tàrá/ n boss, patron, leader
Tif man /tif man/ n thieve
Tif /tif/ vp steal
Timambusa /timambúsa/ n delicious food of the Bakweris of the South
West Region of Cameroon, charm
Tíngene-tingene /tiƾéné-tíƾéné/ n cell phone
Tok palava /t‫ܧ‬ғk palava/ vp settle a dispute
Tok /t‫ܧ‬ғk/ vt talk, tell
Tokio /tòkiò/ vt run, escape
Tok-tok /tòk-t‫ܧ‬ғk/ adj talkative
Ton ai /t‫ܧ‬ғn ai/ vp make one feel dizzy
Ton man yi hed /t‫ܧ‬ғn man yi hed/ vp deceive someone
Ton’am /t‫ܧ‬ғn’am/ vp pour it
Tong man /t‫ܧ‬ғƾ man/ n townsman
Ton /t‫ܧ‬ғƾ/ n town
Ton-ton /t‫ܧ‬Ғn-t‫ܧ‬ғn/ vt loiter, stroll
Ton-ton /t‫ܧ‬Ғn-t‫ܧ‬ғn/ adj (of a person) not straightforward
Tori /tòrí/ n news, conversation; vt converse
Tosin /t‫ܧ‬ғsin/ n thousand
Toto /tòtó/ n vagina, see mbombo
Trenja /trén‫ݶ‬à/ n guest, stranger
Triko /triko/ n T-shirt
Troki /tr‫ܧ‬kí/ n tortoise
Tron ai /tr‫ܧ‬Ғƾ ai/ vt intimidate; np intimidation
Trong kanda /tr‫ܧ‬Ғƾ kàndá/ n smoked fish with strong skin, difficult person
Trong /tr‫ܧ‬ƾ/ adj hard
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 171
Trong-han /tr‫ܧ‬Ғƾ-han/ adj tight-fisted
Trong-hed /tr‫ܧ‬Ғƾ-hed/ vt be stubborn
Trong mop /tr‫ܧ‬Ғƾ m‫ܧ‬p/ adj loquacious; vt talk abusively
Trong-trong /tr‫ܧ‬ғƾ-tr‫ܧ‬ƾ/ adv energetically
Tros /tr‫ܧ‬s/ vt borrow, lend
Trosi /trosí/ n trouser also trosa /trósa/
Trowe salot /trowé salot/ vp send greetings
Trowe /trowé/ vt throw away
Tru-tru /trú-tru/ adv certainly, truly
Tuma /túmá/ vt sell something at a give-away price
Tumbu /tùmbú/ n maggot
Tumbu-tumbu /tumbú-tùmbú/ n guesswork, a game played by children
Tu-pati /tú-pàtí/ n sharecropper, share cropping
Tush /tú‫ݕ‬/ n stylish gesture; mek tush /mek tú‫ݕ‬/ vp make stylish gestures
Tut /tút/ vt carry
Twenti hongri /twènti h‫ܧ‬ғƾgri/ np the last week of the month before salary
payout, usually characterized by poverty
V
Vive /vivȑ/ n reveler
W
Wahala /wahálà/ n problem, disturbing issue
Wak /wak/ vt eat voraciously
Waka /wákà/ vt walk; n journey
Waka /wákà/ vt work (as in I di waka “It works”)
Waka /wàká/ vt pay a visit
Wakaman /wakamán/ n traveler, journey man
Waka-waka /wàkà-wáká/ n vagabond
Wakis /wàkis/ n food
Wan man /wan man/ n euphemistic for a beer and other beverages
Wanda /wándá/ vt doubt
Wanda /wánda/ inter expression of surprise; adj wonderful
Washnet /wà‫ݕ‬nét/ n night watchman
Wata fufu /wàtà fufú/ np popular meal of ground cassava eaten with sauce
or vegetables
Wata plang /wata plaƾ/ n spirit level
Wata-wata /watá-watá/ adj watery
Waya /wáyá/ vt beat one mercilessly with a cane or a whip
Glossary of Pidgin Words and Expressions
172
Waya /wáyà/ n wire
Wayo /wàyó/ adj sly, dishonest, not straightforward
We /wé/ pron which, that, whose, whom
Weda /wédà/ n one who specializes in iron work
Wet /wet/ n weight measuring machine, balance
Weti /wétì/ pro what
Wi sef /wi sef/ pro ourselves
Wich /wi‫ݹ‬/ n witchcraft
Wich bed /wi‫ݹ‬bȑd/ n owl
Wich man /wi‫ݹ‬man/ n wizard
Wich wuman /wi‫ݹ‬ wuman/ n witch
Witi /wíti/ also wit /wit/ prep with
Wolowos /wolowós/ n prostitute
Wowo /wowó/ adj ugly
Wuman han /wúman han/ n left hand
Wuman pikin /wúman pikin/ n female, girl child
Wuman Rapa /wúman-ràpá/ n womanizer
Wuna sef /wuna sef/ pro yourselves
Wuna /wuna/ pro you; plural of yu
Wuru-wuru /wuru-wúrú/ adj sly; corrupt
Wusai /wúsai/ adv where
Y
Ya /yà/ pro your
Yab /yáb/ vt mess up, fumble, disgrace
Yawa /jáwà/ n dignitary
Yawinde /yawinde/ n Yaounde
Yayato /jajató/ interj welcome
Yeye /jèjé/ adj useless, worthless
Yi /ji/ pro his, her, him, her
Yo /j‫ܧ‬ғ/ n well-dressed young man
Yoyet /j‫ܧ‬jét/ n coquettish young lady
Yu /jú/ pron you
Yu sef /jú sef/ pron yourself
Z
Zam-zam /zàm-zàm/ n joker, rough, disorganized person
Zangaliwa /zangáliwà/ n comic military musical composition and
performance; one with an extremely big stomach
Zua-zua /zuà-zuà/ n illegal petrol
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Abongdia, Jane-Francis Afungmeyu. 2014. “Ideologies and Attitudes
toward Pidgin English in Cameroon.” Mediterranean Journal of Social
Sciences 5 (7): 601-608.
Akombi, Sammy Oke. 1988. Kam Gut fo Kamerun. Yaoundé: Luma
Graphics.
Alobwede, d’Epie Charles. 1998. “Banning Pidgin English in Cameroon.”
English Today, 14 (1): 54–60.
Anchimbe, Eric A. 2005. “Multilingual Backgrounds and the Identity
Issue in Cameroon.” ASJU vol. 39 (2): 33-48.
—. A. 2013. Language Policy and Identity Construction: The Dynamics of
Cameroon’s Multilingualism. (Impact: Studies in Language and
Society 32). Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing Company.
Atechi, Samuel. 2011. “Pidgin English in Cameroon: To Teach or Not to
Teach.” International Journal of Language Studies 5 (1): 17-30.
Atindogbé, Gratien G. and Chibaka Evelyn Fogwe. 2012. “Pronouns in
Cameroon Pidgin English.” In Language Contact in a Postcolonial
Setting: The Linguistic and Social Context of English and Pidgin in
Cameroon, edited by Anchimbe A. Eric. 215-244. De Gruyter.
Awah, Pius S. 1981. Pidgin English Prayer Book. Buea: Imprimatur Pius
Awah.
—. n.d. An Introduction to Cameroonian Pidgin English. Monograph for
the Teaching of Pidgin at the Saint Thomas Aquinas Major Seminary,
Bambui, Cameroon.
Ayafor, Miriam. 1996. “An Orthography for Kamtok.” English Today 12
(4): 53–7.
—. 2000. “Kamtok: The Ultimate Unifying Common National Language
for Cameroon.” The Carrier Pidgin 28: 4-6.
—. 2004. “Cameroonian Pidgin English (Kamtok): Morphology and
Syntax.” In A Handbook of Varieties of English. Vol. II: Morphology
and Syntax, edited by Kortmann, Bernd et al. 909-928. Berlin: Mouton
de Gruyter.
—. 2006. “Kamtok (Pidgin) is Gaining Ground in Cameroon.” In African
Linguistics and the Development of African Communities, edited by
Emmanuel Chia 191-199. Senegal: CODESRIA.
Bibliography
174
Bakker, Peter. 1994. “Pidgins.” In Pidgins and Creoles: An Introduction,
edited by Jacques Arends, Pieter Muysken and Norval Smith. 26–39.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Barker, Chris. 2012. Cultural Studies: Theory and Practice. London: Sage
Publications Ltd.
Bellama, David, Solomon Nkwele, and Joseph Yudom. 1983. An
Introduction to Cameroonian Pidgin. Yaoundé: Peace Corps
Cameroon.
Bobda, Augustin Simo & Wolf, Hans-Georg. 2003. “Pidgin English in
Cameroon in the New Millennium. In Studies in African Varieties of
English, edited by P. Lucko, L. Peter & H. G. Wolf. 101-17. Frankfurt:
Peter Lang.
Butake, Bole. 1999. Lake God in Lake God and Other Plays. Yaounde:
Editions CLE.
Chia, Emmanuel. 1990. “The New Speech Forms of Rapidly Growing
City: Pidgin French and Camfranglais in Yaounde.” Annales de la
Faculté des Lettres et Sciences Humaines, Université de Yaoundé,
VI.1-2 : 102-127.
Chumbow, Sammy Beban. 1980. “Language and Language Policy in
Cameroon.” In An African Experiment in the Nation Building: the
Bilingual Cameroon Republic since Reunification, edited by Ndiva
Kofele-Kale. 28-311. Boulder, Colorado: Westview Press.
—. 2009. “Linguistic Diversity, Pluralism and National Development in
Africa.” Council for the Development of Social Science Research in
Africa. Xxiv. 2: 21-45.
Echu, George. 2002. “Multilingualism as a Resource: the Lexical
Appropriation of Cameroon Indigenous Languages by English and
French. TRANS. Internet-Zeitschrift für Kulturwissenschaften. 13.
WWW: http://www.inst.at/trans/13Nr/echu13.htm.
—. 2007. “The Politics about Cameroonian Pidgin English.” Annals of the
Faculty of Arts, Letters and Social Sciences, 1 (7): 133 – 150.
Faraclas, Nicolas. 1996. Nigerian Pidgin. Abingdon, Oxon, UK: Taylor &
Francis Group (Routledge).
Féral, Carol de. 1989. Pidgin-English du Cameroun: Description
Linguistique et Sociolinguistique. Paris: Peeters/SELAF, 1989.
Gud Nyus fo Ol Pipul: Nyu Testament fo Pidgin (2000) Yaounde: Bible
Society of Cameroon.
Holy Bible (The). 1989. Authorized King James Version. Grand Rapids,
Michigan: World Publishing.
Huber, Magnus. 1999. Ghanaian Pidgin in its West African Context: A
Socio-historical and Structural Analysis. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 175
Jick, Kah Henry. 2015. “The Cameroonian Urban Oral Artist as
Revolutionary Thinker.” International Journal of Liberal Arts and
Social Sciences 3 (2): 112-127.
Kouega, Jean-Paul. 2001. “Pidgin is facing Death in Cameroon.”
Terralingua. Discussion Paper n0 17.
—. 2003. “Camfranglais: A Novel Slang in Cameroon Schools”. English
Today 19 (2): 23-29.
—. 2008. A Dictionary of Cameroon Pidgin English Usage:
Pronunciation, Grammar and Vocabulary. Munich: Lincom Europa.
Mbangwana, Paul. 1983 “The Scope and Role of Pidgin English in
Cameroon. In A Sociolinguistic Profile of Urban Centers in Cameroon,
edited by Edna L. Koenig, Emmanuel Chia and John Povey. 79-92.
California: Cross-road Press.
—. Paul. 1991. “Kamtok is Achieving Its Lettres de Noblesse.” Lore &
Language, 10 (2): 59-65.
—. 2004. “Pidgin English in Cameroon: A Veritable Linguistic Menu. In
Africa meets Europe: Language Contact in West Africa, edited by
Echu George and S. Obeng. 23-44. New York: Nova Science Publishers.
Mbassi-Manga, Francis. 1973. “The State of Contemporary English in
Cameroon”. In Cameroon Studies in English and French (CASEF),
edited by Mbassi-Mbassi- Manga Francis. 49-63. Victoria. Cameroon:
Pressbook.
Menang, Thaddeus. 2004. “Cameroon Pidgin English (Kamtok):
Phonology.” In A Handbook of Varieties of English: CD: ROM. Vol. 4:
Africa, South and Southeast Asia, edited by Kortmann, Bernd and
Schneider, Edgar W. 133-149. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Neba, Ayu’nwi, Evelyn Fogwe Chibaka, Gratien G. Atingdogbé (2006).
“Cameroon Pidgin English (CPE) as a Tool for Empowerment and
National Development”. African Study Monographs 27 (2): 39-61.
Ngefac, Aloysius. 2009. “Toward a Redefinition of Cameroon Pidgin.”
Iranian Journal of Language Studies (IJLS) 3 (3): 345-58.
—. 2011. “Globalising a Local Language and Localizing a Global
Language: the Case of Kamtok and English in Cameroon”. English
Today, 27 (1): 16 – 21
—. 2014. “An Appraisal of Some Creolistic and Structural Aspects of
Kamtok”. In Perspectives on Cameroonian Art, Archaeology and
Culture: Papers in Honour of Professor Bole Butake, edited by John
Nkemngong Nkengasong. 375-396. Yaounde: Editions CLE, 2014.
Ngefac, Aloysius and Bonaventure M. Sala. 2006. “Cameroon Pidgin and
Cameroon English at a Confluence: A Real Time Investigation.”
English World- Wide, 27 (2): 217-227.
Bibliography
176
Nkengasong, John Nkemngong. 2015. God was African. Mankon: Langaa
RPCIG.
Nkengasong, John Nkemngong. 2007. A Stylistic Guide to Literary
Appreciation. Yaounde: Editions CLE.
—. 2014. “Introduction: Towards a Theory of Art-Culturalism”. In
Perspectives on Cameroonian Art, Archaeology and Culture: Papers
in Honour of Professor Bole Butake, edited by John Nkemngong
Nkengasong. 15-28. Yaounde: Editions CLE, 2014.
Peek, M. Philip and Kwesi Yankah. Eds. 2004. African Folklore: an
Encyclopedia. London: Routledge.
Ross, Kristin. 1993. “The World Literature and Cultural Studies Program.”
Critical Inquiry 19 (4): 666-76.
Sala, Bonaventure M. and Aloysius Ngefac. 2006. “What’s Happening to
Cameroonian Pidgin English? PHiN 36/: 31-43.
—. 2009. “Writing in Cameroonian Pidgin English: Begging the Question.
English Today, 25: 11-17.
Samarin, William J. 2009. “Review of Jean-Paul Kouega’s A Dictionary of
Cameroon Pidgin English Usage: Pronunciation, Grammar and
Vocabulary.” Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages 24 (2): 386-
387.
Schneider, Gilbert D. 1966. West African Pidgin English. A Descriptive
Linguistic Analysis with Texts and Glossary from the Cameroun Area.
Ohio: Hartford Seminary Foundation.
Schröder, Anne. 2003. “Aspect in Cameroonian Pidgin English.” In
Studies in African Varieties of English, edited by Peter Lucko, Peter
Lothar, Wolf Hans-Georg. 83-100. Frankfurt: Lang.
—. 2003. Status, Functions, and Prospects of Pidgin English. An
Empirical Approach to Language Dynamics in Cameroon. Tübingen:
Gunter Narr Verlag.
—. 2012. “Tense and Aspect in Cameroon Pidgin English.” In Language
Contact in a Postcolonial Setting: The Linguistic and Social Context of
English and Pidgin in Cameroon, edited by Eric Anchimbe A. 165–
190. De Gruyter.
—. 2012. “Cameroon Pidgin English.” In Survey of Pidgins and Creole
Languages, vol 1: English-based and Dutch-based Languages, edited
by Susanne Michaelis, Philippe Maurer, Magnus Huber, Martin
Haspelmath. 185-193. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sone, Enongene Mirabeau. 2009. “Lapiro de Mbanga and Political Vision
in Contemporary Cameroon.” International Journal of Language
Society and Culture 27: 18-26.
Tande, Dubissi. 2006. “The Politics of Pidgin English in Cameroon”.
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 177
http://www.dibussi.com/files/politics_of_pidgin_in_cameroon.pdf
Accessed April 4, 2015.
Todd, Loreto. 1969. Pidgin English of West Cameroon. Belfast: Queen’s
University.
Todd, Loreto. 1971. “West Cameroonian Pidgin Proverbs.” Journal of
West African Linguistics 8 (2): 85 – 100.
—. 1979. Some Day Been Dey: West African Pidgin Folktales. New
York: Routledge.
Todd, Loreto and Martin Jumbam. 1992. “Kamtok: Anatomy of Pidgin.”
English Today 29: 3-11.
Todd, Loreto, M. Jumbam and H. Wamey. (n.d.) “Language Varieties:
Kamtok (Cameroonian Pidgin)”. University of New England (Australia)
School of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics.
Ubanako, Valentine N. and Jemima Anderson. Eds. 2014. Crossing
Linguistic Borders in Postcolonial Anglophone Africa. Newcastle:
Cambridge Scholars Publishing.
Vakunta, Peter Wuteh. 2014. Camfranglais: the Making of a New Language
in Cameroonian Literature. Oxford: African Books Collective.
Yuka, Lendzemo Constantine. 2014. “Nominal Serialization in
Cameroonian Pidgin.” International Journal of Language Studies 8
(1): 15-32.
INDEX
action verb, 49
Adamawa, 7
adjectival functions, 101
adjectives, 42, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75,
76, 77
Adjectives, 37, 70, 74, 75
adverbial, 63, 77, 101
adverbial clause, 63
adverbs, 36, 42, 76, 101
Affixation, 40
affixes, 40, 44, 92
Africa in miniature, 6
African cultures, 18
Afro-Asiatic, 6
alveolar, 27
Anchimbe, 1, 6, 173, 176
Anglophone, 1, 7, 8, 10, 12, 34, 154,
169, 177
Anglo-Saxon, 14
apaga and salamanda, 16
articles, 92, 93, 95
Atechi, 14, 173
auxiliary, 26, 48, 51, 52, 53, 55, 56,
58, 60, 62, 63, 69, 74, 103, 107,
108
Awa, 23, 24, 106
Ayafor, 2, 7, 8, 14, 173
bad English, 1
Bakweri, 33, 148, 152
Bamenda, 10, 148
Bamilike, 11, 148
Bantu, 7
Barker, 2, 15, 174
bastardized English, 8
Beti, 11, 149
Bible Society of Cameroon, 20, 23,
24, 25, 106, 174
Borrowing, 33
broken English, 1
Butake, 20, 21, 24, 174, 175, 176
Cambridge, 14, 177
Cameroon Development
Corporation, 11
Cameroonian Pidgin English, 8, 12,
173, 174, 175, 176
Camfranglais, 9, 12, 35, 36, 174,
175
Central Africa, 1, 16
Chia, 12, 173, 174, 175
Christian literature, 20
clause structure, 43
clipping, 33
cluster verbs, 65
codename, 8
colonialist cultures, 5
command verbs, 66
Commonwealth, 14
comparative adjectives, 71
complement, 43, 50, 52, 57, 97, 103
Complex sentences, 104
compounding, 33, 37
conditional clauses, 91
Congo-Kordofanian, 6
conjunctions, 79, 89, 90, 91, 109
consonant clusters, 28
contact language, 1, 12
co-ordinating conjuctions, 89
copula “na”, 53, 54, 83, 96
corpus, 18, 20
creole, 7
Creole-based, 27
cultural signifier, 15
Cultural Studies, 2, 15, 174, 176
curriculum planning, 19
Declarative sentences, 107
declarative statements, 96, 110
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 179
definite article, 26, 93
demonstrative adjectives, 71
demonstrative determiners, 92
demonstrative pronouns, 73, 80
Demonstrative pronouns, 80
determiners, 75, 79, 80, 92, 94, 95
diachronic, 2
dialogue, 21, 52, 54, 82, 83
Diatrics, 31
diphthongs, 28
Douala,, 11
Duala, 11, 33, 121
eleventh province, 3
epenthesis, 28
ethnic languages, 7
euphemisms, 33
exclamation mark, 99
Exclamatory sentences, 112
exoglosic, 7
Fernando Po, 8
fictional works, 21
First World War, 11
folklore, 15, 17
foreign languages, 4, 7, 15, 18
Francophone, 3, 7, 8, 9, 11, 34, 35
French Cameroon, 8, 12
French language, 6, 11, 12, 13
fricatives, 29, 30
Fufulde, 11
future perfect, 60, 61
future progrsessive, 60
future simple, 60
future tense, 50, 60
gender, 46
German, 4, 6, 7, 8, 11, 33, 137, 164
German administration, 8
Ghana, 7
glossary, 3, 4, 16, 17, 27, 32, 42
Gospel of Luke, 23, 24
grammar, 1, 4, 9, 16, 38, 41, 79,
102, 168
grammatical category, 100
Gulf of Guinea, 6
Hausa, 33, 136, 154
Hawaiian Pidgin, 4
Holy Bible, 24, 154, 174
hybrid language, 15
Ideophones, 100, 101
idiomatic expressions, 56
idiosyncratic, 2, 9, 21
Igbos, 10
Imperative sentences, 111
indefinite pronouns, 79, 85
indigenous languages, 3, 4, 7, 9, 10,
15, 25, 28, 30, 33, 35, 41, 99,
100, 110, 174
interethnic, 12
interjections, 79, 99
Interjections, 99
interrogative pronouns, 81, 82, 83,
109
Interrogative sentences, 109
interrogatives, 88, 96, 110
intransive., 49
Jick, 22, 23, 175
Johnny Tezano, 16
Jumbam, 7, 8, 177
Kamerun, 8, 11, 173
kam-no-go, 10, 157
Kamtok, 1, 8, 156, 173, 175, 177
Kouega, 7, 9, 175
Kumba English, 1, 11
Kumba River, 76
Kumba variety, 2, 9, 11, 24
Kumbo, 10
Kupe-Maneguba, 11
Lambo Pierre Roger, 17
Lamso, 33
Lapiro de Mbanga, 17, 20, 22, 176
League of Nations, 8, 11
legends, 15, 17
lexicology, 25
lexicon, 11, 33
lingua franca, 1, 6, 7, 12, 13
linguist, 4
Linguistic diversity, 174
linking verb, 72
literal translations, 3
loan words, 27, 28, 33, 34
Mamfe, 10, 165
Mbangwana, 2, 7, 9, 175
Mbassi-Manga, 2, 7, 8, 9, 175
Index
180
Mboko tok, 9
mechanics, 3, 5
metaphorical extensions, 33
Mimba wi, 22
minimal pairs, 32
minor word classes, 3, 41, 79, 102
minority Anglophones, 6
missionaries, 13, 25
Modals, 63
morphology, 2, 27, 33, 40, 42, 173
multicultural, 5, 8, 10, 12, 16
Multilingualism, 174
multilinguistic, 8
myths, 17
Napoleonic code, 12
national languages, 7
native speaker, 3, 155
Negative forms, 69
New Testament, 20, 25
Ngefac, 1, 2, 27, 175, 176
Nigeria, 7, 8, 10, 11, 33, 99, 147
Nigerian Pidgin, 12, 174
Nilo-Saharan, 6
Nkengasong, 175, 176
non-European language, 1, 19
non-reductionism, 15
North West Region, 11, 146, 148
noun phrase, 43, 44, 67, 72, 85, 89
object, 40, 43, 49, 50, 52, 53, 61, 63,
91, 92, 101, 103, 105, 107, 153,
156
onomatopoeic sounds, 101
orality, 100
orthography, 1, 3, 25, 26, 31, 41,
106
paradox, 15
past perfect, 58, 69
past simple, 57
patois, 8, 12, 21, 27, 30
perfect progressive, 60, 61
perfective tense, 55
personal pronouns, 79, 83
phoneme, 26, 29
phonetic symbols, 23
phonological features, 27
phonological markers, 100
phonology, 2
Pidgin proverbs, 2, 4, 27
Pidgin structures, 24
plantation, 10, 167
Plantation workers, 11
plebiscite, 11
plosives, 27
Plurality, 44
political assimilation, 16, 19
polygamy, 17
polysemic “fo”, 86
polysemous, 75
Portuguese, 4, 8, 33
possessive adjectives, 71
possessive determiners, 92, 95
possessive pronouns, 72, 95
Possessive pronouns, 84
postdeterminers, 95
postmodify, 89
postpositional prepositions, 86
predeterminers, 95
predicate, 107
predicative adjectives, 71
Prepositional phrases, 85
prepositions, 44, 79, 85, 89
present perfect, 55
present simple, 51, 54, 103
progressive case, 103
progressive tense, 107
pronominal phrases, 80
pronoun “se”, 81
pronunciation, 1, 4, 20, 24, 25, 27,
31, 41
proverbs, 3, 11, 16, 17, 18
quality adjectives, 71
quantifier, 43
quantifiers, 75, 92, 95
Question tags, 110
reaction utterances, 113
reduplication, 33, 39, 45, 74
Reduplications, 101
referendum, 12
Reflexive pronouns, 83
regional varieties, 2
relative clauses, 44, 81
relative pronoun “we”, 80
A Grammar of Cameroonian Pidgin 181
relative pronouns, 80
representation, 15, 100
Republique du Cameroun, 11, 12
Ross, 16, 176
Saharan, 7
Samarin, 2
segmental features, 29
segments, 26, 40
Senegal, 7, 173
sensory experiences, 101
sentence structures, 2, 102, 103, 106
sentence types, 107
Serial pronoun, 106
Serial verb construction, 105
serial verbs, 105
signifying practices, 15
Simple sentences, 103
social interaction, 16
Sone, 22, 23, 176
source languages, 27
South West Region, 10, 147, 148,
164, 170
Southern Cameroons, 8, 12
Standard English, 14, 19, 21, 24
stress, 4, 28, 31
Subject-adjective, 107
subordinate clause of reason, 90
subordinating conjunction, 90, 91
subordinating conjunctions, 89
sub-Saharan, 7
suffixes, 40
superstrate language, 9, 33
syllable configuration, 101
syllables, 38
syntactic environment, 87
syntax, 2, 100, 173
taboo language, 15
Tande, 12, 176
Tikar, 7
Todd, 2, 7, 8, 177
tonal language, 31
tone, 26, 28, 31, 36, 41, 86
traditions, 16, 19
transcription, 3, 4, 17, 22, 23, 24, 25
transitive, 40, 49
transitive verb, 40, 49
triphthongs, 28
Uncountable nouns, 45, 46
unitary state, 12
United Republic of Cameroon, 12
University of Buea, 14
University of Yaounde 1, 14
verb phrase, 48, 50
Vowels, 28
vowels sounds, 28
W-” question, 109
West Africa, 19, 27, 175
West Atlantic, 7
word formation, 2, 3, 9, 16, 41
writing system, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25,
27, 30, 31
Yuroba, 33
