Modeling the Obligatoriness of ϕ
ϕ-Agreement 13
The situation is quite different, however, on the derivational time-bombs
model. In a derivation that contains a canonical bearer of agreement, but
where ϕ-agreement has not successfully obtained, the derivational time-bomb
will have remained in its “nondefused” state. This, in turn, should give rise
to ungrammaticality. What the derivational time-bombs model categorically
excludes, then, is a grammatical utterance that was generated with the standard
agreement-enforcing derivational time-bomb in place, but where ϕ-agreement
has not applied successfully.
Failed agreement, as defined in (8), can therefore serve to distinguish at least
the derivational time-bombs model from the other two. Insofar as we are able
to establish the existence of failed agreement in grammatical utterances, the
derivational time-bombs model can be ruled out on empirical grounds.
The three chapters that follow present a case study that shows failed
agreement being tolerated in utterances that are nevertheless grammatical,
based on data from the Kichean Agent-Focus construction.
3 Agreement in the Kichean Agent-Focus Construction:
The Facts
In this chapter, I examine the behavior of verbal agreement in the Agent-Focus
construction in the Kichean languages of the Mayan family. This construction
will prove to be a very useful testing ground for the different models of
agreement outlined in chapter 2. A comparison between these different models
in light of agreement in the Kichean Agent-Focus construction will be taken up
in chapter 5; but before we can carry out such a comparison, we must acquaint
ourselves with the facts.
In section 3.1, I outline the basics of agreement in Kichean and introduce the
Agent-Focus construction itself. In section 3.2, I discuss the behavior of verbal
agreement in this construction (building on work by Dayley (1978), Mondloch
(1981), Norman and Campbell (1978), Smith-Stark (1978), among others).
In section 3.3, I present a particular restriction regarding possible argument
combinations in this construction (see the same works). Finally, in section 3.4,
I discuss the morphophonological properties of agreement in Kichean, which
will have some bearing on the analysis developed in subsequent chapters.
3.1 Some Basic Facts about Kichean and Agent-Focus
In this chapter, I examine data from Kaqchikel, K’ichee’, and Tz’utujil, three
Kichean languages of the Mayan family, spoken in Guatemala. The Kichean
branch, narrowly defined, also includes the language Achi’, not discussed
here; the superordinate branch, known as Greater Kichean, also includes
the languages Q’eqchi’, Uspantek, Poqomchi’, Poqomam, Sakapultek, and
Sipakapense (Campbell and Kaufman 1985). According to recent estimates,
Kaqchikel has approximately 450,000 speakers, K’ichee’ has approximately
2,300,000 speakers, and Tz’utujil has approximately 84,000 speakers.1
Like other languages in the Mayan family, the Kichean languages are head-
marking (i.e., they lack overt case morphology on nominal phrases) and exhibit
16 Chapter 3
an ergative-absolutive agreement alignment. The examples in (10)–(11) are
from Kaqchikel (“Ø” indicates a phonologically empty cell in the agreement
paradigm).2 (Unless noted otherwise, Kichean examples are from Kaqchikel.)
(10) Transitive
a. rat
you(sg)
x-Ø-aw-ax-aj
com-3sg.abs-2sg.erg-hear-act
ri
the
achin3
man
‘You(sg) heard the man.’
b. ri
the
achin
man
x-a-r-ax-aj
com-2sg.abs-3sg.erg-hear-act
rat
you(sg)
‘The man heard you(sg).’
(11) Intransitive
a. ri
the
achin
man
x-Ø-uk’lun
com-3sg.abs-arrive
‘The man arrived.’
b. rat
you(sg)
x-at-uk’lun
com-2sg.abs-arrive
‘You(sg) arrived.’
As these examples show, the single argument of the (unaccusative) intransitive
uk’lun (‘arrive’) triggers the same marking on the verb as the object of the
transitive ax (‘hear’) does: Ø (empty) for 3rd person singular arguments, a(t)-
for 2nd person singular ones. In contrast, the subject of the transitive triggers
different marking on the verb: r(u)/u- for 3rd person singular arguments, a(w)-
for 2nd person singular ones. Note that the absolutive agreement marker in
Kichean precedes the ergative marker; thus, in the transitive verb, one finds the
following morpheme order:
(12) Morpheme order in the Kichean transitive verb

aspect
prefix

–

abs
marker

–

erg
marker

–

verb
stem

–. . .
As noted earlier, the central empirical domain that will be investigated here
is a construction known as Agent-Focus (AF). The Kichean languages are
not alone within Mayan in having this construction, or something close to it;
but the agreement pattern in Kichean AF is unique among its other Mayan
counterparts, and its particular properties will prove crucial to the arguments
in chapter 4.4
The construction is in some sense a response to a restriction
preventing A-bar dependencies from being established that target the transitive
subject; but the nature of this restriction, or even how AF serves to circumvent
it, is not our current topic.5 For the remainder of this book, I will treat the
Agreement in the Kichean Agent-Focus Construction 17
existence of the AF construction as a given, and concentrate not on why or
when it is used, but on the agreement patterns that arise when it is used.
Before we turn to the AF construction itself, it is worth noting that the
Kichean languages have other means of circumventing this A-bar restriction,
as well; all that is needed is for the notional Agent to surface as something
other than a transitive subject. One way of achieving this is by using the
absolutive antipassive construction (see, e.g., Mondloch 1981), in which the
Patient surfaces as an oblique (if it surfaces at all), and as a result, the Agent
no longer behaves as a transitive subject. This can be seen by the fact that the
head marking that the Agent controls in the absolutive antipassive is the same
marking controlled by the object in a regular transitive, as the K’ichee’ (13)
shows (cf. (10a–b)).
(13) xači:n
who
š-Ø-čap-an
com-3sg.abs-capture-ap
[č-e:h
3sg.poss-rn
le:
the
ts’unun]OBL
hummingbird
‘Who caught the hummingbird?’
(Sam-Colop 1988:88; annotations added)
The most common way, however, of circumventing the restriction on A-bar
dependencies that target the transitive subject is by using the AF construction.
The AF construction is characterized by a particular suffix on the verbal stem,
a suffix that takes one of two forms depending on whether the verb stem is a
root transitive (a CVC-shaped root; abbreviated RTV) or a derived transitive
(a prosodically more complex stem; abbreviated DTV). In Kaqchikel, the two
suffix forms are -ö and -(V)n (for RTVs and DTVs, respectively); in K’ichee’,
-ow and -(V)n; and in Tz’utujil, -o(w) and -(V)n (the symbol V represents a
stem-harmonic vowel). This alternation between the two forms of the AF suffix
is an important tool in distinguishing the AF construction from the absolutive
antipassive (e.g., (13)). The latter uses a suffix that is homophonous with the
DTV variant of AF on RTVs and DTVs alike. In fact, the verb in (13) is a RTV;
thus, the fact that it shows up with the -(V)n suffix rather than -ow (which is the
RTV variant of K’ichee’ AF) is a reliable indicator that this sentence is indeed
an instance of the absolutive antipassive, rather than the AF construction.
Despite this morphological relatedness between AF and the absolutive
antipassive, AF is not an antipassive at all (as argued in detail in Aissen 2011,
Craig 1979, Smith-Stark 1978). Antipassives affect the way the notional Patient
is syntactically realized: it can be demoted (meaning it surfaces as an oblique,
rather than a regular nominal); it can be incorporated (see, e.g., Aissen 2011,
Mondloch 1981); or it can be omitted altogether. Not so in the AF construction;
here, both core arguments can and do surface as full-fledged, nondemoted,
nonincorporated nominals.6
18 Chapter 3
(14) Basic examples of Agent-Focus
a. ja
foc
ri
the
tz’i’
dog
x-Ø-etzel-an
com-3sg.abs-hate-af
ri
the
sian
cat
‘It was the dog that hated the cat.’
b. ja
foc
ri
the
xoq
woman
x-Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3sg.abs-see-af
ri
the
achin
man
‘It was the woman who saw the man.’
Let us now turn to the issue that is at the center of this chapter: the behavior
of verbal agreement in this construction. The observations in the remainder of
this section go back to work by Dayley (1978), Mondloch (1981), Norman and
Campbell (1978), and Smith-Stark (1978) (while a large part of this work was
done on other Kichean languages, its results also carry over to Kaqchikel, the
primary language discussed here).
3.2 Agreement in Kichean Agent-Focus
The behavior of agreement in the AF construction is strikingly different from
its behavior in regular transitive clauses (as exemplified by (10a–b)). Consider
first the pair in (15a–b).7
(15) a. ja
foc
rat
you(sg)
x-at/*Ø-ax-an
com-2sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
ri
the
achin
man
‘It was you(sg) that heard the man.’
b. ja
foc
ri
the
achin
man
x-at/*Ø-ax-an
com-2sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
rat
you(sg)
‘It was the man that heard you(sg).’
In (15a), the Agent is 2nd person and the Patient is 3rd person. In (15b), the
reverse is true: the Agent is 3rd person and the Patient is 2nd person. Crucially,
the agreement morphology borne by the verb is the same in both sentences.
The agreement slot between the aspectual prefix x- (‘com-’) and the verbal
stem -ax- (‘hear’) contains the affix at- in both cases.8 This affix is glossed
‘2sg.abs’ because it is the same affix found in normal Kichean transitives,
for example, when the Patient (i.e., the absolutive argument) is 2nd person
singular.
One immediate hypothesis we might entertain regarding data like (15a–b)
is that the agreement slot actually contains two morphemes, one for the
2nd person argument and one for the 3rd person one. This hypothesis has
some initial plausibility based on the fact that in Kichean (as in other
Agreement in the Kichean Agent-Focus Construction 19
languages across the Mayan family) the 3rd person singular absolutive marker
is phonologically null (see (10a)). A first problem with this hypothesis is that
the 3rd person argument is expected to trigger absolutive marking only in (15a),
where it is the Patient, not in (15b), where it is the Agent (and note that the 3rd
person singular ergative marker is nonnull: r(u)/u-). Relatedly, the 2nd person
singular ergative marker in Kaqchikel (expected to appear in (15a)) is a(w)-,
rather than a(t)-.
We might then amend this hypothesis as follows: in the AF construction,
for whatever reason, the agreement markers triggered by both core arguments
are taken from the absolutive agreement paradigm. Thus, the 3rd person
singular argument will invariably trigger a Ø (empty) marker, and the 2nd
person singular argument will invariably trigger the marker a(t)-. Yet even
this amended hypothesis does not pan out; we can see this by combining
two arguments in the AF construction for which both expected absolutive
agreement markers are nonnull. Consider first the regular transitive in (16),
which shows the absolutive agreement marker e- corresponding to the 3rd
person plural Patient.
(16) rat
you(sg)
x-e’-aw-ax-aj
com-3pl.abs-2sg.erg-hear-act
rje’
them
‘You(sg) heard them.’
Now, consider the AF counterpart of (16).
(17) ja
foc
rat
you(sg)
x-at-ax-an
com-2sg.abs-hear-af
rje’
them
‘It was you(sg) who heard them.’
If the amended hypothesis were correct, we would expect the AF verb in
(17) to surface with absolutive agreement markers for both a 2nd person
singular argument and a 3rd person plural argument (i.e., *x-e’-at-ax-an or
*x-at-e’-ax-an), contrary to the attested state of affairs.
We can therefore conclude with some certainty that the AF verb has only
one agreement slot, and that this agreement slot is occupied by a marker taken
from the absolutive agreement paradigm. This immediately raises the question
of how the language chooses which of the two core arguments (the subject
and the object, both of which are nonoblique) will control the choice of this
single agreement marker. As we have already seen in (15a–b), the answer is
not as simple as “the subject” or “the object”; the full paradigm of agreement
in the Kichean AF construction will be summarized below. Before turning to
that summary, however, let us examine a few more representative examples.
20 Chapter 3
The pair shown in (15a–b) demonstrates that a 2nd person singular argument
takes precedence over a 3rd person singular one (regardless of thematic roles or
grammatical functions). The pair in (18a–b) shows the same thing with respect
to a 1st person singular argument and a 3rd person singular one.
(18) a. ja
foc
yïn
me
x-in/*Ø-ax-an
com-1sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
ri
the
achin
man
‘It was me that heard the man.’
b. ja
foc
ri
the
achin
man
x-in/*Ø-ax-an
com-1sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
yïn
me
‘It was the man that heard me.’
Moving beyond singular arguments, we see that a 3rd person plural argument
takes precedence over a 3rd person singular one.9
(19) a. ja
foc
rje’
them
x-e/*Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3pl/*3sg.abs-see-af
rja’
him
‘It was them who saw him.’
b. ja
foc
rja’
him
x-e/*Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3pl/*3sg.abs-see-af
rje’
them
‘It was him who saw them.’
Finally, a 1st/2nd person argument will take precedence over a 3rd person
argument regardless of number features. In other words, a 1st/2nd person
argument will be agreed with both in person and in number, irrespective of the
number features of the 3rd person argument. This is demonstrated in (20)–(21)
for combinations of 3rd person and 1st person arguments; but the same is true
for combinations of 3rd person arguments with 2nd person ones.
(20) a. ja
foc
rje’
them
x-i/*oj-tz’et-ö
com-1sg/*1pl.abs-see-af
yïn
me
‘It was them who saw me.’
b. ja
foc
yïn
me
x-i/*oj-tz’et-ö
com-1sg/*1pl.abs-see-af
rje’
them
‘It was me who saw them.’
(21) a. ja
foc
rja’
him
x-oj/*i-tz’et-ö
com-1pl/*1sg.abs-see-af
röj
us
‘It was him who saw us.’
b. ja
foc
röj
us
x-oj/*i-tz’et-ö
com-1pl/*1sg.abs-see-af
rja’
him
‘It was us who saw him.’
Agreement in the Kichean Agent-Focus Construction 21
At this juncture, the reader may wonder what happens when 1st person
arguments are combined with 2nd person ones as subject and object of the
same AF clause. As it turns out, such combinations are simply illicit in this
construction; this phenomenon, which I term the AF person restriction, will be
discussed in greater detail in section 3.3.
The full paradigm of agreement in the AF construction, as a function of the
ϕ-features of the subject and object, is summarized in (22).
(22) Full agreement paradigm for Kichean AF
{subj, obj}
ϕ-features
⇒ Agreement morphology
on the AF verb
{3sg, 3sg} ⇒ 3sg
{3pl, 3sg} ⇒ 3pl
{3pl, 3pl} ⇒ 3pl
{1sg, 3sg} ⇒ 1sg
{2sg, 3sg} ⇒ 2sg
{1pl, 3sg} ⇒ 1pl
{2pl, 3sg} ⇒ 2pl
{1sg, 3pl} ⇒ 1sg
{2sg, 3pl} ⇒ 2sg
{1pl, 3pl} ⇒ 1pl
{2pl, 3pl} ⇒ 2pl
a. In the notation {ϕ1, ϕ2}, which of the ϕ-feature specifications belongs
to the subject and which to the object is fully commutative.
b. Combinations not listed here are ruled out either on binding-theoretic
grounds (e.g., {1sg, 1pl}) or because of the AF person restriction (see
section 3.3).
These facts have led some scholars to claim that agreement in the Kichean AF
construction obeys a “salience” hierarchy or scale (Dayley 1978, Mondloch
1981, Norman and Campbell 1978, Smith-Stark 1978; see also Stiebels 2006).
(23) 1st/2nd person > 3rd person plural > 3rd person singular
The theoretical status of hierarchies or scales of this sort as an explanation of
an agreement pattern will be discussed in detail in chapter 7. But (23) is, if
nothing else, a useful shorthand for summarizing the facts shown in (22): if
the AF clause contains a 1st/2nd person argument, the verb agrees with that
argument in both person and number; if not, and the clause contains a 3rd
person plural argument, the verb agrees with that argument in number (and
person); otherwise, the verb bears 3rd person singular absolutive agreement
(which, as mentioned earlier, is null).
22 Chapter 3
This sort of agreement pattern, in which an agreement marker can be
triggered by a given feature whether it is found on the subject or on the object
(or possibly on both), has been referred to by Nevins (2011) as “omnivorous
agreement.”
3.3 The Agent-Focus Person Restriction
3.3.1 The Phenomenon
In enumerating the possible combinations of subject and object ϕ-features in
the AF construction in (22), I omitted certain binding-theoretically admissible
combinations. These are combinations in which the subject is 1st person and
the object is 2nd person, or vice versa. It turns out that such combinations,
where both the subject and the object are “local” (i.e., 1st/2nd person)
pronouns, simply cannot be realized using the AF construction (Davies and
Sam-Colop 1990, Dayley 1978, Norman and Campbell 1978, Smith-Stark
1978).
(24) a. *ja
foc
rat
you(sg)
x-in/at/Ø-ax-an
com-1sg/2sg/3sg.abs-hear-af
yïn
me
Intended: ‘It was you(sg) that heard me.’
b. *ja
foc
yïn
me
x-in/at/Ø-ax-an
com-1sg/2sg/3sg.abs-hear-af
rat
you(sg)
Intended: ‘It was me that heard you(sg).’
I will refer to this property of the AF construction as the AF person restriction.
(25) The AF person restriction
In the Kichean AF construction, at most one of the two core arguments
can be 1st/2nd person.
Different languages in the Kichean branch use different strategies to realize
intended meanings like the ones in (24a–b). Tz’utujil, for example, makes use
of the absolutive antipassive, where the Patient is realized as an oblique phrase
and is ineligible for agreement (cf. the K’ichee’ (13)).
(26) atet
you(sg)
x-at-ch’ey-o
com-2sg.abs-hit-ap
[w-xiin]OBL
1sg.gen-of
‘It was you(sg) who hit me.’
(Dayley 1978:38)
Agreement in the Kichean Agent-Focus Construction 23
In Kaqchikel, on the other hand, the prohibition against A-bar operations
targeting the transitive subject is apparently simply lifted when such argument
combinations arise—that is, when both the subject and the object are 1st/2nd
person pronouns—and a normal non-AF transitive can then be used to focus
the subject.
(27) ja
foc
röj
us
x-ix-qa-tz’et
com-2pl.abs-1pl.erg-see
‘It was us who saw y’all.’
(class notes from MIT Field Methods course; Spring 2011)10
Notice that it is crucially the A-bar restriction that is lifted, not the AF person
restriction (which is, by definition, irrelevant to normal non-AF transitives).
Since our central concern here is agreement in the AF construction, I leave
aside the question of which alternative means each Kichean language makes
use of, and why, to express those meanings that cannot be expressed using AF
because of the AF person restriction.
3.3.2 Against a Purely Morphological Analysis of Agreement in Agent-Focus
The AF person restriction militates against several possible analyses of the
agreement patterns that arise in AF. Most of these will be addressed in detail in
chapter 4, but let us address the first (and perhaps most obvious) one here: an
analysis of agreement in AF in purely morphological terms.11
As noted in section 3.2, the AF construction makes use of agreement
markers from the absolutive paradigm, and only one of them ever surfaces
on a given AF verb—even when the combination of arguments is such that
each one, were it the object of a regular transitive, would give rise to a
nonnull absolutive agreement marker. It is therefore worth entertaining an
analysis of agreement in AF based only on morphological competition. On
this view, the subject and object are both agreed with in the syntax by
nodes that bear the kind of features that will result in spell-out using the
absolutive series of agreement morphemes.12 Then, as part of the postsyntactic,
morphophonological computation, these two nodes compete for spell-out in
what is a single morphological slot. The outcome of this morphological
competition is determined according to the hierarchy/scale in (28), repeated
from earlier.
(28) 1st/2nd person > 3rd person plural > 3rd person singular [=(23)]
Whichever set of features ranks higher on this scale is the one that will be
spelled out overtly.
24 Chapter 3
One drawback of this approach is that it requires (28) or its logical equivalent
to be stipulated. As we will see in chapter 4, there is a way to derive the effects
of this hierarchy or scale from independently motivated results, which come
from the study of the Person Case Constraint (also known as the *Me-Lui
Constraint). Other drawbacks of appealing directly to a device like (28) are
discussed in chapter 7.
More important, however, is that this approach cannot explain the AF
person restriction. In fact, one might say that it leads to exactly the
opposite expectation. That is because on this proposal, syntax indiscriminately
establishes agreement with both arguments, leaving the sorting out of
morphological exponence to the postsyntactic computation; and following
Marantz (1991), I assume that argument licensing is not within the purview
of morphophonology.
But even if one takes a different view on the modular locus of licensing,
it is clear that the morphological competition approach provides no particular
insight into why the AF person restriction would arise. Therefore, if an account
is available that simultaneously derives the facts of AF agreement and the
AF person restriction, it should be preferred. I will present such an account
in chapter 4.
3.4 The Morphophonology of Kichean Agreement Markers
An important facet of verbal agreement in Kichean that we have not discussed
so far concerns the shape of the agreement markers themselves. In (29), I list
the absolutive and ergative agreement markers in Kaqchikel for each of the six
person-number combinations (parenthesized segments are dropped in certain
phonological contexts; the grapheme j represents a voiceless velar fricative).
(29) abs
agreement
marker
erg
agreement
marker
1sg i(n)- n/w-
1pl oj- q(a)-
2sg a(t)- a(w)-
2pl ix- i(w)-
3sg Ø-13 r(u)/u-
3pl e- k(i)-
What I would like to call attention to here is the profound morphophonological
similarity between the 1st/2nd person singular/plural absolutive agreement
markers and the corresponding strong pronouns listed in (30).
Agreement in the Kichean Agent-Focus Construction 25
(30) abs
agreement
marker
Strong
pronoun
1sg i(n)- yïn
1pl oj- röj
2sg a(t)- rat
2pl ix- rïx
3sg Ø- rja’
3pl e- rje’
In the 1st and 2nd person, the strong pronouns are identical to the absolutive
agreement markers but for the addition of an initial approximant (the liquid
r- or the glide y-; recall also that the grapheme j does not represent an
approximant, but a voiceless velar fricative).14 Notice that with the exception
of the 1st person singular yïn, all Kaqchikel pronouns—even those in the
3rd person—begin with r-, which can be seen as a truncated version of
the determiner ri. Assuming that this is indeed the source of this initial
approximant, we could then say that 1st/2nd person absolutive agreement
markers in Kichean are determinerless versions of the corresponding strong
pronouns.
This is, admittedly, a small sample to begin with. The comparison of 1st/2nd
person absolutive agreement markers and their strong pronoun counterparts
involves four pairwise comparisons; and one of these, the 1st person singular
pronoun yïn, shows a slight deviation from the general pattern. It is therefore
instructive to consider what a paradigm in which such similarity did not
exist would look like, to convince ourselves that there is indeed something
significant about the first four rows of (30). Fortunately, Kichean itself affords
us an adequate control, in the form of the ergative series of agreement markers
shown in (31).
(31) erg
agreement
marker
Strong
pronoun
1sg n/w- yïn
1pl q(a)- röj
2sg a(w)- rat
2pl i(w)- rïx
3sg r(u)/u- rja’
3pl k(i)- rje’
When (30) and (31) are juxtaposed, it becomes quite clear that the similarities
in the first four rows of (30) are more than a coincidence.
26 Chapter 3
I will assume here that the change in the quality of the approximant in the 1st
person singular pronoun yïn (from r- to y-) has a phonological source, at least
diachronically; in any event, even with this minor complication, the 1st person
singular cell conforms to the more general pattern whereby the absolutive
agreement marker is identical to the strong pronoun with its initial approximant
deleted.
On the other hand, the 3rd person singular/plural cells, repeated in (32), do
not adhere to this generalization.
(32) abs
agreement
marker
Strong
pronoun
3sg Ø- rja’
3pl e- rje’
There is no trace of the [a] vowel of the 3rd person singular pronoun rja’ in the
3rd person singular absolutive agreement marker; and we can be fairly certain
that the issue is not phonological, since as shown by its plural counterpart,
a lone vowel can survive in the phonological environment occupied by the
absolutive agreement marker. More importantly, the velar fricative [ j], found
in both 3rd person strong pronouns, is not found in either of the 3rd person
absolutive agreement markers.
It is clear, then, that the 3rd person absolutive agreement markers do not
stand in the same relation to their pronominal counterparts as the 1st/2nd
person ones do.
Another relevant difference between the 1st/2nd person absolutive
agreement markers and the 3rd person ones concerns the encoding of
plurality. The 1st/2nd person markers encode number suppletively, a property
they inherit from the corresponding pronouns. Thus, the pairs <i(n)-, oj->
‘<1sg.abs, 1pl.abs>’ and <a(t)-, ix-> ‘<2sg.abs, 2pl.abs>’ contain no
identifiable subpart that encodes the singular/plural distinction alone. In (32),
on the other hand, we may be able to identify a plural morpheme -e-: in
absolutive agreement markers, it turns the (empty) 3rd person singular marker
to a 3rd person plural one (e-); in the pronominal system, it might be what turns
rja’ ‘him’ into rje’ ‘them’, perhaps via an intermediate step of [a]-deletion.
There is also evidence from other (non-Kichean) Mayan languages that
the so-called “3rd person plural” absolutive agreement marker is really just
a generic plural marker: in Tzotzil (a Mayan language of the Tseltalan family),
the 3rd person plural absolutive marker -ik can also represent the plurality of
a 2nd person plural argument, in the event that person agreement with that
Agreement in the Kichean Agent-Focus Construction 27
argument has been spelled out elsewhere (Aissen 1987, Woolford 2011; see
the appendix to chapter 4 for details).
To summarize, 1st/2nd person absolutive agreement markers in Kichean
are simply reduced forms of the corresponding pronouns, while the 3rd
person ones are not. Moreover, the difference between the 3rd person plural
absolutive agreement marker and its singular counterpart might be analyzable
as an independent plural morpheme in the language (-e-), whereas the
1st/2nd person ones, like their pronominal counterparts, encode number in an
entirely suppletive fashion, with no identifiable subpart corresponding to the
singular/plural distinction.
The absolutive agreement markers that arise when the agreement target is a
1st/2nd person argument thus differ, in their morphophonological properties,
from those that arise when the target is a 3rd person argument.
Let us return once more to a characterization of agreement in the Kichean
AF construction in terms of a scale or hierarchy like (33), repeated from earlier.
(33) 1st/2nd person > 3rd person plural > 3rd person singular [=(23)]
The morphophonological properties surveyed here cast further doubt on
taking (33) as an account of agreement in Kichean AF. That is because
the whole point of a hierarchy or scale like (33) is to factor out the
choice of agreement target (i.e., which of the core arguments will control
agreement morphology on the AF verb) from the mechanics of the agreement
process/relation itself. From an algorithmic perspective, (33) takes as its input
the inventory of arguments in a given clause and returns as its output which one
will be targeted for agreement. This, in turn, implies that ϕ-agreement in AF
clauses with different ϕ-feature combinations should essentially be a uniform
phenomenon but for the choice of agreement target; and as we have seen in
this section, that is simply not the case.
One could argue that (33) should not be expected to account for these
morphophonological distinctions, since the same agreement markers used in
the Kichean AF construction are also used in regular transitives (to mark the
object) and in regular intransitives. But that would mean that these distinctions
must have a different source; if this same source turns out to also account
for the effects that (33) was designed to capture, it removes the need for (33)
altogether.
In the next chapter, we will see an account that derives the effects of (33)
while also deriving these morphophonological differences between 1st/2nd
person absolutive agreement markers and their 3rd person counterparts.
4 A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement
in Kichean
In this chapter, I present a derivational account of (absolutive) ϕ-agreement in
Kichean. As I will show, this account derives the behavior of agreement in the
Kichean Agent-Focus (AF) construction, discussed in chapter 3, as well as the
distribution of the same agreement markers in regular transitive and intransitive
clauses in Kichean.
The proposal will be based on Béjar and Rezac’s (2003) account of the
Person Case Constraint (PCC; also known as the *Me-Lui Constraint), a
particular restriction on the distribution of person features among multiple
internal arguments of the same predicate. The PCC differs from the Kichean
facts considered here in certain important ways: the PCC applies to pairs of
internal arguments, whereas the relevant interactions in Kichean AF concern
subjects and objects; and while the effects in Kichean are fully symmetric with
respect to the subject and object, the PCC is asymmetric with respect to the
restrictions it places on the relevant argument pairs. Nevertheless, as I will
show, the core mechanisms put forth by Béjar and Rezac in their account prove
equally successful when applied to the current empirical domain.
One of the core insights adopted from Béjar and Rezac’s account will be the
separation of syntactic probing for person features and for number features
(see also Anagnostopoulou 2003, Béjar 2003, Laka 1993a, Shlonsky 1989,
Sigurðsson 1996, Sigurðsson and Holmberg 2008, Taraldsen 1995). In the
appendix to this chapter, I discuss empirical support from Tzotzil—within the
Mayan language family—for this separation, based on work by Aissen (1987)
and Woolford (2011).
In contrast to the state of affairs in the languages examined by Béjar
and Rezac, we will see that the person and number probes in Kichean are
relativized to look only for the marked members of their respective feature
geometries ([participant] and [plural], respectively). This yields a pattern
that, while unusual for ϕ-agreement, is quite familiar from other empirical
30 Chapter 4
domains: just as a wh-probe, for example, is able to skip phrases that do not
bear a [wh] feature, so the Kichean person and number probes skip arguments
that lack the relevant marked features [participant]/[plural]. As I will show,
this yields precisely the empirical pattern that was described in section 3.2
in terms of “omnivorous agreement” (Nevins 2011). I will demonstrate,
furthermore, that this particular dataset cannot be successfully reanalyzed in
terms of simultaneous agreement with both arguments (i.e., Multiple Agree;
e.g., Anagnostopoulou 2005, Hiraiwa 2001, 2004).
Finally, I will argue that the actual agreement markers that surface in
the presence of 1st/2nd person arguments (i.e., bearers of [participant]) in
the Kichean AF construction, as well as in other instances of absolutive
agreement in Kichean, are actually the product of clitic doubling (rather than
the exponence of the ϕ-probe itself). As in Béjar and Rezac’s account of so-
called indirect object agreement, this instance of clitic doubling is triggered
when an argument is probed by the person probe (see also Harizanov to appear,
Kramer to appear). I will show that the same is not true of 3rd person agreement
markers in Kichean, which reflect the exponence of the number probe itself
(in particular, the 3rd person plural marker does; recall that the singular 3rd
person marker is null). This, I will demonstrate, explains the distinction in the
morphophonological forms of the markers in question, noted in section 3.4:
while the 1st/2nd person markers are essentially truncated versions of the
corresponding strong pronouns (as expected, on their analysis as clitics), the
3rd person markers do not stand in this relation to their strong pronoun
counterparts.
Thus, the featural properties of the person and number probes in Kichean,
coupled with existing proposals concerning the nature and distribution of clitic
doubling (e.g., Béjar and Rezac 2003), yield an accurate account of both the
distribution and the morphophonological properties of the agreement markers
in question.
I begin in section 4.1 with a brief introduction to the PCC and a synopsis
of Béjar and Rezac’s (2003) analysis of it. In section 4.2, I introduce the
notion of relativized probing (cf. Nevins 2007, Rizzi 1990), assimilating the
“omnivorous agreement” patterns of Kichean AF to the more familiar behavior
of probes such as interrogative (i.e., [wh]-seeking) complementizers. I proceed
to motivate the idea that feature relativization of this sort is specified along a
feature geometry—and in the case of ϕ-probes specifically, along a ϕ-feature
geometry of the kind proposed by Harley and Ritter (2002) and McGinnis
(2005). I conclude this section with a brief discussion of how the process of
valuation can be conceived of within this feature-geometric approach.
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 31
In section 4.3, I highlight an important property of clitic doubling that
becomes relevant once we allow different subparts of the ϕ-feature set (e.g.,
person, number) to probe independently of one another: like any other type
of pronominalization, clitic doubling copies ϕ-feature sets in their entirety,
a property I refer to as featural coarseness. This property may serve to
distinguish clitic doubling from at least those instances of “pure” agreement
where the ϕ-probe is searching for a particular (marked) feature value—rather
than just any node bearing ϕ-features—and is employed in the account given
in the following section.
The full account of ϕ-agreement in the Kichean AF construction is
presented in section 4.4. I show that this account predicts the distribution
of different agreement markers in this construction, as well as the finer
morphophonological properties of these markers (see above). I then discuss
how the account derives the AF person restriction (presented in section 3.3),
as well as the absence of a corresponding restriction on the cooccurrence
of plurals in a single AF clause. In section 4.5, I discuss several possible
alternatives to this account (in particular, Multiple Agree, feature percolation,
and a position-based account), and I compare each with the account put forth
in section 4.4.
Finally, in section 4.6, I show how the analysis can be extended to account
for absolutive agreement in regular transitive and intransitive clauses in
Kichean. The appendix presents the aforementioned evidence from Tzotzil,
another Mayan language, in favor of the separability of person and number.
4.1 Background: The Person Case Constraint, and Béjar and Rezac’s (2003)
Account of It
The Person Case Constraint (PCC)—also known as the *Me-Lui Constraint—
is a family of restrictions concerning the person features of different arguments
in relation to one another, usually affecting combinations of multiple internal
arguments of a single predicate (Bonet 1991, 1994, Perlmutter 1971). In this
section, I present a brief description of the PCC, followed by Béjar and Rezac’s
(2003) account of it. There are, of course, many other accounts of the PCC in
the literature, each with its own advantages and disadvantages and its own
particular set of stipulations (a nonexhaustive list includes Adger and Harbour
2007, Anagnostopoulou 2003, 2005, Bonet 1991, 1994, Nevins 2007, 2011,
Richards 2005, Walkow 2009). But Béjar and Rezac’s account is of particular
interest here because as we will see in the remainder of this chapter, it derives
the behavior of ϕ-agreement in the Kichean AF construction with hardly any
32 Chapter 4
modifications that are not motivated by independently observable properties of
the Kichean languages.
I illustrate the PCC with data from Basque, which exhibits the so-called
“strong” version of the constraint (Bonet 1991:182).
(34) In Basque clauses in which a dative argument is higher than the
absolutive argument (which includes all Basque ditransitives), the
absolutive must be 3rd person.
(see Rezac 2008b)
The effects of (34) are most strikingly illustrated using what Rezac (2008b)
refers to as applicative unaccusatives: verbs that take two internal arguments,
but no external argument. These verbs come in two types in Basque: one
in which the dative argument is structurally higher than the absolutive
argument, and one in which these structural relations are reversed. The latter
option, where the absolutive is structurally higher than the dative, arises only
with applicative unaccusatives, never with true (triadic) ditransitives (Rezac
2008b:72; see also Elordieta 2001).
Rezac discusses several tests for determining which of the two hierarchical
configurations a given applicative unaccusative verb realizes. One, which I
reproduce here, involves the ability to bind bere buru (lit., ‘his/her head’), a
reflexive anaphor.1
(35) a. Kepa-ri
Kepa-dat
bere
his
buru-a
head-artsg(abs)
gusta-tzen
like-hab
zako.
aux
‘Kepa likes himself.’
b. *Kepa
Kepa(abs)
bere
his
buru-a-ri
head-artsg-dat
gustatzen
liking
zako.
aux
c. *Kepa-ri
Kepa-dat
bere
his
buru-a
head-artsg(abs)
ji-ten
come-prog
zako
aux
ispilu-a-n.
mirror-artsg(abs)-loc
Intended: ‘Kepa is approaching himself in the mirror.’
d. Miren
Miren(abs)
bere
his/her
buru-a-ri
head-artsg-dat
mintzatu
talk-prt
zaio.
aux
‘Miren talked to herself.’
(Rezac 2008b:75; see also Elordieta 2001)
As (35a–b) attest, the verb gustatu (‘to like’) is a dative > absolutive verb.
Given (34), we would therefore expect that this verb would exhibit the PCC
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 33
effect, and this expectation is indeed borne out: as demonstrated in (36a–b),
the absolutive argument of gustatu must be 3rd person.
(36) a. Miren-i
Miren-dat
gozoki-ak
sweet-artpl(abs)
gusta-tzen
like-impf
Ø-zai-zki-o.
3.abs-
√
-pl.abs-3sg.dat
‘Miren likes candy.’
b. */??Ni
me(abs)
Miren-i
Miren-dat
gusta-tzen
like-impf
na-tzai-Ø-o.
1.abs-
√
-sg.abs-3sg.dat
‘Miren likes me.’
(Albizu 1997:21, Rezac 2008b:73)
As Albizu (1997) and Rezac (2008b) show, applicative unaccusatives
provide a particularly vivid illustration of the deeply syntactic nature of the
PCC. That is because the very same auxiliary form that is ruled out in (36b)
can be used felicitously with an absolutive > dative verb.
(37) Ni
me(abs)
Peru-ri
Peru-dat
hurbildu
approach
na-tzai-Ø-o.
1.abs-
√
-sg.abs-3sg.dat
‘I approached Peru.’
(Rezac 2008b:73)
Importantly, the identity between the auxiliary in (37) and the one ruled out by
the PCC in (36b) is not merely phonological, but also morphological: the set of
ϕ-feature values expressed by the auxiliary in (37) is the same as the target set
in (36b). This casts considerable doubt on the possibility of accounting for the
PCC in terms of a postsyntactic morphological filter (cf. Bonet 1991, 1994).
There are other properties of the Basque data in (36)–(37) that are worth
noting, especially for readers more familiar with the PCC in Indo-European
languages. As argued by Arregi and Nevins (2008, 2012) and in Preminger
2009, the dative (and ergative) agreement markers on the Basque auxiliary (and
other finite verb forms) come about by way of clitic doubling of the relevant
full noun phrase (e.g., Peru-ri ‘Peru-dat’); but unlike some patterns of clitic
doubling familiar from Romance or Greek, for example, these instances of
clitic doubling are not conditioned by any semantic property (or properties) of
the noun phrases in question. The dative argument in (36)–(37) can be animate
or inanimate, new or given, specific or nonspecific, and so on; it will undergo
clitic doubling all the same. The only conditions on the application of clitic
doubling in Basque are structural ones (roughly,the availability of a clausemate
cliticization host; see Preminger 2009).
34 Chapter 4
The agreement markers identified by Arregi and Nevins (2008, 2012)
and in Preminger 2009 as clitics obey none of the semantic restrictions
on clitic doubling that are familiar from Indo-European, yet they exhibit
all of the morphosyntactic properties that distinguish cliticization and/or
clitic doubling from agreement (see Alexiadou and Anagnostopoulou 2006,
Arregi and Nevins 2012, Kramer to appear, and references therein). What
this suggests is that the semantic properties associated with clitic doubling
in Indo-European (see Suñer 1988 and related literature) are not intrinsic
properties of clitic doubling per se; instead, the availability of clitic doubling
seems to vary crosslinguistically from completely impossible (e.g., in English)
to semantically restricted (e.g., in Spanish or Greek), to completely unrestricted
(e.g., in Basque).2
Relatedly, dative (and ergative) clitics in Basque are in no way optional: their
presence is necessary for well-formedness (whether or not the doubled noun
phrase is pro-dropped). Their obligatoriness is, in fact, part of the reason why
these clitics have traditionally been called “indirect object agreement” (and
“subject agreement”). Crosslinguistically, however, obligatory clitic doubling
is not unique to Basque: as noted by Arregi and Nevins (2012), the same is
found with strong object pronouns in Spanish (Jaeggli 1982, Suñer 1988) and
with subjects in certain Northern Italian dialects (Poletto 2000).
Turning now to the account put forth by Béjar and Rezac (2003; henceforth,
B&R): the point of departure for their account is the idea that the set of
features normally referred to as “ϕ-features” does not actually act as an atomic,
indivisible unit, as far as the syntactic derivation is concerned. Instead, [person]
features are probed for separately—and prior to—[number] features. Such a
separation between agreement in [person] and in [number] has been argued for,
in one form or another, by many authors, including Anagnostopoulou (2003),
Béjar (2003), Laka (1993a), Shlonsky (1989), Sigurðsson (1996), Sigurðsson
and Holmberg (2008), and Taraldsen (1995).
This order of probing, in B&R’s system, is implemented by extrinsically
ordering the different ϕ-features occupying the same syntactic head, in such
a way that [person] probes before [number].3 Here, I deviate from their
implementation slightly, taking [person] and [number] to be probes that simply
occupy separate syntactic heads (see also Béjar 2003): π0
will be the label
for the head that probes for person features, and #0 will be the label for the
head that probes for number features. If we assume that π0 is merged before
#0, then by virtue of cyclicity, probing for person features will occur first.
To some extent, this is an expository issue: we have replaced one stipulation,
involving the order in which multiple features located on a single head engage
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 35
in probing, with another stipulation—namely, the order in which π0 and #0
must be merged. Note, however, that stipulations regarding the order of merger
of different heads in a functional sequence are commonplace—and perhaps,
unavoidable—in syntactic theory (cf. the ordering of functional projections
along the spine of a single clause).
Consider now the base-generated structure (38) of a verb phrase with two
internal arguments, in which the dative argument is higher than the Theme (as
is the case in ditransitives and some applicative unaccusatives).4
(38) Two internal arguments: Base-generation
ApplP
Appl
Appl0
VP
V0
Theme
dat-arg
The next step of the derivation is the merger of π0, which probes for [person]
features. In a monotransitive (or unaccusative), π0 successfully probes for and
agrees with the Theme in [person] features. But in this case, because there is a
nominal (the dative argument) that is structurally closer to π0 than the Theme
is, intervention arises, as shown in (39).
(39) Two internal arguments: Person probing
πP
π0
ApplP
Appl
Appl0
VP
V0
Theme
dat-arg
✗
(blocked
by
closer dat-arg)
36 Chapter 4
It is crosslinguistically quite common for dative nominals to be unable to
transfer their own actual ϕ-feature values to clausal agreement probes. This
issue is taken up in greater detail in chapter 8; but for current purposes, it
means that π0 in (39) will be unable to reflect 1st or 2nd person feature values,
regardless of the features of the dative nominal itself.
Equally important, on this account, is that π0
has failed to enter into a formal
relation with the Theme argument. B&R argue that speech act participants (i.e.,
1st/2nd person pronouns) must be formally licensed via an agreement relation
(an assumption along these lines is part and parcel of virtually every syntactic
account of the PCC). This is formalized by B&R as the Person Licensing
Condition (PLC).5
(40) Person Licensing Condition (Béjar and Rezac 2003)
Interpretable 1st/2nd person features must be licensed by entering into
an Agree relation with an appropriate functional category.
The failure of π0 to agree with the Theme, coupled with the inability of
the dative argument to transmit its own ϕ-feature values to π0, has two
consequences:
(41) a. The Theme argument cannot be 1st/2nd person
(because 1st/2nd person arguments are not licensed unless agreed
with; see (40))
b. There is no 1st/2nd person “object agreement”
(because π0, the syntactic node that normally agrees with the
Theme in [person], cannot receive 1st/2nd person feature values
from the Theme or from the dative argument)
Taken together, (41a) and (41b) constitute precisely the effects of the PCC.
Crucially, had the dative argument not intervened, π0 would have been able to
successfully probe the Theme, and these effects would not arise; this is how
B&R derive the fact that the PCC is typically confined to verb phrases with
two internal arguments, rather than one.
Continuing the derivation in (39), B&R argue that being probed by π0 (albeit
unsuccessfully) also triggers clitic doubling of the dative argument. A clitic is
thus generated on or alongside π0, whose features reflect the full ϕ-set of this
argument, as shown in (42).
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 37
(42) Two internal arguments: Person probing of dative ⇒ clitic doubling
πP
π0
–cl[ϕi]
ApplP
Appl
Appl0
VP
V0
Theme
<dat-arg[ϕi]> clitic
doubling
This clitic is the agreement marker typically referred to as “indirect object
agreement” (recall that the type of clitic doubling discussed here, certainly in a
language like Basque, is neither optional nor conditioned by particular semantic
properties of the doubled noun phrase, such as specificity or animacy).
There is an implicit property of B&R’s account that I would like to make
explicit at this juncture: in (39), the dative argument is probed by π0, which,
as discussed earlier, only probes for [person] features; nevertheless, it is more
than just the [person] features of the dative argument that are expressed on or
near π0, in the form of a clitic (see (42)). The pronominal form created by clitic
doubling of the dative argument reflects the entire ϕ-feature set of the dative
argument, rather than just its [person] features.
This might seem trivial if one thinks of clitic doubling as an instance of
pronominalization; but it is worth highlighting here,forreasons that will become
apparent once we return to Kichean. Further supportfor this distinction between
cliticdoublingand“pure”agreement,soto speak,willbeprovided insection4.3;
for now, in the context of presenting B&R’s account of the PCC, I will take it as
a given.
It has been well-established, in the literature on clitic doubling, that
the doubled noun phrase behaves much like the trace of an A-chain (see
Anagnostopoulou 2006 for a review)—for example, for binding-theoretic
purposes (Alexiadou and Anagnostopoulou 1997, Anagnostopoulou 1994,
Sportiche 1996, 1998). Another important aspect of the behavior of full noun
phrasesundercliticdoubling,whichalsorecallsthebehaviorofanA-trace,isthat
theyceasetocountasintervenersforthepurposesofA-movementandagreement
(Anagnostopoulou 2003; cf. Holmberg and Hróarsdóttir 2003 on A-traces).
Importantly, the clitic itself does not intervene in such relations, either; this is
38 Chapter 4
presumably either because the relations in question are phrasal in nature, and
the clitic is a minimal projection, or because the clitic undergoes head adjunction
and therefore does not c-command anything but its host (see Anagnostopoulou
2006, and references therein, for discussion).
Because of this ameliorating effect that clitic doubling has on intervention,
when #0
is merged, it is able to establish an agreement relation with the Theme
without intervention by the dative argument, as shown in (43).
(43) Two internal arguments: Number probing
#P
#0
πP
π0–cl[ϕi]
ApplP
Appl
Appl0
VP
V0
Theme
<dat-arg[ϕi]>
Note the emergent asymmetry between [person], for which successful
agreement with the Theme is hindered, and [number], for which the parallel
relation is able to go through. This asymmetry is a desideratum of the account:
while language after language exhibits one form or another of the PCC, no
language manifests an analogous Number Case Constraint: a constraint that
would affect [number] agreement, but be blind to [person] features (Nevins
2011). This asymmetry is captured in B&R’s account by ordering [person]
probing prior to [number] probing (represented here as the merging of π0
before #0). While in the context of accounting for the PCC, this ordering
amounts to a stipulation, one can view the success of PCC accounts that
adopt it (see also Anagnostopoulou 2003) as support for adopting the same
derivational ordering in the analysis of other empirical domains. This is
precisely the approach I will pursue in section 4.4, in accounting for agreement
in the Kichean AF construction (though see Nevins 2007, 2011 for a different
approach to somewhat similar facts).
Let us now review the results of the account sketched in (38)–(43). First, in
the absence of a dative argument located (structurally) between the agreement
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 39
probe(s) and the Theme argument, both the [person] probe (π0) and the
[number] probe (#0) would be able to establish agreement relations with the
Theme, without impediment; as a result, both probes would come to bear
the Theme’s ϕ-feature values. Thus, π0 and #0 together come to express what
can be descriptively labeled “object agreement.”6
On the other hand, in the presence of a dative argument of this sort, the
[person] probe (π0)—which probes first, by hypothesis—fails to reach the
Theme, targeting the dative argument instead. The dative argument cannot
transfer its own ϕ-feature values to π0. But being probed by π0 triggers clitic
doubling of the dative argument, resulting in a pronominal form that reflects
its entire ϕ-feature set (not just its [person] features, which is what π0 was
probing for). This is the morpheme that is sometimes referred to, descriptively,
as “indirect object agreement.”
In this scenario, there is no way for the [person] features on π0 itself to
come to bear 1st or 2nd person values, even if the dative argument and/or
the Theme bear those values (because datives do not generally transfer their
own ϕ-feature values to agreement probes, and because the Theme in this case
is unreachable). Therefore, in this scenario, the [person] component of what
is normally “(direct) object agreement” will never reflect 1st or 2nd person
values; and because of the PLC (40), the appearance of a 1st/2nd person Theme
argument will not be licensed.
Finally, having been clitic-doubled, the dative argument is rendered invisible
for the purposes of intervention; thus, by the time the [number] probe (#0) scans
the structure, it is able to successfully target the Theme.
In summary, the following agreement morphology has been generated:
(i) the same person morphology as one finds with a 3rd person Theme in a
monotransitive (which, by virtue of the PLC, forces the Theme to indeed be
3rd person, hence the Person Case Constraint); (ii) number morphology that
faithfully reflects the [number] features of the Theme; and (iii) a clitic that
reflects the full ϕ-feature set of the dative argument.
As mentioned above, this analysis, put forth by B&R to account for PCC
effects in verb phrases containing multiple internal arguments, will prove
instrumental in accounting for the patterns of agreement in the Kichean AF
construction. Before turning to that account, however, I will address several
other crucial aspects of the relevant theoretical background.
4.2 Relativized Probing
As detailed in chapter 3, the Kichean AF construction involves a single
agreement marker, but two nonoblique core arguments. Descriptively, the
40 Chapter 4
question ofwhich ofthesetwo argumentswilldeterminethechoiceofagreement
marker is resolved along the following scale (repeated from chapter 3):
(44) 1st/2nd person > 3rd person plural > 3rd person singular [=(23)]
In this section, I will demonstrate that (44) need not be posited as
a linguistic primitive unto itself, but instead arises from other well-established
linguistic principles, and that consequently, any connection of (44) to an
extralinguistic notion of “salience” is spurious (in addition to more direct
empirical problems that such a connection would face; see chapter 7).
4.2.1 What’s Good for [wh] Is Good for [plural] and [participant], Too
In chapter 3, I used the term omnivorous agreement (following Nevins 2011) to
characterize the behavior of agreement in [person] and in [number] in the AF
construction in Kichean. That is because this construction exhibits a property
not often found in verbal agreement systems; informally, we could describe this
property as the ability to skip over the subject, if it does not bear the “right”
features, en route to the object. This was demonstrated in Kaqchikel examples
like (45a–b) with respect to [person] features; (46a–b) demonstrate the same
pattern with respect to [number] features.
(45) a. ja
foc
rat
you(sg)
x-at/*Ø-ax-an
com-2sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
ri
the
achin
man
‘It was you(sg) that heard the man.’
b. ja
foc
ri
the
achin
man
x-at/*Ø-ax-an
com-2sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
rat
you(sg)
‘It was the man that heard you(sg).’ [=(15a–b)]
(46) a. ja
foc
rje’
them
x-e/*Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3pl/*3sg.abs-see-af
rja’
him
‘It was them who saw him.’
b. ja
foc
rja’
him
x-e/*Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3pl/*3sg.abs-see-af
rje’
them
‘It was him who saw them.’ [=(19a–b)]
There is another perspective one could take on these facts, however, that
makes them seem far less unusual. Consider the behavior of the wh-probe on
C0, in examples like (47a–c).
(47) a. [C0 [who]<+wh> gave [this dish] to [Bob]]
−→

C0 [who]<+wh> gave [this dish] to [Bob]

−→ Who gave this dish to Bob?
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 41
b. [C0 [John] gave [what]<+wh> to [Bob]]
−→

C0 [John] gave [what]<+wh> to [Bob]

−→ What did John give to Bob?
c. [C0 [John] gave [this dish] to [who]<+wh>]
−→

C0
[John] gave [this dish] to [who]<+wh>

−→ Who did John give this dish to?
In each of these three sentences, there are (at least) three XPs that the probe
could in principle target; and of these, some are closer to the probe than others.
Crucially, the probe has the ability to skip over targets that do not bear the
feature that the probe is looking for—in this case, [wh]—en route to a target that
does. This observation is hardly new, of course; it is simply the “relativized”
part of Relativized Minimality at work (Rizzi 1990; see also Abels 2012,
Boeckx and Jeong 2004, Frampton 1991, Rizzi 2001, Starke 2001).
Now consider again the patterns of agreement in Kichean AF, as exemplified
by (45)–(46). Let us assume that at the relevant stage in the derivation
of such examples, both the subject and the object are located below the
relevant agreement probe. (Given some version of the vP/VP-Internal Subject
Hypothesis, any probe located properly outside of the verb phrase would satisfy
this requirement; see also note 19.) If so, this agreement pattern, like the
interrogative C0 pattern discussed above, involves a probe that seeks a target
XP bearing a particular feature ([wh] in the case of interrogative C0, [plural]
and/or [participant] in the case of Kichean AF) and to skip over XPs that lack
this feature.7 A pair like (46a–b) can therefore be analyzed in the same way as
(47a–c).
(48) a.

#0 [them]<+pl.> V0 [him]

−→

#0
[them]<+pl.> V0
[him]

−→ ja
foc
rje’
them
x-e/*Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3pl/*3sg.abs-see-af
rja’
him
‘It was them who saw him.’
b.

#0 [him] V0 [them]<+pl.>

−→

#0 [him] V0 [them]<+pl.>

−→ ja
foc
rja’
him
x-e/*Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3pl/*3sg.abs-see-af
rje’
them
‘It was him who saw them.’ [=(46a–b)]
42 Chapter 4
Examples like (45a–b), where the relevant probe ignores 3rd person phrases en
route to non-3rd person ones, can be handled in an analogous fashion, except
that the probe in question would be π0, and the feature it seeks would be
[participant] (on the distinction between π0 and #0, see section 4.1).
What the parallelism between (47) and (48) shows, I think, is that the
mechanisms underlying “omnivorous agreement” are really the same as those
that underlie syntactic probing more generally. The probe—in this case, #0—
is specified to look for the [plural] feature; it will therefore ignore phrases that
do not bear this feature, much as an interrogative C0 ignores phrases that do
not carry the [wh] feature. I will refer to this property, of interrogative C0 and
Kichean ϕ-probes alike, as relativized probing (a term that is meant to recall
Rizzi’s (1990) use of the term relativized; see also Nevins 2007 for a related
but distinct proposal of how probes might be feature-relativized).
Of course, relativized probing effects are commonplace with interrogative
C0 (see Richards 2001, and references therein), but seem quite rare when it
comes to ϕ-agreement. This, I contend, has to do with the particular featural
specification required so that a nonoblique, structurally closer noun phrase
would nevertheless fail to satisfy the requirements of the probe and be skipped
over in favor of the object; the precise details of this featural specification will
be taken up in section 4.2.2.
At this point, one might wonder about indirect objects in Kichean, and
how they interact with agreement in the AF construction (in other words,
the fate of the ϕ-probing counterpart of (47c)). It turns out that Kichean
does not have true indirect objects in the morphosyntactic sense. The
notional Source/Goal argument, when present, is realized as an oblique
phrase, headed by a preposition that takes a designated relational noun as its
complement.8
(49) a. Juan
Juan
x-Ø-u-ya’
com-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-give
ri
the
wuj
book
[ch-a
prep-rn
xta
clf
Maria]
Maria
‘Juan gave the book to Maria.’
b. Juan
Juan
x-Ø-u-ya’
com-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-give
ri
the
wuj
book
[cha-w-a]
prep-2sg.gen-rn
‘Juan gave the book to you(sg).’
When the notional Source/Goal is a lexical noun phrase, it appears as a
complement to the relational noun, as in (49a); when the notional Source/Goal
is pronominal, it appears as possessor agreement on the relational noun,
as in (49b) (note that across the Mayan family, ergative agreement and
possessive/genitive agreement are identical).
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 43
Because the entire prepositional phrase is oblique, it does not interact with
agreement marking on the finite verb in any way. This can already be seen
in (49a–b), where the change from 3rd person to 2nd person in the notional
Goal argument is not reflected in the verbal morphology; and the same is true
in the AF construction, as well: the notional Source/Goal argument does not
interact with agreement on the AF verb. For example, even if it is the only
non-3rd person argument in the clause, the notional Source/Goal still fails to
trigger non-3rd person agreement on the AF verb.
(50) a. ja
foc
ri
the
Juan
Juan
x-Ø-y-on
com-3sg.abs-give-af
ri
the
wuj
book
[cha-w-a]
prep-2sg.gen-rn
‘It was Juan that gave the book to you.’
b. *ja
foc
ri
the
Juan
Juan
x-a(t)-y-on
com-2sg.abs-give-af
ri
the
wuj
book
[cha-w-a]
prep-2sg.gen-rn
Intended: ‘It was Juan that gave the book to you.’
The agreement morphology on the AF verb in (50a) (x-Ø-y-on ‘com-3sg.abs-
give-af’) is identical to the morphology on an AF verb with only a subject and
an object, both of which are 3rd person, and no Source/Goal argument; see
(51a–b), repeated from earlier.
(51) a. ja
foc
ri
the
tz’i’
dog
x-Ø-etzel-an
com-3sg.abs-hate-af
ri
the
sian
cat
‘It was the dog that hated the cat.’
b. ja
foc
ri
the
xoq
woman
x-Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3sg.abs-see-af
ri
the
achin
man
‘It was the woman who saw the man.’ [=(14a–b)]
In summary, indirect objects in Kichean are irrelevant to finite agreement (both
in regular clauses and in AF ones), just as any other oblique phrase would be.
It is not the case, of course, that all Source/Goal arguments in all languages
behave in this fashion. In many languages, indirect objects (along with
certain other dative nominals) interact with ϕ-probing in a manner known as
“defective intervention”; this topic will be taken up in detail in chapter 8.
4.2.2 Feature Relativization in a Feature-Geometric Approach
Before turning to a more detailed analysis of agreement in AF clauses, I would
like to briefly discuss the state of the relativized probing mechanism discussed
in section 4.2.1 with respect to the crosslinguistic typology of agreement. At
first glance, it might seem that this approach to ϕ-agreement in Kichean AF,
while assimilating it to probing by interrogative C0, makes this particular
44 Chapter 4
instance of ϕ-agreement a complete outlier; after all, from a typological
perspective, omnivorous agreement patterns are certainly the exception, rather
than the norm. We therefore might ask why the effects of relativized probing
seem absent in the usual case, where ϕ-agreement targets one argument (e.g.,
the subject) and cannot target the other argument (e.g., the object) under any
circumstances.
The answer, I believe, is that they are not absent; relativized probing is
alive and well in, for example, the standard subject-agreement paradigm; the
relevant probe is simply feature-relativized to a higher point in the geometry of
ϕ-features, one that can be satisfied by a larger set of potential targets. Consider
examples like (52).
(52) There seems/??seem [to every attorneyi] to be [some client of hisi who
is innocent].
Examples like this illustrate a familiar point: probing by Infl0 in English,
presumably responsible for 3rd person singular agreement on the verb seem,
is capable of skipping certain nodes, such as the dative experiencer in (52)
(the quantifier-variable relation is included in order to verify that the subject is
indeed c-commanded by the dative experiencer).9 The same point can be made
with unselected PP modifiers, as well.
(53) There are/??is likely [in every class] to be [two troublemakers].
In fact, even in a much simpler example, where there is no PP intervener,
any rudimentary sketch of the syntactic structure reveals that there are several
nodes along the syntactic spine that must be skipped by the ϕ-probe en route
to its eventual target.
(54) There are/??is [vP/VP likely [TP to [vP/VP be [two troublemakers]
here]]].
The underlined nodes in (54) are bona fide syntactic projections, closer to the
ϕ-probe than the actual target (two troublemakers), and yet the ϕ-probe is able
to skip them when searching for an agreement target.10
These effects are perhaps most naturally handled in terms of categorial
distinctions (namely, the Infl0
probe in (52)–(54) seeking a DP, rather than
a PP or a vP/VP). But if category membership is itself no more than featural
specification (Chomsky 1995:241–249, among many others), then the principle
behind examples like (52)–(54) is no different than the principle behind the
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 45
wh-probing examples in (47a–c) or the AF examples in (48a–b): they all
involve a probe that is specified to look for a particular feature and is able
to skip potential targets when they do not bear the feature in question.
Importantly, we have already seen evidence that the effect demonstrated
by the English (52)–(54) is operative in Kichean as well. Recall that in
the Kichean AF construction, a 1st/2nd person subject, for example, will
necessarily determine agreement on the AF verb (45a). When the subject is 3rd
person and the object is 1st/2nd person, it is the object that is agreed with (45b).
This shows that 3rd person arguments, in Kichean AF, do not halt the probe
(otherwise the object could not be agreed with in (45b)). Crucially, however,
when both the subject and the object are 3rd person, a notional Source/Goal
argument—realized as a PP—still cannot be targeted for agreement, even if it
is 1st/2nd person (50a). This means that just as ϕ-agreement in English ignores
PPs, so does ϕ-agreement in Kichean; and of course, ϕ-probing in Kichean
must also be able to skip projections such as vP/VP, on the way to its eventual
agreement target.
The kind of “skipping” exemplified by (52)–(54) is thus replicated in
Kichean; the effect in Kichean is simply stronger, in that it extends beyond PPs
and other non-DPs, to include 3rd person and/or singular nominals as well. We
can therefore characterize the “skipping” effects found in English as a subset
of those found in Kichean.
This subset-superset relation between the relativized probing effects found
in English and those found in Kichean suggests an account in terms of
a feature geometry. A feature geometry specifies the internal structure of the
space of possible feature values, encoding implicational relations between the
occurrences of different values. For concreteness, I will adopt the ϕ-feature
geometry in (55), a simplified version of the geometry proposed by Harley and
Ritter (2002) and McGinnis (2005).11
(55) A simplified ϕ-feature geometry
[ϕ]
[number]
[plural]
[person]
[participant]
[author]
( ) ( )
The feature [participant] is what distinguishes 1st/2nd person pronouns
from 3rd person pronouns and other noun phrases; the feature [author]
further distinguishes 1st person pronouns from 2nd person ones; and [plural]
46 Chapter 4
distinguishes singular noun phrases from plural ones. Because [participant]
dominates [author] in the feature geometry,the latter cannot arise in the absence
of the former, ruling out the logically inconsistent “nonparticipant author”
combination. At the root of the geometry, the feature [ϕ] is the node shared
by all nominals. If there is such a thing as a “D-feature,” which defines the
natural class of extended nominal projections, and which must be visible on
the maximal extended projection for a nominal to count as nonoblique, then
this might be that feature (though see Déchaine and Wiltschko 2002 for a more
articulated view).12
Crucially, the nodes in this feature geometry are privative features. Thus,
a 1st person plural noun phrase (we/us) would carry [participant], [author],
and [plural] features; a 2nd person plural noun phrase (y’all) would carry
[participant] and [plural] features, but no [author] feature; a 1st person singular
noun phrase (I/me) would carry [participant] and [author] features, but no
[plural] feature; and so forth.
Following Béjar and Rezac (2009), I assume that this ϕ-feature geometry is
not only relevant to the morphological realization of pronominals, as argued by
Harley and Ritter (2002), but crucially, is also how ϕ-features are represented
in syntax.
A feature geometry of this sort is very well suited to account for the subset-
superset relations among the “skipping” effects found in English, and those
found in Kichean (as discussed above). Suppose that English Infl0 is relativized
to the root of the ϕ-geometry. Any ϕ-bearing phrase would then constitute a
viable target (i.e., any DP, but not PPs, nor TPs/vPs/VPs). As a result, regardless
of the features of the direct object, the subject will always constitute a closer
viable agreement target for Infl0 than the object. That is the reason, on this view,
that English lacks “omnivorous agreement” effects in the sense of targeting
the direct object in lieu of the subject. But crucially, English Infl0 can be
seen as omnivorous with respect to [ϕ]: it readily skips phrases that do not
carry [ϕ], such as PPs, in favor of structurally lower phrases that do carry it—as
in (52)–(54).13
Unlike English Infl0, however, Kichean π0 and #0 are not relativized to
the root of the ϕ-geometry; instead, they are relativized to [participant] and
[plural], respectively. They therefore skip not only non-DPs (i.e., nonbearers
of [ϕ]), as in English, but also 3rd person DPs (nonbearers of [participant])
and singular DPs (nonbearers of [plural]), respectively.
It is in this way that a feature-geometric approach is well-suited to capture
the subset-superset relation between these different “skipping” capacities: the
reason the kinds of phrases skipped by the English ϕ-probe are a subset of
those skipped by its Kichean counterparts is that the node to which the English
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 47
probe is relativized dominates (within the ϕ-feature geometry (55)) the nodes
to which the Kichean probes are relativized. From this perspective, singling
out patterns like the Kichean ones examined here as “omnivorous agreement”
would be misleading: all probes are “omnivorous”—it is just that different
probes are relativized to different features (e.g., [wh], [ϕ], [participant],
[plural]), resulting in different patterns of what is and is not skippable.
4.2.3 Valuation in a Feature-Geometric Approach
In a probe-goal approach (Chomsky 2000, et seq.), valuation amounts to
copying the feature values encountered on the goal onto the probe. Prior
to valuation, the probe carries so-called unvalued features, which we might
imagine as a series of empty slots into which the eventual values will be copied.
(This discussion abstracts away from the question of whether agreement results
in the actual copying of values, or merely in the sharing of these slots;
see Frampton and Gutmann 2000, 2006, Pesetsky and Torrego 2007).
However, once we adopt a feature-geometric approach to ϕ-features, this
notion of valuation proves inadequate. First, on this view, the featural contents
of the goal are internally structured. Second, the particular feature sought by
the probe might not be at the very root of the feature structure borne by the goal
(e.g., when the goal is a DP but the probe is relativized to seek [participant] or
[plural]; see sections 4.2.1–4.2.2).
Suppose, then, that valuation is itself feature-geometric and involves the
copying of snippets of feature geometry, rather than individual features. Instead
of “unvalued features,” the probe would enter into the derivation with a
container for a piece of feature geometry; valuation would consist of copying
an appropriate snippet of feature geometry from the goal onto the probe, as
illustrated in (56).
(56) Valuation as a feature-geometric notion
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
DP

[ϕ]

· · ·
Infl0
 
⇒
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
DP

[ϕ]

· · ·
Infl0

[ϕ]

48 Chapter 4
In such a system, relativized probing amounts to specifying, on this container,
what the root of the snippet copied into it must be. In the case of English
Infl0, for example, any piece of feature geometry that is rooted in [ϕ] would
be appropriate for this container—meaning any nominal could be used for
valuation, as shown in (57).
(57) Feature-geometric valuation: English
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
DP

[ϕ
ϕ]

· · ·
Infl0
 
⇒
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
DP

[ϕ
ϕ]

· · ·
Infl0

[ϕ
ϕ]

<ϕ
ϕ> <ϕ
ϕ>
In the case of Kichean π0, on the other hand, only pieces of feature geometry
rooted in the [participant] ([prtc]) node could be copied onto the probe, as
shown in (58), meaning only 1st/2nd person pronouns could be used for
valuation; and similarly for #0 and [plural] ([pl] as shown in (59)).
(58) Feature-geometric valuation: Kichean π0
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
DP
⎡
⎣
[ϕ]
[prtc]
⎤
⎦
· · ·
π0
 
⇒
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
DP
⎡
⎣
[ϕ]
[prtc]
⎤
⎦
· · ·
π0

[prtc]

<prtc> <prtc>
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 49
(59) Feature-geometric valuation: Kichean #0
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
DP


[ϕ]
[pl]

· · ·
#0
 
⇒
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
DP


[ϕ]
[pl]

· · ·
#0

[pl]

<pl> <pl>
Note that this modification to the mechanism of valuation does not
fundamentally alter the question posed in chapter 2, regarding how the
obligatoriness of ϕ-agreement is enforced by the grammar. For instance,
Chomsky’s (2000, 2001) uninterpretable-featuresapproach—an instance of the
more general derivational time-bombs model (section 2.2.1)—could easily be
adapted to state that feature-geometric containers are “uninterpretable” (and
therefore cause ungrammaticality) unless filled. The significance of the feature-
geometric approach lies in unifying the patterns of which nodes can and cannot
be skipped by the ϕ-probe in a language like English with those found in a
language like Kichean. I will therefore continue to use nongeometric shorthand
such as “unvalued ϕ-features” and “probing for [participant] features” as
stand-ins for the relevant feature-geometricnotions (in this case, “empty feature
geometry containers” and “probing for a snippet of feature geometry rooted in
[participant],” respectively).
4.2.4 Summary
In this section, I assimilated the “omnivorous agreement” found in the
Kichean AF construction to mechanisms that are involved in standard syntactic
probing—for example, the behavior of interrogative C0 with respect to phrases
that are not [wh]-bearing. This property—namely, the ability of a probe to skip
targets that lack the feature it is looking for—was termed relativized probing
(following the use of relativized in Relativized Minimality; Rizzi 1990).
I then argued that the categorial relativization of probes like English Infl0
(i.e., the targeting of DPs but not PPs, nor vP/VPs) is an instance of the same
phenomenon. Such categorial relativization is of course in need of an account
50 Chapter 4
one way or another; but given the idea that category membership is nothing
more than featural specification, any apparent division between categorial
relativization and other instances of featural relativization (such as probing
only for [wh]-bearing phrases) would be illusory, in the first place.
If we accept that ϕ-features are organized in a feature geometry (Béjar and
Rezac 2009, Harley and Ritter 2002, McGinnis 2005), then allowing syntactic
probing to be relativized to different points in the feature hierarchy accounts
naturally for the subset-superset relations among the kinds of phrases skipped
by different probes in different languages. In particular, if a probe like English
Infl0 is relativized to the [ϕ] node, which dominates the [participant] node
to which Kichean π0 is relativized, then the kinds of phrases skipped by the
former (non-DPs) will be a proper subset of the kinds of phrases skipped by
the latter (non-DPs and 3rd person DPs). The same will hold with respect to the
relation between English Infl0 and Kichean #0, the latter of which is relativized
to the [plural] node (also dominated by [ϕ]).
On this view, there is nothing special about “omnivorous agreement” to
begin with, because all probes are omnivorous (i.e., they all skip targets that do
not bear the right featural specification). Different probes are simply relativized
to search for different featural specifications.
Before turning to the analysis of agreement in the Kichean AF construction,
and in Kichean more generally, I will discuss a particular contrast between
agreement and clitic doubling that emerges from B&R’s analysis of the PCC,
which will prove instrumental in the forthcoming analysis.
4.3 On the Featural Coarseness of Clitic Doubling
An implicit component of B&R’s account of the PCC, highlighted in the
discussion in section 4.1, is a distinction between the featural granularity of
“true” agreement (i.e., a valuation relation between a probe and a goal) and
the featural coarseness of clitic doubling. Because the account of ϕ-agreement
in Kichean that I will pursue in section 4.4 will make use of the same clitic-
doubling mechanism implicated in B&R’s account, I would like to first discuss
this distinction in greater detail.
If a syntactic probe H0 is relativized to look for a particular subset F of the
entire ϕ-feature set (as detailed in section 4.2), it seems reasonable to assume
that only the values of features belonging to F will be copied from the target
onto H0 (this was an explicit part of the feature-geometric approach sketched
in section 4.2.3, for example). This contrasts with clitic doubling: if clitic
doubling is a kind of pronominalization, it is expected to behave like any other
form of pronominalization in treating the ϕ-feature set of the pronominalized
noun phrase as an atomic unit, which must be copied as a whole. It should
therefore be impossible, under clitic doubling, to tease apart different subparts
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 51
of the ϕ-feature set and copy some but not all of the ϕ-features of the noun
phrase onto the clitic (see Rezac 2004, 2010 for related discussion). This
observation can be formalized as follows:14
(60) The coarseness property of clitic doubling
If cl0 is the result of clitic doubling of some noun phrase α, then cl0
will reflect the full set of ϕ-features on α.
This distinction between clitic doubling and “true” agreement is immaterial
if ϕ-probes always probe for, and copy, ϕ-sets in their entirety; but once we
allow person and number features to probe separately, as in B&R’s account and
in section 4.2, the distinction becomes relevant.15
Importantly, insofar as clitic doubling is a reflex of being probed by a
particular syntactic head (as proposed by B&R and detailed in section 4.1;
see also Harizanov to appear, Kramer to appear), the specific features sought
by the probe—or in feature-geometric terms, the point in the feature-geometry
to which the probe is relativized—will not affect this result. That is because
regardless of how it is triggered, clitic doubling is ultimately still an instance
of pronominalization. We therefore expect there to be mismatches (at least in
some cases), where a syntactic head is relativized to search only for a proper
subset of the ϕ-feature geometry, but being probed by this head triggers clitic
doubling that ends up copying the entire ϕ-feature set of the targeted nominal.
If we examine B&R’s account once again, we see that precisely such a
mismatch exists in the case of the person probe, which I have labeled π0.
In their account, π0 probes for person features only, to the exclusion of
number features (which are probed for separately). When a dative nominal
is the structurally closest agreement target, this results in clitic doubling, as
schematized earlier and repeated in (61)–(62).
(61) Two internal arguments: Person probing
πP
π0
ApplP
Appl
Appl0
VP
V0
Theme
dat-arg
✗
(blocked
by
closer dat-arg)
[=(39)]
52 Chapter 4
(62) Two internal arguments: Person probing of dative ⇒ clitic doubling
πP
π0
–cl[ϕi]
ApplP
Appl
Appl0
VP
V0
Theme
<dat-arg[ϕi]> clitic
doubling
[=(42)]
Crucially, the resulting clitic matches the dative nominal in its entire ϕ-feature
set, person and number features alike. This is precisely the behavior we expect
given the featural coarseness of clitic doubling, as formalized in (60).
Support for this principle can be found in the form of finite agreement
in Basque. Finite auxiliaries in Basque carry agreement morphology
corresponding to the ϕ-features of each core argument (absolutive, ergative,
and dative, or whatever subset of these three is present in a given clause).
(63) Guraso-e-k
parent(s)-artpl-erg
niri
me.dat
belarritako
earring(s)
ederr-ak
beautiful-artpl(abs)
erosi
bought
d-
3.abs-
i-
√
-
zki-
pl.abs-
da-
1sg.dat-
te.
3pl.erg
‘(My) parents have bought me beautiful earrings.’
(Laka 1996)
As argued in Preminger 2009, not all of the agreement morphemes found on
the finite auxiliary in Basque arise in the same manner. The dative and ergative
agreement morphemes are the result of clitic doubling of the corresponding
noun phrases. The absolutive agreement morphemes, on the other hand, arise
via “true” agreement, by separate person and number probes, essentially
following B&R’s proposal (see Preminger 2009:655–662). Similar conclusions
have been reached, on largely independent grounds, by Arregi and Nevins
(2008, 2012).
Focusing on the agreement morphology corresponding to the ϕ-features of
the absolutive argument, one finds that exponents reflecting different subparts
of the absolutive ϕ-feature set sometimes show up on opposite sides of the
auxiliary root. This is the case in the abs-dat present-indicative paradigm
shown in (64), for example.16
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 53
(64) abs-dat present-indicative auxiliary paradigm
abs
person
root
(have)
abs
number
abs
“number+”
dat
all ϕ-features
1sg na tzai t
2sg ha tzai {k,n}
3sg zai o
1pl ga tzai zki gu
2pl za tzai zki zu
2pl+ za tzai zki te  zue
3pl zai zki e
The status of what I have dubbed here the absolutive “person marker” (i.e.,
the first column in (64)) is subject to some disagreement in the literature.
In Preminger 2009, I argued that this morpheme is the overt reflex of
person agreement, despite being subject to number-conditioned contextual
allomorphy. Arregi and Nevins (2008, 2012), on the other hand, argue that
this morpheme is an absolutive clitic. What both analyses agree upon is that
the morpheme in the third column (-zki) is not a clitic: in Preminger 2009, it
is the overt reflex of number agreement; for Arregi and Nevins, it is part of
the spell-out of valued features on T0. In either case, it is the reflex of “true”
agreement, not clitic doubling.
Let us therefore concentrate on the difference between this morpheme
(-zki) and the agreement morphology corresponding to the dative argument—
that is, the final column of (64)—which consists of a single exponent,
expressing both number and person distinctions. First, note that much like
1st/2nd person absolutive agreement morphemes in Kichean (section 3.4),
these dative agreement morphemes in Basque (as well as their ergative
counterparts, not present in (64); see Preminger 2009:646–650) bear a strong
morphophonological resemblance to the corresponding strong pronouns in the
language. As noted above, Arregi and Nevins, as well as Preminger 2009,
provide several additional arguments that dative (as well as ergative) finite
agreement morphology in Basque arises through clitic doubling of the relevant
nominal arguments. It then follows from the featural coarseness property
of clitic doubling (60) that a morpheme like -zki, which expresses number
distinctions to the exclusion of person distinctions, could only be found within
the absolutive agreement morphology on the Basque auxiliary. This is because
only the absolutive agreement morphology is the reflex of “true” agreement
and not clitic doubling.
We have seen that the morphological makeup of finite agreement in Basque
provides some support for the generalization given in (60), concerning the
54 Chapter 4
featural coarseness of clitic doubling. As mentioned earlier, this property of
clitic doubling is already implicit in accounts such as B&R’s, where being
probed for person features alone gives rise to a clitic reflecting the full set
of ϕ-features borne by the dative nominal.17
I will therefore take (60) to be correct, as we turn to the discussion of
agreement morphology in Kichean AF. As discussed earlier, when combined
with the results of section 4.2, B&R’s proposal—meant to account for the
PCC—yields a comprehensive account of ϕ-agreement in the Kichean AF
construction. This account will derive the apparent scale or hierarchy effects
found in this construction (discussed in section 3.2) without recourse to an
extrinsic device of that sort. Moreover, it will derive the morphophonological
distinctions observed in section 3.4, between 1st/2nd person absolutive
agreement markers in Kichean (which resemble the corresponding strong
pronouns and encode number distinctions suppletively) and 3rd person ones
(which do not resemble the corresponding pronouns and exhibit what may be
an isolable plural morpheme). That account is the topic of the next section.
4.4 Applying Béjar and Rezac’s (2003) Account to Kichean
In this section, I combine the results of sections 4.2–4.3 with B&R’s account
of the PCC (surveyed in section 4.1) to yield an account of ϕ-agreement in
the Kichean AF construction. The central argument will be that 1st/2nd person
absolutive agreement markers in Kichean are actually clitics, the result of clitic
doubling that is triggered when the absolutive argument is probed by the person
probe, π0. In this sense, they are on a par with “indirect object agreement”
in B&R’s account of the PCC (also analyzed as the result of clitic doubling,
triggered when the argument in question is probed by π0). On the other hand,
I will argue that 3rd person absolutive agreement markers in Kichean—in
particular, the 3rd person plural absolutive marker—are the overt spell-out of
the number probe, #0
.
Importantly, I will show that this account not only derives the very
effects typically attributed to a “salience” hierarchy or scale (section 3.2)
but also derives which agreement markers in the absolutive series do and
do not resemble the corresponding strong pronouns, as well as which
morphemes encode number suppletively and which contain an isolable
number morpheme (section 3.4). This will render the account proposed here
empirically superior to one based directly on hierarchies/scales.18
Recall that the same agreement markers found in the AF construction are
also found in regular transitives and intransitives in Kichean (see chapter 3); as
I will show in section 4.6, the account proposed here derives the behavior of
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 55
absolutive agreement in non-AF clauses, as well. I will begin, however, with
agreement in the AF construction, since it is in some sense the limiting case in
terms of the complexities of ϕ-agreement in Kichean.
4.4.1 The Basic Clause Structure and Derivation
I will continue to assume that just as in B&R’s account of the PCC, probing
for person features in Kichean occurs separately from, and prior to, probing
for number features. (There is in fact independent evidence, coming from the
Mayan family itself, for such a separation; see the appendix to this chapter
for details.) The basic structure of the Kichean AF clause will therefore be
as shown in (65).
(65) Basic clause structure in Kichean AF
#P
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj
V0
· · ·
subj
· · ·
π0
[ ]
#0
[ ]
– number probe
– person probe
<pl>
<prtc>
As discussed in section 4.2, the person and number probes π0 and #0 in Kichean
are feature-relativized to probe for [participant] and [plural], respectively.
Consequently, these probes will skip nodes that lack the requisite features
(much like interrogative C0
, which skips nodes that lack the [wh] feature).
Now recall that in B&R’s system, being probed by π0 results in clitic
doubling (see section 4.1; on the idea that clitic doubling arises when a nominal
is probed by a specific functional head, see also Harizanov to appear, Kramer to
appear); and recall that such clitic doubling is not optional in any sense, nor is
it dependent on any particular semantic properties of the doubled noun phrase
(recall the obligatory and semantically indiscriminate clitic doubling of dative
arguments in Basque; see section 4.1).
In B&R’s account of the PCC, the noun phrase probed by π0 (the person
probe) was always the structurally closest one—in a ditransitive construction,
56 Chapter 4
this amounted to the indirect object—and therefore, this was also invariably
the noun phrase that underwent clitic doubling. But since π0 in Kichean is
relativized to [participant], it will not necessarily be the closest noun phrase
in (65) that is probed by π0. In particular, when the subject is 3rd person (and
therefore bears no [participant] feature) but the object is 1st/2nd person, the
noun phrase probed by π0
will be the object (as argued in section 4.2.1).
Holding constant B&R’s assumption that π0 triggers clitic doubling of the
probed nominal, the prediction is that in a Kichean AF clause, the closest bearer
of [participant] will be doubled, as shown in (66).19
(66) Clitic doubling in Kichean AF
a. 1st/2nd person subject,
3rd person object
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj
V0
· · ·
subj[prtc]
· · ·
π0
[ ]
<prtc>
⇒
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj
V0
· · ·
subj[prtc]
· · ·
π0+cl[ϕsubj]
clitic doubling
b. 3rd person subject,
1st/2nd person object
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj[prtc]
V0
· · ·
subj
· · ·
π0
[ ]
<prtc>
⇒
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj[prtc]
V0
· · ·
subj
· · ·
π0+cl[ϕobj]
clitic doubling
Given the derivations sketched here, as long as we hold constant the set
of ϕ-features that the closest [participant]-bearing argument carries, there
should be no difference in the agreement morphology (now analyzed
in terms of clitic doubling) that arises when that argument is in subject
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 57
position versus object position. Thus, for example, a combination of
<1sg subject, 3sg object> should yield the same agreement morphology
as a combination of <3sg subject, 1sg object>. This prediction is borne out:
as already noted in section 3.2, the ϕ-feature combinations of the two core
arguments in Kichean AF are fully commutative, yielding no change in the
resulting agreement morphology. A representative pair of examples is given in
(67a–b).
(67) a. ja
foc
yïn
me
x-in/*Ø-ax-an
com-1sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
ri
the
achin
man
‘It was me that heard the man.’
b. ja
foc
ri
the
achin
man
x-in/*Ø-ax-an
com-1sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
yïn
me
‘It was the man that heard me.’ [=(18a–b)]
Furthermore, as argued in detail in section 4.3, clitic doubling is featurally
coarse: it must copy the entire ϕ-feature set of the doubled noun phrase, even if
clitic doubling was triggered by a probe seeking only a subset of the ϕ-feature
geometry. (This assumption was already implicit in B&R’s own proposal, as
shown in section 4.1.) Thus, while Kichean π0 probes only for [participant]
features, the clitic that arises as the result of this probing will reflect the full
ϕ-feature set of the [participant]-bearing target. This means that in (66a–b),
the resulting clitic will also reflect the number features of the [participant]-
bearing argument, alongside its person features—even if those conflict with
the number features of the other core argument. As noted in section 3.2, this
is precisely what one finds in Kichean AF with argument combinations of
this sort.20
(68) a. ja
foc
rje’
them
x-i-tz’et-ö
com-1sg.abs-see-af
yïn
me
‘It was them who saw me.’
b. *ja
foc
rje’
them
x-oj/Ø/e-tz’et-ö
com-1pl/3sg/3pl.abs-see-af
yïn
me [=(20a)]
(69) a. ja
foc
rja’
him
x-oj-tz’et-ö
com-1pl.abs-see-af
röj
us
‘It was him who saw us.’
b. *ja
foc
rja’
him
x-i/Ø/e-tz’et-ö
com-1sg/3sg/3pl.abs-see-af
röj
us [=(21a)]
58 Chapter 4
Note especially (68), where the subject is plural, but the resulting agreement
marker is still singular. This is because the [participant]-bearing object, whose
entire ϕ-feature set was copied under clitic doubling, is singular.
As discussed in section 3.4, the forms of 1st/2nd person absolutive
agreement markers in Kichean—which are the markers found in examples
like (68)–(69)—show no sign of an independent plural morpheme. The
morphophonological relation between the singular 1st/2nd person markers
and their plural counterparts is entirely suppletive. The fact that there is no
isolable plural morpheme to be found here can be naturally accommodated if
the markers in question come about as the result of clitic doubling and therefore
involve the copying of complete ϕ-feature sets.
But perhaps the strongest support for clitic doubling as the mechanism that
gives rise to these 1st/2nd person markers comes from their actual forms.
Recall from section 3.4 that it is precisely the 1st/2nd person members of the
absolutive series of agreement markers that are morphophonologicallyreduced
variants of the corresponding strong pronouns.
(70) abs
agreement
marker
Strong
pronoun
1sg i(n)- yïn
1pl oj- röj
2sg a(t)- rat
2pl ix- rïx
The current approach straightforwardly derives this: by hypothesis, these
morphemes arise via clitic doubling; and clitics are, in many if not all cases,
literally reduced pronouns (see, e.g., Preminger 2009). As noted earlier, the
same mechanism will derive the appearance of these forms in regular Kichean
transitives and intransitives, as well (see section 4.6).
On this account, the overt agreement morphology found with 1st/2nd person
arguments—which probing by π0 gives rise to—is not the overt spell-out of
valued features on the syntactic probe, but a clitic adjoined to π0. There is
no reason to think that the syntactic features on π0 are not also valued when
a [participant]-bearing argument is found; after all, as noted in section 3.1,
both arguments in the AF construction are nonoblique and should therefore be
accessible for such valuation. One may wonder, therefore, why these syntactic
features receive no overt phonological expression of their own. It is of course
conceivable that as a matter of lexical content, the exponents in question are
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 59
all null (cf. person agreement on nonauxiliary verbs in English). But as we will
see, it will prove helpful to make the following assumptions:
(71) Morphological competition in the Kichean absolutive agreement slot
In Kichean:
a. The overt exponence of π0, #0, and any clitics adjoined to them, all
compete for a single morphological slot.
b. A clitic will always beat out other competing morphological
material.
In other words, the clitic generated in (66) competes with π0
(as well as with #0
,
which probes next) for overt expression in the single available morphological
slot; and given (71b), phonological expression of the clitic takes precedence. (It
is possible that (71b) is itself derivable from more general principles, such as
a general preference for expressing pronominal material at the expense of
functional material, rather than the other way around; I will not pursue this
matter further, here.)
The idea that the person marker (or more accurately, given the current
account, the π0-adjoined clitic) blocks the exponence of #0 from surfacing
finds support in the behavior of verbal agreement in Tzotzil, where a
morpheme indicating plurality can surface in the same verbal complex as the
corresponding person marker exactly in those cases where the person marker
is prefixal and the number marker is suffixal (see the appendix to this chapter
for details).
Returning to Kichean, it is important to note that the sort of morphological
competition outlined in (71) does not undo the earlier observation regarding the
absence of an independently identifiable plural morpheme in 1st/2nd person
absolutive agreement markers. The crucial point was that these markers do
express number distinctions (e.g., i(n)- ‘1sg.abs’ vs. oj- ‘1pl.abs’), they just
do so suppletively; and it was the suppletive nature of these distinctions, as
well as the particular forms of the markers themselves, that aligned well with
the clitic-doubling analysis.
In the part of the derivation sketched up to this point, only π0 has probed.
As in section 4.1, the next head merged will be #0, the number probe. Given
(71b), the overt effects of probing by #0 will not be visible unless no clitic was
generated that would occupy the single morphological agreement slot. Recall
also from the discussion of B&R’s proposal that while being probed by π0
results in clitic doubling, being probed by #0 does not. Thus, if for some reason
π0
fails to trigger clitic doubling of any argument whatsoever, the agreement
slot will in principle be available for the exponence of #0
to surface.
60 Chapter 4
Consider, therefore, the derivation of AF clauses in which both the subject
and the object are 3rd person. Since π0 in Kichean is feature-relativized to
[participant], it will be unable to target either of the two core arguments (since
neither carries this feature). I leave aside, for the moment, the question of what
(if anything) is targeted by π0
in such a derivation; this issue is at the center
of chapter 5. But if neither of the core arguments can be targeted by π0
, then
we expect that no clitic doubling would be triggered in this case. This, in turn,
means that it is precisely in this scenario—where both core arguments are 3rd
person—that we would have a chance to see the valued features on π0 and/or
#0 spelled out overtly (since there is no clitic that would compete with them
for the single agreement slot).
Given (71), it is conceivable that π0 and #0 would compete between
themselves for spell-out in the single agreement slot. But recall from
section 3.4 that what we would pretheoretically characterize as the “absolutive
agreement paradigm” in Kichean contains no overt morphology that would
be associated with 3rd person features; as a result, the only overt material that
stands to appear in this agreement slot is the spell-out of #0. This is exactly what
we find: as discussed in section 3.2, in Kichean AF clauses where both core
arguments are 3rd person, we find either (i) no overt agreement morphology
at all, or (ii) the morpheme e- (which, as noted in section 3.4, is not really a
reduced version of any extant Kichean pronoun).
As also noted in section 3.4, there is some support for viewing -e- as a
general marker of plurality in Kichean. In this vein, we may take e- to be
the spell-out of #0 that has entered into an agreement relation with a [plural]-
bearing target in the course of the derivation. If #0 is relativized to seek bearers
of [plural] (much as π0 is relativized to seek bearers of [participant]), we get
another instance of the general pattern sketched in section 4.2.1: #0 will skip
over projections that lack [plural], even if those projections are nominal; and
valued [plural] on #0 will arise when either argument (subject or object) carries
a [plural] feature.21
A pair like (72a–b) can therefore be derived as in (73a–b).
(72) a. ja
foc
rje’
them
x-e/*Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3pl/*3sg.abs-see-af
rja’
him
‘It was them who saw him.’
b. ja
foc
rja’
him
x-e/*Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3pl/*3sg.abs-see-af
rje’
them
‘It was him who saw them.’ [=(46a–b)]
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 61
(73) Relativized probing for [plural]
a. pl subject, sg object
#P
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj
V0
· · ·
subj[pl]
· · ·
· · ·
#0
[ ]
<pl>
⇒
#P
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj
V0
· · ·
subj[pl]
· · ·
· · ·
#0
e-
b. sg subject, pl object
#P
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj[pl]
V0
· · ·
subj
· · ·
· · ·
#0
[ ]
<pl>
⇒
#P
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj[pl]
V0
· · ·
subj
· · ·
· · ·
#0
e-
The derivations sketched in (73a–b) will take place whether the arguments
in question are 3rd person or not; but following (71), it is only when both
arguments are 3rd person—and therefore, probing by π0 does not give rise to
a clitic—that the spell-out of #0 will be observable on the surface.
We now have in place the basis for a derivational account of ϕ-agreement
in the Kichean AF construction. I have assumed that just like C0 probing for a
wh-feature (section 4.2), a ϕ-probe that has failed to find the features it seeks
on the subject will skip the subject altogether, entering into a single agreement
relation with the object (when the object does bear the features in question).22
On this view, since Kichean π0 is relativized to [participant], arguments that
do not bear this feature (i.e., 3rd person arguments) will be skipped by this
probe—and therefore, not undergo clitic doubling. Consequently, if both the
62 Chapter 4
subject and the object are 3rd person, the single morphological agreement slot
on the AF verb will remain available for the overt exponence of #0 (in the event
that the latter is overt).
This accounts not only for the distribution of agreement markers in
the AF construction, but also for the morphophonological distinctions
observed in section 3.4. The 1st/2nd person agreement markers resemble the
corresponding strong pronouns because they are clitics; conversely, since
agreement with 3rd person arguments in the AF construction is the overt spell-
out of #0, it spells out as what may be a general-purpose plural marker in
Kichean (-e-).
The results of this account are summarized in the table in (74).
(74) Verbal morphology generated in Agent-Focus (Kaqchikel)
subj/obj
ϕ-features
Probing for
[participant]
(by π0
) finds
a target?
Clitic whose
creation
is triggered
Probing for
[plural]
(by #0
) finds
a target?
Exponent
of #0
Actual
morpheme
found in
agreement
slot
{1sg, 3sg} yes i(n)- (1sg) no Ø i(n)-
{2sg, 3sg} yes a(t)- (2sg) no Ø a(t)-
{1pl, 3sg} yes oj- (1pl) yes e- oj-
{2pl, 3sg} yes ix- (2pl) yes e- ix-
{1sg, 3pl} yes i(n)- (1sg) no Ø i(n)-
{2sg, 3pl} yes a(t)- (2sg) no Ø a(t)-
{1pl, 3pl} yes oj- (1pl) yes e- oj-
{2pl, 3pl} yes ix- (2pl) yes e- ix-
{3sg, 3sg} no n/a no Ø Ø
{3pl, 3sg} no n/a yes e- e-
{3pl, 3pl} no n/a yes e- e-
The notation {ϕ1, ϕ2} is fully commutative, since in Kichean AF, there
is never any difference between the agreement morphology found with
<subj[x], obj[y]> and that found with <subj[y], obj[x]> for any pair of
ϕ-feature bundles x and y. This is derived, on the account presented here, from
the “skipping” property of relativized probing (section 4.2). Combinations
not listed in (74) are ruled out either on binding-theoretic grounds (e.g.,
{1pl, 1sg}) or because of the AF person restriction (see section 4.4.2). The
final column in (74), representing the actual morphology found on the AF verb
in each case, is the result of the aforementioned morphological competition for
the single agreement slot (71): if there is a morpheme in the clitic column, the
agreement slot (i.e., the final column) will contain that clitic; only in the event
that no clitic is generated does the morpheme in the #0 column (if it is nonnull)
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 63
stand to appear in the agreement slot. This derives the complete pattern of
agreement in the Kichean AF, given earlier in (22).
I now turn to the AF person restriction and how it is derived on the current
proposal.
4.4.2 Licensing Asymmetries in Kichean Agent-Focus, and the Agent-Focus
Person Restriction
Despite the clear similarities in Kichean between the mechanisms that apply to
[participant] (66) and to [plural] (73), there is one crucial difference between
the two, having to do with the licensing of arguments. Recall from B&R’s
account of the PCC that 1st/2nd person arguments are assumed to require
licensing-by-agreement; this is captured in B&R’s Person Licensing Condition
(PLC), repeated here:
(75) Person Licensing Condition (Béjar and Rezac 2003)
Interpretable 1st/2nd person features must be licensed by entering into
an Agree relation with an appropriate functional category. [=(40)]
As noted in section 4.1, an assumption of this sort is part and parcel of virtually
every syntactic account of the PCC; as such, it is motivated independently of
Kichean in general, or the AF construction in particular. Now let us consider
the derivation of Kichean AF clauses—and in particular, the portion of their
derivation that is sketched in (66)—in light of this condition on the licensing
of 1st/2nd person arguments.
Recall that on the current proposal, probes like π0 and #0 simply skip
targets that lack the feature for which they are searching. This means that π0,
for example, will enter into at most one agreement relation, with the closest
argument that carries a [participant] feature. By hypothesis, then, π0 can license
at most one 1st/2nd person argument, for the purposes of the PLC (75). The
question is, are there any other licensors in the Kichean AF clause that could
license another, second 1st/2nd person argument?
Unlike normal transitive clauses in Kichean, which have separate
person/number agreement with both the (ergative) subject and the (absolutive)
object, Kichean AF clauses have only one set of person/number agreement
markers, taken from the absolutive series (section 3.2). This means that there
is no second π0 in the AF clause. Therefore, the only other potential licensor in
the AF clause would be the #0 probe associated with the same set of agreement
markers. But now note the way B&R phrase their PLC: it is a condition on
the licensing of 1st/2nd person features—or in our current terms, [participant]
features—rather than the licensing of nominals more generally. This is for good
reason: it is quite obvious that agreement with a wh-probe, a Focus probe, or
the like, could not and should not license nominals for the purposes of the
64 Chapter 4
PLC. From this perspective, a [plural] probe (which #0 in Kichean is) would
be no different: it does not agree with its target in [participant] and is therefore
irrelevant for this kind of licensing.23
What we are left with is a single licensor for [participant] features (π0), in a
clause with two core arguments. With these premises in place, the AF person
restriction (repeated from earlier) follows straightforwardly.
(76) The AF person restriction
In the Kichean AF construction, at most one of the two core arguments
can be 1st/2nd person. [=(25)]
To see why, suppose that the object is 1st/2nd person (assume for present
purposes that all binding-theoreticconditions are satisfied). Given the PLC, this
means that the [participant] feature on the object must enter into an agreement
relation. On the current proposal, AF clauses that exhibit agreement with the
object involve the probe π0 skipping the subject altogether; if so, the subject in
the same clause cannot be of the kind that requires its own licensing by way of
agreement—in other words, the subject cannot be 1st/2nd person.
Conversely, if the subject is 1st/2nd person (i.e., the subject bears
[participant] and is therefore the kind of target that the probe is searching for),
standard minimality considerations apply. As a result, the single argument with
which π0
enters into an agreement relation must be the subject. Consequently,
the object cannot be of the kind that requires its own licensing by way of
agreement—in other words, the object cannot be 1st/2nd person.
Thus, the relativized probing approach sketched in section 4.2, coupled
with common assumptions regarding the licensing of speech act participants
(namely, the PLC), derives the restriction in (76) on argument/person
combinations in the Kichean AF construction.
The state of affairs differs significantly when we turn to agreement in number
features. First, as already noted, probing for [plural] by #0, and the agreement
relations established as a result, are irrelevant for the purposes of the PLC (not
unlike agreement in [wh] or [Focus] features). Second, just as agreement in
[plural] features does not license arguments, so the appearance of [plural] on
an argument does not require licensing by agreement: there is no restriction
in Kichean that parallels (76) but forbids the cooccurrence of two [plural]-
bearing arguments as opposed to two [participant]-bearing ones (a hypothetical
AF number restriction). That no such restriction exists is demonstrated by
examples like (77a–b).
(77) a. ja
foc
rje’
them
x-oj-tz’et-ö
com-1pl.abs-see-af
röj
us
‘It was them who saw us.’
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 65
b. ja
foc
röj
us
x-oj-tz’et-ö
com-1pl.abs-see-af
rje’
them
‘It was us who saw them.’
In (77a–b), both the subject and the object are plural. The agreement marker
that arises in both cases is the clitic oj-, a reduced form of the 1st person
plural pronoun röj. Aside from being relativized to [plural] features, #0 obeys
minimality as any other probe would, and so we can conclude that in both
cases, #0 has entered into an agreement relation with the plural subject. The
derivation of such examples is shown in (78); while the exponent e- is shown
in (78), recall that the overt exponence of #0 will only be observable on the
surface in instances where probing by π0 has not given rise to a clitic (see
(71)), which is not the case in examples like (77a–b). (For examples in which
this e- can be observed, see (72a–b).)
(78) Plural subject, plural object
#P
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj[pl]
V0
· · ·
subj[pl]
· · ·
#0
[ ]
<pl>
⇒
#P
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj
[pl]
V0
· · ·
subj
[pl]
· · ·
#0
e-
66 Chapter 4
Crucially, as the grammaticality of (77a–b) attests, the presence of a plural
subject (which is agreed with by #0) does not preclude an object that is also
plural from appearing in the same AF clause.
Compare this with the parallel configuration involving [participant]
features—that is, a subject and object both of which are 1st/2nd person—
which, as already shown in section 3.3, is ruled out (regardless of the agreement
morphology used).
(79) a. *ja
foc
rat
you(sg)
x-in/at/Ø-ax-an
com-1sg/2sg/3sg.abs-hear-af
yïn
me
Intended: ‘It was you(sg) that heard me.’
b. *ja
foc
yïn
me
x-in/at/Ø-ax-an
com-1sg/2sg/3sg.abs-hear-af
rat
you(sg)
Intended: ‘It was me that heard you(sg).’ [=(24a–b)]
On the current account, this difference between [participant] and [plural]
features and their interaction with licensing is due to the PLC applying
specifically to [participant] features. While stipulative in the context of the
current account, this stipulation is in fact motivated by the behavior of a
separate empirical domain: it is needed to derive the existence of a Person
Case Constraint but the absence of an analogous Number Case Constraint (see
section 4.1 for details).
We have now arrived at a comprehensive account of ϕ-agreement in the
Kichean AF construction. To summarize, the derivation involves separate π0
and #0
probes, relativized to [participant] and [plural], respectively (see the
appendix to this chapter for evidence from within the Mayan family for this
separation of person and number agreement). As shown in section 4.4.1,
when the features sought by the probe are not present on the subject, the
probe skips the subject altogether and enters into an agreement relation
directly with the object (at least when the object in fact bears the features
in question).
Building on Béjar and Rezac 2003 (see also Harizanov to appear, Kramer to
appear), being probed by π0 triggers clitic doubling of the probed argument,
while being probed by #0 does not. A further asymmetry between π0 and
#0 concerns their interaction with licensing. Since the PLC is specific to
[participant] features, two bearers of [participant] cannot cooccur (the AF
person restriction), but two bearers of [plural] can. Finally, since π0 will only
target a bearer of [participant], in derivations that lack such an argument (i.e.,
when both arguments are 3rd person) no clitic will be generated, leaving
the single agreement slot available for the exponence of #0
(should the
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 67
latter be overt, which is the case when it has agreed with a [plural]-bearing
argument).
This analysis accounts for the choice of agreement target for each
combination of subject-object features in Kichean AF (section 3.2), but also
for the morphophonological distinctions exhibited by the agreement markers
in question (section 3.4): only the 1st/2nd person agreement markers resemble
the corresponding strong pronouns, because only they arise through clitic
doubling; 3rd person agreement markers do not. Conversely, agreement with
3rd person arguments exhibits what may be an isolable plural morpheme,
which is derivable on the current account since this morpheme is analyzed
as the overt spell-out of (plural) #0. This contrasts with the 1st/2nd person
agreement markers, which—like the pronouns they are derived from—encode
number suppletively (in line with the featural coarseness of clitic doubling;
section 4.3).
As noted at the beginning of section 4.4, this account compares favorably
with an account of the same agreement pattern in terms of “salience”
hierarchies or scales, since that account would have nothing to say regarding
the finer morphophonological properties that the current account derives,
nor would it explain the AF person restriction. Other problems with a
hierarchy/scale-based account will be discussed in chapter 7.
In section 4.6, I will show how the same account can be extended to regular
transitives and intransitives in Kichean. Before turning to that, however, I will
address several possible alternative approaches to the facts surveyed so far and
discuss how they fare in comparison with the account sketched here.
4.5 Some Alternative Analyses and Their Drawbacks
4.5.1 Multiple Agree
The discussion so far has taken it for granted that what looks like a probe
skipping over a potential target XP is indeed that. Probes like an interrogative
C0 looking for [wh]-bearing XPs, or Kichean π0 looking for [participant]-
bearing DPs, appear to enter only into a single agreement relation—the relation
between the probe and the feature-appropriate target it eventually finds.
This assumption can be questioned, however. There are proposals in the
literature that appeal to a one-to-many agreement relation between probes and
goals, dubbed Multiple Agree (e.g., Anagnostopoulou 2005, Hiraiwa 2001,
2004). In line with these proposals, one might hypothesize that the derivation
of Kichean AF clauses that include, for example, a 3rd person subject and a
1st/2nd person object involve Multiple Agree of π0
with both core arguments,
as shown in (80).
68 Chapter 4
(80) πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj1st/2nd
· · ·
subj3rd
· · ·
π0
There are reasons to reject such an analysis as it pertains to Kichean, some
of them theoretical and some empirical. On the theoretical side, Multiple
Agree relations—at least those implicated in the work cited above—adhere
to a particular restriction concerning the feature combinations borne by the
different targets involved. Specifically, the second target in a Multiple Agree
relation cannot bear features that were not already present on the first target. For
example, Anagnostopoulou (2005) exploits this restriction in her account of
the PCC, to rule out 3rd person indirect objects (lacking [participant] features)
cooccurring with 1st/2nd person direct objects (which carry [participant]
features) in configurations where the indirect object is structurally higher than
the direct object, as in (81).
(81) A restriction on Multiple Agree (Anagnostopoulou 2005)
✱
β1st/2nd
α3rd
F0
But modulo differences in labeling, this is exactly the structural configuration
we are faced with in an example like (82): the probe c-commands two possible
targets, the higher of which is 3rd person and the lower of which is 1st/2nd
person.
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 69
(82) ja
foc
ri
the
achin
man
x-at/*Ø-ax-an
com-2sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
rat
you(sg)
‘It was the man that heard you(sg).’ [=(45b)]
Crucially, unlike in PCC contexts, this argument combination is felicitous in the
Kichean AF construction, even though it does not comply with the restriction
in (81).
Thus, if the Multiple Agree relation responsible for omnivorous person in
the AF construction is to be understood as the same Multiple Agree relation
proposed in the literature—which obeys the restriction in (81)—it cannot
account for the facts observed in Kichean.
It is conceivable (if not terribly pleasing, theoretically) that there would
be a second one-to-many agreement relation—call it Multiple Agree2—that
is not subject to the restriction in (81). Let us consider what the properties of
Multiple Agree2 would have to be, in order to account for the facts at hand. If
Multiple Agree2 encounters a 3rd person target first, it must keep probing, and
a subsequent 1st/2nd person target would overwrite the values on the probe. If,
on the other hand, it encounters a 1st/2nd person target first, Multiple Agree2
does not keep probing—or at least, subsequent 3rd person targets will not
affect the features on the probe (otherwise a 1st/2nd person subject with a
3rd person object would result in ‘3sg.abs’ agreement morphology, contrary
to fact; see (45a)).
As far as I can see, this renders Multiple Agree2 almost identical to
regular, single agreement (given the relativized probing property established
in section 4.2). This, coupled with the ad hoc nature of Multiple Agree2 (in
particular, the ways in whichitdiffers fromany kindofMultiple Agreeoperation
implicated in the literature) might already constitute an argument against
Multiple Agree2. Its theoretical status aside, however, there is an empirical
argument against Multiple Agree2 as the basis for agreement in the Kichean AF
construction. The argument comes from the AF person restriction (76), which
prohibits more than one 1st/2nd person core argument from appearing in the AF
construction (see section 3.3). As shown in section 4.4.2, a relativized probing
account, in which the probe only ever enters into an agreement relation with a
single argument in the clause, is able to straightforwardly derive this restriction
from independentlymotivated licensing conditions on the appearance of speech
act participants (namely, B&R’s PLC (75)).
The same cannot be said regarding Multiple Agree2: if the person probe is
able to agree with more than one argument, then given the PLC, more than one
1st/2nd person argument should be able to be licensed by this one probe.24 We
could instead pursue an account that eschews the PLC and seeks to derive the
70 Chapter 4
AF person restriction from the restriction on Multiple Agree schematized in
(81), which prohibits the second target in a Multiple Agree relation from
bearing any ϕ-featural content not already borne by the first target. We have
already seen that in Kichean AF, a 3rd person subject can cooccur with a
1st/2nd person object, in apparent violation of this restriction. But suppose
that for the purposes of (81), 3rd person targets were systematically ignored,
and the effects of this restriction were therefore limited to combinations of 1st
person and 2nd person arguments only.
Given the ϕ-feature geometry adopted in section 4.2.2, the ϕ-features borne
by 2nd person arguments (namely, [participant]) are a subset of the ϕ-features
borne by 1st person arguments (namely, [participant, author]). Therefore, even
given the Multiple Agree restriction in (81), we would expect a 2nd person
argument to be able to serve as the second target in a Multiple Agree2 relation
when the first target was a 1st person argument. But this is not the attested
behavior in Kichean AF: the AF person restriction is entirely symmetric, ruling
out combinations of a 1st person subject with a 2nd person object or vice versa.
The same problem arises in an alternative ϕ-feature geometry, where
2nd person arguments are distinguished from 1st person ones by a feature,
[addressee], borne by the former but not the latter. This is due, once again,
to the symmetric nature of the AF person restriction. Therefore, in order to
derive the AF person restriction from the Multiple Agree restriction in (81),
we need a ϕ-geometry where neither 1st person arguments nor 2nd person
ones bear a subset of the features borne by the other. This could be achieved
using a ϕ-geometry that includes both [author] and [addressee] features. This
is the type of geometry defended by Harley and Ritter (2002) for languages
with a 1st person (plural) exclusive-versus-inclusive distinction: 1st person
exclusive is represented using [participant,author], whereas 1st personinclusive
is represented using [participant, author, addressee]. If we further stipulate
that 2nd person is represented using [participant, addressee] (rather than just
[participant], which is sufficient to represent 2nd person, even on Harley and
Ritter’s (2002) original proposal), the result is that neither 2nd person nor 1st
person exclusive would be a subset of the other, and so (81) would rule out a
combination of two such arguments in any order. Notice, though, that this is not
the case for 1st person inclusive: both 1st person exclusive and 2nd person are
subsets of 1st person inclusive, featurally speaking.
However, the Kichean languages lack a 1st person exclusive-versus-
inclusive distinction, in the first place; and crucially, this rules out the type of
account just sketched. For one thing, the interpretation of 1st person plurals
in Kichean is simply not exclusive of the addressee, and there is therefore
no clear justification for choosing the exclusive featural representation, rather
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 71
than the inclusive one, as the one considered for the purposes of (81) (and
as noted above, the Multiple Agree2 account would not work if the inclusive
representation were chosen instead). But more important is McGinnis’ (2005)
observation, that in no language that lacks an exclusive-versus-inclusive
distinction is the 2nd person plural pronoun used to refer to pluralities that
include both the addressee and the speaker. A ϕ-geometry that includes an
[addressee] node, however, affords this possibility.25 Therefore, McGinnis
argues, the unmarked ϕ-geometry includes only an [author] node below
[participant]; and an [addressee] node is only added by the learner in the face
of positive evidence—namely, a morphological distinction between 1st person
exclusive and inclusive. Crucially, since Kichean lacks such a distinction, it
cannot have both an [author] node and an [addressee] node in its ϕ-geometry.
This rules out even the attenuated version of this Multiple Agree2 alternative.
To summarize, a Multiple Agree approach to agreement in the Kichean AF
construction would have to posit a new kind of one-to-many relation, which
I have dubbed Multiple Agree2, that differs from the Multiple Agree relation
put forth in the literature. The properties that Multiple Agree2 would need to
have render it nearly indistinguishable from single agreement (given relativized
probing; section 4.2), with one important exception: Multiple Agree2 fares
worse than relativized probing in deriving the AF person restriction.
It is beyond the scope of this book to investigate whether Multiple Agree is
ever truly an available operation (see Haegeman and Lohndal 2010 for some
discussion); the point of this section is merely to show that it is not the correct
account of agreement in the Kichean AF construction.
4.5.2 Feature Percolation
There is another alternative that one might pursue to account for the
omnivorous person effects found in the Kichean AF construction: feature
percolation. Let us suppose that the features on a given XP can, under certain
circumstances, make their way (or “percolate”) onto the YP node that most
closely dominates XP (see, e.g., Chomsky 1973, Cowper 1987, Gazdar et al.
1985, Grimshaw 2000, Kayne 1983, Webelhuth 1992), as schematized in (83).
(83) Feature percolation
YP
XP{α,β,...}
· · ·
Y0 ⇒
YP{α,β,...}
XP{α,β,...}
· · ·
Y0
72 Chapter 4
It is not entirely clear that feature percolation of this sort is a necessary part
of the syntactic apparatus (see Cable 2007, 2010, Heck 2004). But if it is,
one might use it to derive what looks like omnivorous agreement, as shown
in (84)–(85).
(84) Omnivorous agreement as feature percolation: Step 1
vP
v
VP
objϕ2
V0
v0
subjϕ1
⇒
vP
v
VPϕ2
objϕ2
V0
v0
subjϕ1
(85) Omnivorous agreement as feature percolation: Step 2
vP
v
VPϕ2
objϕ2
V0
v0
subjϕ1
⇒
vPf(ϕ1,ϕ2)
v
VPϕ2
objϕ2
V0
v0
subjϕ1
Here, I’ve chosen vP as the relevant node dominating both the subject and the
object, though not much hinges on this particular choice. The precise featural
contents that vP ends up with will depend on how ϕ1 and ϕ2 (the feature
bundles originally borne by the subject and the object) are combined to form a
single feature bundle. But given that features originating on either the subject
or the object may find their way to vP, agreement of a given probe with vP may
result in the appearance of omnivorous agreement.
The crucial question then becomes the nature of the function f, in (85), which
combines the feature bundles thatoriginateon the subject and object into a single
feature bundle, to be borne by vP. In a system like this, a feature like [participant]
is not licensed by direct agreement with the subject or object, since the probe
does not enter into an agreement relation with the arguments themselves (cf.
section 4.4). Therefore, to derive the AF person restriction (76), the function f
must be able to distinguish a pair of feature bundles like (86) from a pair like
(87)—since the former is possible in Kichean AF, but the latter is not.
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 73
(86) subjϕ1 objϕ2 (possible)
3rd person: Ø 1st person:

participant
author

(87) subjϕ1 objϕ2 (ruled out)
2nd person:

participant

1st person:

participant
author

The condition required in order to distinguish pairs like (86) from pairs like
(87) is formally identical to the one required on a Multiple Agree account
and therefore faces the same problems. Ultimately, the set of admissible (or
inadmissible) pairings of feature bundles has to be stipulated in order to capture
the AF person restriction. This contrasts with the relativized probing account
presented in section 4.4, which was able to derive the AF person restriction
with recourse only to the independently motivated PLC (75).
4.5.3 A Positional Account
Suppose we were to insist that the agreement probes (π0 and #0) in Kichean
AF always target the closest nominal, and that what looks like omnivorous
agreement is the result of movement—namely, that arguments that bear
[participant] or [plural] features move closer to the relevant probe than their
more feature-depleted counterparts.
Consider those AF clauses in which the verb ends up agreeing with the
object—for example, combinations of a 3rd person singular subject with a 3rd
person plural object.
(88) ja
foc
rja’
him
x-e/*Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3pl/*3sg.abs-see-af
rje’
them
‘It was him who saw them.’ [=(72b)]
If #0
always targets the closest nominal, then in (88), the plural object has to
have moved past the subject at the point in the derivation at which #0 probes,
as shown in (89).
74 Chapter 4
(89) #P
· · ·
FP
F
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
tobj
V0
· · ·
subj(sg)
· · ·
F0
obj[pl]
· · ·
#0
Thus, when #0
probes, it will target the object by virtue of minimality—without
requiring recourse to relativized probing. Subsequent movement operations
could undo the [object > subject] order created by (89), so we might not expect
to see this order in the spelled-out string.
While I am not aware of any evidence in favor of this kind of movement
in Kichean (i.e., movement of the object across the subject exactly and only
when the object bears [participant] or [plural] features), that does not mean
such movement does not occur. However, this analysis—even if true—does
not really do away with relativized probing; it simply relegates it from π0/#0
to whatever triggers movement of the object in (89), represented here as F0.
The reason is that F0 must be able to skip the subject and move the object
to Spec,FP when the object carries [participant]/[plural] and the subject does
not; but it must not do so when the subject does carry those features and the
object does not (otherwise, we would falsely predict that Kichean AF would
exhibit object agreement throughout). So while π0
/#0
no longer have to be
“omnivorous” on this account, F0 now has to be.
In other words, this “positional” alternative involves a selective movement
operation, whose application facilitates a treatment of agreement by π0/#0 as
determined by minimality alone; but relativized probing is then required to
handle the behavior of the syntactic probe responsible for moving the relevant
argument to its closest-to-π0/#0 position. Moreover, the same conclusions that
will be argued in chapter 5 to follow from the behavior of π0 and #0 in Kichean
AF could be drawn from the behavior of F0, if the alternative sketched here
turned out to be independently preferable.
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 75
Given that I know of no positive evidence in favor of this alternative (i.e., in
support of the kind of movement shown in (89)), I will—if only for expository
purposes—continue to follow the analysis as presented in section 4.4.
I now turn to regular (i.e., non-AF) transitives and intransitives in Kichean,
illustrating how the account sketched in section 4.4 derives the behavior of
absolutive agreement in those cases, as well.
4.6 Absolutive Agreement in Regular Transitives and Intransitives
The account presented in section 4.4 was shown to capture the syntactic and
morphological properties of ϕ-agreement in the Kichean AF construction. In
this section, I will show how the same account extends to the behavior of
absolutive agreement in non-AF transitives and intransitives in Kichean.
4.6.1 Intransitives
In intransitive clauses there is of course only one (nonoblique) noun phrase in
the domain of the two agreement probes, π0 and #0, as illustrated in (90).
(90) Basic clause structure in Kichean intransitives
#P
πP
· · ·
· · ·
Theme
V0
· · ·
π0
[ ]
#0
[ ]
– number probe
– person probe
<pl>
<prtc>
The very same derivational sequence argued for in section 4.4 applies here, as
well. First, π0 probes for a target bearing [participant]. In this case, the only
noun phrase that could possibly be targeted is the Theme argument, since there
are no other nonoblique nominal targets available. Thus, if the Theme is 1st/2nd
person (and therefore carries a [participant] feature), it will be targeted by π0.
As before, being probed by π0 triggers clitic doubling of the probed
argument; thus, if the Theme is indeed 1st/2nd person, a clitic will be generated
that reflects the complete ϕ-feature set of the Theme (recall the featural
coarseness property of clitic doubling; section 4.3). This clitic will occupy the
single morphological slot afforded to absolutive agreement markers in Kichean
(see (71)), and therefore no other overt morphology—in particular, the spell-
out of #0—will be able to surface in that slot.
76 Chapter 4
Let us now consider what happens when the Theme is 3rd person. Recall that
π0 in Kichean systematically skips any target that lacks a [participant] feature;
relaxing this assumption would generate the wrong prediction for combinations
of a 3rd person subject with a 1st/2nd person object in the AF construction
(where agreement with the object is, in fact, obligatory). This means that when
the single argument of an intransitive is 3rd person, it will not be targeted by
π0 and therefore will not be clitic-doubled. Consequently, the agreement slot
will remain available for the spell-out of other morphological material.
Recall also that in Kichean, as in the rest of Mayan, the absolutive agreement
paradigm contains no overt morphology that one could associate with 3rd
person singular. Thus, if anything in this scenario stands to appear in the
agreement slot, it will be the overt spell-out of #0 (as was the case in AF
clauses where both the subject and the object are 3rd person). As before, #0
is relativized to seek [plural] features; and so, if the Theme is plural, #0 will be
able to target it. This is the case whether a clitic has been generated or not (i.e.,
whether the Theme is a 1st/2nd person argument or a 3rd person one), but as
in section 4.4, only when no 1st/2nd person argument is present—and thus, no
clitic is created—will the exponence of #0 (e-) be able to surface.
The results of this account are summarized in the table in (91) (cf. (74)).
(91) Verbal morphology generated in intransitives (Kaqchikel)
Theme
ϕ-features
Probing for
[participant]
(by π0
) finds
a target?
Clitic whose
creation
is triggered
Probing for
[plural]
(by #0
) finds
a target?
Exponent
of #0
Actual
morpheme
found in
agreement
slot
1sg yes i(n)- (1sg) no Ø i(n)-
2sg yes a(t)- (2sg) no Ø a(t)-
1pl yes oj- (1pl) yes e- oj-
2pl yes ix- (2pl) yes e- ix-
3sg no n/a no Ø Ø
3pl no n/a yes e- e-
As was the case in (74), the final column of (91) (representing the actual
agreement morphology found on the verb in each scenario) is generated by
the logic of morphological competition outlined in (71). If probing by π0
is successful in locating a [participant]-bearing argument, the result is clitic
doubling of that argument, and the resulting clitic will occupy the agreement
slot. If no such clitic was generated (which is the case when the Theme is 3rd
person), the exponence of #0
has a chance to surface.
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 77
4.6.2 Transitives
Turning now to the analysis of absolutive agreement in regular Kichean
transitives, the account presented in section 4.6.1 will work as is, provided that
π0
and #0
are unable to see the external argument. One could imagine various
ways of achieving this result. First, we might conjecture that the probes that I
have labeled π0 and #0 correspond to what is usually thought of as v0 (this
is explicitly assumed for Basque, for example, in Preminger 2009)—rather
than, say, corresponding to Infl0/I0/T0. If this were the case, then under certain
assumptions the external argument would be outside the probing domain of
these heads (pace Béjar and Rezac 2009), meaning they could only see the
internal argument. The problem with this approach is that we could not carry
this assumption over to AF clauses, where these probes clearly need to be able
to access both core arguments; and so, we would need ad hoc stipulations
in order to differentiate between the locations of these probes in AF and
non-AF clauses.26
A second avenue worth exploring is case-theoretic: if the external argument
bears ergative case at the relevant level of representation, this might preclude
π0
and #0
from accessing its ϕ-features, even if these probes are located
higher than the base positions of both core arguments (e.g., if π0 and #0 are
in the Infl0/I0/T0 area). This seems particularly plausible if we adopt the view
that ergative is inherent case (Aldridge 2004, Legate 2008, Woolford 1997;
but see below), since other inherently case-marked arguments—for example,
dative experiencers—are typically impenetrable to ϕ-agreement, as well. The
problem with this approach is that unlike full-fledged PPs, inherently case-
marked nominals are not truly invisible to ϕ-probes: while they cannot transfer
their own ϕ-feature values to the probe, they still interact with ϕ-agreement
in the form of intervention (as will be discussed extensively in chapter 8).
Crucially, intervention by the external argument would preclude absolutive
agreement with the lower internal argument from going through, which is not
the desired result here.
Instead, suppose that the difference between AF clauses and regular
transitives with respect to the external argument is a positional one. Let
us assume, as in Preminger 2012, that ergative is assigned in a dedicated
projection (see Preminger 2012, Rezac, Albizu, and Etxepare To appear for
arguments that ergative is in fact structural and not inherent). As shown by
Holmberg and Hróarsdóttir (2003), the traces of A-moved phrases are invisible
to ϕ-probes (at least under certain conditions). Thus, if the external argument
is base-generated below π0 and #0, but moves out of this position and into a
position above these two probes to receive ergative case, then only the internal
argument will be visible to these ϕ-probes, as illustrated in (92).27
78 Chapter 4
(92) Absolutive ϕ-probing in Kichean transitives
“ErgP”
· · ·
#P
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
i.a.
V0
· · ·
te.a.
· · ·
π0
[ ]
#0
[ ]
· · ·
e.a.
– number probe
– person probe
<pl>
<prtc>
We therefore expect no interaction in regular transitive clauses between the
external argument and the ϕ-probes identified as π0 and #0 in section 4.4.
This correctly predicts that when one considers only the internal argument, the
behavior of the so-called absolutive agreement marker (which, on the current
account, is in some cases a clitic whose creation is triggered by π0 and in other
cases the overt exponence of #0) would be the same in non-AF transitives as it
is in intransitives.
Of course, this does not address the question of how the ergative agreement
morphemes in Kichean come about and, in particular, whether they are clitics
or the spell-out of a ϕ-probe whose features have been valued. While I have
little to say about this here, it is worthwhile noting that the ergative agreement
paradigm, repeated in (93), encodes number distinctions suppletively in all
three persons (cf. the absolutive paradigm, where this is only the case for
1st/2nd person).
(93) erg
agreement
marker (sg.)
erg
agreement
marker (pl.)
1st n/w- q(a)-
2nd a(w)- i(w)-
3rd r(u)/u- k(i)-
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 79
This suggests that the ergative markers are either (i) clitics or (ii) the overt
exponence of a single probe H0 that probes for number and person features
simultaneously. These markers are also TAM-invariant (i.e., they do not show
allomorphy based on the tense or aspect of the host; see Arregi and Nevins
2008, 2012, as well as note 21), which provides some suggestive evidence in
favor of the clitic analysis. On the other hand, the form of the ergative markers
bears a much weaker resemblance (if any) to that of the corresponding strong
pronouns (see section 3.4). Since the precise nature of these agreement markers
is immaterial to the current discussion (in particular, these markers are not
found in the Kichean AF construction), I leave this question aside for now.
To summarize, we have seen that the same proposal put forth in section 4.4
to account for agreement in the Kichean AF construction correctly predicts that
the same agreement markers will arise when there is only one argument in the
domain of the “absolutive” ϕ-probes (π0 and #0)—which I have argued is the
case both in intransitive clauses and in regular transitive clauses.
Appendix: Evidence from Tzotzil for the Separability of Person and Number in
Mayan
In sections 4.4–4.6, I put forth an account of ϕ-agreement in Kichean AF based
on the idea that person features and number features are syntactically separable,
and that they probe independently of one another (Anagnostopoulou 2003,
Béjar 2003, Béjar and Rezac 2003, Laka 1993a, Shlonsky 1989, Sigurðsson
1996, Sigurðsson and Holmberg 2008, Taraldsen 1995; see section 4.1). In this
appendix, I present evidence from the work of Aissen (1987) and Woolford
(2011) for the separability of person and number from within the Mayan
language family itself.
Tzotzil is a Mayan language of the Tseltalan branch, a somewhat distant
relative of the Kichean languages that are at the center of this chapter. As
Aissen and Woolford discuss, Tzotzil has two series of absolutive agreement
markers, one that appears in the prefixal field (as in (94a)) and one that appears
in the suffixal field (as in (94b)).28
(94) a. ch-
inc-
a-
2.abs-
s-
3.erg-
mil
kill
‘He is going to kill you.’
(Aissen 1987:62)
b. j-
1.erg-
mala
wait
-oj
-perf
-oxuk
-2pl.abs
‘I have waited for y’all.’
(Aissen 1987:48)
80 Chapter 4
As Woolford notes, Tzotzil is rather exceptional in exhibiting both the
prefixal pattern and the suffixal one within one and the same language (other
Mayan languages generally exhibit just one of these patterns and adhere to it
throughout; see Bricker 1977, Tada 1993).
The reader may have noticed that the gloss of the prefixal agreement
markers does not include a number component; indeed, while the suffixal
series is differentiated for number, the prefixal series is not (this actually
extends to other prefixal agreement markers as well—namely, the series of
ergative/genitive markers).
(95) Tzotzil absolutive prefixes
1 i-
2 a-
3 Ø-
(96) Tzotzil absolutive suffixes
1sg -on
1pl.incl -otik
1pl.excl -otikotik
2sg -ot
2pl -oxuk
(3)sg -Ø
(3)pl -ik
(Aissen 1987, Woolford 2011)
Now consider the marker -ik, which is listed in (96) under ‘(3)pl’. First,
note that the segmental content of this marker is present, modulo a change in
the high vowel (from i to u), in all plural members of the suffixal paradigm
(96). This already suggests that -ik may be less of a ‘3pl’ marker and more of
a general-purpose marker of plurality in Tzotzil.
But perhaps more strikingly, there are circumstances under which -ik is
actually used in Tzotzil to signal the plurality of a 2nd person argument—
compare (97) and (98).
(97) Pi-
com-
j-
1.erg-
mil
kill
-ik
-(3)pl.abs
‘I killed them.’
(Aissen 1987:49)
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 81
(98) ch-
inc-
a-
2.abs-
j-
1.erg-
mil
kill
-ik
-(3)pl.abs
‘I am going to kill y’all.’
(Aissen 1987:49)
The factors governing the choice of prefixal versus suffixal absolutive
agreement morphology in Tzotzil are beyond the scope of this book; see Aissen
1987 and Woolford 2011 for discussion.29 What is crucial here is that in (98),
the ϕ-features of the 2nd person plural object are expressed discontinuously, by
two separate morphemes: one that reflects its person features (a- ‘2.abs’) and
one that reflects its number features (-ik ‘(3)pl.abs’). The same holds for 1st
person plural absolutive arguments, modulo the morphological decomposition
of 1st person suffixal markers suggested earlier and schematized in (99).30
(99) a. -otik (‘1pl.incl.abs’) =
-o

n
t

(‘1.abs’) + -ik (‘(3)pl.abs’)
b. -otikotik (‘1pl.excl.abs’) =
-o

n
t

(‘1.abs’) + -ik (‘(3)pl.abs’) + REDUPL (‘excl.abs’)
(100) a. l-
com-
i-
1.abs-
s-
3.erg-
pet
carry
-ot
-1.abs
-ik
-(3)pl.abs
(= -otik)
‘He carries us(incl).’
(Aissen 1987:1; glosses modified)
b. ch-
inc-
i-
1.abs-
s-
3.erg-
mil
kill
-ot
-1.abs
-ik
-(3)pl.abs
-REDUPL
-excl.abs
(= -otikotik)
‘He is going to kill us(excl).’
(Aissen 1987:47; glosses modified)
Because there is no overt 3.abs prefix, one cannot verify the discontinuous
expression of ϕ-features with 3rd person plural absolutive arguments; but at
the very least, they do not counterexemplify the generalization that plural is
expressed by an independent morpheme (see (97)).
We have seen that absolutive agreement in Tzotzil can be expressed
discontinuously, in which case it consists of (i) a prefix expressing person
features only, (ii) a set of suffixes consisting of a number morpheme, and
potentially, (iii) morphemes related to the clusivity distinction (i.e., 1sg.incl
versus 1sg.excl).31
Note the similarity between this pattern and the Basque agreement data in
(101), repeated from earlier.
82 Chapter 4
(101) Guraso-e-k
parent(s)-artpl-erg
niri
me.dat
belarritako
earring(s)
ederr-ak
beautiful-artpl(abs)
erosi
bought
d-
3.abs-
i-
√
-
zki-
pl.abs-
da-
1sg.dat-
te.
3pl.erg
‘(My) parents have bought me beautiful earrings.’ [=(63)]
(102) abs-dat present-indicative auxiliary paradigm
abs
person
root
(have)
abs
number
abs
“number+”
dat
all ϕ-features
1sg na tzai t
2sg ha tzai {k,n}
3sg zai o
1pl ga tzai zki gu
2pl za tzai zki zu
2pl+ za tzai zki te  zue
3pl zai zki e
[=(64)]
As shown in (101)–(102), the absolutive plural marker -zki in the absolutive-
dative present indicative auxiliary paradigm in Basque shows up on the
opposite side of the auxiliary root from absolutive person marking—much like
the suffixal number marker -ik in Tzotzil. In Preminger 2009, I argued that this
Basque pattern comes about because a separate head, #0, probes for a [plural]
feature on the absolutive argument, and -zki is the spell-out of #0 when it has
found such a feature; it seems feasible to handle the Tzotzil suffixal plural
marker along similar lines.
It is of course also possible to handle cases where different ϕ-features of the
agreement target are expressed discontinuously, as in the Tzotzil and Basque
examples shown here, within a purely morphological approach (e.g., using
the Fission operation of Distributed Morphology; Halle 1997, Noyer 1997,
and see also note 14). However, this separability of person and number—
and specifically, the fact that they sometimes surface on opposite sides of the
stem—is at least suggestive that the two operate independently of one another
in syntax as well.
The significance of these Tzotzil data for the analysis pursued earlier in this
chapter is that they provide support from within the Mayan language family for
the separability of person and number (a central part of the account proposed in
section 4.4). This state of affairs contrasts with Kichean, where the appearance
of person morphology (which, on the account proposed in section 4.4, arises
through clitic doubling triggered by the [participant] probe π0) crucially blocks
A Derivational Account of Absolutive Agreement in Kichean 83
the plural marker from appearing. Importantly, the Kichean plural marker
(e.g., e-, in Kaqchikel) is not suffixal: when it appears in the verbal complex, it
appears in the same prefixal slot that in other cases is occupied by the person
marker. Therefore, whether or not the plural marker can cooccur with the
person marker in the same verbal complex appears to depend on its position: in
Tzotzil, the plural marker is suffixal, allowing the two to cooccur; in Kichean,
it is prefixal and in complementary distribution with person markers. This
lends support to the assumption regarding morphological competition among
Kichean absolutive agreement markers, put forth in (71) and repeated here:
(103) Morphological competition in the Kichean absolutive agreement slot
In Kichean:
a. The overt exponence of π0
, #0
, and any clitics adjoined to them, all
compete for a single morphological slot.
b. A clitic will always beat out other competing morphological
material. [=(71)]
5 Derivational Time-Bombs: Inadequate for Deriving
the Obligatoriness of ϕ
ϕ-Agreement
Our hypothesis, then, is that the consequences of ordering, obligatoriness, and
contextual dependency can be captured in terms of surface filters, something that surely
need not be the case in principle.
—Chomsky and Lasnik 1977:433, emphasis added
In light of the detailed investigation of the Kichean Agent-Focus (AF)
construction in chapters 3–4, I am now in a position to present the
argument against derivational time-bombs (section 2.2.1) as the means of
deriving the obligatoriness of ϕ-agreement (as in Chomsky’s (2000, 2001)
“interpretability”-based proposal, for example). This argument is the focus of
the current chapter.
I begin, in section 5.1, by laying out the argument from number agreement
in Kichean AF against a derivational time-bombs account. In section 5.2,
I present a second argument, very similar in form, based on person agreement
in the same construction. Finally, in section 5.3, I sketch two accounts of
ϕ-agreement—one within the obligatory-operations model and one within
the violable-constraints model—that, unlike their derivational time-bombs
counterpart, can successfully derive the obligatoriness of number and person
agreement in Kichean AF.
In the appendix to the chapter, I provide a brief historical survey of how
syntactic theory came to regard “uninterpretable features” as having anything
to do with the obligatoriness of ϕ-agreement, in the first place. I also offer a
roadmap for how we might selectively undo this component of contemporary
syntactic theory, while retaining the other developments that came with it (in
particular, the move to a probe-goal perspective on syntactic relations).
86 Chapter 5
5.1 Failed Number Agreement in Kichean Agent-Focus
In this section, I present an argument from number agreement in the
Kichean AF construction showing that derivational time-bombs—including
Chomsky’s (2000, 2001) “uninterpretable features”—are inadequate as a
means of deriving the obligatoriness of ϕ-agreement. Recall from chapter 4
that the exponent of the number probe, #0, can only surface overtly in Kichean
in clauses where no 1st/2nd person clitic was generated. Therefore, examples
in this section are restricted to combinations of 3rd person arguments only.
I begin with what may seem like a rather trivial observation: agreement
with plural arguments in Kichean AF is obligatory; its absence results in
ungrammaticality.1 This is demonstrated in (104a–b), from Kaqchikel.
(104) a. ja
foc
rje’
them
x-e/*Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3pl/*3sg.abs-see-af
rja’
him
‘It was them who saw him.’
b. ja
foc
rja’
him
x-e/*Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3pl/*3sg.abs-see-af
rje’
them
‘It was him who saw them.’ [=(19a–b)]
Let us review how the obligatoriness of agreement is derived in the
derivational time-bombs model and, in particular, within Chomsky’s (2000,
2001) “interpretability”-based framework. In this framework, inflectional
probes enter the derivation bearing features that are uninterpretable to the
semantic interface. These features, in their uninterpretable state, cannot be part
of a well-formed, end-of-the-derivation structure delivered to the interfaces for
interpretation. Establishing a successful ϕ-agreement relation has the effect of
rendering these features interpretable—or perhaps, deleting them altogether—
thereby avoiding the ill-formedness that would otherwise arise.
It is important to note that on this approach, the obligatoriness of agreement
is derivative, not direct. It is not the case that the grammar affords obligatory
status to the agreement operation itself; rather, the agreement operation is
obligatory because only in derivations in which it has applied will the
computational system have rid itself of the offending representational elements
(in Chomsky’s framework, the uninterpretable features).
Under these assumptions, the obligatory nature of ϕ-agreement in Kichean
AF means (i) that a probe like #0 in Kichean enters the derivation bearing
an uninterpretable [plural] feature, and (ii) that this is the reason why, in
examples like (104a–b), this probe must enter into an agreement relation
with an argument bearing [plural]. On this view, the reason the nonagreeing
variants of (104a–b) are ruled out is that an agreement relation with a [plural]-
bearing argument has not been established, leaving the relevant feature on #0
Against Derivational Time-Bombs 87
in its initial, uninterpretable state and thus yielding ungrammaticality at the
interface.
Next, let us consider the fate of the same probe in examples where both core
arguments are singular, as in (105a–b).
(105) a. ja
foc
ri
the
tz’i’
dog
x-Ø-etzel-an
com-3sg.abs-hate-af
ri
the
sian
cat
‘It was the dog that hated the cat.’
b. ja
foc
ri
the
xoq
woman
x-Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3sg.abs-see-af
ri
the
achin
man
‘It was the woman who saw the man.’ [=(14a–b)]
Let us set aside, for the time being, the possibility that #0 in (105a–b) is
generated without the relevant uninterpretable features in the first place; I will
return to this shortly.
That possibility aside, examples like (105a–b) should be ungrammatical
unless some syntactic node has checked the relevant features on #0. There are
no plural arguments in (105a–b), nor does any plural agreement morphology
show up on the verb; therefore, we can be quite certain that the putative checker
of the features on #0
must be some formally singular node. Crucially, however,
#0
in Kichean was shown in chapter 4 to systematically skip singular targets.
Let us remind ourselves why this assumption cannot be relaxed: if #0 did not
have to skip formally singular targets, we would predict that in AF clauses
where the subject is 3rd person singular and the object is 3rd person plural
(e.g., (104b)), 3rd person singular agreement morphology on the verb would
be possible; but this is not the case.
The same facts preclude even an analysis in terms of a null expletive pro
checking the relevant features on the probe, or a functional projection along the
clausal spine (e.g., the vP in its entirety) doing so. Since no plural morphology
arises on the verb in (105a–b), these putative agreement targets would have
to have been formally singular as well; but once again, the probe in question
cannot enter into an agreement relation with formally singular targets.
We have now arrived at a contradiction: the node that checks the relevant
features on #0
in (105a–b) must be formally singular, but #0
in Kichean must
systematically ignore formally singular nodes. The relevant features on #0
thus
could not have been checked at all—and yet the utterances in question are
perfectly grammatical.
It is important to note that this contradiction is not an artifact of the particular
implementation argued for in chapter 4, in which the two (absolutive) ϕ-probes
in Kichean are relativized to marked features in the ϕ-feature geometry
(namely, [participant] and [plural]). Any approach to ϕ-agreement in Kichean
AF that is based on uninterpretable features (and in fact, any approach based
88 Chapter 5
in probing, more generally) would have to include some provision whereby
formally singular nodes are ignored by the relevant ϕ-probe. The reason is this:
uninterpretable features are a hypothesis put in place to enforce the obligatory
nature of probing by inflectional nodes and, consequently, the obligatoriness
of ϕ-agreement in language; if 3rd person singular subjects could check the
uninterpretable features on the probe, then they could—by hypothesis—halt
the probe (i.e., cause it to stop searching for a target). To deny this is to concede
that there is something beyond the mere need to have all uninterpretable
features be checked that drives the probe to continue searching for agreement
targets.
One might entertain the possibility that in the scenario exemplified by
(104b), the probe continues past the 3rd person singular subject not because
of the features on the probe but because of properties of the (3rd person)
plural object. In chapter 4, I adopted Béjar and Rezac’s (2003) Person
Licensing Condition (PLC), which requires [participant] features on pronouns
to participate in agreement relations. But crucially, as detailed in section 4.4.2,
no comparable requirement exists for [plural] features, at least not in Kichean.
Thus, the relative paucity of agreement probes in the AF construction—
one (absolutive) set of probes, rather than two sets (one absolutive and
one ergative), as in regular transitives—restricts the number of [participant]-
bearing arguments that can cooccur in a single AF clause, but has no such
effect on the number of plural arguments. Compare (106a–b) with (107a–b).
(106) a. *ja
foc
rat
you(sg)
x-in/at/Ø-ax-an
com-1sg/2sg/3sg.abs-hear-af
yïn
me
Intended: ‘It was you(sg) that heard me.’
b. *ja
foc
yïn
me
x-in/at/Ø-ax-an
com-1sg/2sg/3sg.abs-hear-af
rat
you(sg)
Intended: ‘It was me that heard you(sg).’ [=(24a–b)]
(107) a. ja
foc
rje’
them
x-oj-tz’et-ö
com-1pl.abs-see-af
röj
us
‘It was them who saw us.’
b. ja
foc
röj
us
x-oj-tz’et-ö
com-1pl.abs-see-af
rje’
them
‘It was us who saw them.’ [=(77a–b)]
There is thus no general requirement in Kichean for [plural]-bearing arguments
to be agreed with in number, and therefore no plausible property of the object
in (104b) that could be responsible for the probe not halting upon reaching the
3rd person singular subject. This means that we are back to having to assume
Against Derivational Time-Bombs 89
that #0 in Kichean systematically skips targets that are formally singular, which
in turn means that the contradiction identified above stands as previously
described.
Let us now return to the possibility set aside earlier, that #0 in Kichean
essentially comes in two varieties: one that bears uninterpretable [plural] and
one that does not.2
(A similar lexical ambiguity is quite standardly posited
as part of the inventory of declarative complementizers in a single language;
see section 10.1.3 for discussion and for an alternative that does away with
such ambiguity in that domain, as well.) If the bare version of #0—that is,
the variant without uninterpretable [plural]—were the one merged in examples
like (105a–b), then the absence of a [plural]-bearing target capable of checking
the uninterpretable [plural] feature on the probe would not pose an obstacle for
convergence, and the contradiction identified above would dissolve.
The question faced by such an approach is what forces the appearance
of the nonbare variant of #0 (i.e., the variant equipped with uninterpretable
[plural]) in those cases where a [plural]-bearing target is there to be agreed
with (e.g., in (104a–b) and in (107a–b)). If the bare variant of #0 were allowed
to appear freely, we would incorrectly predict the grammaticality of what I
will call “gratuitous nonagreement”: cases where a suitable agreement target
is available, but the verb nevertheless surfaces in its nonagreeing, 3rd person
singular form.
(108) *ja
foc
rja’
him
x-Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3sg.abs-see-af
rje’
them
‘It was him who saw them.’ [≈(104b)]
On the hypothesis that agreement is driven exclusively by the need to check
uninterpretable features, merging the bare variant of #0 in (108) would result in
a structure where nothing compels agreement with the plural rje’ ‘them’ to take
place, falsely predicting grammaticality in this case. Crucially, we have already
seen that there is no requirement on the part of [plural]-bearing arguments to be
agreed with, so that could not be the source of the ungrammaticality of (108),
either.
In short, once we allow the finite verbal complex in examples like
(105a–b) (where both the subject and the object are 3rd person singular) to
occur without uninterpretable number features, there seems to be no way of
enforcing agreement in an example like (108) that does not falsely predict
ungrammaticality for examples like (107a–b) (where both the subject and the
object are plural).
Another alternative to consider involves the idea of a last-resort repair
mechanism. Suppose that there is a mechanism that eliminates unchecked
90 Chapter 5
uninterpretable features from the representation right before the representation
is shipped to the interfaces for interpretation (see, e.g., Béjar’s (2003) Default
Valuation operation). Such an operation could eliminate the uninterpretable
features on #0 in examples like (105a–b) (where both the subject and the
object are 3rd person singular) before they had a chance to give rise to
ungrammaticality. However, to maintain empirical adequacy, we would need
to make sure that this mechanism was indeed deployed only as a last resort;
otherwise, we would erroneously predict agreement to be optional throughout
the grammar. In other words, the syntactic computation would need to
distinguish cases where a probe has scanned the structure and failed to find
a suitable target (as in (105a–b)) from scenarios where an agreement target is
available, but agreement is simply not instantiated (the state of affairs I have
labeled “gratuitous nonagreement”; e.g., (108)).
Recall that the backdrop for this discussion is a system where agreement
is driven only by the need to deliver to the interfaces a representation that
is free of derivational time-bombs (i.e., unchecked uninterpretable features)
and that has no independent force compelling agreement to take place. Both
in examples like (105a–b) (which we want to rule in), and in “gratuitous
nonagreement” examples like (108) (which we want to rule out), the featural
state of the probe upon reaching the interfaces would be the same: its
features would not have been checked. To make sure the repair mechanism
in question is only be deployed in the former scenario, and not in the latter, the
system must keep track of whether agreement was attempted, independently
of whether or not it culminated successfully (which is what is tracked by the
checked/unchecked and interpretable/uninterpretable distinctions).
But given the need for a separate mechanism that keeps track of whether
agreement has been attempted (and indeed, makes sure that it has), the role of
feature checking or lack thereof in determining ungrammaticality is rendered
entirely redundant. There is no longer any utterance whose ungrammaticality
arises from unchecked features, that is not also ruled out because agreement
was not attempted. In other words, these derivational time-bombs no longer
bear any of the empirical burden. (Note that this does not equate to the claim
that uninterpretable features do not exist, in the sense of there being a class of
features that have no effect at the semantic interface; but it does mean that they
have no utility in determining syntactic well-formedness. See the appendix to
this chapter for further discussion.)
Finally, let us briefly reconsider Multiple Agree (e.g., Anagnostopoulou
2005, Hiraiwa 2001, 2004), the family of approaches in which multiple core
arguments enter into an agreement relation with a single agreement probe.
I have already shown in section 4.5.1 that Multiple Agree is not a viable
analysis of ϕ-agreement in the Kichean AF, the empirical domain serving as the
Against Derivational Time-Bombs 91
basis for the current discussion. But admittedly, the argument against Multiple
Agree was based on the behavior of person agreement in Kichean AF, whereas
we are presently discussing number agreement in that construction. There is
therefore a possible (if not entirely appealing) avenue whereby Multiple Agree
is available in Kichean AF exactly and only for number agreement.
Crucially, however, this does not fundamentally alter the problem at hand.
Since combinations of two 3rd person singular arguments are acceptable in this
construction (as in (105a–b)), it must be the case that the featural composition
of a #0 probe that has encountered only formally singular arguments in the
course of the derivation is admissible at the interfaces. But if that is the case,
then when the subject is singular and the object is plural (as in (104b)), the
probe should be able to stop without having probed the object—the formally
singular subject having addressed all of the probe’s featural needs (just as in
(105a–b))—as far as admissibility at the interfaces is concerned.
Recall furthermore that the agreement morphology found in the Kichean
AF construction is the same as regular absolutive agreement morphology in
Kichean (section 3.4). In chapter 4, I argued that this is because the same
syntactic probes are involved (see, in particular, section 4.6). If so, then
intransitives whose sole argument is formally singular provide further evidence
that featurally speaking, nothing goes wrong when the number probe #0
comes
into contact with only one argument, even if that argument is not plural.
Again, then, something else must compel the probe to search past the
singular subject in the relevant AF clauses and access the features of the
object (since in examples like (104b), plural agreement is obligatory); and
that something cannot be any representational property of the probe, since that
would falsely predict ill-formedness for AF clauses in which both arguments
are singular, as well as the aforementioned intransitive cases.
To summarize this section: we have seen that in light of the facts
of ϕ-agreement in Kichean AF, there is no adequate way to derive the
obligatoriness of agreement exclusively from the need to eliminate derivational
time-bombs (i.e., ungrammaticality-inducing representational elements, as
in Chomsky’s (2000, 2001) conception of “uninterpretable features”). In
particular, in order to derive agreement with a plural object in lieu of a singular
subject, one must posit features on the probe that could not be checked by
a singular argument—leading to the expectation that AF clauses consisting
only of singular arguments would be ungrammatical, contrary to fact. Plainly
put, we have arrived at the conclusion that unchecked features do not cause
ungrammaticality and are therefore inadequate as a means of deriving the
obligatoriness of ϕ-agreement.
It is worth pausing to note that the considerations surveyed here also
militate against an account of the obligatory nature of ϕ-agreement based on
92 Chapter 5
derivational time-bombs borne by the goal(s), rather than by the probe. As
noted earlier, a probe-goal account of agreement in Kichean AF must assume
that the number probe skips formally singular targets altogether; this by itself
already entails that (3rd person) singular arguments are not agreed with in this
construction. Note also that the arguments in the relevant examples (e.g., in
(105b), ri xoq ‘the woman’ and ri achin ‘the man’) are both full DPs, rather
than any kind of bare or reduced nominals.
Even [plural]-bearing arguments are not necessarily agreed with: this is
shown by the ability of two plural arguments to cooccur in a clause with
only one number probe (as in (107a–b)). This means, among other things,
that theories that tie the licensing of nominals to successful agreement with
the nominal in question (e.g., Chomsky’s (2000, 2001) theory of abstract case
assignment) are nonstarters for Kichean.3 This issue is taken up in greater detail
in chapters 8–9.
Finally, while this is by no means the first argument in the literature against
tying unchecked features to ungrammaticality (see, e.g., Anand and Nevins
2006, López 2007, Preminger 2010a, Schütze 1997, for similar ideas), the
current argument is stronger than some of its predecessors. That is because
we were able to rule out even the possibility of resorting to null expletives,
and/or functional nodes along the clausal spine, as invisible agreement targets
that would “rescue” the derivational time-bombs approach (cf. earlier work,
e.g., Preminger 2010a).
5.2 Failed Person Agreement in Kichean Agent-Focus
In this section, I will outline the argument from person agreement in Kichean
AF for the inadequacy of derivational time-bombs (including Chomsky’s
(2000, 2001) “uninterpretable features”) as a means of deriving the obligatory
nature of agreement. The argument follows the same structure as the argument
from number agreement, just presented; it is therefore given here largely for
the sake of completeness.
Like agreement in number, agreement in person in Kichean is obligatory.
With respect to person agreement, there exists a complication—one that is
ultimately innocuous, but did not exist with number agreement. In chapter 4,
I argued that the overt (absolutive) agreement morphology that arises in Kichean
in the presence of 1st/2nd person arguments is not actually the spell-out of
the person probe, π0; rather, it is the result of clitic doubling of the argument
that is probed by π0. Crucially, though, this does not affect the logic of
feature checking, agreement, and grammaticality: just like the instances of
clitic doubling observed in Basque (Arregi and Nevins 2008, 2012, Preminger
2009), clitic doublingin Kichean is neither optional nor dependent on particular
Against Derivational Time-Bombs 93
semantic properties of the doubled noun phrase (e.g., animacy, specificity); see
sections 4.1 and 4.4 for details. Indeed, if there were any possibility of
suppressing or opting out of clitic doubling of this sort, the nonagreeingvariants
of examples like (109a–d) would be grammatical, contrary to fact.
(109) a. ja
foc
yïn
me
x-in/*Ø-ax-an
com-1sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
ri
the
achin
man
‘It was me that heard the man.’
b. ja
foc
ri
the
achin
man
x-in/*Ø-ax-an
com-1sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
yïn
me
‘It was the man that heard me.’
c. ja
foc
rat
you(sg)
x-at/*Ø-ax-an
com-2sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
ri
the
achin
man
‘It was you(sg) that heard the man.’
d. ja
foc
ri
the
achin
man
x-at/*Ø-ax-an
com-2sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
rat
you(sg)
‘It was the man that heard you(sg).’ [=(18a–b), (15a–b)]
Instead, clitic doubling is inescapably triggered when an argument is probed by
π0, meaning the presence of the relevant agreement morphology is a reliable
indicator that π0 has found a viable agreement target.
Having established this, let us return to the question of how the derivational
time-bombs model in general, and Chomsky’s (2000, 2001) “interpretability”-
based framework in particular, would derive the obligatoriness of person
agreement in the Kichean AF construction. To derive data like (109a–d),
we would need to assume that the probe π0 enters the derivation bearing
an uninterpretable [participant] feature. Derivations of (109a–d) in which
this probe has not entered into an agreement relation with a 1st/2nd person
argument would be ruled out because the uninterpretable [participant] feature
on π0 would reach the interfaces unchecked (and possibly also because of a
PLC violation incurred by 1st/2nd person arguments that have not been agreed
with; see below).
As we did for number features, let us now consider those cases where neither
argument bears the marked feature sought by the probe.
(110) a. ja
foc
ri
the
tz’i’
dog
x-Ø-etzel-an
com-3sg.abs-hate-af
ri
the
sian
cat
‘It was the dog that hated the cat.’
b. ja
foc
ri
the
xoq
woman
x-Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3sg.abs-see-af
ri
the
achin
man
‘It was the woman who saw the man.’ [=(105a–b)]
94 Chapter 5
Once again, I will set aside the possibility that there exist two variants of
π0, with and without the uninterpretable [participant] feature; see section 5.1
on why this is not a generally viable approach to ϕ-agreement in Kichean
AF.4 Examples like (110a–b) should thus be ungrammatical unless the
uninterpretable features on π0
have been checked. Since there are no 1st/2nd
person arguments in (110a–b), nor does any 1st/2nd person agreement
morphology show up on the verb, we can conclude that if anything has checked
the features on π0, it must be some 3rd person node that has done so. But
crucially, π0 in Kichean was shown in chapter 4 to systematically skip 3rd
person targets. Relaxing this assumption would lead to the false expectation
that in clauses with a 3rd person subject and a 1st/2nd person object, 3rd person
agreement morphologywould be possible, contrary to fact (see (109b, d); recall
also section 4.5.1, where it was shown that a Multiple Agree approach to person
agreement in Kichean AF is not viable).
For the same reason, even a null expletive pro, or some clausal projection
(e.g., vP), could not be what checks the features on π0 in (110a–b). To account
for the lack of 1st/2nd person morphology on the verb, such targets too would
have to be formally 3rd person; but that entails that they could not enter into
an agreement relation with the probe, in the first place.
The same contradiction observed in section 5.1 for number agreement
therefore obtains here, as well: only 1st/2nd person targets can check the
features on π0, but no such targets exist in (110a–b). This means that the
derivation of such examples culminates without the features on π0 being
checked; but crucially, these examples are completely grammatical.
As in section 5.1, one may posit a last-resort repair mechanism that removes
unchecked features from the representation before they have a chance to reach
the interfaces and cause ungrammaticality. But to ensure that this mechanism
applies only as a last resort—and in particular, to avoid erroneously predicting
that “gratuitous nonagreement” would be acceptable—there must be a separate
device that ensures that agreement is at least attempted (the unchecked
status of the features themselves, given the existence of a repair mechanism,
would not cause ungrammaticality at the interfaces). There would then be no
remaining derivations that are actually ruled out on the basis of an unchecked
uninterpretable feature, rendering the checked/unchecked (or interpretable/
uninterpretable) distinction redundant for the purposes of determining
grammaticality. (See section 5.1 for a more detailed version of this discussion.)
There is another difference worth noting between number agreement (as
discussed in section 5.1) and person agreement. The account of ϕ-agreement
in Kichean AF put forth in chapter 4 appeals to the Person Licensing Condition
(PLC), proposed by Béjar and Rezac (2003) and repeated here, which is unique
to person features.
Against Derivational Time-Bombs 95
(111) Person Licensing Condition (Béjar and Rezac 2003)
Interpretable 1st/2nd person features must be licensed by entering
into an Agree relation with an appropriate functional category.
[=(40)]
The logic of the PLC is clearly that of a derivational time-bomb (see
section 2.2.1); but appealing to a condition of this sort does not undermine
the claim that derivational time-bombs are inadequate for deriving the
obligatoriness of ϕ-agreement in the general case. That claim does not depend
on there being no derivational time-bombs anywhere in the grammar (see also
section 10.2); and crucially, the PLC is irrelevant when it comes to examples
like (110a–b), which contain no 1st/2nd person arguments whatsoever. It
is examples of this sort, which contain no 1st/2nd person arguments, that
constitute the central argument against deriving the obligatoriness of person
agreement from derivational time-bombs alone.
As before, the overall conclusion is that derivational time-bombs (such
as “uninterpretable features”) are inadequate as a means to derive the obli-
gatoriness of ϕ-agreement.
5.3 If Not Derivational Time-Bombs, Then What? On Obligatory
Operations and Violable Constraints
We have seen that the particular patterns of ϕ-agreement observed in the
Kichean AF construction rule out an account where the obligatoriness of
agreement is the result of the kind of representational device I have termed
derivational time-bombs, including Chomsky’s (2000, 2001) “uninterpretable
features” mechanism. Two more case studies supporting the same conclusion,
based on data from Basque and Zulu, will be presented in chapter 6.
These results actually extend to any framework where grammaticality is
biconditionally related to the successful culmination of ϕ-agreement, since
what we have uncovered is the existence of grammatical utterances in which
the agreement host (in this case, the finite verb) has demonstrably failed to
find a suitable target with which to agree. Therefore, these results also militate
against unification-based theories of agreement, such as LFG or HPSG (e.g.,
Bresnan 2001, Pollard and Sag 1994), at least unless the need for unification
itself is taken to be a violable requirement (see the discussion of a violable-
constraints approach, below).
We are therefore in need of an account that enforces the obligatoriness
of agreement, but is simultaneously compatible with the grammaticality of
utterances in which ϕ-agreement has failed to find an appropriate target. Of
the three models surveyed in chapter 2, this leaves the obligatory-operations
96 Chapter 5
and violable-constraints models as viable contenders. In this section, I offer an
alternative account within each of these two models. The proposals put forth
here are not unprecedented in the literature; see, for example, Schütze’s (1997)
Accord Maximization Principle, Anand and Nevins’s (2006) “maximized, but
not obligatory” agreement, and López’s (2007) “reactive, nonteleological”
reformulations of Agree and Move.
Starting with the obligatory-operations model (section 2.2.3), we could
posit an operation whose effects are—as was the case for Chomsky’s (2000,
2001) Agree operation—the transmission of ϕ-feature values from the goal to
the probe. Despite the similarity to Chomsky’s Agree, however, the proposed
operation would differ in two important respects. First, it would be triggered
immediately and obligatorily whenever a head with unvalued features is
merged into the derivation (cf. Chomsky’s Agree, whose obligatoriness is
only derivative, a side effect of the crash-inducing nature of uninterpretable
features). Second, the proposed operation would be allowed to fail—for
example, when no appropriate target is available—without halting or crashing
the derivation. This operation is formalized in (112) (see also the “reactive”
formulation of Agree argued for in López 2007).
(112) find(f)
Given an unvalued feature f on a head H0, look for an XP bearing
a valued instance of f and assign that value to H0.
Note that there is no explicit mention of c-command or cyclicity in (112).
I assume here, with plenty of other contemporary work in syntactic theory
(e.g., Chomsky 1995, et seq.), that the c-command requirement on the relations
formed by find(f) is simply a by-product of the way in which syntactic
structures are constructed. If the derivation proceeds cyclically, and find(f)
is triggered immediately upon the merger of an f-bearing head H0, then the
only structure built up to that point—and therefore, the only structure available
for find(f ) to scan—is the structure reflexively dominated by H0’s sister. Thus,
principles like c-command need not be stipulated as part of the formulation of
find(f) itself.
As discussed in section 4.2.3, the terms unvalued feature f and XP bearing
a valued instance of f in (112) should be understood as shorthand for the
corresponding feature-geometric notions (namely, a placeholder for a snippet
of feature geometry rooted in f, and an XP that carries the privative feature f,
respectively).
Now recall that π0 and #0 in Kichean are relativized to seek [participant]
and [plural] features, respectively. Thus, at the point at which one of these
heads is merged, the operation in (112) is obligatorily triggered. Given this
model, if nothing in the existing structure carries the relevant (valued) feature,
Against Derivational Time-Bombs 97
find([participant]) or find([plural]) will simply fail. This is the case when
both the subject and the object are 3rd person singular, for example (as in
(110a–b)). The failure of find([participant])/find([plural]) simply means that
no [participant]/[plural] values will be assigned to π0 and #0; crucially, this
lack of valuation does not give rise to ill-formedness, nor does it afford any
special status to π0
or #0
, or assign any ungrammaticality “diacritic” to them.
The derivation simply continues unhindered, as schematized in (113).5
(113) Failure of find([participant]) and find([plural]) owing to lack of
viable targets [≈(110a–b)]
· · ·
#P
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj3sg(=Ø)
V0
· · ·
subj3sg(=Ø)
· · ·
π0
[ ]
#0
[ ]
· · · – number probe
– person probe
<pl>
<prtc>
⇒
· · ·
#P
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj3sg(=Ø)
V0
· · ·
subj3sg(=Ø)
· · ·
π0
Ø
#0
Ø
· · · – number probe
– person probe
98 Chapter 5
On the other hand, the obligatory triggering of find([participant]) and
find([plural]) correctly rules out instances of “gratuitous nonagreement”—
where a viable agreement target is available, but the values it bears are not
transferred to the probe—as in (114), for example.
(114) *ja
foc
rja’
him
x-Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3sg.abs-see-af
rje’
them
‘It was him who saw them.’ [=(108)]
Let us pause to highlight a particular architectural point that arises with
respect to such examples, already foreshadowed in section 2.2.3: on the current
approach, an example like (114), is not ruled out because of some offending
diacritic or representational property that it carries. It is ruled out because there
is simply no derivational sequence sanctioned by the grammar in which the
operation in (112) (specifically, find([plural])) is not triggered—and therefore,
no derivational sequence in which the available [plural] feature on the object
rje’ ‘them’ is not transmitted to the [plural]-relativized probe, #0.
As already noted, the idea that certain outcomes are ruled out not because of
any offending representational element or diacritic, but because there is simply
no well-formed derivation that produces them, is virtually inescapable—even
within a much more canonical version of Minimalist syntax than the one
proposed here. This was illustrated in section 2.2.3 using minimality effects
(Richards 2001, among many others); these effects were shown to require that
certain derivations be ruled out not because of the featural content of particular
nodes, but because they violate the locality condition in question.
On the proposal advanced here, the ill-formedness of an example like (114)
is the same sort of phenomenon: there are simply no well-formed derivations in
which a ϕ-probe like #0 is merged, but the operation find(f) is not triggered.
This extends to other cases of “gratuitous nonagreement,” as well, as in the
Hebrew (115a–b).
(115) a. ha-necig-im
the-representative-pl
dibr-u
spoke-3pl
‘The representatives spoke.’
b. *ha-necig-im
the-representative-pl
diber
spoke(3sg.masc) [=(2a–b)]
Assuming that finite verb agreement in Hebrew reflects the fact that (finite)
Infl0 carries unvalued ϕ-features when initially merged, the only derivation
sanctioned by the grammar will be one in which find([ϕ]) is triggered
immediately upon the merger of Infl0. In this case, the subject (ha-necig-im
Against Derivational Time-Bombs 99
‘the-representative-pl’) carries valued ϕ-features and is already in the
derivation (in its vP-internal position) when Infl0 is merged.6 Therefore,
following the definition of find(f) in (112), the ϕ-feature values found on
the subject will be transmitted to Infl0 in any well-formed derivation of (115),
and their spell-out will be the agreement marker -u ‘-3pl’.
The same logic also rules out what can be described as “gratuitous
agreement”—the appearance of plural or 1st/2nd person agreement
morphology in a derivation where no plural or 1st/2nd person agreement target
exists.
(116) a. *ja
foc
ri
the
tz’i’
dog
x-at/e/ix/. . .-etzel-an
com-1sg/3pl/2pl/. . .abs-hate-af
ri
the
sian
cat
‘It was the dog that hated the cat.’
b. *ja
foc
ri
the
xoq
woman
x-at/e/ix/. . .-tz’et-ö
com-1sg/3pl/2pl/. . .abs-see-af
ri
the
achin
man
‘It was the woman who saw the man.’
(117) *ha-nacig
the-representative
dibar-ti/dibr-u/dibar-tem/. . .
spoke-1sg/spoke-3pl/spoke-2pl/. . .
‘The representative spoke.’
Examples like the Kaqchikel (116a–b) and the Hebrew (117) are ruled
out because the grammar simply does not generate a derivation in which
[plural], [participant], or [author] values have been transmitted to the relevant
ϕ-probes, since find(f) can only transmit such values when they have been
found on some XP target. In other words, just like instances of “gratuitous
nonagreement” and violations of minimality, these examples are ruled out
because there is no derivation sanctioned by the grammar that leads to the
result in question.
Given that find(f) can terminate without having successfully found a valued
instance of f to copy onto the head H0, the absence of an admissible derivation
that leads to a given string (as in the scenarios just discussed) is generally
the only way on the current account that agreement-related ungrammaticality
could arise. This will prove particularly important once the empirical picture is
broadened in chapter 8 to include instances of dative intervention.
As an alternative to find(f), one may opt for a solution within the violable-
constraints model. In section 2.2.2, I outlined the basic form such an account
would take, using a constraint I labeled HaveAgr.
(118) HaveAgr
Assign one violation mark for every failure to represent the
ϕ-features of the designated argument on a finite verb. [=(4)]
100 Chapter 5
On this approach, instances of “gratuitous nonagreement” would incur
violations of HaveAgr without performing any better with respect to
constraints outranking HaveAgr.7 To be predictive (and hence, falsifiable),
this approach would require an explicit theory of the set of constraints that
could conceivably dominate HaveAgr, as well as a theory of gen (the
function that generates the set of competing output candidates for a given input
representation).
On the other hand, even in the absence of an explicit theory of this sort, it is
easy to see that a structure like the one arrived at in (113)—where neither the
subject nor the object carries [participant] or [plural] features, and the probes
carry no valued features, either—will not incur any violations of HaveAgr.
Since there are no ϕ-features on the arguments, (118) is vacuously satisfied.
Assuming, then, that no violations of other relevant constraints are incurred by
a structure like (113), this candidate will harmonically bound its competitors
(i.e., outperformthem regardless of the constraint ranking),correctly predicting
the well-formedness of examples like (110a–b) (in which both the subject and
the object are 3rd person singular, and no 1st/2nd person or plural agreement
morphology arises on the finite verb).
In order to choose between the two accounts presented in this section, we
will first need to investigate in some detail a different sort of failed agreement:
dative intervention. That will be the topic of chapter 8.
Appendix: How Did We Get Here? A Historical Interlude
In light of the inadequacy of Chomsky’s (2000, 2001) “interpretability”-based
proposal as a means of deriving the obligatoriness of ϕ-agreement (as was
demonstrated in sections 5.1–5.2), it is worth pausing to consider how it is that
this proposal came about, in the first place.
The last couple of decades of work in generative syntax have seen a shift
toward a radically reduced inventory of fundamental grammatical operations,
down to perhaps only two: Agree and Merge (see, e.g., Chomsky 2008). As
an essentially unavoidable result, the explanatory burden has been shifted
onto increasingly articulated representations.8 The fundamental operations
that do remain are seen as a response, by the computational system, to the
demands placed on these representations by the interfaces of syntax with
other computational modules (specifically, the semantic interface and the
morphophonological one). Any meaningful classification of these operations
into “obligatory” and “optional” therefore becomes redundant, as whether or
not they are deployed is governed by the aforementioned interface needs.
Historically, this representationally driven approach to syntactic theory was
preceded by a transformational approach, where a significantly larger portion
Against Derivational Time-Bombs 101
of the explanatory burden was borne by the inventory of syntactic operations.9
For example, wh-movement was captured at this stage of the theory by means
of a transformation (or “rule”) labeled “Move wh-phrase” (Chomsky 1977:72);
importantly, the obligatoriness of wh-movement—rather than being attributed
to properties of the wh-phrase, or of its potential landing site—was attributed
to the obligatory status of “Move wh-phrase” itself.
The shift from this transformational approach to the representationally
driven approach discussed earlier coincided, in the course of the development
of syntactic theory, with a crucial change in the perspective taken toward
movement. The various empirical patterns that fall under the umbrella
of Rizzi’s (1990) Relativized Minimality (such as superiority effects in
multiple-wh questions) prompted a shift to an analysis of movement as a
response to the needs of the landing site, or of an “attractor” structurally
adjacent to the landing site (see, in particular, Frampton 1991). This eventually
gave rise to the probe-goal theory of how pairs of positions come to be related
in syntax (Chomsky 2000)—a theory used throughout this book, as well.
In conjunction with this change of perspective on movement, it was noted
that in at least some probe-goal pairings—in particular, those referred to here
as ϕ-agreement—there was a systematic interpretive asymmetry between the
probes and the goals. The asymmetry concerns whether the features involved
in the probe-goal relation (e.g., ϕ-features) make a semantic contribution to
the interpretation of the probe and/or of the goal. The observation was that
features like [plural] and [participant] on a noun phrase affect the interpretation
of that noun phrase, whereas they do not alter the semantic interpretation
of a verb or TAM marker, even if they are morphologically expressed there
(Chomsky 1995:277–278).10 In other words, the idea was that ϕ-features can
be interpreted on the goal, but not on the probe—hence the terms interpretable
and uninterpretable.
Given that accounting for the obligatoriness of ϕ-agreement is a desideratum
one way or another, Chomsky made the move to derive this obligatoriness
from the aforementioned interpretive asymmetry. This was done by adding
the conjecture that features that are uninterpretable on a verb or TAM marker
cannot be handled by the semantic interface, and would cause the derivation
to “crash” if they were still present at the point at which the structure was
subjected to interpretation.11 On this view, agreement (or Agree), would serve
to eliminate these problematic features from the representation, or at least alter
their uninterpretable status. With this move, Chomsky effectively “tethered”
the obligatoriness of ϕ-agreement to the interpretive asymmetry between
ϕ-features on nominals and their counterparts on verb-like elements.
The discussion so far has touched upon two specific changes that have taken
place in the history of syntactic theory: the shift to a probe-goal perspective
102 Chapter 5
on syntactic relations, and the tethering of obligatoriness to uninterpretability.
Crucially, the two—though historically related—are logically independent of
one another. Indeed, the find(f) proposal advanced in section 5.3 is entirely
based on probe-goal relations, but it altogether eschews “interpretability”
as a syntactically meaningful distinction (as will the refinements of this
proposal introduced in chapter 8). Instead, this proposal makes use of probe-
goal relations as the underpinning of feature valuation (see, in particular,
section 4.2.3), but with no special status afforded to as-of-yet unvalued
features, beyond lacking a value (in particular, while unvalued features
trigger the find(f) operation, they are not considered to be any kind of
“ungrammaticality diacritic”).
Furthermore, while the argumentation in favor of the probe-goal approach
was empirical in nature (e.g., wh-superiority patterns), the argumentation in
favor of tethering obligatoriness to “interpretability” was purely conceptual—
a classic attempt to reduce one observed phenomenon (the obligatoriness of
ϕ-agreement) to another (the aforementioned interpretive asymmetry between
ϕ-features on the probe and on the goal). As such, it was a completely
reasonable null hypothesis to pursue—but one that can and should be
abandoned, in the face of compelling contradictory evidence. Such evidence
is precisely what I hope to have shown in this chapter (building on the results
of chapter 4).
I remain agnostic as to where the flaw lurks, exactly, in Chomsky’s
argument. Perhaps ϕ-features on verbs/TAM markers are not “uninterpretable”
in the first place. Alternatively, perhaps uninterpretable features do not cause
ill-formedness at the syntax-semantics interface and are instead simply ignored
by the interpretive procedure. I leave the resolution of these questions for
future research. What is clear, given the outcome of sections 5.1–5.2, is
that uninterpretable features (even if such a thing exists) cannot be what
is responsible for the obligatory nature of ϕ-agreement. See chapter 10—
and in particular, section 10.2—for further discussion regarding the status of
uninterpretable features in other domains of syntactic theory.
What these results show, I think, is that the radical shift of the explanatory
burden onto representations, and away from the intricacies of the derivational
engine itself, is ill-conceived—at least as it pertains to ϕ-agreement. The
derivational engine cannot be as stripped-down as some (see, e.g., Chomsky
2008) would contend; and perhaps, the “representationalist tide” should be
stemmed, if not reversed.
6 Two More Case Studies in Failed Agreement
In this chapter, I present two more case studies in failed-but-tolerated
agreement in grammatical utterances (failed agreement, as defined in
section 2.1). The first involves the interaction of two morphosyntactic
properties in Zulu: the conjoint/disjoint alternation in Zulu verbal morphology
and the distribution of nouns lacking the nominal augment morpheme. The
second involves simplex (i.e., nonperiphrastic) unergative verbs in Basque.
These case studies provide further support for the conclusions reached in
chapter 5: that failed agreement results only in the features on the probe(s)
going unvalued, not in ungrammaticality (or any kind of “crash”). This, despite
the fact that the agreement relations in question—in Zulu and in Basque—are
decidedly obligatory, when possible.
The data from Zulu, and the argumentation pertaining to them, are presented
in section 6.1. The Basque data and their analysis are presented in section 6.2.
6.1 The Conjoint/Disjoint Alternation and Nominal Augment Morphology
in Zulu
In this section, I present an argument based on data from Zulu that supports
the conclusions reached in chapter 5: that a derivational time-bombs approach
(including Chomsky’s (2000, 2001) “interpretability”-based proposal) cannot
properly account for the obligatory nature of syntactic probing. The argument
is based on a particular alternation in Zulu verbal morphology known as the
conjoint/disjoint alternation, and its interaction with the distribution of a certain
class of nominals—namely, those that lack the morpheme known as nominal
augment.1
I introduce the conjoint/disjoint alternation in section 6.1.1 and present
the basic facts of nominal augment in section 6.1.2. In section 6.1.3,
104 Chapter 6
I give Halpert’s (2012; henceforth, H12) analysis of the interaction between
these two phenomena. Finally, in section 6.1.4, I show how these facts
further demonstrate the inadequacy of the derivational time-bombs model in
accounting for the obligatoriness of syntactic probing.
6.1.1 The Conjoint/Disjoint Alternation
In certain tenses, the Zulu verb alternates between two morphological forms,
known as the disjoint (marked by ya-, in the present tense) and the conjoint
(marked by an empty morpheme, Ø-, in the present tense).2
(119) a. ku-
17subj-
Ø/*ya-
conj/*disj-
pheka
cook
[u-
1aug-
Sipho]
1Sipho
‘Sipho is cooking.’
b. [u-
1aug-
Sipho]
1Sipho
u-
1subj-
ya/*Ø-
disj/*conj-
pheka
cook
‘Sipho is cooking.’
(H12:144–145)
Despite what a pair like (119a–b) might lead one to believe, it is not the case
that the conjoint/disjoint alternation tracks extraction out of the verb phrase
(e.g., out of vP). Instead, as has been argued by Buell (2005, 2006) and
van der Spuy (1993), the alternation is sensitive to whether or not vP contains
any overt (nonmoved) material. In particular, the following pattern emerges:
(120) The distribution of conjoint and disjoint morphology in Zulu
Conjoint: vP contains overt postverbal material.
Disjoint: vP contains no overt postverbal material.
Thus, as one would expect, weather predicates (which are presumably
generated with no arguments whatsoever) require the use of the disjoint, to
the exclusion of the conjoint.
(121) ku-
17subj-
ya/*Ø-
disj/*conj-
banda
be.cold
‘It’s cold.’
(H12:144)
Importantly, the alternation is sensitive not only to arguments, but also to
locatives. Compare a Goal reading of phandle ‘outside’ to a Location reading
of the same modifier.
Two More Case Studies in Failed Agreement 105
(122) a. [u-
1aug-
Sipho]
1Sipho
u-
1subj-
Ø-
conj-
gijima
run
phandle
outside
‘Sipho is running outside.’ (✔ Goal reading, ✗ Location reading)
b. [u-
1aug-
Sipho]
1Sipho
u-
1subj-
ya-
disj-
gijima
run
phandle
outside
‘Sipho is running outside.’ (✗ Goal reading, ✔ Location reading)
(Claire Halpert, pers. comm.)
On the assumption that a Goal reading arises when the modifier is attached low
(i.e., inside vP), while a Location reading arises when the modifier is attached
high (i.e., outside of vP), the pattern observed in (122a–b) follows from the
observation in (120). Concretely, the Goal reading emerges when vP contains
the modifier, giving rise to the conjoint (Ø-), whereas the Location reading
emerges when vP does not contain the modifier—and since this particular vP
contains no other overt material, this gives rise to the disjoint (ya-). The data
in (122a–b) are repeated in (123a–b), with the boundaries of vP annotated
accordingly.
(123) a. [u-
1aug-
Sipho]
1Sipho
[u-
1subj-
Ø-
conj-
gijima
run
phandle]vP
outside
[≈(122a–b)]
‘Sipho is running outside.’ (✔ Goal reading, ✗ Location reading)
b. [u-
1aug-
Sipho]
1Sipho
[u-
1subj-
ya-
disj-
gijima]vP
run
phandle
outside
‘Sipho is running outside.’ (✗ Goal reading, ✔ Location reading)
As one might expect, locatives that unambiguously denote goals are
compatible only with the conjoint (since they are necessarily vP-internal).
(124) u-
1aug-
Mfundo
1Mfundo
u-
1subj-
Ø/*ya-
conj/*disj-
gijim-
run-
ela
appl
esitolo
loc.7aug.7store
‘Mfundo is running to the store.’
(H12:148)
H12 shows furthermore that the conditions on the appearance of the conjoint
and disjoint cannot be subsumed under a prosodic account (H12:156–159).
On the one hand, there are instances of phrase-final verbs carrying the
conjoint (Ø-)—for example, in the first conjunct of right-node raising
constructions. On the other hand, there are instances of phrase-medial verbs
carrying the disjoint (ya-)—for example, before certain purpose and rationale
clauses (H12:181–182), which can be shown not to induce a right-hand
prosodic boundary after the verb.
106 Chapter 6
6.1.2 Nominal Augment Morphology
Nominals in Zulu are typically marked with an initial vowel, known as
the augment, whose form depends on the noun class of the nominal. Some
examples are given in (125a–d).
(125) a. i- n- cwadi ‘book’ (class 9)
b. u- mu- ntu ‘person’ (class 1)
c. i- zim- fingo ‘sharks’ (class 10)
d. i- xoxo ‘frog’ (class 5)
(Claire Halpert, pers. comm.)
Where one can identify a distinct noun class marker (which is the case for most
common nouns, including those in (125a–c)), the augment attaches outside of
it. Of course, given that the form of the augment depends on noun class, the
only way we can tell that the augment is not part of the noun class marker itself
is that there are environments in which the noun class marker surfaces without
the augment (Buell 2011, Mzolo 1968, von Staden 1973).
Following H12, the kind of augmentless nominal we will examine is the kind
that is interpreted as a negative polarity item (NPI; see also Buell 2011). As
H12 shows, even when one controls for factors such as definiteness, specificity,
and focus, there emerge distinct structural conditions on the distribution of
these augmentless nominals. First, they must appear within vP.
(126) a. a-
neg-
ngi-
1st.sg.s-
sho-
say-
ngo
neg.past
ukuthi
that
ku-
17subj-
fik-
arrive-
e
prfv
[muntu]
1person
‘I didn’t say that anyone came.’
b. *a-
neg-
ngi-
1sg.subj-
sho-
say-
ngo
neg.past
ukuthi
that
[muntu]
1person
u-
1subj-
fik-
arrive-
ile
prfv
(H12:97–98)
Compare (126b) with (127), where the pre-verbal nominal has its augment:
(127) a-
neg-
ngi-
1sg.subj-
sho-
say-
ngo
neg.past
ukuthi
that
[u-
1aug-
muntu]
1person
u-
1subj-
fik-
arrive-
ile
prfv
‘I didn’t say that a/the person/anyone came.’
(H12:97)
Two More Case Studies in Failed Agreement 107
Second, an augmentless nominal must be the highest nominal in its vP.3
(128) a. ✔ VS with augmentless S
a-
neg-
ku-
17subj-
phek-
cook-
anga
neg.past
[muntu]
1person
‘Nobody cooked.’
b. ✔ SVO with augmentless O
[u-
1aug-
muntu]
1person
a-
neg-
ka-
1subj-
phek-
cook-
anga
neg.past
[qanda]
5egg
‘A/The person didn’t cook any egg.’
c. ✗ VSO with augmentless S, augmentless O
*a-
neg-
ku-
17subj-
phek-
cook-
anga
neg.past
[muntu]
1person
[qanda]
5egg
d. ✔ VSO with augmentless S, augmented O
a-
neg-
ku-
17subj-
phek-
cook-
anga
neg.past
[muntu]
1person
[i-
5aug-
qanda]
5egg
‘Nobody cooked the/an/any egg.’
e. ✗ VSO with augmented S, augmentless O
*a-
neg-
ku-
17subj-
phek-
cook-
anga
neg.past
[u-
1aug-
muntu]
1person
[qanda]
5egg
(H12:102)
6.1.3 Halpert’s (2012) Analysis
To account for the structural conditions on the distribution of augmentless
nominals, H12 posits a head L0, which probes into the vP.4
(129) · · ·
vP
· · ·
L0
Crucially, H12 assumes that L0 is able to probe into the vP even after
A-movement out of the vP has taken place, a sort of limited countercyclicity
that has been independently supported in work by Asarina (2011), Holmberg
and Hróarsdóttir (2003), and Sigurðsson and Holmberg (2008).
108 Chapter 6
If L0 finds a target within vP, the result is conjoint morphology (Ø-, in the
present tense); if it does not, the result is disjoint morphology (ya-, in the
present tense).5 These spell-out rules are summarized in (130a–b).
(130) a. Ø- (the conjoint): spell-out of L0 that has found
an agreement target
b. ya- (the disjoint): spell-out of L0 that has not found
an agreement target
On the assumption that traces of A-moved phrases are invisible for probing
(see, e.g., Holmberg and Hróarsdóttir 2003, as well as section 6.1.4), this
derives the distribution of the conjoint and the disjoint. In particular, the
disjoint (ya-) only arises when no argument remains in the vP (including those
instances where vP was already empty to begin with; see (121)).
But this is not the end of the story; suppose that while L0 can target
augmented and augmentless nominals alike, augmentless nominals require
agreement with L0. In other words, augmentless nominals in Zulu are like
bearers of [participant] in other languages—which obey Béjar and Rezac’s
(2003) Person Licensing Condition, requiring them to be agreed with by an
appropriate probe (see chapter 4).6
As H12 shows, this derives precisely the structural conditions detailed in
section 6.1.2 on the distribution of augmentless nominals. Since L0 only agrees
with a single target, it can license at most one augmentless nominal, deriving
the inability of multiple augmentless nominals to cooccur within a single vP.
On the other hand, since augmented nominals require no licensing, multiple
augmented nominals are able to cooccur freely. Finally, since probing by L0
obeys minimality, only the highest target in vP can enter into the requisite
licensing relation with L0—deriving the fact that an augmentless nominal, if
it appears, must be the structurally highest argument in its vP (see (128a–e)).
It is worth pausing to compare this state of affairs with the probing and
licensing system of Kichean, detailed in chapter 4. In Kichean, as in the other
languages discussed by Béjar and Rezac (2003), bearers of [participant] require
licensing-by-agreement. In Kichean in particular, only bearers of [participant]
and/or [plural] can be agreed with—and each is targeted by a dedicated probe
(labeled π0 and #0, respectively).
One difference that arises from these distinctions is that in Kichean, the
argument licensed by agreement (i.e., the bearer of [participant]) does not
have to be the highest argument in vP (a phenomenon termed “omnivorous
agreement”; see Nevins 2011, as well as section 3.2). That is because in
Kichean, the probe involved in the licensing relation, π0, is feature-relativized
to [participant] (section 4.2), so that the only arguments it can target are those
Two More Case Studies in Failed Agreement 109
that require licensing in the first place. This is why the position of those
arguments within the vP—in particular, whether they are subjects or objects—
does not matter. Zulu illustrates what happens when such relativization is not
in place: augmentless nominals are not the only possible targets for L0, and so
minimality forces augmentless nominals to be the highest target in vP if they
are to be licensed. The result is that while 3rd person arguments in Kichean are
“skippable” (by π0), nothing in Zulu seems “skippable” (by L0).
We might wonder, then, what independent evidence can be adduced (and is
available to the learner of Zulu) for the indiscriminate nature of L0. It turns
out that we have already seen such evidence: recall that the conjoint/disjoint
alternation, which reflects the exponence of L0 itself (130), is sensitive even
to locative modifiers. This was demonstrated by examples like (131)–(132),
repeated from earlier.
(131) a. [u-
1aug-
Sipho]
1Sipho
[u-
1subj-
Ø-
conj-
gijima
run
phandle]vP
outside
[=(123)]
‘Sipho is running outside.’ (✔ Goal reading, ✗ Location reading)
b. [u-
1aug-
Sipho]
1Sipho
[u-
1subj-
ya-
disj-
gijima]vP
run
phandle
outside
‘Sipho is running outside.’ (✗ Goal reading, ✔ Location reading)
(132) u-
1aug-
Mfundo
1Mfundo
u-
1subj-
Ø/*ya-
conj/*disj-
gijim-
run-
ela
appl
esitolo
loc.7aug.7store
‘Mfundo is running to the store.’ [=(124)]
This contrasts with the selectivity of ϕ-probes in Kichean—as evinced, for
example, by their inability to target obliques (see section 4.2.1).
In summary, we have seen how H12’s proposal provides a unified
analysis of the two empirical domains surveyed in sections 6.1.1–6.1.2: the
conjoint/disjoint alternation, and the distribution of augmentless nominals. The
analysis makes use of precisely the same machinery employed in the analysis
of ϕ-agreement in Kichean AF, differing only in the degree of relativization of
the relevant syntactic probe. Importantly, such variation in relativization was
already necessary regardless of Zulu—for example, to capture the difference
between π0 in Kichean, which is relativized to [participant], and π0 in PCC
languages, which is not.
6.1.4 Tolerated Failed Agreement in the Zulu Verb Phrase
H12’s analysis presented in section 6.1.3 centers around the role of the probe
L0
, whose exponence is responsible for the conjoint/disjoint alternation in
Zulu verbal morphology. A crucial component of the analysis is that disjoint
110 Chapter 6
morphology (ya-, in the present tense) arises precisely when L0 has failed to
find a target within vP; this was the case in examples like (133a–c).
(133) a. [u-
1aug-
Sipho]
1Sipho
u-
1subj-
ya/*Ø-
disj/*conj-
pheka
cook
‘Sipho is cooking.’ [=(119b)]
b. [i-
5aug-
qanda]
5egg
[u-
1aug-
Sipho]
1Sipho
u-
1subj-
ya/*Ø-
disj/*conj-
li-
5obj-
pheka
cook
‘As for the egg, Sipho is cooking it.’
(H12:145)
c. ku-
17subj-
ya/*Ø-
disj/*conj-
banda
be.cold
‘It’s cold.’ [=(121)]
Let us now focus in on what it means, exactly, for L0 to fail to find a
target. First, observe that L0 cannot engage in Multiple Agree relations (e.g.,
Anagnostopoulou 2005, Hiraiwa 2001, 2004). If it could, we would falsely
predict that more than one augmentless nominal could appear (and be licensed)
within the same vP (see (128c)).
This, in turn, means that a node like vP itself cannot be a viable target for L0.
If it could, it would unambiguously constitute a closer target than any nominal
properly contained within it; and given the unavailability of Multiple Agree
for L0, that would mean that no augmentless nominal could ever be licensed
(since it would never be the closest agreement target to L0). For similar reasons,
traces of A-moved phrases cannot be viable targets for L0. If they could, then
augmentless objects in SVO clauses could never be licensed: the A-trace of the
moved subject would always be closer to L0; but augmentless objects in SVO
clauses are licit (see (128b)).
Taken together, these results entail that in examples where vP has been
completely vacated, as in (133a–c), there is literally no available target with
which L0 could have entered into an agreement relation.
A theory where there are two variants of L0, one with the features that
trigger probing and one without, is ruled out on much the same grounds as
the corresponding account of Kichean was (section 5.1). On such a theory,
the disjoint would be the spell-out of the variant of L0
born without these
features (since the disjoint is precisely what one finds when there are no
viable targets in vP). Having already established that augmented nominals
require no licensing, such a theory would predict that as long as the vP
contained nothing but augmented nominals, one would find the conjoint and
the disjoint in free variation. The bare version of L0 could be selected, resulting
in the disjoint surfacing; or the nonbare version could be selected, resulting in
Two More Case Studies in Failed Agreement 111
successful agreement with the closest (augmented) nominal, and the conjoint
surfacing. But as demonstrated by (119a), such optionality is not what one
finds.
We have thus arrived at a conclusion similar to the one reached in chapter 5,
concerning the probes #0
and π0
in Kichean AF clauses containing only 3rd
person singular arguments. Specifically, in Zulu clauses where vP is either
base-generated empty or has been completely vacated via A-movement, L0
has engaged in probing and failed to find a suitable target.
Let us now ask the same question asked in chapter 5 with respect to these
Kichean probes: what forces L0 in Zulu to probe (and rules out derivations in
which it has not done so)? In empirical terms, what rules out the derivation of
(134), repeated from earlier, in which L0 has simply not probed and thus not
agreed with a vP-internal target—resulting in the disjoint (ya-)?
(134) ku-
17subj-
Ø/*ya-
conj/*disj-
pheka
cook
[u-
1aug-
Sipho]
1Sipho
‘Sipho is cooking.’ [=(119a)]
Consider an answer in terms of derivational time-bombs: an “uninterpretable
feature” on L0, which goes unchecked unless L0 successfully agrees with some
vP-internal target. As argued above, there is only one variant of L0; thus, this
same lexical item—with the same featural content—would be inserted into the
derivation of examples like (133a–c) (where the vP is empty). This falsely
predicts that such examples would be ill-formed, because there are no targets
against which the features on L0 could be checked (recall that we have seen
that neither the traces of A-movement, nor nodes along the clausal spine, such
as vP, can be viable agreement targets for L0
).
Finally, recall that the obligatoriness of probing by L0 cannot be derived by
placing derivational time-bombs on the arguments themselves, either. That is
because probing by L0 (realized as conjoint morphology) is obligatory even in
vPs consisting exclusively of augmented nominals, and we have already seen
that augmented nominals are licit even when they could not possibly have been
agreed with by L0.
In summary, much like the Kichean facts in chapters 3–5, these Zulu facts
cannot be handled using derivational time-bombs, including Chomsky’s (2000,
2001) “uninterpretable features.” (For a discussion of approaches that may fare
better with respect to these kinds of data, see section 5.3.)
6.2 Basque Unergatives
In this section, I review another case study of failed agreement in grammatical
utterances, involving unergative verbs in Basque.7
112 Chapter 6
I will argue for an analysis of simplex (i.e., nonperiphrastic) unergative
verbs in Basque as true intransitives: one-place predicates that select a single,
ergative-marked argument. This view contradicts the traditional (generative)
analysis of these verbs, which posits an underlying/implicit object in addition
to the ergative subject, rendering them equivalent to transitives. I will provide
arguments against the implicit-object analysis of these verbs and in favor of the
intransitive one.
This means that when the main verb is a simplex unergative, the ϕ-probe(s)
responsible for “absolutive agreement” will search for, and fail to find, an
absolutive agreement target.8 As in Kichean, the result will be the appearance
of what is commonly referred to as “3rd person singular (absolutive) agreement
morphology,” but is just the spell-out of a ϕ-probe—or set of probes—that
has failed to locate a target bearing [plural], [participant], or [author] features
(section 4.2).
This analysis will be shown to achieve better results than the implicit-
object analysis, in providing a uniform treatment of three types of unergative
constructions in Basque: simplex unergatives, periphrastic unergatives
(involving a light verb), and the less commonly discussed iterative/repetitive
unergative construction. This last construction, I will show, cannot be easily
handled by the traditional account of Basque unergative morphosyntax—but is
straightforwardly derived on the failed-agreement account.
I begin, in section 6.2.1, by reviewing the arguments for the traditional,
implicit-object analysis of simplex unergatives. I show that each of these
arguments is intrinsically flawed, leaving no conclusive argument in favor of
the implicit-object analysis. In section 6.2.2, I offer an alternative analysis
of simplex unergatives in terms of failed agreement. I then present a
dataset from the iterative/repetitive unergative construction, which favors the
failed-agreement analysis over the implicit-object approach. Section 6.2.3
summarizes.
6.2.1 The Case for the Implicit-Object Conjecture
There are two constructions in Basque that are commonly referred to as
“unergative”; these are demonstrated in (135a) and (135b).
(135) The Basque “unergative alternation”
a. Light-verb construction
Jon-ek
Jon-erg
dantza
dance
egin
do
d-Ø-u-Ø.
3.abs-sg.abs-
√
-3sg.erg
‘Jon danced.’
Two More Case Studies in Failed Agreement 113
b. Simplex unergative
Jon-ek
Jon-erg
dantzatu
dance.prt
d-Ø-u-Ø.
3.abs-sg.abs-
√
-3sg.erg
‘Jon danced.’
Let us begin by noting that the light-verb construction (135a) is not really
“unergative” in any meaningful sense. The main verb, syntactically speaking,
is clearly the light verb egin ‘do’, and this verb quite clearly takes a direct object
in dantza ‘dance (n.)’. Perhaps the source of this terminological confusion is
that the element whose semantic interpretation is responsible for the open-
class, encyclopedic content of event predication in (135a) is the nominal
dantza; or perhaps it is merely the fact that the translation of (135a) into
Indo-European languages typically involves an unergative verb. In any case,
while (135a) is not dyadic (which is a conceptual-semantic category), it is quite
plainly transitive (which is a morphosyntactic category).
The same is not true of (135b), at least not straightforwardly. Here, the main
verb is dantzatu, and it appears that this verb selects an ergative argument (Jon-
ek ‘Jon-erg’) but no absolutive one. It is examples like (135b) that I will refer
to as simplex unergatives.
Many authors have attempted to draw parallels between the light-verb
construction and the simplex unergative construction—arguing either that one
derives from the other, or at least that the light-verb construction reveals
something about the underlying nature of simplex unergatives. These authors
therefore conclude that there is an implicit object of one sort or another in
examples like (135b) (e.g., Bobaljik 1993, Hale and Keyser 1993, Laka 1993b,
Levin 1983, Ortiz de Urbina 1989, Uribe-Etxebarria 1989).
One source of evidence offered for the implicit-object conjecture is the very
existence of alternations such as (135a–b)—which may suggest that simplex
unergatives have, as their derivational source, something close to the light-verb
construction. But while pairs like (135a–b) certainly exist, the alternation is far
from fully productive: there are several nominals that can appear in the light-
verb construction, for which no corresponding simplex unergative exists; and
there may also be simplex unergatives for which no corresponding nominal
exists, though the status of these is less clear-cut (see Laka 2006, Preminger
2012).
Another source of evidence concerns the form of the auxiliary in examples
like (135a–b). First, both the light-verb construction and the simplex unergative
construction make use of the so-called “transitive” auxiliary, constructed from
*edun(/ukan) ‘have’, rather than izan ‘be’. There is a rich tradition, in the
114 Chapter 6
linguistic study of Indo-European languages in particular, of deriving auxiliary
selection (i.e., the choice between have-type and be-type auxiliaries) from
transitivity in general, and from the presence of an underlying object in
particular (see Burzio 1986, and much related work). If the same principles
extended to Basque, it would be possible to view the form of the auxiliary verbs
in (135a–b) as indicative of transitivity and thus the presence of a (possibly
implicit) object.
In Basque, however, transitivity turns out to be an inadequate predictor
of auxiliary selection. Specifically, it has been shown that a better predictor
of which auxiliary root is chosen is the presence of an ergative agreement
target in the clause (Laka 1996) or simply the presence of ergative agreement
morphology in the auxiliary’s morphological domain (Arregi 2004).
As an illustration of where the predictions of such accounts diverge from that
of the transitivity-based account, consider instances of allocutive agreement
(e.g., Eguren 1995, Oyharçabal 1993). In allocutive agreement contexts,
the auxiliary exhibits agreement morphology that references the addressee
of the speech act. This “additional” agreement morphology may appear in
either the ergative agreement slot or the dative agreement slot, depending
on which slots are and are not already occupied by agreement with regular,
thematic arguments. Consequently, one can find instances of ergative allocutive
agreement morphology with verbs that are unambiguously intransitive.
(136) Jon
Jon(abs)
eror-i
fall-prfv
d-Ø-u-k.
3.abs-sg.abs-
√
-2sg.erg
‘Jon has fallen. (2sg allocution)’
(Arregi 2004:9)
Crucially, owing to the presence of allocutive agreement in the ergative slot,
the auxiliary in (136) must be built using the *edun(/ukan) ‘have’ root, rather
than the izan ‘be’ root—despite the intransitivity of the verb.9
Thus, the presence of an ergative agreement target (or simply ergative
agreement morphology) is a better predictor of the choice between ‘have’ and
‘be’ in Basque than the transitivity of the verb is. The choice of *edun(/ukan)
‘have’both in the light-verbconstruction and in simplex unergativesis therefore
merely an indication that both contain an ergative agreement target (and/or
ergative morphology). But that much was uncontroversial to begin with: the
fact that these examples contain an ergative subject, and correspondingergative
agreement morphology, is what led to their classification as “unergative” in the
first place. It therefore does not bear directly on the presence or absence of an
implicit object, which is our focus here.
Two More Case Studies in Failed Agreement 115
Another property of the auxiliary verbs in (135a–b) that has been taken as
evidence for the implicit-object conjecture concerns the presence of absolutive
agreement morphology in both cases. In particular, the d- ‘3.abs-’ prefix in
the auxiliary d-Ø-u-Ø ‘3.abs-sg.abs-
√
-3sg.erg’ found in both examples has
been taken to indicate successful agreement with an implicit object.10
As demonstrated in chapter 4, however, the agreement morphology that
linguists label “3rd person singular” in a given language may well be nothing
but the morphological exponence of probes that have failed to locate a target
bearing [plural], [participant], or [author] features in their search domain. Thus,
the presence of this agreement morphology is compatible with an analysis
of (135b) in terms of successful agreement with a 3rd person singular implicit
object, but also with the absence of an absolutive agreement target altogether.
In section 6.2.2, I will provide arguments in favor of the latter; the point here,
though, is that the presence of absolutive agreement morphology on the finite
auxiliary does not provide conclusive evidence of one analysis over the other.
Finally, we may consider case-theoretic motivations for the implicit-
object conjecture. On the surface, simplex unergatives appear to violate the
generalization that ergative case can only be assigned in the presence of
another, nonoblique noun phrase. This generalization has been formulated in
several ways. For some, ergative case is dependent on the prior discharging of
absolutive (the Obligatory Case Parameter proposal; see Bobaljik 1993, Laka
1993b); for others, it is dependent on the presence of another nonoblique (not
necessarily absolutive) nominal in the local domain (see, e.g., Marantz 1991).
Regardless, there is evidence from Basque examples like (137) that a verb
can have an ergative argument without another nonoblique (e.g., absolutive)
coargument.11
(137) [[Harri
stone(s)
horiek]
thosepl(abs)
altxa-tze-n]
lift-nmz-loc
probatu
attempted
[d-Ø/it-u-(z)te]aux.
3.abs-sg/pl.abs-
√
-3pl.erg
‘They have attempted to lift those stones.’
(subject is pro <3pl.erg>)
(Etxepare 2006:333)
If projecting an ergative subject were contingent on the presence of a
nonoblique coargument, overt or implicit, then only if the matrix verb probatu
‘attempted’ had an implicit direct object could the subject of (137) be ergative.
Crucially, however, absolutive ϕ-agreement in Basque is not omnivorous
(there are no instances where an accessible absolutive agreement target is
116 Chapter 6
skipped in favor of another, structurally lower target; cf. Kichean, as discussed
in chapters 3–4). Since the absolutive noun phrase in the embedded clause
in (137) is unambiguously farther away from the absolutive ϕ-probe(s) than
an implicit direct object in the matrix clause would be, finite absolutive
agreement in the matrix clause would have to target this implicit matrix
object. That, in turn, would preclude agreement with the embedded absolutive
argument. This is indeed what happens when there is an actual absolutive
argument in the matrix clause—as in (138), where the matrix subject is
absolutive (as the morphology on the matrix auxiliary attests).
(138) [Liburu-a
book-artsg(abs)
irakur-tze-n]
read-nmz-loc
saiatu
try
[d-ira(/*a)]aux.
3.abs-pl.abs(/*sg.abs).
√
‘They have tried to read the book.’
(subject is pro <3pl.abs>)
(Etxepare 2006:322)
But agreement with the embedded absolutive argument is attested in (137);
and crucially, even when agreement with the embedded absolutive in (137)
obtains, the matrix subject is still ergative (as can be diagnosed through the
ergative agreement morphology on the matrix auxiliary).12
It is important to note that on Marantz’s (1991) dependent-case analysis
(discussed in much greater detail in chapter 9), coargumenthood is not the
relevant locality condition on cases such as accusative and ergative. Thus, for
example, in an exceptional-case-marking (ECM) construction, we find the case
dependencies schematized in (139).
(139) HeNOM expects themACC to invite herACC.
Whether one adopts the raising-to-object analysis of ECM (Postal 1974) or not,
one of the two dependencies in (139) does not involve a pair of coarguments,
at the level of representation that dependent case is computed upon (roughly,
after all A-movement and before all A-bar movement; see Marantz 1991).
One may therefore hypothesize that in the Basque (137), it is precisely the
embedded absolutive argument that serves as a case competitor for the matrix
ergative subject, thus bringing such examples back into compliance with the
aforementioned generalization on ergative case. The problem with such a
hypothesis is examples like (138). The latter contains the same nonfinite,
adpositionally headed embedded clause as the former, complete with an
embedded absolutive argument.13 Yet the embedded absolutive argument in
Two More Case Studies in Failed Agreement 117
(138) does not trigger ergative case on the matrix subject, which is instead
absolutive (as can be discerned, again, by examining the morphology borne by
the matrix auxiliary).
Thus, taken together, (137) and (138) demonstrate that the presence of
another nonoblique argument is not a necessary condition for ergative case
assignment in Basque (see Preminger 2012 for further discussion). These
data do not pertain directly to failed agreement, of course, since in both
examples, the absolutive ϕ-probes have established successful agreement
relations with appropriate targets. They do, however, constitute an existence
proof for ergative case assignment in Basque in the absence of an absolutive
coargument or case competitor. This, in turn, means that there is no case-
theoretic argument to be had in favor of the implicit-object conjecture from the
fact that the subjects of simplex unergatives are ergative rather than absolutive.
As far as I am aware, this exhausts the list of arguments for simplex
unergatives in Basque having an implicit object. As we have seen, none of
these arguments holds up to scrutiny, and each can be defeated using only other
evidence from within Basque itself.
6.2.2 Tolerated Failed Agreement in Basque Unergatives
Given the absence of a conclusive argument in favor of the implicit-
object conjecture, let us consider an analysis of simplex unergatives as
true intransitives: one-place predicates that select a single, ergative-marked
argument (recall that there is no case-theoretic argument that would rule out
a Basque clause where the only nominal argument is ergative; section 6.2.1). If
this analysis turns out to be correct, then probing for an absolutive agreement
target in simplex unergatives would fail to locate a suitable agreement target.
We have already seen evidence that such failure to locate an appropriate
agreement target does not give rise to ungrammaticality (or a “crash”); the
evidence, summarized in sections 5.1–5.2, came from Kichean AF clauses that
lacked any plural or 1st/2nd person arguments, as in the Kaqchikel (140a–b).
(140) a. ja
foc
ri
the
tz’i’
dog
x-Ø-etzel-an
com-3sg.abs-hate-af
ri
the
sian
cat
‘It was the dog that hated the cat.’
b. ja
foc
ri
the
xoq
woman
x-Ø-tz’et-ö
com-3sg.abs-see-af
ri
the
achin
man
‘It was the woman who saw the man.’ [=(105a–b)]
As detailed in section 4.4, the probes π0 and #0 in Kichean are relativized to
seek only bearers of [participant] and [plural], respectively. This assumption
was necessary in order to explain the omnivorous agreement patterns exhibited
118 Chapter 6
by these probes. But as detailed in chapter 5, this means that in examples
like (140a–b), these probes have failed to find any suitable agreement targets.
Crucially, the result is not any sort of ill-formedness; rather, it is the very
morphology labeled by traditional Mayan grammarians as “3rd person singular
(absolutive) agreement morphology” (which, across all of Mayan, is null).
While there is no reason to think that the relevant ϕ-probe(s) in
Basque are relativized to [participant] or [plural] (recall that there is no
omnivorous agreement in Basque), that is a separate issue from whether “3rd
person singular” morphology necessarily indicates successful agreement with
anything. It could still be the spell-out of probes that have not been valued
with [participant], [plural], and so forth—whether the valuation in question
was a result of probing for only marked features, or for any ϕ-features.
On this analysis, we expect invariable “3rd person singular” absolutive
agreement morphology to arise in simplex unergatives, as well as ergative
agreement reflecting the notional subject. Owing to the presence of the latter,
we also expect an auxiliary built using *edun(/ukan) ‘have’ (recall that the
presence of ergative, not transitivity, is the best predictor of selecting ‘have’ or
‘be’ in Basque). As already noted, all of these properties are exactly what we
find with simplex unergatives (see (141), repeated from earlier). But these do
not yet favor the intransitive account over the implicit-object one.
(141) Jon-ek
Jon-erg
dantzatu
dance.prt
d-Ø-u-Ø.
3.abs-sg.abs-
√
-3sg.erg
‘Jon danced.’ [=(135b)]
The evidence that favors the intransitive account comes from data like
(142a–e). It is the case that many predicates that can appear in the light-verb
construction are also able to appear in a variation of this construction in which
the complement of the light verb is a locative or adverbial, rather than a purely
nominal projection. This variation results in an iterative reading.
(142) a. Dantza(-n)
dance(-loc)
egin
do
d-Ø-u-te.
3.abs-sg.abs-
√
-3pl.erg
‘They danced (repeatedly).’
b. Laster(-ka)
run(-adv)
egin
do
d-Ø-u-te.
aux
‘They ran (repeatedly).’
c. Borroka(-n)
fight(-loc)
egin
do
d-Ø-u-te.
aux
‘They fought (repeatedly).’
Two More Case Studies in Failed Agreement 119
d. Oihu(-ka)
scream(-adv)
egin
do
d-Ø-u-te.
aux
‘They screamed/yelled (repeatedly).’
e. Errieta(-n)
dispute(-loc)
egin
do
d-Ø-u-te.
aux
‘They disputed (repeatedly).’
(Etxepare 2003:396–397)
What is important to note, for current purposes, is that the form of the auxiliary
remains the same regardless of whether the complement of the light verb is
nominal or adpositional: it remains an *edun(/ukan) ‘have’-based auxiliary,
with “3rd person singular” absolutive agreement morphology.
Crucially, adpositional phrases are not viable agreement targets in Basque.
The immediate nominal complement of the adposition cannot be agreed with,
nor can the entire PP be agreed with (say, as an invariantly 3rd person singular
target; cf. section 8.3.2). This can be seen by looking again at data like (143).
(143) [[Harri
stone(s)
horiek]
thosepl(abs)
altxa-tze-n]PP
lift-nmz-loc
probatu
attempted
[d-Ø/it-u-(z)te]aux.
3.abs-sg/pl.abs-
√
-3pl.erg
‘They have attempted to lift those stones.’
(subject is pro <3pl.erg>) [=(137)]
Both the PP headed by -n, in its entirety, and the immediate nominal
complement of P0 (altxa-tze- ‘lift-nmz-’) are unambiguously closer to the
matrix auxiliary than the embedded absolutive argument harri horiek ‘stone(s)
thosepl(abs)’ is. Since Basque lacks omnivorous agreement, if either of these
two were viable agreement targets, agreement with the embedded absolutive
argument would be ruled out—contrary to fact.
Returning to the iterative/repetitive construction (142a–e), one is now forced
to admit that absolutive agreement morphology in this construction (as well as
the choice of a have-type auxiliary) does not arise through agreement with the
open-class nominal (e.g., dantza ‘dance (n.)’ in (142a)), since this nominal is
the immediate complement of an adposition.14
The same account given above for simplex unergatives—in which the
absolutive ϕ-probes have simply failed to find any viable agreement target—
straightforwardly handles the appearance of “3rd person singular” absolutive
agreement morphology in the iterative/repetitive construction. In the latter, just
like in the former, this morphology arises simply as the spell-out of probes that
have failed to locate accessible, valued instances of [plural], [participant], or
120 Chapter 6
[author] features. In fact, the latter statement applies equally well to the light-
verb construction.
(144) Jon-ek
Jon-erg
dantza
dance
egin
do
d-Ø-u-Ø.
3.abs-sg.abs-
√
-3sg.erg
‘Jon danced.’ [=(135a)]
In (144), there is an accessible absolutive agreement target, dantza ‘dance
(n.)’ (recall that since the absolutive ϕ-probes in Basque are not relativized
to marked feature values, a 3rd person singular nominal constitutes a viable
target). Nevertheless, this target does not carry valued instances of [plural],
[participant], or [author] features, resulting in the same absolutive exponents,
d-Ø- ‘3.abs-sg.abs-’, as in simplex unergatives and iterative/repetitive
unergatives.
Compare this analysis with one based on the implicit-object conjecture. To
account for the behavior of the iterative/repetitive construction (142a–e), the
latter analysis would have to posit a second, implicit object alongside the overt
complement of the adposition (dantza ‘dance (n.)’, in an example like (145)), to
explain why there is absolutive agreement morphology on the finite auxiliary.
A closely related alternative would be to posit a phonologically null nominal,
perhaps one whose meaning is ‘a repetition’, which takes the PP dantza-n
‘dance-loc’ as its complement.
(145) Dantza-n
dance-loc
egin
do
d-Ø-u-te.
3.abs-sg.abs-
√
-3pl.erg
‘They danced (repeatedly).’ [=(142a)]
But these would be ad hoc maneuvers, whose utility would only be to account
for the agreement facts at hand. On neither of these two alternatives would
the source of absolutive agreement morphology in the iterative/repetitive
construction be the same as its source in the light-verb construction (where
it would come from the overt open-class nominal complement of egin ‘do’).15
This contrasts with the failed-agreement analysis, which, as detailed above,
provides a unified account for the agreement morphology in all three unergative
constructions.
6.2.3 Summary
In this section, we have seen an approach to simplex unergatives in Basque
that involves the absolutive ϕ-probe(s) searching for, and failing to find, a
viable agreement target. This approach provides a unified account of
agreement morphology in all three unergative constructions in Basque:
Two More Case Studies in Failed Agreement 121
(i) the light-verb construction, (ii) simplex unergatives, and (iii) the
iterative/repetitive construction, where the open-class nominal denoting the
event predicate is introduced as the complement of an adposition (and thus
is inaccessible for ϕ-agreement).
Of course, simplex unergatives are grammatical, and thus the success of this
account furnishes another argument for failed agreement being tolerated—and
leading merely to a lack of valuation of the relevant features on the probe(s),
rather than to ungrammaticality (or “crashes”). This, in turn, provides further
support for the conclusions of chapter 5.
7 On “Salience” Hierarchies and Scales
In chapter 4, I offered a comprehensive account of ϕ-agreement in the Kichean
Agent-Focus (AF) construction. This account was able to derive the AF person
restriction (section 3.3) and the morphophonological distinctions between
1st/2nd person agreement markers and 3rd person ones (section 3.4). But
perhaps most importantly, it derived the apparent “salience” effects found in
this construction. As noted in section 3.2, agreement in Kichean AF appears to
obey a “salience” hierarchy or scale, as given in (146).
(146) 1st/2nd person > 3rd person plural > 3rd person singular [=(23)]
If the AF clause contains a 1st/2nd person argument, that argument will control
the agreement morphology on the verb; if not, the presence or absence of a 3rd
person plural argument will determine the agreement morphology.
In earlier analyses of Kichean AF, (146)—or something very close to it—
was considered part of the grammatical apparatus (Dayley 1978, Mondloch
1981, Norman and Campbell 1978, Smith-Stark 1978; see also Stiebels 2006).
On such accounts, the grammar makes explicit reference to this hierarchy/scale
when computing agreement in a Kichean AF clause.
The account in chapter 4, in contrast, made no appeal to a grammatical
device like (146). Instead, it derived these effects from independently
motivated assumptions concerning the way ϕ-features are probed for in the
clause—in particular, Béjar and Rezac’s (2003) argument that person features
are probed for separately from, and prior to, number features (see also
Anagnostopoulou 2003, Béjar 2003, Laka 1993a, Shlonsky 1989, Sigurðsson
1996, Taraldsen 1995). Important to note, in this context, is that the arguments
for such separation were based on an empirical domain distinct from the
one that (146) was put forth to account for (in Béjar and Rezac’s case, the
explicanda were PCC effects in Romance, Greek, Basque, etc.).
In this chapter, I will present five arguments against a direct appeal to
hierarchies/scales like (146) in the account of Kichean AF, and in favor of an
124 Chapter 7
account of the sort given in chapter 4. I begin, in section 7.1, by presenting four
such arguments, all from Kichean. In section 7.2, I present an argument against
a “salience”-based account that arises from the juxtaposition of these Kichean
facts with the Zulu facts discussed in section 6.1 (as analyzed in Halpert 2012).
Section 7.3 provides a summary.
7.1 Against “Salience” Hierarchies/Scales in the Account of Kichean
Agent-Focus
In this section, I present four arguments against the use of a “salience”
hierarchy or scale like (146) in accounting for ϕ-agreement in the Kichean
AF construction. The first two arguments pertain only to accounts that take
a hierarchy/scale like (146) to reflect actual cognitive salience. There is,
however, a weaker position that one might take, which is that (146) is a
grammatical primitive, perhaps related to but not synchronically reflective of
cognitive salience. This is a weaker position because it relinquishes what might
be seen as the “naturalistic” (i.e., domain-general) motivations for (146), which
then must be explicitly stipulated as part of the grammar. Regardless, though,
the force of the final two arguments in this section extends even to this weaker
version of the hierarchy/scale approach.
The first argument concerns the restrictedness of these “salience” effects to
the AF construction. If cognitive salience is truly what is at issue (e.g., the fact
that as speech act participants, 1st/2nd person arguments are more cognitively
salient than their 3rd person counterparts), why would these effects surface
nowhere else in the language but in the AF construction? This is particularly
problematic in light of the fact that the AF construction is characterized by a
very specific, and very rigid, information structure—as its name, Agent-Focus,
makes clear.
The “salience”-based account, then, has the curious property that it is exactly
in this information-structurally rigid construction that agreement suddenly
becomes flexible, and either the subject or the object can be agreed with
depending on their rank along the hierarchy/scale. If cognitive salience is at
issue, surely regular transitives should afford more flexibility for salience to
affect agreement than the AF construction does; but in normal transitives, no
such flexibility exists (see section 3.1).
The second argument comes from the formal addressee pronoun in K’ichee’,
one of the four Kichean languages.1 Quoting from Stiebels 2006:526n13:
“[K’ichee’] has developed a 2nd person formal pronoun [la], which does not
behave as a 2nd person with respect to the salience hierarchy, i.e. it does not
On “Salience” Hierarchies and Scales 125
outrank 3rd person.” If determining which argument is targeted for agreement
in Kichean AF were a matter of cognitive salience, then the prediction would be
that expressions referring to speech act addressees would all pattern alike, but
that seems not to be the case. Importantly, the claim here is not that there is no
possible explanation one could offer that would assimilate even the cognitive
salience of this 2nd person formal pronoun to that of 3rd person arguments.
The point is that in the one case where the “cognitive” and morphosyntactic
properties of an expression seem to diverge, its behavior with respect to the AF
construction aligns with the morphosyntactic ones (i.e., it behaves as if it were
a 3rd person expression).
As noted earlier, the previous two arguments pertain only to accounts that
take a hierarchy/scale like (146) to reflect actual cognitive salience. The weaker
approach would take (146) to be a grammatical primitive, perhaps related to
cognitive salience but not synchronically derived from it. Such an approach
may already be suspect, because of its stipulative nature; but the force of the
remaining two arguments extends to this type of approach, as well.
The third argument, already touched upon in chapter 4, concerns the AF
person restriction.
(147) The AF person restriction
In the Kichean AF construction, at most one of the two core arguments
can be 1st/2nd person. [=(25)]
Clearly, there is nothing about a hierarchy or scale like (146) that predicts that
in Kichean AF, two 1st/2nd person arguments would not be able to cooccur,
while for example two 3rd person plurals would be able to do so.2 It is of
course not self-evident that any account of ϕ-agreement in Kichean AF should
also be expected to account for the AF person restriction. But insofar as an
account is available that achieves both, its existence is an argument against
those accounts that do not; and in section 4.4.2, we saw that the probe-goal
account of Kichean AF was able to derive the AF person restriction, as well.
Finally, the fourth and perhaps strongest argument against hierarchies/scales
in the account of Kichean AF comes from the forms of the actual agreement
markers that arise in this construction. As noted in section 3.4, a hierarchy/scale
like (146) is designed, by its very nature, to factor out the choice of agreement
target from the agreement process itself. It can be viewed as an algorithmic
component that takes, as its input, the inventory of core arguments in a given
clause and returns, as its output, which one will be targeted for ϕ-agreement.
Crucially, however, it is not the case that ϕ-agreement in Kichean AF
is a uniform process but for the choice of agreement target. As detailed in
126 Chapter 7
section 3.4, the 1st/2nd person agreement markers found in this construction
are essentially reduced versions of the corresponding strong pronouns, while
this is not the case for the 3rd person agreement markers.
(148) ABS agreement marker Strong pronoun
1sg i(n)- yïn
1pl oj- röj
2sg a(t)- rat
2pl ix- rïx
3sg Ø- rja’
3pl e- rje’
Note: The segment [ j] is a voiceless fricative, not a glide.
(Kaqchikel)
As can be seen in (148), the correspondence in (149) holds of the 1st/2nd
person markers, but fails for the 3rd person ones.
(149) <agreement marker> = <strong pronoun> – <initial approximant>
As with the previous argument, it is not clear a priori that this difference
between 1st/2nd person markers and 3rd person ones cannot, or should not,
be derived separately from the “salience” effects in Kichean AF. This seems
especially plausible, at first glance, since the same markers (with the same
morphophonological properties, of course) are found even outside of the AF
construction, in normal transitives and intransitives in Kichean, where they
are invariably controlled by the absolutive argument. But as before, there
turns out to be a single account, presented in section 4.4, that derives the
morphophonological distinctions in question while simultaneously accounting
for the “salience” effects that (146) was put forth to capture, and that
can account for the use of these same markers in regular transitives and
intransitives in Kichean. The existence of such an account is therefore a strike
against an account based directly on a hierarchy/scale like (146) (since the
latter has nothing to say about these morphophonological distinctions).
To summarize, we have seen four arguments against the use of “salience”
hierarchies/scales like (146) in the account of Kichean AF. The first two,
from the distribution of these “salience” effects within the language and
from the behavior of the K’ichee’ formal addressee pronoun la, are only
relevant to an approach that views (146) as an actual synchronic reflection of
cognitive salience. The last two, from the AF person restriction and from the
morphophonological distinctions between 1st/2nd person agreement markers
and 3rd person ones, apply more generally to any account in which the
grammar makes direct reference to a device like (146).
On “Salience” Hierarchies and Scales 127
7.2 An Argument from Zulu against “Salience” in Kichean Agent-Focus
In section 6.1, we saw Halpert’s (2012) analysis that unifies two
morphosyntactic phenomena in the Zulu verb phrase: the conjoint/disjoint
alternation and the distribution of nominals without an augment morpheme.
Importantly, as Halpert (2012:169) herself observes,3
this analysis of Zulu
uses the same machinery employed in the analysis of Kichean presented in
chapter 4. The behavior of augmentless nominals in Zulu is the behavior of
[participant]-bearing arguments in Kichean (they can be targeted for agreement
and must be agreed with to be licensed); and the behavior of augmented
nominals in Zulu is the behavior of [plural]-bearing arguments in Kichean (they
can be targeted for agreement but do not require agreement to be licensed).
The juxtaposition of Kichean and Zulu shows the same logic operating in
two different languages—but it operates over categories whose substantive
content is quite different (1st/2nd/3rd person and singular/plural in Kichean;
augmented/augmentless in Zulu).4 That the substantive content of the relevant
categories can vary so radically casts further doubt on the idea that the
phenomena in question have anything to do with salience, in the first place.
After all, Zulu of course has 1st/2nd/3rd person distinctions, but they play no
role in the system that Halpert has identified; and there is little reason to think
that the distinction between augmentless and augmented has any plausible
grounding in cognitive salience, given its sensitivity to purely structural
relations, such as c-command (see sections 6.1.3–6.1.4).
7.3 Discussion
In this chapter, we have seen five arguments against the use of “salience”
hierarchies or scales (like (146)) in the account of Kichean AF. Four of these
come from Kichean itself. Of these, two (from the AF person restriction,
and from the morphophonological properties of the agreement markers) are
applicable even to a weakened version of the hierarchy/scale-based approach
that eschews the link to cognitive salience and stipulates the relevant ranking as
part of the grammar directly. The fifth argument comes from the juxtaposition
of this Kichean pattern with the Zulu pattern discussed in section 6.1,
showing that the same behavior can obtain with respect to a set of categories
(augmented, augmentless) whose substantive content is entirely different, and
much less likely to have anything to do with “salience.”
Before concluding this chapter, I would like to address an apparent (though
ultimately spurious) similarity between this hierarchy/salience-based approach
to ϕ-agreement in Kichean AF and the constraint-based model discussed in
sections 2.2.2 and 5.3. One may notice that a scale like (146) bears at least
128 Chapter 7
superficial similarity to the ranked constraints of a violable-constraints model.
Indeed, one could recast the same scale as a series of ranked constraints.
(150) HaveAgrWith1/2  HaveAgrWithPl  HaveAgr
where
HaveAgrWith1/2
Assign one violation mark for every failure to represent the
ϕ-features of a 1st/2nd-person argument on a finite verb.
HaveAgrWithPl
Assign one violation mark for every failure to represent the
ϕ-features of a plural argument on a finite verb.
HaveAgr
Assign one violation mark for every failure to represent
the ϕ-features of the designated argument on a finite
verb. [=(118)]
A proposal very close to this is advanced, for example, by Stiebels (2006).
However, as with approaches based directly on hierarchies or scales, this
account separates the choice of agreement target from ϕ-agreement itself. As
with the mechanisms discussed in section 7.1, here too we have a mechanism
whose input is the inventory of arguments in an AF clause and whose output
is the one chosen to govern the agreement morphology on the verb. Thus, an
account like (150) cannot derive the morphophonological distinctions between
the resulting 1st/2nd person markers and their 3rd person counterparts. It
should therefore be dispreferred compared with an account that derives both
these morphophonological distinctions and the very explicandum that (150)
was meant to derive (i.e., which argument’s ϕ-features will be reflected on the
AF verb) from a single mechanism—which is exactly what the account given
in chapter 4 achieves.
Importantly, these considerations do not extend to an account based
only on a single agreement-enforcing constraint (e.g., HaveAgr), as in
sections 2.2.2 and 5.3. That is because, on the latter view, the ϕ-agreement
process itself can still be nonuniform, such that the choice of agreement target
interacts with the nature of the resulting agreement morphology. In particular,
it is compatible with 1st/2nd person agreement markers arising via clitic
doubling, but 3rd person (plural) ones arising by direct exponence (as argued
in section 4.4)—and it can therefore handle the fact that the former markers
resemble the corresponding Kichean pronouns, but the latter markers do not.
This version of the violable-constraints model is therefore still in contention, as
noted in section 5.3. To distinguish between this and the obligatory-operations
model, we will have to examine instances of dative intervention, which are the
topic of chapter 8.
8 Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination
In this chapter, I turn to another phenomenon that bears the hallmarks of
failed agreement—one that actually features much more prominently in the
literature on ϕ-agreement than the patterns discussed so far—namely, dative
intervention.1
Descriptively, this term refers to instances where a particular phrase—in
most of the cases discussed, a dative nominal or PP—is able to block agreement
from targeting a structurally lower noun phrase, but is nevertheless unable
to transfer its own ϕ-features to the agreement host. Whether such examples
constitute a true failure of agreement is a matter of analysis, of course, and this
analysis is the topic of the current chapter.
I will highlight a particular point of variation in the behavior of dative
intervention: when movement is involved, dative intervention gives rise to
ungrammaticality, whereas when the putative agreement target remains in situ,
the result is simply “default” (i.e., 3rd person singular) agreement morphology.
This property, I will argue, is best captured if dative intervention is an instance
of failed agreement proper: a scenario where ϕ-agreement (or the operation
responsible for it) is triggered, but fails to culminate successfully—just as in
the Kichean cases discussed in chapters 4–5, as well as the Zulu and Basque
cases discussed in chapter 6.
The proposal will revive a common intuition in the analyses of movement
and agreement, that movement to canonical subject position is somehow
parasitic on ϕ-agreement (see, e.g., Chomsky 1995:283). But on the current
proposal, this dependency is parameterized: it is a property only of non-quirky-
subject languages (e.g., English), and crucially not of quirky-subject
languages (e.g., Icelandic). I will show that this independently observable
parameterization correctly predicts the distribution of ungrammaticality versus
“default” agreement in dative intervention contexts.
130 Chapter 8
I begin with a discussion of dative intervention itself (sections 8.1–8.2),
followed by a survey of the different theoretical approaches that have been
taken to explain it (section 8.3). In section 8.3.3, I highlight work by Bobaljik
(2008) that demonstrates—independently of dative intervention—the case
discrimination property of ϕ-agreement: that ϕ-agreement (on any theory)
must allow agreement to discriminate among its putative targets on the basis
of their case marking.2 The particular extensions to case discrimination that
Bobaljik offers in order to handle dative intervention turn out to fall short
(section 8.3.3.2). But in section 8.4, I show that the same property he argues
for—coupled with the results of chapter 5, involving the tolerated failure of
agreement in perfectly grammatical utterances—furnishes a theory of dative
intervention that correctly predicts the distribution of ungrammaticality and
“default” agreement.
Finally, in section 8.5, I argue that this behavior of dative intervention
can distinguish between the obligatory-operations and violable-constraints
models, both of which are compatible with the results of chapters 4–6
(crucially, to the exclusion of the derivational time-bombs model, including
Chomsky’s (2000, 2001) “interpretability”-based proposal). I show that those
instances in which dative intervention gives rise to outright ungrammaticality
favor the obligatory-operations model over the violable-constraints one.
Section section 8.6 provides a summary.
8.1 The Inability of Datives to Value Features on a ϕ
ϕ-Probe
It is very common for dative nominals to be unable to transfer their own
ϕ-features to an agreement probe (e.g., a finite verb). Icelandic provides
a particularly clear illustration of this (e.g., Bobaljik 2008, Holmberg and
Hróarsdóttir 2003, Sigurðsson 1993, 1996).3 Consider the following example:
(151) Morgum
many
studentum
student.pl.dat
liki/*lika
like.3sg/*3pl
verkið.
job.the.nom
‘Many students like the job.’
(Harley 1995)
It can be shown that examples like (151) are not a matter of a mere “preference”
for agreement with a nominative, when possible; the same effect occurs in the
complete absence of a nominative noun phrase.
(152) Strákunum
boy.the.pl.dat
leiddist/*leiddust.
were.bored.3sg/*3pl
‘The boys were bored.’
(Sigurðsson 1996)
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 131
Sigurðsson’s (1996) choice of the verb leiddist (‘were.bored’) in (152) is
particularly useful, since as he shows, the same stem has a second use in which
it takes a nominative argument and means ‘walk hand in hand’; and in this
second use, the verb obligatorily agrees with its single nominative argument.
(153) Strákarnir
boy.the.pl.nom
leiddust/*leiddist.
walked.hand.in.hand.3pl/*3sg
‘The boys walked hand in hand.’
(Sigurðsson 1996)
This pattern has received various treatments in the literature. For some, it
is a result of the Activity Condition (Chomsky 2001): the ϕ-features on the
dative nominal are hypothesized to enter into a checking relation with a silent
preposition, or its structural equivalent. This renders them inactive, and unable
to enter a ϕ-agreement relation with the finite verb. This approach is discussed
further in section 8.3.1.
For others, it is a matter of locality: datives are PPs, and PPs constitute
locality domains (e.g., Abels 2003, Baltin 1978, Van Riemsdijk 1978). This
prevents the features of the enclosed nominal projection from being accessed
from outside the PP (see, e.g., Rezac 2008a). This approach is discussed further
in section 8.3.2.
For others still, it has been taken as part of the body of evidence
that ϕ-agreement discriminates among its potential targets on the basis
of their (morphological) case (Bobaljik 2008, revising and extending the
crosslinguistic typology of agreement targets originally due to Moravcsik
1974, 1978). This approach is discussed further in section 8.3.3.
Interestingly, while each of these approaches offers a different explanation
for the fact that the features of the dative nominal cannot be accessed by probes
outside the dative projection, they underdetermine what will happen if such
access is attempted. An attempt to establish a ϕ-agreement relation with a
dative target could conceivably result in (i) ungrammaticality, (ii) “default”
(3rd person singular) agreement morphology, or (iii) agreement with the next-
closest potential agreement target other than the dative (e.g., a nominative noun
phrase that is the target structurally closest to the agreement host other than the
dative nominal). Teasing apart these different possibilities is the topic of the
next section.
8.2 The Dative Paradox: Datives as “Defective” Interveners
While we have seen that at least some dative nominals cannot transfer their own
ϕ-feature values to the finite agreement probe, they do count as potential targets
for the calculus of Relativized Minimality (Rizzi 1990) and its contemporary
132 Chapter 8
counterparts (e.g., Chomsky’s (1995) Minimal Link Condition); see also Abels
2012, Boeckx and Jeong 2004, Frampton 1991, Nevins 2007, Starke 2001. In
other words, the very same datives that appear to be inert for the purposes
of ϕ-feature valuation are simultaneously able to prevent the probe from
searching further for a noninert agreement target.
Consider the Icelandic transitive-expletive construction, in which the subject
position of the finite clause is occupied by the expletive það. In this
construction, just as in (151)–(153), the dative cannot value the features on
the finite verb.4
(154) Það
expl
finnst (/*finnast)
find.sg /*find.pl
[ mörgum
many
stúdentum ]dat
student.pl.dat
[sc tölvan
computer.the.sg.nom
ljótar].
ugly
‘Many students find the computer ugly.’
✗
(Holmberg and Hróarsdóttir 2003:1006)
While it cannot transfer its own (in (154), [plural]) features to the probe,
this dative nominal also prevents the probe from searching any further and
accessing the ϕ-feature values on the lower nominative.
(155) Það
expl
finnst (/*finnast)
find.sg /*find.pl
[einhverjum
some
stúdent]dat
student.sg.dat
[sc tölvurnar
computer.the.pl.nom
ljótar].
ugly
‘Some student finds the computers ugly.’
✗
(Holmberg and Hróarsdóttir 2003:1000)
Crucially, it is not that agreement of the kind shown in (155) is generally out
of the question; when the dative is moved to subject position, agreement with
this low nominative goes through.
(156) [Einhverjum
some
stúdent]1
student.sg.dat
finnast
find.pl
t1 [sc tölvurnar
computer.the.pl.nom
ljótar].
ugly
‘Some student finds the computers ugly.’
(Holmberg and Hróarsdóttir 2003:999)
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 133
This state of affairs differs crucially from the relativized probing patterns
discussed in chapter 4. Setting aside ϕ-agreement for the moment, recall the
behavior of wh-probing, as outlined in section 4.2.1.
(157) a.

C0 [who]<+wh> gave [this dish] to [Bob]

−→

C0 [who]<+wh> gave [this dish] to [Bob]

−→ Who gave this dish to Bob?
b.

C0 [John] gave [what]<+wh> to [Bob]

−→

C0 [John] gave [what]<+wh> to [Bob]

−→ What did John give to Bob?
c.

C0
[John] gave [this dish] to [who]<+wh>

−→

C0 [John] gave [this dish] to [who]<+wh>

−→ Who did John give this dish to? [=(47a–c)]
In (157a–c), nodes that lack the feature the probe is looking for (e.g., John
in (157b)) are ignored by the probe outright and do not prevent it from
continuing to scan its search domain for a suitable target. In chapter 4, the same
was observed for the behavior of [participant] and [plural] probes in Kichean,
with respect to 3rd person and singular targets, respectively.
If datives were truly bereft of the feature(s) that the Icelandic finite
agreement probe seeks, we would expect the same behavior: datives being
ignored by the ϕ-probe outright. That this is not the observed behavior (as seen
in (154)–(155)) means that datives bear ϕ-features. This might seem trivially
true in the sense that dative noun phrases can be singular or plural, 1st/2nd/3rd
person, and so on; but that is not the sense that is relevant here. The question
here is whether datives, when viewed “from the outside” by a probe searching
for an agreement target, behave like a node that carries ϕ-features. Recall
from the discussion in section 4.2.2 that if projections that completely lacked
ϕ-features were relevant for ϕ-probing, then ϕ-probes would not even be able
to look past nodes like VP, intransitive vP, and so on, along the clausal spine.
We must therefore conclude that projections that lack ϕ-features entirely do
not interact with ϕ-probing and, concomitantly, that this cannot be the status
of the outermost projection of a dative argument.
This is essentially the reason for the term defective in defective intervention:
datives cannot be thought of as nonbearers of ϕ-features, since they interact
with ϕ-probing; but they cannot be thought of as normal bearers of ϕ-features,
either, since they quite plainly do not behave as such.5 This leads to an apparent
paradox: how can a node simultaneously bear ϕ-features and not bear them?
In what follows, I will refer to this as the dative paradox.
134 Chapter 8
In section 8.4, I will argue that the existence of failed agreement in
grammatical utterances—argued for independently of dative intervention, in
chapter 5—holds the key to a crosslinguistically viable account of the dative
paradox, as well. First, in section 8.3, I survey several existing treatments of
the dative paradox.
8.3 Existing Treatments of the Dative Paradox
Current syntactic literature offers various treatments of the dative paradox. In
this section, I survey and critique several of these approaches.
8.3.1 The Activity Condition
As noted in section 8.1, one approach to the dative paradox appeals to
Chomsky’s (2001) Activity Condition. The basic idea is that arguments that
have entered into full-fledged agreement relations (i.e., agreement relations
involving their full set of ϕ-features) are rendered inactive and are therefore
unable to enter into subsequent ϕ-agreement relations. With respect to datives,
one could assume that the ϕ-features on the dative nominal enter into an
agreement relation with a null preposition (McGinnis 1998) or with the K(ase)0
head of a dative Kase Phrase (Bayer, Bader, and Meng 2001, Bittner and Hale
1996), rendering them inactive for further agreement relations.
For this to serve as a solution to the dative paradox, though, having inactive
ϕ-features must be syntactically distinguishable from having no ϕ-features at
all (cf. having no wh-features at all, as in (157a–c)). This means that activity
is essentially a diacritic: ϕ-features begin the derivation with this diacritic set
to “on,” and the first agreement relation they enter into switches it to “off.”
Coupling this with the assumption that valuation can only occur when the
diacritic on the target is set to “on,” we get the effect demonstrated in (154) (i.e.,
the inability of dative nominals to transfer their ϕ-feature values to the finite
verb). On Chomsky’s (2001) original conception of the Activity Condition,
this diacritic was unified with the “uninterpretable” case feature borne by
the nominal. But given the existence of nominals that are successfully case-
marked without having been agreed with, such a unification is untenable.
For examples of case marking where agreement has demonstrably failed,
see Marantz 1991 and Zaenen, Maling, and Thráinsson 1985 (as well as the
nominative phrases in (154)–(155)); see the discussion in section 5.1 regarding
why licensing-by-agreement is untenable for Kichean; and see Preminger
2011b for a similar argument regarding embedded absolutive arguments
in Basque.
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 135
The fact that this account resorts to a diacritic should not be taken as a fatal
flaw in the account; as we will see, other approaches to the dative paradox
require similarly stipulative moves. I highlight it here only to emphasize
that the Activity Condition approach, too, is rooted in a stipulation, and that
consequently, the choice between this approach and its competitors will have
to be based on other factors.
This is where empirical considerations come into play. It turns out that the
Activity Condition is empirically problematic for reasons that are independent
of the dative paradox. I will demonstrate this using data from Tsez, based on
the work of Polinsky and Potsdam (2001). Tsez is not unique in providing the
relevant kind of evidence; instances of so-called hyperraising, depending on
their precise analysis, may furnish a similar argument (see, e.g., Ferreira 2000
and Rodrigues 2004 on Brazilian Portuguese). But Tsez provides one of the
clearest such arguments.
As shown in (158a–b), the verb in Tsez agrees in noun class with the
absolutive argument (the object of transitives and the sole argument of
intransitives).
(158) a. ziya
cow.iii.abs
b-ik’i-s
iii-go-past.evid
‘The cow left.’
b. eniy-ā
mother-erg
ziya
cow.iii.abs
b-išer-si
iii-feed–past.evid
‘The mother fed the cow.’
(Polinsky and Potsdam 2001:586)
Crucially, as Polinsky and Potsdam demonstrate, absolutive arguments in Tsez
can trigger overt ϕ-agreement on more than one lexical verb. In particular,
embedded topics trigger agreement on the subordinating verb, as well.
(159) a. eni-r
mother-dat
[uz̆i
boy.i.abs
ø-āy-ru-łi]
i-arrive-past.prt-nmz
ø-iy-xo
i-know-pres
‘The mother knows that as for the boy, he arrived.’
b. eni-r
mother-dat
[už-ā
boy-erg
magalu
bread.iii.abs
b-āc’-ru-łi]
iii-eat-past.prt-nmz
b-iy-xo
iii-know-pres
‘The mother knows that as for the bread, the boy ate it.’
(Polinsky and Potsdam 2001:606)
136 Chapter 8
A few comments are in order regarding these data. First, note that agreement
on the subordinating verb does not replace agreement on the embedded
verb; in (159b), for example, both the embedded verb b-āc’-ru-łi ‘iii-eat-
past.prt-nmz’ and the subordinatingverb b-iy-xo ‘iii-know-pres’exhibit overt
ϕ-agreement with the embedded absolutive argument, magalu ‘bread.iii.abs’.
Second, while such agreement on the subordinating verb is not generally
obligatoryin Tsez, it is obligatory—alongsideagreementon the embeddedverb,
of course—if one forces the topichood of the embedded absolutive argument
(see Polinsky and Potsdam 2001 for details).
If one examines the English translations given in (159a–b), another
possibility suggests itself: that there is a separate, phonologically null argument
in the matrix clause that is anaphorically (or cataphorically) related to the
embedded absolutive argument; this is what Baker and Vinokurova(2010) refer
to as a “proleptic object” analysis. Polinsky and Potsdam explicitly address this
possibility and provide numerous arguments that it is not a viable analysis of
data like (159a–b).6
These data do not involve datives, of course, and in fact datives cannot be
agreed with in Tsez, just as in Icelandic and other languages; this therefore
sheds no particular light on the dative paradox. It does, however, show that
ϕ-features that have entered into an agreement relation with the embedded verb
are not inactivated, but active and available to be agreed with by subsequent
agreement hosts. Note that verbs in Tsez only ever agree with their arguments
in noun class; thus, in examples like (159a–b), the sets of features that enter
into agreement with the embedded verb and with the subordinating verb are
the same set. Therefore, drawing a distinction between the two instances of
agreement found in each example in (159) (e.g., positing that one is “defective”
or “partial,” while the other is “complete”) would be entirely ad hoc. It would
amount to little more than a restatement of the facts—namely, that arguments
in Tsez can enter into agreement relations more than once.
I therefore take these data to show that the Activity Condition is incorrect.
Regarding whatever residual empirical coverage the Activity Condition may
seem to have, see Nevins 2004, for an illustration that the same facts can be
derived from other, better-motivated principles.
8.3.2 Functional Shells
A potentially more promising approach, also noted in section 8.1, involves
the idea that dative nominals come enclosed in additional functional structure,
which in other DPs (e.g., nominatives, accusatives) is either absent, or at least
has different properties than it has when datives are involved.7
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 137
In what follows, I discuss an implementation in which datives are enclosed
in a dedicated PP layer (following Rezac 2008a); but nothing significant would
change if we opted instead for a Kase Phrase approach (Bayer, Bader, and
Meng 2001, Bittner and Hale 1996), where the particular type of K(ase)0
head associated with dative case would replace P0
dat, below, in all the relevant
respects.
Suppose that datives have the internal structure shown in (160).
(160) Functional structure of the dative noun phrase
PPdat
DP
· · ·
· · ·
D0
· · · ϕ-features · · ·
P0
dat
I assume the null hypothesis, which is that the DP enclosed in PPdat is like
any other DP, and so its full set of ϕ-features is visible at the DP level (i.e., on
D0). This abstracts away from the question of which of these features (if any)
were base-generated on D0
and which of them arrived there derivationally (see
Ritter 1991, 1992, and much subsequent work). Whichever mechanisms are
responsible for transmitting features to D0 in other DPs (e.g., nominatives)
will presumably operate here, as well.
If PPs constitute a locality domain (e.g., a phase)—as argued by Abels (2003),
Baltin (1978), Van Riemsdijk (1978), and others—then the features on D0 will
not be visible to probes outside PPdat. If P0
dat has no ϕ-feature of its own, then
PPdat in its entirety should be invisible to ϕ-probing (as a non-wh phrase is
for wh-probing; see section 8.2). Given that this is not the behavior of datives
vis-à-vis agreement, we must conclude that P0
dat has some ϕ-featural content.
A similar conclusion, though, obtains if PPs do not constitute a locality
domain. If a probe outside of PPdat can see into the complement of P0
dat, then
in the absence of intervening ϕ-featural content on P0
dat, the ϕ-features on D0
can and will be probed. Given that this is not the behavior of datives vis-à-vis
agreement, either, we must again conclude that P0
dat has ϕ-featural content of
its own.
The ϕ-features borne by P0
dat could initially (when P0
dat enters the
derivation) be valued or unvalued.8 There seems to be some support
for both possibilities. In the usual case, intervention by dative nominals
triggers “default” (i.e., 3rd person singular) agreement on the finite verb,
138 Chapter 8
as in the Icelandic cases in sections 8.1–8.2. As discussed in section 4.2,
within a feature-geometric approach to ϕ-features (e.g., Harley and Ritter
2002, McGinnis 2005), 3rd person singular corresponds to the root of the
ϕ-geometry, which I have annotated as “[ϕ].” Thus, if we stipulate that P0
dat
carries valued [ϕ], we can derive both sides of the dative paradox. On the
one hand, datives count for ϕ-probing (contra non-wh phrases in wh-probing),
because their head (P0
dat) carries a valued ϕ-feature. On the other hand, the
enclosed nominal cannot transfer its own features to the finite verb, because
the ϕ-features on P0
dat will be closer, in structural terms, to any probe located
outside PPdat than the features on the enclosed nominal are.
On this view, the reason “default” agreement morphology (3rd person
singular) is found in dative intervention contexts is that P0
dat is valued for
[ϕ], not for some more-specified point along the ϕ-feature geometry. This is
schematized in (161).
(161) Functional structure of the dative noun phrase: The usual case
[≈(154)–(155)]
PPdat
DP
· · ·
· · ·
D0
· · · ϕ-features · · ·
P0
dat
[ϕ]
⇒
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
DP’
· · ·
· · ·
D0
· · · ϕ-features · · ·
· · ·
· · ·
PPdat
DP
· · ·
· · ·
D0
· · · ϕ-features · · ·
P0
dat
[ϕ]
· · ·
H0
 
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 139
An important property of this approach is that it takes dative intervention to
be an instance of successful ϕ-agreement: the ϕ-probe in (161) enters into a
successful agreement relation with the structurally closest agreement target,
PPdat (which carries valued [ϕ] and therefore acts like any other 3rd person
singular agreement target).
In the alternative scenario,P0
dat starts the derivation with unvaluedϕ-features
(or the feature-geometric equivalent thereof; see note 8). This would result in
P0
dat acting as a ϕ-probe in its own right. Given that its complement is a DP
like any other, there is no obstacle to P0
dat valuing its own features using the
ϕ-feature values found on this DP. This would renderthe PPdat layer effectively
“transparent”: it would reflect the same set of ϕ-feature values found on the
enclosed DP. The prediction is that a dative of this sort would behave for
agreement purposes exactly as, for example, a nominative DP would.
Something like this seems to be going on in the languages that Dryer
(1986) calls “primary-/secondary-object” languages. In these languages, the
agreement morphology that is controlled by the Patient in monotransitives is
obligatorily controlled by the applicative argument in ditransitives and other
applicative constructions.9 Such languages are sometimes thought of as having
a double-object construction, but no prepositional dative construction. An
example of such a language is Chol (Mayan).
(162) Agreement with applicative argument in lieu of Patient
a. tyi
prfv
aw-ilä-yoñ
2.erg-see-1.abs
‘You saw me.’
b. tyi
prfv
i-ch’äx-be-yoñ
3.abs-boil-appl-1.abs
ja’
water
x-’ixik
clf-woman
‘The woman boiled me water.’
(Coon 2010:34, 199; glosses simplified slightly)
Following Rezac (2008a), let us refer to behavior of this sort, where the
applicative argument controls agreement morphology normally controlled by
the Patient, as agreement displacement.
Suppose that applicative arguments are generated in the specifier of a
dedicatedApplPprojection(e.g.,Anagnostopoulou2003,Collins1997,Marantz
1993, McGinnis 1998, Pylkkänen 2002, Ura 1996). Such arguments would
therefore be closer to the ϕ-probe than the Patient is. A PPdat whose P0
dat head
bears ϕ-feature values that it copied from the enclosed DP will thus appear to
have subsumed the duties of “direct object agreement” (as in (162a–b)).
140 Chapter 8
(163) Agreement with applicative argument in lieu of Patient: Derivation
PPdat
DP
· · ·
· · ·
D0
· · · ϕ-features · · ·
P0
dat
 
⇒
ApplP
· · ·
PPdat
DP
· · ·
· · ·
D0
· · · ϕ-features · · ·
P0
dat
· · · ϕ-features · · ·
⇒
· · ·
ApplP
· · ·
· · · DPPatient
· · ·
D0
· · · ϕ-features · · ·
· · ·
PPdat
DP
· · ·
P0
dat
· · · ϕ-features · · ·
· · ·
H0
 
In (163), PPdat asymmetrically c-commands the Patient DP. Since PPdat bears
ϕ-features, minimality dictates that the ϕ-probe must agree with it, rather than
with the Patient, yielding agreement displacement (i.e., the ϕ-features of the
dative nominal control the agreement morphology that, in monotransitives, is
controlled by the Patient).
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 141
There also exist more complicated patterns, where certain ϕ-feature
combinations on the dative nominal trigger agreement displacement, but other
feature combinations do not. These are handled by Rezac (2008a), within a
system similar to the one outlined here, by positing a P0
dat probe that searches
not for [ϕ] (the root of the ϕ-geometry), but for some other node, such
as [participant] or [author]. This is essentially a PP-internal counterpart of
relativized probing (section 4.2).
Unfortunately, as a solution to the dative paradox, this approach runs into
several problems. I will examine these in rising order of severity. First, to
handle languages in which no agreement displacement occurs and all datives
cause intervention—such as Icelandic, (151)–(152)—we had to stipulate a P0
dat
head that comes from the lexicon bearing valued [ϕ] (in contrast to P0
dat with
unvalued [ϕ], which resulted in agreement displacement). The problem is not
the stipulation itself; as noted in section 8.3.1, it seems that any approach to the
dative paradox will have to make some stipulation or other. The point is that
this particular stipulation leads to a problematic prediction. If P0
dat in Icelandic
is simply a lexical item that happens to bear valued [ϕ], the expectation is that
in some other language, the corresponding lexical item will bear some other
set of valued ϕ-features. Thus, we would expect to find a language where P0
dat
comes from the lexicon bearing not [ϕ] but, say, [ϕ, participant, plural]. In
such a language, dative intervention would result not in invariant 3rd person
singular agreement morphology, but in invariant 2nd person plural agreement
morphology. I know of no such language.
While this concern could potentially be handled by appealing to
markedness—in particular, singling out [ϕ] as the least marked ϕ-feature
value—similar solutions are not available, it seems to me, for the problems
that follow.
The next problem is a morphological one. On the approach sketched
above, agreement displacement (where the dative subsumes the agreement
duties normally associated with the Patient) is a matter of P0
dat entering
into its own PP-internal agreement relation with its nominal complement. It
is therefore surprising that by and large, the languages that show complete
agreement displacement with datives—Dryer’s (1986) “primary-/secondary-
object” languages—have no dative morphology to speak of (as is the case, for
example, in Chol; see (162)). If agreement displacement were truly the result
of a featurally rich PPdat-internal ϕ-probe, one would expect such languages
to generally exhibit richer dative morphology. But in fact the opposite is true:
Icelandic, for example, has overt dative morphology and, unlike Chol, exhibits
standard dative intervention (and not agreement displacement).
142 Chapter 8
Finally, perhaps the most significant problem with this approach is that it
predicts that intervention by a dative should never lead to ungrammaticality,
because—as noted earlier—dative intervention is taken to be an instance of
formally successful agreement with a P0
dat bearing its own valued ϕ-features
(namely, [ϕ], the feature-geometric representation of 3rd person singular).
This seems consistent with what we have seen so far, but crucially, there are
instances of dative intervention that do lead to ungrammaticality, such as the
following case from French:
(164) a. Il
it
semble
seems
(à
to
Marie)
Marie
[que
that
Jean
Jean
a
has
du
of
talent].
talent
‘It seems (to Marie) that Jean has talent.’
b. Jean1
Jean
semble
seems
(?*à
to
Marie)
Marie
[t1 avoir
have.inf
du
of
talent].
talent
‘Jean seems (to Marie) to have talent.’
(McGinnis 1998:90–91)
While the verb semble ‘seem’ in French optionally allows a dative
experiencer in the general case (164a), the same dative experiencer causes
ungrammaticality if used in (164b). Similar patterns have been observed in
Spanish (Torrego 1996), Greek (Anagnostopoulou 2003), Italian (Rizzi 1986),
and even English (Hartman 2011a,b).
Of course, these data differ from the examples we have examined until now
in another important respect: (164b) involves not only ϕ-agreement across
a dative intervener, but also movement across that dative. We can therefore
explore the possibility that it is movement itself, rather than ϕ-agreement,
whose disruption is responsible for the ungrammatical status of an example
like (164b).
Crucially, if we continue to pursue the hypothesis that datives are interveners
by virtue of the featural content of their outermost head (P0
dat, on the current
implementation), then we are faced with a familiar choice: either P0
dat bears
the kind of features that the movement attractor seeks, or it does not. (The
latter option would make sense, for example, on the assumption that the EPP
amounts to a D0 feature on Infl0; see, e.g., Chomsky 1995.) If it does not bear
the relevant features, we predict that the intervener will simply be skipped;
but on that approach, (164b) should be grammatical, contrary to fact. We must
therefore conclude that P0
dat does bear the features relevant to the attractor. But
this predicts that in French (as well as in the other languages that pattern alike,
including Spanish, Italian, and Greek), datives could move to canonical subject
position. In other words, we predict that these languages would be quirky-
subject languages, just like Icelandic. Of course, this is not the case, either: the
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 143
corresponding derivations where the dative has moved to subject position, in
lieu of the nondative argument, are no better—as shown in (165).
(165) *[À
to
Marie]1
Marie
semble
seem
t1 [Jean
Jean
avoir
have.inf
du
of
talent].
talent
(McGinnis 1998:90)
As demonstrated by McGinnis (1998), the ungrammaticality of (165) is not a
matter of failure to license the embedded subject, Jean. This much is already
suggested by a comparison with a language that does allow quirky subjects,
Icelandic, where the corresponding derivation is just fine.
(166) [Einhverjum
some
stúdent]1
student.sg.dat
finnast
find.pl
t1 [sc tölvurnar
computer.the.pl.nom
ljótar].
ugly
‘Some student finds the computers ugly.’ [=(156)]
But even within French, the concerns regarding the licensing of the embedded
subject can be assuaged, by changing the embedded clause into a finite CP.
Crucially, this does not improve the status of a derivation in which the dative
experiencer has moved to canonical subject position.
(167) *[À
to
Marie]1
Marie
semble
seem
t1 [que
that
Jean
Jean
a
has
du
of
talent].
talent
Intended: ‘It seems to Marie that Jean has talent.’
(McGinnis 1998:91)
We are therefore forced to conclude, on the approach we have been pursuing,
that there is a second kind of dative intervention, which cannot be handled in
terms of the featural content of the outermost head of the dative argument.
Manipulating the featural content can only lead to two kinds of behavior—
being ignored by the attractor or being targeted by the attractor—neither of
which yields the correct result for data like (164), (165), and (167). Instead, this
second kind of intervention causes what looks like a breakdown of the probing
process itself, leading to the ungrammaticality of the dative experiencer variant
of (164b).
The obvious question, then, is the following: given that this second kind
of intervention is independently necessary, is there a way to subsume the first
kind of intervention (which gives rise to what looks like “default,” 3rd person
singular agreement morphology) under the latter kind (which appears to cause
the breakdown of the probing process)? In section 8.4, I propose a way of
doing exactly that, building on observations by Bobaljik (2008), as well as the
results of chapters 4–6. I begin, however, by discussing Bobaljik’s proposal
itself.
144 Chapter 8
8.3.3 Case Discrimination
As noted in section 8.1, a proposal by Bobaljik (2008) (henceforth, B08)
offers an alternative explanation for the fact that dative nominals—as in
the Icelandic (154)–(155), for example—cannot transfer their own ϕ-feature
values to the finite verb. The proposal revises and extends observations
originally made by Moravcsik (1974, 1978).
8.3.3.1 Bobaljik’s (2008) Proposal The point of departure for this proposal is
the Moravcsik hierarchy, a set of proposed implicational universals concerning
which phrases can and cannot be targeted for ϕ-agreement in a given
language (Moravcsik 1974).
(168) The Moravcsik hierarchy
subject > direct object > indirect object > adverbs
The way to read (168) is as follows: no language has agreement with the direct
object without also having sentences in which the subject is agreed with; no
language has agreement with the indirect object without also having sentences
in which the subject is agreed with, and sentences in which the direct object is
agreed with; and so forth.
These universals are largely confirmed by typological surveys, with two
important caveats identified by B08. The first concerns languages with quirky
case. Notice that (168) is stated over grammatical functions (subject, direct
object, etc.), rather than over case markings (nominative, accusative, etc.).
In many languages, this distinction is immaterial—at least in finite clauses,
which are the ones that typically exhibit robust, overt ϕ-agreement, in the first
place. In other words, in a language without quirky subjects, finite subjects
are always nominative and nominatives are always finite subjects. Therefore,
reformulating (168) as (169) would not alter the hierarchy’s predictions.
(169) The Moravcsik hierarchy (first revision; B08)
nominative > accusative > dative > (other) obliques
However, we have already seen data from Icelandic, which has quirky
subjects—and where, as a result, the equivalence between finite subjects and
nominative case does not hold.
(170) Morgum
many
studentum
student.pl.dat
liki
like.3sg
verkið.
job.the.nom
‘Many students like the job.’ [=(151)]
I will not review here the evidence showing that phrases such as the dative
morgum studentum ‘many student.pl.dat’ in (170) are indeed grammatical
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 145
subjects in Icelandic. Extensive evidence is given in Andrews 1976, Sigurðsson
1989, Thráinsson 1979, and Zaenen, Maling, and Thráinsson 1985; for a
review, see Thráinsson 2007. What is crucial for present purposes—and has
already been demonstrated in section 8.1—is that these nonnominativesubjects
never control agreement in Icelandic. Moreover, when the clause has a quirky
subject of this sort, a nominative nonsubject (if present) will control agreement.
(171) Jóni
Jon.dat
líkuðu
liked.pl
[þessir
[these
sokkar].
socks].nom
‘Jon liked these socks.’
(Jónsson 1996:149)
See Harley 1995 and Jónsson 1996 for arguments that the nominative noun
phrase in an example like (171) is indeed a direct object.
This does not falsify the original formulation of the Moravcsik hierarchy
outright. The example in (171) exhibits agreement with the direct object; and it
is clearly the case that Icelandic also has sentences in which agreement targets
the subject.
(172) Þeir
they.pl.nom
seldu
sold.pl
bókina.
book.the.sg.acc
‘They sold the book.’
(Thráinsson 2007:134)
Data like (171) therefore technically comply with the original formulation
of the Moravcsik hierarchy (168) (the one based on grammatical function).
However, as argued by B08, this way of characterizing the facts misses an
important generalization: in every instance where grammatical function and
morphological case diverge, ϕ-agreement tracks the latter and disregards the
former.
Through the prism of the revised Moravcsik hierarchy in (169), Icelandic
is a language in which only nominatives can be targeted for ϕ-agreement. In
that sense, it does not differ from English (a fact that has been observed in
the literature on Icelandic going back at least to Sigurðsson 1993). Since both
examples like (171) and examples like (172) fit within this more restrictive
characterization, the case-based formulation of the hierarchy is a better fit for
the data (cf. a description of Icelandic as a language that allows agreement
with both subjects and objects).
The second way in which the original formulation of the Moravcsik
hierarchy is imprecise concerns ergative languages. In ergative languages,
the notion “subject” conflates two case markings: absolutive (in intransitives)
and ergative (in transitives). Once again, this pattern does not falsify the
146 Chapter 8
original formulation, based on grammatical function, but the latter misses a
more precise, case-based generalization. Consider a language that exhibits
agreement with only the absolutive argument, as is the case in Tsez.
(173) a. ziya b-ik’i-s
cow.iii.abs iii-go-past.evid
‘The cow left.’
b. eniy-ā
mother-erg
ziya
cow.iii.abs
b-išer-si
iii-feed–past.evid
‘The mother fed the cow.’ [=(158a–b)]
If we were to classify an example like (173b) as agreement with a direct object,
then Tsez technically complies with the formulation based on grammatical
functions, since it also has sentences where agreement targets the subject
(e.g., (173a)).
But as B08 notes, there are no languages that exhibit agreement with ergative
arguments but never with absolutive ones (see also Woolford 2000). This
possibility should be allowed given the original formulation of the hierarchy,
since it is a subcase of agreement with subjects only. B08 observes that the
implicational universal in (174) (stated here both in terms of grammatical
function and in terms of case) has a counterpart on the ergative side, as shown
in (175).
(174) Implicational universal: nom-acc languages
a. ∃ agreement with objects ⇒ ∃ agreement with subjects
b. ∃ agreement with accusatives ⇒ ∃ agreement with nominatives
(175) Implicational universal: erg-abs languages
∃ agreement with ergatives ⇒ ∃ agreement with absolutives
B08 then proposes that (174b) and (175) be unified under a single, case-based
formulation, using Marantz’s (1991) disjunctive case hierarchy.
(176) Disjunctive case hierarchy (Marantz 1991)
lexical/oblique case → dependent case → unmarked case
Regarding the motivations behind this hierarchy, see Marantz 1991, as well
as section 9.1; I will summarize only the results of that discussion here.
The term lexical/oblique case refers to any case marking whose appearance
is associated with a specific lexical item (rather than, say, an entire lexical
category). Among these are cases assigned by prepositions (in a language like
German, where different prepositions govern different case markings on their
nominal complements), as well as quirky-case verbs such as Icelandic líka
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 147
‘like’ (see (170)). Lexically determined case of the kind often found on the
complement of a verb like help, for example—which tends to take a dative
complement, crosslinguistically—also belongs in this category.
The term dependent case refers to case marking whose appearance is
contingent, roughly speaking, on the appearance of two non-lexical/oblique-
marked nominals in a single locality domain. This is the category to which
accusative and ergative belong.
Finally, unmarked case refers to case marking that does not fall under
either of the previous two categories, and whose appearance is not contingent
on the presence of any other particular lexical item or noun phrase. This is
the category to which nominative and absolutive belong. While sometimes
confused with default case or citation form, this is not what the term refers to
(see also Schütze 2001b). In English, for example, fragment answers and other
freestanding forms appear in accusative (or “objective”) case.
(177) Who came to the party first?
Him/*He.
But the unmarked case in English is not accusative (or “objective”); it is
nominative.
Returning to the Moravcsik hierarchy: B08 shows that (174b) and (175)
can be unified under a formulation that references the categories of Marantz’s
disjunctive case hierarchy.
(178) The Moravcsik hierarchy (second and final revision; B08)
unmarked case > dependent case > lexical/oblique case
As we have seen, the virtues of this reformulation are twofold. First, it
correctly captures the behavior of ϕ-agreement in instances where grammatical
function and morphological case diverge, as in Icelandic (since in those
instances, agreement is sensitive to morphological case, and that is what (178)
refers to). Second, it allows us to capture the implicational universals regarding
agreement in nominative-accusative languages/constructions and in ergative-
absolutive languages/constructions in a unified manner.
Importantly, as B08 notes, the formalism in (178) is not meant to replace
notions of structural prominence or minimality. There will be situations where
more than one argument in the domain of a single agreement host will be
deemed by (178) to be accessible for agreement; and in these situations, it
will be the structurally highest one that will control agreement on the host.
B08 provides an example of just such an interaction, from Nepali. In terms
of (178), Nepali makes the accessibility cutoff between the second and third
members of the hierarchy, meaning finite ϕ-agreement can target nominals
148 Chapter 8
bearing either unmarked case (glossed as ‘nom’, below) or dependent case
(glossed as ‘erg’, below). Crucially, when both are present in a single local
domain, structural height determines which of the two will control agreement
on the finite verb. This is demonstrated in the Nepali examples (181a–b).
(179) Agreement accessibility: English, Icelandic
unmarked case
	
accessible for
ϕ-agreement
> dependent case > lexical/oblique case
(180) Agreement accessibility: Nepali
unmarked case > dependent case
	
accessible for
ϕ-agreement
> lexical/oblique case
(181) a. ma
1sg.nom
[yas
dem.obl
pasal-mā]
store-loc
patrikā
newspaper.nom
kin-ch-u
buy-nonpast-1sg
‘I buy the newspaper in this store.’
b. maile
1sg.erg
[yas
dem.obl
pasal-mā]
store-loc
patrikā
newspaper.nom
kin-ē/*yo
buy.past-1sg/*3sg.masc
‘I bought the newspaper in this store.’
(Bickel and Yādava 2000:348, via B08)
Both in (181a) and in (181b), agreement is controlled by the subject, even
though the subject is in the unmarked case (‘nom’) in the former and in
the dependent case (‘erg’) in the latter. At the same time, it would be a
mistake to characterize Nepali in terms of agreement with the grammatical
function “subject”—because when the subject bears lexical/oblique case, it is
inaccessible for agreement, and agreement is controlled by the object.
(182) malāı̄
1sg.dat
timı̄
2sg.masc.hon.nom
man
liking
par-ch-au/*u
occur-nonpast-2sg.masc.hon/*1sg
‘I like you.’
(Bickel and Yādava 2000:348, via B08)
Thus, agreement in Nepali is best characterized as agreement with the
structurally highest argument bearing unmarked or dependent case.
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 149
B08 shows that the same interaction of case accessibility with structural
height derives yet anotherfact, concerningthe possibilities for the alignments of
case and agreement within a single language. While there are languages whose
alignments for case marking and for agreement differ, there is a gap in the
typology (Anderson 1977, Comrie 1978, Dixon 1979, 1994), as shown in (183).
(183) A typological gap in case versus agreement alignments
Agreement alignment
nom-acc erg-abs
Case
alignment
nom-acc
✔ (English,
Icelandic)
✗
erg-abs
✔ (Warlpiri,
Chukchi)
✔ (Basque,
Tsez)
Warlpiri, for example, has an ergative-absolutive case-marking alignment, but
morphemes in its agreement system exhibit a nominative-accusative alignment
(i.e., there is a morpheme that coindexes the subject, regardless of whether it is
the subject of a transitive or an intransitive, and a morpheme that coindexes
the transitive object if present; see Legate 2002). Crucially, however, the
converse is unattested: no language has a nominative-accusative alignment
in its case marking, while having an ergative-absolutive alignment in its
agreement system.10
Importantly, B08’s approach derives this typological gap. Suppose that a
language has an ergative-absolutive alignment in its case-marking system. If
this language makes the cutoff between the first and second members of the
revised Moravcsik hierarchy (179), only the unmarked noun phrase will be
able to serve as an agreement target. This means that we will see agreement
with the absolutive noun phrase only (as in Tsez), resulting in an ergative-
absolutive agreement alignment. If the language makes the cutoff between
the second and third members of the revised Moravcsik hierarchy (180), both
ergative and absolutive noun phrases will be accessible, as far as their case
marking is concerned. But on the assumption that the ergative argument is
structurally higher than the absolutive one, the result will be agreement with
the subject of a transitive clause, as well as with the sole, absolutive argument
of an intransitive clause, as is the case in Warlpiri and Chukchi. In other words,
the agreement system in such a language will exhibit a nominative-accusative
alignment.
150 Chapter 8
On the other hand, suppose that a language has a nominative-accusative
case alignment. If the cutoff is between the first and second members of the
revised Moravcsik hierarchy (179), agreement will only be able to target
the nominative argument, resulting in a nominative-accusative alignment in
the agreement system as well. If the cutoff is between the second and third
members (180), both nominative and accusative arguments will in principle
be accessible, in terms of their case marking. But since the nominative is
structurally higher than the accusative, structural prominence still dictates that
the nominative argument will control agreement on the finite verb. Thus, if the
case alignment is nominative-accusative, the agreement system will always be
nominative-accusative, regardless of how the language is parameterized with
respect to the revised Moravcsik hierarchy.
B08’s proposal thus derives the typological gap shown in (183).
Taken together, these results point to the conclusion that agreement is
case-discriminating: the case marking borne by potential agreement targets
plays a role in determining whether or not they will actually be targeted for
ϕ-agreement. This was already made clear, to some extent, by the dative
paradox itself; what B08’s results highlight is that it is case-related properties
in particular—rather than, say, thematic or argument-structural properties—
that are responsible for these effects.11
This view would be incoherent in a system where the assignment of case
is contingent on, or caused by, ϕ-agreement (as in Chomsky 2000, 2001, for
example). But Icelandic data of the kind discussed earlier demonstrate quite
clearly that such a view is untenable, for reasons that are independent of dative
intervention or the dative paradox (an observation that goes back to Zaenen,
Maling, and Thráinsson 1985). We have seen that nominative noun phrases
can exist in Icelandic in positions where ϕ-agreement has failed to reach them,
as in (154)–(155). We also saw, in section 5.1, that nonoblique noun phrases
are found in Kichean in positions where agreement has failed to reach them.12
There is therefore an established need for a theory where case assignment does
not depend on ϕ-agreement (at least any kind of ϕ-agreement that is overtly
detectable, which is the kind of ϕ-agreement that B08 addresses). Marantz
(1991) provides a theory of exactly this sort, and an adaptation of that theory
will be discussed and defended in chapter 9.
This view regarding the interplay of case and ϕ-agreement would also
appear to have implications for the modular locus of ϕ-agreement; indeed,
the thrust of B08’s proposal as originally written concerns this very point.
If morphological case is computed postsyntactically, then any operation that
relies on morphological case as its input must be postsyntactic, as well (and
note that what Icelandic quirky-subject examples demonstrate is that abstract
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 151
case cannot be the notion of case relevant to ϕ-agreement). However, I will
argue in section 9.2 that the premise—that morphological case is computed
postsyntactically—is flawed. I therefore set aside this modularity issue for the
remainder of this chapter.
8.3.3.2 Prospects for Solving the Dative Paradox Turning to the dative
paradox itself, B08’s proposal clearly accounts for one half of it: why datives
(at least in some languages) are unable to value the ϕ-features on the finite
verb. If the set of possible agreement targets in a given language is determined
according to the revised Moravcsik hierarchy (178), then in any language that
makes the cutoff before the third member of the hierarchy (lexical/oblique
case), ϕ-agreement will not be able to target datives.13
The converse behavior, which I have referred to as agreement displacement
(following Rezac 2008a), involves the dative argument obligatorily controlling
the agreement morphology that in monotransitives is controlled by the Patient.
As noted in section 8.3.2, this behavior tends to arise in languages that lack
overt dative morphology per se. On B08’s proposal, we can make sense of this:
in such a language, dative case would be indistinguishable from dependent or
even unmarked case. This is certainly so in Chol, which lacks any overt case
morphology on its nonoblique nominals. In a language like this, the absence of
any dative case to speak of results in the case discrimination mechanism being
unable to distinguish the applicative argument from the Patient. This is quite
similar to the state of affairs in Warlpiri and Chukchi: there too, we saw that
two arguments were accessible for ϕ-agreement, as far as their case marking
was concerned. But instead of these two arguments being the subject and
the object—as in Warlpiri and Chukchi—here, the two arguments in question
would be the two internal arguments of a ditransitive/applicative construction.
If applicative arguments are introduced in a higher position than the Patient,
then the applicative argument would necessarily be the higher of these two
case-accessible nominals, resulting in agreement displacement, as shown in
(184a–b) from Chol.
(184) Agreement with applicative argument in lieu of Patient
a. tyi
prfv
aw-ilä-yoñ
2.erg-see-1.abs
‘You saw me.’
b. tyi
prfv
i-ch’äx-be-yoñ
3.abs-boil-appl-1.abs
ja’
water
x-’ixik
clf-woman
‘The woman boiled me water.’ [=(162)]
152 Chapter 8
Alternatively, agreement displacement could be handled as an instance of a
language making the cutoff after the third member of the revised Moravcsik
hierarchy (178). This would probably require further articulating the hierarchy
itself, since other oblique phrases (e.g., PPs headed by semantically “heavy”
prepositions) in these languages still cannot be targeted for ϕ-agreement.
That would correspond to the intuition that the dative is, in some sense,
the “least oblique” among oblique cases. This alternative, of course, would
not capture the correlation (section 8.3.2) between the lack of overt dative
case marking and agreement displacement; but it is perhaps exactly what
is going on in languages that do have overt dative case and still exhibit
some degree of agreement displacement (e.g., Basque; see Rezac 2008a). It is
especially suggestive that this is where more complicated patterns of agreement
displacement arise (i.e., where some ϕ-featural combinations on the dative
nominal trigger agreement displacement, while others do not; Rezac 2008a).
It is in these instances that there might still be a PP or Kase Phrase layer that
syntactically distinguishes datives from nominals bearing unmarked/dependent
case, and that plays a role in “filtering” different ϕ-featural combinations on
the enclosed nominal. I will not speculate on this matter further.
What is less clear, under this approach, is how the other half of the
dative paradox is to be handled: why do datives, in a language where they
are not viable agreement targets, interact with ϕ-probing at all? B08 does
not offer a conclusive view on this issue, instead entertaining two possible
solutions. Below, I will argue that both possibilities fall short of accounting for
the crosslinguistic patterns associated with dative intervention—in particular,
the fact that intervention gives rise to outright ungrammaticality in some
instances, and to “default” (3rd person singular) agreement morphology in
others. In section 8.4, I will propose that dative intervention actually arises
as an interaction between case discrimination, which rules out agreement with
a dative argument, and minimality, which rules out agreement with anything
else, ultimately resulting in failed agreement (as argued for in chapters 5–6).
Let us now review the alternatives proposed by B08 for why datives interact
with ϕ-agreement at all (when they are not viable targets for ϕ-agreement,
themselves). The first alternative involves a reinterpretation of long-distance
agreement as phrasal movement where both PF and LF interpret the lower
copy in the movement chain. This idea is situated within a single-output
model of syntax, and builds on Bobaljik’s earlier work (Bobaljik 1995 and, in
particular, the “lower right corner” proposal in Bobaljik 2002). I think we can
safely dismiss this approach to dative intervention, here, because of the same
considerations discussed in section 8.3.2: if agreement is nothing but phrasal
movement, the prospects of accounting for the difference between examples
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 153
like the French (185), where intervention results in outright ungrammaticality,
and the Icelandic (186), where intervention results in “default” agreement
morphology, seem particularly bleak.
(185) ?*Jean1
Jean
semble
seems
[à
to
Marie]dat
Marie
[t1 avoir
have.inf
du
of
talent].
talent
‘Jean seems to Marie to have talent.’ [≈(164b)]
✗
(186) Það
expl
finnst(/*finnast)
find.sg/*find.pl
[einhverjum
some
stúdent]dat
student.sg.dat
[sc tölvurnar
the.computer.pl.nom
ljótar].
ugly
‘Some student finds the computers ugly.’ [≈(155)]
✗
The second alternative that B08 discusses is a domains-based approach. The
idea is that agreement may not be able to cross any clausal boundaries, finite or
nonfinite; and thus, instances where agreement seems to target an argument
in an embedded clause must involve restructuring/clause union (this builds
on Bobaljik and Wurmbrand 2005, Polinsky 2003, and Wurmbrand 2001).
As B08 points out, this crucially relies on the view that a single embedding
verb may be a restructuring verb in some instances and a nonrestructuring verb
in others, without this alternation (necessarily) being overtly expressed in the
verbal morphology (Wurmbrand 2001).
On this view, semble (‘seem’) in French can be a restructuring verb in some
cases, and it is in these cases that agreement with, and raising of, the embedded
subject Jean is possible. (RD=restructuring domain)
(187) Jean1
Jean
[RD semble
seems
[t1 avoir
have.inf
du
of
talent]].
talent
‘Jean seems to have talent.’ [≈(164b)]
Compare this with an example like (185): there, semble takes a dative
experiencer argument, and ungrammaticality arises. The restructuring analysis
shown in (187) is assumed to be impossible in the presence of a dative
experiencer. On the assumption that agreement cannot cross clausal boundaries,
the impossibility of restructuring entails that agreement with the embedded
subject Jean cannot obtain—resulting in the ungrammaticality of the utterance
in question.
154 Chapter 8
In support of this domains-based approach, B08 points out that dative
intervention in Icelandic seems to disappear in true monoclausal configurations
(i.e., when the dative and nominative nominals are coarguments).
(188) a. Það
expl
voru
were.pl
konungi
king.dat
gefnar
given
ambáttir
slave.pl.nom
í
in
vetur.
winter
‘A king was given maidservants this winter.’
(Zaenen, Maling, and Thráinsson 1985:462)
b. Það
expl
voru
were.pl
einhverjum
someone.dat
gefnir
given.pl
þessir
these
sokkar.
socks
‘Someone was given these socks.’
(Jónsson 1996:153)
The domains-based approach thus assimilates examples like the French (187),
which is assumed to be an instance of restructuring/clause union, to
monoclausal Icelandic examples like (188a–b).
However, it is imprecise to say that monoclausal Icelandic constructions
of the type shown in (188a–b) do not exhibit dative intervention at all. As
observed by Sigurðsson (1996) and Taraldsen (1995), among others, when
the higher of two coarguments in Icelandic is dative, the other, nominative
argument cannot be 1st/2nd person.
(189) *Það
expl
hafið
have.2pl
einhverjum
some.dat.sg/pl
alltaf
always
líkað
liked
þið.
you.nom.pl
Intended: ‘Someone has always liked y’all.’
(Sigurðsson and Holmberg 2008:257)
This is certainly reminiscent of the PCC effects discussed in section 4.1, which
were analyzed, following Anagnostopoulou (2003), Béjar and Rezac (2003),
and others, as an instance of dative intervention. Sigurðsson and Holmberg
(2008), though, take issue with the claim that these are PCC effects per se (cf.,
e.g., Boeckx 2000). One difference between these and canonical PCC effects
is that here, an A-movement trace of the dative argument appears to have
the same effect as an in-situ dative would, preventing successful agreement
in person features with a lower 1st/2nd person nominative.14
(190) *Einhverjum1
some.dat.sg/pl
hafið
have.2pl
t1 alltaf
always
líkað
liked
þið.
you.nom.pl
Intended: ‘Someone has always liked y’all.’
(Sigurðsson and Holmberg 2008:257, annotations added)
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 155
This contrasts also with the biclausal counterpart of (190), where A-movement
of the dative was shown to ameliorate intervention in number agreement with
the embedded nominative subject.
(191) Það
expl
finnst (/*finnast)
find.sg /*find.pl
[einhverjum
some
stúdent]dat
student.sg.dat
[sc tölvurnar
computer.the.pl.nom
ljótar].
ugly
‘Some student finds the computers ugly.’ [=(155)]
✗
(192) [Einhverjum
some
stúdent]1
student.sg.dat
finnast
find.pl
t1 [sc tölvurnar
computer.the.pl.nom
ljótar].
ugly
‘Some student finds the computers ugly.’ [=(156)]
Nevertheless, given that the effects in (189)–(190) are restricted to
configurations where the dative is the higher of two coarguments, it is quite
clear that they too are ultimately instances of dative intervention. It would
thus be a mistake to characterize the difference between biclausal Icelandic
examples like (191) and their monoclausal counterparts in (188a–b) in terms
of dative intervention versus a lack thereof. The difference seems instead to
involve a distinction between person agreement and number agreement, both
of which are subject to dative intervention, but each under slightly different
conditions (see Sigurðsson and Holmberg 2008 and Preminger 2011b for
two possible accounts of such person-number asymmetries). Crucially, the
domains-based approach is too coarse to account for these facts, because
it predicts the complete absence of intervention effects in monoclausal
environments.
Data like (192) pose a second problem for the domains-based approach. The
argument structure of a verb like finnast ‘find’ in (192) (much like the argument
structure of semble ‘seem’, in the French (185)) obviously includes a dative
experiencer argument. Thus, by hypothesis, this instance of finnast should
not allow restructuring—falsely predicting that agreement with the embedded
nominative subject would be impossible.
One might hypothesize that restructuring becomes possible once again, if
the derivation involves movement of the dative to subject position. But even
that would not be sufficient; consider (193).
156 Chapter 8
(193) Hverjum1
who.dat
hafa
have.pl
strákanir2
boy.the.nom
virst
seemed
t1 [t2 vera
be
gáfaðir]?
intelligent
‘To whom have the boys seemed (to be) intelligent?’
(Holmberg and Hróarsdóttir 2003:1010, attributed to Halldór Ármann
Sigurðsson, pers.comm.)
This example involves Stylistic Fronting of the embedded nominative to the
matrix subject position (Holmberg and Hróarsdóttir 2003:1010). Crucially,
then, the dative has not moved to the subject position in this example; but
agreement with the nominative still goes through (note the plural agreement on
hafa ‘have.pl’).
It is obvious that more needs to be said about examples like (192) and (193),
under any approach to dative intervention, to explain why the trace of a
moved dative argument does not intervene in the same way that an in-
situ dative argument does (see (191)), and the way an A-trace does in
monoclausal configurations (see (190)). The point here is merely that the
domains-based approach seems particularly ill-suited to model these effects,
since it makes the cut between intervention and nonintervention according to
argument structure—whereas the actual distinctions seem sensitive to issues
of finer derivational timing (see, once again, Sigurðsson and Holmberg 2008,
Preminger 2011b).
In summary, B08’s proposal provides a novel answer for one half of the
dative paradox: it explains why dative nominals fail to transmit their own
ϕ-feature values to the finite verb. These effects can be seen as an instance
of a more general, and independently motivated, property of ϕ-agreement; as
B08 has shown, the set of viable ϕ-agreement targets in a given language is
best characterized in terms of morphological case and tracks the implicational
hierarchy repeated in (194).
(194) The Moravcsik hierarchy (second and final revision; B08)
unmarked case > dependent case > lexical/oblique case [=(178)]
I have termed this the case discrimination property of ϕ-agreement. On this
view, the fact that datives fail to transmit their ϕ-feature values to the finite
verb in a language like Icelandic, English, or French is a consequence of case
discrimination allowing only agreement with noun phrases bearing unmarked
case in these languages.
The same view has so far failed, however, to provide a satisfactory
explanation for the second half of the dative paradox: why nodes that cannot
be targeted for ϕ-agreement interact with ϕ-probing at all. As discussed here,
neither the approach that assimilates agreement to “lower right corner” phrasal
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 157
movement (Bobaljik 2002), nor the restructuring/domains-based approach, can
provide a viable answer to this question.
Crucially, it turns out that once we allow for the possibility of failed
agreement in grammatical utterances (as independently argued for in
chapters 5–6), case discrimination can provide an explanation for the second
half of the dative paradox, as well. This is the topic of the next section.
8.4 Intervention as Failed Agreement
In chapter 5, I argued that the behavior of ϕ-agreement in the AF construction
of Kichean forces us to concede the existence of failed agreement (section 2.1):
instances in which ϕ-agreement has not culminated successfully, yet the
resulting utterance is grammatical. This, despite the fact that agreement in
Kichean is generally obligatory, even in the AF construction itself. Converging
evidence for the same conclusion, from Zulu and Basque, was presented
in chapter 6.
Once we are forced to admit the possibility of failed agreement in
grammatical utterances, a previously unavailable analytical possibility presents
itself with respect to dative intervention—especially within a feature-
geometric approach to ϕ-agreement, as pursued in section 4.2.15 This
analytical possibility stems from the fact that “3rd person singular” agreement
morphology (i.e., the agreement morphology that arises upon successful
agreement with a node that happens to be 3rd person and singular) may not
always be distinguishable from the morphology that arises when the probes in
question fail to agree with any target whatsoever.
Recall the ϕ-feature geometry used in section 4.2, adapted from Harley and
Ritter 2002 and McGinnis 2005.
(195) A simplified ϕ-feature geometry
[ϕ]
[number]
[plural]
[person]
[participant]
[author]
( ) ( )
[=(55)]
In this geometry, [plural] is the feature that distinguishes plural noun phrases
from singular ones; [participant] distinguishes 1st/2nd person pronouns from
158 Chapter 8
3rd person pronouns and other noun phrases; and [author] further distinguishes
1st person pronouns from 2nd person ones. Within such a system, notions like
“3rd person” and “singular” amount to the absence of privative features like
[participant] and [plural], respectively.
The valuation that occurs when a ϕ-probe has successfully agreed with a
3rd person singular noun phrase therefore consists, at most, of copying the
root node [ϕ]—and possibly, the “metanodes” [person] and [number]—and
may consist of less, depending on feature relativization (see section 4.2.3).16
However, even if these parent nodes are copied when agreement obtains, it is
possible that they will not receive overt exponence of their own. The agreement
morphology identified as “3rd person singular” in a given language may thus
be nothing more than the exponence given to a probe that lacks [plural] and
[participant] (and by extension, [author]).
In fact, in Preminger 2009, I argued that it was a general property of
ϕ-agreement that when it has failed to locate an appropriate target, the result
is the appearance of a morpheme expressing this kind of “default” (i.e., 3rd
person singular) feature setting. This was contrasted with clitic doubling,
whose failure was shown to result in the disappearance of the relevant
morphological element from the agreement host. In languages where, for
example, 3rd person singular agreement is nonnull, this furnishes a possible
diagnostic for “pure” agreement versus clitic doubling.
(196) Diagnostic for “pure” agreement versus clitic doubling (Preminger
2009:623)
Given a scenario where the relation R between an agreement
morpheme M and the corresponding full noun phrase F is broken,
but the result is still a grammatical utterance:
a. M shows up expressing “default” ϕ-features ⇒ R is “pure”
agreement
b. M disappears entirely ⇒ R is clitic doubling
The diagnostic in (196) was argued for in Preminger 2009 on the basis of
interactions between finite agreement morphology in Basque and the syntax of
certain long-distance agreement constructions (Etxepare 2006). To the extent
that it proves to be crosslinguistically stable (see, e.g., Kramer To appear, on
Amharic), the property expressed by (196) suggests a crosslinguistic tendency
for the root of the ϕ-geometry, [ϕ]—as well as the “metanodes” [person] and
[number]—to receive no overt exponence of their own. This would result in
a complete lack of valuation being morphologically indistinguishable from a
lack of [plural], [participant], and [author] features.
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 159
Whether this is a crosslinguistic universal or not, however, it is clearly
possible that in a given language, there would be no overt exponence associated
with [ϕ]/[person]/[number], and the aforementioned morphological identity
would hold. The analytical alternative made possible by the results of
chapters 5–6 is therefore that dative intervention, which triggers what looks
like 3rd person singular agreement on the finite verb, is really an instance of
failed agreement altogether—a ϕ-probe that has literally failed to agree with
any viable target.
Let us consider the obligatory-operations approach to ϕ-agreement, detailed
in section 5.3 and formalized using the operation find(f), repeated here.17
(197) find(f)
Given an unvalued feature f on a head H0, look for an XP bearing a
valued instance of f and assign that value to H0
. [=(112)]
The case discrimination property of ϕ-agreement was motivated by B08
independently of dative intervention (for example, by the behavior of
ϕ-agreement in quirky-subject languages, as well as by the absence of
languages with an ergative-absolutive agreement alignment but a nominative-
accusative case alignment). I will therefore assume it is correct, and attempt to
integrate it into the definition in (198). It cannot be built into (198) by further
constraining the XPs that (198) operates upon, since that would cause datives
and other discriminated-against XPs to simply be ignored by the probe—like
non-wh phrases in wh-probing—which is not the attested behavior. Instead,
case discrimination will cause the find operation to simply abort.
(198) findϕ (f)
Given an unvalued feature f on a head H0, look for an XP bearing a
valued instance of f. Upon finding such an XP, check whether its case
is acceptable with respect to case discrimination:
a. yes → assign the value of f found on XP to H0
b. no → abort findϕ(f) (and continue with derivation)
As in any other scenario in which find has failed (such as those configurations
discussed in chapter 5, where the derivation simply does not contain a target
bearing the relevant feature f), the only impact that aborting findϕ (198b) has
on the derivation is that the feature(s) on H0 that would have been valued as the
result of its successful culmination (198a) will remain unvalued. The derivation
is otherwise unaffected and proceeds unhindered.
This is, admittedly, a stipulative addition to (197). But as noted
in section 8.3.1, it seems that any approach that would successfully handle
160 Chapter 8
dative intervention would have to make some stipulation or other.18 The
question is just which of these actually derives the correct array of facts.
Let us therefore explore the consequences of (198) as formulated. Consider
first the case of Icelandic; as discussed in detail in sections 8.1 and 8.3.3, only
nominative noun phrases are ever targeted for ϕ-agreement in Icelandic. Thus,
Icelandic makes the case discrimination cutoff between the first and second
members of the revised Moravcsik hierarchy.
(199) Agreement accessibility: Icelandic
unmarked case
	
accessible for
ϕ-agreement
> dependent case > lexical/oblique case [=(179)]
In an example like (200), the ϕ-probe will search for an XP bearing
ϕ-features.19
(200) Það finnst(/*finnast) [einhverjum stúdent]dat
expl find.sg/*find.pl some student.sg.dat
computer.the.pl.nom
[sc tölvurnar ljótar].
ugly
‘Some student finds the computers ugly.’ [=(155)]
The dative noun phrase einhverjum stúdent ‘some student.sg.dat’ is the closest
XP bearing ϕ-features in the domain of the finite ϕ-probe. Therefore, it will
necessarily be this XP that is targeted by findϕ. The targeted XP will then
be evaluated with respect to case discrimination—which in Icelandic is set
in the manner shown in (199), ruling out datives. The formulation of (198)
then dictates that findϕ will be aborted, meaning no ϕ-feature values will be
transmitted to the probe.
I will assume, as discussed earlier, that “3rd person singular” agreement
morphology in Icelandic is simply the spell-out of a ϕ-probe that lacks [plural]
and [participant] values. The result of aborting findϕ in (200) will therefore
be morphologically indistinguishable from successful agreement with a 3rd
person singular target. As shown above, this is the correct result.
Where previously surveyed approaches ran into trouble was in cases of
dative intervention that lead to outright ungrammaticality, as in the French
examples discussed in sections 8.3.2–8.3.3 (and their counterparts in languages
like Spanish, Italian, and Greek).
(201) *Jean1
Jean
semble
seems
[à
to
Marie]dat
Marie
[t1 avoir
have.inf
du
of
talent].
talent
‘Jean seems to Marie to have talent.’ [=(185)]
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 161
As noted earlier, these patterns (of dative intervention leading to
ungrammaticality) seem to be associated, crosslinguistically, with movement
(compare (201) with (200), for example).
I propose that ungrammaticality of this sort arises precisely at the juncture
of ϕ-agreement and movement. To see this, let us first consider languages
that do not have quirky subjects, such as English or French.20
It is important
to note that for the purposes of this discussion (and in fact, throughout this
book), I am using the term quirky subject to refer specifically to instances
of nonnominative noun phrases that pass the full battery of subjecthood tests
(see, e.g., Sigurðsson 1989, Zaenen, Maling, and Thráinsson 1985, on quirky
subjects in Icelandic). This is not to be confused with nonnominative noun
phrases that merely come to c-command other noun phrases in the clause (as is
the case for certain datives in German, for example; see Haider and Rosengren
2003, Wurmbrand 2006).
What it means for a language not to have quirky subjects is that a noun
phrase occupying the canonical subject position (in finite clauses) will always
be nominative. But correlation is not causation, of course; and even if causation
does exist, correlation alone does not dictate the direction of causation.
Traditionally, movement to canonical subject position (henceforth, MtoCSP)
was seen as the cause of this nominatives-only property—either because
canonical subject position was the locus of nominative case assignment
(Chomsky 1981), or because the syntactic element responsible for MtoCSP
(e.g., Infl0) was also the assigner of nominative case (as in later analyses).
However, once the empirical base is broadened to include a language
like Icelandic, such approaches become untenable—insofar as one wishes to
maintain a notion of “nominative” that has anything to do with morphologically
observable distinctions (see Marantz 1991, Zaenen, Maling, and Thráinsson
1985). In lieu of assuming that the aforementioned correlation (between
MtoCSP and nominative in languages like French and English) is a
coincidence—or is perhaps caused by some third factor, which is neither the
movement nor the case marking itself—one could entertain the possibility that
it is nominative case that makes a noun phrase in English or French eligible for
MtoCSP in the first place.
While such a view would be incoherent in a system where nominative case is
assigned as part of, or as the result of, MtoCSP, there are theories of case where
its assignment is not associated with MtoCSP; and crucially, these theories
not only are able to account for case in Icelandic, but generalize to languages
like English and French as well (see Bittner and Hale 1996, Marantz 1991,
Yip, Maling, and Jackendoff 1987; see also chapter 9). It is therefore possible
to discuss nominative case as a precursor to—and potentially, a precondition
for—the application of MtoCSP.
162 Chapter 8
If nominative case is a precondition for MtoCSP in French and English, then
a parallelism can be observed between MtoCSP and ϕ-agreement—namely,
that both are case-discriminating; and since we have abandoned a theory where
ϕ-agreement, MtoCSP, and nominative case are all biconditionally related to
one another, it is no longer trivial that this parallelism between MtoCSP and
ϕ-agreement exists.
In section 8.3.3, I reviewed B08’s arguments that ϕ-agreement is case-
discriminating. Importantly, at least some of the arguments were independent
of MtoCSP (for example, the argument from the typological gap in
combinations of case alignments and agreement alignments). There are
therefore three logical possibilities regarding the source of case discrimination
in MtoCSP: (i) MtoCSP is independently case discriminating (i.e., the case-
discrimination found with ϕ-agreement is duplicated as part of MtoCSP);
(ii) there is an independent mechanism of case discrimination, and both
ϕ-agreement and MtoCSP make use of it; or (iii) MtoCSP is case-
discriminating derivatively, because it can only see noun phrases through the
prism of ϕ-agreement.
Naturally, considerations of simplicity already favor (ii)–(iii) over (i). But
there is an additional, empirical argument that favors (iii) over the other two.
The argument has to do with the typology of case discrimination. At issue is the
relation between the set of case markings that render a noun phrase eligible for
MtoCSP in a given language, and the set of case markings that can be targeted
by the finite ϕ-probe in that same language.
Before detailing the relevant typological observation, I must stress that this
discussion involves, on the ϕ-agreement side, the set of case markings that
can be targeted for ϕ-agreement by a single ϕ-probe (in B08’s terms, “single
agreement”). Thus, examples like the Basque (202)—where each slot in the
finite auxiliary agrees with arguments of a particular case marking21—are not
directly relevant, here.
(202) Guraso-e-k
parent(s)-artpl-erg
niri
me.dat
belarritako
earring(s)
ederr-ak
beautiful-artpl(abs)
erosi
bought
d-
3.abs-
i-
√
-
zki-
pl.abs-
da-
1sg.dat-
te.
3pl.erg
‘(My) parents have bought me beautiful earrings.’ [=(63)]
Instead, an example of a single ϕ-probe being able to target noun phrases with
varying case markings would be Nepali (as shown in section 8.3.3, following
B08). Recall that on B08’s case discrimination analysis, Nepali is a language
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 163
that makes the accessibility cutoff between the second and third members of
the revised Moravcsik hierarchy.
(203) Agreement accessibility: Nepali
unmarked case > dependent case
	
accessible for
ϕ-agreement
> lexical/oblique case [=(180)]
Thus, in Nepali, a single ϕ-agreement host—the finite verb—is able to target
noun phrases bearing either unmarked case (‘nom’) or dependent case (‘erg’),
though not noun phrases bearing lexical/oblique case (‘dat’).
(204) a. ma
1sg.nom
[yas
dem.obl
pasal-mā]
store-loc
patrikā
newspaper.nom
kin-ch-u
buy-nonpast-1sg
‘I buy the newspaper in this store.’
b. maile
1sg.erg
[yas
dem.obl
pasal-mā]
store-loc
patrikā
newspaper.nom
kin-ē/*yo
buy.past-1sg/*3sg.masc
‘I bought the newspaper in this store.’
c. malāı̄
1sg.dat
timı̄
2sg.masc.hon.nom
man
liking
par-ch-au/*u
occur-nonpast-2sg.masc.hon/*1sg
‘I like you.’ [=(181a–b), (182)]
Having elucidated this distinction, we can turn to the typological observation
in question. We have seen a language, Icelandic, where the set of case markings
that are eligible for MtoCSP is a superset of the set of case markings that
are eligible for ϕ-agreement. In Icelandic, nominatives, accusatives, datives,
and genitives can undergo MtoCSP (i.e., move to canonical subject position),
but only nominatives can be agreed with (see, e.g., Sigurðsson 1993, 1996).
We have also seen languages where both sets are identical: in English and
French, only nominatives can undergo MtoCSP, and only nominatives can be
targeted by the finite ϕ-probe. I know of no language, however, where the set
of case markings that are eligible for MtoCSP is a proper subset of the set of
case markings that are eligible for ϕ-agreement. This typology is summarized
in (205).
164 Chapter 8
(205) A typological gap in case discrimination patterns
a. Icelandic: candidates for
MtoCSP:
{nom, acc, dat, . . .}
 candidates for
finite ϕ-agreement:
{nom}
b. English,
French:
candidates for
MtoCSP:
{nom}
= candidates for
finite ϕ-agreement:
{nom}
c. *Unattested: candidates for
MtoCSP:
{nom /abs}
 candidates for
finite ϕ
ϕ-agreement:
{nom/abs, acc/erg, . . .}
In Nepali, for example, where ϕ-agreement can target noun phrases bearing
unmarked or dependent case, there is crucially no MtoCSP operation that can
target only nominals in the unmarked case (see (204a–b)), which is the kind of
hypothetical language that would fall under (205c).
Another hypothetical example of a (205c)-type language would be an
“inverse” version of Icelandic, where the ϕ-probe could target nominatives,
accusatives, datives, or genitives, but only nominatives could move to
canonical subject position. With an infinitival-embedding verb like finnast
‘find’, the dative experiencer would control agreement on the finite verb, but
nothing could move to subject position (since the closer dative would bear
the wrong case marking, and the embedded nominative subject would violate
minimality with respect to the closer dative). Thus, the expletive-associate
version of this construction would be felicitous, but no variant would be
possible in which a referential noun phrase had moved to subject position.
Again, this seems to be unattested.
The capacity of MtoCSP (in a non-quirky-subject language) for case
discrimination thus seems derivative of the corresponding capacity of
ϕ-agreement (as articulated in possibility (iii), above). If MtoCSP operates
upon XPs that have been successfully targeted by findϕ, it follows that
MtoCSP will exhibit the same case discrimination properties that ϕ-agreement
itself exhibits. This idea, that MtoCSP relies on findϕ to identify the
operand that will serve as its input, recalls an intuition reflected in various
existing proposals, that MtoCSP is in some sense “parasitic” on ϕ-agreement
(e.g., Chomsky 1995:283).
Of course, what we have seen is that MtoCSP is not case-discriminating in
every language. This was the reason for abandoning a theory that took MtoCSP,
finite ϕ-agreement, and nominative case to be intrinsically linked to one
another (as in Chomsky 2000, 2001, for example). But even in Icelandic, where
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 165
both nominative case and finite ϕ-agreement are dissociable from MtoCSP, the
former two remain inexorably linked (B08, Sigurðsson 1993, Zaenen, Maling,
and Thráinsson 1985; sections 8.1–8.3). MtoCSP, on the other hand, appears
to operate independently, targeting what is simply the closest nominal (modulo
certain complications that arise when the closest nominal node is the trace of a
moved noun phrase; see the discussion of (193)).
There is therefore a way of thinking of the difference between quirky-
subject languages and non-quirky-subject languages, which goes at least one
step beyond simply naming the two: tracing the difference to whether or not
MtoCSP operates upon XPs that have been successfully targeted by findϕ .22
(206) Movement to canonical subject position (MtoCSP): Two typological
variations
a. In a quirky-subject language: (e.g., Icelandic)
MtoCSPQSL = Move(closest DP)
b. In a non-quirky-subject language: (e.g., English, French)
MtoCSPNQSL = Move(XP successfully targeted by findϕ)
It may seem, at first glance, that a duplication problem is lurking here, with
respect to the term closest—since minimality is part of findϕ, but now also a
part of (206a), which does not involve findϕ. But just as in the discussion of
c-command with respect to find(f ) (section 5.3), minimality can be viewed
not as an explicit condition or rule, but as a result of the way hierarchical
structure is built and scanned (see also section 2.2.3). Since both findϕ and
MtoCSPQSL involve scanning the already-built hierarchical structure for a
target of a particular kind, both will necessarily obey c-command as well as
minimality, by definition (this way of thinking of c-command and minimality
follows Chomsky 1995).
A more parsimonious formulation of (206a–b) would therefore remove
closest from the definition of MtoCSPQSL altogether.
(207) Movement to canonical subject position (MtoCSP): Two typological
variations (revised version)
a. In a quirky-subject language: (e.g., Icelandic)
MtoCSPQSL = Move(DP)
b. In a non-quirky-subject language: (e.g., English, French)
MtoCSPNQSL = Move(XP successfully targeted by findϕ)
166 Chapter 8
To reiterate: while (206b)/(207b) comes close to existing proposals in
which movement is contingent on agreement (e.g., Chomsky 2000, 2001),
several important differences exist: (i) on the current view, the contingency
of movement on agreement holds in non-quirky-subject languages, but
crucially does not hold in quirky-subject languages; (ii) the kind of
agreement implicated in (207b) is morphologically detectable, predicate-
argument agreement in ϕ-features (rather than an abstract formal relation
that might involve features like [epp], etc.); and perhaps most importantly,
(iii) the agreement operation referenced in (207b) is findϕ, which, as
we saw in chapter 5, can sometimes be triggered but fail to culminate
successfully—even within a derivation that is ultimately well-formed (contra
Chomsky (2000, 2001) Agree).
Let us now see how the model in (207) derives the typology of dative
intervention and, in particular, the conditions under which dative intervention
gives rise to actual ungrammaticality, as opposed to a morphological
“default” form.
The treatment of an example like (208) is exactly as previously described:
the XP targeted by findϕ is the dative nominal, because of minimality; this
nominal is ruled out by the case discrimination setting of Icelandic (199);
this causes findϕ to abort. Consequently, no [plural], [participant], or [author]
values are copied to the finite ϕ-probe, resulting in the morphology normally
referred to as “3rd person singular” appearing on the finite verb.
(208) Það finnst(/*finnast) [einhverjum stúdent]dat
expl find.sg/*find.pl some student.sg.dat
computer.the.pl.nom
[sc tölvurnar ljótar].
ugly
‘Some student finds the computers ugly.’ [=(200)]
Now consider an example of dative intervention that leads to
ungrammaticality, as in the French (209).
(209) *Jean1
Jean
semble
seems
[à
to
Marie]dat
Marie
[t1 avoir
have.inf
du
of
talent].
talent
‘Jean seems to Marie to have talent.’ [=(201)]
As in the Icelandic (208), the finite ϕ-probe will seek a ϕ-bearing XP; and
once again—since ϕ-probing is faced with both arguments in their respective
base positions—the closest such XP will be the dative nominal. The case
discrimination component of findϕ will, however, rule out agreement with
this dative, causing findϕ to abort. Thus, taking only ϕ-agreement into
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 167
consideration, we would expect (209) to be well-formed, exhibiting some sort
of “default” agreement morphology on the finite verb.
This is where examples like (208) and (209) diverge. Given the string
in (209), its derivation must have involved the application of MtoCSP (since
the subject is to the left of the finite verb). This is not the case in the
Icelandic (208): there, only an expletive (það) precedes the finite verb (and
Icelandic being a quirky-subject language, MtoCSP in (208) would yield
movement of the dative experiencer, rather than the nominative target of
ϕ-agreement; cf. (192)).
There is now an explanation at hand for the ungrammaticality of (209).
The derivation of this string requires the instantiation of an operation,
MtoCSPNQSL, in a derivation where the necessary input to that operation is
not available. Specifically, given the formulation of MtoCSPNQSL in (207b), it
takes as its input an XP successfully targeted by findϕ; but in (209), no such
XP exists, since findϕ was aborted as a result of case discrimination.
The fate of an example like (209) is therefore similar, in a sense, to the fate
of examples that violate minimality (section 2.2.3), or even the “gratuitous
nonagreement” examples of section 5.3: there is simply no derivation made
available by the grammar that leads to this particular surface string. As
discussed in section 2.2.3, ruling out certain structures on the grounds that
there is no available derivation that generates them (as opposed to a featural
ill-formedness of the structures in question) is unavoidable, even in more
canonical implementations of Minimalist syntax. On the current view, the
ungrammaticality of (209) is just another instance of the same logic at work.
If this analysis is true, it means that the reason datives intervene in
MtoCSPNQSL just as they do in ϕ-agreement is that MtoCSPNQSL can only
target those XPs that have been successfully targeted by findϕ.
Since the account proposed here crucially implicates movement in the
ungrammaticality of an example like (209), it predicts that a variant of (209) in
which the nominative has remained in situ should be grammatical. According
to Bošković (2002, 2007), this is indeed the case. One cannot test this with a
proper name like Jean as that nominative, because of the definiteness effect (see
Milsark 1974, and much subsequent work, as well as section 10.1.2). But with
an indefinite noun phrase in that role, such examples are apparently possible
as, in the French (210a–b).
(210) a. Il
expl
semble
seem.sg
au
to.the
général
general
être
to.be
arrivé
arrived
deux
two
soldats
soldiers
en
in
ville.
town
‘There seem to the general to have arrived two soldiers in town.’
168 Chapter 8
b. Il
expl
semble
seem.sg
au
to.the
général
general
y avoir
to.have
deux
two
soldats
soldiers
manquants
missing
à
at
la
the
caserne.
barracks
‘There seem to the general to be two soldiers missing from the
barracks.’
(Bošković 2007:603)
In other words, when the nominative remains in situ, French does not differ
from Icelandic: dative intervention does not result in ungrammaticality; rather,
it results in “default” (3rd person singular) agreement morphology on the finite
verb. It is only when the surface string forces a parse where MtoCSPNQSL
has applied (i.e., when the nominative noun phrase occurs to the left of the
finite verb)—but the subject could not have been targeted by findϕ—that
ungrammaticality arises. This is exactly what the proposal formulated in (207)
predicts.
So far, I have discussed MtoCSPNQSL with respect to French, but not with
respect to English. As is well-known, English differs from both French and
Icelandic in allowing agreement across an intervening dative experiencer (211),
as well as raising across such datives (212).
(211) a. There seems/??seem [to every attorneyi] to be [some client of hisi
who is innocent].
b. There seem /%seems [to every attorneyi] to be [several clients of
hisi who are innocent].23
(212) [Some client]1 seems [to every attorney] [to t1 be innocent].
Recent work by Hartman (2011a, b) suggests that this is a particular property of
the English verbs seem and appear and does not extend—even in English—to
other instances of intervention.
Regardless, it is worth noting that even the pattern in (211)–(212) does
not actually counterexemplify the proposal involving MtoCSPNQSL. The
prediction of the current proposal is that movement to canonical subject
position, in a non-quirky-subject language like English, will be restricted
to operate only upon noun phrases that have been successfully targeted
for ϕ-agreement. As (211) makes very clear, the subject of the infinitival
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 169
complement of English seem can indeed be targeted successfully for
ϕ-agreement. Regardless of what the particular explanation of this is (see
Anagnostopoulou 2003, Collins 2005a, and Hartman 2011b, for possible
accounts), the formulation of MtoCSPNQSL given in (207) predicts that this
embedded subject will be able to undergo movement to the finite subject
position—exactly as shown in (212).24
Note that I make no new claims here regarding the question of when MtoCSP
is or is not triggered in a particular language. (As an example of MtoCSP
not applying, suppose that expletive subjects are inserted directly in their
surface position;25 in that case, in sentences like (211a–b), MtoCSP would
not have applied.) What (207) regulates is not when MtoCSP is or is not
triggered, but rather, which phrase it will operate upon when it is triggered.
Because MtoCSPNQSL can only apply to a noun phrase if that noun phrase
has been successfully targeted for ϕ-agreement, it follows that in (212)—the
nonexpletive variant of (211a)—it is the noun phrase some client (rather than,
say, (to) every attorney) that will move to canonical subject position.
In contrast, because MtoCSPQSL operates on the closest DP regardless of
ϕ-agreement, the state of affairs will be different in Icelandic. In a comparable
construction, it will be the dative experiencer—rather than the embedded
nominative subject—that stands to move to canonical subject position.
(213) ?Það
expl
virtist
seemed
[bara
just
tveim
two
af
of
dómurunum]dat
judges.the.dat
[konan]nom
woman.the.nom
hafa
have.inf
skrifað
written
bókina.
book.the.acc
‘It seemed to only two of the judges that the woman had written the
book.’
(214) [Dómurunum1]dat
judges.the.dat
virtist
seemed
t1 [konan]nom
woman.the.nom
hafa
have.inf
skrifað
written
bókina.
book.the.acc
‘It seemed to the judges that the woman had written the book.’
(Halldór Ármann Sigurðsson, pers.comm.)
There is more to be said about examples like (213)–(214), especially
concerning the definiteness effect; this issue is taken up in section 10.1.2.
To summarize this section, we have explored an approach that takes B08’s
case discrimination property (as I have termed it) to result in the outright failure
of the agreement operation. We have seen that such an approach—coupledwith
170 Chapter 8
the results of chapters 5–6, showing that failed agreement, unto itself, does
not result in ungrammaticality—is able to derive which instances of dative
intervention would indeed lead to ungrammaticality, and which would lead
only to “default” morphology. This sets the current proposal apart from its
competitors, surveyed in section 8.3.
More generally, the account is able to explain both sides of the dative
paradox (section 8.2). Datives cannot transfer their own features to the finite
verb (in the relevant languages) because of case discrimination, a mechanism
needed independently of datives (for example, to capture the absence of
languages with an ergative-absolutive agreement alignment but a nominative-
accusative case alignment; see section 8.3.3). Datives interact with ϕ-probing
even when they are not viable agreement targets unto themselves because of
how case discrimination is implemented in the grammar: as a failure condition
that causes the ϕ-agreement operation (labeled here as findϕ) to abort.
Such a failure is not, in and of itself, fatal to the derivation; as shown in
chapters 5–6, failed agreement is tolerated by the grammar, resulting only in
the lack of valuation. But it can lead to the ill-formedness of those derivations
that involve an operation that relies on successful ϕ-agreement for its input. On
the current proposal, MtoCSPNQSL (movement to canonical subject position in
a non-quirky-subject language) is precisely such an operation. Thus, a surface
string that forces a parse in which MtoCSPNQSL has applied, but where the
structure is one that would cause ϕ-agreement to have failed, is (correctly)
predicted to be ungrammatical.
8.5 Against a Violable-Constraints Alternative
I phrased the discussion in section 8.4 in terms of the obligatory-operations
proposal put forth in section 5.3 (based on the find(f) operation). At the end
of chapter 5, though, I noted that there are two models still in contention:
alongside this obligatory-operations approach, there is an approach based on
violable constraints (section 2.2.2).
The account developed in section 8.4, however, relied crucially on the notion
that actual failure to agree is implicated in the derivation of intervention by
dative nominals. In this section, I demonstrate why this state of affairs is
incompatible with the violable-constraints model.
Let us begin with the Icelandic (208), where the presence of an in-situ
dative experiencer prevents agreement of the finite verb with the embedded
nominative subject (which, in that example, is plural). Suppose that there is
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 171
a constraint militating against agreement across a dative intervener—or more
generally, across any bearer of valued ϕ-features.
(215) *CrossPhi
Assign one violation mark for each noun phrase β located between x
and a noun phrase α, if x bears agreement morphology that
coindexes α.
(i.e., *x[ϕi]  β [ϕk]  α [ϕi], where “” indicates c-command)
We could then account for (208) as follows (for the formulation of HaveAgr,
see sections 2.2.2, 5.3):
(216)
. . . FiniteVerb datDP[ϕk] nomDP[ϕi] . . . *CrossPhi HaveAgr
a.  . . . FiniteVerb[Ø] datDP[ϕk] nomDP[ϕi] . . . *
b. . . . FiniteVerb[ϕi] datDP[ϕk] nomDP[ϕi] . . . *!
We must also prevent ϕ-agreement from targeting the dative itself (cf. (154))—
a subcase of case discrimination. We could add a constraint militating against
agreement with oblique nominals.
(217) *OblTarget
Assign one violation mark for each oblique noun phrase (including
datives) targeted for ϕ-agreement.
In fact, it is quite straightforward to recast the entire revised Moravcsik
hierarchy (194) as a series of constraints, militating against (i) agreement
with nominals bearing lexical/oblique case, *OblTarget; (ii) agreement
with nominals marked with dependent case, *DepTarget; and perhaps
even (iii) agreement with nominals with unmarked case, *UnmrTarget.
In a language like Icelandic, only *UnmrTarget would be ranked below
HaveAgr, yielding the attested pattern of case discrimination. But note that
the constraints in the set {*OblTarget, *DepTarget, *UnmrTarget} would
have to be extrinsically ranked with respect to one another, to yield the correct
implicational universals (B08); this constraint-based approach to the revised
Moravcsik hierarchy therefore provides no particular insight into the nature
of case discrimination itself. I will therefore leave it aside for now, focusing
instead on *OblTarget specifically.
172 Chapter 8
If *OblTarget and *CrossPhi are both ranked above HaveAgr, we derive
the correct behavior for dative intervention in Icelandic, as in (218).
(218)
. . . FiniteVerb datDP[ϕk] nomDP[ϕi] . . . *OblTarget *CrossPhi HaveAgr
a.  . . . FiniteVerb[Ø] datDP[ϕk] nomDP[ϕi] . . . *
b. . . . FiniteVerb[ϕi] datDP[ϕk] nomDP[ϕi] . . . *!
c. . . . FiniteVerb[ϕk] datDP[ϕk] nomDP[ϕi] . . . *!
Let us now turn to the French example in (219).
(219) *Jean1
Jean
semble
seems
[à
to
Marie]dat
Marie
[t1 avoir
have.inf
du
of
talent].
talent
‘Jean seems to Marie to have talent.’ [=(209)]
As demonstrated in section 8.2, the ungrammaticality of (219) is crucially
tied to the presence of a dative experiencer; corresponding examples that
lack a dative experiencer altogether are grammatical, as are examples where
the dative experiencer is a pronominal clitic (see Anagnostopoulou 2003,
McGinnis 1998). Thus, treating (219) as unrelated to other cases of intervention
by datives would miss an important generalization.
Initially, the prospects for a constraint-based account of (219), along the lines
of (218), seem promising: *OblTarget and *CrossPhi would militate against
agreement with the dative itself and against agreement with the nominative
Jean across the dative, just as in the Icelandic example. We could perhaps even
generalize *OblTarget and *CrossPhi so that they apply to agreement and
movement equally, thus ruling out the raising of the dative or the nominative
in (219) in the same manner that agreement with each of the two is ruled out.
The problem here has to do with the very logic of violable constraints:
in this kind of framework, no candidate is “well-formed” or “ill-formed”
independently of the other candidates; the candidate that is comparatively
better than all of its competitors is predicted to be a viable surface form.
Therefore, a given string can be ungrammatical only if it is suboptimal,
dispreferred to another realization of the same input. Crucially, however, there
is no realization involving the main verb semble, a full lexical noun phrase
(rather than a pronominal clitic) as an experiencer argument, and an embedded
nonfinite clause [<Jean> avoir du talent], that results in a grammatical string
in French.
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 173
As discussed in section 8.3.2, the variant of (219) in which the embedded
clause is finite is grammatical (see (164a)). One might therefore entertain the
possibility that it is this finite variant that competes with and outperforms (219),
resulting in the ungrammaticality of the latter. However, there are interpretive
differences between the finite and nonfinite versions of this construction; this
can be discerned by looking at cases where there is no dative experiencer, or the
experiencer is cliticized to the verb—in which case both the finite and nonfinite
variants are grammatical (Anagnostopoulou 2003, McGinnis 1998). The finite
and nonfinite variants differ, for example, in their temporal interpretation (as
in It seems that Stewie will be a maladjusted adult versus Stewie seems to be
a maladjusted adult)—as one would expect, when dealing with a distinction
between a finite embedded clause and a raising infinitive. Thus, attempting
to derive the finiteness of the embedded clause using the violable-constraints
system (as opposed to stipulating it as part of the input) means involving this
system in the speaker’s choice of which meaning to convey, a choice that
clearly falls outside the domain of grammar.26
It is also worth noting here that in French, a definite nominative like Jean
cannot remain in situ with the expletive il filling the matrix subject position
in its stead; but this cannot be the cause of ungrammaticality, in a violable-
constraints model. First, note that an expletive is not part of the apparent input
in an example like (219); but even if we assume that an expletive can be
inserted by gen (the component that generates the set of competing candidates
for a given input form), the inability of definites to serve as associates in French
simply means that there is an undominated constraint like *DefinAssoc,
preventing an expletive from being inserted (and the definite nominative from
remaining in situ). If so, some other candidate should still outperform the
expletive-associate candidate, emerging as the optimal one.
The conclusion is that the formalism used to model ϕ-agreement must
be capable of predicting actual ungrammaticality, whether this arises at
the juncture of ϕ-agreement and MtoCSP (as in the account proposed
in section 8.4) or as part of MtoCSP itself. This might technically be
possible within a violable-constraints approach—for example, by introducing
<ungrammaticality> as a candidate in its own right (cf. the so-called null
parse; Prince and Smolensky 1993) and allowing it to compete with the
other, contentful candidates. But this idea would be anathema to the very
core of the violable-constraints model (at least as a theory of syntax), in
which the ungrammaticality of a given output is supposed to result from the
existence of another output candidate, generated from the same input, that
outperforms it.
174 Chapter 8
Insofar as a violable-constraints approach constitutes a falsifiable hypothesis
(rather than merely an alternative descriptive vocabulary), what we have seen
here is precisely what a falsification of it would look like.
8.6 Summary
In this chapter, I have extended the analysis of ϕ-agreement proposed in
chapter 5 to account for intervention by dative nominals, and for what I have
called the dative paradox (section 8.2): the fact that datives interact with
ϕ-probing in the first place, given their inability to transfer their own ϕ-feature
values to the finite verb (section 8.1).
The proposal was crucially based on Bobaljik’s (2008) observation that
ϕ-agreement is, in the terms used here, case-discriminating: the set of noun
phrases that agreement can and cannot target in a given language is best
characterized in terms of case (and in particular, morphological case, rather
than grammatical function). This, Bobaljik shows, predicts the behavior of
ϕ-agreement with quirky-subject verbs in Icelandic, as well as the absence of
languages that exhibit a nominative-accusative alignment in their case-marking
system, but an ergative-absolutive alignment in their agreement system.
Importantly, I showed that existing proposals fail to account for the
fact that dative intervention sometimes gives rise to “default” (3rd person
singular) agreement morphology, and sometimes to outright ungrammaticality.
The proposals surveyed included (i) the Activity Condition (Chomsky
2001) (section 8.3.1); (ii) the idea that datives are enclosed in a dedicated
layer of functional structure (e.g., Rezac 2008a) (section 8.3.2); and even
(iii) Bobaljik’s own restructuring/domains-based approach (section 8.3.3).
The fact that dative intervention can produce actual ungrammaticality
also proved crucial in ruling out a violable-constraints account of
ϕ-agreement (section 8.5). Simply put, ungrammaticality caused by dative
intervention furnishes a case of the best not being good enough (cf. Barbosa
et al. 1998): no possible output in the pool of candidates that can reasonably
correspond to a given input turns out to be grammatical. This runs counter
to the very logic that a violable-constraints model is built upon—namely, that
grammaticality is simply a matter of incurring the least costly set of violations
among the set of competing output candidates.
In section 8.4, I presented an account of dative intervention based on the
idea that case discrimination causes the operation responsible for ϕ-agreement
(which I have labeled findϕ) to actually fail. Like the other instances of
failed agreement (see chapters 5–6), this failure does not “crash” the derivation
or induce ungrammaticality; it merely results in the relevant features on
Datives, Defective Intervention, and Case Discrimination 175
the ϕ-probe remaining unvalued. However, I argued that in non-quirky-
subject languages in particular, movement to canonical subject position
(MtoCSPNQSL) depends on ϕ-agreement to identify the noun phrase that will
be moved—an idea for which there is typological support (see (205)). Thus,
in a non-quirky-subject language, if a given string forces a parse in which
MtoCSP has applied, but the structure in question would result in ϕ-agreement
failing, the result will be ungrammatical. This kind of ungrammaticality is the
same kind discussed in sections 2.2.3 and 5.3: because MtoCSPNQSL requires
successful ϕ-agreement to identify its input, there is simply no derivation
generated by the grammar that would produce the output in question.
The essential components of the account are repeated here:
(220) findϕ (f)
Given an unvalued feature f on a head H0
, look for an XP bearing a
valued instance of f. Upon finding such an XP, check whether its case
is acceptable with respect to case discrimination:
a. yes → assign the value of f found on XP to H0
b. no → abort findϕ(f) (and continue with derivation) [=(198)]
(221) The Moravcsik hierarchy (second and final revision; Bobaljik 2008)
unmarked case > dependent case > lexical/oblique case [=(178)]
(222) Movement to canonical subject position (MtoCSP): Two typological
variations (revised version)
a. In a quirky-subject language: (e.g., Icelandic)
MtoCSPQSL = Move(DP)
b. In a non-quirky-subject language: (e.g., English, French)
MtoCSPNQSL = Move(XP successfully targeted by findϕ)
[=(207)]
As noted earlier, the fact that MtoCSPNQSL (222b) is computed on the basis
of findϕ—which in turn makes reference to case discrimination, which
is sensitive to morphological case (Bobaljik 2008, Marantz 1991)—has
consequences for the modular locus of the relevant processes. In particular,
since MtoCSP is obviously syntactic, it requires a case calculus capable of
producing the results in (221) while operating entirely within syntax. This issue
is taken up in the next chapter.
9 Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax.
In this chapter, I will argue that ϕ-agreement is part of syntax. While this may
seem like an obvious point from certain perspectives, recall that ϕ-agreement
was shown by Bobaljik (2008)to operateon thebasis of“morphological case”—
which I have termed the case discrimination property of ϕ-agreement. The
latter has been argued to be postsyntactic, computed within the morphological
component of grammar (Marantz 1991). This proposal, in turn, has been used
by Bobaljik to argue that ϕ-agreement itself is postsyntactic.
The significance of this issue in the current context lies in how the results of
chapters 5–8 are to be interpreted. If ϕ-agreement is part of syntax, then these
results demonstrate the existence of syntactic phenomena whose obligatoriness
cannot be captured in terms of derivational time-bombs (section 2.2.1)
(such as Chomsky’s (2000, 2001) “uninterpretable features”) or violable
constraints (section 2.2.2). Instead, they require an obligatory-operations
approach (section 2.2.3), as implemented in chapter 8 in the form of the
findϕ(f) operation. If ϕ-agreement is not part of syntax, however, then these
conclusions pertain to a different computational module entirely (and would,
a fortiori, be irrelevant to “uninterpretable features,” for example).
I will demonstrate that the argument for “morphological case” being
postsyntactic is based on the false premise that there are no instances where
morphological case itself (as opposed to, say, the syntactic factors that affect it)
is implicated in the computation of an inescapably syntactic property or
process. The results of chapter 8 furnish precisely such a situation: in a
quirky-subject language, morphological case feeds ϕ-agreement (the case
discrimination property of ϕ-agreement; see above); but following section 8.4,
ϕ-agreement in non-quirky-subject languages feeds movement to canonical
subject position, which is clearly syntactic (since it creates new binding
configurations, for example). Thus, insofar as ϕ-agreement is to be treated in
a crosslinguistically consistent manner, both ϕ-agreement and what we have
come to call “morphological case” must be part of syntax itself.
178 Chapter 9
These results necessitate a reenvisioning of the calculus that leads to
morphological case—in particular, case competition and the disjunctive case
hierarchy (Marantz 1991)—in a way that can be computed within syntax. As
a further demonstration of this need, I review Baker and Vinokurova’s (2010)
argument that case in Sakha (Turkic), a non-quirky-subject language, cannot be
properly accounted for without recourse to case competition, either. This shows
that case competition is not some morphological peculiarity of quirky-subject
languages alone, but a necessary part of the calculus of case more generally.
The particular syntactic reimplementation I propose for Marantz’s case
assignment algorithm has the potential advantage of deriving the disjunctive
case hierarchy itself (i.e., the ordering of the different categories of case
within the algorithm) from independently established principles of syntactic
structure-building.
I begin, in section 9.1, by reviewing the arguments put forth in favor of
morphological case and ϕ-agreement being postsyntactic phenomena. Next,
in section 9.2, I demonstrate that the premise these arguments were based on,
that these properties never feed syntactic processes, is falsified by the results
of chapter 8, concerning the interaction of ϕ-agreement and movement to
canonical subject position in certain languages.
In section 9.3.1, I review Baker and Vinokurova’s (2010) analysis of Sakha
and, in particular, the argument from Sakha that case competition is necessary
even in a non-quirky-subject language. I also review Levin and Preminger’s
(to appear) argument that contra Baker and Vinokurova’s more general claim,
the case facts of Sakha can be captured entirely within a configurational
approach of this sort. In section 9.3.2, I present a syntactic implementation
of Marantz’s case assignment algorithm, and I show that the disjunctive case
hierarchy may be derivable from this implementation. Section 9.4 provides a
summary.
In the appendix to this chapter, I reexamine the results of chapters 4–5
—regarding ϕ-agreement in the Kichean AF construction—in light of the
results of this chapter and of chapter 8, concerning case assignment and the
case discrimination property of ϕ-agreement.
9.1 The Argument for Morphological Case and ϕ
ϕ-Agreement as
Postsyntactic Operations
As noted in section 8.3.3, Bobaljik’s (2008) argument for the case
discrimination property of ϕ-agreement was originally presented as an
argument for ϕ-agreement being postsyntactic—part of the morphological
computation, not the syntactic one. I will review this argument here.
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 179
Consider first the issue of case morphology in Icelandic. As shown by
Marantz (1991)—who builds on work by Zaenen, Maling, and Thráinsson
(1985), Sigurðsson (1991), and others—Icelandic exhibits all the properties
that in classical case theory (Chomsky 1981, et seq.) were attributed to
abstract case. This includes A-movement under passives/raising, for example.
But crucially, these properties in Icelandic are all dissociable from the
morphological case actually borne by the nominals in question.
That is not to say that the two systems are entirely disjoint, of course.
Subjects of finite clauses, for example, will be nominative in Icelandic unless a
different case marking is licensed by a particular lexical item in the clause.
However, these deviations from the canonical pattern are crucial: as these
authors show, there is no combinatorial mapping in Icelandic from the abstract
case that classical case theory would ascribe to a given nominal, to the
morphological case that the nominal actually bears (independent of other
nominals in the local domain, and/or the identity of various lexical heads in
that domain; see below).
As an example of this dissociation, consider a case like the Icelandic (223).
(223) Fiskinum1
fish.the.dat
er
is
talið
believed
[(t1) hafa
have.inf
verið
been
hent
discarded
t1].
‘The fish is believed to have been discarded.’
(Thráinsson 2007:184)
It is an idiosyncratic property of the predicate henda ‘throw, discard’ in
Icelandic that its Patient must bear dative case (this is the type of idiosyncratic
case requirement that has been termed “quirky case”). But as (223) shows,
when this predicate is passivized, the Patient undergoes the same kind of
A-movement familiar from English; it even continues its A-movement when
embedded under the passivized ECM predicate telja ‘believe’, just as it
would in English. Crucially, the nominal undergoing this movement (fiskinum
‘fish.the.dat’) bears no sign of nominative case, even after having undergone
this movement; it is morphologically indistinguishable from other datives.
(For further details, see the references cited above; and for a review, see
Thráinsson 2007.)
It is due to patterns of this sort that the distribution of morphologically
observable cases in Icelandic requires a departure from the tenets of classical
case theory. To account for this distribution, Marantz (1991) proposes the
disjunctive case hierarchy (see also Bittner and Hale 1996, Yip, Maling, and
Jackendoff 1987).
(224) Disjunctive case hierarchy (Marantz 1991)
lexical/oblique case → dependent case → unmarked case [=(176)]
180 Chapter 9
Let us briefly consider how (224) works. First, all noun phrases that
are selected by lexical items that idiosyncratically specify a particular case
marking for their arguments (prepositions, quirky-case predicates like henda
‘throw, discard’ in (223), etc.) are assigned the idiosyncratic cases in question.
Next, all remaining noun phrases are evaluated. Every pair of as-yet-caseless
noun phrases within a local domain that stand in an asymmetric c-command
relation enter into what is sometimes called a “case competition” relation—
resulting in the assignment of dependent case (see also Bittner and Hale 1996).
Normally, case competition is itself an asymmetric relation, parameterized in
one of two ways. In an ergative language/construction, the higher of the two
noun phrases will receive dependent case, and it is this case that we have come
to call “ergative.” In a nonergative language/construction, the lower of the
two will receive dependent case, and it is this case that we have come to call
“accusative.” This is schematized in (225a–b).
(225) Case competition → Dependent case
a. NP . . . NP“ACC” dependent case: “downward” ⇒
nominative-accusative alignment
b. “ERG”NP . . . NP dependent case: “upward” ⇒
ergative-absolutive alignment
If, however, we also allow case competition to be a reciprocal relation, the
prediction is that both ergative and accusative can be assigned simultaneously
to the two noun phrases entering into such a relation. Deal (to appear) proposes
that “tripartite” case systems like the one in Nez Perce, where accusative
and ergative can cooccur, arise in this fashion. This suggests a third possible
parameter setting for the dependent case relation: “reciprocal,” alongside
“upward” and “downward.” Finally, Baker (2012) argues that languages with
neither overt accusative nor overt ergative might arise when neither (225a)
nor (225b) is available, suggesting a four-way typology where (225a–b) can
each be parameterized as “on” or “off,” independently of one another.
In the final step of (224), every noun phrase that has not been assigned
lexical/oblique case or dependent case in the preceding steps will be assigned
unmarked case. We can informally call such case marking “nominative” or
“absolutive”—or in the nominal domain, “genitive” (Marantz 1991). The
actual form given to a noun phrase bearing unmarked case can be sensitive to
identity of the spell-out domain (e.g., whether it is CP or DP); therefore, there
is no requirement that nominative/absolutive have the same form as genitive in
a given language, for this account to apply.
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 181
As noted in section 8.3.3, the term unmarked case is not to be confused
with default case or citation form: in English, for example, fragment answers
and other freestanding forms bear accusative(/objective), the dependent case
(e.g., Who came to the party? Him/*He). Instead, the term unmarked
case refers to case marking whose appearance is neither idiosyncratically
conditioned nor dependent on the appearance of other noun phrases in the
clause. What this term is meant to suggest is a crosslinguistic tendency to
be phonologically empty, or phonologically lighter than dependent case and
lexical/oblique cases.1
Thus, a quirky-subject verb such as líka ‘like’ in the Icelandic (226) will
assign lexically specified dative case to its experiencer argument, leaving the
other argument to receive unmarked case (see the authors cited in section 8.3.3
for evidence that (226) is not an inversion structure of some sort—that is, that
the dative henni is a bona fide subject).
(226) Henni
her.dat
líkuðu
liked.pl
hestarnir.
horse.the.pl.nom
‘She liked the horses.’
(Thráinsson 2007:172)
However, if the verb is not a quirky-case assigner, then neither the subject nor
the object will be assigned lexical/oblique case, leaving both core arguments
caseless after the first stage of the disjunctive case hierarchy algorithm. Given
that Icelandic is a nominative-accusative language, it is the lower of the two
(the object) that will receive dependent (=“accusative”) case at the next stage
of the algorithm, leaving the remaining argument (the subject) to receive
unmarked (=“nominative”) case at the last stage.
(227) Hún
she.nom
las
read
bókina.
book.the.acc
‘She read the book.’
(Thráinsson 2007:171)
See Marantz 1991, McFadden 2004, Yip, Maling, and Jackendoff 1987, and
Zaenen, Maling, and Thráinsson 1985, among others, for related examples and
further discussion.
As shown by Bobaljik (2008) and detailed in section 8.3.3, ϕ-agreement
is sensitive to the morphological case borne by putative agreement targets,
not to their conjectured abstract case. Thus, in examples like (223)
and (226), the dative subjects behave—for the purposes of ϕ-agreement—
exactly as nonsubject datives would: they are inaccessible for ϕ-agreement
(see section 8.1).
182 Chapter 9
Marantz (1991) claims that the disjunctive case hierarchy applies
postsyntactically, as part of the morphological computation. The argument for
this is based on the absence of a certain type of evidence (as most arguments
for modularity are wont to be): the claim is that while morphological case is
computed on the basis of syntactic structure, it does not feed syntax. In other
words, Marantz contends that there are no known instances of an operation
or process that is necessarily syntactic and depends on morphological case for
its proper computation (in a way that cannot be subsumed by referring to the
syntax-internal properties that inform morphological case).
Bobaljik points out that if this is correct, it furnishes an order-of-operations
argument for ϕ-agreement being postsyntactic, as well. This argument goes
as follows: given that it is morphological case per se (rather than, say,
grammatical function) that ϕ-agreement is sensitive to, ϕ-agreement must be
computed at a stage in the derivation where the results of the morphological
case computation are already available (though see note 11 in chapter 8). Thus,
if morphological case is computed postsyntactically, ϕ-agreement must be
computed at least as late in the derivation cycle; and therefore, ϕ-agreement
is postsyntactic as well.
Below, I will argue that this argument, while logically sound, is based on a
false premise: that morphological case is postsyntactic, in the first place. As
noted earlier, if this argumentwere correct, it would have profoundimplications
for the results of previous chapters. The central argument in this book concerns
the logic that relates ϕ-agreement to grammaticality/ungrammaticality, and
the inadequacy of certain approaches (including Chomsky’s (2000, 2001)
“interpretability”-based proposal) for capturing the relevant empirical patterns.
IfBobaljik’sextension ofMarantz’sargumentwerecorrect,then theconclusions
of chapters 5–6, for example—that failed agreement is systematically tolerated
by the grammar—would be applicable not to the syntactic computation itself,
but to the morphological component.
It is therefore crucial to determine in which module of the grammar
ϕ-agreement occurs and thus to which module of the grammar the
aforementioned conclusions apply.
9.2 The Missing Evidence: Non-Quirky-Subject Languages
As mentioned above, Marantz’s (1991) argument that morphological case is
computed postsyntactically is based on the absence ofa certain kind of evidence:
grammatical processes that must crucially refer to morphological case (rather
than, e.g., grammatical function, or structural prominence alone)and that inform
processes or properties that must be thought of as part of syntax itself.
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 183
Recall now the results of chapter 8, concerning how movement to canonical
subject position proceeds in quirky-subject and non-quirky-subject languages.
(228) Movement to canonical subject position (MtoCSP): Two typological
variations (revised version)
a. In a quirky-subject language: (e.g., Icelandic)
MtoCSPQSL = Move(DP)
b. In a non-quirky-subject language: (e.g., English, French)
MtoCSPNQSL = Move(XP successfully targeted by findϕ)
[=(207)]
As shown in section 8.4, this way of conceiving of movement to
canonical subject position captures the crosslinguistic typology of dative
intervention effects; in particular, it predicts when intervention will result in
ungrammaticality and when it will simply result in a morphological “default”
(e.g., 3rd person singular agreement morphology).
Now consider (228b), which represents how movement to canonical subject
position proceeds in a non-quirky-subject language like English or French.
MtoCSPNQSL is fed by ϕ-agreement (implemented as findϕ, but this detail
is not crucial here). That ϕ-agreement feeds MtoCSPNQSL was crucial to
derive the following facts: (i) movement to canonical subject position,
in a non-quirky-subject language, exhibits the same case discrimination
property demonstrated with respect to ϕ-agreement: it can only apply to
noun phrases bearing unmarked case; (ii) there are no non-quirky-subject
languages where ϕ-agreement is nonetheless “quirky” (i.e., where only one
case marking renders a nominal eligible for MtoCSP, but ϕ-agreement can
apply to noun phrases bearing a variety of cases; see (205) in chapter 8);
and most importantly, (iii) it is exactly when ϕ-agreement has been disrupted
by intervention but MtoCSPNQSL has still been instantiated that dative
intervention yields outright ungrammaticality (see, for example, the discussion
of (209) in section 8.4).
Movement to canonical subject position is clearly a syntactic process. If
MtoCSPNQSL is fed by ϕ-agreement (chapter 8), and ϕ-agreement is sensitive
to morphological case (Bobaljik 2008), then what we have is a syntactic
process proper whose computation refers to morphological case—precisely the
kind of evidence that Marantz claims is missing.
At this juncture, it might be instructive to sort out which of these
arguments comes from which type of language. The argument for a notion of
morphological case that is distinct from abstract case or grammatical function
comes from a quirky-subject language (namely, Icelandic; see Marantz 1991
184 Chapter 9
and references therein). On the other hand, the arguments presented in chapter 8
in support of (228b) come from the complement set of languages (namely,
non-quirky-subject languages, like French and English). There is therefore no
single language in our sample so far that provides support for an independent
notion of morphological case as well as for a feeding relation between
ϕ-agreement and MtoCSP (though see section 9.3 for a discussion of Sakha,
which may be precisely such a language).
It is therefore logically possible that in non-quirky-subject languages,
abstract case (rather than morphological case) feeds ϕ-agreement, as a result
of which ϕ-agreement in these languages can be a part of syntax proper and
feed MtoCSP; whereas in quirky-subject languages, ϕ-agreement relies on
morphological case for its input, does not feed MtoCSP (see (228a)), and takes
place postsyntactically. This kind of system is schematized in (229).
(229)
Syntax Morphology
English/French/etc.:
abstract
case → ϕ-agreement
Icelandic:

abstract
case

morphological
case → ϕ-agreement
Such a theory, however, would take ϕ-agreement in French/English/etc., on
the one hand, and ϕ-agreement in Icelandic, on the other hand, to be not
only two different processes, but in fact processes that occur in two different
computational modules (syntax proper for ϕ-agreement in French/English/etc.,
and morphology for ϕ-agreement in Icelandic). This would mean that
the overarching similarities between ϕ-agreement in French/English and
ϕ-agreement in Icelandic—that they both involve overt matching in ϕ-features
between a verb or TAM marker and a verbal argument, that they are both
sensitive to the structural height of their respective targets, and that they
can both be disrupted as a result of intervention by dative nominals—are all
coincidental. I therefore take this type of theory to be a nonstarter.
Given Bobaljik’s (2008) argument that ϕ-agreement operates on the basis
of morphological case in quirky-subject languages, any unified theory of
ϕ-agreement is forced to concede that the notion of case to which ϕ-agreement
is sensitive is morphological case. Given the results of chapter 8, movement
to canonical subject position in a non-quirky-subject language (MtoCSPNQSL)
is computed on the basis of (successful) ϕ-agreement. By transitivity,
MtoCSPNQSL is computed on the basis of morphological case; and crucially,
MtoCSPNQSL is a syntactic process par excellence: it has both phonological
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 185
effects (i.e., where the subject is pronounced) and semantic ones (e.g., it can
create new binding relations).
We have now found an instance where morphological case feeds a process
that is purely syntactic—exactly the type of evidence that Marantz (1991)
conjectured did not exist and whose alleged absence motivated the assertion
that morphological case is computed postsyntactically. This means, of course,
that morphological case cannot be computed postsyntactically and that the
“morphological” part of this term is a misnomer.
(230)
Syntax Morphology
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪
⎩
English/
French/
Icelandic/
etc.
⎫
⎪
⎪
⎬
⎪
⎪
⎭
:
“morphological”
case → ϕ-agreement → MtoCSP · · ·
To preserve the success of Marantz’s (1991) proposal in accounting for the
patterns of observable case in a language like Icelandic, we must now assume
that the disjunctive case hierarchy, repeated in (231), operates within syntax
itself.
(231) Disjunctive case hierarchy (Marantz 1991)
lexical/oblique case → dependent case → unmarked case [=(224)]
There is nothing particularly problematic in assuming that the assignment
of lexical/oblique case occurs within syntax, if we conceive of it as a featural
relation between the lexical case assigner and the nominal it (c-)selects. On
the other end of the disjunctive case hierarchy, unmarked case can be handled
as the morphological realization of a noun phrase that has not been assigned
case-related feature values in the course of the entire syntactic computation.
Recall that in Marantz’s (1991) system, case plays no role in licensing;
therefore, nothing goes wrong with a (syntactically) caseless nominal. We
can thus conceive of unmarked case similarly to the way we have conceived
of 3rd person singular morphology (see section 8.4): just as the latter is the
morphological form given to a node that lacks [plural], [participant], and
[author] values, so the former can be the morphological form given to a
nominal that lacks any case features.
It is dependent case that does not have an immediately evident correlate
in existing syntactic theory. The reason is that case competition involves the
assignment of case as the result of a local relation between two DPs—whereas
186 Chapter 9
syntactic relations are typically modeled as relations between a maximal
projection and a head, not between two maximal projections.2
In the next section, I review Baker and Vinokurova’s (2010) analysis of case
in Sakha (Turkic), which demonstrates that case competition is necessary even
in this language. Since Sakha is not a quirky-subject language, MtoCSP in
Sakha is (definitionally) case-discriminating. Given that MtoCSP is obviously
syntactic, if case competition is part of the calculus of case even in this
language, we have an even stronger argument that despite the aforementioned
difficulties, case competition belongs in syntax.
I then show how Marantz’s disjunctive case hierarchy can be implemented
within syntax, subsuming the “morphological” implementation of case
and enabling syntax-internal assignment of case that is nevertheless
morphologicallyfaithful (e.g., it correctly generates the observed case markings
of nominals in Icelandic) and can therefore serve as the input to ϕ-agreement
(as per Bobaljik 2008). Interestingly, this syntactic implementation may be
able to derive the very ordering of categories that the disjunctive case hierarchy
stipulates.
9.3 Case Competition in Syntax
In section 9.1, I noted that the argumentfor morphologicalcase being computed
postsyntactically is based on the conjecture that there are no processes in
syntax itself that operate on the basis of the output of this computation.
In section 9.2, I showed that the results of chapter 8 furnish precisely
this missing feeding relation: movement to canonical subject position—an
operation that must be part of syntax proper (since it informs components of
semantic interpretation)—is fed by ϕ-agreement, which in turn is fed by what
corresponds to observable surface case in a language like Icelandic.
This forces us to adopt a theory where the computation of “morphological”
case takes place within syntax itself; in other words, where the logic of case
competition employed by Marantz (1991) operates as part of the syntactic
derivation, rather than part of the morphological one.
In section 9.3.1, I review Baker and Vinokurova’s (2010) analysis of Sakha
(Turkic), which provides evidence that case competition is necessary to account
for the distribution of accusative (and dative) in this language. The necessity of
case competition in a language like Sakha demonstrates that this mechanism
is part and parcel of the general calculus of case, rather than a property of
case realization only in quirky-subject languages like Icelandic. Since Sakha
is a non-quirky-subject language, subjecthood in Sakha is sensitive to precisely
the case distinctions that arise via case competition; given the fundamentally
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 187
syntactic nature of subjecthood, these findings constitute a direct argument that
case competition feeds syntax, adding to the argument made in section 9.2 that
case competition belongs within syntax itself.3
Because Baker and Vinokurova’s original arguments regarding Sakha
come packaged together with a nonconfigurational, functional-head-based
treatment of nominative and genitive in the language, I also present Levin
and Preminger’s (to appear) argument that nominative and genitive too can
be treated configurationally in Sakha, as unmarked cases in the CP and DP/PP
domains, respectively.
In section 9.3.2, I discuss the prospects for implementing case competition
in syntax, showing not only that a syntactic implementation of Marantz’s
configurational case system is possible, but also that it may be able to derive
the ordering of the disjunctive case hierarchy itself.
9.3.1 Case Assignment in Sakha
Baker and Vinokurova (2010) (henceforth, B&V) present a detailed analysis
of case in Sakha, a Turkic language spoken in Northern Siberia. They argue
that the patterns of observable case marking in Sakha require a hybrid system
of case assignment, one that is based partly on case competition (Marantz
1991) and partly on case assignment through agreement with functional heads
(Chomsky 2000, 2001).
Levin and Preminger (to appear) (henceforth, L&P) challenge the latter half
of B&V’s assertion, arguing that while B&V’s arguments for case competition
hold up to scrutiny, their arguments for the necessity of case assignment by
functional heads do not. L&P show that given the conclusions of previous
chapters regarding the logic of failed agreement and grammaticality, all case
markings in Sakha can be accounted for within a fully configurational system
(like the one proposed in Marantz 1991).4
In section 9.3.1.1, I present B&V’s arguments for viewing accusative in
Sakha as dependent case. In section 9.3.1.2, I survey their argument for
viewing genitive and nominative in Sakha as case that is assigned through
agreement with functional heads, and I present L&P’s reanalysis of these
facts in purely configurational terms. The discussion of Sakha is summarized
in section 9.3.1.3.
9.3.1.1 Accusative in Sakha as Dependent Case Like other languages in
the Turkic family, Sakha exhibits differential object marking (DOM): the
accusative marker is not realized on all direct objects, only on those that are
interpreted as definite/specific. This contrast between direct objects that are
and are not marked with accusative case is illustrated in (232a–b).
188 Chapter 9
(232) a. Erel
Erel
kinige-ni
book-acc
atyylas-ta
buy-past.3sg.subj
‘Erel bought the book.’
(B&V:599)
b. Erel
Erel
kinige
book
atyylas-ta
buy-past.3sg.subj
‘Erel bought a book/books.’
(Vinokurova 2005:322)
Overt accusative marking and definiteness/specificity also covary with the
position of the direct object relative to certain VP-peripheral adverbs.
(233) a. Masha
Masha
salamaat-*(y)
porridge-*(acc)
turgennik
quickly
sie-te
eat-past.3sg.subj
‘Masha ate the porridge quickly.’
b. Masha
Masha
turgennik
quickly
salamaat-(#y)
porridge-(#acc)
sie-te
eat-past.3sg.subj
‘Masha ate porridge quickly.’
(B&V:602)
B&V adopt the widely accepted analysis of these facts in terms of short
movement of the direct object to some position outside of VP, which—when
it occurs—allows the direct object to escape the scope of existential closure
(following Diesing 1992; but see section 10.1.1).
As B&V show, this pattern can easily be handled within the case competition
approach. Movement of the direct object out of VP brings it into a position
that is in the same local domain as the subject (and still c-commanded by
the subject). This results in the assignment of dependent (=“accusative”)
case to the direct object (225a). On the other hand, if the direct object has
remained VP-internal, it remains separated from the subject by the verb-
phrase-level phase boundary—which B&V assume to be VP, rather than vP,
in Sakha. The conditions for (225a) are therefore not met, and accusative is
not assigned.5
But as B&V concede, the same basic pattern can also be handled within a
theory where accusative is assigned by a functional head in the extended verbal
projection (e.g., v0). One could assume that the reason accusative can only be
assigned if the object exits the VP is that that is the only way to establish a
local enough relation to the functional head in question. This would derive
the same correlation between movement out of VP, accusative case marking,
and—following Diesing (1992)—definiteness/specificity.
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 189
There are, however, instances of accusative in Sakha that do not lend
themselves as readily to the functional-head analysis of accusative case
assignment. Consider first the case of passives.
(234) caakky
cup
/
/
caakky-ny
cup-acc
aldjat-ylyn-na
break-pasv-past.3sg.subj
‘The cup was broken.’
(B&V:608)
As shown in (234), the Patient in Sakha passives can bear nominative or
accusative case, a fact that B&V explain in terms of the presence or absence of
an uncontrolled PRO in Spec,vP (Collins 2005b). If this PRO counts as a case
competitor for the purposes of (225a), its presence will trigger accusative case
on the Patient, while its absence will prevent accusative from arising.
Support for this view comes from the fact that implicit Agent interpretations
require the accusative-marked variant of the passive.6
(235) caakky-*(ny)
cup-*(acc)
sorujan
intentionally
ötüje-nen
hammer-inst
aldjat-ylyn-na
break-pasv-past.3sg.subj
‘The cup was intentionally broken with a hammer.’
(B&V:609)
A second, stronger argument for viewing accusative as dependent case
comes from the behavior of raising-to-object constructions in Sakha. Raising-
to-object has been the topic of considerable debate in generative linguistics,
mostly concerning whether or not it is the correct analysis of ECM
constructions in a language like English (an analysis that goes back to Postal
1974). To avoid confusion with this debate concerning English ECM, I will use
the term raising-to-accusative, instead.
The existence of raising-to-accusative in the Turkic languages is quite
well-established (see, e.g., George and Kornfilt 1981, Moore 1998, Şener To
appear). An example from Sakha is given in (236).
(236) min
I
ehigi(-ni)
you(-acc)
bügün
today
kyaj-byk-kyt-yn
win-prt-2pl.subj-acc
ihit-ti-im
hear-past-1sg.subj
‘I heard you won today.’
(B&V:615)
The distribution of raising-to-accusative in a language like Sakha is much
wider than the distribution of ECM in a language like English; for example,
it is possible out of embedded finite clauses.
190 Chapter 9
(237) min
I
ehigi(-ni)
you(-acc)
bügün
today
kyaj-yax-xyt
win-fut-2pl.subj
dien
that
erem-mit-im
hope-past-1sg.subj
‘I hoped you would win today.’
(B&V:615)
As B&V demonstrate, one can be fairly sure that the variably marked nominals
in (236)–(237) (ehigi-(ni) ‘you(-acc)’)are indeed the subjects of the respective
embedded clauses, since they are agreed with by the embedded verb—both in
the finite embedded clause in (237) and in the participial embedded clause
in (236).
B&V provide several arguments showing that these are indeed raising-
to-accusative structures (i.e., that they involve raising of the subject of the
embedded clause into a position where it receives accusative case). First, note
that the subject of a finite embedded clause cannot bear accusative if it appears
to the right of an embedded-clause modifier; compare (237) with (238).
(238) min
I
[sarsyn
tomorrow
ehigi(*-ni)
you(*-acc)
kel-iex-xit
come-fut-2pl.subj
dien]
that
ihit-ti-m
hear-past-1sg.subj
‘I heard that tomorrow you will come.’
(B&V:616)
Second, overt accusative marking on a raised embedded subject (as
in (236)–(237)) covaries with the embedded subject behaving as if it is
in the matrix clause for the purposes of binding theory. Thus, when it lacks
overt accusative marking, a pronominal embedded subject can be coreferential
with the matrix subject (239a); but when it carries overt accusative marking, it
cannot (239b)—a violation of Condition B.
(239) a. [sarsyn
tomorrow
mini
I
bar-a-byn
leave-aor-1sg.subj
dien]
that
ihit-ti-mi
hear-past-1sg.subj
‘I heard that I am leaving tomorrow.’
b. *miigini
I.acc
sarsyn
tomorrow
bar-a-byn
leave-aor-1sg.subj
dien
that
ihit-ti-mi
hear-past-1sg.subj
(B&V:616)
B&V also provide evidence against what they call a “proleptic object”
analysis of these constructions. On that analysis, the accusative-marked
nominals in question would actually be (nonobligatory) arguments of the
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 191
matrix predicates erem ‘hope’ and ihit ‘hear’, respectively; and the embedded
clause would contain a null subject bound by this matrix argument. If this
were true, a better translation of an example like (236) might have been,
‘I heard of you that you would win today’. The evidence against this analysis
concerns the availability of an accusative-marked NPI in raising-to-accusative
constructions, in cases where the negation licensing this NPI is inside the
embedded clause. The NPI in question is kim daqany ‘who pcl’.
(240) a. min
I
kim-i
who-acc
daqany
pcl
[kyaj-ba-ta
win-neg-past.3sg.subj
dien]
that
eren-e-bin
hope-aor-1sg.subj
‘I hope that nobody won.’
b. min
I
kim-i
who-acc
daqany
pcl
[kyaj-bataq-yn]
win-neg.prt-3sg.poss.acc
ihit-ti-m
hear-past-1sg.subj
‘I heard that nobody won.’
(B&V:616–617)
If the overt accusative NPI in an example like (240a) or (240b) were base-
generated as an argument of the matrix predicate, it would be unexpected that
it could be licensed by embedded-clause negation, given that negation cannot
generally license this NPI’s appearance in a superordinate clause.
(241) *min
I
[kim-ŋe
who-dat
daqany]
pcl
[kel-bet
come-neg.aor.3sg.subj
dien]
that
et-ti-m
tell-past-1sg.subj
‘I told no one that he should come.’
(B&V:617)
Taken together, these facts indicate that the construction in question indeed
involves raising of the embedded subject, to a position where it is assigned
accusative. So far, though, these data are still compatible with a theory where
accusative is assigned by a functional head in the extended verbal projection,
as well as with a dependent-case theory of accusative. Before I sketch how
both analyses would work, it is important to note that B&V (617n19) assume
that embedded clauses in raising-to-accusative contexts undergo the same short
192 Chapter 9
movement out of VP implicated in DOM of nominal direct objects (see the
discussion of (232)–(233)). In support of this, they point out that when the
embedded clause is participial, the clause itself is marked with accusative
case (see (236), (240b)). This means that the verb-phrase-level phase boundary
(VP, on B&V’s analysis of Sakha) will not intervene between this embedded
clause and higher syntactic material.
Suppose, first, that accusative is assigned by a head like v0. Given familiar
assumptions regarding locality, v0 would be unable to assign case to a
nominal that is properly contained within an embedded CP, as shown in (242).
(Note that Sakha, like other Turkic languages, is verb-final; these diagrams
are formatted verb-initially so that left-to-right order aligns with descending
structural prominence.)
(242) v0 . . . [CP . . . [C . . . DP . . . ]] (assignment of acc ruled out by locality)
✗
On the other hand, a DP that has moved at least as far as the periphery of the
embedded CP will be in a local enough configuration with v0 to facilitate case
assignment.
(243) v0 . . .

CP DPACC
1 [C . . . t1 . . . ]

(assignment of acc possible)
Conversely, suppose that accusative is assigned through case competition.
On this view, the assignment of accusative (a dependent case) requires two
noun phrases, neither of which is assigned lexical/oblique case, to occur within
a single locality domain. The availability of accusative case on the subject of
the embedded clause will therefore covary, once again, with whether or not a
locality boundary separates it from the matrix subject.
(244) DPNOM . . . [CP . . . [C . . . DP . . . ]] (dependent case ruled out by locality)
✗
(245) DPNOM
. . .

CP DP ACC
1 [C . . . t1 . . . ]

(dependent case possible)
While both approaches can account for the raising-to-accusative data we
have seen so far, B&V proceed to present raising-to-accusative data that are
quite problematic for the idea that accusative is assigned by a functional head
in the extended verbal projection.
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 193
First, it is the case that Sakha allows raised subjects to receive accusative
even in matrix clauses where the relevant functional head (e.g., v0) should not
have accusative-assigning capabilities.
(246) a. Keskil
Keskil
Aisen-y
Aisen-acc
kel-bet
come-neg.aor.3sg.subj
dien
that
xomoj-do
become.sad-past.3sg.subj
‘Keskil became sad that Aisen is not coming.’
(Vinokurova 2005:366)
b. Masha
Masha
Misha-ny
Misha-acc
yaldj-ya
fall.sick-fut.3sg.subj
dien
that
tönün-ne
return-past.3sg.subj
‘Masha returned (for fear) that Misha would fall sick.’
(B&V:618)
The verbs in (246a–b) are the intransitive members of a transitivity alternation
(see (247a–b)); and in Sakha, as in other languages, the intransitive member
of a transitivity alternation does not allow its sole argument to bear accusative
case, as demonstrated in (248a–b).
(247) a. xomoj ‘become sad’ – xomot ‘make sad’
b. tönün ‘return’ – tönnör ‘make return’
(B&V:617)
(248) a. min
I(nom)
oloppoh-u
chair-acc
aldjat-ty-m
break-past-1sg.subj
‘I broke the chair.’
b. caakky(*-ny)
cup(*-acc)
aldjan-na
break-past.3sg.subj
‘The cup broke.’
(B&V:608)
Thus, if the ability to assign accusative were tied to the presence of a particular
functional head (e.g., transitive v0) in the extended verbal projection, data
like (248b) would indicate that this head cannot be present in unaccusatives—
generating the wrong prediction regarding the assignment of accusative case in
examples like (246a–b).
A related but distinct problem for the functional-head theory of accusative
in Sakha comes from cases like (249). Here, raising feeds the assignment of
accusative case to a raised embedded subject even though the superordinate
clause already contains an accusative-marked argument of its own.
194 Chapter 9
(249) Masha
Masha
[Misha-ny]1
Misha-acc
[t1 kel-ie
come-fut.3sg.subj
dien]
that
djie-ni
house-acc
xomuj-da
tidy-past.3sg.subj
‘Masha tidied up the house (thinking) that Misha would come.’
(Vinokurova 2005:368)
If accusative were assigned by a functional head in the extended verbal
projection, data like (249) would require a one-to-many relation between case
assigner and case assignees to be possible. But if a single case-assigning
functional head could assign accusative to multiple noun phrases, we would
predict that two-place verbs in Sakha could surface with accusative on both of
their arguments, contrary to fact (B&V:595–599).
In contrast, the dependent-case theory of accusative readily handles data
like (246a–b) and (249). On this theory, accusative case arises when one (non-
lexically-case-marked) noun phrase is in a local enough configuration with
another (non-lexically-case-marked) noun phrase; and it does not depend on
the thematic or argument-structural properties of the predicates that take these
noun phrases as their arguments.
Thus, raising-to-accusative into a superordinate clause anchored by an
unaccusative predicate should not preclude the raised embedded subject from
qualifying for accusative case under case competition.
(250) DPNOM . . . v⎧
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎩
trans
intrans
pasv
· · ·
⎫
⎪
⎬
⎪
⎭
. . .

CP DPACC
1 [C . . . t1 . . . ]

(dependent case possible)
Similarly, on this approach, nothing precludes two noun phrases from
qualifying for dependent case on the basis of case competition with the same,
third noun phrase (251a), or one accusative noun phrase from depending on
another accusative noun phrase, in a “daisy chain” of case competition (251b).
(251) a. DPNOM . . . DPACC . . .

CP DPACC
1 [C . . . t1 . . . ]

b. DPNOM . . . DPACC . . .

CP DPACC
1 [C . . . t1 . . . ]

Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 195
In fact, as noted in section 6.2.1, the latter, “daisy chain” configuration is
precisely the case competition analysis that Marantz’s (1991) system assigns
to the English ECM construction.
(252) HeNOM expects themACC to invite herACC. [=(139)]
Importantly, just as in (252)—and in contrast to the functional-head account of
an example like (249)—the analyses in (251a–b) do not have the undesirable
consequence of predicting that dyadic acc-acc predicates should exist. That is
because the case competition relation is not a reciprocal one (at least, not in the
languages in question; see the discussion in section 9.1).
We have seen arguments by B&V in favor of a case competition approach
to the assignment of accusative case in Sakha, and against the assignment
of accusative by a functional head in the extended verbal projection. (B&V
provide additional arguments to this effect, with regard to both accusative and
dative in Sakha, which I will not review here.) This supports the argument
made in section 9.2 that case competition belongs within syntax itself: since
Sakha is a non-quirky-subjectlanguage, subjecthood in Sakha—a property that
is clearly syntactic—is sensitive to the case distinctions resulting from this case
competition mechanism.
These arguments by B&V were originally packaged together with the claim
that genitive and nominative in Sakha cannot be handled configurationally,
as per Marantz’s (1991) disjunctive case hierarchy algorithm, and require
the assignment of case through agreement with functional heads (in the
manner of Chomsky 2000, 2001). If this were correct, it would undermine
the prospects for a uniform, syntax-internal implementation of Marantz’s
algorithm, of the kind that will be undertaken in section 9.3.2. I therefore
turn now to B&V’s claims regarding genitive and nominative in Sakha—and
to L&P’s proposal, reanalyzing these facts, too, in a purely configurational
manner.
9.3.1.2 Genitive and Nominative in Sakha I will begin by reviewing B&V’s
argument that the behavior and distribution of genitive case in Sakha, in
contrast to accusative, favors an account where genitive is assigned by a
functional head. (As with accusative and dative, B&V provide a parallel set
of arguments for genitive and nominative; I concentrate here on the arguments
pertaining to genitive case, since unlike nominative, genitive case is at least
sometimes overtly detectable in Sakha; see below.)
196 Chapter 9
Consider the behavior of participial relative clauses in Sakha.
(253) [aaq-ar]
read-aor
kinige
book
‘a book for reading’
(B&V:631)
Overt subjects can be realized in these participial relatives only under very
specific conditions. One such condition involves a nominal that is indefinite
and bare, and appears immediately adjacent to the participial verb (which itself
must be unaccusative, in this condition).
(254) a. [sibekki
flower
tyll-ar]
bloom-aor
kem
time
‘a time when flowers bloom’
b. [oton
berry
buh-ar]
ripen-aor
sir
place
‘a place where berries ripen’
(B&V:631)
(255) [(*Masha)
(*Masha)
cej
tea
ih-er]
drink-aor
caakky
cup
‘a cup that one drinks tea from / *a cup that Masha drinks tea from’
(B&V:631)
B&V analyze embedded subjects like those in (254a–b) in terms of
(pseudo)incorporation of the Patient into the unaccusative verb. Examples that
do not obey these restrictions (see (255)) are ruled out, on their account, by the
Case Filter (Chomsky 1981).
Importantly, participial relatives involving nonincorporable subjects can be
salvaged if the head noun shows agreement with the embedded subject.
(256) a. sibekki-ler
flower-pl
emiske
suddenly
tyll-ar
bloom-aor
kem-*(nere)
time-*(3sg.poss)
‘a time when the flowers suddenly bloom’
b. Masha
Masha
cej
tea
ih-er
drink-aor
caakky-*(ta)
cup-*(3sg.poss)
‘a cup that Masha drinks tea from’
(B&V:631–632)
As B&V point out (B&V:598), Sakha has lost its overt genitive marking in all
but one context: on genitive nominals that are themselves possessed. Therefore,
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 197
it can be demonstrated that the overt subjects in examples like (256a–b) are
genitive (rather than nominative) by placing a possessed nominal in the same
position.
(257) [Masha
[Masha
aqa-ty]-n
father-3sg.poss]-gen
atyylas-pyt
buy-prt
at-*(a)
horse-*(3sg.poss)
‘the horse that Masha’s father bought’
(B&V:626)
B&V take possessive agreement on the head noun in examples like (256a–b)
and (257) to be the overt realization of a D0 head, which assigns genitive case to
the embedded subject, thus averting a violation of the Case Filter. (B&V argue
for a similar mode of assignment for nominative case, except that the functional
head implicated in the assignment of nominative is T0, rather than D0.)
Possessive agreement is absent in examples like (253), and (254a–b),
on this view, because this D0 head is only required in the presence of a
nonincorporable embedded subject—which in turn requires case for licensing
purposes (vis-à-vis the Case Filter).7
B&V take it for granted that patterns of cooccurrence of case marking
with agreement morphology reflect a causal relationship in which agreement
leads to the assignment of case, as in Chomsky 2000, 2001. Thus, they take
this pattern and others like it to show that nominative and genitive arise,
in Sakha, through agreement with T0 and D0, respectively. But as noted in
chapter 8, this approach—where case arises as a result of ϕ-agreement—
is not generally tenable, given the existence of full, nonincorporated noun
phrases that agreement has demonstrably failed to reach. (See the discussion in
chapter 8 of grammatical sentences in Icelandic where dative intervention has
prevented agreement with a lower noun phrase, but the noun phrase in question
nevertheless bears nominative case morphology; and see Preminger 2011b for
a similar argument regarding absolutive case in Basque. Also, see section 5.1
on why case-assignment-by-agreement is untenable in Kichean.)
Moreover, the observation that ϕ-agreement is case-discriminating (see
chapter 8) is incoherent unless case can be computed independently of(and prior
to) ϕ-agreement; the Chomskyan approach of case-assignment-by-agreement
is therefore also incompatible with case discrimination and the results that
it provides. This includes Bobaljik’s (2008) original observations regarding
dissociations between ϕ-agreement and grammatical function in quirky-case
contexts, as well as the absence of languages with an ergative-absolutive
agreement alignment but a nominative-accusative case alignment. It also
includes the account proposed in chapter 8 for when dative intervention does
and does not yield outright ungrammaticality.
198 Chapter 9
If these results are to be preserved, it is important to show that genitive
and nominative in Sakha, and their cooccurrence patterns with ϕ-agreement,
can be accounted for without recourse to case-assignment-by-agreement. L&P
put forth just such a proposal concerning genitive and nominative in Sakha,
analyzing them in purely configurational terms, as unmarked case (Marantz
1991) in the CP and DP/PP domains, respectively.
L&P assume that the possessive ϕ-probe is always present in
Sakha participial relatives—whether the relative clause contains a full,
nonincorporated subject or not—and it is precisely when a viable,
nonincorporated agreement target is present in the participial relative that
overt ϕ-agreement arises. They also assume the case discrimination property
of ϕ-agreement and, in particular, that ϕ-probes in Sakha can only target
nominals bearing unmarked case.
In configurations where the participial relative does not contain a viable
agreement target, probing by this always-present possessive ϕ-probe will
simply fail. This situation arises when the participial verb takes no arguments,
as in (253), or when the nominal in the participial relative has been
incorporated into the verb, as in (254a–b). Crucially, as argued in detail in
chapters 5–6, this failure to locate an agreement target will not result in
ill-formedness; it will simply result in the ϕ-features on the possessive ϕ-probe
remaining unvalued.8
One important difference between this pattern and those explored in
chapters 4–8 is that here, a ϕ-probe that has successfully agreed with a 3rd
person singular target results in an exponent that does not show up in cases
where probing has failed outright—compare (253) and (254a–b) with (256a–b)
and (257), for example. Following the discussion in section 8.4, there are
at least two ways this could come about. First, consider once more the
ϕ-feature geometry used in chapter 4, adapted from Harley and Ritter 2002
and McGinnis 2005.
(258) A simplified ϕ-feature geometry
[ϕ]
[number]
[plural]
[person]
[participant]
[author]
( ) ( )
[=(55)]
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 199
Recall that within a feature-geometric approach to ϕ-agreement, valuation
consists of copying the ϕ-geometric specification borne by the target noun
phrase onto the probe. Crucially, 3rd person noun phrases are not quite empty
ϕ-geometries. They lack [plural], [participant], and [author] nodes, but they
contain at least the root of the geometry, [ϕ] (and possibly the “metanodes”
[person] and [number]; see note 12 in chapter 4).
Suppose, then, that the “3sg.poss” suffix in Sakha is actually the overt spell-
out of [ϕ]—specifically, the allomorph of valued [ϕ] on a possessive ϕ-probe
that lacks [plural], [participant], and [author]. We would then predict that it
would surface upon successful agreement with a 3rd person singular noun
phrase, but be absent when agreement has failed altogether.
In section 8.4, however, I suggested that there may be a crosslinguistic
tendency (if not a universal) for [ϕ]/[person]/[number] to receive no
exponence of their own. This suggestion was based on the results of Preminger
2009, repeated here.
(259) Diagnostic for “pure” agreement versus clitic doubling (Preminger
2009:623)
Given a scenario where the relation R between an agreement
morpheme M and the corresponding full noun phrase F is broken,
but the result is still a grammatical utterance:
a. M shows up expressing “default” ϕ-features ⇒ R is “pure”
agreement
b. M disappears entirely ⇒ R is clitic doubling [=(196)]
If (259) holds of Sakha, as well, then we might instead conclude that what we
have been calling “possessive agreement” in Sakha is actually clitic doubling—
triggered when a genitive noun phrase is probed by the possessive ϕ-probe.
This would be akin to 1st/2nd person “absolutive agreement” in Kichean
(chapter 4), “dative agreement and ergative agreement” in Basque (Arregi and
Nevins 2008, 2012, Preminger 2009), and perhaps all instances of “indirect
object agreement” in PCC contexts (e.g., Anagnostopoulou 2003, Béjar and
Rezac 2003; section 4.1). These are all instances of obligatory and semantically
indiscriminate clitic doubling, triggered when a designated probe targets the
relevant argument; on this view, “possessive agreement” in Sakha would arise
in the same manner.
This would preserve the logic of successful versus failed agreement,
stated earlier. When there is no nonincorporated nominal bearing unmarked
case inside the participial relative, the possessive ϕ-probe will fail to
200 Chapter 9
locate an agreement target. Following chapters 5–6, this does not result in
ill-formedness; but since no nominal has been targeted by the ϕ-probe, no clitic
doubling will be triggered, resulting in the absence of “possessive agreement”
morphology on the head noun. When an appropriate noun phrase of this sort
is present, however, it will be probed by the possessive ϕ-probe, resulting in
clitic doubling and the appearance of “possessive agreement” reflecting the
ϕ-features of this noun phrase.
On either of these views (“possessive agreement” as ϕ-agreement proper
or as clitic doubling), overt agreement morphology must be present when the
participial relative contains a full, nonincorporated nominal not because of the
Case Filter, but for the same reason that any other instance of ϕ-agreement
is obligatory. There is simply no derivation in which the enclosing noun
phrase (consisting of the head noun and the participial relative) lacks a
possessive ϕ-probe; thus, there is no derivation where findϕ is not triggered.
Thus, the ungrammatical variants of (256a–b) and (257) constitute instances
of “gratuitous nonagreement” and are ruled out as any other such instance
would be (see section 5.3).
It is in this way that L&P’s proposal reverses the direction of causality
between case and agreement, which B&V had inherited from Chomsky
(2000, 2001). Genitive case is not licensed by possessive agreement; it is
the presence of a nonincorporated genitive nominal within the domain of
the possessive ϕ-probe that provides this probe with a viable agreement
target, resulting in the appearance of possessive agreement. In a sense,
we could actually say that “the presence of an appropriately case-marked
noun phrase is what licenses agreement,” a view already suggested by
Bittner and Hale (1996:3).
On this account, genitive—like nominative, in the clausal domain—is
simply the unmarked case (in the sense of Marantz 1991), assigned to
DPs within the nominal domain that are not otherwise case-marked by a
lexical/oblique case assigner or through case competition; its assignment is
not triggered by any particular functional head.
There are additional patterns adduced by B&V in support of their analysis,
and L&P show how each of these can be reanalyzed within the alternative
approach described above. I will reproduce one such case here, involving what
may be the strongest prima facie evidence for case-assignment-by-agreement
in Sakha. The pattern in question concerns the unavailability of “double
agreement” in a construction where one might otherwise expect it to be
possible. The examples in question involve a participial verb selected by an
auxiliary.
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 201
(260) en
you
süüj-büt
win-prt
e-bik-kin
aux-prt-2sg.subj
‘The result is that you won.’
(B&V:637)
(261) en
you
süüj-büt-kün
win-prt-2sg.subj
e-bik
aux-prt
‘The result is that you won.’
(B&V:637)
As (260)–(261) show, it is possible for either the participial lexical verb or
the auxiliary to exhibit overt ϕ-agreement with the subject. As one might
expect, a version of (260)–(261) where neither participle exhibits ϕ-agreement
is impossible.
(262) *en
you
süüj-büt
win-prt
e-bik
aux-prt
(B&V:637)
Perhaps more surprisingly, a version where both the lexical verb and the
auxiliary bear overt agreement morphology is also impossible.
(263) *en
you
süüj-büt-kün
win-prt-2sg.subj
e-bik-kin
aux-prt-2sg.subj
(B&V:637)
B&V propose that participles optionally come with an abstract agreement-
bearing head—call it F0
—that is generated immediately above them. The
acceptability of both (260) and (261) is thus attributed to the variable position
of this head: in (261) F0 is generated immediately above the lexical verb,
whereas in (260) it is generated immediately above the auxiliary. In either
scenario, syntactic agreement obtains between the functional head F0 and the
subject, en ‘you’, assigning case to the latter and valuing the ϕ-features on the
former.
As was the case with the nonincorporated subject in (255), for example,
B&V attribute the ill-formedness of (262) to a violation of the Case Filter.
In particular, the lack of agreement morphology is taken to indicate that no
agreement-bearing head such as F0 has been merged into the structure (neither
above the verb, nor above the auxiliary), meaning case cannot be assigned to
the nominal in question—yielding ungrammaticality.
Finally, the ill-formedness of (263) is taken to follow from Chomsky’s
(2000, 2001) Activity Condition: the inability of noun phrases that have already
202 Chapter 9
entered into successful agreement relations, and thus have been assigned case,
to enter into subsequent agreement relations (though note that we have already
seen evidence against the Activity Condition, in section 8.3.1).
On B&V’s account, the ungrammaticality of (262) and the ungrammaticality
of (263) receive different explanations: agreement on neither participle, as
in (262), is ruled out by the generalized Case Filter, while agreement on both
participles, as in (263), is ruled out by the Activity Condition. It seems to
me that this is an unnecessarily complicated way of capturing a rather simple
pattern: in a structure like (260)–(263), agreement must happen exactly once.
As L&P show, the same behavior is equally amenable to an account that is
based on the following premises:
(264) a. Exactly one “subject agreement” ϕ-probe is merged per clause.
b. If there is an accessible nominal goal, the ϕ-probe must agree
with it.
c. The overt spell-out of this ϕ-probe can end up affixed to either of
the participles.
Premise (264a) is hardly a stipulation, any more than the fact that finite
clauses in English contain exactly one Infl0 is a stipulation. Premise (264b)
was discussed in detail, and independently motivated, in chapters 5–8 (and
also earlier in this section; see the discussion of (253)–(257), as well as the
discussion of “gratuitous nonagreement” in section 5.3).
This leaves (264c), which can follow from one of several fairly benign
syntactic assumptions. First, the base-generated order of heads could be subject
to variation, allowing the ϕ-probe to be generated immediately above either
the verb or the auxiliary, as in (265a–b) (as noted earlier, this is precisely what
B&V themselves assume; see B&V:637–638). Alternatively, the two possible
spell-outs could arise via head movement of the ϕ-probe, as in (266a–b).
(265) a.

. . . PrtV0

Infl0

PrtAux0

⇒ . . . PrtV0-[ϕ-agr.] PrtAux0
b.

. . . PrtV0

PrtAux0

Infl0

⇒ . . . PrtV0 PrtAux0-[ϕ-agr.]
(266) a.

. . . PrtV0

Infl0

PrtAux0

⇒ . . . PrtV0-[ϕ-agr.] PrtAux0
b.

. . . PrtV0

tInfl0

PrtAux0-Infl0

⇒ . . . PrtV0 PrtAux0-[ϕ-agr.]
Aside from empirical problems that the Activity Condition faces, there
is another reason why an account like (264) may be preferable to one that
uses the Activity Condition to account for the unacceptability of “double
agreement” (as B&V’s does). The reason is that crosslinguistically, there are
close counterpartsof (263)that—unlikein Sakha—do allow (and in some cases,
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 203
even demand) agreement on both the verb and the auxiliary. One example, from
Hindi-Urdu, is given in (267).
(267) Rahul-ne
Rahul-erg
kitaab
book(fem)
par:h-ii
read-prfv.fem
thii
be.past.fem.sg
‘Rahul had read the book.’
(Bhatt 2005:759)
If one accepts that (267) is indeed parallel to the complex tense constructions
of Sakha, then one might be wary of accounting for the unacceptability of (263)
by appealing to a principle (such as the Activity Condition). Instead, we might
prefer an account appealing to a parameter, such as whether both links in
a head movement chain like (266b) can/must be simultaneously pronounced
at PF (see, e.g., Landau 2006a).9
A proposal of the kind in (264) therefore has the following advantages: (i) it
facilitates a unified account of (262) (the ungrammaticality of nonagreement)
and (263) (the ungrammaticality of “double agreement”); (ii) it eliminates
any recourse to the Activity Condition; (iii) it eliminates any use of case-
assignment-by-agreement.
As noted earlier, L&P survey this and other arguments offered by B&V in
support of nominative and genitive as case-assigned-by-agreement (along the
lines of Chomsky 2000, 2001), and show that each can be reanalyzed within
a fully configurational approach to case assignment (namely, Marantz’s (1991)
disjunctive case hierarchy)—especially given the logic of failed agreement and
grammaticality argued for in chapters 5–8.
9.3.1.3 Sakha: A Summary I have reviewed B&V’s arguments that the
patterns of case assignment in Sakha require a “hybrid” theory, consisting of
case competition (e.g., Bittner and Hale 1996, Marantz 1991) alongside case
assignment by agreement with functional heads (Chomsky 2000, 2001). I have
presented some of L&P’s arguments that the latter part of B&V’s argument
is, in fact, underdetermined by the data they present (particularly in light of
results such as those in chapters 5–8). Instead, it appears that the patterns of
case assignment in Sakha are completely amenable to an account based on
Marantz’s (1991) disjunctive case hierarchy.
Crucially, however, the fact that Sakha shows robust evidence for case
competition is significant: it furnishes an instance where case competition is
required in a non-quirky-subject language. Given the results of chapter 8 and
the discussion in section 9.2, movement to canonical subject position in a
non-quirky-subject language (MtoCSPNQSL) is fed by ϕ-agreement, which is in
204 Chapter 9
turn fed by the calculus of case. Since movement to canonical subject position
is clearly a syntactic phenomenon, these results strengthen the conclusion
reached in section 9.2: that we are in need of a syntactic case calculus that is
compatible with case competition. That calculus is the topic of the next section.
9.3.2 A Syntactic Case Calculus
We have seen the need for a case calculus that operates within syntax proper,
yet replicates the effects of case competition (Marantz 1991). Here, I present
an implementation of this type of case system, one that may in fact derive
Marantz’s (1991) disjunctive case hierarchy itself.10
The central idea is that the disjunctive case hierarchy is an artifact of the
way in which syntactic structure is built and, in particular, the way arguments
are introduced into the syntactic structure. Consider, first, the category of
lexical/oblique case. This is case that is assigned to a noun phrase by virtue
of the idiosyncratic properties of the particular lexical head that selects it as
an argument. If lexical selection can only occur under sisterhood, this means
that lexical/oblique case is case assigned to a noun phrase upon first Merge,
immediately upon its introduction into the derivation, as schematized in (268).
(268) Lexical/Oblique case: Case assigned upon first Merge
DP
· · ·
V0/P0/. . .
Since the case calculus being presented here is one that operates within syntax,
I will assume that the relation schematized in (268) is a featural one. DPs are
merged into the structure with unvalued case features. Crucially, just like their
ϕ-feature counterparts, these case features are not derivational time-bombs;
therefore, nothing goes wrong if they go through the entire derivation without
ever having been valued. However, one of the ways these features can be
valued is by appearing in a configuration like (268), provided the syntactic head
in question is, in fact, lexically specified to assign a particular case marking.
The specific case feature value transmitted to the DP in (268) will depend
on the lexical properties of the selecting head. This is a desired result, as far as
lexical/oblique case is concerned. This allows, for example, different verbs (or
different prepositions) to idiosyncratically assign different cases to the noun
phrases they select. This also allows for instances of V0 that do not bear valued
case features at all, which would result in no valuation of the case features
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 205
on DP upon first Merge. As I will show, this too is a desired result, for those
instances where the noun phrase in question is assigned not lexical/oblique
case, but some other kind of case marking (i.e., dependent or unmarked case).
Importantly, valuation of the case features on a given noun phrase by
the head that selects that noun phrase will—given a bottom-up approach
to syntactic structure-building—be the first opportunity for those case
features to be valued.11 We therefore have an explanation, given the current
syntactic reimplementation of Marantz’s disjunctive case hierarchy, for why
lexical/oblique case is the first step in this algorithm. (This point will be
expanded upon, below.)
If the case features on a given noun phrase have not been valued upon first
Merge (i.e., by a lexical/oblique case assigner), they will have an opportunity
to become valued through other means. This is where case competition
comes into play. The results of sections 9.2 and 9.3.1 demonstrate that case
competition is a necessary component of syntax. The way I will implement
case competition in syntax is as follows. Assuming that case features are DP-
level features (i.e., that they are visible at the level of the maximal extended
projection of the nominal),12 let us suppose that one of the ways valuation
of case features can take place is for two DPs with as-yet unvalued case
features to stand in a c-command relation that does not cross relevant locality
boundaries (e.g., the boundaries of a finite clause). One could then view
dependent case as a feature value indicating “I have (been) c-commanded
(by) another DP with unvalued case features in the course of the derivation”
(where the directionality is parameterized, as discussed in section 9.1).
This is admittedly a stipulative addition to the logic of syntactic valuation—
and one that seems restricted to the domain of case features, to boot. I have
no soothing words to offer, in this respect, except to say that the conclusion
that case competition must be part of syntax is forced by the empirical state
of affairs surveyed in this and previous chapters, and I see no simpler way at
the present time of implementing it than the one outlined here. In particular,
note the importance of viewing case competition as a direct relation between
two DPs, rather than as one that is mediated through a functional head (as in
Bittner and Hale 1996)—in order to capture the assignment of dependent case
in Sakha clauses that have an unaccusative functional infrastructure (see the
discussion of (246a–b)).
There is one interesting benefit, however, to viewing case competition in
this manner. If selection is restricted to sisterhood, and lexical/oblique case
can only be assigned under selection (as discussed above), it follows that case
competition can only occur after lexical/oblique case assignment has had a
chance to apply. The reason is that the structure consisting of a noun phrase
206 Chapter 9
and the head that selects it (i.e., its potential lexical/oblique case assigner)
(see (269a)) will necessarily be built prior to any larger structure that would
include two noun phrases standing in a c-command relation (see (269b)).
(269) a. Lexical selection (sisterhood):
Potential for lexical/oblique case
DP
· · ·
V0/P0/. . .
b. Larger structure:
Potential for dependent case
· · ·
· · ·
DP
· · ·
V0/P0/. . .

non-case-
assigner

· · ·
DP
· · ·
In other words, the proposed syntactic implementation of the disjunctive
case hierarchy derives the fact that lexical/oblique case takes precedence
over dependent case—as stipulated in Marantz’s proposal—by virtue of how
syntactic structure is built, incrementally, from the bottom up.
One final note regarding dependent case concerns its typically asymmetric
nature. Let us set aside, for the moment, proposals regarding languages in
which case competition is either reciprocal or nullified (Deal to appear and
Baker 2012, respectively). In the normal state of affairs, then, either the lower
of the two DPs (in a nominative-accusative language/construction) or the
higher of the two (in an ergative-absolutive language/construction) receives
the dependent case that arises from case competition.13 Interestingly, several
proposals have been made for a condition that would prohibit two DPs that
stand in too close a structural relation from staying in that relation (Alexiadou
and Anagnostopoulou 2001, Moro 2000, Richards 2006, 2010). One such
structural relation is illustrated in (270), where the two DPs are specifier and
complement of the same immediately containing XP.
(270) Two DPs in (too) close quarters
XP
X
DP2
X0
DP1
Strictly speaking, given the earlier discussion, there would be no obstacle to
DP1 and DP2 in (270) entering into a case competition relation, since DP1
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 207
does asymmetrically c-command DP2. However, imagine that the structural
condition on case competition was not asymmetric c-command, but asymmetric
m-command. Since DP1 and DP2 stand in a symmetric m-command relation
in (270), the structural configuration of these two nominals would have to be
altered, if one of them is to be assigned dependent case.14
(271) A sufficiently asymmetric configuration for case competition
YP
· · ·
XP
X
DP2
X0
tDP1
· · ·
DP1
Since these effects (whereby structures like (270) are ruled out in favor
of structures like (271), for example) are not the topic of the current proposal,
I will not speculate on them further here.
Returning now to the syntactic calculus of case: because the unvalued case
features with which a noun phrase begins the syntactic derivation are not
derivational time-bombs, nothing will go wrong if they are not valued at all
in the course of the derivation. This, I argue, is precisely what unmarked
case is: it is the morphological form given to a noun phrase whose case
features have never been valued—just as “3rd person singular agreement” is
the morphological form given to a ϕ-probe whose features have never been
valued (sections 4.2.2–4.2.3, 8.4).
It therefore follows that this morphological form will only be available to
a noun phrase that has failed to value its case features in one of the two
ways described above (which we can continue to refer to, descriptively, as
lexical/oblique case and dependent case).
In summary, by adopting the particular stipulation sketched earlier
concerning case competition (namely, that when two DPs with unvalued
case features enter into a c-command relation, dependent case is assigned—
normally, to one and not the other), we have effectively derived the very
disjunctive case hierarchy that stands at the center of Marantz’s (1991)
configurational case assignment proposal.
(272) Disjunctive case hierarchy (Marantz 1991)
lexical/oblique case → dependent case → unmarked case [=(224)]
208 Chapter 9
The assignment of lexical/oblique case occurs first because selection (i.e.,
sisterhood) is the first structural relation that a noun phrase enters into.
Conversely, unmarked case is the last possibility because it is nothing but the
morphological expression of the absence of valued case features on a noun
phrase. It will therefore arise only if the (other) case assignment strategies
have not come to fruition (i.e., in the absence of a lexically specified case
assigner and of an eligible case competitor). As with ϕ-features and “3rd
person singular,” we have developed descriptive labels for the characteristic
realization that the morphological component gives to this lack of valued
case features: namely, “nominative” or “absolutive”; and within the nominal
domain, “genitive.”
9.4 Summary
In this chapter, we have seen that ϕ-agreement and what we have come
to call “morphological case” must both be computed within syntax—not
as part of a postsyntactic, morphological computation. This is crucial if
the results of chapters 5–8, concerning the logic that relates ϕ-agreement
to grammaticality/ungrammaticality, are to tell us something about the
adequacy (or inadequacy) of syntactic models such as Chomsky’s (2000, 2001)
“interpretability”-based proposal, as I have claimed they do. The results of this
chapter thus reaffirm that we can take these conclusions to be about syntax
itself.
In section 9.1, I reviewed Marantz’s (1991) argument that “morphological
case” is postsyntactic, and Bobaljik’s (2008) extension thereof to ϕ-agreement.
We saw that they both rest on the following premise: that there are no instances
in which “morphological case” informs a process that can only be construed
as syntactic. But in section 9.2, we saw an argument that such a dependency
does exist: ϕ-agreement feeds movement to canonical subject position in some
languages (section 8.4) and is fed by “morphological case” in others (Bobaljik
2008; section 8.3.3).
This argument was typological in nature, bringing together results obtained
from quirky-subject and non-quirky-subject languages. In section 9.3.1,
however, we saw an argument—based on Baker and Vinokurova’s (2010)
work on Sakha—that case competition (a central component of Marantz’s case
calculus) is required in order to determine the case marking of nominals even
in a language where movement to canonical subject position attends to those
case markings (i.e., a non-quirky-subject language like Sakha). We also saw
that Baker and Vinokurova’s claim, that not all the case facts of Sakha can be
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 209
handled in this configurational manner, is unwarranted (Levin and Preminger
to appear).
In section 9.3.2, I presented a syntactic reimplementation of Marantz’s
configurational case algorithm. I showed that this reimplementation may, in
fact, be able to derive the disjunctive case hierarchy—the stipulated ordering
that is at the center of this algorithm—from the bottom-up manner in which
syntactic structure is built.
Given the existence of a syntactic case calculus that is faithful to the
results of Marantz’s (1991) algorithm, it becomes possible for ϕ-agreement to
operate on the basis of case—as argued by Bobaljik (2008)—while still feeding
movement to canonical subject position.
Formally, the operation findϕ(f) (273) can make reference to case
discrimination—which, crucially, relies on a notion of case that includes the
case competition mechanism (274)—while still serving as the input to the
syntactic operation of MtoCSPNQSL (275).
(273) findϕ (f)
Given an unvalued feature f on a head H0, look for an XP bearing a
valued instance of f. Upon finding such an XP, check whether its case
is acceptable with respect to case discrimination:
a. yes → assign the value of f found on XP to H0
b. no → abort findϕ(f) (and continue with derivation)
[=(198)]
(274) The Moravcsik hierarchy (second and final revision; Bobaljik 2008)
unmarked case > dependent case > lexical/oblique case [=(178)]
(275) Movement to canonical subject position (MtoCSP): Two typological
variations (revised version)
a. In a quirky-subject language: (e.g., Icelandic)
MtoCSPQSL = Move(DP)
b. In a non-quirky-subject language: (e.g., English, French)
MtoCSPNQSL = Move(XP successfully targeted by findϕ)
[=(207)]
Thus, the results of this chapter, taken together with the results of
chapters 5–8, show that ϕ-agreement is a syntactic phenomenon proper, whose
obligatoriness can nonetheless only be modeled successfully in terms of
obligatory operations—and crucially, not in terms of violable constraints or
derivational time-bombs.
210 Chapter 9
Appendix: Case Assignment and Case Discrimination in the Kichean
Agent-Focus Construction
Given that sections 9.2–9.3 build on the results of chapter 8, which in
turn build on the results of chapters 4–5 concerning ϕ-agreement in the
Kichean AF construction, it may be worthwhile to reexamine the analysis
of Kichean AF in light of the case discrimination property of ϕ-agreement
(chapter 8), as well as the syntactic system of case assignment developed in
section 9.3.15
Recall from chapter 3 that regular transitive verbs in Kichean contain two
distinct agreement markers, one for each core argument, as exemplified in the
Kaqchikel (277a–b).
(276) Morpheme order in the Kichean transitive verb

aspect
prefix

–

abs
marker

–

erg
marker

–

verb
stem

–. . . [=(12)]
(277) a. rat
you(sg)
x-Ø-aw-ax-aj
com-3sg.abs-2sg.erg-hear-act
ri
the
achin
man
‘You(sg) heard the man.’
b. ri
the
achin
man
x-a-r-ax-aj
com-2sg.abs-3sg.erg-hear-act
rat
you(sg)
‘The man heard you(sg).’ [=(10a–b)]
In the AF construction, however, we find only one agreement marker, whose
form is taken from the absolutive series.
(278) a. ja
foc
rat
you(sg)
x-at/*Ø-ax-an
com-2sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
ri
the
achin
man
‘It was you(sg) that heard the man.’
b. ja
foc
ri
the
achin
man
x-at/*Ø-ax-an
com-2sg/*3sg.abs-hear-af
rat
you(sg)
‘It was the man that heard you(sg).’ [=(15a–b)]
The way in which Kichean determines which argument will control the form
of this single marker was the topic of chapters 3–4.
As far as regular transitives are concerned, it seems quite obvious that
the “absolutive agreement” probes π0 and #0, posited in section 4.4,
are parameterized to target only noun phrases bearing unmarked
(= “absolutive”) case.
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 211
(279) Agreement accessibility: Kichean π0, #0
unmarked case

accessible for
ϕ-agreement
> dependent case > lexical/oblique case
Next, let us consider the ergative markers. In section 4.6.2, I suggested
that all ergative agreement markers in Kichean may be clitics. This contrasts
with the absolutive agreement paradigm, which I argued in section 4.4 to be a
combination of the spell-out of valued features on the ϕ-probe (for 3rd person
plural agreement) and clitics that arise when a [participant]-bearing argument
is probed.
This bears significant similarity to the analyses of Basque put forth by
Arregi and Nevins (2008, 2012) and in Preminger 2009, discussed briefly
in section 4.1. In Basque, too, one finds both absolutive and ergative
agreement markers on the finite verbal element (and in Basque, dative ones,
too). But as argued by Arregi and Nevins and in Preminger 2009, the
nonabsolutive markers arise through completely indiscriminate clitic doubling
of the corresponding (ergative or dative) argument. It is therefore not clear—
in Basque or in Kichean—that these nonabsolutive agreement markers involve
syntactic probing per se, and therefore it is unclear that they fall under the
purview of the revised Moravcsik hierarchy in the first place (see also the
discussion of (202) in chapter 8).
This brings us to the AF construction. Here, as shown in (280) and (281),
we have two core arguments, both of which can be targeted by the ϕ-probes π0
and #0 (see section 4.4).
(280) Relativized probing for [participant] in Kichean AF [≈(66a–b)]
a. 1st/2nd person subject,
3rd person object
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj
V0
· · ·
subj[prtc]
· · ·
π0
[ ]
<prtc>
b. 3rd person subject,
1st/2nd person object
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj[prtc]
V0
· · ·
subj
· · ·
π0
[ ]
<prtc>
212 Chapter 9
(281) Relativized probing for [plural] in Kichean AF [≈(73a–b)]
a. pl subject, sg object
#P
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj
V0
· · ·
subj[pl]
· · ·
· · ·
#0
[ ]
<pl>
b. sg subject, pl object
#P
πP
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
obj[pl]
V0
· · ·
subj
· · ·
· · ·
#0
[ ]
<pl>
Clearly, given (279), this could only be possible if both arguments bear
unmarked(=“absolutive”) case. The question is how such a scenario could
arise.
I follow Ordóñez (1995) in assuming that the AF suffix (glossed “-af”) is
similar to an applicative marker, in that it endows the VP with the ability to
case-mark one more argument than it normally would; specifically, it assigns
case to the Patient/internal argument. The AF marker is thus a case assigner,
one that falls within the category of lexical/oblique case. Two notes are in
order regarding this categorization. First, while the AF marker is clearly a
closed-class item and would be classified as “functional” in terms of the
lexical-versus-functional distinction, this is not the sense of the term lexical
in lexical/oblique case. The latter simply refers to case that is required by
a particular lexical item (rather than, say, an entire category or a particular
syntactic configuration). The AF marker clearly satisfies this definition.
Second, while I have used the label lexical/oblique, this is meant as an
(inclusive) disjunction. There is no requirement that the assigned case in fact be
oblique; for example, some quirky-subject verbs in Icelandic assign accusative
or genitive to their subjects (see Marantz 1991, Yip, Maling, and Jackendoff
1987, Zaenen, Maling, and Thráinsson 1985), even though neither of these two
cases would be considered oblique.
The relevant question, then, is only how the assignment of absolutive
by a dedicated lexical item can be implemented featurally—given that
in section 9.3.2, I suggested that unmarked case is the absence of otherwise
valued case features. The answer, I believe, is the same one discussed
in sections 8.4 and 9.3.1 with respect to the difference between failed
agreement, on the one hand, and successful agreement with a “3rd person
Where’s ϕ
ϕ? In Syntax. 213
singular” node, on the other. There, I argued that these two options, neither
of which results in ill-formedness (or a “crash”), are often, if not always,
given the same morphological spell-out. Such morphological identity arises
because what we call “3rd person singular” morphemes are the exponents
inserted when a probe does not carry [plural], [participant], or [author] values.
Featurally, however, the two could actually be distinguished—for example,
by whether or not the probe carries a valued instance of [ϕ], the root of the
ϕ-feature geometry—suggesting that there is a tendency (if not a universal) for
no morphological exponence to be directly associated with feature-geometrical
“root” nodes like [ϕ].
It has been argued that like the domain of ϕ-features, the domain of case
values is internally structured (see, e.g., Caha 2009). If so, it is possible that
in this domain, too, there is a feature-geometrical “root”; and there is the
possibility for a valuation relation consisting only of this “root” value. As
with ϕ-features, neither this option nor the complete lack of valuation would
cause ill-formedness; but what we call “unmarked case” in a given language
could be the morphological form given to a nominal that lacks marked feature
values—those associated with, for example, dependent case, or oblique cases
proper. This morphological form would then be afforded to a nominal lacking
these marked case features, irrespective of whether the nominal carried a
valued instance of this “root” node. (And as with ϕ-features, there may be
a tendency/universal not to associate any overt exponence with a “root” node
of this sort.)
On this view, what the AF marker does is simply value the case features
on the internal argument, but without assigning it any of the marked values
associated with dependent case or actual oblique cases. Just as with ϕ-features,
a node that has been valued—even if the only feature value transmitted was
the “root” of the relevant feature geometry—cannot enter into subsequent
valuation relations (see the definitions of find and findϕ in chapters 5 and 8,
respectively).16 This means that the internal argument cannot participate in
subsequent case competition relations, for example.
Case discrimination in Kichean (schematized in (279)) would thus be
sensitive to the absence of marked case feature values (dependent or oblique)
on the target. This would render π0
and #0
capable of targeting either a
nominal that has not participated in case feature valuation at all, or one that
has participated in such valuation involving only the root node of the case
feature structure. The former would be the fate of the external argument in the
AF construction, while the latter would be the fate of the internal argument.
This would achieve the goal of rendering both core arguments in Kichean
AF accessible, as far as case discrimination is concerned, to ϕ-probing by π0
and by #0 (as illustrated in (280)–(281)).
10 Extensions and Outlook
10.1 The Logic of ϕ
ϕ-Agreement as an Exemplar of Syntactic Computation
We have seen in the previous chapters that ϕ-agreement adheres to the
logic of obligatory operations: its obligatory nature cannot be reduced to
representational properties of the structure it operates upon, or those that
it leaves in its wake (as detailed in chapter 5, in particular). Instead,
the ϕ-agreement operation—which I have labeled findϕ—must be directly
afforded obligatory status by the grammar.
There is an inherent tension between these results and what many
contemporary frameworks take the logic of syntactic computation to be. For
concreteness, I will concentrate here on approaches that fall within the purview
of the Minimalist Program (MP; Chomsky 1995 et seq.)—though I believe
the same tension exists with respect to other approaches as well, including
unification-based frameworks such as HPSG (e.g., Pollard and Sag 1994) and
LFG (e.g., Bresnan 2001).
As noted in the appendix to chapter 5, syntactic computation in most
MP-based accounts is driven by the need of certain features borne by lexical
items to be “checked” or “deleted” (see also section 2.2.1). The MP operations
themselves (e.g., Agree, Merge) are neither obligatory nor optional in any
meaningful sense; they are deployed by the computational system freely,
constrained only by the need to ultimately reach a well-formed end-of-the-
derivation representation.
At first glance, then, it may seem that the results of the previous chapters
have the unfortunate consequence of casting ϕ-agreement as an outlier in the
landscape of syntactic phenomena.
One logically possible response to this apparent exceptionality of
ϕ-agreement is to argue that ϕ-agreement is an outlier in the landscape
of syntactic phenomena because it is not actually part of that landscape—
that it belongs in a distinct computational component of the grammar.
216 Chapter 10
This is essentially the approach taken by Bobaljik (2008) in arguing that
ϕ-agreement is a postsyntactic operation (though the reasons cited here are
not what motivated Bobaljik’s proposal; see section 9.1 for a review). But in
chapters 8–9, we saw that such a move is not possible: ϕ-agreement, which
operates on the basis of case, informs a syntactic process par excellence in
movement to canonical subject position (in non-quirky-subject languages).
Relegating ϕ-agreement to an extrasyntactic module of the grammar is thus
not possible.
Instead, in this section, I aim to show that such exceptionality is illusory;
that the logic of ϕ-agreement, as argued for in the previous chapters, is not
an outlier; and that syntactic phenomena that exhibit the same obligatory-
operations logic are actually quite common. I demonstrate this using examples
from object shift (section 10.1.1), the definiteness effect (section 10.1.2), and
long-distance wh-movement (section 10.1.3).
10.1.1 Object Shift
Here, I briefly discuss certain aspects of the phenomenon of object shift (OS),
showing that it exhibits essentially the same obligatory-operations logic that I
have argued for with respect to ϕ-agreement.
The literature on OS is vast (see Collins and Thráinsson 1996, Diesing
1996, 1997, Diesing and Jelinek 1993, Fox and Pesetsky 2005, Holmberg
1986, 1999, Rackowski 2002, Richards 2004, Sells 1998, Svenonius 2001,
among many others); and one short section in a book devoted to a different
topic cannot do it justice. Instead, in this context, I will treat OS largely
as a given, focusing instead on the logic that relates its application or
inapplication to other properties of the utterance—namely, specificity, as well
as grammaticality/ungrammaticality.
There is a well-established correlation, in languages where OS is possible,
between whether a noun phrase has undergone OS and whether it is interpreted
as specific (Diesing 1992, 1996, Diesing and Jelinek 1993). Thus, for example,
the noun phrase þrjár bækur ‘three books’ can only be interpreted specifically
in the Icelandic (282a), where it has undergone OS; but in (282b), where it has
stayed within the verb phrase, a nonspecific interpretation is available (and, in
fact, preferred).
(282) a. Ég
I
las1
read(past)
[þrjár
three
bækur]2
books
aldrei
never
[VP t1 t2 ].
‘There are three books that I never read.’
(✔ specific reading of ‘three books’, ✗ nonspecific reading of ‘three books’)
Extensions and Outlook 217
b. Ég
I
las1
read(past)
aldrei
never
[VP t1 þrjár
three
bækur].
books
‘I never read three books.’
(✔ nonspecific reading of ‘three books’, ? specific reading of ‘three books’)
(Thráinsson 2007:76)
But as (282b) already suggests, the alignment between OS and specificity is
not perfect. To see this even more clearly, consider Holmberg’s Generalization
(Holmberg 1986, and much subsequent work; see also the references cited
above with regard to OS). Holmberg’s Generalization can be roughly
characterized as follows: in Scandinavian, OS can only apply if the lexical
verb has also vacated the verb phrase. Thus, in contexts where the verb cannot
move (e.g., owing to the presence of an auxiliary), the object is “trapped”
(for OS purposes) within the VP. Interestingly, a specific interpretation is
freely available for a “trapped” object of this sort, even though it has not
undergone OS.
Thus, in (283a–b)—where OS is possible—specificity covaries with the
position of the object. In (284b), on the other hand, the presence of an auxiliary
prevents verb movement, which in turn precludes OS (284a). Crucially, in this
scenario, the non-OS version is ambiguous between a specific reading and a
nonspecific one.
(283) Verb movement → Specificity covaries with OS
a. Þau
they
sýna1
show
[viðtöl
interviews
við
with
Blair]2
Blair
alltaf
always
[VP t1 t2] klukkan
clock
ellefu.
eleven
~ ‘Whenever there are interviews with Blair, they are always shown
at 11 o’clock.’ (generic reading)
b. Þau
they
sýna1
show
alltaf
always
[VP t1 [viðtöl
interviews
við
with
Blair]]
Blair
klukkan
clock
ellefu.
eleven
~ ‘It is always the case that they show interviews with Blair at
11 o’clock.’ (existential reading)
(284) Immobile verb → Specificity-in-situ possible for “trapped” object
a. *Þau
they
hafa
have
[viðtöl
interviews
við
with
Blair]2
Blair
alltaf
always
[VP sýnt
shown
t2] klukkan
clock
ellefu.
eleven
218 Chapter 10
b. Þau
they
hafa
have
alltaf
always
[VP sýnt
shown
[viðtöl
interviews
við
with
Blair]]
Blair
klukkan
clock
ellefu.
eleven
‘They have always shown interviews with Blair at 11 o’clock.’
(ambiguous)
(Thráinsson 2007:78; examples modeled after Vikner 1997)
Let us now turn to Tagalog. As shown by Rackowski (2002), when OS is
ruled out in Tagalog, one finds the same suppression of the normal covariance
between OS and specificity—this, even though the actual structural conditions
on OS in Tagalog differ from those in Icelandic.
Since word order is rather free in Tagalog (a fact that Rackowski explains
in terms of Richards’s (1993) A-bar scrambling analysis), it is not a reliable
indicator of whether or not OS has taken place. But as Rackowski shows, OS
in Tagalog determines which argument will be agreed with by the verb (cf. the
discussion of “positional” accounts of omnivorous agreement, in section 4.5.3).
Thus, in a Tagalog example like (285a), the object remains within VP,
does not control agreement on the verb, and crucially, receives a nonspecific
interpretation. In (285b), on the other hand, the object has shifted out of VP,
controls agreement on the verb, and receives a specific interpretation.
(285) a. M-aglu-luto
nom-asp-cook
ang
ang
lalaki
man
ng
case
adobo.
adobo
‘The man will cook adobo.’ (nonspecific reading of ‘adobo’)
b. Lu-lutu-in
asp-cook-acc
ng
case
lalaki
man
ang
ang
adobo.
adobo
‘The man will cook the adobo.’ (specific reading of ‘adobo’)
(Rackowski and Richards 2005:569–570)
The structural conditions on OS in Tagalog are quite simple: in order to
undergo OS, a noun phrase must be the structurally highest argument within
the VP. This much, in fact, is true of Icelandic, as well (though as discussed
earlier, this does not exhaust the structural conditions on OS in Icelandic).
(286) a. ?*Ég
I
lána1
lend
bækurnar2
books.acc
ekki
not
[VP t1 Maríu
Maria.dat
t2].
b. Ég
I
lána1
lend
Maríu2
Maria.dat
ekki
not
[VP t1 t2 bækurnar].
books.acc
‘I do not lend the books to Maria.’
(Collins and Thráinsson 1996:420)
Extensions and Outlook 219
Returning to Tagalog, if we use a nonprepositional benefactive—which,
Rackowski argues, forces a high-applicative structure (Pylkkänen 2002,
2008)—then only the benefactive argument can undergo OS.
(287) a. *Ni-luto-Ø
asp-cook-acc
ni
case
Romeo
Romeo
ng
case
babae
woman
ang
ang
adobo.
adobo
b. I-p.in.agluto
obl-asp.cook
ni
case
Romeo
Romeo
ng
case
adobo
adobo
ang
ang
babae.
woman
‘Romeo cooked (the) adobo for the woman.’
(specific reading of ‘woman’, specific/nonspecific reading of ‘adobo’)
(Rackowski and Richards 2005:571–572)
As expected, OS of babae ‘woman’ forces a specific reading of this argument;
but what is of greater interest here is the fate of the noun phrase adobo
in (287b): it can now receive either a specific reading or a nonspecific one.
This contrasts with the fate of the same Patient argument, of the very same
verb (luto ‘cook’), in (285a). There, this Patient argument did not undergo OS
either—but crucially, it could have (as demonstrated by (285b)); and it is there
that non-OS entailed nonspecificity.
As noted above, the conditions under which OS is possible or impossible
are subject to crosslinguistic variation. In Tagalog, OS is possible only when a
noun phrase is the highest argument in the VP; in Icelandic, this same condition
is operative, but there is the added condition of verb movement (Holmberg’s
Generalization). However, if we modularize the language-particular conditions
on OS, the pattern in (288) (already highlighted by Vikner (1997)) consistently
emerges.
(288) OS
possible
OS
impossible
Nonshifted
noun phrase nonspecific
ambiguous
(specific/nonspecific)
Shifted
noun phrase specific N/A
Crucially, this pattern lends itself remarkably well to an obligatory-operations
approach. The idea is that OS, like ϕ-agreement (or more accurately, like
findϕ), is an operation; and it can culminate successfully or unsuccessfully,
depending on (partially language-specific) structural conditions. But it applies,
indiscriminately and obligatorily, to every specific noun phrase.
220 Chapter 10
(289) An obligatory-operations model of OS
x[+specific] → Shift[x]
where Shift is the operation that causes a noun phrase to vacate the
VP, and is subject to language-particular structural conditions on its
successful culmination
On this view, triggering Shift on a noun phrase that does not satisfy the
relevant structural conditions—for example, a noun phrase that is not the
highest argument in VP; or in Icelandic, a noun phrase in a VP that has not
been vacated by the lexical verb—is akin to triggering findϕ(f) in a structure
where there is no accessible target bearing f. In both cases, the operation in
question will fail to culminate successfully; but in neither will the result be
ill-formedness (or a “crash”). The only result will be the lack of the effects that
successful culmination of the operation would have brought about: for findϕ,
this would have been the valuation of f on the probe; for Shift, this would have
been the movement of the argument in question out of the VP.
Thus, we can assume that Shift is triggered for every [+specific] noun phrase
in the derivation. Consider, for example, the subcase of (287b) in which all the
arguments are in fact specific (‘Romeo cooked the adobo for the woman’).
Given (289), Shift[‘the adobo’], Shift[‘the woman’], and even Shift[‘Romeo’]
will all be obligatorily triggered. Since Romeo is already outside of the VP,
the application of Shift[‘Romeo’] will be vacuous. Shift[‘the woman’] will be
successful, moving that noun phrase out of the VP. Finally, since the noun
phrase ‘the adobo’ is not the highest argument in the VP, Shift[‘the adobo’] will
fail; but the only result of this failure will be that this Patient argument will not,
in fact, vacate the VP.
The overall result will be exactly as shown in (288): for noun phrases that
can undergo OS, specificity will covary with whether or not OS has applied;
but for those that cannot, specificity will be possible in situ.
This mirrors precisely what we saw in earlier chapters concerning
ϕ-agreement: in syntactic configurations where ϕ-agreement is possible,
its application will covary with grammaticality; but precisely in those
configurations where ϕ-agreement is impossible—for example, because of the
outright absence of an appropriate target in the derivation—grammaticality is
possible without ϕ-agreement.
None of this is meant to suggest that the obligatory-operations account of
OS sketched in (289) is the only possible account of the pattern in (288).
Diesing (1997) and Vikner (1997) offer different accounts, based on covert
movement and ranked violable constraints, respectively. The point of the
current discussion, as noted at the outset, is merely to show that the logic of
obligatory operations exhibited by ϕ-agreement is by no means unique in the
Extensions and Outlook 221
landscape of syntactic phenomena, and thus, that there is no argument to be
had from “exceptionality” against the results of previous chapters.
10.1.2 The Definiteness Effect
The definiteness effect (DE; Milsark 1974, and much subsequent work)
furnishes a case very similar to object shift, demonstrating the existence of yet
another syntactic phenomenon whose logic mirrors the obligatory-operations
logic argued to hold of ϕ-agreement.
Broadly speaking, the DE is a prohibition against “strong” determiners (such
as the) heading noun phrases that fail to move to subject position.1
(290) a. The boy/A boy seems to be playing in the garden.
b. There seems to be a boy/*the boy playing in the garden.
However, this restriction is crucially lifted when it comes to noun phrases that
cannot become subjects. For example, a dative experiencer can be freely added
to (290), and it can have a definite determiner even though it does not move to
subject position.
(291) a. The boy/A boy seems to the girls to be playing in the garden.
b. There seems to the girls to be a boy playing in the garden.
One could imagine that the relevant factor in the suspension of the DE for
the girls in (291a–b) is its thematic role, its obliqueness, or some property other
than its inability to become a subject per se. But the juxtaposition of these data
with their Icelandic counterparts demonstrates quite vividly that what is at stake
is indeed the ability to move to subject position. In the Icelandic counterpart
of (291), it is the dative experiencer—not the embedded nominative subject—
to which the DE applies (Sigurðsson 1989).
(292) a. *Það
expl
virtist
seemed
[dómurunum]dat
judges.the.dat
[kona/konan]nom
woman.nom/woman.the.nom
hafa
have.inf
skrifað
written
bókina.
book.the.acc
‘It seemed to the judges that a/the woman had written the book.’
b. ? Það
expl
virtist
seemed
[bara
just
tveim
two
af
of
dómurunum]dat
judges.the.dat
[kona/konan]nom
woman.nom/woman.the.nom
hafa
have.inf
skrifað
written
bókina.
book.the.acc
‘It seemed to only two of the judges that a/the woman had written
the book.’ [≈(213)]
(Halldór Ármann Sigurðsson, pers. comm.)
222 Chapter 10
As already noted in section 8.4, in Icelandic dative experiencer constructions
like (292), it is the dative argument—rather than the nominative subject of the
embedded nonfinite clause—that moves to subject position of the matrix clause
when an expletive is absent, as in (293). (Note also that despite their English
translations, the embedded clauses in (292)–(293) are both nonfinite.)
(293) [Dómurunum]dat
judges.the.dat
virtist
seemed
t [kona/konan]nom
woman.nom/woman.the.nom
hafa
have.inf
skrifað
written
bókina.
book.the.acc
‘It seemed to the judges that a/the woman had written the book.’
[≈(214)]
Crucially, as a comparison of (293) with (292a) reveals, movement of this
dative experiencer to subject position—just as with movement of nominatives
to subject position in English—alleviates the ungrammaticality brought on by
the DE.
It is also not the case that the DE in Icelandic simply applies to datives
instead of nominatives. When the DP closest to subject position is nominative,
Icelandic reverts to the behavior seen in English—that is, the DE applies to the
nominative argument—confirming that the ability to move to subject position
is indeed the relevant factor.2
(294) a. Konan
woman.the.nom
hefur
has
skrifað
written
bókina.
book.the.acc
‘The woman has written the book.’
b. *Það
expl
hefur
has
konan
woman.the.nom
skrifað
written
bókina.
book.the.acc
(adapted from Hrafnbjargarson 2004:155; judgments are Halldór
Ármann Sigurðsson’s, pers. comm.)
(295) a. ??Kona
woman.nom
hefur
has
skrifað
written
bókina.
book.the.acc
‘A woman has written the book.’
b. ?
Það
expl
hefur
has
kona
woman.nom
skrifað
written
bókina.
book.the.acc
‘A woman has written the book.’
(adapted from Hrafnbjargarson 2004:155; judgments are Halldór
Ármann Sigurðsson’s, pers. comm.)
We thus have a state of affairs very similar to the one involving
OS (cf. (288)).
Extensions and Outlook 223
(296) MtoCSP
possible
MtoCSP
impossible
Nonsubject
noun phrase
indefinite
both possible
(definite/indefinite)
Subject
noun phrase
definite
(but see below)
N/A
As with OS, the conditions on MtoCSP (movement to canonical subject
position) are subject to crosslinguistic variation, an issue discussed extensively
in chapter 8. Crucially, however, once we abstract away from these language-
specific conditions, a familiar picture emerges: with noun phrases for which
MtoCSP is possible, definiteness forces MtoCSP; but when MtoCSP is
impossible, definiteness appears to come “for free” and is available to a noun
phrase in situ.
We can therefore capture this behavior in terms of an obligatory operation,
along the lines of the one proposed for OS in (289). Suppose that MtoCSP itself
is an operation (in this technical sense) and that the conditions formulated in
chapter 8, repeated here, represent the structural conditions on its successful
culmination.
(297) Movement to canonical subject position (MtoCSP): Two typological
variations (revised version)
a. In a quirky-subject language: (e.g., Icelandic)
MtoCSPQSL = Move(DP)
b. In a non-quirky-subject language: (e.g., English, French)
MtoCSPNQSL = Move(XP successfully targeted by findϕ)
[=(207)]
In other words, the structural conditions on the application of MtoCSP are that
in a quirky-subjectlanguage (like Icelandic), its target must be the closest DP to
the landing site, and in a non-quirky-subject language (like English or French),
its target must be a noun phrase successfully targeted by ϕ-agreement (i.e.,
findϕ).
Now suppose that definiteness of a noun phrase invariably triggers the
application of MtoCSP to that noun phrase; and suppose that the insertion
of an expletive to occupy an otherwise empty canonical subject position
occurs in the morphophonological component, to satisfy what is essentially
a morphophonological requirement (see Bobaljik 2002, Landau 2007, and
references therein, as well as section 10.2).
224 Chapter 10
(298) An obligatory-operations model of the DE (first revision)
x[+definite] → MtoCSP[x]
where MtoCSP[x] will fail if the relevant condition in (297) is not met
In a structure like (299)–(301), MtoCSP will be triggered for both the dative
experiencer and the embedded nominative subject—since both are definite.
(299) *There seems to the girls to be the boy playing in the garden.
(300) The boy1 seems to the girls to be t1 playing in the garden.
(301) a. *The girls1 seems to t1 to be the boys playing in the garden.
b. *To the girls1 seems t1 to be the boys playing in the garden.
Because of the language-particular conditions on MtoCSP in English (297b),
the operation will succeed when applied to the embedded nominative
subject (300), and fail when applied to the dative experiencer (301). (See
the discussion at the end of section 8.4, regarding the somewhat exceptional
properties of dative intervention in English.)
Given that the triggering of MtoCSP is obligatory for every definite noun
phrase, there will simply be no derivation allowed by the grammar that leads
to (299). This example is therefore on a par with instances of “gratuitous
nonagreement” (section 5.3).
MtoCSP will fail when applied to the dative noun phrase because that
argument, in English, is not targeted by ϕ-agreement (i.e., by findϕ), in
violation of (297b). But crucially, given the logic of the obligatory-operations
model, this failure does not result in ill-formedness. The result will simply
be the absence of the effects that the successful culmination of the operation
would have brought about—in this case, movement of the dative experiencer
to subject position.
It is important to note that this does not conflict with the analysis in chapter 8,
where it was argued that MtoCSP can, under certain conditions, give rise
to outright ungrammaticality. The crucial distinction is that there, we were
considering strings like the French (302)—whose only parse was one where
MtoCSP had successfully applied, but the noun phrase to which it had applied
was such that the structural conditions in (297) could not have been met.
(302) *Jean1
Jean
semble
seems
[à
to
Marie]dat
Marie
[t1 avoir
have.inf
du
of
talent].
talent
‘Jean seems to Marie to have talent.’ [=(185)]
✗
Extensions and Outlook 225
In (302), the subject is to the left of the finite verb; the only possible
parse is therefore one in which MtoCSP has successfully applied to Jean.
However, as discussed extensively in chapter 8, minimality prevents findϕ
from targeting this subject in (302). Thus, (302) is ungrammatical because there
is no derivation in which MtoCSP has been supplied with the necessary input
for its application—meaning there is no derivation allowed by the grammar
that generates this output string (see section 2.2.3 for a general discussion of
ungrammaticality of this sort).
In fact, we have already seen this type of ungrammaticality in English, as
well. In examples like (301a–b), the string is only compatible with a parse
in which MtoCSP has applied to the dative experiencer (with or without
the preposition, to). But since datives never control ϕ-agreement in English,
we can be certain that findϕ has not successfully applied to this dative
experiencer, meaning the input to MtoCSP was in fact unavailable—resulting
in the attendant ungrammaticality.
Crucially, nothing said so far—including the claim that MtoCSP is
obligatorily triggered for any [+definite] noun phrase in the derivation—rules
out the possibility that MtoCSP could be triggered in other ways, as well.
This seems to be a genuine point of variation between Icelandic and, for
example, English: in English, MtoCSP is also obligatorily triggered for any
external argument, whereas in Icelandic, it is not. This is the equivalent, in the
proposed system, of the typological observation that Icelandic has a transitive
expletive construction (see, e.g., (295b), as well as numerous examples in
chapter 8), whereas English does not—a point of crosslinguistic variation that
must be captured one way or another. In the current system, this can be captured
as follows:
(303) An obligatory-operations model of the DE (second revision)
a. x[+definite] → MtoCSP[x] (universal)
b. x[Ext Arg] → MtoCSP[x] (parameterized; active in English,
but not in Icelandic)
This derives the contrast between the Icelandic (304a–b) and their English
counterparts, given in (305a–b).
(304) a. ??Kona
woman.nom
hefur
has
skrifað
written
bókina.
book.the.acc
‘A woman has written the book.’
b. ? Það
expl
hefur
has
kona
woman.nom
skrifað
written
bókina.
book.the.acc
‘A woman has written the book.’ [=(295a–b)]
226 Chapter 10
(305) a. A woman has written the book.
b. *There has a woman written the book.
Note that on the proposed approach, MtoCSP is also triggered for bókina
‘book.the.acc’in (304) and the book in (305), since both are [+definite]. In both
cases, the operation fails, because the noun phrase in question does not meet the
structural conditions for the successful application of MtoCSP in that language
(it is neither the DP closest to subject position, as required in Icelandic, nor
targeted for ϕ-agreement, as required in English). As before, no ill-formedness
arises from this failure; instead, the noun phrases bókina ‘book.the.acc’ and
the book simply fail to move to canonical subject position, as attested.
Finally, if we allow MtoCSP to optionally apply in English to any argument
(regardless of definiteness)—or perhaps, have its application to indefinites be
regulated by discourse properties of the nominal in question—we can account
for the behavior of derived subjects with respect to definiteness.
(306) a. A woman has arrived.
b. There has arrived a woman.
(307) a. The woman has arrived.
b. *There has arrived the woman.
In (307), the [+definite] noun phrase the woman triggers obligatory application
of MtoCSP, ruling out (307b). But in (306), there is no [+definite] noun phrase,
nor is there an external argument (since the verb is unaccusative), meaning
MtoCSP can apply optionally—yielding the observed pattern. Recall that
allowing MtoCSP to apply freely to noun phrases that are unable to move to
subject position (e.g., direct objects of transitives) is harmless in this system—
since as with bókina/the book in (304)–(305), the failure of MtoCSP in such
cases will have no adverse effects on the derivation.
As with the discussion of object shift in section 10.1.1, the point here is not
that there are no other possible accounts of these DE facts. Rather, the point is
that the behavior of the DE vis-à-vis movement to canonical subject position
is, at the very least, entirely compatible with an obligatory-operations logic
(where operations are obligatorily triggered that may or may not culminate
successfully, and whose failure does not result in ungrammaticality).
In particular, the fact that the DE is active precisely when movement of a
given nominal to subject position is possible—and is suspended elsewhere—
can be accounted for straightforwardly if movement to canonical subject
position is the consequence, rather than the cause, of definiteness. Movement
to subject position is thus triggered wherever definiteness arises, succeeding
only where structural conditions permit.
Extensions and Outlook 227
We therefore have another illustration that ϕ-agreement is not unique, in
the landscape of syntactic phenomena, in the obligatory-operations logic that
it exhibits.
10.1.3 Long-Distance Wh-Movement
I now consider the standard MP-style treatment of long-distance
wh-movement, as in the accounts of Chomsky (2000, 2001) and McCloskey
(2002). The relevant question is how movement of a wh-phrase that has
completely exited an embedded (declarative) clause, such as the movement of
what in (308), is driven.
(308) What did Mary say that John wanted?
I will assume here, with most of the contemporary syntactic literature, that the
wh-phrase has an intermediate landing site at the periphery of the embedded
clause. Let us focus on the particular step of wh-movement that lands at the
embedded clausal periphery.
(309) What did Mary say [twhat [C0 that] John wanted twhat]?
This step of wh-movement cannot be the result of the matrix C0 being
interrogative, for at least two reasons. First, given reasonable notions of
cyclicity, movement as a response to features of the matrix C0 would land at
the periphery of the matrix clause, not of the embedded one. Second, assuming
that syntactic structure is built incrementally from the bottom up, the matrix C0
will not have even been merged into the structure at the point in the derivation
at which wh-movement to the embedded clausal periphery occurs.
Thus, if we maintain (as Chomsky and McCloskey do) that wh-movement
is feature-driven, then the embedded declarative C0 in an example like (308)
must carry a feature—call it <wh>—that attracts the wh-phrase to the periphery
of its own clause.
(310) What did Mary say [twhat [C0 that]<+wh> John wanted twhat]?
There is a problem with this logic, however—one whose general form should
by now be quite familiar: wh-movement is obligatory when possible, but when
it is impossible, its absence is tolerated.3 What looks like the very same
declarative C0 has clearly failed to attract a wh-phrase (because there is none
to attract) in an example like (311), and yet the result is well-formed.
(311) Mary said [[C0 that] John wanted an armadillo].
228 Chapter 10
Chomsky and McCloskey hold constant that features that drive movement
are “uninterpretable” (i.e., derivational time-bombs). This forces them to
assume that the embedded declarative C0 in an example like (308) is not the
same lexical item as the one found in an example like (311): the former comes
equipped with the aforementioned <wh> feature, while the latter does not.
McCloskey (2002) takes the behavior of the Irish declarative
complementizer system as support for the existence of multiple featurally
distinct variants of declarative C0. As is quite well-known, the Irish declarative
complementizer takes a different form depending, among other things, on
whether or not wh-movement has crossed it (Adger and Ramchand 2001,
Duffield 1995, Harlow 1981, McCloskey 1977, 1979, 1990, 2001, Noonan
1997, Sells 1984). It seems to me, however, that these Irish facts do not
actually demonstrate that the different variants of the complementizer in
question are featurally distinct. Suppose that there was only one possible
feature structure associated with the declarative complementizer in Irish. The
different forms that the complementizer takes could then just as easily be the
result of context-sensitive spell-out of C0; in particular, the aL form would be
the spell-out of C0 whose specifier is filled (by movement), and the go form
would be the spell-out of C0
whose specifier is empty.4
If context-sensitive
spell-out of terminals is a necessary property of grammar—and it certainly
seems to be (Halle and Marantz 1993, among many others)—then there is
nothing about the morphology of the Irish complementizer that favors an
account involving multiple featurally distinct lexical entries for declarative C0.
Treating declarative complementizers as a featurally homogenous class, of
course, resurrects the problem caused by the obligatoriness of wh-movement
in an example like (308), given its tolerated absence in an example like (311).
Below, I sketch an account of this effect within the obligatory-operations
model; the point here is merely that the morphology of Irish complementizers
does not, in fact, constitute an argument in favor of one of these approaches
over the other.
More important for current purposes, however, is the observation that the
issue raised by cases like (308)–(311) is not actually restricted to declaratives,
in the first place. It has been observed that there are languages where
wh-movement out of interrogatives is possible (i.e., languages that tolerate
violations of the Wh-Island Condition). These include Italian, Hebrew, and—
under certain circumstances—even English (Pesetsky 1982, Reinhart 1981,
Rizzi 1982). In these languages, as the Hebrew (312)–(313) illustrate, the very
same issue identified above with respect to embedded declaratives arises with
embedded interrogatives, as well.
Extensions and Outlook 229
(312) eyzo
which.fem
matana2
gift(fem)
Dina
Dina
šaxex-a
forgot-3sg.fem
[t2 le-mi1
dat-who
Dan
Dan
natan
gave
t1 t2]?
‘Which gift did Dina forget to whom Dan gave?’
(≡ ‘Which is the gifti such that Dina forgot who Dan gave that
gifti to?’)
(adapted from Preminger 2010b:201)
(313) Dina
Dina
šaxex-a
forgot-3sg.fem
[le-mi1
dat-who
Dan
Dan
natan
gave
t1 et
acc
ha-matana].
the-gift(fem)
‘Dina forgot to whom Dan gave the gift.’
In both (312) and (313), the embedded clause is interrogative; but as
with the English examples above, we have (secondary) wh-movement
in (312), juxtaposed with the tolerated absence of (secondary) wh-movement
in (313).
The feature-driven account of long-distance wh-movement would thus have
to posit that there are two featurally distinct variants of the interrogative
complementizer, as well as two featurally distinct variants of the declarative
one (at least for languages of this sort).
The obligatory-operations logic offers a rather appealing alternative to this
proliferation of posited complementizer variants. Suppose that just as findϕ
is triggered upon merger of a ϕ-probe (i.e., a head H0 bearing unvalued
ϕ-features, or their feature-geometric equivalent; section 4.2.3), so the merger
of a complementizer—be it declarative or interrogative—obligatorily triggers
an operation that displaces a wh-phrase to the clausal periphery.5
(314) An obligatory-operations approach to wh-movement
C0 → Displace(wh)
It is not clear that the landing site of movement even needs to be specified
in (314), since considerations of cyclicity will mandate that (314) be triggered
immediately upon the merger of C0 (and no later); and the same considerations
will mandate that the landing site be at the root of the structure built up until
that point (i.e., at the CP level). Similarly, minimality need not be specified,
either (see also the discussion of minimality with respect to MtoCSP, in
section 8.4).
Triggering Displace(wh) in a structure that lacks an accessible wh-phrase is
akin to triggering findϕ(f) in a structure that lacks an accessible f-bearing
nominal (as is the case, for example, in Kichean AF clauses that lack 1st/2nd
person or plural arguments; see section 5.3). The operation will fail, but as
230 Chapter 10
with findϕ, this will not result in ill-formedness. It will simply result in no
wh-phrase being displaced.
Thus, both in (315) and in (316), merging of the embedded C0 will
obligatorily trigger Displace(wh).
(315) What did Mary say [twhat [C0 that] John wanted twhat]? [=(309)]
(316) Mary said [[C0 that] John wanted an armadillo]. [=(311)]
The operation Displace(wh) will culminate successfully in (315), and it will fail
in (316) (owing to the absence of an appropriate target). Both derivations will
then proceed unhindered; and in both cases, when the matrix C0 is merged,
Displace(wh) will again be triggered. As before, the operation will find a
suitable target in (315) (where what is now at the edge of the embedded clause),
but it will find no such target in (316), again resulting only in the lack of
displacement.
I assume here that in pair-/tuple-list questions (e.g., Who thinks that the
dog ate what?), all wh-phrases undergo movement into the matrix clause (see
Nissenbaum 2000); and that in a language like English, it happens to be the
case that PF pronounces the highest/leftmost of these wh-chains at the head of
the chain, and all others at the foot of the chain (compare this with Bulgarian,
for example; Richards 2001, Rudin 1988).
If any C0—be it declarative or interrogative—triggers the application of
Displace(wh), we must ask ourselves why the matrix C0 in an example
like (317) fails to displace the wh-phrase located at the periphery of the
embedded interrogative.
(317) John investigated [who C0 the money was sent to twho].
Note, however, that any theory of wh-movement needs to say something about
why wh-phrases that are interpreted in the scope of an interrogative are unable
to move further. This is equally necessary in the feature-driven approach to
wh-movement. Suppose that the <wh>-equipped version of declarative C0 is
chosen to head the matrix clause in (317) (or, if root declaratives lack a CP
layer, an essentially parallel example can be constructed by using (317) as
the complement to a verb that takes declarative CP complements). Without
further stipulation, this declarative C0 should be able to attract who out of the
embedded interrogative, contrary to fact.
The same issue is raised by the Hebrew example (318).
Extensions and Outlook 231
(318) eyzo
which.Fem
matana2
gift(fem)
Dina
Dina
šaxex-a
forgot-3sg.fem
[t2 le-mi1
dat-who
Dan
Dan
natan
gave
t1 t2]?
‘Which gift did Dina forget to whom Dan gave?’ [=(312)]
(≡ ‘Which is the gifti such that Dina forgot who Dan gave that
gifti to?’)
In Preminger 2010b, I argued that a wh-phrase like le-mi ‘dat-who’ in the
Hebrew (318) is not located in Spec,CP of the embedded interrogative; rather,
it is located in a lower position within the left periphery. If so, there must be
something that prevents the embedded C0 in (318) from targeting this very
wh-phrase for further movement, instead of the lower wh-phrase eyzo matana
‘which.fem gift(fem)’. Examples like (318) therefore demonstrate, in one and
the same datum, that while wh-phrases are capable of escaping an interrogative
clause, they still cannot do so when the wh-phrase in question is interpreted
within the scope of that interrogative clause.6
Perhaps the logic of activity and inactivation (which was shown,
in section 8.3.1, to be problematic when it comes to ϕ-agreement) can be
successfully applied to this empirical domain. Alternatively, one could pursue
a more structurally based approach, where the scope position of a wh-phrase is
by its very nature a terminal position, inaccessible to further movement (as in
Rizzi and Shlonsky’s (2007) Criterial Freezing proposal, for example; see also
Dikken 2009).7
Since this issue arises both in an obligatory-operations approach to
wh-movement (as in (314)) and in a feature-driven one (Chomsky 2000, 2001,
McCloskey 2002)—and therefore does not favor either approach over the
other—I will not speculate on it further here.
Let us now turn to the ungrammaticality of a case like (319).8
(319) *

interrogative Mary said [[C0 that] John wanted what]

?
On the feature-driven approach, a lack of wh-displacement in the embedded
clause in (319) would be possible, in and of itself, provided that the <wh>-less
variant of declarative C0 was selected as the head of the complement of said.
But given that the matrix C0 is interrogative, it must carry a <wh> feature.
Locality considerations (e.g., the Phase Impenetrability Condition; Chomsky
2001) will now prevent this feature from displacing the wh-phrase directly
from its position inside the embedded clause. Recall that on this feature-
driven approach, the <wh> feature on C0 constitutes a derivational time-
bomb; this failure to locate an accessible wh-phrase will therefore result in
ungrammaticality.
232 Chapter 10
On the obligatory-operations approach sketched in (314), on the other hand,
Displace(wh) is obligatorily triggered when the embedded C0 is merged. Since
the embedded clause in (319) contains an accessible wh-phrase (namely, what),
there is no possible derivation in which this wh-phrase is not displaced to the
periphery of the embedded clause.
Thus, under the obligatory-operations approach, there do not have to be two
variants of the declarative complementizer, or two variants of the interrogative
complementizer.9 This highlights a particular point of difference between the
two approaches. On the feature-driven approach, long-distance wh-movement
involves a choice of complementizer (between <wh>-bearing C0 and “plain”
C0). Crucially, the correctness of a given choice cannot be evaluated until the
matrix periphery has been constructed—since that, on this approach, is where
the ill-formedness of an example like (319) arises.
The feature-driven approach therefore requires computational lookahead—
or the logically equivalent overgeneration-followed-by-filtration,as implicated
by Chomsky’s (1995) assertion that only derivations that are ultimately
convergent are considered by the computational system. As discussed by
Frampton and Gutmann (2006), this drives an unnecessary wedge between
theories of competence and of performance, since choosing the “correct”
C0
requires knowing which one will result in a derivation that ultimately
converges and which one will not. Indeed, this very issue has given rise
to various attempts to refine the feature-based approach so that a decision
regarding the fate of a derivation like (319) can be made during the
derivation of the embedded clause itself (see, e.g., Bošković 2007, Heck and
Müller 2000).
On the obligatory-operations approach, no such refinements are necessary.
This approach is intrinsically crash-proof (to use Frampton and Gutmann’s
terminology), in that it provides a “recipe” for the operations that must be
triggered in the course of the derivation—and crucially, if these derivations
fail, no ungrammaticality (or “crash”) arises.
Once again, I will note that the point of this discussion was not to provide
a decisive argument in favor of an obligatory-operations treatment of long-
distance wh-movement; rather, it was to demonstrate that one is eminently
possible. In particular, wh-movement exhibits what should by now be the
familiar footprint of obligatory operations: it is obligatory when possible, but
when it is not, its absence is tolerated.
We therefore have yet another example of a syntactic phenomenon that
mirrors the obligatory-operations logic exhibited by ϕ-agreement.
Extensions and Outlook 233
10.2 Outlook: What Is Left for “Uninterpretable Features”?
In sections 10.1.1–10.1.3, I surveyed three empirical domains—object shift, the
definiteness effect, and long-distance wh-movement—that proved to be quite
amenable to an account along the lines of the obligatory-operations account
of ϕ-agreement, argued for in previous chapters. This survey was undertaken
primarily to demonstrate that the results concerningϕ-agreementdo not, in fact,
cast it out as unique within the landscape of syntactic phenomena.
These observations might, however, lead one to wonder about the prospects
for a theory that derives all instances of syntactic obligatoriness in a
uniform manner. As demonstrated in detail in chapters 5–6, the obligatoriness
of ϕ-agreement cannot be handled in terms of derivational time-bombs
alone; and as demonstrated in chapters 8–9, ϕ-agreement is indeed part
of syntax proper. Therefore, any theory that employs a device like, say,
“uninterpretable features” anywhere in syntax cannot hope to attain uniformity
in the enforcement of syntactic obligatoriness.
In section 10.1.3, we saw that another paradigm case where “uninterpretable
features” are typically used to enforce obligatoriness—namely, in
wh-movement—is actually not a particularly good fit for such a device,
either (at least, no better than its alternatives). We might therefore ponder the
possibility of a syntax without derivational time-bombs altogether.
Surveying the totality of syntactic theory to evaluate the prospects of
replacing each reference to “uninterpretable features” or similar devices with
an obligatory operation is a task whose enormity is far beyond anything I
could hope to achieve here. Instead, I will merely offer some speculation on
a couple of major cases that strike me as perhaps the most recalcitrant to the
kind of treatment espoused here (both of which are, not coincidentally, among
the filters in Chomsky and Lasnik’s (1977) “Filters and Control”).
The first case, already touched upon briefly in section 10.1.2, is the (narrowly
defined) EPP: the requirement that all clauses in a language like English (or at
least, all finite ones) have a subject. If expletives are base-generated directly
in subject position, then the EPP is a requirement that can be satisfied in
two different ways (movement and expletive insertion), making it particularly
well-suited for a representational filter along the lines of the derivational time-
bombs model.
It seems that there are at least two possible courses to pursue, in this
regard. First, there are numerous proposals in the literature that take expletives
not to be inserted in their surface position, but to originate within—or
234 Chapter 10
alongside—their associates (e.g., Hartmann 2005, Hazout 2004, Hoekstra and
Mulder 1990, Kayne 2006, Moro 1991, 1997, 2007, Williams 1994). If so, then
all instances of the EPP being satisfied are ultimately instances of MtoCSP, and
the variation concerning which element undergoes this operation is a matter of
the structural conditions on MtoCSP in a given language and their interactions
with various syntactic configurations (as already discussed in chapter 8).
Alternatively, one could take the approach mentioned in section 10.1.2, that
the EPP is essentially a morphophonological requirement (e.g., Bobaljik 2002,
Landau 2007) and that following Bobaljik (2002), expletives are inserted as a
last resort by the morphophonologicalcomponent to satisfy this requirement in
clauses that are syntactically subjectless.
This last possibility is particularly intriguing in light of the following
dynamic. In the course of chapter 9, I discussed—and ultimately, argued
against—the possibility of relegating ϕ-agreement to an extrasyntactic
component of the grammar. The potential appeal of such a move would
have been, among other things, to maintain the uniformity of syntactic
computation—on the assumption that syntax follows the logic of derivational
time-bombs and, therefore, phenomena that do not adhere to this logic belong
elsewhere in the grammar. We saw in chapter 9, however, that such a move
is not possible and that ϕ-agreement must be part of syntax itself. The
incompatibility of this inescapably syntactic phenomenon with derivational
time-bombs thus led to the current reexamination of the nature of syntactic
computation. It is therefore interesting that others have suggested that the
EPP—seemingly a bastion of actual, ungrammaticality-inducing filtration—
might in fact belong outside of the syntactic component.
The other case I will discuss here is the licensing of noun phrases. If
nominals require licensing beyond their thematic roles—in particular, licensing
that cannot be reduced to an interpretive requirement—then such licensing
may also resist explanation in terms of obligatory operations. The abstract
case proposal of Chomsky (1981) (as inspired by Vergnaud (1977/2006)) is an
instance of this; indeed, Chomsky (2000, 2001) reimplements the Case Filter
in the form of an “uninterpretable” case feature on nominals.
However, it is not at all clear what the fate of nominal licensing is in
contemporary syntactic theory. No doubt, something needs to account for the
impossibility of an overt subject in infinitives like (320a–b).
(320) a. *It seems [Mary to be winning].
b. *[Mary to be winning] is surprising.
But the theory of case no longer seems like a particularly good fit for
this task. First, advances in the understanding of control (e.g., Bobaljik and
Extensions and Outlook 235
Landau 2009, Landau 2006b) have led to the understanding that PRO is
eligible for case assignment just as overt DPs are. In addition, there has
been work showing the existence of overt nominative subjects in infinitival
complements in certain languages (e.g., Szabolcsi 2009a,b). Finally, there is
the early observation by Postal (1974) that some ECM predicates in English
resist the appearance of an overt infinitival subject only if that subject remains
in situ—a resistance that can be alleviated, it seems, by literally any kind of
movement.
(321) a. *I wagered this man to win the race. (Where this man is interpreted
as the Agent of win)
b. This man was wagered to win the race.
c. The man who you wagered to win the race came in last.
d. Who did you wager to win the race?
· · ·
Taken together, these facts seem to indicate that whatever regulates the
appearance of overt subjects of infinitives is as likely to be a PF factor—note
in particular the heterogeneity of the movement operations in (321b–d)—as it
is to be a syntactic factor; and I do not think contemporary syntax has a firm
grasp of what that factor is, one way or another.10
One might wonder about another empirical domain regulated by traditional
case theory: the complementation possibilities of adjectives. It seems plausible
to me that statements such as “Adjectives do not take nominal complements”
can be reinterpreted as “Adjectives do not take complements with unmarked
case” (taking English of, for example, to be an oblique case marker). On this
view, the complementation possibilities of adjectives—while certainly a case-
theoretic issue—are not an issue of nominal licensing. That, in turn, means that
there is no need to appeal to “uninterpretable features” or other derivational
time-bombs in the account of this phenomenon, any more than there is in the
account of any other selectional facts.11
A different kind of licensing, one that featured prominently in the account
of ϕ-agreement in the Kichean AF construction (chapters 4–5), is the
Person Licensing Condition (PLC), proposed by Béjar and Rezac (2003)
and repeated here in its original form (see also the alternative formulation
in note 23, of chapter 4).
(322) Person Licensing Condition (Béjar and Rezac 2003)
Interpretable 1st/2nd person features must be licensed by entering
into an Agree relation with an appropriate functional
category. [=(40)]
236 Chapter 10
As it stands, the PLC seems to constitute a bona fide filter on admissible
and inadmissible syntactic configurations involving 1st/2nd person arguments.
It would therefore appear that enforcing the PLC within syntax requires
1st/2nd person arguments to bear the equivalent of derivational time-bombs.
As we have established that the obligatoriness of ϕ-agreement cannot be
derived using derivational time-bombs alone (chapters 5–6), this might seem
to all but eliminate the possibility of a uniform treatment of obligatoriness
in syntax. (Recall furthermore that an account of ϕ-agreement in terms of
derivational time-bombs borne by the arguments themselves was ruled out,
as well; see section 5.1 for details.)
Given that ϕ-agreement cannot be relegated to an extrasyntactic component
of the grammar, it seems that the most promising avenue to pursue here would
be relegating the PLC to a different component of the grammar. It does not
seem out of the question that the distribution of indexical expressions such as
1st/2nd person pronouns is ultimately regulated by the interpretive component.
One challenge posed by such a move is how the interpretive component would
be able to discern whether a given 1st/2nd person argument has or has not
entered into a ϕ-agreement relation, in the syntax, with an appropriate head.
(This would have been particularly vexing on the assumption that ϕ-features
on probes are “uninterpretable.” However, as we have seen throughout this
book, that assumption can actually be dispensed with; see, in particular, the
appendix to chapter 5.)
Nevertheless, there is one source of evidence regarding the PLC that
suggests that such a move may be on the right track. In Preminger 2011b, I
demonstrated that the PLC is subject to what seems like a clausemate proviso:
violations of the PLC are only incurred when the 1st/2nd person argument
occurs in the same clause as a viable ϕ-probe.12 Consider the difference
between the monoclausal Icelandic examples in (323a–c) and their biclausal
counterparts in (324a–c) (all taken from the dialect Sigurðsson and Holmberg
(2008) identify as “Icelandic A”).
(323) a. *Honum
him.dat
mundi
would.3sg
hafa
have
likað
liked
við.
we.nom
b. *Honum
him.dat
mundi
would.3sg
hafa
have
likað
liked
þið.
you(pl).nom
c. ? Honum
him.dat
mundi
would.3sg
hafa
have
likað
liked
þeir.
they.nom
‘He would have liked them.’
(Sigurðsson and Holmberg 2008:255)
Extensions and Outlook 237
(324) a. Honum
him.dat
mundi/*mundum
would.3sg/*would.1pl
virðast
seem
við
we.nom
vera
be
hæfir.
competent
‘We would seem competent to him.’
b. Honum
him.dat
mundi/*munduð
would.3sg/*would.2pl
virðast
seem
þið
you(pl).nom
vera
be
hæfir.
competent
‘Y’all would seem competent to him.’
c. Honum
him.dat
mundi/mundu
would.3sg/would.3pl
virðast
seem
þeir
they.nom
vera
be
hæfir.
competent
‘They would seem competent to him.’
(Sigurðsson and Holmberg 2008:255)
The (a)–(b) cases in both (323) and (324) are instances of dative intervention,
preventing agreement of the relevant person-probe with its target (on the
success of number agreement in this same construction, see Sigurðsson and
Holmberg 2008 and Preminger 2011b, as well as note 3 in chapter 4).
Crucially, such intervention results in a morphological “default” in (324a–b)
(see section 8.4), whereas it results in outright ungrammaticality in (323a–b).
That the PLC would be subject to a clausemate proviso is surprising, given
that ϕ-agreement itself is not (see the Basque long-distance agreement cases
discussed in section 6.2.1, to cite one of many examples; see also Preminger
2011b:920–921 on long-distance agreement in person features in particular).13
One way to make sense of this is to restrict the evaluation of the PLC to a
single “domain of predication,” consisting of a predicate and its immediate
arguments only. That would make some sense, if the PLC were evaluated in
the interpretive component of grammar, rather than in syntax.
This is, of course, far from a complete theory of the PLC. In particular,
it is not immediately clear, on this view, why the PLC would be sensitive
to predication, given that it is usually (if not always) a functional head—
rather than the predicate itself—that acts as a ϕ-probe, and it is only through
syntax and/or morphology that the predicate and this functional head come
to be expressed together. Also, as noted earlier, it is not immediately clear
how the interpretive component would recognize that an agreement relation
had previously obtained between two nodes, once the derivation has already
proceeded past that point. One possibility, already alluded to in section 4.2.3,
is that what I have referred to as valuation in the course of this book is in fact
better characterized as feature sharing (Frampton and Gutmann 2000, 2006,
Pesetsky and Torrego 2007). From the perspective of the interface, there would
238 Chapter 10
be two (or more) nodes sharing the same feature or feature set—a result that
could only have come about through syntactic agreement.
It is clear that this treatment of the PLC is, at this point, extremely
speculative. But given the results of previous chapters—and in particular,
the necessity of obligatory operations in deriving the obligatoriness of
ϕ-agreement—it is only insofar as moves of this sort prove successful, and
all such “filters” can be relegated to extrasyntactic modules of the grammar,
that a uniform treatment of obligatoriness in syntax is possible.
11 Conclusion
In this book, I have presented arguments that the obligatory nature of
ϕ-agreement is best captured in terms of an operation—one that is obligatorily
triggered, but whose successful culmination is not enforced by the grammar.
The central empirical domain has been the behavior of ϕ-agreement in the
Agent-Focus construction in languages of the Kichean branch of the Mayan
language family. As I have shown, this construction cannot be analyzed
without allowing for the possibility of failed agreement in utterances that
are nonetheless fully grammatical. This, in turn, rules out an account that
would derive the obligatoriness of ϕ-agreement in this construction from
derivational time-bombs (including, but not limited to, Chomsky’s (2000,
2001) “uninterpretable features”).
The inadequacy of derivational time-bombs as a means of accounting for
the obligatory nature of agreement was further supported by case studies from
two other empirical domains. The first, based on the work of Halpert (2012),
involves the conjoint/disjoint alternation in Zulu verbal morphology and its
interaction with the distribution of nominals lacking the augment morpheme.
The second involves the morphosyntax of finite agreement in three Basque
constructions that have traditionally been classified as “unergative” (Preminger
2009, 2012).
These results were subsequently extended to show that dative intervention
(the disruption of ϕ-agreement by dative nominals) is itself an instance of
failed agreement. In this case, failure is caused by a property of ϕ-agreement
that was observed and formalized by Bobaljik (2008), which I have labeled
case discrimination. This account was shown to explain another aspect of
dative intervention, which competing accounts are ill-suited to handle: the
circumstances under which intervention results in outright ungrammaticality
versus those under which it results merely in “default” agreement morphology.
This typology of dative intervention, juxtaposed with the typology of quirky-
subject and non-quirky-subject languages, yields an argument that movement
240 Chapter 11
to canonical subject position depends on the aforementioned ϕ-agreement
operation to identify the noun phrase that will be moved—though crucially,
this dependence only holds in non-quirky-subject languages. Given the
fundamentally syntactic nature of movement to canonical subject position, its
dependence on ϕ-agreement constitutes an argument that the latter must be part
of the syntactic computation as well (contrary to Bobaljik’s (2008) own claim
concerning modular loci).
The case discrimination property of ϕ-agreement was shown, by Bobaljik,
to attend to the “morphological case” borne by potential agreement targets
(Marantz 1991), rather than to their abstract case or grammatical function.
Since ϕ-agreement relies on case discrimination, and is part of syntax,
it follows that “morphological case”—including the mechanism of case
competition—must also be computed within syntax. Additional support for
this conclusion comes from Baker and Vinokurova’s (2010) work on Sakha
(Turkic), demonstrating the necessity of case competition even in a non-quirky-
subject language.
These results call for a purely syntactic mechanism of case assignment,
which would nevertheless deliver results equivalent to Marantz’s (1991)
original, postsyntactic algorithm. I showed that such an implementation is
indeed possible, and can potentially derive the disjunctive case hierarchy,
which is at the core of Marantz’s algorithm, from general principles of syntactic
structure-building.
Finally, I surveyed several other empirical domains that adhere to the
same obligatory-operations logic implicated in the analysis of ϕ-agreement:
the interaction of object shift with specificity, the interaction of movement to
subject position with the definiteness effect, and the derivation of long-distance
wh-movement. Together, these show that ϕ-agreement is not atypical within
syntax in adhering to this logic.
Let us review the picture that emerges concerning the grammar of
ϕ-agreement and case. The property previously referred to as “morphological
case” is actually computed within syntax. The results of this computation, in
turn, form the input to case discrimination. The latter can cause ϕ-agreement,
when it happens upon a nominal with the wrong case (e.g., in dative
intervention), to fail to culminate successfully.
Agreement can also fail if a target with the requisite featural content
is simply absent from the derivation entirely. This is the case in Kichean
Agent-Focus clauses that lack 1st/2nd person or plural arguments, in Zulu vPs
with no in-situ arguments, and in Basque simplex unergatives (which lack an
absolutive argument altogether).
Conclusion 241
Crucially, these failures of agreement do not result in ungrammaticality,
only in the lack of valuation of the relevant features on the probe. Failed
ϕ-agreement can give rise to actual ungrammaticality in only one situation:
that of a string whose only parse forces us to assume that some operation,
which depends on successful ϕ-agreement, has been initiated in a derivation
where ϕ-agreement cannot culminate successfully. This was shown to be the
case in those instances of dative intervention where a noun phrase that cannot
have been agreed with is nevertheless moved to canonical subject position.
As predicted, this state of affairs, in a non-quirky-subject language, results in
outright ungrammaticality.
As noted in the appendix to chapter 5, these conclusions represent a
departure from a major trend in contemporary syntactic theory, within the
framework of the Minimalist Program (Chomsky 1995, et seq.) and in
generative syntax more generally. The empirical burden has increasingly been
shifted away from the generative engine itself and onto more and more
articulated representations. At the same time, the operations that remain—
including the Agree operation put forth by Chomsky (2000, 2001) to account
for ϕ-agreement—are seen as neither “optional” nor “obligatory,” unto
themselves. Instead, they are deployed by the computational system in the
interest of creating what is ultimately a well-formed representation.
What we have seen here is that this kind of approach, where operations
are triggered only in the service of creating a well-formed representation,
is ill-suited to handle the facts of ϕ-agreement crosslinguistically and,
furthermore,that ϕ-agreement may not be that much of an outlier in this regard.
Notes
Chapter 1
1. Portions of this work have appeared previously as Preminger 2011a.
Chapter 2
1. The reader may wonder why the coinage of a new term, derivational time-bombs, is
necessary, given Chomsky’s (2000, 2001) term uninterpretable features, whose use is
so widespread and widely accepted in contemporary syntactic literature. The purpose of
this new term is to make a clear abstraction away from whether ϕ-features on verbs or
verb-like elements are interpretable, or interpreted, at the semantic interface, and instead
to focus attention purely on whether or not they are triggers for ungrammaticality (this
separation is made more explicit in the appendix to chapter 5). I will have very little to
say about the former question, whereas the latter is the focus of most of this book.
2. While these terms are used for a broad range of syntactic relations—not just for
ϕ-agreement—they will be used in the current discussion only in the agreement-related
sense.
3. Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar (e.g., Pollard and Sag 1994) and Lexical-
Functional Grammar (e.g., Bresnan 2001), respectively.
4. Alternatively, it amounts to counting the uninterpretable features themselves, if
one adopts a system where different ϕ-features can be checked independently of one
another; see section 4.1 for discussion.
5. Many contemporary phonologists no longer think of phenomena like final devoicing
in terms of a rule or operation. However, the Final Devoicing example is used here only
for the purpose of illustrating the logic of the obligatory-operations model; therefore,
whether or not the Final Devoicing rule ends up being the right account of a particular
phonological phenomenon is not directly relevant.
244 Notes
Chapter 3
1. http://www.ethnologue.com/show_family.asp?subid=1227-16 (retrieved 30 May
2011).
2. Data in this chapter that are not otherwise attributed come from my meetings with
Ana López de Mateo, a speaker of the Patzún variety of Kaqchikel; similar patterns have
been noted in the literature concerning other Kichean languages (Aissen 2011, Davies
and Sam-Colop 1990, Dayley 1978, 1985, Mondloch 1981, Norman and Campbell
1978, Pye 1989, Smith-Stark 1978, Stiebels 2006). Unless otherwise stated, everything
presented in this section holds of Kaqchikel, K’ichee’, and Tz’utujil equally.
One difference I did find between Ms. López de Mateo’s dialect of Kaqchikel and
what has been documented for other Kichean languages was a strong preference for
SV(O) word order in declaratives, a departure from the verb-initial word order that is
pervasive across the Mayan family (including in K’ichee’ and Tz’utujil, for example;
see Dayley 1978, Mondloch 1978, Norman and Campbell 1978). Another difference is
a general dispreference for realizing the Patient argument in the absolutive antipassive
(see the K’ichee’ (13)), even as an oblique.
Whether these properties extend to all speakers of the Patzún variety of Kaqchikel
remains to be seen.
3. The morphological structure of the verbal forms in (10)–(11) is actually more
complex than presented here, in particular with regard to the suffixes on the verbal
stem, known as “status suffixes.” See Aissen 2011 and Henderson 2012, and references
therein, for details.
4. AF has also been called “Agent Voice” (Smith-Stark 1978) and “Focus Antipassive”
(Dayley 1981). The latter term is somewhat misleading, however, as there are some
crucial differences between AF and true antipassive constructions; these differences are
discussed below. On the distribution of AF within the Mayan family, see Stiebels 2006,
Tada 1993, and references therein.
5. This restriction on A-bar dependencies is not unique to the Kichean languages, either;
it is found in many (though not all) ergative languages, in and outside of the Mayan
family. See Weisser et al. 2012, Coon, Mateo Pedro, and Preminger 2011, and Polinsky
2011 for some competing approaches to this phenomenon (the first two of which directly
address the phenomenon of AF, as well).
6. A related fact, which constitutes an argument in its own right against viewing AF
as an antipassive, is that either the Agent or the Patient may control agreement on the
finite verb, given the right argument/person combination (Aissen 2011); see below for
a detailed discussion of agreement in the AF construction.
7. While cleft constructions are used in the English translations of these and subsequent
AF examples, the agreement facts surveyed in this section demonstrate quite clearly
that the Kichean constructions in question are not, in fact, clefts; see below for details.
8. I am deeply indebted to Lauren Eby Clemens, who brought the existence of these
patterns to my attention in the first place, and to Robert Henderson, for teaching me
more about them and about Kichean in general.
9. The behavior of plural agreement with inanimates in Kaqchikel follows a more
complicated pattern, and appears at least in some cases to be optional. I therefore
Notes 245
concentrate on animate arguments here. Thanks to Robert Henderson and Daeyoung
Sohn for their help with these data.
10. http://fieldwork.mit.edu/wiki/Kaqchikel#Contexts_of_AF (retrieved 28 April
2011); thanks to Jessica Coon for sharing these notes with me.
11. Thanks to Judith Aissen and Sandra Chung for illuminating discussions of the issues
addressed here.
12. Regarding a Multiple Agree (e.g., Anagnostopoulou 2005, Hiraiwa 2001,
2004) approach to these facts, and its shortcomings, see section 4.5.1.
13. I will argue in chapter 5 that in Kichean, there is no 3rd person singular absolutive
marker per se, and the absence of phonological material in what we would descriptively
call the “3sg cell” of this paradigm arises as the result of a failure to locate agreement
targets bearing [participant] or [plural] features altogether.
14. I suspect that this has been noticed by virtually every scholar who has worked
on Kichean; the first mention of it that I was able to locate, with the help of Robert
Henderson, is by Kaufman (1977). A similar observation is reported by Woolford
(2000:fn. 14), in support of her claim that the absolutive agreement markers in Kichean
are clitics. As I will argue in chapter 4, this claim is imprecise: only the 1st/2nd person
markers are clitics, to the exclusion of the 3rd person plural marker (recall that the 3rd
person singular absolutive marker is null).
Chapter 4
1. The form of the auxiliary in (35a–c) (zako) is from the Hazparne dialect and
is equivalent to the standard form Ø-zai-Ø-o ‘3.abs-
√
-sg.abs-3sg.dat’, found in
(35d) (Rezac 2008b:75). The symbol “
√
” stands for the auxiliary root, derived from
*edun(/ukan) ‘have’ or from izan ‘be’.
2. A way of making sense of languages like Spanish or Greek, against the backdrop
of this typology, is by recasting the semantic properties in question in structural terms.
Clitic doubling in Romance, for example, seems to be conditioned by the specificity of
the doubled noun phrase (Suñer 1988): if specific noun phrases are located higher in the
structure than nonspecific ones (following Diesing 1992, 1996), then even sensitivity to
the specificity of the doubled noun phrase can be thought of purely in terms of locality
(and locality restrictions on clitic doubling, of course, are observable even in Basque,
where the semantic restrictions typical of Romance are absent; Preminger 2009).
3. At first glance, there appears to be an inherent tension between B&R’s (2003)
proposal and that of Sigurðsson and Holmberg (2008). While both sets of authors
argue for a separation between probing for [person] and probing for [number]—
and Sigurðsson and Holmberg go as far as to place the two in separate syntactic
heads, which they label Pn0 and Nr0—the internal ordering seems to be at odds
between the two proposals. As noted above, B&R argue that [person] probes before
[number]; Sigurðsson and Holmberg’s Nr0, on the other hand, is merged before Pn0
and consequently, by virtue of cyclicity, probes first.
I am not entirely convinced, however, that this tension is real. Both sets of authors
are interested in explaining why dative noun phrases intervene in [person] probing,
246 Notes
but not in [number] probing. For B&R, this is achieved by [person] probing first and
triggering clitic doubling of the dative, rendering it invisible by the time [number]
probes (this is described in greater detail below). For Sigurðsson and Holmberg,
this is achieved by the dative intervener moving to a position that is above Nr0
but still below Pn0. On the former account, then, the intervener stays in situ, and
intervention is avoided through clitic doubling that occurs after one set of features
([person]) is probed for, but before the other ([number]) is probed for. On the latter
account, the intervener moves across one of the probes (Nr0), and therefore intervention
for the purposes of this lower probe is avoided, but intervention for the purposes
of the higher probe (Pr0) is still in effect. The two sets of authors are obviously
addressing different sets of data: PCC effects in Indo-European, as well as Basque
and Georgian, for the former, and agreement with low nominatives in Icelandic,
for the latter; and it is an independently observable fact that clitics occur in the
aforementioned PCC contexts and that Icelandic datives, on the other hand, undergo
A-movement (Sigurðsson 1989, et seq.).
But the two approaches might be more similar than they seem. First, as
Anagnostopoulou (2003) and Boeckx (2000) have noted, the desideratum is quite
similar: an argument that is separated from the ϕ-probe by a dative (the Theme of a
ditransitive in PCC contexts, or a low nominative in Icelandic) can be agreed with in
[number], but not in [person]. If a coherent view of clitic doubling as XP-movement
is possible (see Harizanov to appear, as well as Alexiadou and Anagnostopoulou 1997,
Anagnostopoulou 1994, Sportiche 1992, 1996), there might be a way to recast these two
seemingly opposed analyses as rather close variants of one another. In both cases, the
intervener “moves” (either by clitic doubling or by XP-movement per se) to a position
where it is no longer visible to the [number] probe (in the PCC scenario, this is because it
has adjoined to a head along the clausal spine; in the Icelandic scenario, this is because
it has moved across the [number] probe itself); and so in both cases, when [number]
probes, the intervener behaves as if it is simply not there.
4. These diagrams are head-final because they are meant to represent the structure of
Basque sentences like (36)–(37), but nothing in the analysis hinges on this.
5. In the terms introduced in chapter 2, the condition in (40) constitutes a derivational
time-bomb. While this book advances an argument against derivational time-bombs as
the basis for the obligatory nature of ϕ-agreement, the claim is not that no such devices
exist anywhere in the grammar. The argument is merely that derivational time-bombs
are inadequate to derive the obligatoriness of ϕ-agreement in the general case. See
section 5.2, as well as section 10.2, for further discussion.
6. It is of course the case that agreement with the object in [person] and in [number] does
not surface as two separate exponents in every language where such agreement is overt.
In some cases, this might be a result of what is actually clitic doubling having been
misidentified as “object agreement” (see, e.g., the case of “indirect object agreement”
in Basque; Arregi and Nevins 2008, 2012, Preminger 2009). In other cases, it might
be that the two terminals undergo Fusion in the morphophonological component (Halle
and Marantz 1993, Noyer 1997), or that one terminal receives no overt expression of
its own but conditions contextual allomorphy in the spell-out of the other, thus giving
rise to the impression of a single morpheme that expresses the featural content of both
terminals.
Notes 247
7. The term [participant] refers to the morphosyntactic feature that distinguishes 1st
and 2nd person pronouns—that is, local speech act participants—from 3rd person
noun phrases (following, e.g., Harley and Ritter 2002). See section 4.2.2 for further
discussion.
8. Thanks to Robert Henderson for sharing examples (49)–(50), from his own field
notes.
9. Recent work by Hartman (2011a,b) suggests that examples like (52) might constitute
the exception, and that PP arguments other than the to-experiencer of seem and appear
do intervene in English, just as they do in French, Italian, Spanish, Greek, and other
languages (e.g., Anagnostopoulou 2003, Holmberg and Hróarsdóttir 2003, Rizzi 1986,
Torrego 1996; see chapter 8 for a more detailed discussion of intervention by dative
nominals). If this is true, then (52) is not directly relevant to the argument in the main
text; but note that the more general point made with regard to (54), about skipping other
projections along the clausal spine, holds of (52) too.
10. The argument in the main text goes through even if ϕ-agreement in expletive-
associate constructions like (52)–(54) is handled by agreement of Infl0 with the
expletive there, rather than agreement directly with the associate. If the expletive is
base-generated alongside the associate and subsequently moves to its matrix position
(e.g., Deal 2009, Hartmann 2005, Hazout 2004, Hoekstra and Mulder 1990, Kayne
2006, Moro 1991, 1997, 2007, Williams 1994), then the probe that dislocates the
expletive must be able to skip the dative experiencer (52) or the adjunct (53), and every
projection on the way (54), and the same relativized probing property holds. But even
if the expletive is base-generated in its surface position, there must be some mechanism
that transmits the ϕ-features of the associate to the expletive (since it is the features of
the associate that ultimately determine the form of the finite verb in (52)–(54); see, e.g.,
Chomsky 1986, Dikken 1995, Lasnik and Saito 1991). This transmission mechanism
will itself need to be feature-relativized in the same way, to prevent transmission of the
features of the dative/adjunct/vP/etc., instead of the features of the actual associate.
11. The feature geometry given in (55) is simplified in several respects. First, it
abstracts away from gender features completely. Second, the morphological, syntactic,
and semantic representations of number are significantly more complex than shown
here; see Harbour 2007, Harley and Ritter 2002, and McGinnis 2005 for discussion.
Finally, the representation of person features in (55), while accurate, corresponds to
what one finds in a language without a 1st person exclusive-versus-inclusive distinction;
languages with such a distinction employ an additional [addressee] node below
[participant]. For further discussion, see McGinnis 2005 (as well as section 4.5.1).
12. The parenthesized nodes, [person] and [number], are “metanodes”: insofar as
there are syntactic probes that seek, for example, person features, but do not require their
targets to bear the marked versions of these features (1st/2nd person; i.e., [participant]),
then the relevant “metanode” would be the point in the ϕ-feature geometry that such
a probe is relativized to seek (cf. probing for person features and for number features
in Béjar and Rezac’s (2003) account of the PCC; section 4.1). See below for further
discussion of relativized probing in a feature-geometric approach to ϕ-features.
13. Though see section 8.3 for a more nuanced view of whether or not P0s/PPs carry
ϕ-features.
248 Notes
14. One concern that arises with respect to (60) involves the morphological operation
known as Fission (Halle 1997, Noyer 1997), whereby a vocabulary item realizes only
a subpart of the ϕ-features contained in a given morphosyntactic node, leaving the
remainder of the features to be realized by subsequent instances of Vocabulary Insertion.
If we were to let Fission apply to clitics in an unrestricted manner, (60) would be
weakened to the point of vacuity. However, even within morphological theories that
employ Fission, it is recognized that the application of such an operation must be
severely restricted:
Fission of morphemes during Spell-out in some cases allows multiple
phonological pieces to correspond to single morphemes, further
obscuring the morphosyntactic structure. Nevertheless, these departures are
considered marked options within a grammar, and therefore are assumed
to require (substantial) positive evidence during acquisition. (Harley and
Noyer 1999:483)
Just as Fission obscures the correspondence of morphological nodes to vocabulary
items, so it obscures the effects of (60); but instances of Fission are the marked option,
which, following Harley and Noyer, will only be posited during the acquisition process
when they cannot be avoided.
Thanks to Karlos Arregi, Andrew Nevins, and Milan Rezac for illuminating
discussions of this and related points.
15. This distinction between clitic doubling and “true” agreement recalls the shift from
agreement as X0-movement, as in Chomsky 1995, to agreement as valuation, as in
Chomsky 2000. See Rezac 2010 for further discussion.
16. The table in (64) shows how to assemble an auxiliary form for a present indicative
finite clause containing absolutive and dative arguments (but no ergative argument),
based on the ϕ-features of the arguments in question. The person-number combination
of 2pl, while formally plural, is used for polite addressing of 2nd person singular
individuals (along the lines of French vous). To differentiate actual 2nd person plurality
from mere “polite” uses of 2pl, Basque adds another pluralizing morpheme, which I
have labeled number+. I refer to this person-number configuration as 2pl+. Dative
(as well as ergative) 2nd person singular agreement morphemes alternate on the basis
of gender. The meaning of the “” symbol is that -te, corresponding to the number+
feature of the absolutive argument, appears after the dat morpheme (rather than before
it). This is particular to the paradigm in (64).
17. Andrew Nevins (pers. comm.) suggests that Romance may provide support for the
same conclusion, regarding the featural coarseness of cliticization. In many Romance
languages, participial agreement targets gender and number, while finite agreement
targets number and person—two different subsets of the full set of ϕ-distinctions
available in Romance. On the other hand, Romance clitics, for the most part, express all
three distinctions (gender, number, and person).
Karlos Arregi (pers. comm.) points out that there are instances where Romance clitics
fail to express certain available ϕ-featural distinctions (e.g., dative clitics that fail to
make any gender distinctions), which is unexpected given the coarseness property. We
might hypothesize that this is a matter of lexical inventory—namely, that there happen
to be no vocabulary items in the relevant dative clitic paradigm whose insertion rules
Notes 249
make distinctions for gender. This would be ad hoc, however; and more importantly,
once we allow for such vocabulary-based impoverishment, the claim regarding featural
coarseness of clitics loses its predictive power.
I leave the resolution of these issues with respect to Romance morphosyntax for
future research.
18. A more detailed comparison with hierarchy/scale-based approaches will be
undertaken in chapter 7.
19. The same result would obtain if we were to adopt Béjar and Rezac’s (2009) Cyclic
Agree proposal. In the Cyclic Agree system, the relevant probe is located above the
object but below the subject (rather than outside of the verb phrase altogether, as
assumed here; see (66a–b)). The object is probed first, and the subject is then probed
(via Cyclic Expansion) only if the features sought were not found on the object. The
same two derivational sequences shown in (66a–b) would still apply, mutatis mutandis,
yielding the same outcome I have descriptively characterized as omnivorous agreement.
In light of this equivalence, and in the interest of maintaining the parallelism established
in section 4.2.1 with wh-probing, I will continue assuming that both potential targets are
located below the relevant ϕ-probe(s) in Kichean—though as far as I can tell, nothing
crucially hinges on this choice.
20. On the interaction of plurality and animacy/inanimacy in Kichean, see note 9 in
chapter 3.
21. One concern that might arise about identifying e- as the overt exponence of #0 is
that it is TAM-invariant: it shows no allomorphy or suppletion based on the tense or
aspect of the clause in which it appears. Compare (ia) and (ib), for example.
(i) a. x-e-wär
com-3pl.abs-sleep
‘They have slept.’
b. y-e-wär
inc-3pl.abs-sleep
‘They are sleeping.’
Following Arregi and Nevins (2008, 2012), TAM invariance seems to be the most
reliable diagnostic for distinguishing clitics from the spell-out of agreement heads; and
on this diagnostic, e- appears to pattern with clitics. But crucially, TAM invariance is a
unidirectional diagnostic: while it rules out clitics that exhibit TAM-based allomorphy
or suppletion, it does not rule out agreement heads whose spell-out does not show such
variance.
22. In section 4.5.1, I will provide arguments against a Multiple Agree analysis of the
same pattern.
23. An alternative way of phrasing the PLC (75) would thus be as follows:
(i) Person Licensing Condition (alternative formulation)
A [participant] feature on a pronoun must participate in a valuation relation.
This formulation transparently rules out the possibility of satisfying the PLC through
agreement in features like [plural], [wh], or [Focus].
250 Notes
24. One could entertain a modification of the PLC (75), such that the agreement relation
licensing a 1st/2nd person pronoun would need to have a distinct overt reflex, in an
attempt to explain why Multiple Agree2 with both the subject and the object cannot
license both arguments, PLC-wise. This is clearly a reductio of the Multiple Agree
approach to the point where the “Multiple” part has been voided of any testable
consequence whatsoever. I therefore do not consider this an actual alternative to the
line of reasoning pursued in the text.
25. To see this, suppose that the lexical entry for we was specified as [plural,
participant], while the lexical entry for y’all was specified as [plural, participant,
addressee]. Given a system where more specified lexical entries take precedence over
less specified ones (as is the case in Distributed Morphology, for example; Halle and
Marantz 1993), we would predict that y’all would be used to refer to any plurality that
includes the addressee. It is conceivable, of course, that it is merely an idiosyncratic fact
about the lexical entries of English pronouns that we is specified for [plural, participant,
author], while y’all is specified only for [plural, participant]; but the fact that there is no
language where pluralities that include both the addressee and the speaker are collapsed
with “pure” 2nd person pluralities suggests that this is more than an idiosyncrasy. This
is the crux of McGinnis’s (2005) argument.
26. It is of course conceivable that the external argument is generated in a different
position in the AF construction than it is in a regular transitive clause (though this would
constitute a violation of UTAH, the Uniformity of Theta Assignment Hypothesis; see
Baker 1988). But while there are certainly differences between AF clauses and regular
transitive clauses in Kichean, I know of no independent evidence that points specifically
to a difference in the base position of the external argument.
27. On the apparent countercyclicity of such derivations, see Asarina 2011, Holmberg
and Hróarsdóttir 2003.
28. I thank Jessica Coon for turning my attention to this Tzotzil pattern and its relevance
to the arguments made in this chapter.
29. Broadly speaking, prefixal absolutive agreement morphology in Tzotzil is parasitic
on the presence of a prefixal aspect marker (Aissen 1987, Woolford 2011). There
is one exception to this generalization, involving 1st person absolutive agreement in
conjunction with 2nd person ergative agreement. Woolford (2011) claims that this
exception is phonologically motivated, though I find the arguments brought against a
syntactic account (assimilating this pattern to, say, the Inverse system of Algonquian)
less than convincing.
30. The notation “

n
t

” reflects a coronal that surfaces as -n in final position (as in,
e.g., -on in (96)), but as -t- in medial position. The notation “REDUPL” represents
reduplication as a morphological exponent.
31. I assume that the appearance of a 1st person suffix in cases like (100a–b) is
merely a form of morphophonological support for expressing the clusivity distinction,
rather than an actual person marker. Note the absence of a suffixal person marker in
those discontinuous agreement constructions involving 2nd person (where there is no
inclusive/exclusive distinction), as in (98).
Notes 251
Chapter 5
1. The picture is more complex when it comes to inanimate arguments; see note 9 in
chapter 3. I therefore keep to animate arguments, in this chapter and throughout.
2. This analytical possibility was independently suggested to me by David Pesetsky and
by Heidi Harley.
3. A reviewer suggests an alternative account in which agreement is driven by
derivational time-bombs, borne exclusively by the goals—based on the following
assumptions:
(i) a. [participant] and [plural] are derivational time-bombs on the DPs that carry
them.
b. Syntactic agreement is required to defuse the aforementioned derivational time-
bombs—crucially, allowing for Multiple Agree.
c. Agreement in [participant] must be morphologically expressed; agreement in
[plural] must be expressed, but only where the morphological template allows
for it.
d. There is only a single morphological slot for the expression of absolutive
agreement.
The reviewer argues that (ia–d) (some of which are also required on the analysis
advocated in chapter 4 and later in this chapter) involve only derivational time-bombs
and, crucially, no recourse to additional mechanisms such as obligatory operations (in
contrast to the account put forth in section 5.3).
Examining the second half of (ic), however, we find precisely the logic of obligatory
operations: a grammatical process (in this case, the overt expression of syntactic
agreement) whose application is obligatory when possible, but whose nonapplication
in other contexts is tolerated. In this rendition, of course, the obligatory-operations
logic is located extrasyntactically—presumably, as part of the morphophonological
component. (This bears some similarity to the approach advocated by Bobaljik (2008)
and discussed in detail in section 9.1, of viewing all morphophonologically overt
ϕ-agreement as part of the extrasyntactic computation.) In chapter 10, I discuss several
different phenomena that exhibit the same obligatory-operations logic and clearly
belong within syntax. Thus, it is not obvious that there is any conceptual reason to
prefer placing the obligatory-operations logic, required in this alternative, outside of
syntax, as (i) does.
There is, however, an argument against (ia–d) based on (non)restrictiveness. Any
account that involves a single head H0 entering into a Multiple Agree relation with
several targets faces the question of how conflicting feature values on the different
targets are resolved, in determining the ultimate exponence given to H0. For example,
in an AF clause whose subject is 3rd person plural and whose object is 1st person
singular, why does H0 not express the marked features of both arguments (i.e., 1st
person plural)? After all, this would do the best job of satisfying (ic). (It seems to me
that (ic) was phrased the way it is to allow two bearers of [plural] to cooccur in AF,
unlike two bearers of [participant]; but nothing about that should disallow the sort of
252 Notes
“feature mixing” that I have just sketched.) More generally, assuming a probe outside
of vP that enters into a relation with both core arguments, how does one determine
whether it will be the features of the subject, the object, or even the entire vP, that will
control the morphology on the probe? It seems that on a Multiple Agree account of
this sort, this would need to be stipulated (see also the discussion of Multiple Agree
in section 4.5.1).
The account presented in chapter 4, based on single agreement by two probes (π0
and #0), compares favorably with this alternative. On the chapter 4 account, the node
that controls a probe’s overt exponence—or the shape of the adjoined clitic—is the only
syntactic node ever targeted by the probe (modulo morphological competition for the
single agreement slot, which both that account and this alternative employ).
4. The problem identified in section 5.1 had to do with the absence of an overall
requirement for arguments in Kichean AF to be agreed with (as evidenced by the
ability of two [plural]-bearing arguments to cooccur in this construction, despite there
being only a single number probe; see (107a–b)). This, in turn, meant that there was
nothing to force the nonbare variant of the probe to appear, even in the presence of an
appropriate agreement target. When it comes to person agreement, however, things are
slightly different. Empirically, it is not the case that two [participant]-bearing arguments
can cooccur in Kichean AF (an effect I have dubbed the AF person restriction; see
section 3.3). In chapter 4, I attributed this effect to Béjar and Rezac’s (2003) Person
Licensing Condition, a condition requiring 1st/2nd person arguments to participate
in agreement relations involving the [participant] feature. This means that for person
agreement in particular, there actually is a principle that would correctly force the
nonbare variant of the probe to appear in the presence of a 1st/2nd person agreement
target. This does not affect the argumentation in section 5.1, of course; at most, it
furnishes a [participant]-specific alternative, which complies with Chomsky’s (2000,
2001) assumptions but does not extend to agreement in [plural] in Kichean.
5. The derivation schematized in (113) abstracts away from the fact that π0 and #0
are merged separately from one another (see section 4.4 for details). As a result,
find([participant]) and find([plural]) will each be triggered in separate derivational
steps.
6. In the current framework, it is in principle possible to treat corresponding cases in
which the only accessible argument (i.e., the subject) is 3rd person singular on a par
with (113), as the outright failure of find([ϕ]). This will be discussed in greater detail
in section 8.4.
7. Instances of “gratuitous agreement” may have to be handled separately, depending on
whether representing the absence of ϕ-features does or does not fall within the purview
of (118).
8. A prime example of this shift is the exploded inventory of functional projections
known as “syntactic cartography,” as espoused by authors such as Rizzi (1997), Belletti
(2004), and Cinque (1999) (see also Starke’s (2009) Nanosyntax program, perhaps the
apogee of this approach). Work such as Neeleman and Van de Koot 2008 and Van
Craenenbroeck 2006 has shown not only that these exploded functional inventories can
be dispensed with, given much more modest expansions to the inventory of operations,
but also that operational alternatives provide empirical coverage superior to that of their
“cartographic” counterparts.
Notes 253
9. The obligatory-operations model discussed in section 5.3 shares certain significant
properties with the transformational approach discussed here.
10. This distinction might ultimately prove to be too simplistic, once issues such as
pluractionality are brought into the fold; it is presented here as a matter of historical
faithfulness, not as a decisive theoretical commitment.
11. It is important to note that this is, indeed, a conjecture: even accepting that such
features have no interpretation on verbs and TAM markers, it does not follow that
they would cause ill-formedness at the semantic interface. They could just as easily
be ignored by the semantic component, just as certain other syntactic features (e.g.,
c-selectional features) seem to be.
Chapter 6
1. All of the insights regarding Zulu that appear here, as well as the data themselves,
are due to Claire Halpert, who has graciously shared them with me and allowed me
to reproduce them here (see, in particular, Halpert 2012). This does not imply her
endorsement of the conclusions I draw, and any misrepresentations and errors herein
are my own.
2. The current discussion abstracts away from several important aspects of these data:
for example, the correlation between agreement/nonagreement in noun class with a
given argument, on the one hand, and the structural position occupied by that argument,
on the other. See H12:33–68, and references therein, for details.
3. See H12:103–111 for a discussion of certain complexities that arise once
applicativized verb phrases are taken into consideration.
4. I have argued, in this book (section 2.1) and elsewhere (Preminger 2013), for
increased skepticism toward the recent rush to reduce nearly all cases of correspondence
between two positions in the syntactic structure to the relation underlying ϕ-agreement.
In that vein, there seems to be no a priori reason why the relation between the
syntactic head that H12 posits (L0) and its target would be a matter of agreement
per se. I would endorse such skepticism in this case, too; the argument for treating this
empirical domain in terms of agreement comes precisely from the success of H12’s
analysis, which uses exactly the same mechanics put forth in chapter 4 to handle
the Kichean AF facts, the latter of which are self-evidently about ϕ-agreement (see
the working definitions given in section 2.1). Crucially, that is not the case for some
of the other reductions-to-agreement listed in section 2.1 and in Preminger 2013 (to
cite one example, Kratzer’s (2009) account of “fake indexicals” invokes an agreement
relation that, in addition to having the wrong directionality, respects none of the well-
established locality conditions on agreement).
5. This pattern is slightly marked, in that the overt member of the paradigm is the
one that corresponds to a lack of valuation. But this is also attested elsewhere—
compare agreement in nonpast, nonparticiple main verbs in English (-Ø if the
subject carries [participant] or [plural]; /-z/ otherwise). See also note 24 in
chapter 8.
6. The fact that augmented nominals do not require such licensing can be derived if
one takes the augment morpheme to be a licensor in its own right, equivalent to L0
254 Notes
in its licensing capabilities (see H12:225–228). (This recalls the role of the K(ase)0
head in the Kase Phrase analysis; see, e.g., Bayer, Bader, and Meng 2001, Bittner
and Hale 1996, Grosu 1994, Lamontagne and Travis 1987.) It is a truism that every
augmented nominal contains an augmentless nominal, at least at the level of the
phonological string (hence the name augment); but on this view, the same is true of
the syntactic representation—and it is the augment morpheme itself that licenses the
enclosed augmentless nominal.
7. The arguments and data in this section, unless otherwise attributed, are taken from
Preminger 2009, 2012.
8. The reason for the notation “probe(s),” here, is that there is evidence internal to
Basque in favor of a separation between syntactic probing for person features and for
number features (see Preminger 2009, Rezac 2008b, as well as sections 4.1, 4.3). Thus,
it turns out that what is commonly referred to as “absolutive agreement” in Basque is not
an atomic unit. However, this particular detail is not of crucial importance to the present
discussion, since the absolutive agreement morphology that arises in all unergative
constructions in Basque corresponds to what one finds with an overt absolutive nominal
that is both 3rd person and singular.
9. See Arregi 2004 for a similar argument made on the basis of absolutive displacement.
10. Arregi and Nevins (2008, 2012) analyze the same prefixal d- as the result of
morphological epenthesis, satisfying a requirement that the exponence of tense (i.e.,
the auxiliary root) never be word-initial in Basque. If one adopts this view, then an
example like (135b) lacks any true absolutive agreement morphology, rendering moot
this argument for the implicit-object conjecture.
11. This construction—and in particular, the variant that exhibits long-distance
agreement with the embedded absolutive argument—is restricted to “substandard”
varieties of Basque. Its classification as “substandard” is a matter both of the pervading
prescriptive attitude toward these constructions and of their distribution, which cuts
across conventional dialect boundaries; see Etxepare 2006.
12. See Etxepare 2006 and Preminger 2009 for more detailed discussions of this and
related constructions.
13. It is not inconceivable that (138) contains some phonologically null structure that
is absent in (137), and that this additional structure renders the embedded clause
in (138) a separate domain from the matrix clause, in a way that does not hold
of the embedded clause in (137). However, absent any evidence in favor of such
structural differences (and I am aware of none, beyond the differences in case and
agreement discussed here), this would amount to little more than a restatement of the
case/agreement facts themselves. I thank Marcel den Dikken for helpful discussion of
this issue.
14. Data like (143) are restricted to “substandard” varieties of Basque (see note 11); but
the behavior of the iterative/repetitive construction in those varieties is no different than
in Standard Basque. Thus, data like (142a–e) are attested within the very same varieties
of Basque that provide the relevant evidence against PPs in their entirety, as well as the
immediate complements of P0, being targeted for absolutive agreement.
15. Thanks to David Pesetsky for helpful discussion.
Notes 255
Chapter 7
1. While most of the Kichean data in this book come from Kaqchikel, the behavior of
agreement in AF is essentially the same in K’ichee’ as it is in Kaqchikel.
2. In this regard, it may be interesting to note that some languages/constructions, while
exhibiting behavior that is superficially very similar to what (146) seeks to capture, have
no restriction like (147) (one such case is main verb agreement in Algonquian; see, e.g.,
Béjar and Rezac 2009, Lochbihler 2009, Valentine 2001).
3. Halpert (2012) was comparing her analysis of Zulu with an earlier version of the
analysis in chapter 4, which appeared in Preminger 2011a.
4. This recalls the conclusions reached by Ritter and Wiltschko (2009), concerning the
variable substantive content of Infl0 across different languages, though I will not pursue
the parallelism further here.
Chapter 8
1. The term defective intervention is often used in lieu of dative intervention. However,
as I will discuss in sections 8.2–8.3, this term reflects only one particular analysis of the
phenomenon—an analysis that I will argue against, in section 8.3.1.
2. This case discrimination property requires a theory in which case can be assigned
independently of (and prior to) ϕ-agreement. Importantly, the need for such a theory of
case has already been demonstrated by (among others) Marantz (1991) and Zaenen,
Maling, and Thráinsson (1985), who show that nominative case in a language like
Icelandic can arise on noun phrases that ϕ-agreement has demonstrably failed to reach.
See also section 5.3, where a similar finding is demonstrated—independently of dative
intervention—with respect to arguments that have not been agreed with in the Kichean
AF construction.
3. This inability of dative nominals to transfer their own ϕ-features is not universal; see
Rezac 2008a, as well as section 8.3.2 below, for further discussion.
4. There is one possible exception to this generalization, involving “dative harmony”:
plural agreement on the finite verb is judged marginally acceptable by some speakers,
provided that both the dative intervener and the putative nominative target are plural
(Holmberg and Hróarsdóttir 2003:1006n6). A very similar effect is attested in Basque
(see Etxepare 2006, which is also where the term [case] harmony is coined). As this
is the only part of the grammar where plural agreement on the finite verb depends
on the plurality of two arguments simultaneously, this may be a production/processing
effect.
5. Just like the relativized probing patterns in (157a–c), intervention by datives is
sensitive to structural prominence, rather than to the linear sequence of elements. For
one illustration of this, see Preminger 2009, where dative arguments that are linearly
clause-peripheral nevertheless intervene in ϕ-agreement relations targeting absolutives
that are structurally lower, but are linearly closer to the ϕ-probe than their dative
counterparts.
256 Notes
6. The evidence adduced by Polinsky and Potsdam (2001) against a “proleptic object”
analysis includes (i) the availability of agreement on the subordinating verb in the
presence of a coreferential matrix subject, even though Tsez does not allow null
reflexives; (ii) the impossibility of an overt proleptic object; (iii) the strict locality
of this kind of long-distance agreement (which is unexpected, if the transmission
mechanism is anaphoric binding); (iv) the unavailability of matrix scope for the
embedded absolutive argument; and (v) the unavailability of overt matrix reflexives
bound by the hypothesized proleptic null object.
7. The ideas in this section are adapted from Rezac 2008a, which in turn draws on
Richards 2004.
8. See section 4.2.3 for an explicit proposal regarding the feature-geometrical
equivalents of valued and unvalued.
9. In primary-/secondary-object languages, the Patient in applicative constructions
controls either no agreement morphology whatsoever or a distinct series of agreement
morphology not found in monotransitives.
10. One potential counterexample to this generalization is Kutchi Gujarati; however,
there is evidence that this apparent exception might involve a different mechanism
altogether. The reason is that the relevant configurations in Kutchi Gujarati exhibit
so-called “semantic” agreement, ignoring grammatical gender and tracking real-world
gender instead (Patel 2008). The proper analysis of these examples is beyond the scope
of this book, but this property of the Kutchi Gujarati agreement system suggests that it
may be driven by a different mechanism altogether (e.g., anaphoric dependence, rather
than true morphosyntactic agreement; see, e.g., Jelinek 1984).
11. David Pesetsky (pers. comm.) points out that strictly speaking, it does not follow
from Bobaljik’s (2008) argument that the determining factor in the calculus of
ϕ-agreement is morphological case per se; it is possible that there is some third property,
internal to the syntactic computation, that (i) uniquely determines morphological case,
once morphological spell-out is reached, and (ii) serves as the conditioning property
for ϕ-agreement, following a logic similar to (178). Note, however, that positing a
third property of this sort would only be meaningful if morphological case is indeed
computed outside of syntax (as claimed in Marantz 1991); if it is computed within
syntax, there is no need for a separate property of this sort, and it would in fact constitute
an unwarranted duplication. Given that this is exactly what I will argue in chapter 9
regarding the modular locus of so-called “morphological” case, a third property of this
sort would indeed be redundant here.
12. The same point is made in Preminger 2011b regarding absolutive noun phrases in
Basque, though the argument in that case is not independent of dative intervention.
13. It has been claimed that at least some instances of dative may actually constitute a
type of dependent case—one that arises when two noun phrases cooccur inside VP (or
ApplP); see Baker and Vinokurova 2010. If this is so, then in a language where dative
is this type of case, the statement in the text would only apply if the language made the
cutoff before the second member of the revised Moravcsik hierarchy (178).
14. Recall that a critical component of analyses of the PCC such as Anagnostopoulou’s
(2003) and Béjar and Rezac’s (2003) is that the full dative DP ceases to intervene when
clitic-doubled, precisely because it behaves on a par with an A-movement trace.
Notes 257
15. The same holds, in fact, under any approach in which ϕ-features are privative rather
than bivalent.
16. As in section 4.2.3, I abstract away here from whether agreement results in the
actual copying of values, or merely in the sharing of feature-value slots (Frampton and
Gutmann 2000, 2006, Pesetsky and Torrego 2007).
17. Regarding a violable-constraints alternative, see section 8.5.
18. Here, I build the case discrimination clause into a version of find(f) that is only
relevant to ϕ-features (findϕ(f)). It is not clear to me what the counterpart of this
clause would be for other kinds of features. Again, while it is stipulative to include
this proviso only in the ϕ-version of find, this stipulation is motivated independently
of dative intervention: as shown in section 8.3.3, the crosslinguistic typology of noun
phrases that can and cannot be targeted for ϕ-agreement is what leads to the formulation
of case discrimination; and this typology has no self-evident correlates outside of
ϕ-agreement.
19. For purposes of the current discussion, I abstract away from the possibility that in
Icelandic—as in Kichean—person and number probe separately from one another; see
Sigurðsson and Holmberg 2008.
20. As both languages are well into the process of losing their overt case morphology,
this is of course not directly observable on the basis of the forms of full noun phrases.
In both languages, the familiar move of examining the pronoun/clitic system, where
the relevant distinctions are still morphologically observable, reveals the lack of quirky
subjects and the restriction of all finite subjects to nominative.
21. Exceptions to this statement involve agreement displacement (see Rezac 2006,
2008a, as well as sections 8.3.2–8.3.3). Importantly, agreement displacement arises in
Basque only under well-defined circumstances (see Rezac 2008a for details); we can
therefore safely abstract away from it here. Also worth noting are arguments by Arregi
and Nevins (2008, 2012), and in Preminger 2009, that the ergative and dative exponents
on the Basque auxiliary do not arise by way of agreement per se; rather they arise by
clitic doubling of (potentially pro-dropped) full DPs.
22. The account in (206)–(207) relies on the idea that one operation can be specified
to operate on the output of another—in this case, MtoCSPNQSL, which must operate
on an XP that findϕ has successfully targeted. This recalls the mathematical notion
of functional composition: (f ◦g)(x) = f (g(x)), where the composition operator is
represented by “◦”. I assume here that in the grammar, too, operations can in principle
operate on the output of other operations.
23. Attributing the observations to Howard Lasnik, Boeckx (2000) notes some apparent
dialectal variation with respect to the acceptability of the singular form (seems) in
examples like (211b).
24. Another way in which English is exceptional involves the overt ϕ-agreement
found on nonpast, nonparticiple main verbs. The age-old observation regarding this
paradigm (going back at least to Chomsky 1957, but likely much further) is that the /-z/
(orthographic -s) marker corresponding to 3rd person singular reflects a misalignment
of phonological overtness with morphosyntactic markedness. The least marked feature
structure (3rd person singular) is the only cell in the paradigm whose exponence is
not null. Here, too, we have an instance of exceptionality that is localizable to exactly
258 Notes
one property—rather than a true counterexample to the current proposal. In the terms
used in section 5.3, (ib) is an instance of “gratuitous agreement” (in particular, plural
agreement in a derivation where the structurally closest noun phrase is singular).
Conversely, (ib) is an instance of “gratuitous nonagreement” (in particular, singular
agreement morphology in a derivation where the structurally closest noun phrase is
both case-accessible and plural).
(i) a. This boy enjoys cartoons.
b. *This boy enjoy cartoons.
(ii) a. These boys enjoy cartoons.
b. *These boys enjoys cartoons.
See section 5.3 for further discussion of “gratuitous agreement” and “gratuitous
nonagreement” and how each is ruled out in the current system.
25. This assumption concerning expletives is far from uncontroversial, and is presented
here only in order to explain the relevant property of the proposal in (207). See note 10
in chapter 4 for some discussion, as well as relevant references. Thanks to Stephanie
Harves for helpful discussion.
26. A reviewer suggests the following output candidate as the possible competitor that
outperforms (219) and renders it suboptimal:
(i) Jean1
Jean
luii-semble
cl-seems
[t1 avoir
have.inf
du
of
talent]
talent
à
to
Mariei.
Marie
‘Jean seems to her, Marie, to have talent.’
All native speakers of French that I have checked with judge (i) to be unacceptable.
It is worth noting, though, that even were it grammatical, generating this candidate
from the input noted in the text would require gen—when constructing possible output
candidates—to be able to add or not add CLRD (clitic right-dislocation) to a given input
structure. The problem here, as in the finiteness-related example above, is that CLRD
is not meaning-neutral. In instances where, unlike in (i), both CLRD and non-CLRD
structures are available for an otherwise identical sentence, the CLRD version has
different information-structural properties than its non-CLRD counterpart. In particular,
CLRD of a constituent strongly implies that the referent is discourse-old (see López
2009:38–55, and references therein). This means that as with finiteness, allowing the
violable-constraints system to manipulate whether or not CLRD applies in a given
structure amounts to involving this system in determining the meaning that the speaker
intends to convey, which is clearly undesirable.
Chapter 9
1. This is a tendency, not a universal. In Harar Oromo (Cushitic), for example,
accusative nominals receive no overt case marking, while nominative ones do (Owens
1985; see also Polinsky and Preminger 2014).
Notes 259
2. Bittner and Hale (1996) come close to positing a relation between two maximal
projections in syntax, precisely to model dependent case. For them, however,
this relation is still mediated through a functional head that enters into a
“traditional” syntactic relation with each of the two maximal projections in question.
In section 9.3.1.1, we will see evidence from Sakha (from Baker and Vinokurova 2010)
that militates against such mediation by functional heads in establishing dependent case
relations.
3. This is also the position taken by Baker and Vinokurova (2010:597) themselves
regarding the modular locus of this computation.
4. L&P base their arguments on earlier versions of these chapters, which appeared
in Preminger 2011a.
5. For B&V, this creates a potential problem vis-à-vis the Case Filter (Chomsky 1981),
which they assume is operative in Sakha, and its application to the Patient in (233b).
The problem is circumvented, on their account, through (pseudo)incorporation of this
VP-internal object into the verb. L&P argue that recourse to the Case Filter can be
dispensed with in the account of Sakha, and they handle the apparent evidence for
(pseudo)incorporation in terms of antilocality.
6. B&V (609) point out that implicit Agent interpretations of passives in Sakha simply
cannot occur with indefinite/nonspecific Patients.
7. To be precise, this explains why D0 is not required in these examples, not why
its appearance is ruled out. On B&V’s (609) analysis, this is because if D0 were to
appear in such examples, it would not have an accessible agreement target, resulting in
unchecked uninterpretable features. Crucially, in chapters 5–6, we saw arguments that
unchecked uninterpretable features do not, in fact, lead to ungrammaticality; therefore,
this fact, too, must be derived in some other way. The analysis by L&P, presented below,
assimilates this to the cases of “gratuitous agreement” discussed in section 5.3.
8. For possessor agreement to ever target anything but the head noun—the immediate
complement of D0—the head noun must be skipped by the ϕ-probe (this is quite
generally the case for possessor agreement and therefore not unique to Sakha). I
assume, with L&P, that this is because the target of such probing must be a complete
extended nominal projection, which the complement of D0 is not (though see L&P, for
a more nuanced discussion, distinguishing between the behaviors of number and person
agreement in this respect).
9. As L&P point out, this issue has probably not gone unnoticed by B&V, who mention
Baker’s (2008:155ff.) proposal that the Activity Condition, or something very close
to it, should itself be parameterizable (B&V:636n32). Nevertheless, the point in the
main text stands: it is nearly uncontroversial that properties such as, say, the rules of
pronunciation at PF are subject to crosslinguistic variation. The approach pursued here
is therefore better positioned to reduce the difference between Sakha (see (263)) and
Hindi-Urdu (see (267)) to well-established parameters of linguistic variation.
It should also be mentioned that (266b), coupled with PF pronunciation of both links
of the head movement chain, is not the analysis of (267) put forth by Bhatt (2005), from
whom this example is taken. The point is merely that crosslinguistic counterparts of the
Sakha (263) do exist, and that some behave in a fashion opposite to that of Sakha—
260 Notes
suggesting the need for an account of (263) that is based on parameters, rather than
principles alone.
10. The theory presented in this section was developed, in large part, during a series
of lectures at Leiden University in March 2011; my deepest thanks go to the audiences
there, and especially to Roberta D’Alessandro for giving me the opportunity to conduct
these lectures in the first place. This proposal is similar, in certain respects, to Bittner and
Hale’s (1996) proposal; however, as I will show, the implementation of case competition
differs in certain ways that are crucial to correctly deriving the behavior of dependent
case in Sakha.
11. These observations are phrased here in a particularly derivationalist manner, to
highlight the parallelism that is achieved between the current proposal and Marantz’s
(1991) disjunctive case hierarchy—which itself is formulated as a serial algorithm.
However, it seems to me that these derivational conditions have representationalist
analogues, if we demand that the structural relations involved in case feature valuation
relations be as local as possible. The reader should therefore not interpret the expository
use of derivationalist terminology in this particular section as an argument for, or even
a commitment to, a derivational rather than representational generative engine.
12. It is well-established that case is a feature of nominals at the phrasal level, even
if it is morphologically instantiated on smaller pieces of the noun phrase (e.g., on the
determiner alone, as is the case for example in Basque). I leave aside the question of
whether this means that case features are phrasal features sui generis, or whether this is
an instance of a more general syntactic principle that renders the maximal projection of
a head featurally identical to the head itself (see, e.g., Chomsky 1995:241–249).
13. While normally asymmetric, the relation absolutely does not need to be one-to-one;
see the discussion of (251)–(252).
14. One potential challenge to viewing case competition as the source for the
prohibition observed by Alexiadou and Anagnostopoulou (2001), Moro (2000), and
Richards (2006, 2010) is the existence of superficially similar effects in derived
positions.
(i) a. *I know everyone insulted someone, but I don’t know [DP who] [DP whom].
b. I know everyone danced with someone, but I don’t know [DP who] [PP with
whom].
(Richards 2010:3)
Insofar as a contrast like (ia–b) is an instance of the same phenomenon—and Richards
(2010:49–50) provides some typological support for the view that it is—then deriving
it from case competition will be considerably more difficult. That is because the two
DPs in question will presumably have had ample chance to establish an adequately
asymmetric relation before moving to their ultimate clause-peripheral positions.
15. I thank a reviewer for helpful discussion of the issues in this section.
16. This system will not be able to account for instances of case stacking (see Richards
2012, Schütze 2001a, Yoon 2004). I leave for future research the question of how case
stacking can be integrated into this proposal.
Notes 261
Chapter 10
1. The empirical patterns surveyed in section 10.1.2—and in fact, in all
of section 10.1—are highly reminiscent of what Bobaljik and Wurmbrand (2012)
have called “3/4 signature” effects. Unfortunately, a detailed comparison of the two
is beyond the scope of the this book.
2. Note also that (294)–(295) are run-of-the-mill transitives—highlighting that the
definiteness effect is not necessarily restricted, crosslinguistically, to what are
traditionally thought of as “existential” constructions.
3. See also Bošković 2007, Frampton and Gutmann 2006, and references therein, for
discussion of this treatment and the problems it faces.
4. The caveat that aL is only inserted when the periphery is filled by movement is
necessary to distinguish it from the aN form, associated with peripheries hosting base-
generated operators (McCloskey 2002). One can avoid making direct reference to
movement versus base-generation in the morphological component by assuming that
the context relevant to aL is merely a nonempty periphery (without direct reference
to movement or lack thereof), but that aN is a more specific form whose insertion
is triggered by specific types of operators associated with resumption. aL would then
simply be the elsewhere form.
5. I avoid using the term Move(wh) here, to prevent confusion with the Government and
Binding notion of the same name (Chomsky 1981). The latter is crucially different, in
that its application was assumed to be “free”—rather than obligatory and triggered by
specific lexical items.
6. Thanks to Bronwyn Bjorkman for helpful discussion.
7. On either of these approaches, Displace(wh) triggered by the matrix C0 in an example
like (317) will simply fail to find an accessible, movable target. This is comparable to
findϕ being triggered when the closest nominal is inaccessible with respect to case
discrimination (e.g., a dative nominal in French; see section 8.4). The operation will
once again fail without any adverse effects on the derivation.
8. As in many other accounts, I assume here that echo questions (e.g., You ate WHAT?!)
involve a distinct kind of wh-element (as suggested by the unique stress/intonation
contour on these particular wh-elements), and that these “echo” wh-elements do not
constitute viable targets for Displace(wh).
9. Moreover, while there might be other featural differences between declarative and
interrogative complementizers, they need not differ from one another in their capacity
to attract wh-phrases: both result in the obligatory triggering of Displace(wh).
10. I thank Stephanie Harves for helpful discussion of these matters.
11. Recall also that the Sakha facts discussed in chapter 9, which were taken by Baker
and Vinokurova (2010) to require recourse to the Case Filter, have been successfully
reanalyzed by Levin and Preminger (to appear) with no appeal to such a filtering device.
12. This may seem reminiscent of the obligatory-operations logic discussed
throughout sections 10.1.1–10.1.3 (i.e., that satisfying the PLC is obligatory only when
possible). But the PLC is not actually amenable to such a treatment. Recall that a 1st/2nd
262 Notes
person object in Kichean AF, which has a clausemate ϕ-probe but still cannot agree with
that ϕ-probe (because the latter targets the subject, instead), still incurs a PLC violation;
see section 4.4.2 for details.
13. The same may already be demonstrable on the basis of the availability of plural
agreement in (324c). However, Sigurðsson and Holmberg (2008) actually analyze such
agreement in a way that renders it perfectly local; therefore, I do not cite it as an example
of long-distance agreement in the present context.
References
Abels, Klaus. 2003. Successive cyclicity, anti-locality, and adposition stranding.
Doctoral dissertation, University of Connecticut, Storrs.
Abels, Klaus. 2012. The Italian left periphery: A view from locality. Linguistic Inquiry
43:229–254. doi: 10.1162/LING_a_00084.
Adger, David, and Daniel Harbour. 2007. Syntax and syncretisms of the Person Case
Constraint. Syntax 10:2–37. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-9612.2007.00095.x.
Adger, David, and Gillian Ramchand. 2001. Phases and interpretability. In WCCFL 20:
proceedings of the 20th West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics, eds.
Karine Megerdoomian and Leora Anne Bar-El, 101–114. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla
Press.
Aissen, Judith. 1987. Tzotzil clause structure. Dordrecht: Reidel.
Aissen, Judith. 2011. On the syntax of agent focus in K’ichee’. In Proceedings of
Formal Approaches to Mayan Linguistics, eds. Kirill Shklovsky, Pedro Mateo Pedro,
and Jessica Coon, 1–16. MIT Working Papers in Linguistics 63. Cambridge, MA: MIT,
MIT Working Papers in Linguistics.
Albizu, Pablo. 1997. Generalized Person-Case Constraint: A case for a syntax-driven
inflectional morphology. Anuario del Seminario de Filología Vasca Julio de Urquijo
(ASJU, International Journal of Basque Linguistics and Philology) 40:1–33.
Aldridge, Edith. 2004. Ergativity and word order in Austronesian languages. Doctoral
dissertation, Cornell University.
Alexiadou, Artemis, and Elena Anagnostopoulou. 1997. Towards a uniform account of
scrambling and clitic-doubling. In German: Syntactic problems—problematic syntax,
eds. Werner Abraham and Elly van Gelderen, 142–161. Tübingen: Max Niemeyer
Verlag.
Alexiadou, Artemis, and Elena Anagnostopoulou. 2001. The Subject-in-Situ
Generalization and the role of Case in driving computations. Linguistic Inquiry
32:193–231. doi: 10.1162/00243890152001753.
Alexiadou, Artemis, and Elena Anagnostopoulou. 2006. From hierarchies to features.
In Agreement systems, ed. Cedric Boeckx, 41–62. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
264 References
Anagnostopoulou, Elena. 1994. Clitic dependencies in Modern Greek. Doctoral
dissertation, University of Salzburg.
Anagnostopoulou, Elena. 2003. The syntax of ditransitives: Evidence from clitics.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Anagnostopoulou, Elena. 2005. Strong and weak person restrictions: A feature checking
analysis. In Clitic and affix combinations: Theoretical perspectives, eds. Lorie Heggie
and Francisco Ordoñez, 199–235. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Anagnostopoulou, Elena. 2006. Clitic doubling. In The Blackwell companion to syntax,
eds. Martin Everaert and Henk van Riemsdijk, vol. 1, 519–581. Oxford: Blackwell.
Anand, Pranav, and Andrew Ira Nevins. 2006. The locus of ergative case assignment:
Evidence from scope. In Ergativity: Emerging issues, eds. Alana Johns, Diane Massam,
and Juvenal Ndayiragije, 3–25. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Anderson, Stephen R. 1977. On mechanisms by which languages become ergative. In
Mechanisms of syntactic change, ed. Charles N. Li, 317–364. Austin: University of
Texas Press.
Andrews, Avery D. 1976. The VP complement analysis in Modern Icelandic. In
Papers from the sixth meeting of the North Eastern Linguistic Society, eds. Alan Ford,
John Reighard, and Rajendra Singh, 1–21. Montreal: McGill University and University
of Montreal.
Arregi, Karlos. 2004. The have/be alternation in Basque. Ms., University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign.
Arregi, Karlos, and Andrew Ira Nevins. 2008. Agreement and clitic restrictions in
Basque. In Agreement restrictions, eds. Roberta D’Alessandro, Susann Fischer, and
Gunnar Hrafn Hrafnbjargarson, 49–86. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Arregi, Karlos, and Andrew Ira Nevins. 2012. Morphotactics: Basque auxiliaries and
the structure of spellout. Dordrecht: Springer.
Asarina, Alya. 2011. Case in Uyghur and beyond. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Baker, Mark C. 1988. Incorporation: A theory of grammatical function changing.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Baker, Mark C. 2008. The syntax of agreement and concord. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Baker, Mark C. 2012. Types of crosslinguistic variation in case assignment. Ms.,
Rutgers University. url: http://www.rci.rutgers.edu/~mabaker/barcelona-case-theory-
paper.pdf.
Baker, Mark C., and Nadya Vinokurova. 2010. Two modalities of Case
assignment: Case in Sakha. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 28:593–642.
doi: 10.1007/s11049-010-9105-1.
Baltin, Mark R. 1978. PP as a bounding node. In Proceedings of the 8th annual meeting
of the North Eastern Linguistic Society, ed. Mark Stein, 33–40. Amherst: University of
Massachuset Graduate Linguistic Student Association.
Barbosa, Pilar, Danny Fox, Paul Hagstrom, Martha McGinnis, and David Pesetsky, eds.
1998. Is the best good enough? Optimality and competition in syntax. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
References 265
Bayer, Josef, Markus Bader, and Michael Meng. 2001. Morphological
underspecification meets oblique case: Syntactic and processing effects in German.
Lingua 111:465–514.
Béjar, Susana. 2003. Phi-syntax: A theory of agreement. Doctoral dissertation,
University of Toronto.
Béjar, Susana, and Milan Rezac. 2003. Person licensing and the derivation of PCC
effects. In Romance linguistics: Theory and acquisition, eds. Ana Teresa Pérez-Leroux
and Yves Roberge, 49–62. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Béjar, Susana, and Milan Rezac. 2009. Cyclic Agree. Linguistic Inquiry 40:35–73.
doi: 10.1162/ling.2009.40.1.35.
Belletti, Adriana. 2004. Aspects of the low IP area. In The structure of IP and CP: The
cartography of syntactic structures, vol. 2, ed. Luigi Rizzi, 52–75. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Bhatt, Rajesh. 2005. Long-distance agreement in Hindi-Urdu. Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 23:757–807. doi: 10.1007/s11049-004-4136-0.
Bickel, Balthasar, and Yogendra P. Yādava. 2000. A fresh look at grammatical relations
in Indo-Aryan. Lingua 110:343–373. doi: 10.1016/S0024-3841(99)00048-0.
Bittner, Maria, and Ken Hale. 1996. The structural determination of Case and
agreement. Linguistic Inquiry 27:1–68.
Bobaljik, Jonathan David. 1993. On ergativity and ergative unergatives. In Papers on
Case and agreement II, ed. Colin Phillips, 45–88. MIT Working Papers in Linguistics
19. Cambridge, MA: MIT, MIT Working Papers in Linguistics.
Bobaljik, Jonathan David. 1995. Morphosyntax: The syntax of verbal inflection.
Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Bobaljik, Jonathan David. 2002. A-chains at the PF interface: Copies and
‘covert’ movement. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 20:197–267.
doi: 10.1023/A:1015059006439.
Bobaljik, Jonathan David. 2008. Where’s phi? Agreement as a post-syntactic operation.
In Phi theory: Phi-features across interfaces and modules, eds. Daniel Harbour,
David Adger, and Susana Béjar, 295–328. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Bobaljik, Jonathan David, and Idan Landau. 2009. Icelandic control is not A-movement:
The case from Case. Linguistic Inquiry 40:113–132. doi: 10.1162/ling.2009.40.1.113.
Bobaljik, Jonathan David, and Susi Wurmbrand. 2005. The domain
of agreement. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 23:809–865.
doi: 10.1007/s11049-004-3792-4.
Bobaljik, Jonathan David, and Susi Wurmbrand. 2012. Word order and scope:
Transparent interfaces and the 3/4-signature. Linguistic Inquiry 43:371–421.
doi: 10.1162/LING_a_00094.
Boeckx, Cedric. 2000. Quirky agreement. Studia Linguistica 54:354–380.
doi: 10.1111/1467-9582.00070.
Boeckx, Cedric, and Youngmi Jeong. 2004. The fine structure of intervention in
syntax. In Issues in current linguistic theory: A festschrift for Hong Bae Lee, eds.
Chungja Kwon and Won bin Lee, 83–116. Seoul: Kjungjin.
266 References
Bonet, Eulàlia. 1991. Morphology after syntax: Pronominal clitics in Romance.
Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Bonet, Eulàlia. 1994. The Person-Case Constraint: A morphological approach. In The
morphology-syntax connection, eds. Heidi Harley and Colin Phillips, 33–52. MIT
Working Papers in Linguistics 22. Cambridge, MA: MIT, MIT Working Papers in
Linguistics.
Bošković, Željko. 2002. A-movement and the EPP. Syntax 5:167–218.
doi: 10.1111/1467-9612.00051.
Bošković, Željko. 2007. On the locality and motivation of Move and Agree: An even
more minimal theory. Linguistic Inquiry 38:589–644. doi: 10.1162/ling.2007.38.4.589.
Bresnan, Joan. 2001. Lexical-Functional Syntax. Oxford: Blackwell.
Bricker, Victoria R. 1977. Pronominal inflection in the Mayan languages. Occasional
Paper 1. New Orleans, LA: Tulane University, Middle American Research Institute.
Buell, Leston. 2005. Issues in Zulu morphosyntax. Doctoral dissertation, UCLA.
Buell, Leston. 2006. The Zulu conjoint/disjoint verb alternation: Focus or constituency?
ZAS Papers in Linguistics 43:9–30.
Buell, Leston. 2011. The Nguni augment from a syntactic perspective. Paper presented
at the B4ntu Conference, Berlin.
Burzio, Luigi. 1986. Italian syntax: A Government-Binding approach. Dordrecht:
Reidel.
Cable, Seth. 2007. The grammar of Q: Q-particles and the nature of wh-fronting.
Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Cable, Seth. 2010. Against the existence of pied-piping: Evidence from Tlingit.
Linguistic Inquiry 41:563–594.
Caha, Pavel. 2009. The nanosyntax of case. Doctoral dissertation, University of
Tromsø.
Campbell, Lyle, and Terrence Kaufman. 1985. Mayan linguistics: Where are we now?
Annual Review of Anthropology 14:187–198.
Carstens, Vicki. 2000. Concord in Minimalist theory. Linguistic Inquiry 31:319–355.
doi: 10.1162/002438900554370.
Chomsky, Noam. 1957. Syntactic structures. The Hague: Mouton.
Chomsky, Noam. 1973. Conditions on transformations. In A festschrift for Morris Halle,
eds. Stephen Anderson and Paul Kiparsky, 232–286. New York: Holt, Rinehart and
Winston.
Chomsky, Noam. 1977. On wh-movement. In Formal syntax, eds. Peter W. Culicover,
Thomas Wasow, and Adrian Akmajian, 71–132. New York: Academic Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1981. Lectures on government and binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Chomsky, Noam. 1986. Knowledge of language. New York: Praeger.
Chomsky, Noam. 1995. The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2000. Minimalist inquiries: The framework. In Step by step: Essays
on Minimalist syntax in honor of Howard Lasnik, eds. Roger Martin, David Michaels,
and Juan Uriagereka, 89–155. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
References 267
Chomsky, Noam. 2001. Derivation by phase. In Ken Hale: A life in language, ed.
Michael Kenstowicz, 1–52. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2008. On phases. In Foundational issues in linguistic theory, eds.
Robert Freidin, Carlos Otero, and Maria-Luisa Zubizarreta, 133–166. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam, and Howard Lasnik. 1977. Filters and control. Linguistic Inquiry
8:425–504.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1999. Adverbs and functional heads: A crosslinguistic perspective.
New York: Oxford University Press.
Collins, Chris. 1997. Local economy. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Collins, Chris. 2005a. A smuggling approach to raising in English. Linguistic Inquiry
36:289–298. doi: 10.1162/0024389053710701.
Collins, Chris. 2005b. A smuggling approach to the passive in English. Syntax
8:81–120. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-9612.2005.00076.x.
Collins, Chris, and Höskuldur Thráinsson. 1996. VP-internal structure and object shift
in Icelandic. Linguistic Inquiry 27:391–444.
Comrie, Bernard. 1978. Ergativity. In Syntactic typology: Studies in the
phenomenology of language, ed. Winfred P. Lehmann, 329–394. Austin: University of
Texas Press.
Coon, Jessica. 2010. Complementation in Chol (Mayan): A theory of split ergativity.
Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Coon, Jessica, Pedro Mateo Pedro, and Omer Preminger. 2011. The role of case in A-bar
extraction asymmetries: Evidence from Mayan. Ms. url: http://ling.auf.net/lingBuzz/
001401.
Cowper, Elisabeth. 1987. Pied piping, feature percolation and the structure of the noun-
phrase. Canadian Journal of Linguistics 32:321–338.
Craenenbroeck, Jeroen van. 2006. Transitivity failures in the left periphery and
foot-driven movement operations. In Linguistics in the Netherlands 2006, eds.
Jeroen van de Weijer and Bettelou Los, 52–64. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Craig, Colette Grinevald. 1979. The antipassive and Jacaltec. In Papers in Mayan
linguistics, ed. Laura Martin, 139–165. Columbia, MO: Lucas Bros.
Davies, William D., and Luis Enrique Sam-Colop. 1990. K’iche’ and the structure of
antipassive. Language 66:522–549.
Dayley, Jon P. 1978. Voice in Tzutujil. Journal of Mayan Linguistics 1:20–52.
Dayley, Jon P. 1981. Voice and ergativity in Mayan languages. Journal of Mayan
Linguistics 2:3–82.
Dayley, Jon P. 1985. Tz’utujil grammar. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Deal, Amy Rose. 2009. The origin and content of expletives: Evidence from “selection.”
Syntax 12:285–323. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-9612.2009.00127.x.
Deal, Amy Rose. To appear. Ergativity. In International handbook on syntactic
contemporary research, 2nd ed., eds. Tibor Kiss and Artemis Alexiadou. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
268 References
Déchaine, Rose-Marie, and Martina Wiltschko. 2002. Decomposing pronouns.
Linguistic Inquiry 33:409–442. doi: 10.1162/002438902760168554.
Diesing, Molly. 1992. Indefinites. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Diesing, Molly. 1996. Semantic variables and object shift. In Studies in comparative
Germanic syntax, eds. Höskuldur Thráinsson, Samuel David Epstein, and Steve Peter,
vol. 2, 66–84. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Diesing, Molly. 1997. Yiddish VP order and typology of object movement in Germanic.
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 15:369–427. doi: 10.1023/A:1005778326537.
Diesing, Molly, and Eloise Jelinek. 1993. The syntax and semantics of object shift.
Working Papers in Scandinavian Syntax 51:1–54.
Dikken, Marcel den. 1995. Binding, expletives, and levels. Linguistic Inquiry
26:347–354.
Dikken, Marcel den. 2009. On the nature and distribution of successive cyclicity. Ms.,
City University of New York.
Dixon, R. M. W. 1979. Ergativity. Language 55:59–138.
Dixon, R. M. W. 1994. Ergativity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Dryer, Matthew S. 1986. Primary objects, secondary objects, and antidative. Language
62:808–845.
Duffield, Nigel. 1995. Particles and projections in Irish syntax. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Eguren, Luis. 1995. Syntax and morphology in Basque verbal inflection. Paper
presented at the XXI Incontro di Grammatica Generativa, Istituto S. Raffaele, Milan.
Elordieta, Arantzazu. 2001. Verb movement and constituent permutation in Basque.
Doctoral dissertation, Leiden University.
Etxepare, Ricardo. 2003. Valency and argument structure in the Basque verb. In A
grammar of Basque, eds. José Ignacio Hualde and Jon Ortiz de Urbina, 363–426. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Etxepare, Ricardo. 2006. Number long distance agreement in (substandard) Basque.
In Studies in Basque and historical linguistics in memory of Robert L. Trask, eds.
Joseba A. Lakarra and José Ignacio Hualde, Supplements of the Anuario del Seminario
de Filología Vasca Julio de Urquijo (ASJU, International Journal of Basque Linguistics
and Philology), 40:1–2, 303–350.
Ferreira, Marcelo. 2000. Hyperraising and null subjects in Brazilian Portuguese. Ms.,
Universidade Estadual de Campinas.
Fox, Danny, and David Pesetsky. 2005. Cyclic linearization of syntactic structure.
Theoretical Linguistics 31:1–45. doi: 10.1515/thli.2005.31.1-2.1.
Frampton, John. 1991. Relativized Minimality: A review. The Linguistic Review
8:1–46.
Frampton, John, and Sam Gutmann. 2000. Agreement is feature sharing. Ms.,
Northeastern University. url: http://www.math.neu.edu/ling/pdffiles/agrisfs.pdf.
Frampton, John, and Sam Gutmann. 2002. Crash-proof syntax. In Derivation and
explanation in the Minimalist Program, eds. Samuel David Epstein and T. Daniel Seely,
90–105. Oxford: Blackwell.
References 269
Frampton, John, and Sam Gutmann. 2006. How sentences grow in the mind: Agreement
and selection in efficient minimalist syntax. In Agreement systems, ed. Cedric Boeckx,
121–157. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Gazdar, Gerald, Ewan Klein, Geoffrey K. Pullum, and Ivan A. Sag. 1985. Generalized
Phrase Structure Grammar. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
George, Leland, and Jaklin Kornfilt. 1981. Finiteness and boundedness in Turkish. In
Binding and filtering, ed. Frank Heny, 105–129. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Grimshaw, Jane. 2000. Lexical specification and insertion. In Locality and extended
projections, eds. Peter Coopmans, Martin Everaert, and Jane Grimshaw, 115–134.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Grosu, Alexander. 1994. Three studies in locality and case. London: Routledge.
Haegeman, Liliane, and Terje Lohndal. 2010. Negative concord and (Multiple) Agree:
A case study of West Flemish. Linguistic Inquiry 41:181–211.
Haider, Hubert, and Inger Rosengren. 2003. Scrambling: Nontriggered chain formation
in OV languages. Journal of Comparative Germanic Linguistics 15:203–267.
Hale, Kenneth, and Samuel Jay Keyser. 1993. On argument structure and the lexical
expression of syntactic relations. In The view from building 20: Essays in linguistics
in honor of Sylvain Bromberger, eds. Kenneth Hale and Samuel Jay Keyser, 53–109.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Halle, Morris. 1997. Distributed Morphology: Impoverishment and fission. In Papers
at the interface, eds. Benjamin Bruening, Yoonjung Kang, and Martha McGinnis,
425–449. MIT Working Papers in Linguistics 30. Cambridge, MA: MIT, MIT Working
Papers in Linguistics.
Halle, Morris, and Alec Marantz. 1993. Distributed Morphology and the pieces of
inflection. In The view from Building 20: Essays in linguistics in honor of Sylvain
Bromberger, eds. Kenneth Hale and Samuel Jay Keyser, 111–176. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Halpert, Claire. 2012. Argument licensing and agreement in Zulu. Doctoral dissertation,
MIT. url: http://ling.auf.net/lingBuzz/001599.
Harbour, Daniel. 2007. Morphosemantic number: From Kiowa noun classes to UG
number features. Dordrecht: Springer.
Harizanov, Boris. To appear. Clitic doubling at the syntax-morphophonology interface:
A-movement and morphological merger in Bulgarian. Natural Language and Linguistic
Theory.
Harley, Heidi. 1995. Abstracting away from abstract case. In NELS 24: proceedings of
the North East Linguistic Society, ed. Jill Beckman, 207–221. Amherst: University of
Massachusetts, Graduate Linguistic Student Association.
Harley, Heidi, and Rolf Noyer. 1999. State-of-the-article: Distributed Morphology. Glot
International 4:3–9.
Harley, Heidi, and Elizabeth Ritter. 2002. Person and number in pronouns: A feature-
geometric analysis. Language 78:482–526. doi: 10.1353/lan.2002.0158.
Harlow, Stephen. 1981. Government and relativization in Celtic. In Binding and
filtering, ed. Frank Heny, 213–254. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
270 References
Hartman, Jeremy. 2011a. Intervention in tough-constructions. In NELS 39: proceedings
of the 39th annual meeting of the North East Linguistic Society, eds. Suzi Lima,
Kevin Mullin, and Brian Smith, 387–398. Amherst: University of Massachusetts,
Graduate Linguistic Student Association.
Hartman, Jeremy. 2011b. (Non-)intervention in A-movement: Some cross-
constructional and cross-linguistic considerations. Linguistic Variation 11:121–148.
doi: 10.1075/lv.11.2.01har.
Hartmann, Jutta M. 2005. wh-movement and the small clause analyses of the English
there-construction. In Proceedings of the 1st Syntax AiO Meeting (SAM 1), 93–106.
Leiden Working Papers in Linguistics 2.3. Leiden: Leiden University.
Hazout, Ilan. 2004. The syntax of existential constructions. Linguistic Inquiry
35:393–430. doi: 10.1162/0024389041402616.
Heck, Fabian. 2004. A theory of pied-piping. Doctoral dissertation, Universität
Tübingen.
Heck, Fabian, and Gereon Müller. 2000. Successive cyclicity, long-distance superiority,
and local optimization. In WCCFL 19: Proceedings of the 19th West Coast Conference
on Formal Linguistics, eds. Roger Billerey and Brook Danielle Lillehaugen, 218–231.
Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Henderson, Robert. 2012. Morphological alternations at the intonational phrase
edge: The case of K’ichee’. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 30:741–787.
doi: 10.1007/s11049-012-9170-8.
Hiraiwa, Ken. 2001. Multiple Agree and the Defective Intervention Constraint in
Japanese. In The proceedings of the MIT-Harvard joint conference (HUMIT 2000), ed.
Ora Matushansky, 67–80. MIT Working Papers in Linguistics 40. Cambridge, MA:
MIT, MIT Working Papers in Linguistics.
Hiraiwa, Ken. 2004. Dimensions of symmetry in syntax: Agreement and clausal
architecture. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Hoekstra, Teun, and René Mulder. 1990. Unergatives as copular verbs: Locational and
existential predication. The Linguistic Review 7:1–79.
Holmberg, Anders. 1986. Word order and syntactic features. Doctoral dissertation,
University of Stockholm.
Holmberg, Anders. 1999. Remarks on Holmberg’s Generalization. Studia Linguistica
53:1–39. doi: 10.1111/1467-9582.00038.
Holmberg, Anders, and Þorbjörg Hróarsdóttir. 2003. Agreement and
movement in Icelandic raising constructions. Lingua 113:997–1019.
doi: 10.1016/S0024-3841(02)00162-6.
Hrafnbjargarson, Gunnar Hrafn. 2004. Oblique subjects and stylistic fronting in the
history of Scandinavian and English: The role of IP-Spec. Doctoral dissertation,
University of Aarhus.
Jaeggli, Osvaldo. 1982. Topics in Romance syntax. Dordrecht: Foris.
Jelinek, Eloise. 1984. Empty categories, case, and configurationality. Natural Language
and Linguistic Theory 2:39–76.
References 271
Jónsson, Jóhannes Gísli. 1996. Clausal architecture and Case in Icelandic. Doctoral
dissertation, University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Kaufman, Terrence. 1977. Some structural characteristics of the Mayan languages with
special reference to Quiche. Handout, reprinted in Spanish as Kaufman 1990.
Kaufman, Terrence. 1990. Algunos rasgos estructurales de los idiomas Mayances con
referencia especial al K’iche’. In Lecturas sobre la lingüistica Maya, eds. Nora England
and Stephen R. Elliot, 59–114. La Antigua: CIRMA.
Kayne, Richard S. 1983. Connectedness. Linguistic Inquiry 14:223–249.
Kayne, Richard S. 2006. Notes on Full Interpretation. Paper presented at InterPhases,
Nicosia.
Kramer, Ruth. To appear. Clitic doubling or object agreement: The view from Amharic.
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory. url: http://ling.auf.net/lingBuzz/001406.
Kratzer, Angelika. 2009. Making a pronoun: Fake indexicals as
windows into the properties of pronouns. Linguistic Inquiry 40:187–237.
doi: 10.1162/ling.2009.40.2.187.
Laka, Itziar. 1993a. The structure of inflection: A case study in X0 syntax. In Generative
studies in Basque linguistics, eds. José Ignacio Hualde and Jon Ortiz de Urbina, 21–70.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Laka, Itziar. 1993b. Unergatives that assign ergative, unaccusatives that assign
accusative. In Papers on Case and agreement I, eds. Jonathan David Bobaljik and
Colin Phillips, 149–172. MIT Working Papers in Linguistics 18. Cambridge, MA: MIT,
MIT Working Papers in Linguistics.
Laka, Itziar. 1996. A brief grammar of Euskara, the Basque Language. Open-
access grammar, ISBN: 84-8373-850-3. Vitoria-Gasteiz: Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea
(University of the Basque Country). url: http://www.ei.ehu.es/p289-content/eu/
contenidos/informacion/grammar_euskara/en_doc/index.html.
Laka, Itziar. 2006. On the nature of Case in Basque: Structural or inherent?
In Organizing grammar, eds. Hans Broekhuis, Norbert Corver, Riny Huybregts,
Ursula Kleinhenz, and Jan Koster, 374–382. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Lamontagne, Greg, and Lisa Travis. 1987. The syntax of adjacency. In Proceedings of
the 6th West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics, ed. Megan Crowhurst, 173–186.
Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.
Landau, Idan. 2006a. Chain resolution in Hebrew V(P)-fronting. Syntax 9:32–66.
doi: 10.1111/j.1467-9612.2006.00084.x.
Landau, Idan. 2006b. Severing the distribution of PRO from case. Syntax 9:153–170.
doi: 10.1111/j.1467-9612.2006.00087.x.
Landau, Idan. 2007. EPP extensions. Linguistic Inquiry 38:485–483.
doi: 10.1162/ling.2007.38.3.485.
Lasnik, Howard, and Mamoru Saito. 1991. On the subject of infinitives. In CLS 27:
Papers from the 27th regional meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society, Vol. 1, The
General Session, eds. Lise M. Dobrin, Lynn Nichols, and Rosa M. Rodriguez, 324–343.
Chicago: University of Chicago, Chicago Linguistic Society.
272 References
Legate, Julie Anne. 2002. Warlpiri: Theoretical implications. Doctoral dissertation,
MIT.
Legate, Julie Anne. 2008. Morphological and abstract case. Linguistic Inquiry
39:55–101. doi: 10.1162/ling.2008.39.1.55.
Levin, Beth. 1983. On the nature of ergativity. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Levin, Theodore, and Omer Preminger. To appear. Case in Sakha: Are two modalities
really necessary? Natural Language and Linguistic Theory.
Lochbihler, Bethany. 2009. Elaborations on cyclic Agree: A window into
morphology/syntax mismatch. Paper presented at NELS 40. To appear in the
proceedings.
López, Luis. 2007. Locality and the architecture of syntactic dependencies. New York:
Palgrave Macmillan.
López, Luis. 2009. A derivational syntax for information structure. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Mallen, Enrique. 1997. A Minimalist approach to concord in noun phrases. Theoretical
Linguistics 23:49–78. doi: 10.1515/thli.1997.23.1-2.49.
Marantz, Alec. 1991. Case and licensing. In Proceedings of the 8th Eastern States
Conference on Linguistics (ESCOL 8), eds. German Westphal, Benjamin Ao, and Hee-
Rahk Chae, 234–253. Columbus: Ohio State University: Department of Linguistics.
Marantz, Alec. 1993. Implications of asymmetries in double object constructions. In
Theoretical aspects of Bantu grammar, ed. Sam A. Mchombo, 113–150. Stanford, CA:
CSLI Publications.
McCarthy, John, and Alan Prince. 1995. Faithfulness and reduplicative identity.
In Papers in Optimality Theory, eds. Jill Beckman, Suzanne Urbanczyk, and
Laura Walsh Dickey, 249–384. University of Massachusetts Occasional Papers in
Linguistics 18. Amherst: University of Massachusetts, Graduate Linguistic Student
Association. url: http://roa.rutgers.edu/view.php3?roa=60.
McCloskey, James. 1977. Conditions on transformations in Modern Irish. In
Proceedings of the 7th annual meeting of the North Eastern Linguistic Society, eds.
Judy Kegl, David Nash, and Annie Zaenen, 49–64.
McCloskey, James. 1979. Transformational syntax and model theoretic semantics: A
case-study in modern Irish. Dordrecht: Reidel.
McCloskey, James. 1990. Resumptive pronouns, A-binding, and levels of representation
in Irish. In Syntax of the modern Celtic languages, ed. Randall Hendrick, 199–248. San
Diego, CA: Academic Press.
McCloskey, James. 2001. The morphosyntax of wh-extraction in Irish. Journal of
Linguistics 37:67–100. doi: 10.1017/S0022226701008775.
McCloskey, James. 2002. Resumption, successive cyclicity, and the locality
of operations. In Derivation and explanation in the Minimalist Program, eds.
Samuel David Epstein and T. Daniel Seely, 184–226. Oxford: Blackwell.
McFadden, Thomas. 2004. The position of morphological case in the derivation:
A study on the syntax-morphology interface. Doctoral dissertation, University of
Pennsylvania.
References 273
McGinnis, Martha. 1998. Locality in A-movement. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
McGinnis, Martha. 2005. On markedness asymmetries in person and number. Language
81:699–718.
Milsark, Gary. 1974. Existential sentences in English. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Mondloch, James L. 1978. Disambiguating subjects and objects in Quiche. Journal of
Mayan Linguistics 1:3–19.
Mondloch, James L. 1981. Voice in Quiche-Maya. Doctoral dissertation, State
University of New York, Albany.
Moore, John. 1998. Turkish copy-raising and A-chain locality. Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 16:149–189.
Moravcsik, Edith A. 1974. Object-verb agreement. In Working papers on language
universals 15, 25–140. Stanford, CA: Stanford University, Department of Linguistics.
Moravcsik, Edith A. 1978. Agreement. In Universals of human language IV: Syntax,
ed. Joseph H. Greenberg, 331–374. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Moro, Andrea. 1991. The raising of predicates: Copula, expletives and existence. In
More papers on wh-movement, eds. Lisa L.-S. Cheng and Hamida Demirdash, 119–181.
MIT Working Papers in Linguistics 15. Cambridge, MA: MIT, MIT Working Papers in
Linguistics.
Moro, Andrea. 1997. The raising of predicates: Predicative noun phrases and the theory
of clause structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Moro, Andrea. 2000. Dynamic antisymmetry: Movement as a symmetry-breaking
phenomenon. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Moro, Andrea. 2007. Some notes on unstable structures. Ms., Harvard University and
Università Vita-Salute San Raffaele. url: http://ling.auf.net/lingBuzz/000454.
Mzolo, D. 1968. The Zulu noun without the initial vowel. African Studies 27:195–210.
Neeleman, Ad, and Hans van de Koot. 2008. Dutch scrambling and the nature of
discourse templates. Journal of Comparative Germanic Linguistics 11:137–189.
Nevins, Andrew Ira. 2004. Derivations without the Activity Condition. In Perspectives
on phases, eds. Martha McGinnis and Norvin Richards, 287–310. MIT Working Papers
in Linguistics 49. Cambridge, MA: MIT, MIT Working Papers in Linguistics.
Nevins, Andrew Ira. 2007. The representation of third person and its consequences
for person-case effects. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 25:273–313.
doi: 10.1007/s11049-006-9017-2.
Nevins, Andrew Ira. 2011. Multiple Agree with clitics: Person complementarity vs.
omnivorous number. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 29:939–971.
doi: 10.1007/s11049-011-9150-4.
Nissenbaum, Jon. 2000. Investigations of covert phrase movement. Doctoral
dissertation, MIT.
Noonan, Máire. 1997. Functional architecture and wh-movement: Irish as a case in
point. Canadian Journal of Linguistics 42:111–139.
Norman, William M., and Lyle Campbell. 1978. Towards a Proto-Mayan syntax:
A comparative perspective on grammar. In Papers in Mayan linguistics, ed.
274 References
Nora C. England, 136–156. Columbia: University of Missouri, Department of
Anthropology.
Norris, Mark. 2011. Agreement in the nominal domain: A view from Icelandic. Ms.,
University of California, Santa Cruz.
Norris, Mark. 2012. Towards an analysis of concord (in Icelandic). In WCCFL 29:
proceedings of the 29th West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics, eds.
Jaehoon Choi, Alan Houge, Jessamyn Schertz, Jeff Punske, Deniz Tat, and
Alex Trueman, 205–213. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Noyer, Rolf. 1997. Features, positions, and affixes in autonomous morphological
structure. New York: Garland.
Ordóñez, Francisco. 1995. The antipassive in Jacaltec: A last resort strategy. Catalan
Working Papers in Linguistics 4:329–343. url: dialnet.uniroja.es/servlet/exemplar?
codigo=97269.
Ortiz de Urbina, Jon. 1989. Parameters in the grammar of Basque. Dordrecht: Foris.
Owens, Jonathan. 1985. A grammar of Harar Oromo (Northeastern Ethiopia):
Including a text and a glossary. Hamburg: Buske Verlag.
Oyharçabal, Bernard. 1993. Verb agreement with non-arguments: On allocutive
agreement. In Generative studies in Basque linguistics, eds. José Ignacio Hualde and
Jon Ortiz de Urbina, 89–114. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Patel, Pritty. 2008. Case and agreement: Syntactic or semantic? Evidence from Kutchi
Gujarati. Handout, MIT.
Perlmutter, David M. 1971. Deep and surface structure constraints in syntax.
New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Pesetsky, David. 1982. Paths and categories. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Pesetsky, David, and Esther Torrego. 2007. The syntax of valuation and the
interpretability of features. In Phrasal and clausal architecture: Syntactic derivation
and interpretation, In honor of Joseph E. Emonds, eds. Simin Karimi, Vida Samiian,
and Wendy Wilkins, 262–294. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Poletto, Cecilia. 2000. The higher functional field. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Polinsky, Maria. 2003. Non-canonical agreement is canonical. Transactions of the
Philological Society 101:279–312.
Polinsky, Maria. 2011. Explaining syntactic ergativity. Paper presented at the Case by
Case Workshop, Paris.
Polinsky, Maria, and Eric Potsdam. 2001. Long-distance agreement and topic in Tsez.
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 19:583–646. doi: 10.1023/A:1010757806504.
Polinsky, Maria, and Omer Preminger. 2014. Case and grammatical relations. In The
Routledge handbook of syntax, eds. Andrew Carnie, Daniel Siddiqi, and Yosuke Sato,
150–166. London: Routledge.
Pollard, Carl, and Ivan A. Sag. 1994. Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Postal, Paul M. 1974. On raising. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
References 275
Preminger, Omer. 2009. Breaking agreements: Distinguishing agreement
and clitic doubling by their failures. Linguistic Inquiry 40:619–666.
doi: 10.1162/ling.2009.40.4.619.
Preminger, Omer. 2010a. Failure to agree is not a failure: ϕ-agreement with
post-verbal subjects in Hebrew. In Linguistic variation yearbook, eds. Jeroen
van Craenenbroeck and Johan Rooryck, vol. 9, 241–278. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
doi: 10.1075/livy.9.07pre.
Preminger, Omer. 2010b. Nested interrogatives and the locus of wh. In The
complementizer phase: Subjects and operators, ed. E. Phoevos Panagiotidis, 200–235.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Preminger, Omer. 2011a. Agreement as a fallible operation. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Preminger, Omer. 2011b. Asymmetries between person and number in syntax: A
commentary on Baker’s SCOPA. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 29:917–937.
doi: 10.1007/s11049-011-9155-z.
Preminger, Omer. 2012. The absence of an implicit object in unergatives: New and old
evidence from Basque. Lingua 122:278–288. doi: 10.1016/j.lingua.2011.04.007.
Preminger, Omer. 2013. That’s not how you agree: A reply to Zeijlstra. The Linguistic
Review 30:491–500. doi: 10.1515/tlr-2013-0015.
Prince, Alan, and Paul Smolensky. 1993. Optimality Theory: Constraint interaction
in generative grammar. Technical Report CU-CS-696-93, and TR-2, Department of
Cognitive Science, University of Colorado at Boulder, and Rutgers Center for Cognitive
Science, Rutgers University.
Pye, Clifton. 1989. The focus antipassive in K’iche’ Mayan. In Studies in Native
American languages V, eds. Jong-Seok Ok and Mubeccel Taneri, 88–98. Kansas
Working Papers in Linguistics 14. Lawrence: University of Kansas, Linguistics
Graduate Student Association.
Pylkkänen, Liina. 2002. Introducing arguments. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Pylkkänen, Liina. 2008. Introducing Arguments. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Rackowski, Andrea. 2002. The structure of Tagalog: Specificity, voice, and the
distribution of arguments. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Rackowski, Andrea, and Norvin Richards. 2005. Phase edge and extraction: A Tagalog
case study. Linguistic Inquiry 36:565–599. doi: 10.1162/002438905774464368.
Reinhart, Tanya. 1981. A second COMP position. In Theory of markedness in
generative grammar, eds. Adriana Belletti, Luciana Brandi, and Luigi Rizzi, 517–557.
Pisa: Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa.
Reuland, Eric. 2011. Anaphora and language design. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Rezac, Milan. 2004. Elements of cyclic syntax: Agree and Merge. Doctoral dissertation,
University of Toronto. url: http://ling.auf.net/lingBuzz/000050.
Rezac, Milan. 2006. Agreement displacement in Basque: Derivational principles and
lexical parameters. Ms., Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea (University of the Basque
Country), Vitoria-Gasteiz. url: http://members.multimania.co.uk/loargann/.
276 References
Rezac, Milan. 2008a. Phi-agree and theta-related case. In Phi theory: Phi-features
across interfaces and modules, eds. Daniel Harbour, David Adger, and Susana Béjar,
83–129. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Rezac, Milan. 2008b. The syntax of eccentric agreement: The Person Case Constraint
and absolutive displacement in Basque. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory
26:61–106. doi: 10.1007/s11049-008-9032-6.
Rezac, Milan. 2010. ϕ-agree versus ϕ-feature movement: Evidence from floating
quantifiers. Linguistic Inquiry 41:496–508. doi: 10.1162/LING_a_00007.
Rezac, Milan, Pablo Albizu, and Ricardo Etxepare. To appear. The structural ergative
of Basque and the theory of case. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory.
Richards, Marc. 2004. Object shift and scrambling in North and West Germanic: A case
study in symmetrical syntax. Doctoral dissertation, University of Cambridge.
Richards, Norvin. 1993. Tagalog and the typology of scrambling. Honors thesis, Cornell
University.
Richards, Norvin. 2001. Movement in language: Interactions and architecture. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Richards, Norvin. 2005. Person-case effects in Tagalog and the nature of long-distance
extraction. Ms., MIT.
Richards, Norvin. 2006. A distinctness condition on linearization. Ms., MIT.
Richards, Norvin. 2010. Uttering trees. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Richards, Norvin. 2012. Lardil “case stacking” and the timing of case assignment.
Syntax 16:42–76. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-9612.2012.00169.x.
Riemsdijk, Henk van. 1978. A case study in syntactic markedness: The binding nature
of prepositional phrases. Dordrecht: Foris.
Ritter, Elizabeth. 1991. Two functional categories in noun phrases: Evidence from
Modern Hebrew. In Perspectives on phrase structure: Heads and licensing, ed.
Susan D. Rothstein, 37–62. San Diego, CA: Academic Press.
Ritter, Elizabeth. 1992. Cross-linguistic evidence for number phrase. Canadian Journal
of Linguistics 37:197–218.
Ritter, Elizabeth, and Martina Wiltschko. 2009. Varieties of INFL: tense, location,
and person. In Alternatives to cartography: The 2nd Brussels Conference on
Generative Linguistics (BCGL2), eds. Hans Broekhuis, Jeroen van Craenenbroeck, and
Henk van Riemsdijk, 153–201. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1982. Violations of the Wh-Island Constraint and the Subjacency
Condition. In Issues in Italian syntax, 49–76. Dordrecht: Foris.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1986. On chain formation. In The syntax of pronominal clitics, ed.
Hagit Borer, 65–95. New York: Academic Press.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1990. Relativized Minimality. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1997. The fine structure of the left periphery. In Elements of grammar, ed.
Liliane Haegeman, 281–337. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Rizzi, Luigi. 2001. Relativized Minimality effects. In The handbook of contemporary
syntactic theory, eds. Mark R. Baltin and Chris Collins, 89–110. Oxford: Blackwell.
References 277
Rizzi, Luigi, and Ur Shlonsky. 2007. Strategies for subject extraction. In Interfaces +
recursion = language? Chomsky’s Minimalism and the view from syntax and semantics,
eds. Uli Sauerland and Hans-Martin Ga̋rtner, 115–160. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Rodrigues, Cilene. 2004. Impoverished morphology and A-movement out of Case
domains. Doctoral dissertation, University of Maryland.
Rooryck, Johan, and Guido Vanden Wyngaerd. 2011. Dissolving binding theory.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Rudin, Catherine. 1988. On multiple questions and multiple Wh-fronting. Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory 6:445–501. doi: 10.1007/BF00134489.
Sam-Colop, Luis Enrique. 1988. Antipassive and 2-3 retreat in K’iche’. Master’s thesis,
University of Iowa.
Schütze, Carson T. 1997. INFL in child and adult language: Agreement, Case, and
licensing. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Schütze, Carson T. 2001a. On Korean “case stacking”: The varied functions of the
particles ka and lul. The Linguistic Review 18:193–232. doi: 10.1515/tlir.2001.001.
Schütze, Carson T. 2001b. On the nature of default case. Syntax 4:205–238.
doi: 10.1111/1467-9612.00044.
Sells, Peter. 1984. Syntax and semantics of resumptive pronouns. Doctoral dissertation,
University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Sells, Peter. 1998. Scandinavian clause structure and object shift. In Proceedings of the
LFG98 Conference, eds. Miriam Butt and Tracy Holloway King. Stanford, CA: CSLI
Publications. url: http://www.stanford.edu/group/cslipublications/cslipublications/
LFG/3/sells/sells.html.
Şener, Serkan. To appear. Non-canonical case marking is canonical: Accusative subjects
in Turkish. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory.
Shlonsky, Ur. 1989. The hierarchical representation of subject-verb agreement. Ms.,
University of Haifa.
Sigurðsson, Halldór Ármann. 1989. Verbal syntax and case in Icelandic in a
comparative GB approach. Doctoral dissertation, University of Lund.
Sigurðsson, Halldór Ármann. 1991. Icelandic case-marked PRO and the licensing of
lexical arguments. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 9:327–363.
Sigurðsson, Halldór Ármann. 1993. Agreement as head visible feature government.
Studia Linguistica 47:32–56.
Sigurðsson, Halldór Ármann. 1996. Icelandic finite verb agreement. Working Papers in
Scandinavian Syntax 57:1–46.
Sigurðsson, Halldór Ármann, and Anders Holmberg. 2008. Icelandic dative
intervention: person and number are separate probes. In Agreement restrictions, eds.
Roberta D’Alessandro, Susann Fischer, and Gunnar Hrafn Hrafnbjargarson, 251–280.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Smith-Stark, Thom. 1978. The Mayan antipassive: Some facts and fictions. In Papers in
Mayan linguistics, ed. Nora C. England, 169–187. Columbia: University of Missouri,
Department of Anthropology.
278 References
Sportiche, Dominique. 1992. Clitic constructions. Ms., UCLA.
Sportiche, Dominique. 1996. Clitic constructions. In Phrase structure and the lexicon,
eds. Johan Rooryck and Laurie Zaring, 213–287. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Sportiche, Dominique. 1998. Partitions and atoms of clause structure: Subjects,
agreement, case and clitics. London: Routledge.
Starke, Michal. 2001. Move dissolves into Merge: A theory of locality. Doctoral
dissertation, University of Geneva. url: http://ling.auf.net/lingBuzz/000002.
Starke, Michal. 2009. Nanosyntax: A short primer to a new approach to language.
Nordlyd 36:1–6.
Stiebels, Barbara. 2006. Agent Focus in Mayan languages. Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 24:501–570. doi: 10.1007/s11049-005-0539-9.
Suñer, Margarita. 1988. The role of agreement in clitic-doubled constructions. Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory 6:391–434. doi: 10.1007/BF00133904.
Svenonius, Peter. 2001. On object shift, scrambling, and the PIC. In A few from Building
E39, eds. Elena Guerzoni and Ora Matushansky, 267–289. MIT Working Papers in
Linguistics 39. Cambridge, MA: MIT, MIT Working Papers in Linguistics.
Szabolcsi, Anna. 2009a. Overt nominative subjects in infinitival complements cross-
linguistically: Data, diagnostics, and preliminary analyses. In Papers in syntax, eds.
Patricia Irwin and Violeta Vázquez Rojas Maldonado. NYU Working Papers in
Linguistics 2. New York: New York University, Department of Linguistics.
Szabolcsi, Anna. 2009b. Overt nominative subjects in infinitival complements in
Hungarian. In Approaches to Hungarian 11: Papers from the 2007 New York
conference, eds. Marcel den Dikken and Robert Vago, 251–276. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Tada, Hiroaki. 1993. A/A-bar partition in derivations. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Taraldsen, Knut Tarald. 1995. On agreement and nominative objects in Icelandic.
In Studies in comparative Germanic syntax, eds. Hubert Haider, Susan Olsen, and
Sten Vikner, 307–327. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Thráinsson, Höskuldur. 1979. On complementation in Icelandic. New York: Garland.
Thráinsson, Höskuldur. 2007. The syntax of Icelandic. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Torrego, Esther. 1996. Experiencers and raising verbs. In Current issues in comparative
grammar, ed. Robert Freidin, 101–120. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Ura, Hiroyuki. 1996. Multiple feature-checking: A theory of grammatical function
splitting. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Uribe-Etxebarria, Miryam. 1989. On noun incorporation in Basque and some of its
consequences in the phrase structure. Ms., University of Connecticut.
Valentine, J. Randolph. 2001. Nishnaabemwin reference grammar. Toronto: University
of Toronto Press.
Van der Spuy, Andrew. 1993. Dislocated noun phrases in Nguni. Lingua 90:335–355.
doi: 10.1016/0024-3841(93)90031-Q.
References 279
Vergnaud, Jean-Roger. 1977. Open letter to Chomsky and Lasnik. url: http://ling.auf.
net/lingBuzz/000461.
Vergnaud, Jean-Roger. 2006. Letter to Noam Chomsky and Howard Lasnik, in 1977. In
Syntax: Critical concepts in linguistics, eds. Robert Freidin and Howard Lasnik, vol. 5,
21–34. London: Routledge.
Vikner, Sten. 1997. The interpretation of object shift, Optimality Theory, and
Minimalism. Working Papers in Scandinavian Syntax 60:1–24.
Vinokurova, Nadya. 2005. Lexical categories and argument structure: A study with
reference to Sakha. Doctoral dissertation, Utrecht University.
Von Staden, P. M. S. 1973. The initial vowel of the noun in Zulu. African Studies
32:163–181.
Walkow, Martin. 2009. A unified analysis of the Person Case Constraint and 3-3 effects
in Barceloní Catalan. Paper presented at NELS 40. To appear in the proceedings.
Webelhuth, Gert. 1992. Principles and parameters of syntactic saturation. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Weisser, Philipp, Gereon Müller, Fabian Heck, Doreen Georgi, and Anke Assmann.
2012. Blocking of ergative movement by maraudage. Ms., Universität Leipzig, Institut
für Linguistik.
Williams, Edwin. 1994. Thematic structure in syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Woolford, Ellen. 1997. Four-way case systems: Ergative, nominative, objective
and accusative. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 15:181–227.
doi: 10.1023/A:1005796113097.
Woolford, Ellen. 2000. Ergative agreement systems. In Proceedings of the Maryland
Mayfest on Morphology 1999, eds. Kleanthes K. Grohmann and Caro Struijke,
157–191. University of Maryland Working Papers in Linguistics 10. College Park:
University of Maryland, Department of Linguistics.
Woolford, Ellen. 2011. PF factors in clitic selection in Tzotzil. In Representing
language: Essays in honor of Judith Aissen, eds. Rodrigo Gutiérrez Bravo,
Line Mikkelsen, and Eric Potsdam, 305–320. Santa Cruz, CA: LRC Publications.
Wurmbrand, Susi. 2001. Infinitives: Restructuring and clause structure. New York:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Wurmbrand, Susi. 2006. Licensing Case. Journal of Germanic Linguistics 18:175–236.
doi: 10.1017/S1470542706000079.
Yip, Moira, Joan Maling, and Ray Jackendoff. 1987. Case in tiers. Language
63:217–250.
Yoon, James. 2004. Non-nominative (major) subjects and case-stacking in Korean. In
Non-nominative subjects, eds. Peri Bhaskararao and K. V. Subbarao, vol. 2, 265–314.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Zaenen, Annie, Joan Maling, and Höskuldur Thráinsson. 1985. Case and grammatical
functions: The Icelandic passive. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 3:441–483.
Zeijlstra, Hedde. 2004. Sentential negation and negative concord. Doctoral dissertation,
University of Amsterdam.
280 References
Zeijlstra, Hedde. 2008a. Modal concord. In Proceedings of the 17th Semantics and
Linguistic Theory conference, eds. Masayuki Gibson and Tova Friedman, 317–332.
url: elanguage.net/journals/salt/article/view/17.317/1857.
Zeijlstra, Hedde. 2008b. Negative concord is syntactic agreement. Ms., University of
Amsterdam. url: http://ling.auf.net/lingBuzz/000645.
Linguistic Inquiry Monographs
Samuel Jay Keyser, General Editor
1. Word Formation in Generative Grammar,
Mark Aronoff
2. X̄ Syntax: A Study of Phrase Structure,
Ray Jackendoff
3. Recent Transformational Studies in European Languages,
S. Jay Keyser, editor
4. Studies in Abstract Phonology,
Edmund Gussmann
5. An Encyclopedia of AUX: A Study of Cross-Linguistic Equivalence,
Susan Steele
6. Some Concepts and Consequences of the Theory of Government and
Binding,
Noam Chomsky
7. The Syntax of Words,
Elisabeth O. Selkirk
8. Syllable Structure and Stress in Spanish: A Nonlinear Analysis,
James W. Harris
9. CV Phonology: A Generative Theory of the Syllable,
George N. Clements and Samuel Jay Keyser
10. On the Nature of Grammatical Relations,
Alec P. Marantz
11. A Grammar of Anaphora,
Joseph Aoun
12. Logical Form: Its Structure and Derivation,
Robert May
282 Linguistic Inquiry Monographs
13. Barriers,
Noam Chomsky
14. On the Definition of Word,
Anna-Maria Di Sciullo and Edwin Williams
15. Japanese Tone Structure,
Janet Pierrehumbert and Mary E. Beckman
16. Relativized Minimality,
Luigi Rizzi
17. Types of Ā-Dependencies,
Guglielmo Cinque
18. Argument Structure,
Jane Grimshaw
19. Locality: A Theory and Some of Its Empirical Consequences,
Maria Rita Manzini
20. Indefinites,
Molly Diesing
21. Syntax of Scope,
Joseph Aoun and Yen-hui Audrey Li
22. Morphology by Itself: Stems and Inflectional Classes,
Mark Aronoff
23. Thematic Structure in Syntax,
Edwin Williams
24. Indices and Identity,
Robert Fiengo and Robert May
25. The Antisymmetry of Syntax,
Richard S. Kayne
26. Unaccusativity: At the Syntax–Lexical Semantics Interface,
Beth Levin and Malka Rappaport Hovav
27. Lexico-Logical Form: A Radically Minimalist Theory,
Michael Brody
28. The Architecture of the Language Faculty,
Ray Jackendoff
29. Local Economy,
Chris Collins
Linguistic Inquiry Monographs 283
30. Surface Structure and Interpretation,
Mark Steedman
31. Elementary Operations and Optimal Derivations,
Hisatsugu Kitahara
32. The Syntax of Nonfinite Complementation: An Economy Approach,
Željko Boškovic̀
33. Prosody, Focus, and Word Order,
Maria Luisa Zubizarreta
34. The Dependencies of Objects,
Esther Torrego
35. Economy and Semantic Interpretation,
Danny Fox
36. What Counts: Focus and Quantification,
Elena Herburger
37. Phrasal Movement and Its Kin,
David Pesetsky
38. Dynamic Antisymmetry,
Andrea Moro
39. Prolegomenon to a Theory of Argument Structure,
Ken Hale and Samuel Jay Keyser
40. Essays on the Representational and Derivational Nature of Grammar:
The Diversity of Wh-Constructions,
Joseph Aoun and Yen-hui Audrey Li
41. Japanese Morphophonemics: Markedness and Word Structure,
Junko Ito and Armin Mester
42. Restriction and Saturation,
Sandra Chung and William A. Ladusaw
43. Linearization of Chains and Sideward Movement,
Jairo Nunes
44. The Syntax of (In)dependence,
Ken Safir
45. Interface Strategies: Optimal and Costly Computations,
Tanya Reinhart
46. Asymmetry in Morphology,
Anna Maria Di Sciullo
284 Linguistic Inquiry Monographs
47. Relators and Linkers: The Syntax of Predication, Predicate Inversion, and
Copulas,
Marcel den Dikken
48. On the Syntactic Composition of Manner and Motion,
Maria Luisa Zubizarreta and Eunjeong Oh
49. Introducing Arguments,
Liina Pylkkänen
50. Where Does Binding Theory Apply?,
David Lebeaux
51. Locality in Minimalist Syntax,
Thomas S. Stroik
52. Distributed Reduplication,
John Frampton
53. The Locative Syntax of Experiencers,
Idan Landau
54. Why Agree? Why Move?: Unifying Agreement-Based and
Discourse-Configurational Languages,
Shigeru Miyagawa
55. Locality in Vowel Harmony,
Andrew Nevins
56. Uttering Trees,
Norvin Richards
57. The Syntax of Adjectives,
Guglielmo Cinque
58. Arguments as Relations,
John Bowers
59. Agreement and Head Movement,
Ian Roberts
60. Localism versus Globalism in Morphology and Phonology,
David Embick
61. Provocative Syntax,
Phil Branigan
62. Anaphora and Language Design,
Eric J. Reuland
Linguistic Inquiry Monographs 285
63. Indefinite Objects: Scrambling, Choice Functions, and Differential
Marking,
Luis López
64. A Syntax of Substance,
David Adger
65. Subjunctive Conditionals,
Michela Ippolito
66. Russian Case Morphology and the Syntactic Categories,
David Pesetsky
67. Classical NEG Raising: An Essay on the Syntax of Negation,
Chris Collins and Paul M. Postal
68. Agreement and Its Failures,
Omer Preminger
Index
A-bar
dependencies, 16–17
operation, prohibition against, 23
restriction, 17, 23
A-movement, 37, 179
A-chain, 37
of dative noun phrase, 142–143,
154–155
A-trace, 37, 107, 154–156
Absolutive agreement. See Kichean
Absolutive agreement morphology. See
Basque
Absolutive antipassive, 17, 22
Abstract case, 179, 184, 234
Activity Condition, 134–136, 201–202
Agent-Focus (AF) construction, 16–23,
45, 63–66, 69. See also Kaqchikel;
Kichean
AF person restriction (see Kichean)
AF suffix, 17, 212
Agreement accessibility, 148, 160, 163.
See also Kichean; Moravcsik
hierarchy
Agreement displacement, 138–141,
151–152
Agreement, definition of, 6
Agreement, “interpretability”-based
account of, 7–8
Applicative arguments, 138–139,
151
Applicative construction, 138, 151
Applicative marker, 212
Applicative unaccusatives. See Basque
Augment. See Zulu
Baker, Mark, 187–197, 200–202
Basque, 32–33, 52–53, 82, 162
absolutive agreement morphology,
118–119, 254n8
adpositional phrases, 119
allocutive agreement, 114
applicative unaccusatives, 32
clitic doubling, 33
dative argument, 36–39
discontinuous expression of ϕ-features,
52–53
ergative agreement morphology, 114
intervention by dative argument, 38
iterative/repetitive construction, 112,
119–120
light-verb construction, 112–113,
118–120
PCC, 32–33
simplex unergative, 113, 117–120
unergative alternation, 112
Bejar, Susana, 34, 36–37, 66, 245–246n3,
249n19
Bobaljik, Jonathan, 144–150, 152–154
Case and agreement, alignment of,
149–150
Case and agreement, causality between,
200
Case assignment, 187
by agreement, 197–198, 200, 203
Case calculus, 204–208
Case competition, 180, 185–187, 192,
194–195, 200, 203, 205–208
Case competitor, 116–117
288 Index
Case dependencies, 116
Case discrimination, 150–167, 174, 178,
183, 197–198, 209, 255n2
property of ϕ-agreement, 130
typology of, 162–164
Case features, 204–205
valuation of, 205
valued, lack of, 208
Case Filter, 197, 201–202, 234
Categorial relativization of probing,
49–50
Category membership, 50
C-command, 96
C-command relation, 205–206
Chol, 138, 151
Clausal periphery, 227
Clausemate, 236–237
Clause union, 153–154
Clitic doubling, 30–34, 50, 52, 55, 58,
66–67, 92–93, 158, 199–200, 211.
See also Basque; Kichean
coarseness property of, 51
of the dative argument, 36–39
as pronominalization, 51
Coargumenthood, 116
Cognitive salience, 124–125
Complementation possibilities of
adjectives, 235
Complementizer, 228–229, 232
Computational lookahead, 232
Conjoint/disjoint alternation. See Zulu
Context-sensitive spell-out, 228
Countercyclicity, 107
Crash-proof, 7, 232
*CrossPhi, 171–172
Cyclicity, 96, 227–228
Dative experiencer, 172
Dative intervention, 129, 141–142, 152,
154–157, 159–161, 166, 170, 174,
183, 237
domains-based approach, 152-155
long-distance agreement as phrasal
movement, 152
Dative noun phrase, functional structure,
137
Dative paradox 133–136, 138, 150–152,
156, 170, 174
“Default” agreement, 137–138, 143, 152.
See also Morphological “default”
morphology, 167, 170, 174
Defective intervention, 133
Definiteness effect (DE), 221–226
Definiteness/specificity, 188
Dependent case, 147, 180, 194, 206–207
Derivational time bombs, 86, 90–93, 95,
111, 231, 233–236, 251n3
Derivational time-bombs model, 6–8, 13
Derived transitive, 17
Differential object marking (DOM), 187
Discontinuous expression of ϕ-features.
See Basque; Tzotzil
Disjunctive case hierarchy, 146–147,
179, 181–182, 185, 204–206, 209
Double agreement, 199, 202–203
English, 168, 221–222, 224, 226
EPP, 233–234
Ergative-absolutive agreement alignment,
16
Ergative-absolutive languages, 145–146
Ergative agreement, 42, 78
Ergative agreement morphology. See
Basque
Ergative case, 77–79
Exceptional case marking (ECM)
construction, 116
Exceptional case marking (ECM)
predicates, 235
Extended verbal projection, 192–193
Failed agreement, 117, 129, 157, 159,
170, 174, 199
descriptive characterization of, 12
Featural coarseness of clitic doubling, 52,
54, 57, 248n17
Feature-geometrical root, 213
Feature geometric valuation, 48–49
Feature geometry 45–47, 50, 247n11.
See also ϕ-feature geometry
Feature percolation, 71–73
Feature-relativization, 108
Feature sharing, 238
Feature valuation, 102
find(f), 96–99, 102, 159
failure of, 97
Index 289
findϕ, 200, 209
findϕ (f), 159–160, 166–168, 175
1st person plural exclusive-versus-
inclusive distinction, 70
French, 142–143, 153, 160, 166–168,
172, 224
Functional shells, 136
Geometry of ϕ-features. See ϕ-feature
geometry
Grammatical function and morphological
case, 144–145, 147
Gratuitous nonagreement, 89–90, 94, 98,
200, 224
Halpert, Claire, 104–108
Harley, Heidi, 45, 70, 157
HaveAgr constraint, 9, 12, 100, 128,
171–172
Hebrew, 6, 98–99, 228–229, 231
Hindi-Urdu, 203
Holmberg, Anders, 245–246n3
Holmberg’s Generalization, 217
Icelandic, 130–132, 143–145, 153–156,
160, 166, 169–172, 179, 181,
216–218, 221–222, 225, 236–237
stylistic fronting, 156
transitive-expletive construction, 132
Idiosyncratic case requirement, 179
Implicational universal, Erg-abs
languages, 146–147
Implicational universal, Nom-acc
languages, 146–147
Implicit object, 113, 115, 117
Incorporation, 196
Indirect object agreement, 37
Inherent case, 77
Interpretability, 86, 93, 100
Interpretive asymmetry, 101
Irish, 228
Iterative/repetitive construction. See
Basque
Kaqchikel, 16, 18–20, 24–26, 40, 42–43,
210
AF, verbal morphology, 62
AF construction, 18–20
agreement markers, 24–26
intransitive, verbal morphology, 76
Kase Phrase, 137, 152
Kichean, 15–16
-(V)n suffix, 17
absolutive agreement, 210
AF, a derivational account, 61–62
AF, clitic doubling, 56
AF, full agreement paradigm, 21
AF construction, 123–124
AF person restriction, 22–24, 64, 66,
69–71, 73, 125, 252n4
agreement accessibility, 211
ergative markers, 211
indirect objects, 42–43
intransitive clauses, 75
morpheme order, 16, 210
morphophonological properties of
agreement markers, 127
notional Source/Goal argument,
42–43, 45
structure of the AF clause, 55
transitive clauses, 77–78
K’ichee, 17
formal addressee pronoun, 124–125
Last-resort repair mechanism, 89–90, 94
Lexical/oblique case, 146, 180, 200,
204–205, 212
Licensing-by-agreement, 108
Licensing of noun phrases, 234
Light-verb construction. See Basque
Locality, 192
Locatives, 105
Long-distance wh-movement, 227
Marantz, Alec, 146, 178–180, 182–183,
185
Marked case features, 213
McGinnis, Martha, 71, 250n25
M-command, 207
Minimality, 10, 98–99, 108–109,
139–140, 152, 165–167, 229
minimality effects, 9
Moravcsik hierarchy, 144–145, 147–150,
171
revised, 151–152, 156, 160, 163,
175, 209
290 Index
Morphological case, 182–184, 186, 208,
256n11
Morphological competition, 23, 59,
76, 83
Morphological “default,” 183, 237
morphological “default” form, 166
Morphophonological properties of
agreement markers. See Kichean
Movement of the object out of VP, 188
Movement to canonical subject position
(MtoCSP), 129, 161–165, 167–170,
173, 175, 183, 186, 208–209,
223–226, 234
Multiple Agree, 67–71, 90–91, 110
Negative polarity item. See Zulu
Nepali, 147–148, 163
Nominative case, 161–162
Nonoblique coargument, 115
Non-quirky-subject language, 129,
165–166, 168, 183–184, 223
Number probing, 38, 55
Object shift (OS), 216–221
Obligatoriness of ϕ-agreement, 86, 88,
91, 100
Obligatory-operations approach, 159, 170
Obligatory-operations logic, 226, 229,
251n3
Obligatory-operations model, 9–11, 96,
220, 224–225, 232
*OblTarget, 171–172
Omnivorous agreement, 22, 40, 42, 47,
50, 72, 108, 118–119
Optimality Theory, 9
Order of probing for person and number,
34. See also Separability of person
and number
Overgeneration-followed-by-filtration,
232
Person Case Constraint (PCC), 29, 31,
36, 38–39, 66, 154. See also Basque,
PCC
Person Licensing Condition (PLC), 36,
39, 63–64, 66, 88, 95, 235–238, 252n4
Person probe, 55
Person probing of dative, 37
ϕ-agreement, definition of, 6
ϕ-agreement, modular locus of, 150
ϕ-agreement and MtoCSP, feeding
relation between, 184
ϕ-agreement by a single ϕ-probe, 162
ϕ-feature geometry, 44–46, 70–71, 138,
157–158, 198–199
ϕ-features on P0
DAT, 137
ϕ-feature valuation, 132
Plurality, the encoding of, 26
Possessor/possessive/genitive agreement,
42
PP as a locality domain, 137
PP layer, 137, 152
“Primary-/secondary-object” languages,
139, 141
Probe-goal theory, 101
“Proleptic object,” 136
Pseudo-incorporation. See Incorporation
“Pure” agreement, 158
versus clitic doubling, diagnostic for,
158, 199
Quirky case, 144
Quirky-case assigner, 181
Quirky subject, 144–145, 161
Quirky-subject language, 129, 142,
165–166, 183–184, 223
Raising-to-object construction, 189
Reduced pronouns, 58
Relational noun, 42
Relativized Minimality, 41
Relativized probing, 42, 44, 48–49, 61,
64, 211–212
effects, subset-superset relation, 45
skipping property of, 62
Restructuring, 153–154
Rezac, Milan, 34, 36–37, 66, 245–246n3,
249n19
Ritter, Elizabeth, 45, 70, 157
Root transitive, 17
Sakha, 187–203
accusative case marking, 188–189
accusative-marked NPI, 191
genitive, 196–197
participial relative, 196
Index 291
passives, 189
possessive agreement, 197,
199–200
possessive ϕ-probe, 198–200
PRO, 189
raising-to-accusative, 189–191
transitivity alternation, 193
Salience hierarchy/scale, 21, 23, 27, 67,
123–125
Separability of person and number, 79, 82
Sigurðsson, Halldór Ármann, 245–246n3
Skipping effects, 45–46
subset-superset relation among, 46
Specificity, 216–221
Speech act participants, 36
Strong pronouns, 25–26, 58, 62, 67, 126
Structural height, 148–149
Subject position, ability to move to,
221–222
Syntactic obligatoriness, 233
Tagalog, 218–219
TAM-invariant, 79, 249n21
TAM markers, 101–102
“3rd person singular” morphemes, 213
“3rd person singular” morphology, 185.
See also “Default” agreement;
Morphological “default”
Traces of A-moved phrases, 108, 110
Transitive auxiliary, 113
Transitivity, 113
True intransitives, unergatives as, 117
Tsez, 135–136, 146
Two internal arguments, structure, 35, 37,
51–52
Tzotzil, 79
discontinuous expression of ϕ-features,
81
Tz’utujil, 22
Uninterpretable features, 86–91, 95, 102,
111, 223, 235
uninterpretable [participant] feature,
93–94
uninterpretable [plural] feature,
86–87
Unmarked case, 147, 180–181, 200,
207–208, 210, 212
Valuation, 238
as a feature geometric notion, 47
in feature-relativization, 109
Vinokurova, Nadya, 187–197, 200–202
Violable constraints, logic of, 172
Violable-constraints model, 8–9, 12,
99–100, 128, 170–173
vP/VP-Internal Subject Hypothesis, 41
Wh-movement out of interrogatives,
228
Wh-probe, 40–41
Wh-probing, 133
Zulu, 103–111
augment, 106
augmented nominal, 127
augmentless nominal, 106–110, 127
conjoint/disjoint alternation, 104–105,
109
negative polarity item, 106
