12 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
tion (e.g., possible to be) is formed by adding negation to the MODE (not
p.ossible to be) and not to the verb (possible not to be). The resultant analy-
SIS may be represented, as pointed out by Cajetan (Oesterle 1962: 207) and
other medieval commentators, in the form of a square of modal opposition
superimposable onto the standard square in (3) above:
(6)
necessarily (p) impossible (p) [= necessarily not (p)]
A~'rn/E
contradictories
/~
I 0
possibly (p)
not necessarily (p) [=possibly not (p)]
While Aristotle's treatment of contradiction and contrariety for singular,
quantified, and modal propositions is relatively clear and consistent, some
troublesome questions remain. First, what relation, if any, obtains between
a given universal (or necessary) predication and the corresponding particu-
lar (or possible) predication? That is, what is the opposition relating A and
I (or E and 0) propositions? Secondly, just what is the relation Aristotle
takes to obtain between the contradictories-of-contraries, the 1/0 relation
later known-based on the topographic fact that these vertices are literally
below the contraries-as SUBCONTRARIETY?
On the first question Aristotle generally maintains a discreet silence (es-
pecially for the ASSERTORIC, nonmodal propositions), the possible motiva-
tion for which I shall return to in §1.1.3 below. He does, however, note at
De Interpretatione 22b12 that 'when it is necessary that a thing should be,
it is possible that it should be', which might suggest that the relation be-
tween the A and I vertices, at least for the modals, is logical entailment
(known as SUBALTERNATION in medieval commentaries on the Square).
But this claim runs up against the observation in the earlier passage that
whatever is capable of being cut or walking is also capable of not being cut
or not walking. Indeed, the latter observation yields Aristotle's law of COM-
PLEMENTARY CONVERSION (Pr. An. I, chap. 32), licensing the inference of
an O~type modal proposition from the corresponding I-type proposition,
and vice versa. In the same spirit, we have seen that for Aristotle the corre-
sponding I-type and O-type particular statements (Some As are B 1Some
As are not B [= Not all As are BJ) are taken to be merely 'verbally op-
posed' (Pr. An. 63b27-28).
Whence the difficulty from which modal logic did not fully emerge until
1.1 Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 13
the modem development offormal pragmatics.. Based.on the p~ssage at De
Interpretatione 22b12 (what~ver is necess~y IS posslbl~), An~totl~ c~u~d
·d tify the possible as the Simple contradictory of the ImpoSSible, thiS IS
len 0 ·hp.A
what we now know as ONE-SIDED POSSIBILITY. r'd~s I~ tenor na-
lytics, he could choose the narrower, TWO-SIDED rea mg:
I use the terms 'to b~ possible' and 'the possible' of that which
is not necessary but, being assumed, results in nothing impos-
sible.... That which is possible then will not be necessary.
(Pr. An. 32aI8-28)
Aristotle here leans noticeably toward the two-sided definition (cf. also
De Int. 22b20: 'If a thing may be, it may also not be'), yet in the sru:ne
Prior Analytics passage (at 32a20) he concedes that 'w~ say in~eed am~lg­
uously of the necessary that it is possible', and while thiS ~ne-slded readmg
is rejected here, it figures essentially in the modal syllogisms of ~e I~ter-
retatione, chapters 12 and 13.10 Thus for Aristotle there are two situations
fn which something is said to be possible, as the scale in (7) suggests (cf.
Hintikka 1960 and Horn 1972, 1973 for elaboration):
(7) 0
~__________~A~____________~
impossible neither necessary
nor impossible
~----......,vr-----~
~
necessary
If impossibility and necessity are taken as mediate cont~aries, as ~ris­
totle assumes, then two-sided possibility is their intermediate; one-Sided
possibility is the true contradictory of impossibility. But t?e ambig~ity of
Aristotle's possibility is more pernicious than it is systematic. In particular,
the incompatibility of the necessary II- possible entailment (~e ~nt: 22bll)
and the possible --> possible not (= not necessary) conversion IS Ignored,
resulting in the apparent chaos laid out in the argument in (8): 11
(8) (i) OFa - OFa [De Int. 22bll; Pro An. 32a20]
(ii) OFa - O-Fa [De Int. 21b12, 21b35, 22b20; Pro An.
32a29]
(iii) :. OFa - O-Fa (by detachment)
(or equivalently OFa - -OFa, given that not necessary
= possible not)
Thus whatever is necessarily true (Socrates is Socrates, 2 + 2 = 4)
would be possibly not true, that is, not necessarily true~a modal log~­
cian's nightmare. Aristotle himself was not unaware of thiS result of hiS
14 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
reasoning: 'It comes about, therefore, that the thing which must neces-
sarily be need not be, which is absurd' (De Int. 22bI6); 'And thus it would
follow that a thing which must necessarily be may possibly not be; which
is false' (22b34). Unfortunately, all he could extricate from the morass was
the observation that 'That which is necessary is also possible, though not in
every sense in which the word is used' (22b17-18). The problem is dis-
missed rather than solved.
But concealed within the vagueness of this summation is the germ of a
tenable Aristotelian solution to the puzzle (cf. Ackrill 1963: 152): the en-
tailment in (8i) applies to one-sided possibility alone, the bilateral sense
being incompatible with complementary conversion (as (7) suggests),
while the conversion in (8ii) is restricted to two-sided possibility. From
(9) (i) DFa ~ <9Fa
(ii) 0Fa ~ 0-Fa
no unwelcome inferences emerge.
It will be observed that only one-sided possibility (<9Fa) truly maps
onto the I (southwest) corner of the Square in (6); the bilateral sense (0Fa)
represents a conjunction of the I and 0 vertices. Theophrastus (The Old
Peripatetic, second century B.C.), who-in rejecting the conversion prin-
ciple along with the two-sided possibility modal engaging it-struck the
mold for virtually all post-Aristotelian modal logicians, anticipated mod-
ern practice by defining a secondary modal notion of CONTINGENCY along
just these lines:
(10) contingent (p) = df Op " O-p [where 0 is equivalent to Aris-
totle's <9]
Thus, for Theophrastus and his heirs, the possible has become strictly the
not impossible, and the necessary II- possible entailment (but not comple-
mentary conversion) can be retained.
Aristotle's two negations
Throughout his exposition of contradiction, contrariety, and (what we now
know as) subcontrariety, Aristotle assumes a framework based on a logic
of TERMS, rather than the now far more familiar logic of PROPOSITIONS. In
term logic (cf. Sommer~ 1970, Englebretsen 1981a, 198Ib), all statements
are categorical, consisting of something (the SUBJECT) about which some-
thing (the PREDICATE) is affirmed or denied.
Subject and predicate may be complex, allowing for internal connectives
(e.g., conjunction and disjunction, along with negation), but there is no
provision for external operators. The negative, hypothetical, and disjunc-
tive judgments at the heart of nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century trea-
I. I Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 15
tises on logic, along with the unary and binary propositional connectives
of modern (post-Fregean) symbolic logic, simply do not exist in the term
logic of Aristotle or his Peripatetic followers. Nevertheless, the modern di-
chotomy of INTERNAL vs. EXTERNAL NEGATION can be traced back directly
to the Stagirite.
The solution to this apparent paradox involves the exploitation of one of
the oldest weapons in the philosopher's arsenal: scope distinctions. We
have seen that predicate denial-A is not B-has for Aristotle the appro-
priate semantics for contradictory negation; it is true if and only if the cor-
responding affirmation-A is B-is false. It is for this reason that denying
a predicate of a nonexistent subject results in a true statement (e.g., Soc-
rates is not ill, The king ofFrance is not bald). Yet Aristotle was as aware
as Russell was, two millennia later, that statements of this type are not al-
ways judged true when their subject phrases fail to denote. Under these
circumstances, we seem to be ascribing a negative property (e.g., being
not-ill) to a subject (Socrates) that does not exist-and negative attributes
are no more ascribable to nonexistent subjects than are positive attributes.
I shall discuss Russell's solution in §2.2. Aristotle's analysis begins with
the premise that in a copular sentence, the predicate (e.g., is ill) consists of
a predicate term (ill) together with the copula. We have seen that the entire
predicate may be affirmed or denied of the subject, resulting in the latter
case in contradictory negation (Socrates is not ill). But alongside ordinary
predicate denial, Aristotle acknowledges the existence of TERM NEGATION,
in which a negative predicate term (not-ill) is affirmed of a subject.
In addition to ordinary subject and predicate names we must therefore
countenance INFINITE or INDEFINITE names, consisting of a term negation
and the term it negates, for example, not-man, not-ill, not-recovers. This
approach yields a means for distinguishing a false proposition involving
term negation (e.g., (lIb» from the closely related true proposition (lla)
involving predicate denial:
(II) a. Socrates is not ill.
b. Socrates is not-ill.
(Le., Socrates [is not] ill.)
(Le., Socrates is [not ill].)
It should be borne in mind that for Aristotle and his Greek- and Latin-
writing commentators, the distinction between affirming a negative term
and denying a positive term (or predicate) was not signaled by hyphens or
brackets but by word order-that is, syntactic scope. Thus the real contrast
cited above12
was, for the ancients, more literally that between (II'a, b):13
(II') a. Socrates ill not is.
b. Socrates not ill is.
(normal word order, T if Socrates
does not exist)
(marked word order, F if Socrates
does not exist)
16 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
Given both predicate denial and term negation, we thus obtain four pos-
sible statement types: 'The verb "is" is added either to the ierm "just" or
to the term "not-just", and two negative propositions are formed in the
same way' (De Int. 19b24-25). Based on the four, Aristotle defines a gen-
eralized square of opposition for affirmation and negation, which I can
render as follows (De Int. 19b18-30; cf. McCall 1967a: 121; Englebretsen
1976:535):
(12) A: 'II contraries .. E:
S;, p~ / S ; ' oot-P
contradictories
/~
I: subcontraries 0:
S is not not-P S is not P
As required, a proposition forms its contradictory opposite by ordinary
predicate denial, while a given positive predication and the corresponding
infinite predication represent contraries rather than contradictories, since
they may be simultaneously false, namely, when the subject term fails to
denote or when it is not the sort of thing which can be characterized by the
predicate (cf. §2.3 below). 14
But what sort of predication is S is not-P, and what is its relation to the
corresponding predicate denial, S is not P? The key passage (Pr. An. I,
46: 51b36-52a17) begins as follows:
In establishing or refuting, it makes some difference whether we
suppose the expressions 'not to be this' and 'to be not-this' are
identical or different in meaning, e.g., 'not to be white' and 'to be
not-white'. For they do not mean the same thing, nor is 'to be not-
white' the negation of 'to be white', but 'not to be white' [is].
For Aristotle, (13a) is to (13b) as (13'a) is to (13'b)
(13) a. It is white.
b. It is not-white.
(13') a. He {can/is able to} walk.
b. He {can/is able to} not-walk.
(Pr. An. 51b5-1O)
But (13'b) is clearly not the (contradictory) negation of (13'a), since if it
were, 'capacity to walk and incapacity to walk wiII belong at the same time
to the same person', given that 'the same man can both walk and not walk',
1.1 Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 17
whereas the definition of contradictory opposition requires that 'an affirma-
tion and a denial which are opposed to one another do not belong at the
same time to the same thing'. Given his stipulated correspondence between
the two pairs above, Aristotle concludes that (13a, b), like (13'a, b), can-
not be contradictory opposites. 15
Furthermore, an infinite negative term
like not-equal corresponds directly to the privative unequal, which clearly
does not reduce to the predicate denial not equal, for 'not everything is
either equal or unequal, but everything is equal or is not equal' .16
The next argument is based directly on the scope of negation:
The expression 'it is a not-white log' and 'it is not a white log' do
not imply one another's truth. For if 'it is a not-white log', it must
be a log: but that which is not a white log need not be a log at all.
(Pr. An. 51b28-32)
Socrates is clearly not a white log, but he is not a not-white log either.
In conclusion, then, 'It is clear that "it is not-good" is not the denial of
"it is good'" (51b32). But then what is it? Since every (declarative) state-
ment is either an affirmation or a negation, 'if it is not a negation, it must
be in some sense an affirmation'. But every affirmation has a correspond-
ing negation. The negation then of 'it is not-good' is 'it is not not-good'
(51b33-36), whence the arrangement of the generalized square in (12).
Notice also that while predicate denials (It is not good, Socrates is not ill)
cannot be negated in Aristotle's system, predicates with negative terms (is
not-good, is not-ill) can themselves be denied as well as affirmed of a sub-
ject. But the denial of a negative does not reduce to a simple affirmation.
While A is not-B and A is not B do not 'imply one another's truth'
(51b29), the former does imply the latter:
If it is true to say 'it is not-white', it is true also to say 'it is not
white': for it is impossible that a thing should simultaneously be
white and be not-white; if the affirmation does not belong, the de-
nial must belong. (51b42-52a4)
But as we have seen, the converse does not hold: A may be neither B nor
not-B. Band not-B can both fail to apply to a given subject, but cannot
both apply at the same time. Thus the unilateral SUBALTERN relation, corre-
sponding to one-way logical entailment, can be established between the E
and 0 vertices of (12), the generalized square.
The system of opposition described in Prior Analytics I, chapter 46 and
summarized here is both insightful and internally consistent; its echoes can
be heard in Jespersen's distinction between NEXAL negation (not happy)
and SPECIAL negation (unhappy), Von Wright et al.'s distinction of WEAK
(contradictory) vs. STRONG (contrary) negation, and Jackendoff's semantic
revision of Klima's categories of SENTENTIAL vs. CONSTITUENT negation.
18 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
In each case, a negative marker whose scope is narrower than the proposi-
tion determines a statement which is, as Aristotle observes, 'in some sense
an affirmation', rather than a simple negation or proposition-level denial.
But some inconsistency does arise. Consider the two exchanges below
(De Int. 20aI6-30):
(14) (i) Is Socrates wise?
(ii) No.
(iii) Then Socrates is not-wise.
(14') (i) Is every man wise?
(ii) No.
(iii) Then every man is
not-wise.
The conclusion in (14'iii) clearly does not follow; instead, all that can
properly be inferred is the weaker Not every man is wise: 'This last is the
contradictory, the former [14'iii] the contrary [of the universal affirmative
Every man is wise]' (20a30). So far so good; but in the earlier exchange,
(14), the conclusion (l4iii) is held to follow (20a25-27). How can this be,
in the light of the argument in Pro An. 1,46 (or, for that matter, the argu-
ment here at De Int. 19bI8-30) that A is not-B constitutes the contrary
rather than the contradictory of A is B? In particular, how can (14iii) be
warranted from (14i, ii) if Socrates does not exist (cf. Cat. 13bI7-19)?
Or, given Aristotle's semantics, if Socrates is a newborn infant, incapable
of being either wise or not-wise?
The best guess is probably that of Thompson (1953: 256, n. 8): 'We
must interpret this remark as assuming that the question (i.e. [14iD would
not be asked ifSocrates were nonexistent'. Or perhaps (and this suggestion
is not incompatible with Thompson's) Aristotle simply loses sight of the
fallacy in (14) in his eagerness to focus on the essential point for the cur-
rent discussion, the salient contrast between singular expressions (e.g.,
Socrates) and general or quantified expressions (e.g., every man).17
LC and LEM: Toward a formal definition of contradiction
and contrariety
The twin foundations of Aristotle:s logic of opposition are the two prin-
ciples known today as the LAW OF CONTRADICTION (LC) and the LAW OF
(THE) EXCLUDED MIDDLE (LEM).IS These are taken to be basic, undemon-
strable principles; as his two instances of 'the common doctrines from
which all men prove something' (Met. 996bI8-30), Aristotle gives LC ('It
is impossible to be and not to be at the same time') and LEM ('In every
case we must either affirm or deny'). 'The most certain principle of all' is
LC, the rule that 'the same thing cannot at the same time both belong and
not belong to the same object and in the same respect' (Met. 1005b19- 23). 19
Crucially, LC applies to both contradictory and contrary oppositions:
I. I Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 19
Since it is impossible for contradictories to be truly said of the
same object at the same time, it is evident that neither can con-
traries belong to the same object at the same time.20
(Met. 1011b17-19)
There are some who would challenge the status of LC as an undemon-
strable axiom-or even as a valid law. For these individuals Aristotle re-
serves his harshest vituperation. Those who stubbornly demand a proof of
LC do so simply 'because they lack education': since 'a demonstration of
everything is impossible', resulting as it would in infinite regress, at least
some principles or axioms (axiomata) must be taken as primitive rather
than derived from other propositions-and what principle more merits this
status than LC? (1006a6-12).21
Aristotle acknowledges that some, including Sophists, Pythagoreans,
and 'even many physicists' claim that it is possible for the same thing to be
and not to be at the same time and in the same respect.22 But such a position
self-destructs 'if only our opponent says something', since as soon as he
opens his mouth to make an assertion, any assertion, he must accept LC.
But what if he does not open his mouth? Against such an individual 'it is
ridiculous to seek an argument', for such a man-insofar as he responds
with silence-is no more than a vegetable (lOO6al-15).
The same point is made in a later section of Book f: one may choose to
reject the basic criterion of contradictory opposition, namely, 'that the de-
nial is false whenever the affirmation is true, and the affirmation is false
whenever the denial is true', believing instead 'that all speak alike falsely
and truly'. (Judge not, lest ye be judged.) But such a man, however noble
and generous his spirit, 'can neither speak nor mean anything': 'If he has
no beliefofanything, how would he differ from a plant?' (1008a35-bI2).23
Contradictory opposition is governed by LEM as well as LC: the denial
is true whenever the affirmation is false, and the affirmation is true when
the denial is false. In other words, a corresponding affirmation and denial
cannot both be true, by LC, but neither can they both be false, by LEM:
'There cannot be anything between two contradictories, but of anyone
subject, one thing must either be affirmed or denied' (1011b23-24; cf.
1057a35). Thus, in general, for any two contradictories, 'one of the two
must be true and the other false' (De Int. 18a31), or at least this is so if we
ignore the case of contingent propositions about the future (cf. §2.1). Of
course while LC applies to both contradictory and contrary oppositions,
LEM holds only for contradictories: 'Nothing can exist between two con-
tradictories, but something may exist between contraries' (Met. 1055b2).
LEM is one of Aristotle's first principles, if perhaps not as first a prin-
ciple as LC. Just as Heraclitus's anti-LC position, 'that everything is and
20 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
is not, seems to make everything true', so too Anaxagoras's anti-LEM
stance, 'that an intermediate exists between two contradictories, makes
everything false' (Met. 1012a25-29).
Before closing this section, I might try to determine how these two in-
demonstrable principles governing Aristotle's negation are to be repre-
sented in modern notation. The standard versions of LC and LEM (as in the
Principia, Whitehead and Russell 1910; cf. Russell 1940: 259) are given
as in (15a) and (15b) respectively:
(15) a. -(p A -p) [LCprop]
b. p v -p [LEMprop]
A semantic version of these laws is offered by Lukasiewicz (1922):
(15') a. Two contradictory sentences are not true together. [LCprop/sem]
b. Two contradictory sentences are not false together.
[LEMprop/sem]
But, as Rescher (1969: 149) and Geach ([1972] 1980:74-75) indepen-
dently point out, these formulations, employing the 'rather sophisticated'
notion of propositional negation (Geach [1972] 1980:75), are less basic-
and less faithful to the traditional conception of the laws-than the quan-
tified (term-based) versions in (16): 24
(16) a. -3x(Px A -Px) [LCterm] (or its equivalent, Vx-(Px A -Px))
b. Vx(Px v -Px) [LEMterm]
Thus, LC is read not as the (propositional logic) principle that no state-
ment can be true simultaneously with its negation, but as the (term logic)
law that nothing can be both P and not P. In the same way, LEM is not the
principle that every statement is either true or has a true negation, but the
law that everything is either P or not P ('* not-P). For any object x, either
x is red or x is not red (but x may be neither red nor not-red: if, for in-
stance, x is a unicorn or a prime number).
Notice that P acts like a predicate variable rather than a predicate con-
stant in the formulas of (16). We can remedy this by taking LC and LEM as
statements of second-order predicate logic, following Barnes (1969) and
Lear (1980), who offer (16'a) as a representation of the traditional Law of
Contradiction; the corresponding version ofLEM would appear as in (16'b).
(16') a. (VP)(Vx)-(Px A -Px)
b. (VP)(Vx)(Px v -Px)
The version of LC implied in at least one of Aristotle's instantiations of
the law-that at Metaphysics 1006b33-34, whose literal equivalent is
rendered by Dancy (1975: 162) as 'It is not possible for it to be true to say
1.1 Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 21
at the same time of the same thing that it is a man and not a man'-requires
a more complex formalization, one involving operators for possibility and
truth and allowing quantification over time.25
But whatever formulation we
choose, we should be aware that any translation of the term logic operation
of predicate denial into the one-place truth-functional connective of propo-
sitional (or sentence) negation cannot faithfully render Aristotle's vision.
1.1.2 The Stoic Opposition
Aristotle's analysis of negation, as we have seen, hinges on the distinction
between contradictory opposition, characterized by LC and LEM, and con-
trary opposition, characterized by LC but not LEM. Predicate denial-in
which the entire predicate is negated-results in contradictory negation.
Predicate term negation-in which a negative verb is affirmed of the sub-
ject-results in a contrary affirmation. Thus, there is strictly speaking no
EXTERNAL, propositional negation as such, but two syntactically and se-
mantically distinct types of INTERNAL negation.
Propositional negation originated with the Stoics. While Aristotle and
his followers of the Peripatetic school practiced a term logic, using term .
variables and restricting themselves to categorical (subject/predicate) state-
ments, their Stoic rivals developed the first propositional logic, employing
logical constants and propositional variables in the style of modern formal
logic and allowing both hypothetical (if p then q) and disjunctive (p or q)
propositions. The modern Fregean theory of logical deduction traces back,
not to Aristotle's syllogistic, but to the Stoic model of syllogism, formu-
lated as rules of inference, via the medieval theory of consequences de-
rived from the Stoics (cf. Lukasiewicz 1934; Mates 1953).
Alongside the standard binary connectives in the Stoic inventory of
truth-functional propositional operators figures the one-place negative con-
nective.26
In fact, the Stoics-in work transmitted by Diogenes Laertius
(Mates 1953: 31ff.; cf. Sullivan 1967: 41-42)-distinguished three varie-
ties of negation, none of them corresponding exactly to Aristotle's predi-
cate denial:
(17) a. DENIAL (arnetikon), composed of a 'denying particle' and a
predicate: No one is walking.
b. PRIVATION (steretikon), formed from an atomic proposition
by reversing the predicate: This man is unkind. (cf. Aris-
totle's predicate term negation)
c. NEGATION (apophatikon), a negative proposition formed
from an atomic or complex proposition by prefixing oukhi
'not': Not: it is day.
22 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
As a contradictory operator, the Stoics' apaphatikon might be thought
to be a notational variant of the predicate denial of term logic. But there
are important differences. While Aristotle certainly countenanced multiple
negation, generating even such unlikely sequences as Not man is not nat-
just (De Int. 19b36), each proposition may contain only one instance of
predicate denial (juxtaposed here with both a negated subject term and a
negated predicate term). The reason is obvious: each proposition may con-
tain only one predicate. Contradictory negation is essentially introduced
syncategorematically by Aristotle, in such a way as to be incapable of ap-
plying to its own output.
The Stoics' negation, on the other hand, is an external operator which
can be attached iteratively, as its wielders were well aware. Two negations
will indeed cancel out, although a negation will not cancel a privation, any
more than a predicate denial will cancel a predicate term negation in the
Organon (Socrates is just entails, but is not entailed by, Socrates is not not-
just). True double negation is always the negation of a negation, which
posits the corresponding simple positive proposition (Duplex negatio affir-
mat). For the Stoic Alexander of Aphrodisias, 'Not: not: it is day differs
from it is day only in manner of speech' (Mates 1953: 126). Thus the LAW
OF DOUBLE NEGATION (LDN) is born in the propositional logic of the
Stoics and not in the term logic of the Aristotelians.27
The Stoics can also be credited with the first discussion of the scope of
negation (although this notion is implicit in Aristotle, as we have seen), if
not of scope simpliciter, in Western logic (cf. Kneale and Kneale 1962:
147). Sextus Empiricus recognizes that for one proposition to constitute
the contradictory negation of another it is not sufficient that it merely ex-
ceed the other by a negative element. Rather, the two are contradictories
only 'if the following condition is satisfied: the negative is prefixed to the
proposition in question, for in that case the negative has scope over [or
GOVERNs-kyrieuei] the whole proposition'. Hence, the negation of it is
day and it is light must be not: it is day and it is light rather than it is day
and it is not light. In the latter case, 'the negative does not have scope
enough to negate the whole proposition, since it is inside the proposition'
(Adv. Math. 8, 89ff., cited in Mates 1953:95).
The prefixed oukhi (or auk) + S formula constituting the Stoics' propo-
sitional negation mayor may not have been a theoretical fiction. Mates
(1953 :31) argues that this form is more natural in Greek than is its English
equivalent, but Geach ([1972] 1980:75) begs to differ:
The negation Aristotle was interested in was predicate-negation;
propositional negation was as foreign to ordinary Greek as to ordi-
nary English, and he never attained to a distinct conception of it.
1.1 Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 23
The Stoics did reach such a convention, but in doing so they vio-
lated accepted Greek usage; their use of an initial ovXi must have
read just as oddly as sentences like 'Not: the sun is shining' do in
English.
Unfortunately, no classical Greek informants survive to support either
Mates and the Stoics or Geach and the Peripatetics.
From the monasteries of the medieval period to the academic corridors
of our own, the debate has raged on over the relative priority of the term
logic and categorical syllogisms of Aristotle vs. the propositional logic and
hypothetical syllogisms of the Stoics. One contemporary philosopher has
no trouble reaching a verdict: 'We know today that propositional logic is
logically prior to the logic of terms' (Lukasiewicz 1934:79). The two-
valued logic of propositions, 'founded by the Stoics, carried on by the
Scholastics, and axiomatized by Frege' (1934: 87) has indeed carried the
field, as Lukasiewicz points out. But others remain unconvinced: the work
of Sommers and Englebretsen offers a spirited defense of term logic, and I
shall essay my own in chapter 7 below.
The standard concept of negation in modern symbolic logic is substan-
tially a direct extension of the Stoics' treatment of apophatikon; Aristotle's
predicate denial and term negation-along with the Stoics' denial and pri-
vation operators-have been banished into Parmenides' forbidden realm of
nonbeing. Whether external propositional negation is sufficient-or, dare
we ask, necessary-for dealing with the varied panoply ofnegation in natu-
rallanguage is a question to which I must return in this and later chapters.
1.1.3 Existential Import and the Square of Opposition
One thread left hanging in my exploration of the Square in §1.1.1 (repre-
s~~ted in (3), repeated here) was the relation between the universal propo-
SItIOn and the corresponding particular (i.e., between A and I, and between
E and 0).
(3)
[affirmations] [negations]
[u"''''~'''l A~ntnui" / 'E ~.~::;:::i~::::::.~, ro~
/ ' men are white
?adiC~ ~~ ~~t~~~~::~t~s white, .
/ ' ~ some men are not white
[particulars] I (subcontraries) 0
24 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
For the corresponding modal oppositions (cf. (6», Aristotle did posit en-
tailment between necessity and possibility (at least some of the time). But
the parallel entailment from All S is P to Some S is P is never stated in the
Organon; the first citation of this SUBALTERN relation is given by Apuleius
in his Peri Hermenias (2d century A.D.) and is then taken up by Boethius
(5th century) and later commentators (cf. Sullivan 1967 for discussion).
One reason for this apparent oversight may have been the issue of EXIS-
TENTIAL IMPORT, as it has come to be known: what are the truth conditions
for A, I, E, and 0 propositions when their subject terms fail to denote? A
proposition has existential import if and only if it entails the corresponding
existential proposition based on its subject term. If there are no unicorns,
does All unicorns are equine entail Some unicorns are equine? If Socrates
does not exist, is it really true that he is not bald? There are, as it happens,
at least four distinct ways of answering such questions:
(18) (i) Existential import is determined by the quality of the
proposition; affirmative (A and I) propositions entail
existence, while negative ones (E and 0) do not.
(ii) Existential import is determined by the quantity of the
proposition: universals (A and E) have no existential
import, while particulars (I and 0) do.
(iii) Existential import corresponds to a presupposition asso-
ciated with A, E, I, and 0 propositions.
(iv) The question of existential import is entirely absent from
the Square of Opposition.
I shall sketch each of these positions in tum.
The qualitative approach (18i) has its roots in Aristotle, as Thompson
(1953:257) and Sullivan (1967:42) point out. The existence of Socrates,
as we have seen, is a necessary condition for the truth of any singular propo-
sition concerning him (e.g., Socrates is ill), while his nonexistence is a
sufficient condition for the truth of the corresponding (contradictory) nega-
tion (Socrates is not ill). It is natural to extend this observation to the gen-
eralization that the existence of what is denoted by the subject term should
be a necessary condition for the truth of any affirmative proposition about
that subject (and its nonexistence a sufficient condition for the truth of the
corresponding negation). By this reasoning, All unicorns are equine and
Some unicorns are equine come out false, and their respective contradicto-
ries, Not all unicorns are equine and No unicorns are equine, .come out
true. By adopting this position, Apuleius was thus able to fill out the Square
with its now standard subaltern relations (A -i> 1 and E -i> 0). But the
matter was by no means settled; Apuleius (and the Stoics who joined him
in this move) had merely begun, or more accurately had resumed from Par-
1.1 Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 25
menides and Plato, a lively debate on the status of negative existentials (X
does not exist) that has continued through the Scholastic era into our own.
The linguistic form adopted for negative (E and 0) propositions is tied
to the decision taken on existential import, but writers have not always
opted for consistency. Aristotle's (somewhat confusing, if not confused)
argument in the last chapter of De 1nterpretatione (23a28ff.) for why the
real contrary of Every man is just should be No man is just, rather than
Every man is unjust, may have been motivated by considerations based on
existential import (Thompson 1953 :258). Apuleius, while supporting exis-
tential import only for affirmative propositions, nevertheless took negation
to be expressed canonically in the predicate (rather than incorporated as nul-
Ius or non omnis). His square thus was spelled out in the manner of (19):28
(19)
A:
omnis voluptas
bonum (est)
I:
quaedam voluptas
bonum (est)
D
E:
omnis voluptas
non est bonum
0:
quaedam voluptas
non est bonum
('{all/some} pleasure
{is/is not} good')
Apuleius, however, was well aware of the equivalences we know today
as the Laws of Quantifier Negation. Following the Stoics, Apuleius argued
that the placement of a negative particle in front of a proposition converts it
into its contradictory opposite. The Stoics, curiously, had never gener-
alized their rule for syntactically external negation to quantified formulas;
indeed their (extant) texts contain no mention of universal affirmatives
(Mates 1952: 32). Apu1eius remedied this defect, supporting equivalences
of the form -A ~ 0, so that Non omnis voluptas bonum is taken as logi-
cally (although not syntactically) identical to the contradictory of the uni-
versal affirmative, namely, Quaedam voluptas non est bonum (Sullivan
1967:71, 148-49).29
Boethius, whose system of logic in general and of the Square in particu-
lar seems to have been either borrowed directly (and without credit) from
Apuleius or developed independently (three centuries later) from a (lost)
common post-Aristotelian source (see Sullivan for extensive discussion),
constructed a Square formally identical to that in (19), except that the E
proposition is given in the form Nulla voluptas bonum est, with incorpo-
rated negation.
The first detailed consideration of the interrelationship of negation,
scope, and existential import appears in Abelard's Dialectica (early twelfth
26 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
century; Abelard 1956: 177-78). Noting that the contradictory of an I
proposition like Quidam homo est iustus 'Some man is just' must be Non
quidam homo est iustus rather than Quidam homo non est iustus, Abelard
generalizes the observation into an (apparently) independent rediscovery of
the Stoic doctrine: 'The proper negation of any proposition results from the
placing of the negation in front of the whole' (Kneale and Kneale 1962:
210; emphasis mine). Thus, even a singular proposition like Socrates est
homo must be negated as Non Socrates est homo,rather than the far more
natural Socrates non est homo.
Abelard's uniform treatment of propositional negation yields the follow-
ing pairs of contradictories:
(20) omnis homo est albus non omnis homo est albus
(every man is white)
quidam homo est albus non quidam homo est albus
(some man is white)
Socrates est albus non Socrates est albus
homo est albus «a) man is white): non homo est albus
Consistency has been achieved-at the cost of naturalness. The same
strategy is applied to the issue of existential import. Since omnis involves
existence-that is, an expression of the form Omnis A est B entails the
existence of at least one A-even Omnis homo est homo is false if there are
no men. There is thus a crucial truth-conditional distinction for Abelard
between a proper 0 expression of the form Non omnis A est B and the
corresponding particular negative Quidam A non est B: the former is true
and the latter false if there is nothing satisfying the subject term A. This
follows from Abelard's adoption of a neo-Stoic (or proto-Fregean) ap-
proach to sentential negation, in which the contradictory of any proposition
p is by definition non-p (Abelard 1956: 183).
For Aristotle, Not every man is white was indeed taken to be the ca-
nonical contradictory of Every man is white (De Int. 24b6), but there is no
suggestion that it is not considered to be equivalent to Some man is not
white; for Apuleius and Boethius, these two forms were explicitly taken
to be notational variants. Abelard's results, despite the consistency of his
argumentation, were apparently too counterintuitive to be taken seriously;
later medieval (and modern) logicians almost without exception rejected
this distinction between non omnis and quidam non.
Among the later Scholastics, Buridan (14th century) most closely echoes
Apuleius's qualitative view of existential import. For Buridan, the motivat-
ing factor is the truth-conditional relation of contradictories:
Contradictories are such that one is affirmative and the other nega-
tive and such that it is necessary that one be true and the other
1.1 Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 27
false.... Whatever is required for the truth of the affirmatives
is required for the falsity of the negative. And likewise, whatever
suffices for the falsity of the affirmative, suffices for the truth of
the contradictory negative. (Buridan 1966:chap. 2, concl. 11)
Following Moody (1953: 39), we can attribute to Buridan the two equiva-
lences in (21):
(21) T(p) ~ F(~p)
T(~p) ~ F(p)
Buridan's starting point on existential import is essentially that of Apu-
leius: 'Every affirmative proposition whose subject or predicate stands for
nothing is false'; universal affirmatives are specifically included in this
general statement (chapter 1, concl. 15 in Buridan 1966: 72). Indeed, some-
one who points to a stone and announces 'This man is a substance' speaks
falsely, since the subject (this man) is empty.
Moody (1953: 51) notes that Buridan and his contemporaries 'made
constant use of the principle that universal affirmatives [of the form
\fx(Fx~Gx)] have two conditions of falsity', namely (in modern nota-
tion), either ~3xFx or 3x(Fx A ~Gx). All unicorns are equine is equally
falsifiable by the nonexistence of unicorns or by the existence of a feline
one. These are, by the same token, sufficient conditions for the truth of the
particular negative. Since an O-type statement is true if and only if either
of these conditions holds, such a statement corresponds more exactly to the
nonentailing Not every F is a G than to the entailing Some F is not a G. The
former is automatically true but the latter false in a state of F-Iessness. (For
singular expressions, however, a contradictory negation for Buridan and
his cohort was formed by adding not to the affirmative copula, as in Aris-
totle, rather than by an external propositional negation in the manner of the
Stoics and Abelard.)
Given the principle of existential import for all and only affirmative sen-
tences, the version of the square employed by Buridan and others would
translate into modern notation as follows (Moody 1953:51-52):
(22) A - - - - - - - - - E
3xFx A \fx(Fx ~ Gx) ~(3x)(Fx A Gx)
1----------0
3x(Fx A Gx) ~(3x)Fx v 3x(Fx A ~Gx)
28 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
For Aristotle, as we have seen, a singular proposition has existential im-
port if it is affirmative (S is (not-)P) but not if it is negative (S is not
(not-)P). For Apuleius, Boethius, Abelard, and Buridan, any proposition
has existential import if and only if it is affirmative; hence A and I, but not
E or 0, statements can be true only if something exists which satisfies
the subject term. The qualitative view of existential import, which was
the received position for the ancients and medievals, has more recently
been endorsed by Brentano (Vandamme 1972: 83), Peirce (1933 :440), and
Thompson (1953, 1954).
But the qualitative approach rapidly lost ground with the development of
modem formal logic. In the predicate calculus, particular statements-
Some F {is Iis not} G-are explicitly treated as existential, while universal
quantification does not build in existential import (although the existential
~ro~osition could. always be added as a separate conjunct, as Moody does
10 his representatIOn of Buridan's semantics, (22) above). What results is
the quantitative approach, (18ii): particulars have existential import, uni-
versals do not.
The straightforward translations of the classical propositional forms into
standard first-order quantificationallogic work out as follows:
(23) A: All Fs are G 'v'x(Fx ~ Gx)
I: Some Fs are G 3x(Fx A Gx)
(= at least one F is G)
E: No Fs are G 'v'x~(Fx A Gx) [or the equivalent
~3x(Fx A Gx)]
0: Some Fs are not G, 3x(Fx A ~Gx) [or the equivalent
Not every F is G ~'v'x(Fx ~ Gx)]
It will be noticed that no distinction is drawn here between the roles of
subject and predicate; F and G are merely two different predicate names.
More relevant to our purposes is the fact that the universal affirmative (All .
Fs are G) is vacuously true if there are no Fs, as is the universal negative.
!h~ latter position is unarguable, at least when the E proposition is given in
ItS 1Ocorporated form (No unicorns are equine). The former claim, how-
ever, has often struck critics as a reductio of the proposal that the predicate
calculus can adequately model natural language semantics. Do we really
want to count All unicorns are equine as true? And as true because of the
fact that no unicorns exist? Further, the classical Square of Opposition
~ust ~e modifie.d or abandoned on the quantitative view, since a proposi-
t~o.n Wlt~ the logical form of (23A) does not entail the corresponding propo-
SitIOn With the form of (231): if nothing satisfies F, the former is true and
the latter false.
The two remaining approaches focus on a perceived inadequacy of ac-
counts on which a sentence like All ogres are wicked comes out either false
1.1 Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 29
(under (18i)) or vacuously true (under (18ii)) merely because no ogres
exist. Strawson (1952: 163-79) and Hart (1951) seek to rescue the tra-
ditional interpretation of the Square by taking existential import to be a
presuPposition rather than an entailment. Strawson and Hart, the prime ad-
vocates of (18iii), reject the idea of preserving the Square of Opposition (in
particular, the A II- I subaltern entailment) by building in existential import
in the manner of the modem adherents to the qualitative view, who analyze
a simple universal like All men are white into a conjunction (as in (22)) so
that it may continue to entail the corresponding existential.
The villain of the presuppositionalists' piece is the 'logician's preju-
dice'-whose source, as we shall see, is Aristotle-that 'on every occa-
sion of use a meaningful [declarative] sentence must be true or false' (Hart
1951 :204-5). A sentence is (or is not) meaningful; on a particular occa-
sion of use a meaningful sentence may (or may not) express a statement
which is true or false. If its presuppositions are unsatisfied, the question of
the statement's truth or falsity simply fails to arise. Such is the case with
Smith has stopped beating his wife, but also with (the normal use of) All
ogres are wicked: 'The A form in the absence of a special indication "pre-
supposes" or "strongly suggests" the truth of the existential form' (Hart
1951: 207). 'The existence of members of the subject class is to be presup-
posed' (Strawson 1952: 176).
For Hart, conjoining an A-form proposition to the rejection of its exis-
tential import, as in the familiar Oxonian example
(24) All Smith's children are girls-but he has none.
produces neither the logical contradiction that would result on a theory like
that of (18i) nor the automatic verification that would result from a mini-
malist approach like that qf (18ii), but rather the continuation 'would can-
cel the original remark, rendering it pointless', the typical diagnostic of an
annulled presupposition.
On this option, we do indeed end up with a modification of the Square,
or more exactly a restriction on the domain of its application. We can no
longer say, with Aristotle, that of any two contradictories (A/O, liE), one
. must be true simpliciter, but only that if either is true, the other is false
(and vice versa): 'The existence or nonexistence of members of the subject
class determines not the truth or falsity of statements of these forms but
only the prior question whether the question of their truth or falsity can
arise' (Hart 1951 :209).
Like Thompson (1953) on behalf of (18i), Hart assimilates to his posi-
tion both Aristotle and the vox (tacita) populi: 'Questions of existence lie
outside the scope of the square and those who constructed it along those
lines accurately interpreted the ordinary usages of these forms' (Hart
1951 :209).
30 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
With this last remark, the presuppositionalist account of Strawson and
Hart begins to shade perceptibly into the agnostic theory (18iv) advocated
by Nelson, the latter's disclaimers to the contrary notwithstanding. For
Nelson, the Square of Opposition can-and must-be abstracted away
from questions of existential import. The laws of subalternation (the A II- I
and E II- 0 entailments), contrariety, and contradiction are semantically
unrestricted in their application, but must be evaluated against the 'appro-
priate realm of discourse'-mythological, religious, mathematical, zoo-
logical, or whatever. Universals cannot be claimed to have or to lack
existential import; they are simply neutral. Thus any A-form proposition-
even All ogres are wicked-will entail the corresponding I proposition
(Some ogres are wicked), since the question of import (are there any
ogres?) need never be broached; the question of existential import is en-
tirely absent from the Square of Opposition. Like Thompson, whom he
seeks to rebut, Nelson claims that Aristotle, as well as ordinary language,
is really on his side. To the extent that his position requires a shorter leap of
faith than that of his rivals, since Aristotle never directly addresses the
topic of existential import in general (as opposed to singular) statements, at
least Nelson's historical claim may well be correct.30
Evidently, which side of the existential import question Professor X
comes down on tells us more about X's logical and philosophical Weltan-
schauung than it does about the proper approach to existence, negation,
quantification, and the Square of Opposition. The Square thus continues to
serve effectively not only as a device for ordering our thoughts about con-
tradiction, contrariety, subcontrariety, and entailment, but also as a litmus
test for linguistic philosophers-albeit one whose results are sometimes
hard to read. The second moral that can be drawn concerns the ghost of
Aristotle and the spirit of ordinary usage, both of which prove to be rather
more elusive than their would-be recruiters seem to imagine.
1.1.4 What Is a Negative Proposition?
Twenty-five centuries of dispute over the nature of negative propositions-
what is the relation between negation and affirmation? what is the ca-
nonical form of negative propositions, and what existential (and other)
inferences can be drawn from them? how many different forms of negation
must be countenanced?-have not settled the most basic question of all:
just what is a negative proposition, and how can we tell?
For Aristotle, the question as such does not arise. Aristotle's is a term
logic; my use of notions like 'negative proposition' in my rendering of the
Organon is more a function of my own interests than of his. As we have
seen, the closest equivalent of the negative proposition within this system
1.1 Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 31
is predicate denial, in which a predicate (which may itself contain a nega-
tive term, the 'in(de)finite' not-P or the 'privative' un-P) is denied of a
subject S. Speaking somewhat freely, then, (25a) would count as a nega-
tive proposition for Aristotle, while (25b) would not.
(25) a. (Not-)S is not ({not-/un-})P
b. (Not-)S is ({not-Iun-})P
This distinction, however, does not automatically generalize to quantified
expressions, where the relations of contradiction and contrariety must, as
we have seen, be treated semantically.31
Pinning down the class of negative propositions first emerged as a major
goal for the Stoics. As noted in §1.1.2, the Stoics' logic, like Frege's, was
propositional in nature, leading to their formulation of the Law of Double
Negation. For the Stoics, a denied (or negative) proposition was simply
that proposition which begins with a negative particle (ouk, oukhi). Hence,
contra Aristotle, propositions like those in (26a, b) cannot be negations
(apophatika), and neither can (26c).
(26) a. Pleasure is not good.
b. Some pleasure is not good.
c. It is light and it is not good.
For the Stoics, as for Aristotle and the Peripatetics, every proposition is ei-
ther negative or affirmative, so the propositions in (26) count as affirmative.
Apuleius, accepting this as his starting point, distinguishes the ABDlCA-
TIVA (negative) proposition from the DEDlCATlVA (assertive). He may have
been the first to recognize what was to become a recurring motif for the
developers of the negative theme: the observation that an affirmative propo-
sition may be logically equivalent to a negative counterpart, as in the pair
(27) a. It is not the case that some pleasure is not good.
b. Every pleasure is good.
The more constrained approach of the Stoics, Apuleius, and Abelard
eventually gave way to a looser tradition within the classical and medieval
periods, in which denial or contradictory negation was simply any affir-
mation containing not within the predicate, as for example in (26a). This
approach was implicitly or explicitly favored by Porphyry, Boethius, and
al-Fiiriibi, among the early commentators.
For Mill ([1843] 1919: 87), following Aristotle, an affirmative proposi-
tion is 'one in which the predicate is affirmed of the subject' and a negative
proposition 'one in which the predicate is denied of the subject' (cf. De Int.
17a25). In a singular expression (Caesar isl is not dead), the copula con-
sists of is (the 'sign of affirmation') or is not (the 'sign of negation'). In this
32 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
way, Mill seeks to preserve Aristotle's requirement that the two contradic-
tories share the same subject (Caesar) and predicate (dead), although Mill
employs the latter term in a non-Aristotelian way.32
Mill's position is set off against that of Hobbes, according to which the
copula is simply is, and the negative sign-simply not-is attached to the
predicate. The Hobbesian view essentially collapses the two Aristotelian
negations; a negative proposition is one in which the predicate is a negative
name. For Mill, this move is a mere fudge, an evasion of reality: 'The fun-
damental distinction is between a fact and the non-existence of that fact. To
put things together and to put or keep them asunder, will remain differ-
ent operations, whatever tricks we may play with language' (Mill [1843]
1919:87).
Not until our own century did philosophers begin to question the univer-
sal assumption behind the debate over the form of the negative proposition
or (after Kant) the 'negative judgment'. Is there in fact a coherent class of
negative propositions? Is there even a negative judgment per se? Frege
(1919: 125) entertained these questions, and replied in the negative: 'People
speak of affirmative and negative judgments; even Kant does so. Trans-
lated into my terminology, this would be a distinction between affirmative
and negative thoughts. For logic, at any rate, such a distinction is wholly
unnecessary . . . I know of no logical principle whose verbal expression
makes it necessary, or even preferable, to use these terms'.
Nor is it easy-or perhaps possible-to determine just which judg-
ments, thoughts, or propositions would count as negative and which as
affirmative. For Kant ([1787] 1964: B97/A72), The soul is not mortal is
unquestionably a negative judgment, while its affixal counterpart, The soul
is nonmortal (nichtstl!rblich), is an affirmative judgment insofar as its logi-
cal form is concerned. This is the orthodox Aristotelian line. But, Frege
bids us, consider a paradigm like that in (28),
(28) a. Christ is immortal.
b. Christ lives forever.
c. Christ is not immortal.
d. Christ is mortal.
e. Christ does not live forever.
and try to give a coherent, non-ad hoc reply to the obvious question: 'Now
which of the thoughts we have here is affirmative, and which is negative'?
According to Peirce (extrapolating from his answer to a similar poser),
the judgments corresponding to (28a, b, d) would count as affirmative and
those corresponding to (28c, e) as negative, at least within the ancient and
traditional model. But Quantity, on this account, 'is an affair of the mode
of expression solely' (Peirce 1933 :440, §4.552), thereby begging the
Fregean question.
1.1 Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 33
Negation within the predicate phrase of a sentence constitutes for Frege
either a necessary nor a sufficient criterion for producing a negative judg-
~ent: 'A negation may occur anywhere in a sentence without making the
thought indubitably negative' (1919: 125). If the notion 'negative judg-
ment' is not simply a linguistic concept (identifiable with the negative sen-
tence) illegitimately smuggled into philosophical discourse, its deployment
is at best premature (in the absence of clear diagnostics for cases like those
in (28) and at worst pointless, resulting in 'endless disputes, carried on
with the greatest subtlety, and nevertheless essentially sterile' (Frege 1919:
125-26).
Royce (1917) offers a different argument leading to the same conclusion.
Citing the symmetry, of contradictory negation ('of p, not-p, exactly one
must be true') and the Law of Double Negation ('every proposition is the
negation of its own negation'), Royce argues that there cannot be a coher-
ent class of negative (or affirmative) propositions. Every denial is ipso
facto an affirmation, and vice versa, since 'to affirm is to deny the contra-
dictory of whatever one affirms' (Royce 1917: 265- 66).
Ayer ([1952] 1963) considers this issue in greater depth. He begins by dis-
tinguishing the relatively straightforward task of defining the NEGATION-OF
relation from the much more difficult (if not impossible) aim of determin-
ing what makes a statement negative. In the first case, 'It seems a fair re-
flection of ordinary usage to identify the negation of S with any statement
T which is so related to S that if either is true it follows that the other is
false'; Ayer ([1952] 1963:42) here echoes the philosophers of yesterday
and anticipates the linguists (e.g., lackendoff 1969) of today. By this crite-
rion, affixal negation (un-, iN-, -less) does not yield (true) negation. In
reaching this result, Ayer endorses what is for once a unanimous verdict
(or near-unanimous: cf. Frege 1919, cited in §l.2.2 below): from the
Peripatetics and the Stoics, for whom so-called privative statements-A
is un-B-were affirmative in nature, to Sigwart (1895: 138), Strawson
(1952:7), Zimmer (1964), and H. Clark (1974), it is universally agreed
that affixal negation-well, at least most affixal negation (cf. §5.1)-pro-
duces a contrary affirmation, a 'polarization' (Vandamme 1972: 69), rather
than a true contradictory.
But knowing when a proposition or statement T is the contradictory nega-
tion ofanother proposition or statement S tells us nothing about whether T-
or for that matter S-is or is not itself negative, just as knowing when one
man B is taller than another man A does not enlighten us as to whether A or
B is himself tall. Ayer recognizes this point, which hinges on the difference
between relational and absolute knowledge, and he experiments with di-
verse syntactic criteria for settling the issue, leading him to a rediscovery
of Frege's point: different forms can express the same statement. He offers
the example of the pair in (29):
34 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
(29) a. Everest is the highest mountain in the world.
b. There is no mountain in the world higher than Everest.
Perhaps, then, there are psychological grounds for sequestering nega-
tions as a special class of statements used only for rebuttals or denials? But
any statement can be so used (Ayer [1952] 1963: 38). In the end, the differ-
ence between affirmative and negative statements is reduced to one of ap-
proach: 'A statement is negative if it states that an object lacks a certain
property rather than stating that it possesses the complementary property: a
statement is negative if it states that a certain property is not instantiated,
rather than stating that the complementary property is universally instanti-
ated (Ayer [1952] 1963:61). But it is by no means clear that this criterion,
or its subsequent winnowing via Ayer's notion of specificity-by which
the negative statement will always be the less specific member of a pair of
contradictories-can be successfully defended.33
One moral to be drawn from the discussions in Frege 1919, Royce 1917,
and Ayer 1952 is that the literature on negative propositions is racked with
the confusion of statements and sentences focused on by Strawson and
others. Kissin (1969: 5), adding his own pair of semantically equivalent
sentences distinguished by the presence vs. absence of negation:
(30) a. He's staying.
b. He's not leaving.
to the inventory established by Apuleius (27a, b), Frege (28c, d, e), and
Ayer (29a, b), points out that the traditional criteria for negativity-the
presence of a negative particle, its appearance in a specified syntactic loca-
tion, and so forth-apply only to sentences, not to statements or proposi-
tions.34
In fact, for Kissin, there is no such animal as a negative statement
or proposition. AFFIRMATION (AFFIRMATIVE) refers to what people do with
sentences; its opposite number is DENIAL. NEGATION (NEGATIVE) is a prop-
erty of sentences; as its counterpart, Kissin proposes NONNEGATION (NON-
NEGATIVE). But having drawn the appropriate distinction between these two
pairs of terms, Kissin proceeds to restrict his dissertation to the latter set
ignoring the more general and philosophically more potent pair entirely. '
One final point on the status of the negative proposition is worth making.
Wittgenstein warns us, in his characteristically cryptic Tractarian fashion,
not to be misled by our notation into believing that - (or not) has the
power to render a proposition negative:
In '-p' it is not '-' that negates; it is rather what is common to
all the signs of this notation that negate p. That is to say the rule
that governs the construction of '-p', '---p', '-p v -p',
1.1 Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 35
'-p . -p', etc. etc. (ad inf.). And this common factor mirrors
[spiegelt] negation. (1922:§5.512)
As we shall see in §1.2, the fact that no clear criteria have been adduced
for defining a class of negative propositions has not deterred centuries of
scholars from debating the true nature of the negative proposition. Nor did
the one-to-one correspondence between affirmative and negative propo-
sitions (or sentences?) stipulated by Aristotle, Royce, and Wittgenstein
(and challenged by others, as we shall also see) dissuade their contempo-
raries (or, for that matter, themselves) from taking negatives to be inher-
ently asymmetrical with, and in some sense inferior to, their affirmative
counterparts.
1.1.5 Negation and the Legacy of Aristotle:
Retrospect and Prospect
Now if the oppositions are contradiction, privation, contrariety, and
relatives, and since of these contradiction is primary, and nothing can
exist between two contradictories but something may exist between
two contraries, it is clear that contradictories and contraries are not
the same. (Aristotle, Metaph. 1055bl-4)
Contradiction is the primary opposition, since two contradictories-in the
language of the great tenth-century Arab commentator Avicenna (aka ibn-
Sina; cf. Madkour 1934: 178-84)-'divide the true and the false between
them'. Indeed, in the Arabic tradition developed by Avicenna and others,
the same term taniiqotf translated not only antiphasis (Aristotle's 'contra-
diction') but also antithesis ('opposition'), although the contradiction/
contrariety distinction itself was preserved intact.
It has often been observed that Aristotle was the first to consistently
identify negation (denial) with contradiction, but the supposition (by, inter
alia, Kissin 1969) that Plato's negation was basically the affirmation of
a contrary cannot be substantiated. As I have noted, the Stranger's proof
(Sophist 257B) that negation cannot be reduced to pure nonbeing or op-
position hinges on the fact that me mega, literally 'not big, not great',
cannot be read as a contrary affirmation: that which is not big need not
therefore be small. Plato (through the Stranger) argues explicitly that nega-
tion is not enantion (contrary) but heteron (other). The Platonic concept of
negation as a mark of DIFFERENCE assimilates neither to contrariety nor to
contradiction. This approach-if it is not entirely circular (cf. §1.2)-is
unfortunately insufficient for dealing with the range of negative terms,
predications, and propositions Aristotle and his successors undertook to
describe; cf. Gale (1976) for extended discussion.
36 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
Contraries and contraries-Merry black-and-white contrary,
how do your meanings grow?
How many contraries can a given term or proposition have? In a broad
sense, every pair of incompatible terms or statements are contraries ofeach
other under the Aristotelian definitions. Black and white are contrary
terms, since they cannot inhere in the same thing at the same time (cf. Ca-
jetan, lesson 13, in Oesterle 1962: 234). But then white will have as many
contraries as there are distinct colors, since nothing can be simultaneously
white and red, or white and green, or white and purple. On this understand-
ing, both excessive and insufficient are contrarily opposed to moderate, as
well as to each other (De Int., chapters 11 and 14); contrariety is not an
exclusive club.
Further: if any two mutually inconsistent statements are ipso facto con-
traries, any A-form statement will have (at least) two contraries, the
corresponding E statement and the corresponding 0 statement (its contra-
dictory). All dogs have fleas is as inconsistent with its contradictory (Not
all dogs havefleas, Some dogs do not havefleas) as with its (true) contrary
(No dogs have fleas). Aristotle at times does indeed seem to endorse the
view that contradictories are somehow more contrary than (mere) con-
traries are (cf. De Int., chapter 14 and Cajetan's commentary, lesson 13,
Oesterle 1962: 254).
On any account in which contradictories must satisfy LC and LEM and
contraries must satisfy LC, any two contradictories emerge as ipso facto
contraries. Thus, compare Strawson's definitions of these terms based on
the relation of INCONSISTENCY:
To say of two statements that they are contradictories is to say that
they are inconsistent with each other [i.e., that they obey LC] and
that no statement is inconsistent with both of them [i.e., that they
obey LEM]. To say of two statements that they are contraries is to
say that they are inconsistent with each other, while leaving open
the possibility that there is some statement inconsistent with both
of them. (Strawson 1952: 16)
A bit further on (p. 25), Strawson notes that 'two statements are contraries
when it is logically impossible for them both to be true; subcontraries when
it is logically impossible for them both to be false'. But then any two con-
tradictories (e.g., Every man is a chauvinist/ Not every man is a chau-
vinist; Socrates is ill / Socrates is not ill), by virtue of 'splitting the true and
the false between them', are automatically contraries and subcontraries
as well.
If this result seems more troublesome to us than it apparently did to Aris-
totle, Cajetan, or Strawson (or Englebretsen 1976:536), we could always
I. I Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 37
limit the class of contrary statem~n~ pairs by fiat ~o those state~ents which
not contradictories. ContradIction, as the pnmary OppOSItIOn, should
are . h . . 'I h 'I 35
be capable of relegatmg ot er OppOSItIOns to an e sew ere cause. .
While a given term or proposition may have more than one contrary m
th weak sense of the term (where any two incompatible terms or proposi-
ti ens count as contraries), Aristotle more often seems to assume a differ-
e:t, stronger sense of contrariety, one which I shall call POLAR contrariety:
Since things which differ from one another may do so to a greater
or a less degree, there exists also a greatest difference, and this I
call 'contrariety'. (Met. lO55a4-6)
Contrariety is complete difference.... This being so, it is evi-
dent that each contrary cannot have more than one contrary; for
neither can there be anything more extreme than the extreme, nor
can there be more than two extremes for one interval.
(Met. lO55a17-28)
We call contraries. . . those which differ most in the same genus.
(De Int. 23b23)
The image of polar contraries as extremes along an interval is especially
important for my purposes (cf. the discussion of scales and antonymy in
chapters 4 and 5); Aristotle invokes the same metaphor elsewhere:
It seems that in defining contraries of every kind men have re-
coilrse to a spatial metaphor, for they say that those things are
contraries which, within the same class, are separated by the
greatest possible distance. (Categories 6aI5-19)
Aristotle depicts polar contraries as endpoints on a continuum, corre-
sponding to A and C below:
(31) A Bl D2 ··• Dn C
An intermediate or middle term is any point Bl . . . Bn through which one
passes in traveling from A to C (or from C to A); thus in moving from
.•white to its polar contrary black, one must first pass through the intermedi-
ate gray (Met. lO57a24).
Saint Thomas (lesson 11, in Oesterle 1962: 90) points out that for any
two polar contraries which by definition cannot simultaneously inhere in
the same thing (e.g., white and black), their contradictories (not white, not
black) can (i.e., when something is pallid or yellow). Thus the contradic-
tories of contraries define an intermediate term. The same applies on the
level of propositions: the particular affirmative (I) and particular negative
(0) each function as a 'mean between contraries' (medium inter contraria).
38 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
Aristotle may have the same point in mind when he concludes De Inter-
pretatione (24bl) by observing that 'contraries are those which enclose
their opposites'. So translates Ackrill, who comments (1963: 155) that 'it
is natural to think of A and E as extremes and of I and 0 as lying within
them'. Other translators and commentators omit this scalar interpretation,
but it is one which is very much in the spirit of the 'spatial metaphor' noted
above.
The notion of polar contrariety outlined here and its differentiation from
the weaker notion of simple incompatibility were well known to Aristotle's
medieval and modern commentators, although the relevant terms have
gone under a variety of labels. Cajetan (lesson 13, in Oesterle 1962:237)
distinguishes ABSOLUTE (= polar) contraries (e.g., black/ white) from RE-
DUCTIVE (simple) contraries (e.g., black/ red). Mill (1867: 516-21) criti-
cizes Hamilton's overgeneralized application of contrariety, maintaining
that each term or statement can have but one contrary, its 'extreme op-
posite'; otherwise we are dealing not with true CONTRARIA, but with DIS-
PARATA. For Sigwart (1895: 137), only 'those terms in a series which
are the farthest apart' can properly be contraries (i.e., all contraries are
polar contraries); other mutually exclusive terms (e.g., red/yellow) are
DISJUNCT.
Just as any given term may have at most one immediate or logical con-
trary (e.g., for white, not-white), any given term may also have at most
one polar contrary (for white, black), and indefinitely many simple con-
traries (for white, any other color: red, green, blue, and-depending on
the precise definition ofsimple contrariety-not-white and black as well).36
The unique polar contrary and the unique immediate contrary of a given
term will not in general coincide. Thus, given one possible scale for white
and black,
(32) neither white nor black
r - - -A
'-_ _ _ _
,
white gray black
..
'---------yr--------~
not-white
we see by inspection that white and blackare polarcontraries, but not imme-
diate contraries, since gray-and indeed, according to Aristotle's somewhat
idiosyncratic theory of color, all hues-mediate between them. The imme-
diate contrary of white is not-white (or nonwhite); and in general the im-
mediate contrary of any term will be defined by the operation of predicate
term negation (cf. §1.1.1). There may be a simple lexical equivalent of the
negative term, however, as in the case of immediate contrary pairs like odd
(= not-even) / even (= not-odd), or well (= not-ill) / ill (= not-well).
1.1 Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 39
Let me define the three notions of contrariety more formally, adapting
~ r my purposes the schema of Barnes (1969). I follow Barnes in writing R
f~r the range of a predicate (the RANGE of P is the set of things that can be
either P or not-P, equivalent to Sommers's notion (1965, 1970, 1982) of
the SPAN of a predicate) and ClF, G) for 'G is contrarYi to F', or 'F and G
are predicates in contrarYi opposition'. Then we get these definitions:
(33) (i) Cl(F, G) = df [RF = RG A (\fx)D - (Fx A Gx)]
(ii) Cz{F, G) = df [RF = RG A (\fx)D - (Fx A Gx) A (\fy)(y =
RF ~ D(Fy v Gy»]
(iii) C3(F, G) = df [RF = RG A (\fx)D - (Fx A Gx) A
(\fH)«RH = RF A H *- FA H *- G) ~ (H is between
F and G»]
Cl is the relation of contrariety simpliciter (INCOMPATIBILITY for Barnes),
C2 that of immediate contrariety (Barnes's CONTRARY PREDICATES), and C3
that of polar contrariety. Notice that the scalar relation of 'betweenness' is
invoked, but not defined, in (33iii). In addition, we must insure(as Barnes
does not) that the variable y utilized in (33ii) can range over actual exis-
tents only, since we need to allow for both immediate contraries failing to
hold when the subjects are within the range of the predicate but not in the
class of existent objects (since Socrates is neither ill nor not-ill, the largest
prime number is neither odd nor even, etc.).
The system of opposition among terms that emerges from these defini-
tions can now be schematized as follows: 37
(34) opposed terms
CONTRARIES (Cl) CONTRADICTORIES
[Barnes: INCOMPATIBLES] [no examples among terms;
/
~ ~~~r~~~positions can be
~ctOry opposites]
MEDIATE [Boethius]
[McCall: WEAK]
[Englebretsen: NONLOGICAL]
IMMEDIATE (C2)[Boethius]
[McCall: STRONG]
[Englebretsen: LOGICAL]
Barnes: CONTRADICTORY PREDICATES]
(odd/ even; P/ not-P)
/~
SIMPLE
[Cajetan: REDUCTIVE]
[Sigwart: DISJUNCT]
(black/ red)
POLAR (C3)
[Cajetan: ABSOLUTE]
[Barnes: POLAR OPPOSITES]
(black/ white)
40 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
Corresponding notions of propositional contrariety can be defined ac-
cordingly. In particular, if two terms F and G satisfy Cj , then the two
propositions a is F and a is G satisfy Cj as well. In addition, we need to
secure Saint Thomas's insight (which mayor may not also have been Aris-
totle's insight) that All S is P and No S is P represent polar (rather than
simple or immediate) contraries. But is it in fact the case that for each
~roposition there will be exactly one immediately contrary proposition,
Just as there is exactly one immediately contrary predicate term (not-P or
any of its equivalents) for any arbitrary predicate term P? The answer, es-
pecially when I turn to the consideration of general propositions (with
quantified subject terms) appears to be no, as we shall see later in this sec-
tion. Before I return to the question of how to define contrariety over propo-
sitions, I need to fill in some background on Aristotle's two negations
(predicate denial and term negation), and their fate in the course of later
interpretation.
The two negations revisited
A great deal of the post-Aristotelian history of logical negation can be read
as an extended commentary on the distinction in the PriorAnalytics between
predicate denial (the operation of contradictory negation taking scope over
the entire predication) and predicate term negation (a contrariety-producing
operation with scope restricted to the 'infinite' or 'indefinite' term thereby
produced).
Avicenna used morphological, syntactic, and semantic criteria to distin-
guish the NEGATIVE JUDGMENT, A is not B, from the INDEFINITE JUDG-
MENT, A is not-B (Madkour 1934: 169). The former is expressed in Arabic
by the particle laysa, yielding Madkour's gloss 'A n'[est] pas B', the latter
by ghayr (A [est] non B), often incorporated into the predicate term (e.g.,
Zayd ghayr bar;ir 'Zayd is nonclairvoyant'). In tripartite (copular) sen-
tences, the place of negation depends on the type of negation, precopular
for the negative judgment, between copula and verb for the indefinite (ex-
~ctly as described by Aristotle). In bipartite (noncopular) sentences, there
IS no syntactic differentiation, but the semantic distinction remains: for
Avicenna, as for Aristotle, an indefinite judgment can be true only if the
subject exists, while the negative judgment is automatically true if the sub-
ject term fails to denote.
In Latin, as in Greek, there is no morphological differentiation of true
negation (affecting the proposition for the Stoics, the subject-predicate
connection for the Aristotelians) and infinite (indefinite, infinitive, or term)
negation. But the medieval commentators tended to respect the distinction
nonetheless. Here, for example, is Burleigh: 'The negation non can be
taken either merely negatively or infinitively. When it is taken merely
1.1 Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 41
negatively, it always negates some propositional complex. But when it is
taken infinitively, then it negates some nominal element in the proposition,
namely the subject or predicate' (Henry 1972:79-80).38
The medieval Jewish logical position on negation, as summarized in
Spinoza's Ethics (Spinoza 1934: 134-35), is somewhat more complex.
PARTICULAR negation (Spinoza's PRIVATIO) represents a contingent fact
(e.g., Balaam does not see), ABSOLUTE negation (Spinoza's NEGATIO) rep-
resents a more generally true negative proposition (e.g., The wall does not
see). 'Privation ... is denying of a thing something which we think be-
longs to its nature; negation. . . is denying of a thing something because it
does not belong to its nature' (Spinoza 1934: 134-35).
When Spinoza, in a letter of 1674, delivered his celebrated edict, Deter-
minatio est negatio, 'Determination is negation', he was explicitly referring
to the restricted notion of negatio: every description necessarily implies
a limitation or exclusion. It will be observed that Spinoza's senses of
negation and privation cannot be directly assimilated to those of Aristotle
(§1.1.1) or the Stoics (§1.1.2).
Leibniz (1966: 18; cf. Castaneda 1976:483-84; Englebretsen 1981a:
13-15) acknowledges both denial negation: x non est P, in which the nega-
tion sign signifies the mode of predication, and privative or term negation:
x est non P, in which a negative term is affirmed of the subject. Apparent
propositional negation is explained away as a predication of falsehood
rather than a negation of truth: 'If B is a proposition, not-B is the same as
that B is false' (Leibniz 1966: 58). Nor does an initial negation form a con-
stituent with an immediately following quantifier:
'Not every' and 'not some' may not properly occur in proposi-
tions; for they only negate the proposition affected by the sign
'every' and 'some', and do not make a new sign, 'not-every' or
'not-some'. Thus, if I say 'Not, some man is an animal' [Non,
quidam homo est animal], this is the same as that it is false that
some man is an animal. (Leibniz 1966: 185)
Thus, contrary negation corresponds to a negative predicate, but contradic-
tory negation has two canonical forms: predicate denial and apparent propo-
sitional negation (= assertion of falsity). My own neo-Leibnizian position
will unfold along similar lines in later chapters.
The fall (and rise?) of contrariety in modern logic
While Leibniz, operating in the extended shadow of Aristotle, maintained
the subject/predicate split as a crucial ingredient of syntactic and semantic
analysis, the rival Stoic-Abelardian tradition was to gain rapid ascendancy
with the birth of modern axiomatic propositional logic. Frege (1919) ex-
42 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
plicitly disavows the subject-predicate division as an illegitimate importa-
tion from the treacherous realms of natural language, to be replaced with
function-argument analysis. Predicate denial gives way to the external
propositional operator in the representation of contradiCtory negation, and
contrary (term) negation is eliminated. Frege follows Aristotle in observ-
ing that 'for every thought there is a contradictory thought'. But, contrary
to what the surface syntax suggests, an entire sentence can be (contradic-
torily) negated by combining a negative element, affix or particle, with a
single constituent. Thus, in saying (35b), as in (35a),
(35) a. The man is not celebrated.
b. The man is uncelebrated.
'we indicate the falsity of the thought that he is celebrated' (Frege 1919:
131).
But, pace Frege, it is by no means clear that Aristotle's privative or predi-
cate term negation can in general be assimilated to contradictory proposi-
tional negation in this manner. In saying The man is unhappy, do we
thereby simply indicate the falsity of the thought that the man is happy?
Philosophers from Aristotle and Sigwart to Strawson and Drange, and lin-
guists from Sweet and Jespersen to Klima, Zimmer, and Jackendoff, have
marshaled syntactic and semantic evidence against this claim; I shall return
to this evidence in later chapters.
The same objection can be raised against Madkour (1934: 170), who dis-
misses Avicenna's distinction between negative and indefinite judgments
(later adopted by Kant and others; cf. §1.2 and §2.4) on the grounds that
(36a, b) express identical thoughts,
(36) a. The tree is not dry.
b. The tree is not-dry (non-dry).
both representable (in the manner of the Stoics, Abelard, and Frege) by
means of an external operator, as Not: the tree is dry or It-is-not-the-case-
that the tree is dry. Madkour argues that the indefinite judgment (A is
not-B) is a linguistic artifact; while this may be partly true, the same point
could be (and has been) made against the external propositional operator
itself (see chapters 6 and 7).39 That Frege's and Madkour's arguments ap-
pear as convincing as they do is largely a property of the architects' skillful
example construction: the oppositions not celebrated/ uncelebrated, not
dry / not-dry, and (to take another instance from Madkour) notfinite / infi-
nite all involve privative or term negations which form immediate rather
than mediate contraries: there is no unexcluded middle here. Even if this
finesse is granted, of course, we may choose to side with Aristotle in dis-
tinguishing immediate contraries from true contradictories on the grounds
1.1 Negation and the Legacy ofAristotle 43
that a man who does not exist is neither celebrated nor uncelebrated,4O jus-
tice is neither dry nor not-dry, and a unicorn is neither odd nor even.41
The subject-predicate-based term logic of Aristotle, with its two modes
of internal negation, and the function-argument-based propositional logic
of Frege, with its all-purpose external negation operator, may themselves
represent contrary positions on a continuum rather than mutually exhaus-
tive contradictories. In the late nineteenth century, Brentano and Marty
developed a theory of propositions in which the CATEGORICAL judgment,
conforming to the subject-predicate paradigm, is distinguished from the
THETIC judgment, which is 'simply the recognition or rejection of material
of a judgment' (Kuroda 1972). For the categorical judgment, two separate
acts are required: a subject is recognized, and a predicate is affirmed or
denied of that subject. The thetic judgment is simple, involving just one
act, often expressed as an existential (God exists; There is/are . ..) or an
impersonal (It's snowing); they may have subject-predicate surface form
but are always essentially subjectless in logical form. Thus, negative cate-
goricals will look Aristotelian and negative thetics Fregean. Kuroda (1972)
argues that Japanese typically marks categorical judgments with -wa and
thetic judgments with -ga, and Babby (1980) presents extensive evidence
that the categorical-thetic split correlates with distinct patterns of case-
marking in negative sentences in Russian. I return to Kuroda's analysis
in §7.3.
Deviations aside, it is indisputable that the Fregean model has carried
the day. The syntax of negation in the first-order predicate calculus is sim-
ply ~p, where p is any proposition. The semantics is equally straightfor-
ward, at least if presuppositional phenomena are ignored (cf. chapter 2):
~p is true if and only if p is false.42
Yet the passionate defense of subject-
predicate logic by Sommers and Englebretsen, as well as the evenhanded
interpretation of traditional and modern logic offered by Strawson (1952)
and Geach (1970, 1972), suggest that Lukasiewicz's requiem for Aristo-
telian term logic and for the contrary or term negation formulable within it
may be somewhat premature. Indeed, within the framework of multivalued
logic (in the very footsteps of Lukasiewicz), McCall (1967a) and Rescher
(1969) have worked out treatments of contrariety which draw on the joint
resources of term-based and proposition-based logic; cf. also the related
system of Von Wright (1959), summarized in §2.4 below.
For my purposes, the crucial factor differentiating the Aristotelian logic
ofterms from the Stoic (and modern) logic of propositions is that 'although
both logics include and given formal recognition to the relation of contra-
diction, only the former, and not the latter, takes account of the relation of
contrariety' (McCall 1967a: 121). McCall attempts to fill this void by for-
malizing a non-truth-functional contrariety operator R on propositions
44 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
such that the falsity of Rp follows from the truth ofp, but neither the truth
~or f~sity ofRp follows fro~ the falsity ofp.43 The fact that contrary nega-
tIon!s stronger than contradictory negation (in that the former unilaterally
entaIls the latter) can be expressed simply by the axiom CRpNp, where N
is the (Polish-notated) ordinary (contradictory) propositional negation.
But Geach finds such.a position untenable: 'Contradictory negation may
be t~ought of as o~ratmg upon entire propositions or as operating upon
predicables; contrariety can be treated as an operator only upon predi-
c~~les, not u~o~ entire p~opositions' (Geach 1972 :73). In the case ofpropo-
SItions contammg quantified expressions, contrariety cannot be regarded
as a function: 'We may speak of the contradictory of a proposition, since
no proposition has two (non-equivalent) contradictories, but a proposition
may well have more than one contrary in the square-of-opposition sense of
the word' (Geach 1972:71-72).
Thus, Geach bids us consider a doubly quantified example like (37) and
the two candidates for its contrary opposite, (37'a, b):
(37) Every cat detests every dog.
(37') a. No cat detests every dog.
b. There is no dog every cat detests.
The two propositions (37'a, b) are each logically inconsistent with (37) and
hence represent joint contraries of it, but they are not logically equivalent
to each other. In the language I employed earlier in this section, Geach's
argument supports the position that some propositions have no immediate
contraries, and hence a contrariety operator on propositions would at best
yield ~ rather than the (unique) contrary of the original proposition.44
Geach's verdict on propositional contrariety is (independently) upheld
by one of today's staunchest advocates of term logic, George Englebretsen,
who charge~ ~cCall .with failure to recognize that the strong contrariety
operator R IS m realIty an operator on predicates, not on sentences or
propositions:
The contrariety between two propositions derives from the con-
t~ariety (incomp~ti~ility) between their predicates. Two proposi-
tIOns are contraries If and only if they are exactly alike except that
their predicates are contraries.... A logic of contrariety must be
a logic of analyzed propositions, i.e. a term logic.
(Englebretsen 1974:614)
But Geach's objection against McCall-that a propositional contrariety
operator comes a cropper when it is applied to quantified expressions-can
be turned even more telIingly on Englebretsen, whose definition seems to
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 45
predict incorrectly that Something is red and Something is not-red are a
pair of contrary statements (rather than subcontraries, both possibly true
but not possibly false at the same time), and to incorrectly exclude the clas-
sic pair Everything is red and Nothing is red. . .
In any case, as Geach and Englebretsen argue, contrary negatIOn IS cer-
tainly more at home within term logic. Indeed, as I shall argue in chap-
ter 7, even contradictory negation-as it surfaces in natural language-may
demand a term-logic-based model. While much has undeniably been gained
in clarity, explicitness, and logical power in the years since Frege inaugu-
rated twentieth-century mathematical logic with his rejection ofthe subject-
predicate distinction and his homogenization of all negative signs into a
single propositional connective, much may also have been lost-or at least
buried. This emerges clearly when I examine (as I shall in chapter 2) the
price Russell must pay to acknowledge the apparent ambiguity of singular
negative statements (The king of France is not bald) while attempting to
keep the twin Aristotelian ghosts of predicate denial and term negation
safely interred (cf. also Henry 1972; Sommers 1970, 1982; Englebretsen
1976, 1981a, 1981b).
Nor have modern philosophers and linguists been notably successful in
laying a more ancient ghost, that of the (putative) inferiority of the negative
statement vis-a-vis its affirmative counterpart. It is to this dispute that I
shall now turn.
1.2 The Paradox of Negative Judgment:
Negation and Its Discontents
You've got to
Accentuate the positive,
Eliminate the negative
Latch on to the affirmative,
Don't mess with Mr. In-Between. (Arlen and Mercer 1944)
Negation mayor may not be the most basic, most debated, or most ancient
of the logical connectives, but it is without doubt the most maligned. Logi-
cians from Parmenides to Russell have sought to banish logical negation
entirely, to explain it away, or to relegate it to a secondary and inferior
status. In the battle between the assailers and defenders of negative facts,
judgments, and statements, several separate but overlapping fronts can be
descried. Consider the following theses on the purported asymmetry be-
tween affirmation and negation:
(38) a. Affirmation is logically prior, negation secondary.
b. Affirmation is ontologically prior, negation secondary.
46 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
c. Affirmation is epistemologically prior, negation secondary.
d. Affirmation is psychologically prior, negation secondary
e. Affirmation is basic and simplex, negation complex.
f. Affirmation is essential, negation eliminable.
g. Affirmation is objective, negation subjective.
h. The affirmative sentence describes a fact about the world, the
negative sentence a fact about the affirmative.
i. In terms of information, the affirmative sentence is worth
more, the negative worth less (if not worthless).
Moderate asymmetricalists seek to support various subsets of these posi-
tions, while hard-line asymmetricalists (Parmenides, Bergson, Givan)
would argue for all of them.
Before, during, and after evaluating the eight theses in (38), I must ad-
dress a bevy of related questions:
(39) What, if anything, is a negative judgment?
In what sense, if any, does negation presuppose affirmation?
When, if ever, is negation equivalent to falsity?
Is there a speech act of negation?
Can negation be reduced to speaker denial or rejection?
Again, as with the theses of (38), agreement on the answers to these ques-
tions is rare.
Included in the asymmetricalist faction as leaders, proselytizers, aco-
lytes, and camp followers are Parmenides, Plato, Aristotle (sometimes),
Saint Thomas Aquinas, Kant, Goethe, Hegel, Bergson, the neo-Hegelian
Idealists, Russell (usually), Strawson, Tesniere, Givan, and a variety of
psycholinguists; the symmetricalist camp claims Aristotle (sometimes),
Frege, Royce, Russell (occasionally), Wittgenstein (perhaps), Ayer, and
Geach. It will be observed that the two pivotal figures in the history of
negation, Aristotle and Russell, stand astride the field with one foot in each
camp (the latter shifting easily during his career from a symmetricalist
dove to an asymmetricalist hawk, and perhaps partway back again).
I shall attempt here to report from the various battle fronts, describing
the aims and tactics of the warring sides, counting the casualties, and-in
later chapters-proposing a strategy for a face-saving, negotiated settle-
ment of the conflict. I shall begin once again with Aristotle.
It is traditional for parties to a logical conflict to cite Aristotelian prece-
dent, and in this case each side may aptly claim justification. The Stagirite
is infuriatingly Delphic on the question: 'The first class of propositions is
the simple affirmation, the next, the simple denial' (De Int. 17a8). But
first, in what way? Logically? Epistemologically? The first to be mentioned
here?
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 47
In his commentary on this passage, Ackrill (1963: 127) suggests that af-
firmation may be first because ~egation (i.e.: predicat~ denial) is realiz~d
through the addition of a negative marker: the negative presupposes, 10
that it involves adding something to, the affirmation'. But this is just a
uess, and there have been others. Aristotle himself implies elsewhere that
~e is thinking more of epistemological than logical or ontological priority
for affirmation over negation:
The affirmative proposition is prior to and better known than the
negative (since affirmation explains denial just as being is prior to
not-being). (Post. An. 86b33-36)
We say that he who knows that the thing is something has under-
standing to a higher degree than he who knows that it is not some-
thing. (Metaph. 996bI4-16)
Perhaps, then, it is not that what is denied must first have been asserted, or
that positive facts are more real or basic than negative ones, but simply that
knowledge of a positive fact counts for more than knowledge of its nega-
tive counterpart.
The schism between the symmetricalists and asymmetricalists was quick
to develop: the early commentator Alexander held affirmation to be cru-
cially prior to negation, since denying 'lifts or destroys affirming', while
the neo-Platonist (and proto-Fregean) Porphyry argued that since affirma-
tion and denial are equally propositions with respect to truth and falsity,
there is no significant asymmetry between them (Bosley 1975:7).
The asymmetricalists found an early champion in Saint Thomas, who
distinguished the linguistic, psychological, and ontological grounds of af-
firmative priority in his commentary on De Interpretatione:
The affirmative enunciation is prior to the negative for three rea-
sons.... With respect to vocal sound, affirmative enunciation is
prior to negative because it is simpler, for the negative enuncia-
tion adds a negative particle to the affirmative. With respect to
thought, the affirmative enunciation, which signifies composition
by the intellect, is prior to the negative, which signifies division.
... With respect to the thing, the affirmative enunciation, which
signifies to be, is prior to the negative, which signifies not to be,
as the having of something is naturally prior to the privation of it.
(Saint Thomas Aquinas, book 1, lesson 13, in Oesterle 1962:64)
Aquinas thus endorses theses (38a, b, d, e), while Aristotle himself
directly supports only (38c) and perhaps (38i). Aristotle, however, is
clearly an asymmetricalist with respect to negative terms; the in(de)finite
nouns and verbs not-man, not-white, not recovers, and so forth, are explic-
48 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
itly set off as suspect, sharply distinguished from honest-to-goodness nouns
and verbs proper (De Int. 16a30, 16b14, 19b8-11). Predicate denial, how-
ever, is less clearly tainted or, in modem jargon, marked with respect to
affirmation.
It may be significant that Aristotle points out the one-to-one correspon-
dence between affirmative and negative propositions: 'Every affirmation
has a corresponding negation' (Prior An. 51b35). This observation, which
has often been echoed:
Everything which can be affirmed can also be denied.
(Bosanquet 1888: 294)
For every thought there is a contradictory thought.
(Frege 1919: 131)
There is one negative sentence corresponding to every positive
sentence and vice versa. (Kraak 1966: 89)
seems to align the Stagirite with the symmetricalists. The asymmetricalists
would no doubt counter that Aristotle didn't put it the other way around, as
'Every negation (or denial) has a corresponding affirmation'.
It should be noted that this principle of one-to-one correspondence can
only apply to propositions, not (at least literally) to sentences, pace Kraak.
It has been pointed out (by, inter alia, Zimmer [1964:87], Kissin [1969:
77], and R. Lakoff [1969: 144]) that performative utterances cannot be di-
rectly negated, as seen in (40).
(40) I (*do not) now tum to the examination of ..
I (*do not) hereby inform you that ...
Similarly, the quasi-performative of I guess it'll rain allows a parenthetical
sense or use which is lost under negation for those speakers who can't neg-
raise over guess (Hom 1978b; Hom and Bayer 1984; cf. §5.3 below). The
wide-scope quantifiers and adverbs of (40'a) also exclude any syntactically
transparent contradictory negation, as of course do the classic instances in
(40'b) of POSITIVE (or AFFIRMATIVE) POLARITY ITEMS, expressions which
cannot normally appear in the direct scope of negation:
(40') a. Many years ago I lived there.
Even an idiot can solve that problem. (cf. §2.5 below on
even and negation)
{Some / Several} of my friends showed up.
b. I would(*n't) rather be in Montpelier.
She's (*not) {pretty tall! far taller than he is}.
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 49
On the other side of the coin are NEGATIVE POLARITY ITEMS, expressions
which can only appear felicitously within the scope of negation (or a se-
mantically related operator):
(41) He {isn't! *is} eating any meat tonight.
I {can't! *can} ever seem to make any progress.
She {hasn't! *has} been to Casablanca yet.
(See Baker 1970; Fauconnier 1975a, 1975b; Hom 1978a: §2; Ladusaw
1979; Linebarger 1981, 1987 for more on positive and negative polarity.)
Thus, some affirmative sentences have no directly corresponding nega-
tion, while some negative sentences lack any affirmative counterpart. Still
other sentences-He's hardly a linguist; Few students came to the party-
can be taken as either matchless affirmatives or matchless negatives,
depending on the criteria for analysis (cf. Jespersen 1917; Klima 1964;
Jackendoff 1969).
The Paradox of Negative Judgment
If an affirmative statement or judgment (The cat is on the mat) is about
(corresponds to, refers to) some positive fact in the world, what on earth
can a negative statement or judgment be about? To what negative fact, if
any, does it correspond or refer? Are there negative facts in the first place?
(Or in the second place?) These questions lead us directly to the PARADOX
OF NEGATIVE JUDGMENT:
A negative judgment declares what it is not, and how can this ex-
press it as it is? (Joseph 1916: 171)
The paradox consists in this-that in negation the work of posi-
tive knowledge appears to be performed by ignorance.
(Bosanquet 1888: 277)
[The negative judgment] cannot be true if there is nothing in real-
ity corresponding to its Not, and if there is something correspond-
ing to its Not the judgment cannot be negative. (Raju 1941: 585)
We cannot specify the fact of non-existence except in terms of the
thing itself which does not exist. Thus the existing thing seems to
be involved in this fact, as a constituent of it. Thus the thing has
to exist as a condition that it should not exist. It seems that non-
existence is a logical impossibility, which is surely absurd.
(Toms 1972: 7)
50 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
This paradox clearly recalls its ontological analogue, expounded by Par-
menides and formulated succinctly by Apostel (1972a:211): How can
there exist something which does not exist?
Attempted resolutions of this paradox have proceeded by conSigning
negative facts either to oblivion (§1.2.1) or to a logical and/or ontological
ghetto (§1.2.2). Negative judgments or statements in turn have been taken
to signify indirectly, misleadingly, subjectively, or not at all. More re-
cently, the asymmetricalist view has been formulated within the theory of
markedness, and psycholinguistic evidence has been marshaled to buttress
the earlier philosophical arguments for the priority of affirmation over nega-
tion (see chapter 3). In the remainder of the present section, §1.2, I shall
take the Paradox of Negative Judgment as a device for framing my view of
the battle of the symmetricalists and asymmetricalists; in doing so, I shall
be more concerned with following the changing picture of negation that
emerges than in resolving the paradox itself.
1.2.1 Eliminating the Negative
The world can be described without the use of the word 'not'.
(Russell 1948: 520)
Negation as exclusion and difference
The first (Western) attempt to explain negation away is due to Parmenides
and to the Megarians who sought to defend and extend his account: a nega-
tive sentence cannot refer to how things are, and so is necessarily indeter-
minate (cf. Wheeler 1983: 289). There are no negative states of affairs or
properties; not-red is no more a property than not-Odysseus is an individ-
ual. (It will be recalled that even for Aristotle indefinite, i.e., negative,
names are not properly names as such.) Since the False is that which is not
true, falsehood does not exist either. Armed with these doctrines, it is little
surprise that Parmenides sought to banish all negative thought.
A different means to the same end-eliminating the negative-is offered
by another of our earlier acquaintances, the Stranger in Plato's Sophist,
who assures us that the Parmenidean swamp of nonexistence can be skirted
if we take negation to represent not nonbeing, not oppositeness (contra-
riety), not contradiction, but simply OTHERNESS or DIFFERENCE.
The problem with Plato's ploy is that it seems to be either inadequate or
circular. If difference is a positive entity, it is incapable of accommodating
all the uses to which logical and linguistic negatio!1 is put. If it is intrin-
sically negative, we have not eliminated negation but merely relabeled it.45
In particular, if in stating:
(42) My hat is not red.
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 51
'mply observing that my hat is (of some color) other than or different
I am Sl . . .
fr red I must be saying either (1) that all of ItS properties are nomden-
.0;to r;dness (a hat can be wide-brimmed, which is different from being
tICd and still be red), or (2) that it is of some color incompatible with red,
re , . I h' h I
ch as green or blue (a hat may be cnmson or scar et, w IC are co ors
~~nidentical to red, but my hat's being crimson or scarlet does not ~ake
(42) true). Yet incompatibility is even more clearly than otherness or differ-
ence a negative relation.
Thus, for Plato's Stranger (as for Russell's dissimilaritarian below), ~he
tative negative fact that A is not B is unpacked into the correspondmg
~~sitiVe fact that A is other than, different from, or dissimilar to B. But
'unfortunately', as Toms (1972: 8) observes, 'for such a theory to be genu-
inely a theory of negation, the fact taking the pl~ce of t?e neg~tive fac~ has
still to exclude from existence the opposite positive fact . And If there IS no
such positive fact, we have been redeposited into the nightmare realm of
Parmenides-and dropped off within a deeper circle of that inferno: 'In-
stead of shaking off the paradox of non-existence, the standard theories of
negation [i.e., those just cited and their successors, to be explored below]
have the effect of showing that the paradox extends to the whole field of
negation' (Toms 1972: 8). Briefly, the "ot~erness" ~riterio~, in ~y of its
various guises, either does or does not proVide a relation which satisfies the
Law of Contradiction (see §1.1.1); in the former case, it is circular, in the
latter, inadequate.
The problems encountered by otherness and incompatibility analy~es of
negation (that is, problems with taking such analyses to be reductIv~ or
eliminative) have long been acknowledged (cf. Bradley 1883), espeCially
by those aware of the difficulty in determining what counts as a negative
judgment or proposition (see §1.1.4 above). Yet, as untenable analyses go,
the Otherness thesis has proved surprisingly resilient, particularly in the
form in which we shall encounter it in §1.2.2: some negative judgments
(SIGNIFICANT negations, with a 'positive ground') reduce to assertions
of otherness; the others (INSIGNIFICANT negations) aren't worth worrying
about.
Negative facts
The battle over the nature and very existence of so-called negative facts has
also raged on, fiercely but inconclusively. Demos's argument (1917: 189)
against the existence of the negative fact is perhaps the most ingenious.
Intoning the ritual exorcism-'Strictly negative facts are nowhere to be
met with in experience; ... any knowledge of a negative nature seems to
be derived from perception of a positive kind'-he supports his con,tra
position by appealing to the judgment of 'intelligent acquaintances' of his,
52 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
who acknowledged 'that they had never encountered a negative fact'.
While we may quibble with Demos's experimental design (especially since
his write-up comes immediately after a well-taken warning about negative
wolves in positive clothing), it is in fact hard to imagine any compelling
empirical evidence for or against the existence of negative facts.
Russell apparently gave up his early (and well-founded) skepticism
about the eliminability of negation to become an enthusiastic warrior for
the cause. At the time of his Philosophy ofLogical Atomism (1918: 211),
he not only valiantly overcame his self-acknowledged 'repugnance to nega-
tive facts', but was even willing to fight in their defense. He reports having
earlier triggered 'a near-riot' at Harvard by arguing that there are indeed
negative facts and finds himself 'still inclined to think that there are'. But
he takes Demos's (1917) diatribe seriously enough to direct a thoughtful
counterattack against it (Russell 1918:211-14):
If I say 'There is not a hippopotamus in the room' , it is quite clear
there is some way of interpreting that statement according to which
there is a corresponding fact, and that fact cannot be merely that
every part of this room is filled up with something that is not a
hippopotamus.... It is simpler to take negative facts as facts
. . . otherwise you will find it difficult to say what it is that corre-
sponds to a proposition. (Russell 1918: 213-14)
And since there is in any case no formal test for establishing whether a
given proposition is negative or positive (a point Russell was later to ig-
nore), the whole exercise ofnegative bashing is doomed to futility (p. 215).
Thirty years later, Russell appears willing to go to any lengths and adopt
any means to eliminate negation. He begins Platonically by identifying
negation with difference:
When ... I say 'This is not blue', I may be interpreted as mean-
ing 'This is a color differing from blue', where 'differing' is the
positive relation [sic] that might be called 'dissimilarity'....
When I say truly 'This is not blue' there is, on the subjective side,
consideration of 'This is blue', followed by rejection, while on the
objective side there is some color differing from blue.46
(Russell 1948: 122)
But even if we ignore the Aristotelian objection that a sufficient condi-
tion for the truth of a negative like This is not blue would be an instance on
which the referent of the subject phrase (the this) is not the sort of thing
that can be blue-or any other color, either (e.g., justice or the square root
of2)-Russell's evidence for the positive nature of the 'dissimilarity' rela-
tion is not compelling. This is red can serve as a ground or basis for the
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 53
ertion of This is not blue only by virtue of the mutual incompatibility of
:: properties expressed by red and blue, the fact that for all x, if x is red,
:x is not blue.
Russell next adopts the very tactic from Demos (1917) he had earlier
(1918:221) rejected: negation can ~e ~liminated through the notion. ?f a
'true disbelief'. On this account, ThIS IS not blue expresses, by defimtlOn,
a disbelief in what is expressed by the words This is blue (1948: 124-26).
But the key assertion that disbelief is 'a state just as positive as belief' is
entirely unsupported, as is Russell's apparent leap to a subjective theory of
negation. Affirmative and negative propositions can both be true even if
there is nobody alive to believe or disbelieve them.
Russell's observation that the world can be described without the word
not is of course trivially correct; we can, after all, use French or Kikuyu to
describe it, or for that matter a periphrastic variety of English. Whether it
can be described without negation is less clear, and the question is not re-
solved by a Russellian appeal (1948:520ff.) to an unspecified theory of
'impulses' and their inhibition, or by the limitation of the domain of in-
quiry to reports of perception (cf. also Russell 1940).
The repugnance to negative facts acknowledged by Russell, and his
(temporary) adoption of the Platonic negation-as-positive-difference line,
both have their echoes today. One may be found in the attempt by Katz
(1964; 1972: 157-71) to define negation in terms of an ANTONYMY primi-
tive, derived from the earlier Aristotelian relation of contrariety. Patton
(1968: 230) points out that 'De Morganian theories of negation' like Katz's
'may be seen as stemming from a refusal to acknowledge the semantic
primitiveness of negation'. While we may follow Katz in accepting (43b)
as the antonymically motivated equivalent of (43a),
(43) a. My cook is not a woman.
b. My cook is a man.
what, Patton asks, might the positive counterpart of (43') be?
(43') The dog is not beside the man.
(This is not to suggest that there is any semantic equivalence between (43a)
and (43b), but the problems encountered with such pairs are magnified
when we look at terms that do not belong to a set of two.)
For Apostel (1972a: 209), 'there are no negative facts; no non-existent
things'. We can translate apparent references to nonexistents into positive
statements about absences. Thus There is no noise is 'not a negative obser-
vation; it is the positive observation of silence', just as There is no money
in my wallet offers positive information about the state of my wallet. But
this translation procedure would seem inadequate, circular, or just plain
54 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
silly when extended to other examples, for example, There is no spaghetti
left (= the positive observation of spaghettilessness?), There are no uni-
corns, There is no even prime >2, and so forth. The negation in Apostel's
example The dress 1 see is not black can be eliminated without undue dif-
cuIty, but what of the one in 1 didn't eat an apple? And even if we could
successfully explain away negative facts, negations in nondeclarative moods
would seem to resist elimination more fiercely. Even God (for whom there
can-ex hypothesi-be no negative facts) might have found it difficult to
avoid recourse to negation in issuing certain directives: Thou shalt not kill
~~~~~~ ,
Gale (1976) provides a careful and evenhanded survey of the prospects
of each side in the campaign for and against negative facts and events; he
concludes that the former, but not the latter, must be admitted. But there
may be certain advantages to allowing even negative events, ontologically
unwelcome guests though they may be, into linguistic semantics if not
logical representation. As Stockwell, Schachter, and Partee (1973 [SSP]:
250-51) note, generalizing from an earlier observation by G. Lakoff
(1965 :appendix F), 'There are certain cases where the negation ofan event
may, loosely speaking, itself be an event, e.g., not paying taxes, not get-
ting up early, not going to church . .. (semantically, the "event" seems to
be the breaking of a habitual or expected pattern of activity),. Such nega-
tive "events"-note the scare quotes-may be modified by reason, fre-
quency, and location adverbials, although they do not take instrumentals
(SSP 251). Thus, we have
(44) a. I don't beat my wife because I love her. (G. Lakoff
1965:F-6-3)
b. He often hasn't paid taxes. (= SSP, chapter 5, (49b»
c. I don't get up early at home. (= SSP, chapter 5, (53a»
d. I don't cut my salami with a hacksaw (:fo It's with a hacksaw
that I don't cut my salami.)
If such apparent exceptions to the ban on negative events cannot be ex-
plained, they must at least be explained away.
Interestingly, the distribution of adverbials also provides an argument
against the existence of negative events. As Thomason and Stalnaker
(1973: 218-19) observe, there are IV-phrase (VP) adverbs like slowly
which can modify events or actions but not states, as seen in (45a, b):
(45) a. John slowly walks. (John walks slowly.)
b. *John is slowly tall.
c. *John slowly does not walk.
d. John does not walk slowly. [OK, but not as negation of
(45a)]
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 55
A . dicated by the ungrammaticality (or semantic deviance) of (45c), the
s ~ive counterpart of an event is evidently a negative state; what blocks
neg
a
, . h . . I h t 'th f
(45c) on Thomason and Stalnaker s account IS t e pnncip eta. e, unc-
. denoted by slowly will be defined only for events and actIOns , and
non . (0 I d·
not-walking, unli~e w~lkin~, does not constItute an event. n ~ pre. Ic~te
d bs are restncted III thIS way; by Thomason and Stalnaker s cntena,
aver . . . .
the adverbials in (44a-c) are sententla~, whIle .the Illstru~ental III (44d),
which does indeed pattern like slowly, IS a predIcate modIfier on events or
actions.)
An analogous argument was extant in generative semantics circles in the
late 1960s: adverbs like until Sunday and for ~ week show up in negati.ve
contexts and as modifiers of states and duratlve processes, but not WIth
simple "punctative" events:
(46) John *got here {until Sunday / for a week}.
didn't get here
is here
stayed
didn't stay
If negation turns an action into a state or process, then the "negative polar-
ity" until and for phrases are reduced to special cases of a more general
phenomenon, namely, durative (interval-associated) adverbials.
The question of whether there are negative events cannot be answered
directly, by invoking the evidence of natural language, especially in the
absence of a consensus as to what counts as an event. Thomason and Stal-
naker's verdict that negative predicates can only denote states is less con-
vincing when we consider sequences like the following:
(47) What happened next was that the consulate {held up /
denied/ didn't give us} our visa (for six months).
In this token, the distributional evidence (cf. the underlined diagnostics)
and the intuitive semantics converge to suggest that a negative predicate
can be functionally equivalent to a (morphological) positive in denoting a
simple event.
Whatever the ultimate verdict on the existence of negative events, it
would appear that negative facts we shall always have with us. The on-
tologist's pen, like the poet's (cf. Midsummer Night's Dream 5.1.7), must
'give to airy nothing / a local habitation and a name' .
Eliminating the negative: Other tactics
If Plato's ploy-negation as positive difference-is not adequate to the
task of eliminating all instances of superficial negation, what other devices
56 Negation and Opposition in CLassicaL Logic
can be tried? We have already come upon one such device in Hobbes's
attempt to incorporate all contradictory negatives into the predicate, aptly
criticized by Mill (see §1.1.4) and Bradley (1883). This approach is also
dismissed by Joseph (1916: 172), who notes that negation (A is not B) can-
not be eliminated by an incorporation into the predicate (A is not-B) unless
not-B is positive, and this can occur only if all other alternatives can be
ruled out. Fido is not maLe can be analyzed as Fido is not-maLe, that is,
Fido is femaLe, but Fido is not a dog cannot be reduced to a positive in the
same fashion.47
(Patton's critique of Katz's reductionist program, summa-
rized in §1. 1.4 above, hinges on a similar point.)
Even Demos, scourge of negative facts, points out that negation cannot
simply be absorbed into the predicate, by 'defining a proposition like "X is
not white" to be really "X is not-white"', since the negative element bears
'almost as often' [!] on the grammatical subject as on the grammatical
predicate. An atheist can assert God will not provide on the grounds that
there is no God. (This point does not originate with Demos, of course, but
traces back to Aristotle.) Furthermore, the standard logical analysis of re-
lations like is to the right of or precedes offers no grammatical predicate
(no term which combines with a subject to form a sentence) for the nega-
tion in (48) to negate (Demos 1917: 190).
(48) X is not to the right of Y.
X does not precede Y.
While Demos objects to this particular collapse of contradictory and con-
trary negation, he ends up urging a different one, as we shall see below.
(For another critique of the move from A is not B to A is not-B, see Wood
1933:418-19.)
A more frequently encountered method for eradicating negation is that
of identifying it with, and "reducing" it to, falsity. The scare quotes here
are motivated by the question of whether such a "reduction," if it could be
accomplished, would really accomplish anything. But there are in any case
strong grounds for rejecting the proposed identification in the first place,
without even considering its role within a reductionist program.
That negation and falsity might be identified, and eventually confused,
with each other should not be surprising. Aristotle discusses 'being in the
sense of true and non-being in the sense of false' (Met. 1027bI8), and he
seems to explicitly link the negated copula with falsity (as the affirmative
copula is linked with truth): '''To be" and "is" mean that something is
true, and "not to be" that it is not true but false.... For example, in
"Socrates is musical", the "is" means that it is true that Socrates is musi-
cal, and in "Socrates is not-white", that this is true; but in "the diagonal is
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 57
ot commensurate with the side" the "is not" means that it is false that the
:iagonal is commensurate with the side' (Met. 1017a31ff.). . .
In Aristotle's simple correspondence theory of truth, framed withm a
two-valued logic, truth and falsity are interrelated as the two terms of a
contradictory opposition. But contradictory negation does not reduce to
falsity, since negation (Le., predicate denial) and falsity are about different
things and operate on different levels: 'A falsity is a statement of that which
is that it is not, or of that which is not that it is; and a truth is a statement of
that which is that it is, or of that which is not that it is not' (Met. 1011b25-
27; cf. De Int. 18b2-4). Thus Aristotle resists Wood's attempt (1933: 422)
to recruit him to his own negation-as-falsity camp.
As we have seen, Leibniz sought to eliminate apparent propositional
negation, 'by predicating falsehood of a term, rather than negating truth of
it' (Castaneda 1976:484): 'IfB is a proposition, not-B is the same as that B
is false' (Leibniz 1966:58). But contradictory predicate denial (A non est
B) and contrary privation (A est non B) are not directly affected by this
identification.
The equation of negation-often specifically "logical" negation-and
falsity is a frequent maneuver among the Idealists of the late nineteenth and
early twentieth century:
To say'A is not B' is merely the same as to deny that 'A is B' , or
to assert that 'A is B' is false. (Bradley 1883: 118)
'A is not B' means 'it is false, it must not be believed that A is B' .
. .. Immediately and directly, the negation is a judgment con-
cerning a positive judgment that has been essayed or passed.
(Sigwart 1895: 122)
a is not b = that a is b is false. (Baldwin 1928: 147)
The pure negative judgment 'A is not B' is equivalent in every
case to 'it is false that A is B' ... 'Snow is not black' is a short-
hand statement for 'snow is black is an erroneous judgment'.
(Wood 1933:421)
As emerges clearly from the Sigwart and Wood citations, the identifica-
tion of contradictory negation with falsity often goes hand in hand with a
view of negation as a second-order comment on a first-order affirmation,
and/or as a more subjective act than simple affirmation. I shall examine
these tenets more closely in the following section, but it is relevant to cite
once more the protean Russell, for whom every negation is a shorthand for
some assertion of falsity, but at least some affirmatives are second-order as
58 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
well: 'When you say "This is not cheese" you mean "the statement 'this is
cheese' is false" .... Just as the statement "Yes, this is cheese" really
means "the statement 'this is cheese' is true'" (RusseICI940: 74). 'It is
unnecessary to have the two words "false" and "not", for, ifp is a proposi-
tion, "p is false" and "not-p" are strictly synonymous'(Russell 1940 :81).
Ayer, whom we shall later encounter in the cap of the symmetricalists,
offers a variant of this position: false is logically superfluous, but so is
true, both reducible to 'signs of affirmation or denial' (1936: 17). Thus we
have falsity-as-negation (and truth-as-affirmation), rather than vice versa.
Within the modern logical (and linguistic) tradition, the temptation to
identify negation and falsity stems directly from the Fregean line that all
negation is propositional and reducible to a suitably placed it is not true
that . .. (cf. Prior 1967, Seuren 1969: 159). In multivalued logics, there is
one form of negation (internal, strong, choice) which does not display the
logic of contradictory opposition, being governed by LC but not LEM (see
chapter 2). Within such approaches, at least some negations cannot be re-
duced to assertions of falsity. Similarly, there may be iIlocutionary distinc-
tions between the negation of a proposition and the statement that that
proposition is false, as in Heinemann's differentiation (1944: 143) ofnot-p
('p is valid') from 'p is not valid'. But even within classical two-valued
logic itself, there are sufficient grounds for rejecting the identification of
negation and falsity. Philosophers as diverse as Frege (1919), Austin (1950),
Quine (1951), and Geach ([1972] 1980) have observed that the identification
of not and false results from a confusion of language and metalanguage.
Here is Austin's symmetricalist manifesto, addressed to the view (repre-
sented by Ayer) that 'is true' and 'is false' are logically superfluous:
An important point about this view is that it confuses falsity with
negation: for according to it, it is the same thing to say 'He is not
at home' as to say 'It is false that he is at home'.... Too many
philosophers maintain, when anxious to explain away negation,
that a negation is just a second order affirmation (to the effect that
a certain first order affirmation is false), yet, when anxious to ex-
plain away falsity, maintain that to assert that a statement is false
is just to assert its negation (contradictory).... Affirmation and
negation are exactly on a level, in this sense, that no language can
exist which does not contain conventions for both and that both
refer to the world equally directly, not to statements about the
world. (Austin [1950] 1970: 128-29)
Quine (1951 :27- 28) is also at pains to distinguish the predicates 'is
false' and 'is true', which are used to speak about statements, from the
connective '-', which is used to make statements. Example (49a) is a
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 59
statement about the statement Jones is ill, while (49b), read 'Jones is not
ill', is a statement about Jones:
(49) a. 'Jones is ill' is false.48
b. -Jones is ill.
Quine lays at the door of Russell and Whitehead the mistaken identifica-
tion of '-' with falsehood (as well as the parallel misidentification of '::J'
with implication), but the underlying mistake both antedates and survives
the Principia-as does its correction. The Stoics were careful to make the
same distinction as Quine, that 'between the negation of a proposition and
a (metalinguistic) statement that the proposition is false'; these two opera-
tions played different roles in the Stoics' account of syllogistic reasoning
(Mates 1953:64-65).
In the same vein as Austin and Quine, Geach ([1972] 1980: 76) inveighs
against the 'widespread mistake' of assuming that 'the negation of a state-
ment is a statement that that statement is false, and thus is a statement
about the original statement and logically secondary to it' . The error of this
approach emerges clearly when we look at nondeclaratives: '''Do not open
the door!" is a command on the same level as "Open the door!" and does
not mean (say) "Let the statement that you open the door be false!'"
We have seen negation survive enough attempts at liquidation-negation
as positive difference, negation as incompatibility, negation as dissimilarity,
negation as true disbelief, negation as the affirmation of a negative predi-
cate, negation as falsity-to qualify as the Rasputin of the propositional
calculus. Perhaps the last word on negative elimination should be left to the
multifaceted Russell.
In "The Metaphysician's Nightmare" (Russell 1954), Russell's old
friend Andrei Bumblowski, ex-professor of philosophy at a nameless and
now-defunct Central European university, relates a nightmare of Hell, in
which he is invited to an audience with Satan himself, whom he recognizes
at once from Goethe's description as 'der Geist der stets verneint', the
Spirit of Perpetual Negation.49
After an unfortunate slip on Russell's Para-
dox ('Henceforth I will not use the word "not"', Professor Bumblowski
declares, for which he is mercilessly derided by the Devil's metaphysi-
cians), the Professor denounces Satan-and the negation he sponsors-as
merely 'a bad linguistic habit', and vows to abjure both forever.50 For 'This
egg is not fresh', he would henceforth assert 'Chemical changes have oc-
curred in this egg since it was laid'; for the tabooed 'I cannot find that
book', he would substitute 'The books 1 have found are other than that
book'; for 'Thou shalt not kill', 'Thou shalt cherish life'. This does the
trick, and the 'murky air of Hell' dissolves into-or, rather, out of-noth-
ingness, and Satan vanishes. The moral, according to Professor Bumblow-
60 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
ski-Russell: 'Avoid the word "not" and His empire is at an end'. (Or, an
idle not makes work for the Devil's hands.)
1.2.2 Accentuating the Positive
One single positive weighs more,
You know, than negatives a score.
(Matthew Prior, epistle to the Fleetwood Shepherd, 1689)
If negations cannot be legitimately evicted from the logical conveyance
perhaps they might still be restricted to the back of the bus, as second-orde;
statements and second-class sentences. Advocates of the ontological pri-
ority of affirmation over negation include Plato: 'About each form there is
much that it is, but an infinite amount that it is not' (Sophist, 256E). Or, in
the words of an influential asymmetricalist of the Idealist school, 'Only a
finite number of predicates can be affirmed of every subject, while an in-
calculable number can be denied' (Sigwart 1895: 119).
Since nonexistents cannot be individuated, every positive fact or event
'seems to carryon its back an infinite or indefinite number of negative
fl~as' (Gale 1976:2)-we know (or can know) whether we are dealing
With seven or seventy-seven bomb detonations or forest fires, but how do
we begin to count nondetonations and non-forest fires?
As we have seen, Aristotle took the priority of affirmation over negation
to be largely a matter of epistemology (hinging on such asymmetries as
those just sketched), rather of logic or ontology. On the Aristotelian view,
'negation is not the rejection of a previous affirmation, negation is the re-
jection [and affirmation the acceptance] of a suggested connexion' (W. D.
Ross 1923:28; cf. Met. 1017a31-35). But commentators since the early
medieval period have tended to endorse Avicenna's stronger position, that
negation presupposes an affirmation against which it is directed and cannot
be understood except through affirmation (Madkour 1934: 167).
The issue of a presuppositional asymmetry between negation and affir-
mation will be confronted below, but I shall turn first to another strain in
the thought of early asymmetricalists, the view that the negative judgment
or statement represents an unfortunately necessary way station on the long
march from total ignorance to complete knowledge. In this perspective,
negation is a useful tool for us humble and imperfect mortals, but would
not be admitted by a perfect intelligence.
This idea is expressed first, and perhaps most eloquently, by Bacon, in
the Novum Organum (book 2, aphorism 15):
It is only for God (the bestower and creator of forms), and perhaps
for angels and intelligences, at once to recognise forms affir-
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 61
matively from the first glance of contemplation; Man, at least, is
unable to do so, and is only allowed to proceed first by negatives,
and then to conclude with affirmatives, after every species of
exclusion. (Bacon [1620] 1853:474)
In the same vein, Kant observes that negative judgments 'are not held in
very high esteem';
They are regarded rather as the jealous enemies of our unceasing
endeavour to extend our knowledge.... In respect to the content
of our knowledge . . . , the task peculiar to negative judgments is
that of rejecting error. (Kant [1787] 1964: 574, A709/B737)
The Bacon-Kant view of negation as a necessary fiction, a tool for re-
jecting or warding off error w~ich in an epistemically perfect state would
simply wither away, resonates mto our own century:
[In negation] we take to task an interlocutor, real or possible,
whom we find mistaken and whom we put on his guard.... [It]
is of a pedagogical and social nature. It sets straight or rather
warns, the person warned and set straight being possibly, by a
kind of doubling, the very person that speaks.
(Bergson 1911 :289)
In the complete grasp or experience of truth no negative judgment
would remain. . . . The aim of negation is elimination. . . . In
complete knowledge no trace of it survives. (Mabbott 1929:73)
Negation is infected with error and ignorance.... 'This rose is
not red' [necessarily involves] a fallible and partially ignorant
mind erroneously attributing red to a rose of a definite hue other
than red. . . . The occasion of negative judgment is one of intel-
lectual frustration. . . . The negative judgment, thus pragmati-
cally considered, is a memorandum of past failures to serve as a
warning against similar attempts in the future. (Wood 1933:421)
Negation is indispensable for afinite mind. (Heinemann 1944: 152)
The pragmatic considerations leading Ledger Wood to accept negation
as a temporary evil are also invoked by modern philosophers and linguists
working within the tradition of the syntax/semantics/pragmatics trichot-
omy developed by Morris, Peirce, and Carnap, beginning with the man
usually credited with introducing the term and field of pragmatics into the
modern lexicon:
The term 'not' is primarily of practical importance, since it allows
reference to something other than what is specifically referred to
62 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
without specifying what the other is.... The practical impor_
tance of the term is obvious, but it is not theoretically necessary,
and certainly no existential "negative facts" need be invoked to
correspond to it. (Morris 1938: 28)
This view, similar to (one of) Russell's, has recently been echoed by Apos-
tel: 'The universe can be given a complete but not pragmatically useful de-
scription without using negation' (Apostel 1972a: 209).
For man, an imperfect creature mired in these nether swamps where
pragmatics holds sway, positive facts may be accentuated and the affir-
mative (eventually) latched onto, but it is only in those higher realms where
God and the angelic hosts work out Their pure syntax and semantics that
negation can be fully eliminated.
Within this tradition, a negative sentence is not marked just with respect
to the corresponding affirmative (see chapter 3), but in fact the negative
morpheme represents a mark of Cain by which a sentence is irrevocably
tainted. This 'taint of negation' (cf. Wood 1933: 419) may result in the as-
sociation of negation with ignorance and error in particular or with subjec-
tivity in general.
The strongest statement of the thesis that negative judgments and sen-
tences are inherently subjective comes from Bergson (1911 :285ff.):
While affirmation is a purely intellectual act, there enters into
negation an element which is not intellectual. . . . Negation is
only an attitude taken by the mind toward an eventual affirmation.
(p.287-88)
From the point of formal logic, to affirm and to deny are indeed
mutually two symmetric acts, of which the first establishes a rela-
tion of agreement and the second a relation of disagreement be-
tween a subject and an attribute. But how do we fail to see that the
symmetry is altogether external and likeness superficial?51
(p.292)
For a 'passive intelligence', devoid of expectations, affirmative judg-
ments would still be affirmed but negative ones would be impossible, since
there can be no reason to deny what has not been affirmed. Negation inher-
ently involves 'the disappointment of a real or possible expectation'. Once
again, we have the view (later reiterated by Russell and others) that nega-
tive judgments are in fact second-order affirmations. The table is black is
about the table, but The table is not white is about the (possible) judgment
The table is white: '[It] implies that you might believe it white, that you did
believe it such, or that I was going to believe it such.... An affirmative
proposition expresses a judgment on an object; a negative proposition ex-
presses a judgment on a judgment' (Bergson 1911 :288).
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 63
's Subiectivity thesis is also endorsed by Joseph (1916: 172),
Bergson J
S that if no sentient being existed, The wall is green could be
who argue .
b t not The wall is not blue, smce the latter could be uttered only
true, u . bl B h'
omeone might suppose or beheve the wall to be ue. ut t IS
because s . . ' " .
. . like the reductIOnIst theses exammed m sectIOn 1.2.1, IS unten-
posItIon, . . .
I B rgson and Joseph would predict that all negatIve propoSItIons-
ab e. e . d if
2 +2 "4= 5, Water is not an elemen.t, T~e ,,:oon .IS not rna ~ 0 . gr~en
h I
'mply the existence of a judgmg mtelhgence, an ImphcatIon
c eese-
which is counterintuitive in the extreme. Two and two would not equal
five, nor would water be an eleme~t: even if nob.ody had ~;er be~n aroun~
knoW it and the timeless propOSItIons expressmg these negatIve facts
to , h S b' .. h
h ld thus be true. As Matilal (1968: 90) points out, t e u ~ectIvIst t e-
s ou . .
. flects an equivocation between the statement as propOSItIon or sen-
SIS re Th ..
type vs. the statement as utterance or sentence token. e cntIques
tence . bA'
f egation-as-falsity and negation-as-second-order-affirmatIon y ustm,
o n . I B '
Quine, and Geach (cited in section 1.2.1) apply dIrect y to ergsons.ac-
nt· cf Gale (1976:55-61) for additional commentary on the Subjec-
cou , .
tivity thesis. . .. ... .
The current incarnation of the SubjeCtIVIty theSIS IS m the VIew that
negation is (always, necessarily) a speech act, reducible to. speaker denial.
The logical consequence of this position is of course th.at If there were no
speakers (or only silent ones), there would be no negatIOn (cf. §1.2.3 be-
low). A related view is articulated by Apostel (1972a: 277): 'Negation is a
modality, in this sense that it expresses a propositional attitude of the sub-
ject [sic] towards the entity denied' .52 • ' "
But it is hard to see how whatever insight is gamed through thIS IdentIfi-
cation can compensate for the loss of the necessary distinctions blurred
thereby. The true propositional attitudes-belief, knowledge, hope, fear,
regret, desire, permission, obligation-crucially .involv~ some creat~re
whose psychology is characterized by the appropnate attItude or relatIon
toward a given proposition. Speaker denial does constitute a propositional
attitude in this sense, but predicate denial, propositional negation, and
analogous operators with the semantics of contradictory opposition do
not.53
Does negation presuppose affirmation?
Lurking behind the various asymmetricalist salvoes I have been, or will be,
considering is a not entirely hidden agenda: the attempt to argue that e~ery
negative statement (judgment, proposition) PRESUPPOSES ~n affirmatIve,
but not vice versa. This view, which can be traced from SaQkara in the
eighth century to Giv6n in our own, collects a number of distinct subposi-
tions, given the multiplicity of phenomena that have been subsumed under
the term "presupposition".54 Nor is it always clear just which affirmative a
64 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
given writer takes a given negative to presuppose. I shall proceed to exam-
ine the purported presuppositional asymmetry in a more-or-less chronolog_
ical fashion.
The earliest extant version of the doctrine that negatives necessarily pre-
suppose affirmatives comes down to us from the eighth-century Indian
idealist philosopher and logician SalJ.kara (Raju 1954: 703). For SaQ.kara,
every negation either has a positive basis or is insignificant. But the posi-
tive basis of a significant negation like The pen is not red is not the corre-
sponding affirmative The pen is red but rather the distinct fact that the pen
is black (or whatever). We must distinguish the POSITIVE BASIS of A is not
B, that is, A is C (where C is incompatible with B), from its POSITIVE
COUNTERPART, that is, A is B. (In this, and in his verdict that being and
nonbeing are not on the same level, SaQ.kara fits squarely within the
Parmenides-Plato tradition.)
SaQ.kara's distinction between significant and insignificant negation was
(it would seem) independently redeveloped in the West, going back at least
as far as Spinoza and his dichotomy of privation or particular negation
(privatio) and absolute negation (negatio) reviewed above (§1.1.5).
Spinoza's dictum, Determinatio est negatio, is stood on its head by
Hegel, who interprets it as the claim that every significant negation is a
determination or limitation; significant negation must always occur on a
POSITIVE GROUND (corresponding to SaQ.kara's 'basis'). For Hegel, a 'pure
negative judgment' like The rose is not red suggests that a different predi-
cate from the same semantic class applies to the subject: 'To say that the
rose is not red implies that it is still coloured' (Logic §173, Hegel 1892:
306). 'If the rose is not red, it is assumed it has a colour-some other
colour' (Hegel [1812-16] 1929: 275). Such a 'simply negative' judgment
does not constitute total negation; the judgment-that is, the relation of
subject and predicate-is still 'essentially positive', and the subject is 'un-
touched by negation'.
On the other hand, the 'infinite' or 'negatively infinite' judgment, exenI-
plified by such 'correct but absurd' propositions as The rose is not an ele-
phant, Understanding is not a table are not really judgments at all, since
their subject and predicate have no connection (Hegel [1812-16] 1929:
277ff.).
It will be noted that Hegel has performed a complete 180-degree turn in
identifying the simple negative judgment with Aristotle's predicate term
negation and the medievals' negatio infinitans (a restricted negative in
which some other member of the predicate class is presupposed to apply to
the subject) and the infinite judgment with Aristotle's predicate denial and
the medievals' negatio negans (an unrestricted negative taken as simply
denying the connection of subject and predicate). The discrepancy between
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 65
the traditional and the Heg~lian lab~ls ~us~ be borne in mind when I ex-
d the discussion of negative and mfimte Judgments below.
ten
In any event, the Idealists of the ~ate nineteenth and e~ly t:wentieth cen-
tury followed Hegel's lead on negatIOn ~as elsewhere), ~1~h SlgWW; (1895:
126) glossing Determina~io. est negatlO as the pro~sltl~n that a figure
. determined insofar as It IS not the space surroundmg It, and thus can
~ thought of only by the aid of negation-as a limitation, i.e. negation of
the infinite'. Contra Aristotle, the affirmative is logically prior to the nega-
tive: 'The object of a negation must always be either a completed or an
attempted judgment, and for this reason we cannot regard the negative
judgment as a.species equally p~im~tive with the positive judgment and co-
ordinate with It. . . . The negative Judgment presupposes the attempt, or at
least the thought, or an affirmation' (Sigwart 1895: 119).
Sigwart later (p. 122) strengthens this notion of presupposition: 'Imme-
diately and directly, the negation is a judgment concerning a positive judg-
ment that has been essayed or passed'. We are back again to negation as
second-order affirmation. (Elsewhere, Sigwart endorses Kant's characteri-
zation of negation as a means for averting error and Bergson's Subjectivity
thesis.)
For Sigwart, it is only under an asyII1metricalist banner that Duplex
negatio ajJirmat, the classical Law of Double Negation, can be captured:
'As soon as we see that every negation presupposes a previous synthesis,
its only object being to declare this synthesis invalid', we can improve on
Aristotle (whose logic was blighted by his parallel treatment of affirmation
and negation) and derive LDN (Sigwart 1895: 148). Since LDN functions
as the crucial stepping-stone from LC to LEM, its derivability would be a
major argument for the asymmetricalist thesis on negation-if Sigwart's
claim is correct. But those symmetricalists who have worked within classic
propositional logic, from the Stoics to Frege to Quine, have experienced
no difficulty in taking LDN as a cornerstone of the logic of negation, al-
beit one which tends to be stipulated as an axiom rather than derived as
a theorem.
Bradley (1883) adopts an intermediate position on the question of pri-
ority. On the one hand, he agrees with Sigwart that 'assertion and denial
stand on different levels', and echoes the SaQ.kara-Hegelline on significant
negation: 'Every negation must have a ground, and this ground is positive'
(Bradley 1883: 112). 'Nothing in the world can ever be denied except on
the strength of positive knowledge. . . . We can not deny without also af-
firming' (p. 120). 'We should never trust a negative judgment until we
have seen its positive ground' (p. 200). But he cautions that denial cannot
be reduced to or derived from affirmation, explicitly rejecting Sigwart's
claim that negation presupposes an affirmative judgment: 'We must never
66 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
say that negation is the denial of an existing judgment. For judgment . . .
implies belief; and it is not the case that what we deny we must once have
believed' (p. 110).
Another reluctant warrior in the Idealist battalion of the asymmetricalist
army is Bosanquet ([1888] 1911, 1895), for whom the real question is not
so much whether but what the negative judgment presupposes. Of the view
that 'every negation presupposes an affirmation, so "A is not B" pre-
supposes the affirmation "A is B"'-which he attributes to Sigwart-he
declares:55
'I think it monstrous. I do not believe that you must find an af-
firmative standing before you can deny' (Bosanquet 1895: 132; cf. also
[1888] 1911: 277). But the matter is more complicated: 'Negation is not, as
such, the denial of affirmative judgment, and therefore does not presup-
pose the affirmation of that which is denied.... On the other hand, Nega-
tion does presuppose some affirmation' (Bosanquet [1888] 1911 :280).
Bosanquet here refers to Bradley's notion (1883: 166) of 'a suggested affir-
mative relation', and endorses the latter's view that 'in the beginning, nega-
tion is a degree more remote from reality than is affirmation'. But while
affirmation is epistemologically prior to negation, eventually 'affirmation
and negation alike become double-edged, each involving the other' (Bo-
sanquet [1888] 1911 :281).
For Bosanquet, 'all and only those negatives which presuppose an affir-
mative are significant' (Heinemann 1944). Any significant negative judg-
ment of the form A is not B can always be analyzed as A is not B but C, or
as A is X, which excludes B (as in 'a colour (undetermined) not red'). But
insignificant or bare negations-The lion is not an elephant, Virtue is not
square-do not posit a true contrary, since they do not limit the sphere of
negation (Bosanquet [1888] 1911 :281-89,1895: 130). We are back once
again to Spinoza's privatio vs. tiegatio, particular vs. absolute negation.
Bosanquet distinguishes the positive ground for negation (identical with
SaQ.kara's positive basis)-some contrary whose truth determines the truth
of the negative proposition-from the positive CONSEQUENT, the indeter-
minate proposition which logically follows from the negative. Thus the
positive ground of (50a) is (50b), while its positive consequent is (50c)
([1888] 1911:289):
(50) a. This surface is not black.
b. This surface is (e.g.) green.
c. There is a color x, x *- black, such that this surface is x.
Notice that the relation between a negation and its ground is one of con-
trariety, while a negation and its consequent are in (essentially) contra-
dictory opposition. Bosanquet's insightful remarks on the interaction of
contradictory and contrary negation will be reviewed in chapter 5, Where I
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 67
shall use them as a launching pad for my consideration ofcontraries in con-
tradictory clothing.
Joseph (1916: 172) echoes Bosanquet's line: 'We must accept the nega-
tive judgment as expressing the real limitation of things, but we must allow
that it rests upon and presupposes the affirmative.... There is always a
positive character as the ground of negation. Snow is not hot, because it is
cold'. Plato's view of negation as difference or otherness is thus endorsed,
but only as a means of explaining the function of (significant) negative
statements in communication, not as a means of eliminating negation from
logic, that is, the representation of thought.
A related but somewhat more unusual approach is pursued by Demos
(1917). While all negation must be read as 'qualifying the entire content of
the proposition', so that X is not dead is analyzable as not (X is dead), the
meaning of not can be given in terms of contrariety rather than contradic-
tion. Thus (Demos 1917: 190), we have the equation
(51) John is not at home = not (John is at home) = an opposite of
(John is at home) is true
IfI believe that John is not at home, I believe an opposite, a contrary, of the
proposition that John is at home. Negative assertions are therefore 'always
positive in reference', but-since they refer ambiguously or indetermi-
nately to their positive ground-'never positive in content' (p. 193).
Thus not-p is to be unpacked into 'some proposition is true which is a
contrary of p', where the latter 'refers descriptively to that proposition
which is true'. The claim that a negative proposition not-p denotes a propo-
sition qwhich is a true contrary of p recalls a recent analysis of questions
within an extended Montague grammar (Karttunen and Peters 1976) in
which every question denotes the set of its true and complete answers. But
just which contrary does the negation denote? If John is not at home, there
are infinitely many true positive propositions which entail that he is not at
home, each of which constitutes a contrary of John is at home.56
Demos joins Bergson and the Idealists in some of the asymmetricalist
campaigns; while both negative and positive propositions refer to positive
facts, 'in the first case the reference is indirect, and in the second direct.
From this angle, a negative proposition may be defined as a referent to a
referent or a description of a description' (Demos 1917: 194). But, contra
Bergson and his Subjectivist troops, 'the negative proposition is an objec-
tive entity, not dependent on the mind's attitude towards it' (p. 195).
Two encyclopedia entries from this period on 'negation' and 'negative',
prepared by Peirce and his colleagues, offer a measured state-of-the-art
statement, not only summarizing the Idealists' view on the conditions for
significant negation, but essentially prefiguring the position of GivQn
(1978, 1979) as well:
68 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
In order that a negative statement may have any value, there must
have been some reason to suppose that the affirmative statement
of which it is the exact denial was true, either that it had been pro-
posed for our acceptance by an interlocutor, that it had been part of
our stored-up knowledge orpurported knowledge, or that we had in
mind what we took at the moment to be sufficient ground for
its acceptance. . . . Negation is a secondary function of thought,
which presupposes the existence of positive judgments.
(Baldwin 1928: 146-48)
The site for the next major skirmish in the war of affirmative priority was
the symposium on negation reproduced in the Aristotelian Society proceed-
ings for 1929. The first speaker is Mabbott, who (following Hegel and Bo-
sanquet) distinguishes significant negations of the type in (52a) from the
'impossible thoughts' of(52b, c) and from the 'pseudo-judgments' of (53):57
(52) a. Some politicians are not honest.
b. Some politicians are not ./3.
c. Some politicians are not of.
(53) a. Virtue is not square.
b. The soul is not an elephant.
c. The soul is not a fire-shovel.
When the subject is not a 'possible candidate' for the predicate to apply
to, and negation does not function to eliminate its candidacy and thereby
narrow the field, the result is a TURKEY-CARPET JUDGMENT-SO called be-
cause it bears the same relation to a real negative proposition (e.g., (52a»
that an oriental carpet bears to a painting (Mabbott 1929: 68ff.).
What remains are the cases of true ELIMINATIVE negation, constituting a
pis aller which can be unpacked by situating the negated predicate within
a disjunctive set My hat is not red = My hat is yellow or blue or. . . Other
instances of meaningful negation, involving 'neither doubt, ignorance, nor
error' contain no implicit disjunction; members of this class, including
This is not a living wage and We cannot cross thatfield, are branded TELEO-
LOGICAL negations and dismissed as 'damaged specimens' (Mabbott 1929:
72-76).
Price (1929) rejects Mabbott's Subjectivist approach to negation as well
as the view that 'negation presupposes a positive suggestion'; at least this
can't be a differentia of negation, Price notes, since affirmations may also
presuppose positive suggestions. Further, Price defends The soul is not a
fire-shovel as sensical and indeed true.
Ryle, in his contribution to the symposium, situates himself between
Mabbott's hard-line asymmetricalist approach and Price's symmetrical-
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 69
·st stance. While rejecting Mabbott's contention that we affirm out of
~owledge and deny out of ignorance or error, as well as his repudiation
of negative facts ('even negation is determination': Ryle 1929: 96), Ryle
does follow Mabbott in endorsing an 'elimination-within-a-disjunctive-set'
analysis:58 'When I say "Mrs. Smith's hat is not green" I can equivalently
say ". . . but some other colour". The "but some other . . ." is always
there, sometimes explicitly, sometimes marked by tone of voice, or simply
implied by the context' (Ryle 1929:85).
Without the but clause, 'negative sentences are elliptical', though still
generally interpretable in context. Ryle identifies the missing step in this
analysis: 'When I say "The hat is not green (but some other colour)", I am
(not stating but) presupposing that the hat is coloured'. The predicate be-
longs to a contextually assumed set, some other member of which holds of
the subject. Thus we can maintain, with Plato's Stranger and subsequent
Otherness theorists, that 'the full explication of what is meant by a nega-
tive sentence necessarily takes the form of an assertion of otherness . . .
otherness as specified or made determinate by mention of the particular
disjunctive set to which the "others" belong as members' (Ryle 1929: 89).
Hence the oddness of Mabbott's Turkey-carpet judgments, like Virtue is
not square: we can't continue'... but some other shape'.
A contemporary advocate of the disjunctive-set analysis is Apostel
(1972b:396-97), who distinguishes two types of expansions for a nega-
tive sentence like This stone is not red: 'The logical negation designates
the disjunction of all alternates, while the linguistic or psychological nega-
tion means [sic] only the disjunction of a few alternatives lying in some
sense "close" to the negated sentence'. Not q is read as 'incompatible
with, but in the neighborhood of, q'.
But this entire line of argument, reasonable as it sounds when applied to
carefully selected examples involving the colors of hats or stones, loses
plausibility rapidly when it is extended to other predicates whose 'assumed
disjunctive set' is much harder to fill in. Does Sue didn't eat any pizza
really mean or presuppose that she ate (or did) something else? Is the dis-
junctive set invoked by not red a product of the meaning of not or of red?
Does John doesn't love Mary presuppose that he loves another? When no
obvious closed class of predicates can be reconstructed, Ryle's disjunctive-
set analysis, as he seems to recognize (Ryle 1929: 88ff.), works fairly well
for instances ofcontrastive negation, where the focused element is stressed;
it is far less convincing for more neutral cases.
Another difficulty for both the Mabbott-Ryle analysis of predicational
sentences and the comparable line on negative existentials (as in Gale
1972:473-74) is that they seem to assume the appropriate disjunctive set
will be manageable, or at least finite. But applying this style of analysis to
(54a), not to mention (54b, c), proves extremely discouraging.
70 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
(54) a. There are no unicorns.
b. My favorite real number is not 1T.
c. The largest complex number is not 3i + 4.
Mabbott would no doubt consign these recalcitrants to the dustbin of 't _
leological negation', but it is hard to see what insight has been captur:d
thereby.
On. the hybrid asymmetricalist theory favored by Wood (1933), the
n~gatlOn-as-otherness li~e associa~ed w~th Plato, Spinoza, and Hegel ap-
phes only to those equatlOnals WhICh reject a false identity claim such as
the 'pseudo-negatives' in (55): '
(55) a. Black is not white.
b. 2 is not 3.
c. Mr. A is not Mr. B.
Predicationals like those in (56), on the other hand,
(56) a. Snow is not black.
b. 2 plus 2 does not equal 5.
c. Mr. A is not in the room.
are 'pur~ and genuine negative judgments', to be analyzed as second-order
affirmat.lOns: 'affir~ativejudgments in disguise' (Wood 1933 :421). (Given
~y e~her dIScussIon of Hegel's, Sigwart's, and Mabbott's negative identi-
tIes, It would seem that Wood's lumping of all such statements into the
pseudo~negative bag occupied by the examples of (55) may be somewhat
hasty, SInce the class of negative identity or equational sentences appears to
be heterogeneous.)
. In addition t~ disdain~n~, defending, and subsequently casting out nega-
tIV~ facts, seekIng to ehmInate negation through the negation-as-true-dis-
behef .and neg~tion-as-falsity ploys, and codirecting the Bumblowskian
~am~aIgn t~ sp~te Satan by banning negation outright (§1.2.1.), Russell-
In hIS Inqull! mto Meaning and Truth-ignores his earlier cogent argu-
ment from hIppolessness and brings evidence from perception to bear on
beh~lf ~f an analysis of negation as secondary to, and presupposing, affir-
matIve Judgment:
Although they seem equally based upon sensible experience, the
two statements 'there is butter [in the larder]' and 'there is not
cheese' are really on a different level. There was a definite occur-
ren~e which was seeing butter . . . but there was no occurrence
WhICh could be described as 'not seeing cheese' or 'seeing the ab-
senc~ of che~se'. You must have looked at everything in the larder
and Judged, In each case, 'this is not cheese'.... To judge 'this
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 71
is not cheese', you must have the word 'cheese' ... in your mind
already. (Russell 1940:73)
It is for this reason that This is not cheese counts as a statement about a
statement, equivalent to the statement that the statement This is cheese is
false (1940: 74; see §1.2.1 above). In general, then, 'while a positive basic
proposition is caused only by a percept a negative one is caused by a per-
cept plus a previous propositional attitude' (1940: 163).
On this view, all negation is metalinguistic. This bears out the line taken
elsewhere in the Inquiry: 'The word "not" is only significant when at-
tached to a sentence, and therefore presupposes language. Consequently, if
"p" is a sentence of the primary language, "not-p" is a sentence of the
secondary language' (Russell 1940: 64). But we are now back within the
familiar Bergsonian encampment besieged so effectively by Frege, Austin,
Quine, and Geach (cf. §1.2.1); the new reinforcement offered for this posi-
tion by Russell is valid, if at all, only for that restricted class of sentences
that report direct perception. As Gale notes (1976: 60), what holds for the
perception of negative facts and events does not necessarily hold for their
existence, and it is the latter point which is at issue here. In the light of the
questionable status of any generalization from perception reports to the
entire range of affirmative and negative propositions, Russell's reassurance
that 'we may safely treat "false" and "not" as synonyms' (1940:81)
amounts to whistling in the dark.
As we have seen in this section, there are two primary ways in which the
claim that every negative presupposes an affirmative can, and has been,
understood. In the weaker sense, every "significant" contradictory ne-
gation "rests upon", or owes its truth to, some contrary (its "positive
ground"). It is in this sense that This hat is not red presupposes that the hat
in question is of some other specific (but perhaps unknown) color. In the
stronger sense, every negative proposition of the form not-p (or A is not B)
presupposes the corresponding affirmative p (or A is B), its "positive con-
sequent". But this latter claim, as frequent today as it was in the days of
SaJJkara and Avicenna, relies on knowing what we mean by "presuppose".
Sigwart maintained (at times) that p must be affirmed before it can be
denied, and Bosanquet thought him monstrous for doing so. Tesniere
would have evidently stood with Sigwart, at least in terms of negation pre-
supposing an earlier mental affirmation: 'Toute negation procede d'une af-
firmation.... Avant de nier Ie contenu d'une phrase l'esprit doit d'abord
l'affirmer afin de pouvoir ensuite Ie nier' (Tesniere 1959: 225).
The Presuppositionalist thesis most clearly presented in Peirce et al.'s
encyclopedia entry (Baldwin 1928: 147, cited above) is echoed in recent
treatments of negation by those working within the perspectives of psycho-
72 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
linguistics (cf. the discussion of Wason's 'contexts of plausible denial' in
chapter 3) or pragmatics. Thus, Ducrot (1973: 119) observes that
(57) Pierre n'est pas Ie cousin de Marie.
would be an odd thing to say if nobody had ever claimed that Pierre was
Marie's cousin; hence the expected rejoinder when (57) is uttered in the
absence of such a context,
(57') Qui a jamais pn!tendu cela? (= Whoever claimed she was ?)
In the same vein, Givon (1978:79-81; 1979: 103-4) remarks on the
oddness of a discourse-initial utterance of (58),
(58) Dh, my wife's not pregnant.
when the hearer cannot be expected to assume 'that there was some likeli-
hood that my wife was pregnant, that the subject has been under discu~
that it had been considered as a probability, etc.' (emphasis in original). If
the hearer cannot make this assumption, Givon notes (1979: 103), slhe is
likely to respond accordingly:
(58') Wait a minute-was she supposed to be pregnant?
Hold it-I didn't know she was supposed to be pregnant.
The affirmative counterpart of (58), like that of Ducrot's (57), is not com-
parably restricted.
Givon cites Garcia's pragmatically fueled salvo against the purported 'ob-
jective' and 'grammatical' symmetry ofaffirmation and negation: 'Negative
sentences communicate in terms of an implicit, but rejected, affirma-
tion.... In terms of actual communication ... , a negative sentence is,
a priori, worth far less than an affirmative' (Garcia 1975: 8-9; cited in
Givon 1979: 111-12). And he translates this language into that of 'presup-
positionality'. But Givon's attempt to show that negative sentences are
'more presuppositional' or 'presuppositionally richer' than affirmatives
(1979: 108 and elsewhere) founders on an equivocation on the term "pre-
supposition". He argues that 'from a strictly logical point of view, while
the speaker asserts -p he presupposes p' (Givon 1978: 70; 1979: 92). Not
surprisingly, this strikes Givon as 'a nonsensical conclusion', from which
he deduces that formal logic is hopelessly flawed, or at least totally inade-
quate to describe the behavior of natural language negation.
Whether or not his conclusion is correct, Givon has hardly made a case
for it, especially since no formal logic of presupposition (including the two
Givon cites, those of Keenan [1971] and Herzberger [1971]) would accept
the premise that -p logically presupposes p, that is, that the truth of the
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 73
latter is a necessary condition for the former to be true or false. Nor would
a Strawsonian be prepared to grant that p must be true in order for the ques-
tion of the truth or falsity of -p to arise. The Stalnaker-Karttunen notion
of pragmatic presupposition (cf. e.g., Stalnaker 1974) fares no better here:
p can hardly constitute a necessary condition for the appropriate or felici-
touS utterance of -po But a pragmatic notion of a different sort does seem
to be involved here.
While Givon's original version of the Presuppositionality thesis, as re-
flected in the claim (1979: 108) that negative sentences are used 'always in
context where the speaker believes that the hearer holds a certain belief in
the truth of the corresponding affirmative', is far too strong to uphold con-
sistently, this untenable form of the thesis is later weakened (although the
weakening is not acknowledged) to a more defensible, if vaguer, position:
'Negatives in general are uttered in a context where the corresponding af-
firmative has been discussed, or else where the speaker assumes that the
hearer's bias toward or belief in-and thus familiarity with-the corre-
sponding affirmative [sic]' (1979: 139). But on this version, Givon's no-
tion of presupposition is closer to the Praguean notion of GIVEN or OLD
INFORMATION (cf. Firbas 1964, 1966; Kuno 1972; Prince 1981) than to
either the logical/semantic or the formal pragmatic (Stalnaker-Thomason-
Karttunen) approaches explicitly cited by Givon.S9
Negation as a speech act
For Givon, the doctrine that negation is 'more presuppositional' than affir-
mation, that negative sentences involve, by their nature, 'denial of the
hearer's belief' (1979: 112), is built into his general depiction of the 'NEGA-
TIVE SPEECH ACT'. The assumption that it makes sense to speak of the
'speech act of negation' is worth examining more closely.
Givon's characterization of negation as a speech act echoes the asym-
metricalists of antiquity: 'Negative declarative sentences constitute a dif-
ferent speech act than the corresponding affirmatives. Affirmatives are
used to convey new information on the background of assuming the hear-
er's ignorance. Negatives are used to correct misguided belief on the back-
ground of assuming the hearer's error' (Givon 1979: 139). As in Kant,
negatives function to ward off error; as in Bergson, they are crucially
subjective.
Strawson (1952: 7) seems to share this view of negation as a means for
rendering explicit what he calls 'the function of exclusion', as a device
used 'when we wish to contradict a previous assertion, or to correct a pos-
sible false impression, or to express the contrast between what had been
expected, feared, suggested, or hoped, and the reality. . . . The standard
74 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
and pri~ary use of "not" is specifically to contradict or correct; to cancel a
suggestIOn of one's own or another's'.60 The equation implicitly assumed
by Strawson and Giv6n is explicitly spelled out by Apostel (1972a: 273):
(59) He is not poor = I deny that he is poor.61
. But the doctrine that there is a special negative speech act, that negation
IS always or generally equivalent to speaker denial, has met with the ex-
pected resistance. Indeed, it was Frege who first stressed that negation can-
~ot be reduced to denial (any more than it can be reduced to falsity). There
~s, to be sure, a truth-conditional relation between the two concepts or acts:
When a sentence p may be truly asserted, the corresponding negative sen-
tence not-p may be truly denied, and vice versa' (Frege 1919: 129).62
Negation itself is a 'chimerical construction' for Frege, since all we
really have is the fusion of ordinary judgment or assertion with a content
that happens to contain not. In Frege's representation of assertion I-A th
vertical stroke represents the JUDGMENT, the horizontal the CON;ENT: th~
latter representing (when unasserted) a 'mere complex of ideas', which
m~y or may not. include negation (Frege 1919: 130ff.). Crucially, Frege
POInts out, negatIOn may occur in unasserted contexts, such as the anteced-
ent of a con~itional; there i~ no notion of speaker denial which straightfor-
wardly apphes to the negatIve clause in sentences like those in (60).
(60) a. If Paris is not the capital of France, my itinerary is in
trouble.
b. Either he isn't going to the opera tonight or he's going to
miss the first act.
Similarly, w,e can entertain .or report a negative proposition-for example,
that Fermat s last theorem IS not true-without rejecting the positive ver-
sion of that proposition.
Within speech act theory, Searle defends exactly the move which Frege
forswears: ~or Searle (1969: 32), the ILLOCUTIONARY NEGATION -F(p)
contrasts WIth the PROPOSITIONAL NEGATION F(-p), where F is an illo-
cutionary force indicator, and p the propositional content. Let F be the
speech act o~ promising, Pr..Then -Pr(p) can be read as, for example, I
do not promise to come, that IS, as 'a refusal to make a promise'. Pr(-p),
for example, I promise not to come, is simply a promise with negative
content.
Given that Searle's approach, unlike Giv6n's and perhaps Strawson's,
~oes not s~ek.to. reduc~ all negatives to the speech act of denial, the ques-
tIons remaIn: IS IllocutlOnary negation tenable at all, and-if so-how can
it be characterized? These questions sparked a flurry of debate. For Sloman
(1969: 58ff.), one who performs the act corresponding to - F(p) performs
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 75
ch act different from, but related to, F(p), one in which the commit-
a spee cI.ated with F are at least temporarily rejected. Hare (1970: 12)
ments asso . b d
th
t 'nearly all speech acts, including assertIOns, can e negate
argues a . S l' ·11· t· )
in these tWO ways': either '.e~ternally' (~Ia ear.e s I ocutIOnary nega.lOn
,. ally' (via proposItIOnal negatIOn). ThIS extends to declaratlVes,
or Intern . 1 . (Th . t
The cat is on the mat allows both Interna negatIOn e cat IS no on
where , h . h tTh t
) and external negation (I don t say t e cat IS on t e rna ; e ca
the mat .
not be on the mat). Using Fregean notatIon, the former comes out
~p) and the latter (in contravention of Frege) as -I-(p).
Garner (1970) argues, contra Hare, that 'the very idea of ex~ern~l ne-
. if a speech act is suspect'· consider the 'external negatIOns that
gatlon 0 ' . .
ld have to be provided for, for example, I declare thiS bridge open, I
~~Uyou welcome, and so forth. If external negation is motiv~ted at all, it
ly
apply to sentences, not to speech acts. And, agaInst Sloman,
can on , .h, . . .
h
.l reh'sing does indeed constitute a speech act, reposmg to promise IS
w 1 e ".. f .. h
re a modification or transformation of the act 0 prOmISIng t an re-
nomo . . . , .
fusing to run is a modIficatIOn of the act of runmng .(Garner 1970.110).
Patton (1968 :231), in his characterization of negatIOn as external. to the
po
sitional content, lines up against Frege and (apparently) alongSIde the
pro . l·k· . d
dvocates of 'illocutionary negation': 'NegatIOns, 1 e InterrogatIves an
:mperatives, are semantically distinguished f~om their sources ~ot by con-
tent but as it were by differences in linguistIc moves that can Involve the
same content' . . . .
Apostel (1972a) adopts a related position: negative and posI.tI.ve propOSI-
tions differ in content, ala Frege, but either type of proposItIon may be
asserted or denied by a speaker. Asymmetry comes in at the point of the
latter distinction, since whoever denies both denies an assertion and asserts
a denial, while whoever asserts does not ipso facto deny an~hing. Thus,
positive and negative (propositional attributes) are symmetncal, but affir-
mation and denial (speech act attributes) are not.
A quite different symmetricalist view of negation as a 'linguistic ~ove'
is suggested by Toms (1972): negation is not the resu~t of performmg.an
operation on a positive "source"; rather, both ne~atlVe and ~rmatt~e
propositions result from performing separate operatIons on a b~SIC enttty
which is neither positive nor negative per se. Both the affirmatIve There
are unicorns and the negative There are no unicorns descend from a com-
mon universal, rather than the latter deriving from the former in any direct
way: 'A negative fact does not relate to the opposite positive fact, but ...
to a universal distinct from both positive and negative facts' (Toms 1972:
12). We can in fact trace this idea back to Hegelian dialectic (cf. Hegel
[1812-16] 1929: 66), which insists on the existence of 'an A which is nei-
ther +A nor - A', a 'third term' indifferent to the polar opposition.
76 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
The symmetricalists strike back
I shall conclude this rather hyperextended section by reviewing some of the
counterarguments that have been offered in our own century to the aSYm-
metricalists' stance on negation-as-presupposing-affirmation and negation-
as-speaker-denial. We have observed Frege's hostility to the translation of
negative statements into instances of the speech act of denial or rejection'
he also vigorously attacks the view that 'a negative thought is less usefui
than an affirmative one'; even Aristotle, as we have seen, might be held to
have adopted the version of epistemological asymmetry Frege rejects here.
Following Frege's lead, the logical positivists launched an assault on these
Idealist beachheads. For the Wittgenstein of the Tractatus, presupposi-
tionality is a two-edged sword: 'The positive proposition necessarily presup-
poses the existence ofthe negative proposition and vice versa' (Wittgenstein
1922: §5.5151). And Ayer makes it clear that he would dissent from even
the measured quasi-Praguean line on the putative discourse presupposi-
tionality of negation, as endorsed by Peirce and the neo-Hegelians in their
~dict that negation is always directed against a 'suggested' or 'attempted'
Judgment, and by Strawson, Ducrot, and Giv6n in terms of the enriched
context required for the felicity of the 'negative speech act'.
Ayer's manifesto ([1952] 1963: 39) is worth quoting in full:
From the fact that someone asserts that it is not raining one is not
entitled to infer that he has ever supposed, or that anyone has ever
suggested, that it is, any more than from the fact that someone
asserts that it is raining one is entitled to infer that he has ever
supposed, or that anyone has ever suggested, that it is not. No
doubt negative forms of expression are very frequently used to
deny some previous suggestion; it may even be that this is their
most common use. But whatever the interest of this fact it cannot
be the ground of any viable distinction between different types of
statement.
Ayer goes on to challenge the epistemological asymmetricalists on the
~ove from negation-as-worth-Iess to negation-as-worthless: 'Why should
It not be allowed that the statement that the Atlantic Ocean is not blue is as
much a description of the Atlantic as the statement that the Mediterranean
Sea is blue is a description of the Mediterranean?' Unlike Frege, Ayer is
willing to grant that the negative might well be less informative but, he
observes (in a passage which has since become quoted almost as often as
Spinoza's one-liner), 'to say that a description is relatively uninformative is
not to say that it is not a description at all' (Ayer [1952] 1963: 47).63
Just as Bosanquet was led to a recognition ([1888] 1911: 281) that affir-
mation and negation end up 'double-edged, each involving the other',
Ayer notes ([1952] 1963 :48) that 'to say what things are not is itself a way
1.2 The Paradox ofNegative Judgment 77
f saying what they are. And conversely, to say what things are is itself a
~ay of saying what they are not'. Negation is determination-but, then, so
is affirmation. . . ., .
Kissin (1969) is a moderate symmetncahst who fits neatly wlthm neither
camp. He argues, contra Frege (and Geach; cf. below), that not all nega-
ti e statements can be reduced to 'an assertion-or-affirmation of a nega-
ti~n'. The denial or rejection of p cannot be represented simply as 1-(~p);
ther, as Lukasiewicz maintained: 'we need another symbol of the same
~vel as the assertion-or-affirmation symbol in order to symbolize denial-
or-rejection, say -I. The point is th~t denial-or-r~jection is an act With. the
same status as assertion-or-affirmatlOn, and can t be reduced to assertlOn-
or-affirmation' (Kissin 1969: 147).
At the same time, Kissin rejects the strong asymmetricalist position that
'a statement is a denial-or-rejection iff it is made by using a negative sen-
tence straightforwardly'. The most we can say is that 'when a person uses
a negative sentence straightforwardly, typically or standardly what ~e
is doing is denying-or-rejecting something' (Kissin 1969: 149; emphasIs
mine). This weaker position is forced on Kissin by his recognition that a
given negative (or positive) sentence may be used in different ways depend-
ing on the context, speaker intentions, and so on; he cites the parallel uses
ofHe's staying and He's not leaving to issue the same denial, as well as the
use of a given negative, for example, There's nothing on the table, either to
deny an assertion or to assert a (negative) fact. Kissin thus alights next to
Hare (1970): some but not all negative statements represent 'illocutionary
negation'.
The pure Fregean line on behalf of propositional-content-intemal nega-
tion is reiterated by Geach ([1972] 1980: 260), who argues that logic 'de-
mands the use of a negation sign which is not polarly opposed to the
assertion sign and does not express rejection of what is negated; and when
a proposition is negated, we may equally well conceive this as asserting the
negation of a proposition'. Dismissing Lukasiewicz's suggestion of 1 for
negation as a 'futile complication', Geach contents himself with Frege's
assertion sign and propositional negation, echoing Frege's caveat: 'What-
soever is more than this cometh of evil' (Frege 1919: 125).
As we have seen, the identification ofnegative statements with the speech
act (or mental act) of denial leads inevitably to the claim that (61a) and
(61b) are logically equivalent and/or communicatively interchangeable.
(61) a. not-po (It is not the case that p.)
b. I deny that p.
Apostel (1972a: 273), for example, suggests an equivalence between He is
not poor and I deny that he is poor, and others (including Bergson and
Giv6n) would seem committed to the same view. But Gale (1970:201ff.;
78 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
1.976
1
:59) launches an effective counterassault. As Ayer observed, it is
simp y not true that the statement addressed by a negative must have be
d ·· db· en
rna e-or enVlSlone as emg made-by anyone. Further, since positive
statements can also be used to deny another's assertion (as even Russel!
conceded), w~ can have no general equivalence between (61a) and (61b).
Ifsuch an equivalence were to be maintained, then-given any proposition
p and th~ Law of Excluded Middle, p v -p-(62b) should, like (62a), be
necessarIly true.
(62) a. Either it is not the case that p or [it is not the case that it is
not the case that] p.
b. Either I deny that p or I deny that {I deny that p.}
not-po
Yet, as Gale points out, while (62a) is valid, (62b) is not. Nor does it fol-
low from (61b) as it does from (61a) that p is false, since true statements
can perfectly well be denied. To Gale's cogent arguments I can add one
obvious cod~cil: the performative nature of (61b) is supported by the stan-
dard syntactic correlates, while (61a) is clearly nonperformative in nature:
(62') a. *Hereby not-po (*It is hereby not the case that p.)
b. I hereby deny that p.
. For the final sa.lvo from the armory of the symmetricalists, I must by
nghts turn to therr modem captain, Peter Geach. Having elsewhere at-
tempted the demolition of the negation-as-falsity troops, he now aims his
c~Imon~ at the rem~ining. positions of the affirmative priority camp, begin-
mng ~Ith the. one Just cited. Although Geach's remarks directly concern
ne?atI.ve predl~ates rather than negative statements or sentences per se, his
pomt IS apposite:
Verbally, the negation of a predicate is more complex than the
predicate itself, since it contains an added 'not'; this has often led
~ople to think .that the understanding of the negative predicate
mcludes somethmg over and above the understanding of the affir-
mative predicate-viz. the understanding of negation.... But
the understanding of 'not male' is no more complex than that of
'male': they go inseparably together.... Of course a predicate
cannot really be any more definite than its negation is; the one is
exactly as sharply defined as the other. (Geach 1972: 78-79)
It will be noticed that Geach, in choosing the pair male/not male to make
~is point for symmetry, is stacking his deck as carefully as the Ideal-
IStS sta:ked .theirs.in finding color predicates-X is not black-especially
convement 10 their defense of the asymmetricalist (elimination-within-a-
disjunctive-set) line.
1.3 Negation East and West 79
In any case, Geach goes on to blast the Presuppositionality thesis as
well: 'We must a fortiori reject the view that a negative predication needs
to be backed by an affirmative one-that we are not justified in predicating
the negation of P unless we can predicate some Q which is positive and
incompatible with P' .
As Geach recognizes in the above passage, one (often tacit) step in the
asymmetricalists' argument that negation presupposes affirmation (but not
vice versa) is provided by logical and linguistic syntax: standardly, a posi-
tive proposition is turned into a negative one by the addition of a logical
constant symbol (- and its variants), and generally, a positive sentence of
natural language is turned into a negative one by the insertion of a negative
word or morpheme. This has suggested to many (as it did to Saint Thomas)
that positives or affirmatives are logically-and ontologically-more basic
than negatives. I shall return to the asymmetry wars a bit later; in particu-
lar, the jump from the relative morphological complexity of negative state-
ments to the alleged logical or psychological complexity of negation
will be examined more closely in chapter 3. But first I shall endeavor to
frame the issue within a broader philosophical, psychological, and cultural
perspective.
1.3 Negation East and West
Anything which could appropriately be called a 'world' must be such
that one or other of every pair of contradictory propositions would
apply to or be true of it, and such that all the propositions thus holding
of it will be mutually consistent. (C. I. Lewis 1946: 56)
1 contradict myself?
Very well, then, 1 contradict myself.
(I am large, 1 contain multitudes.) (Walt Whitman, "Song of Myself")
1.3.1 The Law of Contradiction and the "Eastern Mind"
While Hegelian philosophy has often been cited as dissenting from the
'pious acceptance' (Burtt 1955: 211) traditionally accorded to the founding
principles of Aristotelian logic-the Law of Contradiction (LC), the Law
of Excluded Middle (LEM), and the Law of Identity-it is classical Indian
logic which has been generally accused of(or credited with) having 'thrown
these laws overboard' (Staal 1962:52): 'The Eastern mind is convinced
that. . . it would be fatal to allow ourselves to be enslaved by these prin-
ciples' (Burtt 1955:202).
The primary tool for removing the shackles of LC and LEM was his-
torically the ca!u$koti, the PRINCIPLE OF FOUR-CORNERED (or FOURFOLD)
NEGATION (Raju 1954; Burtt 1955), aka the TETRALEMMA (Robinson 1956).
80 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
~his pri~ciple (h~nceforth L4CN) can be traced to the pre-Buddhist logi-
cian Sanjaya « sixth century B.C.), but it was quickly adopted (at least for
some purposes) by Buddha and his followers. The "four comers" are th
f?ur propositi.ons purporting to exhaustively describe any subject S in rela~
tIon to an entity or class P:
(63) a. Sis P.
b. S is not-Po
c. S is both P and not-Po
d. S is neither P nor not-Po
. It follows .that there are four possible questions concerning the evalua-
tIO~ of.anythmg: Is it good? Is it not-good? Is it both good and not-good?
Is u neuher ??od n.or not-good? What L4CN amounts to is a rejection of all
four ~roposltIons m (63), a negative answer to all four of the evaluative
questIOns. Thus, all four of the propositions in (64) must be rejected (Burtt
1955:203):
(64) a. Nirvana is (some form of) being.
b. Nirvana is (some form of) nonbeing.
c. Nirvana is both being and nonbeing.
d. Nirvana is neither being nor nonbeing.
Similarly, for the Buddhists reality is neither being nor nonbeing nor both
nor neither (Raju 1954:702).
What.w~ have, in effect, is a metaphysical multiple-choice question on
the quahfymg exam for sagehood, taking the abstract form in (65):
(65) a. Sis P
b. Sis not-P
c. both (a) and (b)
d. neither (a) nor (b)
whe~e the grading key ~tipulates that the successful candidate is to pencil in
(~), none of the above. (Or, more precisely, that he is to refuse to tum in
hiS answer sheet altogether.)
One problem in pinning down the significance ofthe L4CN is determining
e~actly what each comer states. Crucially, no distinction between contra-
dictory and contrary negation was regularly made within classical Indian
logic. How then to represent the propositions in (63) and the form of their
joint negation? One possibility (Robinson 1956: 303) is that the four cor-
ners are built upon contradictory negation, as in (66):
(66) a. Pa
b. -Pa
1.3 Negation East and West 81
c. Pa 1\ -Pa
d. -Pa 1\ -(-Pa)
Under this interpretation, the third comer is a direct rejection of LC and the
fourth a rejection of LEM. The joint denial of all four comers via L4CN
then amounts to (66'):
(66') - Pa 1\ -( - Pa) 1\ -(Pa 1\ - Pa) 1\ -( - Pa 1\ -( - Pa»
An alternative reading is probably more faithful, given the wide scope
assumed for the subject term in the Indian texts. On this account, the form
not.p figuring in the last three corners anticipates Aristotle's contrary
(predicate term) negation. (Note that (63b) cannot be legitimately viewed
as a contradictory of (63a), given the Nirvana example and its equivalents.)
We then have the four alternatives in (67), where P is the strong (logical)
contrary of P (cf. §1.1.5):
(67) a. Pa
b. Pa
c. Pa 1\ Pa
d. -Pa 1\ -Pa
Alternative (67d) does not constitute a rejection of LEM, any more than
would, for example, Socrates is neither well nor not-well or 2 is neither
red nor not-red for Aristotle, since the terms of the correlative denial,
(67a) and (67b), are contraries rather than contradictories. (The third cor-
ner, of course, still cannot be affirmed without rejecting LC, since this law
applies to contrary as well as contradictory oppositions.)
Now the joint denial of all four propositions effected by L4CN amounts
to the affirmation of (67'):
(67') -Pa 1\ -Pa 1\ -(pa 1\ Pa) 1\ -( -Pa 1\ -Pa)
But once again, the familiar landmarks of Western (and, as we shall see,
Eastern) logic are lost in the mist: if S isn't P and it isn't not-P, it certainly
isn't both P and not-P (which is just as well, given LC). But then how can
it not be neither P nor not-P? Haven't we precisely just gotten through
saying that it is neither P nor not-P? In accepting L4CN we seem to be
simultaneously rejecting LEM and LC, since two contradictories, that is,
(-Pa 1\ -Pa) and -(-Pa 1\ -Pa), are (simultaneously) simultaneously
denied and simultaneously affirmed.
Doesn't the acceptance of fourfold negation (in the words of Burtt 1955 :
205) 'encourage a disrespect for the requirements of consistent and rigor-
ous thinking'? Doesn't it 'lead to a wholesale flouting of logic'? Well, yes
and no. Just as Aristotle dismissed LC flouters as vegetables, the Buddhists
82 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
tended to lampoon Sanjaya and his acolytes as 'eel-wrigglers', complain_
ing that 'it was impossible to fix their position either for approval or rejec_
tion. They would criticize any view ... but would not themselves hold
any. And it was difficult for any person to enter into any controversy with
them' (Raju 1954:695). Indeed, Sanjaya was notorious for his periodic
lapses into the extended silence Aristotle described as the inevitable last
refuge of archskeptics.
But the Buddhist tradition, as noted, accepts at least one application of
IACN, that which relates to transcendental propositions concerning the
character of Nirvana or reality. So too, we find-under the heading 'Ques-
tions which lead not to edification'-in Siitta 63 of the Majjima-Nikaya,
the tale of a certain Malunkyaputta, who remonstrates with Gautama Bud-
dha over the Latter's simultaneous rejection of the theories 'that the saint
exists after death, that the saint does not exist after death, that the saint
both exists and does not exist after death, [and] that the saint neither exists
nor does not exist after death' (Warren 1896: 117-22). If this paradox-a
clear instance of IACN-is not elucidated by the Blessed One, Malunkya-
putta vows to abandon his religious training. The Buddha counters that a
mortal lifetime does not suffice for such an elucidation.
Elsewhere, the Blessed One warns another disciple against the theory
that the saint neither exists nor does not exist after death; this theory, he
cautions, is 'a jungle, a wilderness, a puppet-show, a writhing, and a fet-
ter, and is coupled with misery, ruin, despair, and agony, and does not tend
to aversion, ... quiescence, knowledge, supreme wisdom, and Nirvana'
(Siitta 72, in Warren 1896: 124)-hardly a ringing cry for the overthrow of
LEM. But then, to say that the saint is reborn, or is not reborn, or is both
reborn and not reborn, or is neither reborn nor not reborn 'would not fit the
case'. What, then, would fit the case?
One possibility worth considering is that IACN might be taken, not as a
proposition negating a four-term alternation or disjunction of possibilities,
nor of course as the logically equivalent conjunction of four negations (as
represented in (66') or (67')), but as an expression of the sage's unwilling-
ness to commit himself to the truth of any of the four alternative corners.
The Buddha refrains from 'elucidating' that p, that -p, that -(p A -p), or
that - p A - ( - p) 'because it profits not'; to say that none ofthese proposi-
tions 'fits the case' is not to say that each of them is false (or has a true
contradictory). As Burtt (1955: 203) and others have noted, the principles
of logic, in classical Indian logic, are at the service of the theory of knowl-
edge; a proposition is regarded as 'an epistemic act'. None of the alter-
natives can be fully grounded in what is known or knowable; hence none
can be asserted or 'elucidated'.64
It is not surprising that Sanjaya, the reputed source of IACN, is also
1.3 Negation East and West 83
known as the great skeptic of the Indian tradition. His Greek counterpart
was Pyrrho, who was fond of declaring, 'I am not only not certain of the
knowledge of any object.' but also not certain that I am.not c~rtain of suc?
knowledge' (cited in RaJu 1954: 695). For a true skeptIc, neither Moore s
aradox nor its epistemic counterpart (cf. Hintikka 1962) holds any terror.
p The view that the Eastern mind has thrown LC and LEM to the four cor-
ers continues to hold its appeal (for the Western mind). Burtt offers a
:ociological explanation for the apparent Indian predilection for embracing
contradiction: for the tolerant and sophisticated (if not inscrutable) Orien-
tal the dangers which forced Aristotle to invoke his (simplistic) principles
had already been overcome. The Western logician must battle against dog-
matic fluff and wishful thinking; the Eastern logician could relax and take
an "I'm OK, you're OK" attitude. Indeed, such recent Western crusaders
as Korzybski and Hayakawa and their General Semantics acolytes65
or Haj
Ross and his Elephant Theory of Linguistics strike a similar pose.66
But there are at least two other perspectives from which the apparent
rejection of LC can be coherently viewed. Besides the epistemological
consideration already invoked, it is clear that the context of interpretation
plays an essential role in determining the application of the logical prin-
ciples; if the context is not held constant, all bets are off. Aristotle himself
was fully aware of this point; in his arguments against the 'Sophists' (whose
number is apparently still growing), he explicitly embellishes his statement
of LC with what he terms 'the customary qualifications', as in his standard
disclaimer formula: 'It is not possible for the same thing both to belong and
not to belong at the same time to the same thing and in the same respect
(and let as many other qualifications as we might add against dialecti-
cal difficulties be added)' (Met. 1005b20-29, in the version of Dancy
1975: 156).
The Jainists directly invoke a similar codicil when they observe that S is
P and S is not-P can both be true from different standpoints (Raju 1954:
698-701; Burtt 1955:204-5). Within the Jainist theory of conditional
truth, or truth relative to a standpoint, each of the fourfold alternatives
(63a-d) can be affirmed and denied without however violating LC. For the
same reason, we have no trouble declaring 'I'm happy and (yet) I'm not
happy', 'It is and it isn't', 'Yes and no' (cf. Strawson 1952:7 on the ex-
change 'Were you pleased?' 'Well, I was and I wasn't'). As far as we can
tell from reading Aristotle (and the Sophists against whom he addressed his
remarks), this possibility is exactly what the classical definition of LC pre-
dicts when the context of evaluation is not held constant.
In this light, it is not surprising that the prominent "irrationalist" logi-
cian Nagfujuna (second century A.D.), who joyfully endorsed IACN (Rob-
inson 1956: 303), nevertheless explicitly invoked and/or tacitly assumed
84 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
LC (and LEM): 'For entity and negation of entity do not occur within a
unity. He would be non-eternal and eternal, and that is not admissible'
(Robinson 1956:295). Thus, LC (the incompatibility of A and not-A) is a
basic principle at the empirical and logical level which may be suspended
on the transcendental sphere (Sharma 1970: 126). It has also been argued
that the paribhii$ii (metalinguistic rule) of Panini assumes a version of LC
for propositions, -(p A -p) (Staal 1962 :56).
Within the mainstream Nyaya school, predating the second century
A.D., LC and LEM (along with the closely related Law of Double Nega-
tion, LDN) are periodically adopted and abandoned. Sridhara explicitly
refers to these principles in his argumentation (Randle 1930:212), and by
the tenth century, LC was widely accepted within Indian logic and gram-
mar (Staal 1962: 58). Udayana's formulation of LC (tenth century) is very
much in the spirit of Aristotle: 'When two are mutually opposed there is no
occurrence (of both) within the same class' (Staal 1962:68).
On a deeper plane, Sharma (1970: 59) points to the central role ofdouble
negation in the Indian metaphysics of the last three millenia. Nirvana, or
emancipation, is absolute removal of pain, hence the negation of a nega-
tion. If violence (hif!lsii) is the absence of love, compassion, and peace,
then ahif!lsii-the principle of active moral nonviolence guiding religious
and social practice from the Upanisad «700 B.C.) to Gandhi-is a 'double
not', the absence of this absence.
In early Buddhist logic, every term or proposition can be defined as the
negation of its negation; as Dharmaldrti observes, 'Affirmation is the de-
nial of negation' (Sharma 1970:60, 111). In later Nyaya works, LDN is
formally significant. As the law is typically instantiated, 'The absence of
an absence of a pot is essentially identical with the presence of a pot' (In-
galls 1951 :68). Similarly, a triple absence is identical to a (simple) absence.
This approach generally held sway despite the resistance of SaQk:ara
(ca. 1600) and his followers (Raju 1954). An especially concise formula-
tion of LDN appears in an anonymous early grammatical commentary
(cited by Staal 1962: 65): 'Two particles of negation give the meaning of
the original'.67
The analysis of negation plays a central role in the evolution ofthe vari-
ous schools of Indian logic. The general approach is akin to that of the
moderate asymmetricalists of the Western schools. First of all, negation is
basic and cannot be explained away, if only because of its essential role in
defining change of state processes. As Gautama points out in the Nyaya
Sutra (second century A.D.), 'It is impossible to conceive of "becoming"
without the notion of "not yet" (antecedent non-existence) and "no longer"
(subsequent non-existence), (cited in Randle 1930:330).
1.3 Negation East and West 85
In the Nyaya-Vaisesika tradition, ABHAvA-the negative property of ab-
nce or nonexistence-is as real as presence. Both affirmation and ne-
setion may be realized directly in assertions or indirectly in inferences
f~atilal 1968:90ff.). In the proto-Fregean Nyaya doctrine, the negative
lement is simply one component of the objective content; linguistic nega-
~on does not reduce to the psychological act of denial (Matilal 1968: 93).
But there are, in Nyaya and Vaise$ika logic, two distinct species of
abhiiva, as discerned in the (familiar) contrast between The lion is not an
elephant and The pot is not blue. The first is MUTUAL ABSENCE, represent-
able as the negation of an identity claim, x 1= y. The second is RELATIONAL
(or ATTRIBUTIVE) ABSENCE, -Fa.
While the classical Western dichotomies between contradictory and con-
trary negation and between term and propositional negation find no parallel
in the Indian schools, we have here a direct anticipation of the split be-
tween significant and insignificant negation later to be promulgated by
Spinoza, Kant, Hegel, and the Idealists: a negation is real only if it has a
positive counterpart (PRATIYOGIN). Mutual absence can be reduced (a la
Plato) to pure difference or otherness, while relational absence, like the
significant negation of the Idealists, necessarily involves 'suggestion and
frustration, expectation and disappointment' (Raju 1941 :600).
We are thus not surprised to read, in Sharma's summary (1970: 118) of
the Buddhist approach to relational negation, ca. A.D. 500, the view that
'the judgment "the book is not on the table" presupposes the judgment
"the book is on the table" '-every absence presupposing the prior estab-
lishment of an expected presence (Sharma 1970:23). Once again, we are
in the realm where all judgments are equally real, but some judgments are
really more equal than others.
Indeed, the central questions posed by the Paradox of Negative Judg-
ment: How is a negative judgment possible? How can we know, or assert,
that something is not the case? What is the positive basis for negation? have
the same resonance and trigger the same controversy for the Indian schools
as they were to do (cf. §1.2) in the West. (A good summary of the parallels
between the Eastern and Western traditions on negation is provided by
Matila11968, esp. chapter 11.)
Of particular interest is Sutra ii.2.8 of Gautama's Nyiiya-Sutra, which
argues that the 'object of absence' is real, 'because when there are cer-
tain objects marked, the unmarked objects are characterized by the non-
existence of the mark' (Chattopadhyaya and Gangopadhyaya 1968: 110).
Yatsyiiyana's commentary (the Bhii:jya, ca. A.D. 300; this is, incidentally,
not the Viitsyayana of the Kama Sutra) renders this argument more con-
crete: Someone who is asked to fetch the unmarked cloths can identify
86 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
them by virtue of their opposition with the marked ones. Thus the un.
marked cloth is marked out and counts as a PRAMEYA, a valid object of
cognition, because of its contrast with the marked cloth (Chattopadhyaya
and Gangopadhyaya 1968: 110; cf. Matilal 1968: 106; Randle 1930.
329-30). .
This reflects what is for Vatsyayana the true nature of opposition: 'That
which is not is the means of apprehending that which is' (cited by Randle
1930: 331). The same point is emphasized by Dharmaklrti: 'There can be
no affirmation which does not exclude the other; nor can there be a nega.
tion of that which cannot be affirmed' (Sharma 1970: 112). From here
Spinoza's Determinatio est negatio and Bosanquet's 'double-edged' affir~
mation and negation are not too far down the road.
While the Buddhist and Nyaya-Vaise~ika logicians (and grammarians)
we have been looking at were, like their Western contemporaries, pri.
marily concerned with the treatment of declarative statements, another tra.
dition-focusing on the development of principles for interpreting the laws
of Vedic ritual-is codified in the MimiiIpsa (§§320-363 in Apadeva's
seventeenth century text; cf. Edgerton 1929).68
The most significant contribution of the MimiiIpsiikas to the theory of
negation lies in the scope distinction they drew for negation in modal con.
texts. A Vedic injunction like He shall not eatkalanja (where kalanja
probably denoted a kind ofred garlic) is analyzed, in the default case, as an
instance of NI$EDHA (or PRATISEDHA), 'prohibition'. In the frame 'A should
not do B', the speaker deters or prohibits A from doing B. The negation in
this case is not construed with the verb root (= 'He shall not-eat kalafija')
or with the object (= 'He shall eat non-kalafija'), but with the modal (op-
tative) ending (Edgerton 1929: §320-§324).
But when the ni$edha reading is implausible or impossible in a given
context, there emerges a second interpretation which the Mimamsiikas call
PARYUDASA 'exclusion' (Edgerton 1929: §330ff.). Here we have not a
negative injunction (or prohibition) against doing something, but a positive
injunction to not do something. For example, following the phrase 'His
vows are . ..', where 'vow' (vrata) corresponds to a thing positively to be
done, negation will be associated with the verb root. Similarly, the injunc-
tion He shall not look on the morning sun must be analyzed as 'He shall
[not-look ...]'. In other contexts, paryudiisa negation may focus on a
nominal element instead of the verb root, while ni$edha always focuses on
the verbal ending.
From their initial application to the optative sentences of the Vedic rit-
ual, the notions of prohibition and exclusion are eventually generalized to
indicatives as well. Prati$edha is extended from 'prohibition' to denote
negation itself. Prasajya-prati$edha ('direct' or 'simple' negation) can refer
1.3 Negation East and West 87
, .negative expression where the negation is essential and the positive
to
I anYnt secondary; paryudiisa, on the other hand, corresponds to a narrow-
e ellle h th . . I . ·al d th
. •• negative operator were e posItIve e ement IS essentI an e
scopeu·on secondary or implied (Renou 1957: 202, 230; Staal 1962: 58;
nega
Matilal1968: 157; Sharma 1970: 112-14).. .
Staal (1962: 57ff.) attempts to show that LC falls to apply In the case of
. ·unctions, whence the absence of any mention ofthe law in the MimiiIpsa.
~~ort1tnatelY, his argument is viti~ted by an idiosyn~ratic: if not incoher-
t logical notation. For nek$eta he shall not-look, WhICh must be as-
e~ed the paryudiisa (narrow-scope) reading following Tasya vratam (His
~ows are ...), Staal assigns the representation N[~F(x)], where N is the
(logical? deontic?) necessity operator. So far so good. But ni$edha is inter-
preted as the negation of an injunction, and translated into ~N[F(x)], as in
'he shall-not eat'. This notation suggests-wrongly-that the ni$edha or
prohibition corresponding to a positive injunction is its contradictory op-
posite, equating in effect to 'he doesn't have to eat', 'the door needn't be
locked', rather than to 'he shall not eat', 'the door should not be locked'.
Staal acknowledges (1962: 58) that his rules require '~N' to be analyzed
as a 'prohibitive functor'; the problem is that no interpretation ever pro-
posed for any system of modal o~ deontic logic yields a re~ding of p~oh~bi­
tion for a negative operator outSIde the scope of a neceSSIty or oblIgatIon
operator.69 Confusing the issue still further is the existence ofa second (nom-
inal) paryudasa reading, for which Staal offers the formula N[F(~x)],
whatever that might mean.
Notwithstanding Staal's attempted argument, ni$edha and paryudiisa do
not respectively constitute contradictory and contrary opposites of a given
vidhi (injunction). In fact, ni$edha and paryudiisa represent two distinct
contrary negations of the corresponding vidhi. The closest English equiva-
lents to the two negatives of the Mimamsa would involve Aux vs. VP nega-
tion (or in Aristotelian terms, predicate denial vs. predicate term negation),
best distinguished in the corresponding pseudo-clefts:
(68) a. What A{must not (mustn't) do }iSB.
should not (shouldn't) do
ought not do
b. What A{must do liS not B.
should do
ought to do
(paryudasa)
Notice that in both cases, despite the clear meaning difference between
(68a, b), the negation is contained within the scope of the modal operator;
neither type corresponds to the (contradictory) negation of What A must do
is B.
88 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
The question of how to capture this subtle distinction with formal d
ontic.logic must .at t~is point be ~eft open,. but a. good place to start mig~;
be wIth,y~n W~Ight s two-negatIO? de~ntIc lOgIC (1959: 27ff.), in which
O(- A) It IS oblIgatory to do not-A IS dIstinct from O(~A) 'it is obligatory
not to do A', 'it is forbidden to do A'. This possibility will not be pursued
here, although I shall return to Von Wright's logic of negation in a different
connection in §2.4.
The Mimamsakas speak to modern linguistic analysts not only on the
issue of operator scope in nondeclarative sentences, but also on the imPOr_
tance of context in determining the interpretations of a statement or injunc_
tion. Thus a declaration like
(69) Not in the atmosphere, not in the sky shall he build the sacri-
ficial fireplace.
does not constitute a prohibition, since prohibitions can only be given
against actions that the addressee might have considered undertaking, and
nobody would have thought of building an altar in the sky (Edgerton 1929:
§342). By the same token, the negative injunction He shall not kill applies
not to a man who spontaneously refrains from killing, but only to a man
who is impelled to kill. The Mimamsakas' general gloss on prohibition can
be given as: 'What was regarded as a thing to be done, that is not to be
done' (Edgerton 1929: §344).
While this observation may recall the Ducrot and Givon line on the 'dis-
course presuppositionality' of negative sentences (cf. the discussion of My
wife is notpregnant), the Mimamsakas are not opening an eastern front for
the asymmetricalist legions. In fact, they go on to point out, positive in-
junctions are similarly constrained: we don't order a man to do something
(e.g., to beat out the rice) if he was impelled to do it independently of our
intercession (§344). What is involved here is what Searle calls a general
preparatory condition on directive speech acts: S cannot felicitously order
H to do A unless 'it is not obvious to both Sand H that H will do A in the
normal course of events of his own accord' (Searle 1969: 59-60, 66). This
condition against pointless action is clearly connected with Grice's (1975)
maxim of Relation and, as Searle suggests (Searle 1969; cf. also Searle
1982: 235), is ultimately derivable from Zipf's (1949) Principle of Least
Effort (see Horn 1984b for related discussion).
Another instance of proto-Gricean exploitation of pragmatic inference
appears in the grammatical commentary of Patafijali: 'By a restrictive con-
dition (niyama) on what food is fit to be eaten is implied a prohibition (pra-
ti$edha) of what food is not fit to be eaten.... Or alternatively, by a
prohibition of what is not fit to be eaten is implied a restrictive condition on
what is fit to be eaten' (ChatteIji trans., cited by Staal 1962:64). Thus, if
1.3 Negation East and West 89
.•..... e told that the domestic pig is not fit to be eaten, we can inf:~ ~at the
w~ af i is fit to be eaten, and vice versa. In the sam~ way, ~atanJ~h com-
wild p g teach the correct grammatical forms dIrectly (Implymg that
..ents we can . h· h . t
III ' fi ms are incorrect) or indirectly (by teachmg w IC mcorrec
lIlternate or .
>,' S are to be abJured). . .. ..
fo~ ~·al· here seems to be alluding to the pragmatIc pnnciple of mVIted
PatanJ 1 .. 1P rf . (G· d
d ·n particular to the rule of ConditIona e ectIon eiS an
inference an I
·ck 1'971). In order for the inference to go through, we mus~ assume
ZWIthY text can be filled in as suggested; it would not be a logIcal con-
that e con . . d· . h d .
.. t extend the prohibition as other rehgious tra ItIons ave one.
tradiction 0 ' . . . G .
The domestic pig is notfit to be eaten, nor IS the WIld pIg. (Com?are ~IS
and Zwicky on If you mow the lawn 1'1l give you $10, . . . and In fact 1 II
·ve you $10 even ifyou don't.) . . .
gz t of the proclivities of the Eastern mmd concludes WIth a bnef
Our our . h M h·
. ChI·na where LC and LEM were both recognized m teo 1St
layover m , . . .
(thIT
· d century B.C.). Contradictory negation IS charactenzed VIa a
canons . h ..
d· tatI·on over some unidentified object between 'one saymg t at It IS an
ISpU . . . d ·f h d t
th ther that it is not': 'TheIr claIms wIll not both fit, an 1 t ey 0 no
ox, e o . . '1· fi· d'
both fit one necessarily does not fit. It IS not l~ke one ~ ~ aIm ttIng a og ..
That is, the contrary opposition in which A claIms that It IS an ox and B that It
. dog in which case they may both be wrong (Graham 1959:91). Note
IS a , C. I. .
that as predicted by the Mohists' Stagirite contemporary, Lapp Ies m
both disputes, but LC only in the first. . . . , .
LDN is alluded to in a sophisticated eXpOSItIOn of the LIar s paradox I~
the same text: one who considers all statements mistaken is mistaken. EVI-
dence: his own statement. But not all statements can be accept~d: one who
~ejects all denial is mistaken, since he must reject his own demal (Graham
1959:95). . .
I conclude this section by providing some comfort to the asymmetncahst
forces. Wang Fu-Chih (seventeenth century) addresses h.imselfto th~ Par~­
dox of Negative Judgment, rejecting the Taoist doctnne of.Nothmg I~
favor of a (by-now-familiar) strategem wherein apparent negatIve ~roposI­
tions are really about a positive other. The concluding sentence of hIS argu-
ment must have soothed the restless spirit of Parmenides:
One who says 'There is not' is provoked to denial by someo~e
saying there is. He takes up what the other s~ys and says.there IS
no such thing.... If you say there is no haIr on a tortOise, you
are talking about (something on) a dog, not (nothing on) a tor-
toise.... A speaker must set something up before he can argue
successfully. Now if he is to set a Nothing in front of us, he can
search everywhere above and below, North, South, East, and
90 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
West, in the past and the present, the surviving and the lost, with_
out succeeding in getting to the end of it.
(cited in Graham 1959: 103-4)
Our tour of applied negation now leads us back to the West, where We
shall touch down briefly in the domains of social and political theory, the-
ology, and psychoanalysis.
1.3.2 Negation and Mind in the West: A Capsule View
Tr~dition~ logic is based upon the law of contradiction, according to
WhIC~ ~ IS not n?n-~. J;legel's entire Logic is built upon an ontological
repudIatIOn of thIS prInCIple. (Friedrich 1953:xl)
While often taken to be an essential ingredient in the dialectic, the "re-
pudiation" of LC by Hegel, like its jettisoning by the sages of Indian
antiquity, is a sometime thing. Here is McTaggart (1922: 8-9) on Hegel
and the Law of Contradiction:
It is sometime supposed that the Hegelian logic rests on a de-
fiance of the law of contradiction.... Now if the law of con-
tradiction is rejected, argument becomes impossible.... And
indeed it is impossible, as Hegel himself has pointed out to us,
even to assert anything without involving the law of contradiction,
for every positive assertion has meaning only insofar as it is de-
fined, and therefore negative. Ifthe statement All men are mortal
for example, did not exclude the statement Some men are immor~
tal, it would be meaningless. . . . If then the dialectic rejected the
law o~ contradiction, it would reduce itself to an absurdity, by
rendenng all argument, and even all assertion, unmeaning.
The dialectic, however, does not reject that law. An unresolved
contradiction is, for Hegel as for everyone else, a sign of error.
The relation of the thesis and antithesis derives its whole meaning
from the synthesis.... "Contradiction is not the end of the mat-
ter, but cancels itself". (Enz. Sec. 119, lect. note)
The Hegelian dialectic, far from simply rejecting LC, finds its motivation
in the law.70
When two contradictories p and not-p cancel each other, the result in
Hegel's system is not 'abstract identity'; the two contradictory opposites
'fall to the Ground', that Ground which contains 'identity as well as differ-
~nce supe:seded' (Hegel 1892:223; cf. Kaufmann 1965: 192). The key no-
tIOn here IS that of SUPERSEDING, AUFHEBUNG. The clash of positive thesis
and negative antithesis produces an enriched synthesis in which the appar-
1.3 Negation East and West 91
tr diction is resolved at a higher level, aufgehoben-transcended,
entcon a . h . . rl t
d d lifted up, or sublimated, accordmg to t e varIous Impe ec
~:~:r:nderings ofthis term which Hegel wielded with joyful ambiguity:
Aufheben . . . is one of the most important concepts of phil~so-
hy. . . . What sublimates itselfdoes not thereby become nothmg.
~ufheben has ... a double meaning in that it .signifies conse:v-
ing, preserving, and at the same time al~o makmg cease~ making
an end.... Thus what is aufgehoben IS at the same tIme con-
served and has merely lost its immediacy [like conserved fruit]
but is not for that reason annihilated. . . . Something is aufgeho-
ben only insofar as it has entered into a union with its opposite.71
(Hegel's Logic, trans. and cited in Kaufmann 1965: 192-93)
For Hegel, as we saw in §1.2.2, all significant negation occurs on a.pos~­
. ground. But everything finite contains its own negation (DetermmatlO
tIve . f th S .. d
t egatio). The power of negativity is 'the lIfe element 0 e pmt an
es n . f .
of Reason', 'the power to comprehend and a~ter. the gl~:n ~c.ts~? acco~-
dance with the developing potentialities by reJectmg the pOSItIve once It
had become a barrier to progress in freedom' (Marcuse 1954:433-34).
The negation of this negation generates the forward movement of thought
which constitutes historical progress. . .
Negation is central in the Marxist lexicon as well. The HegelIan dIa-
lectic, powered by negation and LC, is adopt~d~and ad~pt~d-b~ Marx
and the Marxists. For Marx himself, the negatIvIty of capItalIst SOCl~ty re-
sides in private property, that is, in the alienation of labor. The ne~a~lO~ of
this negation amounts to the abolition of alienated labo~, th~ anmhIlatlOn
of private property (Das Kapital 1, chap. 24, sec. 7, CIted m Bottomore
1983:352; cf. Marcuse 1954:282).
In Marxist as in Hegelian dialectics, double negation is always charac-
terized as an Aufhebung in which the earlier contradictories are simultane-
ously preserved and superseded, rather than simply c~nceled out i~ the w~y
LDN has operated in propositional logic since the StOICS. Engels vIews thIS
dynamic conception of double negation as 'a general law of development
of nature, history, and thought; a law which holds good in the animal and
plant kingdoms; in geology, in mathematics, in history, and in philosophy'
(Anti-Diihring, pt. 1, chap. 13, cited in Bottomore: 1983).
Similarly, for Lenin, negation must be taken 'as a moment of connec-
tion, as a moment of development, retaining the positive' (Science ofLogic
(1919), p. 226, cited in Bottomore: 1983). I can only conclude, with apolo-
gies to Goethe, that the dynamic force of negation has come to replace the
EWig-Weibliche as the spirit that zieht uns hinan.72
The knee-jerk response of many latter-day Hegelians and neo-Marxists
92 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
against LC and indeed all laws of formal logic is probably best seen
t· b d '" as an
overr~ac Ion ase on their dlsda~n for classical historical explanation
Certa~nly, as Dan~y (1975:24) pomts out, nothing in the dialectic Or i~
Ma:xlst thought hmges on the rejection of the standard axioms of forllla]
logic-when these laws are applied to the domain for which they wer .
ten~ed. ~imilarly, .Ki~rkegaard's instantiation of an apparent LC-def~i~­
con!unctIOn-Chnst IS a man and is not a man-may also be seen as iIIus~
~ratmg, not the ~efec~s of,Aristotl~'s.Law, ?ut rather the importance of the
custom.ary ~ualIfi~atIOns ~e explIcitly buIlds into his statement of it (cf.
my earlIer dlscu~sIOn of Anstotle and the Jainists in §1.3.1). Like Super_
man, who both IS. an~ is not ~Iark Kent, but not at the same time in the
same respect, ChriSt IS a man 10 one respect and is not a man in anoth
I ha:e alread~ tou:hed ~all too briefly) on the central role of negatio:rin
Buddhism and 10 Hmdu negative theology'. In the West mystics I'k
Th 'K . , Ie
omas.a. e~pls reg~ded God as the negation of the world (Royce 1917:
264). D~vme ~nterventI?n.also plays a role in the asymmetry wars: for the
true belIever 10 the pnonty of affirmation over negation only God
'd " , can
avOi .neg~tIVe !udgments (recall the Bacon passage cited in §1.2.2). But
e~en mfin~te mmds must evidently resort to negation in instructing finite
mmds, as.IS cle~ from the canonical Thou shalt not form of the Command-
ments. With their negative character, observes Royce (1917: 270), 'the Ten
C~m~andments a~pear to make their appeal to an already more or less
evIl-mmd~d, ~ebellIOus,. or wayward people, whom the thunders of the law
are to terrIfy mto submission'. While Royce contrasts the negative nature
of the Old T~stament God of the Tablets with the more upbeat, positive
~one of Jesus 10 the Sermon on the Mount, a significant rhetorical hallmark
10 the Sermon and throughout the synoptic Gospels is the recurring turn
notX but Y:
(70) Do not store up your riches on earth, where moths and rust de-
stroy them ... but store up your riches in heaven....
Judge not, lest ye be judged.
I te~1 you not to resist injury, but if anyone strikes you on your
nght cheek, turn the other to him too.
Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have
not come to bring peace but a sword.
. It is n~t surprising that jehovah and Christ, like the Vedic lawgivers,
dl~ect their negative commands to those who were prepared to act other-
~Ise. As the Mimamsakas recognized, there is no point in preaching non-
violence to a paci.fist. The marked status of negative expressions makes
t~em.n~tural c~ndldates for conveying guidance from above. Further, the
lIngUiStiC polarity of positive and negative makes possible the expression
1.3 Negation East and West 93
th dualities: 'Without negation, there would be no clearness with re-
ofard·O. er alues no knowledge of heaven or hell, of good and evil' (Royce
g to v ,
1917:270). . . .
B t' there not an inner realm of the psyche 10 which duahty has not yet
u ~? Such at any rate, is the claim of the theory of psychoanalysis
emerg·' 9 ) 0 h ' . f '1 I I
(F d 1910, 1925; cf. Buelens 1 72. n t e pnmary, 10 anti e eve, re-
reu h" "N " t ' t
fI ted in dreams and neuroses, t ere IS no not: 0 seems not 0 eXIS
~ as dreams are concerned. Anything in a dream can mean its contrary'
~:Ud 1910: 155). Hearing the anal~sand insist of a,dre~~ ch~acter 'It:s
not my mother', the analyst imme~lately tra~slates ~o It ~ hIS ~other :
'Iilour interpretation we take the lIberty of dlsregardmg the negation and
. king out the subject-matter alone of the association' (Freud 1925: 235).
pIC . . " ' h ' l
On this level, it can truly be Said that LC does not eXist, lor t e simp e
reason that contradiction itself does not exist; ~p doesn't just presuppose p
(as Givan's overcautious logic w~uld have it), ~p asserts p! . .
Negation, on this theory, prOVides the means for the conscIous mmd to
allow repressed material to penetrate. 'The content of a repressed image or
idea can make its way into consciousness, on condition that it is negated.
Negation is a way of taking cognizan:e of what is repressed' (Freud.19~5 :
235-36). Notice that negation thus Viewed cannot be part of the objective
content (or the subject matter) of what is said. Rather, we must line up with
Kant and the Idealists and against Frege in maintaining the existence of a
distinct 'negative judgment'. The task of the analyst is to address himself
to 'conquering the negation', stripping away the veil, and revealing the
repressed material beneath: 'A negative judgment is the ~ntellectua~ sub-
stitute for repression; its "no" is the hall-mark of repression, a certificate
of origin-like, let us say, "Made in Germany"'. Only this certificate is
stamped 'Made in the Ego'.
On another level, the polarity of judgment corresponds to Freud's polar-
ity of instinctual forces: 'Affirmation-as a substitute for uniting [the ego
taking things into itself]-belongs to Eros; negation-the successor to ex-
pulsion [the ego rejecting the unwanted object]-belongs to the instinct of
destruction' (Freud 1925: 239).
A linguistic correlate of 'the dream-work's tendency to disregard nega-
tion' can be seen in 'the antithetical meaning of primal words' (Freud
1910). Freud adopts from the philologist Karl Abel (1882) the thesis that
'primitive languages' like ancient Egyptian, especially in the 'oldest' and
most basic roots, contained a significant number of words which simultane-
ously denote two contrary notions (e.g., 'strong' / 'weak', 'light' / 'dark').73
Examples adduced from Indo-European by Abel and Freud include Latin
clamare 'to cry' vs. clam 'softly', siccus 'dry' vs. succus 'juice', Old En-
glish bat 'good' vs. Modern English bad, English cleave 'join together' or
94 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
'separate', German stimme 'dumb' vs. Stimme 'voice'. In addition to these
instances of (self-acknowledged) Lucus a non Lucendo etymology, FreUd
cites the 'sound reversals' exhibited by pairs like German Top! 'pot' Vs.
pot, Ruhe 'rest' vs. hurry, care vs. wreck, and so on.
For Freud, this (putative) phenomenon serves to relate dream work and
children's play, harkening back to that Elysian land of childhood before the
reality of negation and contradiction rears its ugly head. But needless to
say, no linguistic argumentation is offered to support these speculations,
which are finally no more convincing than Freud's equally daring theory of
the origin of language via the transfer of rhythmical utterances from the
sexual act to work, investing the latter with some of the interest of the for-
mer (Freud 1924: 175).
It is significant that the antithetical word which has yielded the most
philosophical mileage is one which hardly qualifies as "primal", in any
sense of the word: Hegel's aufheben (see discussion above). For Hegel, as
for Freud, 'the double usage of language, which gives to the same word a
positive and negative meaning, is not an accident' (Hegel 1892: 180). The
confluence of the two (or three?) meanings of this term may well constitute
'a joy for speculative thinking' (Kaufmann 1965: 192). But it is doubtful
that either Hegel or Freud would argue for the inscription of aufheben or
Aufhebung on the roster of Urworte.
While Hegel's negation is a tool for generating a new and higher truth,
Freud's negation is a tool for concealing truth (which the analyst re-
constructs as a tool for revealing truth). But in each case, negation is sec-
ondary, something added on to an original positive or affirmative. One
constant feature through all the various moral, psychological, historical,
and social theories of negation I have touched on is this view of negation as
a marked response to a basic positive. From the Vedic commentary of the
Mimarpsa to the biblical commentary of Royce, from Hegel and Marx on
the negative dialectic to Freud on the ego's negative censorship, the ab-
stract logical symmetry of negation and affirmation-insisted on by Aris-
totle and Austin, by Frege and Quine, by Geach and Gale-gives way to a
universe of discourse in which asymmetry is a given.
This basic asymmetry is spelled out by Kurrik (1979), who detects in the
form and function of Chomsky's negation (presumably the Chomsky of
Syntactic Structures, with its kernel sentences and optional meaning-
changing transformations) an echo of Freud's:
The simple negative transformation is a way to unsay what one is
saying. Negation is addition because it has to include the positive
statement it seeks to deny in its assertion. Negation superimposes
itself on an assertion.... Negation is always tantalizing, pro-
1.3 Negation East and West 95
tl·ve and ambiguous a positive descriptive force which im-
voca , , . .
plies and promotes the very idea or thing that It seeks .to deny. It IS
bsence yoked to a presence, or a presence-evokmg absence.
an a (Kurrik 1979: 207)
·k ees a significant difference in the grammatical role and psycho-
Kurn
s
. , . . " t"
. al fii ct of negation as against deletion: NegatIOn tnes to crea e
logiC ebet fails managing only to indicate it. Deletion, on the other
absence u , d .
" tes" it' Thus it is deletion which correspon s to repreSSIOn,
hand crea . h d
·1' gation is (as for Freud) merely a way to repackage t e represse
whl e.nale to render it more palatable: 'Consciousness appears only to be
maten d b th
gate and remember or to repress and be haunte y e re-
able to ne ,
ressed' (Kurrik 1979: 208). . . .
P But this equation of psychic repression and grammatlc~ deletion IS.only
·ble under a hopelessly naive conception of grammatical theo~y; It be-
poSSI .dent for example that deletion is assumed here (Kumk 1979:
comes eVI" .
231) to be necessarily unrecoverable, hard~y an orthodox view among syn-
t· ·ans of any stripe. Kurrik's olla podnda of Freud, Hegel, Marx, and
tac ICI ., . h K· k
Chomsky, with a dash of the 'negative dialectics of Nletzsc, e, l~e~ e-
gaard, Dostoevsky, a~d Bec~ett, man~ge~ in the end to be as tanta Izmg,
provocative, and ambiguous as negation Itself. .
Kurrik provides us here with one more instance of what we might call
the Syntactic Fallacy (cf. Geach [1972] 1980 :7~-79): the argument from
the greater grammatical complexity of the ~egatlve senten~e to.the gr~ater
mplexity (and marginality) of the negative thought. GIVen Its .obvlous
~;peal, it is worth try.ing to ~ete~mine why this particular fallacy IS so se-
ductive. I return to thiS question m chapter 3. .
I began my survey with an exposition of the major theme~ of t~e Ansto-
telian theory of negation, themes which will recur as the leltm~tlvs of my
study. The Law of Contradiction and the L~w o~ Excl.uded Middle, those
first principles of both Aristotelian and StOIC logiC, Will be reencounter~d
within the multivalued and truth-gap presuppositionallogics touc~ed on m
chapter 2, where I shall expand the range of approaches to the ~ssues of
existential import, sortal incorrectness, and the scope ?f negation. The
Asymmetry Thesis, with its forged (or forced) connections between the
formal markedness of the negative statement and the allegedly superfluous,
subjective, and second-class status of the negati~e judgment, will be ree~­
amined in the light of psycholinguistic eviden~e m chapter 3; ~e pra,gmat~c
truce I propose there for the asymmetry conflicts re~rms Anstotle s POSI-
tion that the inferiority of negation is a matter of epistemology, not of on-
tology or logic. . . .
In chapter 4 I return to the Square of OPPositIOn, focusmg on the re-
96 Negation and Opposition in Classical Logic
lation of subcontrariety; by treating the conversion between the 'verbally
opposed' subcontraries of the I and 0 vertices of the Square in terms of
Quantity-based conversational implicature, and retaining the classical se-
mantic account of the subaltern inference from A to I and from E to 0, I
can capture the insights of Aristotle and his heirs while escaping the snares
of analyses which recognize both inferences but fail to provide a theoretical
mechanism for distinguishing them. The connection between Aristotle's
two primary forms of opposition, contradiction and contrariety, lies at the
heart of chapter 5, where I examine a variety of cases in which a certain
range of formally contradictory negations are understood (through an inde-
pendently motivated pragmatic strengthening rule) as acting contraries.
Finally, by chapters 6 and 7, the questions opened in this chapter can be
reconsidered: Is negation ambiguous? If so, where does the ambiguity re-
side? Which readings should an adequate linguistic model distinguish, and
how? Can all instances of negation in natural language be assimilated to
logical operators, of whatever scope and character? What is the nature of
semantically contradictory negation? Might there remain grounds for tak-
ing a page from Aristotle's term logic book to define wide-scope (senten-
tial) negation as a mode of predication rather than, as in standard logical
practice, as a one-place propositional connective?
In our pursuit of answers we must roam far beyond the Aristotelian pur-
view, but it is doubtful whether the questions themselves could have been
set in their current form had they not been broached by the Stagirite and
subsequently explored by Avicenna, Spinoza, Frege, Russell, Lukasie-
wicz, Jespersen, Geach, Grice, Montague, and our other guides through
the jungles of negation in this chapter and in the chapters to follow.
2
Negation, Presupposition,
and the Excluded Middle
In my initial sorting of negation, we have ~e~n the preth~oretical notion of
position immediately splinter into two dlstmct categones, those of CON-
op h ' d'f
TRADICTORY vs. CONTRARY opposition, where t e two categones are l-
ferentiated primarily by their interaction with the Aristotelian laws of
contradiction and of the excluded middle. Contradictory opposition is de-
fined by an adherence to both LC and LEM; contradictory statements are
neither true together nor false together. Contrary opposition is defined by
an adherence to LC; contrary statements (or terms) cannot simultaneously
hold, but they may simultaneously fail to hold.
We observed that two singular expressions which appear to be contradic-
tories may in fact be contraries, since the positive version (Socrates is
wise) and its apparent negative counterpart may both be false, if the subject
fails to refer and if the negation in question is read as the narrow-scope
contrariety operator, Aristotle's predicate term negation (= Socrates is not-
wise). Clearly in this case LEM does not obtain. Another member of the
same cIassofconstructions-those which seem to induce the assignment of
LEM-violating contrary readings for apparent contradictory negations-is
the category mistake, where a subject exists but its predicate cannot be
'naturally' predicated of it (2 is red, 2 is not-red).
As we shall see in this chapter, the vacuous subject case and the cate-
gory mistake have both endured a bewildering variety ofreanalyses over the
twenty- three centuries since Aristotle took them on. These reanalyses typi-
cally abandon one or both of Aristotle's basic tenets-his premise that
negation is ambiguous, and/or his insistence that the logic of narrow-scope
(internal) negation, while different from that of contradictory negation, is
nevertheless two-valued. Within one family oftheories, the bivalence prin-
ciple (often confused with LEM, although conceptually distinct from it),
stipulating that every proposition is either true or false, is jettisoned in
favor of the view that a proposition p may logically or semantically PRE-
SUPPOSE a proposition q, such that in a context in which q does not obtain,
the question of the truth or falsity of p does not arise. Whatever is presup-
posed by p will also be presupposed by the negation (or at least by ~ nega-
tion) of p.
97
98 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
We shall begin our journey by exploring neither vacuous subjects n
. ak b Or
cate~ory mist es, ut yet-another context in which LEM and the principle
of bivalence have been taken (by a group of scholars which mayor may n
include Aristotle) to fail. ot
2.1 Future Contingents: The Sea Battle and Other Skirmishes -
Is every ~roposition either true or false? Ifso, is there a range of statements
over which LEM must be suspended, so that a given statement p of this
class and its apparent contradictory ~p may in certain circumstances both
come out false? If not, what value is assignable when bivalence fails? I
shall begin to address these questions by retracing the Aristotelian foot-
prints once again to reach the still-controversial domain of future contin-
gent propositions.
For Aristotle, truth-conditional logic is the study not of sentences but of
propositions:
Every sentence has meaning.... Yet every sentence is not a
proposition; only such are propositions as have in them either
truth or falsity. Thus a prayer is a sentence, but is neither true nor
false. Let us therefore dismiss all other types of sentence but the
proposition, for this last concerns our present inquiry, whereas the
investigation of the others belongs rather to the study of rhetoric
or poetry. (De Int. 17al-8)
. !hus, only declaratives may be true or false and hence express propo-
sItIons. The rug under which Aristotle urged burying nondeclaratives has
begun to fray only in the last few decades. But is it the case that all proposi-
tions (or declarative statements) must be true or false? In the long-notorious
~hapter 9 of De Interpretatione, Aristotle begins with the assumption that
m general, one of a pair of contradictory propositions must be true and the
other false in any state of affairs:
For if all propositions whether positive or negative are either true
or false, then any given predicate must either belong to the subject
or not, so that if one man affirms that an event of a given character
will take place and another denies it, it is plain that the statement
of one will correspond with reality and that of the other will not.
(De Int. 18a33)
~istotle is arguing here for deriving LEM (the thesis that for any proposi-
tIon p, either p or its contradictory ~p is true) from what I shall call the
~aw of Bivalence (the thesis that for any proposition p, either p is true or p
IS false). I shall return to the distinction between LEM and LBV below.
2.1 Future Contingents 99
S far so good. But when we tum to predications relating to the future,
'the°case is altered'. Take any two apparently contradictory future contin-
gent statements, for example, (1) and (2) (19a30):
(1) There will be a sea battle tomorrow.
(2) There will not be a sea battle tomorrow.
Clearly, (1) and (2) cannot both be true; L~ applies as vigorously to future
tingents as to any pair of contradictones. But what of LEM? Can (1)
con .
and (2) be simultaneously false? Here is where the text ~ecome~ un~erta.m,
d where the interpretations of De 1nterpretatione begm multIplymg like
~philosoPhical cancer. The difficulties culminate in. this ~ey passage with
which Aristotle concludes and (apparently) summarizes hiS account:
A sea-fight must either take place tomorrow or not, but it is not
necessary that it should take place tomorrow, neither is it neces-
sary that it should not take place, yet it is necessary that it either
should or should not take place tomorrow. . . . One of the two
propositions in such instances [e.g., (1) and (2)] must be true and
the other false, but we cannot say determinately that this or that is
false, but must leave the alternative undecided. One may indeed
be more likely to be true than the other, but it cannot be actually
true or actually false. It is therefore plain that it is not necessary
that of an affirmation and a denial one should be true and other
false. For in the case of that which exists potentially, but not ac-
tually, the rule [i.e., LEM] which applies to that which exists
does not hold good. The case is rather as we have indicated.
(19a30-b4)
It is unfortunately by no means clear just what has been indicated, nor is
this made any clearer by variations in texts, systematic ambiguity in the
Greek original, and the lack of formal devices for the essential scope dis-
ambiguation evidently needed here.
Lukasiewicz (1922, 1930, 1934) sees the argument in chapter 9 as in-
volving not only a rejection of determinism (the thesis that if p is true to-
morrow, p is necessarily true tomorrow and nothing we may do can alter
the fact), but also a denial of what I am calling LBV, the Law (or Principle)
of Bivalence: Every proposition is either true or false. Rather, according to
Aristotle (according to Lukasiewicz), 'there are propositions which are nei-
ther true nor false but indeterminate'; as such, (I) and (2) 'are neither true
nor false today' (Lukasiewicz 1922: 36-37; I shall follow Rescher 1963 in
referring to this LBV-violating interpretation of chapter 9 as BOETHIAN,
after one of its early adherents, the fifth-century commentator Boethius.)
To such propositions, Lukasiewicz assigns a third truth value, I (for IOde-
100 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
terminate), distinct from the two classical (Aristotelian) values True and
False.
But this analysis is strikingly less attractive for what we might term past
contingents (or unknowables), that is, unverifiable and unfalsifiable state:
ments about the past (e.g., Aristotle ate no brealifast the day he died). Nor
is it any more appealing in the case of present unknowables, ignored by
Lukasiewicz but quite familiar to the medievals, whose instantiation of
choice was The number of stars is odd (even). A more contemporary
example is provided by Quine (1981: 91), who is able and willing to
shoulder-in the cause of the loyal order of the 'stalwarts of two-valued
logic'-the burden of responsibility for the 'harboring of undecidables':
'We [stalwarts] declare that it is true or false that there was an odd number
of blades of grass in Harvard Yard at the dawn of Commencement Day,
1903'. It is curious that the same man who vilified his contemporaries for
infecting their philosophical logic with epistemology (Lukasiewicz 1934:
84) saw nothing amiss in his own advocacy of a hybrid system with two
truth values and one 'indeterminacy' value.!
The view that Aristotle sought to consign future contingents to a 'truth-
status limbo' (Rescher 1963 :43), rejecting LEM and/or LBV, is not unique
to Boethius and Lukasiewicz. Similar readings were standard among the
Epicureans, who defended this position, and among the Stoics, who op-
posed it. The inviolability of LEM and LBV were especially dear to the
Stoic Chrysippus, whence the claim that systems rejecting these laws are
more accurately labeled 'non-Chrysippean', as in Lukasiewicz's practice,
rather than 'non-Aristotelian', as in the slur of the General Semanticists
(cf. Korzybski 1933; Hayakawa 1949). Aristotle's apparent derivation of
determinism from LBV did not affright the Stoics, who were committed
fatalists (on this and related issues, cf. Lukasiewicz's valuable history of
LBV, appended to Lukasiewicz 1930).
From Ammonius and Boethius to Linsky and Prior, Aristotle has been
seen as fitting neatly into the non-Chrysippean niche: every proposition is
either true or false, except when it's a future contingent (or past unknow-
able, or present undecidable?). But a different interpretation of chapter 9
has been convincingly defended by Kneale and Kneale (1962: 214) and
Rescher (1963), and they too have centuries of precedent on their side.
Here is Abelard's position (Dialectica, 210-22), as presented by the
Kneales:
No proposition de contingentifuturo can be determinately true or
determinately false. . . , but this is not to say that no such propo-
sition can be true or false. On the contrary, any such proposition
is true if the outcome is to be true as it states, even though this is
unknown to us.
2.1 Future Contingents 101
This interpretive tradition may have originated with al-Farabi (ca. 900) and
was clearly accepted by Averroes, Saint Thomas (cf. Oesterle 1962, lec-
tures 13-15), Duns Scotus, and Occam (Rescher 1969:45). As Rescher
observes, these Muslim and Christian interpreters were faced with the task
of reconciling the Philosopher's truth with God's truth, the latter encom-
passing both free .will and.divine .foreknowledge.2 •
While it is ultImately ImpOSSIble to know how ArIstotle would have
chosen to translate his argument into modern modal logic, Rescher makes
a strong case for this latter, FARABIAN, interpretation, a case also supported
by earlier writers, including Anscombe (195~) and Strang (1960). ?n this
account, the exceptional nature of future contmgents affects, not theIr truth
status as such, but their necessary truth or falsity (cf. Ackrill 1963: 140-
41). Thus, the tenability of LBV (formalized as in (3a» or its cognate LEM
(given in (3b» is never at issue.3
(3) a. T(p) v F(p)
b. T(p) v T(~p)
(Every proposition must be true or false)
(Of a proposition and its contradictory,
one must be true)
Rather, what is rejected (for instantiations ofp as a future contingent) is the
move from truth (falsity) to necessary truth (necessary falsity), as in (4):
(4) a. T(p) ~ DT(p)
b. F(p) ~ DF(p)
(or T(p)~ Dp?)
(or F(p) ~ D~p?)
Similarly, in the passage from De Interpretatione 19a30-b4 cited
above, Aristotle can be read as rejecting the unqualified acceptability of the
disjunction in (5), while endorsing the apodeictic proposition in (6):
(5) DpvD~p
(6) D(p v ~p)
Aristotle is indeed emphatic in opposmg the view that contradictory fu-
ture contingents can be simultaneously false (or not true): 'To say that
neither the affirmation nor the denial is true, maintaining, let us say, that
neither will take place nor will not take place, is to take up a position im-
possible to defend' (18b17-19). If (what is not certain) we can take Aris-
totle to be speaking with his own voice here, rather than as a representative
ofone of the several straw men of this chapter, he does seem to be claiming
that either (1) or (2) is true today, but that whichever one is true is not
determinately true and (without foreknowledge) cannot be known to be
true. The Boethian reading, on which Aristotle assigns a third truth value
(or no truth value) to future contingents, may thus stem from a misreading,
although its philosophical interest may be none the less for this errol', as
102 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
Rescher (1963: 51) observes (and as the deconstructionist theory of crea-
tive misreading would predict).
From a Farabian perspective, those nonclassical logicians (e.g., Luka-
siewicz 1930, 1934) who trace their own nonbivalence to Aristotle are as
unjust to the Stagirite as is Quine, that two-valued classical heir of the
Stoics, who dismisses as 'Aristotle's fantasy' the thesis 'that "It is true that
p or q" is an insufficient condition for "It is true that p or it is true that q'"
(Quine 1953a:65). What the Farabian attributes to Aristotle is the far-less-
fantastic thesis that 'It is necessary that p or q' is an insufficient condition
for 'It is necessary that p or it is necessary that q'.4
The contributions of the Scholastic participants in the battle over future
contingents are evaluated by Michalsky (1937: 285- 301) and Baudry
(1950). Rescher (1963: 51-54) provides a comprehensive annotated bibli-
ography on the Sea Battle, ranging from Cicero's defense of the Stoic de-
terminists to a series of logical and historical analyses of the early 1960s.
Another useful discussion of the literature and the issues is offered by
Ackrill (1963: 132-42), whose translations of the relevant passages from
chapter 9 are significantly different from the Oxford version (by Edghill)
cited above. While it may be a notorious truism of interpretation that the
translator's hand must carry the baggage of its owner, Edghill's Farabian
sympathies are particularly apparent. I shall explore some implications of
the Farabian reading in §6.2 below.
2.2 Vacuous Singular Terms: From Socrates
to the King of France
By the law of the excluded middle, either 'A is B' or 'A is not B' must
be true. Hence either 'the present king of France is bald' or 'the present
king of France is not bald' must be true. Yet if we enumerated the
things that are bald and the things that are not bald, we should not find
the king of France on either list. HegeJians, who love a synthesis, will
probably conclude that he wears a wig. (Russell 1905: 485)
As we saw in chapter 1, the earliest disputes over the logic of nondenoting
or vacuous singular terms involved, not the alopecia of the nonexistent
French monarch, but the indisposition of an incorporeal Socrates. While
Aristotle mayor may not have argued for a truth-value gap in the case of
future contingents, depending on whether one reads him with Boethian or
Farabian lenses, his two-valued stance toward vacuous singular expres-
sions is clear. It will be recalled (from §1.1.1) that if Socrates exists, affir-
mations concerning him, for example, (7a) or (7b):
(7) a. Socrates is sick.
b. Socrates is well.
(8) a. Socrates is not sick.
b. Socrates is not well.
(9) a. Socrates is not-sick.
b. Socrates is not-well.
2.2 Vacuous Singular Terms 103
may be true or false, although mutually contrary affirmations like these
may not be simultaneously true. If he does not exist, such affirmations are
automatically false. The corresponding contradictory negations, that is,
(8a) and (8b), are then automatically true; these 'predicate denials' are not
to be confused with the predicate term negations (9a) and (9b), which are
in fact affirmations (in which a negative term, not-sick or not-well, is af-
firmed of Socrates) and hence (like the positive affirmations in (7)) false in
the same vacuous context. Thus affirmations, with either positive or nega-
tive predicate terms, entail the existence of their subjects, while negations
(predicate denials) do not. For Boethius and other dissenters from this
'qualitative' approach to the problem of nondenoting singular terms, (7a)
and (7b) are not contraries, but contradictories. (Cf. §1.1.3 for related
discussion.)
Bradley (1883: 119ff.), who starts from an Aristotelian view of contra-
dictory negation, seems to have been responsible for injecting royalty into
the debate, with the usual troubling results:
Sokrates may be not sick because he is well, or because there is
now no such thing as Sokrates.... 'The King of Utopia did not
die on Tuesday' may be safely contradicted. And yet the denial
must remain ambiguous. The ground may be that there is no such
place, or it never had a king, or he is still living; or, though he is
dead, yet he died on Monday.
Thus, when the singular term fails to denote, both the denial and its denial
come out true. But something is clearly amiss if the same positive knowl-
edge (that is, that there is no king of Utopia) can serve as the ground for
each member of a pair of (apparent) contradictories.
Bradley's fellow neo-Hegelian Idealist Sigwart rejects Aristotle's truth-
functional, entailment-bast;d analysis of sentences with empty singular
terms in favor of an approach building on the suggestive, but somewhat
inchoate, notion of presupposition; notice the proto-Strawsonian flavor of
the concluding clause here: 'As a rule, the judgment A is not B presup-
poses the existence of A in all cases when it would be presupposed in the
judgment A is B . . . 'Socrates is not ill' presupposes in the first place the
existence of Socrates, because only on the presupposition of his existence
can there be any question of his being ill' (Sigwart 1895: 122). Yet the
Aristotelian asymmetry between affirmative and negative cases is retained,
104 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
recast as an asymmetry of presupposition rather than of entailment: 'Since
the negation only declares it to be false that Socrates is ill, the presupposi_
tion contained in it is certainly not so definite as in the affirmative judgment
'Socrates is ill'; for this may also be denied because Socrates is dead' (Sig-
wart 1895: 124). Indeed, for Sigwart a prima facie contradiction like The
fire does not burn can be true only vacuously, that is, when there is no fire.
Elsewhere, Sigwart (1895: 152) offers an ordinary language argument
for rejecting the Aristotelian position on which (7a) has (7b) (or the puta-
tively equivalent (9a» as its contrary and (8a) as its contradictory. He
points out that (8a) is 'commonly understood' to signify 'Socrates does live
but is ill'. Furthermore 'if we answer the question "Is Socrates ill?" by yes
or no, then-according to our usual way of speaking-we accept the pre-
supposition upon which alone the question is possible; and if we say of a
dead man that he is not ill, we are guilty of using our words ambiguously'.
Technically, however, Aristotle may be deemed correct: 'We must admit
... that formally, the truth of the proposition [8a] is incontestable' if Soc-
rates is not alive. Sigwart's conclusion that in a given context, a given
statement may be true but misleading or inappropriate is very much in the
spirit of somewhat later work on pragmatic presuppositions (cf. Stalnaker
1974; Bergmann 1977; Gazdar 1979a; Karttunen and Peters 1979).
Bosanquet ([1888] 1911: 287- 88) advocates a similar line on the status
of negative judgments with empty subjects. Given the pair (lOa, b),
(10) a. The house on the marsh is burnt down.
b. The house on the marsh is not burnt down.
he allows that (lOb) must be considered true if there is no house on the
marsh, although reality 'excludes the burning down of any such house'. In
these circumstances, (lOa) would be reckoned false, as in the Organon.
Bosanquet confesses a 'strong sympathy' for the objection (straw or real)
that an assertion like (lOa) is 'not so much false as unmeaning' in such a
case, so that its negation (lOb) 'has meaning only if there is a house and
presupposes or asserts that there is one'. But, he concludes, an unmeaning
judgment is clearly not true'. (It will be observed that Bosanquet implicitly
identifies the not true with the false, a move which would be seconded by
Russell but not by the logical presuppositionalists of our own century.)
The first incorporation of a presuppositional account of singular terms
into a formal semantic model is due to Frege (1892).5 In his classic paper
on sense and reference, Frege argues that both (11a) and its contradictory
(lIb) presuppose (voraussetzen) that the name Kepler denotes something.
(11) a. Kepler died in misery.
b. Kepler did not die in misery.
2.2 Vacuous Singular Terms 105
This presupposition is associated with periphrastic descriptions as well as
names, so that (12) shares the presuppositional properties of (11).
(12) Whoever discovered the elliptic form of the planetary orbits
{died/ didn't die} in misery.
The presupposition of existence associated with singular terms is em-
ployed, along with the distinction between sense and reference and the
doctrine of semantic compositionality, in the construction of an elegant ar-
gument for the counterintuitive conclusion that a sentence refers to its truth
value. Let us grant, with Frege, that meaning (in particular, both sense and
reference) must be compositional, in that the sense (reference) of an ex-
pression is a function of the sense (reference) of its parts. What then is the
x such that a sentence, which expresses the proposition constituting its
sense, refers to (denotes) x? Frege points out that x must be some entity
which is elusive or unidentifiable just when the reference of the compo-
nents of a sentence is elusive or unidentifiable. But a sentence like (l3)
(13) Odysseus landed at Ithaca.
can be true or false (given Frege's line on (l1) only if the name Odysseus
has a reference. Thus, 'we are driven' into concluding that x is the truth
value of the sentence, and that (13)-along with all other declarative sen-
tences, refers to one of the two truth values, the True or the False, or it
refers to nothing at all (Frege 1892: 62-63). Thus, if the presuppositions
of any of the parts fail (e.g., if Odysseus does not refer), the presupposi-
tion of the whole will fail as well, and the sentence will induce a reference
failure. Further, ignoring the complications brought in by intensional or
opaque contexts (Frege 1892: 66ff.), the substitution of a term with identi-
cal reference (Penelope'S husband or Polyphemus'S slayer for Odysseus)
does not affect the reference (i.e., the truth value) of the sentence in which
it appears.
Thus every sentence (affirmative or negative) with a singular subject
(name or description) presupposes the existence of a (presumably unique)
referent for that subject. But this presupposition is not part of the content of
the expressions in question, and hence a sentence like (1Ia) does not entail
the existence of Kepler-else the negation of (lla) would not be (lIb),
which preserves the presupposition, but rather (via De Morgan's Law) the
disjunction in (14):
(14) Kepler did not die in misery, or the name Kepler has no
reference.
By the same token, the corresponding periphrastic case of (12) would find
its negation in the even clumsier presupposition-free disjunction of (14'):
106 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
(14') Either whoever discovered the elliptic form of the planetary or-
bits did not die in misery or there was nobody who discovered
the elliptic form of the planetary orbits.
While Frege (1892: 68- 70) seems to have viewed this option as a prima
facie absurdity, its citation curiously prefigures the later emergence of a
presupposition-canceling external negation operator with truth conditions
precisely equivalent to those of disjunctions like (14) and (14').
The dichotomy of internal vs. external negation, while harking back to
the two negations of Aristotle (cf. §1. 1 and chapter 7 below), emerges in
its contemporary guise in the work ofRussell (1905 :490ff.). Seeking to un-
ravel the puzzle with which I introduced this section, Russell urges the ban-
ishment of descriptions like the king ofFrance from logical form. Once this
exorcism is performed, sentences like (15) and (16) will no longer be ana-
lyzed as of subject-predicate form, their surface syntax notwithstanding.
(15) The king of France is bald.
(16) The king of France is not bald.
(15) emerges instead as the (false) proposition that there is one and only
one entity which has the property of being king of France, and that this
entity is bald; this is the existentially quantified conjunction we can repre-
sent as in (15').
(IS') 3x(Kx II Vy(Ky~ y = x) flBx)
But there are two different ways of unpacking the corresponding nega-
tive sentence, (16). If the description the king of France has a PRIMARY
occurrence, we get the (false) proposition that there is one and only one
entity which is king of France and is not bald, that is, (16'):
(16') 3x(Kx II Vy(Ky~ y = x) II ~Bx)
For Russell, (16') is 'simply false' in the absence (or oversupply) of male
French monarchs. But Russell admits a second reading of (16), equivalent
to the proposition that it is false (or not true) that there is a unique entity
which is king of France and is bald. Here, the description has a SECONDARY
occurrence, within the scope of negation, as indicated in the logical form
in (16");
(16") ~3x(Kx II Vy(Ky ~ Y= x) II Bx)
This results in a true proposition when France is a republic. The reading
sought here is the one which is favored with the appropriate intonation con-
tour and rectification:
2.2 Vacuous Singular Terms 107
(16!) The king of France isn't bald-there isn't any king of France!
I shall return to these linguistic correlates of Russellian external negation
in chapter 6.
The negation in the logical form (16') is internal to the basic proposi-
tion, while that in (16") is external to it, whence the familiar labels for the
twO scopally distinct variants which have long since replaced Russell's ter-
minology of primary vs. secondary occurrences. Notice that (16"), unlike
(16'), fails to entail (17);
(l7) There is a king of France.
Indeed, the falsity of (17) guarantees the truth of (16").
What Russell has done here (and in later reworkings of his theory of de-
scriptions) is to formally reconstruct Aristotle's truth-conditional theory of
negation, in which contradictory predicate denial (as in (16") = The king of
France [is not] bald) is distinguished by scope from contrary predicate-
term negation (as in (16') = The king ofFrance is not-bald). It may have
been an accident that Russell apparently overlooked this precedent-al-
though, given Russell's oft-voiced contempt for Aristotle as a logician,
such an oversight was predictable. In any case, it was not accidental that
Russell illustrated his analysis with an example based on a description
rather than (as with Aristotle and Frege) with one based on a proper name.
Confronted with the familiar Aristotelian and Fregean negations (e.g.,
(Sa), (lIb)), Russell must treat what he dubs 'logically improper' names
(Socrates, Kepler) as disguised definite descriptions (= 'the x such that
.. .'), en route to translating each name into the description it 'abbrevi-
ates', and finally unpacking the resultant description into an existentially
quantified conjunction as illustrated above.
If we accept the cogent arguments of Kripke (1972) against analyzing
names as disguised descriptions (on any version of such theories), the only
obvious alternative for preserving the Russellian line on the ambiguity of
negative statements containing names (as well as descriptions) would re-
quire the conversion of such names into predicates. This move is vigor-
ously supported, as it happens, by Quine (1948: 7-12), who analyzes
'Pegasus is winged into 'The thing which pegasizes is winged'. On this
approach, Aristotle's (8a) would be taken (on its 'primary' interpretation,
with internal negation) as asserting that there is one and only one entity that
socratizes, and that this entity is not sick.
Quine advocates this method for eliminating names by converting them
into descriptions based on phantom predicates as a principled tool for onto-
logical slum clearance: we can deny Pegasus's existence without presuppos-
108 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
ing that h~ exists and th~s admitting nonexistent entities into our ontology.
But there Is-as our socIety has come to recognize-a price to pay when_
ever slums are cleared. In the present case, we are no longer capable of
treating even the most obvious instances of subject-predicate sentences as
such. Nor can we take much pride in barring Pegasus from the front door
only to have the property of pegasizing fly in through the window.
Whatever we may decide as to the relative merits of propositional vs
term logic (cf. §7.2 for a reconsideration of this question), it is clear tha~
the ambiguist line on negation strongly motivates the latter approach.6
Henry (~9-:2: 74) ~orcefully sums u~ the difficulties for a Russellian theory
of descnptIons whIch grants the eXIstence of two negations:
The distinction which has evidently been desirable all along is in-
tro.duced in ~ t~rtuous and ad hoc fashion under the misleading
gUIse of the pnmary and secondary occurrence' of descriptions
and all names have to be construed as disguised descriptions in
order to be able to take advantage of this ad hoc distinction.
But the predicate term negation of Aristotelian term logic, unlike Russell's
internal negation, can be truth-functionally distinguished from its (contra-
dictory) counterpart without forcing the scopal analyst to cough and look
the other way as proper names are transsubstantiated into descriptions
based on otherwise nonexistent predicates.
Other commentators on the status of negative sentences with nondenot-
ing singular subjects, especially those operating within the stricrures of
two-valued propositional logic, have tended to overlook or dismiss one or
t~e other of the twin forks of Russell's ambiguity. Thus Wood (1933 :421)
~Imply reduces (16) to the statement that 'It is false that the king of France
IS bald'. On such an account, negation is necessarily external, and no
existential commitment (as Fregean presupposition or Russellian entail-
ment) can be inferred. Collinson (1937: 89), on the other hand, places the
subject outside the scope of negation, so that negative as well as affirmative
singular statements entail existence: 'When we assert or deny (e.g.) red-
ness of a subject, the subject remains unimpaired'. (It may be significant
that Wood is writing as a philosopher and Collinson as a linguist. Aristotle
and Russell were simultaneously philosophers and linguists, whence the
insights and inconsistencies of their analyses.)
Reichenbach, on the other hand, accepts the Russellian package in toto,
claiming for it 'the advantage that such statements as "The present king of
~rance is forty years old" need not be regarded as meaningless, but are
s.Imply f~lse; and that they can even be made true by the addition of a nega-
tIOn outsIde the scope' (Reichenbach 1947: 263).
The 'simple' falsity of sentences like (15), as perceived by Russell,
2.2 Vacuous Singular Terms 109
It ichenbach, and of course Aristotle before them, was later to suffer an
hi:toric collision with the inruitions of Strawson (195~, 1952) and his Ox~­
'an colleagues. Strawson agrees with Russell and ReIchenbach that (15) IS
nleaningfu1.7 Meaningfulness and meaninglessness are for him, however,
:operties of sentences, while reference-and truth value-are properties
f the statement the sentence may be used to make.
o As with the analysis of Frege and the citation from Collinson above,
Strawson's celebrated attack on Russell's theory of descriptions is premised
on the assumption that negation, normally or invariably, leaves the subject
'unimpaired'. For Russell, (16)-on its 'primary' reading, the internal
negation (16')-comes out false in the absence of a French king; for Frege,
the utterance of the analogous (11b) makes no assertion if there was no
Kepler. For Strawson, someone who utters (16) does commit herself to the
existence of a (unique) king of France but, contra Russell, she does not
thereby assert (nor does her statement entail) the corresponding existential
proposition (17). Rather, (16)-along with its positive counterpart (15)-
PRESUPPOSES (17). If this presupposition is not satisfied, neither (15) nor
(16) can be judged true or false. A statement is indeed made under these
circumstances, pace Frege, but the question of its truth value 'fails to arise' .
Strawson tacitly lines up with Frege, and against Russell (and Aristotle),
in regarding negative singular statements like (16) as essentially unam-
biguous. He does, however, recognize the marginal existence of a non-
presupposing negation, citing the exchange in (18),
(18) A: Does he care about it?
B. He neither cares nor doesn't care; he's dead.
where the fact that B's reply posits a nonexcluded middle testifies to the
contrary nature of the opposition between He cares and He doesn't care
(Strawson 1952: 18). (It will be recalled that contrary opposites, but not
contradictory opposites, allow for the existence of a third proposition in-
consistent with both, in this case the proposition that he's dead.) But in this
passage, as in the seminal paper (Strawson 1950), the passing of the sub-
ject into the great beyond renders any statement about him not false (as it
would for Aristotle or Russell) but rather immune to concerns of truth and
falsity (barring, one presumes, resurrection).
If a statement is made which is meaningful, but which by virtue of refer-
ence failure in its subject term is neither true nor false, is this equivalent to
the formal device of assigning a third truth value, distinct from the classical
two values of the Aristotelian and Russellian programs? Is there simply a
GAP, in effect a truth-conditional black hole, at the point where truth values
are normally assigned? Are these instances of statements with vacuous sub-
ject terms collapsible in some sense with meaningless or ungrammatical
110 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
sentences (and perhaps with future contingents), given that in these cases
the question of truth or falsity also (arguably) fails to arise?
Strawson himself, ever skeptical that any system of formal logic could
do justice to his intuitions about truth and meaning in ordinary language,
would probably shrug off these questions. Yet, as we shall see in §2.4, his
skepticism did not dissuade other philosophers and linguists from adapting
Lukasiewiczian multivalued logics to represent a variety of presupposi-
tional analyses of (inter alia) the vacuous subject term examples of (15) and
(16). The first thirty years after the publication of Strawson's "On Refer-
ring" witnessed a rapid proliferation of three (or more)-valued logics in
which truth-value gaps arise or nonclassical values are ascribed, that is, in
which meaningful declarative statements can be made which in at least
some contexts are assigned neither of the classical values T or F. Ironically,
these neo-Strawsonian formal accounts of presupposition consistently as-
sume an ambiguity for negation, a position advocated by the archclassicists
Aristotle and Russell but never explicitly endorsed by Strawson himself.
2.3 Category Mistakes: The Significance of Insignificance
In the Organon, Aristotle repeatedly offers two reasons why certain ap~
parently contradictory pairs of statements, such as those in (19a, b) or
in (20a, b), are in fact opposed as immediate contraries rather than as
contradictories.
(19) a. a is healthy. (19') a. a is not healthy.
b. a is sick. b. a is not sick.
(20) a. a is even. (20') a. a is not even.
b. a is odd. b. a is not odd.
The first reason is that a does not exist, in which case (as we have seen)
both members of the pair are false. But even if a exists, it may be the sort
of thing-the sort of subject-to which neither the (a) nor the (b) predicate
'naturally' applies. If a is a number, both (19a) and (19b) will be false (and
their respective contradictories (19'a) and (19'b) true). If a is Socrates,
(20a) and (20b) will both be false (on the relevant readings of the predicate
terms), and (20'a, b) true. Similarly for predicate term negation: a is nei-
ther P nor not-P if a does not exist, or if P (and hence not-P) expresses a
property which cannot be predicatelof a (or equivalently, if a is not the
sort of thing of which P, and hence not-P, can be predicated).
The class of negative propositions in which some property is denied of a
subject not eligible to receive it has been encountered earlier in this study.
In §1.2 I traced the notion of INSIGNIFICANT negation back to the negatio
2.3 Category Mistakes 111
ofSpinoza's The wall does not see; (21) and (22) are the insignificant nega-
tions of choice for the Idealists (cf. Sigwart 1895; Bosanquet [1888] 1911;
Mabbott 1929).
(21) Virtue is not square.
(22) The soul is not a fire shovel.
These are Mabbott's Turkey-carpet judgments, negations which are insig-
nificant because, as Hegel had observed, they do not 'narrow the field'
(Mabbott 1929: 68). We also recall Price (1929) defending these same
judgments as 'perfectly sensible and indeed true'.
But what is the logical status of such insignificant negations? A quick
tour of the recent literature on the topic might begin with the defense of
Price's position by Ewing (1937:359-64) and Prior (1954). Ewing ac-
knowledges true meaninglessness-incomplete and presumably ungram-
matical sentences like Cambridge is between York, jabberwocky sentences
whose components are semantically undefined, and word-salad sentences
like Are offond not dogs cats-but he argues that negative instances of
type crossing or category mistakes (CMs) like those of (21) and (22) are
not among them.8
Sentence (23), for example, must express a proposition
and not 'a meaningless set of words':
(23) Quadratic equations do not go to race-meetings.
since there are propositions which it entails (e.g., (24a» and others which
entail it (e.g., (24b».
(24) a. Quadratic equations do not watch the Newmarket horse-
races.
b. Quadratic equations do not move in space.
Besides, how could we know that quadratic equations do not attend horse
races unless (23) were a proposition? Ewing considers and responds to a
potential objection here: 'No doubt if I frequently made assertions such as
[22] or [23] I should be in danger of being consigned to an asylum, and it
may be asked why I should be regarded as a lunatic because what I say is
true. The answer is that to qualify as a lunatic it is not necessary to say
what is false or meaningless; it is sufficient to say what is true in an un-
suitable context' (Ewing 1937 :360-61).
The point is well taken. Yet we may be willing to grant Ewing's conclu-
~ion that (22) and (23) are (not meaningless but) true, and the correspond-
mg affirmations (not meaningless but) false, without accepting his move
(p. 361) of assimilating the oddness of these CMs to the oddness associated
~ith the assertion, in a neutral context, of such indubitably true proposi-
tions as those in (25):
112 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
(25) a. 2 plus 2 equals 4.
b. I did not commit more than
six murders yesterday.
c. I worked an hour
yesterday.
d. He has not stopped beating
his wife.
(uttered when totally
irrelevant)
(given that I murdered no
one)
(given that I worked eight
hours)
(given that he never started)
Negative category mistakes (NCMs) may well be both true and pragmati-
cally deviant, like the examples in (25) (cf. chapter 4), but they suffer from
another defect which Ewing has not succeeded in isolating.
Prior (1954: 159-60) offers a proof for (21) in support of Ewing's line
on NCMs. In saying that virtue is not square, just as in saying that my left
eye is not square, I am not saying that virtue (or my left eye) is of some
other shape (Plato's Eleatic Stranger to the contrary notwithstanding); in
both cases, the negation is true simply because the entity in question lacks
the requisite property of squareness.
The Aristotle-Price-Ewing-Prior position that NCMs are not just mean-
ingful but true (and their positive counterparts simply false) is also sup-
po~ed by Quine (1953b:449), who laments 'the recurrent notion among
phIlosophers that a predicate can be significantly denied only of things that
are somehow homogeneous in point of category with the things to which
the predicate applies' .
Elsewhere, Quine (1960:229) addresses 'the concern among philoso-
phers to declare meaningless, rather than trivially false' such classic posi-
tive category mistakes as (26a) and (26b), due to Carnap and Russell,
respectively.
(26) a. This stone is now thinking about Vienna.
b. Quadruplicity drinks procrastination.
He finds this concern misplaced, attributing it largely to nothing more than
'a spontaneous revulsion against silly sentences'. Better to eschew any
sorting among the class of statements which are unarguably not true: 'Tol-
erance of the don't cares . . . is a major source of simplicity in theory; and
in the present instance it counts double, sparing us as it does both the set-
tling of categories and the respecting of them'.
The class of philosophers under attack (or at least reproach) here in-
cludes Strawson, whose definitions of 'incompatibility-ranges' (1952:6)
presuppose a theory in which NCMs are neither true nor false. For Straw-
son, a class expression like green things has both an extension (the class
of things that are green) and an EXCLUSION (the class of things which are
not green, or in Aristotle's terminology not-green, including cherries and
2.3 Category Mistakes 113
rows, but not prime numbers or cardinal sins). The extension and exclu-
~ion of a class expression jointly determine its universe of discourse. Any
entities about which 'it does not make literal sense to say that they are or
are not green' fall outside the universe of discourse, beyond the pale, and
into a truth-value gap.
But NCMs, as well as their affirmative counterparts, are not meaningless
for Strawson; rather, as with the king-of-France statements of section 2.2,
the question of their truth or falsity fails to arise. Lest one conclude that the
critical remarks of Quine and other opponents of the meaninglessness
analysis of category mistakes might have been directed, not at Strawson,
but at Strawman, it should be noted that it was Russell (1908) who most
clearly enunciated the true/false/meaningless trichotomy and who placed
category mistakes-positive and negative alike-into the third class,
through the application of type theory. Thus, A is/is not B is meaningless
if A does not belong to the appropriate type defined by the predicate B. It
is easy to share Quine's skeptical evaluation of the Russellian theory of
types-or any similar notion of type or category-as a tool for making just
the right cuts in predicting category clashes between subject and predicate.
It would not require the surgical skills of a Dwight Bolinger or a Jim Mc-
Cawley to demonstrate that a suitable type theory necessitates virtually as
many categories as there are predicates.
The Russellian account of category mistakes, however, finds a champion
in Pap, who adopts a Platonic perspective: 'In ordinary parlance a rejection
of a statement of the form "x is blue" as false is equivalent to the assertion
that x has some colour other than blue' (1960:41). Therefore, NCMs like
(27a, b),
(27) a. The square root of 2 is not blue.
b. The theory of relativity is not blue.
since they cannot be read as assertions of otherness (= 2 is green or red or
yellow or ...), are in fact (not true but) meaningless. Pap is thus a legiti-
mate heir to the negation-as-otherness line established by Plato's Stranger,
developed (via the notion of significant vs. bare or insignificant negation)
by Spinoza, Hegel, and the Idealists, and reinterpreted (through the equa-
tion of significant negation to the assertion of an implicit positive disjunc-
tion) by Mabbott; recall the synopsis of this history in §1.2.2.
Pap's argument that NCMs are not true hinges on a controversial as-
sumption: 'The negation of a meaningless sentence is surely itself mean-
ingless: the relevant sense of "meaninglessness" here is "neither true nor
false"'. By LC and LEM, any proposition (category-mistaken or not) and
its negation share (non)bivalence; if The theory of relativity is blue is
meaningless and hence (for Pap) neither true nor false, so is its negative
114 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
counterpart (28b). Negation, represented as 'not-(S is P)" is thus 'or-
dinarily construed as limited', equivalent to'S is non-P', where non-P is
understood, ala Mabbott, as 'the disjunction of all the other predicates be-
longing to the same family as P': 'To deny that x is kind is to affirm that x
is unkind'.9
Having drafted this notion of a PREDICATE FAMILY-'a set of predicates
such that one and only one member of it must be true of anything of which
some member of the set is true or false'-Pap (1960: 48) enlists it in his
campaign to recast Russell's type-theoretic account of category mistakes in
terms of a Strawsonian presuppositionalist analysis. Pap acknowledges that
the effect of presupposition failure in the CM cases (Socrates is/is not a
prime number) differs from that in the standard cases of reference (The
king ofSwitzerland is/ is not a pipe smoker) and change-of-state verbs (Mr.
Miller has/has not stopped beating his Wife) in that, on Pap's own testi-
m.ony, the. fir~t is meaningless while the others clearly are not. Pap at-
tnbutes thIS dIfference to the necessary nature of the presupposition failure
in the former case and its contingent nature in the other two; but this cannot
be the whole story, as seen in the contrast between (28a, b), both of which
involve a necessary instance of presupposition failure.
(28) a. The largest prime number is odd (divisible by 3,
prime, ...).
b. The largest prime number is blue (happy, unfair, ...).
Whatever the resolution of these problems, Pap's presuppositional treat-
ment of 'limited', type-internal negation provides only part of the NCM
picture. Unlike Strawson, Pap reluctantly acknowledges the (marginal) ex-
istence of 'unlimited' (type-crossing) negation. In this case, 'not-(S is P)'
cannot be taken as equivalent to'S is non-P', but serves rather as a locu-
tion for warning against a category mistake (= S is not the sort of thing to
which P can be ascribed). It is only in this specialized use of negation that
an NCM-Fire is not red, Socrates is not a prime number-can be said to
be true (1960:53-54).
. Orange (1966: 21) rejects Pap's attempts to co-opt 'ordinary parlance'
mto the cause of the meaninglessness analysis. Orange grants that laymen
woul? regard NCMs like those of (27) as either meaningless or true, de-
pendmg on whether they happen to be, in Orange's terms, 'inhibited' or
'uninhibited' thinkers. Essentially, an inhibited thinker is one who imme-
diately sets up a limited universe of discourse (cf. Strawson 1952: 112,
cited above), while an uninhibited thinker does hUt. But the inhibited
thinker's move from (29a) to (29b) is unwarranted as recognized by Ewing
and Prior:
2.3 Category Mistakes 115
(29) a. X is not blue.
b. X is some color other than blue.
Even if it can be shown that 'in ordinary life no one who is speaking truth-
fully ever says of anything that it is not blue unless he believes it to have
some color other than blue', this would not constitute support for Pap's
view that (29a) is meaningless if (29b) does not hold.
Drange's own position is that positive category-mistaken sentences are
meaningless, although not necessarily neither true nor false. With Straw-
son and against Pap, Orange rejects the identification of meaninglessness
with truth-valuelessness; a sentence is meaningless only if it is neither true
nor empirically false. Positive CMs are a priori false and hence meaning-
less. This asymmetrical theory yields the curious result that the negation of
a meaningless sentence can itself be meaningful, a result which Orange
(1966: 23) defends: 'To say "Socrates is a color" makes no sense at all;
to say "Socrates is not a color (but a person)" makes perfectly good sense'.
Such NCMs, Orange notes, are appropriately used in enlightening a for-
eigner or a child (No dear, you can't color your truck Socrates).
Following Ewing and Prior, Orange offers a series of proofs for the the-
sis that NCMs are (necessarily) true statements. Orange's proof for (27b)
(1966:24) can be given in abbreviated form (cf. Lambert 1968:83):
(27') The theory of relativity is an abstract object.
No abstract object is blue.
:. The theory of relativity is not blue.
If Drange's uninhibited negation does not preserve (in)significance, it
does preserve (un)grammaticality: 'any sentence is grammatical if its nega-
tion is grammatical' (50). Since (27a, b) and their ancestors are grammatical
(and indeed true), their positive counterparts, along with the Carnap and
Russell classics of (26), are likewise grammatical (although meaningless).
Drange thus lines up with Chomsky (1957), for whom (30) is grammatical
but anomalous,
(30) Colorless green ideas sleep furiously.
and against Chomsky (1965), whose theory of selectional restrictions rules
out (30) on syntactic grounds.
But Drange's identification of the negation of a declarative sentence S
with the result of substitution into the standard formula 'it is not the case
that S' yields the ill-starred prediction that the negations in (31) are
grammatical.
116 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
(31) *It is not the case that here comes the bus.
*It is not the case that I now pronounce you husband and wife.
*It is not the case that I hereby sentence you to death.
This is, of course, the same point I raised in connection with Aristotle's
position, echoed through the ages, that for every affirmation there is a corre-
sponding negation (cf. §1.2.1); in the absence of a response from Orange,
his argument for the (un)grammaticality-preserving character of negation
is without force.
The observant reader will have noticed that most of the participants in
the conflict over the truth, grammaticality, and meaningfulness of NCMs,
including Quine, Strawson, and Orange, tend to share the presupposition
that language has room for only one variety of negation, essentially the
contradictory propositional operator (apophatikon) of the Stoics, or its
Fregean counterpart, realized as either 'it is not the case that NP VPs' or as
'NP {does/is} not VP'. Kissin (1969), accepting the Russellian ambiguity
between internal and external negation, claims a distinction in his gram-
maticality judgments on (32a) and (32b).
(32) a. *These stones do not have cancer. (the asterisk is Kissin's)
b. It is not the case that these stones have cancer.
Kissin's account makes positive CMs and their internally negated counter-
parts ungrammatical, while external negation (as in (32b)) fails to preserve
ungrammaticality. But given that we need to rule out other external nega-
tions as ungrammatical-*It is not the case that Bill arrived ofLucy a po-
tato-this approach too needs some refinement.
As we have seen, Orange's theory posits an asymmetry between positive
CMs (which are meaningless and false) and negative CMs (meaningful and
true). Indeed, what I have been calling NCMs are for Orange technically
not CMs at all. Thus, his working definition of the type crossing as 'a sen-
tence which ascribes to something of a certain type a property with which
only a different type of thing is associated' (Orange 1966: 93) must later be
modified to assure that all such ascriptions of properties to things be done
'in a positive manner'.
The sentences (33a- c) are all used to deny rather than to ascribe a prop-
erty to Socrates; Orange takes the three versions to be essentially equivalent.
(33) a. Socrates is not a person.
b. Socrates is a nonperson.
c. Socrates is something other than a person.
The distinction between ascribing and denying a property is intended to
rule out of the category of CMs not only sentences of the form S is not P
2.3 Category Mistakes 117
but also any sentence equivalent to a sentence of this form. But it i~ by no
means obvious, contra Orange, that the sentences of (33) are eqUIvalent;
ecall that for Aristotle only (33a) comes out true if Socrates does not exist.
~urther, given LON, a doubly negated CM will involve positive ascription
(Orange 1966: 96- 97, n. 5). Thus, while it is meaningful to assert that ·h
is not blue (or nonblue), both its positive congener (./2 is blue) and its
negation (./2 is not nonblue) come out meaningless, a rather suspicious
result. The crucial Orangean notions of ascription and denial of a property
may well turn out to be either circular or incoherent. (Cf. §1.1.4 for related
difficulties in the use of formal criteria to distinguish positive and negative
propositions.)
One of Orange's more widely accepted views is the claim that the nega-
tively affixed predicates of ordinary language (e.g., is un + Adj) ascribe a
property positively rather than denying it. In a paradigm like that of (34),
(34) a. The number 4 is tolerant of carelessness.
b. The number 4 is not tolerant of carelessness.
c. The number 4 is intolerant of carelessness.
(34c) 'certainly says more than merely [34b]" and indeed, like (34a) and
unlike (34b), it may be said to 'have a positive content'. Contrary to the
behavior of ordinary negatives and of the 'logicians' predicates' with initial
non- (nonblue, etc.), predicate terms with un- and iN- affixes conform to
the (revised) definition of type crossings; (34a) and (34c), but not (34b),
come out meaningless.
The inherently problematic nature of Orange's attempt to divide predi-
cates into positive and negative subclasses affects even this argument, how-
ever. As Routley points out (1969: 368), such predicates as dislikes dancing,
is unmagnetized, is irregular do not exhibit the 'positive content' Orange
attributes to is intolerant; the more contradictory the semantics of a given
affixal negation, the more closely it approaches the behavior of the para-
digmatic NCM cases.
Another weakness of Orange's exposition is his failure to recognize that
(34b), unlike (34c), can be used in two different ways, and that in one of
these understandings it is quite parallel to the affixal form. In effect, as we
shall see in more detail in §6.4, the 'ambiguity' of (34b) is neutralized in
(34c). This point, which may have originated with Aristotle, is not lost on
Zimmer (1964: 23ff.), who distinguishes (35a), which mayor may not be
read as a CM, from (35b), which can only be a CM.
(35) a. Triangles are not intelligent.
b. #Triangles are unintelligent.
118 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
The same observation is made by Bergmann (1977: 65), who notes that
(36b), but not (36c), follows from the fact that (36a) is not true.
(36) a.
b.
# The theory of relativity is interested in classical music.
It is not the case that the theory of relativity is interested in
classical music.
c. #The theory of relativity is uninterested in classical music.
Sentence (36c) represents the external and (36c) the internal negation of
(36a). As Zimmer predicts, the ordinary syntactic negation of (36a):
(36') The theory of relativity is not interested in classical music.
can be read either as (36b) or as (36c)
The same distinction applies to vacuous subject examples as well (Zim-
mer 1964:23):
(37) The present king of France is {not intelligent/ #unintelligent}-
there isn't any.
For Zimmer, affixal negation in un-, iN-, and perhaps non-, yields contrary
rather than contradictory negation, while ordinary particle negation allows
both contradictory and contrary interpretations. For Drange, too, un- and
iN- predicates produce contrariety, but both not and non- yield contradic-
tory negation. I shall return to the semantic differences between particle
and affixal negation, and between non- and less productive (or more lex-
icalized) negative prefixes, in chapters 5 and 6.
As we have seen, Russell, Pap, and their Idealist forerunners all adopt
various versions of what I shall call (following Routley 1966) SIGNIFI-
CANCE THEORY, in which for some sentential function, the significance or
meaningfulness range of an argument place x, that is, the set of expressions
that can be significantly substituted for x in, for example, x is blue, is a
proper subset of the grammaticality range of that argument place. Ewing,
Prior, and Quine, on the other hand, are practitioners of NO-TYPE THEORY,
which regards all grammatical sentences as ipso facto significant. Straw-
son, for whom CMs are meaningful but necessarily nonbivalent, seems to
fall between the theoretical cracks, while the hybrid program advocated by
Drange casts him as a no-typer for negative sentences and a significance
theorist for affirmatives.
The late 1960s witnessed the opening of an Australian front in this
battle, with the troops for the significance theorists and the no-typers led by
Routley (1966, 1969) and Lambert (1968), respectively. What is especially
relevant here is the role played by negation (and by its purported ambigu-,
ity) in the history of this debate. Routley begins (1966) by attempting a
2.3 Category Mistakes 119
reduction of Quinean no-type theories in which CMs like (38a) are simply
false.
(38) a. The number 7 dislikes dancing.
b. The number 7 doesn't dislike dancing.
If(38a) is false, it follows (by LEM) that (38b) is true. But for Routley (as
forPap) (38b) is 'certainly not true' and indeed insignificant; hence the no-
typer must either give up LEM altogether or accept the ambiguity of nega-
tion (with (38b) analyzed as an instance of non-LEM-preserving internal
negation).
In his rebuttal, Lambert (1968) rejects the claim that (38b) is not true (a
rejection in which he would be joined by Drange, himself a part-time sig-
nificance theorist). Following van Fraassen (1966), Lambert argues that
LEM does apply to (at least some) sentences which are neither true nor
false, defends the postulation of two varieties of negation as independently
motivated, and concocts a proof (in the style of Prior and Drange; cf. (27')
above) for the truth of the offending proposition:1O
(39) The number 7 is an abstract object.
No abstract object dislikes dancing.
:. The number 7 doesn't dislike dancing.
Routley (1969: 368ff.), unconvinced, detects a crucial equivocation on
the semantics of the negative operator corresponding to no and not (n't) in
Lambert's proof. The second premise is presumably read as denying that
abstract entities are the type of things that can be said (significantly) to dis-
like dancing. But this is postclassical, unrestricted negation, best repre-
sented not as ~p (or as F(p) for 'p is false'), but as ~T(p), 'p is not true'.
The only conclusion warranted in (39) is then that (38a) is not true, leav-
ing open the possibilities that it may be either false or nonsignificant. Thus
we arrive at Routley's central thesis (1969: 372) on 'the multiplicity of
negations':
The fact is that languages can, and do, contain more than one sort
of negation.... In adequate sentential significance logics these
three sentence negations are distinguished: an unlimited negation
'...,' (' ~T') read 'it is not true that' , a restricted negation '~', and
a falsity connective 'F' ('T~') read 'it is false that'.
Crucially, Routley's basic negative operator, the 'restricted' negation
(recall Pap's 'limited' negation and Drange's 'inhibited' negation), does
not yield contradictory oppositions or obey LEM; nor does it equate to
falsity. But both the contradictory (wide-scope, unrestricted) and falsity
120 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded MiddLe
operators can be defined in terms of restricted negation in combination
with the truth connective T. So much for formal significance logic, but
what of natural language? 'That these different sorts of negation also OCCUr
in natural languages is not so decisively shown. However, they certainly
occur in particular English idiolects, for example in the idiolects of speak.
ers trained in significance logic and of philosophers like Pap'. And for.
tunately, Routley assures us, others can be trained to make the right
distinctions.
While there is something classically absurdist about this line of argu.
ment (if you don't like the way my logic represents your language, 1 can
teach you to change your language), this maneuver neither originates nOr
culminates with Routley. Nor are the alternatives without their own absurd
touches, as we have seen; recall Drange's mixed theory in which certain
false sentences are meaningless but have meaningful negations (but mean.
ingless double negations), and negative predictions are always meaningful
(except when the negation appears as an affix (except when the affix is
non-)). 1 shall return to this dilemma, and attempt to sketch a possible es-
cape from it, below.
Perhaps responding to the appeals of Pap, Drange, and Routley to the
parlance of ordinary lay folk, Steinberg (1970) in fact constructed a psy.
cholinguistic study designed to measure speakers' responses to category
mistakes. Given a class of sentences and the choice of evaluations of
them-synthetic (contingently true or false), analytic (true by virtue of
meaning), contradictory (false by virtue of meaning), redundant, or arn-
phigorous-subjects turned out to be highly consistent on which value to
assign in most cases. Judging sentences of the form The A isIis not a B, the
greatest disagreement emerged, not surprisingly, in the range of NCMs.
While positive type crossings like those in (40) are almost unanimously
judged amphigorous (meaningless), the corresponding negations in (41)
split the respondents,
(40) The chair is a person.
The sheep is a man.
(41) The chair is not a person.
The sheep is not a man.
some subjects (presumably Papists and inhibited thinkers) finding them as
amphigorous as their positive mates, others uninhibitedly branding them
reduncant or analytic, and hence true.
Before gloating over the results of Steinberg's study, Drangeans should
remind themselves that the experiment was hardly conclusive, especially
insofar as it focused on reactions to identity statements rather than ordinary
2.3 Category Mistakes 121
predications, while th~ latter cl~ss has provided virtually all the bones of
ontention for recent dIsputants 10 the CM wars.
C For linguists, of course, the category mistake of the philosophical litera-
ture is more familiar under the Aspects rubric of SELECTIONAL VIOLATION.
Classic examples include (in addition to (30) above) those in (42), from
Chomsky 1965: 149.
(42) Golf plays John.
The boy may frighten sincerity.
While the Aspects model (Chomsky 1965: 148-60) tentatively took selec-
tional restrictions and their violation to involve essentially syntactic prop-
erties of lexical items (typically, constraints stated as features on verbs
governing the class of subjects or objects they accept), McCawley (1968)
and Jackendoff (1972), approaching the question from rather different di-
rections, converged on the argument that selection must be a matter of (at
most) semantics. Unlike violations of category rules (*! potatoed the of) or
of strict subcategorization (*! sLept the armadillo, *John found sad), selec-
tional violations produce anomaly but not ungrammaticality. McCawley
noted that simple instances of selectional deviance may be constituents in
well-formed complex sentences, especially when appearing in opaque con-
texts. Thus (43b), unlike (43a), is grammatical, significant, and-if the
report is accurate-even true.
(43) a. *1 dreamed that my toothbrush slept Mary an armadillo.
b. 1dreamed that my toothbrush was pregnant.
Furthermore, selection can only be a relation between predicates and
term phrases (NPs), not between predicates and individual lexical items
(nouns). As McCawley has stressed, citing contrasts like those in (44),
(44) a. My {sister/#brother} is pregnant.
b. My {buxom neighborI #virile neighbor} is pregnant.
the crucial factor is not what noun heads the NP which bears a given rela-
tion to the selecting predicate, but rather just what entity the NP in question
refers to. Thus, as McCawley also observes, in languages with gram-
matical gender distinctions, it is invariably natural gender (e.g., the sex of
the referent) which is relevant in determining selection and not the gender
feature arbitrarily associated with a given noun. Further, as philosophers
have long noted with respect to category mistakes, selectional restrictions
may be freely violated in metaphorical or poetic contexts, while true syn-
tactic restrictions are less vulnerable.
Given the arguments for treating selection as a matter of reference, it
was natural for generative semanticists to subsume selectional rules (and
122 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
their violation) within a more general theory of presuppositions (and their
nonsatisfaction). In essence, every sentence can be taken to presuppose
that its selectional restrictions are met; indeed, in the view of G. Lakoff
(1971), we can speak of the well-formedness of a sentence only relative to
the satisfaction of its presuppositions, including its selectional restrictions.
To know whether a sentence like My pet am<eba believes that I'm a lousy
cook is grammatically well-formed, you have to know what my beliefs are,
and hence whether a selectional rule on possible subjects of believe was .
violated.
Now it is true that given an arbitrary sentence S, we will tend to give the
same answer to the three questions of (45):
(45) Is S syntactically well-formed (grammatical)?
Is S meaningful (significant)?
Is S (or better, Is this token of S) true-or-false (bivalent)?
The interdependence of these questions is undeniable; only grammatical
sentences can be significant, and (pace Orange) only significant sentences
can be used to make bivalent statements. But-and this caveat does not
apply to Lakoff alone-the questions are not identical, and they need not
receive the same answer. To subsume a mismatch between predicate and
subject, that is, an instance of category error, type crossing, selectional
violation, or sortal incorrectness, under the general heading of presupposi-
tion failure does not tell us more than what we already knew-or believed.
What it does not tell us in particular is whether NCMs are or are not gram-
matical (cf. Kissin and Lakoff vs. Orange and Routley), meaningful (Rus-
sell, Pap, and Routley vs. Strawson and the no-typers), true (Orange and
Lambert vs. Pap and Routley), or ambiguous (Pap and Lambert vs. Prior
and Strawson). Nor, as we shall see, does it tell us whether the deviance of
CMs-positive and negative-is to be situated within truth-conditional se-
mantics, non-truth-conditional semantics, or pragmatics.
2.4 External Negation in Presuppositional and
Nonpresuppositional Logics: New Solutions for Old Dilemmas
2.4.1 Negation(s) in Multivalued Logic
The thesis that any logical analysis of natural language sentences must
countenance two varieties of negation, whose differences may be neu-
tralized at surface structure, is (as we have seen) as old as Aristotle. The
classical term-logic-based distinction of a narrow-scope, predicate term
negation yielding contrary opposition (A is not-B) vs. a (relatively) wide-
2.4 New Solutions for Ancient Dilemmas 123
{scope, predicate denial yielding contradic~ory opposition (A is,not B,. A ~s­
~rWtB) maps straightforwardly, as we saw 10 §2.2, onto Russell s ambIgUity
ibetween narrow-scope, internal negation (where the subject term has a pri-
inary occurrence) and wide-scope, external negation (where the subject
term has a second.ary occurrence).
For Russell, working within a propositional logic, the ambiguity of
negation requires treating descriptions-and names-as (in the Scholas-
tics' term) EXPONIBLES, superficially simple expressions which can be un-
packed to reve~l a conjun~tion hidden within..Crucially, how~ve~, Russell
shares with Anstotle the VIew that every meanmgful sentence IS eIther true
or false (Russell 1957), as stipulated by LBV.
For both Aristotle and Russell, a vacuous subject term yields a proposi-
tion which is either meaningful and false (if it is affirmative or internally
negated) or meaningful and true (if it is externally negated). LEM holds
without exception for external negation (predicate denial): every mean-
ingful indicative sentence expresses a proposition which is true or has a
true denial (a true contradictory or external negation).
While Aristotle's analysis of future contingents leaves many questions
unsettled, the evidence for a Boethian (LBV-violating) interpretation is not
compelling. Category mistakes are either true or false for Aristotle (as for
Quine); for Russell they are nonbivalent-but also meaningless. Thus nei-
ther Aristotle nor Russell can be said to endorse ~ruth-value gaps in the
relevant sense of the term.
One alternative tradition begins with the Stoics and extends through
such recent opponents of logical presupposition as Kempson (1975), Boer
and Lycan (1976), and Gazdar (1979a). According to this view, Aristotle
and Russell are correct in spurning truth-value gaps and third or non-
bivalent truth values, but misguided in finding a semantic ambiguity in
simple negative sentences. Rather, negation is a semantically invariant
truth-functional operator which takes any proposition p into its contradic-
tory ~p. I shall return to this monoguist line on negation in chapter 6.
A third thesis can be extracted from the presuppositionalist approaches
pursued by Frege (1892) and Strawson (1950, 1952): there are syntac-
tically well-formed sentences which in some contexts or states of affairs
cannot be used to make an assertion (Frege) or to make a statement which
is true or false (Strawson), and such truth-value gaps affect positive and
negative sentences alike (cf. §2.2). But these accounts cannot readily deal
with the familiar observation that negation can be used to reject a presup-
position, as in (46):
(46) Kepler didn't die in misery, because he never existed.
The king of France isn't bald-there isn't any king of France.
(= (16!»
124 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
The number 7 doesn't dislike dancing, because numbers have no
feelings.
The natural step for a presuppositionalist to take when confronted with the
acceptability of such examples is to preserve truth-value gaps by conceal-
ing the inherent ambiguity of negation, an ambiguity independently moti-
vated by nonpresuppositionalists from Aristotle to Russell. Strawson in
fact does seem implicitly to have taken this step (cf. Strawson 1952: 18;
1964:95), although not in so many words. The third option, so amended,
then slides into the fourth, that of modern multivalued logics.
As we have observed, Lukasiewicz introduced a third value into the phi-
losopher's tool kit as a device for representing the indeterminist line on fu-
ture contingents, that is, the position ascribed to Aristotle by the Boethian
tradition to which he subscribed. He argues (1922: 36) that his three-
valued logic, in which sentences describing future contingent (or past un-
knowable) events are neither true nor false in the present, preserves LEM
while rejecting LBV: a proposition may be neither true nor false, but every
proposition is either true or has a true (external) negation.II
The formal programs developed by Lukasiewicz, Bochvar (1938),
Kleene (1938, 1952), Smiley (1960), Herzberger (1970, 1971), and others
have offered different solutions to the central question of compositionality
within multivalued logics: how is the truth value of a complex expression
determined by the truth value of its component parts?
Classical two-valued propositional logic had long since settled on the
solution to the compositionality question: given propositions p and q, their
truth functions are computed in accordance with the standard table in (47).
(47)
P q ~p pl\q pvq p~q p~q
T T F T T T T
T F F F T F F
F T T F T T F
F F T F F T T
Any disputes arising over the adoption of the standard truth tables have
tended to address the assumption that the connectives (in their linguistic
guise) are truth functions. In particular, does the truth table for p ~ q ac-
curately reflect the semantics of ifp then q in natural language? Is p or q
always semantically inclusive (as in the definition of p v q above), or some-
times exclusive (and hence false when both p and q are true)? What are the
non-truth-functional constraints on the appropriate use of sentences em-
ploying the connectives, and what is the logical import of these con-
straints? (Cf. Grice 1967, 1975; Cohen 1971; Barrett and Stenner 1971;
Walker 1975; Gazdar and Pullum 1976; Gazdar 1979a; and chapters 4 and
2.4 New Solutions for Ancient Dilemmas 125
6 below for some discussion of these issues.) For the most part, however,
the assignment of particular values in these tables has not itself been a mat-
ter of dispute.
In multivalued logics, however, there has been little consensus on how to
assign truth values to compound sentences in which one or more compo-
nents lacks a (bivalent) truth value. (Recall the Mercer-Arlen warning
against messing with Mr. In-Between.) In particular, a widely shared unease
with the projection rules of Lukasiewicz's system led to the development
of other projection tables, beginning with Bochvar 1938. Lukasiewicz and
Bochvar agreed, however, in distinguishing an internal, presupposition-
preserving negation from an external, presupposition-canceling negation.12
Just in case a given affirmative proposition lacks a classical truth value, the
internal negation of that proposition will lack one as well; the external
negation is always true or false. This is shown in (48), where N denotes the
neuter (nonbivalent, nonsense, neither-T-nor-F) value.
(48)
Internal External
Negation Negation
p ..,p -p
T F F
F T T
N N T
Within multivalued logic it is clear that true and false must be taken as
mediate contraries rather than contradictories: a proposition is not true if-
but not only if-it is false.
Bochvar's insight was to generalize this dichotomy between the nega-
tions of (48) to the binary connectives, distinguishing in each case a pre-
supposition-preserving (truth-gap-inducing) internal connective from the
corresponding two-valued external connective. The truth tables for the in-
ternal connectives assigned by Bochvar reflect his decision to treat non-
bivalence as contagious; if one component is neither true nor false, so is the
expression in which it is contained. For conjunction and disjunction, we
obtain the tables in (49) and (50), respectively:
(49)
q q
pl\q T F N P&q T F N
pH T F N
pH T F F
F F N F F F
N N N F F F
(internal conjunction) (external conjunction)
126 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
(50)
q q
A A
'\
pvq T F N pwq T F N
pU T T N
pU T T T
T F N T F F
N N N T F F
(internal disjunction) (external disjunction)
Furthermore, if we follow Bochvar in adopting a one-place truth connec-
tive or assertion operator t(p), modeled on the Fregean horizontal, we can
define external negation (as in (51» and the other external connectives (in-
cluding those in (52» in terms of the corresponding internal connective and
the truth operator (cf. Smiley 1960, Rescher 1969, Herzberger 1970, Don-
nellan 1970, and Bergmann 1977 for variations on this theme).
(51) -p = df -,t(p)
(52) p IN. q = df t(p) A t(q)
P w q = df t(p) V t(q)
It is this truth connective-the 'Bochvar-Frege horizontal', as Herzberger
and Bergmann dub it-that in effect filters out nonbivalence. The crucial
tables for our purposes are those defining negation:
(53)
p
T
F
N
t(p)
T
F
F
-,t(p)
F
T
T
F
T
N
F
T
F
Notice in particular that the third column of this table is identical to the
column for external negation (-p) in (48); intuitively, we can agree that if
a proposition is neither true nor false, it is clearly not true. As the fifth
column suggests, we can also define a falsity connective based on the truth
of the internal negation, such that f(p) = df t(-,p); cf. the citation from
Routley.
What makes this approach more than merely a clever trick is the fre-
quently made observation that the English sentences which (at least for
some speakers) most closely correspond to the semantics of the external
negation of (15) are not of the form of (16) but rather of (54a, b).
(15) The king of France is bald.
(16) The king of France is not bald.
2.4 New Solutions/or Ancient Dilemmas 127
(54) a. It is not true that the king of France is bald.
b. It is not the case that the king of France is bald.
Based on this intuition, it is tempting to conclude that (54a, b) are direct
English translations of the formula -,t[(15)]. Natural language negation,
on this view, is not lexically ambiguous between the two readings signaled
in (48), but scopally ambiguous as to its position in logical syntax (as it is,
in a somewhat different way, within both Aristotelian and Russellian two-
valued logic). The view that the formula it is not {true / the case} that . ..
represents logical external negation will be examined more closely in
chapter 6.
In any case, there are a number of serious problems that confront any
attempt to provide a coherent and intuitively plausible semantic interpreta-
tion for three-valued logic; 'Beginning with Lukasiewicz's trivalent ma-
trices', laments Herzberger (1970: 32), 'peculiar things happen'. A useful
bestiary of these peculiar things is offered by Rescher (1969: 160ff.), who
suggests that four-valued logic might score higher on the plausibility meter.
I shall confine my remarks here to the representation of negation within
multivalued logic (MVL) and to its interaction with the classical Aristo-
telian laws.
Given the multifarious forms taken by negation-like operators in MVL,
it is not even clear a priori when a given MVL operator is a negation.
Rescher offers a simple criterion: 'N is a mode of negation iff it can never
happen that p and Np are both true or both false'. Of course, it may be the
case (as with the internal negation of the Lukasiewicz, Bochvar, and Kleene
frameworks) that neither p nor Np is true, or that neither of them is false.
Notice that the'-, , and '-' connectives as defined in (48) satisfy Rescher's
criterion, and that both connectives are also NORMAL in the sense that they
receive the same values as the negation operator of classical two-valued
systems (cf. (47» when only the classical values T and F are involved.
How do the classicallaws-LC, LEM, LBV-fare in multivalued sys-
tems? As Rescher notes, everything hinges on just how these laws are for-
mulated. Thus if LC is the thesis that 'p A Np' is logically false, it will
govern the external negation of a Bochvar-like system, since 'p A _p'
is self-contradictory and' -(p A -p)' tautologous. But internal negation
does not obey this formulation of LC, since the infectious nature of
nonbivalence assures that whenever p is nonbivalent, both 'p A -'p' and
'-,(p A -,p)' will be nonbivalent as well.
But in MVL, as in classical logic, 'p A Np' can never be true for either
internal or external negation. As Cresswell (1973 :41) observes, 'PA Np'
can be true only if N is not a real negation, A is not a real conjunction, or
both. In other words, 'p A Np' can be true only when it is not a real contra-
diction, vindicating LC.
128 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
Similarly, LEM is standardly taken as stipulating that any proposition is
true or has a true negation. But 'p v Np' can be true only when it has a
classical truth value; LEM fails for Bochvar's internal negation (while
holding, of course, for the neoclassical external variety). Indeed, as
Rescher points out, if we were to read LEM as asserting that every proposi-
tion is either true or false (i.e., as equivalent to LBV), any self-respecting
multivalued system must reject this principle if it is not to collapse with the
classical two-valued system (cf. van Fraassen 1969: 69). But the weaker
principle that at least one of p and Np must be true can be maintained in
MVL (although, as Bochvar demonstrates, it needn't be).
It is evident that in MVL, unlike classical logic, LEM (interpreted as
'p v Np') is not identical to LBV (interpreted as the thesis that every propo-
sition is either true or false, or alternatively that one of p, Np is true and
the other false). This emerges most clearly when we recall that p is not
identical to t(p) (cf. the first two columns of (53)): for a speaker of MVL,
it is true that p does not reduce to p. For this reason, Kneale and Kneale's
attempt (1962: 46-48) to show that Aristotle errs in 'trying to assert the
Law of Excluded Middle while denying the Principle of Bivalence' foun-
ders on their unwarranted assumption that p or not-p is 'plainly equivalent'
to it is true that p or it is false that p. If the Kneales' Boethian interpreta-
tion of De Interpretatione chapter 9 is correct (which is by no means obvi-
ous), Aristotle must be assuming a three-valued logic in which the falsity of
p (e.g., There will be a sea battle tomorrow) cannot be inferred from the fal-
sity of it is true that p. (Cf. van Fraassen 1969: 493 for related discussion.)
Various systems of MVL have chosen various approaches to the classical
laws. In the intuitionistic logic of Brouwer (1908) and Heyting (1971), LC
is preserved but LEM fails. Bochvar's model, with its external connec-
tives, incorporates the classical bivalent system as a proper subpart. As
illustrated in (49) and (50), when a proposition p contains only external
connectives, no truth-value gap can arise; regardless of the value of p,
'p 1\ -p' comes out false and 'p v -p' true. In such cases the classical laws
are preserved. But the fact that both LEM and LC fall by the wayside when
we consider internal negation has tended to depress the market for this sys-
tem among potential consumers of MVL.
Advocates of two-valued logic have taken the failure of the classical
laws as a step in the direction of reducing MVL to absurdity. Arguing from
the assumed inviolability of LDN, Russell notes that 'when the law of ex-
cluded middle fails, the law of double negation also fails' (1940: 271; cf.
Sigwart 1895: 148 for a similar argument). The observation is correct, but
hardly telling against dual-negation logics-two-valued or multivalued-
which explicitly or implicitly take LDN to apply just when LEM does,
namely in the case of wide-scope or external negation only. Note that for
2.4 New Solutions for Ancient Dilemmas 129
Russell himself, the king of France is neither bald nor not-bald (i.e., (15')
and (16') are both true) when France is a republic.
In the same vein, Geach ([1972] 1980:80-81) attempts to demonstrate
that 'exceptions to the Law of Excluded Middle can ... be allowed only if
exceptions to the Law of Contradiction are also allowed-a much less
popular concession'. B~t ?ea~h's derivati~n of LEM from LC hinges.on a~
equivocation over the dlstmctIOn between mternal and external negatIOn; It
remains possible to defend the position that MVLs can accept LC without a
commitment to LEM. Such a defense is offered in appendix 1.
In fact, as van Fraassen's theory of supervaluations shows, a nonclassical
model admitting value gaps may endorse LC, LEM, and LDN-if we are
willing to abandon the truth-functional character of the connectives along
with the Law of Bivalence; cf. van Fraassen 1966, 1968, 1969, for details.
Within MVL, a Strawsonian notion of presupposition can be defined in
terms of (internal) negation and some version of an inference rule variously
called SEMANTIC ENTAILMENT (Smiley 1960) or NECESSITATION (van Fraas-
sen 1968). Van Fraassen (1968: 138) provides the definitions in (55):
(55) (i) A necessitates B if and only if whenever [if any situation or
possible world in which] A is true, B is also true.
(ii) A presupposes B if and only if
(a) A necessitates B; and
(b) (not-A) necessitates B
Similarly, for Smiley (1960: 131),
(56) A presupposes B = df A II- B and (-A) II- B,
where '11-' is read as 'semantically entails' and defined in the same manner
as (55i). As Smiley points out, these definitions of logical presupposition
embedded within a coherent version of MVL will capture the standard as-
sumptions: any proposition and its (internal) negation share the same pre-
supposition set, the presupposition of p is a necessary condition for p to be
either true or false, and so on. It is an important consequence ofthese defi-
nitions that necessitation / semantic entailment within MVL, unlike either
the material conditional or entailment within classical logic, does not allow
contraposition: 'From the fact that A II- B it does not follow that (-B) II-
(-A) (because A's having no [bivalent] truth value is compatible with
AII-B but not with (-B) II- (-A))' (Smiley 1960:129; cf. van Fraassen
1969:81).
Similarly, while the analogues of the classical law of modus ponens will
carryover (from A II- B and A, we can infer B), modus tollens does not
(from A II- Band -B, we can validly conclude only that A is not true, not
that -A is true). Let A be any presupposing sentence (e.g., (15) The king
130 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
ofFrance is bald) and B one of its presuppositions (e.g., (17) There is a
king ofFrance). Then A, and likewise -A, necessitates, semanticallyen-
tails, and indeed presupposes B, but all we can infer from -B is that A,
and likewise -A, is not true.
Within a dual-negation MVL, '-' in the above discussion must of course
be read as '...,', the internal presupposition-preserving connective. While
internal negation maintains presuppositions and truth-value gaps, external
negation-serving as a device for canceling all outstanding presupposi-
tions-will be employed 'by someone who wishes not so much to contra-
dict a particular assertion as to reject the ontology behind it' (Smiley
1960: 131).
It is a curious fact that while Lukasiewicz may have developed his proto-
type MVL with the problem of future contingents in mind (cf. §2.1), other
advocates of nonclassical systems from Bochvar to Smiley, Herzberger,
and van Fraassen have tended (following Frege and Strawson) to focus on
those (putative) truth-value gaps which stem from vacuous singular terms,
nondenoting names, and descriptions (cf. §2.2). Bergmann (1977, 1981)
applies her own version of MVL to sentences afflicted with sortal incor-
rectness, that is, category or type errors (cf. §2.3). As we have seen, cate-
gory mistakes are like reference failure in that 'two senses of negation are
distinguishable when the operation is applied to sortally incorrect state-
ments' (Bergmann 1977: 61). These are the restricted / limited vs. unre-
stricted / unlimited negations of Pap and Routley, mapping directly onto the
internal! external dichotomy of Bochvar. External negation is, as Berg-
mann (1977: 76) puts it, 'sortally opaque' with respect to type-based
presuppositions.
Bergmann (1981) proposes a 'regimentation' of the intuitive concept of
presupposition, covering nondenoting subject terms and factive predicates
(cf. Kiparsky and Kiparsky 1971) as well as category mistakes. In her two-
dimensional formal language, semantic presuppositions are admitted, but
truth-value gaps are not; each sentence receives two separate binary valua-
tions, one (its truth value) for what it expresses and the other (its SECURITY
value) for what it presupposes. Thus, there are four distinct fully specified
values assignable, since truth / falsity and security / insecurity are assessed
independently. The internal negation of a proposition p will be true just in
case the corresponding external negation is true and p is secure (non-
anomalous). (I shall pay a brief return visit to Bergmann's two-dimensional
logic in chapter 6.)
How closely do the presuppositions formally defined within the various
multivalued systems fit the intuitive notion of presupposition associated
with the Oxford school of analytic philosophy? Whether the principal mod-
ern champion of semantic presupposition and truth-value gaps would ac-
2.4 New Solutions for Ancient Dilemmas 131
cept either the standard (Bochvarian) MVL line, the supervaluation model,
or any formal hybrid as a means for capturing his intuitions on truth and
meaning in ordinary English is a moot question, given his skepticism to-
ward all varieties of formal logic: 'Neither Aristotelian nor Russellian rules
[nor, we may presume, Bochvarian, van Fraassenian, or Bergmannian
rules] give the exact logic for any expression of ordinary language; for
ordinary language has no exact logic' (Strawson 1950: 344).
Kempson (1975: 86) has noted the irony of this concluding sentence
from the presuppositionalist manifesto, containing as it does a definite
description (the exact logic . ..) which evidently does not induce an ex-
istence presupposition. In fact, however, this apparent inconsistency is
consistent with the revisionist position embraced in Strawson's later work
(1964:95ff.), where truth-value gaps arise only when a nondenoting sin-
gular term occurs in a referential position (typically as surface subject
and/or topic).
Strawson observes that while we may 'feel squeamish' about assigning a
truth value to (57a, b), we are more confident in assessing (58a, b) as false
and true, respectively, given the monarch's nonexistence.
(57) a. The king of France visited the exhibition.
b. The king of France didn't visit the exhibition.
(58) a. The exhibition was visited by the king of France.
b. The exhibition wasn't visited by the king of France.
On this view, an existence presupposition will be triggered when a sen-
tence purports to be ABOUT some entity when no such entity exists. Sen-
tences (57a, b) are about the king of France, when the truth-value gap
associated with the utterance of these sentences during a republican period,
but (58a, b) are about the exhibition, so that the expression which is 'guilty
of reference failure' is absorbed harmlessly into the predicate.
Even the classic truth-value-gap-inducing (15) may be simply false,
Strawson concedes, if it is taken not as a description of the king of France
(Does M. Ie roi have need ofa royal barber?-No, the king ofFrance is
bald) but as a statement about the class of hairless entities (What bald no-
tables are there? Well, let's see, the king ofFrance is bald), in which case
the subject is not functioning as the sentence topic, as the stress and intona-
tion pattern show. (Cf. also Kuroda 1977:84-85, McCawley 1979, J. D.
Fodor 1979, and Horn 1986 for related discussion of presupposition and
topichood; I return to this issue in §7.3.)
The other main innovation of Strawson 1964 is the observation that there
is no knockdown argument either to prove or to disprove the need for truth-
value gaps in an account of what (following Kuroda 1977) I shall non-
132 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
prejudicially call presuppositional phenomena. Arguments can indeed be
marshaled for and against the two-valued theory of Russell (1905, 1957),
the informal truth-value-gap account of Strawson (1950, 1952), and the
various formal nonclassical systems I have cited in this section, but for
each argument there is a plausible (if not provably correct) counterargu-
ment. As Dahl (1981 : 197) points out, the more measured position defended
in Strawson's later work is never acknowledged by those antipresupposi-
tionalists (e.g., Wilson 1975; Kempson 1975) concerned with refuting
Strawson 1950. And theoretical tolerance can be taken still further, as the
live-and-Iet-live attitude of Strawson 1964 blossoms forth into the let-a-
thousand [if not oo]-logics-bloom pluralism of Rescher (1969: 235): 'There
can be no more question of the universally and generically "correct" logic
than there can be of the universally and generically "correct" woodwork-
ing tool. There will be a range of legitimate choice, with borders delimited
by functionally grounded regulative principles, but within which the alter-
natives are, from a purely conceptual standpoint, equally viable'.
2.4.2 Negation Weak and Strong
The logic of truth-value gaps, in its variegated multivalued flowering, is
historically grounded in Lukasiewicz's Boethian interpretation of Aris-
totle's account of the future sea battle. As I have noted, this is not neces-
sarily the most plausible reading (much less the only reading) available for
chapter 9 of De lnterpretatione, and it does not in any case generalize to
the clearly two-valued approach Aristotle adopts elsewhere in the Organon,
extending to cases of vacuous subject terms and category mistakes. But if
the havoc-wreaking innovations of MVL are not sufficient to handle the full
range of phenomena insightfully characterized by Aristotle, they may also
be unnecessary.
The semiclassical propositional logic of Von Wright (1959), in which
two negations are distinguished, but truth-value gaps do not arise, would
therefore seem more faithful to the spirit of the Stagirite's intentions. In
this system, STRONG negation (...,p) is an affirmation as well as a denial. As
with the predicate term negation of Aristotle, LEM does not apply to a
proposition and its contrarily opposed strong negation. Like the corre-
sponding term logic predications S is P and S is not-P, p and .,p may both
be false, namely, when the subject doesn't exist or when it exists but the
predicate cannot be naturally applied to it. WEAK negation (-p), on the
other hand, is a contradictory operator, corresponding to predicate denial,
amounting to the proposition that it is not true that p.
Von Wright (1959: 6-7) recognizes Aristotle's distinction between things
2.4 New Solutions for Ancient Dilemmas 133
that are not white and things that are not-white as more germane to a logic
:Qf· natural language than Russell's distinction between meaningful and
meaningless statements. Von Wright's ELP, the extended logic of proposi-
tions, is designed to reflect the Aristotelian judgment that (59a, c) are
simply false and (59b) true, as against Russell's line that these sentences
are meaningless.
(59) a. The number 7 is white. [p]
b. The number 7 is not white. [-p] ([-p] in Von Wright's
notation)
c. The number 7 is not-white. [...,p]
On the Aristotle-Von Wright approach, but not the Russellian, negative
sentences whose predicates are inappropriate for characterizing their sub-
jects fall together with negative sentences whose subjects (extrinsically)
happen not to denote (the king ofFrance) or (intrinsically) cannot denote
(the largest prime number, the round square). In each case the sentence
expresses a proposition which is (automatically) true or false, depending
on whether the negation is read weakly or strongly.
The logic of weak negation, like that of the external Bochvarian connec-
tives, respects the laws of classical propositional logic. Reading -p as 'p
is not true' rather than 'p is false' (Von Wright 1959: 5ff.), we get these
versions of the classical principles:
(60) LC: -(p 1\ -p)
LEM: (p v -p)
LDN: p~ --p
'It is not true of any proposition that it is
both true and not true'
'Any given proposition is either true or
not true'
'p if and only if it is not true that it is not
true that p'
But the characterization of strong negation requires different laws. Starting
with four axioms,
(61) (AI) ...,(p 1\ -p)
(A2) ""p~ -p
(A3) ...,(p v q) ~ .,p 1\ .,q
(A4) """"p~ P
Von Wright explores the properties of EPL. The essential point is that
while p and -p are opposed as contradictories, p and .,p are contraries
(misleadingly tetmed 'strong contradictories' by Von Wright). LC clearly
holds for the latter opposition (-(p 1\ "p) is provable as a theorem), but
LEM does not (p v .,p may be false, as in the disjunction of (59a) with
134 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
(59c)). Similarly, the law of double strong negation only holds in one di-
rection, as stipulated by (A4); from p it cannot be derived that ..,..,p. And
while (A3) is a biconditional, De Morgan's other law works only one way:
(62) ..,(p A q) ~ ..,p v ..,q
Von Wright proceeds (1959: 17ff.) to translate the dual-negation system
of EPL into the language of modal logic, where ..,p corresponds to 'p is
impossible', -..,p to 'p is possible (not impossible)" and.., -p to 'p is
necessary (impossible . . . not)' , and thence to that of deontic logic: 'That
an act is prohibited [O(- A)] means that it is "positively" not permitted
[..,P(A)] and not that it is "merely" not permitted [-P(A) = O(..,A)]' (Von
Wright 1959: 27). Thus O(- A) entails -P(A), but not (contra Von Wright
1951) vice versa.
The two negations thus yield a distinction between'weak and strong per-
mission and between weak and strong prohibition: in each case the weak
norm represents a mere absence of the contrary norm, while the corre-
sponding strong norm is a positive statement of the rules of action. Just as
'to be not-A' is distinguished from 'not to be A' (cf. Aristotle's Prior Ana-
lytics 1, chap. 46, discussed in §l. 1. 1), so too can 'to do not-A' be distin-
guished from 'not to do A'.
There is evidence that this formal distinction, subtle as it may appear,
does surface in natural language. In his classic grammar, Kruisinga (1931:
§688) differentiates the weaker may not (no permission has been / will be
given) from the stronger must not (there are facts, rules, circumstances
prohibiting the action). The railway guard who begins at the first station by
admonishing the passenger, 'You may not smoke here, sir', strengthens his
warning by the second station to 'You must not smoke here, sir', and fi-
nally escalates by the third station to 'You shan't smoke here, sir', presum-
ably uttered with grim determination, gritted teeth-and, in today's less
civil world, probably a drawn weapon. As I mentioned in §1.3.2, the val-
ues of weak vs. strong prohibition may also serve to capture the analogous
distinction in the MZmiil'f1sii between the two forms of negative injunction,
ni$edha and paryudiisa.
Von Wright's is not the only formal system which establishes a dichot-
omy between weak (contradictory) and strong (contrary) negation opera-
tors within a gap-free truth-conditional logic. The primary negation of the
Intuitionists is essentially strong negation, or 'falsity "de jure"', but Hey-
ting (1971: 18) also allows for the existence of a weaker 'falsity "de facto'"
operator for nonmathematical discourse: 'Strictly speaking, we must dis-
tinguish the use of "not" in mathematics from that in explanations which
are not mathematical but are expressed in ordinary language. In mathe-
maticallanguage no ambiguity can arise: "not" has always the strict mean-
2.4 New Solutions for Ancient Dilemmas 135
ing'. This 'strict meaning' of not-p is such that 'if we Suppose the truth of
p, we are led to a contradiction' (Heyting 1971: 102).
Like y~n .Wr:ght's stron~ neg~tion, the. n~gative operator employed in
the IntultlOmsts mathematical discourse IS mcompatible with LEM. In-
deed, the rejection of LEM is so fundamental a component of the Intui-
tionist program for the reconstruction of mathematics that Brouwer felt
comp~ll~d to seek et~ic~l)ustification for the move: 'An incorrect theory,
even If It cannot be mhlblted by any contradiction that would refute it is
none the less incorrect, just as a criminal policy is none the less crimi~al
even if it cannot be inhibited by any court that would curb it' (Brouwer
1923:336). The sympathetic hearing such appeals received prompted
~rouwer's ~ormalist adversary Hilbert to lament that 'the power of sugges-
tIOn of a smgle man, however full of temperament and inventiveness is
cap~~le of h~ving the most im~robable and ec~entric effects' , including ~he
deCISion by. a whole commumty of mathematicians' to reject LEM and the
relat~ e-axlOm. For Hilb.ert, giving up LEM is 'tantamount to relinquishing
the sCience of mathematics altogether': 'Taking the principle of excluded
middle from the mathematician would be the same, say, as proscribing the
telescope to the astronomer or to the boxer the use of his fists' (Hilbert
1927:476).
Whatever ~e merits of the Intuitionists' overall program, it should be
noted that their str~ct, 'de jure', LEM-violating negation is not equivalent
to the strong ~g~tlOn of Von Wright. In particular, the Intuitionists accept
the la'." A ~ A (I.e., p ~ "''''p) while rejecting its converse, precisely the
opposite pattern from that laid out in EPL (cf. (A4) in (61) above). Not-
ing this an~ ~ther differences between the two systems, Von Wright
~gues convmcmgly (~959:27-30) that the 'intuitions' of Brouwer, Hey-
ting, and others result m an 'unhappy hybrid' of classical and nonclassical
approaches.
The theo~y p~o~se~ in McCall 1967a, in which a strong contrariety
operator R IS dlstmgUlshed from the ordinary contradictory negation N,
offers a cl~ser parallel to Von Wright's EPL, although it was apparently
devel.oped md~pendently. The crucial law CRpNp is essentially a Polish-
notatlOn:u variant of Von Wright's (A2), ..,p ~ -p, although the basic
~b~ervatIon.goes.back to Aristotle's argument at Prior Analytic~ 52al that
It IS not-white uml~terally enta.ils it is not white. Von Wright's analogy be-
~een strong negatIOn (contrariety) and impossibility in modal logic is also
mdependently elaborated by McCall (1967a: 124ff.). (I have previously
noted ~e dissents by Geach ([1972] 1980) and Englebretsen (1974) from
MC~all s attem~t to formulate a propositional, rather than term-based,
logiC of contrariety; the same objection automatically carries over to Von
Wright's earlier efforts toward the same end.)
136 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
For another neo-Von Wrightian two-track two-valued semiclassical a _
proach to negation, I turn to Kuroda's (1977) distinction between PROP:
negati?n (defined in ter~s oftruth-value reversal) vs. DENIAL negation (de~
fined In terms of possIble answers to yes-no questions). Kuroda char _
. . . . ac
tenzes semantic presupposItion by reference to denial negation, differin
from van Fraassen's and Smiley's definitions in (55) and (56) above in r ~
jecting the MVL position that presupposition failure induces truth-val:e
gaps. Rather, a presupposition for Kuroda is a kind of privileged or se-
lected entailment, prefiguring the theory later elaborated by Wilson and
Sperber (1979). Kuroda shares Strawson's intuition that a negative sen-
tence like (1~) is un~mbiguous, implying (as would its positive counterpart
(15» the umque eXIstence of the referent of the subject term. While We
may read (63) as a proper negation (sans entailment),
(63) It is {not true / not the case / false} that the king of France is bald.
(cf. (54a, b»
this reading is 'contrived' (cf. Kuroda 1977: §5 for discussion). But while
ordinary, auxiliary negation gives the canonical-denial negation of the cor-
responding affirmative sentence, syntactic form provides neither a nec-
essary nor ~ sufficie.nt criterion for the presence of denial negation, as
sentences wIth quantIfied NPs make especially clear.
The mismatch between the syntax and semantics of negative sentences
also emerges in Katz's rather differently conceived dual-negation system
(1972:329). For Katz, 8' is the NEGATION of 8 if 8 and 8' are sentences
differing only in that one contains a not in its main VP where the other
does not. Thus, negation is a purely syntactic relation, distinguished from
the logical relation of DENIAL; 8' is the denial of 8 if 8 and 8' are incom-
patible. It will be noticed that Katz's denial relation, like Kuroda's, is a
form of contrariety, but for Katz any two (weak) contraries are each other's
denials, for example, That's red vs. That's blue, That's alive vs. That's a
rock. Thus, the denial of a sentence need not be its negation, nor is a nega-
tion necessarily a denial.
Yet one more echo of EPL is sounded by L. Carlson (1983 :220ff.), who
ar~ues that for an~ sentence based on an emotive factive (cf. Kiparskyand
Kiparsky 1971) hke odd, we must distinguish '[its] DENIAL (true if and
?nly if the s~ntence is false? and its REJECTION or categorical denial (true
If and only If the sentence IS not true)" where not true -=1= false (Carlson
1983: 220-21). Like Kuroda, Carlson determines the presuppositions of a
sentence (an~ of its denial) based on what follows from the corresponding
yes-no question; (64a, b) both presuppose that he won, since this is as-
sumed by the corresponding interrogative, (64c).
2.4 New Solutions for Ancient Dilemmas 137
(64) a. It is odd that he won.
b. It is not odd that he won.
c. Is it odd that he won?
(Note that the term 'denial', as employed by Kuroda, Katz, and Carlson for
a contrary relation, does not correspond to the contradictory relation of
predicate denial used in translations of Aristotle.)
But doesn't (65), whose existence is acknowledged by Carlson, show
that (as argued by, e.g., Boer and Lycan [1976]) factivity (and more gener-
ally semantic presupposition) is a myth?
(65) It is not odd that he won, for he did not win.
Carlson's analysis of (65) recalls Strawson's discussion of (18) above or
Pap's characterization of 'unlimited negation'.13 Carlson admits to feeling
'slightly uncomfortable' about (65), which he views as comparable to a
sentence in which negation is used to point out a category mistake, for ex-
ample, (66):
(66) Friday is not in bed, it is a date.
Thus, (65) does not constitute a straightforward reading ofthe negative sen-
tence in (64b), involving instead the 'marked option' of categorical denial.
LDN cannot apply across the two disparate varieties of negation: 'The
categorical rejection of an ordinary negative sentence does not amount to
dropping both denials' (Carlson 1983: 221)-that is, in Von Wright's nota-
tion, -...,p ~ p. Thus, the joint categorical denial in (65') does not result
in inconsistency
(65') It is neither odd nor not odd that he won; for he did not win.
any more than does Strawson's parallel example, He neither cares nor
doesn't care; he's dead.
But it is never made clear whether Carlson's reduction of 'factivity errors'
like those in (65), (65') to category mistakes (as in (66» is to be carried out
within a gap-free, two-valued system (a la Von Wright or Kuroda), a multi-
valued truth-functional system (a la Lukasiewicz or Bochvar), a non-truth-
functional system with two values, gaps, and supervaluations (a la van
Fraassen), a two-dimensional gap-free system (a la Bergmann), or none of
the above.
I have been implicitly treating a dual-negation propositional logic like
Von Wright's as isomorphic to Aristotle's term logic, in which contradic-
tory predicate denial (corresponding to weak propositional negation) is dis-
tinguishedfrom contrary predicate-term negation (corresponding to strong
propositional negation). In Aristotle's formulation, there are two possible
138 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
'modes' or 'manners' of predication: any predicate (positive or negative)
may be either affirmed or denied of the subject (cf. Sommers 1970: 5 and
chapter 1 above). Within propositional logic, external or weak negation
can only be represented as a de dicto unary truth-functional connective,
taking one sentence or proposition, p, into another, -po But internal or
strong negation can be taken as a non-truth-functional sentential operator
with the semantic properties ascribed to it by Von Wright (1959) and Mc-
Call (1967a), or as a de re operator taking one predicate P into another,
representable as not-P, non-P, or Ii (cf. R. Clark 1974). Thus when neo-
term-logicians like Sommers (1963, 1965, 1970) or Englebretsen (1976,
1981a, 1981b) claim that Aristotle's term logic included no external nega-
tion and two kinds of internal negation, this claim is as misleading as it is
literally accurate. While predicate denial and predicate term negation are
indeed both syntactically internal to a proposition, the former-but not the
latter-is semantically analogous to garden-variety external or weak nega-
tion in a modern propositional logic like Von Wright's. Predicate denial
effectively takes wide scope over the subject and over the subject-predicate
connection, so that (as we have come to see) we can truly deny a predicate
of an empty subject or one to which the predicate fails to apply.
The term-logic revivalists Sommers and Englebretsen join with Aris-
totle, Leibniz, and, to an extent, Strawson (as against the received doctrine
of the Stoics, Abelard, Frege, and Russell) in recognizing the centrality of
the subject-predicate distinction: 'Subjects and predicates may both contain
negative terms, but only predicates may be denied-or affirmed' (Engle-
bretsen 1981a:46). In the dual-negation logic of Sommers (1965 :273ff.),
denial is distinguished from negation in what is essentially a term-logic
translation of the method of Von Wright's EPL. NEGATION (-8) is the
weak sister, applying (de dicto) to the whole sentence 8 and respecting
LEM; 8 v -8 is an axiom. The strong sister is DENIAL (8'), which applies
directly (de re) to the predicate term and only indirectly to the sentence;
like the corresponding strong or internal connectives of EPL and MVL, it
is a contrary operator which allows a nonexcluded middle. LDN applies as
a biconditional to two negations (Sommers specifies that -(-8) = 8),
and-contra Von Wright's strong operator-to two denials (8" = 8), but
not to a mixed formula; negation does not cancel a denial (-8' *" 8).
When neither 8 nor 8' is true (or when both are false), a category mis-
take is involved. Thus, either (67a) or its negation (67b) must be true, and
in fact the latter is.
(67) a. The equator is clean.
b. Not (The equator is clean)
c. The equator is {not-clean / unclean}.
2.4 New Solutions for Ancient Dilemmas 139
But neither (67a) nor (67c) is true, and the latter is the denial of the former,
so (67a, c) are category mistakes. What is not clear on this account is just
where empty-subject sentences fit in, given that-at least in the two-valued
dual-negation systems of Aristotle and Russell-both The king ofFrance
is bald and its denial The king ofFrance is not-bald come out false, where
no category mistake is involved.
Another version of term logic does invoke an explicit truth-conditional
distinction between sentences with empty subjects and those with category
mistakes. Englebretsen (1976:538), following Sommers 1963, elaborates
four interrelated 'levels of rectitude' for grading species of failure that may
afflict a given sentence:
(68)
Level of
Failure Diagnosis Laws Violated Example
Level 3 Empirically false Laws of physics Bill is now both in-
side and outside
this room.
Level 2 Inconsistent Laws of logic All men are mortal
and not mortal.
Levell Category mistaken Rules of sense 2 is red.
Level 0 Ungrammatical Rules of grammar Of slept she up.
In this schema, 'A sequence incorrect at some level must be correct at all
lower levels and is neither correct nor incorrect at any higher level' (Som-
mers 1963: 348), so that any category mistake, even an apparent contradic-
tion (His anger was triangular and not triangular) can never be logically
inconsistent or a fortiori empirically false. It may, however, be a priori
false, as it would for Drange (1966)-and for Sommers 1965 (see above).
On Englebretsen's account, empty subject cases are merely instances of
sentences which are empirically false and have an empirically false denial
(predicate-term negation). This much is in the spirit of Aristotle (and of
course Russell). But Englebretsen's innovation is to regard an NCM as
false on both its 0, predicate-denial reading (2 is not red) and its E,
predicate-term negation reading (2 is not-red). No support is offered for
this stipulation, which departs radically from the standard approaches of
dual-negation logics in which the 0 reading is assessed as true and the E
reading as either simply false, a priori false, neither true nor false, false
and insecure, or meaningless, depending on whether the assessor is, re-
spectively, an Aristotelian, a Drangean, a Bochvarian, a Bergmannian, or
a Russellian.
140 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
A rather different approach is endorsed in Englebretsen 1981a. Here
LBV is explicitly repudiated and truth-value gaps allowed. Category mis~
takes are neither true nor false, ala Strawson, while instances of empty-
subject vacuosity are still treated essentially ala Russell. But there is a new
innovation here, in the form of an additional reading for negation now ad-
mitted by Englebretsen. Alongside predicate denial (a truth-functional con-
tradictory operator) and predicate-term negation (a non-truth-functional
contrary operator), he recognizes the use of negation as a METALINGUISTIC
operator (glossed as 'it is untrue that .. .') affecting presuppositions as
well as entailments. Whether three such distinct interpretations must be
countenanced, and whether Englebretsen has successfully characterized
the metalinguistic use of negation, are questions to which I return in
chapter 6.
In our dizzying march through multivalued and allied nonclassical (more
accurately, non-Fregean) systems of logic, we have repeatedly come upon
a distinction between two varieties of negation, but that distinction has ap-
peared to us in a discouraging array of guises. But within this array a pat-
tern begins to emerge. If we include some of the analogous dichotomies
drawn in the medieval and Idealist literature summarized in §1.2, we can
draw up the chart in (69):
(69)
Aristotle
Avicenna, Burleigh,
William of
Sherwood
Spinoza
Sat.lkara, Hegel
Hegel [1812-16]
1929
Sigwart 1895, Bosan-
quet [1888] 1911
Russell 1905
Mabbott 1929
COLUMN A
Predicate denial [S is
not P]
Negative judgment,
negatio negans [S
non est P]
negatio
Insignificant / bare
negation
(Negatively) infinite
judgment
Negative judgments
without positive
ground
Negation with second-
ary occurrence of
description [wide
scope -]
Turkey-carpet judg-
ments; teleological
negation
COLUMN B
Predicate term nega-
tion [S is not-P]
In(de)finite judgment,
negatio infinitans
[S est non P]
privatio
Significant negation
(Simply) negative
judgment
Negative judgments
with positive
ground
Negation with pri-
mary occurrence of
description [narrow
scope -]
Eliminative negation
2.4 New Solutions for Ancient Dilemmas 141
COLUMN A COLUMN B
Bochvar 1938 External negation Internal negation
Von Wright 1959 Weak negation [-p] Strong negation [...,p]
Smiley 1960 Secondary negation Primary negation
[~p] [-p]
Pap 1960 Unlimited negation Limited negation
Sommers 1965 Negation [-S] Denial [S']
Drange 1966 Uninhibited thinkers' Inhibited thinkers'
negation negation
Routley 1966, 1969 Unlimited negation Restricted negation
[...,p, -T(p)] [-p]
McCall 1967a Negation [Np] Contrariety [Rp]
van Fraassen 1969 Exclusion negation Choice negation
Keenan 1969 External negation [S] Internal negation [-S]
Herzberger 1970 Complementation [P] Choice negation [-P]
Heyting 1971 Falsity de facto Falsity de jure
Henry 1972 [glossing Propositional negation Nominal negation
Burleigh, Anselm, [-(<fI(x))] [N(a)]
etc.]
de re (internal) [Pal
R. Clark 1974 de dicto (external)
negation [-Pal
denial negation [8]
Kuroda 1977 Proper negation
Bergmann 1977 External negation Internal negation
[-A] [-A]
Bergmann 1981 External negation Internal negation
[...,A] [-A]
Englebretsen 1981a Predicate denial [S is Predicate term nega-
not P] tion [S is nonP, S is
not-P]
L. Carlson 1983 Rejection, categorical Denial
denial
To be sure, the distinctions among the pairings above are often signifi-
cant. Among other relevant parameters, the interpretation of Column A
and Column B negations may be affected by whether the operators are
motivated semantically or syntactically, whether they oper~te within a
term-based or propositional logic, whether they figure i? a t.w~-valued or
multivalued system, whether the definer's concerns are lIngUIstiC, ?sycho-
logical, metaphysical, or strictly logical, and so on. In some theones, one
of the negative operators is defined in terms ofthe other (e.g., the Column
A negation in terms of the Column B negation .togethe~ w.it.h a one-place
truth connective); in other systems, both are logically pnmltlve. Some ap-
1
1.'...•.
I,
Ii
II
\
:l
I
•
142 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
proaches take Column A negation to be ontologically prior (especially
those which are linguistically oriented or founded on a classically oriented
logic), others Column B (especially those which are psychologically ori-
ented or founded on a multivalued and/or truth-gapping logic), while still
others place the two negations on equal footing. But several generalizations
can be maintained across these various frameworks-beyond the obvious
one, namely, that there seems to have been a remarkable n-plication of
effort expended. Some of the more consistent regularities are sketched in
(70), where I maintain the practice of employing '-' and '...,' as metanota-
tions to symbolize Colum.n A and Column B negation, respectively, ignor-
ing the actual practice of a given practitioner.
(70) a. Column A negation may be regarded as a propositional
operator or as a mode of predication (affecting the way
subject and predicate combine); Column B negation is
basically an operation on or within the predicate, although
it may be formulated in terms of a propositional function.
b. Column A negation is weaker than Column B negation in the
sense that ...,p unilaterally entails -po
c. Column A negation is a truth function of the proposition it
negates (-p is true iff p is not true, and false iff p is true);
Column B negation is generally not a truth function (...,p is
false if p is true, but may be true, false, or neither true nor
false, otherwise).
d. Column A negation is logically contradictory (p and -p
are in contradictory opposition in that in any context one
must be true and the other false); Column B negation is
logically contrary (p and...,p are opposed as 'strong' or
'absolute' contraries, in the sense of the terminology de-
veloped in chapter 1; they are mutually exclusive but need
not be mutually exhaustive).
e. Column A negation conforms to LC and LEM; Column B
negation usually obeys LC (under an appropriate formula-
tion) but not LEM.
f. In systems with truth-value gaps, Column A negation is al-
ways consistent with LBV (-p is always true or false),
while Column B negation cannot obey LBV without col-
lapsing into its Column A counterpart.
g. Semantic presuppositions, in models admitting them, are
typically blocked or canceled by Column A negation;
Column B negation preserves presuppositions (...,p does,
but -p does not, presuppose whatever p does).
2.4 New Solutions for Ancient Dilemmas 143
h. Column A negation is understood in an absolute, unrestricted
sense; Column B negation is often understood against the
assumption of a restricted universe of discourse.
These principles are not intended to be either mutually independent or con-
jointly exhaustive, but are meant to illustrate the sorts of claims typically
made within various logical systems that-whatever their other differences
may be-share one essential property, that of admitting (at least) two dis-
tinct negative operators.
In fact, the generalizations in (70a-h) pertain largely to the post-
Russellian systems incorporating dual-negation analyses within a more
global formal framework. These generalizations tend not to apply directly to
the earlier nonformal approaches, but my intention here has been to point
out the parallels that can nonetheless be drawn between systems of thought
stipulating the existence of what are essentially two scope-differentiated
negative operators. Among the missing in this roster are Kleene, whose
delineation of strong vs. weak connectives (1938, 1952) could have been
extended, and later was extended (by others), to negation (resulting in pre-
cisely the opposite pattern of labels from those provided by Von Wright),
and Katz, whose 'denial' is a typical Column B operator opposed to a syn-
tactically based notion of 'negation' which cannot easily be situated in ei-
ther of the two columns.
The absence of two more familiar paired negations may be noticed. Why
not assimilate the NEXAL vs. SPECIAL negations of Jespersen 1917 and
the SENTENCE vs. CONSTITUENT negations of Klima 1964 under the head-
ings for Column A and Column B? As we shall see in later chapters, a
closer examination of these pairs from the linguistic literature shows that
Jespersen's and Klima's syntactically motivated notions are in fact quite
distinct from the largely semantically defined operators of (69).
Those theories that accept logical or semantic presuppositions, and the
truth-value gaps that arise when these presuppositions are not satisfied, al-
most inevitably reach the conclusion that natural language negation is am-
biguous. Presupposition is typically defined in terms of internal (Column
B) negation; those presuppositionalists (notably Frege 1892 and Strawson
1950) who do not admit an external (Column A) negation which is situated
outside the scope of the presupposition would seem to be whistling in the
dark, given the apparent counterexamples of the type cited in (16!), (65),
and (66) earlier in this chapter. Indeed, Frege and Strawson themselves
both tacitly allowed for an external, presupposition-canceling use of nega-
tion, while not treating it as a separate reading of negative sentences; recall
(14), (18), and the accompanying discussion in §2.2. (I shall argue in
chapters 6 and 7 that the independent Fregean and Strawsonian reluctance
144 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
to fully endorse external negation may in fact constitute not a vice but a
virtue.)
Thus, a systematic ambiguity for negation-the choice of one from Col-
umn A and one from Column B-figures crucially in all theories admitting
semantic presuppositions and truth-value gaps, but (as illustrated by Aris-
totle, Russell, Von Wright, et at) not only in such theories. Unless nega-
tion is treated as semantically ambiguous, Thomason (1973) points out,
'it's not clear that the semantic notion of presupposition can be defended'.
I shall return in later chapters to the viability of dual-negation systems
and of the semantic accounts of presupposition they facilitate. But before
we leave the ambiguist and presuppositionalist theories entirely behind us,
I shall touch on one influential approach which has attempted to combine
an ambiguist treatment of negation with a nonsemantic (or at least non-
truth-conditional) analysis of presuppositional phenomena.
2.5 Conventional Implicature and Contradiction Negation
Lauri Karttunen and Stanley Peters, in a series of individual and joint pub-
lications culminating in Karttunen and Peters 1979 (henceforth K&P),
have sought to marry Grice's notion of conventional implicature to Mon-
tague's truth-conditional formal semantics and syntax for English. As in
Montague's work, the offspring displays an intensional but classically two-
valued logic. Within their framework, (71a) entails (72) and indeed, since
the entailment is mutual, is truth-conditionally equivalent to it.
(71) a. John managed to solve the problem.
b. John didn't manage to solve the problem.
c. It was difficult for John to solve the problem.
(72) John solved the problem.
However, (71a) differs from (72) non-truth-conditionally, in that manage
to contributes a CONVENTIONAL IMPLICATURE to (71a)-and to its ordinary
negation, (71b)-both of which will thereby end up suggesting something
like (71c), their conventional IMPLICATUM. The conventional implicature
associated with (71a, b) is part of the meaning of these sentences and is
thus distinct from the notion of conversational implicature, also due to
Grice (1967, 1975).
Some of the essential differences between conventional and conversa-
tional implicatures are spelled out in (73); cf. also Grice 1967, 1975, 1978;
Walker 1975; Sadock 1978; Gazdar 1979a; Karttunen and Peters 1979;
Hirschberg 1985.
2.5 Conventional Implicature and Contradiction Negation 145
(73)
Conventional Implicata Conversational Implicata
a. Make no contribution to TRUTH CONDITIONS, but constrain
APPROPRIATENESS of expressions with which they are
associated.
b. UNPREDICTABLE, arbitrary
part of meaning; must be
learned ad hoc.
c. NONCANCELABLE; apply in
all contexts of utterance.
d. DETACHABLE: two synonyms
may have different con-
ventional implicatures.
e. NOT CALCULABLE through
any procedure; must be
stipulated.
f. Akin to pragmatic presup-
positions (noncontroversial
propositions speaker
posits as part of common
ground); cf. Karttunen
1974 and Stalnaker 1974.
g. Exhibit a well-defined set of
PROJECTION PROPERTIES
enabling the implicata of
larger expressions to be
computed from those of
their subparts (K &P).
NATURAL concomitant of
what is said or how it is
said; NONCONVENTIONAL
by definition.
CANCELABLE, either explic-
itly (by linguistic context)
or implicitly (by extra-
linguistic context).
NONDETACHABLE if arising
via one of the content
maxims (Quality,
Quantity, Relation).
DETACHABLE if arising via
the Maxim of Manner.
CALCULABLE through the Co-
operative Principle and the
Maxims of Conversation.
Conceptually related to
Mill's (1867) 'sous-
entendu of common con-
versation' (see below) and
to Ducrot's (1972) 'sous-
entendu' as discourse or
rhetorical notion.
Projection properties unclear,
since conversational im-
plicatures 'may be inde-
terminate' (Grice); but
cf. Gazdar 1979a, 1979b;
Hirschberg 1985 on
the determination of
implicata.
As the table in (73) indicates, both conventional and conversa~ional.im-
plicata are part of what is meant or conveyed by a.given sp~aker m a given
utterance at a given place and time of utterance, Without bemg part of what
146 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
is said or literally expressed by that speaker in that utterance. The general
Gricean framework in which these notions are embedded can be given
schematically as in (74):
(74) WHAT IS CONVEYED
\ WHAT IS IMPLICATED
/
WHAT IS SAID
(truth-conditional
aspects of meaning)
/ \
CONVENTIONALLY nonconventionally
'---_ _ _ _ _ _..,---- __ - __ --I
[SEMANTICS]
/ \
CONVERSATIONALLY nonconversationally
/ \
generalized
conversational
implicature
particularized
conversational
implicature
'-------- -------~yr------------~
[PRAGMATICS]
The notion of conversational implicature and its relation to negation will be
the focus of several of my later chapters, in particular chapter 4.
It should be acknowledged that neither the original Gricean notion of
conventional implicature nor its (re)working out by K&P is uncontrover-
sial. In particular, the properties in (73c, g) may be mutually incompatible:
cf. inter alia Wilson 1975; Gazdar 1979a, 1979b; Soames 1979; Horn
1979, 1981a. Further, the entire Gricean apparatus, with its key distinction
between what is said and what is implicated, has been challenged by recent
work within Relevance theory (cf. Carston 1985a, 1985b; Kempson 1986;
Sperber and Wilson 1986). Since I am concerned here with the interaction
of conventional implicature and negation, I shall pass over the more gen-
eral issues concerning the nature and behavior of implicata.
The importance of the role played by conventional implicature ~n the
schema delineated by (73) and (74) is apparent: as part of the meamng of
an expression and yet not part of its literal meaning (that aspect of meaning
which affects truth and satisfaction), conventional implicata are located
simultaneously within semantics (construed as indicated above) and prag-
matics. Under these assumptions, the truth conditions for (71a, b) cannot
be affected by the falsity of their conventional implicatum, (71c); the posi-
tive version is true iff (72) is true, the negative iff (72) is false. But (71c)
represents an appropriateness condition on the normal, felicitous utterance
of both (71a) and (71b).
But is it really the case that (71b) always implicates (71c). and is thus
always infelicitous if (71c) cannot be assumed within the context of utter-
2.5 Conventional Implicature and Contradiction Negation 147
ance? Here is where the now-familiar ambiguity of negation resurfaces in
yet another guise. K&P concede that in fact (71b) can be uttered felici-
tously in a context in which (71c) is not only not implicated or taken for
granted as part of the common ground, but represents the very component
ofmeaning being denied or negated. On this interpretation, negation 'seems
to block off the implicatures of the sentence it has scope over' (K&P,
p.46).
This reading of (71b), which K&P dub CONTRADICTION negation and
link up with the familiar external negation operator of MVL discussed in
section 2.4, emerges more clearly with the,right intonation contour (cf.
Liberman and Sag 1974; Ladd 1980) and an appropriate continuation, as in
(75) (cf. (16!) above):
(75) John didn't ~ to solve the prob~-it was quite easy
for him.
K&P formalize this marked sense of negation by assigning it wide scope
with respect to that material which is conventionally implicated, as in (76b);
as seen in (76a), implicata appear outside the scope of ordinary negation.
(76) a. ORDINARY NEGATION OF <1>: (...,<I>e; <l>i)
b. CONTRADICTION NEGATION OF <1>: (...,[<I>e 1\ <l>i]; [<Pi v...,<I>i])
(where <l>e represents the truth-conditional meaning of <I> and
<l>i its conventional implicata; the members of each ordered
pair denote, respectively, the 'extension expression' and
the 'implicature expression' for the form specified)
Substituting into these formulas from the example under consideration
here, we determine that the ordinary negation of (71a) amounts to convey-
ing the conjunction in (77), although the first conjunct is implicated and the
second entailed. The contradiction negation (as in 75) amounts to the ne-
gated conjunction in (77b):
(77) a. It was difficult for John to VP 1\ -(John VP'd)
b. -(It was difficult for John to VP 1\ John VP'd)
As K&P note (p. 47), the contradiction negation defined in (76b) and ex-
emplified in (77b) is 'by itself non-specific (in the absence of contrastive
intonation) in regard to what it is that the speaker is objecting to'; note that
both entailment (72) and implicatum (71c) are within the scope of this
marked negation operator.
In the language of Karttunen's earlier work (e.g., Karttunen 1974), ordi-
nary negation is a HOLE to presuppositions, aka. conventional implicata,
where contradiction negation is a PLUG. (The plug nature of contradiction
negation is represented in (76b) by the assignment of a tautological im-
148 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
plicatum to this reading; an analysis in Ducrot 1972 prefiguring that of
K&P in this and other respects will be discussed in chapter 6.)
This approach echoes Russell's scope-differentiated dual-negation analy-
sis for singular propositions: just one selected conjunct is negated in (16')
and in (77a), while the entire conjunction is negated in (16") and in (77b).
The crucial question is how to assure, without stipulation, that it is just the
appropriate conjunct (the one corresponding to the existential proposition
and to the 'difficulty' implicature, respectively) which gets selected for
special treatment. Two devices proposed for accomplishing this task in
work postdating Russell and predating K &P were a kind of translucent
bracketing in Grice (1967, 1981) and the 'heavy parentheses' notation for
enclosing presupposed material in Katz (1972: 167- 78). (Katz differs
from K&P in accepting semantic presupposition, while Grice has wavered
on this question.)
The presuppositional phenomena on which K&P exercise the force of
their argument tend to involve not the traditional bones of philosophical
contention I have picked over earlier in this chapter-singular terms, cate-
gory mistakes, future contingents-but rather such "small" lexical items
as manage to (as in (71», even, and too. Similarly, the locus classicus of
Grice's conventional implicature is the range of adverbs and conjunctions
(e.g., but, therefore) which seem to contribute some non-truth-conditional
aspect of meaning to the sentences in which they occur.
Thus, Grice argues that (78) and (79) are assigned the same truth condi-
tions as the corresponding simple conjunctions.
(78) Mr. X is a politician but he is honest.
(79) Henry is an Englishman; he is, therefore, brave.
Sentence (78) is true iff Mr. X is both a politician and honest, (79) iff
Henry is a brave Englishman. What but and therefore contribute are con-
ventional implicatures involving contrast with expectation in the former
case and causal connection in the latter. If these conditions are not satisfied
in the context in which (78) and (79) are uttered, the utterance is inappro-
priate, but the proposition thereby expressed (i.e., the simple conjunction)
remains true so long as each conjunct is true. 14
Similarly, on K&P's theory, (80)-like (71a)-has the same truth con-
ditions (is assigned the same extension expression) as (72),
(80) Even John solved the problem.
(72) John solved the problem.
differing from (72) in conventionally implicating that others solved the
problem and that John was the least likely (of a contextually designated set)
to have done so (cf. K&P, p. 23-32 for details).
2.5 Conventional Implicature and Contradiction Negation 149
More graphically, the K&P analysis for a sentence involving a simple
NP-focus instance of even like that in (81) proceeds as indicated in (81'):
(81) Even BILL likes Mary
(81') Focus (even): 'Bill'
Scope (even): 'x likes Mary'
Existential implicature: 'There are other x under consideration
besides Bill such that x likes Mary'
Scalar implicature: 'For all x under consideration besides Bill
the likelihood that x likes Mary is greater than the likelihood'
that Bill likes Mary'
As I just noted, (81) will come out truth-conditionally identical to the cor-
responding even-less statement, that is, Bill likes Mary.
While there is much to be said both for and against the K&P approach to
even, I shall concentrate my fire on the interaction of even and negation. 15
The first problem here is that the implicata induced by even are too strong,
to the point of apparent invulnerability to 'contradiction' (external, plug)
negation. Thus the oddness, for many speakers, of the examples in (82),
alongside the parallel cases of well-behaved plug negation in the manage
paradigm (cf. (75) above):16
(82) a. # It's not the case that even Bill likes Mary-he likes her,
but {he's the only one who does / that's to be expected}.
b. # Susan didn't solve even the last problem-she solved it,
but {it was the only one she solved / it was certain she'd
solve that one}.
The impossibility of these cancelations is especially striking, given the
fact that the implicata in question can be removed without the use of nega-
tion. Thus we have the following attested examples:
(83) a. Living in such glass houses, even a President-perhaps par-
ticularly a President-should hesitate to throw campaign
stones. (Tom Wicker's column, New York Times, 12 Sep-
tember 1980)
b. Heterosexuality, like motherhood, needs to be recognized
and studied as a political institution-even, or especially,
by those individuals who feel they are . . . the precursors
of a new social relation between the sexes. (Adrienne
Rich, "Compulsory Heterosexuality and Lesbian Experi-
ence," Signs 5 [1980))
c. -Surely even the Japanese understand quid pro quo.
-On the contrary, they've made an art of it. (Conversation
reported by Bob Ladd.)
150 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
d. Nobody can invent a new prayer from the heart five days a
week. Not even a Congressman. Even especially [sic) a
Congressman. (Arthur Miller, on prayer in public schools,
New York Times, 12 March 1984)
Particularly favored as a means for detaching the implicata of (81 ') is the
even . .. {particularly / especially} gambit, often accompanied by a free-
standing no of correction or midcourse adjustment (see DuBois 1974 and
chapter 6):
(84) a. This has not always been the view even of grammarians,
or perhaps, more correctly, particularly of grammarians.
(Fromkin and Rodman, Introduction to Linguistics, p. 10,
on the putative equality of all languages and dialects)
b. There was always something sad about him, even-no, espe-
cially-in his smile. (Ruth Prawer Jhabvala, In Search of
Love and Beauty)
c. Even Mark Langston-no, especially Mark Langston-is
impressed with what Dwight Gooden has done this season.
(opener of New York Times piece, 14 September 1984, on
the two rookie strikeout phenoms of 1984)
Then there is the all-purpose metalinguistic implicatum canceler illustrated
by David Lewis (1979: 339) in his imaginary exchange in (85):
(85) -Even George Lakoff could win.
-Whadda ya mean, 'even George'?
Why then are the simpler cancelations of (82) virtually unimaginable?
Notice that to negate a presupposition or conventional implicature (fre-
quently) is to turn that aspect of non-troth-conditional meaning into an as-
sertion, as in (75) or in (86), where the normal assertion / presupposition
relation of meaning components is reversed by the application of the meta-
linguistic use of negation (cf. Horn 1985 and chapter 6):
(86) He hasn't stopped beating his wife, he never started.
I'm not here again, I'm still here. - -
But the counter-to-expectation aspect of meaning associated with even and
related adverbs evidently cannot be focused on by negation. Thus, com-
pare the behavior of the adverbs in the frame of (87):
(87) He didn't resign { because he had tenure. }
#although he had tenure.
#despite having tenure.
2.5 Conventional Implicature and Contradiction Negation 151
Nor can counter-to-expectation clauses be directly focused on in positive
assertions:
(88) It was {because/ only because / #although / *even though} he had
tenure that he resigned.
But this fact, whatever its ultimate motivation, cannot be the whole
story, since (as (82) indicates) the existential implicature of (81) is no more
permeable to wide-scope contradiction negation than is the scalar implica-
ture. Notice in this connection the peculiarity of (89), where the existential
implicature contributed by too (i.e., that Bill likes some x 0/= Mary) cannot
be contradicted:
(89) #Bill doesn't like Mary too-she's the only one he likes.
Once again, other metalinguistic devices for removing the existential im-
plicatum seem to fare better (Whaddaya mean, he likes Mary too?!) The
non-troth-conditional semantics of too are discussed by K&P, pp. 32-43;
cf. also Horn 1972: §1.12 for a tentative preliminary stab at the imperme-
ability of the existential implicature associated with too and even.
An even more basic problem about even sentences and their interpreta-
tions, for the K&P model or anyone else's, is that no ordinary negation
of a sentence like (81)-preserving its presuppositions or implicata while
denying its entailment-is available either. Thus, in the paradigm of (90),
(90) a. Even Bill likes Mary.
b. Even Bill doesn't like Mary.
c. Not even Bill likes Mary.
the K&P analysis correctly predicts that even in (90b) takes wide scope
with respect to the predicate negation, so that this sentence differs from
(90a) both in asserting that Bill does not like Mary and in implicating that
someone other than Bill does not like Mary and that Bill is the least likely
member of a contextually designated set to not like Mary. But there is no
way for this or any other straightforward compositional approach to ac-
count for the fact that (90c) is neither the ordinary (hole) negation of (90a)
nor its contradiction (plug) negation. Instead, (90c) must be assigned the
same troth-conditional meaning and implicata as the syntactically dis-
similar (90b).17
In fact, (90a) has no negation. Similarly, Kuroda (1977:70-71) ob-
serves that there is no 'denial' available for (91a), maintaining its presup-
positions but denying its entailments; he notes that (91b) cannot be read as
the negative statement paired with the positive (91a) as possible answers to
the question Does John even love Mary?
152 Negation, Presupposition, and the Excluded Middle
(91) a. John even loves Mary.
b. John does not even love Mary.
In (91b), as in (90c), even must be assigned wide scope with respect to
negation; the sense is approximately that of 'Even Mary is such that John
doesn't love her'.
It is the type of pattern reflected here that motivated my earlier treatment
of even as a 'neg-raising predicate', allowing the coderivation of (90b) and
(90c); cf. Horn 1969: 105; 1971: 128-32. But even if we quite properly
reject such a scheme out of hand, we must be able to deal with the semantic
equivalence between (90b, C).18 One of the virtues of Karttunen and Pe-
ters's theory of presuppositional phenomena is its falsifiability, deriving
from its formal explicitness and, in particular, from the strong constraint
on possible interpretations forced by the rule-to-rule hypothesis and well-
formedness constraint built into their Montague-based format. In the case
of the syntax-semantics pairings in negative even sentences (as I argued in
more detail in Horn 1979), the theory is not only falsifiable but falsified.
I shall return in chapter 6 to the task of situating the K &P theory of
implicature and contradiction negation with respect to other dual-negation
frameworks, bivalent and multivalued, and with respect to those frame-
works in which the ambiguity thesis for negation is rejected. The principal
rival to K&P in accounting for the projection properties of conventional
implicata (aka. pragmatic presuppositions) is Gazdar (1979a, 1979b), who
falls within the camp of the radical monoguists on negation. I shall argue
that neither his position nor K&P's, nor in fact those of the unrepentant
ambiguists (classical or multivalued), permits us to capture the whole pic-
ture of the unity and diversity of natural language negation.
In chapter 1, I looked in some detail at the properties of one particular
dual-negation theory, that of Aristotle. In this chapter, I have explored the
relation between negation and the classical (Aristotelian) laws of contradic-
tion and of the excluded middle. We have seen that there is no royal road to
negation (even under the protection of the king of France), although we
have followed our quarry down some rather picturesque (if poorly main-
tained) logical byways.
I began by focusing on the behavior of negation within a variety of long-
studied but still controversial constructional types-future contingent state-
ments (§2.1), singular expressions with nondenoting subject terms (§2.2),
and category mistakes (§2.3)-which some have seen as the death knell
for the classical principle of bivalence, the view that every proposition
must be either true or false. I explored a range of analyses of these con-
structions and entertained the possibility of modifying Aristotle's dual-
negation two-valued logic to handle the data presented. But nothing in
2.5 Conventional Implicature and Contradiction Negation 153
~hat we observed ~orced us to abandon the essential Aristotelian premises;
tn fact, as we saw m (§2.4), the problems encountered in the formal elabo-
ration of multivalued logi~ suggest that a refinement of Aristotle's own ap-
proach to t~e central questions (~ften echoed, without acknowledgment, by
Russell) m~ght be more rewardmg. One such approach is that developed
by Von Wnght (1959), although this involves the somewhat uncomfortable
tr~slation o~ t.he term-logic notion of contrariety into a proposition-based
logiC where It IS less at home. In the last two sections, I surveyed a variety
o~ fram~works .predica~ing an ambiguity for negation, with the readings
dl~erentlated either leXically or by the scope of operators in logical form.
This survey concluded in (§2.5) with the Karttunen and Peters (1979)
theory of conventional implicature and non-truth-conditional semantics in
which negation is not always contradictory but the logic is always bival~nt.
The thesis that negation is ambiguous, assumed or defended in several of
the th~ori~s under consideration in these first two chapters, will reclaim our
attention m the last two. But before returning to that fray, I have other con-
flicts to take up. The first of these involves the so-called markedness of
negat~o~ an~ its relev~ce to .the asymmetry wars whose history I began
chromclmg m §1.2. It IS to thiS question that I now turn.
3 Markedness and the Psychology
of Negation
-
With respe~t t? vocal sound, affirmative enunciation is prior to negative
~cause It IS sImpler, for the negative enunciation adds a negative par-
tIcle to the affirmative.
(Saint Thomas Aquinas, commentary on Aristotle
De lnterpretatione, in Oesterle 1962:64)
The fact. that affirmatives are unmarked and negatives are linguisticall
marked ~s completely c~rrelated with the finding in this study and pre~i­
ous s~dIes that affirmatIves are psychologically less complex than
negatIves. (Just and Carpenter 1971: 248-49)
As w~ have seen, Saint Thomas's attempt to correlate the morphosyntacf
m~klOg of negation ~as. against the a?sence of marking for affirmatio~~
w~th t~e purported pnor.lty ~f affirmatIon over negation was echoed by a
mIllem~m of asy~metncahst scholarship (§1.2). But, as we have also
seen,.thls correlatIOn ?as been challenged, most directly by Geach ([1972]
198~. 78-79). Geach.s remarks, however, are confined to the relative com-
pl~Xlty of of affirmatIve and negative predicates, and it might be main-
talOe~ by proponents of two-negation systems (cf. chapter 2) that while
ne~at1Ve pre~Icates might indeed be ontologically no more complex than
theIr affinna~Ive counterparts, notwithstanding the morphosyntactic asym-
~etry, negatIve propositions are inherently more complex than their posi-
tIve mates.
.An?ther would-be exorciser of the Thomist argument for affirmative pri-
ontY.ls ~ommers (1970:6), who inveighs against the 'nominalistic error'
of ~h~nklOg that negative tenns are necessarily derived from neutral (or
posltI~e) tenns. It is, Sommers suggests, an unfortunate 'accident' that
th~re IS no term,*plus-wise ~longside and symmetrical to the occurring un-
WIse. Sommers s approach IS to follow the 'classical' tradition in h· h
t . . w IC
e~ms are gIven 10 contrary pairs, and it is arbitrary which member of the
paIr .we take as ~sitive and which as negative. As I mentioned in my dis-
CUSSIon of ?each.s argument, however, this line is most convincing when
we ar~ deahng WIth exhaustive sets of two contrary terms where the term
negatIOn can be expressed affirmatively (e.g., male vs. non-male or fe-
male; odd vs. not-odd or even). The argument loses force when we turn
154
Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation 155
airs of mediate, especially polar, contraries (cf. §1.1.5): is it really
to p . I· I .." h·t' b t t
accident that we have a sImple eXIca expreSSIOn lor w 1 e u no
~ 'not-white'? Is it any more accidental that the realization of 'wise' or
'~:ppy' tends to be simple while that of their immediate or logical con-
traries does not? I
Within modern linguistics, such a verdict of "accidental" for a system-
tic correlation between formal (morphosyntactic) and functional (seman-
:iC) asymmetries would be overturned on appeal. Universalists of every
stripe-Praguean (e.g., Jakobson, Firbas), em?irical-comparativis~ (e.~.,
Greenberg), generativist (e.g., Chomsky, BIckerton), neofunctIOnahst
(e.g., Halliday, Kuno), pragmatic (e.~., Grice), or Cal.i~ornian (e.g., Bo-
linger, Givon)-have sought to explalO surface reg~lru:ltIeS of natu~al lan-
guage by invoking deeper and/or more gene~al pr~nclples ~overnlOg the
innate linguistic mechanism (aka. UG), the eXIgencIes of ratIOnal commu-
nication, or the packaging of information. For such approaches, the acci-
dent invoked by Geach and Sommers is simply a null hypothesis devoid of
independent interest.
The Thomist premise instantiates a pattern ranging far beyond negation
and affirmation. The notion of MARKED OPPOSITION in language was devel-
oped by Jakobson, Trubetzkoy, and other members of the Prague linguistic
circle, building on earlier work by Saussure and Bally (cf. Jakobson 1939).
Markedness involves the correlation of a formal asymmetry with a func-
tional or semantic asymmetry. Formally the key notion is that of Jakobson's
SlONE-ZERO: one member of an opposed pair is literally MARKED (overtly
signaled) while the other is UNMARKED (signaled via the absence of an
overt signal).2 Semantically, the marked category is characterized by the
presence of some property P, while the corresponding unmarked category
entails nothing about the presence or absence of P but is used chiefly (al-
though not exclusively) to indicate the absence of P (Jakobson 1939).
In the clearest cases of opposition, the formal and semantic criteria coin-
cide. Thus lion is formally unmarked with respect to lioness, given the
absence vs. presence of the suffix, and this suffix 'states the presence of a
certain property A', (+ female), while the corresponding unmarked cate-
gory mayor may not be understood as lacking that property (i.e., lion may
denote either a male Felis leo or simply a Felis leo undifferentiated for
sex). Similarly, within the human realm, woman is treated fonnally and
functionally as a marked man; cf. Bodine (1975), Miller and Swift (1976),
and Martyna (1983) on the history, extent, and significance of what Mar-
tyna has dubbed 'he/man language' .
For Jakobson and for Greenberg (1966), it is the unmarked term of a
binary opposition which tends to be formally less complex (often with zero
realization, e.g., lion vs. lioness), morphologically more irregular, distri-
156 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
butionally less restricted (and more frequent in text tokens), semantically
more neutral (How tall is Chris? vs. How short is Chris?), syntactically
more differentiated, less likely to undergo syncretization or neutralization
and more likely to govern a potiori agreement. '
Now by the formal criterion, the marked member of the positive/nega_
tive opposition is clearly negation (Greenberg 1966:26). On the basis of
his characteristically careful and extensive survey of the world's languages,
Greenberg (p. 50) concludes that 'the negative always receives overt ex-
pression while the positive usually has zero expression'. While Vietnamese
contains a formal marking for the positive category, this marker is not (un-
like its negative counterpart) obligatory, and the far more frequent pattern
is for the positive or affirmative category to be indicated simply by the ab-
sence of a specific negative marker, either a particle (John is happy vs.
John is not happy) or an affix (John is happy vs. John is unhappy).3
This formal pattern is reflected even within the austere confines of
mathematical and logical symbolism, as Greenberg (1966: 25) notes. Thus,
negative numbers must be so designated (e.g., -5), while their positive
counterparts may be indicated by lack of overt marking (5 or +5). The
absolute value (where the polarity distinction is neutralized) is given in the
unmarked, positive form, as 151 rather than I-51. And the inherently posi-
tive number of the truelfalse dichotomy gives its name to the category as a
whole: we speak of truth (notfalsity) value and truth (notfalsity) conditions.
But negation is marked semantically, as well as formally.4 Greenberg
(1960: 50) cites a variety of syntactic patterns in a cross section of natural
languages as 'evidence for the marked character of the negative as opposed
to the positive'. One such pattern is the tendency for verbal categories
which are distinguished in positive clauses to collapse in the negative; thus,
the Shilluk present and future inflections are syncretized under negation.
Ancient Greek would seem to present a counterinstance to Greenberg's
generalization, in that the indicative and subjunctive fall together in the af-
firmative, negation often keeping them separate (cf. Mirambel 1946). But
the preponderance of the evidence tilts overwhelmingly in Greenberg's di-
rection. Bhatia (1977: §3.1.2.2), for example, shows that in Indian lan-
guages (both Indo-Aryan and Dravidian), verbal distinctions maintained in
the positive are characteristically neutralized in the negative, subject to
other rules and strategies of the language in question.
An extensive list of such neutralizations toward the unmarked positive
values is offered by Giv6n (1978, 1979), who seeks to link the formal and
presuppositional markedness of negation (cf. §1.2.2 above) to the distri-
butional restrictions placed on negative clauses. For Giv6n, negation-like
other marked constructions-is allowed both 'less freedom in the dis-
tribution of elements or structures embedded in it' and 'less freedom in
embedding itself in other structures or contexts' than the corresponding un-
Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation 157
marked (i.e., affirmative) constructions (1978:91). Giv6n's evidence for
the restricted distribution of-and under-negation ranges from the scope
of English adverbials and modals to the patterns of verb-focus and tense-
aspect constructions in Bantu languages (1978 :81-87, 92-101); some of
his English-based contrasts (from 1978: 95-96) are reproduced below:
(1) a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.
h.
i.
When John {comes I ?doesn't come}, I'll leave.
When did John {arrive I ?not arrive}?
How did he {do it! ?not do it}?
With what {did he I ?didn't he} cut the meat?
I had the doctor {examine I ?not examine} Mary.
I {want to I ?want not to I don't want to} work.
She was as fast as he {was I ?was not}.
And then {camel ?didn't come} John.
There {stood I ?didn't stand} a man in front of the mirror.
While aspects of Giv6n's data, argumentation, and conclusions may well
be challenged, the essential point is unarguable: negative structures are
cross-linguistically barred from a wide range of environments in which the
corresponding affirmatives are well-formed. (A closer look at the universal
"conspiracy" to avoid overt negation in embedded nonfinite clauses is
offered in Horn 1978a: §5.)
The converse claim, that negative structures embed a more restricted
class of syntactic sequences than positive structures do, runs up (as Giv6n
acknowledges: 1978: 96-97) against the fact that many languages contain
a large-often fully productive-class of NEGATIVE POLARITY ITEMS, ex-
pressions whose distribution is limited to environments containing a com-
manding overt or incorporated negative (or related "affective" element,
e.g., question or conditional). Positive or affirmative polarity items do
exist, but their number, productivity, and strength are less impressive, pre-
sumably because their trigger can be specified only negatively, in terms of
the absence of a negative or affective element.5
A related issue-the restricted distribution of the marked and inherently
negative member of contrary adjective pairs (e.g., short vs. tall, bad vs.
good; cf. Giv6n 1978: 104-5) will be discussed in more detail below. But
it is worth noting here that while the marked member of an opposition is
standardly viewed as conveying more information than its unmarked coun-
terpart (How short is she? is more informative than How tall is she? since
the former conveys that [the speaker believes that] she is short, while the
latter is neutral), the marked member of the positive I negative asymmetry,
negation, has been recognized by commentators from Plato to Giv6n as
contributing less information to the discourse than the corresponding un-
marked affirmative (My hat is not red vs. My hat is red).
Furthermore, the positive I negative opposition, in predicates, proposi-
158 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
tions, or sentences, does not directly reflect one of the fundamental proper-
ties of marked oppositions, that property cited in the passage from Jakobson
above, or in Greenberg's discussion (1966:25) of 'the pervasive nature in
human thinking of [the] tendency to take one of the members of an opposi-
tional category as unmarked so that it represents either the entire category
or par excellence the opposite member to the marked category'. That is,
positive sentences and predicates do not normally exhibit an extended Use
which is neutral as between the unmarked (positive) and marked (negative)
members of the entire category. Pat is a man cannot be neutral as between
'Pat is a man' and 'Pat is not a man' in the way that man (representing
Homo sapiens) may be neutral between '(male) man, vir', and 'human
homo', that lion includes both '(male) lion' and 'lioness', and that 5 stand~
for -5 as well as +5. (I may note in passing, however, that a neutral, non-
conducive yes-no question-e.g., Is Pat a man?-is invariably formed
from the positive member of the opposition; cf. Bolinger 1957.)
In any case, assuming that these problems with the notion of marked-
ness, as it applies to negation vs. affirmation, can be successfully ad-
dressed, the question remains: what are the implications of the formal and
functional markedness of negation for the grammar and logic of negative
statements? Kissin (1969: 28) defends the strong view: 'The basic fact
which the grammar of negation must contend with is that negative sen-
tences contain an overt element that nonnegative sentences do not contain
. . . but there is no such nonnegative element to be pronounced in a non-
negative sentence.' Kissin sees this asymmetry in overt marking as the
connecting link between the syntax and semantics of negation, although
he stipulates, rather than demonstrates, that the asymmetry described by
Greenberg must be reflected by a syntactic and semantic asymmetry in the
analysis of negation in a synchronic grammar of (e.g.) English.
Kissin's contention that negative sentences must be treated as 'parasitic'
on their nonnegative congeners, in the manner of Klima (1964), as against
either the contrary (straw) theory in which negatives are basic or the view
that each sentence type is equally basic, provides a straightforward means
for capturing the marking asymmetry, but we are never told how universal
grammar might be set up to force our metatheoretical hand. Indeed, Kis-
sin's point might itself be circular if we were to define the negative member
of a contradictory pair <SPOS' Sneg> as that member whose deep structure dif-
fers from that of its counterpart by containing an overt element in a speci-
fied position. Negation would then be the marked (or parasitic) member of
the opposition by fiat.
Perhaps the most direct reflex of the priority of unmarked over marked
terms in general, and affirmation over negation in particular, is provided by
the linear order of conjuncts (and disjuncts) in what have been variously
Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation 159
called FIXED BINOMIALS (in Malkiel 1959) and FREEZES (in Cooper and
Ross 1975). A freeze is a conjunction in which 'the ordering of the two
conjuncts is rigidly fixed in normal speech' (Cooper and Ross 1975: 63),
for example, cat and mouse vs. ?mouse and cat, bigger and better vs.
?better and bigger, fore and aft vs. ?aft andfore. Linguists since PfuJini
have investigated the phonological and semantic constraints on order within
freezes, and there seems to be a clear consensus on the role of a variety of
factors, if not on the relative weighting to be assigned to each factor. The
central semantic principle is that, ceteris paribus, the unmarked or "easier"
member of an opposition will precede the marked or "harder" member
(Clark, Carpenter, and Just 1973), for example, big and small, this and
that, man and woman. In particular, the affirmative member of an opposed
pair of contrary terms always takes linear precedence over its negative
counterpart. Cooper and Ross (1975: 65, domain (13» include such ex-
amples as
(2) positive or negative
all or none
plus or minus
many or few
more or less
win or lose
The negative term relegated to second place may be overt, as in yes and
no or the first two examples in (2); it may be covert or "inherent", as in the
other examples above, or in
(3) pro and con
tall and short
good and bad
(Cf. H. Clark 1974 and Giv6n 1978 for arguments that the marked member
of contrary adjective pairs is inherently negative.) The connective may be
and or or, depending on the context (plus or minus / pluses and minuses;
rich {and / or} poor). In some cases, the first (affirmative) entry into the
freeze may be both formally and semantically unmarked with respect to the
second; such instances comprise Cooper and Ross's category of 'A or Neg-
A', for example, happy or unhappy, like or dislike. In one instance, how-
ever, these two criteria clash, yielding a paradox of self-reference:
(4) marked {and / or} unmarked (cf. ?unmarked {and / or} marked)
Here the formal parameter wins out, suggesting that the first conjunct may
be (at least literally) the marked member of the opposition.
Another counterexample to the general unmarked / marked, positive /
negative pattern in freezes comes from Chinese, but its delineation requires
some additional background. Osgood and his associates (cf. Boucher and
Osgood 1969, Osgood and Richards 1973, Hoosain and Osgood 1975) see
160 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
in the opposition between an unmarked positive and a marked negative
an everlasting war-of-the-words between two cosmic principles, YIN and
YANG. Affirmation and negation are simply the cognitive reflex of 'a polar-
ity between two global forces which can only be termed THE POSITIVE
AND THE NEGATIVE' (Osgood and Richards 1973:380; capitals in
original).
This characterization derives from the I Ching, the ancient (4,OOO-year-
old) Chinese Book of Changes, and its Confucian commentary. In the
metaphysics of the Confucians (and the Taoists, e.g., Giv6n 1978: 109),
the universe divides into two apparently infinite sets of opposed pairs:
(5) Yang
positive
light
heaven
high
creative (active)
male
gods
large
hard
Yin
negative
dark
earth
low
receptive (passive)
female
ghosts
small
soft
Osgood et al. stress the correlation of these ancient oppositions with
markedness, both formal and functional, as defined by Greenberg (1966),
arguing that the positively evaluated (yang) member of a bipolar cognitive
opposition tends to be more frequent and overwhelmingly more likely to
accept a negative affix if either member does (e.g., unhappy / *unsad; cf.
Zimmer 1964 and §5.1 below). Osgood and Richards show that subjects in
a study of cognitive interaction are much more likely to link two adjectives
with and when the adjectives are both yang (sweet and / *but kind) or both
yin (ugly and/ *but cruel), while but is the connective of choice for mixed
adjectival marriages (sweet but / *and cruel, ugly but / *and brave).
But the question remains: 'What determines cognitive polarity-the
Yang and Yin of things?' (Osgood and Richards 1973: 409). Frequency
alone (a language user's greater exposure to the unmarked yang term) is
not sufficient to make this determination; cf. Greenberg (1966: 100). The
POLLYANNA HYPOTHESIS (Boucher and Osgood 1969; cf. also Leech 1983)
posits a socially adaptive value to communication about positive rather
than negative aspects of life ('Accentuate the positive, eliminate the nega-
tive', once more with feeling)-but this can't be the whole story either: in
what sense does width (and not narrowness) or thickness (and not thinness)
represent a 'positive aspect of life'? Osgood and Richards's phylogenetic
speculations (1973: 410) are no more compelling. Giv6n (1978: 103ff.),
3.1 Markedness and the Acquisition ofNegation 161
who is entirely sympathetic to this approach, focuses on the perceptual sa-
lience of the unmarked term, which seems plausible enough In the case of
wide vs. narrow or big vs. small, but somewhat less convincing for happy
vs. unhappy, believe vs. doubt, or accept vs. refuse.
Whatever the ultimate determining factor(s) for yang- and yinhood, Os-
good and Richards are confident in depicting a universal, perhaps innate,
preference for yang over yin, plus over minus, with evaluation (rather than
potency or activity) the central parameter of opposition, reflecting 'differ-
ent reinforcing mechanisms' for the two polar opposites:
It would appear that from time immemorial humans have been dif-
ferently reinforced for strength (rather than weakness), for ac-
tivity (rather than passivity), for height (rather than shortness),
and ... for maleness (rather than femaleness); that humans have
found believing more reinforcing than doubting, certainty more
than uncertainty, plenitude more than scarcity, asserting more
than denying. (Osgood and Richards 1973: 411)
Whether a Cro-Magnon, confronted with a tail-wagging saber-tooth or
woolly mammoth, would really have found the yang qualities of belief,
trust, and hope more 'reinforcing' than the opposed yin qualities of doubt,
distrust, and fear is a question best left to the cognitive and behavioral psy-
chologists of prehistory. But one surprising empirical finding is that, con-
trary to our a priori expectation and to the observed result ofthat expectation
reflected in the practice of Osgood and Richards (where we obtain over
twenty sentence-internal sequences of the sequence yang ... and ... yin
from the title to the final sentence, as against no occurrences of the form
,[ yin ... and ... yang]), the actual form of the freeze in ancient Chinese
was invariably Yin and Yang. Why this should be is unclear, although
Hugh Stimson has suggested to me that the freeze order might reflect the
fact that the ontological priority of yang is overridden by the cosmological
priority of yin: Yin precedes yang in that as the physical universe was cre-
ated out of nothingness, so was yang created out of yin.
3.1 Markedness and the Acquisition of Negation
Marked categories tend to be harder, and take longer, for children to ac-
quire, and negation does not disappoint this expectation. To be sure, there
is some question as to just what constitutes the task we call the acquisition
of negation. At the same time, negation has provided an attractive target
for psycholinguistic research, precisely because of its linguistic complexity
as against its universality, its early appearance in the child's repertoire (by
18-24 months), and its presumed logical simplicity (at least within the
162 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
two-valued, one-negation propositional model). Let us survey some of the
central findings-and speculations-in recent (and not-so-recent) research
on the acquisition of negation.
Based on evidence from the acquisition of English, French, Russian
and Japanese, Bellugi concludes that children's earliest (STAGE 1) negativ;
utterances contain an initial or (less frequently) final negative marker (Klima
and Bellugi 1966: 191-93; Bellugi 1967; cf. also McNeill and McNeill
1968). The examples of peripheral Stage 1 negation cited for English (e.g.,
no drop mitten, no the sun shining, wear mitten no) conflate a number of
different negative functions. In later stages, the separate functions and dis-
tinct placements of negation are gradually differentiated.
McNeill and McNeill (1968: 72-73) distinguish four values of negation
for children learning Japanese:
(6) nai (aux), attached to verbs and adjectives = FALSITY
nai (adj), with verbal force = NONEXISTENCE
iya, 'I do not want' = INTERNAL DESIRE
iiya, 'What was just said was wrong; something else is right' =
ENTAILMENT
McNeill and McNeill claim that the earlier uses of negatives in children's
Japanese involves the general sense 'not here', only later developing into
the more abstract meaning 'false'; negation first marks relations involving
internal states and the external world, before extending to mark relations
about language (as is implicit in declarations of falsity).
The more influential taxonomy posited by Bloom (1970: chapter 7) con-
tains three developmental categories of negation, with a built-in temporal
ordering. The categories are .
(7) NONEXISTENCE> REJECTION> DENIAL (where> is read as
'precedes in acquisition')
Bloom's first two categories correspond to McNeill and McNeill's catego-
ries of nonexistence and internal desire, respectively, but her third category
merges the McNeills' entailment and falsity. The following features, ex-
amples, and glosses are offered by Bloom (1970: 172-73):
(8) NONEXISTENCE (existence vs. nonexistence)
no pocket (in Mommy's shirt)
gloss: Referent not manifest in context, where it was
expected.
REJECTION (internal vs. external)
no dirty soap (i.e., 'I don't want ...')
gloss: Referent existed or was imminent, but was rejected or
opposed by child.
3.1 Markedness and the Acquisition ofNegation 163
DENIAL (entailment vs. nonentailment)
no truck (after being given a car: There's the truck
-No truck, i.e., 'This isn't a truck')
gloss: An actual or supposed predication was not the case.
Bloom's first and third categories both can be read as involving an asser-
tion of the absence of something expected; in the former case, the expecta-
tion is set up by the child's belief world, in the latter by the prior linguistic
context. But the second and third categories are similar in that both involve
a comment on a present referent (rejecting it in the former case and reject-
ing a characterization of it in the latter). It is for this reason, Bloom sug-
gests (p. 219), that nonexistence must be (and is) expressed first: 'The
child needed to express nonexistence syntactically in order to transmit in-
formation, whereas syntactic expression of rejection and denial was less
necessary' .
Rejection need not be verbalized, since it can be adequately signaled
nonverbally; when it is verbalized, its expression can be in the form of a
simple no, while nonexistence requires a more complex syntactic reali-
zation. The function of denial is acquired last, since it involves the most
abstract relation, with a symbolic referent. Contrastive denials (cf. the
McNeills' category of entailment) involve 'holding two propositions in the
min~ at onc~', ~s in Bloom's citation That's not mines, that's dolly's, repre-
sentmg a stIll-hIgher level of complexity.
Bloom's speCUlations on why the proposed temporal ordering should
exist are not obviously incorrect, but they are not totally convincing either.
It is not always the case that we know how to classify a given instance of a
child's negative utterance, nor do the classifications we do arrive at invari-
ably support her ordering hypothesis. Bowerman (1973), for instance, in
her intensive study of the acquisition of Finnish, finds that the data are
often hard to interpret within Bloom's model; to the extent that we can in-
terpret them, they seem to point to denial as the most basic (earliest and
most frequently instantiated) category for Finnish negatives, contrary to
the predictions of the taxonomy in (7).
Bloom's rejection category corresponds to what philosophers-at least
s.ince Pe~rce-have long identified as the SUBJECTIVE or PRELOGICAL nega-
tive. Hememann (1944: 138) glosses this 'prelogical use of negation' as 'I
d~ not wish (will, desire, etc.) that' or 'It is not in my interest that', along-
SIde the 'logical' negation of 'It is not true that'. On this view, the rejection
category should antedate both nonexistence and denial; that it does not (at
least in Bloom's data) may reflect the difference between possessing a con-
cept and expressing it syntactically (a point made by Bloom herself in the
passage cited above).
Whether we follow Plato's identification of negation with difference or a
164 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
Freudian model emphasizing the traumatic nature of the infant's realization
of otherness (Mother *" me), we may be tempted to agree with Heine-
mann's distinction (1944: 140) between a 'lower (prelogical) level' on
which negation can signify 'to separate, exclude, reject, or eliminate' and a
'higher (logical) level' on which only the eliminative function remains. But
Heinemann's argument that 'the function of negation' cannot be 'limited to
the sphere of logic' because negation can appear 'in refusal, prohibition,
imperatives, and wishes' (p. 137) is only valid if we restrict ourselves (as
Von Wright, Rescher, Lewis, and others show we need not do) to a logic of
declaratives. It is precisely to avoid sweeping negation and similar opera-
tions under the 'nonlogical' or 'prelogical' rug that deontic and imperative
logics have been devised.6
The importance and cognitive complexity of the no of rejection are em-
phasized by Royce (1917: 265), who observes that 'a conscious voluntary
action is possible only to a being who understands the meaning of "not" ,.
The child's no / not of rejection is 'a fundamental tool used to express, not
necessarily disobedient refusal, but objecting or unwillingness, or a prefer-
ence and desire standing in some sort of negative contrast to the modes
of actions which the questions and proposals of his elders or playmates
suggested'. At this point, of course, we have an instance of 'holding two
propositions in the mind at once', and the line between Bloom's categories
of rejection and denial begins to blur.
Russell (l948:500ff.) offers an interesting, although necessarily specu-
lative, theory of the 'ontogenesis' of neg-ation. The logical not derives
from a more basic no, learned early on with the association of 'unpleasant
feelings'. This no is not the child's sign of rejection but the parent's sign
meaning 'disadvantageous to act upon': '''Yes'' means "pleasure this
way" and "no" means "pain that way"', either direct pain via reality or
indirect pain via social sanctions. How do we get from this no as a warning
signal to the not of propositional logic? 'We may say that "not" means
something like "You do right to reject the belief that ...". And "rejec-
tion" means, primarily, a moment of aversion. A belief is an impulse to-
ward some action, and the word "not" inhibits this impulse'.
While this account has some plausibility, and indeed the view of negation
as a generalized "inhibiting" operation seems to appeal to psychologists of
our own era (cf. Vandamme 1972: 59-64), Russell must execute a number
of prodigious leaps of faith over the apparent holes in his argument. Does
not really mean-in childhood, adulthood, or anywhere else-'You .do
right to reject the belief that .. .'? (Note, incidentally, the neo-Bergsoman
subjectivist view of negation this approach seems to build in.) Is the aver-
sion (if any) involved in disbelief related (ontogenetically or ontologically)
to the infant's aversion to painful stimuli, partially conditioned by the par-
ent's no? Are we willing to accept Russell's identification of belief as 'an
3.1 Markedness and the Acquisition ofNegation 165
impulse toward some action'? A negative answer to any of these questions
entails a negative verdict on Russell's negative ontogenesis.
Recent empirical work in developmental psycholinguistics has focused
on the pragmatic and discourse properties of negation that the child must
learn along with negative syntax and semantics. Volterra and Antinucci
(1979) ground their 'pragmatic study' of negation in child language in the
classical asymmetricalist theses that negatives,are necessarily second-order
statements and less informative than the corresponding affirmatives; they
cite Kant, Bergson, and Russell (cf. §1.2) approvingly to this effect. On
Volterra and Antinucci's view (1979: 283), 'the core of negation is ... to
deny a corresponding (implicit or explicit) affirmative statement'. In utter-
ing a negative sentence, the speaker (invariably?) 'denies a corresponding
positive presupposition attributed to the listener'. The problems I have al-
ready surveyed in pinning down precisely what constitutes an 'implicit af-
firmative statement' or in assimilating all instances of negation (including
embedded negation; cf. Frege 1919) to a speech act of denial or presup-
position cancelation will not be rehearsed here.
Volterra and Antinucci posit a taxonomy for child (and possibly adult)
language in which four types of negation are distinguished, each corre-
sponding to a different species of "presupposition":
(9)
Presupposition
TYPE A: S believes H is
doing / about to do P
TYPE B: S believes H be-
lieves P
TYPE C: S believes H wants
StodoA
TYPE D: S believes H wants
S to (dis)confirm P
Effect
Command: S doesn't want H to
do A (= negative imperative)
Assertion: S doesn't want H to
believe P (= negative infor-
mation or correction)
Assertion: S doesn't want H
to believe S will do P
(= refusal)
Assertion: S (dis)confirms P
(= negative reply to question)
For the four Italian- and English-speaking children in Volterra and Anti-
nucci's longitudinal study, all four types of negation were found to be
present from the earliest sessions (at fifteen months) and the four types are
sufficient to exhaustively classify instances of negation spontaneously pro-
~uced (up to thirty-six months). In the earlier examples, the presupposed
mformation (Hegel et al.'s 'positive ground') is present in the context as an
ongoing event or an immediately preceding utterance (p. 290). Later the
child must 'reconstruct it [the presupposition] internally'.
While Volterra and Antinucci's classification is defined by different cri-
166 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
teria (essentially pragmatic rather than semantic), there is some overlap
with the taxonomies of McNeill and McNeill (1968) and Bloom (1970).
Indeed, the earlier taxonomies sometimes seem to fare better with Volterra
and Antinucci's own data. Consider the following example (pp. 292, 296)
uttered by Francesco at age 2: 0:
(10) Hai itto no c'e a panta!? 'Look, there is no bell'
'Apparently', Volterra and Antinucci explain, 'Francesco's experience
with bells has been restricted to church towers, and this hospital tower vio-
lates the norm that all towers have bells' (p. 292). But this example, and
Volterra and Antinucci's exegesis of it, would appear to fit more neatly into
Bloom's category of nonexistence ('Referent not manifest in context, where
it was expected') than into Volterra and Antinucci's Type B negation,
where they in fact place it ('The speaker does not want the listener to be-
lieve P'). While Volterra and Antinucci's analysis and classification of
negation are expressed within the language of speech act theory, the classic
treatise on speech acts-Searle (1969)-expressly warns against defining
assertion in particular, and speech acts in general, in terms of their actual
or intended perlocutionary effect (i.e., the effect they mayor do have on
other interlocutors in the speech situation). Yet that is precisely what Vol-
terra and Antinucci seek to do here.
Keller-Cohen et al. (1979) investigate the somewhat different notion of
DISCOURSE NEGATION, 'the logical negation or rejection of a proposition or
presupposition in a prior speaker's utterance' (p. 305). Overt negative mor-
phemes are neither a sufficient criterion for membership in this category
(Francesco's utterance of (10) in the context described would not qualify
as an instance of discourse negation), nor a necessary criterion (as Keller-
Cohen, Chalmer, and Remler note, a child who responds to an adult utter-
ance This truck is red by shaking his head and saying Blue has issued a
discourse negation).
To be sure, there is a functional kinship between the act of saying It isn't
red, it's blue (or It isn't red but blue) and the act of shaking one's head and
saying Blue in the above context. Indeed, I can reject the 'proposition or
presupposition' in your utterance of, say, You stink by replying No I don't,
by responding So do you, by sneering Yo' mama!, by thumbing my nose,
by leaving the room, or by throttling you, but it's altogether unclear what
insight we have gained by assimilating all these acts to the general category
of discourse negation. In particular, there is something odd about a cate-
gory of negation-whatever we call it-which would include all the above
acts while excluding Bill's utterance in the sequence below:
(11) Mary: John thinks it's gonna rain.
Bill: {No / Don't worry} it's not gonna rain.
3.1 Markedness and the Acquisition ofNegation 167
Nevertheless, there are many useful observations in Keller-Cohen, Chal-
mer, and Remler's study, beyond the (not surprising) result that discourse
negation, as defined above, shows up early, the conclusion that its English
realization takes one of the canonical forms no, [no + {NYYP}], or [no
+affirmative sentence], and the speculation that a 'happy' discourse nega-
tion is 'one which both negates and introduces new information' (p. 320).
This last category is the authors' ELABORATED discourse negation, appar-
ently corresponding to the McNeills' category of entailment negation and
to Bloom's subcategory of contrastive denial. But while such dual-function
negations are undeniably more complex, at least as a production, than their
"unelaborated" counterparts, it is not clear that they are always "happier."
A simple response of No (or No, I'm not) to the query Are you tired? or to
the assertion You're an idiot would seem to be at least as natural, proper,
and mature as any elaborated alternative introducing new information.
Pea (1980a, b) offers a detailed review of previous studies on the ac-
quisition of negation. While providing a more systematic taxonomy of
negative utterances than the four-category analysis of the McNeills and the
three-category analyses of Bloom and Volterra and Antinucci, Pea invokes
a Wittgensteinian 'family resemblance' theory to collect the various nega-
tive types. He argues convincingly (1980b:31) that Volterra and Anti-
nucci's emphasis on the role of the addressee and his or her 'presupposed'
beliefs is untenable, since there is no evidence that a negation-wielding
pre-two-year-old can infer specific beliefs of others.
Pea (1980b) posits a developmental sequence of child negation moving
from REJECTION-typically nonverbal-to DISAPPEARANCE to TRUTH-
FUNCTIONAL NEGATION or FALSITY. The six children in his longitudinal
study differed individually, but affective negation-expressing either un-
fulfilled expectation or self-prohibition-invariably preceded the develop-
ment of a truth-functional negation (which Pea views as metalinguistic).7
Pea also establishes a clear gestural priority for the expression of rejection;
head shakes (exhibited as early as one year) are followed one to nine months
later by a verbal negation usually, but not always, signaling rejection.
Pea echoes Russell (1948) in seeking to derive the not of logical nega-
tion from the no (or don't) of parental prohibition. The early signaling of
rejection in the child's gestures and speech would then reflect the predomi-
nant value of negation in comprehension during the first year. External pro-
hibition then develops into internal (self-) prohibition or rejection, although
the child's signaling of self-prohibition may not serve as a deterrent.8
By age two, the child's use of negation to deny propositions earlier ex-
pressed by another (Keller-Cohen, Chalmer, and Remler's discourse nega-
tion) or herselfis typically well established. The two-year-old is particularly
partial to 'antithetical phrases' marking minimal contrast. Pea's examples
(l980a) include
168 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
(12) a. Not that boat hot, that boat hot.
b. That light. No, is vacuum cleaner.
(pointing at two different
boats)
One constant in the work of various researchers on child language is the
early association of negative utterances with what Pea calls 'unfulfilled ex-
pectation', a departure from a habitual norm. As Pea notes, the norm may
be local or idiosyncratic (as with the No bell example from Volterra and
Antinucci) or general. The same correlation exists, of course, in adult
speech. Barring any overriding idiosyncratic norm, a sentence like (13a) is
felt to be more natural (as a discourse opener) than those in (13b), while
(13c) is more unnatural still:
(13) a. There's no beer in the fridge.
b. There's no halvah in the fridge.
c. There's no corpse in the fridge.
Ducrot's Pierre n'est pas Ie cousin de Marie and Giv6n's My wife's not
pregnant (cf. §1.2)-not to mention Nixon's celebrated I am not a crook-
serve to make essentially the same point. And, as we are about to see, the
related notion of 'plausible denial' has played a major role in contemporary
psycholinguistic work on the relative complexity of negative sentences.
3.2 Markedness and the Processing of Negation
While the 1960s and early 1970s may be more widely associated with other
social and political developments, this era was also marked by an intense
empirical investigation of the psychology of negative sentences, as mea-
sured in comprehension and verification tests. The central finding of these
studies, notes Clark (1974), is that 'negation is more difficult to compre-
hend than affirmation'. All things being equal, a negative sentence takes
longer to process and is less accurately recalled and evaluated relative to
a fixed state of affairs than the corresponding positive sentence. But all
things are not always equal, and the more illuminating results emerge when
the context is varied along different parameters.
Why are negative statements responded to more slowly than their corre-
sponding affirmatives, even when the same information is conveyed (cf.
Wason 1961)? The standard assumption by psycholinguists in the immedi-
ate post-Syntactic Structures era was that negatives-like interrogatives,
passives, and other 'nonkernel' sentence types-are relatively difficult to
produce and to comprehend because of their relative transformational com-
plexity. The extra rule(s) of negative placement would presumably require
additional processing time. Yet this suggestion, like other predictions of
3.2 Markedness and the Processing ofNegation 169
the so-called Derivational Theory of Complexity, has never been directly
confirmed.
Nor is length (the fact that negative sentences are typically longer than
their affirmative counterparts) clearly a factor; when both transformational
history and length are controlled for, negative sentences are apparently still
harder than affirmatives (Fodor and Garrett 1966; Just and Carpenter 1971).
As Fodor and Garrett conclude (1966: 148), 'Perhaps negatives are more
complicated than affirmatives simply because they are negatives' .9
Earlier psychological studies focused on demonstrating the superiority
of positive to negative information in concept attainment and in problem
solving (cf. Wason 1959, Cornish and Wason 1970, and Jacobsson 1970:
18-19 for summaries of the literature). The point at issue here was one
familiar to Plato and Aristotle: positively presented information is in-
trinsically more valuable or, in modem terminology, more adaptive than
negatively presented information: 'It is no good knowing what something
is not unless that helps to eliminate possibilities about what it is' (Wason
1959: 103).
One significant and puzzling result from the earlier studies (Wason 1959,
1961) was the ranking of different types of sentence-situation pairings by
reaction time in verification tasks. The four types of sentences evaluated
and an example of each are given in (14):
(14) TA (true affirmative)
FA (false affirmative)
TN (true negative)
FN (false negative)
24 is an even number.
25 is an even number.
27 is not an even number.
26 is not an even number.
It is not surprising that the affirmative sentences are easier than the nega-
tives; subjects are faster and more accurate in labeling a TA sentence as
true and an FA as false than they are with TNs and FNs. What is surpris-
ing is the consistent finding (cf. Wason 1961, 1965, 1972; Wason and
Jones 1963; Clark 1974; Pea 1980a) that while false affirmatives take
longer to verify than true ones, the longest verification time of all is re-
quired for true negatives, rather than false ones. Thus, the ranking by re-
sponse latencies obtained in these studies is not (15a) but (15b):
(15) a. TA < FA < TN < FN
b. TA < FA < FN < TN
Whence this asymmetry between affirmation and negation?
One clue is revealed in Wason's subjects' introspection on what they are
doing while performing their verification tasks. Affirmatives are processed
directly, but negatives tend to be converted into affirmatives in one of two
ways. Either the negation is "mentally deleted" at the first stage of calcula-
170 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
tio~ (and late~ r~stored, in effect, by ':flipping" the truth value eventually
aSSigned) or It IS removed by translatIOn, the subject (often consciously)
converting a negative (X is not even) into an ostensibly equivalent affir-
mative (X is odd).
.These tW? a~proache~ for deal~ng ~ith (or more correctly for not dealing
with) negatIOn 10 expenmental situations correspond essentially to Clark's
TRUE model and CONVERSION model, respectively. The true model-in
which a negative proposition (A is not B) is mentally represented as the
proposition that its positive counterpart (A is B) is false-is so called be-
cause it predictably yields the true or correct result, whatever the predicate
involved; no information is lost or damaged in processing. The conversion
model, on the other hand, works perfectly only for what Clark calls con-
tradictory pairs, for example, Wason's even / odd example, the immediate
contraries of §1.1.5. In cases of mediate (simple or polar) contraries, the
conversion model involves 'cheating', since, for example, A isn't above B
is not equivalent to B is below A, nor is X isn't white synonymous with X is
black. 10 Of course if the context (i.e., the experimental design) serves to
exclude the middle, so that A must be either above or below B, and X can
only be either black or white, the cheating is rendered legitimate; I shall
return in chapter 5 to the effect of context in rendering mediate contraries
immediate.
Given the reasonable assumption that the translation of negatives-by
whichever method is employed-takes some time and effort, the greater
response latencies for negative vis-a-vis affirmative statements makes sense
(as does the finding that negative sentences are processed less accurately).
But Wason and Jones (1963: 307) seek to isolate not just one but two fac-
tors for why negatives are harder, only the first of which reflects translation
or conversion time. These factors are:
(16) a. The assumed tendency to translate negative statements into
an affirmative form because of the role denials play in lan-
guage, and
b. An inhibition of response specifically associated with the pro-
hibitive connotations of the word 'not' (emphasis min~
The effect of (16b) is difficult to pin down, but Wason and Jones point to
data showing that subjects respond faster to an uninterpreted nonsense syl-
lable assigned the logical value of negation than to explicit negation itself.
Two earlier studies speak to the importance of factor (b). Wason (1959:
105) stresses the emotional side of negation: 'Words which imply positive
actions or states-of-affairs have, in general, a more pleasant or creditable
connotation than their opposites. "Yes" is permissive; "no" prohibitive'.
3.2 Markedness and the Processing ofNegation 171
Ofcourse the emotive connotations in question are eloquently conveyed by
the extended use of the adjectives positive and negative themselves.
In support of the importance of this 'unpleasant hedonic value' associ-
~ted with negation, Wason cites introspections of (British) subjects in his
¥eaction-time study:
'''Not'' gave me a sort of tremor half-way through'.
'I don't like "not"-it's a horrid word'.
Wason posits an inhibiting effect of negation on these and other experi-
mental subjects who confessed to being frightened by what we might think
of as a not in the throat. II
In the same spirit, Eifermann (1961) shows that the Hebrew negators 10
and eyilO differ in that the former, which corresponds to English not in its
distribution and meaning, requires a greater mean response time than the
latter, which appears directly before the predicate and cannot be used to ex-
press prohibition. Eifermann's conclusion, endorsed by Wason and Jones, is
that the prohibitive value of negation, established in early childhood (as
suggested by Russell and Pea), has an 'inhibiting' effect on responses. He-
brew eyno, as a nonprohibiting and hence noninhibiting negative particle,
is affected only by factor (a) and is thus "easier" than 10, which is affected
by both factors.
Also supporting the putative effect of factor (b) is the consistent finding
that overt, explicit instances of negation (A is not present, B is not happy)
take longer to verify than implicit negation (A is absent, B is sad); cf.
Wason (1972); Clark (1974); and Fodor, Fodor, and Garrett (1975).
But the role of factor (b)-the implicit emotive content of negativity-
in contributing to the psychological complexity of negation remains largely
a matter of speculation, and a number of the speculators have expressed
their doubts. Wales and Grieve (1969: 330) offer an alternative account of
the greater complexity of 10 over eyno negation in Eifermann's study, one
which focuses on the greater ambiguity of the former rather than its asso-
ciation with contexts of prohibition. Clark (1974) concludes that the 'pro-
hibitive connotation' factor in the processing of negation alleged by Wason
and his colleagues remains an unproved hypothesis in the absence of any
valid evidence directly confirming it. It is in any case factor (a) which has
received the lion's share of psycholinguistic attention in empirical work
over the last two decades.
If negation acts as a kind of dam to the stream of understanding, an in-
teresting body of data shows that the strength of this dam varies with the
character of the stream. Consider the classic minimal pair from the work of
Wason and Clark:
172 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
(17) a. The whale isn't a fish.
b. The whale isn't a bird.
Both statements are of course true, but the latter is distinctly peculiar, and
turns out to require more processing time in (at least some) experimental
contexts. 12 What we are dealing with here is the long- (and often-) observed
association between the appropriateness of a negative utterance and the
plausibility or accessibility of its positive counterpart, an empirical reflex
of the thousand-year-old tradition of analyzing negative statements as pre-
supposing (in a Praguean rather than Fregean sense; cf. §1.2.2) the corre-
sponding positive proposition.
While this association is thus hardly novel, it was Wason who recom_
mended it to the attention of the psycholinguistic community, under the
rubric of CONTEXTS OF PLAUSIBLE DENIAL. Very simply, the function of
negative sentences is 'generally to emphasize that a fact is contrary to an
expectation' (1965:7). Negative statements by their nature 'assume and
depend on a prior state of affairs, either existent or supposed.... It is
unlikely that the sentence "It is not x" would be uttered unless there were
good reason to suppose that it might have been "x" or that someone thought
it might' (Cornish and Wason 1970: 113). Thus, 5 is not even is harder to
process and takes longer to verify than 5 is odd, but the difficulty is miti-
gated if we set up a 'context of denial': 4 is even {and/ but} 5 is not even
(cf. Greene 1970a: 18; Wason 1972: 28). Psychologically, if not ontologi-
cally, negation seems to require-or at least to strongly prefer-an affir-
mative context against which to operate.13
Wason (1965) seeks to support a corollary of plausible denial, the EX-
CEPTIONALITY HYPOTHESIS: negation is most natural when it is associated
with a dissimilar item (the 'figure'; cf. Sigwart 1895; Givan 1978) set off
against the rest of a class of similar items (the 'ground'). When eight
circles are presented, with one-circle 7-colored blue and the rest red,
.=red
= blue
subjects have little trouble verifying affirmative sentences (Circle 4 is red,
Circle 7 is blue) or the negative sentence about the exceptional case (Circle
7 is not red), but a negative sentence about one of the unexceptional cases
3.2 Markedness and the Processing ofNegation 173
? Circle 4 is not blue) proves far more troublesome. These results are
. (e.g., . h h . f l ·
consistent with the exceptio~ality hypothesis and. WIt t e notI0lndo( p ~us~-)
ble denial: given the proportIOn of red and blue CIrcles, we wo~ a pnon
expect circle 7 to be red, but there is no reason to expect CIrcle 4 to be
blue." . . .
The Exceptionality HypotheSIS IS 10dependently supported by a ~ec~nt
artificial-intelligence-based empirical. stud~ f?cu.sing ~n the. pragmatIc dlf-
fI ntiation of negation and affirmatIOn VIs-a-VIS theIr logIcal symmetry.
Se:~on (1981 :42) begins with the by now familiar premis~ that 'in utteri~g
a negative statement a speaker not on~y states .that a certam state of.affaIrs
does not hold but that there is someth1Og SpeCIal about the fact th~t I~ d~s
not'. In the language of Minsky's frame-orient~d ap~roach to artIfiCIal 10-
telligence, a negative sentence evokes a frame. 10 WhICh t~e.negated value
is present: the utterance 'A-G and I-Z are not 10 the room IS natural only
when the relevant individuals 'have disappeared, are expected, or are su~­
posed to be present', while the corresponding positi.ve statement that H IS
in the room builds in no such background assumptIOn. Whence the con-
trasts experimentally established by Shanon:
(19) a. -Why did you pick up the food by yourself?
-Because I saw that there was no {waiter/ #airplane}.
b. We don't have any {furniture/ #diamonds}.
c. The ceiling has no {overhead light! #carpeting}.
As in the analogous contrasts cited by Wason, Ducrot, Givan, and V~lt~~a
and Antinucci reviewed earlier in this chapter and in §1.2, the plaUSIbIlIty
of a given negative utterance depends on the accessibility of the corre-
sponding positive proposition in the context.. .
A decade after Wason's initial circle study, its find10gs were confirmed 10
an adaptation for children by de Villiers and Flusberg (1975). Given a
stimulus set of seven cars and one bottle, a group of 2Y2-4Y2-year-old sub-
jects consistently took significantly longer to co~ectly complete, ~n? made
more errors in processing, the implausible negatIve statement ThiS IS not a
bottle as compared with the more plausible This is not a car. As Pea con-
cludes from this and related studies (1980a: ;33), 'Apparently even 2Y2-
year-olds are aware of the social, pragmatic conditions for negation'. Pea
(1980a, 1980b) offers a useful summary of the literature on children's
awareness of the plausibility requirement on negation.15 •
Greene provides evidence that a negation is processed.more eas~l~ when
it relates two sentences, either implicit or explicit-that IS, when It IS used
to deny a proposition present in the discourse context-rather than,. as with
affirmations, when it relates a sentence directly to a state of affaIrS. The
natural function of negation as a means 'to signal a change in value' is ex-
174 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
ercised 'when a statement is being contradicted, a request refused, a mis-
conception corrected or a difference pointed out' (Greene 1970a: 17).
Greene's conclusion that subjects have little difficulty with negatio
when it pe~orms its ?atural function of denial is supported in a study b;
Johnson-LaIrd and Tndgell (1972), who show that, unlike in tasks of inter_
pretation (i.e., matching tasks) where affirmatives prove consistently easie
h
. r
t an negatIves, negatives win out in tasks involving the establishment of
opposition: 'In denying a statement negatives are easier than affirmatives
. . . It is easy to grasp that a negative denies an affirmative; but exceed~
ingly difficult to grasp that an affirmative denies a negative' (Johnson-Laird
and Tridgell 1972: 90).
Cornish and Wason (1970: 109) find that recall tasks not only illustrate
the usual superiority (outside denial contexts) of affirmative over negative
information, but more particularly demonstrate that the difficulty associ-
ated with recalling negative clues depends on 'their inappropriateness in
the situation, namely in the absence of any prior expectations'. When the
positive ground of a negation is directly accessible, the latency for under-
standing the negative sentence is correspondingly reduced.
A related study of the pragmatic aspects of negation by Cornish shows
that when partially red and partially blue circles are presented to subjects,
the completion time or evaluation time for a sentence like
(20) The circle is not all red.
is largest when the circle contains only a small proportion of red, gradually
decreasing as the subject is presented with circles containing more and
more red. Similarly, (20) is increasingly likely to be given as a description
of a circle as the proportion of redness in the circle is increased. More gen-
erally, 'The sentence "X is not all y" applies with increasing appropri-
ateness as X increases in y" (Cornish 1971 :51O)-up to the point when X
is entirely y, for example, the circle is all red, in which context X is not all
y (e.g., (20» becomes noticeably inappropriate.16 Cornish's conclusion is a
restatement of Wason's contexts of plausible denial: 'The closer the nega-
tive is to the presupposition (without being identical to it, rendering it
false), the more appropriate it is'.
Given the principle of plausible denial, which he explicitly links to
Strawson's remark (1952: 18; cf. §1.2.2 above) that 'the standard and pri-
mary use of "not" is specifically to contradict or correct; to cancel a sug-
gestion of one's own or another's', Wason offers an account of the puzzling
result mentioned above, the TA < FA < FN < TN ordering of complex-
ity as measured by processing time on verification tasks:17 'The "false
negative" is analogous to the negative which corrects a preconception
rather than one which maintains a truth.... The true negative does not
3.2 Markedness and the Processing ofNegation 175
to the ordinary usage of a natural language: it maintains truth
than denies what is supposed to be true' (Wason 1972: 17, 35).
observed by Clark (1974), the complexity of TNs can be illustrated
evidence from introspective reports: some subjects 'report changing
answer from true to false and back again on True Negatives'. Reflect-
this point, Wason (1972: 24) offers a new characterization of the four
of sentence-assessment values:
TA = 'a fact'
FA = 'a falsehood'
FN = 'denial of a fact'
TN = 'denial of a falsehood'
Significantly, it is the true and not the false negative statement which thus
emerges as an empirical double negation.
3.2.1 Issues and Problems in the Psycholinguistics of Negation
While the results from the studies summarized here are suggestive of the
nature and extent of an apparent pragmatic constraint on the processing of
a certain class of negative statements, there are some problems with the
design of these studies and especially with some of the interpretations they
have received.
The validity of the studies on 'plausible denial', based as they are on
isolated sentences and situations, is challenged by De Mey (1972: 149),
who offers a different psychological explanation for the correlation be-
tween processing time and the correcting function of negation:
'Natural' negation only involves objects or elements a speaker or
listener is attending to.... It makes no sense to instruct a listener
to suppress a thought he is not considering or an idea he is not
having. The time needed for conversion of negative statements
into affirmative ones could well be the time needed for focussing
attention on the context of the statement, a process which is, most
of the time, unnecessary in 'natural' conversation.
The Wasonians' basic thesis that 'negation is typically difficult to pro-
cess' is itself disputed by Wales and Grieve (1969: 327), who correctly
point out that the interpretation of the data in earlier studies often 'relies
heavily on the notion that negation is some sort of operation on [affirma-
tive] statements'. They argue that this view is compatible only with cases of
contradictory, 'mutually exhaustive and exclusive' pairs (e.g., odd/ even,
where This number is not even will automatically be equivalent to The
176 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
number is odd) and does not extend automatically to nonexhaustive (medi-
ate) contrary oppositions (e.g., hotI cold). On the other hand, Wales and
Grieve (p. 330) also see problems of plausibility in studies like that of
Wason 1961, which apply negation to predications with odd and even: 'It
is eccentric to use a negative with either member of an antonym pair whose
range is logically exhaustive'.
However, as Wason (1965) argues, this eccentricity is reduced in a con-
text where the negative can appear as a direct denial (4 is even but 5 is not
even). 18 Furthermore, as Wales and Grieve themselves acknowledge, some
contradictory pairs-typically 'gradable' opposites like open Iclosed-al-
low negation more easily than others; The door is not open is clearly less
eccentric out of context than 5 is not even.
In their reply, Greene and Wason (1970) point out that Wales and Grieve's
own data confirm that ceteris paribus negatives do take longer to process,
and they reiterate the position of Wason 1965 and later papers, namely, that
exceptionality is more of a factor in processing negative sentences than in
affirmatives. (In the circle study cited above, the 'unexceptional' affir-
mative Circle 4 is red and the 'exceptional' affirmative Circle 7 is blue are
equally easy to verify. against the context of (18); the discrepancy shows
up, as noted, only under negation-Circle 4 is not blue proving consis-
tently more difficult than Circle 7 is not red.) But while Greene and Wason
do not acknowledge it, the observation by Wales and Grieve on the differ-
ential behavior of contradictory vs. contrary opposites was taken into
account in later work, stimulating the distinction between the two negation-
eliminating strategies formulated in different ways by research teams headed
by Wason, Clark, and Trabasso (cf. Wason 1972:25).
Wales and Grieve share one flaw with the researchers they criticize.
They take a negative sentence like (22)
(22) The drink is not hot.
to be ambiguous as between the two senses in (22'a, b):
(22') a. The drink is cold.
b. The drink is lukewarm.
Since we do not know which of these senses is intended by a given utter-
ance of (22), we cannot take the negation to result in the simple affirmative
The drink is hot, since the negation of (22'a) is compatible with the truth of
(22'b), and vice versa (Wales and Grieve 1969: 327-28).
This discussion reflects a lack of appreciation for the distinction between
ambiguity and vagueness (or lack of specificity) and for the criteria that
serve to distinguish them. Sentence (22) is not ambiguous, but vague (gen-
eral, unspecified) as between the two UNDERSTANDINGS (to adopt Sadock's
3.2 Markedness and the Processing ofNegation 177
term) depicted in (22'a, b)-and others.19
Seuren (1967: 348-49)
and Kempson (1977: chapters 7 and 8) provide useful expositions of the
view that a negative sentence is (generally) general, rather than ambigu-
OUS, as among the various circumstances under which it is true. Note that
thestandard linguistic criteria for ambiguity (cf. Zwicky and Sadock 1975)
fail to respect the two understandings of (22) distinguished in (22'a, b);
consider, for example, the "crossed understandings" available for (22"a),
as opposed to the impossibility of such a crossed reading in the case of the
trUe ambiguity in (22"b):
(22") a. My drink is not hot [since it's lukewarm] and neither is
yours [since it's cold].
b. #My tostada is not hot [since it's lukewarm] and neither is
yours [since you didn't get the salsa].
(This test and others apply with greater difficulty to negative statements
with vacuous subjects, a point to which I return in chapter 6.)
The same critique applies to members of Wason's research team. Cor-
nish (1971 :510) claims an ambiguity for X is not all y parallel to Wales and
Grieve's for (22); the two putative readings are 'X is predominantly y' and
'X is not y at all'. Again, there is no evidence that such an ambiguity
exists. Rather, X is not all y is true under the two sets of circumstances
described by Cornish, as well as others (e.g., when X is half or two-thirds
y); it is simply unspecified as to which of these circumstances obtains when
it is true. This is not to say that such a negation is not more appropriately
uttered when it is known that one context obtains rather than another, as
predicted by the plausible denial thesis Cornish invokes.
This leads us to another point which is worth raising against some of the
studies under review here. As is typical, if not inevitable, in the type of
psycholinguistic experiment conducted by Wason, Clark, and others, sub-
jects are usually provided with full information about the data with which
they are confronted. For example, in the circle studies of Wason (1965) and
Cornish (1971), all circles can be perceived in their entirety, whether each
circle is either all red or all blue (as in Wason's) or some mixture of red and
blue (as in Cornish's). Furthermore, Wason's monochrome circles are all
presented to the subjects in a fully perceptible set.
It is clear that Wason's subjects prefer to deal with negatives like Circle
Xis not y when most of the circles are y and are known to be y, and equally
clear that Cornish's subjects prefer negative universals like Circle X is not
all y when X is-and is known to be-mostly (but not all) y. But in real
life, such epistemically perfect situations are not always so thoughtfully pro-
vided. What happens, for example, when one of Cornish's graduate student
subjects, let's say Oscar, leaves the lab and is handed the message in (23)?
178 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
(23) The students in your 10: 30 Psych 101 section are not all psych
majors.
Oscar may be willing to infer that the registrar (or whoever is the Source of
the message) doesn't know for a fact that two students are majors and the
rest nonmajors, given the misleading nature of (23) in such a context. But
what if the registrar only knows-or cares-about the confirmed nonma-
jors: does this contingency render (23) implausible? What (23) in fact sug-
gests is not that only one-or a couple-of the students are nonmajors, but
rather that no more than a few are known to be nonmajors.
The situation is thus exactly analogous to that of (other) cases of Gricean
conversational implicature, especially those deriving from the maxim of
quantity (see Horn 1972, 1973, and chapter 4): in saying that some of the
students are majors (or that ten of the students are majors), I implicate but
do not say that for all I know not all (no more than ten) of them are ma-
jors.20
Cornish does acknowledge the pragmatic (context-dependent) nature
of the inference from X is not all y to X is mostly y, but she fails to bring
out its scalar nature, the fact that the inference correlates with the conversa-
tional constraint on speakers to give the strongest information available to
them consistent with truth and relevance (Grice 1961, 1975; Horn 1972;
Gazdar 1979a). If I know that circle 3 is entirely blue and that this informa-
tion is relevant to you, it is misleading for me to tell you that it's not all red,
when I could have expressed the stronger proposition, namely, Circle 3 is
not at all red (or ... is all blue) directly.
Note in particular how the interaction of relevance and quantity applies
to Cornish's case as to other instances of scalar implicature: if all you care
about is finding a circle which is entirely red, the information that Circle 3
is not all red would eliminate circle 3 from contention without suggesting,
implicating, or (in Cornish's terms, presupposing) that it is mostly red-in
the same way that Max has three children does not convey that he has at
most three if all that is relevant in the context of utterance is whether he has
at least three.
Another criticism that might be leveled against these studies is more ter-
minological than substantive. A number of claims that seem to be being
made are in fact not being made (or at least not being supported), the prob-
lem being one of truth in labeling. Wason proclaims in the title of his over-
view article that "In Real Life Negatives are False." Does this proclamation
signal that'2 plus 2 does not equal 5' cannot be uttered truthfully (in real
life), that in fact the class of real-life TN statements i3 empty? Hardly.
Instead, what is being claimed (after discounting Wason's intention to
epater les bourgeois, i.e., les philosophes) is simply that negative state-
3.2 Markedness and the Processing ofNegation 179
as ordinarily used in natural language, 'are usually false rather than
in the (rather unlikely) sense that 'they correct a false preconception
than simply being true relative to a state of affairs' (Wason 1972:
But the claim that negatives are false certainly sounds as though it
IS,l!iOlY"'E> something different (and stronger) than the claim that negation is
used for falsifying or denying one's own or another's earlier statements or
beliefs.
".Wason goes on to observe that 'the real life corollary of the true negative
is;not, of course, a lie but a vacuous statement, e.g., "The train wasn't late
this morning", when nobody expected it would be late'. But this sense of
VACUOUS, applied to Wason's punctual train (or to Ducrot's noncousin, or
Givon's nonpregnant wife in my earlier discussion), is clearly distinct from
the standard sense in which sentences like (24a, b) have been described as
vacuous (or vacuously true).
(24) a. The train wasn't late this morning, {it didn't come at
all/there was no train}.
b. #The train wasn't {divisible by 3/pregnant} this morning.
A less blatant but equally misleading instance of misterminology occurs
in Clark's useful summary article. Clark (1974: 1325) concludes that prob-
lems involving the unmarked, inherently positive comparative adjectives
(e.g., better, more, faster, taller) are solved faster and more accurately
than problems based on their marked, implicitly negative counterparts
(worse, less, slower, shorter). But for some (insufficient) reason, he
chooses to label the latter class QUANTIFIER NEGATIVES. Marked or inher-
ently negative prepositions such as under (vs. over), below (vs. above),
behind (vs. ahead of), and in back of(vs. infront of), which also predict-
ably take longer to verify than their (parenthesized) positive counterparts,
are also 'quantifier negatives'.
In their psycholinguistics text, Clark and Clark (1977 :452-57) are more
circumspect. Longer processing time is associated here with INHERENT
negatives, whether morphologically marked (unhappy/ happy) or not (sad/
happy), whether the category is verbs (forget/remember, lose/find),
prepositions (out of/into, from/to), conjunctions (but/and, unless/if),
contrary adjectives (short/tall, low/high), or 'contradictory' adjectives
(absent/present, dead/alive).
The extra processing time is represented (but not explained) via the in-
vocation of a 'semantic procedure' not (x) linked to inherently negative
expressions, analogous to, but distinct from, the procedure false (x) associ-
ated with overt negation. The analogy between overt and inherent negation
is seen as clearest in the case of the so-called contradictories, where, for
180 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
example, 'absent is merely the phrase notpresent compressed into a single
word' (Clark and Clark 1977: 457). This equivalence glosses over Aris.
totle's insight, representable as the observation that while Socrates and the
king of France were not present at the first inauguration of Ronald Reagan,
neither were they absent from it. Further, as Clark and Clark (1977) recog.
nize elsewhere, not present and absent function entirely differently with
respect to Klima's syntactic criteria for (sentential) negation. Thus, the
"compression" of not present into absent is neither semantically nor sYn.
tactically straightforward. (I shall return to the issue posed by the extra
processing time associated with inherent negation in appendix 2).
Given that negatives-or at least one class of negatives-are normally
used to correct (reject, deny) some preconception (misconception, earlier
proposition), two questions remain to be answered: (1) who is responsible
for (associated with the assertion of) the rejected proposition? and (2) What
is the theoretical status of the relation between the negative statement and
the proposition it corrects? There is an easy-and wrong-answer to the
first question: it is the listener (hearer, addressee) who is responsible for the
proposition. Here is Wason's version of this answer: 'If1 were to say, "The
train wasn't late this morning", then in one sense the statement could COunt
as a true negative, but that overlooks the reason for saying it. What the
sentence does is to falsify the preconception of my listeners ("His train is
always late"). And in this sense the statement is a false negative' (Wason
1972:32).
Leaving aside the question of whether the statement is a false negative in
any sense (and thus assimilable to Wason's earlier examples of false nega.
tives, for example, 92 is not an even number), must my listeners really
believe that the train is always late for me to be able to say that this morn-
ing it wasn't?
Ortake Clark's defense of this thesis, on which 1 can say Helen isn't at
home appropriately if and only if '1 thought that you had expected Helen to
be home, or had said so, or had implied so in what you had just said' (Clark
1974: l312). This appropriateness condition derives from the premise that
the speaker 'normally supposes that the listener does or could well believe
in the truth of what is being denied' (p. l3l3).
Operating on this shared assumption, Wason and Clark would appar-
ently predict that sentences like those in (25) and (26) could never be
uttered appropriately:
(25) {As you know/You were right}, the train wasn't late this
morning.
(26) {Just as you predicted/You win the bet}, Helen isn't at home.
3.2 Markedness and the Processing ofNegation 181
ere is nothing remotely odd or even mildly deviant a~?ut
course thNor must the speaker have believed the denied proposItIOn
sentences.
addressee didn't; cf.
We were right: the train wasn't late this morning.
(27) a. ., h
b. Just as we guessed, Helen Isn tat ome.
to be going on is that to the extent that a negation is nor~~lly
<~Wbat seems es ondin affirmative proposition, that propoSItIon
'taken to deny i~~h~o:':mon g;OUnd or discourse model, however it ~ot
need onlY::the beliefs or claims of the speaker, ~he h~arer, some thIrd
th.ere-fro bulous source like the collectIVe mmd of the speech
arty or some more ne ?b' d «17) bove)
p , 'ty. cf. the minimal pair The whale isn't afish I . 11:. a. .
cotnmum, ificity of the source of the understood propoSItion has m fact
Thebenons::~gniZed as a brief review of the evidence (reprised from
long en ,
§J.2.2, emphasis added) reveals:
The negative judgment presupposes the attempt, or the thought,
of an affirmatIon.
. (Sigwart 1895: 119)
[In negation] we take to task an interlocutor, real or possible.
(Bergson 1911: 289)
the chief use of a negative sentence being to contradict and to
. . . (Jespersen 1917 :4-5)
point a contrast . . . .
There must have been some reason to suppose tha~ the affirmatI~e
t f which [the negation] is the exact demal was true, el-
statemen 0 b . t locutor
ther that it had been proposed for our acceptance y an m er ,
that it had been part of our stored-up knowledge or purported
knowledge or that we had in mind what we took at the moment to
be sufficie~t ground for its acceptance. (Baldwin 1928: 146)
'This rose is not red' [involves] a fallible and partially ignorant
mind erroneously attributing red. . . (Wood 1933:421)
The standard and primary use of 'not' is . . . to cancel a sugg~s-
tion of one's own or anot er s . . .
h ' (Strawson 1952.7)
. . I' thO 'standard and primary use' of negation is evidently
What IS crucla m IS , th aker's earlier
not that it necessarily cancels one of the hearer s or e spe .
beliefs or assertions, but that it is a second-order statement.seeking to:~i
tify some proposition that was directly inserted into the dlsc:u~sed~ tl
(by someone's-anyone's-previous assertion) or that can e m lrec y
182 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
placed into the model by a reasonable inference as to the hearer's likely
beliefs, or the beliefs of anyone relevant to the discourse context.2i
Note that the first-order proposition need not be reasonable or plausible
in any global sense. In discourses like those in (29) or (30),
(29) A: Pigs can fly.
B: No, you idiot, pigs can't fly!
(30) A: The robin and the whale are my two favorite birds.
B: The whale isn't a bird.
neither of B's utterances is at all peculiar (much less 'vacuous') in context
despite the a priori unreasonableness, unexpectedness, and implausibili~
of the misconceptions they deny.22
Thus, an expectation may be sufficiently plausible in a given context to
motivate a denial without ever being directly subscribed to by anyone in the
discourse context. This emerges especially clearly in the exception-to-a-
generalization negatives of the Wason's (1965) circle study: nobody need
have actually said or believed that circle 7 in (18) was red in order for that
proposition to be reasonably contradicted; all that is required is that the
positive proposition be somehow accessible as a good or natural guess.
One final empirical study of negation is worth citing here by way of a
conclusion to this section on the processing and interpretation of negation
in ordinary discourse. Based on her examination of spoken and written
instances of negative sentences in corpora of fifty thousand words each,
Tottie (1982) concludes that negation is twice as frequent in speech as in
writing. She seeks to explain this discrepancy by invoking a revised ver-
sion of the taxonomies of negation I explored earlier in this chapter.
Tottie offers the overall schema in (31):
(31) NEGATION
/ \
REJECTION DENIAL
/ \
EXPLICIT IMPLICIT
Tottie's category of rejection, subsuming the McNeills' category of IN-
TERNAL DESIRE (or refusal), corresponds essentially to Bloom's; it is ca-
nonically realized in spoken language by a free-standing No followed by a
negative utterance, as in (32a, b). For Tottie, as for Bloom, denials may be
explicit, as in (32c, d).
(32) a. -Would you care for some scotch?
-No thanks, I don't drink. (REJECTION)
3.2 Markedness anll the Processing ofNegation 183
b. -Come and play ball with me.
-No, I don't want to.
c. -That dress must have been pretty
expensive.
-It wasn't (expensive), in fact I
bought it on sale.
d. -What a hypocrite you are!
-I am not (a hypocrite)-I'm
being perfectly honest with
you.
(REFUSAL [subtype
of Rejection])
(DENIALS)
Bloom's (and the McNeills') category of NONEXISTENCE is (correctly)
:Viewed by Tottie as a subinstance of denial: There isn't any (more) soup
aenies the proposition that there is (more) soup, just as It isn't raining out
Genies that it's raining.
But not all denials are as explicit (or immediately motivated) as those in
(32c, d). As we have repeatedly seen in this chapter and in my historical
overview in chapter 1, a felicitous instance of negation in a given discourse
may deny, not an asserted, but a presupposed proposition. If you tell me
that John's wife is a teacher, I may deny your claim explicitly (No, she's a
doctor) or I may, as Tottie notes, deny it implicitly (John isn't even mar-
ried). Tottie associates her notion of EXPLICIT DENIAL with Bolinger's
EXTERNAL NEGATION, in which 'the speaker denies something that has
supposedly been affirmed' (Bolinger 1977:44; note that Bolinger is not
taking external negation in the logical sense discussed in §2.4 above). Ex-
plicit denials tend to be elliptical when actually uttered in discourse, since
their 'positive ground' is directly recoverable in the linguistic context. In
implicit negation, on the other hand, the speaker can be characterized as
'rebutting what he assumes that the other speaker might be thinking'. The
earlier assertion he denies in such cases is itself implicit, one he views as
'not actually claimed but as in the mind of his interlocutor'.
While rejections and refusals, like the 'discourse negations' of Keller-
Cohen I touched on above, are not ipso facto either necessarily linguistic or
even human-Tottie observes that a dog can refuse food or to come-
denials constitute the 'linguistic category of negation par excellence'
(Tottie 1982: 96). Lyons (1977 :777) to the contrary notwithstanding, deni-
als cannot be assimilated to rejections without committing what we might
think of as Bergson's fallacy: treating all negation as a rejection of an ear-
lier overt assertion. Tottie properly rejects this radical asymmetricalist
stance, especially in the light of the predominance in the written language
of negative sentences used to express implicit denials.
184 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
If we assume that rejection and explicit denial are both unlikely int .
pretations of negation in the written medium (except, of course, in the r:r.
resentation of spoken dialogue and perhaps in rhetorical discourse) w
P
. , e
would seem to have-as Tottle observes-an account of the preponde .
ance of negatives in the spoken over the written corpus. But, as pointed O~t
to me by a reader of an earlier version of this chapter, we still lack an ex.
planation for why we simply don't find more implicit denials in written dis.
course, to take up the slack. Neither Tottie nor I have any nonspeculativ
response to this point. e
Tottie's depiction of implicit denial as implying the (global or lOcal)
existence of some 'unfulfilled expectation' is reminiscent of Wason's notion
of plausible denial (a notion which has its own philosophical predecessors
as we have seen). One central question remains to be addressed: what is th~
nature of the relation between the proposition expressing this unfulfilled
expectation, that is, the positive counterpart of negation and the negative
statement used to deny it? This issue is fundamental enough to deserve its
own section, one in which I shall return to the even more basic question
first broached in §1.2: given that negation and affirmation are in some
sense linguistically (if not logically) asymmetric, how is that asymmetry
best captured within a general theory of the form and function of negation
in natural language?
3.3 Markedness and the Asymmetry Thesis
The validity of the psycholinguistic studies on negation is affected by one
variable which I have not yet touched on: the morphosyntactic form of the
negative element in the test sentences. Clark (1974: 1312) brings this out
by defining his version of Wason's contexts of plausible denial as a con.
dition on (what he calls) explicit denial or S(entential) negation.23 The
construct of sentence negation employed by Clark and most other contem-
porary laborers in the field of negation is standardly defined by reference to
the diagnostics provided by Klima (1964), whose test frames include those
in (33), where only the (a) examples pass the test for SENTENTIAL (S-)
negation; the (b) sentences contain CONSTITUENT negation:
(33) (i) either (vs. too) tags:
a. Mary isn't happy and John isn't happy either.
b. Mary is unhappy and John is unhappy {*either/too}.
(ii) neither (vs. so) tags:
a. Mary isn't happy and neither is John.
b. Mary is unhappy and {*neitherlso} is John.
3.3 Markedness and the Asymmetry Thesis 185
(iii) negative appositive (e.g., not even) tags:
a. The attacks weren't successful, not even the last one.
b. *The attacks were unsuccessful, not even the last one.
(iv) positive (vs. negative) confirmatory tag questions:
a. It isn't possible to solve that problem, is it?
b. It is impossible to solve that problem, {#is it/isn't it}?
, it is only those fronted adverbials expressing S-negation that
subject-auxiliary inversion, as seen in the pair in (v) (Klima 1964:
and in its classic adaptation (by Charles Bird via Jackendoff 1972:
in (vi):
(v) a. Not even two years ago could (S-negation)
you swim there.
b. Not even two years ago you (constituent negation)
could swim there.
(vi) a. With no clothes is Sue (S-negation)
attractive.
b. With no clothes Sue is (constituent negation)
attractive.
Additional diagnostic environments for S-negation have been proposed
since Klima, for example (cf. Ross 1973a; Culicover 1981), the possibility
of inserting a postnegation negative parenthetical:
(vii) a. It isn't possible, I don't think, to solve that problem.
b. *It is impossible, I don't think, to solve that problem.
But it has been argued that all these tests prove to be insufficient for decid-
ing the crucial cases, in that they often give conflicting results; cf. Jacken-
doff (1969, 1972), Attal (1971), and Ross (1973a) for discussion. Ross, for
example, cites contrasts like those in (viii) and (ix):
(viii) He hardly damaged the car, { ??did he? }
?and neither did you?
[judgments are Ross's] not even by filling it
with gravy.
(ix) a. Nobody saw John, did(*n't) they?
b. John saw nobody, did*(n't) he?
The variables determining negative strength cited by Ross include the de-
gree of overtness of the negative element (not> other n-initial morphemes
(e.g., no, never) > others) and the grammatical relation of the nominal
containing the incorporated negation (the more accessible the nominal on
the Keenan and Comrie (1977) hierarchy-Subject> Direct Object> In-
186 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
direct Object> . . .-the more sentential the behavior of the incorpor
negation). ated
Klima's ~i~tinction betwee~ sente~ce.and constituent negation fits within
a long tradItIon of scholarshIp, begmnmg apparently with the distinction
between QUALITATIVE and QUANTITATIVE negation drawn by Geb
(1885) in his analysis of Old Bohemian. Qualitative negation is realize~uer
a neg.ated finite verb, resulting in sentential negation, while quantitati~:
negatIon focuses on some other (nonverbal) constituent, which mayor m
not result in the semantics of S-negation.24 ay
The utility of this dichotomy has been challenged, notably by Delbriick
(1910: 36ff.) and Jespersen (1917 :69-71); cf. also Coombs 1976 for dis-
cussion. But Jespersen himself adopts a similar distinction, that between
NEXAL and SPECIAL negation. Nexal negation is clause-based, marked·
the auxiliary, while special negation has clause-internal scope and is typ~~
cally marked by a negative (lexically incorporated or not) which imme-
diately precedes or is part of the element on which it focuses. While
Jespersen's distinction does not map directly onto Klima's, both are cru-
cially syntactic in definition and spirit and thus distinguishable from the
semantic approaches to S-negation favored by Jackendoff (1969) and
Seuren (1969).
To take one classic pair of examples, (34a) is a case of special (constitu-
ent) negation for Jespersen (1917:44), while the auxiliary negation in
(34b) counts as nexal:
(34) a. Not many of us wanted the war.
b. Many of us didn't want the war.
But for Jackendoff, (34a) is a more likely candidate for sentence negation
than (34b), since only the latter can be paraphrased by (34')
(34') It is not so that many of us wanted the war.
Klima's diagnostics are indecisive in determining whether or not either of
these two negatives is to be assigned to the class ofsentential negations; cf.
Attal (1971); Ross (1973a).
Jackendoff's semantic criterion for S-negation, essentially equivalent to
the standard truth-value-reversal criterion for contradictory negation, is not
only less "squishy" (cf. Ross) but also more easily universalizable than the
English-based syntactic criteria utilizing position and distributional diag-
nostics. But it too leads to some odd results. As Attal (1971: 106) points
out, I don't want to leave (like its French counterpart, Je ne veux pas sor-
tir) has an interpretation (the so-called neg-raising reading: see §5.2 below)
on which it is not a contradictory but a contrary of I want to leave (Je veux
sortir). When I don't want to leave is not equivalent to 'It is not so that
3.3 Markedness and the Asymmetry Thesis 187
leave', but rather to 'I want to not-leave', Jackendoff's criteria
it from the ranks of S-negations; yet on both intuitive and syntactic
it ranks with undoubted sentential negations like I don't have to
as Jespersen's and Klima's syntactically oriented criteria predict.
we might note that You shouldn't go passes the syntactic tests
'I-Il'''J;'''U~''' but does not qualify as a Jackendoffian S-negation in that it
not paraphrasable by 'It is not so that you should leave'. As
Attal's 'want' case, a syntactic S-negation may count semantically as
rather than a contradictory negation (cf. chapter 5 for related
of this phenomenon, all of which are potentially hazardous for
semantically based definition of S-negation which is intended to have
):,'Si{nta,cUC consequences).
On the other hand, a morphological negation like That's impossible is
opposed as a contradictory to the corresponding affirmative That's pos-
sible, thus passing Jackendoff's criteria for S-negation (That's impossible
== 'It's not so that that's possible'). This ignores the essential structural dif-
ference between That's impossible and a true S-negation, That isn't pos-
~ible (cf. (33iv, vii)).25
Additional problems with, and implications of, Klima's and Jackendoff's
approaches to S-negation are discussed by Kraak (1966: 101-3), Seuren
(1967: 336-37), Attal (1971), Bald (1971: 3-7), Stockwell, Schachter,
, and Partee (1973:257ff.), and Culicover (1981). It is clear that both the
definiens and the definiendum for S-negation present unresolved problems.
Unfortunately, these are problems whose resolution directly affects the
value of the studies on the psycholinguistics of negation I reviewed in the
last subsection.
Virtually alone among the researchers on the topic, Clark (1974) recog-
nizes that the relevant studies on the processing of negation are directed
almost entirely at the sentential subspecies of negation, however (syntac-
tically and/or semantically) that notion is ultimately to be defined. The
literature on contexts of plausible denial can be read seriously only if we
bear in mind that negative morphology is neither a necessary nor a suffi-
cient condition for an expression to count as a (sentential) negation.
In Clark's terms, Klima's diagnostics for S-negation are actually tests for
denial, picking out overt negations (no, nobody, not, never) and other
explicitly negative quantifiers implying partial rather than full negation
(scarcely, hardly, few, seldom, little). What is excluded is the class of IM-
PLICIT negatives concealed within words like except (but not), without (not
with), and absent (not present).
In studies cited by Clark, implicit negatives (except, absent), while they
take longer to process than the corresponding affirmative, are significantly
easier than the explicit negatives (putatively) synonymous with them (but
188 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
not, not present). Another class of implicit negatives that consistently
correlates with longer reaction time in a variety of studies is the grou
of marked adjectives-both simple and comparative-with unmarke~
antonymous counterparts, for example, small(er), short(er), slow(er), as
against big(ger), tall(er),fast(er).
In their related study of overt and covert negation, Fodor, Fodor, Garrett
(1975) (FFG) distinguish four classes of negative morphemes:
(35) Class 1: explicitly negative free morphemes, e.g., not.
Class 2: explicitly negative bound morphemes (morphological
negatives), e.g., un-, iN-, never.
Class 3: implicitly negative morphemes, e.g., doubt, deny, fail.
Class 4: pure definitional negatives (PDNs), e.g., kill (cause
to become not alive), bachelor (man who has never
married)
As FFG note, only class 1 (and some class 2) negatives satisfy Klima's
criteria for sentence negation, but both class 2 and class 3 negatives trigger
negative polarity items ({I doubt/It's unlikely} he's ever eaten sea cucum-
ber au gratin) and so may be said to exhibit syntactic (or distributional) as
well as semantic negativity. PDNs, on the other hand, contain no negative
morpheme, overt or incorporated, and trigger no S-negation diagnostics or
polarity items; their negativity, FFG argue, is spurious, an artifact of a par-
ticular theoretical commitment (i.e., that of generative semanticists).
The results of the reaction time experiment conducted by FFG (1975:
552) are as follows:
(36) a. Class 2 and class 3 negatives are somewhat easier than their
explicit counterparts (as shown in the studies cited by
Clark (1974) but not mentioned by FFG).
b. There is no significant processing difference between mor-
phological and implicit negatives.
c. Arguments containing class 4 'negatives' are significantly
easier; PDNs 'do not act as though they contain a negative
element in their linguistic representation' .
While the finding in (36c)-unsurprising as it may now seem, with the
generative/interpretive wars behind us (cf. Newmeyer 1980)-represents
the main thrust of their study, FFG acknowledge that morphological (class
2) and implicit (class 3) negatives 'must somehow be classed with negative
words by the grammar', either by decomposition or stipulation.
Unfortunately, as Herb Clark has pointed out to me, the strongest candi-
dates for psycholinguistically complex PDNs are not examples like kill or
bachelor, but the set of marked scalar adjectives which Clark and others
3.3 Markedness and the Asymmetry Thesis 189
convincingly demonstrated to require more processing time: small,
low, narrow. The point of the earlier studies on negation was to
'show that while these adjectives are indeed easier than their overtly nega-
'tiye synonyms (not big, not tall), they are clearly harder (pace FFG) than
their unmarked antonyms (big, tall). Since FFG are arguing from null
effects (a notoriously difficult argument to establish in empirical work),
and since the experiment whose results they cite has never been directly
reported in the literature, it is hard to determine the validity of their results.
In any event, their primary conclusion, (36a) above, is consistent with the
earlier findings on negation reported in Clark 1974.
Clark's identification of denial as (Klima's) S-negation (1974: 1312ff.;
cf. also Kissin 1969: 86) suggests the Aristotelian notion of predicate de-
nial, with its semantics defined in terms of contradictory opposition, that
is, truth-value reversal. The identification of logical denial with linguists'
sentential negation would be more convincing if the specimen linguist were
not Klima (for whom S-negation is crucially a syntactic, rather than seman-
tic, construct), but Seuren (1969) or lackendoff (1969), for whom Sf is the
negation of S just in case it can be paraphrased as 'it is not so that S'. But
when Clark shifts to a discussion of the pragmatic criteria for denial or (in
Wason's terms) plausible denial-as in the claim that 'a denial is specifi-
cally a sentence that asserts that something is false, where that something
is presupposed to be possible' (Clark 1974: 1315)-we sense an equivoca-
tion. Here, denial is not a logical or syntactic operation, but evidently a
speech act.
As I observed earlier, however, not every instance of negation-or even
of predicate denial, that is, contradictory negation-can be treated as an
instance of the speech act of denial; in particular, as Frege points out, an
embedded negation asserts nothing. Moreover, if we take Keller-Cohen,
Chalmer, and Remler's category of 'discourse negation', the 'rejection of a
proposition or presupposition in a prior speaker's utterance', to constitute
the core case of the speech act of denial, not every instance of denial can be
an instance of contradictory or sentential negation, since discourse nega-
tion may not involve any speech act or any overt negation at all, as Keller-
Cohen, Chalmer, and Remler (1979) point out (§3.1 above).
Instead we are brought back to a key phrase in the much-cited but often
misread Strawsonian definition: it is not negation itself but 'the standard
and primary use' of negation that can be identified with Giv6n's 'negative
speech act', Searle's 'illocutionary negation', Keller-Cohen's 'discourse
negation', or Wason's 'plausible denial'. The most illuminating way to
view the correlation between negation as discourse denial and negation as
logical denial is one in which the former notion represents the functional
core or PROTOTYPE of the latter, in the sense that 'focal red' is the prototype
of the catetory red (Rosch 1977; cf. Putnam 1973 on STEREOTYPES).
190 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
I shall return below to a defense of this prototype view of negation, but I
shall focus here on another aspect of the last citation from Clark, namely,
the claim that the 'something' asserted to be false in a denial is the 'some.
thing' which is simultaneously 'presupposed to be possible'. This presup.
position is of course intended to capture the relation of plausibility between
a negation (A is not B) and its positive counterpart (A is B). But is the term
PRESUPPOSITION, tentatively adopted here by Clark and vigorously pro.
moted by Giv6n (1978, 1979) in the same connection, really an appropriate
label for this ancient (cf. §1.2) connection? Clark himself tries to assimi.
late the negative cases to the classic instances of logical presupposition (he
cites such examples as You should stop beating your wife) and quickly rec.
ognizes that the two relations don't directly line up. In the end, Clark judi.
ciously drops the pre-fix and treats John isn't present as supposing rather
than presupposing the proposition that John is present. Hence the language
of passage cited earlier, 'A negative sentence will be easy if the supposition
of that negative is plausible in that context' (Clark 1974: 1333; empha.
sis mine).
Clark concludes (p. 1337) that a negative sentence is mentally repre-
sented as an embedding of its positive supposition within a frame involving
the falsity operator. Helen isn't at home is represented as (false (Helen at
home)), while the corresponding positive is represented simply as (Helen
at home). It will be noticed that this thesis on the mental representation of
negation calibrates with the asymmetry theses on negation surveyed in
§1.2, especially those of negation-as-falsity and negation-as-second-order_
affirmation.
While an explicit negative (e.g., Helen isn't present) denies a positive
supposition (Helen is present), an implicit negative (e.g., Helen is absent)
on Clark's account affirms a negative supposition (Helen isn'tpresent). But
this negative supposition is itself psychologically complex, ex hypothesi,
predicting (incorrectly) that implicit negatives should actually require more
rather than less processing time vis-a-vis their paraphrases with explicit
negation. Having rejected Wason's theory in which the greater latency for
explicit negation is due not so much to the complexity of overt negations as
to their inhibiting emotive associations, Clark is left without a convincing
alternative hypothesis to explain the asymmetry. (Cf. appendix 2 for an al-
ternative hypothesis.)
What does it mean, exactly, to say that explicit negatives suppose rather
than presuppose their positive counterparts? What rough semantic or prag-
matic beast is this supposition? One natural, and I would argue correct,
guess is that it is an instance of conversational implicature (Grice 1961,
1967, 1975), the relation that obtains (cf. Horn 1972, 1973, and chapter 4)
between an utterance of (37a) and the proposition in (37b):
3.3 Markedness and the Asymmetry Thesis 191
(37) a. Chris has three children.
b. Chris has no more than three children.
that unlike semantic or pragmatic presuppositions or conventional
',iInplicatures (cf. §2.5), but like conversational implicatures, the Clarkian
supposition can be freely canceled:
(38) a.
b.
c.
# I don't still beat my wife, but in fact I never did.
#Only I can do it, and in fact I can't.
#John managed to solve the problem, but in fact it was easy.
# Even I can do it, but nobody else can.
Chris has three children, and in fact he has four.
Susan was able to solve the problem, but she didn't
solve it.
The whale isn't a bird, but then nobody ever thought
it was.
Circle 7 isn't red, but whoever thought it was?
(Cf. Grice 1967, 1975; Horn 1972; Sadock 1978; Levinson 1983; and
Hirschberg 1985 on the cancelability of implicatures.)
Like (other) conversational implicatures, our supposition is also ex-
tremely sensitive to context, coming and going (as we have ~itne~sed). far
more freely than a well-behaved presupposition or conventIOnal Imphca-
ture. In addition, as noted in Horn (1978c: 204), the relation between a
negative statement and its positive counterpart shares another feature with
conversational, as opposed to conventional, implicata: it is NONDETACH-
ABLE, adhering to any expression conveying denial within a given dis-
course context. Compare (39a, b):
(39) a. I want to marry you.
b. I'll be damned if I'll marry you.
Even if the subject of matrimony had never been broached between them,
(39a) would be (linguistically, at least) an appropriate remark for Mr. X to
make to Ms. Y, and might in fact constitute an indirect proposal, context
permitting (ring proffered, on bended knee). But (39b), with its conveyed
negative force, is pragmatically restricted (like the overt negation of I won't
marry you or I don't want to marry you) to contexts in which the question of
marriage has been entertained, if it is not under active deliberation.
For the supp03itioll associated with negation to qualify as a conversa-
tional implicature, however, it must be not only cancelable and nondetach-
able, but also CALCULABLE, that is, derivable from Grice's Cooperative
Principle via one of the maxims of conversation. I will suggest a derivation
192 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
of the Clarkian supposition as an implicatum once I have introduced some
additional descriptive apparatus.
3.3.1 Negative Uninformativeness within a Dualistic Model
of Inference
The neo-Gricean model of nonlogical inference I shall assume here and in
later chapters is taken from the exposition in Horn 1984b, itself prefigured
in Atlas and Levinson 1981 and further developed (along somewhat differ-
ent lines) in Levinson 1987a, b. The essential (and by no means novel) idea
is that there is in language a systematic interaction between two antinomic
forces identified by George Kingsley Zipf (1949: 20ff.). The Force of Uni-
fication, or Speaker's Economy, is a correlate of Zipf's Principle of Least
Effort, a drive toward simplification or minimization which, operating un-
checked, would result in total homonymy or lexical versatility, yielding 'a
vocabulary of one word which will refers to all the ~ distinct meanings'
the speaker might want to express. The antithetical Force of Diversifica-
tion, or Auditor's Economy, would expand the inventory to guarantee 'a
vocabulary of ~ different words with one distinct meaning for each word'.
More generally, the Speaker's Economy places an upper bound on the form
of the message, while the Hearer's Economy places a lower bound on its
informational content.
These two mutually constraining mirror-image forces are periodically
invoked in the linguistic literature. Here are some sample citations:
The more economical or more abundant use of linguistic means of
expressing a thought is determined by the need. . . . Everywhere
we find modes of expression forced into existence which contain
only just so much as is requisite to their being understood. The
amount of linguistic material employed varies in each case with
the situation, with the previous conversation, with the relative ap-
proximation of the speakers to a common state of mind.
(PauI1898: 351)
In order to understand how and why a language changes, the lin-
guist must keep in mind two ever-present and antinomic factors:
first, the requirements of communication, the need for the speaker
to convey his message, and second, the principle of least effort,
which makes him restrict his output of energy, both mental and
physical, to the minimum compatible with achieving his ends.
(Martinet 1962: 139)
3.3 Markedness and the Asymmetry Thesis 193
The speaker always tries to optimally minimize the surface com-
plexity of his utterances while maximizing the amount of infor-
mation he effectively communicates to the listener.
(Carroll and Tanenhaus [1975: 51],
defining their MINIMAX PRINCIPLE)
:.The evolution of language can be seen as resulting from the dynamic
·;tension between these two functional principles. In the phonological sphere,
.the speaker-oriented least-effort principle tends toward maximization of
Sensorimotor discriminability and the minimization of movement from
rest, while the hearer-oriented counterforce tends toward maximization of
salience and of perceptual discriminability. The goal of the linguistic sound
pattern can be seen as the achievement of the greatest perceptual benefit at
the least articulatory cost.26
In the lexical and semantic sphere, the speaker's force can be identi-
fied with the Law of Differentiation (Paul 1898; BrealI900), the principle
of Preemption by Synonymy (Clark and Clark 1979), or the Avoid Syn-
onymy principle (Kiparsky 1983; E. Clark [forthcoming]). The essential
idea here is that languages tend not to allow a given semantic slot to be
filled by two distinct lexical expressions; more precisely, a lexicalized item
tends to preempt the filling of its slot by a less-lexicalized form that would
have precisely the same meaning. The hearer's economy is realized as the
corresponding principle which we might label Avoid Homonymy; cf.
Bloomfield 1933, Zipf 1935, Menner 1936, E. R. Williams 1944, and
Bolinger 1961 for the appropriate formulation of the principle of homo-
nymic clash and illustrations of its predictive force.
I focus here on the application of the two countervailing Zipfian forces to
a program for nonlogical inference. Grice (1967, 1975) attempts to show
how participants in a conversational exchange can compute what was
meant (by a speaker's utterance at a given point in the interaction) from
what was said. The governing dictum is the Cooperative Principle (Grice
1975: 45): 'Make your conversational contribution such as is required, at
the stage at which it occurs'. The CP in turn is analyzed into four specific
subprinciples, the general and presumably universal maxims of conversa-
tion on which all rational interchange is putatively grounded.
(40) The Maxims of Conversation (Grice 1975 :45-46):
QUALITY: Try to make your contribution one that is true.
1. Do not say what you believe to be false.
2. Do not say that for which you lack evidence.
QUANTITY:
1. Make your contribution as informative as is required (for
the current purposes of the exchange).
194 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
2. Do not make your contribution more informative than is
required.
RELATION: Be relevant.
MANNER: Be perspicuous.
1. Avoid obscurity of expression.
2. Avoid ambiguity.
3. Be brief. (Avoid unnecessary [sic] prolixity.)
4. Be orderly.
There is, a priori, no privileged status to this fourfold classification of
maxims (except perhaps for its echo of the similarly labeled Kantian cate-
gories), nor to the effective total of nine distinct subprinciples, and much
of neo- and post-Gricean pragmatics has been devoted to a variety of re-
ductionist efforts. If I assume (with Horn 1984b and most other work in
this area, and against Sperber and Wilson 1986) that Quality (or what
Lewis 1969 has called a Convention of Truthfulness) is primary and essen-
tially unreducible, I can attempt to boil the remaining maxims and submax-
ims down to two fundamental principles responding to the two basic forces
identified by Zipf and others. I use Q to evoke Quantity (i.e., Quantityl)
and R Relation, with no commitment to an exact mapping between my
principles and Grice's maxims.
(41) Minding our Qs and Rs (slightly revised from Horn 1984b):
THE Q PRINCIPLE THE R PRINCIPLE
(Hearer-oriented) (Speaker-oriented)
Make your contribution Make your contribution
SUFFICIENT:
Say as much as you can (given
both QUALITY and R).
LOWER-BOUNDING principle,
inducing UPPER-BOUNDING
implicata
Collects Grice's QUANTITYl
maxim and MANNER l,2
NECESSARY:
Say no more than you must
(given Q).
UPPER-BOUNDING principle,
inducing LOWER-
BOUNDING implicata
Collects Grice's RELATION
maxim, QUANTITY2, and
MANNER3,4
The functional tension between these two fundamental pragmatic prin-
ciples motivates and governs a wide range of linguistic phenomena, syn-
chronic and diachronic, lexical and syntactic, ranging from implicature and
politeness strategies to the interpretation ofpronouns and gaps, from lexical
change to indirect speech acts, from the interpretation of case marking in
so-called split ergative languages to the analysis of recorded conversational
interaction, from the pragmatic strengthening of apparent contradictory
negation to the weakening effect of "logical" double negation (,cf. Hom
1984b; Levinson 1987a, b; and the chapters below).
3.3 Markedness and the Asymmetry Thesis 195
. . Crucially, my two antinomic principles are not in simple opposition, but
interact (in the classical Hegelian manner) in a dialectic process in which
each inevitably appeals to and constrains the other. Notice that Grice is
forced to build in the R Principle in defining the primary Q-based maxim
(Make your contribution as informative as is required' [emphasis added]),
while QuantitYl is similarly built into the definition of QuantitY2'27 Further,
the second Quantity maxim essentially incorporates Relation: what would
make a contribution more informative than is required except the inclusion
of material not strictly relevant to the stage of the exchange at which it
occurred?
The Q principle is a lower-bounding law in terms of information
structure which may be (and systematically is) exploited to generate upper-
bounding implicata. Q-based implicature is essentially negative in charac-
ter, proceeding from a speaker's nonuse of a stronger or more informative
form to the inference that the speaker was not in an epistemic position to
have employed the stronger form. The locus classicus is scalar implicature:
aspeaker in saying'. . . Pi . . .' implicates that for all s/he knows '. . . at
most Pi ' ..', that is, that it is not the case that' ... Pi ...' for any Pi
stronger than Pi in some relevant sense of 'stronger than' to be made (some-
what) more precise in chapter 4. Thus' some . ..' implicates'... not all
, . " and '. . . warm . . .' '. . . not hot. . .', 'I believe that S' implicates
that I don't know that S, and so on.28
The R principle is an upper-bounding law which may be (and systemati-
cally is) exploited to generate lower-bounding implicata: a speaker in say-
ing '. . . Pi . . .' implicates '. . . Pi . . .' for some Pi stronger than Pi
and/or representing a salient subcase ofPi' The locus classicus here may be
indirect speech acts and/or euphemisms, where a speaker's use of a weaker
form may be filled in by an addressee who recognizes that some particular
stronger or more informative meaning may have been intended. Because
there is no essential reference here to what a speaker might have said but
did not say, R inferences are essentially positive in character. As we shall
see in some detail in chapter 5, the motivation for R-based implicata is not
linguistic (as with Q inference) but typically social or cultural.
Schematically, we can distinguish the two patterns of inference as
follows:
Q R
- --
196 Markedness and the PsychoLogy ofNegation
The class of R implicata (the informativeness or I implicata of Atlas and
Levinson 1981) may appear heterogeneous, but it involves in each instanc
what Atlas and Levinson call an inference to the best interpretation, as de~
termined by their PRINCIPLE OF INFORMATIVENESS (Levinson 1983: 146_
47): 'Read as much into an utterance as is consistent with what you know
about the world'. Examples include the 'conditional perfection' of ifp then
q into 'if and only if p then q' (Geis and Zwicky 1971), the strengthening
of p and q to 'p and then q' and thence to 'p and therefore q' (Grice 1975.
Schmerling 1975; cf. also chapter 6), the inference from Lee and Ki~
moved the piano to 'Lee and Kim moved the piano together', and that from
Chris ate the cake to 'Chris ate the whole cake' (Harnish 1976), and the
frame-based or bridging inference from I have a new car but the car-
buretor is clogged to the assumption that the clogged carburetor is the one
in my new car (Charniak 1972; Clark and Haviland 1977). Other speci-
mens of R-based implicature will be collected in the course of our negative
travels in later chapters.
As in any model of nonlogical (i.e., cancelable or defeasible) inference
we must produce an algorithm for computing which of the two opposed
principles and inference strategies prevails in a given discourse context.
this issue has been addressed (cf. Grice 1975; Harnish 1976; Atlas and
Levinson 1981; Horn 1984b; and especially Levinson 1987a, b), but not
definitively solved. Maxim clash, for example, arises notoriously readily
in indefinite contexts; thus, an utterance of I sLept in a car yesterday li-
censes the Q-based inference that it was not my car I slept in (or I should
have said so), while an utterance of I broke a finger yesterday licenses the
R-based inference that is was my finger I broke (unless I know that you
know that I am an enforcer for the mob, in which case the opposite, R-
based implicatum is derived). When the application of Quantity tends to
contradict the stereotyped 'conventions of noncontroversiality' assumed
within a given culture, the rival R principle takes precedence (Atlas and
Levinson 1981).
Let us consider a more complex case. Grice (1975: 51-52) cites the ex-
change in (42) between A and B; the former is planning an itinerary on
which he would like to visit C if it does not take him too far out of his way:
(42) A: Where does Clive?
B: Somewhere in the south of France.
Here it clearly would have been relevant to A's needs to know just where in
the south of France C lives. Grice's gloss is that B's apparent infringement
of Quantity is explainable within the Cooperative Principle only if we sup-
pose that B couldn't have been more informative without violating Quality
(Don't say what you lack evidence for); thus, B's reply Q-implicates that
he doesn't know where in the south of France C lives.
3.3 Markedness and the Asymmetry Thesis 197
it is also possible that B is opting out of the Cooperative Principle
principled reason taking precedence over Quantity. Indeed, Col-
(1937 :47) eerily foreshadows Grice's example by recalling that a
's letter sent from the front in World War I would bear the return
Somewhere in France-not because the writer didn't know just
he was writing from or because the information was deemed of no
to the recipient, but rather because of a military prohibition against
his more precise location. Collinson also comments on the wide-
use of euphemisms of the form to go somewhere for 'a place it is
considered seemly to mention'; the informativeness requirement is
;~l1'''''--J
overridden in the use of expressions like a drop ofsomething, the
:dog has done something, someone asked after you this morning (Collinson
:i937:62). As we shall see in §5.3, the euphemistic flavor of these ex-
'amples epitomizes the R-based infere~ce to a specific understandi~g. .
, The opposition of the two Zipfo-Gncean forces may result, not SImply In
maxim clash, but in a resolution of the conflict through what I have called
the DIVISION OF PRAGMATIC LABOR (Horn 1984b:22ff.). This principle is
inspired by the Elsewhere Condition in morphology and by the program for
lexical pragmatics suggested in McCawley 1978: given two coextensive
expressions, the briefer and/or more lexicalized form will tend to become
associated through R-based implicature with some unmarked, stereotypical
meaning, use, or situation, and the marked, more complex or prolix, less
lexicalized expression tends to Q-implicate a marked message, one which
the unmarked form could not or would not have conveyed. Schematically,
Thus, where the use of a modal question (Can you pass the hot sauce?)
R-implicates a request (Pass the hot sauce), the use of the periphrastic
alternative (Do you have the ability to pass the hot sauce?) will license
the Q-based inference that only the literal question understanding was in-
tended. Or if I chose to say not My brother went to jail, with its (conven-
tionalized) R-based stereotyped understanding, but rather My brother went
to the jail, you will infer that he was only there for a visit, not an incarcera-
tion. Or, to borrow an example from McCawley (1978), if I go out of my
way to tell you not that Amanda killed the sheriff, but that she caused the
sheriff to die, you will presumably infer that the causation was not of the
stereotypic (direct, unmediated) variety R-associated with kill, but was in
198 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
some sense marked-perhaps Amanda strewed plastic shrimp in the sher-
iff's bed, knowing of his weak heart and pathological fear of crustaceans. I
return to the Division of Pragmatic Labor, and in particular to an apparent
exception to this pattern, in appendix 2.
Armed with this reanalysis of the mechanism of conversational implica_
ture, how might we account for the Clarkian supposition (or the Wasonian
plausibility of denial), the tendency for the use of a (sentential) negation to
involve the expectation or plausibility of the corresponding positive state of
affairs within the discourse frame? As it happens, there are already at least
two (woefully sketchy) proposals on the books for forging this connection
within a theory of conversational implicature.
Horn (1978c: 203) tentatively suggests that our supposition-there
called the MARKEDNESS IMPLICATURE for negation-arises through Grice's
Maxim of Relation (Be relevant): 'There should be a reason to utter a sen-
tence and, for a negative sentence, that reason ... is generally the earlier
consideration of its contained affirmative counterpart.' Thus, the argument
goes, if Talmy Givan tells me that his wife is not pregnant, I would con-
clude either that he is violating the maxim and so opting out of the Co-
operative Principle, or-more likely-that his utterance is intended to
exploit the maxim by generating the implicatum that it was expected,
likely, or plausible that his wife should be pregnant, that his wife's preg-
nancy was under consideration, and so forth. But what remains unclear on
this account is just why the reason for uttering a negative sentence is 'gen-
erally the earlier consideration of its . . . affirmative counterpart' .
Leech (1981 :431; see also Leech 1983: 100-102, 165ff.) offers a differ-
ent derivation of the markedness implicature. His starting points are (1)
Grice's first submaxim of Quantity (i.e., my Q principle) and (2) Leech's
PRINCIPLE OF NEGATIVE UNINFORMATIVENESS:29
Negative propositions are generally far less informative than posi-
tive ones, simply because the population of negative facts in the
world is far greater than that of positive facts. Consider the
sentences
a. Bogota isn't the capital of Peru.
b. Bogota is the capital of Colombia.
Both statements are true, but assuming a current United Nations
membership of 132, a. is 131 times less informative than b.
Hence to reconcile such a negative proposition with the first
Maxim of Quantity, we must assume a context in which the nega-
tion of X is precisely as informative as is required.
Such a context is one in which I can assume that you (or someone else
relevant to the discourse) believed or stated that the positive supposition of
3.3 Markedness and the Asymmetry Thesis 199
is the capital ofPeru-was (possibly) the case. The Principle
Uninformativeness can thus be used to satisfy our quest, that
provide an explanation of why negative propositions are, in prag-
terms, denials of positive propositions which are in some sense
in the context'" (Leech 1983: 101).
Leech leaves unmentioned both the psycholinguistic support
Uninformativeness (although his Bogota examples translate
into the blue and red circles of the seminal Wason [1965] study)
much longer lineage of the same notion within the philosophical
. Both his principle and the demographic imbalance of positive
_~n'''T1''P facts on which it is based, which Leech associates with Givan
have in fact been part of the asymmetricalist canon from Plato's
and Aristotle's Metaphysics ('He who knows that thing is some-
has understanding to a higher degree than he who knows that it is
something': Met. 996bI4-16) through Bacon and Kant to the neo-
'f~m[egf~llaJns and to Ayer's Specificity thesis (see chapter 1 for discussion).
link between (lack of) informativeness and discourse markedness
'~'einerges more clearly when we expand the data base. Grice observes (1967:
.lecture 1: 17ff.) that a negative sentence like (43),
(43) The man at the next table is not lighting his cigarette with a
$20 bill.
discussed elsewhere by Austin and Searle, while undeniably true if the ref-
erent is employing the conventional lucifer, is nevertheless inappropriate in
the absence of any special context. He endorses a 'condition on asser-
tibility' adapted from Searle: 'There should be, or it should be supposed
that there is, some chance that the asserted proposition is false'. If this con-
dition is unsatisfied, as it normally is in a random true utterance of(43), the
utterance is otiose or pointless.
But this condition, familiar to us from the Mimii1'(lsii (§ 1.3.1 above),
cannot be directly pinned to the presence of negation in sentences like (43).
Indeed, Grice invokes the identical condition to explain the normal inap-
propriateness of a variety of true positive utterances, as in the examples in
(44), the first three of which are taken from Grice (1967).
(44) I went to the meeting of my own free will.
I remember my own name.
Your wife is faithful.
The 1988 presidential election will be held.
The dean is breathing.
When a positive sentence is less informative, more otiose than its corre-
sponding negation, it is the positive sentence which is 'presuppositionally
200 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
richer' or odder in the absence of a special context. (See here Givon 1978
on the reversal of figure and ground.)
The extra supposition normally (although not invariably) associated with
negation is generated as a Q-based implicatum. As I have noted, the Q
principle is bound by both R and Quality. If I suppose that you are only
concerned with whether or not Bogota is the capital of Peru, my utterance
of the negative proposition (Leech's a) licenses no upper-bounding im-
plicature. On the other hand, in a context where I assume it would be rele-
vant for you to know not just that Bogota isn't the capital of Peru, but what
country it is the capital of, I may still utter a. What I then implicate is that
there is no stronger, more informative proposition that I could have uttered
(consistent with the Maxim of Quality, the requirement that I say only what
I believe and have evidence for). Just as my assertion that Chris has three
children, in a context where I assume that you care whether or not he has
more than three, Q-implicates that for all I know he has only three, so too
my saying that Bogota isn't the capital of Peru in the described context im-
plicates that for all I know it may not be the capital of Colombia, that is,
that I don't know for a fact that it is. Only when you can assume that I do
have full knowledge, and that I believe this knowledge to be relevant to
your conversational goals, would such a statement be unnecessarily weak
and thus unhelpful, misleading, or implausible. .
One finding which goes unexplained on the epistemic/informational Q-
based account of the markedness or (pre)suppositional richness of negative
statements is the persistence of the affirmative/negative response-time dif-
ferential in cases of contradictory (or immediate-contrary) opposition.30
We may assume that (unlike Leech's capital cities or Wason's colored
circles) a given integer must be either odd or even and is no more likely to
be one or the other. Sentences (45a) and (45b) will then impart the same
information and reflect the same degree of knowledge.
(45) a. The number 5 is not even.
b. The number 5 is odd.
Why then is the decontextualized occurrence of (45a) both intuitively
and experimentally harder or less motivated than that of (45b), as we saw
in the previous section? Recall that the use of (45a), but not that of (45b),
implicates that someone might have believed or said that 5 was even (or at
least that other integers under discussion were; cf. my earlier discussion of
4 is even {and/ but} 5 is not even.
Leech (1983: 101) considers an analogous pair,
(46) a. Our cat is not male.
b. Our cat is female.
3.3 Markedness and the Asymmetry Thesis 201
which (46a), though informationally equivalent to (46b), 'still strikes
one as being "marked", and as requiring special interpretation as a denial
of what someone else has asserted' .31 To explain the persistence of the
. .1llarkedness asymmetry, Leech invokes the difficulty in processing nega-
tion, as confirmed by the psycholinguistic studies reviewed above. But this
deposits us back at square one, sadder but no wiser: why are negative sen-
tences harder to process in the first place (when indeed they are)? The ex-
pJicandum has been taken for the explicans.
Perhaps it is partly a case of the negative sentences in (45a) and (46a)
being longer, by one morpheme or one word, than their contradictorily op-
posed positives. But again we would like to explain the formal markedness
of negation by virtue of some aspect of its meaning, rather than treating
this Thomistic correlation as an accident.
There seems to me to be another possible line worth pursuing. The extra
implicature associated with negation does indeed derive from the prototype
situation in which a negative statement (e.g., A is not B) is less infor-
mative-often infinitely less informative, as in My favorite number is not
5-than its affirmative basis or positive ground (A is B' where B' =1= B).
But the markedness of negation, born in the pure pragmatics of conversa-
tional implicature, may tend to become partly conventionalized, with the
result that all negative statements (or, more properly, all main clause predi-
cate denials), even those which (like (45a) or (46a)) convey the same infor-
mation as their positive bases, are affected (or, ala Wood 1933, infected)
by this implicature. -
Thus it should not be surprising that the same implicature should be vari-
ously analyzed as deriving from Relation (Horn 1978c), from Quantity
(Leech 1981), and from Manner (Leech 1983). In fact, the marked status
of negation results from the interaction of the Q-based requirement that
speakers be as informative as possible-where positive statements are pro-
totypically (although not invariably) more informative than negative state-
ments-with the R-based principle directing the speaker to omit anything
irrelevant to the concerns of his interlocutor which might increase process-
ing effort.
If my account of the markedness of negation is even generally correct,
the asymmetry thesis I have been exploring off and on since §1.2 applies at
the level of pragmatics. Negative propositions are typically, but not neces-
sarily, less specific and less informative than positive propositions. As
noted by Apostel (1972b), however, the real asymmetry is located, not in
the relation of negative to positive propositions, but in the relation of
(speaker) denials to assertions.
As Strawson stresses, the 'standard and primary use' of negatives is 'to
correct and contradict' (emphasis mine)-but, pace Wittgenstein and
202 Markedness and the Psychology ofNegation
Giv6n, use is not meaning. As a formal philosopher primarily conc
. h . erned
WIt mea~I~g and truth, ~rege (1919) focuses on the logical symmetry be.
tween posItIve and negatIve propositional content and correctly reiect h
·d ·fi . f . . J S t e
I entI catIon 0 negatIOn WIth the speech act of denial· for one thO
, mg, as
Frege teaches us, an embedded negative clause cannot be analyzed
se~ing or denying anything. Linguists, psychologists, and PSYChOlog: ~s.
onented philosophers (including Hegel and the neo-Hegelians Ber a y
h . . , gson
t e later WIttgenstem, Wason, Clark, Garcia, Giv6n, and Shanon) hav~
tended, understandably enough, to focus on the asymmetry in the u
. . se of
negatIves and affirmatIves. Indeed, for at least one linguist, Larcher (1900)
any negative judgme~t which ~s. not used to correct or contradict, and
~ence ha.s no af!irmatIve SUpposItIOn, must instantiate (in the words of the
tItle of hIS treatIse on Old Saxon negatives) die unechte Negation: fal
. . ~~
spunous negatIOn.
The disparity between the logical symmetry and functional asymmet
f ffi t· d . . . ry
o ~ rma Ion an . negatIOn IS mcely brought out in an insightful encyclo.
pedla en~ry by JosIah Ro~~e (1917). Royce begins with the putative one.to.
one relatIOn between posItIve and negative propositions and the fact that f,
any proposition (or action), exactly one member of the pair (x, not.x) mu~~
be taken t~ be true (or to be executed). But whence, then, the 'common
sense' feelmg that negative propositions and predicates are not on alI fou
·th ffi . rs
WI a rmatIVes?
Royce (1917; 269) determines that it is the interactions of the 'not-rela.
t~o~' with .other relat~ons which leads to the (pragmatic) asymmetry; 'In a
l~mIted umverse of dIscourse, one of two terms each of which is the nega-
tIOn of the other may have a value superior to that possessed by the other'
These 'extrinsic considerations' lead us to take one of the two contradicto~
ri~s as 'the positive, the required, the superior member' of the opposed
~aIr.. In ~ome cases: there may be 'a definable or empiricalIy obvious dis-
tmc.tI.on m value, dIgnity, or desir~bleness' between the two terms in op-
pO~ItIon, so that. on~ may be conSIdered the 'privation' of the other (e.g.,
pnme vs. nonpnme mtegers, rational vs. irrational numbers, elements vs.
nonelemental substances, winning vs. losing, acceptance vs. refusal).
In other cases, although this is not noted by Royce, the positive, un-
ma:ked member of the opposed pair will be the one which is perceptualIy
s.alIent. As Greenberg, Clark, Giv6n, and others have observed, the func-
tIo~alIy un~arked member of a pair of adjectival opposites is often more
easIly perce~ved-as welI as emotively more positive and easier to pro-
cess-than ItS marked counterpart (tall/short, big/small, wide/narrow,
high/low); cf. Giv6n 1978; 105 for additional examples and discussion.
Nor does Royce discuss, as Ayer (1952) does, the epistemological factor in
the determination of which predicate or proposition counts as negative (but
3.3 Markedness and the Asymmetry Thesis 203
1964 and Gale 1976; 21-32 on problems with Ayer's specificity
. But in the end, Royce and Ayer dissociate themselves from both
asymmetricalists and the single-minded logical symmetricalists,
down on the side of a more complex position wherein all proposi-
~_.ne:~arlve and positive alike-are inherently equal, but some speech
affirmations) are pragmaticaIIy and functionaIIy more equal than
(denials).
Bergson (1911; 289) teIIs us that negation is necessarily 'of a
.tlllP'UI!Jl"al and social nature', when Wood (1933; 421) brands negation
'infected with error and ignorance', when Wittgenstein (1953; §447)
that 'the feeling is as if the negation of a proposition had to make
in a certain sense in order to negate it' (and when Giv6n [1978; 70]
'''HIIIH'''''' that feeling by taking -p to 10gicaIIy presuppose p), when
"¥Al~S[eJ (1972a; 277) analyzes negation as a modality or propositional atti-
, they are yielding to the temptation of placing the pragmatic cart be-
the semantic horse.32
v Negatives (pace Wason 1972) are by nature no more false than affirma-
'ltives, but prototypicaIIy they are psychologicaIIy harder and more load~d,
'epistemologicaIIy less specific and hence less valuab~e, emotively.more m-
hibiting (or at least less highly valued), and pragmatIcaIIy more dIfficul~ to
use appropriately within an arbitrary discourse context. Not every negatIon
is a speaker denial, nor is every speaker denial a linguistic negation, but the
prototypic use (or-foIIowing V~lterra and A~~inucci ~979; 203-the
core) of negation is indeed as a demal of a propOSItIOn prevIously asserted,
or subscribed to, or held as plausible by, or at least mentioned by, someone
relevant in the discourse context.
Thus, while affirmation not only can but standardly does function to in-
troduce a proposition into the discourse model, negation-in its 'chief use'
(Jespersen), its 'most common use' (Ayer), its 'primary and standard use'
(Strawson), its 'straightforward use' (Kissin)-is directed at a proposition
already in the discourse model. Further, as we shall see in chapter 6, we
can isolate a METALINGUISTIC use of negation in English and other lan-
guages, specialized precisely for just this function of negative statements.
But as we shall also observe, not all instances of negation can be charac-
,
terized in this way.
Like Freud's dreamer in §1.3.2 above, for whom It is not my mother
really means 'It is my mother', the strong Asymmetricalist thesis is liter-
ally false but psychologically true.
4
-
Negation and Quantity
Not mea~s 'less than', or in other words 'between the terms qualified
~nd nothl~g'. Thus ~o! good ~eans 'inferior', but does not comprise
exce!lent . . . . ~hls IS especially obvious if we consider the ordinary
meanmg o~ n~gat1ved numerals: He does not read three books in a
year/the hdlls not two hundred feet high/his income is not £200
a year ...-all these expressions mean less than three, etc.
But the same expression may also exceptionally mean 'more than'
only the word following not then has to be strongly expressed . . : ,
and th.en ~he .whol~ c?mbinat!on has generally to be followed by a more
exact mdlCatlOn: his mcome IS not two hundred a year but at least thr
hundred/not once, but two or three times, etc.' ee
(Jespersen 1924: 325- 26)
As I men~ione~ in ~hapter ~, the locus classicus of Quantity (or Q-based)
conversatIOnal Imphcature 10 natural language is provided by the phenome-
non o.f s~alar predication. In this chapter, I shall explore the structure of
q~antItatIve scales and investigate their interaction with negation. I begin
wIth the range of cases touched on in the epigraph from Jespersen.
For.J~spersen, ~exal (~entential) .negation ordinarily yields contradictory
OPPOSItIO~ (Jo~n IS commg/John IS not coming), while special (constitu-
ent) neg~tIOn YIelds. contr~y negation (John is happy/John is unhappy).
But appl~ed to certaI~ predIcates, those denoting scalar or gradable values
(cf. Sap~r 1944; Bohnger 1972; Horn 1972, 1973; Ducrot 1972, 1973;
~auconmer 1975a, 1975b, 1976; Gazdar 1979a; Hirschberg 1985), nega-
tIOn appears to take on a special value.
Jespers~n's first observation in the passage just cited is that, given a grad-
able pr~dI~ate P, the corresponding negative predication is understood
as pr~~Icat1Og the value 'less than P' of its subject. Translated into truth-
condItIOnal terms,. Jespersen's ~osition results in the claim that (la) and
(lb) m~y both be Judged false If Tolstoy's masterpiece is excellent, hence
eXclud10g both good and not good (inferior).
(1) a. War and Peace is a good book.
b. War and Peace is not a good book.
Simil~ly, (2a, b) may both fail to be true in a case where the subject in
questIOn reads four or forty books in a year.
204
4.1 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety I 205
(2) a. He reads three books in a year.
b. He does not read three books in a year.
We are, of course, familiar with affirmative/negative pairs in contrary
opposition; some of these pairs of mediate contraries go back to Aristotle:
(3) a. She is happy.
b. She is unhappy.
(4) a. All men are just.
b. No men are just.
(5) a. I want to leave.
b. I don't want to leave. (on neg-raised understanding; cf. §3.3,
§5.2)
But in each of these cases, the failure of the Law of Excluded Middle is
indeed linked to an unexcluded middle, a context in which the opposed
terms permit mediation by a possible third term falling in between the op-
posites. In the oppositions of (1) and (2), however, we seem to be dealing
instead with an excluded nonmiddle.
Does the negation of a scalar term really yield neither contradictory nor
contrary opposition, as maintained by Jespersen, Tasmowski-De Ryck
(1972: 172), and others? What is the structure of opposition defined by
positive and negative scalar predications? What problems are presented by
the existence of the exceptional and linguistically marked variety of nega-
tion Jespersen refers to in the second paragraph of the cited passage, and
how are these problems to be dealt with in a unified (or nonunified) theory
of natural language negation? While I shall begin to address these ques-
tions in the present chapter, the search for answers will carry me through
chapters 5 and 6 as well.
4.1 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety I
Any investigation of how negation interacts with scalar predicates (as rep-
resented by such predicate terms as the good, three, or two hundred of the
Jespersen epigraph) presupposes an analysis of scalar predication itself.
We cannot determine whether (6a, b)
(6) a. a is good.
b. a is not good.
are contradictory opposites, contrary opposites, or neither or the two, until
we decide what sort of meaning-or at least what sort of truth condi-
tions-we are to assign to (6a) and (6b).
206 Negation and Quantity
Let us begin by positing the following three assumptions:
(7) A1: a is a singular term whose referent exists and is in the do-
main of the evaluative predicate (Le., (6a) and (6b) are
not category mistakes or otherwise vacuous).
A2: We know the necessary and sufficient conditions for situ-
ating a on the evaluative scale (Le., we know when a is
excellent, when a is mediocre, and so on).
A3: We know which context of evaluation (situation, state of
affairs) obtains (i.e., we know whether in the actual con-
text of utterance a is or is not excellent, mediocre, and
so on).
Against the background of these assumptions, we can distinguish at least
four distinct contexts or situations in which (6a, b) might be uttered, C1-C4
;
by (A3) we can agree on which context we are in.
(8) C1: a is in fact excellent.
C2: a is in fact good but not excellent.
C3: a is in fact mediocre (not as good as 'good' but better than
'bad').
C4: a is in fact bad ('inferior').
It is, I trust, noncontroversial that (6a) is true if we are in C2 and false if we
are in either C3 or C4. By the same token, (6b) is clearly true in C3 or C4
and
false in C2 •
1
But what happens when we carry our two statements into the
world of C1? Is (6a) true? False? True but misleading? Neither true nor
false? And what of (6b)? Let me delimit the range of possible answers to
these questions:
(9) a. (6a) is false in CI> and (6b) true.
b. (6a) and (6b) are both false in C1•
b'. (6a) is false in C1, and (6b) is false as well on its ordinary
interpretation, but (6b) allows a second, extraordinary
reading, on which it is true in C1•
c. (6a) is true (or true but misleading) in C1, and (6b) false.
c'. (6a) is true but misleading in C1; (6b) as normally under-
stood is false in C1• If (6b) is assigned the appropriate
intonation contour, appropriately grounded in the dis-
course context, and followed by 'a more exact indication'
(a la Jespersen), it may be understood as indirectly con-
veying a true proposition; this understanding is associated
with the negative operator, not with the scalar predicate
per se.
4.1 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety 1
d. (6a) is lexically ambiguous; on reading (1) good means
'good but not excellent', and (6a) is false in C1, while
207
on reading (2) good means 'at least good', 'good if not
excellent', and (6a) is true in C1• (6b) is ambiguous in the
same way, and yields the corresponding (Le., opposite)
truth values.
e. (6a) and (6b) are not lexically or semantically ambiguous,
but-because of the effect of the scalar predicate good-
each is logically or propositionally ambiguous, capable of
expressing one proposition which is true and another
which is false.
Position (9a), on which good is invariably read as excluding excellent,
represents an expositionally useful but (I believe) historically straw pro-
posal. Position (9b), in the form of its refined variant (9b'), is adopted by
Jespersen (1917, 1924); it is on this view that (6a, b) do not (or do not
ordinarily) qualify as contradictory or contrary opposites. Position (9c) is
derivable from observations by De Morgan (1847), Mill (1867), and espe-
cially Grice (1961, 1975); it is defended by Horn (1972, 1973), Fauconnier
(1975a, 1975b), Gazdar (1979a, 1979b), Cornulier (1984), and Hirschberg
(1985). The closely related (9c') is supported in Horn 1984a, 1985, and in
the following pages (see especially chapter 6). Position (9d) is the view
maintained in Lehrer and Lehrer 1982, to which I shall return below. A
parallel ambiguist line on other scalar operators is adopted by Aristotle for
possible but not some, by Hamilton (1860) for some, by Smith (1970) and
LObner (1985) for the cardinals, and by Klein (1980) and Anscombre and
Ducrot (1978) for the equative (as X as) construction. A view assimilable
to (9d) is also supported in the earlier papers by practitioners of what I have
elsewhere (Horn 1984a) called the London School of Parsimony: cf. Kemp-
son 1979,1980; Cormack 1980; Burton-Roberts 1984. The London School
has since moved into the position defined by (ge); see especially Carston
1985a, 1985b, and Kempson 1986.
One essential feature shared by all these approaches except that of(9b, b')
is that once we assign a truth-conditional meaning to (6a)-one which may
(by (9a, c, c'» or may not (by (9d, e» constitute its sole truth-conditional
meaning-we can take (6b) to (normally) express the contradictory oppo-
site of (6a). But the differences among the positions outweigh this one simi-
larity. It should be borne in mind that all these incompatible approaches to
positive and negative scalar predications are designed to account for the
same set of intuitions: Under certain conditions (6a) conveys that context
C2 is known to hold, while under other conditions it conveys that either C2
orCI holds. Under certain conditions (6b) denies that either C2 orC I holds,
208 Negation and Quantity
while under other conditions (6b)-or a longer variant of it-simply de-
nies that C2 holds. But how are these intuitions to be accommodated in a
theory of natural language semantics and pragmatics? What are the truth
(or satisfaction) conditions, implicatures (conventional or conversational),
and/or presuppositions (logical or pragmatic) we must adopt if we are to
regiment these intuitions into a coherent, plausible, natural, and maximally
simple account of (6a, b) and similar oppositions? In this chapter, I shall
concentrate on developing the program suggested by position (9c), while
touching on its various competitors along the way.
4.1.1 Merry Merry Subcontrary, How Does Your Logic Go?
The relation of good to excellent is parallel to that of some to all, or of
possible to necessary; in each case, one membe~ of the pair-the we~er
element (good, some, possible)-appears to be simultaneously compatible
and incompatible with its stronger counterpart (excellent, all, necessary).
In recognizing this parallel and its linguistic correlates to be explored be-
low, we can affirm that the problem of scalar operators has its historical
roots in the logic of subcontrariety, to which I now turn.
It will be recalled that Aristotle establishes four basic logical types for
general statements,
(10) A: All men are mortal.
I: Some men are white.
E: No men are omnipotent.
0: Not all men are just. (Some men are not just.)
which are interrelated by several distinct types of opposition. If the four
statement types are realized with the same subject and predicate terms, for
example, in that canonical example of the ancients, {All! Sor:ze/No/N~t
all} pleasure is good, these oppositions can be mapped out via the tradi-
tional Square of (11), based on the commentaries of Apule~us and Boet~ius
(see chapter I; classes are assumed to be nonempty, to aVOid the comphca-
tions addressed in §1.1.3).
(11) A II contraries • E
'Il
tI>,(]i'P
I of subcontraries • 0
some Sis/are P not all Sis/are P
4.1 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety 1 209
The key terms are understood as indicated in (12); cf. §1.1 for details.
(12) a. Corresponding A and E statements are CONTRARIES and can-
not be simultaneously true (though they may be simulta-
neously false).
b. Corresponding A and 0, and I and E, statements are CON-
TRADICTORIES; members of each pair cannot be simulta-
neously true or simultaneously false.
c. An I statement is the SUBALTERN of its corresponding A
statement (and 0 of E); the subaltern is unilaterally en-
tailed by its corresponding superaltern.
d. Corresponding I and 0 statements are SUBCONTRARIES and
cannot be simultaneously false (though they may be simul-
taneously t:rue).
The relation I am concerned with in this chapter is (12d), subcontrariety.
As we saw in the earlier discussion, the members of an assertoric subcon-
trary opposition-the particular affirmative (Some pleasure is good) and
particular negative (Some pleasure is not good)-Aristotle holds to be
'only verbally opposed' (Pr. An. 63b27). But while these two statement
types are not strictly speaking in opposition (since they may both be true in
a given context and hence, unlike Aristotle's true oppositions, do not obey
the Law of Contradiction), they are nevertheless logically distinct and rhe-
torically contrastive within the classical system, as noted by Joseph (1916:
229-30).2 Crucially, the I statement is compatible with its superaltern A,
but not with its contradictory E, while the 0 statement is compatible with
its superaltern E, but not with its contradictory A. More graphically, Some
men are mortal is true, given that all men are mortal, and Some men are
not omnipotent (Not all men are omnipotent) is true, given that no men are
omnipotent.
But when the scene shifts to the modals, the analysis shifts as well. As
we have seen, Aristotle posits an ambiguity for possible (endekhomenon,
dunaton), the modal operator corresponding to the particular affirmative
(I-type) assertoric of the southwest corner of the Square. One-sided possi-
bility (at least possible), like Some S is P, is compatible with its superaltern,
that is, necessity. But two-sided possibility (possible but not necessary, nei-
ther necessary nor impossible) is incompatible with necessity and logically
equivalent (via complementary conversion) to its 0 subcontrary alternant.
Translated into modern terms, Aristotle tacitly advocates an asymmetry
between the quantificational values (all, some, none) and their modal ana-
logues (necessary, possible, impossible): Some S is P is unambiguous and
true in a C1 context where all S is in fact P, while S is possibly P (S may be
P, It is possiblefor S to be P) is ambiguous between its one-sided and two-
210 Negation and Quantity
sided readings, these readings being, respectively, true and false in a C1
context (in which S is necessarily P).
Essentially, then, Aristotle adopts Position (9c) for some and (9d) for
possible. But this mixed approach ignores the important logical and lin-
guistic parallels between the quantificational and modal notions, the most
central of which is definitional: Aristotle himself recognizes an intimate
connection between the necessary and that which is always the case, on the
one hand, and between the possible and that which is sometimes the case,
on the other (cf. Hintikka 1973, Waterlow 1982, for discussion). It was
apparently Leibniz who first identified necessary truth with truth in all pos-
sible worlds; the possible is that which is true in some possible worlds, and
the impossible in none. This thread was picked up by De Morgan (see
below), Russell, Carnap, and proponents of possible-world semantics (cf.
von Wright 1951: 19). We might even say that a proposition is possible but
not necessary-bilaterally possible-if it obtains in some but not all pos-
sible worlds. This semantic identification is a springboard for a wide range
of other logical and linguistic signals of the kinship between some and pos-
sible (and between all and necessary); cf. Horn 1972: §2.3 for an in-
exhaustive inventory. By severing the treatment of possible from that of
some, Aristotle makes it (somewhat) impossible to capture this parallel.
On the standard logical account of the subcontraries, particularity and
possibility are treated as parallel and unambiguous, but only at the cost of
ignoring the intuition that led Aristotle to the formulation of complemen-
tary conversion (possible [p] <--> possible [-pD. Just as Some S {is/ are} P
has been regarded (since Aristotle) as true so long as at least one S is P, so
too S may be P or It is possiblefor S to be P has been taken (since the early
commentator Theophrastus) to be true provided it is at least possible for S
to be P; some is COMPOSSIBLE, mutually consistent, with all, and possible
with necessary. The 'one-sided' versions of both operators have thus won
the day, while their 'two-sided' competitors (some but not all, possible but
not necessary) have been relegated to the role of secondary, composite
operators, when they are meptioned at all. This approach has proved to be
especially compelling for the general assertoric statements, where a mil-
lennium of logicians have followed Avicenna's l,ead: 'If you say "some
men are so-and-so", it is not necessary that some others are not so-and-so.
If the proposition is about all, it is also about some' (Avicenna 1971 :24).
In the mid-nineteenth century, Sir William Hamilton of Edinburgh re-
vived the debate over the proper treatment ofthe subcontraries. Distinguish-
ing the INDEFINITE (one-sided) some from the SEMIDEFINITE (two-sided)
some, Hamilton regarded the latter as basic: 'some, if not otherwise quali-
fied, means some only-this by presumption'(Hamilton 1860:254).3 On
this reading of the particular, the two statements Some men are learned and
4.1 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety I 211
Some men are not learned are not only (as for Aristotle) compossible,
given that their conjunction is consistent, but logically indistinct. The pur-
ported opposition between the two subcontraries, charged Hamilton (1860:
261), was 'only laid down from a love of symmetry, in order to make out
the opposition of all the corners in the square of opposition' .
Unfortunately, the Edinburgh Aristotle was as inconsistent in wielding
his two somes as was his Greek counterpart with his two possibles. This
inconsistency results in the ultimate incoherence of Hamilton's entire logi-
cal system, as his archrival De Morgan was quick to observe. While ac-
knowledging the existence (at least in 'common language') of Hamilton's
'presumption' whereby some conveys not all (some not), De Morgan
(1847) defends the standard practice of relegating this inference to an ex-
tralogical domain:
In common conversation the affirmation of a part is meant to im-
ply the denial of the remainder. Thus, by 'some of the apples are
ripe', it is always intended to signify that some are not ripe.
(De Morgan 1847 :4)
Some, in logic, means one or more, it may be all. He who says
that some are, is not to be held to mean the rest are not. 'Some
men breathe' . . . would be held false in common language
[which] usually adopts the complex particular proposition and im-
plies that some are not in saying that some are. (p.56)
Common language makes a certain conventional approach to defi-
niteness, which has been thrown away in works of logic. 'Some'
usually means a rather small fraction of the whole; a larger frac-
tion would be expressed by 'a good many'; and somewhat more
than half by 'most'; while a still larger proportion would be 'a
great majority' or 'nearly all'. (p. 58)
In earlier studies (Horn 1972, 1973), I have reviewed the post-Aristo-
telian fate of the subcontraries and argued that some, possible, and related
operators are unilateral or lower-bounded by their logical form, but may
become bilateral in conveyed meaning through the accretion of an upper-
bounding conversational implicatum. The relevant principle determining
this implicatum is Grice's first submaxim of Quantity, my Q principle: the
dictum that the speaker is to provide the addressee with the strongest rele-
vant information available.
If I know that all men are mortal, and this information is relevant to you,
I mislead you in saying (only) that some are, although (13a) expresses a
true proposition.
212 Negation and Quantity
(13) a. Some men are mortal.
b. It is possible that 2 + 2 = 4.
Similarly, (13b) is not ambiguous between a unilateral sense on which it is
true and a bilateral sense on which it is false, contra Aristotle and Burton-
Roberts (1984). Rather it too is simply a true statement whose utterance
implicates something false, that is, that (for all I know) it's not necessarily
true (or, for all I know, true at all) that 2 + 2 = 4.
The same principle that renders a relatively weak assertion like (13a, b)
misleading when the speaker knows that a stronger proposition obtains can
also be EXPLOITED, in Grice's sense, to generate conversational implicata.
If I tell you that some of the dinner guests are smokers, and if it's relevant
to you whether all of them are smokers, and if I can be expected to know,
for each guest, whether or not slhe is a smoker, then our mutual awareness
of the Maxim of Quantity licenses the inference that not all of them are
smokers. In the same way, my informing you that I may finish my book by
2001 yields the nonlogical inference that (for all I know) I may not finish it
by 2001. Thus, S may be P does mean that S is P is at least possible, as the
unilateralists maintain, but it is standardly used to convey that S is P is only
possible (i.e., not known to be necessary or actual), as the bilateralist~ point
out. Nor does some mean 'some only', 'some but not all' (pace HamIlton),
although it may be-and generally is-used in natural discourse to convey
this two-sided or semidefinite understanding. The symmetrical inference
between the southwest and southeast corners of the Square is thus valid,
not as a logical or semantic principle, but as a context-dependent, gener-
alized conversational implicature. (Cf. Grice 1975; Horn 1972, 1973, for
details.)
The Gricean line on the subcontraries traces back (at least) to Mill:
IfI say to anyone, 'I saw some of your children to-day', he might
be justified in inferring that I did not see them all, not because the
words mean it, but because, if I had seen them all, it is most likely
that I should have said so: even though this cannot be presumed
unless it is presupposed that I must have known whether the chil-
dren I saw were all or not. (Mill 1867: 501)
In this proto-Gricean argument, Mill is careful to provide an epistemic
rider on quantity-based inferences: the use of a weaker predicate suggests
(implicates) that for all the speaker knows, the stronger predicate on the
same scale could not have been substituted salva veritate.
The Q principle responsible for Mill's inference is first explicitly formu-
lated by Strawson (crediting the essential idea to 'Mr H. P. Grice') as t~e
'general rule of linguistic conduct' that 'one should not make the (lOgl-
4.1 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety I 213
lesser, when one could truthfully (and with equal or greater clarity)
the greater claim' (Strawson 1952:178-79). Grice's own 'first shot'
this principle, offered within his program for a causal theory of percep-
(1961: 132), is the dictum that 'one should not make a weaker state-
rather than a stronger one unless there is a good reason for so doing'.
years later, in his William James lectures, Grice reformulated this rule
as the first submaxim ofQuantity-'Make your contribution as informative
as is required (for the current purposes of the exchange)' (1975 :45)-and
situated it within a general program for deriving nonlogical inferences
within a conversational context.
Given this independently motivated principle of linguistic (and, as Grice
notes, nonlinguistic) interchange, no special logical treatment of the in-
ference from some to not all (some not) is required-which is just as well,
since the context dependence and epistemic qualification associated with
this inference would vitiate a logical treatment in any case. But this fact has
not deterred others from 'adopting into logic', as Mill (1867) charged
Hamilton with seeking to do, 'a mere sous-entendu of common conversa-
tion in its most unprecise form'.4 Thus, Kuroda (1977:97-98) posits an
'every-day reading' of (14a), which is 'assumed to entail' (14b), so that
(14a, b) come out 'logically equivalent'.
(14) a. Some animals are white.
b. Some animals are not white.
Kuroda is not dissuaded from this 'logical equivalence' by his recognition
that on its everyday reading (14a) cannot serve as the contradictory of No
animals are white, since both these propositions would be false if all ani-
mals are white.
A similar semantic account of both assertoric and modal subcontrary
pairs is offered by Morpurgo-Tagliabue (1981 :502):
The 3x, the 'possible', may, to some extent, come nearer and
nearer to the 'all (x)" the 'necessary', without ever reaching it,
like Achilles and the tortoise. . . . It is excluded that while saying
'not-all' (0) one could mean 'nobody' and saying 'not-nobody'
(I) one could mean 'all'.... If I say 'not all people are clever'
(0), this means that there are some who are stupid.
The Hamiltonian identification of some with not all is reiterated by Jesper-
sen (1917, 1924) and Collinson (1937), as we shall see below.
My pragmatic account of the subcontrary relation generalizes to all rela-
tively weak scalar operators, including cardinal numbers and evaluative or
gradable adjectives like good (cf. (6a». The Gricean story proceeds in the
same way in each case. Let us take as an instance my assertion of the sen-
214 Negation and Quantity
. (15a): why does this statement normally convey the prop?sition in
tence 10 . . ? A d why does It seem to
(15b) if this proposition is not part of Its meamng. n
exclude (15c)?
(15) a. Pat has three children.
b. Pat has exactly three children.
c. Pat has four children.
The argument from (15a) to (15b) proceeds as follows:
(16) Cardinals like 3 are lower-bounded by thei.r liter~ or con-
I. ventional meaning; hence (15a) means (IS true Iff) Pat
has at least three children.
ii. There is a stronger statement than (15a), that is, (15c), ~uch
that the latter unilaterally entails the former but not VIce
versa. (Actually, there are in fact infinitely many such
stronger statements.)
iii. Given Q, if I know or believe that Pat has (at least) four
children, and that it would be relevant to you to know
this fact, it would be misleading for me to tell you that he
has three children.
iv. You are prepared to assume that I am abiding.by t~e Co-
operative Principle and its component maXIms, mc~ud­
. Q. I know this as well, and you know I know It.
109 " I· d·
Thus, you take me to be observing Q unless 10 lcate
otherwise.
v. Therefore, you infer that the reason.I chose n?t t~ express
the stronger proposition in (15c) IS that I dldn t know for
a fact that it was true. .
VI. You infer that for all I know (15c) is false, that IS, that Pat
has fewer than four children. .
.. If, in addition, you assume that I know how m.any c~Ildren
Vll. d ~
Pat has, you can infer that I know (~n am 10 Orml~g
you) that Pat has fewer than four chIldren; hence (gIven
(i» that (15b) is in fact the case, Pat has exactly three
children.
Instantiations of this argument schema appear in Grice 1975, 1978; G~~:
1979a. Levinson 1983; and Hirschberg 1985, although ~azdar an.~ Le
son s;ek (incorrectly, in my view~ to ~ssimil~te steps (VI) and (vn) of the
schema in their account of scalar Imphcature.. _
Since the upper bounding of the original statement 10 (15a) ~o th~.co~s
ve ed message in (15b) is mediated by principles whose .appl.lcablhty 1
y d d t I can block cancel or suspend the ImplIcature (by
context- epen en , " th the im-
uttering (15a) in a linguistic or extralinguistic context at removes
4.1 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety I 215
plicatum), or I can reinforce it (and thereby assert or entail, rather than
merely implicate, the upper bound). Examples of linguistic devices for
canceling and reinforcing the implicatum are illustrated in (17) and (18),
respectively (see Horn 1972: chapter 1 for details and examples).
(17) Pat has at least three children.
(18)
three children and possibly four.
three children and for all I know four.
three children if not four.
three or more children.
three or even four children.
three, indeed four children.
not just three but (in fact) four children.
Pat haS{eXactlYthree children. }
three and only three children. .
three children but not four.
These constructions surfaced earlier in the debate between the arch-
bilateralist Hamilton and his unilateralist foes. Hamilton himself seems to
have recognized the contextual, pragmatic nature of his upper-bounding
'presumption', without, however, realizing the import of this fact: 'We
ought to be able to say some at least when we do not know, and can-
not, therefore, say determinately either that some only or that all is true'
(Hamilton 1860: 254). If some really meant, rather than implicating, 'some
only', some at least would be a contradiction. Furthermore, the radical bi-
lateralist would predict that expressions like some but not all, and indeed
some only or only some (along with the examples of (18», would be se-
mantically redundant, which they clearly are not.
In his 1906 Logic, Keynes defends the standard one-sided some. His
evidence includes the argument that in a situation in which the speaker's
knowledge is incomplete, if all the Ss slhe knows about are P, slhe can't
use either 'all Ss are P' or-with Hamilton's bilateral (only) some-'some
Ss are P': 'The only solution ... is to say that all or some S's are P's. The
complexity that this would introduce is obvious' (Keynes 1906: 202-3).
Ofcourse speakers who find themselves in such an epistemically imperfect
state often do resort precisely to this 'obvious complexity': Some or all of
the dinner guests are nonsmokers, Some, if not all, men are irrational
animals.
Despite his unilateralist stance, Keynes (p. 200) concedes that many lo-
gicians 'have not recognized the pitfalls surrounding the use of some.
Many passages might be quoted in which they distinctly adopt the mean-
ing-some, but not all'. To which Jespersen (1924:324) retorts, 'in the
name of common sense', with the rhetorical question: 'Why do logicians
216 Negation and Quantity
dig such pitfalls for their fellow-logicians to tumble into by using ordinary
words in abnormal meanings?' Like his forbears Aristotle, Hamilton, and
the pitfallen logicians chastised by Keynes, Jespersen fails to recognize
that meaning, in the broad sense, may be determined not only by rules of
logical form (meaning "proper") but also by pragmatic rules which deter-
mine the use of an expression within a context of utterance. We can rescue
the baby of Aristotelian and Hamiltonian insight into the function of the
subcontraries in ordinary language from the bathwater of logical inconsis-
tency by accepting the logical status of the subaltern inference (all ~
some, necessary ~ possible), while demoting the subcontrary conversions
(some (--> some not/not all, possible (--> possible not/not necessary) into a
sous-entendu or context-dependent generalized conversational implicature.
On the Mill-Grice program, the oddness of the assertions in (19),
(19) Some men are mortal.
It is possible that 2 + 2 = 4.
There are seven planets.
War and Peace is a good book.
as well as the systematic "ambiguity" of good, some, possible, the car-
dinals, and other weak-scalar values, will receive a pragmatic rather than
strictly semantic explanation.
Before expanding on this explanation, which involves an elaboration of
the notion of the quantitative scale defined by logical entailment and of the
Q(uantity)-based implicatures defined off such scales, I shall offer a brief
history of the relations between negation and the logical operators of the
Square of Opposition.
4.2 Negation and the Three-cornered Square
Jespersen (1917: chapter 8; 1924:324-25) regiments the logical operators
into a TRIPARTlTlON defined by a set ofequivalence rules. He begins (1917:
86) with the quantificational values:
(21) A: all everything
B: some/a something
C: none/no nothing
everybody always
somebody sometimes
nobody never
everywhere
somewhere
nowhere
and later (pp. 92-93) extends the tripartition to the modal and deontic
(obligation- and permission-based) categories, which he takes to constitute
'special instances' of the original values:
(22) A: necessity
B: possibility
C: impossibility
must!need
can/may
cannot
command
permission
prohibition
must
may
must not!may not
4.2 Negation and the Three-Cornered Square 217
Other candidates for the tripartition, not dealt with by Jespersen, are the
epistemic adjectives (certain, possible, impossible) and the deontic causa-
tives (require, permit/allow,forbid/bar).
For each case in (21) and (22), the opposed values are interdefinable in
accordance with a set of proposed equivalences which appear (along with
some of Jespersen's instantiations) in (23):
(23) i. ~A = B (not all = some, something; not always = some-
times; not necessary = possible)
ii. ~C = B (not/or nothing = 'to good purpose'; Latin non-
nemo, non-nulli, non numquam [lit., 'not nobody/none/
never'] = 'somebody, some, sometimes'; not impossible
= possible)
Ill. A ... ~ = C (everybody was unkind = 'nobody was
kind'; necessarily not = impossible) [the all ... not
construction is discussed in §4.3 below]
iv. C ... ~ = A (nobody was unkind = 'everybody was
kind'; Latin nemo non vidit [lit., 'nobody doesn't see'] =
'everybody sees'; impossible not = necessary; cannot
but = 'must'; Latin non potest non amare [lit., 'can't
not love'] = 'must love')
Based on these laws, Jespersen (1917: 91-92) proposes the following gen-
eralization: 'When the absolute notion (A or C) is mentioned first, the
absolute element prevails, and the result is the contrary notion [ef. (23iii,
iv)]. If on the other hand, not comes first, it negatives the absolute ele-
ment, and the result is the intermediate [B] relative [cf. (23i, ii)]'.
From the perspective of the standard predicate calculus, the interdefina-
bility of B and C stipulated in (23ii) reflects the Law of Double Negation.
Analyzing the morphologically negative C forms (e.g., nobody, impos-
sible) as the negation of the corresponding B forms (not somebody, not
possible), we are left with the truism that ~(~B), the negation ofthe nega-
tion of a B operator, yields the B operator itself.6 Furthermore, the decom-
position of C into ~B reduces Jespersen's twin equivalences in (23iii, iv)
reproduced in (24), to the familiar logical laws of quantificational and
modal logic given in (25) and (26), respectively:
(24) A = ~B ... ~
B = ~A ... ~
~A = B ... ~
~B = A ... ~
(25) Vx<l> ~ ~3x~<I>
3x<l> ~ ~Vx~<I>
~Vx<l> ~ 3x~<I>
~3x<l> ~ Vx~<I>
(26) 0<1> ~ ~<>~<I>
<><1> ~ ~O~<I>
~O<l> ~ <>~<I>
~<><I> ~ O~<I>
For any operator P, let us (following Lobner 1985) call ~P its OUTER
NEGATION and P~ its INNER NEGATION. Then the interdefinability of a cor-
responding pair of A and B operators, as reflected in (24)-(26), amounts to
218 Negation and Quantity
the principle that either member of such a pair may be defined as the outer
negation of the other's inner negation; equivalently, the outer negation of
either member (the A or B item from any of the columns of Jespersen's
extended tripartition) is identical to the inner negation of the other.
Any two operators A and B which are interdefinable in this way, and
which differ in that any simple, unembedded sentence containing A uni-
laterally entails the corresponding sentence containing B-All Ss are P ~
Some Ss are P; Necessarily (p) ~ Possibly (p)-are known as DUALS.
Thus, on a standard account of the quantificational and modal operators,
(all, some) is a pair of duals, as is (necessary, possible). But for Jespersen,
no such dualism can exist.
The key, once again, lies in the analysis of the subcontraries. For all
... to entail some . .. (in non-null sets) or for necessary . .. to entail
possible. . . ,the unilateral definition of the B terms as subalterns must be
adopted. This step Jespersen is clearly unwilling to take; on the contrary,
he explicitly defines some-along with the other 'intermediate' B values-
bilaterally, 'in the ordinary meaning it has in natural speech [some but not
all] and not in the meaning logicians sometimes give it, in which it is the
positive counterpart of no (nothing) and thus includes the possibility of all'
(1924: 324). Whence the "equivalences" of (23i): not all = something,
not necessary = possible. Where Aristotle (sometimes) interprets possible
bilaterally, and Hamilton (usually) takes some bilaterally, Jespersen consis-
tently treats both operators as instances of Category B, which is (it would
appear) always two-sided.7
One striking result of Jespersen's adoption of the bilateral Bs, as defined
by (23i), inheres in the tripartition itself. In the classical Square of Opposi-
tion (cf. (11) above), the four opposed vertices are defined by the laws in
(12); note'especially (12c), the principle of subalternation. The paired sub-
contraries (some /some not, possible/possible not) remain distinct through
the relation of each to its own superaltern (all! none, necessary/ impos-
sible). But Jespersen's bilateral subcontraries, with no subalternation (en-
tailment) relation to support them, collapse into each other. The four
corners of the post-Aristotelian Square map onto the three points of the
tripartition, which must evidently be assigned a triangular figure whose
vertices are all linked by contrariety:
(27) A • contraries ~ C
" /
(>0 ' ~"
~~ <.-§.~
"'.-c' ~
.I~s' cP
~/
B
4.2 Negation and the Three-Cornered Square 219
Crucially, the apex (or nadir) of the Triangle of Opposition, Jespersen's B,
corresponds neither to the I nor the 0 vertex of the traditional Square, but
rather to their conjunction.
This point is clearly recognized by De Morgan, Writing sixty years be-
fore Jespersen, he warns that the TRICHOTOMY apparently possible to one
with complete knowledge must yield, in a logic based on the imperfectly
epistemic human condition, to the classical four-way opposition (with
.qualitative and quantitative axes) mapped out in the Square:
There are three ways in which one extent may be related to an-
other , .. : they are, complete inclusion, partial inclusion with
partial exclusion, and complete exclusion. This trichotomy would
have ruled the forms of logic, if human knowledge had been more
definite.... As it is, we know well the grounds on which predi-
cation is not a trichotomy, but two separate dichotomies....
Must be, may be, cannot be, are the great distinctions of ontol-
ogy: necessity, contingency, impossibility. This was clearly seen
by the logicians. But it was not so clearly seen that this mode of
predication tallies, not with the four ordinary forms A, E, I, 0,
but with the three forms A, (01), E. As in the following:-Every
X is Y, which is the consequence of necessity; Some XS are Ys and
some are not, which is the consequence of contingency; and No X
is Y, which is the consequence of impossibility.
(De Morgan 1858: 121)
Thus, as De Morgan saw, when contingency or possibility is bilateral, it
represents (like tpe some of Hamilton and Jespersen) a complex rather than
simple operator. The simple notion of possibility, corresponding to the
classical some, has no negative component in logical form.
Leaving aside the controversial and ultimately untenable bilateralist
principle (23i), the interdefinability of the operators predicted by Jesper-
sen's other three equivalences (23ii-iv) is freely exploited by natural lan-
guages, as even a quick survey of the literature amply attests. Pott (1859:
359-60) offers some of the same Latin examples as Jespersen-nonnulli
= aliquot (~C = B) vs. nulli non = omnes (C ... ~ = A)-and pro-
vides a table which directly anticipates Jespersen's Tripartition.8
The interdefinability of the modals, in particular, is reflected in a wide
variety of doubly negated periphrastic expressions, as well as the scope
distinctions predicted by Jespersen's generalization. In Mandarin Chinese,
for example (Chao 1955), negation may precede the modal (bu idinq 'not
necessarily', bu neng lai 'not able to come'), follow the modal (idinq bu
'certainly not', neng bu lai 'able not to come'), or both precede and follow
220 Negation and Quantity
the modal (bu neng bu lai 'cannot but come').9 In Yoruba (BanjQ 1974) the
same facts obtain but the outer and inner negations differ morphologically:
(28) a. Ade Ie korin. 'Ade may/can sing' [<>p]
b. Ade ko Ie korin. 'Ade cannot sing' [~<>p]
c. Ade Ie rna korin. 'Ade may [not sing]' [<>~p] ~
[~Dp]
d. Ade ko Ie rna korin. 'Ade can't not sing' [~<>~p]
~ [Dp]
Similar instances of 'can't not' for 'must' are cited by Harries (1973):
(28') German: Hans kann nicht
den Mann nicht hassen.
Hungarian: John nem tudta
nem szeretni at.
Latin: Non possum non
amare.
'Hans can't not (must) hate the
man'
'John couldn't not (had to) love
her'
'I can't not (must) love'
Russian: Ja ne mog ne dat' 'I couldn't not (had to) reward
emu nagradu. him'
Nor is Yoruba the only language to exploit the interdefinability of the
modal duals to eliminate one of the two operators, generally the A (ne-
cessity) operator. The standard expression for 'must' in Malagasy is tsy
maintsy (lit., 'not able not'), while that in Basque is ezin bertze (lit., 'im-
possible not').10
As we have seen, the four-way opposition embodied in the Square and
the three-way contrast reflected in the Tripartition apply to the notions of
the quantificational, modal, and deontic systems. But not to these alone;
Peter of Spain 'offers a medieval version of the table of equivalences which
includes the suppletive forms for quantifiers restricted to domains of two.
Peter's equivalences (from the Summulae Logicales, Tractatus 1; cf. Mul-
lally 1945: lxxi) can be mapped onto the traditional Square as in (29):
(29) no one not: every no one: every not
not anyone not: all not anyone: no one
neither not: both not one of: neither
A-----------E
-------------------0
not no one: some not every: some not
4.2 Negation and the Three-Cornered Square 221
These equivalences presuppose a treatment of quantifiers over two-object
domains in which both and neither are the contrary universals, with one
(of the two) as the subaltern of the former and the contradictory of the
latter. As Collinson (1937: 94) puts it, 'both is the all of two'. Within the
tripartite model, both, one (of the two), and neither fall under Jespersen's
A, B, and C categories, respectively. The fourth corner of the Square, or-
phaned by Jespersen, would be satisfied by not both (corresponding to the
general-domain not every, not all).
This very identification is in fact made in Sapir's quadripartite version of
Jespersen's table. With characteristic insight, Sapir (1930:21) opts for a
solution midway between the classical Square and the Jespersenian Tri-
angle. His particular subcontraries are logically neither strictly bilateral
nor absolutely unilateral:
'Not everybody came' does not mean 'some came', which is im-
plied, but'some did not come'. Logically, the negated totalizer
[not every] should include the totalized negative, i.e., opposite or
contrary [none], as a possibility, but ordinarily this interpretation
is excluded and the totalized negative (contrary) is expressed by
negating the corresponding unitizer or non-specifying selective
[not {one/any/a} ...].
Sapir adopts neither the orthodox logical approach (in which some = at
least one) nor the revisionist Hamiltonian-Jespersenian line (in which some
= not every), foreshadowing instead the implicature-based theory outlined
above; note especially his use of is implied (vs. means) and of the qualifier
ordinarily, suggesting the essential role of the context in licensing the im-
plication (or implicature) in question.
Sapir's own program for the quantity expressions (1930: 22, reproduced
in (30» builds in the two-object-domain operators, as well as the standard
quantifiers and quantificational adverbs; he does not, however, extend his
account to the modals.
(30)
Totalized
Positive Negated Negated Negative
Totalizer Totalizer Partial Unitizer (contrary)
all the men not all the some of not one man no men
men the men not a man none of
not any of the men
the men
all of it not all of it some of it not {any/ none of it
one bit} of it
222 Negation and Quantity
Totalized
Positive Negated Negated Negative
Totalizer Totalizer Partial Unitizer (contrary)
everybody, not every- somebody, not anybody, none,
everyone body, not someone ---not(a) one nobody
everyone
both of not both of one of (the not either of neither of
them them two of) (the two them
them of) them
~ways not always sometimes not {everfat never, at no
any time} time
Despite Sapir's identity or equality sign linking the second and third col-
umns (i.e., the two subcontraries), it is clear from the passage quoted
above that this is not intended as logical equivalence so much as discourse
commensurability, mediated by contextual considerations.
Like Pott and Jespersen, Sapir provides an account of the different forms
of double negation: a 'negated totalized negative' (not none, Lat. nonnulli,
non numquam) reduces to a 'partial' ('some', 'sometimes'), it la (23ii),
while a 'totalized double negation' (There was none but was present, There
was none who was not present) cancels out to a 'positive totalizer' (Every-
one was present), it la (23iv).11
As signaled by Sapir, both and one of (the two of) are dual operators
over two-member sets, just as all and some (= at least one) of are duals
over multiple-member sets. But the members of a set can be enumerated
individually rather than quantified over, and the standard logical devices
for doing so are intrinsically binary. The classical constants here are of
course and and (inclusive) or, which constitute one more pair of duals.
Given the standard truth tables for these connectives (cf. chapter 2, (51»,
the two connectives are interdefinable via negation, and an unembedded
expression containing and unilaterally entails the correspondi.n~ expres-
sion containing or. The principles stipulating the interdefinablhty of the
binary connectives, the equivalences in (31),
(31) a. -(p A q) ~ -p v -q
b. -(p v q) ~ -p A -q
are familiarly known as DE MORGAN'S LAWS, but their history in both
Western and Eastern logic long antedates that great nineteenth-century for-
mal logician.
For the Stoics, the logical constant corresponding to (either) ... or was
viewed as 'true' or 'proper' only when one disjunct is true and the other
4.2 Negation and the Three-Cornered Square 223
false; whence the validity of the Stoics' fourth and fifth 'indemonstrable
syllogisms', given in (32a, b), respectively: 12
(32) a. Fourth indemonstrable b. Fifth indemonstrable
syllogism
p or q
-p-
:. not-q
syllogism
p or q
not-p
:.q
Alongside their exclusive (or 'proper') disjunction, some Stoics and
early medieval logicians admitted an inclusive ('improper') disjunction,
usually disparaged as a 'paradisjunction' or 'pseudodisjunction'. These two
operators in question, with their assumed truth conditions, are represented
in the last two columns of (33); conjunction is included to fill out the tables.
(33) P q pAq pvq pwq
(inclusive) (exclusive)
T T T T F
T F F T T
F T F T T
F F F F F
As Peter of Spain observed, only the syllogism in (32b), not that in (32a),
can be retained under the inclusive definition of or, while exclusive or vali-
dates both syllogisms; on the other hand, ADDITION (the inference fromp to
p v q) is compatible only with the inclusive definition.
By the late thirteenth and early fourteenth centuries, in the work of Al-
bert of Saxony, William of Ockham, Peter of Spain, and their colleagues,
the inclusive reading of or came to predominate. With it came some strik-
ingly terse formulations of the so-called De Morgan's Laws, the equiva-
lences in (31) which go through only for inclusive disjunction:
The contradictory of the affirmative disjunctive is a conjunctive
composed of parts which are. contradictories of the parts of the
disjunctive.
(= (31b), from Albert of Saxony's Logica 3, chapter 5;
cited in Moody 1953 :41)
A conjunction and a disjunction with mutually contradictory
members contradict one another.
(= (31a, b), from Peter of Spain's Summulae Logicales;
cited in Lukasiewicz 1934: 81 and Mullally 1945)
..
In fact, an incirient version of (31b) can be seen in the work of the tenth-
century commentator Avicenna (ibn-Sinii), for whom a negative disjunctive
224 Negation and Quantity
judgment is equivalent to the joint denial of the terms of the disjunction
(Madkour 1934: 168).
Earlier still, the practitioners of the Navya-Nyaya school of Indian logic
(cf. §1.3.2), for whom and and or are (as for the Stoics) truth functions
which are (as against the Stoics) assigned the values in the third and fourth
columns of (33), respectively, exploited the interdefinability of duals to
represent or in terms of and and negation, that is;
(34) P v q = df ~(~p 1\ ~q)
While De Morgan's Law is not explicitly stated as such, it is applied in
logical argumentation (Ingalls 1951 :63-64, 142; Sharma 1970:70-71).
In particular, the form of negation known as ubhayiibhavii (the negation of
both) presupposes the relation formalized in (31b).
Whatever their provenance, De Morgan's Laws can be viewed as special
instances of the laws of quantifier negation; (31a, b) correspond directly to
the last two equivalences of (25). The key principle here is the (ancient)
insight that every universally quantified proposition is essentially identical
to a (perhaps infinite) conjunction, and every existentially quantified (or
particular) proposition to a disjunction. (Cf. Horn 1972: §2.13 for some
linguistic correlates of this logical principle.) Thus, beyond the fact that
and and (inclusive) or are logical duals, there is a direct correlation of the
form and:all .'.' or:some. This correlation is reflected in the shared func-
tion of both and neither-as quantifiers over sets of two, suppletive with
all and no(ne), as noted above, and as 'correlative conjunctions', paired
with and and or. To our ever-expanding tripartition, we can now add the
two columns in (35);
(35) A: both (of them)
B: one (of them)
C: neither (of them)
(both) a and f3
(either) a or f3
(neither) a nor f3
In the light of this parallel, it is essential to recognize that exclusive dis-
junction, a or f3 but not both-as defined in accordance with the rightmost
column of (33)-has precisely the same theoretical status as the bilateral
particular of Hamilton and Jespersen, that is, some but not all. Yet this
is not always acknowledged. Thus, Strawson (1952: 91) rejects truth-
functional inclusive disjunction as a model for English or, along with the
entailment fromp 1\ q to P v q. But, as Geach (1972: 68) points out, he has
no similar qualms in identifying some with the standard (unilateral) exis-
tential quantifier or in accepting the corresponding subaltern inference
from all to some.
Others, including Quine (1952; 5) and Geach himself, recognize both an
inclusive and an exclusive truth-functional disjunction, labeled vel and aut,
4.2 Negation and the Three-Cornered Square 225
respectively;13 , "p vel q" is true iff one of the propositions "p" and "q" is
true, and "p aut q" is true iff one of the propositions is true and the other
false. (I use Latin words as connectives in order to dodge the idiotic but
seemingly perennial dispute as to the "proper" meaning of "or" in ordi-
nary language.)' (Geach 1972: 15).
The unspoken motivation for this terminology, involving the behavior of
the Latin conjunctions, is spelled out by Collinson: 'Latin clearly distin-
guishes a disjunctive alternative of mutually exclusive terms expressed by
aut from an alternative not excluding both expressed by vel. Finnish uses
tai and vai and Welsh ynte and neu respectively to make the same distinc-
tions' (Collinson 1937: 95). But on closer inspection, the claim thatp aut q
and p vel q represent prototype instances of exclusive (p v q) and inclusive
(p w q) disjunction, respectively, tacitly subscribed to by Quine, Geach,
and other logicians, is untenable. There is clear evidence from texts, dic-
tionary citations, and (in the case of Finnish and modern Welsh) speakers'
intuitive judgments that whatever distinguishes the two Latin disjunctions
(and their putative cross-linguistic counterparts), it is not that the former is
invariably an exclusive, and the latter an inclusive, truth-functional dis-
junctive operator. Indeed, this fact is implicit in Collinson's wording: to say
that p aut q is used when p and q are mutually exclusive terms (Is he alive
or dead? Kim or Chris will win the race) is to admit that we cannot tell (or
do not care) whether the disjunction in question is in fact inclusive or ex-
clusive, since the one situation which distinguishes the two truth functions
p v q and p w q, as the truth table in (33) illustrates, is that in which both
disjuncts are true.
This point is forcefully made by Barrett and Stenner (1971), in their at-
tempt to relegate the 'purely truth-functional exclusive or' to the mythical
realm of unicorns, mermaids, and centaurs. Other arguments against a
logically exclusive disjunction for natural language are given by McCaw-
ley (1972, 1981), Gazdar and Pullum (1976), Gazdar (1977), and Pelletier
(1977), while the purported ambiguity is defended by Lang (1977); I shall
return to this issue in chapter 6.
Ifor corresponds logically to some, we should expect to find p or q stan-
dardly used to convey that the stronger expression (p and q) does not hold,
or at least that it is not known to hold. Our logically inclusive p v q (p or q
or both, p and/or q) conversationally implicates (but does not entail) that
(for all the speaker knows) ~(p 1\ q), thus conveying the upper-bounded
disjunction 'p or q but not both', just as some implicates not all, thus con-
veying 'some but not all'. Or is no more lexically ambiguous than some-
or one. Ironically, Geach's own truth-functional definition of vel, cited
above, builds in the assumption that one means 'at least one', yet in exactly
the same way, or means 'at least or'. Just as one standardly implicates 'no
226 Negation and Quantity
more than one', 'not two', 'not all', so too the use of or standardly impli-
cates 'not and'.
Thus, while there is a tendency to take disjunctions exclusively-in
Mill's words, 'when we say A is either B or C, we imply that it cannot be
both'-this implicature is not a logical inference: 'If we assert that a man
who has acted in a particular way must be either a knave or a fool, we by no
means assert, or intend to assert, that he cannot be both' (Mill 1867 :512).
Certain nineteenth-century politicians may have come to Mill's mind here
as certain of their twentieth-century counterparts come to ours.14 '
Before returning to address the question of formal representation for the
subcontraries and related scalar operators, I shall pause to undertake a brief
reconsideration of the third of Jespersen's equivalences in (23) and of a set
of apparent counterexamples to it.
4.3 All that Glitters: Universals and the Scope of Negation
Jespersen's third equivalence, (23iii), correlates A- expressions (every-
body . .. not, both . .. not, necessary . .. not) with the corresponding C
(-B) expressions (nobody, neither, impossible). But, he observes (1917:
86ff.), there is a tendency-often disparaged as 'illogical'-for an appar-
ent universal negation ({all/every} ... not) to be read as a negated uni-
versal (not {all/ every}). Given the collapsing of the subcontraries within
Jespersen's tripartition, an A- quantifier (all . .. not) equates to the corre-
sponding B value (some). In the alternative four-cornered picture modeled
by the Square of Opposition, the result of the inner negation of A is not the
predicted contrary (E) term but apparently the contradictory (0); in either
case, we have some explaining to do.
The phenomenon in question is as widespread as it is long-lived. In addi-
tion to the locus classicus of (36),
(36) All that glisters is not gold.
Jespersen cites a wide range of attested examples, dating back to Chaucer,
where negation takes wide scope over a preceding universal, so that all
. . . not must be read as not all:
(36') All things are lawful unto me, but all
things are not expedient.
Every one cannot make music.
Tout Ie monde n'est pastfait pour l'art.
Thank heaven, all scholars are not like
this.
All is not lost.
(1 Cor. 6: 12)
(Walton)
(Rolland)
(Richardson)
(Milton, Shelley)
4.3 All That Glitters
Each man kills the thing he loves/Yet each
man does not die. (Wilde)
227
As Jespersen points out, if the negation is lexically incorporated into the
predicate it cannot take scope over the universal; the -A reading of all
things are not expedient, for example, disappears if the negative is im-
ported into the adjective (all things are inexpedient). This observation is
also made by Wagenaar (1930), in his discussion of the Old Spanish ver-
sion of the all that glitters phenomenon, while Collinson (1937:91) adds
that incorporation is standardly employed precisely to disambiguate a uni-
versal denial: 'For everyone did not smile (= 'No one smiled'), we get
Everyone refrained from smiling.'
Similarly in French, the ordinary interpretation of tout (tout Ie monde,
chaque, chacun, n'importe qui) + ne. . . pas is -A rather than A- (cf.,
e.g., Grevisse 1969: 1164, citing Diderot's plaint that Chaque age n'a pas
son Homere and analogous examples). The standard example is the equiva-
lent of (36) above:
(36") Tout ce qui reluit n'est pas or.
Tobler's paper of the same name, now over a century old (Tobler 1882a),
still offers us an insightful commentary on this construction. For Tobler,
the "illogical" reading of tout . .. ne Vpas, all . .. not as 'not all' is a per-
fectly logical reading, and French and English are no more to be scorned for
admitting it than is German (which permits only Nicht alles, was gliinzt, ist
Gold) to be valued for excluding it.15 If we think of the negation in (36)-
(36") as saying that it cannot be predicated of the subject (all that glisters,
tout ce qui reluit) that it is gold, then the -A interpretation is precisely
what we should expect. Notice that the observation of Jespersen and Wage-
naar on the narrow-scope (A-) reading of incorporated negation (cf.
Everyone was unkind, as against Everyone was not kind) bears out Tobler's
view, since a predicate-internal negation-as Aristotle stressed-is not a
predicate denial.
. But every tout. . . ne V pas construction with unincorporated negation
IS not assigned the "illogical" -A reading; when La Bruyere discusses a
'maxime usee et triviale que tout Ie monde sait, et que tout Ie monde ne
prat~que pas', the sense is clearly that the maxim is neglected by all, and
not Just by some. The variables determining the appropriate reading--A
or A- (NEG-Q or NEG-V, in the terminology of Carden 1970)-include
context and (in English) intonation. In the former (-A) case, Tobler de-
picts the speaker as rejecting a universal judgment, in the latter (A-) as
universalizing his own negative judgment. This distinction is represented
in the dialogue sequences of (37) and (37'):
228 Negation and Quantity
(37) A: Everybody came.
B: (No,) Everybody didn't come.
(37') A: {Somebody/The Schwartzes} didn't come.
B: (Yes, in fact) Everybody didn't come.
Notice that respondent B in (37) can be taken only as negating or rejecting
a universal, in Tobler's terms, while his counterpart in (37') is universaliz_
ing a negative-although, contra Tobler, it is not his own, but A's, nega-
tive that B chooses to strengthen. While the latter sequence type is indeed
possible, it is somewhat marked in both English and French, which, as To-
bler recognizes, may be attributed to the existence of an alternative, less-
marked device for signaling universal negation by denying a particular, as
in nobody came or-in place of the A- (NEG-V) reading of Tous ne savent
pas-{Nul/Aucun/Personne} ne saito I return to this factor, and its place in
a principled explanation of quantifier-negation scope ambiguities, in §7.3.
The unavailability of a parallel construction in French (*Pas tout ce qui
reluit est or) would seem to put the -A/NEG-Q reading on sounder pre-
scriptive footing in that language. Yet the standard grammars persist in vili-
fying (36") as a notorious 'paragrammaticalism', reflecting nothing more
significant than a 'mauvaise placement de tout' (Le Bidois and Le Bidois
1968). IfTobler is correct, no misplacement of tout-or of negation-is in
fact involved.
Something crucial is left unexplained in both Tobler's and Jespersen's
accounts of all that glitters. Why is a nexal negation following a particular
or existent subject (one containing a B, rather than A, operator, to use
Jespersen's labels) always assigned narrow scope relative to that of the B
operator? That is, why is NEG-Q available only when Q is in the A cate-
gory? Why is there (apparently) no interpretation of (38a) on which it is
equivalent to (38c) rather than to (38b)?
(38) a. Somebody didn't come.
b. Not everybody came.
c. Nobody came.
(- [somebody came])
Something that glitters is not
gold.
Not everything that glitters is
gold.
Nothing that glitters is gold.
If it is sometimes-in fact, usually-the case that 'A ... -' = '-A',
why is it (apparently) never the case that 'B ... -' = '-B'? These ques-
tions will be revisited, if not disposed of, in chapter 7.
More recent treatments of all . . . not in the generative literature do not
address the fundamental semantic questions, largely focusing instead on
the empirical issue of which readings are available for which speakers in
4.3 All That Glitters 229
which linguistic contexts. Carden (1970, 1973) posits the existence of
three distinct dialects, NEG-v (whose speakers accept only that "logical"
reading), NEG-Q (whose speakers accept only that "illogical" reading), and
AMB (whose speakers comprise the 'relatively uncommon group' accepting
both readings for (36), (36'), and parallel sentences). His work, correlating
subjects' grammaticality judgments on the basic data with their reactions
to transformationally related sentences, has been challenged by Heringer
(1970), Stokes (1974), Labov (in unpublished work), and Baltin (1977),
with Labov and Baltin arguing that the idiosyncratic three-way dialect split
attested by Carden in fact represents a differential ability to contextualize
the two possible readings. By adjusting the linguistic and extralinguistic
parameters appropriately, on this argument we can assimilate every speaker
into the AMB group. This conclusion is supported by comparing the NEG-Q-
forcing (37) with the NEG-v-forcing (37'), as I did above. Even without
a prior discourse context, the a priori less accessible NEG-V reading is
selected in a frame like that of the classic advertising jingle Everybody
doesn't like something/But nobody doesn't like Sara Lee, where the first
line cannot be interpreted as 'Not everybody likes something'.16
Unsurprisingly, the A- / - A ambiguity triggered by the universal quan-
tifier surfaces as well for its suppletive variant both and for the correspond-
ing binary connective and, as emerges from an examination of the paradigm
in (39):17
(39) a. All of them didn't come.
b. Both of them didn't come.
c. (Both) Lee and Kim
didn't come.
(all ... notlnot all)
(both . . . notlnot both)
(both Lee and Kim . . . not!
not both Lee and Kim)
In each case, the subaltern or weak scalar dual (i.e., the B category opera-
tor) excludes the wide-scope reading for negation in the corresponding
examples:
(40) a. Some of them didn't come.
b. One of them didn't come.
c. (Either) Lee or Kim didn't
come.
(= some . . . notrt not
some)
(= one . . . not! '* not one)
(= Lee or Kim . . . not!
'* neither Lee nor Kim)
Furthermore, the three examples of (39) can be disambiguated intona-
tionally in the same way (Horn 1972: 94-96; Jackendoff 1972 :§8.6): high
stress on the A word (all, both, and) and a final rise combine to yield the
NEG-Q/ - A reading; norml!l stress and a final fall are associated with the
NEG-V/A- interpretation. The most comprehensive and revealing study of
the effect of intonation on the assignment of NEG-Q vs. NEG-V readings in
230 Negation and Quantity
particular, and on the scope of negation in general, is that of Ladd (1980:
145-62). After finding Jackendoff's account of fall-rise suggestive but ul-
timately insufficient and/or ad hoc, and Liberman and Sag's (1974) theory
fundamentally mistaken in its collapsing of two distinct patterns (the fall-
rise contour and the so-called TILDE or contradiction contour, to which I
shall return in chapter 6), Ladd seeks to extend Jackendoff's program for
focus and presupposition into a general and coherent semantico-pragmatic
analysis of the fall-rise pattern.
Among the examples Ladd considers are the pairs in (41), where fall-
rise and simple falling contours are annotated by vand' , respectively.
(41) a. vAll the men didn't go.
b. 'All the men didn't go.
(NEG-Q, 'not all')
(NEG-V', 'all ... not')
(42) [Did you see anyone you haven't met?]
a. I haven't met V
one of
them. (there is one I haven't met)
b. I haven't met 'one of
them. (I haven't met any)
(43) a. I don't want to talk to (not to just anyone)
v
anyone
b. I don't want to talk to (to no one)
,
anyone
(44) a. John doesn't drink because (It's not because he's unhappy
he's unVhappy that he drinks)18
b. John doesn't drink because (It's because he's unhappy
he's un'happy that he doesn't drink)
In each case, Ladd observes, a fall-rise n contour on the focused ele-
ment signals a SUBSET or HYPONYM relation: the focused element repre-
sents a proper subset or member of a contextually accessible set. Thus the
fall-rise conveys a partial denial, while the straight fall (') contour signals
a full or simple denial. This emerges especially clearly in exchanges like
those in (45) and (46), from Ladd's discussion:
(45) A: You have a VW, don't you?
B: I've got an vOpel. (Well, not exactly, but ...)
(46) A: That new military base is going to be as big as Texas.
B: As big as vNew Jersey, maybe. (Well, not quite)
The responses triggering a fall-rise function as qualifiers; they convey, po-
litely, something like 'What you said is not quite true, but a related [often
entailed] proposition ~ true'. A straight fall, on the other hand, may be
4.4 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety II 231
understood as a direct denial (I've got an 'Opel) or as an invocation of a
superordinate (As big as Alaska!).
Similarly, in the negative examples of (41)-(44), the fall-rise triggers a
subset interpretation. In (41)-and in related examples with both and and
(cf. (39»-the subset relation associated with the fall-rise is semantically
incompatible with the A-category operator (all can't pick out a proper sub-
set, nor can both or and), and the sentence is essentially reprocessed with
the tacit caveat'All can't be a subset, so it must mean not all' (Ladd 1980:
161). Ladd offers related, but more straightforward, accounts for the dis-
ambiguating effect of intonation in those examples where subset readings
are possible. In (44), for example, the fall-rise is interpreted as focusing on
one among a set of possible reasons for John's not drinking; the falling con-
tour presupposes no set of possible reasons and is thus fully compatible
with a narrow-scope adverbial. (This analysis must assume a separate ac-
count of why it is that the wide-scope reading can be assigned to because,
but not to since or although clauses, as I observed in §2.5.)
While Ladd's general program of taking scope differences to follow from
inferences based on the lexical meaning of vis promising (but cf. Ward and
Hirschberg 1985), it seems counterintuitive to view the NEG-Q interpreta-
tion associated with (36), (36'), (41a), and related sentences as the result of
a conscious reasoning-out process based on the meaning of fall-rise; some
degree of conventionalization is likely to be involved. 19 Given the possibil-
ity of similar pairings of "illogical" -A semantics with A. . . - syntactic
form in languages with considerably different intonational means at their
disposal, any general account of the all-that-glitters phenomenon must ex-
tend well beyond the ups and downs of the fall-rise contour.
4.4 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety II
CAN SEX ONCE A WEEK HELP FEMALE INFERTILITY?
(Southfield, Michigan, Northwest Newsday)
It wouldn't hurt any. (New Yorker, 27 September 1987)
In the previous sections, I have taken subalternation-the relation between
dual pairs like all!some, necessary (certain)/possible, and/or-as special
casesof the more general phenomenon of scalar predication. It is now time
to explore the nature ofthese relations and of their possible representations.
In Horn 1972, quantitative scales are defined by entailment; Pj
outranks
Pi on a given scale iff a statement containing an instance of the former uni-
laterally entails the corresponding statement containing the latter. As ex-
amples of such scales, I can cite those in (47), where (... , Pj' Pi' ...)
indicates that Pj > Pi' that is, that Pj outranks (is stronger than) Pi on the
relevant scale:
232 Negation and Quantity
(47) (all, most, many, some)
(and, or)
(must, should, may)
(certain, {probablellikely}, possible)
(boiling, hot, warm)
(beautiful, pretty, attractive)
(adore, love, like)
(excellent, good, OK)
(always, usually,
often, sometimes)
(... , 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, I)
(necessary, (logically)
possible)
(obligatory, permitted)
(freezing, cold, cool,
(lukewarm)
(hideous, ugly, un-
attractive, plain)
(loathe, hate, dislike)
({terrible/awful}, bad,
mediocre)
In my first stab at schematizing the generation of quantity-based im-
plicata (Horn 1972:ex. (2.69)), I offered the following rule:
(48) Given a quantitative scale of n elements, (Pn , Pn- 1 , ••• , P2 ,
PI)' and a speaker uttering a statement S which contains an
element Pi on this scale, then
(i) the listener can infer -S(PJPj ) for all Pj > Pi (j *" n)
[where <I>(P; / Pj ) denotes the result of substituting fj for
Pi within <1>]
(ii) the listener must infer -S(PJPn )
(iii) if Pk > fj > Pi' then -S(PJPj ) --7 -S(P/Pk )
Various objections have been raised to this first attempt at a definition of
scalar implicature, most of which are justified. First of all, the distinction
between what the listener can infer and what the listener must infer-
though I would claim it is supported by a real intuition which has not been
otherwise captured-is not very well elucidated anywhere in Horn 1972
or in subsequent work and seems worth abandoning until it can be (see
Hirschberg 1985 for a good critique).
Second, as Hirschberg points out, the very decision to define implicature
in terms of what the listener can or must infer is fundamentally misguided,
or at least unfaithful to the spirit of Grice, who characterizes implicature as
part of nonnatural meaning (MEANINGnn), defined in turn as an aspect of the
speaker's intentions. Implicature is best defined directly as an attribute of
the speaker meaning, and only indirectly in terms of what the addressee is
entitled to infer. (Elsewhere in Horn 1972 it is informally stated that a
speaker uttering a given (weak-scalar) predication implicates that for all
s/he knows, no stronger statement could have been employed; it is this ap-
proach which was echoed in the earlier discussion in §4.2).
The third objection is acknowledged in Horn 1972 and formulated more
4.4 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety II 233
systematically in Fauconnier 1975a, 1975b, and Gazdar 1979a:chapter 3:
the definition of quantitative scales by logical or semantic entailment is too
narroW, since nonlogical inference also supports the construction of scales
and the associated implicatures. I return to this point below.
Fourth, as Gazdar (1979a: 56) observes, not just any sentence or state-
ment containing a weak scalar operator (Pi in (48i) above) licenses an
upper-bounding implicature; if I tell you that Paul ate some of the eggs,
you are entitled (ceteris paribus) to draw the inference that he did not eat all
of them, but the statement that It is not the case that Paul ate some ofthe
eggs does not license the implicatum that [it is not the case that it is not the
case that] he ate all of them. The problem, Gazdar argues, is that the im-
plicature mechanism only operates on scalar items in a logically SIMPLE
position, that is, not embedded within the scope of another logical func-
tor-here, sentential negation realized as it is not the case that. (A related
problem is the spelling out of the conditions under which the potential im-
plicatum gets realized as an actual implicatum; cf. Gazdar 1979a, Levinson
1983, and Hirschberg 1985 for discussion.)
Gazdar's own formulation of the function is for generating potential
scalar quantity implicatures (1979a: 58-59) is given in (48'); his prose elu-
cidation (edited here) follows.
(48') is ('I') = {x: X = K...,<I>(ai)}
for all <I>(ai) such that for some quantitative scale Q, ai' ai+l
EQ,
(i) 'I' = x-<I>(ai+l)-Y where x, yare any expressions,
possibly null
(ii) ['1'] c [<I>(a i+1)],
where <I>(ai) and <I>(ai+l) are simple expression alternatives with
respect to ai and a i+1 •
This says that 'I' [potentially] scalar-quantity-implicates that the
speaker knows that it is not the case that <I> if and only if there is
some sentence <1>', just like <I> except that it contains a 'weaker'
scalar expression, and which is entailed by <I> and is either identi-
cal to 'I' or forms a part of it, subject to the constraint that the
scalar expressions are not within the scope of any logical functors
in <I> or <1>' •
While it is both more explicit and more accurate than (48), Gazdar's
function does not represent the final solution to the characterization prob-
lem either. Two objections are worth noting here. First of all, as I have
already noted (in §4.2), the epistemic condition K..., (a Hintikka 1962-
style abbreviation for 'speaker knows that it is not the case that') is in gen-
eral too strong; it is preferable to derive the weaker conclusion that ...,K
234 Negation and Quantity
(-K), that is, 'it is not the case that speaker knows that .. .', or-utilizing
Hintikka's epistemic possibility operator POSS, the dual of K-the equiv-
alent POSS- (for all speaker knows, it is not the case that).20 In just those
contexts where the addressee assumes that the speaker possesses all the
relevant information, POSS- can be strengthened to K- .
In addition, where my original formula was not restricted enough (in
generating implicata from positions where these implicata are not licensed),
Gazdar's version is too restricted. For the implicatum to go through, the
scalar expression in question need not be logically unembedded, so long as
it is not embedded under certain operators. Which operators are these?
Hirschberg (1985:73) notes that while we may want to follow Gazdar in
blocking the move from (49a) to (49a'), the comparable moves in (49b-d)
are legitimate, although the weak-scalar predicate does not have a simple,
unembedded occurrence in these examples any more than in (49a):
(49) a. It is not the case that Paul ate some of the eggs.
a'. POSS-(It is not the case that Paul ate all of the eggs)
(= POSS[Paul ate all the eggs])
b. It is possible that Paul ate some of the eggs.
b'. POSS-(It is possible that Paul ate all of the eggs)
c. Paul ate some of the eggs or Paul is a liar.
c'. POSS-(Paul ate all of the eggs or Paul is a liar)
d. Some people think Paul ate some of the eggs.
d'. POSS-(Some people think Paul ate all of the eggs)
But in place of Gazdar's overly strong restriction on (48'), Hirschberg
offers her own overly weak restriction (albeit one not as overly weak as the
nonrestriction in Horn 1972). For Hirschberg, only overt negation (as in
(49a)) blocks the implicature function. As demonstrated by the substitution
of impossible for possible in (49b, b'), or that of doubt for think in (49d,
d'), this will not do. Rather, we seem to need to restrict the set of logical
functors in question to those which include negation and other scale-
reversing operators (cf. Fauconnier 1976), that is, to the set of downward-
entailing operators in Ladusaw 1979. Rather than attempting to re-revise
the formulation of the implicature function in the light of these factors (and
others raised by Harnish [1976] and Hirschberg [1985]), I shall turn to
some of the linguistic analogues of this phenomenon.
In Horn 1972, quantitative scales are correlated with syntactic frames
like those in (50), where Pj > Pi throughout.
(50) a. (at least) Pi' if not (downright) Pj
Pi' {or/and possibly} even ~
Pj' or at least Pi
b. Pi' {indeed/in
fact! and what's
more} ~
4.4 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety II 235
not even Pi' {let alone/much not only Pi but Pj
less} Pj
The environments in (50a) are SUSPENDERS: the speaker is explicitly leav-
ing the possibility open that a higher value on the relevant scale obtains,
with the suggestion that his or her knowledge of the actual state of affairs is
incomplete. The environments in (SOb) do not just suspend, but CANCEL or
BLOCK, the upper-bounding implicatum, with the assertion that a higher
value on the scale is in fact known to obtain.21
In each case, the order of the scalar predicates cannot be reversed with-
out incoherence or anomaly; thus compare:
(51) a. at least some if not all
at least possible if not
necessary
b. not only three but four
not only warm but (down-
right) hot
c. Pat or Lee, indeed Pat and
Lee
one of them, indeed both of
them
# at least all if not some
# at least necessary if not
possible
#not only four but three
#not only hot but (down-
right) warm
# Pat and Lee, indeed Pat
or Lee
# both of them, indeed one
of them
These diagnostics, along with the distribution of scale-sensitive modi-
fiers like almost, barely, not quite, and so on, lead to the assumption that
positive and negative quantifiers, modals, and related operators must be
represented on distinct, though related, scales. There can be no single scale
on which operators like some and not all, or possible and unlikely, can be
plotted. Rather, there is one scale defined by the positive operators and one
by their negative counterparts. Only in this way can we predict the distri-
bution of scalar elements in the test frames of (50). For example, the weak
and strong elements on the positive quantifier scale define permissible se-
quences like some or even all (vs. #all or even some); the corresponding
values on the negative scale similarly yield not all or even none (#none or
even not all). But values from distinct scales cannot be combined in either
direction: # some or even {none /not all}; # not all or even {some/all}. In
traditional terminology, the two values in the scalar diagnostic construc-
tions must differ in quantity but not quality.
Similarly, the epistemic modals pattern as in (51')(cf. Horn 1978b: 194):
(51') a. possible if not likely
likely if nQt certain
unlikely if not impossible
uncertain if-not unlikely
# likely if not possible
#certain if not likely
#impossible if not unlikely
#unlikely if not uncertain
236 Negation and Quantity
b. # {possible / likely / certain} if not {uncertain / unlikely /
impossible}
# {uncertain / unlikely / impossible} if not {possible /
likely / certain}
Thu~, alongside the positive epistemic scale (certain, likely (probable),
possible) from (47), we can assume a parallel negative epistemic scale (im-
possible, unlikely (improbable), uncertain) and in like fashion a negative
quantifier scale (none, few, not all) alongside its positive counterpart (all,
most, many, some). But just what is the relationship between these parallel
positive and negative scales? How can this parallelism be represented?
The structure of the scales can be overlaid directly onto the traditional
Square of Opposition, with the relation between strong and weak values
(indicated by the head and tail of the arrow, respectively) corresponding to
the relation between a subaltern and its superordinate:
(52)
Pn A ..a-,l-l-----..,E
none Pn
I some not all
o PI
As always, the horizontally opposed (A and E, 1 and 0) terms differ in
quality, while the vertically opposed (A and I, E and 0) terms differ in
quantity. More generally, two terms in a quantitative opposition will oc-
cupy different positions on a single scale, while two terms in a qualitative
opposition will occupy analogous positions (weak, intermediate, or strong)
on corresponding (parallel) scales.
The notion of correspondence between matched positive and negative
scales can be elucidated by arithmetizing the Square. Let the values on the
positive scale in question range from 0 to +1 and those on the correspond-
ing negative scale from 0 to -1. Each operator is ranked in accordance
with its lower bound (recall that, e.g., some says 'at least some' and impli-
cates 'at most some'), such that a simple proposition containing a scalar
operator P will be true at all positions at or above the position assigned to
P. Schematically, the result we obtain in the case of the quantificational
determiners can be given (approximately) as in (53):
4.4 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety II 237
- - - ------
everyfall -I no/none
/ hardly any /almost no(ne)
'\.
/
" very few
mO'tla~~/
few
a minority/ not half
.5 half -.5
very many/ "
many
/ '"
quite a few
'"
several
some 0 not all
0 - - - - -
The duals (all / some; none / not all) represent the weakest and strongest
values on their respective scale, the weakest situated just above ±O and the
strongest at ± 1. Only the strongest value can be modified by absolute(ly)
and its synonyms (Horn 1972: §2.34): cf. Absolutely {all / none / #m~ny /
#/ew} o/them can make it; It's absolutely {certain / impossible / #posslble /
#unlikely} that he'll win. .
Further, we observe that for any positive operator P, the su~ o~ ItS scalar
al e and that of its inner negation P~ directly across from It Will alwa~s
~~. These two operators, P and P~, will be contraries if the value of p. IS
greater than .5 and subcontraries if it is equal to or les~ tha~ .5. The crucial
parameter here is whether the conj~ncti.on (~arked With. either and or but~
of an operator with its inner negation IS logically consistent. ~hus, com
pare the consistent statements in (54a), ~here P and P~ are relat:ely we~
(:5.5), with the inconsistent statements In (54b), where P and P are rela
tively strong (>.5) scalar values.
(54) a. Many of my friends are linguists and many of them are~'t.
Some of my friends are linguists and some of them aren t.
It's possible that she'll win and possible that she won't.
It's fifty-fifty that she'll win and fifty-fifty that she won't.
b. # All of my friends are linguists and all of them aren't. ,
# Most of my friends are linguists and most of them aren t.
# It's certain that she'll win and certain that she won't.
#It's likely that she'll win and likely that she won't.
Adopting the terminology of Lobner 1985, I.shall .say that an. operator.p
is TOLERANT if the conjunction [pep) 1\ P(~p)] IS l~glcal~y con~lstent (as ~n
(54a)) and INTOLERANT if [Pcp) 1\ P(~p)] is 10g.lc~ly Inconsistent (as In
(54b)). A tolerant determiner (some, many, half) IS situated at or below the
238 Negation and Quantity
midpoint (.5) of its scale and is compatible with its inner negation (i.e., its
subcontrary); an intolerant determiner(most, almost all, all) is situated
above the midpoint and is incompatible with its inner negation (i.e., its
contrary).
In this model, (sub)contrary pairs are parallel on the vertical (quan-
titative) axis; the terms of this opposition (P, P-) are linked by a horizon-
tal line. In accordance with the classical definition, I take contradictories to
differ from each other both quantitatively and qualitatively; the terms of a
contradictory opposition (P, -P) are linked in the model of (53) by a di-
agonal line.22 While the sum of the values of P and P- is always zero, the
sum of the values of P and - P (e.g., of some and none, of all and not all)
is always just over 111, the absolute value of 1.
Since every positive quantified expression P is interpreted as 'at least P',
picking out the interval above (the lower bound of) P, its negation not-P
signals that no value within this interval obtains. Thus, not many means
'less than many', not half 'less than half'. Not surprisingly, these equiva-
lences are not simply facts about English. Bhatia (1977 :chapter 4) points
out that the same not P = 'less than P' correspondences obtain in Hindi
(and other Indo-Aryan and Dravidian languages of the subcontinent). He
cites (1977:59) such examples as (55):
(55) Usne adhi kitab nahi parh!
he half book NEG read
'He did not read half the books'
(i.e., he read {less / *more} than
half of them)
The relative positions of the elements intermediate between the duals
can be fixed by applying the diagnostic tests in (49). Thus, most outranks
(is stronger than) many on the positive scale because of examples like
many ifnot most / # most ifnot many; many or even most / # most or even
many. That many is below and most above the midpoint is confirmed by
the tolerance test illustrated in (54): Many Americans smoke and many
don't / #Most Americans smoke and most don't.
In the same way, we can see that the negative scale for quantificational
frequency adverbs has the form (never, hardly ever, rarely/seldom, not
always), contrary to the claim in Stockwell, Schachter, and Partee (1973:
292) that there is a 'low-level rule' converting hardly ever into seldom. In
fact, there is a direct mapping between the quantificational adverbs and
their determiner counterparts: always corresponds to all (at all times, on
all occasions), almost always to almost all, usually to most, often to many,
and sometimes to some; on the negative side, never (at no time, on no oc-
casions) maps onto no (none), hardly ever (almost never) onto hardly any
(almost none), rarely or seldom onto few, and not always onto not all.
4.4 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety II 239
That the purported equation hardly ever = seldom is incorrect can be
shown by the usual scalar tests:
(56) a. I've seldom-indeed, hardly ever-smoked cigars.
# I've hardly ever-indeed, seldom-smoked cigars.
(cf. Few-indeed, hardly any-ofmy friends smoke
cigars vs. #Hardly any-indeed, few-of my friends
smoke cigars)
b. I've seldom been to the Midwest and hardly ever to
Chicago.
# I've hardly ever been to the Midwest and seldom to
Chicago.
The scalar representation of quantificational and modal operators cor-
rectly predicts the correlation of these values with a wide range of other-
not obviously logical-predicates. The same criteria that determine the
positioning of all and some, always and sometimes, and and or, necessary
and possible as strong and weak values on their respective scales apply
equally to predicate n-tuples like (adore, love, like), (beautiful, pretty,
attractive), (fascinating, interesting), (boiling, hot, warm), and (excellent,
good, OK). Thus, if I love you entails I (at least) like you, then my ac-
knowledging that I like you, in a context where my loving you would be
relevant, will (ceteris paribus) Q-implicate that I don't in fact love you. As
expected, we get patterns like those in (57) and (58):23
(57) He likes you, and he may even love you.
#He loves you, and he may even like you. [but see note 23]
He absolutely {adores/ ?loves / #likes} you.
(58) It's warm if not hot out today.
#It's hot if not warm out today.
#It's absolutely {boiling / ??hot / #warm} out today.
As with the logical constants, our familiar diagnostics require the con-
struction of separate but parallel scales for contrary values, for example,
(boiling, hot, warm) vs. (freezing, cold, cool, lukewarm), given the distri-
bution in frames like (59).
(59) It's cool if not {cold/ freezing / # lukewarm / # warm / #hotl
# boiling}
It's warm if not {hot! boiling / # lukewarm / # cool! # cold /
# freezing}
Comparatives of scalar adjectives can be understood only against the as-
sumption of paired scales. Just as not-P is interpreted as 'below P on P's
240 Negation and Quantity
scale', so too is P-er interpreted as 'more in the direction of the endpoint of
P's scale', and not as 'nearer [my God] to P'. Thus warmer and hotter are
both read as 'higher on the (... ,hot, warm, ...) scale', cooler and colder
as 'higher on the (... ,cold, cool, ...) scale'. It is only for children who
have not yet acquired the subtleties of full scalar competence that warmer
can denote 'less hot', 'closer to (exactly) warm'.
As stressed by Fauconnier (1975a, 1975b, 1976) and Hirschberg (1985),
scales may be defined not only universally by virtue of the meaning (entail-
ment) relations definable on the elements involved, as in (47), but also
locally, where a given context establishes the pragmatic implications on
which the scale is based. Quantitative scales may thus be taken as the limit-
ing case wherein every pragmatic model or context assumes the scale in
question, while other sets of predicators are less consistent across models.
This position is justified by the existence of scales established between
pairs of expressions which do not participate in a logical entailment rela-
tion of the type I considered above.
Thus, to borrow one of Fauconnier's examples, there may well be con-
texts or situations in which Hercules can lift only extremely heavy rocks; his
lifting a heavy one will thus not entail that he can lift a lighter one. Yet the
normal pragmatic implication is that (60b) does indeed follow from (60a).
(60) a. Hercules can lift a rock weighing D pounds.
b. Hercules can lift a rock weighing D - k pounds.
(where D, k > 0)
Given this implication, the superlative (61) will receive a 'quantified' read-
ing, and is thus paraphrasable by other expressions utilizing universals or
diagnostics for absolute scalar elements:
(61) Hercules can lift the heaviest rock.
(61') Hercules can lift {even / absolutely} the heaviest rock.
Hercules can lift any rock, {even the heaviest! however heavy}.
Similarly, on the assumption that anyone who laughs at a given joke
will laugh at a funnier one, the three versions of (62) are pragmatically
equivalent.
(62) The funniest jokes don't make Alexander laugh.
Even the funniest jokes don't make Alexander laugh.
No jokes (however funny) make Alexander laugh.
As Fauconnier also observes, it is a characteristic property of negation
and other polarity triggers that they reverse the ordering of elements on a
scale. Thus, alongside the ordinary (positive) scale defined in (63a) we get
4.4 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety II 241
the negative scale in (63b); notice that while the former scale has no maxi-
mum or absolute value, given the nature ofthe cardinals, the latter one does.
(63) a. . .. ~ Odette has three children ~ Odette has two children
~ Odette has one child
b. Odette doesn't have a child ~ Odette doesn't have two chil-
dren ~ Odette doesn't have three children ~ . . .
Under negation-as on the great Day of Judgment (cf. Mark 10:31)-
those that are first shall be last, and the last first.
The importance of Fauconnier's insight in generalizing the notion of
scale to the pragmatically as well as semantically defined cases is brought
out when we begin to collect examples of the Pi-if-not-pj construction and
its analogues.24 To the citations collected in Horn 1972:ex. (1.90), I can
now provide some additional instances:
(64) Overt antifeminism, if not homosexuality, may be the result of
such experience in the male. (from The Parenting Advisor, on
the failure to shift gender identification from mother to father)
In the Netherlands the crowds [for the Pope] were small, the
welcome lukewarm if not cold. (New York Times, 19 May
1985)
Most photographers were inarticulate if not subhuman. (from a
novel by Elliott Chaze)
The picture of Chiang Kai-Shek that emerges is one that rivals
Mussolini, if not Hitler, as the very model of a modern major
dictator. (from a review of Sterling Seagrave's The Soong
Dynasty)
Of course, not all our teachers made the or even a difference
in our lives. (from a New York Times Op-Ed pieces; italics in
original, underlining mine)
While it might be maintained that, for example, cold and lukewarm are
situated on a semantically defined scale here (perhaps by extension from
their literal, climatological meanings), no such semantic criteria are pre-
sumably available for proper names; yet we clearly draw the implication
from the penultimate example that there does indeed exist a scale on which
dictators can be ranked, and furthermore that the Fuhrer clearly outranks
(outgrosses?) il Duce on this scale.25
A rival account of scalar operators is offered by Ducrot and his col-
leagues (cf. especially Ducrot 1973; Anscombre and Ducrot 1976, 1978,
1983). On this view, scales are essentially not quantitative (in the sense of
Horn 1972) or pragmatic (in the sense of Fauconnier 1975a, 1975b, 1976),
242 Negation and Quantity
but arg~mentative. D~crot's. eche~les argumentatives share many of the
propertIes I have desCrIbed, mcludmg (1) the plotting of elements by th .
relative strength (as defined, however, by their argumentative power rat:Ir
than by entailment or pragmatic implication); (2) the rhetorical suggesti::
(sous-entendu) by the use of a weaker expression that-for all the speak:
knows~the. s~ronger ~x~~~ssion does not apply (recall my discussion ~~
Ducrot s LOl d exhaustlvlte I~ §4.1 above); and.(3) the motivation of Paired
scales for contrary terms, as m the thermometrIc scales of (65) (glosses ar
mine):26 e
(65)
r
~l fa~t gl~cial :~t:s free~ing' ril fait bn1lant 'it's bOiling'
II faIt froId It scold il fait chaud 'it's hot'
il fait frais 'it's cool' il fait assez chaud 'it's warm'
Moreover, as for Fauconnier, negation produces a renversement des
echelles; from the positive scale (66a) we derive the negative (66b).
(66) a. il fait glacial ~ il fait froid ~ il fait frais
b. il ne fait pas frais ~ il ne fait pas froid ~ il ne fait pas glacial
Two expressions may denote the same objective reality but differ in terms of
the conclusion.s they can be used to argue for; cf. The glass is halfempty (__>
we should fill It, or buy another) vs. The glass is halffull (--> we should, or
can, empty it). This difference (cf. Ducrot 1973:236-37) is brought out
under scale reversal: a glass which is not half empty is more full than one
which is not halffull, since not here (as for Jespersen) equates to 'less than'.
But .for Ducrot,. the 'less than' interpretation associated with descriptive
(ordmary) negatIon must be stipulated, via his Loi d'abaissement.
This is because, as Fauconnier (1976) points out, the effect of negation
can be predicted by the argumentation model only if there is what Ducrot
~alls a graduation objective homologue to appeal to. Since scalar predica-
tIOns are not i~ principle objectively measurable, there remains no way for
Ducrot to aVOId an ad hoc account of the less-than interpretation in non-
objective scalar contexts-This soup isn't good (is less than good), Your
statue isn't beautiful, My story isn't interesting-where the effect is as real
and general as in the objective It's not warm (It's less than warm) out, It's
not half(It's less than half) full.
Since we need recourse to logical entailment, pragmatic implication,
and Q~based implicature independently of scalar phenomena, the argu-
mentatIOn-based scale favored by Ducrot and Anscombre is best viewed as
dependent on, rather than prior to, a pragmatically generalized quantitative
model of the type(s) depicted in Sapir 1944; Hom 1972; Fauconnier 1975a,
1975b, 1976; Harnish 1976; Gazdar 1979a, 1979b; Atlas and Levinson
1981; and Hirschberg 1985.27
4.4 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety II 243
is easy to see how the 'less than' interpretation of ordinary negation is
within the scalar model I have been assuming. A proposition Pi
IIIUl"'U'b a scalar operator Pi (in an appropriately simple occurrence) will
whenever any proposition Pi is true, where Pi is just like Pi except
the substitution of the stronger Pi for the weaker Pi. But the reverse, of
is not the case. Thus, the weaker the scalar item, the wider the
~onICll[lilJm; under which its containing proposition is true, as exemplified
(67) 1
it's bOiling} True (it is hot)} . . }
it's hot True (It IS very
it's very warm warm)
it's warm
True (it is
warm)
The negation of a scalar predication, -Pi' is true if its contradictory Pi is
false; this amounts to the claim that no proposition of this type containing ~i
or any stronger value on its scale is true. Just as it is warm means that (IS
true iff) it is at least warm, its negation it is not warm means 'it is not at
least warm', that is, 'it is less than warm'. In the same way, not pretty is
interpreted as 'less than pretty', not happy as 'less than happy', and-as
Jespersen points out in the epigraph to this chapter-not good as 'less than
good', and not three as 'less than three'. .
Constituent negation, depending on its form, mayor may not receIve
a scalar interpretation. Stockwell, Schachter, and Partee (1973) note that
while not means 'less than' in not three hundredfeet away, no such inter-
pretation is assigned to not quite three hundred feet away. But here not
quite is clearly a constituent (special) negation; not quite 300 does not
equate to *less than quite 300, because it is not the negation of ?quite 300
(cf. Bolinger 1972, Sadock 1981, and Atlas 1984 for more on not quite X).
Jespersen (1949:435) distinguishes no more than three (surprisingly, only
three) from not more than three (three at most), and likewise (1917: 83) no
less than thirty (surprisingly, exactly thirty) from not less than thirty (at
least 30).28
If not warm in principle designates a position below warm on the (hot,
warm) scale, why does it seem so often to designate a temperature for
which a value on the parallel (cold, cool) scale would be appropriate? We
can represent this fact by recognizing that whenever we are dealing with
paired contrary gradables, for example, warm / cool, attractive / unattrac-
tive, like / dislike, and the paired scales they define, the tail of each scale
automatically extends through the excluded middle between the contraries
.into the rival scale. Graphically, the EXTENDED positive and negative tem-
perature scales will take the form in (68).
244 Negation and Quantity
(68)
boiling : freezing ;
hot \ cold I
\ cool /
, lukewarm /
,_/
" (neither warm / /
" nor cool) /'
'- .,/
""'- --
Thus, not warm (less than warm) will apply to temperatures which are nei-
ther warm nor cool and, a fortiori, to those which are located at or below
coolon the extended warm scale; not cold will exclude freezing and cold
temperatures while admitting all other values on the extended scale.
In the same way, if a temperature can be described by a value on the
(hot, warm) scale, no value on the (cold, cool) scale can felicitously apply
to it; a day which is not cool may be moderate (neither cool nor warm),
warm, or a real scorcher, that is, less than coolon the extended (... ,
cold, cool, ...) scale. Similarly, not good comprises any value below
good on the extended (excellent, good, OK, ...) scale, including the neu-
tral (average) and negative (mediocre, bad, inferior, terrible) values.
The first comprehensive treatment of gradable (scalar) predicates is that
in Sapir 1944. Although he does not provide a formal representation, Sapir
seems to conceive of a scale not as two paired, systematically related lines,
but as two distinct directions of orientation associated with a single line.
Both my quantificational scales (cf. (53» and my scales for antonymic
predicate pairs like hot and cold (cf. (68» can be mapped into Sapir's uni-
tary, bidirectional scales, which I shall label GRADATIONS. Let us represent
the two gradation types as in (69a, b):
(69) a. / all \
almost not all \
f
I
all \
\
\
I
I
I
I
\
most \,
half
\
\
\ many
\ some
not half I
I
I
I
few I
scarcely any
none
b. boiling
hot
(not hot)
warm
(not warm) I
I(not cool) (lukewarm)
I cool
I(not cold)
I cold
I
I freezing
4.4 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety II 245
There is a significant structural difference between these two gradations.
difference, which applies equally to the paired unidirectional scales
above, results from the fact that while quantificational (and
operators apply to open or closed sentences (or propositions)
define their (sub)contraries in terms of inner negation (P~ is the
l!m'b)cont.rary of P, as I have noted), simple first-order predicates like
cold, good I bad, and love Ihate have no inner negations or duals.
the analogy with the Square of Opposition which I employed in my
discussion of the annotated Square in (53), and which applies, mutatis mu-
tandis, to the Sapirian gradation in (69a), has no direct counterpart in the
hotl cold example represented in (69b).29
Notice also that the partitive gradation (69a) has two absolute end-
points-(absolutely) all, representing 100 percent of the members of the
set quantified over, and (absolutely) no I none, representing 0 percent-
while the temperature gradation, as we normally conceive of it, has no lit-
eral endpoint. When we declare that it's absolutely boiling (freezing) out,
we are speaking metaphorically.
The diagnostic evidence (cf. (50), (51» can be accommodated within
Sapir's gradation analysis if we include the caveat that any two terms can
appear in the relevant frames (Pi if not Pi' Pi or even Pi' etc.) only if they
have the same direction of orientation (if Pi and Pi are on the same arrow
shaft) and, of course, if Pi is a stronger or more extreme value than Pi with
respect to that orientation (if Pi is closer to the arrowhead than PJ We can
motivate the positioning of the negative values on the paired scales as well: '
Not only is it not warm, it's downright {cool I cold Ifreezing I#warm I
# hot}; Not only is it not cool, it's downright {warm I hot I # cool! # cold I
#freezing}.
Sapir notes that we often use a 'notational kinesthesia' corresponding to
the direction of the arrow; increase is marked by 'upward grading' and de-
crease by 'downward grading'. This point is well taken, and may argue for
the psychological superiority of Sapir's gradations over my scales. On the
other hand, the gradation in (69b) seems to suggest that warm should be
regarded as psychologically close to cool, despite their difference in orien-
tation; but, as Sapir acknowledges (1944: 133), this predicted closeness
does not in fact obtain. In any case, as stressed here, the similarities be-
tween my paired unidirectional scales (cf. also Ducrot 1972) and the uni-
tary bidirectional gradations employed by Sapir (as I represent him here)
outweigh any notational differences between the two models.
A more rigorous definition of the positive and negative quantifiers, one
which is compatible with, but rather differently conceived from, the scalar
model I have presented in this chapter, is offered by Barwise and Cooper
(1981), henceforth B&C. Within this approach and in formal work associ-
ated with it, the QUANTIFIER in a sentence like All men are mortal is the
246 Negation and Quantity
entire NP all men, while all is a DETERMINER. Syntactically, quantifiers are
NPs; semantically, they are sets. The crucial notion for our purposes is
MONOTONICITY, defined as follows (B &C : 184ff.)
(70) a. A quantifier Q is MONOTONE INCREASING (mOD t) if for any
set x E Q, Q also contains all the supersets of x.
b. A quantifier Q is MONOTONE DECREASING (mOD ~) if for any
set x E Q, Q also contains all the subsets of x.
c. A determiner D is monotone increasing (decreasing) if it
always gives rise to monotone increasing (decreasing)
quantifiers.
B&C employ the following linguistic diagnostic (among others) for de-
termining whether a quantifier is mOD i , mOD ~, or neither:
(71) Let VP1 and VP2be two verb phrases such that the denotation of
VP1 is a subset of the denotation of VP2. Then NP is mOD t if
(i) holds, and mOD ~ if (ii) holds:
i. If NP VP1, then NP VP2.
ii. If NP VP2, then NP VP1•
If neither (i) nor (ii) holds, NP is nonmonotone.
In other words, a mOD i quantifier allows the predicate to be weak:-
ened salva veritate, while a mOD ~ quantifier allows the predicate to be
strengthened salva veritate (cf. Lobner 1985). Where VP1 is entered the
race early and VP2entered the race (the denotation of the former constitut-
ing a proper subset of the denotation of the latter), we get results like the
following:
(72)
a. Some men entered the race early ~Some men entered
the race
b. No men entered the race early ~No men entered the race
c. Exactly five men entered the race #Exactly five men
early entered the race
Thus, some men is mOD i (as are other NPs/quantifiers that behave in the
same way, e.g., he, Chris, the girl, many men, most women, all linguists,
everybody, at least five frogs), no men is mOD ~ (along with nobody, at
most five frogs), and exactly five men is nonmonotone, since the bicondi-
tional in (72c) goes through in neither direction.
The determiners which are mOD t by B&C's criteria correspond to the
operators which figure on some positive scale (all, most, many, some, (at
least) n, n or more), the mOD ~ determiners to those which figure on some
negative scale (no, not n, few, at most n, fewer than n). Nonmonotone de-
terminers (in particular, exactly n) are not scalar operators at all.
4.4 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety II 247
l,O)rr(~SpOllidmlg to the dictum that negation reverses scales (Horn 1972;
1973; Fauconnier 1975a, 1975b, 1976) we have the rule (B&C:
that negation reverses monotonicity: if Q is mOD i , ~Q and Q~ are
mOD ~, and if Q is mOD ~, ~Q and Q~ are both mOD t .In B&C's
One man ran contains a mOD i quantifier whose outer negation
one man ran) and inner negation (One man didn't run) are both
~ quantifiers. IfQ is mOD t, its dual Q (= ~[Q~] = [~Q]~)-for
""4>"""-' Not one man didn't run-is also mOD t.
One area of particular interest emerging from the behavior of mOD t and
~ quantifiers and determiners involves the question of conjoinability
(B&C: 193ff.). The pattern QI CONJ Q2' where CONJ E {and, or}, is
possible when QI and Q2 are both mOD i or both mOD ~ .
(73) a man and three women
some students and every professor
most men and any women
(74) few violins and no violas
no men and few women
none of the dogs and hardly any of the cats
But when QI and Q2 differ in their monotonicity properties, ordinary con-
junction is impossible:30
(75) *three men and no women
*few women and those men
*most of the dogs and none of the cats
As B&C point out, these mixed conjunctions cannot be ruled out prag-
matically, in the light of such contrasts as that in the minimal pair in (76):
(76) John was invited and no woman was.
*John and no woman was invited.
Thus, conjunction, like the diagnostics of (50), (51), and (51'), respects
the integrity of a scale, of Sapirian orientation, or of monotonicity type.
(Cf. Brown 1984 and Lobner 1985 on the relations between the generalized
quantifiers of B&C and the Square of Opposition.)
I will cite one more parallel between the mOD i and mOD ~ quantifiers
of Barwise and Cooper, the positive and negative scalar operators of Horn,
Ducrot, and Fauconnier, and the upward- and downward-oriented grada-
tions of Sapir (cf. also Ladusaw 1979, 1980 on upward- and downward-
entailing operators). Among the quantifiers, what sort of account are we to
assign to expressions like afew lX and only lX, which seem to be analyzable
either dynamically, as scalar (monotone) values, or statically, as conjunc-
tions of two values differing in orientation? B&C point out that if a few
248 Negation and Quantity
corresponds to 'some but not many', it is a nonmonotone determiner
if it means simply 'at least a few' (with the upper bound brought in b
Q-based implicatum, as for the cardinals), it is moo t . But which.Y~
to be? IS It
The evidence from conjunction (most women and a few men, no Worne
{*andl Jbut} afew men) and from the suspension diagnostics (afew ifno~
{more I *less}, afew or even {a lot I *none}, *afew ifany (vs. 'lew ifany))
reveal that a few-unlike few-can never be moo ~ and that it can (
least sometimes) be moo t· Yet the upper bound associated with aIe:
seems to be much more strongly built in than the upper bound normalI
implicate~ ~y the use of a relatively weak positive scalar (moo t) operato;'
Not surpnsmgly, the same question-and essentially the same answer_
arises in Sapir's framework. Unlikefew, which he characterizes as 'grading
downward from something more', Sapir (1944: 134-35) takes a few to be
'static' or 'essentially noncommittal' with respect to directionality, While
conceding that it can be given 'an upward trend' with the appropriate (fall-
rise?) contour. Quite a few, as Sapir notes, is clearly 'upward-tending'
that is, positive scalar or moo t. '
While a few may hover uneasily between moo t and nonmonotone
status, only seems to hover between moo ~ and nonmonotone. The facts
here are rather complex; perhaps it is not surprising that only constructions
are avoided as scrupulously by B&C as by Karttunen and Peters (who limit
themselves to noting [1979: 32] that 'the case of only is more complicated
[than that of even], although it also involves a distinction between focus
and scope'). The essential issue is one debated in earlier treatments of only
by analysts ranging from Saint Thomas, Peter of Spain, and William of
Sherwood (cf. Mullally 1945 and Kretzmann 1968) to Geach (1962), Horn
(1969, 1972, 1979), and Levergood (1984): is only 0: negative in meaning
and positive only by presupposition or implicature, or does it abbreviate a
conjunction (only 0: = '0: and nothing {otherI more} than o:')? In the for-
mer event, only 0: should pattern with the moo ~ quantifiers; in the latter
event, it should pattern with the nonmonotones, themselves typically ana-
lyzable into conjunctions (e.g., exactly 5 = '[at least] 5 and at most 5',
some but not all, etc.).
The monotonicity question for only 0: in fact arose in the medieval pe-
riod, in the work of Saint Thomas Aquinas and William of Sherwood.
Saint Thomas observes that the addition of solus 'only, alone' to an NP
affects the entailments associated with the statement containing that NP:
'An exclusive expression [e.g., solus] so fixes the term to which it is joined
that what is said exclusively of that term cannot be said exclusively of an
individual contained in that term: for instance, from the proposition Man
alone is a mortal rational animal, we cannot conclude, therefore Socrates
4.4 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety II 249
is such' (Summa Theologica, Q31, art. 3: Aquinas 1945:311-12).
the addition of solus, the entailment in question goes through,
of course that we accept the hidden premise that Socrates is
was William of Sherwood who broadened this observation by apply-
the monotonicity test formalized seven centuries later by Barwise and
(see (71) above). As William points out (Syncategoremata 11: 7,
l.K1ret2,m~mn 1968: 73), the ordinarily straightforward entailment in (77a)
blocked when solus is attached to the subject, as in (77b).
(77) a. Socrates is running II- Socrates is mo~ing .
b. Only Socrates is running II- Only Socrates IS movmg
In B&C's terms, Socrates is moo t, while only Socrates is not. What re-
mains to be determined is whether the opposite entailment, that is, (77'),
(77') Only Socrates is moving I~ Only Socrates is running
is valid; if so, only 0: is indeed moo ~ rather than nonmonotone. This ques-
tion is hard to decide, except by fiat: Peter of Spain (whose conjunction
analyses of only phrases are cited and discussed in Mullally 1945: 106ff.)
would vote nay, along with Saint Thomas, while William of Sherwood,
along with Geach (1962:§108), would presumably have begged to differ.
The latter position strikes me as more theoretically coherent and arguably
more faithful to natural language intuitions and distributional evidence, but
I shall not seek to defend this claim here.
A somewhat confusing (if not confused) protomonotonicity classifica-
tion in Hom 1969: 103-5, utilizing an entailment test similar to B&C's,
concludes that while a few 0: is an 'M-CLASS' (essentially moo t )quan-
tifier, only afew 0:, like few 0:, is in the 'L-cLAss' (moo ~ )group.31 This
claim, supported by such (prefeminist) examples as those in (78),
(78) a. M girls are both clever and seductive ~ M girls are clever
and M girls are seductive (where M = {some, many, at
least n, a few, ...})
b. L girls are clever and L girls are seductive ~ L girls are
both clever and seductive (where L = {no, at most n, few,
only a few, ...})
accords with the position that only is negative by assertion (or logical
form) and affirmative by presupposition (or implicature), given the prem-
ise that 'entailment relations are determined by assertions alone' (Hom
1969: 105).
Thus only, like simple negation, reverses scales or monotonicity (cf.
also Ducrot 1973: 237 on the reversing effect of seulement)-at least
250 Negation and Quantity
sometimes. In the case of NPs of the form only n eN (CN = common
noun), the context helps determine whether only n is to be read as a moo ~
expression (= 'at most n') or as a nonmonotonic conjunction (== 'exactly
n, surprisingly'). As William put it (Kretzmann 1968:95), only three can
exclude a greater number only, as in Only three are running, or a greater
and smaller number, as in Only three are hauling the boat. But in the de-
fault context, where no jointly performed activity is expressed by the predi-
cate, only n-like at most n-is moo ~: 'If one says "only three", one
cannot infer "therefore not two", but instead "therefore not four or five'"
(Kretzmann 1968: 82).
In this chapter, I have been expounding a view of the subcontraries and
related scalar operators on which these expressions are unambiguous in se-
mantic representation or logical form but open to two different uses accord-
ing to whether or not the Mill-Grice Maxim of Quantity applies to a given
utterance token involving that operator. Thus, each of these values-some,
a, possible, warm, cool, and so forth-is lower-bounded (with respect to
the relevant scale or direction of orientation) by its literal meaning and po-
tentially upper-bounded by implicature.
Some recent accounts of the same phenomena have challenged this pic-
ture; for some of these developments, cf. Cormack 1980; Sadock 1981;
Burton-Roberts 1984; Sadock 1984; Atlas 1984; Carston 1985a, 1985b;
Kempson 1986; and Sperber and Wilson 1986 (cf. also Horn 1984a, 1985).
The division of labor between logico-linguistic and pragmatic rules I have
argued for has been particularly called into question for the cardinal num-
bers. It is doubtful that anyone would now seek to defend the original posi-
tion of Smith 1970, on which 1,2,3, and the infinitely many values in this
series are all semantically or lexically ambiguous (as between 'at least n'
and 'exactly n' readings). What Kempson and her colleagues have argued
for is a position on which cardinals are semantically univocal but proposi-
tionally or logically ambiguous, where the semantic interpretation of an
expression in general radically underdetermines its contribution to filling
out propositions and hence to determining truth conditions as well as utter-
ance meaning (cf. §6.5 below). Hans Kamp has suggested, on the other
hand, that determiners of the form n + eN are truth-conditionally identical
to those of the form exactly n + eN. Kamp's position, worked out within
his theory of discourse representations, is challenged by Kadmon (1984),
who adduces additional evidence from anaphora in favor of a discourse
representation version of a mixed semantico-pragmatic theory of cardinals
akin to that of Horn 1972, where the 'exactly' reading is generated in-
directly from the 'at least' reading.
It is undeniable that the upper-bounding implicature mechanism behaves
differently with respect to cardinals than it does with other scalar values
4.4 Scalar Predication and Subcontrariety II 251
(e.g., the quantificational determiners, modals, and first-order gradable
contraries). Kadmon points out that the quantity-based implicature is
stronger for Myers has three kids-and especially for Myers has one kid-
than for Myers has a kid and offers a straightforward Gricean explanation
for the difference.32
She also observes (1984: 30ff.; cf. Horn 1972: 45) that
rounded numbers (200 Hondas are defective) are easier to get under the
non-upper-bounded 'at least' reading than are unrounded numbers (278
Hondas are defective).33
Sadock (1984) discusses the problem posed for a minimalist theory of
the cardinals in giving the truth conditions of such mathematical statements
as 2 + 2 = 3, The square root of9 is 2, each of which would seem to have
a true reading on the 'at least' understanding of the cardinals in question
(2 + 2 is not only 3-it's 41). As Sadock points out, the cardinals differ
from the 'inexact quantifiers' (some, many, none) and from other scalar
terms in the contextual reversibility of the direction of their scale; while the
normal numeric scale is easily reversed, 'it does not seem possible to use
some, for example, in such a way as to implicate "at most some'" (Sadock
1984: 143).34 Whether other factors may be involved or not, the exact-
ness built into the cardinals as against the noncardinal determiners and the
greater knowledge or information consequently presupposed in their felici-
tous use certainly seem to add an additional reinforcement to the scalar im-
plicata they induce.35
Addressing a related issue, Campbell (1981 :97-99) distinguishes CRYP-
TIC (unconscious) from PHENIC (conscious) processes in pragmatic in-
ference. He notes that the upper-bounding quantity-derived implicatum
derived in a context like that of B's response in (79)
(79) A: How many children do you have?
B: Two.
is cryptic or automatic, requiring no 'real cognitive effort' or deliberation
by A (of the form Does B mean exactly two or at least two?). In a context
like that of (79'), however,
(79') A: Do you have two children?
(B: {No, I have three/ Yes, in fact I have three})
the addressee may indeed consciously wonder whether A meant exactly
two or at least two, perhaps resolving the question in the former direction
by a phenic application of Quantity in a context where the maxim can be
appropriately invoked.
Thus the inference whose application in effect pragmatically disambigu-
ates an equivocal scalar operator may involve a greater-or-Iesser degree
of conscious effort-that is, less or more conventionalization or 'short-
252 Negation and Quantity
circuiting' (Morgan 1978). That a given pragmatic inferencing mechan·
. h . . ISm
may operate WIt varymg degrees of dIrectness (or unconsciousness) is b
now clear; this question is allied to the broader issue of the 'conventionai.
vs. 'natural' status of implicature in particular and pragmatic rules in g _
I · h· h en
era, an Issue to w IC I shall return in chapter 5. But first I shall explore
important linguistic conspiracy located at the crossroads of negation scal
an
implicature, and lexicalization. ' ar
4.5 The Story of 0: Quantity and Negative Incorporation
o me no O's (Ben Jonson, The Case Is Altered)
Why do some logical squares-those depicted in Jespersen's Tripartitions
~§4.2)-:-have only three corners? As we have seen in our earlier incursions
mto lOgICal geometry, Jespersen's A and C categories map onto the A and
E ~ertices of the ~raditional Square of Opposition. The B category has the
lexIcal membershIp of the I vertex (some, possible), but its semantics sug-
gests a neutralization or conjunction of the two (I and 0) subcontraries
(some but not all, possible but not necessary), as illustrated in (80):
(80)
The result is either logically incoherent or radically counterintuitive. IfB
terms are really ?ilateral, they are incompatible With, rather than simply
weaker than, their A counterparts. Further, as I noted earlier, terms from
the B and C categories are not (pace Jespersen) true contradictories if the
former is defined bilaterally: some but not all a VP and no a VP can both
be false in the same context. Yet Jespersen (like Hamilton before him) is
correct in recognizing a warp in the logical square.
4.5 Quantity and Negative Incorporation 253
If we follow Jespersen in regarding B as basically positive, and if we
assume, contra Jespersen, that the members of the B category are given a
unilateral representation (lower-bounded by meaning, upper-bounded by
implicature, as laid out in this chapter), we obtain the three-cornered
square in (81), a logical amputee of the traditional figure:
(81) A_contraries_C
,"bait,," /
jld;cto""
B
For every triad of A, B, and C terms, now mapping directly onto the A, I,
and E vertices of the square, symmetry would demand a D term mapping
onto the (missing) fourth, 0 vertex. But in each case, it will be observed,
this D value cannot be expressed straightforwardly as a single lexical item.
Instead of corresponding to one of the items in the paradigm, the antici-
pated D (0) term corresponds to a paradigm gap: we have all, some, no,
but not all (some . .. not); everybody, somebody, nobody, but not every-
body (somebody ... not); always, sometimes, never, but not always
(sometimes . .. not).
That the 0 vertex, unlike its three companions, allows no simple repre-
sentation was recognized by Saint Thomas, who observed that whereas in
the case of the universal negative (A) 'the word "no" [nullus] has been
devised [sic] to signify that the predicate is removed from the universal
subject according to the whole of what is contained under it', when it
comes to the particular negative (0), we find that 'there is no designated
word, but "not all" [non omnis] can be used. Just as "no" removes uni-
versally, for it signifies the same thing as if we were to say "not any"
[i.e., 'not some'], so also "not all" removes particularly inasmuch as it
excludes universal affirmation' (Aquinas, In Arist. De Int., lesson 10, in
Oesterle 1962: 82-83).
In Greek, Latin, and English, negative (moo ~) quantifiers and quan-
tificational adverbs are available (whether or not we view them as having
'been devised' for the purpose) to express universal negation-for ex-
ample, no, none, nothing, nobody, nowhere, never-although the same
notions may be expressed equally by lexically complex constructions of
various types, as Jespersen, Sapir, and others have noted-nobody = not
254 Negation and Quantity
anybody = everybody . .. not (on its NEG-V reading). But no negative
quantifiers, no one-word lexical items with or without negative mor-
phology, are available to express particular negation (the negation of a
universal).
Nor is this asymmetry restricted to the Indo-European family. In un-
related languages throughout the world, we often find a portmanteau lexi-
calization translatable as all not (not some) or none. Thus, for example,
Malagasy tsy 'not' and misy [mis] combine to form [tsis] 'no', literally 'not
some'; there is no corresponding lexicalization for 'not all' or 'some not'.
In other languages, no negative-incorporated quantifiers are available at
all, but the E form tends to be expressed more simply or directly than the
o form. Thus, in Japanese, we find 'not all' distinguished from 'no' by the
insertion of the wa topic marker:
(82) a. Minna ikana katta yo. 'Nobody went'
b. Minna wa ikana katta yo. 'Not everybody went'
The same asymmetry extends to the binary suppletive forms ofthe quanti-
fiers (or quantificational determiners) and to the binary connectives as well.
Thus, alongside the lexicalized A, B, and C forms in the Jespersenian tri-
partite table in (83), the corresponding D row is lexically unrealized.
(83)
Quantifi-
Ordinary cational Binary Correlative Binary
Quantifiers Adverbs Quantifiers Conjunctions Connectives
A all ex, everybody always both (of them) both ... and and
B some ex, somebody sometimes one (of them) either ... or or
C no ex, nobody never neither (of them) neither . . . nor nor
(= all - I -some) (= always -) (= both - I -either) (= [both ... and]-) (= and-)
D *nall ex, neverybody *nalways *noth (of them) *noth ... nand *nand
(= some - I -all) (= -always) (= either - I -both) (= [either ... or]-) (= and - I -or)
I have argued that the conjunction (both . ..) and corresponds logically,
pragmatically, distributionally, and intonationally to the universal all, the
disjunction (either . ..) or to the existential or particular some, and the
joint negation (neither . ..) nor to the universal negation no, none. This
fills in three of the four corners of the Square of Opposition, but the fourth,
southeast corner, the 0 position, remains lexically fallow. Why should this
asymmetry exist? Whatever became of the missing O?
A solution to the puzzle is proposed in Horn 1972: chapter 4 (cf. also
Blanche 1969 for a similar idea). Given the existence of the generalized
Q-based implicature, the use of either of the subcontraries (the I or the
4.5 Quantity and Negative Incorporation 255
o value) tends to implicate the other; as Mill observed (see §4.1 above), if
I say (in a neutral context) that some are, you will infer that some are not
(= not all are), and vice versa. Thus, in terms of what is communicated
or conveyed rather than in terms of what is literally said, the two subcon-
traries are informationally interchangeable. That they are nonetheless not
interchangeable in an arbitrary discourse context (salva felicitate) , as (84)
indicates:
(84) A: All of your friends showed
up.
B: No, some of them
didn't.
not all of them
did.
{just / only} some
of them did.
?#some of them
did.
A: None of your friends
showed up.
B: No, some of them
did.
?#just some of them
didn't.
?#(just) not all of
them did.
reflects the fact that the two subcontraries occupy corresponding (weak)
positions on different scales: it is 0 which provides the contradictory of an
A statement, and I of E. But the fact remains that speaker A, if he accepts
B's rebuttal, is left assuming the same proposition at the end of the two
dialogues in (84): some of B's friends showed up and some did not.
If I and 0 statements tend to result in the same conveyed information
with the ~hoice between them partly determined by the context, a languag~
conformmg to the account of the subcontraries I have drawn here does not
essentially need separate lexicalizations for both subcontraries.36 And this
is what we find: cross-linguistically, at least one universal, strong scalar
quantifier, or determiner is lexicalized (corresponding to the A position),
and often both (filling the A and E slots). But at most one of the particular,
weak scalars is lexicalized, invariably the subaltern of A (and contradic-
tory of E). The asymmetric pattern of lexicalization represented by the En-
glish state of affairs:
A: all--- E: no(ne)
I: some---O:-
is typical rather than exceptional.
The alternative, even more frequently attested, pattern is found in lan-
guages with greater restrictions on the lexical incorporation of negation:
256 Negation and Quantity
neither of the negative positions (E or 0) is lexicalized. But the generaliza_
tion remains sound: A, I, and often E values may lexicalize, 0 values may
not. And this suffices: in any situation in which I possess (and am known
to possess) complete knowledge, and in which that knowledge is (and is
known to be) relevant to you, I can convey that information to you via a
proposition containing one of the three values all, some (implicating some
~ot, no~ all), or none. The fourth value (*nail = not all, implicating some)
IS functIonally (although not logically) expendable.
Precisely the same pattern is found with the binary connectives. The two
values standardly lexicalized occupy the A and 1slots, represented in En-
glish by and and or, respectively. If a third position is represented, typi-
cally through negative incorporation, it maps onto the E vertex. In fact
there are two distinct semantic candidates for lexicalizing a negative con--
j~nction, both .historically linked to English nor. Jespersen (1917: 108)
CItes Old Engbsh (and Old Norse ne) as a negative phrasal conjunction
'looking before and after', so that suo ne norD in Beowulfstands for 'neither
south nor north' .37 German offers a (rarely invoked) modern equivalent: in
Wasser noch in Luft 'neither in the water nor in the air'. Technically, these
constitute the only instances of a true E-valued binary connective.
The standard (and later the only) value taken by nor is simply 'and not',
so that p nor q affirms p while denying q. And the connective has acquired
a further restriction to overtly or tacitly negative contexts. While Tennyson
could still write Ida stood nor spoke (for 'stood and did not speak'; cf.
Jespersen 1917: 114), far more typical today is the use of nor as a non-
colloquial connective paraphrasable by 'and also not', 'and not ... either'
(rather than by 'but not'), following a clause or sentence with negative
form and/or force. Thus, compare
(85) I {*could/ -Icouldn't} do it then nor can I do it now. (Kruisinga
1931 :§2395)
# He is rich nor (is he) handsome. / -IHe is rather poor, nor is he
exactly handsome.
He was upset about it. Nor was she {totally thrilled / #unhappy}
herself.
While stylistically and functionally restricted, then, naked nor survives
with the value 'and not'.
Another candidate for this slot, as argued by Dieterich and Napoli
(1982), is comparative rather. They gloss x rather thany, where y contains
a tensed verb as in (86):
(86) Harry walked to work rather than drove.
4.5 Quantity and Negative Incorporation 257
as 'x and not y', accompanied by the conventional implicature (see §2.5
above) that someone has previously asserted or assumed that Harry drove
to work.38
As Dieterich and Napoli note (1982: 163), their analysis of rather than
as 'a viable candidate for the logical connective "and not'" stands as a
counterexample to the claim of Gazdar and Pullum (1976: 224) that no
natural language connective can be noncommutative; (86) is obviously not
equivalent to Harry drove rather than walked to work. Indeed, the same
can be said of nor in examples like Tennyson's. More generally, Gazdar
and Pullum predict no difference in the status of connectives representing
the complexes (neither . ..) nor and not both, yet such a difference clearly
exists. In no language do we find any lexical candidate to occupy the south-
east corner of the Square, corresponding to 'or not', 'not both (and possi-
bly neither)'.
Since the work of Peirce, Nicod, and Sheffer, it has been appreciated
that all the truth-functional connectives of propositional logic, including
negation, can be generated from one basic truth function, and that there are
two equally viable candidates for this truth function: joint denial (p t q,
read as 'neither p nor q') and the Sheffer (or Nicod) stroke (p Iq, read as
'not both p and q'). The values associated with these connectives are given
in (87):
(87)
Joint Denial Sheffer Stroke
p q p t q plq
T T F F
T F F T
F T F T
F F T T
Depending on which of the two connectives is chosen as the generator,
propositional negation (-p) can be defined directly (as p t p or pip), and
the binary truth functions (and, or, if then, ifand only if) receive equally
straightforward and somewhat less counterintuitive definitions; it will be
observed that p t q is the contradictory ofp v q, and p I q of p " q. But this
solution is as unnatural as it is elegant, as emerges clearly from the attempt
to think intuitively of not p as shorthand for 'neither p nor p' or for 'not
both p and p' .
. While the argument that the Sheffer stroke is not conceptually primitive
(Gale 1976: 6) applies to the joint denial operator as well, there is neverthe-
less an essential difference between the two cases. As we have seen, some
languages (albeit a minority) provide a simple lexicalization for the E value
258 Negation and Quantity
ofjoint denial.39 While the naked ne, nor was once employed to this end in
English, the discontinuous correlative (itself dating back to Beowulf: ne
leof ne llio 'neither dear nor loathsome', cited by Coombs 1976: 177) is
now virtually de rigueur, in the form of neither . .. nor; Tennyson's Ida
must now clothe her naked nor as in (88a) to avoid offending linguistic
sensibilities (altering both meter and sense, but so goes progress).
(88) a. Ida neither stood nor
spoke.
(Ida both did not stand and did
not speak)
b. *Ida (noth) stood nand
spoke.
'Ida did not both stand and
speak'; 'Ida didn't stand or
didn't speak (and possibly did
neither),
Correlatives of the (88a) type, often of the form X . . . X . . . , as in
French ni ... ni ... , are legion. But neither English nor any other lan-
guage allows a simple or correlative form corresponding to the 0 value, as
hypostatized in (88b).
More generally, as against the lexicalized E forms in (89a), we get no
lexicalized 0 forms of the type represented in (89b):
(89) a.
b.
Lee can't come { and Kim c.an't either. }
nor can Kim.
and neither can Kim.
Neither Lee nor Kim can come.
Pat can't come { or (else) Sandy can't.}
*nand can Sandy.
*or noth can Sandy.
*Noth Pat nand Sandy can come.
This universal seems to have been detected independently by Horn
(1972: §4.23) and Zwicky (1973 :477), the latter commenting that despite
the logical self-sufficiency of the Sheffer stroke, 'no language seems to
have a conjunctive root nub, with the property that A nub B means "not
both A and B" ,. On the present account, this gap is attributable to the exis-
tence of a 'conjunctive root' which conveys (although it does not literally
express) this meaning, that is, or.
As with all weak scalars, disjunction is lower-bounded (inclusive) in
meaning and (unless the context stipulates or presumes otherwise) upper-
bounded (exclusive) in ordinary use, so that p or q says (p v q), implicates
(ceteris paribus) (p Iq)(= ~[p 1\ q]), and ends up conveying the conjunc-
tion of the two, that is, the exclusive disjunction (p w q). Ordinary lan-
guage can make do with either of the two subcontraries and, as with the
4.5 Quantity and Negative Incorporation 259
quantifiers, chooses to latch on to the affirmative (or) and eliminate (from
the lexicon) the negative (nub, aka noth, nand).
The next installment in the story of 0 features a familiar cast of charac-
ters, the modals. In the case of the modal auxiliaries, lexical items formed
by negative incorporation take the form of contractions: can't, couldn't,
shouldn't, mustn't, and so forth. Consider now the ambiguity of (90):
(90) A priest could not marry. (~<> or <>~)
On the former (Catholic) reading, this statement asserts that it is not pos-
sible (or not allowed) for a priest to marry; on the latter (Episcopalian)
reading, that it is possible (or allowed) for him (or her) not to marry. Paren-
thetical material inserted after the modal forces the latter reading:
(90') A priest could {always / if he wishes / of course}
not marry. (only <>~)
But contraction of the modal-negative complex disambiguates (90) in the
opposite (Catholic) direction:
(90") A priest couldn't marry. (only ~<»
The same results obtain with can, which also allows 'orthographic' con-
traction:
(91) a. You can not work hard and still pass.
b. You {cannot! can't} work hard
and still pass.
(~<> or <>~)
(only ~<»
Whether the modal is understood as denoting logical possibility, physical
possibility (ability), or permission, only an outer negation can incorporate
into the contracted form.
What of the other modals? The generalization seems to be that ~<> and
0- sequences contract, while <>~ and ~D sequences do not. Thus,
alongside can't and couldn't (~<», we get
(92) a. You mustn't go.
b. You shouldn't go.
(you must [not go], D~)
(you should [not go], D~)
For most American speakers, mightn't and mayn't are virtually non-
occurring forms. Mightn't, if it shows up at all, does so in the one environ-
ment where a negative associated with might must take wide scope over the
modal:
(93) He might go, {might he not / mightn't he}?
?*It mightn't rain today.
(~<>[he go]?)
(<>~[it rain])
260 Negation and Quantity
When mayn't occurs, it also involves outer negation (and hence the deontic
reading, given the impossibility of associating wide-scope negation with
epistemic may):
(93') You mayn't go out.
?*It mayn't rain today.
(only -0, or rather -Perm)
(out on 0- reading)
In all these cases, modal + negative sequences expressing E values tend to
lexicalize, while those expressing 0 values do not (cf. Horn 1972: §4.1 for
a more thorough discussion.)
The existence of one clear counterexample to this tendency, needn't
(= -0, 0/= 0-) is partly explained by the status of modal need as a nega-
tive polarity item; we get He need not (needn't) go and (in some registers)
Need he go?, but not *He need go. While quantificational 0 values never
lexicalize, modal 0 values are relatively free to do so, it would seem, pro-
vided there is no possibility of misinterpreting the resultant form. When-
ever an E reading is possible, it in effect preempts the potential 0 reading.
In the case of needn't, the polarity status of need precludes any E inter-
pretation (with outer or wide-scope negation over 0), and the isolated 0 is
free to undergo contraction.40
Other E / 0 asymmetries in the modal system obtain in the adjectival
and verbal lexicon. Alongside the E value impossible, we would seem to
have the 0 values unnecessary and uncertain. But there is a difference: a
state of affairs can be logically impossible, but not logically unnecessary;
unnecessary seems to be limited to the deontic spheres. Similarly, it can be
impossible (not possible) that the Indians will win the pennant, but (for
many speakers) it cannot be uncertain (not certain) that the Yankees will
win. Uncertain is also restricted syntactically vis-a.-vis not certain, in that
it fails to allow subject raising: The Yankees are {not certain/ *uncertain}
to win.
In other languages (e.g., Latin and French) the cognate of the E adjec-
tive (impossibile, impossible) has no lexical 0 counterpart (* innecessa-
rius, *innecessaire). In general, we find that any language containing a
lexicalization of -0 also contains a lexicalization of -0, but not vice
versa; furthermore, if either of the resultant forms is more fully lexicalized
(in terms oflack of productivity of the affix, as with iN- vs. un- in English;
cf. §5.1 below), and / or freer in its distributional and semantic potential, it
will always be the E value, -0, not the 0 value, _0.41
Another reflex of the E / 0 asymmetry is the existence of negative dever-
bal adjectives, for example, English unreadable, unsolvable, with the logi-
cal form un-[[V]able], that is, -OV (incapable of being read, solved,
etc.). It is rare that a lexical item-in English or other languages-will
incorporate affixes for possibility and negation in such a way that the for-
4.5 Quantity and Negative Incorporation 261
mer takes wide scope over the latter. And when this does occur, as in the
Turkish verb forms in (94) (from Payne 1985: 227), the E value will tend to
be less transparent or more lexicalized:
(94) a. gel- emiy-ecek
come- IMP- FUT
b. gel- miy- ebil- ecek
COme-NEG-POSS- FUT
'He will not be able to come',
where emE represents an
unanalyzed impossibility marker
'He will be able to not come' ,
'He may not come'
Alongside the vast array of causative verbs lexicalizing the semantic
complex CAUSE -0 in English, we can find only a couple of candidates
for the corresponding logical form CAUSE -0 (CAUSE 0-): .
(95) a. 'make, cause to become not {possible /legal / moral}'
ban enjoin interdict proscribe
bar exclude preclude refuse
deter forbid prevent veto
disallow inhibit prohibit withhold
b. 'make, cause to become not {necessary / obligatory}'
({possible / legal / moral} not)
excuse exempt
Confirming the universallexicalization preference for E over 0 values,
a wide range of modal and quantificational complexes which appear (by
morphosyntactic criteria) to represent 0 forms are in fact assigned E
semantics. Russian nel'zja 'impossible, forbidden' ought on etymological
grounds to denote, not an E, but an 0 value, since it derives from the nega-
tion of a (now-archaic) root l'zja 'good, useful'.
Similarly, the frozen English adverbial not at all, like its French cousin
pas du tout, appears to have strengthened E-wards from its original source
as the negation of a universal (positive at all survives in Irish dialect with
the meaning 'wholly, altogether' [OED all, 9b]; cf. Van Dongen 1918).
The evidence is even clearer in Old English, where the lexical item nalles,
nealles-representing at first glance a counterexample to the constraint
blocking quantifiers of the form *nail-in fact is attested only with the
,value 'no, not, not at all', never 'not all'. (Other OE quantificational ex-
. pressions included n(£jre 'never', nreoor 'neither, nor', ndht 'nothing',
nan 'no one, none', and ndhw(£r 'nowhere', all occupying the kosher E
rather than the treyf 0 slot.)
The conspiracy toward simpler expressibility of E over 0 values is also
supported by a well-attested 0 --) E semantic drift. The outer negation
associated with a necessity predicate often seems to develop an inner nega-
tion reading, the contradictory of the A form turning into its contrary. This
262 Negation and Quantity
development, to which I return in chapter 5, is perhaps seen most clearly in
the French construction (96):
(96) Il ne faut pas que tu meures. 'You must not die' (D-p),
lit. 'It is not the case that
you must die' (-Dp)
first systematically investigated in the paper of the same name by Tobler
(1882b). Falloir 'must', devoir 'must, should', and their cross-linguistic
correspondents often take a preceding negative within their scope, either
optionally or obligatorily. In the case of (96), as Tobler demonstrates, the
unlogisch E reading coexisted alongside the (expected) 0 sense as early as
the fourteenth century and eventually evicted it entirely.
The tendency for 0 forms to strengthen until they take on E values is
often subsumed under the general phenomenon of so-called neg-raising
(cf. Horn 1978b and §5.2 below), but the same strengthening or drift can
be seen in another class of cases where the neg-raising analysis is more
problematic. In many languages, a negation outside the syntactic scope of
a causative element (verb or bound morpheme) is interpreted as inside its
semantic scope, resulting in the reading 'cause not' or 'not let' (cf. Tobler
1882b; Spitzer 1927; Cornulier 1973). Thus, the Italian example (97b), as
Cornulier notes,
(97) a. Il caffe mi fa dormire.
b. Il caffe non mi fa dormire.
'(The) coffee {makes/is
making} me sleep'
is normally read as the contrary ('Coffee doesn't let me sleep', 'The coffee
is causing me not to sleep') rather than as the contradictory ('Coffee
doesn't make me sleep') of its strong causative base, (97a).
Similarly, McGloin (1982: 11) observes that in Japanese, 'Negative
causative sentences ... predominantly give a CAUSE-NOT (i.e., not let)
reading. A NOT-CAUSE (i.e., not make) reading is marginal in many
cases'. She illustrates this contrast by citing the (marginal) ambiguity
of (98):
(98) Watashi wa otooto ni hon-o yom- ase- nakat- tao
I TOP younger brother-my book-ACC read-cAusE- NEG- PAST
'I {didn't let! ?didn't make} my younger brother read the book'
As discussed in Horn 1978a:§5.3 and Horn 1978b:213-14, Biblical
Hebrew, Turkish, Amharic, Czech, and Jacaltec are among those lan-
guages in which a negation of a strong causative (lit., 'not make', 'not
cause') yields a complex which may, and in some cases must, denote 'not
let', 'make not', 'prevent'. Even in English, some lexicalized negative
causatives are subject to the 0 --> E drift:
4.5 Quantity and Negative Incorporation 263
(99) a. That approach didn't please me.
b. That approach displeased me.
('didn't cause me to
become pleased' /
'caused me to become
not pleased')
(only = 'caused me to
become not pleased')
This diachronic drift has its analogues in performance as well. One curi-
ous (and unexplained) result of the experiments on the processing of
negation was the finding (in Wason 1959; cf. Wales and Grieve 1969 and
discussion in §3.2 above) that subjects had difficulty in dealing with con-
junctions of the form not both . . . and . . . , often treating it as though
it were instead both . .. not (neither . .. nor). Like the diachronic shifts
represented by the if ne faut pas construction and by causative negation,
this process of spontaneous translation reflects the instability of the 0
category.
The general explanation for the E/ 0 asymmetry assumed here (and
given in more detail in Horn 1972: chapter 4) leans on the observation that
the two subcontraries tend to result in the communication of the same in-
formation, despite a significant difference in how that information is pack-
aged. This can be illustrated graphically in the table in (100), where the
appropriate quantificational, modal, and deontic values are plotted against
the speaker's knowledge of the situation. Let 0 range over possible epis-
temic states of the speaker; 0 will vary from 0 (indicating total negative
certainty, knowledge that ... - ...) to 1 (total positive certainty). The
context of utterance is as neutral as can be mentally arranged. Simple lexi-
cal items for scalar values are indicated in boldface.
(100) (adapted from Horn 1972:ex. (2.109))
Vertex Quantifier
A all a
I v A at least some
a; some if
not all a
o
some a
not all a;
some a not
Modal
necessary
at least
possible;
possible
if not
necessary
possible
not nec-
essary;
possible not
Deontic
Value
obligatory
at least
permitted;
permitted
if not
obligatory
permitted
not obliga-
tory; per-
mitted not
Knowledge
0=1
1~0>0
1>0>0
1>0>0
264 Negation and Quantity
Vertex Quantifier
o v E not all a,
if any
Modal
not neces-
sary, if
(even)
possible
Deontic
Value
not obliga-
tory, if
(even)
permitted
Knowledge
1>0;;::0
E not any a; impossible not per- 0 = 0
no a; none mitted;
forbidden
Notice that the information represented in the third and fourth rows of the
table is identical, as follows from the symmetrical conversion properties of
the subcontraries. The two alternatives differ in logical force, since what
is asserted by each is implicated by the other; they also differ, as we have
seen, in their privileges of occurrence in well-formed discourse. But their
informational parity results in the three-cornered square I have depicted, in
which only one of the subcontraries need be directly realized in lexical
forms.
But why is it always the positive value that is lexicalized? Given the
symmetry between the I and 0 values represented in (100), why don't we
ever find a quantificational system in natural language with lexicalizations
for all, none, and not all, but not for some? Why are the three lexical bi-
nary connectives never (both) and, (neither) nor, and not both? Why are
there no modal systems based on the obligatory, the forbidden, and the
possible not?
The three-cornered square for natural language results from the vertical
asymmetry of the traditional Square, the fact that the subaltern relation (all
~ some, none ~ not all) is a one-way street, and that the subcontraries
(some, not all), unlike the contraries, are compossible (logically compat-
ible). Given the horizontal symmetry of the Square, nothing tells us why, if
we are to eliminate one of the subcontraries, or reduce it to second-class
(lexically complex) status, it should always be the negative one that is
shunted aside.
Nothing, that is, within the pure logic of opposition symbolized in the
Square or within the Maxim of Quantity which licenses the paradigm gaps
I have explored here.42
The key, of course, is the priority of the affirmative
which I have dealt with at length (in §1.2 and chapter 3), where I ulti-
mately argued for a pragmatic treatment of the positive-negative asymme-
try. It is the markedness of negative statements and the formal marking of
negation itself which are responsible for the fact that the three-cornered
squares defined by natural language scalar operators have the form of (101)
rather than of (102).
4.5 Quantity and Negative Incorporation 265
(101) A - - - - E (102) A - - - - E
1--------(0) (I) -------- 0
As we have seen (and cf. Horn 1972: §4.2-4.3), strong scalars incorpo-
rate an inner negation and weak scalars an outer negation. What of the
intermediate scalar operators? What we find is that any operator whose
lower bound is above the midpoint on its scale will incorporate only an
inner negation; any operator at or below the midpoint will incorporate only
an outer negation. In the terms of Lobner 1985, P- is a possible lexical
operator only when P is INTOLERANT, -P only when P is TOLERANT.
Thus we get negative operators like few, which can be viewed either as
the outer negation of a tolerant determiner (= 'not many') or as the inner ne-
gation ofan intolerant one (perhaps = 'a significant majority ... not .. .').
In the same way, the negative (moo ~) quantificational adverb rarely
(along with seldom and infrequently) equates to 'not often' or 'usually
not'. The complexes denoted by many . .. not, often . .. not, on the other
hand, do not lexicalize.
Since -P will be intolerant just in case P is tolerant, I predict that a
lexicalized negative quantifier or quantificational adverb should itself al-
ways be intolerant, and that is precisely what we find:
(103) a. He often goes to church {and / but} he often doesn't go.
(similarly, sometimes, not always)
b. # He rarely goes to church {and / but} he rarely doesn't go.
(similarly, never, always, usually)
(104) a. Many of my friends are linguists, {and / but} many of them
aren't.
(similarly, some, not all)
b. # Few of my friends are linguists, {and / but} few of them
aren't.
(similarly, none, all, most)
Essentially the same predictions are made by the MONOTONICITY CORRE-
SPONDENCE UNIVERSAL of Barwise and Cooper (1981 : 186): 'There is a
simpl~ [NP] which expresses the moo ~ quantifier -Q iff there is a simple
~P Wlt~ a ~eak non-cardinal det~rminer which expresses the moo t quan-
tifier Q . Smce a weak noncardmal moo t determiner will be one of our
tol~rant positive scalar values (a, some, a few, many), B&C's proposed
unIversal successfully rules out 'not every', 'not both', 'not all', 'not most',
and so forth, as possible values for simple determiners, while admitting
'neither', 'no', 'few' (not many), and so on. But without a grounding
266 Negation and Quantity
in the pragmatics of scalar operators, B& C's approach to the constraints
on quantifier lexicalization is ad hoc; worse still, it fails to generalize to
modals and other nonquantificational values.
As I would predict, the paradigm of (103) and (104) obtains for the
modals as well. The negative epistemic scalars not probable and not likely
allow-and indeed favor-a neg-raising interpretation under which they
are taken to signify 'probable not', 'likely not'; this instantiates my 0 --> E
drift. Their lexicalized counterparts, however, can only be read in this
stronger way, their internal morphology notwithstanding:
(105) a. It's {not probable / not likely} that a fair coin will land heads.
(ambiguous; true on outer [contradictory] reading of
negation)
b. It's {improbable / unlikely} that a fair coin will land heads.
(for most speakers, unambiguously inner [contrary]
negation; hence false)
(106) a. It's not likely that the Yankees will win and not likely that
they'll lose.
(allows 'tolerant' reading)
b. # It's unlikely that the Yankees will win and unlikely that
they'll lose.
(allows only 'intolerant', hence anomalous, reading)
This pattern extends to the deontic analogues of improbable and un-
likely: undesirable and inadvisable are unambiguously inner negations
({desirable / advisable} ... not ...), while their periphrastic counterparts
not desirable and not advisable are ambiguous. In both epistemic and de-
ontic cases, then, the 0 --> E drift affecting the use of the unlexicalized
forms not 0:, rendering the "illogical", contrary (inner) negation readings
more natural than the "logical", contradictory (outer) readings, is fos-
silized as an aspect of literal meaning in the lexicalized iN + 0:, un + 0:
forms. We shall encounter other instances ofsuch fossilization in chapter 5.
I began this chapter with Jespersen's observation that negation, when as-
sociated with numerals and related (gradable) notions, means 'less than'.
I have argued that this meaning is not a matter of negation mysteriously
taking on a reading which is neither contradictory nor contrary in such con-
texts, but results instead from the nature of scalar operators. Quantifiers
and quantificational determiners and adverbs, modals, and other scalar
values are lower-bounded by their literal meaning and upper-bounded (in
default and certain other contexts) by quantity-based conversational im-
plicature. Since the implicature relation is context-dependent, we system-
atically obtain two understandings for each scalar value P ('at least P',
4.5 Quantity and Negative Incorporation 267
'exactly P') without needing to posit a semantic ambiguity for each opera-
tor. Negation, in contradicting the literal meaning contributed by the op-
erator, applies to the pre-upper-bounded value, yielding the value 'not (at
least) P', that is, 'less than P'. (An obvious, but only apparent, counter-
example to this claim will be the focus of chapter 6.)
Jespersen's Tripartition model of the quantificational and modal notions,
incorporating upper bounding as a logical rather than pragmatic rule, suffers
the same ultimate incoherence as Aristotle's modal logic and Hamilton's
quantificationallogic. But each of these systems suggests the appropriate
pragmatic amendment we need to tack onto the traditional Square of Op-
position (or to more contemporary formal accounts of the semantics of the
logical operators). As we have seen, not all four corners of the Square are
equal under the law of natural language. The pragmatic mechanism relat-
ing the positive and negative subcontraries, I and 0, results in the super-
fluity of one of these subcontraries for lexical realization; the functional
markedness of negation assures that the superfluous, unlexicalized sub-
contrary will always be O.
5
The Pragmatics of
Contra(dicto)ry Negation
Things fall apart,
The center cannot hold. (W. B. Yeats)
Keiner oder aIle. Alles oder niehts.
Einer kann sieh da nieht retten.
Gewehre oder Ketten.
Keiner oder aIle. Alles oder nichts. (Bertolt Brecht)
If you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem.
-
(Eldridge Cleaver)
That negation cannot in general be reduced to contrariety or antonymy has
been recognized at least since Plato's mouthpiece, the Stranger, pointed out
in the Sophist that the not-great cannot be identified with the small, any
more than with the medium-sized, but embraces both (cf. §1.1.1). The re-
ceived position for both Aristotle (and his Peripatetic followers) and the
Stoics was that ordinary negation or predicate denial (the Stoics' apophati-
kon) is semantically contradictory. At the same time, an affirmation may
also have a contrary opposite of either positive or negative form (Aristotle's
predicate term negation or privative opposition, the Stoics' steretikon).
As we have seen, any two mutually inconsistent terms are contraries in
the broad sense; two sentences are in contrary opposition if they can be
simultaneously false but not simultaneously true. Sentences (la, b) are
thus contraries, since x may be neither black nor white.
(1) a. x is black.
b. x is white.
(1 ') a. y is odd.
b. y is even.
But for Aristotle, the sentences in (l') are also in contrary opposition, al-
though their middle is excluded. If y denotes an integer either (1'a) or (1 'b)
will indeed be true and the other false. But if y happens to be Socrates,
268
Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation 269
both (l'a, b) are false. Similarly, when two sentences differ in that one
affirms a positive predicate term of its subject and the other affirms the cor-
responding negative term of the same subject, as in (1"):
(1") a. z is bald.
b. z is nonbald. (or, z is not-bald)
the result is again a contrary, not a contradictory, opposition: if z is some-
thing of which baldness (and hence nonbaldness) cannot be naturally
predicated (e.g., if z = the number 17), or if z fails to denote an actual
existent (e.g., if z = the present king of France), (1"a) and (l''b) both come
out false.
Indeed, by this line of argument there are no contradictory terms; the
contradictory of (l ,a) can only be its predicate denial y is not odd, which
consists of precisely the same terms as does (I'a). In the same way, the
contradictory of (1"a) is not (I"b) but the denial z is not bald, in which
baldness is denied rather than nonbaldness affirmed, of z (cf. chapters 1
and 2 for discussion). Since I shall not be concerned in the subsequent dis-
cussion with vacuous subjects or category mistakes, I shall take the liberty
(as I did in chapter 3) of restricting contrariety in this chapter to the medi-
ate or weak contraries, those which allow an unexcluded middle (as in
(1)).1 Strong or immediate contraries will be assimilated to contradictories;
the sentences in (l 'a, b) and (I"a, b) will be taken to constitute contradic-
tory oppositions, contra Aristotle, and the constitutive terms (odd/even,
bald/non-bald) will also count as contradictories. I thus adapt the Tree of
Contrariety (§1.1.5, (34)) as shown.
contraries (incompatibles)
/ ~
mediate (weak) contraries
/~
simple (reductive)
contraries
[black/red]
polar (absolute)
contraries
[black/white]
For this chapter: CONTRARIES t
immediate (strong, logical) contraries
[odd/even, well/ill, bald/nonbald]
CONTRADICTORIES t
More graphically, we have the distinction illustrated in the diagrams in
(2) and (3); the governing laws (defined in chapter 1) are repeated here in
(2') and (3').
270 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
(2) (3)
Contrary Opposition
not-F
r-------~~~_____
~
Contradictory Opposition not-G
r------~~--___~
F G F G
black nonblack black [neither white
odd even bad F nor G] good
male female sad happy
(2') Contradictory opposition is governed by the Law of Contradic-
tion (LC) and the Law of Excluded Middle (LEM): if two
terms F and G are contradictories, then
(i) by LC, for any a in the relevant domain, ~(Fa A Ga).
(ii) by LEM, for any a in the relevant domain, (Fa v Ga).
(3') Contrary opposition is governed by the LC but not LEM.
Contradictory terms (black/ nonblack, odd/even, male/female) exclude
any middle term, an entity satisfying the range of the two opposed terms
but falling under neither of them: a shirt which is neither black nor not-
blac~, .an integer wh~ch is neither odd nor even. Mediate contraries, by
d~fimtlOn.' allow a middle: my shirt may be neither black nor white, my
fnend neither happy nor sad. Yet it may occur that the gap between the
contraries narrows and even disappears, so that the middle is effectively
excluded or swallowed up.
The centrifugal politics and/or theology of polarization, as reflected or
warned of in the epigraphs from Yeats, Brecht, and Cleaver, tends to force
every entity within the range of the polar contraries to choose one of the
two terms to fall under. In this setting, evoked by revolutionists of every
stripe, everything is black or white; there are no shades of gray.2 Hitler, for
one, was described by a contemporary as operating under 'a two-valued
classification scheme where everything was Black (dark, evil, Jewish) or
White (pure, good, Aryan)' (Richter 1944: 194). But Jesus, too, endorsed
a binary taxonomy:
(4) a. He that is not with me is against me.
(Matthew 12:30; Luke 11 :23)
Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
b. He that is not against us is for us.
(Mark 9: 40; Luke 9: 50)
271
that which polar contrary was to absorb the middle seems to have
answered differently depending on whether that middle was occu-
by an outsider to be rejected (4a) or by a potential convert to be as-
SIIJ1"'''W- (4b).3
Whence this polarizing tendency, this drift of middle-allowing lexical
.15H;,.nlntr:~rlf~S into middle-excluding acting contradictories? In his seminal
. of gradable terms, Sapir (1944: 133) points to the existence
of a 'psychological excluded middle': 'Three-term sets [superior/average /
. inferior, good/ moderate/bad, big/medium/small, warm: lu~ewarm/ cool]
do not easily maintain themselves because psychology, With Its tendency to
simple contrast, contradicts exact knowledge, with its insistence on the
norm, the "neither nor" ,. It is because of this psychological preference for
simple, either-or contrast that the 'normed' or middle term, occupying. a
ZONE OF INDIFFERENCE, tends to be 'quasi-scientific rather than popular III
character' and that it is itself typically ungradable (?more average, ?more
lukewarm). Nor is it an accident-as Sapir and Aristotle have both noted-
that the zone of indifference must often be characterized negatively, as
'neither X nor Y' ..
A speculative mind might attribute the polarizing tendency to the pre-
sumed survival value for the primitive language wielder in perceiving and
classifying the universe into various series of either-or, black-or-white, or
(following Osgood and Richards 1973; cf. chapter 3) yin-or-yang pairs, ig-
noring the quasi-scientific niceties of the zone of indifference.
In any case, we have what appears to be a productive, context-dependent
process: polar contraries are treated as mutually exhaustive as well as mu-
tually inconsistent, contradictories in contrary clothing. When all values
but p and q have been discarded, we obtain the disjunction in (Sa), func-
tioning as an instance of (5b), that is, the Law of Excluded Middle.
(5) a. p v q
b. P v ~p
As the neo-Hegelian Sigwart observed, the efficacy of LEM derives in fact
from the possibility of establishing just such pragmatic disjunctions be-
tween semantic contraries: 'We are able, on the ground of our knowledge
and of the particular contents of our subjects and predicates, to frame two
positive statements, of which we know [as with] contradictory judgments
that while both cannot be true together, neither can both be false; and in
this case we gain, by denial of either member of the disjunction, a definite,
unambiguous affirmation' (Sigwart 1895: 155).
272 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
. The assu~ption of p v q, together with the negation of either disjunct
licenses the mference of the other disjunct. This principle has been know'
since the Stoics established their 'fifth indemonstrable syllogism' (§4 2
n
(32b», and comes down to us as the law of MODUS TOLLENDO PONE~~
(MTP):
(6) p v q
~p
:. q
The crucial step, of course, is the initial establishment, in context, of the
disjunction: 'If we could solve all difficult questions by starting right off
with "it is either so or so"- "he is either mentally healthy or diseased in
mind", "the number is either odd or even"-then indeed the principle of
excluded middle would be an invincible weapon' (ibid.). No disjunction of
contraries, no LEM; no LEM, no MTP.
But when, precisely, can we extend this strategy of "divide and assert"
to semantic contraries? One class of cases has already been mentioned,
those resulting from the polarizing tendency of Manichaean credos. When
the center does not hold, there are only two possibilities: if everything is
either good or evil, and something isn't good, what else can it be? But if
evil expands to cover the ground of 'not good', not good is essentially re-
duced to 'evil'. Thus a formal contradictory (not good vis-a.-vis good) is
strengthened in terms of the relevant scale to yield the assertion of a con-
trary (bad, evil). This is what Sigwart has in mind in warning that 'The
opposition of predicates [e.g., good vs. evil, white vs. black] has sub-
stituted itself unnoticed for the mere negation, and the negative statement
[x is not good, y is not white] seems to tell us more than it really does; it is
understood as if it applied to the truth of the proposition with the opposite
predicate' (Sigwart 1895: 195).
How general is this sleight of mind? For Sigwart's contemporary and fel-
low Idealist Bosanquet, it is essentially universal: 'The essence of formal
negation is to invest the contrary with the character of the contradictory'
(Bosanquet [1888] 1911: 281). To support his position that 'negation always
involves contradiction between contraries' , rather than simple contradictory
opposition on the one hand or pure contrariety on the other, Bosanquet
cites the apparent 'mere contradiction' between He is good and He is not
good, where the latter is semantically a relatively weak, 'non-informative
form' which in practice is 'filled in', 'so that from "he is not good" we
may be able to infer something more than that "it is not true that he is
good'" (p. 293).
As a related illustration of the same tendency to 'fill in' a literal contra-
5.1 Affixal Negation 273
dictory, Bosanquet recognizes 'the habitual use of phrases such as [1 do not
believe it], which refer grammatically to a fact of my intellectual state, but
actually serve as negations of something ascribed to reality. . . . Compare
[Greek] ov 1>TJILL [lit., 'I do not say'], which means 'I deny', or our com-
mon phrase 'I don't think that'-which is really equivalent to 'I think
that-not'. (Bosanquet [1888] 1911 :319)
Thus, both simple first-order contradictory negation and second-order
(displaced, anticipated, or transported) negation associated with an embed-
ded Clause must be understood-in at least some of their instances-by
virtue of a 'filling-in' process: just as the middle between polar contraries
may be excluded, or filled in, by a context-dependent polarizing process,
so too the 'mere contradictory' (not good, not believe) may be filled in to
express the corresponding contrary (bad, disbelieve). In each case, con-
trary meaning is invested in contradictory form.
The basic principle identified by Bosanquet and Sigwart can be ex-
pressed straightforwardly in the language of modern pragmatics: In a
context licensing the pragmatic assumption p v q, to assert not-p is toiffi-
plicate q. Under the right conditions, then, a formally contradictory nega-
tion not-p will convey a contrary assertion q-but just what are the right
conditions? When is the assumption of p v q (for polar contraries p, q)
pragmatically warranted? What is the nature of this pragmatic implicature,
if such it is, and when does it become strengthened or "institutionalized"
into a convention of usage or meaning? With these questions, which were
never directly addressed by the neo-Hegelians (or anyone else), I launch
my inquiry.
5.1 Affixal Negation
5.1.1 Contrariety and E-Negativity: The Case of iN- and un-
I pick up the spoor of contrary-negation-in-contradictory-clothing, not in
either of Bosanquet's suggested lairs, but in a third haunt. It has long been
recognized (cf. inter alia Sigwart [1895: 138], who cites unhappy, unwise,
unfeeling, and speechless, and more recently Kruisinga 1931: §1620;
~immer 1964; and Funk 1971) that negative affixation, especially when it
Involves the English prefixes un- and iN- and their cross-linguistic ana-
logues, admits or tends to develop a contrary, rather than merely contradic-
tory, interpretation. Here is Jespersen's statement of the generalization:
The modification in sense brought about by the addition of the
prefix [un-] is generally that of a simple negation: unworthy =
274 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
'not worthy', etc.... The two terms [X, unX] are thus Contra_
dictory terms. But very often the prefix produces a 'contrary'
term or at any rate what approaches one: unjust generally implies
the opposite of just; unwise means more than not wise and ap-
proachesfoolish, unhappy is not far from miserable, etc.
(Jespersen 1917: 144; cf. Jespersen 1942:466-67)
What is less well understood is (1) when the contrary readings tend to
arise-for which senses of which stems, and for which applications of
which affixes; and (2) how the emergence of these readings correlates with
the equally often observed fact that the same prefixes tend to yield derived
forms which are associated with a depreciatory or pejorative (i.e., emo-
tively negative) content. This latter point is also recognized by Jespersen
(1917: 144): 'The same general rule obtains in English as in other lan-
guages, that most adjectives with un- or in- have a depreciatory sense: we
have unworthy, undue, imperfect, etc., but it is not possible to form similar
adjectives from wicked, foolish, or terrible' .
Jespersen and Zimmer (1964: lOff.) review a number of early discus-
sions of negative affixation, including those of Jhering ([1883] 1923),
Wundt (1886), Noreen (1904), and van Ginneken (1907), focusing on
what Wundt labels the UnlustafJecte of negatively affixed forms in particu-
lar and negation in general. In German, Swedish, French, and English, as
these lexical studies demonstrate, disproportionately many negatively af-
fixed adjectives are depreciatory, derogatory, or evaluatively negative in
denotation or connotation. Following Cruse (1980), I shall adopt E-POS and
E-NEG as shorthand for evaluatively/emotively positive and negative, re-
spectively. Then the formula expressing the relevant generalization can be
given as in (7):
(7) negative affix + e-pos base ~ e-neg derived output
[uno, iN-] [happy, due] [unhappy, undue]
For these late-nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century scholars, the affective
e-neg coloration of negatively affixed forms is simply a special case of the
emotive content inextricably linked to all varieties of negation, akin to
Russell's 'moment of aversion' or Wason's 'prohibitive' factor. But the fact
remains that this correlation of negative form and e-neg content is far
stronger in the case of partially productive negative affixes.
Thus, in English we have unhappy but not unsad, unwise but not un-
foolish, and a variety of other asymmetrical pairings illustrated in the table
in (8):
(8) uncivilized
unclean
*unboorish, *unbarbarian
*undirty
unfriendly
unhappy
unhealthy, unwell
uninteresting
unjust, unfair
unkind, uncivil
unsympathetic
untrue
unwise
infertile
5.1 Affixal Negation
*unhostile, *unantagonistic
*unsad
*unsick, *unill
*unboring, *undull
*unwrongful
*unrude
*unantipathetic
*unfalse
*unfoolish
*unbarren
275
In these examples, only an e-pos or neutral stem can serve as a natural base
for a negatively affixed adjective, and only e-neg derived adjectives are
\ therefore possible.
Elsewhere, as in (9), we find an (e-neg) un- or iN-prefixed adjective
based on an e-pos stem alongside which there is no obvious e-neg stem to
serve as a source for an e-pos derived form:
(9) impossible inconsistent unfit
inappropriate irrelevant unfortunateI unlucky
incoherent unaptI inept unsound
inconsequential unbecoming unsuitable
There are also a number of un- adjectives with no-or no extant-relevant
positive counterpart whatsoever: unabashed, unassuming, unbending, un-
couth, unflagging, unheard-of, unkempt, unparalleled, unprecedented,
unruly, unscathed, untouched, untoward, and so on. Significantly, the ma-
jority of such forms (many of which are evaluatively positive) represent the
productive un + V + PTCPL pattern discussed below; those that fail to re-
flect this pattern do seem to share the e-neg quality of the adjectives in (8)
and (9).
As Cruse (1980) notes, the category of e-pos adjectives is semantically
heterogeneous. In the case of ANTONYMS (gradable contraries), where
there is a midinterval between the unmarked and marked qualities, the un-
marked term (happy, wise, interesting, tall, big) denotes a positive at-
tribute or property which can be present in varying degrees and there are
no literal endpoints of the relevant scales (#absolutely {happy/sad/tall!
short}). In the case of GRADABLE COMPLEMENTARIES (contradictories),
where there is no midinterval, the unmarked term (as determined by the
usual distributional tests; see chapter 3) denotes the absence of some nega-
tive or undesirable property (cf. clean vs. dirty, safe vs. dangerous) and
the unmarked term does contain a scalar endpoint (absolutely {clean/
#dirty, safe/#dangerous}). In the former case, the e-pos term is also Q-
276 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
pos (quantitatively positive, denoting a salient property); in the latter case
it is the e-neg term that is q-pos: 'All gradable complementaries denot~
degrees of some undesirable property, like dirtiness, or danger; antonyms
always indicate degrees of either a neutral property, like length, or weight
or a desirable one, like beauty, merit, or intelligence' (Cruse 1980:21):
But, as shown by pairs like uncleanl*undirty, unsafel*undangerous, and
the existence of unpaired neg-prefixed adjectives from q-neg but e-pos
bases-unfaithful, dishonest, imperfect, impure-it is e-polarity rather
than 9.-polarity which determines the availability of an adjective for nega-
tive prefixation. (Cf. Sapir 1944; Giv6n 1970; Ljung 1974; Lehrer 1974,
1985; Lyons 1977; and Lehrer and Lehrer 1982, for further discussion of
antonymy, markedness, and gradable adjectives.)
How is the asymmetry pointed to in (8) and (9) to be explained? We
cannot simply invoke Wundt's UnlustafJecte of negation, or other correlates
of the widely held position (encountered frequently in earlier chapters) that
all negation is inextricably tied up with the unpleasant or forbidden. What-
ever the justification for such views, they do not distinguish the morpho-
logically restricted cases of negative prefixation from the unrestricted
syntactic potential of ordinary sentential or phrasal negatives; however
marked might be a discourse occurrence of She isn't sad, You're notfoolish,
That movie wasn't boring, and so on, these sentences are undeniably gram-
matical, while the corresponding morphological negatives (*She's unsad,
*You're unfoofish) are equally clearly ungrammatical.
The essential insight on the road to explanation is provided by Zimmer
(1964): the less productive the affixation process, the more likely it is that
the result will be interpreted as a contrary (rather than contradictory) of its
base, and the stronger will be the restriction to e-pos bases (and, corre-
spondingly, to e-neg resultant meanings for the derived negative adjective).
This correlation emerges especially clearly when we turn to more productive
subrules for un-. At least since the OED, it has been noticed that un- at-
taches freely to stems with deverbal suffixes, that is, -able and the par-
ticipial -ed and -ing. Indeed, un- prefixation is virtually unrestricted in
these cases, constrained only by the existence of lexicalized iN- forms oc-
cupying the same slot.5
But in just these same contexts, the affixation rule
produces derived forms which are contradictory and emotively either neu-
tral (as in (lOa» or positive (as in (lOb».
(10) a. imperceptible b. unbeaten untarnished
irreducible unbigoted unblamable
undecidable unblemished unconquerable
uneat{ablelen} undaunted incorruptible
unexpired undefeated indomitable
unprefix{ableled}
unxerox{ableled}
un-cross-examined
un-mouse-eaten
untidewashed
5.1 Affixal Negation 277
undeterred
unharmed
unscathed
unsullied
unimpeachable
unobjectionable
irreproachable
invulnerable
Thus, 'the negative content of simplex words differs from the negative
content of forms derived according to some synchronically productive and
frequently encountered pattern' (Zimmer 1964: 38).6 It is for this reason
that Jespersen, in discussing the tendency for un- negatives to be read as
contraries, explicitly exempts 'words in -able (-ible) and participles'; his
examples (1917: 144) include unabsorbable, unadaptable, unabbreviated,
unadapted, unavailing, and unbefitting.7
If the un- and iN- attachment rules can only peek at the next-most-
internal material in the stem, these formations do not constitute counter-
examples to the claim that prefixation only occurs with a positive base.
What we need is the ADJACENCY PRINCIPLE of Siegel (1977): 'No word-
formation rule can involve X and Y, where X is an affix, unless Y is
uniquely contained in the cycle adjacent to X'. (Cf. Zimmer 1964: 38 and
Allen 1978 for related discussion.)
The constraint corresponding to (7) can now be given more explicitly:
the BASE of un-, the material uniquely contained in the adjacent cycle when
the rule applies, cannot contain negation (and in particular, the prefix
dis-).8 Siegel's formulation of this principle allows her to distinguish the ill-
formed e-pos un-words in (lla) from the acceptable formations in (11b):
(11) a. *un[#dis[#courteous]], *un[#dis[#honest]J
b. un[#[dispute#]ed], un[#[distinguish#]ed],
un[#[dis[# hearten]# led]
The words in (llb), along with the parallel formations in (lOb), do not
violate. Siegel's co~straint: at the time un- is attached, the base (-ed, -ing,
-able) IS not negatIve (although the stem containing that base may well be
as in Siegel's last example and those of (lOb». '
B~t.something else seems to be going on in these cases. Notice that pro-
~uctIv~ty alone does not explain the cases in (lOa, b), in particular those
Involvmg the nonproductive iN- prefix. As Jespersen (1917: 140) points
out, 'While most of the in- words are settled once and for all, and have to
be learned by children as wholes, there is always a possibility of forming
new.words on the spur of the moment with the prefix un-.' Although there
are Isolated examples of new formations with iN- (Zimmer cites an ac-
knowledgment by Kennedy to Khrushchev in October 1962 'that you and I
were aware that developments [in the Cuban missile crisis] were approach-
278 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
ing a point where events could have become immanageable'), Jespersen's
observation is essentially correct and is reflected in the different behavior
of iN- and un- with respect to phonological and morphological properties
of the corresponding affixation rules (cf. Siegel 1974; Allen 1978).9 The
e-pos in-V-able forms in (lOb) thus remain problematic, as do their emo-
tively neutral counterparts in (lOa). The Level I formation inedible, for
example, is exactly as contradictory in its semantics as uneatable.
It will be observed that many of the examples in (lOb) involve passive
formations based on an active transitive verb with the general meaning of
'defeat'; while there are well over fifty verbs in this semantic class (e.g.,
beat, conquer, deter, outdo, overcome, subdue, vanquish; cf. Roget's The-
saurus, 731.8-10), there exists no simple lexicalization for the converse
relation, that is, a transitive verb *glaif meaning 'lose to', such that The
Pats glaifed the Bears would signify 'the Pats lost to the Bears', 'the Bears
squelched the Pats' .
Dowty (1982: 111-12), following observations by Fillmore (l968),
draws analogous correlations between lexical semantics of given verb
classes and what we might call "direction of lexicalization". Dowty's prin-
ciples, held to be valid cross-linguistically (with the possible systematic ex-
ception of "deep ergative" languages; cf. Dixon 1979), are given in (l2):
(12) (i) If for any (x, y) E R, x is an entity that causes something
to happen to y, R (and not R-I) is lexicalized (build, kill,
ignite, move).
(ii) If for any (x, y) E R, x is a sentient being that perceives
something about y or has an emotion or attitude toward
y, R (and not R-I) is lexicalized (see, love, believe).
(iii) If for any (x, y) E R, x is moving and y is stationary,
R (and not R-I) is lexicalized (enter, overtake, pierce,
collide with).
My principle can be given an analogous Dowty-style formulation:
(12') Iffor any (x, y) E R, x defeats or prevails over y, R (and not R-I)
is lexicalized.
One indication of the strength of this principle, at least in English, is that
when the verb to best entered the lexicon-the first OED citation is
1863-it did not fill the vacant slot, the lexical gap corresponding to R-I in
(12'). The OED observes (under 'best, v. colloq.') that 'the form is hardly
in accord with the sense, which is nearly equivalent to the existing vb. to
worst', whose meaning (in line with (12')) was well established over two
hundred years earlier. A tendency must be strong indeed to result in the
5.1 Affixal Negation 279
synonymy of worst and best. (The neologism underwhelm also fails to
refute the principle in (12'), since it clearly does not mean 'to be over-
whelmed by'.)
Note further that complex V + Prep forms of the lose to type do not act
as syntactic or semantic units: cf. Chrissie was {spoken tol?said goodbye
tol*lost to} by Martina. Since there are predictably no prefixal adjectives
to fill the e-neg semantic slots of *unglaifed 'winless' or *unglaifable 'in-
capable of winning', the corresponding e-pos slots are liberated to be filled
as in (lOb).
Additional confirmation of the asymmetry of e-pos vs. e-neg un- for-
mations is provided by the history of English. A number of potentially
occurring un-X adjectives are now unavailable, presumably blocked or pre-
empted by a previously existing and more lexicalized simple contrary with
the same meaning; but this was not always the case. Here again is the OED
(un-I, 7):
There is . . . considerable restriction in the use of un- with short
simple adjectives of native origin, the negative of these being
naturally supplied by another simple word of an opposite sig-
nification. There is thus little or no tendency now to employ such
forms as unbroad, undeep, unwide, unbold, unglad, ungood, un-
strong, unwhole, [etc.] which freely occur in the older language.
It will be noticed that these cited examples, like those of (8) and (9), are
e-neg forms with e-pos bases; no unshallow, unnarrow, unsad, unbad,
or unweak seem to have occurred 'in the older language' (cf. Zimmer
1964:41).
The 'restriction against the use of un- with adjectives that have obvious
simplex antonyms', cited and experimentally confirmed in Zimmer 1964,
instantiates the more general Avoid Synonymy principle ('The output
of a lexical rule may not be synonymous with an existing lexical item';
Kiparsky 1983). The same principle-a subcase of my Division of Prag-
matic Labor, summarized in §3.3.1-predicts the narrowing of the seman-
tic domain of such derived adjectives as unhappy and unintelligent in such
a way that their meanings are palpably different from (and, in particular,
weaker than) those of the corresponding underived sad and stupid (cf.
Zimmer 1964; Lehrer 1985). Despite this difference in strength between
derived and simple e-neg adjectives, unhappy and unintelligent still consti-
tute contrary, rather than contradictory, opposites of their bases happy and
intelligent: someone who is neither happy nor sad may, but need not, be
unhappy. (An alternative explanation for the nonexistence of ungood et a1.
is offered by Marchand [1960: 151], but it is flawed by an unsupported as-
280 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
sumption that un- forms are in general contradictories rather than Con-
traries of their stems.)
The privative denominal adjective-forming -less suffix is, like deadjec_
tival un-, partially and variably productive, producing lexicalized forms
which often drift away from compositionality. For this reason, there is no
necessary semantic correspondence between a negative adjective of the
form N-less and the related positive N-ful derivative, if indeed the latter
even exists (cf. careless/careful, helpless/helpful, boundless/ *boundful,
recklessl*reckful). Thus, the way is often open (i.e., unblocked) for the
formation of an un-N-ful derivative which, as once again predicted by
Avoid Synonymy, will fail to be equivalent in its senses or uses to the
N-less derivative if one exists: uncareful *" careless, unhelpful *" helpless,
unrestful *" restless. Indeed, the fourteenth century witnessed such forms
as unmindful (quite distinct from the already-existing mindless) and un-
fruitful (distinct, although not quite so obviously so, from fruitless). (Addi-
tional examples and related commentary are offered by Marchand 1960:
231,261-63; and Funk 1971).
Also cited in the OED, however, and reproduced by Marchand (1960)
and others, are a plethora of un-X-less forms, in apparent violation of the
principle in (7) (and of the more specific Zimmer-Siegel-Allen ban on
affixing un- to formally negative bases), culled from seventeenth- and
eighteenth-century texts. But on closer inspection, these forms, exempli-
fied in (13):
(13) unboundless
undauntless
uneffectless
unfathomless
unguiltless
unhelpless
unmatchless
unmerciless
unnumberless
unquestionless
unremorseless
unrestless
unshameless
unshapeless
untimeless
unwitless
do not constitute actual counterexamples to these claims. Crucially, the
meaning of unmatchless, for example, was 'unmatched' or 'matchless',
rather than (as its form would suggest) 'not matchless'; unmerciless corre-
sponded not to merciful but to merciless (or unmerciful). Thus, these ex-
amples, like Modern English irregardless (or Ger. unzweifellos 'doubt-
less'), must be interpreted as containing redundant or pleonastic (rather
than mutually annihilating) double negation (cf. Horn 1978a:§3.2): an
e-pos base is transformed into a morphologically peculiar but semantically
regular e-neg derived adjective.
As noted by Jespersen, Marchand, and other descriptive morphologists,
un- and (especially) iN- derivatives tend to negate the emotive senses of
the stems to which they attach, while non- and (to a lesser degree) un- pre-
fixes negate objective or descriptive content. Among the minimal pairs that
have been cited to illustrate this contrast are the derived forms in (14):
5.1 AjJixal Negation 281
(14)
immoral : nonmoral
irrational : nonrational
un-American: non-American
un-Christian : non-Christian
unnatural : nonnatural
unprofessional : nonprofessional
unprofitable : nonprofit
unremunerative : nonremunerative
unrhythmical : nonrhythmical
unscientific : nonscientific
In each case, the iN- or un- form is un.derstoo~ .pejoratively ~d is in con-
trary opposition with the correspond1Og pOSItive stem, whtle the non-
derivative is a simple, evaluatively neutral contradictory.lO Algeo (1971:
90), echoing Jespersen and Marchand, describes the ~o~tra~t: 'A M?slem
. a non-Christian, but only a Christian can be un-Chrzstzan 10 behaVIOr. A
IS 1" . f th
nonrealistic novel is one whose goal is other than a rea IStIc VIew 0 e
world, but an unrealistic novel is likely to be one that aims at, and fails to
achieve, realism'.
A parallel contrast often obtains between the synchronically unproduc-
tive iN- prefix and its semiproductive un- counterpart. Jespersen ~1942:
§26.3) draws attention to the distinction between inartistic (outrag1Og the
canons of art) and unartistic (not concerned with art), and to the contrast
between immoral and unmoral ('Children are naturally neither moral nor
immoral but merely unmoral'). In these cases, the post-Jespersenian ear
might d;tect a more fully neutral and con~radictory .n~gative adjective
formed with the fully productive non-, that IS, nonartlstlc and nonmoral
(or amoral). .
We occasionally even get a three-way contrast, as 10 the examples of
(14'), where the derived forms become gradually more descriptive and
contradictory as we move from left to right:
(14') inhuman : unhuman : nonhuman
irreligious : unreligious : nonreligious
impious : unpious : nonpious
In each case, the contrary reading is possible to the extent that an adjec-
tival stem can be regarded as a GRADABLE or SCALAR value (cf. Sapir 1944;
Horn 1972; Ducrot 1973; cf. chapter 4 above). Applying the standard tests
for gradability, we get the correct prediction that iN- and (usually) un-
adjectives can be inserted into the scalar frame X was {somewhat/rather/
extremely/very/awfully/downright} ADJ, while the nonscalar non- forms
cannot occur in that .frame.
(15) downright {un-American/# non-American}
very {un-Christian/# non-Christian}
extremely {unnatural! # nonnatural}
somewhat {immoral!# nonmoral}
282 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
awfully {irrational/ #nonrational}
rather {unscientific/ # nonscientific}
Hence also the impossibility of un- prefixation for binary ungradables
(*unmale, *unfemale, *unodd) and the semantic restriction of other de-
rived forms to scalar senses or contexts: the surface of my table can be
uneven, but the number 7 cannot be; your decision may be unfair, but not
your complexion.ll
Given the evaluative vs. descriptive parameter, we obtain some striking
lexical gaps. Alongside unmaternal, nonmaternal, unmotherly, we have
no adjective *nonmotherly: while the stem maternal may be construed ei-
ther as a descriptive or an evaluative adjective, motherly can only be evalua-
tive (Zimmer 1964:33). Similarly, we have nonmale but not *nonmanly
(cf. unmanly/ *unmale). The same consideration rules out *nondecent and
*nonrespectable.
The other side of the coin, as pointed out by Funk (1971), is that adjec-
tives based on iN- and (semiproductive) un-, even when they originate as
evaluatively neutral and semantically contradictory senses, tend to develop
a contrary, affective, and typically depreciatory meaning or connotation.
Funk's examples of this process include inadequate, inappropriate, incon-
venient, incorrigible, infertile, irrelevant, uninteresting, and unsatisfac-
tory. And only a failed comedy may be unfunny, not a successful tragedy.
In some cases involving technical vocabulary, however, the predicted
distinction between a contrary form in iN- (or the equally unproductive a-)
and a contradictory in non- does not correlate with any depreciatory na-
ture-or gradability-for the former terms: a two-place relation which is
not transitive (symmetric, reflexive) is necessarily nontransitive (nonsym-
metric, nonreflexive), but not necessarily intransitive (asymmetric, irre-
flexive). Yet none of the terms involved is scalar or depreciatory (cf. Lyons
1977: 154 or Allwood, Andersson, and Dahl 1977 :88-90 for definitions).
In summary, then, we have the following correlations:
(16) iN-tends to combine only with scalarpredicates on their evaluative
readings; the resultant derived forms are lexicalized, semanti-
cally and phonologically opaque, and tend to be assigned a
contrary and generally depreciatory (e-neg) sense or conno-
tation, often involving an opposition to some expected or
established norm.
non- is much freer in its combinations (cf. §5.1.2 below); the
resultant derived forms are in general unlexicalized, seman-
tically and phonologically transparent, and involve the formal
and/or descriptive (rather than emotive or evaluative) dimen-
sions of meaning.
5.1 Affixal Negation 283
un- forms are situated between the iN- and non- forms with
respect to these criteria, depending on how productively or
freely the prefix combines with a given base: the less productive,
the more like iN-; the more productive, the more like non-.
The correlation between productivity and transparency is too well known
to need detailed elaboration here; it is treated extensively both in the tradi-
tional sources on word formation and by Siegel ([1974] 1979), Aronoff
(1976), and Allen (1978) within level-ordered generative morphology. The
application of this correlation to the negative prefixes is specifically ad-
dressed by Siegel and Allen. I need only point to the phonological opacity
of nonproductive formations like impious and infamous, citing the re-
traction of stress, the vocalic reduction, and the nasal assimilation, as
contrasted with the virtual compoundlike stress pattern manifested in non-
pious; this contrast correlates exactly with the semantics-opaque (non-
compositional) in the former case but transparent (compositional) in the
latter.12 As usual, the un- forms occupy an intermediate position, causing
some problems for a two-level system like Siegel's or Allen's; if iN- is a
Level I prefix and non- Level II, un- seems to need to hover between (in
Class IY2?), to flit back and forth, or to apply at both levels, none of these
solutions being entirely straightforward. 13
The principal difficulty resides in a level-ordering paradox diagnosed
and treated in various ways by Allen (1978), E. Williams (1981), Lieber
(1981), Selkirk (1982), Kiparsky (1982, 1983), and Pesetsky (1985). The
paradox can be reconstructed as follows: First, given its phonological prop-
erties and the fact that (unlike Level I iN-) it attaches only to full words, we
must assume that un- is a neutral, Level II, #-boundary affix. Second, I
adopt the core generalization of level-ordered morphology, due originally
to Siegel (1974: 163) and adopted by Aronoff (1976), Allen (1978), and
others, that Level II affixes may appear outside Level I affixes but not vice
versa. Third, I accept the evidence of Siegel and Allen that negative un-
is essentially a non-category-changing adjectival prefix. Fourth, I follow
Aronoff in treating the nominalizer -ity as a Level I, +-boundary suffix, as
its phonology, morphology, and semantics demand. Then it clearly follows
that alongside the acceptable impartiality, inability, and instability, we
should get no derived un-X-ity words of the form of unclarity, ungrammati-
cality, unoriginality, unreality, and unworkability. Unfortunately, we do.
It is clear that adjective-yielding un- is category preserving. Even
Marchand (1960: 152), with no theoretical ax to grind, maintains that
un-X-ity forms 'must ... be analyzed as derivatives from negative adjs'.
There is strong systemic pressure to preserve the generalization that nega-
tive un- applies only to adjectives; this pressure was in fact the principal
284 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
motivation for the position that 'unpassive' participles (uninhabited, Un-
collected, uncalledlor) must be de-adjectival rather than deverbal in nature
(cf. Siegel 1973; Hust 1977; Wasow 1977). It is true that both Marchand
and the OED attest a variety of other nominal un- formations in which no
such derivation is possible: unbelief, unbeliever, uncandor, uncrime, Un-
luck, unphilosophy, unpromise, unreason, unrest, unsuccess, unvalue, and
so forth. But most of these nominals strike us as nonce forms, as back for-
mations, and/or as-in the OED's delicate phrase-'not intended seri-
ously'; cf. Alice's unbirthday present, or (a century later) the uncola and
McCawley's (1980) theory of unsyntax. Other un- nominals-unintelli_
gence, untruth, unwisdom-involve the apparent attachment of un- inside
a nonproductive Level I nominalizing suffix. These formations will pre-
sumably be handled by whatever mechanism is ultimately capable of
providing an escape from the ungrammaticality paradox.
But just what mechanism is that? Williams (1981: §3) and Lieber look
for a solution in the observation that 'lexical semantics is in principle au-
tonomous from the structural aspects of generative morphology' (Lieber
1981 :70). But, as Selkirk and Kiparsky point out, this is a red herring,
since the problem involves morphological as well as semantic composi-
tionality. How do we attach a Level I suffix onto an adjective which has
already acquired a Level II negative prefix? Alternatively, how do we
attach a de-adjectival negative prefix onto a form which (at the output of
Level I and the input to Level II) is no longer an adjective?
For Selkirk, the answer is that when -ity attaches "outside" un-, it is
because un- in these forms is a Level I, not a Level II, prefix. That is, there
are two negative un- prefixes in English, just as-on Aronoff's (1976:
§6.2) argument-there are two -able suffixes, a Level 1+ abl and a Level II
#abl. The problem with this line, besides the unparsimonious duplication
of un- prefixes (and of other prefixes with the same properties), is that, as
Kiparsky (1983: §5) points out, Selkirk's Level I un- never brings off the
kind of phonological legerdemain associated with self-respecting Level I
(or root) affixes. In particular, it fails to assimilate in such forms as un-
popularity, unreality (*umpopularity, *urreality). Nor (unlike Aronoff's
+ abl) does it attach to roots as well as full words. There is, in short, little
reason (outside of the level-ordering paradox itself) to believe that un- is
ever Level I, and good reason to believe it is not.
Kiparsky (1982, 1983) considers an analysis in which a form con-
structed in Level II, such as ungrammatical, can somehow loop back and
undergo the rules of Level I, such as -ity suffixation. The problem here,
however, is that not just any Level I affix can apply to a word of the form
un-X. Kiparsky's ultimate solution, which strikes me as a good starting
point, is to suppose that un-X-ity words undergo a MORPHOLOGICAL RE-
5.1 Affixal Negation 285
ANALYSIS: the noun [N[Agrammatical]ity] is a 'marked exception' to Brack-
eting Erasure (Kiparsky's version of the Siegel-Allen Adjacency Condi-
tion), and the Level II prefix un- can effectively peek inside to attach to the
adjectival component. When it does so, the resultant derived form [Nun
[N[Agrammatical]ity]] is reanalyzed as £N[Aun[Agrammatical]]ity].
This analysis essentially treats ungrammaticality as a marked blend of
two impeccable forms, the Level I noun grammaticality and the Level II
adjective ungrammatical. It correctly predicts that un-X-ity formations will
be possible only when the corresponding positive X-ity noun is possible
and, since the admissibility of un-X-ity is a fact about -ity rather than a fact
about uno, that other Level II prefixes will automatically trigger the same
reanalysis (cf. semigrammaticality, noncompositionality, extrametricality,
bilaterality). Other instances of reanalysis include compounds incorporat-
ing Level I affixes taking semantic scope over the entire compound (cf.
Levi 1978): three-dimensional, set-theoretical, and so on.
Of course, the Level I suffixes -th, -ce, -dom, which are even less pro-
ductive than -ity, must also (as seen above) be marked as exceptions to
Bracketing Erasure, a somewhat disconcerting result. Other cases which
might prove problematic for Kiparsky's approach are unemployment,
unfulfillment, uninvolvement (Selkirk 1982: 130). Whether the deverbal
nominalizing suffix -ment is only Level I (as Aronoff assumes) or both
Level I and Level II (as Selkirk argues), the blend involved here seems to
be one of, for example, [Aun[A[yemploy]ed]] and [N[yemploy]ment],
where something more than the erasure or transparency of brackets seems
to have to be assumed. We might simply relax the restriction of negative
un- to adjectives, but these forms don't share the nonce or jocular flavor of
simple un + N forms (uncola, uncrime, unsyntax, unword). We begin to
appreciate why Chomsky, from his earliest writings on syntactic theory,
has always discussed the property of ungrammaticalness.
Whatever the final resolution, if any, of the level-ordering paradox, there
is no gainsaying Zimmer's basic finding that un- varies in productivity and
compositionality, and that the variation along these two parameters is
strongly correlated. While lexicalized un- forms tend to drift to contrary
and e-neg interpretations, the morphophonemic and suprasegmental behav-
ior of the prefix is uniformly that of a word-level, neutral, Level II affix.
But it is not clear how deep a fact this is: the parallel French negative prefix
iN-, which must effectively occupy the space of both iN- and un- in En-
glish, varies between Level I and Level II phonological behavior, depend-
ing on its productivity and compositionality (cf. Zimmer 1964: 50-51;
Aronoff 1976: 125).
The generalizations in (16) seem secure, then, however they are to be
reconciled with the facts just outlined. But it is important to recognize that
286 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
not just any positive scalar value can serve as the base for less than fully
productive negative affixation. As Zimmer observes, iN- and un- forms
tend not to accept superlative, or in my terms strong scalar, bases. Thus
we have no derived adjectives of the type illustrated by *undelicious, *un:
excellent, *unsuperb (Zimmer 1964:44). The general principle can be
stated as in (17):
(17) The stem to which a relatively nonproductive negative affix can
attach tends to be an UNMARKED, WEAK POSITIVE scalar value.
Thus, alongside unhappy we have no *unecstatic (from the strong posi-
tive ecstatic), *unsad (from the weak: negative sad), or *unmiserable
(from the strong negative miserable). Verbal prefixes behave the same
way: we have dislike, but not *dislove, *disadore, *dishate, or of Course
*disdislike. In each case, the permissible derived forms incorporate stems
which represent unmarked scalar values, as can be confirmed by apply-
ing the standard diagnostics: How happy is he? vs. How {ecstatic/ sad/
miserable} is he? How much do you like me? vs. How much do you
{love/adore/hate/dislike} me? In §5.2 and §5.3, I shall investigate other
contexts in which these same unmarked, weak: positive scalar values tend
to trigger contrary readings for a formally contradictory negation outside
their scope.
5.1.2 Other Prefixes, Other Problems
The negative prefixes iN- and un-, along with other nonproductive affixes
I did not consider in §5.1.1 (e.g., the adjectival dis- of disadvantageous,
discourteous, dishonest, disreputable, and the -less suffix of breathless,
careless,faithless, lifeless) correspond to the privatives ofAristotle (§1.1.1)
and the Stoics (§1.1.2), as of course does the linear descendant of the
Greek privative, the a(n)- of ahistorical, amoral, anesthetic, anorexic. As
we saw in chapter 1, the privatives represent for Aristotle the clearest in-
stance of the contrariety operator he calls predicate term negation; I shall
return in chapter 7 to the formal characterization of word-internal negation
and its relation to contrariety.
Whether or not a given negative adjective counts as a contrary in the
sense of this chapter-as a mediate or weak: contrary-seems to depend on
the sense of the stem and the degree of productivity of the relevant affixa-
tion pattern with the base in question. As Zimmer observes (1964 :87), un-
generated (lexically listed) forms tend to have contrary interpretations, and
generated forms (those resulting from a productive rule), contradictory. In-
tuitively, if a derived form is produced by a general, predictable, quasi-
syntactic process, its meaning must be predictable (compositional) as well,
5.1 Affixal Negation 287
or speaker and hearer would fail to communicate. For a negative adjective,
this will generally determine a contradictory rather than contrary meaning,
since (weak) contrariety is not a function (cf. §1.1.5).
Other negative affixes seem to involve a different dimension altogether.
Alongside negative un-, which attaches (almost) only to adjective stems
(cf. OED under un-I; Kruisinga 1931: §1620; Marchand 1960; Zimmer
1964; Siegel [1974] 1979; Allen 1978), the homophonous (but historically
separate) REVERSATIVE un- prefix (the OED's un-2, Jespersen's PRIVATIVE
un-) forms verbs from either verbs or nouns: unbend, uncage, uncover,
undo, unfasten, unfold, unlock.
In the presence of a deverbal, adjective-producing suffix, we get
structurally ambiguous lexical items-unbending, uncoiled, unfold-
able, unlockable, unwrapped-each of which may be taken either as
[ADJunI[ADJ[V]X]] or as [ADJ[yuri2[V]]X].14 The. stress pattern may disam-
biguate the resultant homonym (Jespersen 1917: 149; Kruisinga 1931:
§1623), but then again it may not. In keeping with the conspiracy against
lexicalization of semantic complexes corresponding to the 0 (southeast)
vertex of the logical square (§4.5), any adjective of the form un-V-able,
where un- is the ordinary negative prefix, will always be analyzable as the
Evalue [ADJun[ADJ[V]able]] (incapable of being Ved), with negation taking
wide scope over the possibility modal (Horn 1972: §4.13). The modal suf-
fix can take wide scope only in the structure [ADJ[yun[V]]able], where un-
is the reversative verbal prefix.
Are the negative and reversative un-s synchronically, as well as histori-
cally, unrelated? The standard answer is given by Covington (1981: 34):
the two prefixes are 'of course distinct'. But is this in fact the case?
Marchand (1960: 153) argues that as early as the OE period, the prefix
on(d)- (source ofreversative un-; cf. the cognate German ent-) 'had come
to be felt connected with the negative prf un', with which it merged
orthographically and, presumably, phonologically. Given that what so-
called reversative un- actually reverses is not the action denoted by the ver-
bal base but rather the result of that action, the semantic relation between
the two sets of derived forms may be closer than first appears, as well:
'What distinguishes unbound 'not bound' from unbound 'loosened' is only
the additional idea of an action preceding the state of being loosened, but
the state itself is the same' (Marchand 1960).
In the second edition of his Word Formation, Marchand (1969: 205) lays
out this relationship explicitly and seeks to capture it in the (deep) syntax:
The reversative type untie has the meaning 'undo the result of a
verbal action', more precisely 'cause the object of the verb to be no
longer -ed'. Tie a package means 'cause the package to be tied',
untie a package means 'cause the package to be tied no longer'.
288 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
The 'tiedness' (passive state) ofthe package is undone.... Atthe
level of the underlying syntactic structure, the analysis is . . .
'cause to be un- (= not) -tied'.
Marchand's proto-generative-semanticist account, cited and discussed by
Dowty (1979: 258), generalizes naturally to semantically related verbal
prefixes, including dis- and de- (Marchand 1972; Dowty 1979:§5.7).
Working in ignorance of Marchand, Horn (1978c) in fact offers a
Lakoff-McCawley-style decomposition of dis- verbs. In his rebuttal of
G. Lakoff's (1969) decompositional unpacking of dissuade into persuade
not, Hust (1975) cites as potential counterexamples to this appro~ch the
dis- forms in (18), which contain no overt complement structure and are
not paraphrasable by their counterparts in (19).
(18) a. I have disarmed the prisoners.
b. I have disassembled the mechanism.
(19) a. I have not armed the prisoners. [if-' (18a)]
b. I have not assembled the mechanism. [if-' (18b)]
But (18a, b) can be decomposed instead into (20a, b), respectively,
(20) a. I have caused the prisoners to come not to have arms.
b. I have caused the mechanism to come to be {notlno longer}
assembled.
where the negation is internal to the causative element. In these para-
phrases, 'the inchoative element builds in the markedness implicature that
the prisoners had previously been armed and the mechanism assembled';
the internal position of the negation predicts correctly that, for example,
(19a) does not entail that I-or anyone-had previously armed the prisoners
(Horn 1978c:205; see Dowty 1979:chapter 5 for insightful discussion of
such abstract internal negations and appendix 2 for more on dis- verbs and
the markedness implicature for negation).
I cannot make the case here for the connection between the negative (ad-
jectival) un-' and the reversative or privative (verbal) un-2, nor can I take
the space to explore the semantic and pragmatic intricacies of the latter
construction and of its rivals de- and dis-, all of which are used to 'express
the undoing of a previous state' (Marchand 1972: 636; cf. Covington 1981;
Horn and Covington 1987). It may be worth noting, however, that the pho-
nological item dis- is, like un-, morphologically polymorphous.
First of all, some dis- verbs denote, not activities or accomplishments,
but states: disbelieve, dislike, distrust. Nor is the dis- prefix limited to verb
formation; it also surfaces as a negative prefix on Romance-based ad-
jectives (disadvantageous, discourteous, dishonest, disloyal, disobedient,
5.1 Affixal Negation 289
disreputable). Furthermore, as Marchand (1960: 112-13) points out, there
are two semantically distinguishable classes of dis-prefixed nouns, those
interpreted privatively as denoting 'absence, lack of---' (discomfort,
disease [originally 'lack of ease'], disharmony, disregard, disunity) and
those interpreted reversively or contrarily as 'opposite of ---' (dis-
honor, dislike, disobedience, disorder, displeasure). The appearance of
dis- forms in all three major categories, and in different subcategories
within those categories, supports the plausibility of defining a synchronic
connection among the adjectival, verbal, and (marginally) nominal un-so
The versatility of both dis- and un- would thus call into question the Uni-
tary Base Hypothesis (Aronoff 1976)-the proposal that the input to a
morphological rule can be specified in terms of a single syntactic category.
Like other forms incorporating negative prefixes of limited productivity,
the dis- derivations, regardless of category, tend (as Jespersen (1917: 146)
recognizes) to receive mediate contrary interpretations-and privative or
e-neg readings-whenever possible. This applies clearly in the case of
stative dis- verbs: to disbelieve someone or something is not simply to fail
to believe someone or something, nor is to dislike or distrust simply to fail
to like or to trust. It should be pointed out that under some circumstances
we do seem to be able to equate such dis- predicates with simple negatives:
(21) a. I disbelieve your story. (21') a. I don't believe your
story.
b. I dislike chocolate oysters. b. I don't like chocolate
c. I distrust such analyses.
d. I'm disinclined to accept that.
oysters.
c. I don't trust such
analyses.
d. I'm not inclined to ac-
cept that.
But, as I shall argue in §5.3, the problem here is not that the complex nega-
tives of (21) are interpreted as contradictories, but that the (apparently)
simple negatives of (21') are interpreted as contraries.
The one negative prefix universally regarded as producing contradictory
negatives is of course non-. This feature of the prefix, which we have al-
ready encountered, correlates with the fact that non- is morphologically
opaque and extremely productive-especially, as Jespersen notes (1917:
147), with those stems for which no in- or un- prefixed lexical negation is
available. As we saw in chapter 2, it has been claimed (by, inter alia, Zimmer
[1964] and Drange [1966]) that a predication ofthe form S is non-P, like S is
not P but unlike S is un-P, tends to be interpreted as a weak negation of S is
P, one which is vacuously true if S is not the sort of thing of which P can be
predicated-whence the minimal pairs of the un-American/non-American
290 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
genre exemplified in (14) above. The same point is made by Funk (1971:
31), who associates the (purported) invariant contradictory semantics of
the non- prefix with its interpretation as not just 'that is not Adj' , but 'that
is other than Adj'.15
But even in this paradigm case of a negative prefix whose semantics is
stereotypically neutral, objective, and category-external and whose free-
dom approaches that of a syntactic operation, there are rumblings of latent
contrary/e-neg tendencies. First of all, we find a substantial set of lexical-
ized non- prefixed adjectives and nouns which have no obvious synchronic
source: nonchalant, nondescript, nonentity, nonplussed, etc. Other derived
non- words do have a positive source but do not constitute a contradictory
negation of that source: a nonsporting dog or breed of dog is not just any
dog/breed that is not a sporting dog-terriers and hounds are neither
sporting nor nonsporting dogs-while a nonpaper is a particular kind of
unofficial bureaucratic document. A nonconformist is not simply someone
who is not a conformist, nor is nonviolence simply the absence or lack of
violence.
Then there are the 'voguish' uses of non- described by Algeo (1971) and
Bauer (1983: 279-85), such as the PEJORATIVE non-, attaching to nouns,
glossed by Algeo as 'possessing the superficial form but not the values of':
nonactor (on one meaning), nonbook, noncandidate, nonevent, etc. And,
as with its more contrary counterparts, non- often attaches only to the un-
marked member of an opposition: in our demographic taxonomy, we have
nonwhites, but not usually nonblacks or noncoloreds, etc.
As I have noted·, negative prefixes exhibit a general correlation between
degree of productivity, tendency toward contradictory interpretation, and
morphological and phonological transparency. Non- not only fails to trig-
ger segmental sandhi phenomena and stress shifts (like un- and unlike
iN-), it also retains a considerable portion of its own stress. Indeed, as Allen
(1978) has observed, a word of the form non-X (where X may be an adjec-
tive or noun) often behaves morphologically and phonologically more like
a compound than a simple derived form. The unpredictable semantics of
some of the lexicalized non- formations supports this perspective, since
compounds themselves are notoriously capable of noncompositionality.
Furthermore, while it is true that S is non-P, like S is not P, ordinarily
yields contradictory negation, we can isolate another compound symptom
in the former construction. Zimmer (1964: 44) notes that a nonbarking dog
'would appear to designate a dog which does not usually bark, rather than a
dog which is not barking at some particular moment'. This sense ofcharac-
teristic or habitual association, which strikes me as far weaker (if not
simply absent) when we refer to a not-barking dog, is (as Zimmer [1971]
and others have noted) a general property of compounds.
5.1 Affixal Negation 291
In their (usual) status as predicate terms with the semantics of contra-
dictory opposition, non- adjectives evidently occupy a slot intermediate
between sentential negation, on the one hand, and ordinary, colloquial,
contrary-tending affixal negation, on the other. Whence the innovation of
the pseudopredicates in such classc citations as those in (22):
(22) a. The king of France is nonbald (-there is no king of France).
b. 2 is nonblue.
No ordinary affixal negation of limited productivity can co-occur with
these stems-bald is too e-negative and blue has no polar contrary-so
non- forms must be stipulated. While un- and iN- adjectives may represent
contradictories, strong contraries, or polar contraries of their stems, they
never apply within sets of multiply opposed terms, so non- must volunteer
to leap into the breach. For Zimmer, Drange, and Funk, the contradictory
semantics associated with non- renders sentences like those in (22) true (as
external negations), where an un- or iN- adjective would result in falsity,
meaninglessness, or truth-value gaps ({The king ofFrance/The number 2}
is unhappy).
But then why don't the sentences of (22) strike us as the least bit plau-
sible, much less true? The problem resides in an equivocation on the notion·
of contradictory opposition. In the terms of my discussion in chapters 1
and 2, both non-P and the even more artificial turn not-P (which I have
employed for rendering Aristotle's predicate term negation) are in fact
properly viewed as yielding, not contradictories, but strong or immediate
contraries of their base P. The distinction between contradiction and strong
contrariety, although I have been ignoring it for the purposes of the present
chapter, becomes crucial in instances of vacuous subject terms and cate-
gory mistakes. These are precisely the cases illustrated in (22a, b), where-
given the ontology and semantics of the model-the predicate cannot hold
of its subject. But while it does not yield sentential negation (predicate
denial), non-P will predicate something different from un-P in just those
cases where the latter has or acquires a mediate contrary interpretation.
One feature which non- shares with its semantically less transparent,
less productive prefixal cousins is the power to alter the category of its
base. As un-, de-, and dis- may convert nouns into verbs (unearth, un-
nerve; dejiea, deplane; disbar, dismember), so too does nonskid turn a
verb into an adjective. Other non- representatives of what Marchand
(1960: 130) disparages as 'commercial jargon' include nonstick skillets and
nonstop and/or nonsked (nonscheduled) flights. Then there is the appar-
ently related commercial (and nonprofit) use of no- as an adjective-forming
prefix applying to verbs, nouns, or adjectives, as in no-good rascals, no-
fault insurance, no-iron fabrics, no-strings relationships, no-wax floors,
292 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
and no-win (or no-lose) situations. What makes these examples significant
is the comparative rarity of category-changing prefixes in the language.
Ifwe view the syntactic role of affixes as that of functions from sets (cate-
gories) into sets, then inflectional affixes define operations, since they take
a word of a given category into an inflected word of the same category.
Derivational suffixes, on the other hand, are in principle not operators
since they are capable of converting a root, stem, or word of one categor;
into a stem or word of a different category. But prefixes (which in English
can only be derivational) are in general operators, leaving the category of
their stem unaffected.
This asymmetry between prefixes and suffixes is captured in Edwin
Williams's RIGHTHAND HEAD RULE (RHR), the principle which stipulates
that the head of a morphologically complex word is invariably the right-
hand member of that word, and that it is that head which determines the
category of the resultant word (Williams 1981: 248). Williams acknowl-
edges (p. 250) the 'systematic exceptions' to the RHR posed by the essen-
tially unproductive prefix eN-, which forms verbs, often with a causative
interpretation, from adjectives (embitter, enable, enlarge, enrich) or nouns
(empower, enchain, encode, encircle, enslave). He does not observe the
equally "exceptional" behavior of de-adjectival and denominal be- verbs
(becalm, befoul, belittle; becloud, befog, behead, bewitch), cited by
Lieber (1981 :57) along with the parallel German prefixes ver- and be-,
which form verbs from nouns, adjectives, verbs, and even adverbs. These
classes too, however, are nonproductive in the modern languages.
It is the thriving class of denominal verb-forming negative prefixes (es-
pecially de-) and the marginal but clearly productive classes of deverbal
and denominal adjective-forming non- and no- that pose the most serious
threat to the strong version of Williams's RHR. Given these clear counter-
examples, we are compelled to abandon the RHR in favor of an approach
like Lieber's, in which features always percolate up from the affix re-
gardless of the handedness of that affix, or like Selkirk's (1982: 87-88), in
which a weakened version of the RHR marks, but does not rule out, pre-
fixes as heads.
But why do prefixes involving negation constitute such a large subset of
the counterexamples to the RHR? Jespersen (1917, 1933) views the pre-
dominance of prefixal over suffixal negatives as a reflex of the general ten-
dency for negation to be attracted leftward, and generally to precede the
material over which it has scope. While there are clear counterexamples to
this tendency in both the syntactic and morphological spheres (cf. older
English I know not . .. , colloquial French Elle vient pas, and the English
and German privative suffixes -less/-los and -free/-frei), the fact remains
that both affixal negation (as also noted in Zimmer 1964) and sentential
5.1 Affixal Negation 293
negation (as shown by Dahl 1979) display a strong leftist bent, both where
we expect it-on the basis of general typological correlations and the se-
mantics of individual constructions-and where we do not. This tendency
'to put the negative word or element as early as possible, so as to leave no
doubt in the mind of the hearer as to the purport of what is said' (Jespersen
1933: 297) is strong indeed; it may even, in the words of Poldauf (1964:
369), 'assert itself at the cost of clear expression' , as in the so-called neg-
raising phenomenon (see §5.2) and in the evolution of "illogical" expres-
sions like Don't let's go just yet and I didn't go because I was afraid. His-
torically, if not synchronically, the existence of negative category-changing
prefixes (where we might have expected suffixes) can be linked to this ten-
dency, which I shall dub NEG FIRST; return to this principle in chapter 7.16
How do affixal negations behave in other languages with respect to the
e-neg restriction and the contrary-contradictory dichotomy? The study of
negative adjectival affixes reveals that, in the words of Zimmer (1964 :82),
'for any given language, negative affixes that are distinct from the par-
ticle(s) used in sentence negation are likely to have a greater affinity for
evaluatively positive adjective stems than for evaluatively negative ones'.
It is this same class of affixes which tend to maintain contradictory inter-
pretations rather than developing toward contrariety.
Thus, for example, Zimmer shows that French iN- shares many of the
attributes I have associated with English un- (it selects contrary, e-neg
readings, especially in lexicalized forms where it completely assimilates;
in more productive combinations, especially with -able bases, it may be
interpreted as a contradictory, it often produces e-pos or neutral adjectives,
and it may not assimilate completely in combination with vowel-initial
stems), while the non- prefix, homophonous with the free particle ('no'),
essentially mirrors its English homograph.
German uno, like its English cognate, tends to form contrary negatives
with e-neg meanings and is restricted to neutral or e-pos bases: we get
ungesund 'unhealthy', unklug 'unintelligent' , but no unkrank 'unsick' , un-
dumm 'unstupid'. As in English (and French), when the base of un- is itself
a productive adjectival suffix, the result (un-X-bar, un-X-ig, un-X-isch,
un-X-lich) is semantically transparent, contradictory, and evaluatively un-
restricted. The nicht- prefix, identical (as with French non-) to a free nega-
tive particle, is consistently contradictory and tends toward the technical
register (although this tendency is not as pronounced as with French and
English non-). And, as we would predict, we get the same minimal pairs as
in English; Zimmer (1964: 82) cites unchristlich 'un-Christian' vs. nicht-
christlich 'non-Christian'.
Other languages in which some partially nonproductive negative affix
manifests the restriction against e-neg bases which emerge from Zimmer's
294 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
survey include Finnish (epa), Yoruba (ai-), Chinese (jei), and Japanese
(hi-, fu-). But when a language contains no affixal form distinct from free
sentential negation, the affixal use of the negative particle is much less sub-
ject to these constraints, as predicted by Zimmer's generalization. Russian
ne-, for example, seems to act like a neutralization of the two prefix types.
Like English and German un- (and unlike English and French non-), ne- is
not felt to belong specifically to the learned or technical register; nor is it
barred from combining with e-neg stems: neploxoj (lit. 'nonbad/unbad')
is just as natural as its e-neg counterpart nexorosij. Similarly, a form like
nemuzykal'nyj corresponds semantically to both of its English counter-
parts, the e-neg unmusical and the neutral, exclusive nonmusical.
But even here, there are signs of a preference for the unmarked form. In
the case of paired adjectival antonyms differing in perceptual saliency, ne-
combines naturally only with the unmarked, more salient member: we have
nevysokij ('lowish', lit. 'nonhigh') but not *nenizkij ('highish', lit. 'non-
low'). And, as Zimmer stresses, it is significant that nexorosij is felt to be
closer to ploxoj 'bad' than neploxoj is to xorosij 'good'. I shall return to
these contrasts and their implications in §5.3.17
When we are working in an area of natural language characterized by
systematic and partly conventionalized schemata of nonlogical inference,
it is often instructive to survey the behavior of artificial languages to gain a
perspective for comparison. Mathematical and computer languages, which
are designed to minimize ambiguity and context-dependent vagaries of
interpretation, eschew affixal negation (Jespersen's 'special' negation) en-
tirely. But (would-be) international auxiliary languages, aspiring as they
do to a greater degree of naturalness, cannot be so circumspect. What
choices have tended to be made about the form and meaning of negative
affixes and what can we learn from them?
Zamenhof and his followers in the Esperanto movement distinguish a
simple negative ne- which yields contradictory negations (ne'ebla 'impos-
sible', ne'kutina 'unaccustomed', ne'sci'anta 'unaware'), a privative prefix
sen- which forms adjectives interpreted as 'without ---' or '--less'
(sen 'forma 'formless', sen'honta 'shameless, unashamed', sen'pova 'un-
able'), and a direct opposite or contrary-producing prefix mal- (mal'alta
'low', mal'bona 'bad', mal'varmo 'cold'). Ido employs the same prefixes
in essentially the same ways, as does Romanal (except that here the con-
trariety operator is dis- rather than mal-). Novial, Jespersen's nominee for
an auxiliary language, builds in a two-way distinction: the simple negative
non- (nonposibU, nonreal) contrasts with the contrary prefix des- (desfar;il
'difficult', desquieti 'anxious', desagrabU, etc.), producing such minimal
pairs as nonutili 'not useful, useless' vs. desutili 'hurtful' (Jespersen·
1928: 123).
5.1 Affixal Negation 295
While it is true that international auxiliary languages are expressly de-
signed to be morphologically analytic and semantically transparent, these
treatments of negative prefixes shows that it is possible to carry a good
thing too far. One result, as aptly noted by Guerard (1922:254), is that
'many of the MAL words in Esperanto strike us as childish or inaccurate'.
Inaccurate, because mal-, especially in combination with verb stems, is too
evocative of the Latin prefix for 'bad(ly)': mal'fermi, the Esperanto render-
ing of 'to open', sounds a lot more like it ought to mean 'to close badly, to
misclose'. But why childish? Guerard's intuition, which I share, seems to
stem from the linguistic perception that only children regularize and gener-
alize morphology and lexical semantics in the manner and to the extent
demanded by Esperantists. Adult speakers of natural languages are pre-
pared to tolerate, and indeed to exploit, precisely the kind of duality of
function these artificial languages rule out.
If Esperanto, Ido, et al. are "unnatural" in their general insistence on
the correlation of one sound with one meaning and their specific decision
to build in a consistent (and obligatory) differentiation of contradictory vs.
contrary negation, can an artificial language arrange to be at worst "non-
natural" in its expression of affixal negation? The unfortunately yclept Vo-
lapiik mirrors Russian (and other Slavic tongues) in assigning ne- for both
contradictory and contrary negation. In Lancelot Hogben's Interglossa, a
single prefix with phonologically conditioned allomorphs no- Inon- yields
such derived forms as no-batho 'shallow' (nondeep), no-puro 'dirty' non-
holo 'incomplete', non-iso 'unequal', no-volo 'unwilling'. Hogben's'state-
ment of purpose (1943 :94) is brief but eloquent: 'Admittedly, a negative is
not necessarily an opposite; but it is the idiom of 1nterglossa to leave as
much as possible to context'.
Finally, there is the grim example of Newspeak. Orwell, admittedly in-
fluenced in his linguistic views by Hogben, shows us the dark side of the
linguistic utopians' lunatic vision. Newspeak is intentionally evocative of
the international languages current in its day (Esperanto, Ido, Interglossa,
Basic English, et al.): a hyperanalytic, transparent idiom favoring econ-
omy over nu~ce and contextualization. Yet of course it is used by its
speakers preCIsely to conceal the very truth it seems to express so lucidly
and economically.
Affixal negation in Newspeak consists of the prefix un-, which serves to
create both contradictory and contrary negation, and (by a sort ofbackwards
blocking) serves-like other derivational affixes in the language-to facili-
tat~ a. purging of the inventory of stems. As stated in the Appendix ('The
Prmcipies ofNewspeak') to 1984 (Orwell 1949 :305), 'any word ... could
be negatived by adding the affix un-', so that 'given, for instance, the word
good, there was no need for such a word as bad, since the required mean-
296 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
ing was equally well-indeed, better-expressed by ungood'. But lexical
reductivism can move in either direction: 'dark, for example, could be
replaced by unlight, or light by undark, according to preference'. Given
these options, it is not so clear that affixal negation in Newspeak really
does result in a reduction of the stem inventory; what does seem clear is
that in a world where love is hate and peace is eternal war, the unraveling
of e-pos vs. e-neg meanings is an exercise in futility.
Having come full circle, from the universe of Hitler, Jesus, and Eldridge
Cleaver, in which everything is either good or evil, to the universe of Or-
well's Ministry of Love, in which the bad is good and the good is ungood,
it is time to move back one space and consider the circumstances under
which the not ungood might be almost, but not quite, good.
5.1.3 A Not Insignificant Problem:
The Logic of Double Negation
But grammar's force with sweet success confirm:
For grammar says (0 this dear Stella weigh,)
For grammar says (to grammar who says nay)
That in one speech two negatives affirm.
(Sir Philip Sidney, "To His Mistress Who Has Said 'No, No''')
from Astrophel and Stella
Nothing shows why
At this unique distance from isolation,
It becomes still more difficult to find
Words at once true and kind,
Or not untrue and not unkind. (Philip Larkin, "Talking in Bed")
Language has a logic of its own, and in this case its logic has something
to recommend it. Whenever two negatives really refer to the same idea or
word the result is invariably positive; this is true of all languages....
The two negatives, however, do not exactly cancel one another so that
the result [of not uncommon, not infrequent] is identical with the simple
common, frequent; the longer expression is always weaker: 'this is not
unknown to me' or 'I am not ignorant of this' means 'I am to some
extent aware of it', etc. The psychological reason for this is that the
detour through the two mutually destructive negatives weakens the
mental energy of the listener and implies . . . a hesitation which is absent
from the blunt, outspoken common or known. In the same way I don't
deny that he was angry is weaker than I assert . . .
(Jespersen 1924: 332)
As the title and epigraphs indicate, I shall be concerned in this subsection
with the variety of double negation in which each negative marker retains
its semantic identity, thus (essentially, if not exactly) tending to annul
rather than reinforce each other (see Hom 1978a: §3 for a typology of mul-
5.1 Affixal Negation 297
tiple negation). I am also excluding from consideration here those in-
stances in which two negatives do not, in Jespersen's terms, 'refer to the
same idea or word', but nevertheless result in conveying some affirmative,
often the dual ofthe operator sandwiched by the two negations; cf. chapter 4
and Hom (1978a: §3.1) for discussion. IS
There are two distinct environments in which negation is directly associ-
ated with an already-negated constituent: the prenominal position ({a/ the}
not un-adjN), where both negative elements function as TERM, SPECIAL, or
CONSTITUENT negations (in the terminology of Aristotle, Jespersen, and
Klima, respectively), and the predicate position, where at least one avail-
able reading for the outside negator is as PREDICATE DENIAL, NEXAL, or
SENTENCE negation (NP is not un-Adj). While there are important syntac-
tic and semantic differences between these two categories of double nega-
tion (cf. Langendoen and Bever 1973), neither environment involves the
simple cancelation effect of double negation.
The principle that two negations with the same focus ought to cancel
each other stems from the logical Law of Double Negation; as we saw in
chapter 1, LDN (Duplex negatio affirmat) has a respectable lineage within
both Western (Stoic) and Eastern (Buddhist and Nyaya) logical traditions.
Prescriptive grammarians have long cited this law in defense of the position
that, as the influential prescriptivist Bishop Lowth (1762: 126) put it, 'Tw~
negatives in English destroy one another, or are equivalent to an affirma-
tive'.19 But this stance has always been directed primarily against the rein-
forcing or pleonastic negation which has always flourished in nonstandard
dialects (and in certain constructions within the standard dialect; cf. Jesper-
sen 1917; Labov 1972; Hom 1978a: §3.2), rather than against the observa-
tion of Jespersen and others that linguistic double negations don't quite
cancel out. (Even Bishop Lowth doesn't commit himself to just which affir-
mative two negations are equivalent to.)
When not un-X fails to reduce to X, as in (23),
(23) a. A not unhappy person entered the room.
b. He's a not unhappy person.
What affirmative does this construction equate to, and when and why is it
used? Jespersen's 'detour' through the double negatives has often been
assumed to be available only in elevated registers; Marchand, in fact, as-
cribes the absence of positive un- formations (§5.1.1) to the unnatural
sophistication required to make this detour: 'No un- words are formed
fr~m such adjs as in themselves denote the absence of something, as bad,
evIl, ... Natural linguistic instinct would not make the sophisticated de-
tour of negativing a negative to obtain a positive' 20 (Marchand 1960: 151-
52). For Marchand, not uncommon, not unhappy, and (less convincingly)
298 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
not bad, while possible collocations, fall outside what is permitted by the
'natural linguistic instinct'.
Seright (1966: 123) too takes logical double negation to be 'limited to
the speech of the educated' , but he echoes Jespersen in observing that dou-
bly negated adjectives (That is not {unlikely/unnatural/inconceivable/
impossible}) do not simply reduce to the corresponding affirmative ad-
jective. But there are really two different issues involved in the nonre-
dundancy of these forms. As recognized by Zimmer (1964:22) (and as
predicted by Aristotle), when the negative-prefixed adjective constitutes
a contrary of its stem, a contradictory negation will not simply 'destroy' it:
contradictory (contrary (Adjj» =F Adjj • This explains the lack of cancela-
tion in the first of Seright's examples: if something is not unlikely, it may
be likely, but it may also fall within Sapir's zone of indifference, that which
is neither likely nor unlikely. Similarly, a man may be not unhappy because
he is happy or because he is situated in the nonexcluded middle between
the two contrarily opposed terms. But if something is not inconceivable or
not impossible, what else can it be but conceivable or possible? Where is
the zone of indifference, the unexcluded middle, in these cases? Why don't
these doubly negated forms, amounting presumably to the contradictory of
a contradictory, result in complete redundancy?
If the 'sophisticated detour' embodied in the not un-X collocation is, as
Zimmer (1964) notes, 'logically quite justified' when un-X constitutes the
contrary of X, it must be justified elsewhere rhetorically-if at all. When a
Federal district judge in New Mexico, reopening a lawsuit filed by Pueblo
Indians against a local newspaper charged with having 'demeaned and
ridiculed' the tribe, finds that the tribe's complaint was 'not unjustified' (as
reported in the New York Times, 7 October 1984), do we find his circum-
locution equally not unjustified? Orwell, in his prescriptivist mode, ques-
tions whether any such justification is ever possible, singling out for his
particular calumny the not unjustifiable assumption: 'Banal statements are
given an appearance of profundity by means of the not un- formation....
It should be possible to laugh the not un formation out of existence. One
can cure oneself of the not un formation by memorizing this sentence: A
not unblack dog was chasing a not unsmall rabbit across a not ungreen
field' (Orwell 1946: 357, 365). .
Orwell's argument is, of course, somewhat tendentious in that it exploIts
a variety of constraints on negated prenominal adjectives of the type figur-
ing in his laughing cure; it is to these constraints that I now turn. The first
restriction to be noted (cf. Zimmer 1964:91; Klima 1964:310; and espe-
cially Langendoen and Bever 1973, henceforth L&B) is that no simple
adjective, whether inherently (e-) positive or negative, may appear in the
frame [Det not Adj N]:
5.1 Affixal Negation 299
) a. He sent me a not {unfriendly/ (Zimmer 1964)
*friendly} letter.
b. A not {unhappy/*happy/*sad} (Klima, 1964; L&B)
person entered the room.
that this restriction applies only to prenominal or attributive adjectives:
(24') a. She is a not {unattractive/*attractive} woman.
b. She is not an {unattractive/attractive} woman.
Second, the morphologically negative adjectives which do occur in this
frame must be available independently in the lexicon; si~ce. we.do not fin.d
Orwell's unblack, unsmall, ungreen as independently eXIstmg Items, theIr
negations will not be well formed either. Furthermore, the doub~y negated
attributive adjective must allow a contrary and gradable (scalar~ mterpreta-
tion; hence we do not get *Sheila wants to meet a not unmarrled.man (as
noted by Ross, personal communication, cited by L&B). SheIla may,
however, locate a not ineligible bachelor, and secure him via not illegiti-
mate ploys or manceuvers. But we will not reckon any lawful progeny re-
sulting therefrom as *not illegitimate children.
Another constraint on doubly negated attributive adjectives (henceforth
DNAAs) is that the not un-X construction is semantically parasitic on, al-
though not synonymous with, the corresponding simple adjective X. A
DNAA of the form a not unhappy person is normally interpreted as 'a
slightly-to-moderately happy person', in L&B's gl?ss. This parasiti~ r~la­
tion is especially salient in cases where the negatIvely prefixed adjectIve
stem is assigned a reading not available to it outside the DNAA form.
Kruisinga (1931 :§1246) notes that we may speak of a not inconsiderable
number, with the sense of 'a rather considerable [i.e., large] number', al-
though inconsiderable does not normally allow the sense 'small'. L&B
illustrate the same point with the sentence The presidentfled to Venezuela
with a not unhealthy ['rather sizable'] share ofthe profits, where unhealthy
cannot ordinarily serve as an antonym of 'sizable'. (The possibility of such
DNAAs is not unrestricted, however: we cannot refer to 'a somewhat-to-
moderately smooth operator' as a not unsmooth operator.)
On the other hand, if an un- adjective bears a meaning unpredictable
from its positive base, this meaning will be lost in the DNAA form, while
it is of course retained in the corresponding straightforward sentence nega-
tion (predicate denial). Thus compare (25a, b):
(25) a. Kevin isn't an unworthy
creep.
b. # Kevin is a not unworthy
creep.
(- [Kevin is an unworthy
creep])
(#Kevin is a rather worthy
creep)
300 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
These facts-like the contrasts in (24)-demand an explanation, par-
ticularly within a lexicalist theory on which we cannot "peek inside" a
lexical item to determine whether its morphology allows it to participate in
a given syntactic construction. L&B suggest (p. 405-6) that an acceptable
DNAA like a not unhappy man is misanalyzed perceptually as if it were of
the same form as a not very happy man, with the negative prefix being
'treated as a negative intensifying adverb that modifies the adjective happy'
just as in the case of the positive intensifying prefixes in (26). '
(26) a. his not overdeveloped muscles
b. a not all-powerful deity
c. a not supersaturated solution
d. a not underdeveloped tribe
But of course un- is not really an intensifying adverb, so the DNAAs of
(24), unlike the examples in (26), are ungrammatical; that they are none-
theless acceptable (to non-Orwellians) is accounted for, on L&B's modular
theory, by an appeal to this misanalysis. The not of not un-, like that of not
very, not too, not overly, and so forth, is not read as a contradictory nega-
tion applying to the following sequence of "adverb" + unmarked adjec-
tive, but essentially forms a constituent with the following "adverb". Just
as a [not very] happy man is one who is 'slightly-to-moderately unhappy'
(rather than simply one who is other than very happy), a [not un]happy man
is one who is 'slightly-to-moderately happy'. (L&B offer a Gricean expla-
nation for why just these particular readings should emerge in such cases; I
shall return in §5.3 to the intricacies of the not very Adjconstruction.)
But, beyond any methodological qualms one might have in embracing
the notion of "acceptable ungrammaticality" (cf. Otero 1972 in defense of
this theoretical construct and Bolinger 1980 for a more skeptical view), the
L&B account encounters certain empirical difficulties. Notice first that the
un- of DNAA constructions does not pattern consistently with the inten-
sifying adverbs purportedly parallel to it:
(27) That was a not {very/exactly/*un}, shall we say, intelligent
thing to say.
Further, it should be noted that (contra L&B) there are cases where aDNAA
is possible even when the corresponding simple positive adjective is not
entirely (or at all) well formed. Bolinger (1980) finds one of L&B's unac-
ceptable "ungrammatical" DNAAs-a not inordinate amount ofmoney-
perfectly acceptable; compare the parallel not un- examples in (28).
(28) a. %a not unsavory character
b. J a not unprecedented result
(cf. ?*a savory character)
(cf. ??a precedented result)
c. J a not unheard-of
development
d. J a not unfounded rumor
5.1 Affixal Negation
(cf. ?*a heard-of
development)
(cf. a f*founded/Jwell-
founded} rumor)
301
'nn1-rOIlllea with the critiques of Aitchison and Bailey (1979) and Bolinger
(1980), Langendoen retreats to a more conservative account of DNAAs, on
which the ungrammatical-but-acceptable phrases ofthe 'misanalysis' analy-
sis of L&B are reanalyzed as the 'not ungrammatical' constructions pre-
dicted by morphological rules and lexical features in Langendoen 1982.21
Whatever the correct analysis of DNAAs, it is undeniable that prefixally
negated attributive adjectives figuring felicitously in these constructions
tend to be interpreted as contrary opposites of their stems; note that we do
not get, for example, *a not intransitive verb, *a not unprefixable stem, *a
not nontoxic solution. But, as we have seen, this restriction does not apply
in absolute form to negated predicate adjectives, that is, predicate denials
(sentence negations) of the form NP is not un-X. Jespersen himself hap-
pens to note (1917 :70) that Kant's table of categories is 'notunobjection-
able', and a majority of the not un- and not iN- forms (e.g., not unuseful
[from 1657], not inconsiderable [damage]) cited in the OED under not,
IOc, strike me as negations of logical contradictories. If someone is as-
cribed 'a certain air of dignity, not unmingled with insolence', it is not
implied that dignity might be neither mingled nor unmingled with inso-
lence, nor is it clear how finding a suggestion not unuseful differs from
finding it useful.
But, as I noted above with respect to not impossible and not inconceiv-
able, there seems to be a rhetorical or pragmatic, if not a logical, difference
between the doubly negated forms and their simple positive counterparts.
Contra Orwell (and Tesniere [1959: 233], who excoriates nec non dixit as
une des fausses elegances du latin), there could well be a rationale for at
least some logically superfluous instances of the not un- formation, al-
though those not unblack dogs and not unsmall rabbits may remain beyond
the pale. In his Colloquia ([1519] 1650: 87), Erasmus-a rather different
sort of stylist-indeed recommends the use of the double negative as
'graceful' (see below). Similarly, the best-selling American prescriptive
authority Lindley Murray, who had once echoed Bishop Lowth's line that
double negatives are (at best) equivalent to an affirmative and to be abjured
therefore (1803: 136-37, rule 26), rethinks the matter in his second ('im-
proved') edition, adding the postcolonic but amendment to the last sen-
tence of his grammar entry on this construction:
Two negatives, in English, destroy one another, or are equivalent
to an affirmative: as, 'Nor did they not perceive him', that is,
302 Pragmatics ojContra(dicto)ry Negation
'they did perceive him'. 'His language, though inelegant, is
ungrammatical'; that is, 'it is grammatical'. It is better to exp not
ress
an affirmation, by a regular affirmative, than by two separ t
. . h c a e
negatives, as III t e lormer sentence: but when one of the ne
tives is joined to another word, as in the latter sentence, the t~­
negatives form a pleasing and delicate variety of expression. 0
(Murray 1814: 1: 187)
More recently, Sharma (1970:60) lauds double negation as 'often ex-
tremely useful and by no means superfluous', as when not impolite is Used
'to convey the fact that the person in question was not polite either'. But
what renders a given construction simultaneously laughable, graceful
pseudoelegant, pleasing and delicate, and extremely useful, depending o~
the context and the evaluator? What, precisely, is the difference between X
and not un-X, when un-X does not represent a contrary negation of X?
What motivates a sophisticated detour, when the through road is (not
im)passable?
The standard position is Jespersen's (in the epigraph to this subsection): a
doubly negated adjective in either attributive or predicate position is some-
how weaker, more hesitantly expressed than the corresponding simple
positive. This weakness may be identifiable in the semantics (as in Zim-
mer's 'justifiable' negations-of-contraries-not unhappy, not unintelli-
gent, not impolite) or it may be only pragmatic or rhetorical. For Seright
(1966: 124), the use of double negation 'results from a basic desire to leave
one's self a loophole: certainly it is much easier to get out of a situation, to
equivocate, if one has said "it is not unlikely" instead of "it is not likely"
or "it is likely" ,
And indeed, many of the citations we can observe of this construction do
seem to involve the conscious or tacit goal of loophole procurement: the
speaker describes something as not un-X in a context in which it would be
unfair, unwise, or impolitic to describe that entity as X. Such attention to
avoiding direct commitment is so notoriously characteristic of the political
and governmental domains that we might suggest, after the fashion of
Sapir's 'psychological excluded middle', a complementary 'bureaucratic
unexcluded middle'. But this tendency is broader than such a label would
imply, as I illustrate here with some attested examples:
(29) a. I do n~t pretend to be a "pure" bachelor. I was married for
five years, and it was, to use a cowardly double negative,
not an unhappy experience. (Philip Lopate, introducing his
collection of autobiographical essays, Bachelorhood)
b. New Yorker cartoon (6 February 1971): couple standing be-
fore a mat inscribed NOT UNWELCOME; wife to hus-
5.1 Affixal Negation 303
band: 'See what I mean? You're never sure just where you
stand with them.'
c. New York Times editorial title (2 August 1985) on the exon-
eration of New York City Medical Examiner Elliot Gross
of criminal wrongdoing: Dr. Gross: Not 'Not Guilty'.
with Sharma's not impolite, the implication in each case is clear: a not
marriage is not precisely a happy one, the guests are made to feel
quite welcome, and Dr. Gross is judged to be (morally if not legally)
entirely innocent.
. is often a sense here that the positive evaluation associated with
doubly negated adjective represents a concession, wrung out reluc-
from the source of the lefthanded not un- compliment. This under-
standing is especially salient in the frequently attested not un-X. . . but. . .
.. Here is Naomi Bliven, reviewing Kevin Starr's book on the
Progressive movement (New Yorker, 12 August 1985):
(29') I wish Mr. Starr had been kinder to California's Progressives. He
is certainly not unjust in pointing out their limitations, but it
seems to me that we do not recognize all that the pre-WWI
reform movements in this country accomplished. (italics mine)
It might also be noted that Bliven's syntax tends to suggest that one might
have considered Mr. Starr to have been unjust (or to have thought that
Bliven so considered him), a suggestion the not un- phrase explicitly dis-
pels. Similarly, when a different reviewer writes that' lAnais] Nin's life
was not uninteresting', we contextualize the remark either as a concession
(,Contrary to what might have been expected from the foregoing') or as
anticipating one ('but perhaps not as interesting as she suggests'). To say
that Seright's analysis is not unlike Jespersen's, or that a sneeze is physio-
logically not unlike an orgasm, is to suggest that one might have expected
more of a dissimilarity between the terms of comparison. In the same way,
such standard rhetorical turns as not without (The life oja millionaire is not
without its compensations) and nothing ifnot (He's nothing ifnot earnest),
playoff the actual or implicit suggestion that one might otherwise have
thought the contrary (i.e., that such a life was without compensations, that
he is not earnest). In each case a concessive but clause seems to be tacitly
understood.
The rhetorical figure instantiated in all these examples is LITOTES, a form
ofunderstatement in which an affirmative is expressed by the negative ofthe
contrary.22 Like the not un- formation in particular, the superordinate cate-
gory has been much maligned over the ages, most notably in the virulent
attack by one (actually more than one) "Martinus Scriblerus"-in fact
304 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
Alexander Pope, Jonathan Swift, et al.-in "his" Art of Sinking. Just as
hyperbole (according to Aristotle's Rhetoric) is a figure fit for Young Men
of Quality, and ellipsis the favored figure for politicians, Scriblerus sees
in litotes 'the peculiar Talent ... of Ladies, Whisperers, and Backbiters'
(Scriblerus [1727] 1952: 115). Of course, it is just these classes of indi-
viduals (along with some others whose identity the Scriblerians delicately
refrain from disclosing) who might have reason, through choice or neces-
sity, to conceal their true feelings, avoid direct commitment, and leave
themselves loopholes.
But rather than appealing, with Jespersen, to the metaphysical (and
somewhat neo-Victorian) image of double negation sapping the listener's
mental energy, I would assimilate the weakening effect to the Division of
Pragmatic Labor (cf. Horn 1984b and §3.3.1 above): the use of a longer,
marked expression in lieu of ashorter expression involving less effort on
the part of the speaker signals that the speaker was not in a position to em-
ploy the simpler version felicitously. As we saw in the case of indirect
speech acts and the use of lexical vs. phrasal causatives, there is a correla-
tion between the stylistic naturalness of a given form, its relative brevity
and simplicity, and its use in stereotypic situations; this reflects the opera-
tion of the R Principle. The corresponding periphrastic forms, stylistically
less natural, longer, and more complex, are restricted, via Q-based im-
plicature, to those situations outside the stereotype, for which the un-
marked expression could not have been used appropriately. Litotes, and in
particular "logical" double negation, where the two negatives do not can-
cel out functionally or rhetorically even when they do logically, illustrates
the same equilibrium.
From this perspective, we would expect to find a variety of contexts in
which the use of the double negative might be motivated by a desire to
avoid the simple positive description, including contexts in which not un-X
would come out not weaker but stronger than X, conveying not 'slightly-to-
moderately X' (as in the DNAA construction) but 'extremely X' .23 Under
the suggestion Commuta in Negationem (Change it into a Negative) in his
Colloquia, Erasmus (1650) urges the use of litotic formula: ('Your letter
was no small joy', 'Wine pleases me not a little') for 'modesty's sake'. The
Latin equivalent of the not un- formation, rather than deprecated, is simi-
larly recommended as a discreet means for conveying a strong positive, for
example, non ineloquens for (the blatant and overdirect) eloquentissimus.
Erasmus is clearly a different breed of rhetorician from Orwell: Non in-
gratum, pro valde grato: non vulgariter, pro singulariter, recte & venuste
dicimus. (= For we say correctly and elegantly not ungrateful for 'very
grateful', not vulgarly for 'singularly') (Erasmus 1650: 89).
It has been argued more recently that double negation is characteristi-
cally employed to reinforce rather than qualify a description. Like Jesper-
5.1 Affixal Negation 305
Sigwart (1895: 149) observes that even when the doubly negated
"tlip-ctIVe is not 'richer in meaning' than the simple positive alternative, 'it
not altogether to no purpose [1] that this circuitous route is taken', but the
he attributes to its employers is precisely the opposite of Jes-
'Li='_~on·": 'Resisted attacks increase the psychological firmness of convic-
, the affirmation which has fought through a negation seems to stand
firmer and to be more certain' .
While Sigwart's line may strike us as at odds with, and much less plau-
sible than, the standard Jespersen-Seright-Sharma story on double nega-
tion, especially when we bring the negated-contrary (not unhappy, not
unintelligent) class into the picture, the two views are not as incompatible
as they may appear. When a prefixal negative is itself negated so as to yield
a positive, anyone of a number of motivations may be at work, not all of
which are subsumable under one simple rubric or metaphor, be it Sigwart's
doubly-negated-affirmation-as-good-soldier, Jespersen's weakened mental
energy, Marchand's sophisticated detour, or Seright's loophole. When a
simple positive is abjured, and a double negation substituted, there is al-
ways (given the Division of Labor principle) a sufficient reason for so
doing, but it is not always the same reason.
The same perspective informs my analysis of the stylistic disagreement
over the rhetorical validity of litotes and double negation. While Pope and
the Scriblerians, Orwell, Tesniere, and stylistic purists cut from the same
cloth may scorn the use of this form of indirection, given its built-in prolix-
ity and obscurantism, the same expression is praised by those who, like
Erasmus (or Henry James), are concerned with the subtle niceties concern-
ing what is communicated and how, and with preserving standards ofpolite-
ness and delicacy. The clash between these two orientations thus parallels
other instances in which rival pragmatic principles are weighted differently
depending on one's communicative goals and constraints; cf. Tannen 1975,
1983; E. O. Keenan 1976; and Horn 1984b for discussion.
Before I close my inspection of logical double negation, it would be
useful to try to determine what the logic of double negation is. The stan-
dard modern view is given by Geach, who acknowledges that a double
negation, not (not (P)), 'looks like an added piece of meaning' and so
might well be thought to involve a different sense from that of the basic
element P. But citing Frege (to whom I shall return), Geach ([1972]
1980: 80) concludes that 'the right rejoinder is just to deny that the doubly
negated predicate has got a different sense'. We are left with no explana-
tion for the perceptible weakening or attenuation associated with double
negation by Jespersen and others.
For Hintikka (1968 :47), while a proposition or predicate may be logi-
cally equivalent to its double negation, the doubly negated form tends to
convey one of three 'residual meanings':
306 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
(30) (i) to indicate hesitation or uncertainty
(ii) to signal diffidence
(iii) to express irony.
Hintikka argues that 'no one of these residual meanings helps to understand
the others, which makes a paradigmatic analysis of the meaning of a
double negative completely useless'. Nor is it obvious how to derive the
difference(s) among (i), (ii), and (iii) as a 'mere difference in use', since
the pragmatic rule needed for such a derivation would have to operate on
some invariant meaning.
But Hintikka's pessimism about the possibility of reaching a general-
ization may be unwarranted. Hesitation, uncertainty, and diffidence are all
subcases of the same general motivation for the use of the apparently
brevity- (or R-) violating prolix form: the desire to avoid the direct expres-
sion of the positive attribute in order to leave oneself a loophole (3. la Se-
right). Given the straightforward instances in which the double negative
(not un-X) is semantically weaker than the corresponding positive (X), that
is, where un-X represents a contrary of X, we can see how that feature of
the use conditions on double negation might have become partially con-
ventionalized to the form, extending to those instances in which un-X is a
contradictory. The clash between this non-truth-conditional aspect of the
'residual meaning' or conventional use of an expression and the logical
value of that expression leads to our intuition that the not un- form, when it
represents a contradiction of a contradictory, often possesses an ironic
quality. In any case, it is clear that the negations of both contradictory and
contrary negations are generally weaker than their simple affirmative coun-
terparts, as indicated by the standard scalar diagnostics (cf. Horn 1972 and
chapter 4):
(31) a. She's happy, or at least not unhappy. (*not unhappy or at
least happy)
b. It's possible he can do it, or at least not impossible. (*not
impossible or at least possible)
c. Not only is it not untrue, it's true! (*not only true but not
untrue)
Finally, the ironic feel of many instances of logical double negation
derives from the appearance of diffidence or hesitancy when no diffidency
or hesitancy is really felt (and when the speaker, exploiting the Gricean
paradigm, assumes the addressee will recognize this). The third.'residu~
meaning' of double negation is thus parasitic on the first two (WhICh are In
fact one).24
I have been assuming that when un-P is a contradictory of P, not un-P
reduces logically (although not rhetorically) to P, just as two contradictory
5.1 Affixal Negation 307
~l!a.t10111S applied to a single proposition cancel out via LDN. As we have
Geach and Hintikka share the assumption that doubly negated propo-
are logically indiscriminable from the simple affirmative that results
the cancelation of the two negative operators via LDN. But this as-
is not unimpeachable.
Lewis (1970: 31-32) points out, Carnap's notion of intensional iso-
[oromSlm yields the prediction that -(-a)-for any expression a-can-
be identical to a, since the former, with its more complex logical form,
have a correspondingly more complex meaning. The two logical
may have the same intension, and presumably (given LDN) they
But meaning is a more fine-grained notion that intension. This point is
classically demonstrated with belief contexts; it is precisely because such
intensionally identical but nonsynonymous expressions as bachelor and
unmarried man, or 3 and the square root of9, behave differently in belief
contexts that we need a subtler tool than intension.
While propositional identity may be defined in terms of intensions (func-
tions from possible worlds to extensions), synonymy must be defined in
terms of the more discriminating notion of meanings. Thus, for Lewis and
for Cresswell (1973: 44-47), the double negation of a expresses the same
proposition as a without being synonymous with it.25 Cresswell cites the
behavior of these two expressions within opaque contexts to buttress this
conclusion: just as the truth of (32a) is compatible with the falsity of (32b),
even though a bachelor is necessarily an unmarried man, so too the inten-
sional identity between possible and not impossible fails to license the in-
ference of the sentences (32'b) on the basis of the corresponding examples
in (32'a).
(32) a. John maintains that bachelors are not unmarried men.
b. John maintains that bachelors are not bachelors.
(32') a. Sue claims that it is not {impossible/inconceivable/untrue}
that Bill is lying.
b. Sue claims that it is {possible/conceivable/true} that Bill is
lying.
As we have seen, Fregean semantics allows for but one negative operator,
the contradictory-forming propositional operator. Not unexpectedly, Frege
(1919: 130) proclaims the logical superfluity of double negation: 'Wrap-
ping up a thought in double negation does not alter its truth value'. Within
this metaphor, (--p) and -(-p) are simply different ways of wrapping
up the thought or proposition p. But, we may observe, there are times and
places where a man cannot go naked. Wrapping him in clothes serves an
ecological and/or social function, while leaving the inner man unaltered.
308 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
So too with naked thoughts-especially unappealing ones, which profit
most from the protective layers of double negation.
If implicatures are read off logical form, we can then account for wh
there may be an implicature carried by double negation which is abse~
from the logically equivalent unnegated proposition. In any case, as we ar
about to observe, the conventionalized use of negation as a device for at~
tenuating an assertion, or for qualifying the speaker's commitment to the
truth of the expressed proposition, is a widespread and systematic phe-
nomenon, one which demands-and will presently receive-an investiga_
tion of its own.
5.2 Neg-raising and Contrariety
In §5.1. 1, I observed that Bosanquet's 'invest[ment] of the contrary with
the character of the contradictory' is systematically exemplified by lexi-
calized affixal negation of the type of unhappy, dislike. I am now ready
to turn to a second instance of contraries-in-contradictory clothing, that
which is instantiated in 'our common phrase "I don't think that" -which is
really equivalent to "I think that-not'" (Bosanquet [1888] 1911: 319).
The NEG-RAISING phenomenon (NRP)-the availability of a lower-
clause reading or understanding for a higher-clause negation-has a rich
history, both outside and within the generative paradigm.26 Writing in the
eleventh century, Saint Anselm observed in his argument against Paulus, a
Roman jurist six centuries his senior, that non . .. omnis qui facit quod
non debet peccat, si proprie consideretur-not everyone who does what
he non debet (not-should) sins, if the matter is considered strictly (i.e.,
with the contradictory reading of negation as suggested by the surface
structure); the problem is that we tend to use the form non debere peccare
to convey debere non peccare, rather than its literal contradictory meaning
(it is not a duty to sin). A man who does what is not his duty does not
necessarily sin thereby, but (because of the interference of the NRP) it is
hard to stipulate something like (33a)-the proposition that a man need not
marry-without seeming to commit oneself to the stronger (33b), an in-
junction to celibacy (Henry 1967: 193ff.; cf. C. 1. F. Williams 1964; Horn
1978b:200).
(33) a. non debet ducere uxorem
b. debet non ducere uxorem
lit., 'NEG [he should take
a wife]'
lit., 'he should NEG [take
a wife],
From Anselm to Quine, who notes (1960: 145-46) as 'an incidental idi-
omatic complication' for the logic of belief the 'familiar quirk of English'
whereby (34a) is taken to convey (34b) rather than, or as well as, (34c):
5.2 Neg-raising and Contrariety 309
x does not believe that p.
x believes that not-po
c. It is not the case that x does believe that p.
iloslDpnlers and logicians have typically sought to bury, rather than ex-
(much less praise) the phenomenon in question.27 Hintikka (1962: 15)
that 'the phrase "a does not believe that p" has a peculiarity ... in
it is often used as if it were equivalent to "a believes that -p"', while
(1965: 55) regrets that' "I do not believe that p" can be unfortu-
ambiguous between disbelief [B.-p, in his and Hintikka's represen-
and not belief[-B.p]' (emphases mine).
(1969: 304-5) remarks less disparagingly on the same phenome-
'The everyday negative "doesn't believe that" is ambiguous. We can
of both the atheist and the agnostic that he doesn't believe that God
exists, but when we say it of the former we mean that it is the case that he
.. believes that God does not exist, and when we say it of the latter we mean
:'&at it is not the case that he believes that God does exist.' On the atheist
reading, Barnes notes, the proposition that a doesn't believe that p is in-
compatible with the proposition that a doesn't believe that not-p; on the
agnostic sense the two propositions are compatible. While he does not con-
demn this 'everyday' reading as such, Barnes evidently assumes, with his
philosopher and linguist colleagues, that the phenomenon it reflects is re-
stricted to belief contexts.
I have argued elsewhere that far from representing an incidental com-
plication, quirk, or peculiarity afflicting the processing of a verb or two in
English (or Latin), the tendency pointed to by Anselm, Quine, and others
in fact comprises a fundamental grammatical, semantic, and pragmatic
process manifested across distinct, but systematically related, classes of
predicates in genetically and typologically diverse families of languages.
The first systematic treatment of the NRP is provided by Tobler, in his
description of the 'logically unwarranted position' (logisch ungerechtfer-
tigte Stellung) of negation in French Il ne faut pas que tu meures (Tobler
1882b: 205, cited in §4.5 above). Tobler cites a variety of French and Ger-
man verbs reflecting this same pattern, including German wollen 'want' in
(35a) and, recapitulating Anselm, sollen 'should, ought to' in (35b):
(35) a. Ich will nicht, daB man mir
dergleichen hinterbringe.
b. Du sollst nicht stehlen.
'I do not want to be told
about such things'
'Thou shalt not steal' (lit.,
'NEG [thou shalt steal],)
But it is Tobler's acolyte Kalepky (1891) who first offers a semantic cata-
logue of the verb classes permitting the NR understanding (the association
of a finite matrix negation with a dependent infinitive).
310 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
In his thesis on negation in Old Proven<5al, Kalepky comments on the
Voranstellung der Negation, noti~g t~at the apparent .main clause (modal)
negation of (36), can be read-lIke Its German eqUIvalent (cf. (35b))_
either as a contradictory or a contrary of its affirmative counterpart.
(36) Ja non degra dir ver esquern. 'He should [not scorn]' (lit.
'NEG [he should scorn]')
Along the same lines, the distinction between French je n'espere pas (I do
not hope) and j'espere que non (I hope not) is neutralized in the German
Ich hoffe nicht; it cannot be a coincidence, Kalepky points out (1891 :22),
that it is just these verbs that allow the collapsing (Zusammerifall) of the
distinction between contrary and contradictory readings of negation.28
But when does this Zusammerifall take place? To Old Proven<5al dever
in (36)-cf. also Latin debere, French devoir-and German sollen in
(35b), Kalepky (1891 :23- 24) adds the predicate classes exemplified by
the following German verbs (my glosses give the c;losest English NR
counterparts):
(37) i. 'meinen (denken, glauben), [be of the opinion, think,
believe]
11. 'wollen' (cf. Lat. nolle < [want]
non velie)
iii. 'sich ziemen', 'sich [be proper, fit]
schicken'
iv. 'den Schein erwecken' [seem, appear]
v. 'sagen (im futurem)' [would say]
In several of these cases, Kalepky notes, the distinction between the literal
sense (the contradictory) and the usurper (contrary) is not too great, at least
pragmatically (fUr die Praxis). I shall return to the relevance of this point
below.
Our regular guide through the negative jungles is not unaware of 'the
strong tendency in many languages to attract to the main verb a negative
which should logically belong to the dependent nexus' (Jespersen 1917:
53). For Jespersen, (38a) is ambiguous and has a sense in which it is syn-
onymous with (38b).
(38) a. I don't think he has come.
b. I think he has not come.
This 'attracted', anticipated, or adherescent negation, as it is variously
known in traditional grammars of Ancient Greek, Latin, French, and En-
glish, is treated by Jespersen (and others) as a special case of contrary
5.2 Neg-raising and Contrariety 311
, an approach which I have argued (Horn 1978b: 210) is ultimately
(cf. also §5.3.1 below).
(38a) does seem to allow two readings, other instances of the
particularly with infinitive or subjunctive dependent clauses, virtu-
the "illogical" contrary reading. Kalepky (1891 :22) borrows a
from real estate law to represent the contrary sense as an inter-
which has taken over the rightful (but underutilized) property of the
ltr~lQl(:Wlry, this tendency being especially clear in the case offalloir (cf.
1927:69 and my discussion in §4.5).
some cases, the "logical", embedded placement of the negation is
unavailable, which may prompt the illicit seizure declaimed
Kalepky. Martinon (1927 :536) observes that (39a) has taken over (ac-
the sense of (39b), qui ne se dit pas.
Je ne veux pas que vous
sortiez.
b. ??Je veux que vous ne
sortiez pas.
'I don't want you to leave'
'I want you not to leave'
same process has occurred in the cases of vouloir + infinitive (Je ne
veux pas sortir for?Je veux ne pas sortir), falloir, and devoir: with these
verbs, 'Ie transfert de la negation est devenu indispensable' (Martinon
1927:537).
The same functional explanation has been independently appealed to for
English; Epstein (1976: 91) maintains that 'the use of a sentence like
[(40a)] may be motivated by the unavailability of [(40b)] as an acceptable
alternative sentence'.
(40) a. John doesn't want to kiss Mary.
b. ?John wants not to kiss Mary.
But, as noted in Horn 1978b: 180-81, this line of argument, while it has
some explanatory power, fails to generalize to similar cases (including the
English gloss of the unlike-subject case (39a)) in which embedded non-
finite negation is acceptable and the illogical understanding of higher nega-
tion is still available (if not preferred); cf. (40'a, b):
(40') a. John doesn't want me to kiss Mary.
b. John wants me not to kiss Mary.
Another stab at motivating the NRP begins with Jespersen's generaliza-
tion which I have touched on earlier and labeled Neg First: negation tends
~o be signaled as early as possible within the sentence, for ease in process-
mg. It is this principle which is responsible for a number of the diachronic
shifts in the morphological realization of negation which have come to be
312 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
known as Jespersen's cycle (cf. §7.1). In the present context, negative clar-
ity leads to a predisposition to force the negative ahead to its illogical posi-
tion within the main clause, even when it "belongs" in the subordinate.
To this tendency, Spitzer (1927: 70-72) adds his own proto-radical_
pragmatic analysis, in which the AFFECTIVITY of negative sentences plays a
key role. For Spitzer, the lower-clause reading of higher-clause negation is
not (pace Tobler) perverted and senseless (verkehrt und sinnlos), or even
unlogisch-it is, rather, affektvoll. Spitzer's negative affect crucially in-
volves the imputation to humanity of a fuzzy sort of 'negative predisposi-
tion' which leads us to prefer denial (ich will nicht) to affirmation (ich
will).
But Spitzer's passionate conclusion notwithstanding-'Ist das alles Dn-
logik? Oder Logik des Gefiihls? Le creur aussi a ses raisons que la raison
rie connait pas' (Spitzer 1927: 73)-we are unswayed by his emotional
appeal.29 If the NRP really existed as a way of emphasizing, rather than
of attenuating, negation, the higher-neg versions of pairs like (38) would
be felt to be stronger than their embedded-neg counterparts; je ne {veux/
pense} pas would similarly serve to reinforce, rather than weaken, the
negation of je {veux/pense} que non. Yet, as has been frequently observed,
the opposite is in fact the case. Further, ifwe were really inclined to "accen-
tuate the negative, eliminate the positive", as Spitzer in effect maintains, we
would expect positive sentences to be more marked morphologically and
functionally and to be harder to process, than their negative counterparts. If
there is any agreement from those who have toiled in the negative fields
over the last 2,500 years, it is that the reverse is true (whatever we end up
choosing to make of this fact).
Those traditional grammarians who took on the NRP, whatever their
theoretical predilection (if any), tended to describe the relation between
members of pairs like (38)-(40') in terms of a dynamic metaphor: attrac-
tion of a negative (Jespersen 1917), transfert de negation (Nyrop 1930),
deplacement de negation (Grevisse 1969), and even 'the shifting of not'
(Poutsma 1928: 105). With the coming of age of transformational gram-
mar, and in particular the appearance of Fillmore 1963, this metaphor is
fleshed out.30
The transformation variously dubbed 'Transposition of NOT' (Fillmore
1963), not-hopping, Negative Transportation (e.g., in R. Lakoff 1969), or
(e.g., in Kiparsky and Kiparsky 1971 and here) Neg-Raising (NR), is gen-
erally taken to be a lexically governed, cyclic, structure-preserving rule
which extracts a negative element from a lower clause (presumably from a
pre-neg-placed position within that clause) and raises it one clause up (into
a similar pre-neg-placed position) over a predicate marked to allow the
rule's application. The operation can apply iteratively, provided all inter-
vening verbs are neg-raising predicates, as in Fillmore's example (41).
5.2 Neg-raising and Contrariety 313
(41) a. I don't believe that he wants me to think that he did it.
b. s[___1believe s[-__he wants d---I think s[oot
~~~-
he did it]]]]
NR is without question-in the words of Lerner and Sternefeld (1984)-
'eine Transformation aus dem goldenen Zeitalter', but must it necessarily
be scorned therefore?
Evidence for coderiving (38a, b) has focused on the interaction of the
NRP with negative polarity: strict polarity items like until midnight, in
weeks, orfor some time in English, normally requiring a tautoclausal nega-
tive trigger (or durative predicate), are acceptable in the frame of (38a) al-
though this requirement is apparently violated at surface structure. Thus
compare the pattern in (42) with that in (42'):
(42) a. I don't {think/suppose/imagine} (that) he has come here in
weeks.
b. I {think/suppose/imagine} (that) he has not come here in
weeks.
(42') a. *1 don't {regret!claim} (that) he has come here in weeks.
b. I {regret!claim} (that) he has not come here in weeks.
If (42a) originates in a deep structure directly underlying (42b), and if the
trigger requirements on in weeks can be satisfied at that level, we can pre-
dict its acceptability. Regret and claim are ruled out in the same structure
because these verbs do not permit NR; there is no reading on which (42'a,
b) are coderived.
This argument, which seems to have been first suggested by Kajita and
first published in R. Lakoff 1969, is analyzed in some detail in Horn
1978b: 136-50, and I will not review its strengths and weaknesses here.
Nor will I deal with the related grammatical arguments for and against a
rule of NR based on phenomena involving rule interaction, mood, comple-
mentizer type, opposite-polarity tags, object case marking, sentence pro-
nominalization, anaphoric destressing, sluicing, subject-aux inversion,
queclaratives, or the syntactic reflex of De Morgan's Law (Horn 1978b:
151-77). In the end, I see no reason to repeal my conclusion in the 1978
paper: the strongest positive arguments on behalf of a syntactic rule of NR
prove to be untenable, indecisive, or dependent on additional (often tacit)
assumptions which are at best theoretically and/or empirically dubious.
Ofcourse, within the extended standard theory (or any of its hyperexten-
sions), the very question hardly gets to arise. Whether it would be formu-
lated as in the more traditional (43),
314 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
(43) [sX V Y [sCOMP [snot W]s1s]s
1 2 3 4 S 6
~S + 1,2,3,4,0 (ort?), 6
or simply treated as a mutant subcase of Move IX, NR would be in arrant
violation of at least the tensed S Condition (as noted in Wasow 1972), or
any of its parametrized offspring, as well as of the resthetic sensibilities of
the theory's practitioners.
In addition, even most of today's non-fully extended standard theoreti-
cians would be suspicious of, if not downright horrified at, a rule playing
such havoc with derivational morphology. Any coherent transformational
program for the NRP must countenance a syntax in which Neg-Raising
feeds those incorporation rules which result in the formation of the lexical
items in (44) (cf. Hom 1978b: 170-71):
(44) nobody
neither . . . nor
{neither/none} of
only
-er than
few
scarcely (any)
doubt
Thus, the sentences of (44') are understood with the (italicized) incorpo-
rated negative taken in each case as semantically within the scope of the
(boldface) neg-raising trigger to its right:
(44') Nobody supposes that nuclear war is winnable.
Neither Mutt norJeffthink(s) that Chris has been here in weeks.
{Neither/None} ofthem is (are) likely to marry you.
Only Kim intends to seek reelection.
I spent more than I should have.
{Few/Scarcely any} of my friends believe you'd lift a finger
for me.
I doubt that he {wants/plans} to resign just yet.
Thus, the first example is taken as suggesting that everybody supposes
nuclear war is not winnable, the second that both Mutt and Jeff think that
Chris hasn't been here in weeks, and so on.
Indeed, the existence of this pattern, if not its theoretical implications,
was recognized by the discoverer of the NRP himself. For Saint Anselm, a
sentence of the form Solus homo debet facere ... (Only (a) man ought to
do. . .) tends to be read as asserting that Quisquis non est homo debet non
facere ... (Any nonman ought not to do ...): 'The negative force im-
plicit in the applicative "only" can extend, so to speak, beyond the main
verb of the clause in which it appears to infinitives governed by the main
verb' (C. J. F. Williams 1964: 137). The assertion that 'only a man ought
to make the offering for sin' will be true for Anselm 'only if anyone who
5.2 Neg-raising and Contrariety 315
is not a man has an obligation not to make the offering for sin' (C. 1. F.
Williams 1968: 611).
For those who subscribe to the currently received view that rules of word
formation (as opposed to rules of inflectional morphology, on some ac-
counts) are not to be interspersed with rules of syntax, the thesis that a syn-
tactic rule of NR applies to the output of the lexical formative processes
involved in the creation of Anselm's solus and of the operators in (44)
amounts to a reductio of the syntactic program for the NRP.
What alternatives can we find? As it happens, there are ample grounds to
doubt both the feasibility and the desirability of a grammatical treatment
of the NRP. To begin with, there is the question of semantics. Fillmore
(1963), like the traditional grammarians before him, offered no syntactic
evidence for his 'Transposition ofNOT' , relying solely on the alleged para-
phrase relation holding between the lower-neg (4Sb) and the relevant
(transported) reading of its putative congener (4Sa).
(4S) a. I do not think that he will come.
b. I think that he will not come.
c. It is not the case that I think that he will come.
As has been frequently remarked, a higher-neg sentence like (41a) typi-
cally allows a ('literal') interpretation (a la (4Sc» on which the negative
has not been transported, the not-belief interpretation cited by Deutscher
(see above); while less salient than the transported reading, it may be
brought out by contrastive stress on I or not.
But does (4Sa), on its relevant understanding, really constitute a para-
phase of (4Sb)? Can we assume, with Bierwisch (1971 :42S-S6), that
these two statements are fully synonymous? From Poutsma's remark (1928:
lOS) that 'the shifting of not often has the effect of softening down the
negativing of a sentence' to Dwight Bolinger's observation (cited as a per-
sonal communication in R. Lakoff 1969 and G. Lakoff 1970) that the nega-
tive force in (4Sa) is perceptibly weaker than that in its nontransported
partner (4Sb), there have been effective challenges leveled against this pur-
ported paraphrase relation. As noted in Hom 1978b: 131-32, this same
difference in negative force can be observed in other languages manifesting
the NRP, including Swahili and Turkish: while a negation syntactically
outside the scope of a verb denoting mental activity (think, believe) or de-
sire (want) can be-and standardly is-understood as inside its semantic
scope, the result is a somewhat weakened or attenuated negation.
In fact, this softening process appears to be an epiphenomenon of all
rules and processes affecting the placement and surface realization of nega-
tion. In a paradigm like that in (46):
316 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
(46) I think she's sad.
I think she's unhappy.
I think she's not happy.
I think she isn't happy.
I do not think she's happy.
I don't think she's happy.
each version strikes us as a bit weaker or milder in e-negativity or negative
force, or in the degree to which the speaker is committed to the embedded
subject's unhappiness, than the one immediately above it. .,
Such paradigms reflect the interaction of two general pnncIples: (a)
negative force weakens with the distance of the negative element from the
constituent with which it is logically associated, and (b) negative force
strengthens with the degree of incorporation (or morphological absorption)
of the negative element. The former principle is at work within the NRP,
while in principle the latter is exemplified in affix~l negation (cf.. §5.1) and
in Negative Incorporation (cf. Klima 1964; Shemtuch and WIse 1976).
Thus while the neutral (47a) is weakened in its transported counterpart
(47b), it is strengthened in the neg-attracted (47c) (cf. Sheintuch and Wise
1976:548 for discussion).31
(47) a. I think I didn't see anyone in the room.
b. I don't think I saw anyone in the room.
c. I think I saw no one in the room.
The Poutsma-Bolinger Uncertainty Principle may thus be viewed as a
special case of a more general interaction involving negation and morpho-
syntactic space, which may in turn be seen ~s a ~orollary of ~e law of
gravitation, wherein the force between two objects IS seen to vary mversely
with the square of the distance between them. Coming back to eru:h, I con-
clude that a syntactic account of the NRP can be salvaged only If we are
willing to give up the thesis that transformations preserve meaning (in
which case the perceived strength difference between (45a) and (45b) may
be read off the posttransportation surface structure), or if (with G. ~akoff
1970) we are willing to make the application of the rule of NR contmgent
on the speaker's uncertainty.
If the Uncertainty Principle casts doubt on the putative synonymy be-
tween (45b) and the transported reading of (45a), the putative ambiguit~ of
the latter is no less controversial. In a brief discussion of the NRP m a
footnote to her paper on belief sentences, Partee (1970: 335-36) argues
that-given a pair of sentences like (48a, b):
(48) a. A doesn't believe that S.
b. A believes that not-So
5.2 Neg-raising and Contrariety 317
-the claim that (48a) is ambiguous between a higher- or wide-scope-neg
reading mapping directly onto its surface form and a lower-neg reading de-
rived from the structure directly underlying (48b) is 'semantically indis-
tinguishable from the claim that [(48b)] entails [(48a)] and not conversely'.
If A's belief world is consistent, (48a) will indeed be true in any context
in which (48b) is true, but not vice versa; this much is clear. The two
understandings of (48a), or of any other putative instance of NR, thus con-
stitute privative opposites in the sense of Trubetzkoy and of Zwicky and
Sadock: 'Understandings VI and V2 are PRIVATIVE OPPOSITES with respect
to some semantic feature F if VI can be represented as identical to V2
except that VI includes some specification for F that is lacking in V2'
(Zwicky and Sadock 1975:6).
Zwicky and Sadock point out that, while the logic of privative opposi-
tion 'makes it difficult to distinguish ambiguity from lack of specificity
[aka generality or vagueness]'-in particular, the classic identity-of-sense
tests for diagnosing ambiguity are useless in these cases, since 'the exis-
tence of the more general understanding guarantees that we will get all
possible understandings'-there are a substantial number of privative op-
positions which nevertheless represent (at least arguably) true ambiguities.
Thus Partee's a priori assumption that the privative relationship between
the two understandings of (48a) precludes or obviates an NR-type analysis
positing a semantic ambiguity for such sentences, like Kempson's broader
rejection of all privative ambiguity, is only as valid as the latter's demand
(Kempson 1980: 16) that 'no sentence be assigned two distinct semantic
representations if one interpretation is logically dependent on the other'. I
have argued elsewhere (Horn 1984a, c) that a wide variety of privative am-
biguities must in fact be countenanced within a maximally simple seman-
tics for natural language, both on the lexical level (where a substantial
number of AUTOHYPONYMOUS lexical items allow two readings, one of
which extensionally includes, and intensionally is included by, the other,
such as dog, man, Yankee, German Frau) and on the constructional level
as well.
A rich lode of privative oppositions can be mined in the exploration of
scope ambiguity. In examples like At least two languages are spoken by
everyone in this room (Chomsky 1965: 224) and Jones believes that some-
one is a spy (Quine 1960), the specific or transparent reading in each case
unilaterally entails the corresponding nonspecific or opaque reading, yet
semantic ambiguity is not ruled out a priori on that account. Closer to
home, and to the NRP, is the ambiguity of apparent universal negation dis-
cussed in §4.3 above and §7.3 below: a sentence like (49a) is generally
acknowledged to be ambiguous between a 'NEG-V' reading equivalent to
(49b) and its 'NEG-Q' reading equivalent to (49c).
318 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
(49) a. All the men didn't leave.
b. None of the men left.
c. It is not the case that all the
men left.
(All of the men stayed)
(Not all the men left)
Just as in the putative examples of NR-(34a), (38a), (45a), (48a)-the
ambiguity of (49a) hinges on the scope assigned to negation; in both cases,
the inner-neg reading (= (45b)/(49b» unilaterally entails the outer-neg
reading (= (45c)/(49c».32
While it may be difficult to determine whether a given pair of privatively
opposed expressions constitutes a true lexical or semantic ambiguity, this
is finally not an epistemological but an ontological question, one which
cannot be answered a priori in the absence of a comprehensive theory of
the phenomenon in question. In any case, returning to Partee's original hy-
pothesis, it will be noted that the unidirectional entailment relation obtain-
ing (modulo doxastic inconsistency) between the belief sentences of (48) is
mirrored in the sentences in (50).
(50) a. A {didn't claim/isn't certain} that S.
b. A {claimed/is certain} that not-So
Assuming again that Mr. A is consistent in his statements and beliefs, the
truth of (50b) requires the truth of (50a), but not vice versa. And yet no
question of ambiguity, or of an NR-type coderivation, arises for these sen-
tences. An explanation must still be sought for the fact that while (48a) can
be, and standardly is, used to convey (48b), (50a) simply cannot be used to
convey (50b).33 But just what sort of explanation might that be?
In her attempt to explain away the NRP, Partee observes that the scope of
this phenomenon is largely restricted to, or at least favored by, first-person
contexts. In his own rejection of the transformational solution to the NRP,
Jackendoff (1971) concedes an ambiguity between 'non-committal' and
'committal' (or 'active disbelief') readings for (51a), for which he pro-
poses a semantic-interpretive account (later fleshed out in Pollack 1974),
(51) a. I don't think that Bill went.
b. John doesn't think that Bill went.
but he finds the parallel third-person example (51b) unambiguous and
'vaguely non-committal': 'The synonymy between John thinks that Bill
didn't go and one reading of [(51b)] is inferential in character and has
nothing to do with the syntactic component-it may even have nothing to
do with the semantic component' (Jackendoff 1971 :291).
Later developments in the analysis of the NRP have proved Jackendoff's
once-radical assertion overly conservative. The dichotomy between first-
5.2 Neg-raising and Contrariety 319
person and third-person subjects drawn by Partee and Jackendoff does not
seem particularly compelling, especially when we move away from the be-
lieve, think class of neg-raisers: Are the examples of (44') any less ambigu-
ous with their third-person subjects than the corresponding first-person
examples would be? Are the NEG + want examples of (40a) and (40'a) any
more 'vaguely non-committal' than their first-person counterparts (I don't
want (you) to kiss Mary)? If so, isn't it likely that the explanation for this
subtle distinction might itself 'have nothing to do with the semantic compo-
nent' per se? Not too surprisingly, Epstein (1976) judges even first-person
examples like (51a) 'unambiguous both syntactically and semantically',
offering a promissory note that 'the apparent ambiguity is best explained in
terms of general principles of semantics and pragmatics'.
The first detailed exposition of such principles within a pragmatic ac-
count of the NRP is given by Bartsch (1973); her analysis is later indepen-
dently echoed by Halpern (1976). For Bartsch, as for Partee, (52a) is not
ambiguous between the understandings in (52b) and (52c), as it would be
on an NR analysis:
(52) a. Peter glaubt nicht, daB Hans
kommt.
b. Peter glaubt, daB Hans nicht
kommt.
C. Es ist nicht so, daB Peter
glaubt, daB Hans kommt.
'Peter doesn't believe that
Hans is coming'
'Peter believes that Hans is
coming'
'It is not the case that Peter
believes that Hans is
coming'
rather, it has only one meaning, identical to (52c) which (again, we must
assume, given consistent belief systems) is unilaterally entailed by the so-
called neg-raising reading.
Under certain pragmatic conditions of applicability (pragmatische Ver-
wendungsbedingungen), the weaker proposition (52c) can be used to con-
vey the stronger (52b). Sentences (52a) and (52b) will then share their truth
value and end up equivalent; they need not-should not, Bartsch argues-
be assigned the same semantic representation, but will express the same
information relative to a given context of utterance (Sprechsituation). But
what are the relevant pragmatic conditions?
Mirroring the entailment (semantische Implikation) from (53b) to (53a):
(53) a. a glaubt nicht, daB p.
b. a gluubt, daB nicht p.
'a doesn't believe that p'
'a believes that HOt-p'
there is a pragmatische Implikation from (53a) to (53b), given the assump-
tion that the subject will be taken to have given some thought to the truth of
320 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
p and to have come to some conclusion about it; Bartsch formulates this
assumption as the disjunction F(a, p) v F(a, -p). In the unmarked dis-
course situation, (53a) will normally be used when the speaker assumes
that (53b) is in fact the case, rather than that a hasn't thought about p at aU
or is neutral as to whether p or -p is in fact the case.
This schema of pragmatic inference can be spelled out as in (54):
(54) 1. F(a, p) v F(a, -p)
11. -F(a, p)
iii. :. F(a, -p)
[context-dependent 'assumed
disjunction']
[utterance of, e.g., (53a) by
speaker]
[i.e., (53b); from (i), (ii) by modus
tollendo ponens]
It is striking how closely Bartsch's approach to the NRP mirrors the neo-
Hegelian line on contextually derived contrary negation (see the citations
from Sigwart and Bosanquet earlier in this chapter). The cornerstone, and
stumbling block, of Bartsch's inference chain is the middle-excluding as-
sumed disjunction, the initial premise (54i); the mystery is to determine
exactly when the assumption is valid. Bartsch stipulates that the disjunc-
tion, and hence the NRP, will be triggered whenever F is instantiated by
a propositional-attitude verb, and the majority of NR predicates (believe,
think, suppose, want) do indeed fall within this class. But there are poten-
tial counterexamples in both directions to this claim: (1) propositional atti-
tude predicates like hope, realize, know, regret, and be certain, whose
negations do not permit a lower-clause understanding or trigger strict
polarity items; and (2) neg-raising triggers like probable, likely, should,
ought to, and advise, as well as certain quantifiers and quantificational ad-
verbs and possibly (on some analyses, although not mine) true and a vari-
ety of tense-aspect markers, which are not obviously propositional-attitude
verbs in Bartsch's sense.
How can Bartsch's definition be narrowed and widened to take in just the
right class(es) of predicates? As Epstein notes (1976: 158) in discussing a
related pragmatic account of the NRP, the semantics of the upstairs predi-
cate should not, strictly speaking, enter into the determination of when
an assumed disjunction or bivalent situation obtains: 'If P(S) v P(-S) is
among the shared beliefs of participants in a discourse, then no matter what
verb P is formed from, a communication of -P(S) automatically commu-
nicates P(-S).' The burden of proof on pragmatic theories like those of
Bartsch (1973), Halpern (1976), and L. Carlson (1983), all of which in-
voke a version of the assumed disjunction, lies in demonstrating why it is
that when the context permits eliminating (or assimilating) the middle, so
that'- P(S) automatically communicates P(-S)" it nevertheless does not
5.2 Neg-raising and Contrariety 321
folloW that -P(S) automatically shares the properties of P(-S) with re-
spect to the meaning imparted or to the standard syntactic correlates of
the NRP.
As Epstein points out (1976: 158), if everyone in the discourse context
'has extremely strong feelings about the prospect of Wallace's nomination,
so that everyone either fears that Wallace will be nominated or fears that he
will not be nominated', an utterance of John doesn'tfear that Wallace will
be nominated should (via the schema outlined in (54» 'yield' as its con-
veyed meaning Johnfears that Wallace won't be nominated, and yet it does
not: 'This sort of "derived negative transportation" seldom if ever occurs
in speech'.
When a non-NR trigger has its middle excluded by the context, it still
fails to be transparent to negation in the manner ofactual NR predicates, as
signaled by the distribution of strict polarity items:
(55) a. I asked him whether or not Mary's written, and he told me in
no uncertain words:
{
he said she hasn't written in weeks. }
*he didn't say she's written in weeks.
b. I have pretty strong feelings about this trip he's planning-
{
I hope he isn't going there until JUly. }
*1 don't hope he goes there until July.
Even without the (ungrammatical) polarity item in the higher-neg versions,
a negation over say or hope cannot be associated with the complement
clause, even though the disjunction of (54i) can be assumed, ex hypothesi.
Moreover, the arguments first leveled by G. Lakoff (1970) against a
purely semantic treatment of the NRP still militate against any of the vari-
ety of nonsyntactic analyses proposed since. As is well known, the avail-
ability of NR understandings is subject to semantically unmotivated lexical
exceptions. In English, suppose neg-raises on its parenthetical reading for
all speakers, but guess does so only for some (/ don't {suppose/%guess}
Lee will arrive until midnight). Want neg-raises freely, wish somewhat less
so, and desire only with difficulty; the same pattern obtains for expect and
anticipate. It is hard to detect any relevant non-ad hoc semantic or prag-
matic distinction between want and desire, between expect and anticipate,
or between parenthetical uses of suppose and guess, which could account
for this distinction.
If NR were a grammatical rule, as Lakoff notes, we could invoke the
independently necessary exception mechanisms motivated elsewhere in the
grammar to account, inter alia, for the fact that probable is an exception to
subject raising, while its synonym likely is not (Sandy is {likely/ *probable}
to win); cf. Green 1974: 18-20 for related discussion. But if a semantic
322 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
principle of interpretation or, a fortiori, a general pragmatic process is in-
voked to account for the phenomenon of lower-clause understandings of
higher-clause negation, it is not clear how this variation is to be treated. In
particular, the notion of a lexical exception to a pragmatic principle re-
quires some explication.
The plot thickens when the action shifts overseas. While similarities in
the semantic classes of NR triggers outnumber the differences, cross-
linguistic disparities arise as to just which semantically qualified predicates
allow NR understandings in a given language. Among verbs of opinion,
Hebrew xosev 'think' is an NR trigger, but maamin 'believe' is not; the
opposite pattern obtains in Malagasy. NR in Hindi applies to complements
of lagnaa 'seem', but not of soocnaa 'think' or of X-koo khvaal hoonaa
'have the opinion', and to caahnaa 'want' in Equi contexts (a la (40a)
above) but not with unlike subjects (a la (40'a», and so on. (See Horn
1978b: 183-93 for further examples and references.)
In particular, we find that negation over hope does not in general limit
lower-clause understandings or trigger strict polarity items (as seen in
(55b); cf., however, I never saw a purple cowlI never hope to see one) but
its cross-Germanic counterparts do, including German hoffen and the cog-
nate verbs in Danish and Dutch. While the Latin verb sperare was a neg-
raiser (and non spero standardly translates as 'I hope not'), its French
daughter esperer is transparent to negation only with subjunctive comple-
ments, and for some speakers not even then (Je n'espere pas = 'I don't
hope so, '" 'I hope not', as noted above). Souhaiter is an NR trigger, but
its semantics seem to correspond more closely to 'wish' than to 'hope'; cf.
Horn 1978b: 183-87 for more on this and other aspects of the hope class.
Given the extent of the intra- and cross-linguistic variation on the
membership of the set of NR predicates, we must apparently conclude with
Epstein (1976: 160) that even if the NRP is pragmatically motivated, the
process within a given language 'may be conventionalized, so that its end
results are automatic'. Carlson (1983: 120-21) reaches a similar conclu-
sion. After detailing his own version of the Bartschean assumed disjunc-
tion hypothesis, which combines with a preference for the 'guarded',
'polite' quality of the syntactically external pegation to license 'the general
tendency of any expression of doubt or indecision to suggest disbelief or
disinclination', Carlson concedes that 'the lexical selectivity of the nega-
tive transportation phenomenon does suggest that whatever process creates
it has become a conventional rule in the clear cases' .
The essential task is to determine the nature of this conventionalization
process and the whereabouts of the resultant rule within a linguistic de-
scription. While I will not be able to complete this task until §5.3, I shall
begin by returning to the issue first confronted by Kalepky (1891): the se-
5.2 Neg-raising and Contrariety 323
mantic characterization of the classes of predicates which qualify for status
as potential NR triggers within a given language. These classes can be la-
beled and instantiated in English as follows:
(56) a.
a'.
b.
c.
d.
OPINION: think, believe, suppose, imagine, expect, reckon,
feel, (%guess, %anticipate)
PERCEPTION: seem, appear, look like, sound like, feel like
PROBABILITY: be probable, be likely, figure to
INTENTION/VOLITION: want, intend, choose, plan
JUDGMENT/(WEAK) OBLIGATION: be supposed to,
ought, should, be desirable, advise, suggest
Cross-linguistic classification of NR triggers within these classes is
fairly straightforward, although (as I noted above) whether a lexical item
within one of these classes will trigger NR within a given language, dia-
lect, or idiolect may not be predictable. Russian neg-raisers, for example,
include (a) dumat' 'think' and ozidat' 'expect', (a') pokazat'sja 'seem'
and vidno 'appear, look like', (b) verojatno 'probable', (c) xotet' 'want',
zamyslat' 'plan', and namerevat'sja 'intend', (d) dolzen 'should' and so-
vetovat' 'advise', and so on (cf. Luborsky 1972). Similar categorizations
can be made in other languages exhibiting the NRP, including Basque, Es-
tonian, French, German, Hebrew, Hindi, Korean, Japanese, Latin, Mala-
gasy, Old (and new) Spanish, Swahili, and Turkish; cf. Horn 1978b for
examples and discussion.34
While there have been a variety of predicates cited as participants in the
NRP which do not seem subsumable under any of these categories, closer
inspection often indicates that such subsumption is indeed possible. 35 For
example, one French NR trigger cited by Tobler (1882b: 202) and others
(cf. Nyrop 1930:41; Le Bidois 1968:§985; Grevisse 1969:884) isfaire
semblant (de), apparently corresponding to 'pretend'. But as Tobler ob-
serves, Il ne fit pas semblant de comprendre is taken to convey not that he
didn't pretend (i.e., pretended not) to understand, but that he didn't act as
though he understood (tat als verstiinde er nicht), that is, acted as though
he didn't understand. On this reading, faire semblant fits naturally with the
perception verbs of Category (a').36
But assuming the essential universality of the classes in (56), why is it
that just these predicates allow a lower-clause understanding of upper-
clause negation, while others (know, regret, claim, say, manage, try, be
able, be possible, be certain, be odd) do not? The first relevant observation
on this score is the Kiparskys' recognition that factives are universally ex-
cluded from the ranks of potential neg-raisers. The Kiparskys are correct in
claiming that no factives are neg-raisers, later critics to the contrary not-
withstanding.37
But their syntactic account of this correlation (which is
324 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
flawed on independent grounds) would have a chance at validity only if all
nonfactives were NR triggers, which is clearly not the case.
G. Lakoff (1970: 158) ties the absence of neg-raising factives to the
Poutsma-Bolinger Uncertainty Principle identified above: 'Since it is pre-
supposed that the subject of a factive verb [better, the speaker of a sentence
containing a factive] knows that the complement of a verb is true, he can-
not be uncertain about it'. This suggestion extends naturally to the im-
plicatives (Karttunen 1971), predicates whose complements are entailed
rather than presupposed, and which, when negated, entail the negation of
those complements; entailment is as incompatible with speaker uncertainty
as is presupposition. Thus, be likely is a candidate for the NRP, but (fac-
tive) be odd is not; want to and figure to are, but (implicative) manage to,
venture to, forget to, and bother to are not.
But some basic questions remain: Why are such predicates as able, pos-
sible, and allow, whose complements are neither presupposed nor entailed,
never found among the NR triggers of English or any other languages?
What work can the Uncertainty Principle do for us in separating the wheat
of (56c, d) from the related chaff (nontriggers insist, have to, order), when
none of these root or deontic values bear any immediately evident connec-
tion to either certainty or uncertainty? Where do we go from here?
The answer, it is suggested in Hom 1975, 1978b, lies in the quantitative
and/or pragmatic scales I explored in chapter 4. Following the principles
outlined in my earlier discussion, let us assume the metascale in (57), in-
corporating both epistemic and deontic operators since, as it turns out, the
same lexical modal or verb may serve both functions, often distinguished
by complementizer type. (For typographic convenience and ease of inter-
pretation, this scale is a ninety-degree rotation from those in §4.4.)
(57) be able
be possible
I0 <--WEAKER--
may, might
can, could
allow, permit, let
believe, suppose,
think
be likely,
probable
figure to
seem, appear,
look like
.5
--STRONGER-->
be supposed to
should, ought to,
better
be desirable,
advisable
know, realize
be certain
be clear, evident,
sure
be odd, significant,
tragic
must, have to
need, be necessary
be obligatory,
mandatory
be allowed
be legal, ethical
5.2 Neg-raising and Contrariety 325
be a good idea
(to)
want, choose,
intend, plan
{t%n}
make, cause, force,
insist
order, demand,
require
Parallel to this scale, again as in §4.4, I could (but will not) construct a
metascale for the negative counterparts of these modal values, yielding the
following correspondences:
(58) 1. The (contradictory) negation of a weak scalar value (e.g.,
possible, allow) will be a strong value on the correspond-
ing negative scale (impossible, forbid).
11. The negation of a strong scalar value (e.g., certain, have
to) will be a weak value on the corresponding negative
scale (not certain, do(es)n't have to).
iii. The negation of an intermediate scalar value (e.g., likely,
advisable) will be an intermediate value on the corre-
sponding negative scale (not likely, not advisable).
I shall illustrate by extracting the epistemic adjectives, yielding the grada-
tion in (59) or, alternatively, the annotated Square in (59') (see §4.4 for
more on these models):
(59)
certain (p)
+
likely (p)
possible (p)
impossible (p)
[unlikely (p)]
not likely (p)
not certain (p)
(59')
certain (p)A-contraries_ E impossible (p)
1.0 "" -1.0
likely (p) "" /
.5 contradictories -.5 not likely (p)
po,,;b" (p) ILn'~o""',on.;n(p)
= possible ...
not (p)
As we have seen (chapter 4, (54», likely and certain are INTOLERANT
predicates (it la Lobner 1985), since they cannot simultaneously be predi-
cated of a proposition and its negation (#It's likely she'll go and likely she
won't), while possible is TOLERANT, since the corresponding conjunction
is consistent (It's possible she'll go and possible she won't). The same rea-
soning that leads to the placement of (the lower bound of) likely just above
the midpoint of the positive epistemic scale, given the epistemic inconsis-
tency of (60a), leads to the same move for the other 'midscalar' values in
the metascale of (57). Since (60b) acknowledges an inconsistent belief set
326 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
and (60c) reports contradictory desires, believe and want must be above
the midpoints of their respective scales.
(60) a. #It's likely she'll go and likely she won't go.
b. #1 believe she'll go and I believe she won't go.
c. #1 want her to go and I want her not to go.
It is this class of midscalar or weakly intolerant (henceforth WI) predicates
which harbors virtually all NR triggers; weaker (i.e., tolerant) and-with
an exception to be noted-stronger predicates typically fail to participate
in the NRP.
We have already seen why strong scalar epistemics exclude NR: their
use presupposes or entails their complement, thus precluding the operation
of the Uncertainty Principle. While It's likely (or I think) Kim won leaves
open the possibility that she lost, It's certain (I know) Kim won explicitly
forecloses this possibility. Thus, not only factives and implicatives but the
semiimplicative IF verbs of Karttunen 1971, those (e.g., certain, clear,
sure, evident) from which an entailment is.deducible only from positive
instances, are excluded from the ranks of potential NR triggers.
With the tolerant weak epistemic scalars, corresponding to Karttunen's
ONLY-IF predicates, no entailment follows from a positive occurrence, but
negated able and possible sentences do entail the negation of their comple-
ments. We must evidently inspect each pair of the form (P(p), -P(p) and
determine if an entailment is derivable from either member; if so, P is
scratched from the roll of prospective neg-raisers.
Intuitively, what is common to all NR triggers is the relative slenderness
of the functional difference between the preraised form with lower negation
and the logical form with the upstairs negative taking wide scope. It is the
closeness of the external (contradictory) readings of not likely, not believe,
not advisable to likely not, believe not, advisable not, respectively, which
renders the negated predicates potential neg-raisers, and the relative dis-
tance of not possible, not realize, not obligatory from possible not, realize
not, obligatory not which removes these from that category.
This position is reminiscent of (part of) the account of the NRP by
Stockwell, Schachter, and Partee (1973 :253-56):
Non-factives express 'propositional attitudes'; in some cases it
happens that a negative attitude toward a positive sentence may be
very nearly or perhaps perfectly equivalent to a positive atittude
toward a negative sentence; this seems true when either (i) the atti-
tude is a moderate one, such as think, believe, seem, or (ii) the
attitude is dichotomous, such as true or false. When the attitude is
a strong one such as claim or sure, however, the equivalence fails.
5.2 Neg-raising and Contrariety 327
But C~tegory (ii)-which would in fact counterexemplify my scalar hy-
potheSIs-does not represent a true instance of the NRP. Notice that while
(61a, b):
(61) a. It isn't true that Chris will get here (*until midnight).
b. It's true that Chris will not get here (until midnight).
lDay indeed be 'very nearly or perhaps perfectly equivalent' to each other,
given the transparency of true to negation and to everything else (at least
within a bivalent semantics), so that these sentences vacuously satisfy the
Bartschean disjunction, there is no argument for coderivation here, as con-
firmed by the ungrammaticality of strict polarity items in the context
of (61a).
Category (i) does come closer to describing the set of 'moderate' NR
triggers, but the definition of this class in terms of propositional attitudes is
untenable. Exceptions to this restriction include 'moderate' WI quantifica-
tional determiners (most (of the) a, a majority of(the) a) and quantifica-
tional adverbs (usually, most ofthe time):
(62) a. I don't think that most of my
friends would approve.
b. She doesn't usually attend
church.
[0 = I think that most
wouldn't]
[0 = She usually doesn't]
Weaker (tolerant) quantificational values (some and many, sometimes and
often) and stronger values (all, always) rule out any lower-clause reading
for upstairs negation in the same contexts. (See Horn 1978b:203-4 for
elaboration.)
Indeed, if the 'moderate attitudes' of Category (i) are to be characterized
as inducing a ~ear, but imperfect, equivalence between higher-neg and
low~r-neg verSlOns, the best representative of this class may be the epis-
temlC WI predicate likely, which does not denote an attitude per se. The
only circumstance in which It is not likely that p and It is likely that not-p
would differ in truth value is presumably when p has a fifty-fifty chance of
occurring or coming true, for example, in the proposition that a fair coin
will land heads. (Cf. Horn 1978b: 196-97 for a defense of the status of
likely and (for most speakers) probable as NR triggers.)
Ofcourse no entailments are derivable with deontics-strong, interrnedi-
~te, or weak, affirmative or negative. The deontic analogue of certainty
IS presumably obligation, but if something is obligatory (or forbidden), it
does not follow that it will (or won't) occur, only that it had better (or bet-
ter not). In the case of WI deontics no "absolute" obligation is derivable
from either positive or negative use; both not {advisable/desirable} and
{advisable /desirable} ... not express a mild suggestion or weak obliga-
328 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
tion. Thus, the functional principle may be extended: NR understandings
will not be available where they would systematically result in the emer-
gence of pernicious ambiguities, that is, when the higher-S and lower-S
readings of main clause negation would carry a high functional load, lead-
ing to a possible breakdown in communication.
But the very fact that absolute obligation is harder to pin down than ab-
solute certainty (or, for that matter, logical necessity) evidently licenses the
tendency cited in §4.5, for a number of languages to permit apparent neg-
raising with strong scalar deontics (including French falloir, Russian
veld, Basque behar). The epistemic distance from likelihood to certainty
is psychologically greater than the corresponding deontic distance from
weak intolerant devoir to strong intolerant falloir.
While strong intolerant predicates mayor may not license NR under-
standings, tolerant (weak scalar) predicates never do. Why is it that the
negations of able, possible, allow, be permitted, and so forth, consistently
exclude lower-clause interpretations? Why does a predicate P qualify for
participation in the NRP only when (although not always when) it is intol-
erant, that is, when it cannot be conjoined with its inner negation P- with-
out inconsistency?
I submit that this fact results from the logical properties of these scalar
values, as depicted on the annotated logical square in (59'). As seen in
§4.4 and exemplified in the paradigm in (63),
(63) a. It's not likely that the Yankees will win.
outer-neg reading = -(LIKELY ...)
inner-neg reading = LIKELY .. .
(- ...)
b. It's not possible that the Yankees will win.
outer-neg reading = -(POSSIBLE
...)
*inner-neg reading = POSSIBLE ...
(- ...)
[contradictory]
[contrary]
[contradictory]
[subcontrary]
the inner-neg reading of a (weakly or strongly) intolerant predicate will al-
ways yield a contrary negation, while the inner-neg reading of a tolerant
predicate will always result in a subcontrary of the corresponding affir-
mative. In the latter case, no NR reading will be available. Whenever an
outer negation does allow an NR (inner-neg, lower-clause) understanding,
this understanding must represent a strengthening of the contradictory to a
contrary, rather than a weakening to a subcontrary. The appropriate gener-
alization is given in (64):
(64) The NR understanding is always stronger than the contradictory
(outer) negation, in that it applies to a proper subset of the sit-
5.2 Neg-raising and Contrariety 329
uations to which the contradictory applies (is true in a proper
subset of the worlds in which the contradictory is true). As
with (other) indirect speech acts, the literal interpretation of
the outer negation is true but too weak, and the addressee
applies a (short-circuited) conversational implicature to 'fill in'
the stronger proposition (cf. Horn and Bayer 1984 and §5.3
below on NR, polarity, and short-circuited implicature).
This principle, combined with the observation that a lower-clause under-
standing for higher-clause negation tends to be possible only when the two
readings for the outer-neg sentence that would result are almost but not
quite, truth-conditionally identical (see discussion above), gene~ates the
table in (65) with its twin parameters for NR triggerhood,
(65)
strong scalars
mid-scalars (WI)
weak scalars
low functional
difference between
P ... -/-P?
+
P ... - a
contrary of P?
+
+
and the correct prediction that mid-scalar (WI) predicates are the most
trigger-happy, followed by strong scalars, with weak scalars ruled out en-
tirely. As in the case of affixal negation (§5.1.1), inherently negative predi-
cates-doubt, disbelieve, deny, dislike, forbid, prevent-universally rule
out NR understandings.
We have seen (in §4.5) that the negative subcontraries of the southeast,
0, corner of the Square-some not/not all, possible not, not obligatory-
ten~ n?t to be~ome lexicalized in natural language. Similarly, disbelieve
~exlcallzes belleve not, the contrary of believe, while disallow lexical-
lzes not allow, the contradictory of allow (rather than allow not, its sub-
contrary).
I also noted earlier (in §5.1.1) that while negative affixes tend to result in
the contrary of their positive bases, there are a number of exceptions to this
general tendency:
(66) a. unabsorbable, unadaptable, unconquerable, ...
b. impossible, incapable, inedible, unfeasible, ..
c. unable, unapt, impractical, ...
The contradictory reading assigned to the verb-based un-X-able forms
of (66a) might be attributed to the oft-observed correlation between con-
tradictory opposition and productive affixation. But the fully lexicalized
root-based entries of (66b), as well as the unsuffixed forms of the same
330 Pragmatics ojContra(dicto)ry Negation
semantic class given in (66c), must equally be understood as contradicto_
ries of the corresponding positive adjectives.
It is now clear that these negative adjectives are contradictories because
that is the strongest reading they can receive. Unhappy can be, and hence
is, read as a contrary, but an adjective of the form un-X-where X is a
weak scalar adjective, whether productively derived as in (66a), unproduc-
tively derived as in (66b), or underived as in (66c)-can only be read as a
contradictory or a subcontrary. In such circumstances, given the absence of
a weakening (contradictory --) subcontrary) rule alongside the strengthen-
ing (contradictory --) contrary) process I have attested in this chapter and
chapter 4, only the contradictory interpretation can be assigned to the ad-
jectives of (66).
In each of these cases, it is the reading closest to the E and farthest from
the 0 pole of the negative scale which tends to be facilitated or selected,
whether that reading amounts to a contrary or a contradictory negation of
its positive base or counterpart. Data from lexicalization, semantic drift,
affixation, and the neg-raising phenomenon converge into the generaliza-
tion in (67):
(67) Contrary negation tends to be maximized in natural language.
Subcontrary negation tends to be minimized in natural language.
In referring to the conditions under which an upstairs negation can be
associated with the lower clause, rather than the conditions under which a
downstairs negative can be raised, I have tacitly endorsed the semantic or
pragmatic approach to the NRP, without having dispelled the problems
posed by the intra- and cross-linguistic variation in the selection of trigger
predicates. This promissory note will be partially redeemed in §5.3.1,
where I consider the neg-raising phenomenon against other contexts in
which a superficial contradictory negation is pragmatically strengthened to
a contrary.
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement: From Rhetoric to Rule
The negative words not, no, &c., have two kinds of meaning which must
be carefully distinguished. Sometimes they deny, and nothing more;
sometimes they are used to affirm the direct contrary. In cases which
offer but two alternatives, one of which is necessary, these amount to
the same thing, since the denial of one and the affirmation of the other
are obviously equivalent propositions. In many idioms of conversation,
the negative implies affirmation of the contrary in cases which offer not
only alternatives, but degrees of alternatives. Thus, to the question, 'Is
he tall', the simple answer, 'No', most frequently means that he is the
contrary of tall, or considerably under the average. But it must be re-
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 331
membered that in all logical reasoning, the negation is simply negation,
and nothing more, never implying affirmation of the contrary.
I've been living in the dark too long
When something's not right, it's wrong.
(De Morgan 1847:3)
(Bob Dylan, "You're Gonna Make Me Lonesome When You Go")
My third instance of contraries in contradictory clothing is Bosanquet's
first: the tendency to fill in a relatively uninformative sentence negation,
converting it into an assertion of the contrary. I begin by noting Jespersen's
comment (1917:43) that 'there is scarcely any difference' between (68a)
and (68b).
(68) a. She isn't happy.
b. She is unhappy.
Jespersen's remark seems to have perplexed his admirer Poldauf, who cor-
rectly observes that the two forms of negation are clearly nonequivalent,
given the possibility of an explicitly allowed middle: 'She isn't happy but
she can't be said to be unhappy either-she is bored and indifferent' (Pol-
dauf 1964: 369).
While Poldauf's rejoinder is well taken, is it really credible that someone
as cognizant as Jespersen was of the contrary nature of the happy/unhappy
opposition could be gUilty of overlooking such a fundamental aspect of af-
fixal negation? I submit that Jespersen's point is not that the affixal or spe-
cial negative of (68b) is contradictory, like the nexal of (68a), but that the
nexal negation may be contrary, like the affixal.
The same semantic lapse Poldauf attributes to Jespersen clearly afflicts
Englebretsen's argument (1981b :46) that Aristotle (along with his modern
interpreter Fred Sommers) takes the denial of a predicate to be equivalent
to the affirmation of its logical contrary when the subject is a singular term,
'for Socrates is unhappy if and only if he isn't happy'.
Given its source, this claim is surprising on at least two counts: (a) un-
happy does not constitute the logical, immediate contrary of happy, but its
mediate contrary, since Socrates was presumably often neither happy nor
unhappy, but somewhere in between; and (b) for Aristotle, even the true
logical contrary of happy, which I have translated as not-happy, does not
reduce to a predicate denial, since Socrates is not-happy (as well as Soc-
rates is unhappy) can come out false when the contradictory-denoting
predicate denial Socrates is not happy is true, namely, when Socrates
names something that doesn't exist, or something that neither happy nor
not-happy can be naturally predicated of-a mountain, an amoeba, or (for
Aristotle) an infant. What is especially curious is that both (a) and (b) are
amply documented in Englebretsen 1981a, as we observed in chapter 1.
332 Pragmatics ojContra(dicto)ry Negation
Like his fellow Dane, Englebretsen may have been seduced into his histori_
cal faux pas by the pragmatic tendency to read an attribution of not happy
to a subject term as if it were the corresponding attribution of unhappy. But
why should this tendency exist? Where is it manifested? What sort of de-
scriptive account shall we give it?
As I noted in the discussion of prefixal negation (cf. (22), (22') above),
the contrary reading associated with dis- verbs (J {disbelieve/dislike/
distrust} you) is sometimes shared by their counterparts with unincorpo_
rated negation (I don't {believe/like/ trust} you). This problem is often for-
mulated by invoking the sentential vs. constituent negation dichotomy of
Klima (1964) and Jackendoff (1969), yielding the dual analyses of sen-
tences like (69).
(69) John [(doesn't like) mushrooms]. (= (104) of Chomsky 1970)
Here is Chomsky (1970:71) on this phenomenon: 'In [(69)] we can take
the negative element to be associated with the verb, so that it means John
dislikes mushrooms, or with the verb phrase, in which case it means: it is
not so that John likes mushrooms. In other words, either the parentheses or
the brackets express a possible interpretation'. Only on the former (con-
stituent negation) reading is there 'a presupposition that he has the relevant
experience with mushrooms': 'Thus if John has never tasted mushrooms
and it is asserted that he likes them, I can deny the assertion by stating
[(69»), interpreting the negation as associated with the predicate phrase,
but not by stating John dislikes mushrooms, or [(69)] with the negation
interpreted as associated with the verb'.
Under certain circumstances, then, to deny that John likes mushrooms
counts as an assertion that he actively dislikes them, just as (for Sigwart
and Bosanquet) to deny that someone is good may count as an assertion
that s/he is bad, and just as (for Bosanquet and Bartsch) to deny that one
thinks that p (or wants q) may count as an assertion that one thinks that
not-p (or wants not-q). In the same way, denying that Socrates is happy (or
good) may amount to an assertion that he is unhappy (or bad).
We seem to have stumbled upon one more source of contraries in contra-
dictory clothing, triggered by (among other factors) the psychological pref-
erence for simple binary classification, as stressed by Sapir (1944: 101):
'To the naive, every person is either good or bad'. And, we might add, we
are all naive at least some of the time. The result is the assumed disjunc-
tion and the modus tollendo ponens-driven inference schema we have al-
ready encountered. Here is Lyons's version of the tendency cited by De
Morgan and Sapir: 'Gradable antonyms are frequently employed in every-
day language-behavior as contradictories rather than contraries. If we are
asked Is X a good chess-player and we reply No, we may well be held by
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 333
questioner to have committed ourselves implicitly to the proposition
X is a bad chess player' (Lyons 1977: 278). While there is no general
vJ1.a.....~•.- of the form X is not good II- X is bad, the context permits such
inferences for a particular token (cf. Bartsch's pragmatische Implikation in
(53». Unless otherwise stipulated, this middle-excluding inference will go
through: 'If the speaker did not wish to be committed to the implication, he
could have been expected to make it clear that a first approximation was
insufficiently precise, by saying, for example, X is not good, but he's not
bad either: he'sjair/pretty good/just about average' (Lyons 1977:278).
There are, then, 'two kinds of propositional negation: one of which con-
verts the proposition into its contradictory and the other into its contrary';
for Lyons, as for Sapir, the emergence of the second, contrary-yielding
operator is favored-if not forced-in scalar contexts: 'It seems to be the
case that the application of propositional negation to a gradable expression
(e.g., 'like') will always tend to produce a contrary, rather than a contra-
dictory, whether the language-system lexicalizes the contrary (e.g., 'dis-
like') or not' (Lyons 1977: 773). This tendency, which Lyons views as
'seem[ing] to depend upon the negation being more closely associated with
the predicate, than with the subject-predicate link or nexus', extends be-
yond the simple first-order negation of I don't like modern music and its
incorporated affixal counterpart (l dislike modern music) to the neg-raising
(,transfer of negation') phenomenon I explored in §5.2; it afflicts 'so-be-it'
imperatives (Don't trust him) along with 'it-is-so' indicatives (l don't trust
him) (Lyons 1977:774).
But there is another important factor triggering the contrary readings of
contradictory negations not touched on by the establishment of De Morgan,
Bosanquet, Sigwart, Sapir, Chomsky, Bartsch, and Lyons. The choice of
the weaker-seeming contradictory negation over the stronger affirmation of
the contrary is characteristically prompted by a desire to avoid direct ex-
pression, to present one's contribution in a manner often labeled (e.g., by
Jespersen 1933: 285 or L. Carlson 1983: 120) 'polite' or 'guarded'. Leech
(1983: 101-2) brings this point out clearly in his description of the use of
the negative sentences like I don't like Kenneth, We don't agree, He
doesn't believe in marriage 'as a form of understatement': 'Negation here
is apparently a hedging or mitigating device, the motivation for which may
be politeness or simply euphemistic reticence in the expression of opinion
and attitudes'.
I shall return to the 'politeness or euphemistic reticence' of contradic-
tory negation later in this section. But it is worth noting here that if the
choice of the semantically weaker form is partly motivated by the avoidance
of highly charged judgments, the relevant strengthening inference will tend
to be favored in contexts like Leech's (and Lyons's), where there is some
334 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
p~ausible reas~n to mask the speaker's true opinion (I dislike Kenneth, We
disagree, He IS a bad chess player). These contexts characteristically.
volve not only gradable predications, as Sapir and Lyons observe, but mIn-
specifically those gradable predications involving desirable Propertio
re
h h d · 1 . es,
t ose w ose ema would reflect undeSirably on the subject, speaker
and/or addressee. '
There does in~eed appear to b~ a palpable ~symmetry in the availability
of contrary readmgs for contradictory negatIons. Alongside Leech's un-
derstating negations reproduced in (70), the negations in (70') are far
more likely to be taken as simple contradictories of the corresponding
affirmatives:
(70) a. I don't like Kenneth.
b. We don't agree.
c. He doesn't believe in marriage.
(70') a. I don't {dislike/object to} Kenneth.
b. We don't disagree.
c. He doesn't {disbelieve in/reject} marriage.
IfI tell you that I don't approve ofyour behavior, you may infer that (presum-
ably to spare your feelings) I am concealing my active disapproval-al_
though I could have added, with perfect consistency, that I don't disapprove
of it either, in which case this pragmatic inference will be blocked. But if I
acknowledge that I don't disapprove of your behavior, you are less likely to
conclude (however strongly you may wish to) that I actively approve of it.
This asymmetry extends to other evaluations in the moral sphere as well.
If something is not right, it is (assumed to be) wrong, but if something is
not wrong, it is not ipso facto (assumed to be) right-only, more weakly,
that it is all right. Not nice may amount to nasty or naughty, but not nasty
and not naughty never quite make it up to nice. The analogous asymmetry
in French is represented graphically by Ducrot (1973: 123) in the following
schema:
(71) gentil
ne pas
ffiechant
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 335
is, (72a) is closer to (72b) than (72'a) is to (72'b):
a. Pierre n'est pas gentil. 'Pierre isn't nice'
b. Pierre est mechant. 'Pierre is {naughty/ nasty}'
a. Pierre n'est pas mechant.
b. Pierre est gentil.
'Pierre isn't {naughty/nasty}'
'Pierre is nice'
before, the inference from (72a) to (72b) can be blocked in context by
nforctrlg the unexcluded middle between the contraries-Non, Pierre
genti!, mais it n'est pas non plus mechant {'but he isn't mechant
)-but in the absence of such a continuation, the pragmatic move
be made in (72) and not in (72'). Ducrot concludes that only when
negation is applied to the favorable, unmarked term of a marked/
nmIUl\.~;U opposition is it 'quasi-equivalent' to the contrary affirmation.
Markedness is similarly appealed to in Cornulier's observations on the
c,,~,,'mnle[]:v between 'not rich' and 'not poor':
On peut etre ni riche, ni pauvre.. mais la negation peut produire
avec riche une ambiguite: l'expression un homme (qui n'est) pas
riche peut signifier un homme (qui est) pauvre, aussi bien que la
simple contradiction de riche.. au contraire, un homme (qui n'est)
pas pauvre ne signifie jamais grammaticalement un homme (qui
est) riche: on ne peut obtenir ce sens qu'au niveau stylistique
(litote). (Cornulier 1974:55)
Nor is the asymmetry restricted to the moral sphere, as Cornulier's
riche/pauvre example demonstrates; what is crucial is the opposition of an
unmarked vis-a.-vis a marked term, preferably buttressed by some sense
(however elusive) that the unmarked term is evaluatively positive (or at
least neutral). Sentence (73a) is felt to be a rather pessimistic assessment,
while (73b) is not particularly optimistic; if the speaker hasn't formed an
opinion either way, only the latter is a likely utterance.
(73) a. I'm not optimistic about his chances.
b. I'm not pessimistic about his chances.
In the same vein, consider the following stance toward a tax bill an-
nounced by Senator Dave Durenberger (R-Minn.):
(74) I'm not endorsing it or not endorsing it.
Ifthe senator's candid opinion is interpretable at all, it can only be taken as
in (74'):
(74') I'm neither endorsing it nor not-endorsing it.
336 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
That is, the second negation in (74) must induce a contrary reading, with
the senator clinging to the reinforced middle ground he sees looming be-
tween endorsement and counterendorsement (opposition?). In any event,
as odd as (74) may strike us, its marked counterpart (74") must be still less
conceivable.
(74") # I'm not opposing it or not opposing it.
Just how seriously are we to take the hyphen in the gloss in (74') or
Chomsky's parentheses in (69)? Both Chomsky (re doesn't like) and
Ducrot (re ne pas gentil) seek to assimilate the contrary reading of super-
ficially contradictory negations to the phenomenon of constituent negation.
But there is little evidence that the contrary-producing negations in (69),
(72a), (74), and similar sentences (e.g., (68a), (70a-c), and (73a» are (or
must be) analyzed as syntactically distinct in any way from the correspond-
ing but nonimplicating negations in (72'a), (70'), (73b), or (74"). In par-
ticular, the strengthening inference applying to the former set of examples
is fully compatible with the diagnostics for sentential negation proposed in
Klima 1964, Kraak 1966, and Attal1971 (cf. §3.3 above):
(75) a. John doesn't like [--> dislikes] mushrooms, not even golden
shiitakes.
b. I don't like [--> dislike] Kenneth, and neither does Chris.
c. He doesn't believe in [--> rejects] marriage, does he?
d. She isn't happy [--> is unhappy], and he isn't happy either.
Notice that even when the negative assertions in (75) are taken in context
to convey the corresponding stronger negations in the brackets, the latter
cannot substitute for the former in these S-negation frames salva gram-
maticalitate. Nor (pace Chomsky, Cornulier, and Lyons) is there any com-
pelling evidence that the sentences in question are semantically or lexically
ambiguous. I conclude that the apparent sentential and contradictory nega-
tions of (75) are in fact sentential and contradictory on the grammatical
level, although I must still account for the strong pragmatic tendency to
strengthen them to contraries.38
An extreme form of asymmetry in the lexicalization ofcontrary negation
is realized in languages in which the only way to form the antonym of an
unmarked, positive adjective is by negating that adjective; this tendency
never operates in the opposite direction, as Greenberg (1966: 52) observes:
'A considerable number of languages, African, Amerind, and Oceanic,
have no separate term for "bad", which is expressed by "not good". On
the other hand, there is as far as is known to me, no language which lacks a
separate term for "good" and expresses it normally by "not bad"'. Green-
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 337
berg extends the asymmetry to unmarked/marked oppositions differing in
relative saliency (rather than e-polarity per se), for example, those desig-
nating long/short, wide/narrow, deep/shallow. Thus, the Hausa equiva-
lent for 'narrow' or 'shallow' is literally 'lacking width/depth', while
Spanish employs the periphrastic poco profondo (little deep) for 'shallow'.
But again, width and depth are never defined negatively via the absence of
narrowness or shallowness.
Along the same lines, Zimmer (1964: 78) cites the South American In-
dian language Tukano in which an e-neg adjective can be obtained only by
negating the corresponding positive, unmarked form: the designators for
'dirty', 'narrow', and 'short' are formed by negating the terms for 'clean',
'wide', and 'long', respectively, although both 'good' and 'bad' are as-
signed simplex lexemes. In Mayan, on the other hand, 'good' can only be
designated indirectly as ma'alob (lit., 'not bad'). This counterexample to
Greenberg's universal hypothesis reflects a countertendency to which I
shall return later in this section.
5.3.1 Irony, Conventionalization, and the
Inferential Short Circuit
As we have seen, a contrary reading is available for the negation associated
with certain positive scalar values. But this is not the whole story. Just as
in the other two environments for the strengthening (contradictory __> con-
trary) inference we have already explored, that is, partially nonproductive
affixal negation and the NRP, no other scalar value triggers this inference.
Thus compare the behavior of the unincorporated negatives in (76a, b) with
their lexicalized analogues:
(76) a. She is not happy vs. She is not {ecstatic/sad/unhappy/
miserable}.
(cf. unhappy vs. {*unecstatic/*unsad/*unmiserable})
b. She doesn't like him vs. She doesn't {love/adore/dislike/
hatelloathe} him.
(cf. dislike vs. {*dislove/*disadore/*dishate/*disloathe})
The parallel is clear: a negation of the form ... not P . .. can be under-
stood as yielding the contrary of P under essentially the same circum-
stances as those in which a contrary-producing affixal negation can be
incorporated onto an adjectival or verbal stem P, namely when P repre-
sents the unmarked positive value on its scale.39
As argued in Horn 1978b
and §5.2 above, the NRP is similarly conditioned. My findings are summa-
rized in (77):
338 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
(77) a. A contrary reading is available for a sentential negation just
in case the negated predicate is positive and relatively
weak on its scale.
b. A contrary (NR) reading is available for a negated Proposition_
embedding higher predicate only when the negated predi-
cate is positive and relatively weak (i.e., just above the
midpoint on its scale).
c. A contrary reading is available, typically preferred, and often
required for a derived word of the form [aLB]], where the
negative prefix a is relatively nonproductive (with respect
to the base of f3); in such cases, [a[f3]] will be lexicalized
only when f3 is positive and relatively weak on its scale.
Typical instances of each pattern include [ don't believe you for (a), [ don't
believe you came for (b), and [ disbelieve your claim for (c).
But isn't a generalization being missed here? The parallel among the
three patterns in (77) is striking enough at first glance, and we can easily
find ways to reinforce it. I noted, with Leech (1983), the 'hedging' or
'mitigating' effect associated with the pattern in (77a) and the resultant
'polite' or 'euphemistic' flavor of the resultant strengthened contradictory
negations, compared with other (typically affixal) expressions of contrary
negation. But affixal negations too have standardly been taken as eu-
phemistic alternatives to the corresponding simple, unanalyzable e-neg
adjectives.
Thus, as noted by Stern (1937: 332), we may choose to substitute un-
clean for dirty, untruthful for lying, intemperate for drunken, unwise for
foolish, unsafe for dangerous, impolite for rude, and so on. These sub-
stitutions are cited as parallel to a lady ofa certain age, a woman no longer
young, or leaves much to be desired, and we could add to Stern's list such
contemporary favorites as you have been misinformed or the President
misspoke himself. In each case, a more precise expression referring to an
unpleasant state of affairs is rendered more palatable by the substitution of
a vaguer or more general expression. In each case, the addressee may
decode the euphemism by applying an R-based strengthening inference,
yielding a more specific-and in practice more negative-understanding.
And in each case, the more direct negative expression is avoided precisely
because it is more direct; cf. Brown and Levinson (1978: §5.4 and passim)
on avoiding negative face.
But it is precisely this same factor, the avoidance of negative face and
the desire to leave open different options of interpretation, which is repeat-
edly cited as the major motivation for the NRP, that is, the higher-clause
appearance of a negation which in some sense ought to be located in the
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 339
epend.t!nt. While the politeness or hedging nature of the NRP is often im-
in the treatments of the phenomenon by Jespersen, Bolinger, and
, it is with Prince 1976 that we arrive at an explicit analysis of raised
as 'metastatement hedges', motivated by the desire to express
.."""rnlp. opinions as tentatively as possible. Prince's correlation of the
and tentativeness in English and French is extended by Shnukal
and independently remarked on by L. Carlson (1983: 120-21),
cites the 'guarded', 'polite' quality associated with the 'milder form
doubt' in the higher-neg version of pairs like ([ don't suppose he's
suppose he's not right). Since the same association of raised negs
with politeness, hesitancy, and/or uncertainty has been observed (cf. Horn
1978b) in languages as diverse as Hindi, Japanese, Swahili, and Turkish, it
appears to be inherent in the very nature of the NRP.
Given the correlations we have observed, it is especially tempting to as-
similate the patterns in (77a, b), and-as we have also seen-this practice
has a rich history. Jespersen (1917: 52-53) follows tradition in seeking to
reduce the NRP to a special case of litotes or rhetorical understatement. On
this view, the fact that Greek phemi attracts a negative which is interpreted
as logically attaching to the infinitive is a simple instance of litotes, just as
when verbs denoting 'love' or 'like' attract a negative to form a single-
clause contrary or antonym in Old Church Slavic (nenavideti) and Greek
(ou stergo). Indeed, where Bosanquet (1888), Kalepky (1891), and Jesper-
sen explicitly assimilate the NRP to the general figure of litotes, others col-
lapse the two processes as a matter of course. Barnes (1969: 303) does so
within the space of a single sentence: 'It does appear that "a doesn't believe
that p" at least sometimes means the same as "a disbelieves that p"-I can
reject a story as well by saying "I don't believe you" as by the more pon-
derous "I disbelieve you"'.
More recently, Cornulier (1973, 1974) has pointed out that the appar-
ently parallel ambiguity between contradictory vs. contrary readings in the
two sentences in (78) seems to demand a parallel treatment within a
grammar,
(78) a. Je n'aime pas l'ail. 'I don't like garlic'
b. Je n'aime pas etudier. 'I don't like to study'
yet obviously no NR analysis is possible in the former case. Rather than
adopting a movement analysis in the latter case (deriving the J'aime ne pas
etudier reading of (78b) by extracting the negative from the embedded
clause), Cornulier urges a direct capture of the parallelism in (78) and
analogous examples by opting for a uniform treatment of both cases as
instances of lexical ambiguity: there is a 'strong' and a 'weak' aimer, a
'strong' and a 'weak' vouloir, and so on.
340 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
Cornulier eloquently serves notice that the defender of a syntactic ap-
proach to the NRP who ignores the parallel between (78a, b) can but
'tranche au couteau dans un nuage'. Difficult as it may be to locate the
appropriate knife for cloud slicing, it is no more appealing to provide two
senses for each NR trigger, as Cornulier's account demands. Nor can We
find comfort in acknowledging that hope will lack a weak sense in English,
while hoffen will not, or that the weak sense of affirmative guess available
to all speakers (in I guess he'll go) mysteriously vanishes under negation
for just those speaker who block the NRP in I don't guess he'll go. In any
case, as we shall soon observe, the NRP resists this takeover attempt by
ordinary litotes.
To collapse the NRP of (77b) with the simple litotes of (77a) is to re-
affirm not only the judgment of Bosanquet, Kalepky, Jespersen, and Cor-
nulier, but also the pragmatic line on so-called neg-raising endorsed by
Bartsch and Halpern (cf. §5.2). In Bartsch's schema, repeated here for
convenience,
(54) i. F(a, p) v F(a, ~p)
ii. ~F(a, p)
iii. :. F(a, ~p)
a context permitting the establishment of the disjunction in (i) (Either I
believe that p or I believe that not-p) will license the inference from the
main-clause negation of the positive disjunct in (ii) (I don't believe that p)
to its lower-clause counterpart in (iii) (I believe that not-p).
This approach, which essentially recapitulates the neo-Hegelian line on
contrary negation in general and the NRP in particular, is echoed by Lauri
Carlson (1983: 120) in his discussion of 'the general tendency of any ex-
pression of doubt or indecision to suggest disbelief or disinclination': 'It
often seems as if Christ's famous law of excluded middle in questions of
faith were valid: who is not with me is against me.... Given such a law
of excluded middle, the scopes of propositional attitudes and negation be-
come interchangeable, so that [I don't suppose he is right] comes to mean
the same as [I suppose he is not right]'. (I might note here that it is only
Christ's exclusive formulation ofthe law-cf. Luke 11 :23 and (4a) above-
that yields a rule for litotic inference in natural language; the inclusive ver-
sion of Luke 9:50 and (4b) does not generate a parallel rule.)
But is the NRP in fact merely a special case of litotes or understatement
affecting all (or a semantically coherent subset of) apparent contradictory
negations, strengthening them (pragmatically, if not grammatically) into
contraries? The first point to observe is that the NRP cannot be directly
reduced. to litotic strengthening in multiclause sentences, since not every
contrary negation of a Fs that p is equivalent to the assertion that a Fs that
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 341
Thus, for example, when not good embeds a complement, it conveys
(by (77a» without, however, reducing to a predication of good
... not . .. (by (77b»; (79a) is not merely a contradictory of the
rrei,PO>ll(lmg affirmative, but neither does it share a reading with (79b).
It isn't good that he was
reelected.
b. It's good that he wasn't
reelected.
[--> it's rather bad that he was
reelected]
, I don't like it that he was reelected can convey (by litotes) a
negative reaction to his reelection (= I dislike it. . .), but it cannot
satisfaction with his defeat.
This is not surprising, given the factive nature of these predicates with
indicative complements and the Uncertainty Principle in §5.2; nor is it sur-
prising that the same predicates when appearing in hypothetical, nonfactive
contexts act like good mid-scalar (WI) deontics with respect to triggering
NRP:
(79') a. It wouldn't be {good/a good
idea} for us to elect him.
b. I wouldn't like his being
reelected.
(== It would be {good/a
good idea} for us not to
elect him)
(== I would like his not
being reelected)
But this discrepancy makes it clear that the NRP, while rooted in the litotic
pragmatics of contra(dicto)ry negation, has taken on a life of its own.
The same point is stressed by Tobler (1882b), who entertains the possi-
bility of analyzing the 'logically unwarranted position of negation' in II ne
jaut pas que tu meures (--> I1faut que tu ne meures pas) as an instance of
litotes, citing the examples in (80) as clear instances of the latter process
(the translations from the Old French and German are mine):
(80) the holy saints by whom God
was not hated
he will do you little good
we weren't in the best pos-
sible situation
he didn't show that he had
forgotten their kindness
(= was loved)
(= all the harm he can)
(= in the worst situation)
(in context, = he showed that
he hadn't forgotten)
But Tobler correctly points out that modern examples of the NRP, operat-
ing across verbs like French falloir, devoir, vouloir, or German sollen,
wollen, meinen, do not involve the conscious sense of irony associated
with the figure of litotes which emerges in my reconstruction of the in-
342 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
tended meaning of the examples of (80). Curiously, Tobler's disciple Ka-
lepky seems to have overlooked this key insight, to the point of attributing
his own NRP-as-litotes position to Tobler (Kalepky 1891: 26). But it is
Tobler's view which is correct and which anticipates my own 'treatment
(below) of NRP as a pragmatically based but partially conventionalized
process.
I might begin my reinforcement of Tobler's observation by noting that
while the neg-raised, lower-clause understanding of higher-clause negation
always represents a contrary of the corresponding affirmative, it does not
necessarily constitute the (unique) contrary of that proposition. To say that
it's not likely that a fair coin will land heads may amount to an (indirect)
assertion of the proposition that it's likely that a fair coin won't land heads.
This constitutes an instance of both litotic strengthening to a contrary (as in
(77a» and the NRP (as in (77b». But likely not is not the only contrary
negation of likely; certain not (= impossible) fits the bill just as well. The
apparent contradictory negation in (81a) may indeed be pragmatically
strengthened into either of the corresponding contraries in (81b, c), yet it is
only the latter move which retains the ironic flavor characteristic of non-
conventionalized litotes.
(81) a. It's not likely she'll accept your invitation.
b. It's likely she won't accept your invitation.
c. It's certain she won't accept your invitation.
Notice also that predicates outside the positive WI class, including hate,
be in the best possible situation, and show (from Tobler's examples in
(80», may qualify for litotic interpretations even when they are barred as
NR triggers. In the same way, the strong negative epistemic in (81c) can be
indirectly conveyed not only by denying a WI-class neg-raiser as in (81a)/
(82a), but also by denying the strong positive as in (82b), but this cannot be
analyzed as an instance of the NRP, as the polarity evidence makes clear:
(82) a. It's not likely she'll accept your invitation (until you apologize).
b. It's not certain she'll accept your invitation (*until you
apologize).
For Tobler, as for Epstein (1976: 160) and L. Carlson (1983: 120) a cen-
tury later, the NRP is linked with-but not reducible to-ordinary litotes,
the strengthening of a contradictory to a contrary. The difference lies in the
partly conventionalized status of the former process, resulting in the ab-
sence of conscious irony (Tobler), the 'automatic' nature of the results
(Epstein), and the 'lexical selectivity' (Carlson) associated with the process
of so-called neg-raising. But what sort of conventionalization is involved
here?
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 343
As we saw in §5.2, neither the grammatical nor the pragmatic approach
the NRP is without significant empirical and/or metatheoretical diffi-
On balance, a nonsyntactic account is clearly desirable, but not ob-
Viously possible. What is needed is a way of treating the lower-clause
understanding of certain higher-clause negatives, and the syntactic corre-
. lates of that understanding, as a pragmatic association made possible by a
·,e··~D>rr<un semantic configuration, arguably involving the assumed disjunction
of Bosanquet and Bartsch, together with the positive mid-scalar/WI cri-
terion outlined in §5.2 and spelled out in more detail in Hom 1978b-
an association which is, however, not freely available to every predicate
in every language with the proper semantic qualifications. That is, we
need a device for allowing at least some pragmatic rules to admit lexical
exceptions.
Fortunately for us, just such a device is now on the descriptive market,
having been designed to handle a superficially quite distinct phenomenon:
the Indirect Speech Act. It has long been recognized that apparently syn-
onymous expressions may differ in their indirect illocutionary act potential.
Thus, the request in (83a) can be, and standardly is, indirectly conveyed by
asking the question in (83b), but not (at least not without several additional
degrees of indirectness) by asking the questions in (83c, d).
(83) a. Close the window.
b. Can you close the window?
c. Are you able to close the window?
d. Do you have the ability to close the window?
If (83b) conversationally implicates (83a) through the exploitation of
Grice's Relation maxim, as Searle and others have supposed, this im-
plicature should be nondetachable; its disappearance when we shift from
(83b) to the basically synonymous (83c, d) is thus a mystery. It is just this
mystery which motivates Sadock (1972) to reject the conversationalist line
on indirect speech acts in favor of a theory which posits a semantic ambi-
guity for (83b), with the request reading constituting a SPEECH ACT IDIOM.
Searle (1975: 76ff.) counters with the thesis that 'there can be conventions
of usage which are not meaning conventions', and that by these conven-
tions 'certain forms will tend to become conversationally established as the
standard idiomatic forms for indirect speech acts', for example, (83b) but
not (83c, d) for indirect requests.
Carrying Searle's idea one step further, Morgan (1978) analyzes the infer-
ence from (83b) to (83a) as an instance of SHORT-CIRCUITED IMPLICATURE
(SCI); such implicatures are in principle calculable (as are all conversa-
tional implicatures, by definition) but are not in fact calculated by speakers
operating with the relevant usage conventions. Like Searle, Morgan finds
344 Pragmatics ojContra(dicto)ry Negation
Sadock's speech act idiom thesis unparsimonious, arguing that it is, ho _
ever, conventional to use (83b), with its literal interrogative meaning ~
convey (83a). He proposes a variety of additional candidates for the S~tu°
of SCI~, includi~g the conven~ional use of the formula in (84a), but not th:
semantically akm (84b), to wIsh a performer good luck prior to a theatri_
cal performance, and the use of (85a), but not (85b), as an emphatic
affirmative.
(84) a. Break a leg!
b. Fracture a tibia!
Break your leg!
(85) a. You can say that again!
b. You can repeat that!
You're {able/permitted} to say that again!
It's possible for you to say that again!
Morgan notes that while these conventions of usage do not themselves con-
stitute idioms (John really broke a leg last night '* 'John really performed
well'), such a development-from metaphor to idiom, from usage conven-
tion to meaning convention-is quite plausible, and indeed frequently at-
tested. Grice himself (1978: 58) acknowledges that it may well be possible
'for what starts life ... as a conversational implicature to become conven-
tionalized', and the SCI is a natural halfway house along this route. As
instances in which this shift has become complete, Morgan offers the vale-
dictory Goodbye (from earlier May God be with you, but now sincerely
utterable even by atheists) and the euphemism go to the bathroom (whose
shift in literal meaning is demonstrated by the possibility of someone's dog
doing so on the living room rug).40
The Searle-Morgan approach explicitly recognizes the existence of
speakers' PRAGMATIC CONVENTIONS, alongside the better-understood con-
ventions of syntax and semantics. Since the short-circuiting of implicatures
is a matter of convention, we expect to find differences between speakers
and between languages as to just which conventions of usage are operative.
And indeed, as demonstrated by Searle (1975) and Green (1975), there is
considerable cross-linguistic variation as to which questions can be used to
convey which requests. But, as Green also points out, some indirect speech
acts are more indirect than others, and the more indirect requests-like
(86a, b) as hints for getting someone to close the window:
(86) a. The rain that's coming in the window is ruining the rug.
b. It's freezing in here.
do not exhibit the same variation. This is precisely to be expected if, as is
plausible, hints involve non-short-circuited, and hence nondetachable, im-
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 345
. only the literal meaning and extralinguistic context can be rele-
for determining what is being hinted at, not the choice or form of
used to convey that meaning.
important morphosyntactic correlate of the short-circuiting of the
implicatum is the much-discussed preverbal please; as noted by
and Lakoff, Sadock, and others, this item appears readily in (83b),
the literal request (83a), but not in (83c, d). The fact that preverbal
is also ruled out in the hints of (86):
Please close the window.
Can you please close the window?
c. Are you able to (*please) close the window?
d. It's (*please) freezing in here.
is correctly predicted if the distribution of this item is assumed to be sen-
sitive to the usage convention posited by Searle and Morgan.
But the conveyed meaning of so-called neg-raising constructions can
now be subsumed under the treatment prescribed for (other) indirect
speech acts.41 While questioning the hearer-based preparatory condition on
requests is a natural way to convey that request indirectly (Searle 1969,
1975), only certain forms of those questions are conventionalized for that
purpose. So too, while we have seen that predicates of a given semantico-
pragmatic nature, that is, (more or less) positive WI propositional attitude
predicates (a class including think, believe, want, hope, and guess, but not
know, try, or claim), are candidates for the strengthening implicature per-
mitting downstairs understandings of upstairs negation, whether a predi-
cate within the appropriate class does in fact trigger the NR understanding
depends on whether this implicature has been short-circuited into a usage
convention.
This explains why we get exactly the same sort of variation across lan-
guages, dialects, and idiolects in neg-raisability that Searle and Green
document for indirect speech act potential. Thus, the notion of short-
circuited implicature captures just what is pragmatic (natural) and what is
arbitrary (conventional) about the NRP.
An even stronger parallel can be drawn between indirect speech acts and
the NRP. The Bartschean (and neo-Hegelian) pragmatic inference schema
for generating NR understandings as strengthened forms of contradictory
negation involves R-based implicature (Horn 1984b; cf. chapter 3). But
this is (mutatis mutandis) just how Searle motivates indirect speech acts; in
both cases, the additional conveyed meaning serves to strengthen and nar-
row the literal meaning in the appropriate context, via Atlas and Levinson's
(1981) 'inference to the best interpretation'. Indeed, if scalar implicature
constitutes the locus classicus for Q-based implicature, the stereotype of
346 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
R-based inference is the indirect speech act.42
The detachability of the
relevance-based neg-raising implicatum is simply an aspect of the general
detachability of indirect illocutionary force, and both are to be treated
through the admission of pragmatic conventions applying to a proper sub-
set of lingUIstic expressions appearing in the relevant frame.
The distribution of preverbal please cited above is just one instance of a
diagnostic item co-occurring with both direct and short-circuited indirect
speech acts of a given type; other instances are cited in Hom and Bayer
1984 :406-8. To take just one example, WH-queclaratives (cf. Sadock
1974) like (88a) are (pace Sadock) literal questions which are conven-
tionally used to convey the corresponding universally quantified negative
assertion (equivalent, of course, to a negative existential), here (88b):
(88) a. Who (but a total idiot) would have said a thing like that (?)
b. Nobody (but a total idiot) would have said a thing like that.
The parenthesized but phrase in these examples is normally a diagnostic
for universally quantified assertions, as illustrated in (89):
(89) Everyone but Mary Nobody but John
Anyone but Carter *Somebody but Kim
Anywhere but here *Somewhere but here
{AlII *Most/*Many/*Threel *Some/None} of my friends but
Chris
Everything but the kitchen sink
None but the brave deserves the fair. (Dryden)
No man but a blockhead ever wrote except for money. (Dr.
Johnson)
Notice in particular that non-queclarative questions, which may implicate
declaratives in a given context, but do not do so by convention, exclude
this diagnostic:
(90) ?*Who but Leslie is coming to the party?
Seen in this light, the extension of the distribution of strict negative po-
larity items (NPls) like until, in weeks, for a year from environments
containing a tautoclausal negative to those in which the triggering negation
is separated from the polarity item by a neg-raising predicate correlates di-
rectly with the presence of the SCI associated with such predicates, in the
same way that preverbal please extends from direct to short-circuited indi-
rect requests. Given that all English speakers conventionally use verbs like
think and suppose so as to transmit their negation downstairs, while only
some speakers operate with the analogous convention for guess, and none
do for hope, the distribution of polarity until follows accordingly:
(91) a.
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement
I don't think they'll hire you until you shave off your
beard.
b. %I don't guess they'll hire you until you shave off your
beard.
c. *1 don't hope they'll hire you until you shave off your
beard.
347
In effect, whether a given predicate will be transparent to negation depends
on the presence of the SCI; the acceptability of the NPI in contexts like (91)
depends in tum on this transparency.
On the present analysis, (91a) is not rendered acceptable by being co-
derived with (91 '),
(91') I think they won't hire you until you shave off your beard.
nor by sharing any semantic representation with (91 '), but rather because it
is conventionally used to implicate (91 '). Since no such usage convention
exists for any speaker with hope, the polarity item in (91c) is ruled out,
even when a negative proposition is indirectly conveyed in a given context
(see (55b) in §5.2).
This approach might illuminate a recurring perception that at first glance
seems simultaneously real and ineffable. Tobler (1882b: 204) sees the NRP
as involving not the conveying of a contrary tout court so much as a fusion
of the contrary and the contradictory understandings. Along the same
lines, Bolinger (1968: 23-24) suggests that 'the idea that in I don't think
he's coming we have a negative element that belongs truly to the subordi-
nate verb and that can be transferred, like a syntactic ping-pong ball, to
another position without altering its logical connections, I think is not quite
true.... It does not merely hop from one [clause] to another but belongs
semantically to both'. And Cattell (1973: 636) concurs that 'in the "nega-
tive transportation" sentences . . . there is a requirement that each clause
be under the umbrella of a negation'. These three similar but independent
observations might all be subsumed under the umbrella of the SCI ap-
proach to so-called neg-raising, on which the main clause negative belongs
to one clause-its own-both syntactically and semantically, while being
conventionally associated with another.
While conversational implicature is basically a matter of parole, the
short-circuiting of implicatures into usage conventions takes place on the
boundary between parole and langue; it is this feature which enables SCls
to trigger various linguistic correlates, including the strict NPI in (91a) and
in the relevant dialect (91b). Indeed, for a significant range of their distri-
bution, strict NPIs seem to be licensed by the conventionally signaled pres-
ence of negation in the clause or proposition in which they occur, whether
348 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
the convention in question involves meaning or usage. Thus consider
alongside the paradigm in (91), the contrasts in (92) and (93): '
(92) a. I'll be damned if I'll hire you until you shave off your
beard.
b. *I'll be surprised if he hires you until you shave off your
beard.
(93) a. Why get married until you absolutely have to?
b. *Why are you getting married until you absolutely have to?
In each pair, only the (a) construction is conventionally used to express the
negative proposition which licenses until, that is:
(92') I won't hire you until you shave off your beard.
(93') You shouldn't get married until you absolutely have to.
The non-short-circuited negative implicata which may be associated with
the (b) examples are insufficient to trigger such strict NPls, although
weaker (more lenient) polarity items may be acceptable in the same en-
vironments (cf. Linebarger 1981, 1987):
(94) I'll be surprised if he {hires anybody for that position/lifts a
finger to help you}.
This pattern extends to other languages as well. Consider the distri-
bution of strict NPls in Japanese, as presented by McGloin (1976; 1982:
chapter 4). These expressions, including adverbs like kesshite 'never',
dare no 'nobody' , and mettani 'rarely' , normally 'require the presence of
an overt negative morpheme in the same simplex sentence' (McGloin
1982: 88), but this requirement is systematically relaxed in two sets of cir-
cumstances. The NPI can be separated from its negative trigger by a neg-
raising predicate, as in (95):
(95) a. Konna ii hanashi wa mettani aru to wa omowanai.
'I think such an offer will rarely come along' (lit., 'I rarely
think ...')
b. Konna koro wa mettani atte hoshikunai.
'I want that such a thing would rarely happen' (lit., 'I
rarely want . . .')
Here, mettani is taken to modify the embedded verb, yet its negative trig-
ger nai is attached to the main verb.
But strict NPls can also occur with no overt negation at all, provided that
a negative proposition is conventionally signaled by the syntax (a la (92a),
(93a)):
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 349
(96) a. Kesshite iku monoka.
b. Dare mo iku monoka.
c. Konna ii hanashi wa mettani
aru monoka.
'I will never go' ('No way I
will ever go')
'Nobody will go'
'A good deal like this will
rarely come along'
Like be damned if and why suggestions in English, monoka 'no way' is
negative not in form but in force; these are sentences in which the spirit of
negation, like the ideal novelist of Flaubert's dictum, is everywhere present
and nowhere visible. It is this covert but conventional negative force which
allows the embedding of strict NPls. Another such expression is (-te)
tamaru ka, which McGloin glosses 'I'll be damned if---':
(97) Anna yatsu ni wa kesshite makete tamaru ka.
'I'll be damned if I'll lose to that kind of person'
The same items which co-occur freely with monoka and -te tamaru ka can-
~ot appear ~ithin the scope of constructions which may suggest a nega-
tive propOSItion, but are not conventionally used to do so, for example,
hatashite . .. daroo ka 'I wonder if--' (cf. English (92b), (93b)):
(98) *Hatashite dare-mo kunu daroo ka. 'I wonder if anybody is
coming' (cf. (96b))
Just as in English (see (94)), more lenient NPls-amari, sonnani '(not)
too'-are freely triggered by implied negation, where the stricter items are
blocked from occurring.
For McGloin, these facts suggest that the tautoclausal requirement nor-
mally associated with strict NPls is systematically relaxed for expressions
~hich 'conventionally imply a negative assumption of the speaker'; it
IS not clear whether she intends this characterization to extend to the
neg-raising contexts of (95), but it certainly could-and I would argue,
should-be so extended. But where McGloin alludes only to conventional
implicature, the generalization covering both sets of cases requires us to
adopt the same statement as for English: strict NPls appear in clauses
which are conventionally used to signal a negative proposition, whether the
negation is syntactically overt, conventionally implicated, or conversa-
tionally implicated via an SCI. This approach to strict polarity is consistent
with the comprehensive theories of negative polarity recently proposed by
Ladusaw (1979, 1980) and Linebarger (1981, 1987), without directly fol-
lowing from either of them.
In the examples I have been considering, the critical environments for
determining the acceptability ofa given item are those where an expression
not only can be used, but is conventionally used (within the relevant dia-
350 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
lect) to convey something not literally expressed. It would appear that
Searle's nonmeaning conventions, Morgan's short-circuited conversational
implicatures, or some more precise and explanatory sharpening of these
notions which has not yet emerged, will play an essential role in any suc-
cessful account of t~e NRP and of other pragma~ically or functionally
based phenomena which are less than fully productive across a given syn-
tactic construction type or semantic class.
But an important methodological issue remains to be addressed. Given
our current state of knowledge, it must be conceded that ascribing some
phenomenon to the presence of an SCI may amount more to labeling than
explaining that phenomenon. By pushing the problem of variation in indi-
rect speech act potential back to the pragmatics, we (along with Searle and
Morgan) have in some sense reconstructed Sadock's speech act idiom
analysis in different garb, rather than replacing it with a new, improved
theory. By the same token, my treatment of the strengthening inference
responsible for the NRP as a short-circuited implicarure-like Tobler's re-
jection of the reductionist argument-tells us more about what so-called
neg-raising isn't than about what it is. .
Our goal must be to discover just why the variation in usage conventions
should exist, and why it should exist just where it does. One means of con-
straining the application of the incredibly powerful device represented by
SCIs, as Alice Davison has suggested to me, might be derived from the
nature of the implicatures subject to short-circuiting. The two principal
cases of short-circuiting I have explored here, indirect speech acts and the
NRP, both involve an R-based implicarure, as noted above, and it might be
maintained that this is not a coincidence.
More specifically, we can note a functional kinship between the indi-
rect speech act example in (99a) and the so-called neg-raising example
in (99'a):
(99) a. I believe your answer is not wholly satisfactory.
b. Your answer is not wholly satisfactory.
(99') a. I don't think your jumpsuit is entirely appropriate.
b. I think your jumpsuit is not entirely appropriate.
In both cases, the effect of the SCI is to express a given proposition (i.e.,
(99b), (99'b)) in a qualified, weakened, or hedged way. The short-circuiting
in each case (as well as in the related nondeclarative indirect speech acts in
(87b) and (93a)) seems to serve the aims of politeness or face-saving. This
fearure has often been acknowledged in connection with these construc-
tions; cf. Searle 1975: 64, Fraser 1975, and various papers by R. Lakoff
on indirect speech acts as hedged assertions, requests, and so forth, and
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 351
Shnukal, and L. Carlson on the politeness or attenuation effect of
neg-raising.43
seems plausible to derive the politeness effect from the fact that in
case the weaker (a) version is in effect pragmatically ambiguous be-
two understandings which stand in a privative relation (cf. Zwicky
Sadock 1975; Hom 1984a), with the stronger (b) version available to
addressee but not forced on him.44 The analysis presented here, on
. this stronger understanding is derived as a short-circuited implica-
ture, correlates with the inruition that for most contemporary speakers the
politeness associated with examples like (99a) and (99'a) is often felt as
conventional or pro forma only and not really heartfelt.
This point is brought out nicely in the following excerpt from the re-
marks ofNew York Times executive editor A. M. Rosenthal, addressing the
detention by Chinese authorities of Times reporter John Bums: '[The de-
tention] is not only bad for John Bums, but it is not good for relations be-
tween China and the United States.... The idea that China is opening has
taken hold in the United States and abroad and I don't think this will do it
any good at all, to put it politely' (New York Times 22 July 1986). While
hedging his remarks with four weakening devices, including a not good for
bad in the first sentence and a triple hedge in the second (involving one
indirect speech act, one instance of neg-raising, and one simple contrary-
in-contradictory-clothing), Mr. Rosenthal effectively reveals the true in-
tended force of his remarks in the coda. To put it somewhat less politely,
for I don't think this will do it any good at all, read This will do it a good
deal ofharm.
My observation on the pro forma nature of negative politeness is not
new. In his account of the NRP in French, Martinon (1927:536) comments
on the gradual eclipse of the 'logical' embedded negation 'Je veux que
vous ne sortiez pas' by the 'illogical' (NR) reading of 'Je ne veux pas que
vous sortiez': '11 est assez probable que cette forme illogique a ete em-
ployee d'abord dans Ie dessein d'attenuer la rigueur de la defense; mais la
defense est devenu tout ainsi rigoreuse dans cette nouvelle forme, dont elle
a fait disparaitre Ie sens propre'. The identical process, as traditional gram-
marians were well aware, characterizes the development of (other) euphe-
mistic forms, as each successive proxy becomes in tum infected by the
nature of the object being indirectly (and eventually directly) described.
The diachrony of reference to human elimination affords the most graphic,
but hardly the sole, illustration of this process; cf. undertaker/mortician/
funeral director; poor country/ underdeveloped country/emerging nation.
I am arguing that both indirect speech acts-in particular, those in
which an act is indirectly performed via the assertion of the sincerity con-
dition on that act, as in (99a)-and the NRP are essentially euphemistic. In
352 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
each case the extension of a given expression is R-narrowed to a particu-
larly (and negatively) charged subdomain of that extension. The speaker
triggers this pragmatic narrowing by appealing implicitly to the addressee's
ability to recognize that the speaker has sufficient social motivation to
avoid the more direct (but more face-threatening) utterance. This socio-
pragmatic procedure is carefully limned by Brown and Levinson (1978),
whose account of understatement (pp.268-70) predicts the pragmatic
asymmetry between not moral and not immoral, or between not good and
not evil (cf. our discussion of Ducrot's minimal pair in (71) above).
If, as Urmson (1952 :484) notes, the 'parenthetical use' of verbs like be-
lieve constitutes a 'warning device' serving 'to modify or weaken the claim
to truth which would be implied by a simple assertion', then the 'soften-
ing down' of negation effected by 'the shifting of not' (as perceived by
Poutsma [1928: 105]) is a corollary of this tendency to modify or weaken.
Notice that the speaker's weakening (of a given assertion), by attenuating it
through one form or another of indirection, is merely the other side of the
illocutionary coin from the hearer's strengthening inference; if you utter
(99a) or (99'a) to me, in the appropriate context, I must fill in what you left
out, arriving at (99b) or (99'b), respectively.
I have maintained that the phenomenon of so-called neg-raising, while
sharing the restriction to unmarked (positive weak intolerant) scalar values
governing other instances of R-based strengthening of a formal contra-
dictory negative into a functional contrary (cf. (77) above), differs from
simple negative understatement (i.e., (77a)) in its degree of conventionali-
zation. Thus, Tobler's argument against collapsing the NRP with ordinary
litotes is vindicated. At the same time, I should stress that the strengthen-
ing inference responsible for the NR effect remains under this analysis a
conversational implicature (albeit one which is short-circuited), an aspect
of usage (albeit of conventionalized usage) rather than of literal meaning.
But lexicalization through a negative affix literalizes the strengthened, con-
trary understanding which the NRP pragmatically sanctions. Thus, to re-
prise an example from §4.5, we get the contrast in (100), where only the
contrary (inner neg, lower-clause) understanding can be lexicalized:
(100) a. It's not {likely/probable} that a fair
coin will land heads.
b. It's {unlikely/improbable} that a fair
coin will land heads.
Disbelieve differs from not believe in the same way.
outer-neg
reading
T
inner-neg
reading
F
F
We thus distinguish three degrees of conventionalization of the negative
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 353
strengthening inference, corresponding to the three environments distin-
gui~hed i~ (77). But even in the case of simple understatement, the process
depIcted m (77a), there are pockets of conventionalization. Consider, for
example, the use of negated intensifiers, as in the collocations of (101),
(101) Pat is not {especially/overly/particularly/so/terribly/that/too/
very} bright.
where a speaker denies the location of an argument at a high point on a
positive scale to convey its actual placement on the corresponding negative
(unfavorable) scale.
This use of negative understatement has been the focus of not a little
attention, most notably on the part of Bolinger (1972: 115-25), who
points to the heterogeneity of the class of qualifiers appearing in the frame
of ~101). Wh~le not ve? Adj has functioned for some time as a gentle
eqUIvalent of rather un- , to adopt the OED's gloss, the attenuation pro-
duce~ thereby ha~ come to be felt as too conventional (as with the process
affectmg euphemIsm and the NRP noted above), with the result that newer
forms have been innovated. Bolinger cites examples like those of (102),
(102) He's not overly bright. (rather underly bright, rather stupid)
She isn't too much of a housewife.
You weren't too careful that time, were you?
where the affirmative evaluation being (literally) negated is itself evalua-
tively negative (He's overly bright, She's too much of a housewife, You
were too careful). 'Presumably', Bolinger comments, 'it is safer to point
out that something is not excessively good than to say it is not very good'.
Notice that the corresponding e-neg affirmative in such cases is not the
proposition really being negated here-not too Adj *" 'not [too Adj)'-a
fact which predictably arouses the ire of prescriptivists. Warner (1946:
302-3) detects 'an aura of depreciation or stoicism' in the use of this il-
logical 'absolute negative comparative':
'How are you?' draws the response, 'Not too good'. Plays are 'not
too clean', race horses run 'not too fast', the world outlook is 'not
too happy', and statesmen are 'not too optimistic'.... In all
such usages there is no comparison to be completed. The discus-
sions do not really concern too clean plays or too fast horses or
over-optimistic statesmen.
But this nonequivalence is hardly limited to the not too construction: to be
not .quite satisfied is not simply to fail to be quite satisfied (as noted by
Bohnger 1972: 101, the two expressions differ in register as well, with not
quite Adj occupying a more colloquial slot than quite Adj); to be not very
354 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
tall or not exactly happy is something altogether different from the failure
to be very tall or exactly happy (if the latter collocation even occurs: cf.
?#He's exactly happy).
The strongest condemnation, not too surprisingly, is reserved, not for
those negated intensifiers which merely fail to correspond to their positive
counterpart, but for those to which there is no positive counterpart at all.
An irate editorialist for the Boston Herald-Examiner (1 August 1972), evi-
dently unfamiliar with Buyssens 1959 and Baker 1970 on negative polar-
ity, chose to fulminate as follows against the not all that Adj construction:45
'All that' to introduce an adverbial [sic] phrase must, to be used
properly, refer to something. In a common usage today it doesn't.
It is used to provide emphasis, without any reference whatever
and when it is used that way it is misused. For instance, in a dis~
cussion of almost anything one suddenly reads that it 'really is not
all that hard' .... All what hard, for heaven's sake? Or a cohort
will tell us he had a good time at the theatre but 'the show really
wasn't all that good' . Eh? How good is all that? And by what gram-
matical contortion does 'all that' pre-empt 'very' , 'extremely' , or a
number of adverbs that would make more sense?
Ironically, of course, even if it 'would make more sense' to say The show is
not very good, the sense it would make is normally not that of the contra-
dictory negation of The show is very good.
The Herald's second proffered option, extremely (The show was not ex-
tremely good), does not (at least for me) allow the strengthened under-
standing available for its apparent synonyms in (101). Similarly, I find it
hard to assign indirect force to certain other negated intensifiers, including
thoroughly and perhaps absolutely, although there seems to be no prin-
cipled synchronic reason for this discrepancy; thus compare I'm not thor-
oughly pleased (which supports only a literal understanding) with I'm not
{altogether/totally} pleased (which can convey 'I'm rather displeased').
Still other intensifiers occur only affirmatively (Bolinger [1977: 26] lists
awfully in this category). In this respect, as in the diachronic shift (i.e., the
innovation of not too) signaled by Bolinger and in its spread to intensifiers
which do not occur affirmatively, the strengthening inference associated
with the NEG-intensifier-Adj construction seems to involve some degree of
nondetachability, that is, of conventionalization of usage.
The strengthening rule in question, which can be characterized as in
(103),
(103) (not + intensifier) + Adjj --> rather un-Adjj
(or --> rather Adjj , where Adjj is the antony'm of AdD
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 355
. shares the.restriction to unmarked (e-pos) adjectives of the patterns
in (77), as seen 10 (104); cf. Langendoen and Bever (1973) for related
examples.
46
(104) not particularly {friendly/tunfriendly}
not too {happy/ tsad}
not overly {bright!tstupid}
not all that {sympathetic/tunsympathetic}
not especially {optimistic/tpessimistic}
(where t marks unavailability or marginality of litotic reading)
This is to be expected: the mutual knowledge that one should seek to avoid
th~ direct categoriza~ion o~ someone or something e-negatively as un-
frlendl~, sad, o~ st~pld motivates the indirect (litotic) means of casting the
evaluatIOn: WhICh IS then unraveled by the addressee via the process in
(103), whIle t~e usual ~b~ence of any reason to avoid categorizing some-
one or somethlOg e-posltively as friendly, happy, or bright precludes the
natural us~ of the more complex indirect form to convey this meaning.
But unhke the patterns in (77), the rule in (103) is not limited to rela-
tively weak positive scalar adjectives. The effect of litotes or rhetorical un-
derstatement can be found in the examples of both (105) and (lOS'):
(105) not too happy
not especially bright
not exactly pleased
(lOS') not too ecstatic
not especially brilliant
not exactly thrilled
Even e-neg predicates allow negative litotes in context (recall Tobler's ex-
amples in (80) above): cf. We weren't exactly on the worst possible terms
~e's not exactly stupid, She do~sn't exactly hate you. This freedom is pre~
clsely what we should expect If the strengthening involved in these ex-
amples operates throug~ a conscious application of ironic interpretation, as
Tobler suggests (cf. Gnce 1975, Wilson and Sperber 1981 for suggestions
~n how suc~ an interpretation might work). In fact, these same ironic read-
lOgS .are a~allable when the intensifier is absent, especially when the scalar
predIcate 10 the focus of negation is assigned heavy stress-He isn't bril-
lia~t, He's. not stu~;d,. I'm not thrilled with that proposal-but once
agalO, as :-"lth Green.s hl~tS: the effect is more indirect and more subject to
the vagarIes of the hngUIstiC and extralinguistic context than in the more
conventionalized patterns.47
There is one strong candidate for the status of counterexample to the
356 Pragmatics ojContra(dicto)ry Negation
claim that only unmarked, positive midscalar or weak intolerant predicates
allow the (automatic) strengthening of their apparent contradictory nega-
tions to contraries. This candidate emerges from the most basic e-pos/
e-neg antonymic pair of them all. While right differs from wrong as pre-
dicted-to say that something (just) isn't right is often tantamount to say-
ing that it's wrong, but not vice versa-we find that bad seems to allow
negative strengthening as easily and fully as good. The occurrence of not
bad and not half bad as positive descriptors equivalent to 'pretty good' or
even 'very good' is remarked on by Stoffel (1901: 126), who sees in this
usage a reaction against exaggeration, a 'studied modesty of expression', a
'shirking of the least semblance of hyperbole' .48
Indeed, it is this particular inference which represents the core instance
of the category:
litotes: understatement in which an affirmative is expressed by
the negative of the contrary (as in 'He's not a bad ball-player')
(from Webster's Third New International Dictionary)
It is only by an extended usage that the term has come to be identified with
rhetorical understatement in general.
It has long been recognized that the litotic understanding of not bad is
contextually-and intonationally-determined: 'Not bad, taken literally,
leaves a large latitude, from indifferent to excellent, and may mean [sic]
either, depending on the intonation used and the circumstances' (Stem
1937: 312). For Bolinger (1972: 115), not bad with 'a terminal fall rise'
damns with faint praise, suggesting that this is the best or most positive
evaluation the speaker can muster, while not bad! with 'an intonation of
surprise' conveys. 'very good'--:-praising, as it were, with faint damn.
Cutler (1977) draws the same distinction: in dialogue (106B1) the effect
of the fall-rise is 'to negate the literal reading of the utterance and convey
instead the speaker's opinion that the color scheme is not good' (especially
if accompanied by a wrinkled nose?), but in (106Bz) the speaker conveys
that it's 'pretty damn good':
(106) A: How do you like my new color scheme?
~ .....---.....
B1: Not bad. B2: Not bad.
Cutler compares the effect produced by the fall-rise in (106B1) to the appli-
cation of 'ironic intonation' on, for example, Sue's real smart, but it is not
clear that the analogy is motivated. As Ladd notes (1980: 218), the fall-rise
in Cutler's not vbad and in related midscalar evaluations (OVK, all Vright, I
vlike her) is fully compatible with the 'focus within a given set' meaning he
assigns to this contour in general. The fall-rise here 'sets up a hierarchy of
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 357
possible interpretations and explicitly puts the evaluation given somewhere
between the possible extremes'. Hence the 'nuance of mediocrity' (cf.
Sapir's 'zone of indifference'), absent from the parallel examples with
simple falling tone, for example, not 'bad (106B2), O'K, all 'right.49
The two conflicting inference schemata associated with not bad should
come as no surprise. As I noted earlier, instances of 'maxim clash' sig-
naled by Grice and others can in general be attributed to the dialectic ten-
sion between the lower-bounding, hearer-based Q Principle, which induces
upper-bounding implicata (cf. chapter 4), and the upper-bounding, speaker-
based R Principle, which generates lower-bounding implicata (those dis-
cussed in this chapter). This tension is clearly operative in the case of
negated scalar values, particularly when neither inference has become in-
stitutionalized (via incorporation or the NRP).
Thus, Ducrot notes (1972: 132) that an addressee, on hearing (107a),
may infer that the speaker intended to convey (107b), through the exploita-
tion of the (R-related) 'Loi d'informativite', that is, the assumption that the
hearer does not already know the information the speaker is conveying.
(107) a. La situation n'est pas excellente.
b. Elle est franchement mauvaise.
'The situation isn't
excellent'
'It's pretty bad'
But since the speaker has not said (107b), he can always retreat to the lit-
eral meaning of what he has said, that is, (107a), with its 'large latitude' of
denotative meaning, in Stern's words. On the other hand, given the (Q-
based) 'loi d'exhaustivite' (the principle which demands that the speaker
provide the strongest possible information he possesses which may in-
terest the hearer; cf. Ducrot 1972: 134 and §4.2 above), someone who
utters (107a) may, in the appropriate context, implicate that the situation is
pretty good.
While these same two interpretations are present as well in the case of
not bad, as noted by Stern, Bolinger, and Cutler, there does seem to be a
greater degree of conventionalization built into the R-implicated interpreta-
tion here. In Tobler's terms, there is no longer any conscious sense of irony
accompanying this inference, either in the English phrase or in its French
adverbial equivalent. The characteristic intonation contours assigned to the
two understandings, whatevertheir precise characterizations, represent one
clue that no on-line inferencing is necessarily practiced here.
A second clue, at least for the French version, is syntactic. Not only can
we detect, at least since Moliere, a functional correspondence in familiar
speech, signaled by Le Bidois and Le Bidois ([1935] 1968:§1697) inter
alia, between pas mal ('pris d'une fa~on ironique') and assez ('rather,
358 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
quite'), but pas mal de serves as an element on the positive quantificational
scale, located (by Le Bidois) somewhere between assez and beaucoup de.
We also find a conventionalization within a conventionalization; Elle n'est
pas mal (lit., 'She isn't bad') has taken on the secondary idiomatic reading
'She's quite good-looking'.
But to what do we owe the development of this conventionalized litotic
use or meaning of not bad/pas mal, given that it is normally the unmarked,
positive scale adjectives (e.g., good) whose negations tend to be inter-
preted via R-based strengthening as conveying values on the corresponding
contrary (e-neg) scale? The answer may be found in the function of R-
based meaning shift, as touched on above.
Both Q-based and R-based lexical narrowing are amply attested in di-
achrony (cf. Horn 1984a-c for examples). The former variety is linguis-
tically motivated, in the sense that an already existing lexical item (often
more basic or more fully integrated into the linguistic system) serves to
limit or restrict the use-and sometimes eventually the meaning-of a
more productively formed lexical item or expression (see references on
BLOCKING cited in §5.1.1). Thus the existence of thumb tends to restrict
the domain offinger to nonthumbs (even though a thumb ~ a finger); in the
same way, rectangle tends to denote nonsquares, given the existence ofthe
more specific, more informative item square.
But R-based narrowing, the shift of a lexical item originally denoting
a category or set to one denoting a salient subset or stereotypic member
of that set, is not linguistically, but culturally or socially, motivated. The
clearest instance, as we have seen, is euphemism, which prompts the avoid-
ance of more specific information (and hence the overriding of the Q Prin-
ciple). When drink and smell take on narrowed readings denoting a
particular type of drinking and smelling (He drinks too much, Something
smells around here), with the resultant autohyponymy of the lexical item
(cf. Horn 1984a), it is because we can count on an addressee who shares
our culture to be able to figure outjust which salient, highly charged member
of the extension the speaker would have sufficient reason to avoid naming
directly. The same reasoning applies to standard examples of euphemism in
which the meaning shift has progressed even further (go to the bathroom,
sleep with, pass away, disease, accident).
In the case of the euphemisms I have been exploring in this chapter, it is
normally some e-neg attribution that a speaker would be motivated to re-
frain from expressing directly, leading her to employ litotes (the negation
of the contrary) to convey the e-neg attribution while avoiding negative
face and preserving delicacy (and deniability). In the case of not bad, how-
ever, a direct e-pos attribution is avoided and the denial of the e-neg form is
employed litotically to designate this positive value indirectly.
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 359
We can see in the substitution of not bad for pretty good another form of
euphemism or taboo avoidance, one prompted, not by politeness, but by
the same factors that led the Greeks to call the Furies (Erinnyes) the
Blessed Ones (Eumenides), or the Russians to call the bear 'honeyeater'.
In various cultures, the real names of gods, demons, ancestors, or other
feared and/or potent objects are avoided, and a more indirect means of ref-
erence is conventionally settled on. Within certain Western cultures, there
seems to be a similar covert taboo against direct reference to positive
evaluation, particularly when emotions or assessment of self-worth might
be involved. Good feelings are not directly acknowledged, lest one jinx the
source of those feelings (compare the nonverbal practice of knocking on
wood); nor, within our sophisticated-if not cynical-culture, do we want
to appear too positive or enthusiastic (recall Stoffel 1901 on the shirking of
hyperbole). When emotive or sUbjective evaluations are not involved, the
markedness built into (77a) takes over and the asymmetry between not
good and not bad reemerges:50
(108) A: How are you feeling?
B1: Not good. [--> fairly bad]
B2: Not bad. [--> fairly good]
(l08') A: How's the battery?
B1: Not good. [--> fairly bad]
B2: Not bad. [-/-> fairly good]
When the litotic understanding of not bad does arise (as in (l08) but not
(l08')), there is the sense that the evaluation is an admission, reluctantly
conceded by the speaker, often with a kind of grudging admiration ('Not
bad', he admitted).
Under certain circumstances and in certain subcultures, both positive
and negative direct evaluations are regularly to be avoided. One case in
point is the Minnesotan dialect of English, as described in the Minnesota
Language Systems self-teaching cassettes advertised on the Prairie Home
Companion; see Mohr 1987. Here are some relevant excerpts from "The
Power of the Negative" (lesson 2 from Mohr 1987):
Minnesotans prefer to express their positive feelings through the
~se of negati~es, because it naturally levels things out. . . . If you
Just got marrIed or bought a late-model pickup under book price
with low mileage and hardly any rust, or it's dawn on opening day
of the duck season, a Minnesotan would say
-'I wouldn't want you to think I'm not happy'.
That's a strong statement here.
Not too good and not so good are worse than not too bad and not
360 Pragmatics ofContra(dicto)ry Negation
so bad. ... When somebody asks you how you slept on the guest
bed with the bar that cuts across your back and gives you shooting
pains down your legs, you will say 'Not too bad' because you
don't want to hurt their feelings, but how you actually slept was
not too good. (Mohr 1987: 6-9)
In some contexts, then, second-order euphemisms are the order of the day.51
Nor is this linguistic behavior restricted to speakers of Minnesotan. In a
New Yorker 'Talk of the Town' squib (4 February 1985, p. 32), a student of
the late Robert Fitzgerald describes her participation in a versification class
at Harvard, in which the renowned non-Minnesotan classicist and poet
would assign grades based on the following scale (given in descending
order): .
(109) NB
NTB
NTO
NO
'There was also a rare NAAB-Not At All Bad', the student recalls, 'and
anyone whose paper was so graced was jealously feted'. With Fitzgerald's
system of evaluation, the practice of attenuation has perhaps reached its
modern pinnacle.
We have seen in the strengthening of contradictory to contrary negation
a classic R-based inference pattern, functionally related to euphemism,
motivated by the goal of avoiding the direct assertion of some negative
proposition in a context in which it would tend to offend the addressee,
overcommit the speaker, or otherwise count as inappropriate. Far from
constituting a 'peculiar Talent ... of Ladies, Whisperers, and Backbiters',
as Martinus Scriblerus ([1727] 1952: 115) would have it, litotes is a funda-
mental means for conveying a strong negative proposition while observing
the amenities of civilized social interchange.
(At least) one question remains to be addressed: Why is it not just any
positive value, but (almost) always the unmarked (positive weak intolerant)
scalar value whose negation is pragmatically strengthened? While any an-
swer would be necessarily speculative, I would begin by observing that it is
harder to contextualize the negation of a marked term-I'm not ecstatic,
I'm not sad, I'm not miserable, as opposed to I'm not happy-without
constructing a discourse frame in which the negated term had itself been
previously applied. In such discourse frames, there is no functional moti-
vation for moving beyond the straightforward (contradictory) interpretation
assigned by the syntax. Indeed, when the negation of an unmarked term
appears in a context of this type, it too is interpreted as a contradictory of
the corresponding affirmative:
5.3 Contrariety and Understatement 361
(110) A: Are you happy?
B: No, I'm not happy.
(110') A: So you believe the fog
will lift?
B: No, I don't believe it
will lift.
But unlike the marked cases, the negation of an unmarked value may fe-
licitously initiate an exchange (I'm not happy, I don't believe the fog will
lift), in which case the addressee-given Negative Uninformativeness and
the Division of Pragmatic Labor (cf. §3.3)-will tend to strengthen the
negative statement into an informationally sufficient proposition affirming
the contrary.
The correlation of the processes discussed in this chapter involves one
repeated premise: in a context licensing the pragmatic assumption
p vq, to assert not-", is to implicate q. Thus, a formally contradictory
negation not p will tacitly convey a contrary assertion-but only when p is
a relatively weak positive scalar predicate, representing the unmarked term
in its contrast set. Conversational (Oricean) and discourse (Praguean) prin-
ciples converge to predict that it is just in such cases that a contradictory
negation not P will tacitly convey a contrary assertion-but only when P
is a relatively weak positive scalar predicate, representing the unmarked
term in its contrast set. Conversational (Oricean) and discourse (Praguean)
principles converge to predict that it is just in such cases that a contradic-
tory negation may be strengthened (or 'filled in', it la Bosanquet) to yield a
tially fossilized as a short-circuited implicature or convention of usage in
the NR cases of §5.2 (whence the unmediated nature of the inference and
the lexical exceptions associated with the NRP), and is partially or fully
conventionalized in the lexicalized affixal negations of §5.1.
6 Metalinguistic Negation
With quantitative terms not nearly always means 'less than' ... but
exceptionally these combinations [not once, not much, not three, not
halffull] may convey another meaning; this is the case if we stress the
word following not and give it the peculiar intonation indicative of con-
tradiction, and especially, if the negation is followed by a more exact
indication: not lukewarm, but really hot; not ~ but two or three
times, etc. (Jespersen 1933:300-301)
It's not a car, it's a Volkswagen. (VW commercial and advertisement)
I must now set out to redeem one of my promissory notes. As Jespersen
observes in the epigraph, there is an 'exceptional' or marked reading avail-
able for scalar negation, one which seems to be incompatible both with the
'less than' gloss he provides for ordinary negation and with the Gricean
theory of scalar predication I outlined in chapter 4. In this chapter, essen-
tially a revised and expanded version of Horn 1985, I shall entertain the
possibility that Jespersen's exceptional reading can be considered, along
with at least some instance of so-called semantic external negation (cf.
chapter 2), as a metalinguistic use of the negative operator.
As we saw in chapter 2, so-called EXTERNAL negation is standardly ex-
emplified by the reading of (1) which is forced by the continuation in (1')
(1) The king of France is not bald.
(1') The king of France is not Vbald-(because) there is no king of
France.
and which is true if France is a republic; the INTERNAL reading, by con-
trast, is either false or truth-valueless in the same circumstances. The
semantic ambiguity of negative sentences is adopted, within otherwise dif-
ferent theories, by Aristotle, by Russell (1905), by Karttunen and Peters
(1979), and by proponents of three-valued logics. But the major recent
trend among philosophers and linguists, represented by Atlas (1974, 1977,
1979,1981), Kempson (1975,1986), Gazdar (1979a), and Carston (1985a,
1985b), has been to reject this putative ambiguity, along with the purported
existence of truth-value gaps and semantic presuppositions, and to assimi-
late all instances of natural language negation to a single truth-functional
and/or semantically general operator.
362
6.1 On the ''Ambiguity'' ofNegation 363
Both views contain much insight and some truth, yet both are incomplete.
While two distinct uses of sentential negation must indeed be admitted, the
marked, nondescriptive variety is not a truth-functional or semantic op-
erator on propositions, but rather an instance of the phenomenon of META-
LINGUISTIC NEGATION-a device for objecting to a previous utterance on
any grounds whatever, including the conventi~nal or convers~tional ir.n-
plicata it potentially induces, its morphology, ItS style or regIster, or ItS
phonetic realization. . . . .
The chapter is structured as follows. Fmt, m §6.1, I reVIew the earher
discussion from chapter 2 on the alleged semantic ambiguity of negation
and consider the counterproposal of the monoguists in which all instances
of negation are assimilated to a single operator. In §6.2 I present evidence
to support the view that negation must be taken as pragma.tical~y .ambigu-
ous, with marked negation constituting an extended metahngUlstlc use of
the ordinary descriptive (object-language) operator. At least some tokens
of external negation can be identified with a more general phenomenon, a
speaker's use of negation to signal his or h~~ un~illin~ness to assert,.or
accept another's assertion of, a given propOSItIOn m a gIven way; metalm-
guistic negation focuses, not on the truth or falsity of a propo~ition, but on
the assertability ofan utterance. We shall also see that otherlogIcal operators
(and, or, if-then, and WH-binding) display extended metalinguistic uses of
their own. In §6.3 the interaction of metalinguistic negation with scalar and
nonscalar implicature is considered, with special attention devoted to the
use of negation to cancel the upper-bounding Q-based implicatum induced
by scalar predications and to the immunity of R-based implicata to meta-
linguistic negation. Section §6.4 is devoted to the investigation of three
morphosyntactic correlates of the descriptive-metalinguistic dichot?my:
the inability of metalinguistic negation to incorporate prefixally, to tngger
negative polarity items, and to co-occur with one particular variety of but
clause. We shall see that the two uses of negation interact in an interesting
way with the two buts of English and other languages. In §6.5 I exam~ne
other recent approaches to the unity or duality of natural language negatIOn
in the light of my own account and in §6.6 I offer some concluding re-
marks, along with a brief cross-linguistic excursus into some of the surface
manifestations of metalinguistic negation.
6.1 On the "Ambiguity" of Negation
As we have seen (§2.2), the origin of semantic external negation can be
traced to the (re)discovery by Russell (1905) of the apparent ambiguity of
sentences like (1), in which a subject description may be taken alternately
as inside (1a) or outside (lb) the scope of negation.
364 Metalinguistic Negation
(1) The king of France is not bald.
a. INTERNAL: 3x(Kx 1\ Vy(Ky ~ Y = x) 1\ - Bx)
[The king of France is not-bald]
b. EXTERNAL: -3x(Kx I\Vy(Ky ~ Y = x) 1\ Bx)
[not (the king of France is bald)]
The former is false and the latter true if there is no king (or more than one
king) of France.
While the modern parents of logical presupposition, Frege (1892) and
Strawson (1950), disregarded the marked reading (corresponding to (1')
and (1b)) on which the existential commitment normally associated with
descriptions or names (cf. Fregeon Kepler {died/ did not die} in misery)
is canceled or suspended, the development of three-valued logic-from
Lukasiewicz and Bochvar to Smiley and Herzberger (see §2.4)-was
largely prompted by the need to accommodate Russell's intuition that (1)
and analogous sentences containing both negation and presupposition-
inducing terms are semantically ambiguous. On the normal reading, with
internal (choice) negation, presuppositions are preserved and truth-value
gaps arise when one or more of the presuppositions fail; on the marked
reading, with external (exclusion) negation, presuppositions are potentially
removed or transformed into simple entailments and the sentence is biva-
lent (see §2.4 for details).
Different theories of presuppositionallogic propose different characteri-
zations of the two negations; the ambiguity may be lexical (with the
presupposition- and truth-value-gap-preserving operator in ...,p opposed to
the presupposition-canceling and bivalence-preserving operator in -p) or
scopal. Under the latter option, an abstract truth connective is typically in-
troduced, with external negation defined in terms of ordinary negation ap-
plied externally to the proposition formed by this connective. The external
reading of (1) is thus identified with the English sentence (2):
(2) It is not true that the king of France is bald.
This identification is often supported by an appeal to the purported intu-
ition that it is indeed the syntax of (2), rather than that of 0), which is
normally used to express the external, presupposition-free reading of nega-
tion, and that (2) allows only this interpretation.
However the analysis is to be worked out, the existence of marked nega-
tive statements which are clearly true when their affirmative counter-
parts-singular expressions, factive predications, category mistakes-are
(ex hypothesi) neither true nor false has led most proponents of logical
presupposition (but cf. Burton-Roberts (1987) for a dissenting view) to
conclude that natural language negation must be treated as ambiguous, ei-
6.1 On the "Ambiguity" ofNegation 365
ther .b~ allowing dual int~ty~e~ations for ~ single surface operator or by
provldmg dual scope posslblhtIes for negatIOn in logical form.
The ambiguist position on negation has been supported recently by Mar-
tin (1979:43): 'Methodologically, of course, the multiplication of senses
beyond nece~sity is undesirable ... but a few such ambiguities, especially
that of negation, seem perfectly reasonable'. Perfectly reasonable to some,
perhaps, but not to those sharing the perceptions of Lycan (1984: 97) con-
cerning 'Martin's repellent proliferation of lexical ambiguities'.
For th~se in Lycan's camp, the principal difficulty for the ambiguist view
of negation s~etched above ~and in more detail in chapter 2) is that it is by
no means obvIOUS that negative sentences like (1) are semantically ambigu-
ous. ~urt~ermore, a~ stressed by Atlas (1974), neither the periphrastic con-
struction m (2) nor Its counterpart in (2')
(2') It is not the case that the king of France is bald.
clearly disambiguates (1) in favor of the presupposition-free external read-
ing (lb), except within the suspect dialect of a readily definable subset
of philosophers and linguists. This point is independently reiterated by
Kuroda (1977: 105): 'It seems to me that the expression it is not the case
that is a ready-made all-purpose form of negation which can in most, if not
all, cases submit itself to logical convenience where the occasion de-
mands'. For Kuroda, as for Atlas, (2) and (2') are just as compatible (or as
i~compatible) with the internal, presuppositional understanding of nega-
tIon (Kuroda's DENIAL negation) as with the external, presupposition-free
understanding (his PROPER negation).
Within the last decade, a countervailing consensus in opposition to the
ambiguists has emerged from the work of Allwood (1972), Atlas (1974),
Kempson (1975), Boer and Lycan (1976), Gazdar (1979a), and Lycan
(l98~). Where Russell struggled with diligence and ingenuity to untie the
Gordian knot constructed by the king of France, these monoguists-wield-
ing Occam's razor as a samurai sword-seek to sever it with one blow; for
them, negation is simply not ambiguous, in either meaning or scope.
The burden of proof is clearly on the ambiguist, as the defensive tone in
Martin's passage indirectly concedes; like other abstract entia, senses
praeter necessitatem non multiplicanda sunt. This is Grice's 'Modified
Occam's Razor principle' (Grice 1978: 118-19), and Ziff 0960:44) ad-
vances the same doctrine as 'Occam's eraser'.
It is: moreover, excepti.onally difficult to prove that the presupposition-
laden mternal understandmg and the presupposition-bare external under-
stan~ing of (1) are semantically distinct, given that the former unilaterally
entails the latter: if the existent king of France is not-bald (or nonbald), it is
366 Metalinguistic Negation
certainly not the case that the present king of France is bald (where the
latter negation is taken externally). What the am?iguist ~u~t demonstrate
between internal and external readings is a privatIve ambIgUity, of the sort
claimed to hold for such examples as (3).
(3) I just bought a dog.
a. canis jamiliaris, male
b. canis jamiliaris
Yet as I noted in §5.2, it is just such ambiguities which are the hardest to
substantiate by the standard linguistic tests.' . . .
For the linguist, a particularly telling argument agamst the amblgUlst
position is the fact (noted by Gazdar 197?a: 65- 66) that ~o natural lan-
guage seems to employ two distinct negatIve operators. WhIch ~~rrespond
directly to internal and external negation. This is especIally stnkmg w~en
we consider the many languages which do contain two or more negatIve
markers. In particular, as exemplified in (4~, a num~er of languages draw
an opposition between an ordinary ~ecl.arat1ve. negatIOn and some mark~d
form (often labeled 'emphatic') WhICh IS restncted to emb~dded n~nfi~lte
and/or nonindicative contexts, frequently co-occurring wIth subjunctIVe
mood (cf. Horn 1978a: §5 on one motivation for this patternV
(4)
Unmarked Marked
Declarative (Emphatic)
Negation Negation
Cantonese m m hai
Old English ne no, na
Estonian ei mitte
Ancient Greek ou me
Modern Greek {'jen « ou{'jen) mi
Hungarian nem ne
Latin non ne
Modern Irish nach gan
Sanskrit na rna
Tagalog hindi huwag
Yoruba ko rna
In other languages, including French, negation can be marked in a varie~y
of morphologically distinct or overlapping ways, depending on the syntactl~
environment and the semantic context (cf. Gaatone 1971; Heldner 1981).
(5) (ne) ... {pas/point/aucun/personne/rien/jamais}
{aucun/nul/personne/rien ...} ne ...
non (pas) + Adv
in-, non- + stem
6.1 On the "Ambiguity" ojNegation 367
Similarly, Swahili sports several types of suppletive and redundant mark-
ing for negation:
(6) a. ni- na- ku- pend- a
1 -PREs-you-love- IND
'I love you'
b. tu- na- ku- pend- a
we-PREs-you-love- IND
'we love you'
vs. si-ku-pend-i
L NEG ~
'I don't love you'
vs. ha-tu-ku-pend-i
L NEG ~
'we don't love you'
In some languages the marker for sentence negation may be determined by
the tense/ aspect of a given sentence, in others by the grammatical category
of the predicator (cf. Payne 1985 for examples and §7.1 below for ad-
ditional discussion). Evidently, languages freely utilize morphologically
differentiated negative forms for syntactic, semantic, or synchronically ar-
bitrary reasons, but never, significantly, for marking the one distinction
which Russell and the three-valued ambiguists would lead us to expect.
It might be suggested that the external variety of negation need not dis-
playa separate morphological coding, since it is associated with the occur-
rence of true (or the case) within its scope, as suggested in the earlier
discussion. Thus, Karttunen and Peters (1979:47) propose that 'the "ex-
ternal" negation of <I> ... might be rendered into English as "It is not true
that <1>"'. But this approach is vitiated by the fact, noted above, that the
occurrence of the formula It is not {true /the case} that is neither a neces-
sary nor a sufficient condition for the emergence of a nonpresuppositional
understanding of a negative sentence. A semantic theory which invokes an
abstract truth predicate (TRUE, as in Linebarger 1981) at either the object-
language or metalanguage level, as a kind of animus ex machina for just
those sentences whose negation seems to behave externally, is as uncon-
vincing as a syntactic theory which invokes phonologically and seman-
tically null inaudibilia without providing solid independent motivation for
the existence of such constructs.
Another fundamental problem for the utilization of a truth predicate in
the representation of external negation is the fact (to be explored in more
detail in §6.5 below) that regardless ofthe analysis I provide for the relation
of truth to negation, the function of TRUE as a metalinguistic operator in a
truth-conditional semantic theory cannot be directly assimilated to the be-
havior of true (or of its cross-linguistic counterparts) in ordinary language.
As mentioned above, the monoguist thesis on negation is usually taken'
to preclude an effective defense of semantic presupposition. Indeed, mono-
368 Metalinguistic Negation
guists like Atlas, Kempson, Boer and Lycan, and Gazdar have been more
eager than reluctant to jettison any remnant of semantic presupposition.
But at least one major approach has attempted to combine an ambiguist line
on negation with a nonsemantic-or at least non-truth-conditional-analy-
sis of presuppositional phenomena. This is, of course, the formal theory of
conventional implicature represented in Karttunen and Peters 1979 and ear-
lier works (cf. also Grice 1975).
Briefly reviewing the discussion in §2.5, we recall that for K&P, (7a)
and (7b) both conventionally implicate (7'), provided the latter is read as
an ordinary negation.
(7) a. Chris managed to solve the problem.
b. Chris didn't manage to solve the problem.
(7') It was difficult for Chris to solve the problem.
But in some contexts, especially with the right intonation contour (cf. Liber-
man and Sag 1974 on the contradiction contour and Ladd 1980 on fall-rise)
and an appropriate continuation, (7b) is realized as (8), with a CONTRADIC-
TION negation assigned wide scope to the potential implicatum (7').
(8) Chris didn't Vmanage to solve the problem-it was quite easy
for him.
Karttunen and Peters point out (1979: 46-47) that contradiction nega-
tion-unlike ordinary, conventional-implicature-preserving negation-is
incapable of triggering negative polarity items. Thus the ordinary negation
of (9a) is (9b), where the existential shows up as any in the scope of nega-
tion. But with contradiction negation, as in (9c), no some/any suppletion
is possible.3
(9) a. Chris managed to solve some problems.
b. Chris didn't manage to solve any problems.
c. Chris didn't manage to solve {some/*any} problems-he
solved them easily.
Similarly, we find already rather than NPI yet in (10) (= K&P's (77b»,
where contradiction negation removes the conventional implicatum associ-
ated with factive forget.
(10) Bill hasn't already forgotten that today is Friday, because today
is Thursday.
K&P's contradiction negation is a plug to conventional implicata, while
ordinary negation is a hole. (As we saw in §2.5, certain implicata-in par-
ticular, those associated with even-do not seem cancelable by contradic-
6.1 On the ''Ambiguity'' ofNegation 369
tion negation.) The formal representations for ordinary and contradiction
negation are repeated here as (lla, b) respectively (see earlier discussion
for key to notational conventions).
(11) a. ORDINARY NEGATION OF 4>: (...,4>e; 4>i)
b. CONTRADICTION NEGATION OF 4>: (...,[4>e 1\ 4>i]; [4>i v...,4>i])
What the first part of (8) amounts to is thus a negated conjunction, with one
conjunct corresponding to the entailment and the other to the implicatum of
the corresponding affirmative:
(11') a. (7b) as ORDINARY NEGATION:
implicature: It was difficult for Chris to solve the problem.
entailment: ...,(Chris solved the problem)
b. (7b) as CONTRADICTION NEGATION (a la (8»:
implicature: (vacuous)
entailment: ...,(It was difficult for Chris to solve the problem
and Chris solved the problem)
We have arrived by now at the situation in (12). (Notice that for Straw-
son negation is unambiguously internal-by default, since he does not
directly tackle sentences like (1') or (8).)4
(12)
Do truth- Do semantic Is negation
value gaps presuppositions semantically
exist? exist? ambiguous?
Strawson: yes yes no
Aristotle,
Russell: no no yes
Lukasiewicz,
Smiley,
Herzberger, AMBIGUISTS
Katz: yes yes yes
Karttunen and
Peters: no yes yes
(as conventional
implicatures)
Atlas5
,
Kempson,
Boer and
Lycan,
Gazdar: no no no MONOGUISTS
370 Metalinguistic Negation
On the one hand, we have the original ambiguist thesis on negation in both
its classical (Aristotelian-Russellian) and revisionist (three-valued) ver-
sions-as well as the K&P compromise position, which some would sug-
gest has all the vices of each without the virtues of either. On the other
hand, we have the monoguist antithesis which Occamistically denies any
ambiguities in natural language negation, but offers no read~ explanation
for the intuition shared by ambiguists of all camps that negatIve sentences
like (1) and (7b) may be used in two radically different ways, with (as
K&P observe) distinct linguistic correlates in each case. Like Russell, we
need a Hegelian synthesis-one, we must hope, more explanatory than the
proposition that the king of France wears a wig.
6.2 Metalinguistic Negation and Pragmatic Ambiguity
They weren't people, Sir, they were the enemy.. ..
(Lt. William Calley, on My La! massacre vIctIms,
cited in Lang 1984:279)
In the synthesis I shall advocate here, negation is effectively ambiguous,
contra Atlas, Kempson, and Gazdar. But contra Russell, Karttunen and
Peters, and the three-valued logicians, it is not semantically ambiguous.
Rather, we are dealing with a pragmatic ambiguity, a built-in duality of
use. If I am correct, we must reject the classical (Fregean) view-cited by
Prior (1967: 459) and endorsed in various ways by virtually all previous
analysts-that 'all forms of negation are reducible to a suitably placed "It
is not the case that"'.
That we must reckon with a special or marked use of negation which is
irreducible to the ordinary truth-functional operator is best seen, not in ex-
amples like Russell's (1)-(1') or K&P's (7b)-:-(8), ?ut i.n enviro~ments
like (13), where what is negated is a conversatlOnallmphcatum (VIZ. the
Q-based inference of not all from the use of some; cf. chapter 4).
(13) a. Some men aren't chauvinists-all men are chauvinists.
b. Chris didn't manage to solve some of the problems-he
managed to solve all of them.
Such examples cannot be collapsed with (8) under K & P's approach witho~t
incorporating conversational implicata (like the conventional impl~catu~ m
(11b» into the logical form of these sentences.
6
But conversatlOnallm-
plicata by definition are not part of logical form (cf. Grice 1975, 19~8;
Karttunen and Peters 1979). Crucially, however, these examples share wI~h
(1') and (8) the linguistic correlates cited by K &p-and. by.Jesper~en ~m
the epigraph to this chapter): the assignment of a 'pecuhar mtonation m-
6.2 Pragmatic Ambiguity 371
dicative of contradiction' and the proposed substitution of 'a more exact
indication' for the focus of negation.
The cases below are even more devastating for any generalized semantic
account of marked negation, which would presumably be driven to import
phonetic representation and inflectional morphology into logical form
within the scope of negation. '
(14) a. (So, you [m1.Y
;}l}ijd] to solve the problem.)
No, I didn't [mIY;}nij] to solve the problem-I [mrenijd] to
solve the problem.
b. He didn't call the [polis], he called the [polis]. (courtesy of
Andy Rogers)
c. I didn't manage to trap two mongeese-I man~ged to trap
two mongooses.
A related use of negation is found in the French example below, where the
grammatical gender assignment and the woeful English accent are some-
how brought within the scope of negation:
(15) (Esker too ah coo-pay luh vee-and?)
Non, je n'ai pas 'coo-pay luh vee-and'-j'ai coupe la viande.7
Analogously, we see in (16) that one speaker may employ negation to
reject the pragmatics associated with the register or stylistic level chosen
by another speaker in the discourse context, typically because of insuffi-
cient or oversufficient delicacy.
(16) a. Now, Cindy, dear, Grandma would like you to remember that
you're a young lady: Phydeaux didn't shit the rug, he {soiled/
had an accident on} the carpet.
b. Grandpa isn't feeling lousy, Johnny, he'sjust a tad indisposed.
c. We didn't {have intercourse/make love}-we fucked.
d. It's not stewed bunny, honey, it's civet de lapin.
In (17), one description is jettisoned in favor of another whose contribu-
•. tions to truth-conditional meaning are (arguably) identical to it in the
relevant context, but which differs in focus or connotation:
(17) a. Ben Ward is not a black Police Commissioner but a Police
Commissioner who is black. (New York Times editorial,
8 January 1983)
b. I'm not his daughter-he's my father. (after Wilson 1975:
152)
c. !:.m not his brother-he's my brother.
d. She is not Lizzy, if you please-she's Her Imperial Majesty.
372 Metalinguistic Negation
e. For a pessimist like you, the glass isn't half full-it's half
empty.
f. I'm not a Trotskyite, I'm a Trotskyist.
g. They're not the best at what they do-they're the only ones
who do what they do. (critic evaluating the Grateful Dead)
h. Winning isn't everything-it's the only thing.8 (attributed to
football coach Vince Lombardi)
Closely related to the examples in (17) is the use of negation to focus on
and object to a previous speaker's racist or sexist vocabulary. The truth
conditions of sentences like (18)
(18) {Niggers/Broads} will benefit from improvements in medicine.
have received a good deal of recent attention (cf. Grim 1981; Stenner 1981;
Taylor 1981) as philosophers have debated whether an objection to the
world view licensing the use of loaded words like nigger and broad is suf-
ficient to render the statements these offensive descriptions are used to
make automatically false or devoid of truth value. For Grim, if (18) is
bivalent (whether it is true or false), it commits us to the excluded-middle
disjunction in (18'):
(18') It is either true that {niggers/broads} will benefit from improve-
ments in medicine or false that {niggers/broads} will benefit
from improvements in medicine.
Yet a commitment to (18') seems to entail a commitment to {racism/
sexism}.
However we may deal with Grim's quandary (cf. discussion below), it is
relevant that a speaker can employ negation metalinguistically to reject the
bigoted or chauvinistic point of view embodied in an earlier utterance
within the discourse context:
(19) I beg your pardon: Lee isn't an uppity {nigger/broad/kike/
wop}-(s)he's a strong, vibrant {black/woman/Jew/Italian}!
For someone who utters (19), as with (16) and (17), the denotative mean-
ing of the statement under attack (what was said) may well have corre-
sponded exactly to that of the rectified statement; the connotative meaning
(what was implicated) cannot be allowed to stand unchallenged. In the light
of the observation (by R. Lakoff [1975: 19-27], inter alia) that euphe-
misms are generated in the same referential contexts where we also have
slurs and obscenities, it is significant that we find both euphemisms and
their metalinguistic rejections in the Grim contexts:
6.2 Pragmatic Ambiguity 373
(20) I'm not a 'colored lady'-I'm a black woman!
I'm not a 'gentleman of the Israelite persuasion'-I'm a Jew!
~e.use ofnegation explored in (13)-(17) and (19)-(20) may be marked,
but It IS by no means marginal or inconsequential in communication. In-
deed, the exampl.e in (17e) has attained the status of a cliche, second per-
haps onl~ to that m (21), where the play between ordinary and marked uses
of negatIOn has entered immortality by way of the vaudeville stage:
(21) (Who was that lady I saw you with last night?)
That was no lady, that was my wife!
Note that the deliverer of the punch line in this routine does not intend to
suggest that his wife is not a lady; rather, the negation attaches to the im-
plicature associated with the set-up line. The pragmatic mechanism here is
akin to that in an example from Grice:
(22) X is meeting a woman this evening.
The utterer of (22) 'would normally implicate that the person to be met was
s~me~ne o~er than X's wife, ~other, sister, or perhaps even close platonic
fne~d (~n~e 1~75 :56). WhIle not all speakers may agree with Grice in
findI~~ thIS ImplIcature 'noncontroversial', it appears that-to the extent
that It IS felt to be present in (22)-it can be removed through negation:
(22') No, he's not (meeting a woman this evening)-he's meeting his
wife!
While the relevant ~m~licata being denied or forestalled in (21) and (22')
result. fro~ the e~plOItatlOn of the content maxim of Quantity (Make your
contnbutlon as mformative as is required), manner-generated implicata
may also be rejected by negation:9
(23) Miss X did~'t 'produce a series of sounds that corresponded
closely wIth the score of "Home Sweet Home" dammit she
"H ' ,
sang orne Sweet Home", and a lovely rendition it was too!
He~e, ~hat is denied i.s the reviewer's implicatum, devolving from an ex-
plOItatIOn of the Bre:lty submaxim, that is, that 'Miss X's performance
suffer~d .from som~ hIdeous defect' (Grice 1975:55-56).
A sImdar analYSIS can be provided for the conjunction examples of (24):
(24) a. They didn't have a baby and get married, they got married
and had a baby. (cf. Wilson 1975; McCawley 1981)
b. Mo~art's sonatas weren't for violin and piano, they were for
plano and violin.
374 Metalinguistic Negation
Here, it is once again a manner-based implicatum which the metalinguistic
negation removes, that is, the expectation that the order in which the two
conjoined elements were originally reported (as represented in the first
conjunct) corresponds to their order of occurrence (in (24a» or to their
order of importance (in (24b». \0
But we have clearly come a long way from either the well-behaved ordi-
nary internal negation operator or the semantic external negation operator
of three-valued logics or the K&P analysis. What we are dealing with in
the negative examples of (13)-(23) is an extended version of what DUcrot
(1972) aptly terms metalinguistic negation-a formally negative utterance
which is used to object to a previous utterance on any grounds whatever,
including (as in (14)-(15» the way it was pronounced. 11
It remains to be shown that these examples all involve the same basic use
of negation as that found in K&P's examples of canceled or rejected con-
ventional implicata, as in (8). To this end, note first that, for the negative
sentences of (13)-(23) as for (1') and (8), a felicitous utterance involves
contrastive intonation with a final rise within the negative clause (the 'con-
tradiction contour' of Liberman and Sag [1974] or the fall-rise of Ladd
[1980], as the case may be), followed by a continuation in which the of-
fending item is replaced by the correct item in the appropriate lexical, mor-
phological, and phonetic garb-a RECTIFICATION, to borrow the label of
Anscombre and Ducrot (1977). These diagnostics fit not only the presup-
positional cases of (1') and (8) (as noted by Karttunen and Peters) and the
scalar cases of (13) (as noted by Jespersen), but the remaining negative
examples of (14)....:(24), as diverse as they otherwise appear to be.
But it is not only the intonation and rectification which point to a kinship
with external or contradiction negation; in the cases just discussed, like
those of K&P, no negative polarity items are triggered by the marked use
of negation. Thus, while (13b) is possible with metalinguistic negation, its
NPI counterpart is not:
(25) *Chris didn't manage to solve any of the problems-he managed
to solve all of them.
And parallel to (9c), in which some/any suppletion is ruled out, we find
the contrast in (25):
(25') I didn't [nih::lnij) to solve {some/*any} of the problems-I
[mrenijd] to solve some of the problems.
I shall return to the interaction of polarity and metalinguistic negation
below.
Of course the principal resemblance between the instances of marked
6.2 Pragmatic Ambiguity 375
negation introduced here and the classical examples of presupposition-
canceling negation discussed earlier is that both types occur naturally only
as responses to utterances by other speakers earlier in the same discourse
contexts, or as mid-course corrections after earlier utterances by the same
speakers. It is for this reason that I seek to encompass all these examples un-
der the general rubric of metalinguistic negation: they all involve the same
extended use of negation as a way for speakers to announce their unwilling-
ness to assert something in a given way, or to accept another's assertion of
it in that way. Given the behavioral resemblances just cited (which I shall
explore in more detail), as well as the prevailing Occamist considerations,
there is no obvious reason not to collapse the presupposition-canceling
negation of (1') and (8) with the negation attaching to conversational im-
plicature in (13), (21), (22'), (23), and (24), to pronunciation in (14a, b)
and (15), to morphology or syntax in (14c) and (15), to register, speech
level, or social attitudes in (16), (19), and (20), and to perspective or point
of view in (17).
6.2.1 Pragmatic Ambiguity
The notion to which I am appealing here has a rich and controversial, if
brief, history. Donnellan (1966) coined the term PRAGMATIC AMBIGUITY to
describe the two understandings he associates with sentences like (26).
(26) Smith's murderer is insane.
a. ATTRIBUTIVE: Whoever it may have been who murdered
Smith is insane.
b. REFERENTIAL: That individual [to whom I refer via the phrase
Smith's murderer] is insane.
In (26a) the description Smith's murderer is used essentially, but in (26b) it
is employed as a device for picking out a specific individual and predicat-
ing something of him or her, regardless of whether or not that individual
did in fact murder Smith.
Similarly, Wertheimer (1972) argues persuasively that sentences con-
taining modals, such as (27), are not semantically ambiguous, but have ei-
ther of two uses, as paraphrased in (27a, b), depending on the system of
rules which is implicitly invoked for the evaluation of the sentence.
(27) Lee {should/ought to} be in Chicago today.
a. EPISTEMIe: According to my calculations, Lee is (probably)
in Chicago today.
b. ROOT OR DEONTIe: It would be {desirable/a good idea} for
Lee to be in Chicago today.
376 Metalinguistic Negation
Kratzer (1977) arrives independently at her own analysis, which also treats
modals as pragmatically ambiguous, as does McCallum-Bayliss (1985).
Palmer (1979) and Leech and Coates (1980) offer complex mixed treat-
ments incorporating both polysemy and semantic indeterminacy in their
analysis of modal 'ambiguities'.
Stalnaker (1972: 389-95) discusses a number of cases under the heading
'Pragmatic Ambiguity', including not only reference and modality but con-
ditionals and parentheticals, where the duality of use rests in each case on
the distinction between contexts and possible worlds in the determination
of propositional content.
Another instance of pragmatic ambiguity formed the centerpiece of
chapter 4 above. As suggested by Mill and Grice and elaborated in Horn
1972, 1973 and Gazdar 1979a, 1979b, scalar predications like those in (28)
and (29) can be considered to be pragmatically ambiguous as between the
implicature-bearing version (the 'two-sided' understanding of Aristotle,
with lower and upper bounds, conveying (28a) and (29a), respectively) and
the implicature-free 'one-sided' version (with lower bound only, as in
(28b) and (29b)).
(28) Some men are chauvinists.
a. TWO-SIDED: Some but (for all I know) not all men are
chauvinists.
b. ONE-SIDED: {At least some/Some if not all} men are chau-
vinists.
(29) It is possible that the Yanks will win.
a. It is possible but (for all I know) not {necessary/certain} that
the Yanks will win.
b. It is at least possible that the Yanks will win.
None of these proposed analyses is uncontroversial. Donnellan (1978)
argues for a semantic treatment of the ambiguity in (26) (but cf. Kaplan
1978, Kripke 1977 for defenses of the pragmatic version in Donnellan
1966). The standard linguistic line on the modals treats them as seman-
tically (and possibly syntactically) ambiguous between epistemic and root/
deontic readings (cf. Hofmann 1966; Newmeyer 1969; Horn 1972; Jacken-
doff 1972). There are several recent accounts of weak scalar predications
of the type illustrated in (28) and (29) which treat them as semantically (or
at any rate truth-conditionally) ambiguous (cf. Cormack 1980; Lehrer and
Lehrer 1982; Burton-Roberts 1984; Carston 1985a, 1985b; Kempson
1986), as we shall see in more detail below. And Searle (1979 :146-50) not
only rejects the claim that the referential! attributive distinction and indi-
rect illocutionary force involve pragmatic ambiguity, he rejects this con-
struct entirely. Other objections to the notion of pragmatic ambiguity, or to
6.2 Pragmatic Ambiguity 377
my application of it for an account of natural language negation, are lev-
eled by Burton-Roberts (1987) and Moser (1987).12
Nevertheless, I believe that the pragmatic version of these ambiguities is
largely correct, and that the line taken on such constructions is extendable
to negation. 13 Apparent sentence negation represents either a descriptive
troth-functional operator, taking a proposition p into a proposition not-p
(or a predicate P into a predicate not-P), or a metalinguistic operator which
can be glossed 'I object to U', where U is crucially a linguistic utterance or
utterance type rather than an abstract proposition. I'
In claiming that negation is pragmatically, rather than semantically, am-
biguous, I am partly in accord with the classic monoguist position sum-
marized by Gazdar (1979a: 92): 'There are no grounds for thinking that
natural language negation is semantically distinct from the bivalent opera-
tor found in the propositional calculus.' But the spirit, if not the letter, of
this position is violated by the present approach, which takes a wide array
of uses of natural language negation to be essentially non-truth-functional,
and indeed nonsemantic.
6.2.2 Truth vs. Assertability
If we temporarily set aside the more extreme cases of metalinguistic nega-
tion (e.g., those affecting phonetic representation), the distinction drawn
above recalls one made elsewhere whose import has been insufficiently
appreciated: that between the truth of a proposition vs. the assertability of
a statement or sentence. As Grice (1967) has pointed out, either truth or as-
sertability can be affected by negation; it is up to the addressee to factor in
the relevant contextual clues so as to determine just what the speaker
intended to object to or deny in the use of a negative form at a given point
in the conversation.
Grice defends the view that ordinary language or exhibits the truth-
conditional semantics associated with the standard truth table for inclusive
disjunction represented in the third column in the table in (30) (other col-
umns are included for purposes of later reference),
(30)
p q pvq -(p v q) pwq -(p w q) p~q -(p~ q)
T T T F F T T F
T F T F T F F T
F T T F T F T F
F F F T F T T F
and responds to a potential objection to this claim as follows (Grice
1967:lecture 5, p. 9): 'If you say "X or Y will be elected", I may reply
378 Metalinguistic Negation
"That's not so: X or Y or Z will be elected". Here ... I am rejecting "X
or Y will be elected" not as false but as unassertabl~'. . .
Grice puts this distinction to work in defense of his truth-functIOnal lIne
on conditionals. He begins by conceding that (31)
(31) It is not the case that if X is given penicillin, he will get better.
does not have the truth conditions which we should expect of a negat~d
material conditional (as given in the last column of (30))..After all, this
sentence does not normally commit the speaker to an assertIOn of the con-
. t· 'X wI·II be given penicillin and X won't get better', as the truth
Junc Ion N· h '
table would lead us to expect. In the same way, I can deny le.tzsc.e s
notorious conditional (32a) without committing myself to the conjunction
in (32b):
(32) a. If God is dead, everything is permitted.
b. God is dead and something is forbidden.
Grice points out, however, that a speaker uttering (31)-or, even more
clearly, (31'):
(31') It is not the case that if X is given pen~cillin he will get better; it
might very well have no effect on him at all.
is not so much negating the contained conditional proposition as asserting
his unwillingness to assert that proposition (lec~~e 5, ? 5). I~ (31'), as
elsewhere, a negation outside the scope of a condltIon~ I~ to be Int~rpreted
as a refusal to assert ifp then q rather than as a (descnptIve) ~egatlOn of a
conditional whose truth value is determined in accordance With the mate-
rial equivalence in (33):
(33) ~(p ~ q) == (p A ~q)
The same point is made by Dummett (1973: 328-30), who distinguishes
negation outside the scope of a Fre~ean asse~i?n o~erator, '?ot (I-A)"
from the normal assertion of a negative propoSItion, I-(not A) . T~e for-
mer interpretation (which violates the Freg.e~ spirit; cf. §1.2~,'~~~ht be
taken to be a means of expressing an unwIlhngness to a.s~ert A . The
clearest candidates for this species of negation, not s~rpnsIngl~, are those
where A is a conditional. Dummett cites exchanges hke those In (34):
(34) X: If it rains, the match will be canceled.
Y: That's not so. (or, I don't think that's the case.)
Y's contribution here is not actually a negation of X's content (~resu~a~l~
a material conditional, although Dummett fails to make thiS exphclt),
rather, we can paraphrase Y as having conveyed (34'a) or (34'b):
6.2 Pragmatic Ambiguity 379
(34') a. If it rains, the match won't necessarily be canceled.
b. It may [epistemic] happen that it rains and yet the match is
not canceled.
Dumrnett in fact goes beyond Grice, concluding (p. 330) that apparently
'we have no negation of the conditional of natural language, that is, no
negation of its sense: we have only a form for expressing refusal to assent
to its assertion'. (While Dummett offers no explanation for this curious
state of affairs, Grice does present a pragmatic story for the failure of con-
ditionals to undergo ordinary descriptive negation.)
It should be acknowledged that the notion ASSERTABLE, as employed by
Grice, Dummett, and me, must be taken as elliptical for something like
'felicitously assertable' or 'appropriately assertable', where the adverbial
hedge is broad enough to cover the wide range of examples under consid-
eration here. I take 'assertability' to be on all fuzzy fours with other in-
stances of linguistic shorthand, such as 'Can you say XT or 'You can't say
X' for judgments of syntactic (un)acceptability.
Another auto-cavil: I do not want to insist here on a wholesale defense of
the Grice-Dummett line on conditionals. Grice's unabashed championing
of the material conditional as an adequate representation for the semantics
of natural language conditionals is particularly moot; indeed, the truth con-
ditions for if-then statements have been passionately but inconclusively ar-
gued since at least the third century B.C., when Callimachus observed that
'even the crows on the rooftop are cawing about which conditionals are
true' (Mates 1949: 234). But the distinction drawn by Grice and Dummett
between rejecting a claim as false and rejecting it as (perhaps true, but)
unassertable suggests the proper approach for characterizing the two uses
of negation.15
6.2.3 Other Metalinguistic Operators
If the approach suggested here is correct for negation, it is plausible that
the natural language reflexes of other logical operators should corne in
similar pairs, exhibiting metalinguistic uses alongside descriptive ones.
This is indeed what we find.
Consider, for example, the extension of logical inclusive disjunction to
the examples in (35):
.(35) a. Kim is bright, or {even/should I say} brilliant.
b. New Haven, or the Elm City, is the pearl of the Quinnipiac
Valley.
c. Is the conductor Bernst[iy]n or Bernst[l1y]n? (cf. The
380 Metalinguistic Negation
formulator of relativity theory wasn't Einst[fy]n but
Einst[ay]n.)
d. The current President has appointed more colored folks-or
should I say blacks?-to prominent positions than any of
his predecessors. .
e. She deprived her students of a lecture-or (better) spared
them a lecture-on the performative hypothesis. (after
Wilson 1975: 149)
f. Did Elizabeth have a baby and get married, or did she
get married and have a baby? (after Wilson 1975 and Mc-
Cawley 1981; cf. (24))
As Du Bois (1974) notes, a principal source of nonlogical disjunction is the
phenomenon of intentional midsentence correction, as in one reading of
(35a, d, e), or in the examples in (36), from Du Bois (1974: 8), where the
self-corrections have 'survived presumably careful editing':
(36) a. I can only very briefly set forth my own views, or rather my
general atittudes. (from Sapir, Language)
b. Let us look at the racial, or rather racist, themes in the argu-
ment for population control. (from Pohlman, Population:
A Clash ofProphets)
A more extensive analysis of metalinguistic disjunction is provided by Ball
(1986).
Metalinguistic conditionals include those in (37):
(37) a. If you're thirsty, there's some beer in the fridge.
b. If you haven't already heard, Punxsutawny Phil saw his
shadow this morning.
c. If I may say so, you're looking particularly lovely tonight.
In these AUSTIN CONDITIONALS (as they have been known since Austin
1956), each antecedent clause specifies a sufficient condition for the appro-
priateness or legitimacy of asserting the consequent, rather than. fo~ its
truth. As with metalinguistic negation, we can find morphosyntactlc dIag-
nostics for these metalinguistic uses of disjunctions and conditionals: note,
for example, that the disjunctions in (35) and (36) cannot be paraphrased
by either . . . or, and that the consequent clauses in (37) exclude ini-
tial then.
To the Austin conditionals of (37), Ducrot (1972: 175-78) adds another
metalinguistic conditional statement type, exemplified in sentences trans-
lating into (38):
(38) a. If the Cite is the heart of Paris, the Latin Quarter is its soul.
6.2 Pragmatic Ambiguity 381
b. If the Bois de Boulogne is the lungs of Paris, the neighbor-
hood square is its pores.
As Ducrot observes, the speaker in these cases is understood as proposing
to justify the metaphor in the main clause by virtue of accepting the meta-
phor in the antecedent. The sense is 'If you're willing to grant p, you must
equally grant q' .16
Perhaps the closest pragmatic doublet for negation, however, is offered
by questions. What are generally labeled ECHO questions (or, following
Perlmutter and Soames [1979: 589-90], INCREDULITY questions) might, in
the present context, be aptly renamed METALINGUISTIC questions. As with
the most natural occurrences of metalinguistic negation, echo questions
generally require a linguistic context in which the original utterance (be it a
declarative, an imperative, or itself a question) has been previously uttered
within the discourse. Consider the circumstances which might evoke the
echo questions in (39):
(39) a. You did what with Sally and Bill?
b. Take out the what?
c. Do I what on the first date?
The distribution of echo questions is determined in accordance with the
sentence type they are used to echo. Echoes of declaratives occur in de-
clarative contexts, echoes of questions in interrogative environments, and
so on:
(40) a. John thinks {Mary is dating {Fred/whO?}}
*who Mary is dating.
b. John wonders {WhO Mary is dating. }
*Mary is dating {Fred/who?}
where {Fred went! who went?}
And just as metalinguistic negation is impotent to trigger negative polarity
items or to incorporate prefixally as do descriptive negations (see below),
echo questions, as is well known, fail to exhibit normal interrogative syn-
tax; they neither exhibit wh-fronting nor trigger subject-auxiliary inver-
sion. (Cf. Cooper 1983: 148-50 for a complementary treatment of echo
questions.)
Conjunction can be added to the brew as well. While and is standardly
viewed as a concatenator for propositions (or sUbpropositional constitu-
ents), Dummett (1973: 337) cites the double question Has she gone away
and has she stolen all the teaspoons? as an instance in which speech acts,
rather than propositions, are connected. Walker (1975: 147) characterizes
Dummett's conjunction in terms very much in keeping with my analysis of
382 Metalinguistic Negation
two-pronged negation: and here, Walker notes, has 'a special sense' which
is however 'a natural extension of the truth-functional use', motivated by
'the striking analogy between the logical relations which can obtain between
propositions and the relations which can hold between speech acts'.17
There is, then, reason to believe that the existence of parallel meta-
linguistic/descriptive splits for other logical operators, rather than sup-
porting the strong monoguist line on negation (as Kempson [1975: 184]
suggests), in fact reinforces the line on negation urged here. If we are un-
willing, in constructing the simplest syntactic and semantic theory for
natural language, to collapse the or clauses of (35) and (36) with ordinary
inclusive disjunctions, the ifclauses of (37) and (38) with ordinary condi-
tionals (whatever they are), and the echo questions of (39) and (40) with
normal wh-questions, we must be equally unwilling to claim that all nega-
tions are one.
6.3 Metalinguistic Negation and Conversational Implicature
6.3.1 The Scalar Cases
I have noted that languages tend not to distinguish internal from external
negation morphologically. It is thus especially significant that natural lan-
guages almost invariably allow a descriptive negation operator to double
for metalinguistic use as a comment on the utterance, challenging what is,
or potentially would be, its presupposition or implicature, as well as its
conventional content. One frequent use of metalinguistic negation is as a
means for disconnecting the implicated upper bound of relatively weak
scalar predicates, as in (13) above. Parallel naturally occurring examples
can easily be attested:
(41) a. Around here, we don't like coffee, we love it. (Lauren Bacall,
in a TV commercial for High J,>oint decaffeinated coffee)
b. That wasn't a bad year, it was horrible. (Reggie Jackson,
commenting on his 1983 season with the Angels)
c. I'm not happy he's gone-I'm elated. Never has an assistant
coach gotten so much credit. (Chicago Bears football
coach Mike Ditka; reported reaction to the departure of
former assistant Buddy Ryan to become head coach for
Philadelphia)
d. I have two homes and I don't dig my roots into one or the
other. I dig them into both. (twelve-year-old Becky Mar-
gulies, of her joint custody, New York Times, 25 March
1984)
6.3 Conversational Implicature 383
I have argued (cf. Horn 1972 and chapter 4 above) that the apparent am-
biguity triggered with weak scalar predicates is pragmatic in character,
traceable to whether or not a generalized Q-based upper-bounding im-
plicature is associated with the assertion of the sentence containing that
predicate within a given linguistic and extralinguistic context. If, for ex-
ample, possible is semantically or lexically ambiguous between a one-
sided (at least possible) reading and a two-sided (exactly possible) reading,
a consistent account of scalar operators would find analogous ambiguities
in such sentences as:
ONE-SIDED TWO-SIDED
READING READING
(42) a. Max has three at least three. exactly three.
children.
b. You ate some of some if not all. some but not all.
the cookies.
c. It's possible at least possible. possible but not
she'll win. certain.
d. John is patriotic and perhaps but not both.
or quixotic. both.
e. I'm happy. if not ecstatic. but not ecstatic.
f. It's warm out. at least warm. but not hot.
But on this line, the putative ambiguity of possible extends to every
scalar predicate, including each of the Xo-many cardinal numbers sub-
stitutable into the frame of (42a). On the other hand, my pragmatically
based account-utilizing an independently motivated principle, the Maxim
of Quantity (whose domain, as Grice has observed, is not even purely lin-
guistic, let alone restricted to the realm of the logical constants), or its gen-
eralization as the Q Principle-offers an intuitive treatment of the apparent
discrepancies between the standard logical characterizations of the opera-
tors (quantifiers, binary connectives, modals, negation) and their natural
language equivalents. This modular approach yields a simpler, more con-
servative account of the semantics of these operators than a holistic treat-
ment which either intermingles the semantic and pragmatic facts, ignores
the latter entirely, or embraces an infinititude of lexical ambiguities.
This is where negation enters the picture, in its usual befuddling way.
While the negations of scalar predications like those in (42) are ordinarily
understood as nf-gating the one-sided values which are the putative logical
forms of these sentences-cf. He didn't eat three cookies (= less than
three), It isn't possible she'll win (= impossible), and so forth-the
PARADOXICAL negations of (43) (following the terminology of Cormack
384 Metalinguistic Negation
1980) must be understood as negating the corresponding two-sided under-
standings:
(43) a. He doesn't have three children, he has four.
b. You didn't eat some of the cookies, you ate all of them.
c. It isn't possible she'll win, it's downright certain she will.
d. John isn't patriotic orquixotic, he's bothpatriotic and quixotic.
e. I'm not happy-I'm ecstatic. -
f. It's not warm out; it's downright hot.
This dual character of negation with scalar predications has been recog-
nized at least since Jespersen (1917:81; 1924:325-26; cf. epigraph to
chapter 4), but its resolution is crucial for a determination of the character
of the division of labor between semantics and pragmatics. If there is only
one negation in natural language, the truth-functional one-place proposi-
tional connective of Fregean semantics, the well-formedness of the ex-
amples in (43) apparently indicates that the upper bound must be built into
the logical form, or at least the propositional content, associated with these
scalar predications-contrary to the Gricean line I have argued for. This is
precisely the conclusion reached by Kempson and her fellows within what
I have elsewhere (Hom 1984a) called the London School of Parsimony; I
shall return to their program in §6.5 below.
Under the alternative view I have suggested here, the negation appearing
in (43) (and in (41» represents one more instance of the metalinguistic
negation operator which cannot be assimilated to ordinary negation. If this
view proves correct, the orthodox Mill-Grice view on scalar predications
will be vindicated.
Let us focus on the contrast between (44a, b), or more precisely, on their
mutual consistency.
(44) a. Max has three children-indeed, he has four.
b. Max doesn't have three children-(*but) he has four.
c. Max doesn't have three children, (but) he has two.
How is it that the same state of affairs can be alternately described in terms
of Max's having three children and of his not having three children? On the
present account, the negation in (44b) does not negate the proposition that
Max has three children; rather, it operates on a metalinguistic level to reject
the implicatum that may be associated with the assertion of that proposition
(viz., that he has only three children). By uttering (44b), the speaker con-
veys an unwillingness to assert a sentence that would induce a misleading
implicatum, even though this sentence would be true under these circum-
stances (as (44a) makes clear). As for (44c), its negation is naturally taken
6.3 Conversational Implicature 385
descriptively as attaching to the proposition that Max has three children. (I
return to the distribution of but in this and similar paradigms in §6.4.)
When negation is used metalinguistically to focus on a Q-based im-
plicatum, it often appears to build in a covert just or only which can in fact
be expressed directly without directly affecting what is communicated.
Thus, compare the versions of (45) with and without the parenthesized ad-
verb immediately following the negation:
(45) a. Max doesn't have (just) three children-he has four.
b. You didn't eat (only) some ofthe cookies-you ate all of them.
c. Around here, we don't (just) like coffee-we love it.
d. I don't (just) believe it-I know it. --
But, as we shall see, the fact that just or only may be insertable into this
frame without changing the conveyed meaning should not be taken as evi-
dence that metalinguistic not can be analyzed as elliptical for not just, not
only (pace Lehrer and Lehrer 1982; cf. §6.5 below), any more than the fact
that some and not all can be substituted for each other in some contexts
implies that they contribute the same meaning to the sentences in which
they occur.
Examples analogous to those in (45) are adduced in Hom 1981a to sup-
port the claim that the "exhaustiveness premise" is not part of the meaning
of cleft sentences, that is, that (46a) does not (pace Atlas and Levinson
1981) entail or (pace Halvorsen 1978) conventionally implicate (46b):
(46) a. It was a pizza that Mary ate.
b. Mary ate nothing other than a pizza.
c. It wasn't John that Mary kissed-it was John and Bill.
d. It wasn't a pizza that Mary ate-it was a pizza, a calzone,
and a side of ziti.
It may seem that the felicity of (46c), from Atlas and Levinson, or of the
analogous (46d), suggests that the failure of exhaustiveness does constitute
sufficient grounds for denying the truth of a cleft. But in fact these sen-
tences are acceptable only with metalinguistic negation, canceling the
upper-bounding exhaustiveness implicatum. Note that just or only can be
inserted into these examples, as in those of (45), without changing the con-
veyed message. Furthermore, the same interpretation is available in focus
constructions without cleft syntax:
(46') a. Mary didn't eat a pizza-she ate a pizza, a calzone, and a
side of ziti. - -
b. I didn't spend the night with Mary-I spent the night with
Mary and her husband. - -
386 Metalinguistic Negation
c. 'You don't renounce a bigot's word, you renounce the bigot
and his word'. (Sandra Goldstein, Gary Hart delegate from
Stamford, Conn.; reacting to Jesse Jackson's speech to the
1984 Democratic National Convention, as reported in the
Stamford Advocate)
IfMary ate a pizza along with various other items, it is undeniably true that
she ate a pizza; negation in (46'), as in (46c, d), must deny not truth but
assertability.
One more instance of the interaction of metalinguistic negation with
scalar implicature is worth citing here, given the attention this construction
has received in the recent pragmatic literature. Klein (1980: 28ff.), in his
discussion of APs of the form six feet tall within his semantics for com-
paratives, cites the following two dialogue sequences as posing potential
problems for a Gricean theory of measure phrases:
(47) A: The minimum height for A: How tall is Mona?
applicants is 6'.
B: Well, Mona is six foot
tall; in fact she's six
foot three.
B: Six foot tall.
C: No, she's not, she's six foot
three.
'Possibly', Klein concedes, 'measure phrases are ambiguous between the
at least and the exactly reading'.
A bit further on, Klein assigns the equative construction in (48a) the
same truth conditions as that in (48b),
(48) a. Jude is as tall as Mona.
b. Jude is at least as tall as Mona.
in effect (as in Horn 1972) treating equatives as lower-bounded (one-sided)
by their literal meaning and potentially upper-bounded (two-sided) by
Quantity implicature: 'The fact that an utterance of [(48a)] will often con-
vey that Jude is exactly as tall as Mona is to be explained along standard
Gricean lines: in the absence of conflicting factors, a speaker who utters
the sentence will conversationally implicate that he is not in a position to
make the stronger assertion that Jude is taller than Mona' (Klein 1980:38).
This plausible assumption is further supported by the fact that equatives
and comparatives pattern in other respects like weak and strong scalar
predicates, as observed in Horn 1972: §1.22:
(48') a. Jude is as tall as, if not taller than, Mona.
b. Jude is not only as tall as Mona, he's taller than Mona.
c. Jude is not even as tall as Mona, let alone taller.
6.3 Conversational Implicature 387
Yet the same evidence that led Klein to opt for an ambiguist line on abso-
lute measure phrases could be adduced for the equatives:
(49) A: Jude is as tall as Mona.
B: Yes, in fact he's (even) taller.
(50) A: Jude is as tall as Mona.
B: No, he's not as tall as Mona, he's taller.
But it is now clear that both (47B) and (49B) correspond exactly to (44a) in
affirming a weaker scalar judgment when a stronger judgment on the same
scale could be truly asserted, while (47C) and (SOB) correspond exactly
to (44b) in metalinguistically rejecting a weaker assertion as unassertable
when a stronger scalar statement is known to hold.
Of course the unmarked reading of negation associated with equatives
will be the descriptive 'less than' understanding:
(47') Mona isn't six feet tall. (she's under six feet)
(50') Jude isn't as tall as Mona. (he's shorter)
And for both absolute measure phrases and equatives, the suspension ofthe
upper-bounding implicature (e.g., by at least; cf. chapter 4) neutralizes the
distinction between metalinguistic and descriptive negation, since there
will now be only a lower bound to reject; the B responses in (47") and (50")
can only be assigned a 'less than' reading: 18
(47") A: Mona is at least six feet tall.
B: No she's not, she's {5'1O"/ #6'2"}.
(50") A: Jude is at least as tall as Mona.
B: No he's not, he's {shorter/ # taller}.
While there has been a recent flurry of activity in the literature on equa-
tives and comparatives, as I noted earlier (chapter 4, n. 27; cf. Anscombre
and Ducrot 1976, 1978, 1983; Sadock 1981; Atlas 1984; and Cornulier
1984), I see no compelling argument from negation (or anywhere else) to
abandon the position that measure phrases and equatives are pragmatically,
rather than semantically, ambiguous, in exactly the manner of other scalar
predications inducing Q-based implicatures.
6.3.2 Q-Based vs. R-Based Implicature
I have argued that metalinguistic negation applies to cancel the Q-based
implicatum standardly associated with scalar predication. But what of R-
based implicata? A number of instances of R-based implicature are linked
388 Metalinguistic Negation
to the negative strengthening rule that turns apparent contradictories into
acting contraries, as we saw in detail in chapter 5; but testing these im-
plicata against metalinguistic negation turns out to be somewhat imprac-
tical, given the accumulation of negatives that perforce results (and the
mind-boggling effects when these are processed). Fortunately, there are
more than a few cases of R-based implicata that do not directly involve
negation. 19
To say that someone was able to solve the problem may R-implicate that
he in fact solved it (cf. Karttunen 1971). Similarly, to assert that someone
was clever enough to do something will generally implicate that she did it.
As I have also noted, my confiding that I broke a finger will (ceteris pari-
bus) R-implicate that the unfortunate finger was one of mine (rather than
Q-implicating that it was someone else's). And, as I also observed, Witt-
genstein, Searle, and others take an assertion of the form I believe that p to
count as an indirect assertion of p; this too can be subsumed under the gen-
eral rubric of R-based inference, as I suggested in chapter 5.
Yet, as seen in (51), none ofthese implicata can be canceled by negation:
(51) a. He wasn't able to solve the problem. (* He was able to solve
it, but he didn't) .
b. She wasn't clever enough to figure out the solution. (* She
was clever enough to do it, but she didn't do it)
c. I didn't break a finger yesterday. (* I broke a finger, but it
wasn't one of mine)
d. I don't believe the Yanks will win the pennant. (* I believe
[autobiographically] that they will, but I'm not indirectly
asserting that they will)
Why should this difference in cancelability exist? The answer would seem
to inhere in the logic of Q- and R-based inference. Let S represent a given
scalar predication (based on the strong scalar value Ps) and W the weaker
proposition (based on the weak scalar value Pw ) which it unilaterally en-
tails and from which the relevant implicata are to be drawn. In the case of
Q-based implicata, the assertion of W will ordinarily Q-implicate -So As
a scalar predicate, Pw is truth-conditionally defined by its lower bound and
the ordinary negation of W (not Pw) negates that lower bound, denoting
'less than Pw', a value incompatible with Ps. Thus, the assertion that
Kevin did not eat three cookies would be taken to amount to the assertion
that he ate fewer than three (and hence not four, five, or more). But not Pw
when uttered in a context in which Ps is affirmed, as in (43a-f), self-
destructs on the unmarked, descriptive 'less than Pw' understanding and
must in effect be sent back through, whence the marked, metalinguistic
quality of the negation in these examples.
6.3 Conversational Implicature 389
In the case of R-based implicata, on the other hand, the assertion of W
implicates, not the negation of S, but S itself: the proposition that he solved
the problem unilaterally entails the proposition that he was able to solve it
(S entails W, as before), but the assertion that he was able to solve it may
implicate that he in fact solved it (W R-implicates S). Once again, not Pw
signifies 'less than Pw' and hence licenses the inference of -S (via modus
tollens from the original S II- W entailment). But crucially, there are no
circumstances under which the implicatum S is canceled and not Pw cannot
be interpreted consistently, as an ordinary descriptive negation. The nega-
tions in (51a-d) thus never spontaneously self-destruct, to get sent back
through to be interpreted metalinguistically as cancelers of implicata.
Schematically, we have the following situation:
(52)
Q-based implicata:
1. S entails W
2. -W entails -S
3. W Q-implicates -S
4. Normally, not Pw = 'less
than Pw', incompatible
with Ps
5. not Pw, asserted in con-
text where S is given,
reinterpreted as meta-
linguistic negation
R-based implicata:
S entails W
- W entails -S
W R-implicates S
Normally, not Pw = 'less than
Pw', incompatible with Ps
not Pw never gets reinter-
preted, since it's always
compatible with -S (the
denial of W's implicatum)
Now R-based implicata can be canceled without negation, simply by as-
signing the fall-rise contour (cf. Ladd 1980) and stressing the implicatum-
inducing element:
(53) a. He was "able to solve the problem (but he didn't solve it).
b. She was "clever enough to figure out the solution (but she
didn't do it).
c. I broke "a finger yesterday (but it wasn't one of mine).
d. I "believethe Mets will win the pennant (but I'm not saying
they will).
Notice that we tend to get the opposite, Q-based implicatum in these con-
texts; the contour which cancels the R-based inference sets up a strong
expectation for the kind of continuations exemplified in (53).
When we do appear to get the cancelation of an R-based implicatum by
negation, the implicatum in question has, in fact, become conventionalized
as part of the literal meaning of the expression (cf. Grice 1975 :58; Morgan
1978; and the discussion in §5.3 above). Thus, for example, predicate
expressions which denote various personal relationships may, as in (54a),
390 Metalinguistic Negation
take on a narrowed symmetric sense, by virtue of a partial conventionaliza_
tion of an R-based inference; but, as in (54b), they do not always take on
this sense.
(54) a. Pat and Leslie are {marriedI friends I loversI in love}.
b. Pat and Leslie are spouses.
When the symmetric sense of these predicates is intended, negation may
leave the more general sense unaffected:
(54') They aren't {marriedI friends I loversI in love}. (as in the country
song title "When You're M~ied, but Not to Each Other")
To support the claim that only conventionalized R-based implicata can
be canceled by negation, we can turn to a pair of examples from Atlas and
Levinson (1981). As they note, there is a strong tendency for a predicate
which is semantically nonspecific with respect to a given distinction to be-
come pragmatically restricted so as to denote a certain proper subset of its
semantic denotation. This 'inference to the best interpretation' is formu-
lated as follows (Atlas and Levinson 1981 :42):
If a predicate Q is semantically nonspecific with respect to predi-
cates Pi' I :5 i :5 n, but for some j, I :5 j :5 n, Pj is stereotypical of
Qs, then in saying Qt a speaker will convey ljt.
The key notion here is the restriction of a more general predicate to a stereo-
typical instance, constituting an instantiation of Atlas and Levinson's 'Prin-
ciple of Informativeness' (Read as much into an utterance as is consistent
with what you know about the world-Levinson 1983: 146-47) and of my
R-based narrowing (cf. §5.3). Among Atlas and Levinson's examples of
what they have in mind are those in (55):
(55) a. John had a drink --) John had an alcoholic drink.
b. The secretary smiled --) The female secretary smiled.
But, for our current purposes, it is crucial to recognize that (as both
speakers' intuitions and lexicographers' practice suggest) the implicatum
in the former case has become fossilized·into conventional meaning, while
that in the latter case has not. Thus, in the terms of Horn 1984a, drink
has developed into an autohyponym (a word with two privatively related
senses), while secretary continues to retain just one (relevant) meaning. In
this light, negation behaves precisely as we would predict:
(55') a. John didn't have a drink-that was a Shirley Temple.
b. #My secretary didn't smile-I have a male secretary.
A male secretary is still a secretary (although not a stereotypic one), but a
nonalcoholic beverage mayor may not count as a drink, just as two illicit
6.3 Conversational Implicature 391
married lovers (of each other) may truthfully admit that they are not mar-
ried (to each other).
In arguing that nonconventionalized R-based implicata cannot be can-
celed by negation, I have implicitly built in the assumption that when
negation can be read descriptively, it must be, or in other words, that meta-
linguistic negation is marked psycholinguistically, as well as structurally.
Although I cannot support this claim by citing evidence that metalinguistic
negation (as in (44b)) takes longer to process or verify than ordinary de-
scriptive negation (as in (44c)), this difference does obtain intuitively, and
not for the scalar cases alone.
In general, the effect of metalinguistic negation is either the rejection of
a previous utterance (on any grounds whatever, as we have seen), or the
rhetorical demolition of some feature of one's own utterance, often after
considerable effort has been made precisely to set up that feature. Consider
this opening passage from a newspaper op-ed piece subsequent to the 1984
elections: 'When Ronald Reagan carried 49 states and won 525 electoral
votes, it was not an historic victory. Walter F. Mondale's poor showing
wasn't an historic defeat. Mr. Mondale's choice of Geraldine A. Ferraro as
his running mate wasn't an historic decision, either. None of these was an
historic event. Each was a historic event' (John Chancellor, New York
Times op-ed column). Mr. Chancellor is clearly expecting his reader to
process the first four negations of his "Article about an Article" as descrip-
tive operators, denying the historic significance of the events in question. It
is only when the fifth sentence is encountered and that primary reading be-
comes untenable that these negations must be retroactively reprocessed as
metalinguistic, functioning to reject an aspect of the allomorphy, not the
content, of the sentences in which they occur.
The garden-path effect of this passage, and of the majority of meta-
linguistic negations whose discourse domain does not cross speakers (see
the examples in (35)), is the rule rather than the exception. It might even be
speculated (although I shall not try to support this speCUlation here) that
there is an inherent ordering within the processing of metalinguistic nega-
tion: the addressee, on recognizing that a given negation cannot be co-
herently read descriptively (as denying a given predicate of a given subject
or as an internal, predicate term negation), will try first to take it as a rejec-
tion of the conventional implicata (or presuppositions) associated with the
negated utterance, then (if that fails) as a rejection of its potential conversa-
tional implicata, then (if that fails) as a rejection of the formal properties
(grammar or phonology) of that utterance.
Whether or not this speculation can be supported by psycholinguistic or
other evidence, the proposed asymmetry between descriptive and meta-
linguistic uses of negation seems plausible enough, especially since we
often must go out of our way (intonationally and syntactically) to allow the
392 Metalinguistic Negation
latter understanding to emerge. Given the systematic nonexistence of con-
texts in which a negation both cannot be interpreted descriptively and can be
read as a device for canceling a nonconventionalized R-based implicatum,
we can see why the metalinguistic understanding is ruled out in the ex-
amples of (51).
6.4 Three Diagnostics for Metalinguistic Negation
6.4.1 Incorporated Negation vs. Metalinguistic Negation
One key correlate of the negative dichotomy resides in the inability of
metalinguistic negation to incorporate prefixally. We saw in §2.3 that a
negative particle interpreted as outside the scope of a presupposed element
loses that potential interpretation when the negation is incorporated as a
prefix.20 Let us now consider the paradigms below:
(56) a. The king of France is {not happy/ #unhappy}-there isn't
any king of France.
b. The queen of England is {not happy/ #unhappy}-she's
(57)
ecstatic.
a. { It isn't Possible}
It's not possible for you to leave now-it's necessary.
# It's impossible
b. {not probable/ # improbable} but certain
(vs. {not probable/improbable} but possible)
c. {not likely/ # unlikely} but certain
(vs. {not likely/unlikely} if not impossible)
d. {not interesting/ # uninteresting} but fascinating
(vs. {not interesting/uninteresting} but important)
(58) I {don't believe/ # disbelieve} they'll win-I know they will.
Whenever negation is used metalinguistically to deny the appropriateness
of using a predicate which would yield a true but misleading assertion (one
which would induce false conventional or conversational implicata), it. op-
erates, in effect, on another level from that of the rest of the clause in which
it is superficially situated, whence its impotence to trigger polarity items
within that clause (as seen above and, in more detail, below). For the same
reason, the metalinguistic operator cannot incorporate morphologically.as
the un- or iN- prefix; the acceptable incorporated negatives in (57) all 10-
volve ordinary, truth-functional uses of the negation.
We can thus correlate the disappearance of the metalinguistic under-
6.4 Three Diagnostics 393
standing of incorporated negation with other lost readings of incorporated,
narrow scope negation. Alongside the not X but Y construction illustrated
in (57), we note that the ambiguity of the X ifnot Y construction, investi-
gated in Horn 1972: §1.22 and Welte 1978: 205, disappears when the
negation is incorporated. While The book is excellent ifnot perfect can be
read either as a concessive (cf. (59a)) or as an implicatum suspender (cf.
(59b)),
(59) a. The book is excellent if not (exactly) 'perfect. (cf. German
wenn (auch) nicht)
b. The book is excellent ifnot (downright)'perfect. (cf. German
wenn nicht (sogar))
its incorporated counterpart The book is excellent if imperfect allows only
the former interpretation. The difference in incorporability corresponds to
a difference in bracketing: X if[not Y] for (59a) vs. X [ifnot] Y for (59b).
Similar examples (from the above sources) are given in (60):
(60) a. Our victory is possible if (concessive or suspensive)
not probable.
Our victory is possible if (concessive only)
improbable.
b. All the men {were not! (NEG-Q or NEG-V; cf. §4.3)
weren't} happy.
All the men were unhappy. (NEG-V only)
c. She was not fortunate (unfortunately, he survived)
enough to lose her
husband.
She was unfortunate enough (unfortunately, he died)
to lose her husband.
d. Sue didn't trust Bill or (She trusted neither or not
John. both)
Sue distrusted Bill or John. (* She trusted neither of
them)
While these examples may differ in their details, they share with each
other-and with the examples of (56)-(58)-one essential trait: the incor-
poration of a negative element as a prefix on the following element is only
possible when those two elements are immediate constituents within a
single level of analysis.21
The incorporability diagnostic for metalinguistic negation interacts in
a significant way with an argument by Gazdar (1977, 1979a) on behalf of a
monoguist analysis of natural language disjunction. On the view that or is
semantically or lexically ambiguous (cf. the table in (30) above and the dis-
cussion in §4.2), a sentence like (61) will be assigned two distinct logical
394 Metalinguistic Negation
forms, corresponding to the inclusive (p vq) and exclusive (p wq) interpre_
tations of the connective and paraphrasable as in (61a, b), respectively.
(61) John is either patriotic or quixotic. [cf. (42d)]
a. INCLUSIVE: John is patriotic, quixotic, or both.
b. EXCLUSIVE: John is either patriotic or quixotic, but not both.
This ambiguist thesis is rejected by Gazdar (1979a: 81-82) on the grounds
that it makes a 'bizarrely false prediction' when the disjunction is brought
within the scope of negation. Thus the negation of (61), which Gazdar
gives alternately as (61'a, b)
(61') a. John isn't either patriotic or quixotic.
b. John is neither patriotic nor quixotic.
-which he takes to be mutual paraphrases-will be assigned two readings
under the ambiguist analysis, with negation outside the scope of inclusive
and exclusive disjunction, respectively. Given the values in the fourth col-
umn of (30), and the equivalence in (62),
(62) ~(p wq) ~ (~p 1\ ~q) V (p 1\ q)
the exclusive reading of (61'a, b) will come out true if John is both pa-
triotic and quixotic. Since (61'a, b) are 'patently false' in this state ofaf-
fairs, Gazdar concludes that the ambiguist thesis is patently false as well.
It is true that when (61'a) is used descriptively as a negated disjunctive
proposition, that proposition is indeed patently false if both disjuncts are
true. But the same sentence can be used as a metalinguistic negation, to
make an indirect assertion which may in fact be true in the same context.
Consider (63a, b):
(63) a. Maggie isn't either patriotic or quixotic-she'S both!
[cf. (43d)]
b. #Maggie is neither patriotic nor quixotic-she'S both!
Not only is (63a) a possible discourse utterance, it's also one with which
most British subjects (at least those of the Tory persuasion) would cheer-
fully agree, for the most prominent referent of the name. However, this
reading predictably disappears when the negation is incorporated as in
(61 'b) or (63b). Since such incorporated negation can only be descrip-
tive, (61 'b) is unambiguous and (63b) logically contradictory, as Gazdar
predicts.
As further confirmation of the claim that the negation in (63a) is meta-
linguistic in the strong sense intended here (as a rejection of another real or
possible utterance in the discourse, rather than as a propositional operator
or predicate denial), consider the apparent graphemic contradiction in
6.4 Three Diagnostics 395
(64a) (a 'paradoxical negation' if there ever was one), which can neverthe-
less be resolved in the appropriate phonetic context, as illustrated in (64b):
(64) a. Maggie isn't either patriotic or quixotic-she'S either pa-
triotic or quixotic.
b. -Say, {Clive/Fiona}, you have to admit your Maggie is
[iY<5r peytriIDlk ~r kWlksaDlk]
-No I haven't. Maggie isn't [fY<5r pMriaDlk ~r kWlksaDlk]-
she's [~<5;) pretri5:Uk ~o kWlks5:tlk).
Curiously, Gazdar's argument was prefigured-flaw and all-in a paral-
lel attack by Grice (1978) on a different ambiguist treatment of disjunction.
In this case, the relevant strengthening property is not the truth-functional
one of exclusivity, but a non-truth-functional, epistemically based condi-
tion on the appropriate use of disjunctive statements which Grice attributes
to Strawson, but whose history goes back a bit further. On this view, a
speaker who utters a statement of the form p or q licenses the inference (at
least on the 'strong reading' of or) that he or she does not know for a fact
that p is the case-or, of course, that q is. Thus I cannot felicitously
utter (65),
(65) My wife is either in Oxford or in London.
on this strong reading, if I know for a fact that my wife is in Oxford (and if
I presume that this fact is relevant to you when I utter (65)).
The argument against the position that (65) is (or has a reading which is)
false or neither true nor false when my wife is, say, in Oxford, is straight-
forward and by now predictable. As in the scalar cases, the crucial point is
that while a disjunction may be unassertable (without infelicity) when one
of its disjuncts is known to be true, it is clearly true-that is, it expresses a
true proposition. In the same Negation symposium I reviewed in §1.2,
Mabbott in fact endorses the extreme position that it is always false that
This railway signal (round the next corner) is either red or green, given
that 'at this moment the signal ... is not "either red or green"; it is [let us
say] green' (Mabbott 1929:74).
To which Ryle retorts with his own railway example:
I judge at Reading, say, 'That train is going either to Swindon or
to Oxford'; and I do so without necessarily implying that the
engine-driver, the passengers, or even I myself are in ignorance
or doubt which its route actually is. Ordinarily, of course, I would
not bother to make the statement if I was not in some doubt, since
if I could identify its route it would be superfluous to mention
such non-individuating facts about it. But facts do not cease to be
396 Metalinguistic Negation
facts or cease to be known when it becomes superfluous to men-
tion them. (Ryle 1929: 92-93)
While we may not be far from Oxford, it is clear that we are also back at
the crossing of truth and assertability, as Ryle and Grice recognize, and as
Mabbott and Strawson evidently do not.
But Grice (1978: 116-18) goes on to observe that the 'strong' reading of
disjunctions like (65) seems to disappear under negation, as in (66a). What
he does not observe is that the relevant non-truth-functional aspect of the
interpretation of such disjunctions may indeed be affected when the nega-
tion is used metalinguistically, as in (66b-d):
(66) a. Your wife isn't (either) in Oxford or in London.
b. Your wife isn't (either) in Oxford or in London, dammit
she's in London, as you bloodywell know! '
c. I didn't do it once or twice-I did it once and once only!
d. The signal is not 'either red or green', it's quite clearly green!
In these examples, a disjunction is disowned not because it is false, but (as
in (63a)) because the utterance expressing it is too weak to be felicitously
asserted. Once again, the metalinguistic reading disappears when the nega-
tive is incorporated into the disjunction:
(66') a. Your wife is neither in Oxford nor in London (#, dammit,
she's in London!)
b. The signal is neitherred or green (# - it's quite clearly green!)
As we have observed, the incorporation of negation eliminates any pos-
sible metaiinguistic understanding of that negative operator-provided that
we are dealing with the sort of metalinguistic negation which takes scope
over the entire utterance to focus on, and object to, a particular aspect of
that utterance (e.g., a potential conversational implicatum). But constitu-
ent as well as sentence negation may be interpreted metalinguistically, as a
rejection of a previous speaker's lexical choice. In this event, the meta-
linguistic operator may take the form of an affixal negation if the focused
element admits a negative affix-and sometimes even if it doesn't.
Zimmer points out that while the (e-neg) adjective sullen does not nor-
mally occur with a negative prefix, his experimental subjects unanimously
rejecting unsullen, 'It is not really very difficult to imagine a situation
where unsullen might be used, e.g., one involving a kind of echo effect:
"He's a sullen fellow, isn't he?"- "On the contrary, I think he's a remark-
ably unsullen fellow'" (Zimmer 1964: 87; emphasis mine). Notice that the
exigencies of English syntax leave this reply as the only possible form of
objection; the unincorporated counterpart-*He's a remarkably not sullen
fellow-does not occur. -
6.4 Three Diagnostics 397
Thus it is not metalinguistic or echo negation per se which rules out in-
corporation, but the combination of metalinguistic negation with the wide
scope readings associated with the earlier examples in this subsection. Cru-
cially, while the respondent in Zimmer's dialogue is using negation meta-
linguistically, his utterance is nevertheless true as a descriptive negation
(assuming the referent is indeed unsullen). In my earlier examples, on the
other hand, ranging from (56)-(58) and (i)-(iv) of n. 20 to (63), (64), and
(66), the statement used to reject a previous utterance is not true as a de-
scriptive negation-it may be false, or in some cases nonbivalent or mean-
ingless, depending on one's semantics of presupposition failure-since
what is objected to here is not the content of the corresponding affirmative,
but the implicata, presuppositions, or phonetic form associated with that
content or its reification. In these circumstances, the negation may not
incorporate.
6.4.2 Polarity as a Diagnostic
I have suggested that because metalinguistic negation does not operate on
the same rhetorical or grammatical level as the clause in which it occurs-
because it is in the clause but not of it-it will fail to display those traits
which are characteristic of the more fully integrated object-level negator.
One such trait, as we have just seen, is its failure to incorporate prefixally;
a second is a two-part property relating to its interaction with polarity phe-
nomena. First of all, as we have already observed, metalinguistic negation
does not trigger negative polarity items.
But at the same time, affirmative or positive polarity items, expressions
which normally do not occur felicitously inside the scope of an imme-
diately commanding negation, can occur following an instance of meta-
linguistic negation. As Baker (1970: 169) puts it, affirmative polarity items
(already, would rather, could just as well, ADV pretty, far --er) are
acceptable 'when they represent, word by word, an emphatic denial of a
preceding speaker's assertion'; he notes that while (67b) does not occur in
isolation, it is felicitous as an emphatic denial of (67a).
(67) a. The Sox have already clinched the pennant.
b. The Sox haven't already clinched the pennant.
Thus metalinguistic negation is neither an active trigger of NPls nor a pas-
sive countertrigger or inhibitor of PPls.
The focus of the literature on this topic is the indefinite some (and its
compounds), which is normally in suppletive variation with any (Jespersen
1917; Klima 1964; but see also R. Lakoff 1970; Bolinger 1977: §2; Sahlin
1979). While some is normally blocked after negation, there are excep-
398 Metalinguistic Negation
tions. Thus Kruisinga (1931 ;§1336); 'If the negation serves to contradict a
statement made, or to contrast two things, some is used; You cannot get
something for nothing; A play isn't something you read, it's something
actors do on a stage'. One locus of contradiction and/or contrast which
Kruisinga cites as especially favorable for the not. . . some pattern is the
not X but Y construction ('They produced not something new and distinc-
tive but something closely resembling a ms'. [ibid.]).
The intuitive sense of direct denial or contradiction that accompanies
not . . . some is often accentuated by intonation or, in print, quotation
marks, as in the following attested example (from a letter to the editor
of Ms. magazine, May 1986, in response to an earlier article on yeast
infections);
(68) Chlamydia is not "sometimes" misdiagnosed, it is frequently
misdiagnosed.
The NPI version of this response is of course ruled out: #Chlamydia is {not
ever/ never} misdiagnosed, it is frequently misdiagnosed. Here, as in the
parallel examples of §6.3, we are dealing with the use of metalinguistic
negation to reject a weak scalar item for the upper-bounding implicatum
it would induce and, as we have seen (cf. Chris didn't manage to solve
{some / *any} ofthe problems-he managed to solve all ofthem), only PPls
are acceptable in this context. -
A clear statement of the phenomenon in its French manifestation is
offered by Tasmowski-De Ryck (1972; 199), who observes that in a 'pure
et simple reprise', such as that in her example in (69),
(69) -Si je t'avais cache quelque
chose...
- Tu ne peux pas me cacher
quelque chose.
'If I had hidden something
from you'
'You can't hide something
from me'
we get the PPI quelque chose 'something', rather than its usual suppletive
partner in negative and interrogative contexts, rien 'nothing, anything'. In
such cases, 'Une proposition deja enoncee est repetee telle queUe, et la
negation s'y applique comme a un tout inanalysable, dans lequel elle ne
s'integre pas reellement'.
A similar characterization is offered by Bolinger (1977; 44), who cites
'the use of some rather than any' along with 'a special intonation, or punc-
tuation, to show that the thing denied is quoted', as the two signs of what
he calls EXTERNAL negation, in which 'the speaker denies something that
has supposedly been affirmed'. His examples of this phenomenon, which
would appear to bear greater kinship with metalinguistic negation than with
any of the formal (two- or three-valued) accounts of semantic external
negation, include the exchange in (70);
6.4 Three Diagnostics 399
(70) You ate some mushrooms.-I did not 'eat some mushrooms'.
In his discussion of the failure of negation to trigger some/any supple-
tion in English sentences like (71),
(71) He doesn't have some assets hidden away.
Ladusaw (1980; 144) posits a semantically distinct operator not2 which is
'used to deny that something is true, rather than to assert that something
is false'. But while this may be a necessary condition for the appearance of
marked (not2) negation in (71) and other not . .. some examples, it is not
a necessary condition in general for metalinguistic negation (compare the
examples in (13)-(20), where the same operator, equally incapable oftrig-
gering NPls or inhibiting PPls, rejects a previous utterance on grounds ir-
relevant to truth or falsity), nor is it a sufficient condition. Ifyou tell me he
has some assets hidden away, I can respond either with (71) or with its NPI
analogue (No, you're wrong, he doesn't have any assets hidden away) and
in either case I would seem to be 'deny[ing] that something is true',
namely, your statement. Perhaps we simply need better criteria for distin-
guishing denials of truth from assertions of falsity. (Leech 1981 invokes
the same distinction, without equipping us any better for drawing it.)
Not all NPls and PPls occur in suppletive pairs like some/any, some-
times/ever. English, like other languages, employs a large variety of nomi-
nals to express weak scalar predications. Many of these items retain the
standard 'less than' interpretation under descriptive negation, as in the
pairs in (72) and (72'), discussed insightfully by Bolinger (1972).
"(72) a. I'm a bit tired. (72') a. I'm not a bit tired.
b. I ate a bit.
c. There was a trace of
them.
b. I didn't eat a bit.
c. There {wasn't a/was no}
trace of them.
Quite often, items which originally participated in this pattern come to lose
their positive use and become conventionalized (or, as Bolinger puts it,
STEREOTYPED) as NPI equivalents of any. These strong negative scalar val-
ues, like a bit in (72'), seem to build in an implicit even (cf. Schmerling
1971; Fauconnier 1975a, 1975b; Heim 1984), but (unlike a bit) cannot oc-
cur with the relevant understanding-if they can occur at all-in the frame
of (72);
(73) a. I didn't eat a thing.
b. I didn't {drink a drop/sleep
a wink}.
c. I don't {give a damn/ give a
hoot /care a fig}
(??! ate a thing)
(positive versions odd or
jocular)
(positive versions only
jocular)
400 Metalinguistic Negation
d. It's not worth a
{nickelI thin dimeI red
cent}
e. There isn't {the slightest
chancela ghost of a
chanceI the chance of a
snowball in hell} that
we'll succeed.
f. There wasn't a sign of
them.
(positive versions jocular or
literal)
(positive versions only
jocular)
(positive version only literal)
When these items occur in positive contexts (if they do), they denote a
minimal quantity; when they occur in negative contexts, the negation
denotes the absence of a minimal quantity, and hence the presence of
no quantity at all. These are Bolinger's MINIMIZERS, which he contrasts
(1972: l20ff.) with the DlMINISHERS, expressions denoting small quantities
which either do not allow negation at all, or whose negation can only be
interpreted via litotes (as 'more than' rather than 'less than'). Thus, while a
trace can occur either with or without negation (cf. (72c), (72'c)), and a
sign can occur (with the same meaning) only negatively (cf. (73f)), Bolinger
finds that an indication occurs only positively (There {wasl*wasn't} an
indication of them). In my dialect, other positive polarity diminishers in-
clude a tad and, curiously, a wee bit (He isn't a (#wee) bit tired). Bolin-
ger's most striking contrast between minimizers and diminishers is that
between a bit and a little:
(74) a. I ate a bit. = (74') a. I ate a little.
I'm a bit tired I'm a little tired.
b. I didn't eat a bit. *- b. I didn't eat a little.
I was not a bit tired. *- I was not a little tired.
Although Bolinger's labels may not be particularly mnemonic, his dis-
tinction is real enough: neg + minimizer = zero (as in (74)), while neg +
diminisher, if it occurs at all, yields a higher quantity on the same scale (as
in (74'b)).22 But, as Bolinger observes, there is a difference between the
two examples of (74'b). The uncontracted (not a little) form, as a stereo-
typed (short-circuited) instance of the rhetorical device of litotes within
the formal register, need not be triggered by a previous utterance. But the
contracted form (I didn't eat a little) normally requires a prior discourse
context (and often a rectification); the sequence of auxiliary negation + a
little is
not normally found in utterances of first instance, but in response
to real or imagined utterances already containing the item in ques-
tion, which is then thrown into contrast:
6.4 Three Diagnostics 401
'Were you a little worried?'
'I wasn't a little worried, my friend; I was worried sick.'
(Bolinger 1972: 122)
Thus, while a little-unlike a bit-is normally a PPI, it can be used as a
metalinguistic negation, resulting in what Bolinger elsewhere (1952: 1123)
characterizes as SECOND-INSTANCE SENTENCES, used for 'setting someone
right' who had 'mistakenly asserted' something else, or (I might add) as-
serted the same thing in a mistaken way.
Notice, however, that this nonconventionalized, second-instance use of
negated a little is not restricted to the 'more than' interpretation cited by
Bolinger. If you tell me that I seem a little tired, I can reply 'I am not
a little tired (J'm just thinking)' as well as 'I'm not a little tired, {J'm ex-
haustedlinfact J'm not at all tired}. But this property is not restricted to a
little in particular, or to the diminishers in general. Just as the minimizers,
the minimum-quantity constructions in (73), represent the broadest and
most productive class of NPIs in English and numerous other languages
(cf. Horn 1978a: §2 and chapter 7 below for additional examples and refer-
ences), the most productive class of positive polarity items consists of the
qualifiers and mild intensifiers which Stoffel (1901) dubs DOWN-TONERS
and Bolinger COMPROMISERS: fairly, pretty, rather, somewhat, sort of, tol-
erably, and their ilk. These are degree adverbs whose lower bound is above
that of the minimizers but below that of the intensifiers I explored in §5.3
(too, very, overly). The members of this category, as exemplified in (75),
do not ordinarily take well to negation:23
(75) a. He is {prettyI somewhatlratherI sort ofI kind of} tired
(ill, tall).
b. ??He isn't {prettyI somewhat!ratherI sort ofI kind of} tired
(ill, tall).
The negations in (75b) become more plausible when the context permits
a metalinguistic interpretation. One environment for such 'echo contradic-
tories', as Bolinger (1972: 124) calls them, is of course in direct denials of
the corresponding positive utterance, as in (75'):
(75') a. He isn't {pretty/somewhatlrather} tall-he's humongous.
b. 'Still', Edwin concludes, 'I did rather like him, didn't you?'
'No,' Vinnie says ... 'I didn't "rather like Chuck", if you
want to know. I loved him'. (from Alison Lurie's novel,
Foreign Affairs, p. 420) .
But the same metalinguistic reading, for these and other examples of PPIs,
can also be triggered by the kind ofstatement exemplified in (76), where the
speaker uses the negative ironically to hint at the corresponding positive:
402 Metalinguistic Negation
(76) a. You aren't {slightly/just the
least bit} tipsy, are you?
b. The salmon isn't just a wee
bit off, is it?
(= You are ... , aren't you)
(= It is, isn't it)
c. You wouldn't be {sort off
kind of} letting me
down easy?
(= You are, aren't you)
It is also worth noting that like descriptive negation, metalinguistic
negation may be conventionally expressed by a morphologically affir-
mative expression.24 And just as a superficially absent descriptive negation
triggers NPls-indeed, even strict NPls (cf. the discussion of I'll be
damned if and its Japanese analogues in §5.3)-metalinguistic negation,
whether or not it is overtly expressed, is compatible only with PPls:
(77) a. Like hell, I {still love you/*love you anymore}.
b. Like fudge, he's {already washed up/*washed up yet}.
6.4.3 Two Buts about Negation
One more correlate of the metalinguistic/descriptive split I am claiming
for natural language negation can be found in the distribution of concessive
and contrastive but conjunctions. We have seen that metalinguistic uses of
negation tend to occur in contrastive environments, either across speakers
in a given discourse context or within a single speaker's contribution, and
the English representation par excellence of contrast is but. The archetypal
frame for metalinguistic negation is the not X but Y construction, function-
ing as a single constituent within a sentence.25 This construction provides a
straightforward way to reject X (on any grounds) and to offer Y as its ap-
propriate rectification. As with other forms of metalinguistic negation, it is
irrelevant whether or not the rejected utterance [... X ...Jin fact ex-
pressed a true proposition.
As we have observed, this frame provides a favored type of opposition
within the synoptic Gospels of the New Testament:
(7S) Do not store up your riches on earth, where moths and rust de-
stroy them ... but store up your riches in heaven....
I tell you not to resist injury, but if anyone strikes you on your
right cheek, turn the other to him too.
Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have
not come to bring peace but a sword.
Bald (1971: 10) cites several examples of this construction culled from
Quirk's corpus, including those in (7S'):
6.4 Three Diagnostics 403
(7S') a. The apostles are not great men, but men filled with the Holy
Spirit.
b. Their main business is not to survive, but to do well.
c. This is not mere convention, ... but a consideration of a
problem of reality.
d. He is not 'drab' but 'golden'.
As Bald observes, the rectification may not occur overtly, in which case the
'incompleteness' of what I am calling the metalinguistic understanding of
not will still be 'made explicit through intonation' , that is, the fall-rise (for
which Bald employs the same notation as Ladd: This is not mere convven-
non). But while Bald is correct in pointing out that the construction in (7S')
typically involves a contrast between two items from a given class which
figure as alternatives within a given context, whence the oddity of (7S"b) as
against (7S"a), he does not observe that semantic kinship is not a necessary
criterion for the establishment of such contrast sets, as shown by misper-
ception repairs like (7S"c):
(7S") a. The plate is not red but green.
b. *The plate is not hot but green.
c. The plate is not 'hot' but 'hard'.
(Bald 1971 :26)
In some cases, the syntax requires that the rectification be overtly ex-
pressed. That is, not X but Y may occur in syntactic frames (e.g., nominal-
internally and postverbally) where not X may not:26
(79) a. We have {?not three children/not three but four children/not
three children but four}.
b. Negation is ambiguous {*not semantically/not semantically
but pragmatically}.
c. {*Not John/Not John but Mary} supports the family. (from
Klima 1964: 302)
d. I saw {*not Chris/not Chris but Pat}.
A particularly striking example of a metalinguistic negation which could
not occur without its but rectification appears in reviewer Elizabeth Stone's
explanation of why it is that for Jessie-the protagonist of Marsha Nor-
man's play 'night, Mother-suicide counts as a positive act expressing not
despair but autonomy:
(SO) Not she chooses to die, but she chooses to die.
Like my earlier Anglo-American example (64b), (SO) can only be a
graphemic contradiction if the negation is taken truth-functionally.
It should be observed that, while the not X but Y construction appears
to function as a single constituent-and, within it, not X but as a sub-
404 Metalinguistic Negation
constituent (cf. Klima 1964; Gates and Seright 1967)-it may often be
paraphrased by a metalinguistic negation which is contracted onto the pre-
ceding copula or auxiliary element:
(79') a. We don't have three children, but four. (cf. (79a))
b. Negation isn't ambiguous semantically, but pragmatically.
(cf. (79b))
There are, in fact, two alternative canonical forms for rectifying a meta-
linguistic negation, and one canonical form for not doing so. Consider the
following paradigm:
(81) a.
b.
It isn't hot, but scalding. (= It is not hot but scalding)
It isn't hot-it's scalding.
c. #It isn't hot, but it's scalding.
As in the related scalar examples in §6.3, hot is rejected here on the
grounds that the predication it would yield (or yielded, earlier in the dis-
course frame), though true, is too weak. This interpretation is possible with
but (as in (81a)), with a rectified full clause (as in (81b)), but not with both
(as in (81c)). In effect, the relevant ('rather') reading of but renders gap-
ping obligatory. The syntax of (81c) forces an interpretation on which
but functions as a true sentential connective (rather than a rectifier, as in
(78)-(81b)), and the negation as an ordinary descriptive operator.
The pragmatic deviance of (81c) on the descriptive reading of the nega-
tive stems, of course, from the fact that-given that anything scalding is
also (at least) hot-it is inconsistent to assert of anything that it is scalding,
yet not hot; crucially, the felicitous utterer of (81a, b) makes no such asser-
tion. Similarly, the metalinguistic understanding of (82a, b) disappears
with the unreduced syntax of the but clause in (82c) (recall the paradigm of
(44) in the last section):
(82) a. We don't have three children { but four. }
b. -we have four.
c. #but we (do) have four.
When such sentential but conjunctions are acceptable as descriptive ('less
than') negations, they tend to be assigned the intonation contour character-
isticofconc~ ~
(83) a. We don't have three children, but we do have two. (#but we
do have four)
~~
b. It isn't hot, but it is warm. (#but it is scalding)
- -- ~
----
c. Negation isn't ambiguous semantically, but it is pragmati-
~
cally.
6.4 Three Diagnostics 405
The acceptability contrast in (83a, b) hinges on what can count as a conces-
sion. The appearance of supportive (and apparently emphatic) do in (83a)
and the stress on the auxiliary (as well as on the two underlined focal
peaks) in (83a-c) are additional correlates of the concessive but clause.28
In the light of the differentiation of fall-rise n from straight fall (') in
Ladd 1980 and other work on intonation (cf. §4.3), in minimal pairs like
that in (84B) vs. (84B'),
(84) A: Do you love me?
B: I 'like you.
B': I a'dore you.
the concessive structure in (83), exemplifying descriptive negation, is
readily distinguished from the pattern in (81) and (82), exemplifying meta-
linguistic negation + rectification. The difference will involve not the first
clause (which in both cases employs fall-rise) but the second:
(85) a. It isn't 'hot, but it 'is 'warm.
I don't (quite) 'love you, but I ('do) 'like
you.
I didn't 'eat any apples, but I 'did 'sniff one. [note NPI any]
b. It isn't 'hot, (#but) it's 'scalding.
I don't (just) 'love you, (#but) I a'dore you.
I didn't 'eat some apples-(#but-)-I- [note PPI some]
de'voured them.
The now-you-see-it-now-you-don't character of but in these paradigms is
hardly a new discovery about English or, as we shall see, about other lan-
guages. Gates and Seright (1967) touch on the distribution of but in their
study of what they call NEGATIVE-CONTRASTIVE constructions.29 As we
have seen, we can paraphrase the metalinguistic-rectification formula not
Xbut Y as Y (#but) not X, while Y but not X can only be read as a descrip-
tive negation.30
This point is implicit for Gates and Seright, who provide
the minimal pairs in (86):
(86) a. They had heard, but not seen, the intruder.
a'. They had run, (#but) not walked, to the
station.
b. He approached cautiously, but not
furtively.
b'. He approached slowly, (#but) not
quickly.
[= not walked,
but run]
[= not quickly,
but slowly]
In each case, negation is used descriptively (in my terms) in the unprimed
example and metalinguistically in its primed counterpart. I can add the ad-
406 Metalinguistic Negation
jectival pair below to fill out the paradigm; note in the light of my earlier
discussion that the negation in the not X but Y version cannot be prefiXally
incorporated.
(87) a. He is resigned, but not happy.
b. He is sad, (#but) not happy. [= {not happyI # unhappy}
but sad]
I have claimed that negation bears two distinct functions in natural lan-
guage. The evidence I have been considering here suggests that there are
two distinct functions for but as well. But here, the cross-linguistic evi-
dence supports the hypothesis that there is a lexical rather than merely a
pragmatic ambiguity involved. As discussed by Tobler (1896) and, in more
detail, by Melander (1916), a language may either (as with English) con-
tain one adversative particle with two functions or (as with German) dis-
play two particles differentiated for these two functions.3'
The first function, to paraphrase Melander, is that of modifying or re-
stricting the idea set forth in the preceding clause, which mayor may not
be negative; German aber and Swedish men illustrate this type of conjunc-
tion. The second function is that of excluding or suppressing the idea set
forth in the preceding clause, which in this case must contain negation;
German sondern and Swedish utan fill this role. Spanish pero and sino
differ in essentially the same way, as observed by Anscombre and Ducrot
(1977), as do Finnish mutta and vaan (cf. Whitney 1956).32 But if German,
Swedish, Spanish, and Finnish distinguish two buts, English does not-
nor does French, the focus of attention on the part of Tobler and Melander
(cf. also Anscombre and Ducrot 1977; Ducrot and Vogt 1979).
While Classical Latin employed autem for modification and sedfor exclu-
sion or modification, the comparative particle magis eventually subsumed
both of these functions.33
Its Old French heir was employed consistently to
signal modification, and often for exclusion as well. In the former (= aber)
use, as 'mais modifiant' (Tobler's 'einschrankender mais'), it stood alone;
in the latter (= sondern) use, as 'mais excluant' (Tobler's 'ersetzender
mais'), it competed with, and eventually prevailed over, the particle ains
(ainz, an~ois), whose rise and fall are chronicled by Melander, Sturel
(1908), and Antoine (1952: 1114-57).
Let us follow Anscombre and Ducrot (1977) in distinguishing these two
functions of mais clauses as PA (for perol aber) and SN (for sondern Isino),
respectively. What we find in the historical records, as Tobler and Melander
show, is that maisPA occurs in full clauses after positive or negative propo-
sitions, while maissN-from the earlier period on-occurs only in reduced
(gapped) clauses, immediately after negation.34
6.4 Three Diagnostics 407
While ains barely survived into the seventeenth century, when it was
already being dismissed by prescriptivists as 'un vieil mot, qui ne vaut
rien', the semantic differentiation between mais and ains, Sturel (1908:
385) points out, enabled the latter to function with 'un sens analogue a
celui de l'allemand sondern', while retaining for mais the 'nuance ety-
mologique' of magis. In the older language, the semantics of the adver-
satives leads to different collocation properties; we find ains au contraire
and ains seuiement, on the one hand, and mais pourtant, mais cependant,
mais neanmoins, on the other. With the loss of the distinction, mais now
co-occurs with both the 'on the contrary, rather' (SN) and the 'yet, how-
ever, nevertheless' (PA)-type adverbs (Antoine 1952: 1143).
But, as pointed out by Tobler and Melander and-apparently indepen-
dently of them and of each other-by both Lang (1977) and Anscombre
and Ducrot (1977), maisPA and maisSN remain distinct in their semantic and
distributional properties, even if the morphological distinction has col-
lapsed. The syntactic diagnostics are those I have already traced: maisPA
occurs (like aber and pero) in full clauses after negative or positive propo-
sitions and collocates with cependant, neanmoins, pourtant, en revanche,
or par contre, while maisSN appears (like sondern and sino) only in re-
duced clauses after unincorporated negation and collocates with au con-
traire or, in familiar style, meme que.
The negation in the neg-P SN Qconstruction must be overt and the entire
sequence must represent a single speech act (cf. Lang 1977: 237; An-
scombre and Ducrot 1977:25ff.). Anscombre and Ducrot provide the ex-
amples in (88), in which Q is presented as the motivation for rejecting P,
and the negation is interpreted as 'polemic' (i.e., metalinguistic).35
(88) S: Eso {no es conscientel#es inconsciente}, sino totalmente
automatico.
G: Das ist {nicht bewusstl #unbewusst}, sondern ganz
automatisch.
F: {Ce n'est pas conscientl #c'est inconscient}, mais totalement
automatique.
'It's {not consciousI # unconscious} but (rather) totally
automatic'
But the (neg-)P PA Q construction necessarily involves the descriptive
use of negation (when a negative is present, that is; unlike SN, PA is not
restricted to follow negation). Here, following Anscombre and Ducrot's
exposition (cf. also Ducrot and Vogt 1979), P and Q must have the same
'argumentative orientation' within a given scale, and P must be 'argumen-
tatively superior' to Q (cf. §4.4 above on argumentative, quantitative, and
pragmatic scales). Thus we get (89), but not (90):
408 Metalinguistic Negation
(89) S: No es cierto, pero es probable.
G: Das ist nicht sicher, aber das ist wahrscheinlich.
F: Ce n'est pas certain, maisPA c'est (pourtant) probable.
'It's not certain, but it is probable' [cf. (83), (85a)]
(90) S: # No es probable, pero es cierto.
G: # Das ist nicht wahrscheinlich, aber das ist sicher.
F: #Ce n'est pas probable, maisPA c'est (pourtant) certain.
'#It's not probable, but it is certain' [cf. (83), (85b)]
Crucially, as Anscombre and Ducrot (1977) and Lang point out, maisSN
clauses block incorporated negation in the 'corrigendum' and trigger re-
duction in the 'corrigens', although paratactic SN clauses can (and indeed
must) be unreduced.36
Anscombre and Ducrot (1977:35-36) demonstrate
this pattern with the paradigms in (91) and (92):
(91) 11 n'est pas grand { mais sN tres grand. }
-il est tres grand.
#mais il est tres grand.
'He's not tall, { but very tall }
-he's very tall
# but he's very tall
(92) 11 {n'est pas intelligent!#est 'He's {not intelligent!
inintelligent}, mais seule- #unintelligent} but just
ment bficheur. a grind'.
As I have already amply signaled, the distinction between the two types
of adversative conjunctions manifested overtly in German, Swedish, and
Spanish and covertly in French is attested in English as well.37
My earlier
examples which can be classed as instances of butpA include (83), (85a),
(86a, b), (87a), and the glosses to (89); instances of butsN include those in
(78)-(82), (85b), (86a', b'), (87b), and the glosses to (88), (91), and (92).
And Anscombre and Ducrot's conclusion (1977: 40) that the PA connective
represents a semantic coordinator and the SN connective (whether or not
the two are lexically distinct) a semantic subordinator is reminiscent of
Gates and Seright's (1967) similar characterization of the two uses of En-
glish but.38
Indeed, the hypothesis that English contains both aber- and sondern-
type buts, made explicitly by Bald (1971: 10) and Welte (1978: 193), is
implicit in the OED's entry under that conjunction, where we find (in
abridged form) the following: 39
(93) but23: 'on the contrary = Ger. sondern' [all examples follow
negation] 'appending a statement contrary to, or incompatible
6.4 Three Diagnostics 409
with, one that is negatived.... In a compound sentence the
second member is often greatly contracted-Thou hast not
lied unto men, but (thou hast lied) unto God'
but24: 'nevertheless, yet, however = Ger. aber'
but25: 'however, on the other hand, moreover, yet'
It is clear that the OED's but23 is butsN, while both but24
and but25
(the
distinction between which is not entirely clear to me) map onto butPA •
My #'d examples from English (like the parallel examples from French)
are ruled out because they are simultaneously disambiguated in both direc-
tions by their syntax and/or context of utterance and hence cannot be as-
signed either PA or SN reading felicitously. But the concessive PA examples
are worth examining a bit more closely. Sentence (83) exemplifies the
usual pattern: two scalar terms are juxtaposed in the construction (neg-)P
PA Q, with P taken to be a stronger element than Q on a given scale. In the
simple cases, such scales can be defined by unilateral entailment: four is
stronger than three because any simple affirmation with the scalar element
four entails the corresponding proposition with three, but not vice versa.
The scale on which scalding, hot, and warm are situated and which is im-
plicitly invoked in (81), (83b), and (85) can be similarly defined (cf. §4.4
for details).
But as we also saw in my earlier discussion of quantitative scales, the
requisite notion of scale is far wider than logical or semantic entailment
alone can accommodate. The entailment cases are special instances of what
is more broadly a pragmatic relation defined as much by knowledge and
beliefs about the world that are (assumed to be) shared by the speech par-
ticipants as it is by the language itself (cf. Ducrot 1973; Fauconnier 1975a,
1975b, 1979a; and §4.4 above).
In this light, consider these additional examples of well-formed and ill-
formed concessive butpA conjunctions:
(94) a. I don't have my master's degree, but I do have my
{bachelor's/ # doctorate}. -
(95)
b. I wasn't born in L.A., but {I did spend a few years there.}
#1 was born in New York.
(rather) in New York. [OK
on SN reading]
c. 'Of course it isn't cotton, but it ~ cottony soft'. (commercial
for Cottonelle toilet paper)
He isn't handsome, but he is {rich/presentable/a Catholic/a
- linguist}.
{#ugly/?#mean}.
410 Metalinguistic Negation
In the well-formed concessive examples of (94), it is still relatively straight_
forward to construct a scale on which the negated element outranks the
item being affirmed. In (95), however, the concessive pattern expands to
admit a case in which the two elements in opposition do not stand in an
obvious scalar relation, but they do occur as fellow members of an im-
plicitly evoked set of attributes. The examples in (95) might be para-
phrased as, for example, He isn't handsome and rich, but (at least) he
is rich.
Bearing in mind that concessive clauses are marked by a fall-rise con-
tour (cf. (83) above), the examples in (94) and (95) fall into place if we
recall Ladd's insightful characterization of the meaning associated with
fall-rise (Ladd 1980: 153; cf. §4.3 above). Why is it, Ladd asks, that in the
exchange in (96),
(96) A: Did you feed the animals?
B: I fed the Vcat.
B 'clearly implies that he didn't feed the dog (or whatever)?' The key is the
'focus in a given set' meaning conventionally associated (as a conventional
implicature?) with fall-rise. What (96B) contributes to the discourse con-
text is thus 'I fed something [focus presupposition] from a set of things in
the context [fall-rise nuance] and it was the cat [assertion]'. But, as Ladd
also observes, the hierarchy evoked in (96), that is, (97),
animals-from A's utterance
/ \
(97)
dog, etc. cat-from B's utterance
can also be invoked by the previous mention of a cohyponym:
(98) A: What would you think of getting a dog?
B: A Vcat maybe.
Notice that Ladd's examples can be approximately translated into con-
cessives, at the price of rendering explicit what had been implicit in the
earlier exchanges:
(96') I didn't feed the vanimals Call the animals), but I Vdid feed the cat.
(98') I don't think {IIwe} should get a Vdog, but {I1we} Vmight con-
sider a cat.
By the same token, my earlier concessives can be elucidated within Ladd's
framework. Given that cats are animals (but not vice versa), and that the
speaker has, and is known to have, a cat, the fall-rise in (96) and (96')
works off the (unilateral) entailment in (96"); the concessive in (94c) de-
pends on the parallel entailment in (99):
6.4 Three Diagnostics 411
(96") X fed the animals II- X fed the cat
(99) Y is cotton II- Y feels cottony soft
Similarly, being handsome and being rich (as in (95)) can be taken as sub-
cases of desirable qualities, just as getting a dog and getting a cat (as in
(98) and (98')) are subcases of getting a pet.
Concessive structures of the form neg-P PA Q do seem to be unaccept-
able when the affirmation of Q is judged incompatible with the negation of
p, whether this is because it constitutes a stronger item on the same scale
(as in (81c), (82c), and (94a)), because P and Q are incompossible non-
scalar expressions (e.g., being born in L.A. and being born in New York in
(94b); but see discussion below), or because it is simply too mind-boggling
to construct the superset of which the two items in question function as
fellow members (e.g., the set of attributes containing handsome and mean
for (95)). Even in the unlikely but attested example in (100),
(100) Tipping is not so common in Nepal. Tipping is not compUlsory
but it is obligatory. (Nepal Travel Companion, by S. D. Bista
and Y. R. Satyal, cited in the New Yorker, 19 July 1982)
we infer that Messrs. Bista and Satyal are assuming a scale on which com-
pulsory somehow outranks obligatory-that is, where anything compul-
sory is ipso facto obligatory, but not vice versa.
In fact, however, even the #-daubed examples can be rendered accept-
able to the extent that ingenuity permits construction of the relevant prag-
matic scale. Let us suppose that you have announced that you are looking
for people with three children (to study the effects of large families, for
example, or to offer them aid and solace). If I assume that my having four
children qualifies me almost as well (or even better!) for your interests, I
can nominate myself by uttering the now redeemed (82c) (I don't have
three children, but I do have four).
Let us now turn to the infelicity of the latter version of (94b). Abbott
(1972), citing some unpublished observations of Charles Fillmore, consid-
ers the related examples in (101):
(101) a.
b.
John was born, not in Boston, but in Philadelphia.
# John was born in Philadelphia, but not in Boston.
c. (#)John wasn't born in Boston, but he was born in
Philadelphia.
While (lOla) is good on the SN reading forced by the constituent negation
(cf. (79)), the syntax of (101b, c) forces the PA interpretation, the former
because its first clause lacks negation, and the latter because its second
clause is unreduced and contains an overt but. As Fillmore and Abbott
q
""·,h""",,,,,,d,c,,.}fo';Y; 31
I
412 Metalinguistic Negation
note, (lOlb) suggests the (unsatisfiable) expectation that John could have
been born in both Philadelphia and Boston, while (lOle) seems to have 'an
associated assumption that there is a scale connected with places to be born
in, and that Boston represents a more extreme point on that scale than Phil-
adelphia' (Abbott 1972: 19). For me, one context which renders (lOlc) ac-
ceptable by commissioning the construction of just such a scale is the
following: a casting director for a school play in a small town in Iowa or
Mississippi, needing a fifth-grader to portray JFK, is being persuaded to
settle for the only East Coaster in the class.
Of course if either the nonfocused material he was born or the conjunc-
tion but itself is deleted from (lOlc), we obtain the SN reading which, as in
(lOla), needs no special context:
(lOlc') John wasn't born in Boston, {but/he was born} in Philadelphia.
Auxiliary negation allows both the PA reading (as in (lOlc» and the SN
reading (as in (l01c'», depending on the syntax of the second clause (and
on the intonation contour), while postauxiliary constituent negation can
only be taken metalinguistically and is thus incompatible with the con-
cessive PA reading. (As we shall see in §6.6, the same pattern obtains
in other languages, including French, Russian, and Hindi.) Thus, while
(lOlc) is the PA version of (lOlc'), the latter's postauxiliary-negated para-
phrase (lOla) has no acceptable PA counterpart.
(lOle") #John was born not in Boston, but he was born in Philadelphia.
As seen in my reconsideration of (82c), the requisite pragmatic scale
may force an inversion of the ordinary semantically based (entailment-
generated) scale involving the same elements. Thus, too, the #-marked
version of (94a) becomes acceptable if the speaker feels that the inter-
locutor is looking essentially for someone with a graduate degree, re-
gardless of level, rather than specifically someone with a master's degree.
Similarly, (102) is implausible in isolation, since it seems to allude to a
rank ordering on which a private outranks a corporal.
(l02) #He isn't a private, but he is a corporal.
Yet just such an ordering can be constructed if the context is fleshed out in
the right way: the Colonel has ordered the Lieutenant to find a private to
blame for a recent debacle. The Lieutenant reports back to the Colonel:
(102') I've found a soldier we can volunteer for that last mission, sir.
He isn't a private, but he is a corporal. Will he do, sir?
Note that in this same context, the scalar terms almost, barely, not even,
and so forth, reverse their normal distribution (He's almost a private; He's
6.5 Other Approaches 413
a corporal, ifnot a PFC), helping to confirm this ad hoc inversion of the
standard rank ordering. Inspection seems to indicate that similar unusual
(if not outlandish) contexts can be constructed to rescue the unacceptable
PA/concessive examples from my earlier discussion, including those bor-
rowed from Anscombre and Ducrot.
The English examples considered here are consistent with Anscombre
and Ducrot's thesis that the negation which (optionally) figures in the con-
cessive PA constructions is necessarily descriptive, while the negation re-
quired by the SN environments is typically understood as metalinguistic.
Thus the contrast between the SN and PA types of but constructions in lan-
guages like English and French-as well as (if more subtly than) in lan-
guages like Spanish, German, Swedish, and Finnish-constitutes another
diagnostic for metalinguistic vs. descriptive uses of negation.
6.5 Other Approaches to Metalinguistic Negation
6.5.1 Truth, TRUE, and Negation
As I have noted, the Kroch-Linebarger line on negative statements treats
external negation as an ordinary truth-functional negative operator applied
to a semantic TRUE operator predicated directly within its scope. Seeking to
explain the unacceptability of negative polarity items in contexts like (103),
(103) a. *She did not lift a finger to help.
b. *We did not get up until 12:00.
read with rising 'denial' intoQation, Linebarger (l98l :35) cites Kroch's
definition of 'external negation' as 'a "metalinguistic" usage in which the
negative sentence NOT S does not directly comment on the state of affairs
but instead denies the truth of the statement S previously uttered or im-
plied. Sentence-external negation can be paraphrased as "The sentence S
is not true"'. Linebarger proposes to formalize this account of meta-
linguistic external negation by representing the logical form of the 'denial'
readings of (l03) as in (103'):
(103') a. NOT TRUE (she lifted a finger to help) ...
b. NOT TRUE (we got up until 12:00) ...
What rules these out as possible well-formed formulas is that the NPIs lift
a jinge: .and until are no longer within the immediate scope of negation,
~us fatlID~ to meet what is for Linebarger a necessary (though not suffi-
cient) condition for the acceptability of the relevant type of polarity trigger.
In the same fashion, Linebarger (p. 36ff.) notes, the ill-formedness of
414 Metalinguistic Negation
(104) is correctly predicted by assigning it the 'external' representation
(104'):
(104) *The king of France didn't contribute one red cent, because
there is no king of France.
(104') NOT TRUE (the king of France contributed one red cent)...
One question raised by this characterization of marked negation is that,
as we have seen at some length in earlier chapters, investigators as diverse
as Leibniz, Hegel and the neo-Hegelians, Bergson, Wittgenstein, Wason,
Ducrot, and Giv6n, have taken all instances of negation-including those
of the NPI-triggering internal variety-as representing a way to deny, in
Kroch's words, 'the truth of the statement S previously uttered or implied'.
Whether or not some such characterization of (descriptive) negation can
be maintained, and if so which one (cf. §3.3), it is not clear how this line
can serve as a way to differentiate Linebarger's versions of internal and
external negation. In any event, a distinct problem remains for the Kroch-
Linebarger position. I have highlighted many cases which pose insur-
mountable difficulties for any theory in which the special metalinguistic
negation exemplified in (103) and (104) is directly associated with a denial
of truth. It hardly seems plausible, for example, to analyze (13a) (Some
men aren't chauvinists-all men are chauvinists) in terms of a Line-
bargerian representation like that in (105):
(105) NOT TRUE (some men are chauvinists)...
Nor does this approach fare any better when applied to my examples of
metalinguistic rejections of the register, grammar, phonetics, or Weltan-
schauung associated with an earlier utterance.
Even in the more clearly semantically based examples of conventional
implicata considered by Karttunen and Peters (1979), such as (8) (Chris
didn't manage to solve the problem-it was quite easy for him), we en-
counter a similar problem. An analysis of this external or contradiction
negation along the lines of the Linebarger model yields (106):
(106) NOT TRUE (Chris managed to solve the problem)...
Yet, as Karttunen and Peters observe, the simplest truth-conditional ac-
count of sentences like (8) is one in which the proposition corresponding to
the parenthesized material in (106) is indeed true in any state of affairs in
which Chris solved the problem.
Metalinguistic negation, as we have seen, is used to deny or object to
any aspect of a previous utterance-from the conventional or conversa-
tional implicata that may be associated with it to its syntactic, morpho-
6.5 Other Approaches 415
logical, or phonetic form. There can be no justification for inserting an
operator TRUE into the logical form for a certain subclass of marked nega-
tive sentences, in order for negation to able to focus on it, if metalinguistic
negation does not in principle have to do with truth conditions.
Perhaps in these cases of non-truth-functional negation, we could try
placing the negative operator outside the scope of a semantic operator
dubbed APPROPRIATE or CORRECT, rather than TRUE. But this solution
merely shifts the problem back one step, given that metalinguistic nega-
tion-unlike ordinary descriptive negation, or the so-called external nega-
tion adopted in different guises by classical and multivalued logicians and
by Kroch and Linebarger-is simply not an operator (truth-functional or
otherwise) on propositions. Thus, representations like (107a) are essen-
tially as inadequate as (107b):
(107) a. NOT {APPROPRIATE/CORRECT} (p)
b. NOT TRUE (p)
for the full range of cases under consideration here, given that those as-
pects of the utterance which metalinguistic negation is used to focus on
may have nothing to do with the proposition expressed by that utterance.
Conventional implicata or presuppositions may be analyzed as attributes
(albeit non-truth-conditional attributes) of propositions; but conversational
implicata, and-a fortiori-morphological and phonetic form, register,
and so on, cannot be coherently treated in this way.
This key difference between descriptive and metalinguistic negation pro-
vides th~ most serious problem for the over-Occamistic claim of the strong
monogulsts that all uses of negation can be assimilated to one truth-
functional analysis. It must not be overlooked that marked negation differs
from descriptive negation not only phonologically, morphologically, and
syntactically, but also in semantic function. In particular, metalinguistic
negation, as an extralogical operator, plays no straightforward role with
respect to such key laws of inference as double negation and modus tol-
lendo ponens (MTP).
As a result, these laws would be unstatable if all uses of negation were to
be treated identically. If we chose to tar descriptive negation with the same
brush as metalinguistic negation, we could no longer draw such basic in-
ferences as those in (108):
(l08) a. I didn't manage to solve the problem.
:. I didn't solve the problem. (cf. (8), (14»
b. Maggie isn't either patriotic or quixotic.
:. Maggie isn't patriotic. (cf. (63a), (64a»
416 Metalinguistic Negation
In the same vein, Wilson (1975: 149), citing disjunctive denials of the
type earlier noted by Grice (cf. §6.2.2 above), observes that the two
clauses of (109) seem to constitute premises in a disjunctive syllogism, that
is, (l09').
(109) The next Prime Minister won't be Heath: it will be Heath or
Wilson.
(109') -p
pvq
:. q (via MTP)
Yet we don't in practice actually infer q-that is, The next Prime Minister
will be Wilson-from an assertion of (109). Instances of descriptive nega-
tion, however, do license MTP: if I know that Heath or Wilson has been
elected, and I hear Heath conceding on the BBC, I do conclude that Wilson
(Harold, not Deirdre) was the winner. In short, forcing all instances of
negation into a single Procrustean bed-however skillfully the bed may
have been designed-accomplishes little beyond playing Pandar to some
rather odd theoretical bedfellows.
But if metalinguistic uses of negation involve denial of assertability,
rather than of truth, why is it that the syntax used to express this use of
negation often seems to bring in some explicit reference to what is (and is
not) true? Recall that in my discussion of (44b), Max doesn't have three
children-he hasfour, I argued that negation attaches metalinguistically to
the conversational implicatum associated with the utterance of Max has
three children, rather than descriptively to the proposition expressed by
that utterance. But some speakers can also get (1lOa), and sentences like
(llOb-d) are also heard and interpreted without undue difficulty.
(110) a. It isn't true that Max has three children-he has four.
b. It's not {true/the case} that some men are chauvinists-all
men are chauvinists!
c. It's not so that the next Prime Minister will be Heath: it will
be Heath or Wilson.
d. It's not the case that if X is given penicillin he will get better;
it might very well have no effect on him at all. (= (31')
above, from Grice 1967: lecture 5, p. 5)
Does this mean we're on the wrong track? Do these examples involve a
semantic external truth negation after all-so that, Occam to the contrary
notwithstanding, we must acknowledge that conditionals, disjunctions,
and weak scalar predications are all semantically ambiguous? No. Rather,
what these sentences show is that the distribution of the English expres-
6.5 Other Approaches 417
sions It is true that, It is the case that, and It is so that-and their cross-
linguistic counterparts-is a poor guide at best as to where the logical
predicate TRUE is to be applied in the simplest, most elegant semantic/
pragmatic theory of natural language meaning and communication. (Cf.
Walker 1975: 138-40 for a similar point.)
We often say that something isn't true, meaning that it isn't felicitously
assertable. This is not always possible: thus it strikes me as odd to insert
true into those metalinguistic negations hinging on grammar, speech level,
or phonetics:
(111) a. ?#It's not true that I [miY:mijd] to solve the problem-I
[mrenijd] to solve the problem.
b. ?#It's not true that I managed to trap two mongeese-I
managed to trap two mongooses. - -
c. ?#It's not the case that the dog shat on the carpet-he defe-
cated on it. -- - -
d. ?#Ce n'est pas vrai que j'ai 'coo-pay Luh vee-and'-(ce qui
est vrai, c'est que) j'ai coupe La viande.
It is true that the implicature-canceling examples of (110) remain problem-
atic. But it is no less true that, in ordinary language, we often seem to be
(literally) denying or ascribing truth to a given proposition when the
simplest theory would represent us as doing something else entirely.
For one case in point, I can adapt the earlier Wilsonian example (24):
(112) It's not true that they had a baby and got married-they got
married and had a baby.
Here the self-proclaimed truth negation focuses on an aspect of the use of
conjunction, which, as we have seen (in n. 10), can be convincingly argued
to be non-truth-conditional and in fact outside the domain of meaning
proper: the interpretation of and in certain contexts as and then.
For an even more clear-cut (and more personal) example, I turn to some
evidence involving the extended use of true in a nonnegative context. Sev-
eral years ago, I was awakened for a pragmatics class I was teaching by the
sound of my G.E. clock-radio cheerfully dispensing reveille:
(113)
,II;)2lpJl))J!llih1lpJ!ljll11VJWIJ JI
After the familiar tune faded out, the announcer commented, 'Yes, it's
true, it ~ time to wake up'. Now, what has been asserted to be true here?
418 Metalinguistic Negation
The proposition (abbreviated) in (113)? Hardly: there is no Proposition
there, just a bunch of notes in search of a bugle.40 Rather, the playing of
reveille, given certain nonlinguistic conventions in our culture, can be per-
formed (and is conventionally performed) with the intention of indirectly
conveying the proposition that it is time for the reluctant hearer to awaken.
It is this conveyed proposition which is being called true; the prior indirect
assertion of this proposition is further illustrated by the anaphoric destress_
ing in the radio announcer's utterance.41
Parallel to the conjunction and reveille examples just discussed is the
phenomenon induced by rhetorical questions of the type which Sadock
(1971) has labeled QUECLARATIVES, sentences of interrogative form but
assertive force (cf. also §5.3). Notice that the true and so of B's alternate
responses in (114) can only be directed at the proposition indirectly (but
conventionally) conveyed by A:
(114) A: Who the hell buys that cockamamy line about pragmatic
ambiguity?
B: (1) Yes, that's true. (= Nobody does)
(2) No, that's not necessarily so; there might be something
to it.
Unlike the conjunction in (112), the queclarative case (like reveille) cannot
survive embedding:
(115) a. I guess I'll have to settle for polyester, because where the
hell can you find a 100 percent cotton jumpsuit anymore?
b. *It's not true that where the hell can you find a 100 percent
cotton jumpsuit anymore.
But this is presumably caused by syntactic factors: neither bugle tunes nor
wh-moved questions normally occur embedded.42
In effect, the readings of
the type described here constitute a root or main clause phenomenon in the
sense of Emonds 1976 and Green 1976; hence the tension in (115) between
because (whose status as a coordinator is borne out by interaction with
other root phenomena) and the subordinating complementizer that. Cru-
cially, however, what is being negated or affirmed, agreed with or dis-
agreed with, in (114B) is not the question in (114A)-which, like the tune
in (113), has no obvious truth value as such (but see Karttunen and Peters
1976)-but rather the proposition which A is taken to have pragmatically
conveyed.
In its use as a validity assessor, the predicate true often picks out, not the
entire proposition expressed by a previous utterance, but some subassertion
within it. Ifyou solemnly announce I hereby state (declare, announce) that
6.5 Other Approaches 419
. the performative hypothesis is dead, I can reply That's (not) true, intending
(unless I'm a neo-Jesuit-cf. Fauconnier 1979b) that my agreement or dis-
agreement is to be applied to your embedded clause (--> It's not all that
dead), rather than to your matrix, which is presumably automatically true
and indeed self-verifying. Thus, recording a postgame interview with
Miami Dolphin quarterback David Woodley, who had just helped lead his
team to defeat in the 1983 Super Bowl game, journalist Malcolm Moran
writes,
It was suggested to Woodley that when many people remember
Super Bowl XVII, they will say the Dolphins lost because David
Woodley failed to complete his last nine passes.
'That's probably true', Woodley said.
Woodley was not saying it was true that the critics will blame
him. He was saying that the critics will be correct in saying the
quarterback lost the game. (New York Times, 2 January 1983)
The cases we have been considering here suggest the line which I urge
for (110) and related examples: what is denied is not the proposition actu-
ally asserted, if any, but the assertability of the proposition conveyed in the
context of utterance. Adapting the important distinction drawn in Kripke
(1977), we must acknowledge a divergence of speaker's meaning and sen-
tence meaning.
We should note one additional way in which the use of the It is true that
preface in ordinary discourse differs from the semantic value of truth predi-
cates. Often the only felicitous discourse-initiating use of the affirmative
formula It is true that is a concessive one. A sentence which begins by
affirming It is true that snow is white tends to set up a later clause begin-
ning with but. An instance of this usage can be found in the text above,
immediately following (llld). I shall not dwell on this point here, except
to suggest that it seems susceptible to a natural conversational account and
to note that it gives us one more reason to dissociate the definition of the
semantic truth predicate from the behavior of ordinary language true. (Cf.
Strawson 1949; Grice 1978: 125-27; and G. Lakoff 1975 :259 for related
discussion.)
6.5.2 Monoguists and Ambiguists Revisited
The analysis presented here, on which marked negation is taken to repre-
sent a metalinguistic use of the negative operator rather than (as with
descriptive negation) a semantic operator within the logical form ofa propo-
sition, bears varying degrees of kinship to other accounts of negation
420 Metalinguistic Negation
which have been presented or defended over the last few years. I now turn
to some of these accounts to investigate the relation between them and my
own analysis.
We have seen in some detail that philosophers, linguists, and psycholo-
gists from Plato and Aristotle through Jespersen and Strawson to Green-
berg, Clark, and Givan have argued for taking negative statements to
be generally marked and/or complex relative to their corresponding affir-
matives. We have also observed, in §1.2, the long-standing (but ultimately
incoherent) philosophical practice, instantiated by Kant, Wittgenstein,
Searle, Apostel, and Givan, to take negative statements as representing a
speech act of denial, on a different level from their affirmative counter-
parts. On this view, it is maintained (in the words of Gale 1970:201) that
'negation signifies a person's mental act of denying, rejecting, or rebutting
a statement that is actually made or envisioned as being made by some-
one', as expressed by the purported equivalence in (116).
(116) { It is not true that p }
It is not the case that p ~ I deny that p
not-p
I touched as well on the related tradition in which negation is identified
with falsity, as represented in the work of Leibniz and the Idealists.
For Bergson, perhaps the most doctrinaire proponent of the position that
negation is invariably a second-order operation, every negative statement
is a subjective judgment about some actual or potential affirmative state-
ment, not a description of reality per se. On this view (Bergson 1911, cited
in §1.2.1), not X is inherently elliptical for not X but Y; in effect, all nega-
tion is metalinguistic.
But, as we also saw, Frege consistently treated negative sentences as
simple assertions of negative propositions, explicitly warning against con-
fusing a lexical form (negation) with a speech-act function (speaker de-
nial), while Austin, Quine, Gale, and especially Geach level their own
salvos against the asymmetricalist tenets, insisting on the logical parity of
negation and affirmation. While such caveats are well taken, they seem to
offer no explanation for why such luminaries as Kant, Bergson, and Russell
might have been seduced into drawing their radical logical distinctions be-
tween negative and affirmative statements. Nor is any connection drawn
between the treatment of negation as a propositional operator and the prop-
erties of morphosyntactic markedness characteristic of the form and func-
tion of negation in natural language.
One solution to this standoff, I suggest, is the recognition that while
truth-conditional semantics does indeed (as argued by Gale (1970) and
Geach [1972] 1980) contain a propositional- and/or term-level negative
6.5 Other Approaches 421
operator, corresponding to descriptive negation in the object language, not
all occurrences of natural language negation can be represented in this way.
As we have seen, a need clearly exists to accommodate the use of negation
for (speaker) denial or rejection of an earlierstatement, but once we have
weaned ourselves from the strong monoguist thesis, there is no reason to
expect the putative equivalence in (116) to hold.
In any case, I deny that p-as in (116)-is simply too restrictive a gloss
for the metalanguage-level use of negation; we have observed a number of
cases where a speaker uses metalinguistic negation not strictly to deny a
proposition p, or to call p false, but rather more broadly to reject the utter-
ance expressing a given proposition, or the implicata associated with that
utterance, or the manner in which it was uttered. As remarked earlier,
Dummett (1973 :328- 30) is on the right track in characterizing this use of
negation as 'a means of expressing an unwillingness to assert"A" ,, with-
out necessarily constituting a Willingness to deny 'A'. However, Dum-
mett's neo-Fregean representations, utilizing scope distinctions to account
for the difference between the two ways in which negation can be under-
stood, may not be sufficiently general or generalizable. While 'I- (not A),
may be unobjectionable for descriptive (propositional) negation, it is not
clear that a representation like 'not (I-A), can be interpreted coherently for
all the cases cited in this chapter.
Some of the recent radically monoguist theories of negation suffer from
the flaw noted by Austin, Gale, and Geach: the failure to distinguish nega-
tion from falsity and to recognize that to call a statement false is to say
something (on a metalinguistic level) about that statement, but to apply
(descriptive) negation to a proposition is simply to form another proposi-
tion which may itself be true or false. Here is Allwood (1972:43-45),
offering a summary of his seminal univocal analysis of negation:
We have in all cases taken negation to be the same basic semantic
operation, indicating that a certain state of affairs is not a fact. We
have taken negation to have exactly the properties of logical nega-
tion: always giving the predication it operates on an opposite truth
value.... To negate a certain statement or to say of the same
statement that it is false is logically to do the same thing, namely
to claim that the state of affairs described in the statement does not
obtain.
Allwood's identification of negation and falsity is precisely what Austin,
Gale, and Geach warn against; his prise de position appears to mingle de-
scriptive and metalinguistic uses of negation.
Kempson's more careful and thorough monoguist treatment of negation
also identifies descriptive negation in natural language with 'the falsity
422 Metalinguistic Negation
operator of logic' (1975: 95), but from the context of this identification
she may be referring elliptically to the propositional operator whose se~
mantics corresponds to falsity, that is, a negative expression of the lan-
guage rather than a negative comment about it. She goes on to summarize
and challenge a variety of presuppositionalist views of ambiguous negation
in which external or denial negation is taken as a semantic operator. I agree
with Kempson that her 'denial negation' cannot be a semantic operator, and
is instead-in her words (p. 99)-'one of the uses to which negative sen-
tences could be put'. But she goes on to take this correct observation as a
license to either ignore those cases of 'denial' negation whose behavior
does not naturally fall within the proper bounds for logical negation or to
subsume them within the general category of propositional negation, as
Allwood does. Yet, as I have argued, no single logical notion of negation
as a truth function can collect all natural language tokens of negation.
Kempson avers that 'marked (contrastive stress) interpretations of nega-
tive sentences' tend to function as denials, although she argues that 'this
correspondence . . . does not carryover to compound sentences'. But, in
general, Kempson's citations of marked, 'presupposition-cancelling' nega-
tion (1975 :68,78,86-87) 'can only be conceived of as answers to a previ-
ous utterance', as Kiefer (1977:252-53) points out in his review. An
example cited by Kiefer is (117):
(117) Edward didn't regret that Margaret had failed because he knew it
wasn't true.
Kiefer's formulation is in keeping with the metalinguistic line on marked
negation I have urged here.
The most sophisticated, as well as most radical, of the contemporary
monoguists is Jay Atlas. His position has shifted perceptibly over the years
(from Atlas 1974 through 1977, 1979 [cf. also Atlas and Levinson 1981] to
1980, 1981), as he has considered a progressively wider range of data. But
he has consistently maintained that negation is ambiguous neither in scope
nor in meaning, even when that position has pushed him into the sobering
(or intoxicating?) conclusion that no set-theoretical semantic theory can do
justice to negation-or, hence, to natural language in general. On the basis
of a sampling of the kind of data I considered in §§6.2-6.4, Atlas summa-
rizes his findings as follows: 'The range of interpretation includes state-
ments that are internal negations, external negations, and metalinguistic
predications. Not-sentences are semantically less specified, and theoreti-
cally more complex, than the tradition in logical theory has heretofore rec-
ognized' (Atlas 1981: 127).
It should be clear that I share Atlas's misgivings about logical theories
that either ignore metalinguistic uses of negation or take them as a subcase
6.5 Other Approaches 423
of a special semantic external negation operator; but I cannot agree that the
appropriate solution lies in placing all our negative eggs into one 'radically
underspecified' basket. To put it another way, the evidence I have cited
here does not support the radical move of throwing out the model-theoretic
baby with the ambiguist bathwater. The real bone of contention between
Atlas's current view and my own concerns the proper treatment of descrip-
tive negation, a question I shall consider in chapter 7.
Ambiguist treatments of negation have not entirely passed beyond the
pale of modem logic. We have already encountered Bergmann's 'two-
dimensional' theory (1977, 1981) of external negation, in which the
trothIfalsity axis intersects the anomaly/nonanomaly axis, producing four
distinct assignments (cf. §2.4 above). But, as Atlas notes, Bergmann's sys-
tem inherits empirical and theoretical problems from her ambiguist ances-
tors, in addition to some which are created by the innovations in her own
account. Double negation no longer holds for Bergmann's internal nega-
tion; furthermore, given her projection rules, a conditional like If there's a
king of France, then he's bald comes out true but anomalous. Yet 'intu-
itively there is no anomaly in this sentence at all' (Atlas 1981: 126-27).
But an equally fundamental flaw in Bergmann's account of negation is
one not pointed out by Atlas: there is no obvious way to extend the formal
'anomaly' treatment from those negative statements which involve sortal
incorrectness (Bergmann 1977) or referential vacuity (as in the king of
France case) to those involving conversational implicata, grammar, style
or register, phonetics, and so forth. It is these cases which most clearly
demand a metalinguistic treatment outside the bounds of one- or two-
dimensional logical semantics.
Similar problems arise in an account which is in some ways rather con-
genial to Bergmann's. Karttunen and Peters (1979: 47) correctly describe
their so-called contradiction negation as having 'a special function in dis-
course' of contradicting 'something that the addressee has just said, im-
plied, or implicitly accepted'. While this is a necessary condition for a
negative to be functioning metalinguistically, it is not sufficient: as we have
seen, most ordinary (descriptive) negations can be characterized as serving
the same 'special function' (cf. also Atlas 1980). And in stipulating that
'contradiction negation differs semantically from ordinary negation only
by virtue of having a broader target' , so that it 'pertains to the total mean-
ing of its target sentence, ignoring the distinction between truth conditions
and conventional implicatures', Karttunen and Peters fatally overlook just
how broad a target marked, metalinguistic negation can have.
One additional contemporary account of negation, more neomonoguist
than neoambiguist, is worth mentioning here. Lehrer and Lehrer (1982)
distinguish two rival analyses of the relation between scalar operators like
424 Metalinguistic Negation
good and excellent: the HYPONYMY interpretation, on which good is a super_
ordinate term for the category containing excellent, and the INCOMPATIBLE
interpretation, on which the predicates good and excellent are mutually in-
consistent. The Lehrers point out that (118a) seems to favor the former
analysis and (118b) the latter. (The next five examples repeat Lehrer and
Lehrer's (14)-(18).)
(118) a. This wine is good-it's even excellent.
b. This wine is not good, it's excellent.
They opt for the hyponymy interpretation, based largely on the accept-
ability of (119) in a construction which excludes 'true incompatibles', as
seen in (119'):
(119) That wine is not only good; it's excellent.
(119') a. *That's not only a cat, it's a dog.
b. That's not only a car, it's a Cadillac.
As ought to be clear from the discussion in chapter 4, I agree with the
Lehrers' conclusion that excellent is a hyponym, rather than an incompat-
ible, relation of good. But I cannot accept their implication that the nega-
tive predication not good in the first clause of (118b) is to be regarded as
elliptical for not only good in (119). Given the scalar nature of the relation
between good and excellent-that is, that a is excellent unilaterally entails
a is good-(118b) and (119) will in fact convey the same information; the
same point was made in connection with the examples of (45) above. But
only those instances of metalinguistic negation which involve an upper-
bounding Q-based implicatum will share this characteristic.
Thus, there is no way to extend the Lehrers' elliptical analysis of (118b)
to conventional implicature cases like those in (1') and (8), to phonetic
cases like (14a, b), to morphological cases like (14c) and (15), to stylistic
and connotative cases like those in (17)-(20), or even to those negations
which focus on other varieties of conversational implicata; thus, alongside
(119), compare:
(120) a. The king of France isn't (#just) bald-he's doesn't exist.
[cf. (1')]
b. I didn't (#just) manage to trap two mongeese-I managed to
trap two mongooses. [cf. (14c)]
c. For a pessimist like him, the glass isn't (#only) half full-
it's half empty. [cf. (17e)]
d. He's not only meeting a woman this evening-he's meeting
his wife. [OK, but *- (22')]
6.S Other Approaches 425
Even among those cases which do involve the cancelation of a quantity-
based scalar implicatum, the syntax may render a Lehrer and Lehrer-style
paraphrase awkward or impossible:
(120') ?#Maggie isn't just patriotic or quixotic-she's both! [cf. (63a)]
Lehrer and Lehrer correctly characterize the 'more than good' reading of
the negation in (118b) as requiring that 'the intonation contour ... remain
high instead of dropping, signaling a clarification to follow'-but this
same characterization applies across the board to all instances of meta-
linguistic negation, those which are paraphrasable in the manner of (119)
and those which are not. In the final analysis, taking metalinguistic not
to stand for not only, not just proves as inadequate as taking it to represent
not true.
6.5.3 Metalinguistic Negation and 'negation metalinguistique'
As already acknowledged, I am indebted for both the (approximate) con-
cept and the label of metalinguistic negation to Ducrot (1972, 1973). For
Ducrot (1972: 37ff.), descriptive negation constitutes a comment on facts
and preserves presuppositions.43
Metalinguistic (aka. polemic) negation
comments on utterances and challenges or rejects presuppositions.
Ducrot (1973: 240) defines metalinguistic negation as 'un rejet d'une af-
firmation prealable (implicite ou explicite)'; crucially, descriptive negation
cannot then be characterized in the same way (as it often is, not least by
Ducrot himself). While descriptive negation has the general property of
reversing scales-cf. §4.4-metalinguistic negation may reverse or con-
serve scales, as determined by the rectification: The ticket doesn't cost
10 francs, it costs {S/1S}.
In Ducrot's system, presuppositions (presupposes) are distinguished on
the one hand from assertions (poses) and on the other hand from rhetorical
implicata (sous-entendus). An intermediate formal language (which I shall
dub Ln) is introduced (Ducrot 1972: §5) for representing statements of
ordinary language in such a way as to allow presuppositions and assertions
to be distinguished in the predicate calculus translations of LD formulas.
The notation XIY represents a 'predicative pair', where X and Y can be
filled by atomic or complex predicates. Any Ln expression of the form
XIY(a1, ••• , an) will then correspond to two predicate calculus expres-
sions: one, the translation of X(a1, ••• , an), for the presupposition, and
the other, the translation of Y(a1, ••• , an), for the assertion.
Natural language operators (only, some) and negation are represented
in Ln by boldface 'copulative operations' which convert one predicative
426 Metalinguistic Negation
pair into another (Ducrot 1972: 147). Two such copulative operations are
NEG (presupposition-preserving descriptive negation) and REF (refuta_
tional, i.e., metalinguistic, negation). Their effect is indicated as fOllows
(where paleface NEG eventually translates into predicate calculus '~, and
ET into 'A'):
(121) a. NEG(XIY) = X 1 NEG Y
b. REF(XIY) = -I NEG (ET(X,Y))
It will be noticed that the distinction between (121a, b) directly (mutatis
mutandis) prefigures that drawn between ordinary and 'contradiction'
negation in Karttunen and Peters (1979), as represented in chapter 2 and in
(11) above. More specifically, the marked negation of (121b), as in (11b),
brings the presupposed (conventionally implicated) material within the
logical scope of negation; but ordinary descriptive negation, in (121a) as
in (11a), respects presupposed (conventionally implicated) material by ac-
cording it a kind of logical transparency. (Note that the presuppositional
component in the output of (121b) is empty, just as the conventional im-
plicature component of (11b) is vacuous.)
But we have already seen that this scopal distinction does not generalize
to the entire range of possible applications of metalinguistic negations dis-
cussed in this chapter; in particular, such foci of negation as phonetic form,
allomorphy, syntax, conversational implicature, register, and connotative
meaning are not part of logical form (in Ducrot's Lo any more than in
K&P's version of Montague Grammar), and hence cannot be plugged into
the format of (121b). Ducrot does acknowledge a 'rhetorical' function of
marked negation" to deny the 'sous-entendus' associated with a given utter-
ance, but his representations and account of 'la negation metalinguistique'
do not do justice to the protean character of metalinguistic negation in
French or English.
Nevertheless, the account of metalinguistic/polemic negation offered
in various works by Ducrot and his colleagues (Ducrot 1972: 37ff.; 1973:
124-25; Anscombre and Ducrot 1977) is certainly helpful and suggestive
for what a complete analysis must encompass. Thus, Ducrot correctly ob-
serves (echoing Grice and Dummett; see §6.2 above) that the negation as-
sociated with a conditional tends to be interpreted only as a metalinguistic
device indicating the speaker's unwillingness to assert that conditional.
Elsewhere, Ducrot points out that metalinguistic or polemic negation cor-
responds to a special negative speech act-a way of rebutting a previously
uttered affirmation.
In her empirical study of the scope of negation in French, Heldner ex-
pands on the role of Ducrot's metalinguistic negation and its interaction
6.5 Other Approaches 427
.th calar predications (cf. Ducrot and Barbault's essay in Ducrot 1973).
WI s . .. . . (122)
A sample citation involving metalmgUlstIc negatIOn IS :
(122) Jules ne chante pas bien, il
chante comme un dieu.
'Jules doesn't sing well, he sings
like a god'
h
'the speaker makes it clear that bien must be replaced by a more
were .. t· )bl
adequate term'-one not necessarily (as with descnptIve nega Ion ~ ow
bien on the relevant scale, but possibly higher or on another scale entirely
(Heldner 1981 :92). . .
As Heldner points out (p. 65), Ducrot and his colleagues ~ngmally took
the descriptive/ metalinguistic dichotomy to be morpholo~lcally neutral-
ized in French, but more recent work has suggested a candidate for an un-
ambiguous signal of the latter. For Gross 1977, the use ?f non/non,pas,
immediately preceding the negated item, can only be mterpret~d con-
trastively'-where Gross's CONTRASTIVE negation corresponds drrectly.to
the metalinguistic negation of Ducrot. (Anscombre. and Du~rot [1977] m-
dependently cite non as an unambiguo~sly pol~mlc ,negatIOn.) .Thus the
negation in (123a) may be interpreted contrastIvely, but that m (123b)
must be:
(123) a. Max n'a pas abattu un if, mais (il a abattu) ce pin.
'Max didn't fell a yew, but (he felled) this pine'
b. Max a abattu non pas un if, mais (*il a abattu) ce pin.
'Max felled not a yew, but (*he felled) this pine'
Note that the reduction in the mais clause (as well as in its Englis.h gloss)
is obligatory in (123b), while it is optional in (123a); ~s we saw m §6.4,
this pattern is diagnostic for SN ~s ~pposed.to PA but. G~ven that non (pa~)
can only be read as a metalingUlstlc negatIon, we predict correctl~ that It
will occur only in environments which permit SN (rather.than forcmg ~A)
readings of mais. Anscombre and Ducrot (1977 :37) prOVide the followmg
minimal pairs:44
(124) a. 11 n'est pas fran<;ais mais il est
beIge.
b. 11 est non pas fran<;ais mais (*il
est) beIge.
(125) a. C'est non seulement
vraisemblable, mais certain.
b. *C'est non pas certain, mais re-
ste possible.
'He isn't French, butpA
he is Belgian'
'He is not French butsN
Belgian'
'It's not just likely butsN
certain'
'It's not certain butsN
remains possible'
428 Metalinguistic Negation
Gross (1977: 51) constructs another argument for distinguishing con-
trastive from ordinary negation, based on the distribution of partitive de +
article vs. simple de. He takes (126a) to be necessarily contrastive, under_
stood with a continuation (... il boit autre chose), while (126b) is under_
stood noncontrastively.
(126) a. Max ne boit pas du vin.
b. Max ne boit pas de vin.
'Max doesn't drink wine, .. .'
'Max doesn't drink wine'
Gross finds that non (pas), as expected, occurs only with de + article:
(127) a. Max a bu du vin, non (pas)
{de l'eau/*d'eau}.
b. Max a bu non (pas) {dul
*de} vin, mais de l'eau.
'Max drank wine, not water'
'Max drank not wine but
water'
Clefts, too, force the contrastive reading on negation, and hence demand
the article:
(128) Ce n'est pas {du/*de} vin qu'il
boit, mais de l'eau.
'It isn't wine that he drinks,
but water'
If, as is reasonable, we take the use of de without the article to constitute
a negative polarity item in French (cf. Gaatone 1971; Horn 1978a, 1978b),
then Gross's correlation of de + article with contrastive (i.e., metalin-
guistic) negation will define a diagnostic for French parallel to the obser-
vation for English (cf. Karttunen and Peters 1979; Linebarger 1981; and
§6.4 above) that external or contradiction negation, and, by extension, the
generalized metalinguistic operator, fail to trigger NPIs.
But in fact, the evidence is a bit murkier than Gross intimates. For
Heldner (1981 :77), both (129a) and (129b) are acceptable in isolation:
(129) a. Je ne bois pas du vin, (*mais) je bois de la grenadine.
b. Je ne bois pas de vin, mais je bois de la grenadine.
The former is interpreted as specific in time and space (= 'I am not drink-
ing wine, I'm drinking grenadine'); the latter is taken as habitual (= 'I
don't drink wine, but I drink grenadine'). In any case, however, Heldner
does grant, with Gross, that negative polarity de is unacceptable in the un-
ambiguously metalinguistic negation of (127b).4s
6.5.4 Negation in London
The English-language account of negation bearing the greatest kinship to
the approach taken here is probably that offered by Deidre Wilson. She
includes in her primary data a wide variety of uses of negation, many
6.5 Other Approaches 429
derived from Grice, which are not reducible to garden-variety descriptive
negation. Among these examples are the following (Wilson 1975: 149ff.):
(130) a. I'm not happy: I'm ecstatic.
b. The next Prime Minister won't be Heath: it will be Heath or
Wilson. [= (109)]
c. I don't love Johnny: I love Johnny or Billy.
Although the passage that follows, inspired by such examples, does exhibit
the error (decried by Quine, Austin, Geach, and others) of identifying ordi-
nary descriptive negation with falsity, we are provided here with a clear
description of why natural language negation cannot always be reduced to
the familiar one-place logical connective:
To assert that not-p (or to deny that p) cannot be the same thing as
to assert that p is false. It may also be to assert that p is inadequate
to the facts without necessarily being false: it may be too weak, or
too strong, or misleading.... Once negation and falsity are dis-
tinguished, semantic statements of entailment and contradiction
could be made in terms of falsity, while the treatment of negation
could include, but go beyond, relations of falsity alone.
(Wilson 1975: 150)
Given the existence of cases like (130), there must be non-truth-func-
tional aspects to the interpretation of (at least some uses of) negation-
instances in which the value of not-p cannot be simply a function of the
value of p. We see from these examples that the falsity of p is a sufficient
but not a necessary reason for asserting not-p: given that uttering p might
suggest q, and that one does not wish to suggest q, one might say' not-p'
(Wilson 1975: 151).
What Wilson does not make clear is just how the fact that some instances
of not-p count as refusals to assert p is to be related to the fact that other
instances of not-p do contain negation as an object-language connective,
translating into logical form as '~'. What is lacking here is precisely a full
characterization of the distinction between negation as a truth-functional
connective (not equivalent to falsity) and negation as a metalinguistic ob-
jection to some aspect of a previous actual or implicit utterance.
In particular, just as not all uses of metalinguistic negation can be ana-
lyzed as semantic external negation-or as negation outside the scope of a
semantic operator TRUE-it is also the case that not all the cases explored
here can be taken as refusals to assert a given proposition (or sentence;
Wilson is not entirely clear on just what sort of entity p is intended to stand
for in the passages cited above). Her characterization collects those cases
where negation attaches to conversational implicata, along with those ar-
430 Metalinguistic Negation
guably involving conventional implicata or presuppositions (notions whose
utility Wilson challenges, but that's another story). But it does not directly
generalize to examples like those in (14)-(15), where the objection is not
to the assertion of a given proposition (much less to the truth of that propo-
sition), but rather to the way that the proposition was reified into a sen-
tence, or the way that sentence was uttered. The use of negation to signal
that a speaker finds a given proposition unassertable (cf. Grice 1967·
Dummett 1973; Ducrot 1973; and Grim 1981; along with Wilson) is mor~
inclusive than the external negation operators of the ambiguists (the three-
valued logicians, van Fraassen, Bergmann, Karttunen and Peters, Line-
barger, and others), but is itself a proper subcase of the generalized use of
negation as a metalinguistic operator.
Ironically, it is Wilson herself who cites and attacks two alternative views
of marked negative statements, views which-while not fully fleshed out-
more closely anticipate the notion of metalinguistic negation than anything
in her own work or in that of other logicians, philosophers, and linguists.
The relevant excerpts, from Fillmore 1969 and Kiparsky and Kiparsky
1971, emanate from that heady period immediately after the discovery by
generative linguists of those great presuppositional vistas and swamps that
philosophers had been uncertainly navigating for centuries. As is typical
of the era, they combine keen insight with a certain lack of rigor and
precision:
Uses of the verb chase presuppose that the entity identified as the
direct object is moving fast. Uses of the verb escape presuppose
that the entity identified by the subject noun-phrase was contained
somewhere by force previous to the time of focus. These presup-
positions, as expected, are unaffected by sentence negation:
(58) The dog {chased/didn't chase} the cat.
(59) He {escaped/didn't escape} from the tower.
It seems to me that sentences like (60) and (61) are partly com-
ments on the appropriateness of the words chase and escape for
the situations being described. These are sentences that would
most naturally be used in contexts in which the word chase or es-
cape had just been uttered:
(60) I didn't 'chase' the thief; as it happened, he couldn't get
his car started.
(61) I didn't 'escape' from the prison; they released me.
(Fillmore 1971: 381-82)
If you want to deny a presupposition, you must do it explicitly:
Mary didn't clean the room; it wasn't dirty.
Abe didn't regret that he had forgotten; he had remembered.
6.5 Other Approaches 431
The second clause casts the negative of the first into a different
level; it's not the straightforward denial of an event or situation,
but rather the denial of the appropriateness of the word in question
[underlined above]. Such negations sound best with the inap-
propriate word stressed. (Kiparsky and Kiparsky 1971: 351)
These passages are quoted by Wilson (1975:84) in the course of her
blitz against all extant presuppositionalist theories, Fillmore's and the
J(iparskys' included. Her objections to the views illustrated here have more
to do, I think, with her skepticism about the viability of semantic (and
pragmatic) notions of presupposition than with the metalinguistic line on
so-called external negation; in attacking the proposed examples of 'lexical'
presuppositions, Wilson also (quite properly) takes on some of the weakest
candidates for presuppositional status ever proposed by philosophers or
linguists.
In assuming that marked negation can only be used to deny presupposi-
tions, Wilson mayor may not be faithful to the intent of Fillmore and the
Kiparskys. In any case, I have argued here for a different account of the
metalinguistic use of negation-one which strikes me as entirely compat-
ible with more recent theories of presuppositional phenomena, including
the pragmatic presuppositions of Karttunen (1974) and Stalnaker (1974),
the context-cancelable presuppositions of Gazdar (1979a, 1979b) and the
ordered entailments of Wilson and Sperber (1979).
Note, however, that both the above excerpts specifically allude not only
to the fact that metalinguistic negation is used to object to an earlier
utterance as inappropriate-rather than to judge a proposition previously
expressed as false-but also to the fact that it occurs (as does any meta-
linguistic operator, by definition) on a different level, that is, as a predi-
cation about the object language rather than a formal device within it.
Moreover, while Wilson (1975: 84-85) correctly recognizes that we can-
not define all instances of external or presupposition-canceling negation as
'denials of appropriateness', as the Kiparskys seem to believe, their notion
does provide a closer approximation to the general phenomenon of meta-
linguistic negation, in the complete range of exemplification I have at-
tested, than does Wilson's own view of marked negation as a refusal to
assert a given proposition.
More recently, Ruth Kempson and her fellow monoguists have drawn
their own conclusions from the existence of Grice-Wilson negation (cf.
(130) above). As Cormack (1980) points out, negations like (BOa) (I'm
not happy: I'm ecstatic) or (131):
(131) Justin didn't paint three squares, he painted four.
432 Metalinguistic Negation
appear paradoxical: 'If Justin painted four squares, he certainly painted
three; if someone is ecstatic, they are certainly happy, and so on'. Further_
more, as Burton-Roberts (1984: 202-3) observes, (l32)-while appar-
ently paradoxical relative to standard modal systems-is nevertheless
acceptable:
(132) It's not possible that mammals suckle their young, you ignora-
mus, it's downright necessary.46
I have already considered and rejected Lehrer and Lehrer's (1982) ellip-
tical analysis of these 'paradoxical' negations. Burton-Roberts opts for a
different approach, one in which the weak scalar element (possible, three,
happy) is taken as lexically ambiguous between what I have called its one-
sided (at least) and two-sided (exactly) understandings, given that 'as
Cormack points out, the alternative to this is to invoke a special (denial,
quotational) negation to handle the phenomenon ... (an alternative that
she rejects in favor of treating implicatures semantically),. Having previ-
ously employed Occam's razor to shave off one of the forks of the pur-
ported ambiguity of negation, she does not consider this alternative as a
live option.
The practitioners of the London School of Parsimony argue from the
nonexistence of one ambiguity (that for negation) to the existence of infi-
nitely many ambiguities, at either a semantic level (a la Cormack and
Burton-Roberts) or a propositional level (a la Carston 1985a and Kempson
1986). If Justin painted 3 squares is ambiguous, so must be Justin painted
4 squares, Justin painted 137 squares, and so on. If these and other scalar
predications are semantically or propositionally ambiguous in English, so
are their translations into French, Basque, Swahili, and every other lan-
guage in which a weak scalar predication mayor may not (in my terms)
induce an upper-bounding Q-based implicatum. Razor, where is thy sting?
Parsimony, where is thy victory?
Having argued against the predecessors of the London School's ambigu-
ist analyses (those of Aristotle on possible, Hamilton on some, and Smith
on the cardinals), I admit a certain reluctance to abandon the Mill-Grice
program for scalar predication (cf. Horn 1972, 1973 and chapter 4 above).
But this reluctance is reinforced on the one hand by the argument (Horn
1984a, 1984c) that privative ambiguity cannot simply be argued away (a la
Kempson 1980) and on the other hand by the arguments presented in this
chapter. I have tried to show that a pragmatic ambiguity can be motivated
for negation, not only in the scalar cases focused on by the London School
but in a wide range of examples for which the considerations invoked by
Cormack, Burton-Roberts, and Kempson are irrelevant. The alternative re-
jected by Cormack in the passage cited above remains the most general and
6.5 Other Approaches 433
.'~elegant account of paradoxical uses of negation, while at the same time
S, enabling us to preserve the simple Gricean line on scalar "ambiguities."
But is this line worth preserving? Kempson (1986) maintains that while
scalar predications are not ambiguous either lexically or at the level of se-
mantic representation, they are ambiguous propositionally, at the level of
enriched logical form. For Kempson, utterance interpretation is radically
underspecified by linguistic meaning; pragmatic principles-including the
flfutiliar Gricean implicata-may (contra Grice) influence propositional
content and hence help determine truth conditions. If she is right (and see
Atlas 1979, Carston 1985a, 1985b, and Sperber and Wilson 1986 for paral-
lel arguments), no straightforward distinction between what is implicated
and what is said (as defended or assumed by Grice, Gazdar, Karttunen and
Peters, and of course Horn) will survive.
For the cases under consideration in this chapter, Kempson acknowl-
edges the existence of metalinguistic negation but rejects its (necessary)
application to the paradoxical scalar cases. More specifically, she questions
the applicability of my polarity and incorporation diagnostics for meta-
linguistic vs. descriptive negation, although it strikes me as plausible that a
sharpening of these tools (one which I shall not undertake here) can avoid
the pitfalls she cites. But if sentences like (130)-(132) 'can and naturally
are interpreted as straightforward cases of descriptive negation' (Kempson
1986: 88), then the negated scalar predications themselves (based on
happy, or, three, possible) are presumably available in a choice of truth
conditions: 'We seem forced to the conclusion that there is much more am-
biguity in natural languages than anyone has previously envisaged as part
of the linguistic specification of natural languages, despite the fact that the
variation in interpretation has a pragmatic basis' (Kempson 1986: 82).
While this conclusion may seem to necessitate biting the razor, we should
note that it is not senses per se which undergo multiplication, but proposi-
tions. Note also that the same pragmatic principles I outlined in chapter 4
will be invoked for scalar predication on Kempson's account; they will just
enter into the picture at an earlier stage of composition.
Carston (1985a, 1985b) offers an alternative view of par~doxical scalar
negation. Her response to the positions of Horn 1985 (essentially repro-
duced in this chapter) and Kempson 1986 seems at first glance to represent a
middle position between these two poles. While endorsing the Kempsonian
propositional ambiguity for positive scalar predications, Carston (1985a:
14) supports my parallel between scalar negation and the use of a negative
operator to object to phonetic, morphological, or stylistic aspects of a pre-
vious utterance. Thus, as against Kempson, Carston recognizes that 'we
are not dealing with a straightforward descriptive use' in the cases of para-
doxical negation: 'there is something metalinguistic here, whether it is the
434 Metalinguistic Negation
negation or some other aspect of the utterance'. Carston also observes cor-
rectly that the 'echoic use' of language involved in my examples is not lim-
ited to negative utterances alone (cf. §6.2.3 above).
So far so good. But Carston's landing site (1985a: 17) is the position
that there is no metalinguistic use of negation per se: what our putative
instances of metalinguistic negation illustrate is 'plain ordinary truth-
functional negation operating over an echoic use of language'. We are now
back to the ultimately incoherent view that negation is invariably a truth
function-even when it takes as an argument the 'echoic use of language'.
If there is no category mistake here, there is at the very least a good deal of
explaining to do, since Carston is forced by her neomonoguism to proposi-
tionalize every target of metalinguistic negation, from grammatical usage
to phonology, from register to musical technique. Occam's razor cuts more
ways than one; when we bear in mind what a truth function must be a func-
tion of, we recognize the implausibility in the view that negation is invari-
ably truth-functional.
6.6 Metalinguistic Negation and Surface Structure
While serving to reject an entire utterance, metalinguistic negation focuses
on one particular aspect of that utterance, whence its superficial nature as a
constituent or special (as opposed to sentential or nexal) negative. This is
not to say that all constituent negation is metalinguistic; indeed, the vast
majority of VP-scope negation is descriptive in function. Furthermore, as
we have seen earlier in this chapter, certain instances of incorporated (and
hence necessarily constituent or special) negation can only be descriptive,
not metalinguistic. But other varieties of 'narrow-focus' negation (cf.
Bolinger 1961; Jackendoff 1972; Ladd 1980) seem .to involve a meta-
linguistic operator 'reaching down' into the hidden places of the sentence,
penetrating even into direct quotes (cf. Bolinger 1?61; L: ~arlson 1983).
In these cases, it would appear that only the paIr conslstmg of the ele-
ment focused by negation and its rectification-even when this element is
a single syllable correspoIlding to a bound morpheme or to no morpheme at
all-represents the new information or rhematic material in the sentence,
the remainder (corresponding to the earlier discourse token of the utterance
under rejection) being old, given, or backgrounded. One example of this
type appears (in both negative and disjunctive versions) in (35c); others are
given in (133):
(133) a. This whiskey was not exported from Ireland, it was de-
ported. (from Bolinger 1961: 83)
b. It's not your 'pronounciation' you need to work on-it's your
pronunciation. (adapted from L. Carlson 1983: 196)
6.6 Surface Structure 435
c. I'm advocating prosecution, not persecution.
d. I called for a policeman, not a policewoman.
As Bolinger (1961) points out, the focus of negation may undergo a shift to
heavy, contrastive stress (and to the unreduced vowel entailed by this
shift), reinforcing the sense that the rest of the sentence is treated as given
information.
The cleft form in (133b) is another characteristic device for realizing a
metalinguistic negation, an unsurprising fact given the focusing nature of
both operations. This clearly applies to French, in which APs can be
clefted as well as NPs and PPs; Ducrot cites (134) as a standard form for
the metalinguistic scalar negation (note also the SN mais):
(134) Ce n'est pas satisfait qu'il est, mais enthousiaste.
'He isn't satisfied, {but/he's} enthusiastic' [lit., 'It's not satis-
fied that he is . . .']
Cleft negation frequently takes propositional or sentential scope; the en-
tire utterance being rejected is in the focus of the cleft, and the following
rectification tells the addressee what aspect of the utterance is being re-
jected. One favorite form for this sentence type is It's not that p, it's (just)
that q. As in my earlier instances of metalinguistic negation, whether or
not a given proposition is true is irrelevant to its rejection:
(135) a. It's not that she's rich and beautiful-{although, as heiresses
go, she is quite lovely/in fact she's just a plain country
girl}-it's that her heart is pure.
b. It's not that I don't want to go-{although I don't/in fact I'd
love to/I hadn't really made up my mind one way or the
other}-it's just that I've made plans to clean my bathtub.
The distribution of although and in fact in these examples suggests that
descriptive and metalinguistic negation may be plotted on the same scale
with the former as the stronger item on that scale (not only is it not that p'
in fact not-p). '
S~akespeare seems to have been particularly fond of the multifarious po-
tential of the related not that . .. but that . .. formula for rectification.
Sentence (136a) is the more familiar citation, but (136b) the more reveal-
ing; Bianca here consciously exploits the metalinguistic function of the not
that form to twist Cassio's assurance of love into a quibble over syntax:
(136) a. Not that I loved Caesar less but that I loved Rome more.
(Julius Caesar, 3.2)
b. Cassio: Leave me for this time.
Bianca: Leave you? Wherefore?
Cassio: I do attend here on the general
436 Metalinguistic Negation
And think it no addition, nor my wish
To have him see me womaned.
Bianca: Why, I pray you?
Cassia: Not that I love you not.
Bianca: But that you do not love me! (Othello, 3.4)
The words Bianca manages to put into Cassio's mouth can be expressed as:
'Tis not that I love you not, but that I do not love you.
A more contemporary writer, David Mamet, calls upon a similar meta-
linguistic cleft negation to explain his recruitment of his wife Lindsay
Crouse to star in his movie, House of Games, in the role of an expert on
compulsive gambling: It's not that she doesn't like poker-she hates it.
A rather different surface form for metalinguistic negation which seems
to be passing from the language is investigated by Arvid Smith. As Smith
observes, a verb-focus contrastive context can consist of either not or
rather than together with a finite verb; a nonfinite verb in the same en-
vironment is interpreted in a somewhat different way, as suggested by the
following minimal pair (Smith 1933: 79; glosses in original):
(137) a. He ran rather than walked.
b. He ran rather than walk.
'He progressed rather by run-
ning than by walking'
'He ran because he did not
want to walk'
When the finite verb in the (137a)-type construction is in present tense, we
get (or, into the early twentieth century, got) not as well as rather than in
this frame. While preverbal nonauxiliary negation has for some centuries
been unavailable in English, an exception seems to be made for this op-
positional (metalinguistic) function of negation; we are reminded of the
inability of modern metalinguistic negations to incorporate prefixally or to
trigger NPls. Smith attests the following examples:
(138) The wise mother suggests the duty, not commands it.
That is the fire that is lasting . . . that glows, not sparkles only;
that comforts, not excites alone; that is certain, sure, and
steady, ... not thinly leaps and flutters and varies before a
touch of gale.
Margery fills the world for you ... -No, not fills it, said he.
If preverbal nonauxiliary negation can be used to express metalinguistic
rejection in the context of (138), a far more common device cross-linguis~i­
cally is the postverbal constituent negation we have already encountered In
conjunction with butsN in the English and French examples reproduced
here:
6.6 Surface Structure 437
(79) a. We have {?not three children/not three but four children/not
three children but four}.
b. Negation is ambiguous {*not semantically/not semantically
but pragmatically}.
d. I saw {*not Chris/not Chris but Pat}.
(101) a. John was born not in Boston, but in Philadelphia.
(123) b. Max a abattu non pas un if, mais (*il a abattu) ce pin. 'Max
felled not a yew, but (*he felled) this pine'
(124) b. 11 est non pas fran~ais mais (*il est) beIge. 'He is not French
butsN Belgian'
Similarly, Bhatia (1977: 25) observes that the basic negative markers in
Hindi and Punjabi, nahl and nai respectively, take on a special contrastive
function when they appear in postverbal position, as seen in (139):
-
(139) a. Hindi: Vo aya nabI, ayega. 'He did not come,
[but] will come'
Punjabi: 0 aia naI, aega.
he came not will come
b. Hindi: Usne patr nabI, kitab parhI. 'He read not a
letter, but a
book'
Punjabi: One xat nat, katab pari.
he letter not book read
In Russian, metalinguistic negation typically involves the combination
of a postverbal negative marker (the regular negation ne) combined with an
obligatory rectification clause introduced by the SN connective a. Crockett
(1977: 241-42) provides the following minimal pairs; note especially her
overtly metalinguistic gloss for the last example:
(140) a. Boris umeet govorit' {*ne
po-kitajski/ne po-kitajski
a po-japonski}.
b. *Alik {byl ne doma/ne byl
doma}. -
Alik {byl ne doma/ne byl
doma}, a budet. -
'Boris knows how to speak
{*not Chinese/not Chi-
nese but Japanese}'
'Alik was not home'
'I'm not saying Alik was
home; he will be' -
In fact, as Crockett notes, each of the starred examples can surface without
overt rectification, 'under the assumption that the addressee is able to com-
plete it' , as in AUk byl ne doma 'Where Alik was was not at home'.
But there is another feature associated with 'contrastive' constituent
negation, as Babby (1980: 106ff.) points out. Just as metalinguistic nega-
tion fails to trigger NPls in English or the polarity de + common noun
sequence in French, an NP in the scope of contrastive negation in Russian
438 Metalinguistic Negation
is never marked with the genitive of negation which is assigned to both
objects and existential subjects in construction with descriptive negation.
Babby provides the following instantiations of this pattern:
(141) a. U nego v rukax ne bylo slovarja.
his in hands not was diet. -GEN
'He didn't have a dictionary in his hands'
b. U nego v rukax byl
ne slovar' (a tom enciklopedii).
dict.-NOM but volume encyc.-GEN
'He didn't have in his hands a dictionary (but a volume of
the encyclopedia)'
(141') a. On etogo ne delal. 'He didn't do that'
he-NOM that-GEN not did
b. Ne on eto delal. 'It wasn't he that did that'
that-AcC
(142) Scuku nuzno ne unictozat', a razvodit'
pike-Acc nee. not destroy but breed
'One must not destroy but breed pike' [D.O. 'pike' cannot be
marked GEN]
Other factors are involved, however; while genitive marked objects oc-
cur only inside the scope of descriptive negation, accusative marking is
triggered not only by metalinguistic negation with either verb or object
focus-as in (143b, c) in this paradigm from Crockett 1977 (the bracketing
is Babby's):
(143) a. Brat [ne est mjasa].
brother not eats meat-GEN
'My brother doesn't eat meat'
b. Brat est [ne mjaso].
meat-ACC
'It isn't meat my brother is eating'
c. Brat [ne est] mjaso (a zret).
- but gobbles
'My brother isn't eating the meat but gobbling it',
'My brother is not eating but gobbling the meat'
it may also signal, as Babby points out, that the object is specific and/or
definite. If we have an actual meal in (143), involving 'a specific piece of
meat on a specific occasion', we get an accusative-marked object within the
scope of descriptive negation: Brat [ne est mjaso]. It has also frequently
been observed that, ceteris paribus, the more formal genitive marking has
been steadily losing ground to more informal accusative. (Cf. Magner
6.6 Surface Structure 439
1955, Davidson 1967, Timberlake 1975, Crockett 1977, and Babby 1980
for additional commentary on case assignment and scope in Russian nega-
tive sentences.)
A predictably different word-order-based distinction between descriptive
sentence negation and metalinguistic constituent (or focus) negation ob-
tains in German (data from Payne 1985: 232). Here, the normal position
for matrix negation is sentence-final; as in Russian, a metalinguistic nega-
tion will immediately precede its target and will normally be rectified with
the etymal SN connective sondern:
. (144) a. Er besuchte uns gestern
nicht.
b. Er besuchte uns nicht gestern
(sondern ...)
'He didn't seek us
yesterday'
'He sought us not yesterday
(but ...)'
Payne also cites Persian (1985: 232), in which the unmarked descriptive
sentence negator, the prefix na-Ine-, gives way in 'contrastive' contexts
to the construction na ... balke, a freestanding negative particle plus a
sondern-type rectification.
Metalinguistic negation in Hungarian may also be marked by word
order, although the pattern again is different. As documented by Varga
(1980: 89-93), the focused element appears immediately to the right ofthe
negation nem and is typically assigned the same fall-rise intonation contour
we have already witnessed as a correlate of metalinguistic negation in En-
glish. Among Varga's examples are the following:
(145) a. 'Nem VPeter jatszik hanem 'Janos.
not plays but
'Not Peter but Janos is playing'
b. 'Nem a Vkonyvet olvassa, hanem az 'ujsagot.
the book-ACC reads but the paper-Acc
'He is reading not the book, but the paper'
With scalar values, as I predict, the descriptive reading yields only the 'less
than' interpretation, while the metalinguistic use of negation, triggered by
the fall-rise contour and appropriate rectification, is not restricted in this
way.47 Commenting on minimal pairs like that in (146),
(146) a. 'Nem 'olyan gyorsan gepel mint teo
as fast types as you
'He doesn't type as fast as you' (= he types more slowly)
b. 'Nem volyan gyorsan gepel mint te, hanem 'gyorsabban.
'He doesn't type as fast as you, but faster'.
Varga (p. 90) comments that the latter sentence 'may have a surprising or
humorous effect (because it contradicts our pragmatic expectations mobi-
440 Metalinguistic Negation
lized by the first part of the sentence), but is perfectly acceptable.... On
the pragmatic level the lower-value ['less than'] interpretation prevails un-
less the higher-value interpretation is explicitly stated'. Similarly, in (146')
the result is 'a pragmatic contradiction', 'exploited to create a surpriSing
andlor humorous effect' (Varga 1980:93).
(146') 'Nem Volyan magas 0, mint te, hanem 'sokkal 'magasabb 0.
not as tall is as you but much taller is
'He isn't as tall as you, he's much taller'
This is of course precisely the effect I have copiously illustrated for meta-
linguistic negation in English.
I have argued that marked negation is a reflex of an extended meta-
linguistic use of the negative operator in English and other languages.
Negative morphemes generally allow (in principle) both descriptive and
metalinguistic functions; the syntactic environment-including such pa-
rameters as affixation, polarity, word order, case marking, and the pres-
ence of an SN or a PA connective-often helps select one of these uses as
the more plausible or salient for a given negative token.
In some cases, however, a particular morphological realization of nega-
tion may in fact force or exclude a particular understanding. (Like the
aforementioned contextual disambiguation, this too is a regular occurrence
in the realm of pragmatic ambiguity; cf. Zwicky and Sadock 1975, Horn
and Bayer 1984, and §5.3 above.) Thus, as we saw in the previous section,
French non (pas), positioned immediately before the item in the focus of
negation, must be interpreted metalinguistically, while ne ... pas allows
both descriptive and metalinguistic functions.48 Korean may offer an in-
stance of the opposite state of affairs, in which one morphological variety
of negation is unambiguously descriptive, while the other may be under-
stood in either way.
The two constructions in question are, in the traditional descriptive ter-
minology, the SHORT FORM negator an(i), placed before the verb, and the
LONG FORM an(i) haOO (lit., 'not do'), placed after the verb stem suffixed
by the nominalizer ci-Iji-. Thus, corresponding to a basic affirmative sen-
tence like (147a), we have the short-form negative (147b) and the long-
form negative (147c):
(147) a. Mica ka canta.
b. Mica ka an(i) canta.
c. Mica ca-ci ani hanta.
'Mica sleeps'
'Mica does not sleep'
'Mica does not sleep'
The issue is whether (147b, c), and members of similar pairs, differ in
meaning or use, and if so how. Kuno (1980: 162-63) maintains that the
two constructions are either interchangeable or differ only in emphasis;
6.6 Suiface Structure 441
he notes that other commentators detect more of a real difference, for ex-
ample, that the former is a 'verb negation' and the latter a 'sentence nega-
tion'. This distinction, as Kuno explicates it, is reminiscent of (but not
identical to) the internalI external dichotomy discussed in chapter 2.
Other researchers have taken different and often conflicting (if not inter-
nally inconsistent) positions. Choi (1983) considers several possibilities
raised in these studies and concludes that the closest match for the two
Korean constructions within the Western literature on negation may be
Aristotle's contrary vs. contradictory negations, corresponding to the
short-form and long-form negative operators, respectively. In any case,
Choi's data indicate that the preverbal short form is always used descrip-
tively, while the long form is not restricted to metalinguistic uses-and
indeed, often fills in suppletively for the distributionally defective short
form when the syntax demands it. If the choice to use long-form negation
is often interpreted metalinguistically in those contexts which would have
permitted the short form, this interpretive tendency may well be grounded
in what I have called the 'division of pragmatic labor' (Horn 1984b; cf.
also McCawley 1978).
An additional factor relevant to the Korean case is the restricted scope
often associated with the unmarked negative form in verb-final languages
(cf. Davison 1978, Kuno 1980 for general discussion). Kuno notes that the
scope of the Japanese negation -na-i is generally limited to the immediately
preceding verb (although quantifiers can 'escape' this restriction and enter
the scope of a noncontiguous negation). The normal Turkish negation
-mA- is similarly restricted, with the suppletive periphrastic form degil sur-
facing in contrastive and other contexts.
Other considerations relevant to the interpretation of Japanese negative
sentences, bearing particularly on the interaction of metalinguistic nega-
tion with the topic marker -wa, are brought out by McGloin (1982: 57-
58). Citing the following three-way distinction in English from Horn
1978a:137:
(148) a. She isn't pretty.
b. She isn't pretty, but she is
intelligent.
c. She isn't (just) pretty, she is
beautiful.
(= less than pretty)
(= other than pretty)
(= more than pretty)
McGloin notes that the unmarked descriptive interpretation of (148a) is
available in Japanese whether or not the scalar element is suffixed by -wa.
Thus, both (149a, b) may be read as conveying that it is less than, that is,
cooler than, hot:
442 Metalinguistic Negation
(149) a. Atsuku na-i.
} 'It isn't hot'
hot NEG-PRES
b. Atsuku wa na-i.
hot TOP NEG-PRES
But only the former version may be assigned the nonscalar 'other than'
interpretation of (148b) (e.g., 'It's not hot but it is dirty'). By contrast
McGloin reports that neither (149a) nor (149b) can be read as an English~
style 'paradoxical' metalinguistic negation, as in (148c) above, or my ear-
lier examples in this chapter «13), (41), (43), and their ilk), where the
negation focuses on the upper-bounding implicature associated with scalar
predications. In order to get such a reading, a periphrastic form must be
employed:
(150) a. Atsui dokoroka nietagit-te i-ru yo.
hot far from boiling be-PREs
'It's far from being hot: it's boiling'
b. Atsui nante yuu mon ja na-i. Nietagit-te i-ru yo.
say
'It's not something you can call hot. It's boiling'
But Japanese does contain a construction, wake de wa nai, which (as
described by Kato 1985: 180-84) seems to be specialized for expressing
metalinguistic negation. In particular, as Kato shows, adverbs which can-
not appear at all in negative sentences (either inside or outside the semantic
scope of that negation) can occur inside the scope of wake de wa nai:
(151) a. *Kuruma ga totsuzen {tomat-ta/*tomar-anakat-ta}.
suddenly stoP-PAST/stop -NEG-PAST
'Our car suddenly {stopped/*didn't stop}'
b. Kuruma ga totsuzen tomat-ta wake de wa na-i.
'It's not that our car stopped suddenly' [it stopped
gently, etc.]
Whatever the details of the behavior of negation in specific verb-final
languages (or recalcitrant languages of other typologies), the overall pat-
tern seems confirmed: no language contains two negative operators corre-
sponding exactly to descriptive and marked negation, whether the latter
is to be characterized as an external semantic operator or (as urged here)
a metalinguistic use of basic negation. At the same time, every language
contains at least one negative morpheme which can be used either descrip-
tively (to form a negative proposition) or metalinguistically (to reject a pre-
vious utterance), the choice between these two understandings often being
made by the addressee in accordance with the grammatical properties of a
6.6 Surface Structure 443
particular negative token in a particular sentence type within a particular
language.
One issue which remains is the directionality of the relationship between
descriptive and metalinguistic negation: which use is primary and which
derivative? Or do both uses branch off separately from some more basic,
undifferentiated notion? I have little to contribute to this etiology, given
that the connection is explicable in either direction and that a full answer
would appear to be buried in the realms of speculation. My review of the
literature of acquisition in §3.1 suggests that the metalinguistic use may be
ontogenetically prior, in that the prohibitive or rejection/refusal negative
of early child language predates and evolves into truth-functional negation
(cf. Pea 1980b). On the other hand, for what it's worth, Rumbaugh and
Gill (1977: 169-70) report that the chimpanzee Lana, having been taught
the propositional, truth-functional, descriptive use of negation as part of
her computer-based symbolic repertoire of 'Yerkish', spontaneously inno-
vated what can only be viewed as metalinguistic uses of the same negative
operator. Of course even if we conclude that the generalized metalinguistic
use of negation as a sign of objection or refusal is learned earlier than its
logical, truth-functional use, it does not follow that this order of develop-
ment should be associated with any logical asymmetry in the account we
give for negation (or, analogously, for the other operators) in an idealized
model of the adult speaker's linguistic competence.
I have maintained in this chapter that conditions on truth must be kept
distinct from conditions on assertability, and that more explanatory burden
should be shifted from the former onto the latter. I have also argued that
while there is indeed only one descriptive sentence-level negation operator
in English and other languages, the ordinary truth-functional interpretation
of this operator motivates it for an extended use as a general metalinguistic
sign of rejection or objection, leveled against the choice of a particular
object-language expression or the manner in which that expression was
overtly realized.
In reply to the query posed in the title of Atlas 1981, 'Is not logical?',
some have answered 'yes' and others (including Atlas himself) 'no'. I con-
clude that the only full and complete answer must be 'sometimes'-that is,
when it functions descriptively rather than metalinguistically. Neither the
strong monoguist nor the ambiguist approach to the data I have considered
here can deal successfully with the unity and diversity of the phenomenon
of metalinguistic negation.
While it is clear that natural language negation is not always logical, it
should be recognized (contra Bergson and-in a different sense-contra
Atlas) that it is not always nonlogical either. In particular, there is a pro-
444 Metalinguistic Negation
cedural sense in which the descriptive use of negation is primary; the
nonlogical metalinguistic understanding is typically available only on a
'second pass', when the descriptive reading self-destructs. While Reggie
Jackson may have acknowledged that his 1983 season 'wasn't a bad year_
it was horrible' (cf. (41b», it is nevertheless undeniable that upon sending
his cleats on to the Hall of Fame, Mr. October could hardly exclude 1983
fro~ the ranks. o.f his bad years on the grounds that it was (not bad but)
homble. And It IS clearly harder to verify a metalinguistic negation (The
king ofFrance is not bald) than a descriptive one (The queen ofEngland is
not bald). Both semanticist and pragmatic/ assimilationist theories of uni-
vocal negation (li la Kempson 1986 and Atlas 1981, respectively) must
somehow come to terms with the fact that not all negative understandings
are created equal.
One important question which I did not, and will not, directly address
here is just how metalinguistic negation is to be represented within a formal
theory of natural language discourse; this question, along with the larger
issue of the relation between language and metalanguage in linguistic the-
ory, would push us beyond the purview of this study. We must be content
for now with the negative fact extracted from this chapter: some instances
of negation in natural language are not formally representable in an inter-
preted propositional language.
But what conclusions do I finally draw from my analysis of descriptive
and metalinguistic negation in this chapter for the question with which I
began it, namely, the treatment of presuppositional phenonema and biva-
lency in a logic of natural language?Ifevery negation is either descriptive or
metalinguistic, how exclusive is this disjunction? Can some negations be
both? And what of descriptive negation proper: what varieties of sentential-
and constituent-scope negation must be recognized within the syntactic and
semantic description of natural languages? These are the questions I shall
address in the next (and final) chapter.
7
Negative Form and
Negative Function
One issue I have stalked (and vice versa) in the six previous chapters of this
study is the nature ofthe negative inventory. Just how many distinct species
of negation must be admitted into our grammatical and semantic cata-
logues, and (if the answer exceeds one) on what basis are we to charac-
terize the variants in our stock?
I began with an exploration of Aristotle's binary model, in which predi-
cate denial-negation as a mode of predication-yields contradictory
negation in singUlar statements, while term negation focuses on, and is
often incorporated into, a particular subsentential constituent. This con-
stituent is typically, but not invariably, the predicate term, whence predi-
cate term negation with its contrary semantics.
In chapter 2, I moved on to consider several alternative ambiguist theories
of negation. These theories were seen to differ with respect to whether the
ambiguity was situated within the lexical semantics ofnegation or within the
scope of the logical syntax of the negative expression, and with respect to
the interaction of the posited negations with presuppositional phenomena,
especially in contexts of reference failure or category mistakes.
In chapter 3, I determined that so-called sentential negation can indeed
be regarded as the semantic counterpart of affirmation, with the objections
of the asymmetricalists (see §1.2) satisfied within an independently moti-
vated account of pragmatic inference. A functional model was proposed
for the tendency of negation to appear to be (ceteris paribus) more presuppo-
sitional or context-bound than affirmation. Proceeding in chapters 4 and 5
to an examination of the semantic and pragmatic properties of negation in
scalar predications, I argued that ordinary sentential negation yields formal
contradictories which can nevertheless be filled in or pragmatically strength-
ened in certain specifiable scalar contexts to yield functional contraries.
I returned in chapter 6 to the inventory question proper and presented
evidence for a dichotomy between descriptive sentential negation and the
metalinguistic use of the negation operator as a sign of objection to some
contextually present utterance. I suggested that the acceptance of a prag-
matic ambiguity between descriptive and metalinguistic negation might
vitiate the purported semantic ambiguity for negation and specifically the
445
446 Negative Form and Negative Function
internal/external distinction approached from different directions within
the models reviewed in chapter 2. This in turn led me to question the utility
of the notion of semantic or logical presupposition, which is generally as-
sumed to require the admission of just such a semantic ambiguity.
But I have not yet undertaken to investigate the logical nature of descrip_
tive negation per se. In particular, assuming (with Aristotle, Jespersen,
Klima, and Jackendoff, inter alia) that subsentential negation must be ac-
cepted-an assumption shared by most, though not all, linguists, and by
some, though not many, philosophers-what becomes of sentential nega-
tion? Should this notion be identified with the one-place external Proposi-
tion connective (the Stoics' apophatikon) or with the device for combining
subjects with predicates, typically surfacing between the two expres-
sions or within the latter one (Aristotle's predicate denial)? How does the
cross-linguistic appearance and behavior of negation help to decide the
question?
In this, my last chapter, I examine these issues, beginning with a survey
of the forms of negation. In §7.1 I explore a number of parameters govern-
ing the surface expression of negation within a given language. I observe
that the split between two negators may correlate with distinctions in mood
(typically indicative vs. directive), with the tense and aspect of the verb, or
with the category of the constituent in the focus of negation (typically ver-
bal vs. nonverbal). In particular, I outline the tendency for a formally weak
verb-based and specifically existential negation to be differentiated from a
marked and often archaizing strong form characteristically used in nonver-
bal, identificational, and/or contrastive (metalinguistic) contexts. I also
illustrate, discuss, and try to explain several typological tendencies affect-
ing the form of negative sentences, including Jespersen's Cycle (the re-
peated pattern of successive weakening and restrengthening of the negative
marker) and the Neg First principle (the preference for negation to precede
its focus). I also summarize the results of Dahl 1979 demonstrating the ex-
treme typological rarity of syntactic external negation.
In §7.2 I reinforce Dahl's findings with other arguments in support of my
conclusion that Aristotle was right: wide-scope sentential negation is a
mode of predication within a subject-predicate-based logical syntax, not an
iterating unary connective within a propositional calculus. I develop an ex-
tended term logic emphasizing the connection between Aristotelian and
Montagovian theories of negation (predicate denial), with the bridge
formed by the theory of generalized quantifiers, spelling out the parallel
assumed in term logic between singular and general predications. At the
same time I depart from orthodox term logic in insisting on a distinction
between one-place propositional connectives, which are excluded from my
extension, and two-place truth-functional connectives (including conjunc-
7.1 Varieties ofNegative Experience 447
tion and disjunction), which are endorsed within my model (as they are in
natural language).
Finally, in §7.3, I attempt to draw together the remaining strands of my
study by filling in some of the details in my picture of predicate denial: the
effect of negation on presuppositional phenomena, the relation of predicate
denial to constituent (predicate term) negation on the one hand and to
metalinguistic negation on the other, and the proper description of the
scope interaction between quantifiers and negation. We shall see, as we
have seen in the preceding chapters, that the most natural and explanatory
account of the complex properties of negative sentences requires the estab-
lishment of a division of labor between a formal theory of syntactic and
semantic form and a pragmatic theory of language use and function.
7.1 Varieties of Negative Experience: A Typology
of Descriptive Negation
Negative coexistence
In chapter 6, I touched on the typologically frequent distributional pattern
in which two descriptive negators are differentiated, one occurring in in-
dicative and/or main clauses and the other restricted to imperative contexts
or to certain (typically subjunctive or nonfinite) embedded clauses. Among
the languages investigated in their survey of syntactic realization types for
speech act distinctions, Sadock and Zwicky (1985: 175ff.) find that about
half display a special negative imperative sentence type, the PROHIBITIVE,
which differs significantly from other negative and/or other imperative
types. In three-quarters of the languages surveyed there are no straightfor-
ward negative imperatives, the functional gap being filled by special nega-
tive markers, nonimperative verb forms, or both.
This pattern is also exemplified in the classical languages of Indo-
European antiquity. In Vedic Sanskrit, for example (cf. Renou 1946), the
sentential negation na, appearing in clause-initial or preverbal position,
does not co-occur with imperatives; instead, we get the prohibitive ma in
such contexts. Negation is rare in embedded clauses of either subjunctive
or indicative mood.
The two negators of Ancient Greek, ou(k) and me, have been variously
distinguished as objective and subjective, assertive and nonassertive, or
independent and dependent, respectively (cf. Pott 1859; Mirambel 1946;
Weinreich 1963). More specifically, as Mirambel (1946:58-60) shows,
the former appears in main indicative clauses and in embedded infinitive
clauses governed by verbs meaning 'say' or 'believe', the latter in imperl),
tive contexts, and one or the other elsewhere, depending on the interaction
of various syntactic and semantic parameters. But the alternation between
448 Negative Form and Negative Function
oen « ouden) and me(n) in modern Greek represents-in the terminology
of Dixon's (1979) description of case-marking systems-a SPLIT rather
than FLUID pattern, determined by partially conventional or arbitrary gram-
matical considerations, rather than by the particular meaning or use of a
given utterance token. Indicatives and conditionals always govern oen,
subjunctive and participle constructions govern me(n), and the imperative
(the archgovernor of me in Ancient Greek) cannot be negated at all (the
sUbjunctive being used suppletively in negative environments, as in Swahili
and many other languages). One result of this complementary distribution,
as Mirambel points out, is that where the indicative and subjunctive have
fallen together in positive contexts, the negative form preserves the distinc-
tion-a counterexample to the general tendency (cited by Givan, inter alia;
cf. chapter 3) for syntactic distinctions to be neutralized under negation.
As Davies (1975) shows, the ancient Anatolian languages also differ-
entiated two negative markers, along the same lines as Sanskrit, Greek,
and Latin:
(1)
Hieroglyphic Luwian
Cuneiform Luwian
Lycian
Hittite
Factual
na
nawa
ne, nepe
natta
Prohibitive
ni
nis
ni, nipe
Ie
What is not clear is whether the two forms of negation in these and other
ancient Indo-European languages descend from the same or different
Proto-Indo-European sources, and-in the former event-when, how; and
why the split might have occurred.
In addition to this frequently attested split along indicative vs. directive
(or assertive vs. prohibitive) axes, the expression of sentential negation
varies in many languages according to the tense or aspect of the sentence or
the category membership of the predicator in negative focus. The negator
used in nonexistence statements and other verbal environments is often for-
mally distinct from the one used in negative identity statements and/or for
constituent (especially nominal) negation. Classical Chinese, for example,
featured sixteen or more negative markers, all glossed (at least sometimes)
as 'no' or 'not'. These markers can be assigned to two basic categories,
reconstructible with initial p- and m-, which have been seen as represent-
ing negations of identity and of existence, respectively (cf. Kennedy 1952;
Graham 1959: 111). But this system proved to be unstable. In one daughter
language, Cantonese, there are seven negative markers, all m- initial, one
of which (m hai) seems to function exclusively as a metalinguistic operator
7.1 Varieties ofNegative Experience 449
(see chapter 6); it can negate any element of the sentence-which is then
assigned contrastive stress-and is followed by a rectification (Yau 1980:
39-40).
Tense-based distinctions are also typically unstable. Classical Arabic
contained two basic verbal negations, past maa and nonpast faa, but the
reflexes of this formal dichotomy tend to be governed in the colloquial dia-
lects of today by other syntactic and semantic parameters. In Gulf Arabic,
rna negates verbs and muu(b) nouns, adjectives, and phrases; La co-occurs
with the imperfect to convey a negative command (and nakedly for free-
standing 'no!'). Iraqi Arabic distinguishes fa- and rna-prefixed negations
for imperative and nonimperative verbs, respectively, while muu is used
elsewhere, to negate NPs, APs, PPs, and so forth. I
In other modern vernaculars, category but not mood is relevant. Egyptian
Colloquial Arabic differentiates a discontinuous verbal negative rna . . . -s
from a constituent negator mus/mis used with nominal, adjectival, adver-
bial, and participial phrases and in copular (verbless) sentences. A similar
dichotomy between a discontinuous verbal negation (me . .. -(a)s) and
a nonverbal simple negation (mis) obtains in Tunisian Arabic: me ktibas
'he did not write' vs. mis be: hi 'not good', mis wildi 'not my son', mis inti
'not you'. Similar patterns obtain in other North African Arabic vernacu-
lars (cf. Comrie 1985).
Like some of the modern Arabic vernaculars, Temne (Nemer 1985) dis-
plays a three-way negative opposition. The standard indicative negation is
-he, attached to the auxiliary if there is one, and to the main verb if not.
The negative particle te appears preverbally in imperatives, infinitives, and
embedded finite clauses (including relatives). A third marker, Ta, occurs in
nonverbal sentences and clefts; this form also co-occurs with other negative
morphemes and may also signal metalinguistic negation in some contexts.
Given the different syntactic properties of these negative morphemes, the
negation will follow an indicative but precede an imperative:
(2) a. 5b5rk~
5b5rk~
df.
dihc.
DEF + woman 3p EAT-PRES±NEG
b. dif k5.
t6 dif k5.
±NEG kill-IMPER 3p
'The woman is eating'
'The woman isn't eating'
'Kill him!'
'Don't kill him!'
This ordering discrepancy is not surprising in the light of Jespersen's
Neg First principle, 'the natural tendency, ... for the sake of clearness, to
place the negative first, or at any rate as soon as possible, very often imme-
diately before the particular word to be negatived (generally the verb),
(Jespersen 1917: 5). We invoked Neg First in chapter 5 to motivate both the
450 Negative Form and Negative Function
tendency for affixal negation to manifest itself prefixally even when it does
not function as a category-internal operation (cf. §5.1.2) and the tendency
for semantically embedded negation to manifest itself in a higher clause in
'neg-raising' contexts, even when this introduces ambiguity (cf. §5.2).
The same principle can be held responsible for frequently attested re-
strictions on the distribution of sentential and constituent negation. Thus,
for example, English pleonastic negative parentheticals may follow but not
precede sentential negation (She didn't, I don't believe, order pizza vs.
*She, I don't believe, didn't order pizza; cf. Ross 1973a), while Italian
requires sentential negation to be marked in the environment of postverbal
but not preverbal negative NPs (Non ha visto nessuno 'He saw nobody' vs.
Nessuno (*non) l'ha visto 'Nobody saw him'; thanks to Raffaella Zanuttini
for the minimal pair). In each case, the sentence must be marked as nega-
tive before a secondary concordial negation can be marked on a nonverbal
constituent.
But while Neg First is operative in both declarative and imperative con-
texts, there is a particularly strong motivation for avoiding postverbal
negation in directive speech acts (imperatives and their functional equiva-
lents). While a violation of Neg First by the postverbal negation in (2a)
might result in temporary confusion, a similar transgression in the context
of (2b) would literally constitute a matter of life and death (Kill him-
oops-not!). Jespersen (1917: 5- 6) discusses parallel forms in Danish
(ikke spis det!), German (nicht hinauslehnen), and Latin (noli putare), in
which the negative marker appears preverbally in nonfinite directives
'where it is important to make the hearer realize as soon as possible that it
is not a permission that is imparted'.
One particularly suggestive distributional pattern is found in Kannada, a
Dravidian language of southern India (cf. Kittel 1903; Spencer 1914;
Gowda 1970; Bhatia 1977). The two negators at issue here are ilia, ex-
pressing nonexistence or straightforward predicate denial, and alia, vari-
ously analyzed as a negator of essence, quality, or identification. Alia often
serves as a constituent negation (He who did the deed is not I) and charac-
teristically appears in sondern-type environments, including the 'not X but
Y' and 'not only ... but also' constructions (cf. §6.4). We get contrastive
pairs like that in (3a, b), from Spencer (1914: 153):
(3) a. j gramadalli maravu illa.
b. Idu maravu alIa gic,lavagide.
'In this village there is not a
tree'
'This is not a tree, it is a
shrub'
The alia form is historically the third person singular of an obsolete verb
al- 'to be fitting or proper' , an etymology which seems particularly fitting
7.1 Varieties ofNegative Experience 451
and proper for its frequent use as a metalinguistic operator; indeed, as Kittel
observes, alia is often glossed as 'not like that'. (In imperative sentences, a
third negation is used: beda, the historical negation of beku 'want'.)
Similar patterns obtain in other Dravidian languages. Malayalam (Ra-
vindran 1970) distinguishes the suffixes -ilia and -alia along the same lines
as the corresponding free forms in Kannada, while negative imperatives
involve a periphrastic construction of special interest to us. In isolation,
vel)fa is glossed as 'not needed', deriving from vel)- 'needed' + the nega-
tive remnant -tao But when the same form occurs as a verbal suffix in nega-
tive imperatives, it can only be read as 'necessary not', as in varavel)fa 'do
not come', pokavel)fa 'do not go', otavel)fa 'do not run'. We have a clear
instance here of the 0 --> E drift discussed in §4.5 above.
Telugu differentiates the Ie negation of existentials, locatives, and other
predications from the kii negation appearing in equational and other copu-
lar (verbless) sentences (Narasirnharao 1970), while Tulu maps the ilia and
alia forms of Kannada and Malayalam onto ijji and am, respectively
(Madtha 1970). In keeping once again with the tendency to maximize the
lexical expression of E negation and minimize that of 0 negation, we find
in Tulu the portmanteau form balli which can be interpreted either as 'can-
not, be unable to' (governing the genitive or instrumental) or as 'should
not' (construed with the infinitive). The corresponding 0 values (= 'pos-
sible not', 'needn't') can only be expressed periphrastically.
In many languages, as touched on above, a special negative existential
form can be isolated from both the general predicational negation and the
special emphatic or constituent negator, if any. As noted by Schachter
(1985: 57-60), Hausa distinguishes the positive existential marker akwai
from the negative existential babu, while ordinary predicate denial is ex-
pressed by bit X bd, where X 'very neatly' marks the scope of negation.
Tagalog employs three unrelated morphemes, to mark negation in impera-
tive and optative contexts (huwag), in existential contexts (wala), and
. elsewhere (hindi). But if there is a formal neutralization, the existential
negation will typically fall together with the marker for negation in ordinary
predicational frames; indeed, as in the Dravidian languages, we can often
trace the standard negation back to an inflection of the existential verb.
This recurring morphosyntactic split between one negation employed for
straightforward negative predications (predicate denials) and for nonexis-
tence claims and another employed for negating identity statements or non-
verbal constituents recalls the Hegelian dichotomy between significant and
insignificant negation; cf. also Mabbott's view of negative identity state-
ments as 'pseudo-judgments' (both in §1.2.2). We can also detect echoes
of the dichotomy traced by Gebauer (1885) and other Indo-Europeanists
between QUALITATIVE negation (realized as a negated finite verb, resulting
452 Negative Form and Negative Function
in sentential scope for the negative operator) and QUANTITATIVE negation
(realized as a negative focusing on or incorporated into some other sen-
tence element, which mayor may not equate to sentential negation). If We
take the qualitative, predicational category to represent the prototype in-
stance of ordinary descriptive sentence negation, we can see in quantitative
and/or narrow-scope negation the contextually bound nature of descriptive
constituent negation and of the characteristic metalinguistic/contrastive
use of the negative operator.
Negation, word order, and Jespersen's Cycle
The Neg First principle expresses the strong tendency for negative markers
to gravitate leftward so as to precede the finite verb or other possible foci of
negation. As shown by the evidence collected in Dahl 1979 and Payne
1985, free particle negation is overwhelmingly likely to precede the verb in
SVO, VSO, and VOS languages, and may do so in SOV languages as well
(cf. Payne 1985: 224). But this tendency is not absolute, and it interacts
crucially with another basic principle, also associated with Jespersen: the
cyclical pattern wherein the negative marker is gradually weakened into a
verbal proclitic, then reinforced by the accretion of NPI minimizers or in-
definites, and ultimately replaced by its reinforcement. This process has
come to be known as JESPERSEN'S CYCLE: 'The history of negative expres-
sions in various languages makes us witness the following curious fluctua-
tion: the original negative adverb is first weakened, thert found insufficient
and therefore strengthened, generally through some additional word, and
this in its turn may be felt as the negative proper and may then in course of
time be subject to the same development as the original word' (Jespersen
1917:4).
Minimizers, those 'partially stereotyped equivalents of any' (Bolinger
1972: 121; cf. §6.4 above), occur within the scope of a negation as a way
of reinforcing that negation. As far back as Pott (1857 :410), linguists have
recognized this function of positive expressions denoting small or negli-
gible quantities, often incorporating a sense of scorn or ridicule, which
Pott sees as implicitly evoking the formula nicht einmaL das 'not even ...';
cf. also Schmerling 1971; Horn 1971; Fauconnier 1975a, 1975b; Heim
1984. Impressive, though hardly exhaustive, inventories of NPI mini-
mizers specialized for this function are given by Pott (1857: 410-11) and
Wagenaar (1930: 74-75). Their examples-from Sanskrit, Greek, Latin,
French, Old Spanish, Italian, English, Dutch, German, and Slavic-in-
clude minimal quantities from the culinary domain (= 'not a cherrystone,
a chestnut, a crumb, an egg, a fava, a fig, a garlic, a grain, a leek, an
oyster, a parsnip, a pea'), coins of little value ('not a dinero, sou' [cf. not a
red cent, plugged nickel, thin dime)), animals and body parts ('not a cat's
7.1 Varieties ofNegative Experience 453
tail, a hair, a mosquito, a lobster [sic], a sparrow'), and other objects of
little value and/or salience ('not an accent, an atom, a nail, a pinecone, a
point, a shred, a splinter, a straw').2 Indeed, it would appear that any entity
whose extension is small enough to be regarded as atomic in an accessible
set of contexts can be used productively in this frame as a means of nega-
tive reinforcement.
Nor is this tendency by any means restricted to Indo-European. Negative-
polarity minimizers occur as negation strengtheners in Basque (cf. Lafitte
1962), in Japanese (cf. McGloin 1976:397-419), and in many other
languages.
But NPI minimizers are just one device, albeit the most colorful, for pro-
ducing 'une negation energique' (Wagenaar 1930:75). The systematic use
of indefinites of either positive or negative morphological character within
the scope of negation also serves to reinforce that negation. We can trace
the cyclical history of negative forms through the development of French
negation. Preclassical Latin ne dico 'I do not say' is first strengthened by
the addition of the indefinite (£num 'one (thing)', forming the preverbal
particle non « noenum < ne-(£num), hence Classical non dico (simple ne
being retained in verbs with incorporated negation, e.g., nescio 'I do not
know'). But non is then phonologically weakened through successive shifts
back to the original Proto-Indo-European form ne, giving us Old French
jeo ne di. (As we saw in chapter 6, another reflex of Latin non survives into
modern French as the metalinguistic operator and free negation non [no].)
Although there remain several isolated constructions with the simple pro-
clitic negation n(e)-je ne peux, je ne saurais dire, n'importe-the stan-
dard expression of negation involves another round of strengthening, this
time involving the accrual of such minimizers as point (from Latin punc-
tum, 'a point'), den (from rem, 'a thing'), personne (from persona, a per-
son-cf. not a souL), and above all pas (from passum, 'a step', originally
collocating with verbs of motion).
Breal (1900:200-202) observes that while pas, point, den, personne,
jamais, aucun, and similar morphologically positive items originally
'served to reinforce the only genuine negative, to wit ne', they eventually
'by their association with the word ne became themselves negatives', to the
point where they can now 'dispense with their companion' and signify
negation in their own right. This holds particularly in verbless contexts:
Breal cites the exchange Qui va La? -Personne (,Who goes there? -No-
body') and the NP pas d'argent (no money), while Gaatone (1971: 99) pro-
vides minimal pairs like une chose jamais vue (a thing never seen) vs. Je
n'ai jamais vue cette chose (I've never seen that thing). When ne is re~
tained in verbal environments, in the discontinuous EMBRACING negation of
the standard dialect (je ne dis pas), it is no longer a negative marker per se,
454 Negative Form and Negative Function
but rather 'une marque de redondance de la negation . . . conditionne par
une autre term qui est Ie principal porteur de la valeur negative' (Gaatone
ibid.). This redundant ne is often absent in colloquial speech, where it~
evanescence is subject to a sociolinguistically conditioned variable rule; cf.
Ashby 1981 for a valuable empirical study of the loss of the preverbal ne
particle in contemporary French and the linguistic, stylistic, and social fac-
tors by which it is conditioned.
While Littre insisted on restricting aucun and rien to their etymological
positive meanings quelqu'un and quelque chose, respectively, in the seven-
teenth century Racine was already using the formula Je veux rien ou tout to
exclude his middles. Even the French Academy finally threw in the towel,
conceding in the 1878 edition of its dictionary that aucun could be glossed
as nul, pas un and rien as neant, nulle chose. Breal (1900:201-2) at-
tributes this semantic shift to CONTAGION, the new meaning of the indefi-
nites arising from their 'long sojourn in negative phrases'.
Other Romance and Germanic languages have independently undergone
analogous shifts in the representation of negatives (see Wagenaar 1930 for
an especially thorough and insightful account of the history of negation in
pre-fifteenth-century Spanish), but usually with one important difference
from French. The standard pattern is exemplified by English not, Latin
nullus « ne + ullus 'something, anything'; cf. French nul) and nemo «
ne + homo, lit. 'not a man'), and Spanish ningun (cf. algun 'something'):
the reinforcing postverbal indefinite incorporates a negative prefix through
the process of negative concord or agreement (cf. Labov 1972), thereby
facilitating its enthronement as the principal marker of negation in the sen-
tence. While instances of positive reinforcers undergoing infection by
exposure to negation exist outside of French-we have Spanish nada
'nothing' < Latin (res) nata 'insignificant [lit., born] thing' and nadi(e)
'nobody' < (homo) natus-it may be significant that their n- initial forms
conveniently misrepresent their positive ancestry.
The evolution of English not starts out parallel to that of its Germanic
cousins German nicht « ne + wicht) and Dutch niet: an indefinite, used
for postverbal reinforcement of a weak proclitic ne, incorporates prefixal
negation and comes to supplant the preverbal element as the main conveyor
of negative force. The English realization of the cycle is detailed by
Jespersen (1917), Marchand (1938), and Joly (1972). As in Latin, the pro-
clitic Indo-European negative ne proved too weak to survive unaccom-
panied in Old English, and the earlier Ic ne secge is strengthened into the
Middle English Ic ne seye not, with embracing negation. Now the original
intensifier or reinforcer is no longer perceived as emphatic, but reinter-
preted as a simple marker of negation, and the vestigial proclitic is doomed
to extinction (Stern 1937:263). By the Elizabethan period we find the
simple I say not. This part of the cycle parallels that of French:
7.1 Varieties ofNegative Experience 455
(4)
Old French: Jeo ne dis Old English: Ie ne secge
Modern French Middle
(standard): Je ne dis pas English: Ie ne seye not
Modern French Early Modern
(colloq.): Je dis pas English: I say not
As Joly points out, we can see the beginning of this development in Old
English itself, where (5b), with its embracing or reinforced negation, oc-
curs alongside the simple (5a):
(5) a. ac hi ne cneowan hine.
b. & ne penceap no hwret hie
don sceolde.-
'but they did not know him'
'and they did not think of
what they ought to do'
The 'negation composee' of the second example could take any of a num-
ber of forms.3 Negation introduced by proclitic ne was consummated
variously by no or na ('never' or 'not at all', from ne + 0, a 'always,
ever'; note that this combination predictably yields the stronger E meaning
and not the 0 value 'not always'), by tefre (ever) or ntefre (never), by tenig
(any) or ntenig (none), by n(e)alles ('not at all', from ne + ealles 'en-
tirely'), and increasingly by nowihtI nawiht (nothing), from noI na (see
above) + wiht 'person, creature, thing' (cf. Wight and not a whit). This
last form, representing a double incorporation, eventuated (through double
contraction) as nohtlnaht, and finally not. Presumably facilitated by con-
texts allowing both interpretations, the negative existential pronoun is re-
analyzed as a simple adverb (I sowed nought> I sowed not), spreading
into forms containing no semantic indefinite (cf. Bossuyt 1983: 311-12).
Some neg-incorporated forms from this period do survive as negative
pronouns-no, nought, none « OE nan 'not one', from ne + an 'one')-
while the neg-prefixed adverb never now patterns with other positive
and negative adverbs in its preverbal position and its failure to trigger
do-support. We have also encountered the neg-incorporated connectives
neither and nor. But the neg-incorporated copulas and auxiliaries of
Old English-nis 'not-is', nces 'not-was', ncebbe 'not-have', nolde 'not-
would', nyUe 'not-want'-gradually disappeared (except in relics like
willy-nilly), along with proclitic ne, as the reinforcing element began to
take over the functional load of negation. A parallel history is displayed by
the negative verbs of Latin-neglego 'disregard, not-heed', nego 'say no,
deny', nescio 'not-know', nolo 'not-want'-which either passed out of
Romance or lost their connection with overt negation. In both families, the
nonverbal categories have retained their n-initial negative members, while
the verbal categories have not.
Most of the Germanic dialects underwent the same shift as English, the
456 Negative Form and Negative Function
preverbal particle (Gothic ni, OHG ni, Old Saxon ni / ne) undergoing re-
inforcement and gradually replacement by neg-incorporated indefinites (cf.
Delbriick 1910; Coombs 1976).4 But English-unlike German, Dutch, and
colloquial French-did not stop there. The periphrastic do-suPPOrted
negation of modern English was already extant in the fifteenth century and
had become standard by the seventeenth: I say not ~ I do not say.5 While
postverbal negation (like solitary preverbal negation in French) survives in
relic expressions (I kid you not, She loves me not) and is standard in modal
and other auxiliary constructions, the result in ordinary main verb clauses
is formally akin to the status quo ante: 'Henceforth the negative particle be-
longs to the verb again; it returns to the place which it had left' (Marchand
1938: 198).
But why does negation need to be strengthened or reinforced in the first
place? In particular, why must the preverbal Indo-European ne repeatedly
sue for nonsupport? What triggers each round of postverbal reescalation?
One recent suggestion is that the shift from preverbal to postverbal nega-
tion correlates with the more general shift from verb-final to verb-medial
order. If negation is an adverb, and typological considerations dictate that
adverbs tend to precede their verbs in XV-type languages but follow them
in VX-type languages (cf. Greenberg 1963), the shift in negative position-
ing was to be expected as the SOY protolanguage and its verb-final classi-
cal daughters passed the torch to the verb-medial granddaughters alive
today.6 Embracing negation represents a transitional stage, a kind of half-
way house on this relentless march. So argues Vennemann (1974).
But there are insurmountable difficulties for this approach. Ashby (1981)
points out that Vennemann's approach, tailored to fit the facts of French,
falters when confronted with other Romance languages no more verbfinal
than French (e.g., Spanish and Italian) which have stubbornly retained
their preverbal negations and show no signs of replacing them. Further-
more, as Bossuyt (1983: 310) observes, Vennemann offers no explanation
of why embracing negation should persist in standard French, a consistent
SVX-type language, centuries after it has disappeared in the Germanic
languages.
Lehmann (1974: 11-17; 1978: 181-83) casts a different typological
net; for him, the negative element as a 'qualifier of sentential scope' is pre-
dicted to precede the verb in SVO languages. While this approach gets the
predictions right for Spanish and Italian (and, if one is patient, for En-
glish), it runs into obvious difficulties when confronted with French, as
Ashby notes, not to mention German, Dutch, and related languages. It is
not clear why such languages should trouble to go against the grain of both
their own typology and the Neg-First principle in order to innovate post-
verbal negation.
7.1 Varieties ofNegative Experience 457
But if word order is not a crucial factor (or at least not the crucial factor)
in motivating Jespersen's cycle, what is? Jespersen's answer is clear from
his description of the cycle: an unstressed monosyllabic syllable consisting
of nasal + neutral vowel is simply too weak to serve as the conduit for the
vital function with which it has been entrusted, that of differentiating a
positive statement from its contradictory:
The negative notion, which is logically very important, is . . .
made to be accentually subordinate to some other notion; and as
this happens constantly, the negative gradually becomes a mere
proclitic syllable (or even less than a syllable) prefixed to some
other word. The incongruity between the notional importance and
the formal insignificance of the negative may then cause the
speaker to add something to make the sense perfectly clear to the
hearer. (Jespersen 1917: 5)
But once the phonetically weak negative particle has been reinforced by a
postverbal indefinite (with or without incorporated concording negation) or
other minimizer (Let me make this perfectly clear: I ne knew it not!), it is
perceived as redundant. And so this barely audible and now nonfunctional
linguistic form discreetly folds its tents and elides away.
We can see in this development an instance of the tension between a
least-effort (R-based) tendency toward weakening and an information-
preserving (Q-based) tendency toward strengthening (cf. Horn 1984b). As
with all such dialectic processes, the new synthesis is never a resting place,
but only the first step in a new cycle. The next stage of development is the
movement of the new reinforced negation into a preverbal position (as with
Latin non or the English do + n't), satisfying Neg First but leaving the
door open to a new round of phonologically inspired weakening and se-
mantically inspired restrengthening.
As we saw in my discussion of logical double negation (§5.1.3), the
struggle between the two countervailing functional principles may leave in
its wake a horde of enraged prescriptivists sputtering at the Q-motivated
use of forms (not uncommon, not inelegant) which appear (from an R-
based perspective) to be otiose or redundant. Similar attacks have been
leveled against the R-violating but Q-affirming "redundant" reversatives
(unravel, uncork, unthaw, unskin, debone, depit). The same vilification is
incurred by embracing negation. Thus, as Bossuyt (1983) observes, forms
with and without the preverbal negative particle coexisted in Early Middle
Dutch, the no-longer-functional proclitic having become phonologically
conditioned. But not everyone accepted this fait accompli: 'From a socio-
logical point of view, particle-less negation was [from the thirteenth cen-
tury] considered careless, and embracing negation [ne . .. niet] positively
458 Negative Form and Negative Function
valued. In the seventeenth century, however, this evaluation of the negative
particle had completely changed, and [the prescriptive grammarian] Leu-
penius ... strongly reproves its use as illogical' (Bossuyt 1983: 317).
Such verdicts, not infrequently registered on the parallel shifts in French
and English, are reminiscent in turn of the condemnation grammarians
periodically direct to the analogous (R-violating but Q-motivated) appear-
ance of 'pleonastic' or 'expletive' negation in comparative constructions
and after verbs of forbidding, fearing, doubting, refusing, missing, and
their ilk (cf. Horn 1978a: §3.2 for discussion and references).
While it may seem odd, notwithstanding the force of least effort, that
an element as semantically crucial as negation could effectively disappear,
the process is not as exotic as it may appear. As Marchand notes, the
periphrastic preverbal negative in colloquial English is often realized as a
non-nasal proclitic-I da wanna go, 1 dunno-while other instances of
postauxiliary negation may be signaled more by vowel quality, stress, and
rhythm than by the presence of a segmental element (Marchand 1938:
200-201; cf. Jespersen 1917: 11). Thus, we distinguish he can come from
he can't come largely by rhythmic structure: [hi k~n kAm] vs. [hi kren?
kAm]. (When the modal is contrastively stressed, the distinction tends to
become neutralized, leading to some rather extreme repair sequences: he
can-yes or he can't?).
In contexts not triggering do-support, English finite negation standardly
appears-according to the standard analysis-as a weak contracted en-
clitic on a stressed auxiliary (have, be, will, would), its presence serving
to block that auxiliary from itself contracting as it normally does in the
corresponding affirmative examples. We thus get minimal pairs like I've
vs. 1 haven't, she's vs. she isn't, they'd vs. they wouldn't.7
The result, as Marchand points out, is that the modern colloquial lan-
guage contains two distinct morphemes for sentential negation: a weak
contracted n't on tensed auxiliaries, often signaled indirectly by prosody,
and a strong negative adverb not which occurs in nonfinite clauses, as a
constituent or word negation, and in emphatic contexts (including, but not
limited to, the not X but Y construction discussed in §6.4).8 As we have
seen, this state of affairs is by no means cross-linguistically unprecedented.
Against the typological background I have sketched, we can view Jesper-
sen's cycle as a turf war between a simple, descriptive negator which occurs
predominantly and prototypically in noncontrastive indicative contexts and
an emphatic negator which originates in nonfinite, nonverbal, and/or con-
trastive(metalinguistic) environments. Thus, the twin functions of nega-
tion in natural language, as outlined in chapter 6, are diachronically as well
as synchronically interactive.
7.1 Varieties ofNegative Experience 459
It will be recalled that the postverbal reinforcers of weak preverbal nega-
tion are first interpreted as intensifying the negative force of the sentence.
Consider, for example, the distribution of such emphatic NPI adverbials in
modern Indo-European languages, including English «not) ... at all, in
the world), French «(pas) ... du tout, le moins du monde; absolument
pas), German (durchaus (iiberhaupt) nicht), and Spanish (en mi vida, en
absoluto).9 These are precisely the kind of intensifiers which develop into
freestanding post-verbal negators. Indeed, the Spanish forms are used in
that way, without an overt triggering negation, as Joly notes: En mi {vidal
dias} lo he visto [lit., 'In my {life/days} I have seen that'] conveys that I
have never seen that, and en absoluto can be used in a reply to indicate a
categorical'no'.
Furthermore, the indefinite reinforcers-at least in the Germanic lan-
guages-have always permitted a contrastive interpretation. The ne ...
na/no/naht sequences of Old English, especially in their nontemporal
uses, seem to have appeared most freely in contexts of contrast (ne . .. no
... ac ... 'not ... but ...', with the adversative sondern-type particle
ac), of prohibition, or of affirmative/negative opposition. Joly provides
the examples in (6); where I have signaled the embracing negatives:
(6) a. Ne slapige no pin eage.
b. Ne sohte icDa hine ac he
-sylf com tome.
c. He lange wipstode ac hit ne
forheol naht. -
'Let not thine eyes sleep'
'I sought him not but he
himself came to me'
'He long resisted but it
availed not'
The same is true for Dutch, as Bossuyt (1983 :332) makes clear. Among
the earliest citations of postverbal niet/nit as sole marker of negation (with-
out the proclitic ne particle) is as a constituent negation in mar (son-
dern-type) adversative constructions:
(7) a. So ghinc hi na tire feeste, nit oppenbarlec mar
so went he to that party NEG openly butSN
al heimelec.
secretly
b. Wart ic ben comen uan den hemele nit om minen wille
for 1 am come from the heavens NEG to my will
te doene mar den wille mijns uader.
to do butSN the will my-GEN father
These sentences closely resemble the modern English and Dutch forms of
metalinguistic negation in the equivalent not X but Y environments, while
the syntactic representation ofdescriptive "sentential" negation-espe-
460 Negative Form and Negative Function
cially in English-has undergone much more radical revision. In this
sense, the metalinguistic use of the negative operator is formally more con-
servative than the descriptive.
But what do we mean, precisely, by descriptive "sentential" negation
(scare quotes and all)? As we have seen in our whirlwind tour of the great
negations of the world, finite noncontrastive, nonconstituent negation is
typically associated with the main finite verb or VP of the sentence OVer
which it has scope. Does ordinary language in fact possess a truly senten-
tial or propositional contradictory negation operator, in the logical sense?
Where does sentential negation show up in natural languages, and where
doesn't it?
In a study of 240 languages from 40 separate families, Dahl (1979) finds
that so-called sentence negation characteristically surfaces as an invariant
adverb or adverbial particle in proximity with the finite verb, as a mor-
phological category on the verb, or as an inflected auxiliary to the lexical
verb. The first two of these alternatives are typologically widespread; the
third represents the standard pattern in Uralic, although it is attested else-
where (Payne 1985). Thus Finnish, for example, expresses negation by a
negative verb inflected for person and number, followed by the notional
main verb in a neutral form, yielding paradigms like that in (8) (from
Bowerman 1973: 234):
(8) Minii en mene.
Sinii et mene.
Hiin ei mene.
'I don't go'
'you (sg.) don't go'
'he / she / it doesn't go'
[lit. 'I not go']
[lit. 'you not go']
[lit. 'he, etc., nots go']
In colloquial speech, the Finnish negative verb moves farther leftward,
yielding Vneg-S-X order: Et sinii mene 'you don't go'. Negative imperatives
involve a different negative verb which also appears before the main verb
and its arguments: Alii mene 'don't go'.
Notice that the Neg First principle is respected in these forms as in the
corresponding English examples with auxiliary negation; indeed, we might
be tempted to analyze do(es)n't as a negative verb in English, were it not
for the fact that do plays a similar supporting role in questions and em-
phatic contexts. If we take English contracted negatives to represent a set
of lexically listed negative auxiliaries (don't, can't, haven't), as pointed
out by Zwicky and Pullum (1983: 510), then English will tend to resemble
Japanese, Swahili, or Turkish more closely than it does its Indo-European
cousins. But in fact Finnish might offer a better model for comparison.
Dahl's categories are of course not mutually disjoint. Negation in Japa-
nese, for example, is marked by a bound verbal suffix -nai inflected for
tense and aspect; cf. Ota & Kato 1986: 26. Often, as in Russian, negation
immediately precedes the focus or new information, whatever its categorial
7.1 Varieties o/Negative Experience 461
status. The tendency for negation to precede its focus is of course Jesper-
sen's Neg First principle, and Dahl's evidence strongly supports the appli-
cation of Neg First to both OV- and YO-type languages. (As noted by
Bossuyt [1983: 310], this evidence constitutes another problem for Venne-
mann's typological explanation of Jespersen's Cycle.)
Where Dahl does not find negation is in the one place that the standard
theories of transformational grammar-as in the model of Klima 1964-
and of propositional logic would lead us to look for it: in sentence- or
clause-peripheral position.10 Dahl points out that even if we could motivate
the negative-placement rule such approaches require, there would remain
no explanation for why an underlyingly initial (or final) marker should be
so consistently associated with the finite verb at surface structure.
Of course when a predicate happens to appear clause-initially (in VSO
languages, pro-drop languages, or fronted constructions), a preverbal
negative element will automatically accompany it to that position, but this
is not true sentential external negation. A more plausible candidate for
clause-peripheral negation can be found outside of Dahl's survey group, in
the 'negative higher verbs' of Polynesian and Yuman languages (cf. Payne
1985). But even these entries in the propositional negation look-alike con-
test are subject to qualification.
Negation in Tongan (Churchward 1953: 56, cited by Payne 1985: 208) is
marked by a verb which appears almost sentence-initially and takes a sen-
tential complement:
(9) a. Na'e 'alu 'a Siale
PAST go ABS Charlie
b. Na'e 'ikai [s ke 'alu 'a Siale]
PAST NEG ASP go ABS Charlie
'Charlie went'
'Charlie didn't go'
But this state of affairs proves to be unstable; in Fijian, for example, the
higher initial negation of the protolanguage has undergone auxiliarization
and shows up within a verbal complex not unlike that cited in Finnish
above (cf. Payne 1985: 209-11). This reanalysis is represented by Payne
as follows:
(10) [s Voeg [s Comp Vie. Obj Subj]] (essentially as in Tongan) =~
[s[VG Vneg Comp Vie.] Obj Subj] (as in Fijian; VG = verbal
group)
A similar development can be seen in the SOV Yuman family (Munro
1976: 106-9), except that the sentence-peripheral higher negation recon-
structible for Proto-Yuman is not strictly a one-place connective. Munro
concedes that although-from the perspective of generative semantics-'a
simple negative would seem to be a good example of a verb which should
462 Negative Form and Negative Function
take just one sentential argument', there is in fact no direct evidence for the
initial (pre-Proto-Yuman) stage she posits in the sequence in (11):
(11)
a. S b. S c. S
~ ~ ~
Ny V
I I ==?
Nx Ny V
I I ==?
N, V
~
S NEG
~
S NEG
~
V NEG
Nx V Nx V
The Proto-Yuman (lIb) stage, with an application of a subject-copying
rule, is directly reflected in Dieguefio, but this situation remains unstable.
The Proto-Yuman negative verb is more typically reanalyzed as a suffix,
through an application of Predicate Raising on Munro's analysis, resulting
in the (llc) stage represented by Mojave:
(11') Dieguefio: ?nya:-c ?-a:m- x ?- ma:w }
/-SUBJ 1- go- IRR 1- NEG
'I didn't go'
Mojave: ?inyec ?-iyem- mo- t- m
/ 1- go- NEG-EMPH-TNS
Patterns of this sort are significant, in that they tend to show that even in
those few cases in which a descriptive negation connective seems to take
a sentence as its surface argument, the motivation for such a conclusion
is tenuous and the structures conforming to this analysis are relatively
unstable.
In fact, the one natural locus of apparent sentence-external wide-scope
negation appears to be child language. Bellugi (1967) and other develop-
mental researchers attest a common but transient stage in the acquisition of
English and other languages in which children express negation regularly
or exclusively by a marker at sentence-initial position: Not mommy go, No
I want spinach. 11 If my earlier speculations are correct, the negation at this
stage is in fact still metalinguistic, so that the appearance and later dis-
appearance of this paradigm reinforces the general observation, based on
typologies like Dahl's and Payne's, that descriptive negation is not a sen-
tential operator.
What is the significance of the (virtual) absence of sentence-peripheral
descriptive negation for the standard theories of propositional logic and
generative syntax which seem to assume the existence of such a chimera?
How are we to represent the various forms descriptive negation takes
within various languages? A program designed to address these questions
is launched in §7.2.
7.2 Aristotle as a Montague Grammarian 463
7.2 Aristotle as a Montague Grammarian:
Negation in Extended Term Logic
All object language negation is internal. Either terms are negated (logi-
cal contrariety) or predicates are negated (predicate denial). Negation
never applies to a sentence as a whole. Object language negation is
never external. (Englebretsen 198Ia :59)
The 2,300-year war between the term logic of Aristotle and the Peripetetics
on the one hand and the propositional logic of the Stoics and post-Fregeans
on the other seems to have ended in the complete rout of the former camp
by the forces of the latter. Fifty years ago, Lukasiewicz (1934: 79ff.)
offered his postmortem to the conflict, which we already encountered in
my earlier history of these events (§1.1): 'We know today that proposi-
tionallogic ... founded by the Stoics, carried on by the Scholastics, and
axiomatized by Frege, . . . is logically prior to the logic of terms'. I shall
maintain, in this necessarily programmatic introduction to what I shall dub
Extended Term Logic, that the death of the Aristotelian system has been
grossly exaggerated.12
Let us begin by reviewing some of the principal tenets of term logic,
summarized in (12); cf. Aristotle and Englebretsen (1981a, 1981b) for
details:
(12) a. Logic is the study of propositions. A proposition is a sen-
tence which can be true or false; every proposition is either
true or false (possibly excepting future contingents: see
discussion in §2.1).
b. Every (simple) proposition is CATEGORICAL, containing some-
thing (the SUBJECT) about which something (the PREDICATE)
is said.
c. There are no propositional operators as such.
d. Subject and predicate can be combined by two different
MODES OF PREDICATION, (PREDICATE) AFFIRMATION (in
which the predicate is AFFIRMED of its subject) and (PREDI-
CATE) DENIAL (in which the predicate is denied of its
subject). Affirmations and denials differ in QUALITY.
e. A predicate may be truly denied of its subject because the
subject fails to exist, because the predicate fails to apply
naturally to it, or because the predicate expresses a prop-
erty which the subject accidentally fails to possess. Thus,
Socrates is not wise (assuming a nonexistent Socrates),
The number 2 is not blue, and Reagan is not a Democrat
are all true instances of predicate denial.
464 Negative Form and Negative Function
f. Any term may be negated. Not-man (as in Not-man is furry)
is an instance of subject term negation, not-happy (Soc-
rates is not-happy) of predicate term negation. A predicate
term negation affirms a negative term (not-happy) of the
subject; a predicate denial (Socrates is not happy) denies
a positive term (happy) of the subject. If Socrates does not
exist, the former is automatically false and the latter true.
g. Predicate term negation yields CONTRARY oppositions: a is f3
and a is not-f3 cannot both be true but may both be false.
Predicate denial yields CONTRADICTORY oppositions: y is 8
and y is not 8 necessarily differ in truth value in that one
must be true and the other false.
h. Predications, whether affirmations or denials, may be UNIVER-
SAL (All men are (not) happy, No men are (not) happy),
PARTICULAR (Some men are (not) happy), SINGULAR (Soc-
rates is (not) happy), or INDEFINITE ((A) man is (not)
happy). This is a distinction in QUANTITY.
i. Predications of whatever quality and quantity may be AS-
SERTORIC (islisn't), APODEICTIC (must be/needn't be), or
PROBLEMATIC (may be/can't be). This is a distinction in
MODALITY.
Some of the essential differences between the term logic of Aristotle and
the propositional and predicate calculus of the modems are spelled out
in (13):
(13)
Term Logic
(Aristotle, Leibniz, Som-
mers, Englebretsen)
a. Every statement is cate-
gorical, of subject!
predicate form.
b. Any term may refer or
characterize, depending
on its position in the
sentence.
c. Categorical syllogisms.13
d. Parallel treatment of sin-
Propositional/Predicate Logic
(Stoics, Cicero, Abelard,
Frege, Russell,
mathematical logic)
No subject / predicate analy-
sis; function / argument
application is basic.
Only logical functions charac-
terize; only logical argu-
ments refer.
Hypothetical syllogisms and
laws of inference.
Differential treatment of
7.2 Aristotle as a Montague Grammarian 465
Term Logic
(Aristotle, Leibniz, Som-
mers, Englebretsen)
gular and general state-
ments: both of subject /
predicate form.
e. No sentential negations,
hypotheticals, conjunc-
tions, or disjunctions.
f. Neither of the two defined
varieties of negation (cf.
(12d- g» reduces to an
external sentential
connective.
g. No Law of Double Nega-
tion; predicate denial
does not iterate, since it
does not apply to a full
proposition.
Propositional/Predicate Logic
(Stoics, Cicero, Abelard,
Frege, Russell,
mathematical logic)
singular and general state-
ments (see below).
One- and two-place sentential
connectives freely occur, as
defined since Boole.
Negation is an external truth-
functional propositional or
sentential connective (Not:
it is day).
LDN accepted since Alexan-
der of Aphrodisias (Not:
not: it is day differs from
It is day only in manner of
speech). Negation freely
iterates.
Of particular relevance here are (13a) the categorical (subject! predi-
cate) nature of the term logic statement, rejected by Frege and his suc-
cessors, (13d) the parallel treatment of singular and general statements
(Socrates is wise, Every man is wise) in term logic and their differentiation
within standard mathematical logic, (13e) the absence of propositional
operators (negation, conjunction, disjunction, conditional) within t~rm
logic as against their fundamental role as one- and two-place connectives
in propositional logic, and (13f, g) the differences between the two ap-
proaches with respect to negation. As spelled out in more detail in (12d-
g), term logic accepts two varieties of negation, neither of which reduces to
the external one-place connective of the Stoics and Fregeans. Subject and
predicate can be combined by two distinct modes of predication, since a
predicate (which mayor may not itself contain a negative term) may be
either affirmed or denied of its subject.
Since Aristotle and Leibniz, the agenda for a term logician has always
crucially involved a demonstration of the claim that both singular and gen-
eral statements are essentially of subject / predicate form. This claim is
congenial to the enterprise of Montague Grammar, where (as in PTQ:
Montague 1974: §8) both complex quantifier phrases and formally simple
466 Negative Form and Negative Function
NPs are GENERALIZED QUANTIFIERS denoting third-order entities: just as
every man and no man denote the sets of properties which are properties of
every man and of no man, respectively, so too John denotes the set of prop-
erties which are properties of John.
The theory of generalized quantifiers has been recently elaborated by
Barwise and Cooper (1981), in the work I touched on in chapter 4. On this
analysis every NP, singular or general-John, ~ woman, the ba~y,. every
eel, most ofthe donkeys-is taken to be a quantifier whose domaIn IS a ~et
of individuals. A quantifier of the form Q[Det A] denotes the set B of WhICh
(Det A) B holds. Quantifiers denote families o~ sets, that is, fami!ies (sets)
of subsets of the domain of discourse; determIners denote functIOns from
common noun denotations to quantifier denotations. Where E is the set of
entities provided by the model, the extension. of the ~et~rminers all, most,
some, and no, for example, will be the functIOns aSSIgnIng to each A C E
the families of sets picked out in (14a, b, c, d), respectively:
(14) a. all A denotes {X C E: [[A]] C X}
b. most A denotes {X C E: I[[A]] n xl > I[[A]] - XI}
c. some A denotes {X C E: [[A]] n X =!= 0}
d. no A denotes {X C E: [[A]] n X = 0}
(where [[a]] = denotation of a and lal = cardinality of a)
While Barwise and Cooper's work is linked to an overall Montague Gram-
mar program for the representation of the syntax a~d s.em.an~ics of natural
language, it is only a term-logic-based approach, WIth ItS Ins~stence on the
categorical nature of root sentences, which motivates and Indeed forces
this insightful analysis. . . .
We have seen that standard versions of mathematIcal lOgIC, by followmg
Frege in his rejection of the two internal negatio~s of Aristotelian logi.c
(predicate denial and term negation) in favor of a SIngle one-place proPOSI-
tional negation, cannot assign subject! predicate form ~o general state-
ments. In the usual modern analysis, universal and partIcular statements
are represented as universally quantified conditionals and .e~iste~tially
quantified conjunctions, respectively. In effect, then, a proposlt~on lIke All
ravens are black, as analyzed into \Ix (raven (x) ~ black (x», IS not about
ravens at all. It is in fact about everything: it states of every individual x
that if x is a raven, then x is black, that is, everything is either black or a
nonraven. More generally, as Sommers (1970: 38) observes, 'A statement
of the form "All S is P" in quantificational transcription is not about all S
or any S; it is about all things and affirms of them ".is either un-S or P" '. A
general statement is thus entirely distinct from a SIngular statement (e.g.,
This raven is black) in its logical form.
Barwise and Cooper, in their independent adumbration of the same
7.2 Aristotle as a Montague Grammarian 467
point, point out that while the underlined portions of the English sentences
in (15) clearly represent NPs-patterning here as subjects and elsewhere as
direct and prepositional objects-these NPs are nowhere to be seen in the
translations of these sentences into their predicate calculus representations
in (15'):
(15) a. Harry sneezes. (15') a. sneeze (Harry)
b. Some person b. 3x (person (x) " sneeze
sneezes. (x»
c. Every man sneezes. c. \Ix (man (x) ~ sneeze (x»
d. Most babies sneeze. d. [no representation available
in PC]
While the English NPs have mysteriously vanished into thin air, the con-
junction and implication in (15'b, c) have mysteriously appeared out of it,
the choice between the two connectives dictated by the choice of quantifier.
An additional problem is posed by the nonstandard quantifiers (e.g., most
a) which, as Barwise and Cooper and others have pointed out, cannot be
adequately modeled by a quantified conditional or conjunction. Under the
Montague-Barwise and Cooper analysis, as we have noted, each of the
NPs in (15) is a generalized quantifier, allowing all four sentences to be
assigned subject-predicate form, as in term logic. Each sentence in (15) is
true iff the set of sneezers contains Harry, some person, every man, and
most babies, respectively. 14
The curious tradition of unpacking general predications into quantified
conjunctions and conditionals is premised partly on the interaction of quan-
tification with propositional negation. But the basis of this premise-the
Stoic doctrine of apophatikon, the iterating external truth-functional nega-
tion connective-is a misrepresentation of natural language. In the last
section, we observed that linguistic analogues of this logical connective are
never (or hardly ever) found. The theoretical implications of this typo-
logical result must not be overlooked. We have already encountered Geach's
verdict that the Stoic-Fregean propositional negation, however convenient
it may prove for the purposes of formal logic, does violence to ordinary
linguistic practice; I reprise his remarks after citing the parallel observa-
tions of Katz:
In natural language, negation is not a mechanism for forming
compound propositions. Logicians treat negation as a proposi-
tional connective even though it does not connect propositions,
but in constructing artificial languages one is free to do what one
wants, and furthermore, in the kind of artificial languages accept-
able within the orthodox conceptionoflogic there is nochoice. . . .
468 Negative Form and Negative Function
[In natural language] negative elements do not behave like the
connectives 'and' and 'or' but like adverbs. (Katz 1977: 238)
Propositional negation was as foreign to ordinary Greek as to En-
glish, and [Aristotle] never attained to a distinct conception of it.
The Stoics did reach such a conception, but in doing so they vio-
lated accepted Greek usage; their use of an initial OVXi as the stan-
dard negation must have read just as oddly as sentences like 'Not:
the sun is shining' do in English.... In ordinary language, it is
rather rare to negate a statement by prefixing a sign of negation
that governs the whole statement; negation is almost always ap-
plied primarily to some part of a statement, though this often has
the effect of negating the statement as a whole.
(Geach [1972] 1980:75)
Geach's last comment echoes Frege's observation that a constituent
negation may have semantic scope over the entire sentence. The same point
is reiterated by Cooper (1984:25): 'English uses the negation of constitu-
ents other than sentences to achieve the effect of what would be sentence
negation in a predicate calculus-like representation'. What remains to be
determined is precisely when the ordinary constituent-associated negation
of natural language achieves this sentential effect. As Frege observes
(1919: 131), in (16c) as in (16b):
(16) a. The man is celebrated. (16') a. The man is happy.
b. The man is not celebrated. b. The man is not happy.
c. The man is uncelebrated. c. The man is unhappy.
we merely 'indicate the falsity of the thought' expressed in (16a). But, as
we have seen, this result is far from general: in saying (16'c), we do not, as
in (16'b), just indicate that the man is not happy (or that it is false that he is
happy). 15 Assuming, contra Frege, that we do need to allow for a constitu-
ent negator, Aristotle's predicate term negation, for the strong contrariety
operator of (16'c), one basic question remains: is the contradictory opera-
tor of (16b) and (l6'b) the iterating propositional connective of the Stoics
and Fregeans, or is it the noniterating predicate denial-negation as a
mode of predication-of Aristotle and the Peripatetics?
Without acknowledging the Aristotelian connection, Montague quietly
opts for the latter approach. In PTQ (Montague 1974: §8, 252-53), nega-
tion, like tense, is introduced syncategorematically. In addition to the basic
positive subject-predicate rule S4, Montague offers an assortment of five
distinct operations for forming negative sentences, constituting (in the
words of Dowty, Wall, and Peters: 1981: 244) 'alternative ways of putting
subject with predicate to form a sentence'. The 'rules of tense-and-sign' in
his S17 produce analysis trees of the sort exemplified in (17):
7.2 Aristotle as a Montague Grammarian 469
(17)
a. the man seeks a unicorn, 4 b. the man doesn't seek a unicorn, II
/ \ / \
the man, 2 seek a unicorn, 5 the man, 2 seek a unicorn, 5
I / \ I / \
man seek a unicorn, 2 man seek a unicorn, 2
I I
unicorn unicorn
c. the man doesn't seek a unicorn, 10, 6
/ \
a unicorn, 2 the man doesn't seek him6, II
I / \
unicorn the man, 2 seek him6' 5
I / \
man seek he6
There is no single operation by which auxiliary negation is introduced
syncategorematically along with tense; rather, we are offered one subrule
for the 'negative third person singular present', another for the 'negative
third person singular present perfect', and so on. But this is an artifact of
Montague's decision to intersperse agreement rules and other morpho-
logical processes with the bottom-up syntactic construction of sentences.
What is crucial for our purposes is that ordinary (auxiliary) negation is
treated as a mode of predication, a recipe for combining subject (a T or
term phrase) and predicate (an IV phrase) to form a proposition or sentence
(an expression of category t), rather than an operation on a fully formed
proposition or sentence. Butthe I(ntensional) L(ogic) translation ofsyncate-
gorematic negation is the external propositional connective, with the seman-
tics ofthe contradictory operator (taking scope over the subject phrase, as in
Aristotle). Thus, we get the semantic effect ofFregean negation without the
syntactic commitment to an external presentential operator.
Notice that while it would have been technically straightforward for
Montague to have treated contradictory negation in the manner of his de
dicto modals, as a truth-functional connective of category tit, he chose not
to do so. In fact, in his earlier "English as a Formal Language," Montague
(1974: §6, 190) does introduce not as a member of Bs, the set of basic ad-
formula phrases. 16 In "Universal Grammar" (Montague 1974:§7), on the
other hand, not is introduced syncategorematically, as n't is in PTQ. It is
my contention here that by the time of PTQ, Montague had come around
to recognizing (at least implicitly) that-logical convenience notwithstand-
ing-the appropriate treatment of English as a formal language requires
negation to be analyzed syntactically as a mode of predication, not as an
external propositional connective.
Since Montague's contradictory negation, like Aristotle's, forms a sen-
470 Negative Form and Negative Function
tence out of a subject and a predicate, rather than converting one fully
formed sentence into another, it will not iterate. Thus, we generate no se-
quences of the form of (18),
(18) not (not (not (not ... (the cat is on the mat))))
which seems correct in the light of the behavior of natural languages. But
the noniterating property of Montague negation does not follow systemati_
cally from his framework as it does from Extended Term Logic (ETL),
which bars all one-place truth-functional propositional connectives and dis-
allows any expression of category tIt.
Sentence negation as such is also difficult, although (as Cooper [1984]
shows) not impossible, to accommodate within Situation Semantics, but
this appears to be not so much a principled result of this framework as an
epiphenomenon of it. Barwise and Perry (1983 : 138), recognizing that 'the
simplest form of negation in English is verb phrase negation, rather than
sentence negation' , point out that the former can be treated easily in Situa-
tion Semantics, while the latter proves (as perhaps it should) to be a com-
plicated matter: 'If I say "A dog is not barking", this can describe any
factual situation in which some dog is not barking at the location referred
to. However, if I say "It's not true that a dog is barking" , my new utterance
doesn't mean that. Indeed, to ask what situation I am describing seems to
miss the mark. Rather it seems that my utterance, if informative, serves
primarily to preclude certain types of situations, namely, those with bark-
ing dogs'. Thus, sentence negation, for Barwise and Perry, operates on a
different level from VP-negation. This characterization of S-negation as a
metasituational operator is in some ways analogous to my metalinguistic
negation; in both cases, syntactically external negation is identified as an
unusual and linguistically marked device operating on a metalevel. But it
is not clear from this passage whether Barwise and Perry's remarks are
intended to carry against all instances of semantically wide-scope (contra-
dictory) negation, or just (certain?) cases of quantifier-negation scope
interaction. As we shall see, some instances of apparent sentence negation
can in fact be reanalyzed as metalinguistic uses of the negative operator,
but every wide scope negation cannot be so analyzed.
Aristotle's narrow-scope negator, predicate term negation, while not ac-
knowledged by Montague, is partially recaptured in Bennett's and Dowty's
extensions. Dowty (1979: 349) treats un- adjectives as instances of IV
(predicate-internal) negation, but assigns them the semantics of contradic-
tory negation, so that (16'b) and (16'c) will incorrectly come out truth-
conditionally identical (as in the classical Fregean model). The 'internal'
IV negation of Bennett 1976 (cf. his rules S29-32, T29-32) is also se-
mantically contradictory. (See also Dowty, Wall, and Peters 1981: 94-96,
7.2 Aristotle as a Montague Grammarian 471
104-5, where the predicate negation non is formally defined within Ltype.)
Clearly at least some instances of morphologically incorporated narrow-
scope negation must be assigned the semantics of contrary opposition, so
that (16'c) can come out false when (16'b) is true, given that a man may be
neither happy nor unhappy. I7
Within the generative tradition, IV or VP negation-while absent from
Klima's grammar-is explicitly introduced by Jackendoff (1969), who dis-
tinguishes this operation from S-negation semantically in (more or less) the
Aristotelian manner. The S-neg reading of The arrow didn't hit the target
denies that the arrow hit the target; its VP-neg reading asserts of the arrow
that it failed to hit the target. But Jackendoff, like Klima, introduces sen-
tence negation in the initial position where it never surfaces; nor can I accept
the S-neg-VP-neg boundary line determined by Jackendoff's semantic
criterion, for reasons which emerge in §7.3.
In their post-Montagovian Boolean semantics for natural language,
Keenan and Faltz (1978) allow negation to combine freely with expressions
of any category, including proper names, thereby generating some 'admit-
tedly unnatural combinations' (Not {Johnlthe man} left); the semantics
treats any expression of the form not IX as denoting the set of properties
which is the complement of that set of properties denoted by IX. (Analogous
cross-categorial semantics are provided for conjunction and disjunction,
which are defined in terms of set intersection and union, respectively.)
A modified version of term logic, combining the dual-negation bivalent
categorical logic of Aristotle with the formal rigor of the theory of gener-
alized quantifiers due to Montague and his epigones, would seem to pro-
vide the best account of where descriptive negation surfaces in natural
language, and of where it doesn't. As I have noted, citing Dahl 1979 and
Payne 1985, syntactically external (clause-peripheral) negation, as an iter-
ating one-place connective on propositions, never-or hardly ever-hap-
pens. Dahl's putative counterexamples to the nonoccurrence of syntactic
external negation actually involve not clause-initial sentence negation at all
but quantifier-internal term negation, as in Not anybody can do it. (I return
to the nonsentential nature of quantifier negation in §7.3.)
Let us pause to take stock. My approach to negation in ETL is summa-
rized in (19):
(19) a. The categorical (subject-predicate) nature of root sentences
disallows all one-place, truth-functional (tIt) operators, in-
cluding the external negation connective.
b. Ordinary (descriptive) negation is realized either as a narrow-
scope term operator (internal to the predicate/VP, the
quantifier/NP, etc.) or as a mode of predication by which
472 Negative Form and Negative Function
the subject and the predicate combine to form a Proposi-
tion. Only the latter corresponds semantically to wide-
scope, contradictory negation.
c. Apparent residual instances of external negation are in fact
manifestations of metalinguistic negation, a means of ob-
jecting to an utterance on any grounds whatever, including
its grammatical or phonetic form; cf. chapter 6 for details.
My rejection of external negation as a sentential operator is motivated by
many of the same factors that lead Bach (1980) and En<$ (1981 :chapter 3)
to challenge traditional analyses of tense (including that within Montague
Grammar) as a sentential operator whose scope varies with that of other
operators. En<$ points out that tense in natural languages tends to surface as
a bound morpheme on the verb, a free morpheme immediately preceding
the verb, an element morphophonemically incorporated into the verb (via
ablaut, etc.), or as a marker on an auxiliary verb. On the basis of this distri-
bution and of other considerations indicating that scopal analyses are si-
multaneously too strong and too weak, she concludes that any adequate
treatment of natural language syntax and semantics must treat tense, not as
a one-place sentential connective, but rather as an operator on VPs (as in
Bach 1980) or on the predicate itself. As tense goes, so (I argue) goes sen-
tential negation.
Another operator which bears some resemblance to, and is often treated
like, negation is the question or wh-binding operator. Interrogative and
negative sentences are generally classed together within accounts of sen-
tence types in traditional grammars. In Chomsky 1957, negative and inter-
rogative sentences are both analyzed as optional transforms of an unmarked
positive declarative kernel, and by the time of Katz and Postal 1964 both
negation and question formation are taken to be similarly triggered by
base-generated markers, NEG and Q respectively. Other structural parallels
can be cited, including the conditions on do- support in English or the rela-
tion between negative and interrogative parentheticals (discussed by 1. R.
Ross (1973a), inter alia). Kraak (1966: 90-91,99) and Seuren (1967: 335)
provide further evidence for what the latter calls a 'similarity between
negative sentences and questions'. But just how well motivated is this
analogy?
Notice first of all that while negations are not systematically assigned to
sentence-initial position, question markers often are. Similarly, we find
yes-no questions marked via global intonation contours, plausibly associ-
ated with an abstract sentence-level operator. In his typology of inter-
rogative systems, Ultan (1978) points out that the two most widespread
devices for marking yes-no questions, intonation and question particles,
7.2 Aristotle as a Montague Grammarian 473
generally form a constituent with the entire clause. He also finds that inter-
rogative particles (which appear in languages as diverse as Chinese, Cree,
Finnish, Latin, Russian, Swahili, and Tagalog) are typically assigned to a
fixed position within the sentence: sentence-initial, sentence- or clause-
final, or as an enclitic to the clause-initial constituent. Contrarily, negation
is assigned a fixed position with respect to the finite verb, as I have noted,
and is never marked primarily by sentential intonation contours.18
This striking formal difference between interrogation and negation re-
flects a semantic asymmetry between the two categories. Crucially, the
yes-no question operator applies to a fully formed proposition (and a con-
stituent or wh-question to an open proposition), arguably in the manner of
the illocutionary-force indicating devices of speech act theory (cf. Searle
1969). But descriptive negation does not constitute a speech act (pace
Searle, Giv6n, and others; cf. §1.2), or indeed a propositional operator.
While metalinguistic (echo) questions may parallel metalinguistic nega-
tions, as I have suggested (cf. §6.2.3), descriptive yes-no or constituent
questions do not parallel descriptive negations.
It was Frege (1919) who first warned against taking ordinary negation to
constitute a speech act on the order of asserting, questioning, or command-
ing. On the Fregean view, the latter operations apply to an integral proposi-
tion or thought which mayor may not itself be negative, while negation is
simply a one-place connective mapping one proposition into another. From
my perspective, Frege was as right about what negation isn't as he was
wrong about what it is.
7.2.1 Sommers and the Limits of Term Logic
In seeking to resuscitate term logic from oblivion, I am following the lead
of Fred Sommers (1970, 1982) and George Englebretsen (1976, 1981a,
1981b). Sommers, in particular, has spent the last two decades in relentless
pursuit of 'a term logic in which natural syntax and canonical [logical]
form are in accord' (Sommers 1970:3). Sommers follows Aristotle-and,
without recognizing it, Montague-in treating (20a, b) as essentially par-
allel to (20c) in terms of the logical form of their subjects (cf. Sommers
1982:339).
(20) a. Every man is wise.
b. {A man / Some man} is wise.
c. Socrates is wise.
Rather than sharing Frege's vision of natural language as incoherent in
its disrespect for quantifier/variable notation, Sommers sees the neo-Stoic
approach of mathematical logic as unnatural in its disrespect for the NP-
474 Negative Form and Negative Function
hood of the subjects of sentences like (20a, b). But Sommers's eloquent
objections to the standard formal approach do not apply to Montague
Grammar, where every man, a man, and Socrates are all taken to be term
phrases.
Where I differ from Sommers, and from Leibniz before him, is in my
toleration of deviations from the hard-line tenets of classical term logic.
Sommers's absolutist stance leads him to define away not only Proposi-
tional negation, where I follow him, but also the two-place connectives
corresponding to and, or, and if-then (cf. (l2b, c), (13e) above). For Som-
mers (1970: 22), apparent noncategorical statements of the type in (21) are
nominalized into the corresponding categorical, subject-predicate state-
ments in (21'):
(21) a. not-p (21') a. The [p] does not obtain
b. If p then q
c. p or q
d. p and q
b. All [p] is [q]
c. All [non-p] isn't [noIi-q]
d. Some [p] is [q]
where [a] is read as 'case of a',
'state of affairs in which a'.
I would endorse the conversion of the sentential negation of (21a) into the
second-order (i.e., metasituational or metalinguistic) statement of (21 'a).
But the translation proposed for if-then statements, defensible as it may
appear to be for a nomic conditional like Sommers's example (22), where
(22a) comes out as (22b) and hence as (22c), seems much less plausible for
simple if-then statements like those in (23) and (24):
(22) a. If it rains, it pours.
b. All [it rains] is [it pours]
c. Every case of 'it is raining' is a case of 'it is pouring'.
(23) a. If Mary leaves before midnight, John will be sad.
b. All [Mary leaves before midnight] is [John will be sad]
(24) a. If the Yankees lose tonight, they fall into third place.
b. All [the Yankees lose tonight] is [the Yankees fall into third
place]
The problem in Sommers's account (aside from some uncertainty over
number agreement) is that while his critique of the standard predicate cal-
culus translation of universal statements of the form All F is G into the
logical form of a universally quantified hypothetical, \fx(Fx ~ Gx), may
be well taken, an approach which simply reverses the direction of transla-
tion by analyzing conditionals as disguised universal categoricals does not
seem to represent much of an improvement.19
7.2 Aristotle as a Montague Grammarian 475
Nor do matters improve when we examine the Sommers line on disjunc-
tions and conjunctions. The reduction of (21c) to (21'c) amounts to render-
ing an apparently simple sentential disjunction as a universal negated
categorical whose terms are negated nominalizations; (25a) is spelled out
as (25b).
(25) a. The Yankees will win or the Red Sox will win.
b. All [non-(the Yankees will win)] isn't [non-(the Red Sox will
win)]
The appearance of a phantom universal determiner, a phantom subject /
predicate construction, and (count 'em) three phantom negations makes
those quaint deep structures of the generative semantics era (or, for that
matter, of Russell's theory of descriptions) look trivial and surfacey by
comparison.
There is no equivalent complication in the proposed categoricalization of
apparent sentential conjunction, in the move from (21d) to (21'd), but there
is nonetheless an oddity. If the conjunction in (26a) is unpacked into the
particular categorical in (26b),
(26) a. The Yankees will win and the Mets will win.
b. Some [the Yankees will win] is [the Mets will win]
we not only predict a nonexistent parallel between and and some, w~ also
fail to account for the well-attested syntactic, semantic, pragmatic, and in-
tonational parallels between or and some, on the one hand, and between
and and all, on the other; cf. Horn 1972 and chapter 4 above for some of
these parallels.
In any case, even if it is possible to come up with a less problematic and
more convincing method for translating apparent sentential hypotheticals
(conditionals), disjunctions, and conjunctions into categorical subject!
predicate sentences, it is neither necessary nor desirable to do SO.20 If sen-
tential negation is distinguished by its absence from ordinary language, the
same cannot be said for its binary cousins.
It is true that conjunction and disjunction occur most frequently as
operations on subsentential constituents, typically on NPs or VPs. In this
capacity they represent no difficulty for either Aristotle's or Sommers's ver-
sion of term logic. But these operators undeniably connect sentences or
propositions as well, typically (although not invariably) appearing between
the two conjuncts or disjuncts. The realization of the if-then relation is
more various, but it is not unusual to express conditionals by means of two
~onnected clauses, of which one-the antecedent or protasis-may be (as
10 English) syntactically subordinate to the other.
The natural language reflexes of two-place truth-functional sentential
476 Negative Form and Negative Function
connectives are in fact two (or n ~ 2) -place connectives, while the one-
place connective does not connect at all. Within Extended Term Logic, not
all sentences, but all root sentences are categoricals.
If sentential conjunctions, disjunctions, and hypotheticals (conditionals)
are countenanced, how do these sentence types interact with negation? The
prediction would seem to be that they don't. Of course either conjunct or
disjunct can itself be negative, as can the antecedent and/or consequent of
a conditional. But if predicate denial is a mode of predication, a means for
mapping a subject and predicate into a proposition, there is no way to apply
it to a noncategorical sentence of the form p and q, p or q, ifp then q.
Thus, any negation which takes scope over a conjunction, disjunction,
or conditional must be metalinguistic. This is a result I already argued for
in the case of the negated (i.e., rejected) conditionals of chapter 6; cf. the
analyses of Grice, Dummett, and Ducrot cited there. With the other con-
nectives, there is nowhere for a wide-scope descriptive negation to surface,
given that conjunctive and disjunctive sentence types have no main verb,
VP, or auxiliary as such. The form of wide-scope negation we do find
cross-linguistically (= It's not ({true / the case}) that Chris won and Sandy
lost) are precisely what we would identify elsewhere in the same language
as reflexes of the metalinguistic use of the negation operator. And it is
striking that even these metalinguistic negations are expressed by gathering
the rejected conjunction / disjunction into the predicate expression with a
pseudo-logical predicate (be true, be the case) invoked (and denied) for the
occasion. What we do not find even here is the straightforward not: Chris
won and Sandy lost, expressed in the canonical sentence-negation form
dear to the hearts of Stoics, Fregeans, and transformationalists alike.
If there is no site for wide-scope negation to roost within a conjoined
sentence, negation is even more homeless in the case of paratactic conjunc-
tion, where the conjuncts in question are simply two consecutive indepen-
dent sentences forming a single discourse frame:
(27) a. Chris won. Sandy lost.
b. They had a baby. They got married.
(As noted in chapter 6, paratactic and overt conjunctions induce similar
temporal/causal implicata in similar contexts.) The only direct means for
denying such paratactic conjunctions is a metalinguistic negation of the
form No, that's not true (or No, you're wrong, or That's not the way it
happened), in which the focus of negation is recovered from the context.
Alternatively, the negative interlocutor can supply her own overt connec-
tive to draw the two sentences into one compo~nd proposition; negation
can then apply to this noncategorical proposition, but again only as a meta-
linguistic operator (It's not the case that {Chris won and Sandy lost/they
7.2 Aristotle as a Montague Grammarian 477
had a baby and got married}). Either way, we have no ordinary negation,
since conjoined sentences (whether connected or not) are not predications:
where there is no single predicate to deny, there can be no predicate denial.
As pointed out by Avicenna, the negation of a categorical (subject-
predicate) judgment, of either singular or general form, denies the associa-
tion of the subject and predicate, the negation of a disjunctive judgment
denies both terms, and the negation of a hypothetical judgment denies the
logical connection between antecedent and consequent (cf. Madkour 1934:
168). But we can now see that only the first ofthese involves true predicate
denial. In natural language, negated disjunctions virtually always take the
form of a neg-incorporated subject or predicate term (i.e., a term or con-
stituent negation, not a predicate denial), or of the denial of a predicate
which itself incorporates a disjunction:
(28) a. Neither Aristotle nor Montague allowed iterating negation.
b. AristOtle{allowed ~~ither sente~tial disjunctions nor}
proposItIonal negatIon.
didn't allow either sentential disjunction or
propositional negation.
c. AristOtle{neither en~orsed nor rejected Situation}
Semantics.
didn't either endorse or reject Situation
Semantics.
A true sentential disjunction can only be metalinguistically rejected (It's
not {true/the case} that Chris won or (that) Sandy lost), not descriptively
negated.
In endorsing binary sentential connectives, ETL differs crucially from
orthodox term logic in which, as Englebretsen (1981a:59) recognizes, all
sentences are categorical and there can be no external operators: all opera-
tors (including modality and the binary connectives) must be internalized.
But my position on negation is essentially Englebretsen's (1981a:49ff.; cf.
also epigraph to §7.2): '[So-called] sentential negation is either predicate
denial or the metalinguistic predication of "untrue". . . . There is no
genuine, object level, external, sentential negation'. What there is is predi-
cate denial, term (constituent) negation, and metalinguistic negation.
Thus, alongside his two categories of 'internal' negation (predicate de-
nial and logical contrariety), Englebretsen allows for the existence of meta-
linguistic negation. But we should note that his conception of this notion is
more limited than mine. For Englebretsen, the metalinguistic operator (the
'predication of "untrue" ') is used to assert the falsity or nontruth of a pre-
vious assertion. As we saw in chapter 6, this account is fundamentally
unsatisfactory; potential targets of metalinguistic negation include conven-
478 Negative Form and Negative Function
tional and conversational implicata, which by assumption have nothing to
do with truth, as well as such clearly nonpropositional attributes of an ut-
terance as register and morphological or phonetic form.
The view of negation presented here follows from a logic of natural lan-
guage which-like Aristotle's or Montague's-respects the surface struc-
ture of natural languages. It should be stressed that the very criticisms so
often leveled against Aristotle, addressing the Stagirite's purported confu-
sion of formal logic and natural language, can be turned on their heads.
Just as Montague has lent credibility to the analysis of English as a formal
language, so too should Aristotle be seen as proposing to treat Ancient
Greek as a formal language. To be sure, this practice may lead at times to
excesses; consider Montague's notorious practice of bulldozing the actual
relative clause structures of English in favor of the more tractable but rather
less natural such that construction. Similarly, we recall (from chapter 1)
Aristotle's decision to countenance the generation and interpretation of
such unlikely sentences as (the Greek equivalent of) Every not-recovers is
not a not-man. But in each instance a fundamental insight can be captured
if the relevant generalization is allowed.
In the latter case, translating Aristotle into Montague English, the result
is that both IV phrases and common nouns can be quantified over (i.e.,
turned into a T or term phrase-or a generalized quantifier, ala Barwise
and Cooper-by combining with a determiner: every, some), both can be
predicated of term phrases to form a sentence, and both can combine with
negation to form a negative term, in the Aristotelian sense. Thus, the type-
identical Montague categories tie and til e, both of which express proper-
ties and denote sets, as laid out in (29), tend to fall together.
(29)
Category TG Category
Name Category Definition Type Denotation
IV: intransitive VPorV
tie}
verb phrase «s,e),t) set of
eN: common NOM,N til e individual
noun concepts
This result would be congenial to some post-Aristotelian syntacticians.
In the initial program for categorical syntax, Ajdukiewicz 1935, there was
in fact no category for common nouns distinct from the SIN category of
predicate phrases. Within generative semantics, G. Lakoff (1965) and
Bach (1968) collapse set-denoting predicators of various surface categories
within a single metacategory, Bach's CONTENTIVES. But, as Aristotle recog-
nized, verbs differ formally from nouns in inflecting for tense, a difference
which may be semantically grounded. Accounting for both the similarities
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 479
and the differences between verbs and nouns as predicators remains a
controversial question, one which I shall not attempt to address here.
(Cf. G. Carlson 1977 and Parsons 1985 for two possible solutions utiliz-
ing a theory of stages and kinds and a Davidsonian theory of events,
respectively.)
An Aristotelianized Montague Grammar also affords a more natural and
coherent account of presuppositional and scope phenomena and their inter-
action with negation than any available within the Russellian theory of
descriptions adopted in classical MG. I shall defer the discussion of this
interaction to §7.3.2.
I have offered here a programmatic sketch of Extended Term Logic, my
proposal for coming to terms with term logic. In this way, I have suggested,
the treatment of singular and general expressions can be collapsed and
a motivated distinction can be drawn between one-place truth-functional
operators (which are excluded, ruling out any iterative syntactic external
negation) and two-place truth-functional operators (which are permitted).
I see this approach as a means for capturing the insights of Aristotle and
Montague in taking surface form seriously as a mirror of, and guide to,
logical form.
There remain some important open questions whose resolution will
affect the development of a full-fledged ETL. Can instances of apparent de
dicto modalities be assigned variously to a de re operator, on the one hand,
and to a metalinguistic operator, on the other? Or should we follow Aris-
totle in taking de dicto modals, like negation, to constitute a mode ofpredi-
cation affecting the subject!predicate connection but taking scope over
both? Secondly and more crucially, just what is the status of Aristotle's
predicate denial? Is it possible to assimilate all instances of apparent predi-
cate denial either to predicate term (constituent) negation or to metalinguis-
tic negation, or must we retain predicate denial as syntactically and
semantically distinct from both? The former question I cannot address
here, but the latter I must.21
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar of Negation
-I have two coins which add up to fifty-five cents and one isn't
a nickel. How can that be?
-The other one is a nickel. (ancient childhood riddle)
II faut savoir la grarnmaire lorsqu'on veut etre roi de France.
(King Louis XVIll)
In this, the final (but by no means definitive) section of my study, I shall
consider a proposal for representing the two descriptive negations of term
logic-predicate denial and predicate term negation-within the grammar
ofEnglish. I then turn to the unanswered question with which I ended §7.2:
480 Negative Form and Negative Function
given the need for accommodating both wide-scope metalinguistic nega-
tion and narrow-scope predicate term negation within natural language,
what is the evidence that we need to allow for a representation of predicate
denial? My pursuit of this evidence will lead me back to the reconsidera_
tion of the status of logical presupposition and to the investigation of the
syntactic, semantic, and-as we shall see-pragmatic scope of negation in
quantified sentences.
7.3.1 The Representation of ETL Negation: Gazdar, Pullum,
Sag, and Aristotle
As I have noted, sentential or wide-scope descriptive negation in EngliSh
can be realized either as the word not following the tensed auxiliary or,
more colloquially, as a contraction on that auxiliary. In the latter case, as
Lapointe (1980) and Zwicky and Pullum (1983) have convincingly argued,
-n't is an inflectional suffix realizing a lexical feature on the auxiliary ele-
ment, rather than (as usually assumed) a "mere" clitic freely attaching to a
host. In its dual manifestations as free particle and inflection, the category
of negation would thus parallel time reference (cf. the phrasal future will
kick vs. the inflected past kicked) or, as Zwicky and Pullum observe, ad-
jectival comparison (the phrasal more sleepy vs. the inflected happier).
This analysis is supported by distributional and morphological criteria,
as well as by the semantics of contracted auxiliaries. As Zwicky and
Pullum point out (1983 :S09), the treatment of the constraints on negative
.incorporation in Horn 1972: chapter 4 (and in §4.S above) presupposes the
characterization of negative auxiliaries as lexical items. Thus, for ex-
ample, can't and couldn't can only be interpreted as involving wide-scope
(modal) negation, while mustn't and (usually) shouldn't involve narrow-
scope negation, affecting the following verb-phrasal constituent but not
the preceding modal. If these and other expressions of the form Xn't are
analyzed as lexical items, rather than simple host + clitic combinations
formed by a postsyntactic attachment rule, such facts can be accounted for
straightforwardly.
On my account, the asymmetry between couldn't VP (= not' (could'
(VP')) and mustn't VP (= must' (not' (VP')) stems from the tendency for
lexicalization rules to favor configurations which result in E-vertex rather
than O-vertex logical forms. Other notorious irregularities in the distri-
bution of contracted auxiliaries (cf. Boyd and Thorne 1969; Horn 1972;
Giv6n 1978)-the marginality and/or nonoccurrence of mayn't, mightn't,
and oughtn't within many dialects, the restriction of mustn't to root (deon"
tic) rather than epistemic interpretations (You mustn't work hard vs. You
must not work hard)-are also to be anticipated if these forms are all to be
listed (or, as the case may be, unlisted) within inflectional paradigms.
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 481
Within ETL, it is natural to take n't forms as the canonical realization of
predicate denial, a negative marker with scope over the entire predication (in
the unmarked case) which surfaces within the predicate expression. Since
the semantics associated with each of these forms is determined by the
lexical item in question, nothing prevents the idiosyncratic association of a
given Xn't auxiliary with the narrow scope not-X semantic interpretation.
Wide-scope predicate denial, of course, can also take the form of a not
particle located between the auxiliary (Modal, have, be, or do) and the
verbal element (V) for which it subcategorizes. But not also realizes non-
finite negation. In this capacity it can occur as the leftmost daughter of any
nonfinite V. This results in narrow (V or IV-phrase) scope negation, corre-
sponding to Aristotle's predicate term negation (PTN) and to lackendoff's
VP-scope constituent negation. The semantics associated with this con-
figuration mayor may not be identical with that of the corresponding predi-
cate denial (if any), depending on the semantic properties of the auxiliary
verb involved. Gazdar, Pullum, and Sag (1982: 604-S) offer the following
characterization of the two rules for introducing not within a Generalized
Phrase Structure grammar, vintage 1982. Sentences (30a, b) are the PS
rule schemata which introduce not into tenseless and tensed Vs respec-
tively, (30a', b') instantiate two structures induced by these rules, and
(30a", b") give the Montague-style semantic translations of these two
structures.22
(30)
a. (a, Iv V not V], ACJlI-V'("V'(CJl»))) b. (/1, Iv not V], ACJlI-V' (CJl)])
[ -FIN]
[
+AUX] [+BSE]
+FIN
a'. V
I+FIN]
N V
I I+ FIN] domain
Kim ~_ ofa
V not V
a I+BSE]
I+FIN] I
I V
may I+BSE]
I
drink
alt. IACJlI-may'("drink'(CJl»1l ("Kim')
b'. V
I+FIN]
-~
N V
I I+FIN]
Kim
V
may
domain
of f3
I+BSE]
I
V
I+BSE]
I
drink
btl. IACJl may'("(-drink'(CJl»)] ("Kim')
482 Negative Form and Negative Function
The rule in (30a) is lexically restricted to those auxiliaries which, in effect
subcategorize for predicate denial. Modals like can and could, deonti~
may, and need, as well as the copula be and the perfect have, can be intro-
duced by this rule; these auxiliaries will be assigned the appropriate sub-
categorization feature (the a in the tree in (30a') above, keyed to the rule
number introducing that item in the version of GPSG adopted by Gazdar
Pullum, and Sag 1982). Other modals, including must and epistemic ma;
(cf. It may not rain) are not introduced by rule a, and hence will not co-
occur with wide scope negation (predicate denial).
The right-hand rule an~ structure, on the other hand, are putatively
available for all nonfinite Vs, although it is not entirely clear that the im-
plicit claim here, that is, that all auxiliaries allow V negation within their
scope, is tenable. In particular, it would appear that the unstressed do of
do-support is never followed by a narrow-scope negation, at least in sin-
gular predications; note the following distribution of the Klima neither/
so-tag diagnostics:
(31) He is not voting and
neither is she.
He has not succeeded and
neither has she.
He cannot attend and
neither can she.
He did not come and
neither did she.
(31') He is (intentionally) not
voting and so is she.
He has (often) not suc-
ceeded and so has she.
He can (always) not attend
and so can she.
*He did (perhaps) not come
and so did she.
The narrow (V-) scope negations triggering so- rather than neither-clause
reinforcement are in general possible after auxiliary verbs, provided of
course that they are realized by a freestanding negative (a la rule (30b»-
negative inflections (isn't, hasn't, can't) are compatible only with predi-
cate denial (wide-scope) interpretations. But a negation following do is
apparently restricted to the predicate denial operation of rule (30a). If,
however, do is inverted (i.e., is generated with the [+INv] feature within
the GPSG framework), narrow-scope (V) negation is perfectly acceptable:
Did he ({possibly/ ever}) not succeed?
While a marriage of the GPSG syntax for English Vs with the bifurcated
term logic analysis of negation (predicate denial as a mode of predication
vs. term-narrow scope, V-negation) strikes me as a promising match,
I shall not pursue this coupling here. Nor shall I consider the less radical
move of extending Montague's PTQ fragment to include particle, as well
as contracted, negation and constituent, as well as wide-scope, negation
(cf. Bennett 1976). In any case, the GPSG grammar of negation is very
much in the Montagovian spirit. Indeed, with his syncategorematic inser-
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 483
tion of of the negated auxiliary verb, Montague can be seen as indirectly
anticipating the Lapointe-Zwicky and Pullum-GPSG inflection treatment
of n't.
7.3.2 Scope and Presupposition for Russell,
for Montague, and for Me
Whatever version of the grammar of negation is adopted, the analyst must
eventually confront one ofthe most extensively studied and least-understood
phenomena within the semantics of negation: the scope interaction of the
negative operator with quantified subjects and with descriptions. In PTQ,
definite descriptions and quantified subject phrases can be introduced
directly or quantified in. In the latter case, the sentence resulting from an
application of either the simple positive subject-predicate rule S4 or one of
the rules of negation-and-sign in S17 contains an individual variable (hen)
in subject position. This variable is then bound by the application of the
relevant quantification rule (Montague 1974: 252ff.).
This procedure accounts for the scope interaction of quantified expres-
sions with each other, with negation, and with other scope-defining opera-
tors. Thus, the two readings of the {all/ every} ... not constructions, as
discussed in §4.3 above and exemplified in (32), result from two syntac-
tically distinct analysis trees in the disambiguated language, as seen in
(32a, b); the simplified IL translations that would be assigned are given in
(32a', b') respectively:
(32)
Every fish doesn't sleep.
a. every fish doesn't sleep, 10, 2 b. every fish doesn't sleep. II
/. \ / \
every fish, 2 he z doesn't sleep, II every fish, 2 sleep
I / \ I
fish he z sleep fish
a'. Ax(fish'(x) --'> -.sleep'(x» b'. -.Ax(fish'(x) --'> sleep'(x»
In (32a), the subject phrase every fish is quantified into an open negative
sentence which has been formed by the application of the negative-third
person singUlar-present tense subject/predicate rule; it is thus assigned
wide scope with respect to the negation, yielding the NEG-V reading (=
'Every fish is such that it doesn't sleep'). In (32b), the quantifier phrase
every fish is built up first; it then combines with the IV phrase sleep by the
application of the same tense-and-sign rule. Negation, inserted last, gets
wide scope, whence the NEG-Q reading (= 'Not every fish is such that it
sleeps').
484 Negative Form and Negative Function
This same technique generates an ambiguist account of definite descrip_
tions in negative sentences ala Russell (1905). As we saw in §2.2, Russell's
theory of descriptions assigns two alternative positions to the negative
operator in the logical form of sentences like (33):
(33) The king of France is not bald.
a. INTERNAL: 3x(Kx A 'v'y(Ky -i> Y = x) A ~Bx)
[= 'The king of France is not-bald']
b. EXTERNAL: ~3x(Kx A 'v'y(Ky -i> Y = x) A Bx)
[= 'not (The king of France is bald)']
with scope inside or outside that of the existential quantifier into which the
description is unpacked. In the former case, the description is said to have
a PRIMARY occurrence with respect to negation, and in the latter a SECOND-
ARY occurrence.
The syntactic approach to scope ambiguities within MG automatically
predicts the two readings detected by the ambiguists-Russellian (as De-
lacruz [1976] observes) or Aristotelian. Thus we have, inter alia, the two
analysis trees in (34a, b), where I assume an extended version of PTQ in
which predicate adjectives and adjective phrases are basic categories which
combine with a subject to yield a sentence; the copula is introduced syn-
categorematically as a sign of affirmation or negation (as in traditional
analyses; cf. Mill [1843] 1919):
(34)
The king of France isn't bald.
a. the king of France isn't bald, 10, 3
/
the king of France
I
king of France
b. the king of France isn't bald, 13
/ \
the king of France, 2 bald
I
king of France
he~ isn't bald, 13
/ \
he, bald
a'. Vx(king-of-France'(x) A i\y(king-of-France'(y) --'> y = x) A -.bald'(x»
b'. -.Vx(king-of-France'(x) A i\y(king-of-France(y) --'> y = x) A bald'(x»
Sentences (34a, a'), corresponding to (33a) where the description has pri-
mary occurrence (wide scope) with respect to negation, asserts of the king
of France that he isn't bald, while (34b, b'), corresponding to (33b) where
the description has secondary occurrence (narrow scope), denies of the
king of France that he is bald. For Montague, as for Russell (or Aristotle),
the former is false and the latter true if there is no king of France.
Alternatively, one might superimpose a presuppositionalist analysis and
treat the former case as neither true nor false, by assigning it a third value
or no value at all if its existential presupposition fails (cf. Delacruz 1976).
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 485
Or again, one might assign the value false to this statement under such cir-
cumstances (following Aristotle and Russell), but at the same time associate
it with a false conventional implicatum, whence the Strawsonian squea-
mishness upon evaluating it in kingless contexts (cf. Karttunen and Peters
1979). In any event, the contrast between (33a)/(34a), on the one hand,
and (33b)/(34b), on the other, will be analyzed as a scope distinction in the
syntax of logical form, directly analogous to the treatment of quantifier-
negation ambiguities like (32).
But, as we saw in §2.2, Russell's analysis is far less convincing when it
is generalized to names, which induce parallel presuppositional phenom-
ena (cf. Frege 1892 on Kepler did not die in misery), yet which are not
plausibly regarded as complex in the same sense as descriptions. Russell's
and Quine's programs for unpacking names into descriptions permit a gen-
eralization of the appropriate sort, but at a heavy cost; as I noted in my
earlier discussion, there are metaphysical and epistemological considera-
tions militating against this move. We recall Henry's warning (1972 :74)
that when negative sentences are taken to be semantically ambiguous within
a propositional rather than term-based logic, 'The distinction which has
evidently been desirable all along is introduced in a tortuous and ad hoc
fashion under the misleading guise of the "primary and secondary occur-
rence" of descriptions and all names have to be construed as disguised de-
scriptions in order to be able to take advantage of this ad hoc distinction' .
The same dilemma arises within an MG-style scope analysis, although
the deconstruction of definite descriptions in logical form is no longer nec-
essary. But now proper names must be quantified in along with descrip-
tions if the analysis tree in (34a) is to be adapted to Aristotle's Socrates is
not well or Frege's Kepler didn't die in misery, which exhibit the same am-
biguity as (33). While Montague does, in fact, allow Socrates, Kepler, and
their ilk to be quantified in as variable-binding term phrases, along wim the
king of France, every fish, and an eel, there is no compelling evidence
for-or benefit from-this move.
Whatever arguments one might muster for treating descriptions as
variable-binding operators introducing scope ambiguities, no analogous
arguments independent of the cases under discussion here are available for
proper names. In any case, given Montague's endorsement of Kripke's
(1972) analysis of names as rigid designators, the translations for the two
analysis trees assigned by the PTQ grammar to sentences of the Aristotle-
Frege variety come out identical, which doesn't help to provide the two
different readings we apparently require.
If names do not enter into the quantificational ambiguities for which
syntactic scope distinctions are designed to account, neither do all descrip-
tions.23
This leads us to the next problem for the MG approach to presup-
486 Negative Form and Negative Function
positional phenomena. As we saw in chapter 2, there is a strong parallel,
elucidated by Aristotle, between reference failure and category mistakes.
Like (33), (35) allows two understandings.
(33) The king of France is not bald.
(35) The number 2 is not blue.
On its primary interpretation, (35) involves category-restriction-preserving
negation and is a priori false (or, for those so inclined, neither true nor
false). But negation may also be assigned wide scope with respect to the
category or selection restriction; in this case, (35) is automatically true.
For Russell, of course, category violations yield meaninglessness, and the
parallel between (33) and (35) is implicitly rejected. But if we follow Aris-
totle, Quine, Lambert, and their fellow no-typers (cf. §2.3) in taking (35)
to have a reading as the true contradictory of its a priori false counterpart
The number 2 is blue, we will seek a parallel explanation of these parallel
cases. But neither Russell's exponible analysis nor Montague's quantify-
ing in extends from the flaccid king of France to the rigidly designating
number 2.
There is one embarrassment for Montague's analysis which does not af-
flict Russell's. The principles which predict the ambiguity of a negative
sentence like (33) automatically predict the same ambiguity for the corre-
sponding positive sentence (The king of France is bald), yet there is no
evidence for such an ambiguity. While the proliferation of multiple logi-
cally equivalent structures associated with an unambiguous surface sen-
tence may not be unprecedented within grammatical theory, neither is it
cause for pride. I return to this problem below.
Russell's dissection of the king of France is of course just one of many.
Within the presuppositionalist analysis of Strawson (1950, 1952), only
one, essentially internal, reading is assigned to (33), preserving the presup-
positions associated with the corresponding affirmative singular predica-
tion (The king ofFrance is bald). In multivalued presuppositionallogics,
Russell's (and Aristotle's) ambiguity resurfaces as a dichotomy between
presupposition-preserving, nonbivalent choice (internal) negation and pre-
supposition-free, bivalent exclusion (external) negation (cf. §2.4). In the
monoguist theories of contemporary work in pragmatics, negative sen-
tences are essentially unambiguous and general; the wide-scope reading of
(33b) is assigned by semantic rules, and the narrow-scope force of (33a) is
obtained through some variety of pragmatic strengthening (cf. Wilson
1975; Kempson 1975; Boer and Lycan 1976; Wilson and Sperber 1979;
Gazdar 1979a; Grice 1981).
Cutting across the significant differences between these views, the cur-
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 487
rent consensus is clearly that-pace Frege and Strawson-an external
nonentailing (and/or nonpresupposing) understanding is available as on~
of th~ versions, if ~ot the unique version, of the logical form assigned to
negative sentences lIke (33). But how compelling is this consensus? As we
saw in chapter 6, the discourse oddness of those sentence tokens which
effectively compel the external, presupposition-free reading of negation:
(33') The king of France isn't bald-there is no king of France.
(35') The number 2 isn't blue-integers aren't colored.
is essentially the same oddness that afflicts other sentence tokens where
negation functions as a metalinguistic operator, associated with what are
clearly (or arguably) extrasemantic properties of utterance meaning or use.
As we further noted, the evidence from intonation, incorporation, and rec-
tification underlines the kinship between these cases and supports a unified
treatment in metalinguistic terms. The standard theories of semantic exter-
nal negation, monoguist and ambiguist alike, fail to account for the double-
take effect in. th~ processing of these sentence tokens and for the linguistic
correlates umfymg the class of metalinguistic negations.
Should I not then conclude, with Burton-Roberts (1987), that the meta-
linguistic analysis of apparent wide-scope negation in fact requires me to
adopt a Frege-Strawson version of presuppositional semantics, in which
descriptive negation applies unambiguously so as to preserve truth-value
g~ps ~ndu~ed by referen.ce failure (and category mistakes)?24 If I do adopt
th~s View, IS there anythmg preventing me from subsuming all instances of
Wide-scope negation into the metalinguistic category? Having argued that
so-called sentential negation, with scope over the subject, is to be re-
analyzed. as Aristotelian predicate denial rather than the Stoic-Fregean
apophatlkon, am I now to reanalyze it out of semantic existence?
To these rhetorical questions I must answer 'no', 'yes', and 'by no
means', respectively.2s The abandonment of semantic presupposition (cf.
Karttunen 1974; Stalnaker 1974; Kempson 1975; Wilson 1975; Boer and
Lyc~ 1976; Gazdar 1979a; Lycan 1984) was not occasioned by perversity
or whImsy, or solely by the specter of the ambiguity of negation. The bal-
ance of the evidence leads me to agree with the prevailing view (expressed
most. forcefully in Lycan 1984: chapter 4) that the conceptual obscurities
and. ~mplementa~ional diffic~lties besetting the notion of logical presup-
POSltIO~ render It at best otiose for the description of natural language
semantics.
~mong the problems to be faced by the would-be presupposition collec-
tor IS the ~apricious natur~ .of the prey. One nonlogical variable affecting
the behaVIOr of presuppositIonal phenomena is isolated by Strawson him-
488 Negative Form and Negative Function
self, who noted (1964:95) that while (36a), like (33), can be argued to
presuppose the existence of the king of France, (36b) does not share this
presupposition or the truth-value gap associated with reference failure.
(36) a. The king of France {visited/didn't visit} the exhibition.
b. The exhibition {was visited/wasn't visited} by the king of
France.
On the revisionist account championed in Strawson 1964, it is not definite
descriptions per se which induce existential presuppositions, but only those
singular expressions which a sentence is understood as being about. But
this is a pragmatic and not grammatical criterion, as we shall see in more
detail later in this section.
One variable affecting presuppositionality not discussed by Strawson re-
sides in the nature of the predicate. If what you announce to me is not (37a)
but (37b),
(37) a. The king of France {is/isn't} bald.
b. The king of France {is/isn't} sitting in the chair to your right.
and if I note that the designated chair is clearly empty, I am far less inclined
to grant that you have presupposed the existence of the king of France-
and even less likely to grant that what you have said is neither true nor false
if, in fact, France is a republic. What is at issue here is not the criterion of
'aboutness', but a distinction in verification procedures. In neither Straw-
son's case nor mine is the instability of the "presupposition" a matter of
logical semantics.
Nor is it clear to me, as it seems to be to Burton-Roberts (1987), that the
metalinguistic analysis of marked negation requires an endorsement of
Strawson's monoguist presuppositional semantics. It is true that the wide-
scope understanding of the negation in (33), corresponding to Russell's
(33a) in failing to commit the speaker to the existence of a French mon-
arch, does occur most naturally as a metalinguistic negation, in a context
where the attribution of baldness to that monarch has just been entertained.
But in precisely such contexts, the predicate denial-denying baldness of
the king of France-is of course true: the very act of issuing the meta-
linguistic objection commits the speaker to the truth of the corresponding
wide-scope descriptive negation, that is, to the predicate denial. This will
occur whenever the focus of the metalinguistic negation-the existential or
uniqueness presupposition in vacuous subject cases, the sortal presupposi-
tion in category mistakes-is a necessary condition for the truth of the
positive corresponding affirmative. In contexts where the objection is not
directed at a truth condition for the affirmative, the use of metalinguistic
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 489
negation (He didn't manage to pass the test-he was given the answers)
does not guarantee the truth of the predicate denial.26
But to say that a given predicate denial is true is not to guarantee that this
predicate denial can be felicitously expressed as a descriptive negation. As
we saw in chapter 6, truth is no guarantee of assertability. Each of the cases
under discussion-The king of France is not bald (given that he doesn't
exist), Socrates is not well (given that he's dead), The number 2 is not
blue-is true (on the predicate denial reading), yet each is virtually un-
assertable, at least by someone who recognizes the presupposition failure.
This follows from the criterion of plausibility of denial (cf. chapter 3):
baldness arises only for those who exist, health for those who are alive, and
blueness for objects which can be colored. If I assume you know that
France is a republic, it is pointless for me to inform you of the truth of (33);
if I assume you don't know it, (33) would be an inefficient way for me to
inform you of the fact.27 But if you have just claimed that the French king is
bald, I can disabuse you of your assumptions by an apt metalinguistic ap-
plication of (33)-or, more likely, of (33'). Of course if you are laboring
under the misconception that Ted Kennedy reigns at the Elysee palace, you
could perfectly well utter (33) as a predicate denial; your utterance would
be plausible enough-for you-and indeed it would be, through no fault
of your own, entirely true.
Thus a typical felicitous token of so-called external or presupposition-
canceling negation, at least in vacuous singular expressions and category
mistakes, is metalinguistic, whence the oddness and marked character of
such examples, the behavior of such negations with respect to the diag-
nostics, and the failure of Frege and Strawson to take seriously these
apparent counterexamples to their analyses. But these very tokens of meta-
linguistic negation necessitate the assignment of truth to the corresponding
predicate denial, an assignment made by Aristotle in his analysis of the
wide-scope reading of Socrates is not wise.
I follow Aristotle in taking predicate denials to be true in instances of
reference failure or category mistakes, and predicate term negations to be
false in the same contexts. In ETL, as in the Aristotelian, Russellian, and
Montagovian systems, there is an existence:entailing narrow-scope (PTN)
reading of negation, realized as nonfinite particle negation (cf. (30b)) or by
a prefix on the predicate (dislike, unwell, impossible). But while predicate
term negations (The king ofFrance dislikes pizza, Socrates is unwell, The
number 2 is {not-blue/nonblue}) necessarily share the existence and type
commitments of the corresponding positive assertions, predicate denials do
not necessarily lack these commitments, at least in practice. The normal
use of (34), or of (33) as a predicate denial, does strongly suggest that
490 Negative Form and Negative Function
France has one and only one king, and the normal use of x isn't blue that x
is colored. Indeed, the internal or presuppositional value of negation in sin-
gular predications is typically expressed with predicate denial, not with
predicate term negation. Thus, the distinction between predicate denial and
term (IV-phrase) negation does not provide us with the full scopal or pre-
suppositional disambiguation that we might (based on the Organon) have
desired and expected. How the presuppositional properties of predicate de-
nial arise is a question I shall address below; we shall see that neither syn-
tax nor semantics provides the appropriate language in which to frame its
answer.
7.3.3 Every vs. Some: Different Scopes for Different Folks
Within ETL, we distinguish the predicate denials of (38a), in which the
negation has scope over the subject and the NEG-Q reading is assigned,
from the predicate term negations in (38b), where the nonfinite or prefixal
negation is restricted to predicate-internal scope and the NEG-V reading
emerges.28
(38) a. All the cookies {weren't/were not} eaten.
All things {aren't possible/are not possible}.
b. All the cookies were {not eaten/uneaten}.
All things are {not possible/impossible}.
The scope distinction in these examples correlates with Klima's diagnostics
for sentence vs. constituent negation. Thus, the wide-scope (sentential) ne-
gation of the predicate denials determines positive tags, while the narrow-
scope negation is associated with negative tagS:29
(38') a. All the cookies weren't
eaten, {were they/
*weren't they}?
All the cookies [were not]
eaten, were they?
b. All the cookies were [not
eaten], weren't they?
All the cookies were un-
eaten, were they?
[only PD/NEG-Q reading]
[on PD/NEG-Q reading]
[on PTN/NEG-V reading]
[only PTN/NEG-v reading]
So far so good. Indeed, the need for a wide-scope descriptive negation
for characterizing the readings of (38a) supports the status of predicate
denial as the default realization of semantically contradictory descriptive
negation, despite the elusiveness of the predicted noncommittal readings in
examples like (33) and (35). Unfortunately, however, many speakers ob-
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 491
tain a narrow-scope, NEG-V reading for all + contracted (inflected) nega-
tion, either along with or instead of the wide-scope interpretation we
expect. For some speakers, this NEG-V reading is possible only with a
negative tag-All the students didn't fail the test, didn't they-in which
context the otherwise salient NEG-Q reading of (38a)-type sentences is
eliminated (Heringer 1970:293). (Other speakers reject both negative tags
and NEG-V readings.) I must apparently give up my identification of auxil-
iary negation with predicate denial, weaken my claim that predicate denial
invariably yields contradictory negation with do auxiliaries, and/or pro-
vide a mechanism for contradictory predicate denials, with certain quan-
tified subjects, to be strengthened to contraries.
But an even more serious problem lurks on the paths of my approach to
quantifier negation scope interaction, as well as on those of its competitors.
In correctly predicting the scope ambiguity for universally quantified sub-
jects in negative sentences, Montagovian and neo-Aristotelian frameworks
predict a parallel ambiguity when the determiner in question is the existen-
tial or particular some or a(n). Thus, merely by substituting a for every
token of every in the trees of (32a, b), we obtain two readings for A fish
doesn't sleep, the former with narrow-scope negation (= 'There is a fish
which doesn't sleep'), and the latter an apparently unavailable NEG-Q inter-
pretation with wide-scope negation (= 'Not a fish sleeps'). As is well
known from the linguistic literature (cf., e.g., Giv6n 1978), the NEG-Q
readings attested for the universal negations of (39a) tend to disappear in
the corresponding particular negations of (39b).
(39) a. Every man didn't b. {A/Some} man didn't win.
win.
Everybody isn't
happy.
All the boys don't like
you.
All that glitters isn't
gold.
(NEG-V[V- ...] or
NEG-Q[- V . . .])
Somebody isn't happy.
Some (of the) boys don't like
you.
Something that glitters isn't
gold.
(only NEG-v[3- ...],
not NEG-Q[- 3 . . .])
The analysis trees generated by Montague Grammar predict that in prin-
ciple both universals and existentials in subject position can be either
quantified into an open negative proposition (yielding the NEG-V reading
with wide scope for the subject phrase) or combined with a eN to form a
term expression which in tum combines negatively with a predicate to ob-
tain a sentence (yielding the NEG-Q reading with wide scope for the nega-
tion). I have proposed jettisoning this line in favor of a distinction between
492 Negative Form and Negative Function
finite inflected or particle negation (PD, taking scope over the entire predi-
cation) and nonfinite or prefixal negation (PTN, with scope confined to the
predicate expression). But on either approach, the wide-scope reading for
negation must apparently be filtered out when the subject is quantified by
some or a(n). How can this be accomplished-in MG, ETL, or any other
framework?
My first step is to argue that both sets of examples in (39) do indeed
involve predicate denial, despite the optional narrow-scope (contrary) NEG-
v semantics of the sentences in (39a) and the apparently obligatory narrow-
scope (subcontrary) NEG-V semantics of those in (39b). Besides the fact
that the negations in these examples are realized as inflections, which I
have taken to betoken predicate denial, the distribution of the Klima diag-
nostics is inconsistent with the treatment of the some. . . not constructions
as instantiating constituent (predicate term) negation:
(40) a. Some of the arrows didn't hit the target and {?neither/*so} did
some of the javelins. [adapted from Jackendoff 1972: 363]
b. Some of the arrows didn't hit the target and some of the jave-
lins didn't {either/??too}.
c. Some of the arrows didn't hit the target, {?did they/ *didn't
they}?
Crucially, this pattern is sharply distinguished from the one determined by
clear cases of PTN, such as unlexicalized {can/could} ... not on its
O-vertex (M-NEG) reading:
(40') a. She can [not attend], and {*so/neither} can he.
b. She can [not attend], and he can [not attend] {*either/too}.
c. She can [not attend], {*can she/can't she}?
(The S-neg diagnostics starred in (40') are of course all grammatical when
can not is read as wide-scope predicate denial, that is, as cannot.)
The fact that (for most speakers) neither set of diagnostics is impeccable
in (40) is attributable to the clash between the syntax of these sentences,
which I take to involve predicate denial, and their semantics, which is not
that of the contradictory opposition normally associated with predicate de-
nial (or Klima's sentential negation). For Jackendoff, who defines sentence
negation as contradictory negation (via the it is not so that S paraphrase
test), the NEG-V readings of(39a, b) must involve constituent (VP) negation,
leaving us with no account ofthe difference between the patterns of (40) and
(40'). Nor can I acceptJackendoff's claim (1972: 332) that'S and VP nega-
tion differ in meaning exactly when there is a quantifier in the derived sub-
ject', given the clear syntactic and semantic evidence for narrow-scope VP
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 493
negation in (40') and other modal contexts (cf. Boyd and Thorne 1969, Horn
1972, and Palmer 1979 for additional examples and discussion).
But if both (39a, b) involve predicate denials, with narrow-scope NEG-V
readings resulting from a delay in quantifying in every and some, as in
(32a, a'), what prevents the alternative (32b, b')-type analysis, with wide-
scope negation, for the some . .. not examples of (39b)? Lee (1974) offers
a creative but unsuccessful program for adapting Montague negation to the
scope interaction facts obtaining in English. Foreshadowing Barwise and
Cooper (1981), Lee takes 'prenominal negation'-both lexicalized (no-
body) and free (not everybody)-to involve basic negative term phrases.
For the range of sentences in (39b), where he rejects the MG-predicted am-
biguity, Lee replaces the negation-as-a-mode-of-predication introduced by
P'fQ's S17 with a strictly narrow-scope IV/IV operator. Thus, we are left
with quantifier negation and verb phrase negation, but no remnant of wide-
scope sentential negation or predicate denial. What then of the NEG-Q read-
ings attested for universal subjects in negative sentences like those of
(39a)? Lee acknowledges his failure to provide an account of such read-
ings, which he excuses on the grounds that 'many speakers do not get these
sentences at all', and that 'if they do, they only get the Neg-V reading'
(Lee 1974: 381). But in fact, the NEG-v-only dialect represents the smallest
minority attested in Carden's (1970) study. Curiously, the same sentence
cited as unambiguously NEG-V in Lee's earlier discussion, Everyone didn't
come, turns out five pages later to be ambiguous after all; its NEG-Q reading
is predicted by the good old tense-and-sign rule S17 of PTQ, which Lee
now sees as complementing, rather than replacing, his own rule (Lee
1974:386). But then the particular negations of (39b) must be ambiguous
as well, and we are back where we began.
Cresswell (1973), recognizing the problematic asymmetry between uni-
versals and particulars in the context of (39), suggests an intriguing solu-
tion: since compositional semantic theories cannot predict the right scope
assignments in these cases, all scope distinctions should be scrapped: logi-
cal form is essentially scope-free. This yields the full range of both attested
and unattested readings as possible understandings of any sentence with
two scope-wielding operators, whether one of these operators is negation
(as in (32), (33), (35), (38), and (39)) or not (cf. the classic pair Everyone
loves someone, Someone is loved by everyone). It will then be up to the
pragmatics to filter out the nonoccurring readings. (Cf. Sadock 1976 for a
similar proposal, independently arrived at.)
While this proposal may strike us as a counsel of despair, there is some-
thing to be said for overgeneration even in those theories which admit
scope distinctions in logical form or semantic interpretation. In particular,
494 Negative Form and Negative Function
it is worth reexamining the standard assumption that a particular or existe _
tially quantified subject term never takes narrow scope with respect ton
following negation. This assumption may appear justified when we com:
upon the examples of (39b) in isolation, but consider the following attested
cases (emphasis added):
(41) a. A sociopath wouldn't get through the first ten minutes of my
films. They are too slow. Someone isn't killed in the cred-
its. (from a newspaper interview with Brian de Palma)
b. She swung round, she took two strides to him, waiting for
someone to stop her, but someone didn't. (from John Le
Carre's The Little Drummer Girl) -
c. Neither Inspector Walker nor the book's readers can be
entirely certain that an innocent man has not gone to the
gallows. (from a book review in the New York Times)
Evidently, the appearance of the some/a ... not construction within a
context where the corresponding positive expectation has been explicitly
established licenses a NEG-Q reading, neutralizing the asymmetry between
particulars and universals.30
Thus, in (41a) Brian de Palma is implicitly contrasting his films with
those of other directors (whose creations are in fact as sociopathic as his
own are alleged to be); it is in those unspeakable celluloid horrors that
someone invariably ~ killed while the opening credits roll. In (41b),
the antiheroine Charlie expects someone to stop her. In (41c), the state-
sanctioned hanging of an innocent is taken to be an unexpected, not to say
disconcerting, possibility. Crucially, each case involves the disappointment
of an expectation assumed to be shared by speaker and addressee (or by
reader and writer).
These examples recall an observation by Baker (1970: 182ff.). Baker
cites a number of (constructed) sentences in which some . .. not occurs
embedded under one of a set of 'special predicates', inducing a reading in
which the embedded negation seems to take wide scope with respect to its
subject:
(42) a. I'm surprised that someone hasn't already said something
to you.
b. John is relieved that someone didn't sign up ahead of him.
He attributes the acceptability of these complements to the nature of the
governing predicate: 'Speaking intuitively, we can say that each of these
predicates expresses a relation of contrariness between a certain fact and
some mental or emotional state. For example, we say that we are surprised
when a certain fact does not conform to our expectations; relieved when it
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 495
does not conform to our fears; disappointed when it is not in line with our
hopes'. Thus, (42a, b) are licensed by the propositions in (42'a, b),
respectively:
(42') a. I expected that someone would have already said something
to you.
b. John was afraid that someone would sign up ahead of him.
Baker's account extends naturally to the reduced comparative in (43), war-
ranted by (43'):
(43) It's {amazing/lucky} more people haven't already been killed at
this intersection.
(43') It was expected that more people would have already been killed
at this intersection.
Note that the embedded clauses of (42a) and (43) cannot stand on their own
with their multiple affirmative polarity items, nor can they occur in a
non-"affective" environment:
(44) a. #I'm convinced that someone hasn't already said something
to you.
b. Someone hasn't (#already) said {anything/ # something}
to you.
c. # I knew that more people haven't already been killed at this
intersection.
d. ?More people haven't (#already) been killed at this
intersection.
On Baker's transderivational theory of polarity, a given negative or posi-
tive polarity item i can be rendered acceptable in a sentence S if there is
some other sentence S' such that S entails S' and i is well-formed within
S'. Thus (42a) is acceptable because it entails (42'a), (43) because it entails
(43'), and so on. But while some notion of allusion may well playa role in
the description of polarity, Baker's theory is seriously flawed. Entailment
relations prove to be neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition for the
acceptability of polarity items, as recognized by Baker himself (1970:
182-84) and demonstrated in more detail by others. (Cf. Horn 1970; Fau-
connier 1975a, 1975b, 1976; Ladusaw 1979; and Linebarger 1981, 1987
for criticisms and alternative proposals.)
For my present case, it suffices to note that Baker's framework fails to
incorporate the correct generalizations about the set of entailments that li-
cense polarity shifts. What is crucial here is the dimension of emotivity
Baker alludes to in the passage cited above; when this dimension is absent,
496 Negative Form and Negative Function
the presence of an entailment does not in itself suffice. Thus (45a, b) are
much less likely than (42a),
(45) a. #She denied that someone hasn't already said something
to you.
b. # I doubt that someone hasn't already said something to you.
although each entails a positive sentence in which the positive polarit
. . y
items are appropnate:
(45') a. She said that someone has already said something to you.
b. I believe that someone has already said something to you.
(Of course simple negative polarity items are licensed by deny and doubt
as Baker and others have observed: She {denied/doubts} that anyone ha~
ever said anything about it.)
Beyond the details of the constructions under consideration, three points
need to be stressed. The first is that the negation in sentences like (42a, b)
and (43) fails to interact with polarity items in the usual way; rather, the
items i~ .questi~n ~e ~hose which would have occurred in a corresponding
propositlOn which is m some sense unmarked (expected) in the discourse
conte~t. ~e have e~countered other instances of similar nonpolarizing
negation m §6.4; as m those cases, we can take the present examples to
represent METALINGUISTIC or second-instance negation.
A related point is that the fall-rise contours which tend to be associated
with the NEG-Q readings of {all/every} . .. not (and of the related both . ..
not and and ... not constructions; cf. §4.3) is in fact a general character-
istic of metalinguistic negation, as I noted in chapter 6. This supports the
view that the wide-scope (NEG-Q) reading of negation in sentences with
quantified subjects occurs most naturally in metalinguistic uses. On the
other hand, the fact that no special intonation is required to bring out the
wide-scope reading of negation in, for example, All is not lost, together
with the typical absence of any rectification, suggests that this construc-
tion, with its -V interpretation, must also be analyzable as realizing ordi-
nary predicate denial.31
The third point is that, as we saw in the attested examples of (41), no
'special predicate' need be overtly present within the syntactic frame in
order to trigger the polarity items in question (or the wide-scope reading
of postexistential negation). Thus, alongside (42a, b) we can get the se-
quences in (46):
(46) a. This is incredible. You mean to tell me that someone hasn't
already spoken to you about the party?!
b. What a relief-this must be my lucky day. Evidently some-
one hasn't signed up ahead of me after all!
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 497
Not surprisingly, metalinguistic some . . . not is also available in the con-
text of the 'word by word, emphatic denial' (Baker 1970: 169) or the 'pure
et simple reprise' (Tasmowski-De Ryck 1972: 199) of a previous assertion.
We have already observed the appearance of postnegative some in such
environments (see §6.4 for examples), and prenegative some is similarly
attested in the exchange in (47a) from an episode of Sesame Street, while
(47b) represents an exchange from the 1987.movie Vir? Dancing on .t~e
possibility of replacing a dancer ~ho must miSS th~ crucial m~bo exhibi-
tion because she will be otherwise engaged (havmg an abortion) at the
time:
(47) a. Forgetful Jones: 'Somebody broke my balloon, somebody
broke my balloon.'
Maria: 'No, somebody didn't break your balloon.'
[It develops that Forgetful broke it himself.]
b. "Baby" Houseman: 'Can't someone else fill in?'
Johnny Castle: 'No, someone else can't fill in.'
But even when a wide-scope reading for the negation in a some. . . not
construction is available in direct comebacks, it is often difficult to per-
ceive, especially when this reading is not forced by the context or when the
scornful flavor of the rebuttals of (47) is absent. Compare (47'):
Somebody spilled something.
{Nobody spilled anything/No, they [sic] didn't}-it's just
the rain.
# Somebody didn't spill something, it's just the rain.
The same pattern holds for other weak or 'tolerant' determiners (cf. chap-
ter4). This point is illustrated nicely by an anecdote recalled by Katz (1972).
When an outraged Parliament demanded that he withdraw the imputation in
(47"a), Churchill responded by offering the "retraction" in (47''b):
(47") a. Half of the ministers are asses.
b. Half of the ministers are not asses.
While an external metalinguistic reading is certainly available here (com-
pare 'Half of the ministers aren't asses, {but many/in fact all} of them
are), it is clearly not salient.
But what of the asymmetry between universals and particulars when no
metalinguistic objection is involved? Why is it so much easier, both in En-
glish and cross-linguistically, to get the wide-scope reading for the nega-
tive in the context of (48a) than in the context of (48'a)?
(48) a. Everybody didn't come.
b. Not everybody came.
(48') a. Somebody didn't come.
b. Nobody came.
498 Negative Form and Negative Function
For Jespersen (1924: 327), the availability of NEG-Q readings for ordi-
nary auxiliary (NEXAL) negation can be attributed to 'the result of two
tendencies, to place the subject first, and to attract the negation to the
verb', so that the negative which would 'logically' precede the universal is
attracted instead to the unmarked nexal position on the finite auxiliary. But
this latter tendency to 'use nexal negation whenever it is possible' (Jesper-
sen 1917:44) is offset by a complementary tendency Jespersen invokes
elsewhere. By this principle, our familiar Neg First, the preferred realiza-
tion of wide-scope negation should be as a negative-incorporated quan-
tified subject (none, not every), rather than as an auxiliary particle or
inflection which must then "cross over" its subject term in the interpreta_
tion of the sentence. (The NEG-V reading, of course, involves no parallel
interpretive crossover of scopes.) Furthermore, the prepositioning of the
universal subject in (48a) 'for the sake of emphasis' (Jespersen 1917: 87)
would be equally satisfied by assigning the appropriate contour to the
unambiguous not-initial version in (48b). And in any case, we must still
distinguish the ambiguous nexal negation in (48a) from its (normally) un-
ambiguous counterpart in (48'a).
The crucial difference between these two predicate denials is that a NEG-
Qreading of the latter value could be alternately (and unambiguously) ex-
pressed by a fully lexicalized, inherently negative E-vertex quantifier or
determiner, as in (48'b).32 The only unambiguous alternative realization of
the ~V value constituting the NEG-Q reading of examples like (48a), on the
other hand, involves a relatively unlexicalized O-vertex negative quantifier
or determiner, as in (48b): not all (the) a, not everybody, not everything.
While the some . .. not configuration of (48'a) is of course logically
equivalent to a negated universal, a particular negation too is less than fully
lexicalized-as indeed any O-vertex quantifier must be, given my argu-
ments in §4.5.
The relative availability of NEG-Q readings for predicate denials with
quantified subjects is thus determined by the outcome of a rivalry among
several functional tendencies. The missing link in Jespersen's account can
be supplied by reformulating one of his principles: there is a preference for
overt negation to surface in its unmarked (nexal, predicate denial) position,
as a particle or inflection on the finite verb or auxiliary. This preference-
call it NEXAL NOT-is satisfied in (48a) and (48'a) and is irrelevant to
(48'b) with its inherently negative quantifier, but is contravened in (48b).
While Neg First predicts a general preference for the (b) over the (a)
examples as representations of NEG-Q understandings, and the subject-first
tendency predicts the opposite preference, it is Nexal Not which estab-
lishes the asymmetry between (48) and (48'). The marked character of
negated quantifiers (not everybody, not all the a) as contrasted with inher-
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 499
ently negative quantifiers (nobody, none of the a, no a) is underlined by
the well-known distributional asymmetries between these two sets: the for-
mer expressions cannot occur freely as direct or prepositional objects,
while the latter can.
But why should Nexal Not exist? What more general pattern of func-
tional explanation can be invoked here? Notice that my Division of Prag-
matic Labor (see §3.3) predicts a tendency for the (a) forms to become
restricted to conveying their NEG-V meanings, given the existence of the
alternative (b) expressions specialized for conveying their potential NEG-Q
meanings, especially in the light of the preference for scope to correlate
with surface order. As we see in appendix 2 (cf. also Horn 1984b), the
strength of this blocking effect varies inversely with the markedness of the
alternative expressions. Since not everybody is morphologically and syn-
tactically more marked than nobody, it will have a relatively weak restric-
tive effect on the use of (48a) to convey its potential NEG-Q meaning.
If my proposed explanation for the asymmetry is correct, NEG-Q read-
ings will be available for those predicate denials which do not have a lexi-
calized paraphrase. One indication that this is true is the pattern indicated
in (49)-(49'), paralleling that in (48)-(48').
(49) a. Kim and Lee didn't
come.
b. Not both Kim and Lee
came.
(49') a. Kim or Lee didn't come.
b. Neither Kim nor Lee
came.
As observed in Horn 1972, with acknowledgments to Barbara Partee,
negation can be interpreted as outside the scope of the conjoined subject in
(49a), but must be inside the disjoined subject in (49'a). But only the latter
example has an unambiguous unmarked alternative connective (49'b)
which expresses its potential (and hence nonexistent) NEG-CONJ value. (As
with its quantificational analogue (48'a), (49'a) can be read as a wide-
scope metalinguistic negation, given the right intonation contour, dis-
course context, and rectification.)
Another case in point is provided by data I borrow here from Ladusaw
(1979: 81), who notes (but does not explain) the contrast between the ambi-
guity of the sentences in (50) and the (virtual) univocality of those in (50').
(50) a. Both seminar rooms aren't in use at the same time.
b. One TA can't always grade all of the homework assigned.
c. Three bricks won't be sufficient to prop up the bookcase.
(50') a. Many students don't take classes after 4 P.M.
b. A lot of wine wasn't consumed.
500 Negative Form and Negative Function
The NEG-Q readings of (50'a, b) tend to be blocked by the existence of
lexicalized negative quantifiers with the same meaning (Jew students, little
wine).33 But that in (50a) (as in the parallel (48a) and (49a)) can only be
paraphrased by a complex negated quantifier, not both seminar rooms.
And the wide-scope readings for the negations in (50b, c) do not allow
even semilexicalized equivalents. Both not n and less than n are available
only to express ordinary scalar negation, and in precisely these cases the
NEG-Q readings associated with the grouplike subjects of (50b, c) instantly
disappear:34
(51) a. {One/A} TA couldn't make it
to the meeting.
b. Three bricks weren't the
right color for the wall.
(* none/not one could
make it)
(* fewer than three were)
Support for my functional approach to the every/ some scope asymmetry
is not limited to English. One source of evidence is provided by an SOV
language, Turkish, where predicate denial is marked by a verbal suffix and
there are fully lexicalized E-valued quantifiers (hi~ 'none', hi~bir 'not
one'), but no complex negated quantifiers corresponding to not every, not
all. The example in (52) is cited by Payne (1985:234),
(52) a. Herkez cevab-l bil-iyor.
everybody answer-OBJ knOW-PRES
'Everybody knows the answer'
b. Herkez cevab-l bil-m-iyor.
everybody anSWer-OBJ knOW-NEG-PRES
preferred: 'Not everybody knows the answer'
dispreferred: 'Nobody knows the answer'
who points out that the salience of the NEG-Q interpretation here is 'un-
doubtedly' influenced by 'the fact that for the [NEG-V] everybody not
reading, there is a universal tendency to prefer a quantifier of the none or
not any type', for example, hi~ / hi~bir.
It is significant in this connection that in a large number of verb-final
languages where there is no incorporation of negation into quantifiers, it is
more the rule than the exception for a negative to the right of an existential
or particular quantifier to be assigned (at least optionally) wide scope with
respect to that quantifier (cf. Davison 1978). The literal translations of the
sentences of (39b) into Indo-Aryan, Dravidian, and Turkish can be, and
generally are, interpreted as NEG-Q (= ~3 ...).
In accord with my 0 --) E semantic drift (cf. §4.5), then, a negative/
quantifier configuration which can in principle be read either as a particular
negative (O-vertex) or a negated particular (E-vertex) value will prefer the
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 501
latter interpretation-when there is no lexicalized E-valued quantifier to
block it. In at least one non-verb-finallanguage, only the NEG-Q (E-vertex)
interpretation is possible for particular negation. Foley (1975: 145) ob-
serves that the ambiguity of (53) in English (in which, it will be recalled,
the wide-scope reading of negation is anything but salient) disappears in
Palauan, where the literal translation of such sentences can only be as-
signed the NEG-Q interpretation in (53b).
(53) One of his friends didn't sing.
a. NEG-V: Of his friends, only [sic] one didn't sing.
b. NEG-Q: None of his friends sang.
In Japanese, a somewhat more complex situation prevails. Both univer-
sals and existentials are normally assigned wide scope with respect to
negation, unless the topic-marker -wa is suffixed to the quantifier, in which
case the NEG-Q readings (= ~V, ~3) prevail. The contrasts in (54) and
(55) are from Kato (1985: 105ff.); similar pairs are provided by McGloin
(1976, 1982) (but cf. ata and Kato 1986: 34ff. for a different account, in
which the behavior of topic -wa is distinguished from that of 'focus' or
'contrastive' -wa).
(54) a. Zen'in ga repooto 0 das -anakat- tao
all SM report OM hand in -NEG- PAST
'None of them handed in the report'
(NEG-V, V~ reading)
b. Zen'in wa repooto 0 das -anakat- tao
TM
'Not all of them handed in the report'
(NEG-Q, ~V reading)
(55) a. Gakusei ga juu-nin ko -nakat- tao
student ten come -NEG- PAST
'Ten students didn't come'
(NEG-V, 3~ reading)
b. Gakusei ga juu-nin wa ko -nakat- tao
'Not more than ten students came'
(NEG-Q, ~3 reading)l5
Other factors are involved as well in determining the scope possibilities
of negation and quantifiers in Japanese, as discussed by McGloin, Kato,
and ata and Kato. The external or wide-scope reading ofnegation is forced
by the metalinguistic negator wake de wa nai (see §6.6), while lexical
properties of certain existential and universal operators prevent them from
entering the scope of negation even in the presence of wa (compare the
502 Negative Form and Negative Function
behavior of each and several in English, which induce wide scope even
with respect to a preceding negative). Furthermore, either the wide- or
narrow-scope reading may be rendered more salient in a given example by
properties of the discourse context.
In English, as we have seen, some explicitly quantified subjects may be
understood as falling within the scope of a predicate denial marked on the
finite verb, while others demand wide scope. The NEG-Q interpretation
yielding the semantics of contradictory negation, mayor may not be fil~
tered out by a functional principle (perhaps partly conventionalized) which
blocks crossing scopes at surface structure. The availability of an un-
marked alternative realization for the wide-scope reading of a given predi-
cate denial tends to result in the restriction of that predicate denial to the
NEG-V reading assigned to it-but assigned how? We have no difficulty as-
sociating NEG-V interpretations with predicate term negations, where the
syntactic position of the negative element (incorporated or not) prevents it
from taking scope over the subject. But in the case of predicate denials,
where do the NEG-V readings come from?
I have explored and tentatively rejected Montague's approach to quan-
tifier-scope ambiguities, partly on the basis of its tendency to overgenerate
logical forms for ambiguous-and unambiguous-sentences. But this em-
barrassment is not restricted to MG; the same proliferation afflicts other
theories, from Generative Semantics to the (Revised) Extended Standard
Theory, which posit a disambiguated level of logical form as the site for the
resolution of scope ambiguities. As Cooper (1975, 1983) and Ladusaw
(1979) have argued, the ambiguities I am trying to predict are intrinsically
semantic, not syntactic in nature. If we assume that syntactic form under-
determines the projection of meanings from the constituents of a sentence,
we can sort out the different readings we require without assuming distinct
derivations for distinct meanings in a hierarchically structured representa-
tion, as in the disambiguated language of Montague (1974), the predicate-
calculus-like conceptual structure of G. Lakoff (1969) and McCawley
(1972), or the LF of May (1977).
Let us follow Cooper and Ladusaw in taking scope ambiguities to result
from the optional storage of NP meanings during the bottom-up interpreta-
tion of a sentence. As in MG, the point at which the NP meaning is re-
trieved and quantified in determines the reading for a given sentence, but as
distinct from MG (and from other GEOMETRIC theories of scope, to borrow
Ladusaw's term), there are no syntactic correlates of this distinction.
Cooper storage involves a principled and limited relaxation of the composi-
tionality requirement built into Montagovian (and other neo-Fregean) theo-
ries of formal semantics, but the payoff is clear. We no longer need to
burden our logical syntax with an otherwise unmotivated rule of quantifier-
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 503
lowering or Q-Magic (Carden 1970, 1973; G. Lakoff 1969), quantifier
raising (May 1977), or NP-Iowering (Barwise and Cooper 1981) to license
the narrow-scope reading of auxiliary-based negation. Subject NPs get
narrow-scope (NEG-Q) readings in predicate denials when their meanings
are not stored; object NPs (I didn't eat some of the cake) get wide-scope
readings (across negation) when their meanings are stored.
Now it may seem that this approach merely replaces unmotivated syntac-
tic rules by the equally unmotivated semantic storage convention. But there
is an important difference. Each NP, that is, each generalized quantifier,
will indeed generate at least two distinct formal interpretations. But, as
Ladusaw puts it, a distinct interpretation is not necessarily a distinct READ-
ING. If a reading is taken to be an equivalence class of interpretations, then
two interpretations with the same truth conditions and the same conven-
tional implicata will determine the same reading. In (56a, b), the two logi-
cally distinct equivalence classes of interpretations will correspond to two
distinct readings for the single constituent structure (and logical syntax) of
each sentence,
(56) a. Everybody ate something.
b. Somebody ate everything.
c. Somebody ate something.
but the various interpretations of (56c)-as determined by the various stor-
age and retrieval possibilities for the NP meanings-all reduce to the same
reading, with a unique set of truth conditions and conventional implicata
(Ladusaw 1979:67). Thus (56c), unlike (56a, b), is predicted to be seman-
tically univocal, which in fact it is.
Just as Lewis's account of logical double negation (Lewis 1970, dis-
cussed in §5.1.3 above) permits differences in meaning to be neutralized
into a single intension, so too does the Cooper-Ladusaw line on scope am-
biguities allow the multiple interpretations assigned to a single syntactic
form to become neutralized into a single reading, in which case neither
syntactic nor semantic ambiguity will be attested.
Without offering a detailed defense of the meaning-storage approach to
scope ambiguities here, I shall assume-with Gazdar, Klein, Pullum, and
Sag (1985: 15)-that 'quantifier ambiguities should be handled by some
variant of Cooper storage'.36 On this assumption, the sentences of (39) are
all taken to be syntactic predicate denials which receive multiple interpreta-
tions in the semantics. Whether two projected interpretations result in the
assignment of two distinct and accessible readings for a given sentence will
depend on the quantifier involved and on the utterance context of the sen-
tence token.
504 Negative Form and Negative Function
7.3.4 Scope and Representation, Semantics and Pragmatics: -
A Final Conspectus
The complex interaction of the scope of negation with structural and extra_
structural aspects of language (including focus, intonation, grammatical
relations, new vs. old information, and the semantic and lexical properties
of other scope-bearing operators, particularly quantifiers and modals) has
been barely touched on in this study. For general or English-based tleat-
ments from various perspectives within the overall generative paradigm,
see G. Lakoff 1969; Jackendoff 1969, 1971, 1972; Smith 1970; Partee
1970; Chomsky 1970, 1971; Bald 1971; Horn 1972, 1978a; Carden 1973·
Stockwell, Schachter, and Partee 1973; Sgall, Hajicova, and Benesov~
1973; Lasnik 1975; Welte 1978; C. Ross 1978; Linebarger 1981; Culicover
1981; and Payne 1985; cf. also Kraak 1966 and Seuren 1967 for Dutch
(and English); Bhatia 1977 and Davison 1978 for South Asian languages;
Crockett 1977 and Babby 1980 for Russian; Varga 1980 for Hungarian;
Heldner 1981 for French; Kuno 1980, McGloin 1982, and Kato 1985 for
Japanese, and so on.
But one of my promissory notes must now be redeemed. Following
Aristotle, I have maintained that ordinary negation, that is, predicate
denial, takes scope over the subject-predicate connection. Earlier in this
chapter, I observed that the negation in x isn't well must have scope over
the subject in order to come out false when x names something which does
not exist (Socrates isn't well) or something which exists but is not the sort
of thing of which well can be predicated (The number 4 isn't well). Indeed,
such sentences cannot be disambiguated syntactically or semantically un-
less we are prepared to forego the treatment of names and numbers as rigid
designators and, at the same time, to project the same ambiguity in the
positive counterparts of these sentences ({Socrates /The number 4} is
well). Why is it, then, that subject terms (and the presuppositional phe-
nomena they induce) seem so often to take wide scope with respect to an
unmarked, syntactically internal negation?
I have considered and rejected the position that negations whose appar-
ent scope is within that of the subject are not sentential, that is, that they
realize term (IV, VP) negation rather than predicate denial. In the classical
languages, as I noted in chapter 1, word order distinguishes predicate denial
(Socrates well not is) from predicate term (IV-phrase) negation (Socrates
not well is) in copular sentences, even when the latter is not morphologi-
cally incorporated. But even in predicate denials, as the textual evidence
makes clear, the normal interpretation of singular predicate expressions as-
sumes the existence of the referent of the subject term. In other languages,
especially those with verb-final word order, term or constituent negation
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 505
may not exist; predicate denial is expressed by an Aux- (or INFL-) based
negative morpheme which may receive various apparent scope assignments
depending on the formal, semantic, and discourse context (see the Davison,
Kuno, and Payne references above).
In English, as I observed in chapter 3, the class of sentence negations
picked out by Klima's syntactic criteria (in particular, his four diagnostic
tags based on either, neither, negative appositives, and simple positive
question tags) overlaps with, but does not reduce to, the class of semantic
sentence negations-that is, contradictories-identified by the it is not so
that S paraphrase criterion favored by Jackendoff and others. Membership
in the former class is neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition for
membership in the latter. By the same token, most, but not all, predicate
denials result in contradictory negations, while some term negations-
those yielding E-vertex predicates like impossible, unable-may also re-
sult in contradictory negations.
Reviewing the evidence, we recall that the following sentence-types, all
of which I take to involve predicate denial,
(57) a. I don't think the Yankees
will win.
b. Chris isn't happy.
c. You mustn't buy that
car.
(==? I think they won't win)
(==? Chris is fairly unhappy)
(You must [not buy that car])
tend to convey a stronger negative than the mere contradictory of the corre-
sponding positive,
(57') a. I think the Yankees will win.
b. Chris is happy.
c. You must buy that car.
That is, we seem to have-at least pragmatically-an excluded middle in
each case:
(57") a. I have no opinion one way or the other about whether the
Yankees will win.
b. Chris is neither happy nor not happy (she's just feeling sort
of blaah).
c. You can buy that car or not buy it, as you choose.
I maintained in chapter 5 that (57a) is the semantic contradictory of
(57'a), with the stronger (NR) understanding (excluding (57"a» filled in
by a short-circuited conversational implicature; (57b) conveys a contrary
negation of (57'b) by virtue of a related (but non-short-circuited) strength-
ening rule applying to the class of unmarked positive scalar predicates
506 Negative Form and Negative Function
which includes happy. In the case of (57c), the strong internal reading is
arguably a semantic, rather than pragmatic, fact; the same interpretation is
assigned to the particle negation version, You must [not buy that car]
where we are dealing with a VP negation. Crucially, however, (57c)-lik~
(57a, b)-is an instance of Klima's sentence negation, as the diagnostics
show:
(57"') a. I don't think the Yankees will win, not even if the Sox take
bribes.
b. Chris isn't happy, and Kim {isn't either/*is too}.
c. You mustn't buy that car, and {neitherI *so} must your sister.
[cf. (40'a)]
~hat we m~s~ conclude here,. then, is that if (as I claim) a negatively
mflected auxIhary always constItutes a predicate denial, then predicate de-
nials-like sentence negations Ii la Klima (cf. §3.3)-do not invariably
represent sentence negations Ii la Kraak, Seuren, and Jackendoff, that is,
sentences which allow the it is not so that S paraphrase, where S represents
the positive counterpart as in (57'). The contradictory reading will be as-
signed by the semantics, however, unless overridden by a lexical property
of the predicate; in the case of (57c), the neg-inflected modal mustn't (un-
like needn't, can't, doesn't, etc.) is lexically associated with the contrary,
inner-neg reading.37
If contradictory opposition is not a necessary condition for a negation to
be a predicate denial, neither is it sufficient. Each of the sentences in (58)
constitutes a contradictory negation of the corresponding affirmative in
(58'), allowing the it is not so that paraphrase, yet none of them represents
a predicate denial.
(58) a. It's impossible for a bachelor to be married.
b. He ate nothing.
c. No bachelors are honest.
d. Not everyone reads Aristotle.
e. Not many children like war.
(58') a. It's possible for a bachelor to be married.
b. He ate something.
c. Some bachelors are honest.
d. Everyone reads Aristotle.
e. Many children like war.
Sentence (58a) clearly involves Aristotle's term negation, Jespersen's
special negation, or Klima's constituent negation, as indicated by its form
and its behavior with respect to the diagnostics (cf. Klima 1964: 291-92).
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 507
While (58b) displays a mixed pattern with respect to the same diagnostics,
the internal position of the negative within the VP once again suggests a
PTN analysis. Nevertheless, it is clear that a negative in this position can
be interpreted with wide scope, although it need not be; cf. Klima (1964:
285) on the ambiguity of I willforce you to marry no one. The availability
of wide-scope, contradictory readings for VP-internal negations is further
discussed by Bolinger (1977) and Jackendoff (1969).
Sentences (58c-e) generally conform to the syntactic diagnostics for
S-negation, leading Klima (1964: 271ff.) to assimilate such sentences to
this category. These sentences also constitute logical contradictories of the
corresponding positive general statements in (58'c-e). Yet they are not
predicate denials. Sentence (58c) represents a prima facie instance of
narrow-scope negation-not PTN, but quantifier (subject term) negation.
The negative quantifiers of (58d, e) must also involve constituent negation
if not everyone, not many children are themselves constituents in these
sentences.
My line on these examples is prefigured by Attal (1971: 108), who ar-
gues that the negation in (58e) must be thought of as negating the quantifier
rather than the sentence, especially given that not many can be paraphrased
by an inherently negative quantifier: Few children like war. For Attal, as
for me, Klima and Jackendoffmust both yield here to Jespersen (1917 :42),
for whom (58e) exemplifies special negation, where 'the negative no-
tion ... belong[s] logically to one definite idea', rather than nexal nega-
tion, in which negation belongs 'to the combination of two ideas', typically
the subject-predicate 'nexus'.38
The Jespersen.....,Attal-Barwise and Cooper-ETL conclusion that nega-
tive quantifiers do not express sentential negation is reached from different
directions by Lee (1974) and Keenan and Faltz (1978: 132), as I noted ear-
lier in this chapter. For Payne (1985: 201-5), too, sentences with negated
quantifiers (Not everyone, Not many a) or inherently negative quantifiers
(No a, Few a) in subject position, while they may yield contradictory
oppositions and obey Klima's diagnostics for sentential negation, fail to ex-
emplify STANDARD negation. More recently, Hoeksema (1987) reconsiders
Jacobs's (1982) analysis of German sentences like Nicht jede Schwester
bewundert einen Arzt 'Not every nurse admires a doctor'. Where Jacobs
takes the initial negation to constitute a sentential operator, Hoeksema cites
evidence from Jacobs's own study for a Barwise and Cooper-type analysis
in which nicht jede Schwester forms a constituent, that is, a moo t gener-
alized quantifier.
Within ETL, then, (48a) and (48'a), along with the sentences of (39a,
b), express predicate denials, whatever the semantic scope of negation may
be. The sentences of (48b) and (48'b), on the other hand, along with
508 Negative Form and Negative Function
(58c:-~), realize narrow-scope quantifier negation. But where did the
Stagmte stand? In fact, .for Aristotle-hugging the surface of Ancient
Greek syntax and semantics-no predicate denial reading is possible fo
. . r
negatIOn m general (quantified) statements. This point is emphasized by
Geach (1970), whose 'program for syntax' offers a neo-Ajdukiewiczian
cat~gorial syntax for natural language similar in spirit to Montague's
(mmus the IL translations) but quite different in its details.
Geach points out that in the De Interpretatione, Aristotle allows a predi-
cate expression (rhema) like petetai 'flies' to combine either with a simple
name (onoma) or with a general expression like pas anthr6pos, yielding
the sentences in (59a, b), respectively.
(59) a. Petetai S6krates. 'Socrates flies'
b. Pas anthr6pos petetai. 'Every man flies'
But negation (by which Geach intends contradictory negation) affects these
two formations differently, since the contradictory of (59a) is (59'a), while
that of (59b) is (59'b):
(59') a. Ou petetai S6krates.
b. Ou pas anthr6pos petetai.
'Socrates does not fly'
'Not every man flies'
And far from constituting a mere fact about the logical syntax of Greek,
'this is a profound insight, ignored by those who would lump together
proper names and phrases like "every man" as Noun Phrases; we have two
different syntactical categories' (Geach 1970:484).
What Geach seeks is a way to assign ou 'not' to the category :ss (corre-
sponding to the sis category of Ajdukiewicz [1935] or to Montague's tit)
tha~ is, to 'the category of a sentence-forming operator upon sentences':
whIle allowing ou petetai to be a constituent of (59'a) and ou pas an-
thr6pos a constituent of (59'b). Geach satisfies his quest by developing a
means of treating negation as a sentence-level operator semantically which
is realized as a predicate negation in singular sentences but as a quantifier
negation in general sentences. But the fundamental point is thereby ob-
scured: syntactically speaking, proper names and quantified phrases are
both NPs, precisely as Geach's ignorant lumpers maintain. Nor is it clear
that Aristotle would endorse the view that a (semantically) contradictory
negation invariably represents the canonical denial ofa given general predi-
cation; whatever may be the correct approach to (59'b)-Ancient Greek
allowed no NEG-Q reading for universal negations-Geach's line does not
extend naturally to the corresponding particular statements. (Aristotle's
views on how to deny general statements are the subject ofinteresting, if in-
conclusive speculation, in Sommers 1970 and Englebretsen 1981a, 1981b.)
In the alternative approach developed by Barwise and Cooper (1981),
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 509
which I have adopted here, negative quantifiers are negative quantifiers,
and indeed all subject terms-'singular' or 'general'-are set-denoting
NPs, that is, generalized quantifiers. A given combination of a negative
quantifier + predicate expression may be logically equivalent to a predi-
cate denial, so that predicating something (e.g., flying) of not every man
amounts to denying it of every man. In the same way, the proposition that
no man flies is not identical with, but is logically equivalent to, the propo-
sition that it is not the case that some man flies. This line yields more natu-
ral results for the analysis of negation in ordinary language-Ancient
Greek or modern English.
But what of negative sentences with singular subjects? In the classical
Aristotelian framework, and in my neoclassical extension of it, the scope
of predicate denial logically includes that of its singUlar subject. But, as I
suggested earlier in this section, this fact may be disguised when the sub-
ject term can be pragmatically presupposed to denote an existent. If Kepler
did not die in misery and The present king of France is not bald seem to
presuppose (imply, implicate, suggest) that the name Kepler and the de-
scription the present king ofFrance denote objects whose existence is im-
mune to the scope of the negation, this may be seen as an attribute of
surface subjects in English (and evidently in Ancient Greek and German).
The connection between apparent presuppositionality and subjecthood (or,
more properly, topichood) has been stressed in work ranging from Straw-
son 1964 to Reinhart 1981, and I shall not dwell on this topic here (see
Horn 1986 for a review of the evidence). But if this approach is correct, the
apparent location of subjects outside the semantic scope of sentence nega-
tion (predicate denial) is a pragmatically induced mirage.
A similar functional approach would seem apt for the cases of category
mistakes I explored in §2.3: the normal state of affairs in which I would
feel called upon to deny an instance of (60a) is one in which I would intend
the denial, (60b), to convey the corresponding PTN, (60c).
(60) a. x is red.
b. x is not red.
c. x is not-red. (i.e., x exists 1\ [(x is blue) v (x is green) v
(x is yellow) v ...])
If a statement is taken to be about its subject (ft la Strawson and Reinhart),
that subject will normally be taken to exist and to be within the domain of
the logical predicate, that is, of what is said about it. But if x happens not
to exist, or to be outside the domain of the predicate, the statement made in
uttering (60b) will remain meaningful and in fact come out, as Aristotle
maintained in the Categories, automatically true (cf. §1.1.1). When such a
statement is uttered-The number 2 is not red, you dolt, numbers have no
510 Negative Form and Negative Function
{color/ extension}-it will normally be as a metalinguistic negation, with
the appropriate fall-rise contour and rectification identified in chapter 6.
What needs to be emphasized is the nonsemantic nature of the correla_
tion I am drawing here. The relevant notion of topic, as defined by the
aboutness criterion, often coincides with the grammatical subject, but not
always. As Strawson himself recognizes, not all subjects are topics. Strik-
ingly, some surface subjects are assigned contrastive stress and function as
the sentence focus rather than topic. Under these conditions, when the sen-
tence is not about its subject, the latter typically will not be associated with
an existential presupposition and will be understood as falling within the
scope of an aux-based negation. Examples of this phenomenon include
(61a-d), bo~owed from Strawson (1964: ~6), Grice (1975: 122), Gabbay
and Moravcslk (1978:255), and a Tom WIcker op-ed column in the New
York Times (28 March 1987), respectively:
(61) a. -What bald notables are there?
-The king of France {is/isn't} bald.
b. J6nes didn't pay the bill; Smith paid it.
c. The cat is not on the mat; the dog is.
d. God did not allow nor Satan force Jim Bakker to indulge
in sex outside his marriage. Mr. Bakker decided that for
himself.
However we explain (or explain away) presuppositional phenomena, a
predicate denial, or a sentence negation in its unmarked position, some-
times appears to take scope over the subject and sometimes (in fact usually)
does not, depending on what can be inferred in a given context. This
distinction-reflecting, on my account, a difference, not in logical, but
in pragmatic, scope-may be reinforced by syntactic and morphological
correlates.
In a provocative and unfortunately overlooked paper, Kuroda (1972)
seeks to assimilate a morphosyntactic differentiation in Japanese to the di-
chotomy drawn by Brentano and Marty almost a century earlier between
CATEGORICAL and THETIC judgments. For Brentano and Marty, Aristotle's
categorical sentences involve a DOUBLE judgment (Doppelurteil) involving
two separate acts: the recognition of a subject and the affirmation or denial
of the predicate with respect to that subject. A thetic judgment, on the other
hand, is a SIMPLE judgment (einfache Urteil), representing 'simply the rec-
ognition or rejection of material of a judgment' (Kuroda 1972: 154).
Among those sentences realizing thetic judgments figure existentials and
impersonals (Gott ist, es gibt gelbe Blumen, es regnet), where there is no
logical subject, or at least no subject whose existence is typically taken for
granted. But at least for Marty, the sentences realizing thetic judgments are
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 511
still crucially assumed to be of subject-predicate form; the two judgment
types differ in their 'inner speech form', but this difference is neutralized at
the level of syntax ('ordinary speech form').
Kuroda sees in this distinction a means for explicating the distribution of
-wa and -ga markers on subjects in Japanese: the former is taken as a signal
of categorical (double) judgments, the latter of thetic (simple) judgments.
Thus, the sentences in (62) contain a logical subject about which some-
thing is predicated, while their counterparts in (63) lack logical subjects,
representing unpartitioned predications.
(62) a. Inu wa hasitte iru.
b. Inu wa neko 0 oikakete iru.
(63) a. Inu ga hasitte iru.
b. Inu ga neko 0 oikakete iru.
'The dog is running'
'The dog is chasing a cat'
'{A dog/The dog} is
running'
'{A dog/The dog} is chasing
a cat'
While these sentences permit both options, generic statements can only be
categorical judgments, and specific indefinites only thetic.39 The cate-
gorical judgments in (62) respond to the explicit or implicit question 'What
is the dog doing?', while the thetic judgments in (63) answer the question
'What is happening?'
Notice that the notions of subject and of categorical judgment appealed
to here are not Aristotle's. In term logic, the statements under discussion
here are all categorical, of subject-predicate form semantically as well as
syptactically. And indeed, the relevant notion of subject here (as a means
for characterizing what is present in (62) and absent in (63)) is not that of
LOGICAL subject, whether this notion is explicated in terms of Montagovian
function-argument structure (subject = the T with which an IV phrase
combines to form a sentence, as in Dowty 1982), semantic or thematic
roles (agency, etc.), initial-stratum grammatical relations (cf. Perlmutter
and Rosen 1984), or otherwise.
Rather, the Brentano-Marty characterization of subjects in terms of
an entity's role within the structure of the judgment is PSYCHOLOGICAL,
largely identifiable (as Kuroda recognizes) with the notion of THEME or
(SENTENCE-)TOPIC developed within the Prague school and related func-
tionalist paradigms. The aboutness criterion for themes or topics defined
within Praguean work (cf. Firbas 1964, 1966) maps onto the Strawsonian
notion cited above (Strawson 1964); both strands of thought are reviewed
in recent work by Reinhart (1981) and van Oosten (1986). In fact the-very
distinction of wa- vs. ga-marked subjects in Japanese is explicated by
Kuno (1972), in work contemporaneous with Kuroda's, via the Praguean
S12 Negative Form and Negative Function
notion of theme; the -ga sentences of (63) are NEUTRAL DESCRIPTIONs in
which the subject (inu) is nonthematic (cf. Firbas 1966).
But then the categorical/ thetic dichotomy must be represented neither in
the syntactic analysis of the sentence nor in the combinatory semantics per
se, but rather in the pragmatic relation of form and content to context. Ifa
given term phrase is singled out by the speaker to represent not just the
(logical) subject of the predication but the theme or psychological subject
as well-referring to an entity whose existence (in reality and/or in the
discourse frame) is pragmatically presupposed or inferrable from what is
presupposed (cf. Prince 1981)-then that term phrase will effectively be
outside the scope of assertion, and of course, of negation (predicate denial)
as well.40
A consequence of my functional! pragmatic line on the apparent immu-
nity of subjects to the scope of negation is that in languages like RUSSian,
where the dichotomy I have outlined correlates with case marking in nega-
tive sentences, these morphosyntactic patterns must be seen as interacting
crucially with extrasyntactic-and indeed extrasemantic-parameters.
As detailed by Babby (1980), the subjects of (certain) intransitives and
the objects of (certain) transitives receive genitive case marking in Russian
when they are in the scope of negation. In ordinary negative declarative
sentences, an intransitive verb agrees with its nominative-marked subject,
whose referent is assumed or presupposed to exist. But in negative existen-
tials and other negative intransitive clauses with nonspecific indefinite sub-
jects or impersonal syntax, no such presupposition holds, the subject (if
any) is genitive-marked, and the verb takes neutral or unmarked (third per-
son neuter singular) agreement. Contrasts include the following (Babby
1980: Sff.):
(64) a. Sobaka bol'se ne pokazalas'.
dog-NOM F.SG. again NEG appeared-F.SG.
'The dog did not reappear'
b. No ni odnoj sobaki ne pokazalos'.
but not single dog-GEN NEG appeared-N.SG.
'But not a single dog appeared'
(6S) a. Dokumenty ne obnaruzilis'.
documents-NOM.PL. NEG were found-pL.
'The documents were not found'
b. Dokumentov ne obnaruzilos'.
documents-GEN.PL. NEG wasfound-N.sG.
'No documents were found'
[= 'There weren't documents found']
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 513
The same distinction is realized in transitive sentences via accusative vs.
genitive case marking:
(66) a. My ne obnaruzvili dokumenty.
We NEG found documents-ACC.PL.
'We didn't find the documents'
b. My ne obnaruzvili documentov.
We NEG found documents-GEN.PL.
'We didn't find (any) documents'
But a similar contrast obtains in affirmative intransitive clauses, only re-
flected in word order rather than case marking: if the subject term r~fers to
an entity whose existence is presupposed, SV order normally obtams, but
in existential sentences in which existence is asserted rather than pre~up­
posed, we find VS order:41
Li~e the im.personal (non-agr~ement-go~erm~g)
character of negative eXlstenhals, obhgatory VS order m affirmative eXlS-
tentials is taken to represent a syntactic 'adjustment' to signal the marked
context; both these sentence types represent themeless 'neutral descrip-
tions' or 'thetic judgments', as in Kuno 1972 and Kuroda 1972, respec-
tively (Babby 1980:69ff.). . .
Thus, both the 'genitive of negation' and verb-subject order wIll occur m
a past-tense sentence when that sentence is taken as an implicit continua-
tion of What happened (next) was. ... In such a discourse context, no NP
is singled out as theme and placed outside the functional scope ofnegation ~r
assertion. Rather, the entire predication counts as the rheme. The fOurPOSSI-
bilities are distinguished schematically by Babby (1980: 72) as follows:
42
(67) AFFIRMATIVE
Existentials: [5 of AVP NP]
Declaratives: NP [5 of A VP]
NEGATIVE
[ne VP NPgen]
NPnom [ne VP]
(THETIC
JUDGMENTS)
(CATEGORICAL
JUDGMENTS)
(where [5 of Aa] and [ne a] indicate scope of assertion and of
negation, respectively)
While word order is a clear diagnostic for whether an NP is inside or
outside the scope of assertion in a positive intransitive clause, according to
Babby, it is a less faithful guide in negative sentences, ~here NPge.n n~ V.P
order will occur when the subject (whose genitive markmg places It wlthm
the scope of negation) denotes an entity already familiar within the dis-
course context albeit one asserted not to exist with respect to the frame of
predication, a; in (6Sb). Sentences of this type demonstrate the necessity
of separating theme, in the sense of aboutness, from old or given informa-
514 Negative Form and Negative Function
tion (cf. Allerton 1978; Reinhart 1981; Prince 1981; Gundel 1985; van
Oosten 1986; and Horn 1986 on this distinction).
In other languages, however, word order may be the only guide (in the
absence of the genitive-of-negation phenomenon) to the effective scope of
negation. In verb-initial and verb-medial languages, thematic material will
typically occur to the left of negation; all material to the right of negation
potentially occurs within its scope, although stress and intonation may
serve to signal a particular item as the focus of negation (cf. Jackendoff
1972). In Hungarian, for instance, when the negative (nem) is.proposition-
initial and no material is anaphorically destressed as given, the result is a
neutral (thetic) sentence (Varga 1980). But when some constituent pre-
cedes nem, that constituent is an 'uncontrasted topic' outside the scope of
negation. (Contrastive stress brings in additional complications, including
the possibility of metalinguistic readings in the presence of a fall-rise con-
tour; cf. Varga 1980:89-93 and §6.6 above.)
Even in relatively fixed SVO languages like English, it is no accident
that an ordinary sentential negation-serving to deny a given predicate of
a given subject-tends to surface between subject and predicate, thereby
placing the subject outside the pragmatic scope of negation, as a default, in
terms of left-to-right processing.43 I have maintained that any strengthening
of this default guess to the status of an inference is dependent on the dis-
course properties of the particular negative token.
The same nonaccident is responsible for the fact, observed by Praguean
and other scholars, that the grammatical subject-which in the unmarked
case also represents the topic or theme (if any), the agent (if any), and the
embodiment of old or predictable information (if any)-almost always pre-
cedes not only negation but the object NP and, in the vast majority of lan-
guages (i.e., those of SVO or SOY type), the other major constituent(s) as
well. In verb-final languages the negative marker tends to be assigned a
fixed position within the sentence, typically as a morPhological affix at-
tached to the verb stem. But there may be other devices available for distin-
guishing negative thetic judgments in which the subject, whether simple or
quantified, is interpreted as within the scope of negation, from the default
case in which the subject is interpreted as topic and hence automatically
outside the scope of negation (cf. McGloin 1982, Kato 1985, and ata and
Kato 1986 on the interaction of topichood and negation in Japanese).
I am arguing, then, for a distinction between the semantic scope ofpredi-
cate denial and the pragmatic scope of speaker denial. Given the correla-
tion between subjecthood and topichood and the dictates of information
structuring (the old-to-new, theme-to-rheme principle which Firbas;·Kuno
et al. term FUNCTIONAL SENTENCE PERSPECTIVE), a subject potentially
within the semantic scope of a sentential negation is typically interpreted as
thematic and hence outside its pragmatic scope.
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 515
The result is that predicate denial-negation as a mode of predication, a
rule for combining subject and predicate, usually (but not always) resulting
in contradictory opposition-tends in practice to be functionally assimi-
lated to IV (verb-phrase) negation, the (relatively) narrow scope operator
allowed for by Aristotle, Jackendoff, and extenders of Montague. When an
apparently sentential negation is not taken as a metalinguistic operator, an
objection to an earlier utterance, typically intended as a rectification of one
subpart of that utterance, it often mimics (without actually reducing to)
constituent negation. The position in which predicate denial frequently
finds itself, flanking subject and predicate or located within the predicate
expression, facilitates this mimicry.44
The distinction between the grammatical scope of negation and the prag-
matic scope of speaker denial also comes into play in connection with con-
stituent negation. The linguistic literature is replete with negations which
seem to be sentential (i.e., to instantiate predicate denial) according to their
syntactic position and Klima effects, yet are constituentlike in their appar-
ent restriction to a subpart of the sentence in which they occur.45 Some
writers have in fact sought to assimilate such cases to the general phenome-
non of constituent negation. Jackendoff (1972:254), for example, treats
(68) as 'multiply ambiguous' as among (inter alia) the readings brought out
by the paraphrases in (68'),
(68) Maxwell didn't kill the judge with a silver hammer.
(68') a. Maxwell didn't ... (i.e., someone else did)
b. He didn't kill the judge ... (i.e., he did something else to
him)
c. He didn't kill the judge ... (i.e., he killed someone else)
d. He didn't kill him with a silver hammer (but with something
else)
while Gabbay and Moravcsik (1978: 253) view (69a-d) on their 'natural
readings' as exemplifying adjective negation, PP negation, adverb nega-
tion, and VP negation, respectively.
(69) a. This is not a large house.
b. He did not make this hole with a drill.
c. He did not run quickly.
d. He is not hunting lions.
But a simpler and more consistent approach would view these negative
sentences as realizing wide-scope predicate denial; the negative element
takes semantic scope over the entire predication, but will typically focus on
a particular element as determined by the prior discourse frame and sig-
naled by the stress pattern. The negation will be understood as associated
516 Negative Form and Negative Function
with that rhematic ~onstitue.nt. which. receiv~s the intonation peak: (cf.
Chomsky 1970). ThIs analysIs IS consIstent WIth the verdict of the Klim
diagnostics, signaling in (68) and (69a-c) a primary or unique reading o~
sentential and not constituent negation.46
Furthermore, as indicated by the intonational contour and rectificatio
triggered by felicitous utterances of the sentences in (68'), Jackendoff's ex~
ample instantiates the same phenomenon we observed earlier with respect
to predications denying baldness of nonexistent kings or blueness of num-
bers: a given utterance may constitute a metalinguistic objection which
serves to guarantee the truth of the corresponding predicate denial.
It is clear that I cannot endorse the outright dismissal of the notion of
constituent negation, as exemplified in a classic prise de position from the
era of generative semantics-'The notion of negating a sentence element is
suspicious.... It is hard to understand exactly what could be meant by
negating a noun, an adverb, or the like' (Bach 1968: 97)-or in the opinion
rashly offered elsewhere without argumentation that 'it is hard to see how
this notion [i.e., constituent negation] can be made semantically coherent'
(Horn 1978a: 135). In the case ofVP-, AP-, or QP-internal negation, con-
stituent negation is perfectly coherent, as semanticists from Aristotle to
Barwise and Cooper and to Gazdar, Pullum and Sag have demonstrated.
Further, the alternative approach-as advocated by monoguist theories of
negation from Generative Semantics to MG-results in a theory of gram-
mar which countenances an unrestricted and unmotivated proliferation of
clauses simply in order to satisfy the one negation-one clause requirement.
At the same time, I do reject the characterization of (68) and (69a-c) as
involving constituent negation, in the absence of any syntactic evidence for
that position. Rather than assuming that sentences containing n constitu-
ents and descriptive auxiliary-based negation are n + 1 ways ambiguous,
we can view them as general and unambiguous instantiations of predicate
denial. The alternative specific understandings (as to just why the truth
conditions for the corresponding affirmation fail to be satisfied) can be at-
tributed to the different possible pragmatic presuppositions compatible
with that negative sentence-the set of propositions and propositional
functions which are taken as established, under discussion, or part of the
common ground, and thus not available for direct denial.
I have argued here for a rather complex interrelation of form and func-
tion, on the grounds that no simpler account provides a fully adequate
treatment of the syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic facts I have surveyed.
For English copular sentences in particular, I have drawn a three-~ay
distinction in the grammar of descriptive negation and a related but not
isomorphic three-way distinction in the semantics. This conclusion is sche-
matically represented in (70):
7.3 Scope, Presupposition, and the Grammar ofNegation 517
(70)
inflected negation (Kim isn't happy)
particle negation (Kim is not happy;
Kim's not happy)
PREDICATE DENIAL (sentence
negation)
semantics: CONTRADICTORY
NEGATION
4
?
(± existential commitment)
VP (V) constituent (TERM)
NEGATION
semantics: IMMEDIATE
CONTRARY
(+ existential commitment)
AP constituent (TERM)
NEGATION
incorporated negation (Kim is unhappy)----semantics: MEDIATE
CONTRARy
4S
(+ existential commitment)
The mediate contrary reading available for inflected and particle negation
(with unmarked scalar predicate terms like happy) I have taken to be a fact
about pragmatic inference, rather than semantic interpretation.
We saw, in the first chapters of this study, that there is ample cause for
skepticism toward the skepticism of psychologists ~nd funct~onally ori-
ented linguists over the utility of the notion of logIcal negatIon. I h~ve
maintained that while there is indeed an asymmetry between affirmatIon
and negation in natural language, this asymmetry is to be explicated in
pragmatic rather than in semantic terms; I propos~d.an account of the ne.ga-
tive markedness implicature in terms of my duahstIc model for nonlogIcal
inference. This same model was later invoked to account for the ordinary
reading of scalar negation, for the interpretations associated with double
negation, for the pragmatic strengthening of negati~e statements, a~d f~r
the asymmetry in the availability of wide-scope readmgs for the negatIOn 10
every . .. not vs. some . .. not.
I have further tried to show (in the line of argument begun in chapter 6
and reprised here) that by isolating the deviant behavior of marked, meta-
linguistic negation, we can prepare a place for a well-behaved wide-scope
descriptive negation within a classically bivalent semantic.s for naturalla~­
guage. But, as I have argued in this chapter, the appropnate place of thIS
operator at the logical table is not the one reserved for the standard unary
propositional connective of the Stoics and Fregeans.
Cross-linguistic evidence on where negation does and does not surface
518 Negative Form and Negative Function
lends support to the Aristotelian syntax for contradictory negation as a
mode of predication within term logic, rather than as an external operator
on fully formed propositions; one candidate for the representation of syn-
tactically internal but semantically contradictory negation is offered by the
GPSG analysis reviewed at the beginning of this section. As we have seen
in chapter 5 and again in this last section, the contradictory semantics gen-
erally associated with predicate denial may itself be pragmatically over-
ridden within the context of utterance, licensing the interlocutors to build
in a stronger (presuppositional) understanding. The design of ordinary lan-
guage once again confirms Bosanquet's dictum: the force of the contrary is
invested in the form of the contradictory.
Appendix I: On LEM and the Purported Incoherence
of Multivalued Logic
The Geach "proof" of the incoherence of MVL cited in §2.4 runs as
follows:
(i) A thing must not be both not-F and not not-F. by LC
(ii) A thing must not be both neither F nor not-F. from (i) by
De Morgan
(iii) :. A thing must be either F or not-F. from (ii) by
LEM.
From (i), a purported instance of the Law of Contradiction, we are claimed
to be led (even the multivalued among us) inexorably to (iii), a statement of
the Law of Excluded Middle, which MVL is usually characterized as nec-
essarily repudiating. But, as Geach himself warns us elsewhere in the same
section ([1972] 1980: 78), caveat lector: 'The sleight of hand is performed
where he [the lector] is not looking'.
Without a formalization it is difficult to determine what the premises in
Geach's argument are meant to say. In particular, we cannot tell which
negative operator (of the two permitted in every explicit variety of MVL) is
involved in the steps along the way. But (i) only counts as an instantiation
of LC if it has the form O-(pi\-p), and it is relevant to MVL only if the
expression not-F employed by Geach in (i)-(iii) is read as internal nega-
tion. Ifthe negations are read as external, the "proof" goes through but the
conclusion, O(Fa v-Fa), is as uncontroversial for a proponent ofMVL as
for any classical, two-valued logician. Thus, let us assume that (i) is to be
read as
(i') O-(...,Fa i\-...,Fa)
We must still decide how to take (ii), and the remainder of the proof hinges
on that decision. There would seem to be two possible versions to choose
between:
VERSION I
(i') O-(...,Fa i\-...,Fa)
(ii') 0- -(Fa i\ ...,Fa)
(iii') 0 (Fa v ...,Fa)
,\lQ
VERSION II
(i') O-(...,Fa i\-...,Fa)
(ii") O(-...,Fa v- - ...,Fa)
(iii") O(-...,Fa i\ ...,Fa)
520 Appendix One
Version I conveys us from a premise, (i'), which properly instantiates LC
to a conclusion, (iii'), which properly instantiates LEM. But the applica-
tion of De Morgan's Law to yield (ii') from (i') is illegitimate, since the
parenthesized material in (i') does not have the form of a conjoined nega-
tion, (Np A Nq), which it must if it is to be converted into a negated dis-
junction of the form N(p v q). On the other hand, while the proof in
Version II is valid as far as it goes, the conclusion it yields is not the desired
(iii')-a must be either For not-F-but rather (iii"), a must be either not
not-F or not-F. Now it is notorious that within MVL not not-F does not
reduce to F. Even in Aristotle's and Russell's two-valued dual-negation
models, as Geach is surely aware, we cannot infer from Socrates is not not-
wise, 2 is not not-red, or The king ofFrance is not not-bald that Socrates
2, and the king of France are wise, red, and bald, respectively. '
Finally, there is one last possible formulation of Geach's "proof" that
might be entertained:
VERSION III
(i") 0-(-Fa A-...,Fa)
(ii') O--(Fa A ...,Fa)
(iii') 0 (Fa v ...,Fa)
As in Version I, we get to the desired conclusion; as in Version II, the rea-
soning is correct. But rather than conveying us to the best of all possible
worlds, Version III transpires in an irrelevant world, since (i") is not an
instance of LC. What (i") excludes is the possibility of a being neither F
nor not-F. Yet, as just noted, in the bivalent logics of Aristotle and Russell,
as in any system of MVL, Socrates can be neither wise nor not-wise, 2
neither red nor not-red, the king of France neither bald nor not-bald. (Note
that Version III also requires us to treat Geach as unsportingly taking'a is
not F' to abbreviate ...,Fa in one place and - Fa in another.) Thus, however
we read Geach's argument, we do not get a valid demonstration that LEM
(for internal negation, as symbolized in (iii'» logically follows from a
proper instance of LC.
Appendix 2: Inherent negation revisited
Let us reconsider the psycholinguistics of inherent negation touched on in
chapter 3. We shall focus on the question emerging from the work of Clark
and his research group (cf. Clark 1971, 1974) and of Fodor, Fodor, and
Garrett (1975): why is inherent (covert) negation less difficult to process
and evaluate than overt negation? One possible avenue to an explanation
passes through the markedness implicature discussed in §3.3 and its partial
conventionalization.
Consider the case of dissuade. G. Lakoff (1969) attempts to support a
coderivation of (i) and (ii),
(i) I persuaded Bill not to date many girls.
(ii) I dissuaded Bill from dating many girls.
based on the interaction of the scope of the negative element, explicit in the
former and implicit (within the dis- prefix) in the latter, with quantifier
scope. (Lakoff's original examples had Bill as the would-be datee rather
than dater, so that the quantified NP would occupy the matrix object posi-
tion, forreasons irrelevant to our discussion.)
The transformation substituting dissuade for the lexical complex other-
wise resulting in persuade. . . not has been attacked on various empirical
and theoretical grounds by Chomsky (1971), Schachter (1972), Hust
(1975), and others. I will be concerned here only with Lakoff's argument
(1969: 134) that (i) and (ii) are synonymous and with Chomsky's counter-
argument (1971 : 143) that (ii), unlike (i), 'presupposes some sort of inten-
tion on the part of the person being dissuaded'. As Binnick spells it out,
[(ii)] can be uttered only by a speaker who believes that Bill had
the intention of dating many girls and that if Bill had not been
talked out of it, he might have done so. It cannot be uttered by
someone to whom Bill had come requesting advice on his future
dating plans, with no intentions one way or the other. But [(i)]
could certainly be used in either situation. (Binnick 1976:221)
As Chomsky and Hust acknowledge, whether this apparent nonsyn-
oriymy is a problem for a decompositional analysis of dissuade depends on
whether optional transformations can change meaning and/or whether they
521
522 Appendix Two
can be conditioned by presuppositions and other semantic and pragmat'
• & • B . IC
InlOrmatlOn. ut given the fact that (i) is usable felicitously in context
where (ii) is inappropriate, is it in fact the case that the two sentences ars
nonsynonymous? We might take them to be truth-conditionally equivale t
e
differing in that (ii) conventionally implicates (cf. §2.5) or presuppo: '
something not implicated or presupposed as strongly by (i). The i~~
p~icature i? question is evidently the markedness implicature for negation
discussed In.§3.3. What has happened here, then, is that the incorporation
of the negative element of persuade not as the inherent negation of dis-
suade reinforces and conventionalizes the implicature associated with that
negative element.
. ~he dissuade/~ersuade not alternation recalls the cases triggering my di-
vIsion ofpragmatic labor, where the speaker's avoidance ofan R-specialized
simple, unmarked, or more lexicalized item (kill, pink, enjoyable, went to
jail) licenses the addressee to draw a Q-based inference that the speaker
used the periphrastic alternative (cause to die, pale red, capable ofbeing
enjoyed, went to the jail), because the former term could not have been
used a?propriately. Here, h~wever, the distribution of (i) is unlimited by
the eXistence of the semantically more restricted (ii). It is suggested in
Hom 1978c that (ii), while shorter than (i), is not a less marked alternative
to its unincorporated counterpart (in the sense that kill is less marked, as
well as shorter tha~, cause to die)-dissuade is historically younger,
learned later, syntactically more specialized (in governing the marked from
. . . ing complementizer rather than simple infinitivals and in barring finite
complements), and less frequent in text tokens than persuade not.
Dowty (1979: 291-92) traces the asymmetry in "presupposition" (scare
~uo~es Dowty's) bet~een (i) and (ii) to the fact that intend, the verb figur-
Ing In the most plausible decomposition of both persuade and dissuade, is
a neg-raising trigger (cf. Hom 1978b; §5.2 above). Given that, as Dowty
observes, any change-of-state verb implicates (conventionally or conversa-
tionally) that the opposite state obtained earlier (before the reference time
of the predication), the implicatum associated with dissuade will then be
not (iii) but (iv),
(iii) NOT (intend(NOT (x, P(x))))
(iv) NOT (NOT (intend(x, P(x))))
where the two contiguous negations will automatically cancel each other
out, yielding the desired implicatum for dissuade sentences like (ii),
namely, that x had intended to P before being dissuaded from P-ing.
But when we consider such overtlinherent dyads as those in (v)-(viii)
(from Hom 1978c:204),
(v) a discouraged b from Xing.
(vi) a {prevented/kept} b from
Xing.
(vii) a denied that p.
(viii) a doubts that p.
Inherent Negation Revisited 523
(v') a encouraged b not to X.
(vi') a caused b not to X; a
caused it not to be
possible for b to X.
(vii') a asserted that not-po
(viii') a believes that not-po
we see that the asymmetry between dissuade and persuade not is in fact
quite general, extending freely to other pairs not involving change-of-state
predications (cf. (vii), (viii)) or neg-raising predicates (cf. (vi), (vii)). In
each instance, the use of the unprimed predication-in which the presence
of an incorporated negation, morphological or inherent, is borne out by the
ability of these predicates to trigger negative polarity items-is limited to
contexts where the contained affirmative proposition is already understood.
Thus, a denied (doubts) that p is appropriate only when p is a proposition
evoked in (i.e., appearing in or directly inferable from) the earlierdiscourse.
Similarly, you wouldn't speak of keeping someone from committing suicide
unless you presupposed that he had some specific intention of so doing
(away). The use of the corresponding primed form with unincorporated
negation (in (v')-(viii')) does not signal the absence of this markedness im-
plicature; it merely implicates it more weakly and less conventionally.
The notion that the incorporation of an implicature-bearing element
tends to induce the partial or complete conventionalization of that im-
plicature is supported by other lexical patterns. In Hom 1972: §1.2, it is
argued that the incorporation of cardinal numbers regularly convention-
alizes the upper-bounding scalar implicature associated with unincorpo-
rated numbers. A three-sided figure (or triangle) is semantically a figure
with exactly (not at least) three sides; a square may count among those fig-
ures with (at least) three sides, but it does not thereby count as (at least)
a triangle. Nor does a triple (a hit for exactly three bases) count among a
player's total of two-base hits (or doubles), or a piece composed for eight
instruments among a composer's quartets. Similarly, the incorporation of
able into a verb stem yielding an adjective V-able reinforces the R-based
strengthening inference associated with the free form able (Hom 1978c:
200-201): an enjoyable movie or lovable urchin is not just one which is
able to be (capable ofbeing) enjoyed or loved, but one which is or has in
fact been (or would inevitably be) enjoyed or loved.
How does this asymmetry-which I have attributed to the degree ofcon-
ventionalization of the markedness implicature-relate to the asymmetry
in the processing of overt vs. inherent negation? Ifthe inherent negatives of
(ii) and of (v)-(viii) can be used appropriately only when their supposi-
tion-the action being constrained or the proposition being rejected-has
524 Appendix Two
been explicitly established in (and is thus recoverable from) the discourse
context, the addressee need not take the (processing) time to reconst
tht .. I ruct
a suppos!tIon. n the ~ore gen~ral, l~~~ constrained, cases of unincorpo_
rat~d .negatIon (those of (I) and (v )-(VIII ) above), the supposition must be
~UIlt mto the context by the addressee. The time needed for this reconstruc_
tion would then constitute the difference in the latency for overt vs. inher-
ent negation observed in the psycholinguistic literature. Thus in efti t
. . . ' ec,
~vert negatIOn IS psychologIcally harder or slower because it is seman-
tically and/or pragmatically less complex than its more specialized inher-
ent counterpart.
1.
Notes
Chapter One
Privation as the absence of what would be expected by nature to be
present is also discussed in the Metaphysics (1022b23-1023a8), where
Aristotle-noting that privation can involve accidental removal or de-
liberate 'taking away of something by force'-extends the domain to
include a 'sense' in which a mole can be said to be deprived of sight
(privation 'with respect to its genus') as well as a blind man (privation
'with respect to himself'). In the end, Aristotle concedes that there are
as many senses of 'privation' as there are a- prefixed terms in Greek
(1022b33).
2. Note the subtle distinction between this case and that of privative/
positive oppositions such as blindness and sight. Can sickness not
equally well be taken as the privative of health by Aristotle's natural-
ness criterion? Is it not equally 'natural' for an old man to be ill as for
him to be toothless?
3. In the more succinct language of the Metaphysics, 'In some cases there
is something between (there are men who are neither good nor bad), but
in other cases there is nothing between (a number must be odd or even)'
(Met. 1055b23). I shall consider mediate and immediate contraries in
greater detail in §1.1.5 below.
4. The negative nature of even nameable intermediaries between contraries
can be illustrated in a number of ways. A journalist describing the
plight of 'coloureds' within the convoluted system of apartheid notes
that 'it is a race that is defined, in South African law, only by negatives:
neither black nor white' (New York Times, 4 April 1985).
5. At Metaphysics 1023a7, Aristotle explicitly collapses privative and con-
trary opposition in his discussion of nonexcluded middles: 'It is not true
that every man is either good or bad [contraries], either just or unjust
[positive/privative], but there is also an intermediate state'. Indeed, the
domain of privation in this section has so broadened that we are left
with the impression that a privative opposition for Aristotle (in the
Metaphysics, if not the Categories) is simply a contrary opposition in
which the inherently marked member is marked with a-: 'the primary
contrariety is that of possession and privation' (Met. 1055a34).
6. Ackrill's more literal rendering of this definition has Aristotle declaring,
'I speak of statements as opposite when they affirm and deny the same
thing of the same thing'.
525
526
7.
8.
9.
10.
II.
12.
13.
14.
Notes to Pages 10-16
One remnant of Aristotle's syntactic approach to contradictory 0 .
f . h' ( h PPOSl-
Ion eme~ges In ..IS rat er confused) discussion of indefinites. He
regards (I) and (u) as contradictories:
(i) (A) man is white.
(ii) (A) man is not white.
despite the fact that, a.s he acknowledges, they can be true together
(~7b29-3~). As, Acknll (.196~: 1~9-30) point~ o~t, not only does this
vlOlat~ ~nstotle ~ s~mantIc cntena for contradictIOn-indeed, for an
OpposItlOn.-b~t It IS also striking that (i) and (ii), unlike clear cases y
Of. contr.adlcton~s, d~ not affirm and deny the same thing of the same
thIng, s~nc~ their ~ubJect phrase~ (which in Greek consist of the bare
noun With Indefimte understandIng) are referentially, although not fo _
mally, distinct. Indeed, (i) and (ii) appear to be best treated as neith r
. d" er
contraries nor contra Ictones but rather as SUBCONTRARIES (to be dis-
~ussed bel~w). O~e can but sigh, with Ackrill, 'it is a pity that Aristotle
Introduces Indefimte statements at all' .
Saint Th.omas Aquinas, in his commentary on the Square, makes the
s~e POInt on ~e particulars that Ackrill makes (cf. n. 7) on the indefi-
mtes: .'~he particular affirmative and particular negative do not have
oppOSitIOn properly speaking, because opposition is concerned with the
same subject' (lesson II in Oesterle 1962: 90). Some men are bald and
Some men are not bald are about different subjects, Saint Thomas ob-
serves, and are thus not opposed, proprie loquendo.
One-sided possibility-<!> in the scale in (7) below-is so-called be-
caus~ ~t.is lower-bounded only (excluding the impossible); two-sided
possI~IlltY-<§>-has both lower and upper sides, given its definition
as 'neither necessary nor impossible'. Cf. chapter 4 for additional
discussion.
The ambiguity mentioned here is that of possible, not of necessary.
'The propositions "it may be" and "it may not be" appear each to
imply the other' (De Int. 2Ib35); cf. also Pr. An. 32a29ff.
Th~s word-order distinction is neutralized in noncopular sentences, but
Aristotle argues that there are in fact readings of 'not-recovers' 'not-
sits', and so forth as in(de)finite verbs (cf. Ackrill 1963: 120-2'1 for
discussion).
For the Latin-based Scholastics, S non est P (as in (11'a) is NEGATJO
NEGANS, and S est non P (as in (lI'b» NEGATIO INFINITANS, whence
the label INFINITE NEGATION for the latter. Henry (1972: 37) offers the
labels PROPOSITIONAL vs. NOMINAL negation, but these appear to evoke
a different distinction.
At De Int. 19b24, Aristotle notes that the negative or infinite term not-
P of~en functions analogously to the corresponding privative; thus X is
n?t-Jus~ corre~pon?s more closely to X is unjust than to the simple de-
m~1 X IS notJUs~, In the ~ense that each of the first two propositions
umlaterally entails the third. Stones are not just, but they are not not-
just (or unjust) either. Aristotle may be assuming, however, that Man is
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
Notes to Pages 17-19 527
unjust also unilaterally entails Man is not-just, sin~e the la~er, but not
the former, will be true in case man falls Into the Intermediate category,
that which is neither just nor unjust (cf. Ackrill 1963: 143-44 for
discussion).
While neither of these pairs represents a contradictory opposition,
which is Aristotle's point here, the propositions in (13) are contraries
(they can be simultaneously false but not simultaneously true), while
those in (13') are subcontraries (they can be simultaneously true but not
simultaneously faIse).
Note that equal!unequal do not constitute mediate contraries in the
sense of allowing a nonexcluded middle; nevertheless, as Aristotle
maintains elsewhere (Met. 1055alO), 'Every object is equal or not
equal, but not everything is equal or unequal, but only in the case?~
a thing which is receptive of the equal', namely, numbers or quantities,
not arbitrary objects.
As I observed earlier, a similar inconsistency arises in the passage at De
Int. 21a25-27, where the inference from (i) to (ii) is rejected.
(i) Homer is a poet.
(ii) Homer is.
Yet this inference must be valid if we are to accept the standard line
in the Categories and De Interpretatione that singular statements like
(2a)-and, presumably, (i)-entail the existence of their subjects and
are thus false when their subjects are vacuous. This discrepancy has
been noted and discussed by, inter alia, Thompson (1953: 254-55),
Ackrill (1963: 110-11), and Dancy (1975: 153-55), but never fully re-
solved. As Dancy observes, however, the weight of Aristotle's work lies
on the side of the Categories treatment, in which singular terms do
have existential import (cf. also §1.1.3 below).
The Law of Contradiction would more properly be labeled the Law of
Noncontradiction, as in the practice of Dancy (1975) and Lear (1980).
I shall follow the less logical but more widespread custom and retain
the label LC.
Lukasiewicz ([1910] 1971) notes that in addition to this 'ontological
formulation' of LC, Aristotle provides, elsewhere in the same Book r
of the Metaphysics, both a 'logical formulation' ('The most certain of
all basic principles is that contradictory propositions are not true simul-
taneously'-Met. lO11b13-14) and a 'psychological formulation' ('No
one can believe that the same thing can [at the same time] be and not
be'-Met. lOO5b23-24) of the same law.
One application of this principle appears at Categories 14alO-13:
'Since the fact that Socrates is ill is the contrary of the fact that Socrates
is well and two contrary conditions cannot both obtain in one and the
same individual at the same time, both these contraries could notexist at
once: for ifthat Socrates was well was afact, than that Socrates was ill
could not possibly be one.' (cf. also the argument at DeInt. 24b8-1O)
That LC is the basic, indemonstrable 'first principle' is affirmed by the
greatest latter-day exponent of Aristotelian logic, Leibniz; notice that in
528
22.
23.
24.
25.
Notes to Pages 19-21
these passages LC is taken essentially as a relational variant of another
of Aristotle's axiomata, the Law of Identity: 'The first of the truths of
reason is the principle of contradiction, or, what comes to the same
thing, that of identity' (Leibniz, cited by Russell [1900]1937). 'Nothing
should be taken as first principles but experiences and the axiom of
identity or (what is the same thing) contradiction, which is primitive,
since otherwise there would be no difference between truth and false-
hood, and all investigation would cease at once, if to say yes or no
were a matter of indifference' (Leibniz 1916: 13-14). For Leibniz,
everybody-even 'barbarians'-must tacitly assume LC as part of
'innate knowledge' which is implicitly called upon at every moment
(p.77).
Curiously, among those who have recently been cited as rejecting, or
at least challenging, LC are 'some writers on Quantum Mechanics'
(Dancy 1975:5,9,23).
Aristotle's impassioned defense of the indemonstrability of LC (and his
attempt, notwithstanding this, to demonstrate it) establishes the standard
position on this point, as exemplified in the passages from Leibniz cited
above. But some of the details of the argumentation in Metaphysics r
can be-and have been-questioned (cf. Lukasiewicz [1910]1971,
Barnes 1969, and Dancy 1975 for critical evaluations of the contro-
versy). Lukasiewicz, for one, has sought to show that LC does not have
the primacy argued for it in the Metaphysics; its value, he submits, is at
best not 'logical' but 'ethical', serving as 'a weapon against error and
falsehood' ; and in particular as an exceptionally useful tool for a defen-
dant seeking to establish his innocence in a criminal proceeding (Lukasie-
wicz [1910]1971 :508). Even this lukewarm endorsementofLC would be
rejected by skeptics, neo-Sophists, and others who have chosen (out of
perversity or error, the Stagirite would no doubt insist) to follow the
beat of a different drummer. In §1.3 I shall look more closely at the
arguments of these conscientious objectors to the Law of Contradiction.
Compare Royce (1917: 267):
Nothing is both X and Not X
Everything is either X or Not X
Rescher and Geach make their recommendations (on the superiority of
(16) over (15) or (15')) in the course of their respective evaluations of
the status of LC and LEM within modem multivalued logics, on the
need for which Rescher is neutral and Geach unsympathetic, as we
shall see in chapter 2. I shall argue in later chapters, especially chapters
6 and 7, that propositional negation is not only less basic and more
sophisticated than predicate denial but it may in fact not exist at all in
an adequate logical representation for natural language.
And allowing as well its own group of dissenters, including Kierke-
gaard (cited in Dancy 1975), who defends the position that Christ both
is a man and is not a man (at the same time, and presumably in the
same respect). Yet this proposition can only constitute the serious para-
dox Kierkegaard intends if LC is otherwise (on the nontranscendental
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
Notes to Pages 21-34 529
plane) valid. In the same way, Tertullian's motto, endorsed by Kierke-
gaard, Credo quia absurdum est, can be interpreted only if there are
laws whose violation creates the logical absurdity to be embraced.
In fact, the basic Stoic disjunction is exclusive, although some later
members of the school allow an inclusive 'paradisjunction'; cf. Luka-
siewicz 1934:72ff.; Mates 1953:33, 51-52; and the discussion in §4.3
below.
At least in its Western incarnation; early formulations of LDN appear
in Indian and Chinese logic, as we shall see in §1.3.1. The connection
between the propositional nature of the Stoic system and their discovery
of LDN hinges on a point observed by Wittgenstein: 'That one can
negate a negated proposition shows that what is negated is already a
proposition' (Wittgenstein [1922] 1961: Tractatus 4.0641).
The Latin omnis A non est B could only get what Carden (1970) and
others have called a NEG-V reading, with the scope of the negation in-
side that of the universal; compare the ambiguity of the corresponding
sentences in other languag"s (All pleasure is not good; Chaque plaisir
n'est pas bon). I return to this construction in §4.3 below.
By -A - 0, I mean that the (contradictory) negation of an A-form
predication is equivalent to the corresponding O-form predication. In
the case of quantified (rather than modal) expressions, alternative no-
tions have been employed for such equivalence statements, including
-SaP = SoP (Moody 1953) and -xAy = xOy (Strawson 1952), where
SaP is read 'All Sis/are P', and xAy as 'All x is/are y'. I shall employ
the simpler and more general notation which is undifferentiated as be-
tween quantificational and modal statements-and indeed, as we shall
see in chapter 4, extends readily to parallel oppositions among epis-
temic and deontic propositions as well.
An existence-free interpretation of the Aristotelian forms is also advo-
cated by Vandamme (1972:51-57).
Any decision on identifying Aristotle's class of negative propositions
must also be tentative, because of what Ackrill (1963: 120) labels 'Aris-
totle's failure to distinguish between grammatical and logical analysis'.
In chapter 7, I shall seek to explain, if not justify, this 'failure'.
As he must, given the differences between Greek and English syntax.
We cannot take *Caesar not is dead to be the canonical surface real-
ization of predicate denial, as Aristotle was able to do for its Greek
equivalent.
As Axinn (1964) points out, Ayer's notion of specificity 'always pre-
supposes a definite, perhaps even finite or denumerable, universe of
discourse', and even when this criterion is met Ayer's criteria may
give the wrong predictions: compare (i), (ii) with (iii), (iv):
(i) Today's date is before the 5th of the month.
(ii) Today's date is not before the 5th of the month.
(iii) Today's date is before the 25th of the month.
(iv) Today's date is not before the 25th of the month.
530 Notes to Pages 34-43
Axinn (p. 75) also notes the role of 'pragmatic orientation' in determin-
ing whether a given statement is (psychologically) positive or negative:
That man is bareheaded may count as positive or negative depending
on whether we're interested in hairstyles or hat styles, respectively.
34. Kissin points out that Ayer's example was poorly chosen, since (29a)
will be false and (29b) true if Everest is not a mountain in the World.
35. Sanford (1968:96), however, argues that we may need to allow contra-
dictories to count as contraries (and as subcontraries) to avoid logical
inconsistency when necessary truths and falsehoods are plotted on the
Square.
36. More exactly, each term may have only one polar contrary with re-
spect to a given scale on which it figures. As Aristotle observes (Topica
106alOff.), sharp must be recognized as homonymous on the basis of
the fact that each sense (in Greek as in English) determines a different
polar contrary: sharp vs. flat for a musical note, sharp vs. dull for a
solid edge. (It should be acknowledged that the criteria for determining
ambiguity offered in the Topica (book 1.15) tend to strike a modern
reader as leading to the multiplication of senses beyond a clear
necessity).
37. As I have defined contrariety or incompatibility, both immediate (C2
)
and polar (C3) contraries also satisfy the definition of the broader notion
(C1). That is,
C2(F, G) ~ C1(F, G)
C3(F, G) ~ C1(F, G)
For completeness, simple (i.e., C!ljetan's reductive) contrariety could be
defined negatively:
C~(F, G) =df C1(F, G) 1\ -Cz(F, G) 1\ -C3(F, G)
but I shall in any case not be employing this notion directly in anything
that follows.
38. As I noted above, the standard medieval labels for the two negations are
respectively negatio negans and negatio infinitans. The great thirteenth-
century logician William of Sherwood defines the former as negation
outside a genus and the latter as negation within a genus, noting that the
latter is best understood in accordance with the principle that 'speakers
sometimes confine their discourse to determinate matter' (Kretzmann
1968 :95)-an early version of the modern concept of a restricted uni-
verse of discourse.
39. The view that predicate term negation is an artifact also appears in Col-
linson (1937: 89): 'We can take refuge in a form dear to logicians, such
as "non-tall" or "non-fact"'.
40. Frege, unlike Russell, did not choose to side with Aristotle on this
point: for him, no assertion can be made when the subject is empty
(ct. Frege 1892, discussed in §2.2 below).
41. If un-x and non-x (not-x) predicates cannot be assimilated tQ contradic-
tory negation, and if we share Frege's and Madkour's prejudice (now
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
Notes to Pages 43-52 531
the received view) against the existence of contrary negation, we are
left with the result that such predicates must be taken as atomic. This
approach, unlike Frege's, correctly predicts that (35b) patterns with af-
firmative sentences (e.g., The man is obscure), but at the cost of writ-
ing off the relationship between (35a) and (35b). A third approach to
predicate term negation is that of Von Wright (1959), to which I return
in §2.4.
The Fregean view is also reflected in the generative semantics tradition
(represented by Bach [1968] and McCawley [1972], inter alia) of reduc-
ing all negation to a sentential operator with the semantics of falsity; cf.
Englebretsen 1981a:24 for discussion. On the other hand, the separate
treatment of constituent negation by interpretive semanticists (e.g.,
Jackendoff 1969, 1972) can be seen to reflect the Aristotelian approach.
I return to these points in chapter 7.
Eventually, as indicated in the tree in (34) above, McCall introduces
separate operators for weak and strong contrariety.
One possible rejoinder by a McCallian might exploit the latent ambigu-
ity in (37), noted by Geach himself elsewhere in the same book ([1972]
1980: 11-12). As recognized first by William ofSherwood (cf. Kretz-
mann 1968), (37) has two possible analyses differing according to
which NP-every cat or every dog-'gets into the proposition first' .
(This technique of disambiguation directly prefigures the distinction
drawn within Montague Grammar according to the order in which dif-
ferent quantifier phrases are 'quantified in'; cf. Montague 1974.) Let
me, following Geach, adopt a bracketing notation to distinguish these
two analyses:
(i) Every cat (detests every dog)
[asserts of every cat that it detests every dog]
(ii) (Every cat detests) every dog
[asserts of every dog that every cat detests it]
In the case of (37), this makes for a distinction without a truth-
conditional difference, but in closely related examples of the kind
in (iii):
(iii) Every cat detests every dog except Lassie.
as William observes, the two analyses determine different truth con-
ditions. If we take this approach, contrariety would be defined not on
a proposition per se, but on a proposition-cum-analysis-tree; the two
candidates for the contrary of (37), (37'a, b), might then each be the
strong contrary of a different analyzed proposition, that is, (i) and (ii),
respectively.
See the detailed and lucid exposition by Gale (1976:6ff.), from whom
much of the subsequent discussion is adapted (cf. also Gale 1972:
469ff. on the circularity of Otherness and Incompatibility analyses of
negation); other problems with Otherness are discussed by Wood (1933)
and Toms (1972).
The view of negation as the rejection of an assumed affirmation will be
discussed in §1.2.2 and in chapter 3.
532
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
Notes to Pages 56-67
W. D. Ross (1923: 29) cites the 'attempt to reduce the negative to the
affirmative by saying that "A is not B" really means "A is not-B'" as
one of the 'two mistakes' of post-Aristotelian logicians never commit-
ted by the Stagirite himself. (The other is the admission, by Avicenna,
Hegel, and others, of an "infinite judgment" alongside the affirmative
and negative judgments; for Aristotle, as we have seen, A is not-B is
simply an affirmation involving a negative or indefinite predicate term.)
It is perhaps not surprising that the confusion of language and meta-
language stressed by Austin and Quine was especially prevalent in the
antiformalist works of the Idealists; note that the passages cited above
reflect the very confusion of use and mention, especially in the random
use of quotation, that is the object of Quine's calumny. But, as we shall
see, negation and falsity are also treated as interchangeable by a number
of contemporary linguists and philosophers of language who are other-
wise sensitive to subtle formal distinctions.
If every determination is negation, then-as Royce (1917: 266) points
out-Goethe's description picks out not just Mephistopheles, but any-
one who asserts anything.
This accomplishment may have inspired his friend's insightful observa-
tion (Russell. 1948: 520), cited above, that the universe can be described
without 'not'. Note, however, that Professor Bumblowski's affirmative
substitutions (Russell 1954:31) do not preserve full synonymy. It is
unclear to what extent this point was recognized by his friend and
confidant.
Bergson's contrast between the formal symmetry and the practical or
"real" asymmetry of affirmation and negation is echoed in virtually the
same words by Garcia (1975) and Givon (1979: 111-12); I shall return
to their views later in this section.
In this passage, subject is either a mistake for speaker or is intended
in some nonlinguistic sense; obviously Snow is not black implies no
propositional attitude on the part of its grammatical subject.
Apostel's reductionist program also involves defining negation in terms
of incompatibility, where two propositions are incompatible if it is im-
possible to assert them simultaneously. But impossible must then be
taken as a basic modal operator, which is not a particularly desirable
result.
This multiplicity is partially illustrated in chapter 2 below; we might
say, given the role of Frege (1892) in initiating this confusion, that the
term "presupposition" covers a multitude of Sinns.
In fact, Bosanquet's remarks would apply only to the passage at Sigwart
1895: 122; the more measured Sigwart of three pages earlier would have
had no trouble endorsing Bosanquet's conclusions.
Other problems arise for this analysis. It is questionable whether Demos
would be happy with the analysis of (i) into (ii),
(i) God will not provide.
(ii) not (God will provide) = a contrary of (God will provide) is true.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
Notes to Pages 68-76 533
Yet such an analysis follows from Demos's endorsement of the Aristo-
telian line on nonreferring singular terms, resulting in the ascription of
truth to (i) in an atheist's universe of discourse.
Sigwart (1895: 123) had earlier pointed out that some true negative
identities are bona fide negations serving to 'prohibit a threatened con-
fusion'; his examples included Apes are not men, Red is not blue, and
Freedom is not license. Mabbott's examples in (53), and his analysis of
them, are closer to Hegel's on The rose is not an elephant and Under-
standing is not a table, but then there seems to be a significant difference
between the Sigwart identities and those of Hegel and Mabbott: the
latter class involves a cross-categorial error, while Sigwart's simply in-
volve a wrong choice within the proper category.
The label is due to Gale (1976: 12-15), who provides a critique of this
approach, which-as we shall see-retains its adherents even today.
Givon's analysis of negation is also exacerbated by an unidentified, idio-
syncratic notion of 'internal negation' (and of assertion) on which ne-
gation 'applies only to the predicate phrase, i.e. the assertion itself'
(1979: 115), whereby the negation of (i) is claimed to be (ii),
(i) Someone loves Mary.
(ii) Someone doesn't love Mary. (p. 113)
contrary to the well-established tradition dating back at least to Aristotle
(cf. §1.1.1).
Along the same lines, Jespersen (1917 :4-5) writes of 'the chief use of
a negative sentence being to contradict and to point a contrast'. Note,
however, that in describing the 'use' or 'chief use' of a negative state-
ment or sentence, Jespersen, Strawson, and Givon allow for the possi-
bility (explicitly realized by the first of these scholars) that negation
may have a meaning, as distinct from its (chief) use, which cannot be
reduced to that of contradiction, correction, or contrast (however that
is to be represented). I return to this question in chapter 6.
A subtler version of this equation appears in Sweet's New English
Grammar, where the following three versions of a negative sentence are
contrasted:
(i) He's not a fool.
(ii) He is not a fool.
(iii) He isn't a fool.
The negation in (i) is associated with the following noun, that in (ii)
with either the noun or the copula. But the contracted negative in (iii)
'logically modifies the whole sentence', rendering it 'equivalent to "I
deny that he is a fool'" (Sweet 1900: 126). Cf. my account of such
contrasts in §7.3.
The same point is made by Quine (1952: 1): 'To deny a statement is to
affirm another statement, known as the negation or contradictory of the
first' .
Ayer could have added that some negative descriptions may well be
more informative than the corresponding affirmatives-compare No-
534
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
Notes to Pages 82- 91
body came to my party with Somebody came to my party, or John is not
currently breathing with John is currently breathing. I return to this
point in §3.3.
This suggestion is essentially identical to the line I have taken on Aris-
totle's future contingents (Hom 1981a), where what is a truth-value gap
on some interpretations of De Interpretatione, chapter 9 reanalyzed as
an 'assertability gap' (cf. the 'Farabian' reading summarized in §2.1
below, and the discussion of truth and assertability in chapter 6).
Cf. Korzybski (1933), Hayakawa (1949), or any issue of Etc.
So called, appropriately enough, after the Indian parable of the blind
men and the elephant; of course we (all linguists) are the blind men,
while the object of linguistic study, in all its ineffable splendor, is the
variably perceived elephant (as presented in Ross's unpublished contri-
bution to the 1978 Milwaukee Conference of Current Approaches to
Syntax, aka the Syntax Bakeoff). Actually, the theories in question may
best be characterized as endorsing the slogan "I'm OK, you're OK, he's
not so hot", where he refers to Aristotle, Russell, Chomsky, or some
other prototypical binary, dichotomous, formalist thinker.
The reluctance expressed by other Neo-Nyaya logicians with regard to
endorsing LON is discussed by Ingalls (1951 :68-72) and Staal (1962:
65-66). The latter attributes this reluctance to the recognition that two
negatives (in Sanskrit and elsewhere) may be used to reinforce rather
than annul each other (see Oelbriick's Ergiingungsnegation, which has
been discussed extensively by Jespersen (1917) and others; cf. Hom
1978a: §3 for a modem appraisal). This argument is unsupported, how-
ever, and I see no reason to credit it; Ancient Greek, Polish, and French
logicians do not seem to have been particularly prone to view LON with
suspicion on the basis of the surface syntax of their respective native
language.
In the West this restriction can be traced to the Aristotle of De Inter-
pretatione, for whom only those sentences which are declarative and
indicative can be propositions, and hence capable of being true or false;
nondeclaratives are not the subject of logic, but of rhetoric.
This 'functor' must also be assumed to be noncompositional; otherwise
it is hard to see how the expressions (~N)[F(x)] and ~(N[F(x)]), which
are crucially distinct for Staal (1962:62), can be kept from falling to-
gether. But if ~N ... is not the negation of N ... , what is it?
Kaufmann (1965: 192) also argues that the Hegelian dialectic 'is not
meant to flout the law of contradiction' .
Elsewhere Hegel (1892: 180 (§96)) notes 'the double meaning of aufhe-
ben . .. (1) to clear away or annul: Thus, we say, a law or a regulation
is set aside; (2) to keep or preserve: in which sense we use it when we
say: something is well put by'. This ambiguity represents 'the specula-
tive spirit of our language rising above the mere "Either-or" of under-
standing' .
Negation remains a vital organizing principle in contemporary
(neo-)Marxian thought. Marcuse (1968) titles a collection of his critical
73.
1.
2.
3.
4.
Notes to Pages 93-102 535
essays Negations, assigning contradiction and negation center stage in
the history of ideas. He argues that 'thought in contradiction' in today's
post-Holocaust (and possibly pre-holocaust) world 'must become more
negative and more utopian in opposition to the status quo'. (Cf. also
Adorno's (1973) Negative Dialectics.)
In his essay on the origin of language, Abel (1882:225) detects in the
coexistence of antonymic (quasi-)homophones in the 'highly cultivated
tongues' of Europe the remnant of an earlier 'primeval dulness'. This
stage of linguistic development, simultaneously more sensuous and less
intelligible or abstract than that of familiar languages, is epitomized by
the 'rank luxuriance of Old Egyptian synonymy' , which 'takes us back
into the childhood of mankind' (p. 237). Freud simply pushes one step
beyond Abel, perceiving in this alleged psycholinguistic echo of the
history of our human race a more distant echo of the predualistic uncon-
scious mind in the history of the individual.
Chapter Two
The depth of Lukasiewicz's feelings on behalf of three-valued logic can
be sensed in his 1918 plea for political and intellectual freedom in Po-
land and the 'World. On behalf of 'man's creative activity' , Lukasiewicz
'declared a spiritual war' against the 'logical coercion' built into the
classical two-valued system. The three-valued alternative, with an inter-
mediate value characterized as representing 'objective possibility',
lights the way for 'the ideal struggle for the liberation of the human
spirit' (Lukasiewicz 1970: 84).
As Rescher points out elsewhere (1963: 55), besides being unpalatable
to an al-Farabi or an Aquinas ('How can there be divine foreknowledge
if future-contingent statements are neither true nor false?'), the Boethian
reading is philosophically unfortunate. It is not particularly compelling
to assign propositions like (i) and (ii) different truth values,
(i) It will rain tomorrow. (asserted on 12 April)
(ii) It did rain yesterday. (asserted on 14 April)
given that the two statements, uttered when indicated, make 'precisely
the same claim about the facts, viz., rain on April 13'.
I shall adopt Rescher's updating of Aristotle's term-logic representations
for ease of exposition; the distinction between a proposition p and a
predication F(a) is not relevant to my discussion here.
In the light of the parallels I have already observed between Western
and Indian logic (§1.3), it is not surprising that the issue of future con-
tingents has its Eastern incarnation as well. Sru:li<:ara (eighth century)
seems to recall the Sea Battle in his commentary on vikalpa (option)
with respect to the mutual compatibility of the two Vedic injunctions
(i) and (ii) when the outcome is not predetermined and both possibilities
remain alive.
(i) At the atiratra sacrifice he takes the soda~in cup.
(ii) At the atiratra sacrifice he does not take the soda~in cup.
536
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
Notes to Pages 104-124
Sal)kara's view, according to Staal (1962:61-62) is that 'the law of
contradiction need not hold in the realm of what is to be established
(siidhya) but holds in the realm of what is established (siddha)'. This
corresponds to the Boethian interpretation of Aristotle on the Sea
Battle.
Frege can be reckoned as the father of modern presupposition in a more
negative sense as well. Careful study of Frege 1892 and later works re-
veals that there are at least three different relations collapsed under the
rubric of Voraussetzung: sentences may have presuppositions, uses of
sentences (i.e., assertions) may involve presuppositions, and speakers
may make presuppositions (cf. Atlas 1975; Levinson 1983: 170). This
pernicious ambiguity was to fester and metastasize seventy-five years
later in the treatment of presupposition within the generative semantics
tradition, where (as in Kiparsky and Kiparsky 1971) the value of x in
the formula x presupposes y may be filled in by a sentence, a set of
sentences, a proposition, a speech act, a speaker, an utterance, or a
verb, and the value of y by a sentence, a proposition, or a truth value.
The opposition between AMBIGUIST and MONOGUIST theories alluded to
here and in later chapters is a terminological borrowing from Wert-
heimer (1972), who applies these labels to rival theories on the seman-
tics of modals.
Strawson's remarks are in fact addressed not to (15) but to the analo-
gous sentence The king ofFrance is wise. The respective fixations of
Messrs. Russell, Reichenbach, and Strawson on the hairlessness, age,
and wisdom of the nonexistent monarch will not be dwelt upon here.
At least we have mercifully put behind us the morbidity of the earlier
examples with their allusions to illness, death, and destruction.
For Ewing, commands, wishes, and exclamations are also meaningless
by definition, since the meanings of sentences are propositions, and
nondeclaratives 'do not assert propositions'. This conclusion is only as
compelling as its premises, which recent work on the semantics of non-
declaratives (e.g., Lewis 1979) has shown to be dubious at best.
It might be objected that Pap's gloss here is too confining: one can deny
that x is kind without affirming that x is unkind, even if x is of the
appropriate type to be evaluated for kindness. In my earlier termi-
nology, Pap is confusing mediate with immediate contraries.
This may be partly a terminological dispute. Routley (1969:375-76)
argues that it is the semantic version of LEM (what I have defined as
LBV), that is, 'every proposition is either true or false', which must
be violated by sentences with truth-value gaps; the syntactic version as-
sumed by Lukasiewicz, van Fraassen, and Lambert (Le., LEM proper,
'for every proposition p, p v -p') is compatible with sentences that are
neither true nor false, assuming the
appropriate definition of -p as con-
tradictory negation. I shall return in the next section to the differentia-
tion of LEM and LBV within nonclassical logics.
I shall for the moment take trivalent logics like Lukasiewicz's, in which
the classical values T and F do not exhaust the values assignable to a
12.
13.
14.
15.
Notes to Pages 125-149 537
given statement, as notational variants of the Fregean and Strawsonian
theories, on which only the two classical values are available, but some
meaningful sentences on some occasions of utterance are assigned nei-
ther of these values. (Within the tradition of mathematical logic rep-
resented by Kleene (1952: 344), a sentence is either true, false, or
undefined; this view of partially defined truth functions can be regarded
as a formal means for capturing the Frege-Strawson intuitions about
Kepler and the king of France.) A logic allowing truth-value gaps is in
fact conceptually distinct from, although related to, a genuine trivalent
(or multivalued) logic. The distinction between truth-value gaps and
nonclassical truth values is crucial for formal systems like van Fraas-
sen's, which accept the former but reject the latter.
Internal and external negation seem to get relabeled more often than any
Parisian boulevard. Among the hardier varieties from this appellation
spring are (respectively) PRIMARY vs. SECONDARY negation (Smiley
1960), WEAK vs. STRONG negation (after Kleene 1938, 1952), STRONG
vs. WEAK negation (Von Wright 1959; Zimmer 1964; Keenan 1969),
CHOICE vs. EXCLUSION negation (van Fraassen 1969), and CHOICE NEGA-
TION vs. COMPLEMENTATION (Herzberger 1970); cf. (70) below for
further available options. In this section I shall retain Bochvar's termi-
nology, which captures the link between the scopal ambiguity of Russell
1905 and that of MVL, by exploiting the definition in (51). When I am
dealing with a logical system (with or without truth-value gaps and/or
nonclassical values) that distinguishes two varieties of negation along
either scopal or lexical lines, I shall use ''''p' and '-p' to represent the
internal and external varieties, respectively, since neither operator cor-
responds precisely to the sole negation operator of standard formal post-
Fregean logic, that is, -po
Carlson does not refer to Strawson, Pap, or Kuroda, and neither Kuroda
nor Carlson refers to Von Wright, despite the strong affinities between
the later analyses and their predecessors. This phenomenon is nonpre-
judicially alluded to by the dictum that great minds think alike.
In the earlier paper in which Grice introduced his two varieties of impli-
cature, he explicitly dissociated the non-truth-conditional conventional
implicatum induced by but from the ~emantic) presupposition he took
to be associated with Smith has left offbeating his wife and similar
classical examples (Grice 1961: §3). At least for the purposes of his
argument in that paper, Grice accepted presupposition failure (but not
implicatum failure) as a sufficient condition for truth-value gaps, ala
Strawson. The distinction between presupposition and conventional
implicature is reexamined in Grice 1981; cf. also Levinson 1983 for
discussion.
Cf. Fraser 1971, Horn 1971 and Stalnaker 1974 for some earlier consid-
erations, Horn 1979 and Langendoen 1981 for critiques of the K&P
line on even and related particles, and Levinson 1983 for a general
challenge to K&P's move of collapsing the conventional implicature-
bearing particles like even, too, only, and but with the classic instances
of presuppositional phenomena-definite descriptions, factives, cate-
gory mistakes, et al. A promising recent treatment of even, synthesiz-
538
16.
17.
18.
1.
2.
3.
Notes to Pages 149-156
ing insights from earlier accounts and proposing a well-defined ~calar
model for the evaluation of even sentences and related constructIOns,
is offered by Kay (1987).
At least one speaker, Andy Rogers has informed me, has little or no
problem in accepting these sentences.
The peculiar semantics of (90c) vitiates one of Langendoen's misgivings
(1981 :217) about K& P's even analysis; Langendoen apparently as-
sumes, without argument, that (90c) is the negation (or at least ~ ne-
gation) of (90a), which it simply cannot be.
Reasons for skepticism include, inter alia: (1) the fact that by any sane
criteria, even is not a predicate; (2) the received modern verdict that
neg-raising, aka negative transportation, is not a syntactic (or even se-
mantic) rule-cf. Horn 1978b, Horn and Bayer 1984, and chapter 5;
and (3) the calisthenics required on the NR analysis to deal with sen-
tences like (i) and (ii):
(i) Not all the boys even kissed the maiden.
(ii) None of the boys even kissed the maiden.
Noting that even takes wide scope with respect to the negative qu~n­
tifier in (i) and (ii), Horn (1971: 130-31) advocates, apparently wIth a
straight face, that these surface sentences are to be derived from sources
directly underlying (i') and (ii') respectively:
(i') Some of the boys didn't even (even didn't) kiss the maiden.
(ii') All the boys didn't even (even didn't) kiss the maiden. (NEG-V
reading on all . . . not)
This gambit requires the incorporation of the predi~at~ calculus l~,:"s of
Quantifier Negation into the grammar, but perhaps It IS not surpnsmg
that such a suggestion should emanate from a scholar on record else-
where (Horn 1972: §3. 1) as advocating the importation of De Morgan's
Laws into English syntax. Such proposals have received the acclaim
they no doubt deserved.
Chapter Three
These logical contraries are not-wise a~d not-~appy, rath~r than un~ise
and unhappy, given that one can be neIther WIse nor unWIse, and neI-
ther happy nor unhappy; cf. the discussion below and in §5.1.
The first allusion to the function of signe zero may well have been
Vlitsysiiyana's siitra (A.D. 300) on the marked and unmarked cloths
(cf. discussion in §1.3.1 above).
As an affixal parallel to Greenberg's Vietnamese example, we might
note that languages often mark stems for both positive and negativ~
categories (useful vs. useless) or-more frequently-for the negatIve
only (please /displease, fair /unfair, possible/impossible, terminal/
nonterminal), but never just for the positive (cf. Zimmer 1964 and
§5.1 below).
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
Notes to Pages 156-172 539
Indeed, in some instances negativity is marked only semantically,
as with the 'affectives' or 'inherent negatives' of English, for example,
doubt (vs. believe), deny (vs. assert), lack (vs. have), reluctant (vs.
eager), useless (vs. useful), and the antonymic adjective pairs (e.g.,
short/tall, bad/good). Cf. Klima (1964) and Osgood and Richards
(1973: 386) for additional examples and discussion.
Polarity, especially negative polarity, has been the focus of many stud-
ies in recent years, ranging from Buyssens (1959) and Klima (1964) to
Baker (1970), Borkin (1971), Fauconnier(1975a, 1975b), Horn (1978a:
§2; 1978b), Ladusaw (1979, 1980), Linebarger (1981, 1987) and Horn
and Bayer (1984; recapitulated in §5.3 below).
I shall argue in chapter 6 that a 'nonlogical', utterance-level use of
negation does in fact need to be recognized, but the metalinguistic
operator posited there is found in neither all nor only nondeclarative
environments.
The sequence of negative categories would then parallel that in the
acquisition of modals, where the more subjective root and deontic read-
ings are acquired before the more objective epistemic values.
Fraiberg (1959:62-66) writes eloquently of the power and autonomy
associated with the first use of the magic no, often uttered even as the
child performs the very prohibited act his verbal or gestural negation
rejects. For the toddler, this negation counts as 'a political gesture',
indeed a 'declaration of independence'.
This is not the null hypothesis it seems to be; what is being claimed
here is that the crucial distinction between negatives and positives is not
a fonnal asymmetry of derivational structure or length, but an asymme-
try of meaning.
Trabasso and his colleagues (e.g., in Trabasso, Rollins, and Shaugh-
nessy 1971) independently developed analogous models for the process-
ing of negation, RESPONSE CHANGE (Clark's true model) and (especially
when the predicates are contradictories or immediate contraries) OP-
TIONAL RECODING (Clark's conversion model). Cf. Wason 1972:25 for
discussion.
The emotive component of the positive/negative dichotomy has, of
course, a much longer history than this; as I have noted, it can be taken
back-and is, by Osgood and Richards (1973)-four thousand years to
the codification of the I Ching.
Actually, while Wason detennines that (17a) requires less reaction time,
Herb Clark points out that this result is a property of a particular experi-
mental design; in other studies, it is the less plausible but more ob-
viously true (17b) which is easier to verify.
Wason's notion of plausible denial must be distinguished from the
homonymous principle recently popularized in the testimony of the
President's men on their commitment to the protection, and redefinition,
of national security.
540
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
Notes to Pages 173-176
In one more instance of great minds thinking alike, Wason's circle study
was set in print just as a short reply by Axinn (1964) to Ayer (1952)
containing almost the identical example (albeit as a thought experiment)
appeared in a philosophy journal. Axinn points out that Ayer's identifi-
cation of the negative member of an opposed pair of statements with the
one that is 'more specific' (cf. §1.1.4) must be qualified to allow for
'pragmatic choice': 'If the universe of discourse is ten red objects and
a thousand others, "red" is more specific than "not red". But if the
universe of discourse is ten red objects and one blue, "red" is less
specific than "not red'" (Axinn 1964:75). In these terms, what Wason
and his colleagues have shown is that as the context shifts to render a
negative predicate more specific relative to its positive counterpart, it
automatically renders a negation based on that predicate more natural
and easier to process. The asymmetry of affirmation and negation re-
mains, however, since a relatively nonspecific affirmative (Circle 4 is
red in Wason's example) retains its naturalness and psycholinguistic
simplicity.
It may be worth.noting that at least some young children exhibit, in
practice, a blissful ignorance of others' familiarity with these condi-
tions. My family lore includes an incident in which my then three-year-
old brother announced-out of a clear blue sky-'There are no marbles
in my milk'. He appeared genuinely surprised when his assertion was
not taken at face value but was further investigated (and disconfirmed)
by an adult reasoning from the apparent violation of the plausibility
requirement.
The context in which a sentence of the form X is not all y would be
maximally implausible, while nevertheless true, would presumably be
that in which x is entirely non-y, as in the evaluation of (20) against a
circle which is entirely blue. This fact, and the general tendency to read
not all here as 'almost but not quite all' (rather than as, say, 'almost not
at all'), correlate with the scalar properties of quantifiers discussed in
chapter 4.
Wason might have gone back further to Kant's verdict that 'the task
peculiar to negative judgments is that of rejecting error' and to similar
observations by other pre-Strawsonian asymmetricalists cited in §1.2.2.
Furthermore, as Eifermann (1961 :266) points out, the two terms of this
archetype of nongradable contradictory opposition may differ with re-
spect to negatability. In Hebrew, lo-zugi, literally 'not even', is a ,
common expression for 'odd' in describing numbers, while lo-pirdi
('not odd') is an extremely unlikely periphrasis for 'even'. It wou!d
appear that zugi 'even' is somehow unmarked with respect to pirdi
'odd', possibly (although this is not Eifermann's suggestion) because
oddness for integers is naturally thought of as parasitic on evenness.
That is, an even number is divisible by 2, and hence a member of the
set {x: x = 2n for some integer n}, while an odd number is one not
divisible by 2, a member of the set {x: x = 2n ± I}. Anticlimactically,
Eifermann finds no difference in processing time or error rates for the
two expressions lo-zugi and lo-pirdi in her study.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
Notes to Pages 177-195 541
For an Aristotelian or a Russellian (cf. §2.2), (22) could also be true if
there is no drink at all.
More accurately, this is what I implicate in a neutral context, one in
which a stronger proposition, were I in a position to assert it, would
have been relevant to the interests of the addressee; the operation of
the maxim of quantity is constrained by the operation of the maxims
of quality and relation, along with other nonconversational principles.
(Cf. Grice 1975, Harnish 1976, Levinson 1983, Horn 1984b, and other
recent works on pragmatics for discussion of maxim clash, which I shall
touch on in §3.3 below.)
Both Wason and Clark at times recognize the need for this looser for-
mulation of the conditions on how the positive counterpart of negation
gets into the discourse model; cf. for example, Cornish and Wason
1970: 113.
Compare these sequences:
(i) A: If I were you, I wouldn't go there tonight. But then, I'm not
you; you'll have to make up your own mind.
(ii) A: If I were you, I wouldn't marry him.
B: But you're not me.
Neither A's continuation in (i) nor B's retort in (ii) contains a globally
plausible denial, yet each negation is perfectly appropriate in the given
context.
It should be clear that Clark's explicit denial is a linguistic category, one
probably better labeled 'explicit negation'. Tottie's explicit denial, on
the other hand, is a pragmatically defined category picking out those
negatives with overt positive counterparts in the discourse frame.
Delbriick (1910: 6) offers (i) as a Modern German instance of qualita-
tive negation, and (ii) and (iii) as instances of quantitative negation.
(i) Meine Giiste sind nicht
gekommen.
(ii) Keiner meine Giiste ist
gekommen.
(iii) Ich sehe nirgend einen meiner
Giiste.
'My guests have not come'.
'None of my guests has
come'.
'Nowhere do I see one of my
guests' .
The role of the diagnostics in these and other contexts will be recon-
sidered in §7.3, when I present my own version of sentential negation,
corresponding more closely to Jespersen's nexal negation (and Aris-
totle's predicate denial) than to the Klima and Jackendoff models.
The phonological and phonetic reflexes of the two Zipfian forces are
under investigation in an ongoing research project by Michael Studdert-
Kennedy, Bjorn Lindblom, and Peter McNeilage. The characterization
in this paragraph is adapted from an oral presentation by Studdert-
Kennedy at Yale in the spring of 1987.
An earlier version of the Quantity maxim is implicitly bounded by R
and Quality: 'One should not make a weaker statement than a stronger
542
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
1.
2.
Notes to Pages 195-209
one unless there is a good reason for so doing' (Grice 1961: 132; em-
phasis mine; I return to the context of this formulation in chapter 4).
The key property involved here is informational strength as defined by
unilateral entailment (in a given context); ~ may be stronger than P
without there being a simple quantitative or pragmatic scale definable
over the two values (cf. Hirschberg 1985 for discussion). Thus, we can
think of thumb as informationally stronger than finger, in the sense that
all thumbs are fingers but not vice versa. We will then correctly predict
that a sentence like I broke my finger will (normally) Q-implicate that
the finger I broke was not a thumb. (Thumbs, however, are fingers,
since humans are reckoned as having ten fingers and not eight.)
In Leech 1983, this principle of population imbalance is dubbed the
SUBMAXIM of negative informativeness, but it is never given in the di-
rective form of a (sub)maxim, and it is unclear just why it should be
elevated to this status. I should note in passing that Leech seems to en-
dorse the proliferation of maxims to the point where any principle of
language use seems to qualify as a (sub)maxim. Besides the Occamistic
considerations militating against this approach, the development of an
algorithm for the resolution of maxim clash under these conditions be-
comes formidable indeed, as pointed out in unpublished work by Steve
Levinson.
I follow here the currently standard practice exemplified by Barnes
(1969) and H. Clark (1974), in which odd/even, healthy/sick, pos-
sible/ impossible, and so forth, are defined as contradictory pairs, rather
than (following Aristotle) as immediate contraries. Here and in later
chapters (especially chapter 5) I shall be more directly concerned with
whether a given opposition between two terms allows an unexcluded
middle than with those cases in which the terms in question simultane-
ously fail to hold of the subject, through a category mistake or the
subject's nonexistence (see chapters I and 2).
As Aristotle has taught us, there is one sense in which (46a) is informa-
tionaIly weaker than (46b): it can be logically concluded from the latter,
but not from the former, that we have a cat. It is not clear whether this
asymmetry is relevant to the case at hand.
Or, alternatively, of trying to get the functional tail to wag the logical dog.
Chapter Four
ActuaIly, this may not be quite so clear as is asserted here. As we shall
see in chapter 5, there is a strong pragmatic tendency in natural lan-
guage to take (6b) to convey that C4, rather than C3, obtains. I shall
ignore this factor within the present discussion.
Significantly, for Apuleius, the first geometer of the Square, the I and
o terms are not subcontraria but subpares, 'nearly [but not quite]
equals'. Cf. Sullivan 1967: 64-67 for discussion.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
Notes to Pages 210-220 543
Hamilton evidently overlooked the parallel between his two somes
and Aristotle's two possibles; in fact, he has little to say about the
modalities.
Coincidentally, Grice's conversational implicata map directly onto the
sous-entendus of Ducrot's parallel system (1972,1973). Ducrot's ana-
logue of MQ is the Loi d'exhaustivite, which 'exige que Ie locuteur
donne, sur Ie theme dont il parle, les renseignments les plus forts qu'il
possede, et qui sont susceptible d'interesser Ie destinataire' (1972: 134).
That is, what I am objecting to is the institutionalization of the move
from -K(p) (speaker does not know for a fact that p, e.g., (15c), is
true) to K-(p) (speaker knows that p, e.g., (15c), is not true). This
practice, initiated by Gazdar (1979a) and adopted by Levinson (1983:
135-36), leads to unfortunate complications and loss of generality, as
Levinson concedes, and seems in any case empirically unmotivated.
(Cf. also Soames 1982 and Hirschberg 1985 for related discussion.)
I shall return to the Law of Double Negation and associated problems
in §5. 1.3. The morpho-syntactic consequences of linguistic double nega-
tion, particularly its effect on polarity phenomena and mood, are dis-
cussed in Baker 1970; StockweIl, Schachter, and Partee: 1973: 257ff.;
and Hom 1978a: §3.1.
Curiously, Jespersen omits any statement of an equivalence between B
and B-, although such an equivalence is clearly derivable within his
system, since bilateral some (possible) is identical to its own inner
negation, bilateral some (possible) ... not.
Pott also develops a notion of Gradation or scale which prefigures both
Wittgenstein's use of Gradation (1922: §4.464) to describe the scalar
structure of the epistemic modalities and my own advocacy of the quan-
tity scale to account for the logical and pragmatic principles relating the
quantifiers and analogous notions (Hom 1972; cf. Ducrot 1973; Faucon-
nier 1975a, 1975b, 1976; Gazdar 1979a; Levinson 1983; Hirschberg
1985).
Likewise, in Cantonese (Yau 1980: 26-27), the flanking of a B-category
modal (the epistemic possibility operator wui or the root ability operator
h:Jji) by two negations amounts to an assertion of the corresponding A-
category modal:
(i) Krey wui hrey.
he poss. go
(ii) Krey m wui m hrey.
NEG NEG
(iii) Krey h:)ji hrey.
he able go
(iv) Krey m h:)ji m hrey.
'It is possible that he will go'
'He will definitely go' (lit. 'It is not
possible that he won't go')
'He can go'
'He must go' (lit. 'He can't not go')
Yau lists several other B-category predicates which can be flanked by
negation to yield a strong modal (must, have to), while there seem to be
no instances of the reverse process, instantiating the second equivalence
544
10.
11.
12.
13.
Notes to Pages 220-225
in (26). This asymmetry-which is by no means restricted to Canton-
ese-is functionally motivated, as we shall see in chapter 5.
The complex interactions of modality, negation, and scope are explored
in greater detail by Leech (1969); Seuren (1969); and Boyd and Thorne
(1969), inter alia. Cf. also Leech 1969, 1974 for an informal account of
the properties of duals (which he terms INVERSE OPPOSITES) in ordinary
language.
Sapir's student and collaborator Collinson was later to offer his own treat-
ment of positive and negative 'indication'. His point of departure (1937:
90-92) is similar to Sapir's: 'We say "some (certain) people would not
like that" usually implying that there are others who would.... "Not-
every" might, in theory, be expected to include total negation and mean
"none or some though less than all". In practice, however, not-every
means one or some but less than all'. Despite this appropriately prag-
matic characterization of the relation between the subcontraries,
Collinson follows Jespersen in taking the usual conveyed meaning of
these operators to constitute their literal meaning. He thus (p. 92-93)
offers us such (23i)-type equivalences as those in (i),
(i) not everywhere
not always
not everyone
not everything
not all
'in some places only'
'sometimes'
'someone', 'some people'
'some thing(s)'
'some', 'at least one'
and a neo-Jespersenian chart (pp. 108-9) in which the tripartition of
Totalizers (A), Indefinites (B), and Negatives (C) is extended to Ger-
man, Latin, Romance, and even a number of International Auxiliary
Languages; this last set of data is reproduced in (ii) for curiosity value:
(ii) Latino sino
ftexione Occidental Novial Ido Esperanto
A
B
C
omni
aliquo
nullo
omni
alcun
nul
omni
kelki
nuli
omna
ula
nula
eiu
iu, kelkiu
neniu
By the same token, as Cicero notes (Topica 56-57), the Stoics tended
to treat the inference from not both to at least one as logical rather than
pragmatic; this led them to promote their questionable 'seventh mode'
of inference, that is, (i), alongside their unarguably valid 'sixth mode',
given in (ii).
(i) Not both this and that (ii) Not both this and that
Not this This
Therefore, that Therefore, not that
See Mates (1953: 125) and Lukasiewicz (1934) for discussion.
Elsewhere, Quine (1951: 12) cites 'the prevalent use of the expressions
"or both" [as in par q or both] and "and/or'" as 'a presumption in
favor of the exclusive interpretation, since otherwise these expressions
would always be superfluous'. But the use of such forms is precisely
what we should expect if the exclusive understanding is filled out from
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
Notes to Pages 226-231 545
the inclusive logical form via Q-based implicature. Furthermore, as
Quine observes, the inclusive sense for natural language is itself sup-
ported by the nonsuperfluity of the addendum in p or q but not both.
If the former (or both) rider is more 'prevalent' than the latter (but not
both), this is due to the fact that the upper-bounding (exclusivity) of
or results from a generalized conversational implicature, one which by
definition (cf. Grice 1961, 1975) applies in a default or neutral context,
where it is not explicitly canceled. (It may be worth noting that the
'prevalent use' of expressions like some ifnot all and some or all does
not lead Quine to conclude (with Hamilton) that the standard represen-
tation for ordinafy language some must be upper-bounded so as to
exclude all.)
The pragmatic account of the two ors offered here (and in Horn
1972:97-99) is also prefigured in Joseph's observation (1916: I87ff.)
that the context ('the nature of the case') determines whether the two
alternatives are mutually exclusive; when it does not, it is 'perhaps safer
to assume exclusivity, unless the contrary is stated', as in the typical
Q-implicature cancelation frames 'A or B or both', 'A and/or B' (see
note 13).
Cf. Kraak (1966: 177) and Seuren (1967: 358) on the nonambiguity of
Dutch Alle jongens lopen niet 'All the boys were [not walking]' .
In French, where the NEG-Q reading is likewise salient in the absence of
a forcing context and where Sara Lee products are unknown, the NEG-V
reading tends to be forced in a different example (as noted by Franc;ois
Latraverse): Tout ce que tufais ne vaut pas de la merde.
The logically analogous A-category modals do not take a following
negative interpretable as outside their scope. Sentences (i) and (ii) are
unambiguously M-NEG (A-) rather than NEG-M (-A).
(i) {Necessarily/Certainly} John isn't a bachelor.
(ii) 2 + 2 {necessarily/certainly} are not 5.
In these examples, unlike those involving quantifiers and binary con-
nectives, the A operator is not part of the subject phrase; for Tobler-
and for the analysis I defend in chapter 7-this makes all the
difference.
Cf. Jespersen 1917 :47 on the ambiguity of I didn't go because I was
afraid. This two-faced construction has been the focus of much (rela-
tively) recent attention; cf. inter alia G. Lakoff 1965; Kraak 1966;
Seuren 1967; Stockwell, Schachter, and Partee 1973; Sgall, Hajicova,
and Benesovii 1973; Linebarger 1987.
This intuition is supported by the fact that fall-rise, though a sufficient
condition for triggering the NEG-Q reading, is not a necessary condition,
as a thought experiment on the sentences in (36') bears out. Note fur-
ther that it is harder to avoid the fall-rise contour when selecting the
NEG-CON] reading on and in examples like (39c), although even here it
may be obviated by contrastive stress: Leslie and Kim didn't come, just
Leslie did. - -
546
20.
21.
22.
23.
Notes to Pages 234-239
Hintikka's actual notation for epistemic possibility is P. I substitute POSs
here, having preempted P for use as a predicate variable.
The difference between these two types of frames emerges especially
clearly when we look, not at scales, but at a related class of partially
ordered sets, those which (following Lehrer 1974:29 and Lyons
1977: 289) I shall term RANKS. Unlike elements within a scale, ranked
values are mutually incompatible. Thus, in such canonical ranks as
those of (i)-(iii), discussed in Horn 1972 and Hirschberg 1985,
(i) «general, major, ... , lieutenant, sergeant, corporal, private»
(ii) «felony, misdemeanor, tort»
(iii) «win, place, show»
it is not the case that a sergeant is (a fortiori) a corporal, nor is a felony
a misdemeanor. The fact that the members of a rank are not related by
entailment is reflected by the failure of the (50b)-type cancelation
frames to apply:
(i') He's not (#only) a corporal, he's a sergeant.
(ii') #Smoking marijuana is a misdemeanor, in fact it's a felony.
But the suspenders of (50a) are possible here: I can state that all of my
sons are at least corporals even if two are sergeants and one a lieuten-
ant, and I can assert (with partial command of the facts) that smoking
marijuana is at least a misdemeanor. Similarly, consider the rank of
poker hands in (iv), on which we can superimpose a number of over-
lapping scales (inter alia those in (v»:
(iv) «Five of a kind [in wild-card games], royal flush, straight flush,
four of a kind, full house, flush, straight, three of a kind, two
pairs, one pair (two of a kind)>>
(v) (Five of a kind, four of a kind, three of a kind, two of a kind)
(royal flush, straight flush, flush)
(royal flush, straight flush, straight)
While a full house is not ipso facto a flush (#Not only is it aflush, it's
afull house), it outranks a flush (cf. (iv». If I deduce from your betting
pattern that you have at least a flush, my subsequent discovery that you
in fact have a full house does not invalidate this deduction.
A similar conception of an 'extended square of opposition' is utilized by
McCall (1967a: 123ff.), where (sub)contraries are similarly related by
horizontals, and contradictories by diagonals. McCall uses his extended
squares for plotting the relations of English sentences like those in (i):
(i) John adores Mary 7 ~ John hates Mary
John loves Mary John does not love Mary
John does not hate Mary John does not adore Mary
When we enter the subjective domain, the waters become murkier. A
country/pop song of a few years back ('You Really Got a Hold on Me')
begins with the line in (i).
(i) I don't like you, but I love you
24.
25.
26.
Notes to Pages 241-242 547
In this context love (eros) and like (philia) cannot be situated on a scale
and all bets are off; indeed, the singer-after a change of heart-might
now (extrametrically) declare I not only love you-I like you! But it is
less plausible that someone could love, say, a brand of pasta without (a
fortiori) liking it. Similarly, one may be judged beautiful and yet (to a
given perceiver) not attractive, but it is harder to imagine a day which is
hot without being (at least) warm. (It should be pointed out that I am
continuing to defer the examination of sentences like those in (ii)
and (iii):
(ii) I don't (just) like you, I love you.
(iii) It's not warm out-it's (downright) hot!
to chapter 6, where I shall argue that they do not in fact counter-
exemplify the scalar analysis.)
Hirschberg (1985) generalizes the set of scale- (and scalar-implicature-)
inducing contexts further still, bringing set!subset, set! member, en-
tity/attribute, and other types within the purview of her definition.
Essentially, for Hirschberg, any partially ordered set (POSET) will in-
duce a scale and support scalar implicature.
Notice that lukewarm (like its synonym tepid) appears to figure on the
(cold, cool) rather than the (hot, warm) scale, at least for the figurative
sense of the terms; cf. Horn 1972: 48 for related discussion and Ducrot
1972: 284-85 for an analogous treatment of French tiede. But when
actual temperature distinctions are literally involved, the context (in-
cluding the goals or desiderata of the interlocutors) plays a crucial role:
(i) My beer is
(ii) My coffee is
{
lukewarm, if not downright {warm/ #cool}. }
more lukewarm [warmer] than yours.
{
lukewarm, if not downright {cold/ # hot}. }
more lukewarm [cooler] than yours.
Notice also that these terms when used literally can refer only to the
temperature of substances, not to the weather; it cannot be lukewarm or
tepid out.
Ducrot (1972: 274-75) sets out with a pragmatic treatment of the weak
scalar (subcontrary) "ambiguities", for example, the two understand-
ings of quelques 'some' (the unilateral au moins quelques and the
bilateral quelques seulement). On this treatment, essentially identical
to that traced above, quelques says quelques au moins (at least some),
which is its representation in the linguistic component, but a simple
assertion with quelques, given the Loi d'exhaustivite, licenses the in-
ference that the speaker couldn't have used a stronger statement (e.g.,
one with tous 'all'). Thus the conveyed meaning of ... quelques . ..
provided by the rhetorical component (Ie composant rhetorique) is bi-
lateral-'only some', 'some but not all'. But, Ducrot observes, a
sentence like (i):
(i) Some students have read some of Chomsky'S books; others have
read all of them.
548
27.
28.
29.
Notes to Pages 242-245
is interpreted as if some o/Chomsky's books says or means 'not all'.
Similarly,
(ii) Pierre a lu quelques livres de
Chomsky.
'Pierre has read some of
Chomsky's books'
may be taken to be false if Pierre has in fact read all of Chomsky's
books. In the light of such data, Ducrot concludes that the output of the
rhetorical component must somehow get back into the linguistic compo-
nent in order to affect truth conditions. But since (ii) may also be
judged true if Pierre has read all of Chomsky's books, Ducrot ends up
endorsing the (Hamiltonian) position that quelques, and presumably all
weak and intermediate scalar operators, are linguistically ambiguous,
precisely the unparsimonious position the pragmatic analysis (equipped
with the Maxim of Quantity or the Loi d'exhaustivite) was set up to
avoid. I return to this issue in chapter 6.
Fauconnier's point has since been reinforced by Cornulier (1984) in his
critique of the argumentation-based account of comparatives and equa-
tives offered by Anscombre and Ducrot (1976, 1978, 1983). Curiously
enough, the debate over the proper treatment of equatives like John is
as tall as Brian-with Anscombre and Ducrot on one side and Faucon-
nier and Cornulier on the other-has been simultaneously raging in a
parallel, trans-Atlantic universe as well: cf. Klein 1980; Sadock 1981;
and especially Atlas 1984. Even the same examples (e.g., John is as
tall as Brian but Brian is not as tall as John), with the same judgment
differences, figure in the two debates, albeit in different languages.
While essentially supporting the (Mill-Grice-Horn) minimalist or non-
restrictive thesis, Cornulier, like Fauconnier before him and Kempson
(1986) after him, shows that whatever the ultimate account of scalar
predication may be, the interaction of pragmatics and logical form is
more complex (and more interesting) than envisaged in earlier neo-
Gricean treatments (e.g., Hom 1972).
These contrasts reflect a general tendency to assign a special, often
affective, ingredient to constituent negations (no . ..) as against the
unmarked (and hence scalar) readings associated with ordinary not
negation. Thus, Kruisinga (1931 :§1248) distinguishes the 'word modi-
fier' no Xer from the 'sentence modifier' not Xer in frames like The
patient is {no /not} better today. Minimal pairs demonstrating a similar
asymmetry in nominal constructions can be found in the descriptive
literature; compare I'm {no/ not a} spring chicken, She's {no/not an}
angel. (Cf. Bolinger (1977) and Welte (1978: 165-85) for further illus-
tration and insightful discussion of the notional contrast between not (a)
and no.)
As LObner (1985) points out, any two incompatible first-order predi-
cates, like hot/cold or even nonscalars like cat/dog, will generate a
version of the Square of Opposition, but it will always be a version
which lacks duality and inner negation. His examples include (i):
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
Notes to Pages 247-251 549
(i)
cat(x) dog(x)
A ----contraries---- E
~/
subaltern contradictories subaltern
l/~j
I (subcontraries) 0
-dog(x) -cat(x)
The I and 0 values--dog and -cat-are subcontraries, since some-
thing can be both a nondog and a noncat (e.g., a chipm!lnk), but
nothing can be neither. Notice that the two contraries (A and E values)
in this defective square do not differ in quality (positive-negative polar-
ity) as the contraries in the standard (second-order operator) squares do;
in fact the relevant placement of the A and E values here (the arranging
of cats and dogs) is entirely arbitrary.
But conjunctions tend to be possible when-and only when-the two
quantifiers or determiners are heterogeneous in monotonicity type, as
substitution of but for and in the frames of (73)-(75) demonstrates.
B& C note, as others have, that but is in various respects not a true
conjunction of the class represented by and and or; among other differ-
ences, it does not iterate.
Actually, the M-class quantifiers of Hom 1969 do not map onto the
entire mOD t set, but rather onto its 'persistent' subset; see Barwise and
Cooper 1981: 193 for an explication of persistence. (M- and L-class
quantifiers are discussed further in Hom 1972: §2.1.)
Compare also the nonmonotone quantifier a single CN, in which the
upper-bounding implicature is not only strengthened but convention-
alized; as Hirschberg (1985: 35) observes, (i) can be truly (if mislead-
ingly) uttered by a far-wider class of individuals than (ii) can:
(i) I have one leg.
(ii) I have a single leg.
If a speaker specifies that Kim earns $33,726.97 a year, she will be
taken as implicating (if not asserting) the exact value; why would it be
relevant to specify the value so exactly unless all those figures are liter-
ally significant? On the other hand, if the salary is given as $34,000,
where there are only two significant figures, the upper-bounding im-
plicature will be far weaker and more readily cancelable. The semantics
and pragmatics of approximation are discussed further in Sadock 1977,
Wachtel 1980, and Channell 1980.
As noted in Hom 1972: §1.21, the context may reverse the direction of
a scale even when no negation is overtly present; in the example cited
there, a bowler can shoot 200 ifnot 210 (#ifnot 190), while a golfer
550
35.
36.
37.
38.
Notes to Pages 251-257
can card a 70 ifnot 68 (#ifnot 72). Context plays an equally crucial
role in the case of ordinals: a doctor may diagnose her patient as af-
flicted with second- ifnot third- (#first-) degree burns, whereas a
prosecutor may portray the defendant as culpable of second- ifnot
first- (#third-) degree murder. Cf. Hirschberg 1985: §5.1.4 for related
discussion.
As argued in Horn 1972: §1.21 (cf. also Hom 1978c; Hirschberg
1985 :93- 94), and noted in appendix 2, the lexical incorporation of
cardinals tends to strengthen their upper-bounding implicatum into an
aspect of conventional meaning. While squares have (at least) three
(and in fact four) sides, they are not three-sided figures. Nor is a triple
(Le., a hit for exactly three bases) a two-base hit or double, although it
may be listed among a batter's hits for (at least) two bases. But Wade
Boggs might report the intuition that he's about to hit at least a double,
and possibly a triple or home run: as with the military, legal, and poker
nomenclature cited above, tenns with lexically incorporated cardinals
may in general be ranked, but not scaled.
It is clearly an oversimplification to suppose that a language gets only
the lexical items it truly needs. Yet there is equally clearly a functional
tendency in that direction, reflected not only in the story of 0 being
related in this section, but also in the 'blocking' effect considered by
Aronoff (1976), Kiparsky (1983), and others, wherein the meaning,
use, or very existence of a given (potential) word is affected by the ex-
istence and range of a related (and more basic or specific) entry in the
lexicon. Some ramifications of blocking are discussed in chapter 5.
In fact, while we do find examples like this in the older Gennanic dia-
lects-Coombs (1976: 176,209) cites (i), also from Beowulf, and
parallel examples, including (ii) and (iii), from the Old Icelandic Eddas:
(i) pret i'Srer renig mon / wordum ne worcum wrere ne brrece
that there any man words nor deeds were NEG break
'that no one there broke the treaty with words nor with deeds'
(ii) . . . mat pu villat ne mannzcis gamar
food you want-NEG nor of-anyone joys
'you don't want food nor anyone's joys'
(iii) hlyra henni borcr ne barr
shield-NEG it bark nor foliage
'bark nor foliage (do not) shield it'
it will be noticed that in each of these citations, the main verb itself is
negated (with preverbal ne in Old English or the -aCt) enclitic in Old
Icelandic; cf. §7.1 below). Similarly, the full context of Jespersen's
(suo ne norD) example reveals the main verb niFre 'were not', which
incorporates its own negation. Thus the entire-conjoined phrase is com-
manded by, or is within the scope of, a sentence negation, rendering
this construction less exotic than it may at first appear.
On the theories of negation investigated in chapter 3, of course, all
instances of negation introduce such an implicature or suggestion, so
that the difference between p and not q and p rather than q would seem
39.
40.
41.
42.
l.
Notes to Pages 258-269 551
to collapse. But, if my account of negation in §3.3.1 is combined with
Dieterich and Napoli's treatment of rather than, these expressions will
still differ in the degree to which the 'markedness implicature' is con-
ventionalized in the two cases.
A revealing case in point is Latin, which contained two forms combin-
ing a negative in the first syllable with a connective enclitic in the
second. Crucially, both such forms, neque (lit., 'not-and') and neve
(lit., 'not-or'), allowed only the 'and not' meaning. Fonns equivalent
to, and indeed cognate with, neque are also to be found in the early
Germanic dialects: see the discussion of Gothic nih « ni 'not' + -uh
'and') and OHG noh in Delbriick 1910 and Coombs 1976.
Greenbaum (1974) observes that Americans tend to prefer 'lexical'
negation with need ({doesn't/ don't} need to) over 'modal' negation
(need not, needn't). Greenbaum further remarks on what he sees as
an 'antipathy in American English toward the contracted fonn of the
modal', excluding mayn't, daren't, and presumably mightn't. But this
antipathy clearly does not extend to can't, couldn't, shouldn't, and
(deontic) mustn't, a fact which Greenbaum's approach, ignoring the
semantics and pragmatics of the modal notions, cannot accommodate.
(I do not mean to suggest that an approach which is equipped with the
proper semantics and pragmatics can sail home scOt-free; the domain of
modal contraction, like the wider domain of the modal auxiliaries, is
notoriously rife with synchronic irregularity. It is this very irregUlarity
which leads Zwicky and Pullum (1983) to argue that -n't represents an
inflection rather than a negative enclitic.)
The existence of languages like Korean (Na 1981), in which the words
for 'unnecessary' (philyo-ap) and 'uncertain' (pul-hwaksilha) are as
lexicalized and as free as their E counterparts (halsu-ap 'unable',
pul-kaniUha 'impossible') does not counterexemplify this implicational
universal.
Within Barwise and Cooper's logic for generalized quantifiers, the posi-
tive (moo t )values are in fact simpler on one level than their negative
(moo ~ ) counterparts, although this is merely stipulated. B&C predict
that the response latencies for the quantifiers would confonn to a
schema like that in (i):
(i) moo t < moo ~ < nonmonotone
Verification tests involving the nonmonotone, nonscalar values (e.g.,
exactly D) involve the application of two different subroutines (one for
confinning at least n and one for at most n) and so should prove the
most complex of all.
Chapter Five
While simple contraries (Cajetan's reductive contraries) will continue to
count as contraries, this category will not figure crucially in the follow-
ing discussion.
552
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Notes to Pages 270-277
The prevalence of this metaphor, playing off what is, of course, Aris-
totle's favorite example of polar contraries, tells us much about our
awareness of the nature of polarization, just as our tacit understanding
of just which side (in a moral or ethical opposition) counts as white and
which as black reveals much about our cultural heritage.
In the Hungary of the late 1960s, the liberalizer Janos Kadar trans-
formed the party credo Those who are not with us are against us
(attributed, however, to Lenin rather than Jesus, Donka Farkas informs
me) into its inclusive counterpart Those who are not against us are with
us. This still-productive pattern is invoked in Bishop Desmond Tutu's
disjunction from a January 1986 speech at Stanford University, 'You are
either for us or against us' .
The school of General Semantics (Korzybski 1933; Hayakawa 1949;
cf. also Leech 1974: 39-40) has been especially critical of the polar-
izing tendency, repeatedly excoriating the mindless endorsement of a
two-valued orientation, which they trace back to Aristotle: Korzybski,
Hayakawa, et al. argue passionately for a new 'non-Aristotelian' mode
of thinking, a multivalued approach with its place reserved for the
neither-nor-Sapir's zone of indifference. Yet Aristotle, as we have
had ample occasion to observe, was himself a non-Aristotelian in the
General Semanticists' sense, since he consistently defined predicate
contrariety (the relation of good to bad, black to white, tall to short) in
such a way as to explicitly allow for an unexcluded middle. The polar-
izing enemy may be real, but his identity has been mistaken; Jesus and
Hitler, Brecht and Cleaver, are more appropriate villains than the
Stagirite.
The more lexicalized and less productive iN- forms always have the
potential to 'restrict the domain of un-': hence, we have no *unpossible
or *unactive (Zimmer 1964:30); cf. OED (un-I, 7), Jespersen (1942:
§26.1), Marchand (1969), and-on the general phenomenon of BLOCK-
ING or PREEMPTION BY SYNONYMY-Breal (1900:27), Aronoff
(1976:43ff.), Clark and Clark (1979:§4.4) and Hom (1984b:25ff.).
Aronoff's formulation of the blocking principle, as Broselaw (1977 :60)
observes, stipulates that 'no more than one item may be listed in a
meaning slot of any particular stem'. Thus, iN- and un- doublets will be
tolerated if they maintain or develop different meanings; we shall see
examples of such doublets below.
Cf. also Marchand (1960: 150-53) on undisquieted, undishonored, and
so forth. As Zimmer recognizes, there remain some problematic cases
involving e-pos derivatives of e-neg stems which involve no productive
pattern. He attests a number of -ous derivatives (unmalicious, unobnox-
ious, unvicious) and assorted other examples (uncorrupt, undegenerate,
unguilty, unselfish, unsordid, unvulgar). Zimmer points out, however,
that an attested form is not necessarily a natural one. Standard diction-
aries, after all, include such apparent simplex counterexamples to (7)
as uncruel, unignorant, unsick, and unstupid, virtual nonce forms which
must be taken with an untiny grain of salt. This is not to dismiss the
existence of real counterexamples, that is, contradictory, e-pos or neu-
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
Notes to Pages 277-283 553
tral formations with iN- and unproductive un-, relatively rare though
they may be: unworthy (from Jespersen), unselfish (from Zimmer),
impartial, inanimate, incredible, inexpensive (less e-neg than cheap),
infrequent, unafraid, unapologetic, and unsusceptible (from Funk
1971).
The contradictory reading assigned to in-x-able, un-x-able derivatives
must have another source as well, however; note that fully lexicalized
entries with this form (impossible, incapable, unfeasible) take contra-
dictory prefixal negation, as do other adjectives of the same (roughly
defined) semantic class (impractical, unable, unapt). I shall return to
the proper characterization of this class in §5.2.
One attested violator of this constraint, involving the attachment of un-
to a base containing not dis- but in-, is uninfallible; this is largely a
term of art within Catholic theology.
Of course it does not follow that words containing unproductive affixes
necessarily are unanalyzable by native speakers; the reinterpretation of
inflammable as 'not flammable', with negative in-, instead of (or along-
side) the etymologically "correct" 'capable of becoming inflamed',
reveals (as does the occasional creative use) that speakers are fully
aware of the negative character of the prefix. In the same way, a jocular
innovation like coolth suggests that the nominalizer -th is analyzed (or
analyzable) as a derivational formative, albeit a dead one. As Zimmer
(1964 :86) notes for the lexicalized prefixal negations of untrue, un-
happy, unkind, 'We need a grammar which will analyze such
morpheme combinations but will not generate them'.
This is not to deny the existence of cases, especially in the technical
domain, where un-X and non-X forms do seem to constitute simple free
variants; cf. unprefixable!nonprefixable, unproductive!nonproductive,
unvoiced! nonvoiced.
In fact, uneven is attested for numbers, as is its former synonym un-
equal. The increasing oddity of uneven seems in fact to be correlated
with the frequency of odd in the relevant sense, exactly as predicted by
the theory of preemption by synonymy I am assuming here. (Nor is it
odd that *unodd, the parallel term in the paradigm, is entirely unat-
tested; recall the discussion of lo-zugi vs. lo-pirdi in §3.2.) While
unequal no longer bears this sense, its continued existence is an affront
to the overly strong claim (by, e.g., Selkirk 1982: 108) that un- never
attaches to ungradables.
Of course phonologically transparent iN- adjectives may also drift into
noncompositionality; cf. indifferent, invaluable (Jespersen 1917: 145).
Allen (1978) actually situates non- within the grammar of compounds,
but her position is supported primarily by the observation that non-
attaches outside compounds, a property which (as Selkirk (1982) notes)
is shared by un-. Marchand (1960) cites such forms as un-cross-
examined and un-self-conscious (cf. (10a) above), and Selkirk adds un-
self-sufficient, un-germ-resistant, and un-laid-back to the inventory. AI-
554 Notes to Pages 287-297
len's treatment of these forms as ungrammatical but acceptable is as
unconvincing as such claims generally are (cf. §5.1.3 below).
14. These forms also result in what we might term unrecoverable hap-
lology; for many speakers of American English, unpacked may be read
as 'not unpacked', especially in the frame of (i),
(i) I'm still unpacked.
which is nevertheless not quite equivalent to the simple positive ((i) 1:-
I'm still packed).
15. In one of his "On Language" columns (16 March 1986) for the New
York Times Magazine, William Safire lambastes the 'linguistic evasion'
and 'sheer laziness on the part of the categorizer' which leads to the
(over-) use of exclusionary non-. His dire warning to mend our ways
'lest yin and yang become yin and nonyin' is misplaced, however: it is
yang/ nonyang that would ensue (see chapter 3).
16. It should also be noted that even prefixes which don't affect the category
of their stem do affect subcategorial frames. Prefixes may allow or im-
pose transitivity on an intransitive stem: one can outthink an adversary
or rethink a problem, but one cannot think anything (except perhaps a
thought). At the same time, it is generally true that 'addition of prefixes
to verbs rules out non-nominal complements' (Carlson and Roeper
1980: 123; cf. Ross 1974): one can think, but not outthink or rethink,
that it's going to rain. Under certain conditions, the prefixationof
category-respecting negative un- also affects subcategorization. For
many speakers, It is uncertain that it will rain and/or It is uncertain to
rain are at best marginal, where the unprefixed equivalent not certain is
impeccable. As Welte (1978: §4.2.1.5) shows in considerable detail,
similar subcategorization differences obtain between verbal pairs like
disagree and don't agree, disbelieve and don't believe, discontinue and
don't continue, and so on: in each case, the negatively prefixed verb
differs from its unprefixed counterpart (with or without particle nega-
tion) in its unWillingness to take sentential complements.
17. Zimmer also remarks on the failure of Russian ne- to combine with
members of multiple-opposition sets; we have no adjectives like *ne-
krasnyj 'nonred'. In this respect, ne- is closer to un- than to non-.
18. Notice that these cases need not conform to Jespersen's rule for
the weakening effect of double negation; if X is a weak scalar operator,
not. . . X ... not will convey a stronger affirmative than X. Typical
examples of this pattern, as observed in §4.2, involve sequences of the
form not . .. can . .. not, as one (or the only) way of expressing
necessity (= must) in a given language.
19. Whereas two affirmatives never reduce to a single negative-to which
one is tempted to respond, in the immortal riposte of Sidney Morgan-
besser, 'Yeah, yeah'. Seriously, though, this difference in the cancelation
properties of negation and affirmation has often been taken as a diag-
nostic for notional negativity in predicates and propositions: one who is
bad at being bad ends up being good, but one who is good at being
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
Notes to Pages 297-306 555
good is not bad. Cf. Giv6n (1970) and Cruse (1980, 1986) for addi-
tional examples and discussion.
Aside from the question with which I am concerned here, it should be
noted that bad, evil, silly, dangerous, and other e-neg adjectives which
bar negative prefixes are not necessarily analyzable in terms of denoting
'the absence of something'; cf. Zimmer 1964 for elaboration.
Langendoen retains the ungrammatical-but-acceptable line for those
L&B examples involving, not DNAAs, but negated unprefixed adjec-
tives inside NPs. Bolinger (1980) noted that such examples improve
dramatically with the intercalation of material between the not and
the adjective: cf. *a not sad person vs. a not, shall we say, sad turn
ofevents. The efficacy of 'prosodic schmaltz' of this sort suggests to
Langendoen that we are dealing here (unlike in the case of DNAAs
under his reanalysis) with true ungrammaticality.
See Bolinger 1972: 115-25 ("Litotes and negation") for an insightful
treatment of logical double negation in terms of litotes. Bolinger points
out (p. 116) that logically speaking, 'the denial of the negative leaves
the entire positive range open to whatever degree is appropriate', the
context narrowing down the intended range actually intended by the
speaker. Thus, to cite two of his examples, I was not unaware ofthe
problem may convey that 'I was damn well aware of it', and It was a
not unkindly meant remark [note the adverbial equivalent of a DNAA]
suggests that the remark in question was not intended as particularly
kind or unkind.
While I have been concentrating here on those double negations which
focus on a single constituent or, in Jespersen's terms, 'refer to the same
idea or word', some of the same remarks carry over to the use of flank-
ing double negations (-<)- for D) cited in §4.2. Thus Yau (1980: 83),
discussing the affective value of Cantonese sentences with two non-
consecutive negations, finds that this construction 'permet d'exprimer
l'affirmative d'une maniere tactique et prudente'. Indeed, when double
negation flanks a B-category (I-vertex) verb or modal (like Cant. h:Jji,
h:J nang 'be able to') so as to yield an A-category affirmative (m h:Jji m
V 'can't not, ought to, must'), the effect does seem to be that of cushion-
ing the iron fist of necessity or obligation within the velvet glove of
double negation. It is striking that the opposite practice of enclosing a
strong, A-category modal by double negation to produce a B-category
value (e.g., 'not obligatory not', 'needn't not' = 'permitted') is a far
rarer and altogether less conventional practice. While the logical equiva-
lences are parallel in the two cases (cf. (26) in chapter 4), the periphrasis
is functionally motivated only in the former case; there is no reason to
avoid the direct expression of permission or ability. (Cf. §4.2 above for
more on nonconsecutive, or flanking, double negation, and §5.3 for
further discussion of the attenuating effect of negation.)
Hintikka ignores those uses of the double negative prompted by a previ-
ous use (by the same or another speaker in or relevant to the discourse
context) of a single negative:
556
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
Notes to Pages 307-312
That looks impossible.-No, it's not impossible.
Contrary to popular opinion (previous claims, etc.), this task is
not impossible.
These examples represent one more instance in which a double negation
is more appropriate within a specific, nonstereotypic context than the
simple affirmative logically equivalent to it. As we saw in chapter 3,
even suc~ ~~parent!y pointless nega~ive stateme~ts as 5 is not even may
occur fehcltlOusly In place of the bnefer and logically equivalent 5 is
odd when the context contains either the false proposition that 5 is even
or the open proposition that x is even. '
The claim that two logically equivalent expressions which differ in logi-
cal form may count as nonsynonymous is also exploited in Atlas and
Levinson's (1981) analysis of the cleft construction.
For extensive discussion and references, see Horn 1978b and Horn and
Bayer 1984, both of which I shall draw freely on for the present ac-
count. As in the latter of these papers, the phrase NEG-RAISING PHENOME-
NON (NRP) will be employed expositorily and nonprejudicially, to
designate the correlation in question, with no assumptions made about
its ultimate treatment within linguistic theory.
Traditional linguists, from Tobler on (see below), have also tended to
assume, without argument, that the NRP is 'illogical', while at the
same time striving to find a general explanation for its existence. Here,
for example, is Grevisse (1969: 884; emphasis mine): 'II arrive que par
un deplacement curieux, des verbes tels que falloir, vouloir, devoir,
aller, etc. prennent la negation qui logiquement porte sur la proposition
ou l'infinitif qui le~ accompagne'.
Spitzer (1927: 69) notes that the same Zusammenfall of the reduced
forms Kalepky cites for hoffen-but not esperer-does obtain for a
true neg-raiser in French: je ne pense pas and je pense que non can
both bear the stronger, contrary interpretation (as, I might add, can
their English equivalents, I don't think so/I think not).
Spitzer's Gefiihlslogik is independently invoked by Le Bidois and Le
Bidois ([ 1935] 1968: §985) in their defense of the deplacement de la
negation affecting vouloir andfalloir: 'A la defaut ... de la logique
rationelle et abstraite, c'est la logique autrement intime, autrement puis-
sante du sentiment et de la vie qui est ici en jeu'. But while Le Bidois
and Le Bidois do not share Spitzer'S loony views on negative pre-
dispositions, they incorrectly take the NRP to be restricted to prohibitive
contexts, that is, verbs which denote will and necessity and which
govern the subjunctive.
Bolinger invokes the same metaphor in his early treatment of the sub-
stitution of I don't think I want it for I think I don't want it, in which
'a negative logically belonging to the subordinate verb passes to the
preceding governing verb' (1957 :94). But in labeling this process'AB-
SORBED negation', Bolinger anticipates both Klima's (1964) account of
'negative absorption' and his own later view (Bolinger 1968:23-24)
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
Notes to Pages 316-323 557
that the negative in question belongs semantically to both subordinate
and governing verbs, a claim to which I return in §5.3.
As seen in the contrast between the third and fourth versions, and in
that between the last two, the first of these principles takes precedence
over the second. Thus, a negatively inflected auxiliary X-n't will be
weaker than the corresponding postauxiliary negation X not. This is
borne out by the standard scalar diagnostics:
(i) She isn't happy; in fact (I'd go so far as to say) she's not happy.
(ii) #She's not happy; in fact (I'd go so far as to say) she isn't happy.
As we observed in earlier chapters, and shall see in more detail below,
a similar observation could be made about the relation between the
stronger (predicate-term or internal) reading vs. the weaker (predicate
denial or external) reading of the negation in The book is not white or
The king ofFrance is not bald. Whether these examples involve true
privative ambiguity is an open question, one to which I shall return in
chapters 6 and 7.
Note also the distributional correlates of this fact (cf. (42) above and
the detailed discussion in Horn 1978b): Kim {doesn't believe/#didn't
claim/ # isn't certain} that Pat will arrive until midnight.
The assertion of Lehmann (1980) alleging the nonexistence of the NRP
in verb-final languages cannot be substantiated, given the data on Hindi
(and related Indo-Aryan languages), Korean, Japanese, and Turkish
cited in Horn 1978b and papers referred to therein; cf. also Wali 1972
and Bhatia 1977 on South Asian languages and McGloin 1976, 1982
on Japanese.
It is argued in Horn 1978b: 205-7 that certain apparent verbs of
communication, including Greek phemi (cited by Bosanquet ([1888]
1911 :319) to illustrate the NRP, in the passage reproduced above) and
English would say, along with related predicates in Basque and Hebrew,
actually constitute opinion predicates of Category (a), thereby qualify-
ing as NR triggers.
This class may be more open than is generally recognized. When the
Philadelphia 76ers' team doctor Michael Clancy was quoted as assuring
the team and its fans that an injured player, Caldwell Jones, would be
OK because 'He did not examine as though it was a fracture', he clearly
suggests that Jones examined as though it wasn't a fracture. Apparently
any verb X, including patient-subject predicates like examine or read
(This book doesn't read as though the author knew anything aboutfor-
mal semantics), can occur in the frame not X {as though/like} Yand
convey the lower-neg understanding X {as though/like} not Y.
Escure (1974) argues unconvincingly that French allows NR over fac-
tives; the problem is that her examples of "factives" (desirer, souhaiter)
aren't. Shnukal (1980) asserts that there can be no semantic criteria for
neg-raisability, contra Horn (1975, 1978b), since 'even some factives,
traditionally excluded from the list of Neg-Raising predicates (Horn
558
38.
39.
40.
41.
Notes to Pages 336-345
1975: 287) may, on occasion, allow NR'. But her evidence for this
claim is illustrated by examples like (i):
(i) I don't {see/know} that there would be any problem at all, would
there?
But whatever else is going on here, the NRP is not directly involved,
since-as noted by Cattell (1973:623-24) and Hom (1978b: 154-
55)-(i) is paraphrased not by (ii) but by something like (iii):
(ii) I {see/know} that there wouldn't any problem at all.
(iii) There won't be any problem at all {that I can see/as far as I
know}.
And in any case, the verbs in question here, as in Escure's example, are
not factive when they occur in the frame of (i), which clearly does not
presuppose that there would (or will) be a problem.
Actually, all we are licensed to infer is that the negations are not
sub-VP-level. We shall see in chapter 7 that there is reason to doubt that
sentential negation exists as such within the syntax of natural language.
In Aristotelian terms, what I am claiming here is that the negations in
the sentences under consideration are predicate denials, not predicate
term negations.
Modulo the blocking phenomenon cited in my discussion in §5.1.1
which precludes the formation of *ungood, *untall, *unrich, and so
forth. The failure of sad to block the formation of unhappy may be
attributed to the fact, noticed by Lehrer and Lehrer (1982:20), that the
former is not simply a stronger version of the latter: while one who is
very unhappy could be described as sad, 'one could also be unhappy
because one is frustrated, unsatisfied, disappointed, or angry'.
SCls, as conventionalized conversational implicatures, are not to be con-
fused with Grice's (or Karttunen and Peters's) conventional implicatures
(cf. §2.5). Unlike conversational implicata (short-circuited or not),
conventional implicata are-as their name betokens-part of an expres-
sion's conventional meaning, although they do not affect the truth
conditions of the sentence in which that expression occurs. Like SCls,
conventional implicata are detachable; unlike SCls-or indeed any con-
versational implicata-they are noncalculable and noncancelable. This
does not mean that it is always obvious when a given implicatum ceases
being an SCI and acquires the status of a conventional implicatum;
these are precisely the issues which a pragmatic theory must help de-
cide. (See Cole 1975 and Sadock 1978 for related discussion.)
The treatment of the NRP as an instance of short-circuited conversa-
tional implicature was suggested in 1980 in a paper by Samuel Bayer
for a course of mine at Yale; the present version of this analysis is
essentially a revision of Hom and Bayer 1984. The notion of short-
circuited implicature is also invoked by Caplan (1978) to account for
some of the material dealt with in this section involving partly conven-
tionalized litotes.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
Notes to Pages 346-355 559
Cf. Brown and Levinson 1978: §5 for an especially thorough and in-
sightful cross-linguistic and theoretical study of the interaction of
implicature, indirectness, and politeness, with a focus (in their §5.4)
on negative politeness in particular.
The two effects are not only related but interactive. Sentence (99'b) in
fact represents a doubly hedged version of the proposition being (indi-
rectiy) asserted here, that is, (i)
(i) Your jumpsuit is {not entirely appropriate/rather inappropriate}.
Thus the addressee is doubly blessed, at least conventionally, since the
disagreeable proposition is phrased so as to incorporate both forms of
indirection. The actual content of the assertion in such cases is signaled
by tag questions, as R. Lakoff (1969) points out in connection with her
notorious example (ii), where the tagged proposition must be (iii):
(ii) I don't suppose the Yankees will win, will they?
(iii) The Yankees will not win.
(Cf. also Cattell 1973 on tag questions and the NRP.)
Unless it is forced by the presence of the relevant linguistic diagnostics.
I have already touched on the role of strict NPls as forcing the NR
(lower-clause) understanding for higher-clause negation (cf. Hom
1978b for more details), the role of preverbal please as a signal of
indirect requests, and of but (= 'but not') for universally quantified
assertions. In the same way, the indirect assertion or parenthetical func-
tion of I believe, I suppose, and I guess, etc. (insightfully discussed in
the analytic philosophy literature by Urmson [1952] and Wittgenstein
[1953: 190]) can be signaled or forced by postponing this adverbial-like
qualifier as in (i), or 'niching' it (cf. Ross 1973a) as in (ii):
(i) Your answer is not wholly satisfactory, I believe.
(ii) Your jumpsuit, I think, is not entirely appropriate.
Compare this (anti-LEM) verdict delivered by a New Yorker cartoon
forewoman of the jury:
'We find the defendant not guilty but not all that innocent,
either' .
A clear minimal pair is provided by anxious to, which is e-pos and
supports the process in (103), and anxious about, which is e-neg and
blocks it:
(i) I'm not that anxious to see the
movie.
(ii) I'm not that anxious about the
exam.
[--> contrary (I'd rather not
see it)] -
[simple contradictory]
While anxious to is not an NR trigger (a la likely to), its negation is
typically strengthened to a contrary, whether it is intensified, as in (i),
or not, as in (iii), courtesy of Edgar Rice Burroughs (Tarzan's First
Love):
560
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
Notes to Pages 355-360
(iii) Tarzan knew that once the great bulls were aroused none of the
jungle, not even Numa, the lion, was anxious to match fangs
with them.
Even when neither negated value is unmarked, the irony seems to be
somewhat deader when it is an e-pos evaluation that is negated. Both
responses in (i) are possible, but more calculation is required to extract
the ironic (litotic) interpretation in the latter case.
(i) A: How are you feeling?
BI : Not great. [--> pretty bad]
B2: Not lousy. [? --> pretty good]
Bolinger (1972: 121ff.) sees this 'complimentary use' of not half bad
(= 'more than half good') as nonquantitative: he observes that the even
tacitly built into a standard example of not half (with its 'less than'
interpretation characteristic of scalar negation; cf. chapter 4 above) is
obligatorily absent here:
(i) The show isn't (even) half over yet.
(ii) As a pianist, he's not (*even) half bad.
Similarly, we might note that describing the wine as not half bad is
quite different from saying that the bottle is not [= less than] half full
(or not half empty).
As Ladd notes, his theory of intonational meaning correctly rules out
a fall-rise contour with what I have termed extreme scalar values (i.e.,
those compatible with absolutely):
(i) A: How do you like my new color scheme?
BI: #{'Horrible/FanVtastic} B2: .J{'Horrible/Fan'tastic}
The interaction of intonation contours with implicature will be consid-
ered again in chapter 6.
It shou~d also be pointed out that the availability of the litotic reading of
evaluative not bad depends on the choice of intensifer inserted after the
negation, while no such variability obtains for its counterpart, not good:
(i) A: How are you feeling?
B: Not too good. [--> fairly bad]
Not too bad. [--> fairly good]
(ii) A: How are you feeling?
B: Not very good. [--> fairly bad]
(?) Not very bad. [-/-> fairly good]
Conventionalization of usage strikes again.
Other attenuations of the positive occurring as possible responses to a
general How's it goin' question are Can't complain (slightly more up-
beat than Not so bad) and It could be worse (cited as the appropriate
response of a farmer interviewed after a tornado touchdown has leveled
all his buildings and sent the boards of his bam flying into the next
county) (Mohr 1987:7-8).
1.
2.
3.
4.
Notes to Pages 366-369
Chapter Six
Thus the purported ambiguity of (3)-and that of (I)-cannot be
demonstrated by an application of the ellipsis (identity-of-sense)
transformations which block crossed readings in the case of non-
privative ambiguities:
(i) Tracy left a deposit at the bank, and so did Lee.
(ii) I saw her duck, {and you did too/but you didn't}.
561
As Zwicky and Sadock (1975) note, the identification of crossed read-
ings in cases of privative opposition is problematic, since the more
inclusive understanding will always be available, for example, in (iii)
and (iv):
(iii) Fido is a dog, and so is Queenie.
(iv) The king of France is not bald, and neither is the queen of
England.
Thus, pace Kempson (1975 :99-100), the acceptability of (iv)-where
both conjuncts permit the more inchlsive external understanding-has
no bearing either way on the purported ambiguity of negation. By the
ambiguity criterion classical employed by philosophers, according to
which a statement is ambiguous if it can be simultaneously true and
false relative to the same possible world, context, or state of affairs
(cf. Quine 1960:27 on the ambiguity of light; see also Martin 1982 and
Kempson 1986), (3) comes out ambiguous, since it can be either true
or false if I bought a bitch. Sentence (1) seems to be ambiguous by the
same test: in the world of 1905 or today, Russell's classic example may
well be simultaneously true and-depending on one's semantic persua-
sion-either false or neither true nor false (i.e., in any case, not true).
The a priori objection to an ambiguous negation operator thus comes
to rest largely on the metatheoretical desideratum of parsimony, rather
than on the nature of ambiguity in natural language. (Cf. Hom 1984a, c
for a general defense of privative ambiguity, and Atlas 1974, 1977,
1979, 1980, 1981 for a wholesale rejection of the ambiguity of natural
language negation.)
Sources for data include Andrew 1940 for Old English, BanjQ 1974 for
Yoruba, Marilyn Vihman (pers. com.) for Estonian, and Yau 1980 for
Cantonese.
Linebarger (1981) also explores the failure of external negation to
trigger NPls. Following Ktoch (1974), she attributes this failure to the
intervention of an abstract TRUE predicate immediately within the scope
of negation, blocking the relation between the NPI and its potential
trigger. This approach to external negation will be evaluated in §6.5
below.
This comment applies primarily to the seminal work on presupposition
in Strawson 1950, 1952. As Dahl (1981: 197) points out, Strawson later
(1964: 95) acknowledges that the negation of a sentence guilty of ref-
erence failure may well be true (contra the misrepresentation of his
562
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
Notes to Pages 369-374
position in Wilson 1975: 19). Dahl's neo-Strawsonian account of nega-
tion in PPCDs (purported presupposition-canceling discourses) is in fact
consistent with the treatment of metalinguistic negation I shall under-
take here. Cf. also Burton-Roberts (1987) for a neo-Strawsonian theory
of presupposition which explicitly invokes my notion of metalinguistic
negation to account for such PPCDs.
Atlas (1977,1978,1979,1980,1981) differs from his fellows in the
monoguist cohort in rejecting the view that negation is invariably an
external, truth-functional operator, a view which he himself endorsed
in Atlas 1974. I shall return to his current position in §6.5 below.
The former example may be hard to process with wide scope on the
negation, as desired. There is a strong tendency to take auxiliary nega-
tion as inside the scope of a preceding indefinite (B-category quanti-
fier), a tendency I shall investigate further in chapter 7. But (13a) is
read with wide-scope negation if it immediately follows the assertion
that some men are chauvinists.
While the response in (15) is possible, a more natural correction would
be that in (i), as suggested to me by Benoit de Cornulier (pers. com.).
(i) Ce n'est pas que j'ai 'coo-pay luh vee-and', c'est que j'ai coupe
la viande.
I shall return below to the correlation between cleft syntax and meta-
linguistic negation.
For the view from the other side, compare this plaintive comment from
Jim Garrett, during his brief tenure as football coach at Columbia Uni-
versity, on his then 0-8 team:
(i) I really believe we don't lose. We just don't win.
Notice that Coach Garrett was not alluding to ties.
Quantity-based implicata are also generated by tautologies (e.g., war is
war, boys will be boys), which can be interpreted as informative only
on the assumption that the speaker is obeying the Cooperative Principle
and in particular the maxim of Quantity (cf. Grice 1975; Levinson
1983: 110-11). Of course, just which informative proposition will be
taken as having been conveyed by a given tautology will depend on
contextual factors, some of which are clearly conventionalized: compare
the respective implicata of When it's over, it's over and It ain't over till
it's over. These implicata too are susceptible to metalinguistic rejection,
as is clear from the following scenario, due to Quaker State Motor Oil:
(i) A: What brand of motor oil do you use?
B[starting car engine]: Motor oil is motor oil.
[Smoke belches out of B's exhaust.]
Voice-over: Motor oil is definitely not motor oil.
The presumed trigger of (24a), They had a baby and got married,
might be taken to be semantically ambiguous between atemporal (sym-
metric or logical, and also) and temporal (and then) readings. Evidence
against this position includes the following:
11.
12.
13.
14.
Notes to Pages 374-377 563
1. On the two- and theory, conjunction in virtually every language
would be described as ambiguous in just the same way as in
English.
2. No natural language contains a single conjunction ambiguous be-
tween 'and also' and 'and earlier' readings: no language could
be just like English except for containing a conjunction shmand
such that They had a baby shmand got married would be inter-
preted either atemporally or as 'They had a baby and, before
that, they had gotten married'.
3. The same ambiguity exhibited by and arises in paratactic con-
structions in which two clauses describing related events are
juxtaposed without any overt connective (They had a baby.
They got married.).
Grice's alternative position, which I take to be correCt, is that conjunc-
tions are semantically univocal, but may conversationally implicate
(through the exploitation of the Manner submaxim 'Be orderly') that
the events occurred in the order in which they were described. The im-
possibility of shmand on this account is pegged to the absence of any
maxim enjoining the speaker to 'Be disorderly'. Notice that, as with
scalar implicature, the asymmetric implicatum may be canceled or sus-
pended: They had a baby and got married, but not necessarily in that
order. (Grice's line on asymmetric conjunction is supported by Wilson
(1975), Schmerling (1975), Gazdar (1979a), and Levinson (1983),
while it is rejected in favor of a semantic account by Bar-Lev and Palacas
(1980), McCawley (1981), Carston (1985b), and Kempson (1986).)
In later work by Ducrot and his colleagues, beginning with Ducrot
1973, 'negation metalinguistique' is rechristened 'negation polemique',
prompted by an increased emphasis on the structure of argumentation.
I consider the earlier term more felicitous, expecially in the light of
examples not considered by Ducrot, for example, (14)-(16). In these
cases, negation constitutes a means for rejecting the language used by
an earlier speaker, and is therefore indeed metalinguistic; but the notion
of polemics or argumentation must be stretched to the snapping point to
treat the negation here as polemic.
Moser points out that a more exact model of pragmatic ambiguity for
our purposes is the dual-function analysis of left dislocation offered by
Prince (1983), in which a single construction or lexical form is seen as
serving two distinct (but systematically related) discourse functions.
Note, however, that the dual functions of negation are not entirely on a
par with the instances of pragmatic ambiguity just cited, where the dis-
tinction between the two understandings in each case is neutralized at
the level of logical form.
As Barbara Abbott has pointed out to me, U need not even involve
a specifically linguistic utterance, as seen by the function of meta-
linguistic negation in the following musical scenario:
(i) Piano student plays passage in manner J.t.
Teacher: It's not [plays passage in manner J.t]-it's [plays same
passage in manner J.t'].
564
15.
16.
17.
18.
Notes to Pages 379-387
The teacher's use of not is clearly not assimilable to anything remotely
resembling truth-functional propositional negation. (Cf. also Partee
1973 for an account of belief contexts in which utterances as well as
propositions can be the object of belief, and in which a believes that
U =1= a believes that p).
This same distinction can be applied successfully to the problem of fu-
ture contingents I touched on in §2.1. Aristotle's dilemma-how do we
assign truth values to (i) and (ii) today without embracing determinism?
(i) There will be a sea battle tomorrow.
(ii) There will not be a sea battle tomorrow.
-can be resolved without adopting the Boethian position championed
by Lukasiewicz, in which a third, indeterminate value is assigned to
both of these statements. What we need to recognize is that (i) and (ii)
are simply true or false, according to what the future holds, although
neither (i) nor (ii) is assertable in the present, in the absence of fore-
knowledge or clairvoyance. The same approach generalizes naturally
to the other varieties of present unknowables cited in §2.1, such as
Aristotle ate no breakfast on the day he died, or The number ofstars
is even.
For those who lack the appropriate Parisian frame of reference to evalu-
ate the propositions in (38), (i) is a rough equivalent based on my own
hometown:
(i) If the docks are the burly forearms of New York, the subways are
the pits.
Nongeographic instantiations of this construction, especially in the
heart-and-soul frame of (38a), are frequently attested in journalistic
prose, whence cometh (ii):
(ii) If Patrick Ewing was the defensive heart of Georgetown's 1984
championship team, Gene Smith was unquestionably its soul.
While it begins to seem as though all logical operators may well have
an extended metalinguistic function in addition to (and motivated by)
their conventional logical function, I do not mean to suggest that it is
only the connectives and variable binders which have this dual charac-
ter. It might be maintained, for example, that definite pronouns are used
metalinguistically in contexts like (i) and (ii):
(i) What do you mean the king of France is bald-he doesn't exist.
(ii) She told me a story about Santa Claus, but I know he doesn't
really exist.
The same judgments will apply to intrasentential negations:
(i) Mona is not at least six feet tall, she's {5'10"/#6'2"}.
(ii) Jude is not at least as tall as Mona, he's {shorter/#taller}.
The same pattern, of course, applies to other scalar negations:
(iii) Max doesn't have at least three children, he has {two/ #four}.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
Notes to Pages 388-401
(iv) It isn't at least possible she'll win (#-it's downright certain
she will).
(v) It's not at least warm out, it's downright {chilly/ # hot}.
565
The subsequent discussion is lifted essentially verbatim from Horn
1984b: 20-22; the reader is referred to that paper for additional details.
My examples of this phenomenon, discussed in chapter 2, included the
sortal incorrectness pairs in (i) (from Zimmer 1964), (ii) (from Drange
1966), and (iii) (from Bergmann 1977).
(i) Triangles are {not intelligent/ # unintelligent}.
(ii) The number 4 is {not to1erant/ # intolerant} of carelessness.
(iii) The theory of relativity is {not interested/ # uninterested} in clas-
sical music.
Sentence (56a) in the text echoes (iv) (from Zimmer 1964: 23),
(iv) The king of France is {not intelligent! #unintelligent}-there
isn't any.
in which the negation outside the scope of the existential presupposition
is similarly immune to prefixal co-optation. My point in this subsection
is simply that this immunity is not limited to the negation affecting
presuppositions or conventional implicata, providing one more argu-
ment for the unity-and the nonsemantic nature-of marked negation.
This account of the incorporation diagnostic must draw a sharp distinc-
tion between the lexicalized prefixal negations of (56)-(58) and the
"contracted" -n't in examples like (57a) and numerous other sentences
scattered throughout this chapter. Evidently nothing constrains meta-
linguistic negation from contracting as an enclitic onto a preceding
copula. If (as has been traditionally assumed) the -n't forms are
produced by postlexical syntactic and/or phonological rules of en-
cliticization, rather than in the lexicon, the distinction is made for us
automatically. However, as Jerry Sadock has pointed out to me, the
adoption of Zwicky and Pullum's (1983) analysis of Xn't as an inflec-
tion of the auxiliary element X, generated by the morphology, would
require a different account here, perhaps one exploiting the distinction
between the derivational and inflectional morphology. I shall simply
assume that the grammar has some way of distinguishing the lexical
prefixes un-, iN-, and so forth, which are incompatible with meta-
linguistic negation, from the -n't forms, which are not.
As Bolinger also recognizes, however, a diminisher may be turned into
a minimizer by the insertion of even; compare (74'b) to (i) and (ii):
(i) I didn't eat even a little.
(ii) I was not even a little tired.
(= nothing at all)
(= not a bit tired)
That is, the descriptive negations corresponding to the qualified affirma-
tions in (75a) are not those in (75b), but must take the form of (i), or-
even more simply-in (ii):
(i) He isn't at all tired (ill, tall).
(ii) He isn't tired (ill, tall).
566
24.
25.
26.
Notes to Pages 402 -403
The positive polarity status of the examples in (75a) is obviously not
a coincidence, given the high degree of nondetachability of whatever
pragmatic process is responsible for this restriction. But just why is it
that while negating a minimum quantity results-not surprisingly-in
a strong negative, negating a moderate quantity results in anomaly (as
in (75b»? To what factors do we owe the PPI-hood of this class of ad-
verbs? While I cannot pursue an adequate answer here, I would suggest
that the lack of straightforward negation in these cases is functionally
motivated. There may well be sufficient reasons for qualifying or toning
down a strong affirmative (especially when the modified adjective is e-
neg, as in (75a); cf. Stoffel 1901 on 'down-toners'), and there are-as
we saw in chapter 5-sufficient reasons for toning down a strong nega-
tive by expressing it indirectly (as in (72') or (73), or by the not
{too/very/overly} construction discussed in §5.3), even when the indi-
rectness is only pro forma. But there is no similar motivation for
expressing a negated qualified statement; if the true negations of (75a)
are really those in (i) and (ii), the economy (R) Principle blocks the use
of the more cumbersome forms in (75b) to convey that same meaning,
and (disregarding the metalinguistic use, which has its own motivation)
there is no other proposition these negations would usefully serve to
express.
Bolinger (1977: 45) points out that at least for some speakers, these
'formulaic external negations'-he includes poppycock, fiddlesticks,
like hell, like fun, and the functionally related overt negation nothing-
can 'reach down' across clause boundaries, or even island boundaries,
to zero in on the one item they are used (metalinguistically) to reject:
(i) -He found proofs that clinched the argument.
-He found proofs that clinched {nothing/fiddlesticks}.
(ii) -You'll tell me when you get the reply.
-I'll tell you when I get nothing.
(iii) -He has a dog that bit a policeman.
-He has a dog that bit your old man.
Judgments may differ on these, but perhaps the reader will share my
own intuition that Bolinger's examples become more plausible if
nothing gives way to nothing ofthe sort, or if we employ in each case
the all-purpose 'formulaic external negation' par excellence, namely,
yo'mama.
Sgall, Hajicova, and Benesova (1973: 21ff.) treat instances of the not
X but Y construction as 'second-instance sentences', that is, as meta-
linguistic rejections of an earlier explicit or implicit assertion.
The difference between these examples and Bald's is that a negation
immediately following be (as in (78'), (78"a), and for that matter (78»
may be a descriptive or a metalinguistic operator, since the syntax of
negative placement obscures the difference. But in modem English,
a negation placed after a main verb must be understood metaIinguis-
tically, with narrow focus, and hence must normally be completed by
a rectification. (I return to postverbal negation below.)
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
Notes to Pages 404-406 567
Concessive but clauses are also discussed by Bolinger (1972 :118), who
differentiates the 'adversative but' of the concessive clause in (i) and (ii)
from the 'verifying infact' of the implicatum-suspending clause in (iii).
(i) I'm not very happy, but I am happy.
(ii) He doesn't have many friends, but he does have a few.
(iii) He doesn't have many friends, in fact he hardly has any at all.
(Cf. also the discussion of concessive vs. suspensive ifnot clauses in
Hom 1972 and Welte 1978, cited earlier in this section.)
The same contours are determined by concessive structures which do
not involve negation, as in the attested example in (i):
(i) 'For a cat he's a pretty good guy, but he is a cat'. (one mouse to
another on TV cartoon show)
Klima (1964:302-3) and (apparently independently) Gates and Seright
(1967) cite additional linguistic correlates of the negative-contrastive
construction, both of which reinforce its status as a noncoordinate struc-
ture. First, the negative element is nonrestrictive and hence optional:
(i) a. (Not pleasure but) business is the purpose of my visit.
b. Business (not pleasure) is the purpose of my visit.
Secondly, it is always the positive element which controls agreement:
(ii) a.. Not this book but those {are/ *is} acceptable.
b. This book but not those {is/*are} acceptable.
Thirdly, it is only the positive element on which a tag can be based:
(iii) a. Not the father but the mother supports the family, doesn't
{she/*he}?
b. The father {and/but} not the mother supports the family,
doesn't {he/*she}?
Thus, as Klima observes, the subject of the not X but Y construction
is Y.
That this restriction did not always exist is clear from a sixteenth-
century example of finite-verb-focus metalinguistic negation which
Curme (1931) cites from Nashe:
(i) They deafe men's eares, but not edifie.
While Curme finds 'something unnatural' about (i) vis-a-vis the modem
language, Nashe's sentiment could be equivalently expressed without
the offending particle, as in (ii),
(ii) They deafen, not edify, men's ears.
Cf. Smith (1933: 80) for related discussion.
Cf. Konig (forthcoming) for a comprehensive cross-linguistic study of
adversative constructions in a framework partly based on that of Hom
1984b, 1985.
568
32.
33.
34.
Notes to Page 406
Having offered two equivalents for 'but' in Finnish, Whitney
(1956: 187) goes on to observe the following:
After a negative statement mutta introduces a mild difference or a
concessive statement, while vaan begins a stronger or complete
contradiction:
Han ei ole sairas. mutta heikko han on.
Han ei ole sairas. vaan aivan terre.
'He is not ill, but he
is weak'
'Heis not ill, but
quite well'
(The gapping in the latter construction is characteristic of the meta-
linguistic/contrastive but pattern in Finnish as well as English-and
French, as we are about to see.)
As pointed out by Ducrot and Vogt (1979 :318- 19), there is clear evi-
dence that within the Classical period magis could already serve as a
rectifying, sondern-type adversative. They cite the following examples
from Virgil and Catullus, respectively, in which the negation must be
understood metalinguistically:
(i) Non equidem invideo, magis
miror.
(ii) Id, Manli, non est turpe,
magis miserum.
'I am not envious, but (rather)
astonished'
'It's not shameful, Manlius,
but unhappy'
The metalinguistic nature of the latter example is brought out by Ducrot
and Vogt by their free rendering, 'line faut pas dire que c'est honteux,
il faut dire plutot que c'est malheureux'. The compound particle nisi
(the reverse cognate of Spanish sino) was also employed as an adver-
sative; cf. Tobler [1896] 1908:70-71, Melander 1916: 122-23, and
Wagenaar 1930: 133-34 for examples and discussion.
Actually, as Melander (1916:90-94) points out, both mais and ains do
occur without an overt negation immediately preceding, provided that
the understood negative proposition is recoverable from the context of
rectification:
(i) - Tu menz.
-Mes tu, dex te confond.
(ii) - Vous aves tort.
-Ains ai bien droit.
'You lie'
'You [do], God confound you'
'You're wrong'
'[On the contrary] I'm quite
right'
Notice that unlike maisSN' the SN particle ains-whose closest modern
equivalent may be au contraire 'on the contrary'-is attested in un-
reduced clauses. It is also worth noting that both mais and ains were
systematically used in scalar contexts to detach the upper-bounding im-
plicatum, in the fashion of indeed (cf. §4.4). Melander provides the
following citations, inter alia, from Ronsard and his contemporaries:
(iii) "Estes vous ... blechies?"-"Blechies? Ains sui tues"
(iv) Quelle plaisir est-ce, ains quelle merveille.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
Notes to Pages 407-408 569
(v) Lustre de ta patrie, ains de tout l'univers.
(vi) Jusqu'aux Rois (0 rna Muse), ains jusqu'aux Dieux tu pousses.
(vi) Que tout ton sens envers Ie mien/Vault moult petit, mais ne vault
rien.
(vii) Promis? Mes done quitement.
In each case, a scalar value (wounded, pleasure, the fatherland, the
Kings, little, promised) is rejected in favor of a stronger item on the
same scale (killed, wonder, the entire universe, the Gods, nothing,
given). This 'augmentative' use of ains and maisSN' clearly akin to
metalinguistic negation, is now expressed by the specialized adverb
voire. which-like its English counterpart nay (Wounded? Nay.
killed)-retains a palpable soupfon of the literary.
While the typical use of neg-P SN Q directly follows a previous asser-
tion of P, this is not a necessary condition on the felicity of SN-but. The
sequence in (i) is well formed in both Spanish and German versions,
(i) A: Pierre is nice.
B: He's not just nice, butsN quite generous.
Here, the object of B's denial (he's just nice) has not been actually
asserted, but is inferrable via the 'loi d'exhaustivite' (or the Maxim
of Quantity; cf. §4.2) from A's assertion.
As Tobler ([1896] 1908:94) recognizes, however, the distinction be-
tween the aber-type mais of (i) and the sondern-type mais of (ii) is
neutralized in (iii), where the negation focuses on the verb (more spe-
cifically, on its tense).
(i) II n'est pas riche, mais il est
sain.
(ii) II n'est pas riche mais pauvre.
(iii) II n'est pas riche, mais il I'a
ere.
'He isn't rich, butpA he is
healthy'
'He is not rich butsN poor'
'He is not rich, butpA/sN he
was'
Extensive discussion of the German and Swedish facts is given in Lang
1977 (cf. also Welte 1978: 193ff. on German and English), while
Anscombre and Ducrot (1977) and Ducrot and Vogt (1979) provide de-
tailed analyses of data from French and other Romance languages from
the perspective of a theory of argumentation.
The proposal that English possesses both aber-type and sondern-type
buts would appear to be inconsistent with Klima's analysis (1964:
302-3) on which (i) is derived from the source directly underlying (ii);
(i) Not John but Mary supports the family. [= (79c)]
(ii) Mary, {and/but} not John, supports the family.
note that the former contains an instance of butsN and the latter an in-
stance of butpA•
Welte shows that even when the syntax of PA clauses is compatible with
gapping, the incorporation criterion still permits us to distinguish the
two buts of English as well as their German counterparts. Consider
570
40.
41.
Notes to Page 418
the following paradigms, from Welte (1978: 193-94) (cf. Lang
1977, 1984):
(iG) Bill machte Sue nicht gliicklich, {aberlsondern} reich.
(iE) Bill made Sue not happy, but (he made her) rich.
(iiG) Bill machte Sue ungliicklich, {aber/*sondern} reich.
(iiE) Bill made Sue unhappy but rich.
Welte observes that the aber-type constructions in all four sentences
involve two facts, triggering in each case the entailment that Bill made
Sue both rich and not (or un-) happy, while a syntactically negated
sondern-type 'Korrektursatz' like (i) involves just one fact; the only
inference warranted here being that Bill made Sue rich. If we replace
r(e)ich with its antonym, the PAIaber connective becomes semantically
implausible, while its SNIsondern counterpart-if available-is fine:
(iiiG) Bill machte Sue nicht gliicklich, {#aberlsondern} arm.
(iiiE) Bill made Sue not happy, but (#he made her) poor.
(ivG) Bill machte Sue ungliicklich, {#aber/*sondern} arm.
(ivE) #Bill made Sue unhappy but poor.
The implausibility of the necessary presuppositions renders (ivGI E)
anomalous on the PA version (cf. discussion in text below), while the
lexical negation rules it out as a possible Korrektursatz.
As Georgia Green has reminded me, reveille does have words-indeed,
several alternate sets of words; but we cannot infer from the announcer's
comment that he is transderivationally alluding to any particular set of
words, or in fact that he even knows any set of words.
This phenomenon, in which a proposition that is pragmatically pre-
supposed as part of the common ground can serve as the basis for
anaphoric-type destressing of material actually uttered for the first time,
is amply instantiated in the literature. The contrasts in (i), (ii), (iii), and
(iv) are discussed in Morgan 1969, Akmajian and Jackendoff 1970,
Hom 1981b, and Ladd 1980, respectively.
(i) a. How does it feel to be a beautiful GIRL? (no pragmatic pre-
supposition necessary)
b. How does it FEEL to be a beautiful girl? (speaker presupposes
addressee is a beautiful girl)
(ii) John washed the car-
a. I was afraid someone ELSE would do it. (hope fulfilled: I
wanted John to wash it)
b. I was AFRAID someone else would do it. (disappointment: I
wanted to do it myself)
(iii) a. I thought you were COMING. (but you didn't)
b. I THOUGHT you were coming. (and sure enough, you did)
(iv) -How did your operation go?
-Don't talk to me about it.
a. ?#I'd like to strangle the BUTCHER. (only literal reference to
the butcher; OK after How's the filet mignon?)
b. I'd like to STRANGLE the butcher. (epithet reading, with
pragmatic presupposition).
42.
43.
44.
45.
Notes to Pages 418-428 571
As in my musical example (113), the material following the stressed
element in the (b) examples here is treated as though it had been as-
serted earlier in the discourse context, and hence is destressed. A
frequently encountered example of pragmatically triggered destressing
is found in sportscasters's updating of scores; which numeral receives
the major stress in (v) depends on which team has just scored one or
more runs.
(v) {And that makes it!And the score is now} Red Sox 6, Yankees 3.
Ladd (1980) offers a persuasive account of anaphoric destressing as de-
fault accent, although other proposals abound in the literature on
intonation.
Compare, however, the following remark by a gloomy drive-in movie
owner in suburban Atlanta, quoted in Newsweek (9 August 1982):
(i) Things are so much more open sexually today that who needs a
drive-in?
It is often difficult to determine just how a given expression, for ex-
ample, those in (i),
(i) John, too, is coming to the party.
Even John passed the exam. [cf. my discussion of not . .. even
in §2.5 above]
may be (descriptively) negated. Ducrot suggests we can determine
intuitively what an expression presupposes, and thereby discover its
descriptive, presupposition-preserving negation. Thus the descriptive
negations of (ii)-(iii) can be given as (ii')-(iii'), respectively (Ducrot
1972: 105):
(ii) We have finally arrived.
(ii') We haven't arrived yet.
(iii) For a Frenchman, he knows a lot of logic.
(iii') Even for a Frenchman, he doesn't know much logic.
Anscombre and Ducrot (1977 :40) point out that non (pas) requires an
overt rectification:
(i) # Pierre viendra non pas
demain.
(ii) Pierre viendra non pas
demain mais la
semaine prochaine.
'Pierre will come not tomorrow'
'Pierre will come not tomorrow but
next week'
As seen in the glosses, and earlier in (79), the same property is shared
by postverbal metalinguistic negation in English.
As carefully documented by Danell (1974), much more is going on here
than meets the eye. The interplay of factors determining the distribution
of pas du X (or pas un X) vs. pas de X is extremely complex, hinging
on such variables as the scope of negation, the modality of the sen-
tence, the nature of the complement(s), and the 'degree of existence'
of the object focused by negation.
11
III
''I
!II
1111
572
46.
47.
48.
1.
2.
3.
4.
Notes to Pages 432-456
Note that incorporation is impossible here, as predicted (cf. my minimal
pairs in §6.4):
(i) #It's impossible that mammals suckle their young, you igno-
ramus, it's downright necessary.
With cardinal values, the metalinguistic reading is available without
fall-rise intonation or rectification, if the focused (objected-to) value im-
mediately follows the negative: Nem tizet akar (literally, 'Not ten [he]
wants') can convey that he wants less or more than ten, while Nem akar
tizet can only be interpreted descriptively as signaling that he wants less
than ten.
Cf. also Stickel (1972) on the functions of nein (freestanding no) as
a 'Kontroll- und Korrektursignale' (i.e., metalinguistic negation)
in German.
Chapter Seven
The same pattern is attested in the unrelated language Thadou (a Kuki-
Chin tongue of the Tibeto-Burmese group, spoken in the Manipur Hills
of India): hih occurs in imperative contexts, po with nonimperative
ver.bs, and lou to mark constituent (phrasal, word, or affixal) negation,
as In apha-lou 'not good' (cf. Thirumalai 1970 for details). Similarly,
in the Bantu language Kinyarwanda, sentential or verbal negation is
expressed by nti-I -ta-, nominal negation by nta, and constituent or
focus negation (often functioning metalinguistically, as in the not X
but Y construction) by si (Kimenyi 1973).
'Not an accent' meaning not even a diacritic, presumably the linguistic
mark of least value. Similar minimizers from the linguistic domain are
tittle and jot (often appearing in tandem: not depart one tittle orjot
from), Latin titulus, Greek stigme, German (kein) Iota, and so forth.
It is hard to find anything much smaller or less significant than the dot
over an i.
The stage represented by (5b), in which finite-verb negation co-occurs
with one or more neg-incorporated indefinites to express a negative
proposition, is of course still extant in nonstandard English (cf. Labov
1972), and is realized as well in a wide variety of the world's lan-
guages. Jespersen (1917: 64-80) illustrates 'cumulative', 'resumptive',
and 'paratactic' varieties of multiple negation with data from Latin, Old
and Modem English, Middle High German, Danish, Spanish, Serbian,
Greek, Hungarian, and Bantu. (Cf. also Coombs 1976 for extensive
examples from the older Germanic dialects and Wagenaar 1930 for
Romance.)
The history of negation in Old Icelandic is somewhat different. The Old
Icelandic preverbal particle ne seems to have dropped out fairly early on
in clause-initial position; finite negation is marked instead by the his-
torically positive reinforcer eigi 'not at all' in prose and by the suffixes
-gi and -art) (cognate with OE ii and Gothic aiw 'ever') in poetry. Cf.
Delbriick 1910: 22-24 and Coombs 1976: §7 for elaboration.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
Notes to Pages 456-462 573
By the turn of the sixteenth century, Shakespeare was able to exploit the
interchangeability of the two alternants, as we saw in §6.6.
Or more accurately, in the structures of the respective types within a
single language; like other adverbs, nicht appears postverbally in verb-
second main clauses (or root sentences) in German, but preverbally in
verb-final embedded clauses.
As I shall discuss in more detail later in this chapter, n't is in fact not
an enclitic but an inflectional suffix on tensed auxiliaries: cf. Lapointe
1980; Gazdar, Pullum, and Sag 1982; and especially Zwicky and
Pullum 1983. As Zwicky and Pullum (1983: 507) point out, if clitics
(including the auxiliary forms 've, 's, and 'd) are attached postsyntac-
tically, and inflectional affixes are associated with stems in the lexicon,
there is no way to get an inflectional suffix (e.g., -n't) outside an en-
clitic. Thus, while·no general constraint blocks the accumulation of
clitics per se (cf. I'd've, she'd'a), we automatically rule out *I'ven't,
*she'sn't as variants of I haven'tlI've not, she isn'tl she's not.
Fortunately, Marchand's insightful analysis of the forms and func-
tions of modem English negation does not depend crucially on his
Sprachgefohl-ish account (1938: 204) of the predominance of con-
tracted negation: 'As a rule, English does not like to emphasize the idea
of negativity, being a language which naturally avoids emotionality.'
Given the notorious description of English as a 'masculine' tongue in
Jespersen 1922, we can only conclude that non-native grarnrnarians are
lamentably susceptive to the stiff upper lips of their informants.
The foregoing inventory is from Joly 1972: 39; other forms could easily
be added to the list. And once again, this type of negative reinforce-
ment occurs widely among non-Indo-European languages as well.
Examples include Japanese tittomo '(not) at all', Basque (ez) deus
'(not) at all', and Swahili (si) kamwe '(not) at all, (not) ever'.
The generative semantics version of negative sentence structure (cf.,
e.g., G. Lakoff 1970; McCawley 1972) differs from the standard theory
by assigning the negative marker of status of an aunt, rather than sister,
of the clause it eventually negates. That is, in place of the sister adjunc-
tion of the Klima-Jackendoff model illustrated in (i), we get the
Chomsky-adjoined structures of (ii) or (iii). A close relative is the
Kraak (1966) model shown in (iv).
(i) (ii) S
1\
not S
(iii) S
1\
S (be) not (so)
(iv) S
1\
neg S'
neg NPVP
Whatever the virtues of these analyses for moving the deep structure
of English closer to the logical forms of the propositional calculus, and
notwithstanding the much-debated syntactic evidence for these struc-
tures, (ii)-(iv) are no better than (i) at approximating the surface ap-
pearance of negation in English or, as is clear from Dahl, in natural
languages in general.
At least one 2-year-old (my niece) is on record as subjecting this initial
574
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
Notes to Pages 463-474
negation to category-neutral procliticization in vowel-initial contexts
like that in (i):
(i) Nabby wan' dat one. 'Abby [the speaker] does not want that
one'
One presumes that such speakers have not yet fully accepted the Q-
based clarity constraint.
This section is an elaboration of a paper (Hom and Farkas 1985) co-
authored by my esteemed colleague Donka Farkas, delivered orally at
the LSA but not heretofore committed to print. The initial premise and
well as the more egregious errors and overstatements are my own.
The categorical syllogism has the canonical form of (i), the hypothetical
syllogism that of (ii):
(i) All A is B
All B is C
:. All A is C
(ii) If <I> then l\I
If l\I then X
:. If <I> then X
While it may seem counterintuitive to treat the subject of (15a) as a
t~ird-orde~ e~tity, Barwise and Cooper distinguish the generalized quan-
tIfier consIstmg of a name, for example, [NP Harry], which does indeed
denote the family of sets of which Harry is a member, from the name
Harry itself, which simply denotes an individual.
?f course as we ~aw in §5.3, the simple unincorporated version may
Itself be pragmatIcally strengthened to a contrary negation, so that both
(16'b) and (16'c) result in communicating something more than the
statement that a certain proposition (that the man is happy) is false. This
does ~ot .affect the current point, which is that the latter example cannot
be aSSIrmlated (as (16c) may be) to propositional negation.
Dowty, Wall, and Peters (1981 :87- 88) find it convenient to introduce
an iterating one-place sentential negation of category (tIt) into their
proto-Montagovian type-theoretic language Ltype.
It will be recalled that in the classical framework, as summarized in
chapter 1, (16'a) and (16'c) are MEDIATE contraries, since they allow
an une~clu~ed mi~dle. But (16a) and (16c) are IMMEDIATE (or LOGICAL)
contrarIes: Immediate because no man can be neither celebrated nor
uncelebrated and contraries because neither (16a) nor (16c) will be true
if no is man referred to.
On the other hand, negative force may be carried by lexical tone, as
Payne (1985 :229) indicates.
Conditionals are also claimed to incorporate implicit universal quan-
tifiers within the analysis proposed by Lewis (1975) and adopted into
discourse representation theory by Kamp (1981) and Heim (1982). But
Lewis's approach, though independently conceived and motivated, is
beset by some of the same difficulties as Sommers's. Besides the in-
ruitive implausibility of taking the conditionals in (23a) and (24a) as
universally quantifying over cases, neither account of conditionals as
universals predicts the salient (one-time-only) readings of (i) and (ii):
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
Notes to Pages 475-487 575
(i) If you find a dime, give it to me. [thanks to Cleo Condoravdi for
this example]
(ii) If my daughter has a baby I will be pleased.
In fact, Sommers eventually retreats from his proposal for the conver-
sion of disjunctions. He later (1982: 153) rejects the formula in (21 'c),
suggesting that 'p or q' might be represented as 'every [-p] is a [q]',
effectively translating the disjunction into the corresponding condi-
tional, which is in tum converted as in (21 'b). On the other hand, every
is now (1982: 170) implausibly translated into a double negation (actu-
ally the contradictory of a contrary), so that every S is P (e.g., Every
child ofmine was fed) comes out as no S is not-P (No child ofmine
was unfed).
In any case, de dicto modality, unlike negation, is never simply a truth
function, since (as with all modalities) it is in principle intensional.
Thus, by allowing for the representation of de dicto epistemic modals
(It is {possible IlikelyInecessary} that) as external operators on a propo-
sition, we would still not be ipso facto endorsing the need for any truth
function of the category tIt.
f!J> here is a variable over nonfinite V-type meanings. The f~arure [±FlN]
determines tensed vs. tenseless inflection on the head of a V, while
[+BSE] determines a bare stem on the head. [+ AUX] is the feature as-
signed to just those verbs in the class of auxiliaries. These are all head
features, shared between mothers and heads in accordance with the
Head Fearure Convention of GPSG. Rule fJ, providing for negation as
an optional left sister of nonfinite (tenseless) verbal expressions, is not
restricted to [+BSE] complements of modals, extending as well to
[+psp] (Le., past participial) complements of perfect have, [+PRP]
(Le., present participial) complements of progressive be, and so on.
(Cf. Gazdar, Pullum, and Sag 1982 for details.)
Wide-scope negation has also been traditionally employed to unravel
de dicto-de re ambiguities in intensional (opaque) contexts, along the
lines of Quine 1960. And it is true that names do participate in such
ambiguities, so that, for example, (i) entails (ii) on the wide-scope (de
re, transparent) reading but not on the narrow-scope (de dicto, opaque)
reading of the names, given that Superman = Clark Kent.
(i) Lois believes she loves Superman.
(ii) Lois believes she loves Clark Kent.
But there is reason to suspect that such ambiguities are conceptually
and analytically distinct from the quantificational ambiguities for which
wide-scope readings are appropriately invoked; cf. Barwise and Perry
1983 for discussion.
For Burton-Roberts, Strawson (presumably along with Frege) was cor-
rect to ignore the cancelation effects associated with external negation,
since no such cancelation is possible with descriptive negation. Presum-
ably those external, presupposition-canceling negations occasionally
countenanced by Strawson (see the discussion of He neither cares nor
doesn't care; he's dead in §2.2 above) can be reanalyzed as involving "
the metalinguistic use of the negative operator.
576
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
Notes to Pages 487-496
Attal (1971: 107-8) entertains the possibility that all sentence negation
might reduce to (Ducrot's) refutational or polemic negation; he ulti-
mately (and in my view, correctly) rejects this hypothesis.
Notice that the metalinguistic use of negation in (33) guarantees the
truth of the predicate denial only when it does focus on a truth condi-
tion of the corresponding affirmation. In contexts like (i) and (ii), the
existence assumption goes through in the normal way.
(i) The king of France isn't [breld]-the king of France is [b::>:ld].
(ii) The king of France is not bald but galled.
Cf. Lycan (1984: 103) for a similar attempt to derive presuppositional
effects-at least in the existential and sortal cases-from the applica-
tion of Grice's Strength (= Quantity) maxim, that is, my Q Principle.
Although Lycan's framework, like mine, is bivalent and nonpresupposi-
tional, it assumes a standard external propositional connective and a
Russellian approach to scope disambiguation for (33); nondenoting sub-
jects and category mistakes must thus be treated as either decomposable
or nonsensical, an approach I have rejected here.
The ambiguity predicted for unincorporated particle negation in these
examples is also associated with distributive quantification and with
mass expressions displaying similar semantics:
(i) Every cookie was not eaten.
(ii) All the cake was not eaten.
(iii) The whole cake was not eaten.
Actually, the facts are somewhat more complex, especially with respect
to the distribution of tag questions; cf. Carden (1970), Heringer (1970),
and Stokes (1974) for data and discussion.
The simple indefinite article can be interpreted as a generic determiner,
rather than a true indefinite or particular, in which case (as with other
generics and universals) a wide-scope reading for Aux-based negation is
readily available:
(i) A tiger doesn't eat zucchini. (cf. The tiger isn't a vegetarian,
Tigers don't eat apples)
Other indefinite subjects may be taken as nonspecifics within the scope
of negation when the NEG-V (specific) reading is pragmatically deviant:
(ii) A .44 calibre pistol wasn't available in the shop. (from Ota and
Kata 1986: 33)
(iii) A child hasn't been born in this town for two years. (from Cooper
1984:25)
In none of these examples is some substitutable for a (salva sensu).
It is worth noting tha there remains a metalinguistic tinge to the NEG-Q
All ... not construction. All that glitters is not gold is a natural candi-
date for the wide-scope interpretation of the negative precisely because
of the natural expectation that is thereby disappointed (viz., that all that
glitters should be gold). If no such expectation is likely to be enter-
tained, as in (i)-(iii),
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
Notes to Pages 498-503
(i) All philosophers don't ignore the complications of natural
language.
(ii) All my friends aren't cokeheads.
577
(iii) The party was a disaster. First, all the people who said they were
coming didn't come. Then, all the souffles didn't rise. Then,
everybody didn't remember the words to 'Happy Birthday'.
the NEG-Q readings may still be (at least marginally) available, but only
when the specific expectation to the contrary can be built into the con-
text; it is as if each all . . . not sequence were prefaced by 'Contrary to
what you {said/assumed}'. No such expectation is evoked in the ne-
gated universal (Not all ...) counterparts of these sentences.
This account of the some not/every not asymmetry is an elaboration of
the one suggested in Horn 1978a: 142.
NEG-Q interpretations are possible here with metalinguistic negation, but
in this case the unmarked scalar (less than) reading is not forced:
(i) 'Many students don't take classes after 4:00 P.M.-{all/just
some} do. - -
Indeed, metalinguistic negation can override even the scalar value of the
negative quantifier:
(ii) Not 'many but most students don't take classes after 4:00 P.M.
The normally unavailable wide-scope reading for (50'a, b) also re-
emerges in Baker's 'double negative contexts'. Ladusaw cites the NEG-Q
reading of the embedded clause in (iii)
(iii) I'm surprised that a lot of wine wasn't consumed.
as constituting 'one phenomenon which points to the necessity of distin-
guishing assertion of a negation from negation of an assertion'-or, in
my terms, descriptive from metalinguistic negation.
Additional evidence supporting my transderivational/functionalist line
on NEG-Q readings is provided by an attested example (from the New
York Times, 25 December 1986), where not one or none cannot felici-
tously appear and the negation receives the wide-scope interpretation
unavailable in (51a).
(i) The Giants . . . have signed a handful of free agents for next
year. One of them is not Steve Ciskowski. [and, as the context
makes clear, neither are any of the others]
I am assuming, with Kato, that cardinal determiners are to be consid-
ered as special cases of the existential; cf. also Barwise and Cooper
1981. Notice the 'less than' interpretation associated with the denial
of the scalar operator ten, as predicted by my account in chapter 4.
Cf. Ladusaw (1979) for a formal definition of the scope of an expres-
sion with respect to an interpretation and for additional evidence for this
framework (and against its geometric rivals) based on polarity phenom-.
ena in English.
578
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
Notes to Pages 506-513
Note that unlike the cases of the positive midscalars shouldn't and
oughtn't, mustn't cannot be analyzed as an instance of my pragmatic
rule of NR strengthening. (i) shares a reading with (i/) and (i"), but (ii),
if it is acceptable at all, cannot be read as conveying (ii') or (ii"):
(i) I don't think you two {should/ought to} split up.
(i/) I think you two {shouldn't/oughtn't to} split up.
(i") I think you two {should/ought to} [not split up].
(ii) ?I don't think you two must split up.
(ii') I think you two mustn't split up.
(ii") I think you two must [not split up].
In this respect, Jespersen provides a more appropriate icon for ancestor
worship at the ETL shrine than Aristotle himself, since the latter did not
clearly recognize the Greek counterparts of (58c-e) as predicate affir-
mations with negative subject terms (see Geach 1970 and discussion
below), while the former did regard such sentences as instances of spe-
cial negation, despite their association with the semantics of
contradictory opposition.
The facts are slightly more complicated than suggested here. Kuno
(1972:271) observes that while the 'theme marker' -wa cannot occur in
nongeneric sentences with indefinite subjects, as in (i), the same strings
are acceptable in contexts like that in (ii), where -wa marks contrast
rather than ordinary topic.
(i) Ame {ga/*wa} hutte imasu.
rain falling is
'Rain is falling'.
(ii) Ame wa hutte imasu, yuki wa hutte imasen.
rain falling is snow falling is-not
'Rain is falling, but snow is not falling'.
It seems plausible to take the latter example as involving metaiinguistic
rather than descriptive negation. I shall not pursue the relation between
thematic and contrastive -wa here.
The recasting of the Brentano-Marty-Kuroda distinction in pragmatic
terms is advocated on independent grounds by Lambrecht (1987).
Similar facts obtain in other languages conforming to the pro-drop pa-
rameter, including Romance languages like Italian and Rumanian; cf.
also Firbas (1966) on the effect of functional sentence perspective on
word order in" Czech.
I am skipping over a number of details which are not directly relevant to
our present concerns. As I noted earlier, following Crockett (1977) and
Babby, a certain species of constituent and/or contrastive negation-
which I took in §6.6 to represent my metalinguistic operator-never
permits genitive marking on an NP within the apparent scope of nega-
tion. (Cf. Magner 1955, R. M. Davidson 1967, and Timberlake 1975
for other factors involved in determination of GEN / NOM and GEN / ACC
case marking in Russian negative sentences.)
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
Notes to Pages 514-517 579
When this left-to-right principle is to be violated, the violation is typi-
cally signaled by marked intonation. As shown by G. Lakoff (1969) and
Jackendoff (1972), inter alia, the correlation between scope and surface
word order is not a simple fact about negation but a general tendency
affecting the preferred interpretation of logical operators in natural
language.
This conclusion, according to which semantically distinct linguistic ex-
pressions often merge syntactically and/or pragmatically within a given
language, may seem peculiar, attributing to the linguistic system an ap-
parently wasteful duplication of effort. Yet this is precisely what we
expect to find (and do find, elsewhere) if we view language as defined
by the interaction of parallel but autonomous components. This view
has been persuasively expounded in recent work by Sadock (1983,
1985).
I am intentionally leaving aside here the question of embedded finite
negation (She said that he wasn't leaving), where the negation tech-
nically has narrow scope with respect to the matrix clause, but is
otherwise an instance of ordinary propositional negation or predicate
denial (but not, as I noted in earlier chapters, of speaker's denial). Em-
bedded nonfinite negation, on the other hand, does represent true
constituent negation (PTN).
Note, for example, the contrast in Klima effects between (69a-c) and
an unambiguous PTN, for example,
(i) This is not a large house, and {neither/ ??so} is that one.
(ii) This is a not large house, and {so/*neither} is that one.
Sentence (64d) is more easily interpretable as an instance of PTN (He is
busy not hunting lions), whence the split diagnostics of (iii) and (iv):
(iii) He [is not] hunting lions, and neither is she. [on PD reading]
(iv) He is [not hunting lions], and so is she. [on PTN reading]
The purported semantic ambiguity of sentences like (68) and (69a-c) is
presupposed or defended by Kraak (1966), as well as Jackendoff and
Gabbay and Moravcsik; the alternative position that such sentences are
semantically general or unspecified is argued for in Seuren 1967, Atlas
1974, Cornulier 1974, Kempson 1975, and Hom 1978a.
As I argued above, following the Zwicky and Pullum and GPSG in-
flectional analyses of contracted negation, the semantics associated
with a given Xn't form (especially when X is a modal) may not be
contradictory. '
Whether prefixal negation is interpreted as a mediate or immediate con-
trary depends on the lexical item in question; cf. §5.1 for discussion.
Bibliography
Abbott, B. 1972. "The Conjunction but." Unpublished. University of California,
Berkeley.
Abel, C. 1882. Linguistic Essays. London: Triibner.
Abelard, Peter. 1956. Dialectica. L. M. DeRijk, ed. Assen, Netherlands: Van
Gorcum.
Ackrill, J., ed. and trans. 1963. Aristotle's Categories and De Interpretatione.
Oxford: Clarendon.
Adorno, T. 1973. Negative Dialectics. E. B. Ashton, trans. New York: Seabury.
Aitchison, J., and G. Bailey. 1979. "Unhappiness about Not Unhappy People."
Journal ofLinguistics 15: 245-66.
Ajdukiewicz, K. 1935. "Syntactic Connexion." Translated in McCall, ed.
(1967b), 1-27.
Akmajian, A., and R. Jackendoff. 1970. "Coreferentiality and Stress." Lin-
guistic Inquiry 1:124-26.
Algeo, T. 1971. "The Voguish Uses of non." American Speech 46:87-105.
Allen, M. R. 1978. Morphological Investigations. Ph.D. diss., University of
Connecticut.
Allerton, D. 1978. "The Notion of 'Givenness' and Its Relations to Presupposi-
tion and to Theme." Lingua 44: 133-68.
Allwood, J. 1972. "Negation and the Strength of Presuppositions." Reprinted
in Logic, Pragmatics, and Grammar, O. Dahl, ed., 11-57. University of
Goteborg Department of Linguistics.
Allwood, J., L.G. Andersson, and O. Dahl. 1977. Logic in Linguistics. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Altmann, S. A. 1967. "Structure of Soaial Communication." In Social Commu-
nication among Primates, S. A. Altmann, ed., 325-62. Chicago: University
of Chicago Press.
Anderson, S., and P. Kiparsky, eds. 1973. A Festschriftfor Morris Halle. New
York: Holt.
Andrew, S. O. 1940. Syntax and Style in Old English. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Andrews, E. 1986. "ASynchronic Semantic Analysis ofde- and un- in American
English." American Speech 61 :221-32.
Anscombe, G. E. M. 1956. "Aristotle and the Sea Battle." Mind 65: 1-15.
581
582 Bibliography
Anscombre, l-C., and O. Ducrot. 1976. "L'argumentation dans la langue."
Langages 42:5-27.
---. 1977. "Deux mais en fran«ais?" Lingua 43: 23-40.
---. 1978. "Echelles argumentatives, echelles implicatives, et lois de dis-
cours." Semantikos 2:43-66.
---. 1983. L'argumentation dans la langue. Brussels: Pierre Mardaga.
Antoine, G. 1952. La coordination enfram;ais, Tome 2. Paris: Editions d'Artrey.
Apostel, L. 1972a. "Negation: The Tension between Ontological Positivity and
Anthropological Negativity." Logique et Analyse 15: 209-317.
--. 1972b. "The Relation between Negation in Linguistics, Logic, and Psy-
chology." Logique et Analyse 15: 333-401.
Apostle, H., ed. and trans. 1966. Aristotle's Metaphysics. Bloomington: Indiana
University Press.
Saint Thomas Aquinas. 1496. Expositio super libros Posteriorum et De Inter-
pretatione Aristotelis. Completed by Thomas Caietanus. Venice: Otinus de
Cuna, for Alexander Calcedonius.
---. 1945. Basic Writings ofSaint Thomas Aquinas. A. C. Pegis, ed. and
trans. New York: Random House.
Aristotle. Works. 1961-66. Including Categories, De Interpretatione, Prior and
Posterior Analytics. Translated under the editorship of W. D. Ross. London:
Oxford University Press.
Arlen, H., and J. Mercer. 1944. "Ac-Cent-Tchu-Ate the Positive." Song from
Here Come the Waves, film musical of 1944.
Aronoff, M. 1976. Word Formation in Generative Grammar. Cambridge: MIT
Press.
Ashby, W. 1981. "The Loss of the Negative Particle ne in French." Language
57:674-87.
Atlas, J. 1974. "Presupposition, Ambiguity, and Generality: A Coda to the Russell-
Strawson Debate on Referring." Unpublished. Pomona College.
---. 1975. "Frege's Polymorphous Concept of Presupposition and its Role in
a Theory of Meaning." Semantikos 1:29-44.
---. 1977. "Negation, Ambiguity, and Presupposition." Linguistics and Phi-
losophy 1:321-36.
- - . 1978. "On Presupposing." Mind 87 :396-411.
---. 1979. "How Linguistics Matters to Philosophy: Presupposition, Truttl,
and Meaning." In Oh and Dinneen, eds., 265-81.
---. 1980. "A Note on a Confusion of Pragmatic and Semantic Aspects of
Negation. Linguistics and Philosophy 3:411-14.
---. 1981. "Is not Logical?" Proceedings ofthe Eleventh International Sym-
posium on Multiple-Valued Logic, 124-28. New York: IEEE.
---. 1984. "Comparative Adjectives and Adverbials of Degree." Linguistics
and Philosophy 7: 347- 77.
Bibliography 583
Atlas, l, and S. Levinson. 1981. "It-clefts, Informativeness, and Logical Form." In
Cole, ed. (1981), 1-61.
Attal, P. 1971. "Negation de phrase et negation de constituent." Languefran-
r;aise 12:98-111.
Austin, J. L. [1950]1970. "Truth." In Austin (1970),117-33.
- - . 1956. "Ifs and Cans." In Austin (1970), 205-32.
---.1970. Philosophical Papers, l O. UrmsonandG. J. Warnock,eds. 2ded.
London: Oxford University Press.
Avicenna. 1971. Treatise on Logic, F. Zabeeh, ed. and trans. The Hague: Mar-
tinus Nijhoff.
Axinn, S. 1964. "Ayer on Negation." Journal ofPhilosophy 61 :74-75.
Ayer, A. J. 1936. Language, Truth, and Logic. London: Victor Gallancz.
- - . [1952]1963. "Negation." Journal ofPhilosophy 49:797-815. Re-
printed in A. lAyer, Philosophical Essays, 36-65. London: Macmillan.
Babby, L. 1980. Existential Sentences and Negation in Russian. Ann Arbor:
Karoma.
Bach, E. 1968. "Nouns and Noun Phrases." in Bach and Harms, eds., 90-122.
---. 1980. "Tenses and Aspects as Functions on Verb-Phrases." In Time,
Tense, and Quantifiers, C. Rohrer, ed., 19-37. Tiibingen: Niemeyer.
Bach, E., and R. Harms, eds. 1968. Universals in Linguistic Theory. New York:
Holt.
Bach, K., and R. Harnish. 1979. Linguistic Communication and Speech Acts.
Cambridge: MIT Press.
Bacon, F. [1620]1853. Novum Organum. J. Devey, trans. London: Henry G.
Bohn.
Bacri, N. 1976. Fonctionnement de la negation. Paris: Mouton.
Baker, C. L. 1970. "Double Negatives." Linguistic Inquiry 1: 169-186.
Bald, w.-F. 1971. "The Scope of Negation and Copula Sentences in English."
Journal ofEnglish Linguistics 5: 1-28.
Baldwin, l M., ed. 1928. Entries for "Negation" and "Negative," Dictionary of
Philosophy and Psychology, vol. 2, 146-49. New York: Macmillan. (Entries
written by C. S. Peirce et al.)
Ball, C. 1986. "Metalinguistic Disjunction." Penn Review ofLinguistics. Tenth
Penn Linguistics Colloquium.
Baltin, M. 1977. "Quantifier Negative Interaction." In Studies in Linguistic Varia-
tion, R. Shuy and R. Fasold, eds., 30-36. Washington, Georgetown Univer-
sity Press.
BanjQ, A. 1974. "Sentence Negation in Yoruba." Studies in African Linguistics
5:35-47.
Bar-Lev, Z., and A. Palacas. 1980. "Semantic Command over Pragmatic Pri-
ority." Lingua 51: 137-46.
Barnes, J. 1969. "The Law ofContradiction." Philosophical Quarterly 19:302-9.
584 Bibliography
Barrett, R., and A. J. Stenner. 1971. "On the Myth of Exclusive 'Or'." Mind
79: 116-21.
Bartsch, R. 1973. "'Negative Transportation' Gibt es Nicht." Linguistische
Berichte 27: 1-7.
Barwise, J., and R. Cooper. "Generalized Quantifiers and Natural Language."
Linguistics and Philosophy 4: 159-219.
Barwise, J., and J. Perry. 1983. Situations and Attitudes. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Baudry, L. 1950. La querelle desfuturs contingents. Paris: J. Vrin.
Bauer, L. 1983. English Word10rmation. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Baugh, A. 1935. A History ofthe English Language. London: Routledge &
Kegan Paul.
Bellugi, U. 1967. The Acquisition ofthe System ofNegation inChildren's Speech.
Ph.D. diss., Harvard University.
Bennett, M. 1976. "A Variation and Extension of a Montague Fragment of En-
glish." In Partee, ed., 119-63.
Bergmann, M. 1977. "Logic and Sortal Incorrectness." Review ofMetaphysics
31:61-79.
---.1981. "Presupposition and Two-Dimensional Logic." JournalofPhilo-
sophical Logic 10:27-53.
Bergson, H. 1911. Creative Evolution. A. Mitchell, trans. New York: Modern
Library.
Bhatia, T. 1977. A Syntactic and Semantic Description ofNegation in South
Asian Languages. Ph.D. diss., University of Illinois.
Bierwisch, M. 1971. "On Classifying Semantic Features." In Steinberg and Ja-
kobovitz, eds., 410-35.
Biligiri, H. S., ed. 1970. Papers and Talks. Presented and delivered at the Sum-
mer School of Linguistics. Mysore: Wesley Press.
Binnick, R. 1976. "The Iffyness of Transitive Verbs." In Syntax and Semantics
6: The Grammar ofCausative Constructions, M. Shibatani, ed., 217-27.
New York: Academic Press.
Black, M., ed. 1965. Philosophy in America. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Blanche, it. 1969. Structures intellectuelles. 2d ed. Paris: Librairie philosopbique
J. Vrin.
Bloom, L. 1970. Language Development: Form andFunction inEmerging Gram-
mars. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Bloomfield, L. 1933. Language. New York: Henry Holt.
Bochvar, D. A. 1938. [On a three-valued logical calculus and its application to
the analysis of contradictions.] Matematiceskij Sbornik 4 :287- 308.
Bodine, A. 1975. "Androcentrism in Prescriptive Grammar." Language in So-
ciety 4: 129-46.
Boer, S., and W. Lycan. 1976. "The Myth of Semantic Presupposition." Dis-
tributed by IULC.
Bibliography 585
Bolinger, D. 1952. "Linear Modification." PMLA 67: 1117-44.
---. 1957. Interrogative Structures ofAmerican English. Publication of the
American Dialect Society, no. 28. University: University of Alabama Press.
---. 1961. "Contrastive Accent and Contrastive Stress." Language
37:83-96.
___. 1968. "Postposed Main Phrases: An English Rule for the Romance Sub-
junctive." Canadian Journal ofLinguistics 14: 3-30.
---. 1972. Degree Words. The Hague: Mouton.
---.1977. Meaning and Form. London: Longman.
___. 1980. "A Not Impartial Review of a Not Unimpeachable Theory." In
Language Use and the Uses ofLanguage, R. W. Shuy and A. Shnukal, eds.
Washington: Georgetown University Press.
Borkin, A. 1971. "Polarity Items in Questions." CLS 7, 53-62.
Bosanquet, B. [1888]1911. Logic, vol. 1. 2d edition. Oxford: Clarendon.
---. 1895. The Essentials ofLogic. London: Macmillan.
Bosley, R. 1975. Aspects ofAristotle's Logic. Assen, Netherlands: Van Gorcum.
Bossuyt, A. 1983. "Historical Functional Grammar: An Outline of an Integrated
Theory of Language Change." In Advances in Functional Grammar, S. Dik,
ed., 301-25. Dordrecht: Foris.
Bottomore, T., ed. 1983. A Dictionary ofMarxist Thought. Oxford: Basil
Blackwell.
Boucher, J., and C. Osgood. 1969. "The Pollyanna Hypothesis." JournalofVer-
bal Learning and Verbal Behavior 8: 1-8.
Bowerman, M. 1973. Early Syntactic Development. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Boyd, J., and J. Thorne. 1969. "The Semantics of Modal Verbs." Journal of
Linguistics 5: 57- 74.
Bradley, F. H. 1883. Principles ofLogic. London: K. Paul, Trench.
Breal, M. 1900. Semantics. Trans. Mrs. H. Cust. New York: Henry Holt.
Broselaw, E. 1977. "Language Change and Theories of the Lexicon." CLS 13,
58-63.
Brouwer, L. E. J. 1908. "The Unreliability of the Logical Principles." Translated
in Collected Works, I, A. Heyting, ed.. 107-11. Amsterdam: North-Holland,
1975.
___. 1923. "On the Significance of the Principle of the Excluded Middle in
Mathematics." Translated in van Heijenoort, ed., 334-45.
Brown, M. 1984. "Generalized Quantifiers and the Square of Opposition." Notre
Dame Journal ofFormal Logic 25: 303-22.
Brown, P., and S. Levinson. 1978. "Universals in Language Usage: Politeness
Phenomena." In Questions and Politeness, E. Goody, ed., 56-311. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Buelens, J. 1972. "Negation in Freud." Logique et Analyse 15: 319-31.
586 Bibliography
Buridan, John. 1966. John Buridan: Sophisms on Meaning and Truth. T. R.
Scott, trans. New York: Appleton-Century-Crofts.
Burton-Roberts, N. 1984. "Modality and Implicature." Linguistics and Philoso-
phy 7: 181-206.
---. 1987. "On Horn's Dilemma: Presupposition and Negation." University
of Newcastle upon Tyne.
Burtt, E. A. 1955. "What Can Western Philosophy Learn from India?" Philoso-
phy East and West 5: 195-2lO.
Buyssens, E. 1959. "Negative Contexts." English Studies 40: 163-69..
Campbell, R. N. 1981. "Language Acquisition, Psychological Dualism, and the
Definition of Pragmatics." In Parret et al., eds., 93-lO3.
Caplan, I. 1978. "Understatement." Unpublished. LSA Linguistic Institute, Uni-
versity of Illinois.
Carden, G. 1970. "A Note on Conflicting Idiolects." Linguistic/nquiry 1:281-90.
---. 1973. English Quantifiers. Tokyo: Taishukan.
Carlson, G. 1977. Reference to Kinds in English. Ph.D. diss., University of Mas-
sachusetts. Distributed by IULC.
Carlson, G., and T. Roeper. 1980. "Morphology and Subcategorization." In
Hoekstra et al., eds., 123-64.
Carlson, L. 1983. Dialogue Games. Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
Carroll, J., and M. Tanenhaus. 1975. "Prolegomena to a Theory of Word Forma-
tion." In Grossman, San, and Vance, eds., 47-62.
Carston, R. 1985a. "A Reanalysis of Some 'Quantity Implicatures.'" University
College, London.
---. 1985b. "Saying and Implicating." University College, London.
CastaIieda, H.-N. 1976. "Leibniz' Syllogistico-Propositional Calculus." Notre
Dame Journal ofFormal Logic 17 :481-500.
Cattell, R. 1973. "Negative Transportation and Tag Questions." Language 49:
612-39.
Channell, J. 1980. "More on Approximations: A Reply to Wachtel." Journal of
Pragmatics 4:461-76.
Chao, Y. R. 1955. "Notes on Chinese Grammar and Logic." Philosophy East
and West 5:31-41.
Charniak, E. 1972. Towards a Model ofChildren's Story Comprehension. MIT
Artificial Intelligence Laboratory Monographs, No. 226.
Chattopadhyaya, D., and M. Gangopadhyaya. 1968. Nyiiya Philosophy: Literal
Translation ofGautama's Nyiiya-Satra and Viitsyliyana's Bhii$Ya. Part 2: Sec-
ond Adhyaya. Calcutta: Indian Studies: Past and Present.
Choi, S. 1983. "Some Aspects of Negation in Korean." Unpublished. Yale
University.
Chomsky, N. 1957. Syntactic Structures. The Hague: Mouton.
- - . 1965. Aspects ofthe Theory ofSyntax. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Bibliography 587
---. 1970. "Deep Structure, Surface Structure, and Semantic Interpretation."
Reprinted in Steinberg and Jakobovitz, eds., 183-216. Also in Chomsky
(1972),62-119.
---. 1971. "Some Empirical Issues in the Theory of Transformational Gram-
mar." Reprinted in Chomsky (1972), 120-202.
---. 1972. Studies on Semantics in Generative Grammar. The Hague: Mouton.
---. 1981. Lectures on Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Churchward, C. M. 1953. Tongan Grammar. Oxford University Press.
Clark, E. V. Forthcoming. "The Principle of Contrast." In Proceedings ofthe
Twentieth Annual Carnegie Symposium on Cognition: Mechanisms ofLan-
guage Acquisition, B. MacWhinney, ed.
Clark, E. V., and H. H. Clark. 1979. "When Nouns Surface as Verbs." Lan-
guage 55:767-811.
Clark, H. H. 1971. "The Chronometric Study of Meaning Components." In Col-
loques Internationaux du C.N.R.S., no. 206, Problemes actuels en Psycho-
linguistique, 489-505.
---. 1974. "Semantics and Comprehension." In Current Trends in Lin-
guistics, vol. 12, T. Sebeok, ed., 1291-1428. The Hague: Mouton. Also
published separately; The Hague: Mouton, 1976.
Clark, H. H., P. A. Carpenter, and M. A. Just. 1973. "On the Meeting of Se-
mantics and Perception." In Visual Information Processing, W. G. Chase,
ed., 311-81. New York: Academic Press.
Clark, H. H., and E. V. Clark. 1977. Psychology ofLanguage: An Introduction
to Psycholinguistics. New York: Harcourt, Brace.
Clark, H., and S. Haviland. 1977. "Comprehension and the Given-New Con-
tract." In Discourse Production and Comprehension, R. Freedle, ed., 1-40.
Hillside, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Clark, R. 1974. "Ontology and the Philosophy of Mind in Sellars' Critique of
Russell." In Bertrand Russell's Philosophy, G. Nakhnikian, ed., lOl-16.
London: Duckworth.
Cohen, L. J. 1971. "The Logical Particles of Natural Language." In Pragmatics
ofNatural Language, Y. Bar-Hillel, ed., 50-68. Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
Cole, P. 1975. "The Synchronic and Diachronic Status of Conversational Im-
plicature." In Cole and Morgan, eds., 257-88.
Cole, P. ed. 1978. Syntax and Semantics 9: Pragmatics. New York: Academic
Press.
---. 1981. Radical Pragmatics. New York: Academic Press.
Cole, P., and J. Morgan, eds. 1975. Syntax and Semantics 3: Speech Acts. New
York: Academic Press.
Collinson, W. 1937. Indication. Language Monograph Number 17.
Comrie, B. 1985. "The Possessive Predicate in North African Vernacular Ara-
bic." Paper presented at the Sixteenth Annual Conference on African Lin-
guistics, New Haven.
588 Bibliography
Coombs, V. 1976. A Semantic Syntax ofGrammatical Negation in the Older
Germanic Dialects. Goppingen Arbeiten zur Germanistik, no. 177. Gop-
pingen: Verlag Alfred Kiimmerle.
Cooper, R. 1983. Quantification and Syntactic Theory. Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
---. 1984. "Sentence Negation in Situation Semantics." CLS 20,25-33.
---. 1975. Montague's Semantic Theory and Transformational Grammar.
Ph.D. diss., University of Massachusetts.
Cooper, W., and J. R. Ross. 1975. "World Order." In Grossman, Vance, and
San, eds., 63-111.
Cormack, A. 1980. "Negation, Ambiguity, and Logical Form." Unpublished.
University of London.
Cornish, E. R. 1971. "Pragmatic Aspects of Negation in Sentence Evaluation and
Completion Tasks." British Journal ofPsychology 62: 505-11.
Cornish, E. R., and P. C. Wason. 1970. "The Recall of Affirmative and Negative
Sentences in an Incidental Learning Task." Quarterly Journal ofExperimental
Psychology 22: 109-14.
Cornulier, B. de. 1973. "Sur une regie de deplacement de negation." Lefranflais
moderne 41 :43-57.
---. 1974. "Remarques apropos de la negation anticipee." Lefranflais mo-
derne 42:206-16.
---. 1984. "Pour l'analyse minimaliste de certaines expressions de quantite;
Reponse ades objections d'Anscombre et Ducrot." Journal ofPragmatics
8:661-91.
Covington, M. 1981. "Evidence for Lexicalism: A Critical Review." Distributed
by IULC.
Cresswell, M. 1973. Logics and Languages. London: Methuen.
Crockett, D. 1977. "The Scope of Denial in Russian Negative Sentences." Lin-
gua 43: 229-45.
Cruse, D. 1980. "Antonyms and Gradable Complementaries." In Perspektiven
der lexikalischen Semantik, D. Kastovsky, ed., 14-25. Bonn: Bouvier Verlag
Herbert Grundmann.
---. 1986. Lexical Semantics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Culicover, P. 1981. "Negative Curiosities." Distributed by IULC.
Curme, G. 1931. A Grammar ofthe English Language. New York: D. C. Heath.
Cutler, A. 1977. "The Context-Dependence of 'Intonational Meanings'" CLS
]3, 104-15.
Dahl, O. 1979. "Typology of Sentence Negation." Linguistics 17:79-106.
---. 1981. "In Defense of a Strawsonian Approach to Presupposition." In
Crossing the Boundaries in Linguistics, W. Klein and W. Levelt, eds., 191-
200. Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
Dancy, R. M. 1975. Sense and Contradiction: A Study in Aristotle. Dordrecht:
D. Reidel.
Bibliography
Danell, K. 1. 1974. "La concurrence pas de vin-pas du vin." Studia Neo-
philologica 46: 409-25.
589
Davidson, D., and G. Harman, eds. 1972. Semantics ofNatural Language. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Davidson, R. M. 1967. "The Use of the Genitive in Negative Constructions."
Studies in the Modern Russian Language, 2. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Davies, A. M. 1975. "Negation and Disjunction in Anatolian-and Elsewhere."
Anatolian Studies 25 : 157- 68.
Davison, A. 1978. "Negative Scope and Rules of Conversation: Evidence from
an OV Language." In Cole, ed. (1978), 23-45.
Delacruz, E. 1976. "Factives and Proposition Level Constructions in Montague
Grammar." In Partee, ed., 177-99.
Delbriick, B. 1910. Germanische Syntax I. Zu den negativen Siitzen. Leipzig:
B. G. Teubner.
De Mey, M. 1972. "The Psychology of Negation and Attention." Logique et
Analyse 15: 137-53.
De Morgan, A. 1847. Formal Logic. London: Taylor & Walton.
---. 1858. "On the Syllogism: III, and on Logic in General." Reprinted in
On the Syllogism and Other Logical Writings, P. Heath, ed., 74-146. Lon-
don: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
Demos, R. 1917. "A Discussion of a Certain Type of Negative Proposition."
Mind 26: 188-96.
Deutscher, M. 1965. "A Note on Saying and Disbelieving." Analysis 105 :53- 57.
de VilIiers, J. G., and H. B. T. Flusberg. 1975. "Some Facts One Simply Cannot
Deny." Journal ofChild Language 2:279-86.
Dieterich, T. G., and D. J. Napoli. 1982. "Comparative rather." Journal of
Linguistics 18: 137-65.
Dixon, R. M. W. 1979. "Ergativity." Language 55:59-138.
Donnellan, K. 1966. "Reference and Definite Descriptions." Philosophical Re-
view 75: 281-304.
---. 1970. "Categories, Negation, and the Liar Paradox." In Martin, ed.,
113-20.
---. 1978. "Speaker Reference, Descriptions and Anaphora." In Cole, ed.
(1978), 47-68.
Dowty, D. 1979. Word Meaning and Montague Grammar. Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
---. 1982. "Grammatical Relations and Montague Grammar." In The Nature
ofSyntactic Representation, P. Jacobson and G. Pullum, eds., 79-130. Dor-
drecht: D. Reidel.
Dowty, D., R. Wall, and S. Peters. 1981. Introduction to Montague Semantics.
Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
Drange, T. 1966. Type Crossings. The Hague: Mouton.
590 Bibliography
DuBois, J. 1974. "Syntax in Mid-Sentence." Berkeley Studies in Syntax and Se-
mantics, vol. 1, 3: 1-25. Berkeley: Department of Linguistics and Institute of
Human Learning, University of California.
Ducrot, O. 1972. Dire et ne pas dire. Paris: Hermann.
---. 1973. La preuve et Ie dire. Paris: Maison Mame.
Ducrot, 0., and C. Vogt. 1979. "De magis amais: Une hypothese semantique,"
Revue de linguistique romane 43: 317-41.
Dummett, M. 1973. Frege: Philosophy ofLanguage. London: Duckworth.
Edgerton, F., trans. 1929. The Mimiilisa Nyaya Prakiisa. New Haven: Yale Uni-
versity Press.
Eifermann, R. 1961. "Negation: ALinguistic Variable." Acta Psych. 18: 258-73.
Emonds, J. 1976. A Transformational Approach to Syntax. New York: Academic
Press.
En~, M. 1981. Tense without Scope: An Analysis of Nouns as Indexicals. Ph.D.
diss., University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Englebretsen, G. 1974. "A Note on Contrariety." Notre Dame Journal ofFormal
Logic 15:613-14.
---. 1976. "The Square of Opposition." Notre Dame Journal ofFormal
Logic 17:531-41.
---. 1981a. Logical Negation. Assen, Netherlands: Van Gorcum.
---. 1981b. Three Logicians: Aristotle, Leibniz, and Sommers and the Syl-
logistic. Assen, Netherlands: Van Gorcum.
---. 1984. "Opposition." Notre Dame Journal ofFormal Logic 25: 79-85.
Epstein, S. 1976. Investigations in Pragmatic Theory. Ph.D. diss., University of
California, San Diego.
Erasmus, D. [1519] 1650. Colloquia. Amsterdam: L. Elzeverius.
Escure, G. 1974. "Negation and Dialect Variation in French." Papers in Lin-
guistics 7: 403-34.
Ewing, A. C. 1937. "Meaningless." Mind 46:347-64.
Fauconnier, G. 1975a. "Polarity and the Scale Principle." CLS 11, 188-99.
---. 1975b. "Pragmatic Scales and Logical Structures." Linguistic Inquiry
6:353-75.
---. 1976. "Remarque sur la theorie des phenomemes scalaires." Semantikos
1: 13-36.
_._-. 1979a. "Implication Reversal in a Natural Language." In Formal Seman-
ticsandPragmaticsforNaturalLanguages, F. GuentherandS. J. Schmidt, eds. ,
289-301. Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
---. 1979b. "Comment controler la verite; Remarques illustres par des asser-
tions dangereuses et pernicieuses en tout genre." Actes de la recherche en
sciences sociales, 25.
Fillmore, C. 1963. "The Position of Embedding Transformations in a Grammar."
Word 19:208-31.
---. 1968. "The Case for Case." In Bach and Harms, eds., 1-88.
Bibliography
---. 1971. "Types of Lexical Information." In Steinberg and Jakobovitz,
eds., 370-92.
591
Fillmore, C., and D. T. Langendoen, eds. 1971. Studies in Linguistic Semantics.
New York: Holt.
Firbas, J. 1964. "On Defining the Theme in Functional Sentence Analysis."
Travaux Linguistiques de Prague 1, 267- 80.
---. 1966. "Non-Thematic Subjects in Contemporary English." Travaux Lin-
guistiques de Prague 2, 239-56.
Fodor, J. A., and M. Garrett. 1966. "Competence and Performance." In Lyons
and Wales, eds., 135- 73.
Fodor, J. A., and J. Katz, eds. 1964. The Structure ofLanguage. Englewood
Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall.
Fodor, J. D. 1979. "In Defense of the Truth-Value Gap." In Oh and Dinneen,
eds., 199-244.
Fodor, J. D., J. A. Fodor, and M. F. Garrett. 1975. "The Psychological Unreality
of Semantic Representations." Linguistic Inquiry 6: 515- 31.
Foley, W. 1975. "How to Say 'No' in Palauan." Proceedings ofthe Berkeley
Linguistic Society 1, 132-46.
Fraiberg, S. 1959. The Magic Years. New York: Scribner.
Fraser, B. 1971. "An Analysis of 'Even' in English." In Fillmore and Langen-
doen, eds., 150-78.
- - . 1975. "Hedged Performatives." In Cole & Morgan, eds., 187-210.
Frege, G. 1892. "Uber Sinn und Bedeutung." Zeitschriftfiir Philosophie und
philosophische Kritik, NF 100:25-50. Reprinted as "On Sense and Refer-
ence" in Geach and Black, eds., 56-78.
---. 1919. "Negation." Beitriige zur Philosophie des Deutschen Idealismus
1: 143-57. Reprinted in Geach and Black, eds., 117-35.
Freud, S. 1910. "The Antithetical Meaning of Primal Words." In Strachey, ed.,
vol. 11, 155-61.
---. [1924] 1960. A General Introduction to Psychoanalysis. J. Riviere,
trans. New York: Washington Square Press.
- - . 1925. "Negation." In Strachey, ed., vol. 19,235-9.
Friedrich, C., ed. 1953. The Philosophy ofHegel. New York: Modern Library.
Funk, w.-P. 1971. "Adjectives with Negative Prefixes in Modern English and the
ProblemofSynonymy." ZeitschriftfiirAnglistikundAmerikanistik 19: 364-86.
Gaatone, E. 1971. Etude descriptive du systeme de la negation enfranttais con-
temporain. Geneva: Droz.
Gabbay, D., and J. Moravcsik. 1978. "Negation and Denial." In Studies in For-
mal Semantics, F. Guenther lind C. Rohrer, eds., 251-65. Amsterdam: North-
Holland.
Gale, R. M. 1970. "Negative Statements." American Philosophical Quarterly
7:206-17.
---. 1972. "On What There Isn't." Review ofMetaphysics 25 :459-88.
592 Bibliography
---. 1976. Negation and Non-Being. American Philosophical Quarterly
Monograph no. 10. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Garcia, E. 1975. "Other than Ambiguity." Unpublished. Lehmann College,
CUNY.
Garner, R. T. 1970. "Some Doubts about Illocutionary Negation." Analysis
31:106-12.
Gates, D. L., Jr., and O. D. Seright. 1967. "Negative-Contrastive Constructions
in Standard Modem English." American Speech 42: 136-42.
Gazdar, G. 1977. "Univocal or." In CLS Book ofSquibs, S. Fox et aI., eds.,
44-45. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.
---. 1979a. Pragmatics: Implicature, Presupposition, and Logical Form.
New York: Academic Press.
---. 1979b. "A Solution to the Projection Problem." In Oh and Dinneen,
eds., 57-89.
Gazdar, G., E. Klein, G. Pullum, and I. Sag. 1985. Generalized Phrase Struc-
ture Grammar. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press.
Gazdar, G., and G. Pullum. 1976. "Truth-Functional Connectives in Natural
Language." CLS 12,220-34.
Gazdar, G., G. Pullum, and I. Sag. 1982. "Auxiliaries and Related Phenomena
in a Restrictive Theory of Grammar." Language 58 :591-638.
Geach, P. T. 1962. Reference and Generality. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
---. 1970. "A Program for Syntax." Synthese 22:3-17. Also in Davidson
and Harman, eds., 483-97.
---. [1972] 1980. Logic Matters. Reprint. Berkeley and Los Angeles: Uni-
versity of California Press.
Geach, P. T., and M. Black, eds. 1952. Translations from the Philosophical
Writings ofGottlob Frege. Oxford: Blackwell.
Gebauer, 1. 1885. "Uber die Negation insbesondere im Altbohmischen." Archiv
fur slavische Philologie 8: 177-93.
Geis, M., and A. M. Zwicky. 1971. "On Invited Inferences." Linguistic Inquiry
2:561-65.
Giv6n, T. 1970. "Notes on the Semantic Structure of English Adjectives." Lan-
guage 46:816-37.
---. 1978. "Negation in Language: Pragmatics, Function, Ontology." In
Cole, ed. (1978), 69-112.
---. 1979. On Understanding Grammar. New York: Academic Press.
Goddard, L. 1960. "The Exclusive 'or'." Analysis 20:97-105.
Gordon, D., and G. Lakoff. 1971. "Conversational Postulates." In CLS 7, 63-84.
Gowda, K. S. G. 1970. "Negation in Kannada." In Biligiri, ed., 1-4.
Graham, A. C. 1959. "'Being' in Western Philosophy compared with shih/fei
and yu/wu." Asia Major 7: 79-112.
Green, G. 1974. Semantics and Syntactic Regularity. Bloomington: Indiana Uni-
versity Press.
Bibliography 593
---. 1975. "How to Get People to Do Things with Words: The Whimperative
Question." In Cole and Morgan, eds., 107-~2.
---. 1976. "Main Clause Phenomena in Subordinate Clauses." Language
52:382-97.
Greenbaum, S. 1974. "Problems in the Negation of Modals." Moderna Sprtik
68:244-55.
Greenbaum, S., G. Leech, and J. Svartvik, eds. 1980. Studies in English Lin-
guistics. London: Longman.
Greenberg, 1. 1963. "Some Universals of Grammar with Particular Reference to
the Order of Meaningful Elements." In Greenberg, ed., 73-113.
---. 1966. Language Universals, with Special Reference to Feature Hier-
archies. The Hague: Mouton.
Greenberg, J., ed. 1963. Universals ofLanguage. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Greenberg, J., C. Ferguson, and E. Moravcsik, eds. 1978. Universals ofHuman
Language. vol. 4, Syntax. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Greene, 1. 1970a. "The Semantic Function of Negatives and Passives." British
Journal ofPsychology 61: 17-22.
---. 1970b. "Syntactic Form and Semantic Function." Quarterly Journal of
Experimental Psychology 22: 14-27.
Greene, 1., and P. C. Wason. 1970. "Negation: A Rejoinder to Wales and Grieve."
Perception and Psychophysics 8 :238-9.
Grevisse, M. 1969. Le bon usage. 9th ed. Gembloux, Belgium: J. Duculot.
Grice, H. P. 1961. "The Causal Theory of Perception." Proceedings of the Aris-
totelian Society Supplementary volume 35: 121-52.
___. 1967. Logic and Conversation. Unpublished. William James lectures at
Harvard University.
---. 1975. "Logic and Conversation." In Cole and Morgan, eds., 41-58.
Lecture 2 of William James lectures.
___. 1978. "Further Notes on Logic and Conversation." In Cole, ed. (1978),
113-28. Lecture 3 of Grice (1967).
___. 1981. "Presupposition and Conversational Implicature." In Cole, ed.
(1981), 183-98.
Grim, P. 1981. "A Note on the Ethics of Theories of Truth." In Vetterling-
Braggin, ed., 290-98.
Gross, M. 1977. "Une analyse non presuppositionelle de l'effet contrastif."
Lingvisticae Investigationes 1: 39-62.
Grossman, R., L. San, and T. Vance, eds. 1975. Papers from the Parasession on
Functionalism. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.
Guerard, A. L. 1922. A Short History ofthe International Language Movement.
London: T. Fisher Unwin.
Gundel, 1. 1985. "'Shared Knowledge' and Topicality." Journal ofPragmatics
9:83-107.
594 Bibliography
Halpern, R. 1976. "The Bivalence of Neg Raising Predicates." Studies in the
Linguistic Sciences 6: 69- 81.
Halvorsen, P.-K. 1978. The Syntax and Semantics ofCleft Constructions. Ph.D.
diss., University of Texas. Texas Linguistics Forum 11.
Hamilton, Sir William, of Edinburgh. 1860. Lectures on Logic. Edinburgh:
Blackwood and Sons.
Hare, R. M. 1970. "Meaning and Speech Acts." PhilosophicalReview79: 3-24.
Harnish, R. 1976. "Logical Form and Implicature." In An Integrated Theory of
Linguistic Ability, T. G. Bever, J. 1. Katz, and D. T. Langendoen, eds., 464-
79. New York: Crowell.
Harries, H. 1973. "A Note on Double Negation and Modals as Main Verbs."
Working Papers on Language Universals 11 :211-17.
Hart, H. L. A. 1951. "A Logician's Fairy Tale." PhilosophicalReview 60: 98-212.
Hawkins, 1. 1978. Definiteness and Indefiniteness. London: Croom Helm.
Hayakawa, S. I. 1949. Language in Thought and Action. New York: Harcourt,
Brace.
Hegel, G. W. F. [1812-16]1929. Science ofLogic, vol. 1. W. H. Johnston and
L. G. Struthers, ed. and trans. London: George Allen & Unwin.
---. 1892. The Logic ofHegel: Translatedfrom the Encyciopt:edia ofthe
Philosophical Sciences, W. Wallace, trans. 2d ed. London: Oxford University
Press.
Heim, I. 1982. The Semantics of Definite and Indefinite Noun Phrases. Ph.D.
diss., University of Massachusetts.
---. 1984. "A Note on Negative Polarity and Downward Entailingness." In
Proceedings ofNELS 14,98-107.
Heinemann, F. H. 1944. "The Meaning of Negation." Proceedings ofthe Aristo-
telian Society 44: 127-52.
Heldner, C. 1981. La portee de la negation. Stockholm: Norstedts Tryckeri.
Henry, D. 1967. The Logic ofSaint Anselm. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
---. 1972. Medieval Logic and Metaphysics. London: Hutchinson University
Library.
Heringer, 1. 1970. "Research on Quantifier-Negative Idiolects." CLS 6, 287-96.
Herzberger, H. 1970. "Truth and Modality in Semantically Closed Languages."
In Martin, ed., 25-46.
---. 1971. "Setting Russell Free." Unpublished. University of Toronto.
Heyting, A. 1971. Intuitionism, an Introduction. 3d ed. Amsterdam: North-
Holland.
Hilbert, D. 1927. "The Foundations of Mathematics." Translated in van Heije-
noort, ed., 464-74.
Hintikka, J. 1960. "Aristotle's Different Possibilities." Inquiry 3: 18-28. Re-
printed as chapter 2 of Hintikka (1973).
---. 1962. Knowledge and Belief Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Bibliography 595
---. 1968. "Episternic Logic and the Methods of Philosophical Analysis."
Australasian Journal ofPhilosophy 46: 37-51.
---. 1973. Time and Necessity: Studies in Aristotle's Theory ofModality.
Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
Hirschberg,1. 1985. A Theory of Scalar Implicature. Ph.D. diss., University of
Pennsylvania. Distributed by Department of Computer and Information Sci-
ence, Moore School of Electrical Engineering, University of Pennsylvania.
Hoeksema, J. 1987. Review of Jacobs (1982). Language 63:432.
Hoekstra, T., H. van der Hulst, and M. Moortgat, eds. 1980. Lexical Grammar.
Dordrecht: Foris.
Hofmann, T. R. 1966. "Past Tense Replacement and the Modal System." Har-
vard University Computation Lab Report 17. Cambridge, MA.
Hogben, L. 1943. Interglossa. New York: Penguin.
Hoosain, R., and C. Osgood. 1975. "Response Time for Yang (Positive) and Yin
(Negative) Words." Unpublished. University of Illinois-Urbana.
Horn, L. 1969. "A Presuppositional Analysis ofonly and even. " CLS5, 97-108.
- - . 1970. "Ain't it hard (anymore)." CLS 6,318-327.
---. 1971. "Negative Transportation: Unsafe at Any Speed?" CLS 7, 120-133.
---. 1972. On the Semantic Properties ofLogical Operators in English. Dis-
tributed by IULC, 1976.
---. 1973. "Greek Grice: A Brief Survey of Proto-Conversational Rules in
the History of Logic." CLS 9, 205-214.
---. 1975. "Neg-Raising Predicates: Towards an Explanation." CLS 11,
279-94.
---. 1978a. "Some Aspects ofNegation." In Greenberg et al. , eds., 127-210.
---. 1978b. "Remarks on Neg-Raising." Syntax and Semantics 9: Prag-
matics, P. Cole, ed., 129-220. New York: Academic Press.
---. 1978c. "Lexical Incorporation, Implicature, and the Least Effort Hy-
pothesis." Papers from the Parasession on the Lexicon, D. Farkas et aI., eds.,
196-209. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.
---. 1979. "Only, even, and Conventional Implicature." Paper presented at
the LSA annual meeting, Los Angeles.
---. 1980. "Affixation and the Unaccusative Hypothesis." CLS 16, 134-146.
---. 1981a. "Exhaustiveness and the Semantics of Clefts." Proceedings of
NELS 11, 125-142.
---. 1981b. "A Pragmatic Approach to Certain Ambiguities." Linguistics
and Philosophy 4:321-58.
---. 1984a. "Ambiguity, Negation, and the London School of Parsimony."
Proceedings ofNELS 14, 108-131.
---. 1984b. "Toward a New Taxonomy for Pragmatic Inference: Q-Based
and R-Based Implicature." In Schiffrin, ed., 11-42.
---. 1984c. "In Defense of Privative Ambiguity." Proceedings ofthe Berke-
ley Linguistics Society 10, 141-56.
596 Bibliography
---. 1985. "Metalinguistic Negation and Pragmatic Ambiguity." Language
61: 121-74.
---. 1986. "Presupposition, Theme and Variations." Papers from the Para-
session on Pragmatics and Grammatical Theory, A. M. Farley et aI., eds.,
168-192. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.
Horn, L., and S. Bayer. 1984. "Short-Circuited Implicature: A Negative Contri-
bution." Linguistics and Philosophy 7:397-414.
Horn, L., and M. Covington. 1987. "Informativeness, Entropy, and the Redun-
dant un-verb." Paper presented at the LSA annual meeting, San Francisco.
Horn, L., and D. Farkas. 1985. "Aristotle as a Montague Grammarian." Paper
presented at the LSA annual meeting, Seattle.
Hust, J. 1975. "Dissuaded." Linguistic Analysis 1: 173-89.
---. 1977. "The Syntax of the Unpassive Construction in English." Lin-
guistic Analysis 3: 31-63.
Ingalls, D. H. H. 1951. Materials for the Study ofNavya-Nyaya Logic. Cam-
bridge: Harvard University Press.
Jackendoff, R. 1969. "An Interpretive Theory of Negation." Foundations ofLan-
guage 5:218-41.
---. 1971. "On Some Questionable Arguments about Quantifiers and Nega-
tion." Language 47:282-97.
---. 1972. Semantic Interpretation in Generative Grammar. Cambridge: MIT
Press.
Jacobs,1. 1982. Syntax und Semantik der Deutschen. Munich: Fink.
Jacobsson, B. 1970. "Notes on Negation in English." Moderna Sprak
64: 18-29.
Jakobson, R. 1939. "Signe zero." In Melanges de linguistique, offerts aCharles
Bally, 143-52. Geneva: Georg.
Jespersen, O. 1917. Negation in English and Other Languages. Copenhagen:
A. F. HI/lst.
---. 1922. Language: Its Nature, Development and Origin. New York: Henry
Holt.
---. 1924. The Philosophy ofGrammar. London: Allen & Unwin.
---. 1928. An International Auxiliary Language. London: Allen & Unwin.
---. [1933]1964. Essentials ofEnglish Grammar. Reprint. University: Uni-
versity of Alabama Press.
---. 1942. A Modern English Grammar on Historical Principles. Part 6:
Morphology. Copenhagen: Einar Munksgaard.
---. 1949. A Modern English Grammar on Historical Principles. Part 2:
Syntax, First Volume. Copenhagen: Einar Munksgaard. Written in 1918.
Jhering, R. von. [1883]1923. Der Zweck im Recht, vol. 2, 8th ed. Leipzig:
Breitkopf und Hartel.
Johnson-Laird, P. N., and J. M. Tridgell. 1972. "When Negation is Easier than
Affirmation." Quarterly Journal ofExperimental Psychology 24: 87-91.
Bibliography
Joly, A. 1972. "La negation dite 'expletive' en vieil anglais et dans d'autres
langues indo-europ6ennes.' Etudes anglaises 25: 30-44.
Joseph, H. W. B. 1916. An Introduction to Logic. 2d ed. Oxford: Clarendon
Press.
597
Just, M. A., and P. A. Carpenter. 1971. "Comprehension of Negation with
Quantification." Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior 12:21-31.
Kadmon, N. 1984. "Indefinite Noun Phrases with Cardinality Indication." Un-
published. University of Massachusetts.
Kalepky, Th. 1891. Von der Negation im Provenzalischen. Berlin: R. Gaertners
Verlagbuchhandlung.
Kamp, H. 1981. "A Theory of Truth and Semantic Representation." In Formal
Methods in the Study ofLanguage, J. Groenendijk, T. Janssen, and M. Stokhof,
eds., 277-322. Amsterdam: Mathematical Centre Tracts.
Kant, I. [1787]1964. Critique ofPure Reason. 2d ed. N. K. Smith, trans. Lon-
don: Macmillan.
Kaplan, D. 1978. "DTHAT." In Cole, ed. (1978),221-43.
Karttunen, L. 1971. "Implicative Verbs." Language 47:340-58.
___. 1974. "Presupposition and Linguistic Context." Theoretical Linguistics
1: 181-93.
Karttunen, L., and S. Peters. 1976. "What Indirect Questions Conventionally
Implicate." CLS 12,351-68.
___. 1979. "Conventional Implicature." In Oh and Dinneen, eds., 1-56.
Kato, Y. 1985. Negative Sentences in Japanese. Sophia Linguistica number 19.
Tokyo: Linguistic Institute for International Communication, Sophia University.
Katz, 1. 1964. "Antonymy and Contradiction in Natural Language." In Fodor
and Katz, eds., 519-43.
___. 1972. Semantic Theory. New York: Harper & Row.
___. 1977. Propositional Structure and Illocutionary Force. Cambridge: MIT
Press.
Katz, 1., and P. Postal. 1964. An Integrated Theory ofLinguistic Descriptions.
Cambridge: MIT Press.
Kaufmann, W. 1965. Hegel. Garden City, NY: Doubleday.
Kay, P. 1987. "Scalar Semantics and the Word EVEN." Paper presented at the
Symposium on Lexical Semantics, Linguistic Institute, Stanford, CA.
Keenan, E. L. 1969. A Logical Base for English. Ph.D. diss., University of
Pennsylvania.
___. 1971. "Two Kinds of Presupposition in Natural Language." In Fillmore
and Langendoen, eds., 45-54.
Keenan, E. L., and B. Comrie, 1977. "Noun Phrase Accessibility and Universal
Grammar." Linguistic Inquiry 8:63-98.
Keenan, E. L., and L. M. Faltz. 1978. Logical Types for Natural Language.
UCLA Occasional Papers in Linguistics number 3. Los Angeles: UCLA De-
partment of Linguistics.
598 Bibliography
Keenan, E. O. 1976. "The Universality of Conversational Postulates." Language
in Society 5 :67- 80.
Keller-Cohen, D., K. C. Chalmer, and J. Remler. 1979. "The Development of
Discourse Negation in the Nonnative Child." In Ochs and Schieffelin, eds.,
305-22.
Kempson, R. 1975. Presupposition and the Delimitation of Semantics. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
---. 1977. Semantic Theory. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
---. 1979. "Presupposition, Opacity, and Ambiguity." In Oh and Dinneen,
eds., 283-97.
---. 1980. "Ambiguity and Word Meaning." In Greenbaum, et aI., eds.,
7-16.
---. 1986. "Ambiguity, and the Semantics-Pragmatics Distinction." In Mean-
ing and Interpretation, C. Travis, ed., 77-103. Oxford: Blackwell.
Kempson, R., and A. Cormack, 1979. "Ambiguity and Quantification." Lin-
guistics and Philosophy 4:259-309.
Kennedy, G. A. 1952. "Negatives in Classical Chinese." Wennti 1: 1-46.
Keynes, J. N. 1906. Studies and Exercises in Formal Logic. London: Macmillan.
Kiefer, F. 1977. "Two Studies on Presupposition." Lingua 43: 247-71. Review
article on Wilson (1975) and Kempson (1975).
Kimball, J., ed. 1975. Syntax and Semantics 4. New York: Academic Press.
Kimenyi, A. 1973. "Ambiguity in Neg-Constructions." Unpublished. UCLA.
Kiparsky, C. , and P. Kiparsky. 1971. "Fact." In Steinberg and Jakobovitz, 345-69.
Kiparsky, P. 1982. "Lexical Morphology and Phonology." In Linguistics in the
Morning Calm, P. Kiparsky, ed., 3-91. Seoul: Hanshin.
---. 1983. "Word Formation and the Lexicon." In Proceedings ofthe 1982
Mid-America Linguistics Conference. Lawrence, KS: University of Kansas
Department of Linguistics, 47- 78.
Kissin, P. 1969. Negation in Natural Language. Ph.D. diss., University of
Wisconsin-Madison. Ann Arbor: University Microfilms, 1970.
Kittel, F. 1903. A Grammar ofthe Kannatja Language. Mangalore: Basel Mis-
sion Book and Tract Depository.
Kleene, S. C. 1938. "On a Notation for Ordinal Numbers." Journal ofSymbolic
Logic 3: 150-55.
---. 1952. Introduction to Metamathematics. New York: Van Nostrand.
Klein, E. 1980. "A Semantics for Positive and Comparative Adjectives." Lin-
guistics and Philosophy 4: 1-45.
Klein, S. 1985. "On Ergativity and the Maturing Grammar." Paper presented at
the annual LSA meeting, Seattle.
Klima, E. 1964. "Negation in English." In Fodor and Katz, eds., 246-323.
Klima, E., and U. Bellugi. 1966. "Syntactic Regularities in the Speech of Chil-
dren." In Lyons and Wales, eds., 183-208.
Bibliography 599
Kneale, W., and M. Kneale. 1962. The DevelopmentofLogic. Oxford: Clarendon.
Konig, E. (Forthcoming). "Concessive Relations and Concessive Connectives:
Some Cross-Linguistic Observations." In Explanation for Language Univer-
sals, J. Hawkins, ed.
Korzybski, A. 1933. Science and Sanity. Lancaster, PA: The International Non-
Aristotelian Library Publishing Co.
Kraak, A. 1966. Negatieve Zinnen. Hilversum: W. de Haan.
Kratzer, A. 1977. "What 'must' and 'can' Must and Can Mean." Linguistics and
Philosophy 1:337-55.
Kretzmann, N. 1968. William ofSherwood's Treatise on Syncategorematic Words.
Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.
Kripke, S. 1972. "Naming and Necessity." In Davidson and Harman, eds.,
253-355.
---. 1977. "Speaker's Reference and Semantic Reference." In Midwest Stud-
ies in Philosophy 2, 255-76.
Kroch, A. 1974. The Semantics ofScope in English. New York: Garland.
Kruisinga, E. 1931. A Handbook ofPresent-Day English. 5th ed. English Acci-
dence and Syntax I. Groningen: P. Noordhoff.
Kuno, S. 1972. "Functional Sentence Perspective." Linguistic Inquiry
3:269-320.
---. 1980. "The Scope of the Question and Negation in Some Verb-Final
Languages." CLS 16, 155-69.
Kuroda, S.-Y. 1972. "The Categorical and the Thetic Judgment (Evidence from
Japanese)." Foundations ofLanguage 2: 153-85.
---. 1977. "Description of Presuppositional Phenomena from a Non-
Presuppositionist Point of View." Lingvisticae Investigationes 1:63-162.
Kurrik, M. J. 1979. Literature and Negation. New York: Columbia University
Press.
Labov, W. 1972. "Negative Attraction and Negative Concord in English Gram-
mar." Language 48:773-818.
Ladd, D. 1980. The Structure ofIntonational Meaning. Bloomington: Indiana
University Press.
Ladusaw, W. 1979. Polarity Sensitivity as Inherent Scope Relations. Ph.D. diss.,
University of Texas. Distributed by IULC. Also published, New York: Gar-
land Press, 1980.
---. 1980. "Affective or, Factive Verbs, and Negative Polarity Items." CLS
20, 170-84.
Lafitte, P. 1962. Grammaire basque. Rev. and corr. ed. Bayonne: Editions des
Arnis du Musee basque.
Lakoff, G. 1965. On the Nature of Syntactic Irregularity. Ph.D. diss., Indiana
University. Published as Irregularity in Syntax, New York: Holt, 1970.
- - . 1969. "On Derivational Constraints." CLS 5, 117-39.
600 Bibliography
---. 1970. "Pronominalization, Negation, and the Analysis of Adverbs." In
Readings in English Transformational Grammar, R. Jacobs and P. Rosen-
baum, eds., 145-65. Waltham, MA: Ginn.
---. 1971. "Presuppositions and Relative Grammaticality." In Steinberg and
Jakobovitz, eds., 329-40.
---. 1975. "Pragmatics in Natural Logic." In Formal Semantics ofNatural
Language, E. L. Keenan, ed., 253-86. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press. '
Lakoff, R. 1969. "A Syntactic Argument for Negative Transportation." CLS 5,
140-47.
---. 1970. "Some Reasons Why There Can't Be Any some-any Rule." Lan-
guage 45 :608-15.
---. 1975. Language and Woman's Place. New York: Harper & Row.
Lambert, K. 1968. "On the No Type Theory of Significance." Australasian
Journal ofPhilosophy 46:79-86.
Lambrecht, K. 1987. "Sentence Focus, Information Structure, and the Thetic-
Categorical Distinction." Papers from the Parasession on Grammar and Cog-
nition. Berkeley: BLS.
Lang, E. 1977. Semantik der koordinativen Verknupfung. Berlin: Akademie-
Verlag.
---. 1984. The Semantics ofCoordination. Trans. by 1. Phelby of Lang
(1977). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Langendoen, D. T. 1981. Review ofOh and Dinneen, eds. (1979). Language
57:214-20.
---. 1982. "On a Class of Not Ungrammatical Constructions." Journal of
Linguistics 18: 107-12.
Langendoen, D. T., and T. G. Bever. 1973. "Can a Not Unhappy Person Be
Called a Not Sad One?" In Anderson and Kiparsky, eds., 392-409.
Lapointe, S. 1980. "A Lexical Analysis of the English Auxiliary Verb System."
In Hoekstra et aI., eds., 215-54.
Lasnik, H. 1975. "On the Semantics of Negation." In Contemporary Research
in Philosophical Logic and Linguistic Semantics, D. Hockney, W. Harper,
and B. Freed, eds., 279-311. Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
Lear, J. 1980. Aristotle and Logical Theory. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Le Bidois, G., and R. Le Bidois. [1935] 1968. Syntaxe dufran~ais moderne. 2d
ed. Paris: Auguste Picard.
Lee, K. 1974. "Negation in Montague Grammar." CLS 10, 378-89.
Leech, G. 1969. Towards a Semantic Description ofEnglish. London: Longman.
---.1974. Semantics. Harmondsworth: Penguin.
---. 1981. "Pragmatics and Conversational Rhetoric." In Parret et aI., eds.,
413-42.
Bibliography 601
---. 1983. Principles ofPragmatics. London: Longman.
Leech, G., and J. Coates. 1980. "Semantic Indeterminacy and the Modals." In
Greenbaum, et aI., eds., 79-90.
Lehmann, W. P. 1974. Proto-Indo-European Syntax. Austin: University of Texas
Press.
---. ed. 1978. Syntactic Typology. Austin: University of Texas Press.
---. 1980. Review of Greenberg, Ferguson, and Moravcsik, eds. (1978),
Language 56:838-47.
Lehrer, A. 1974. Semantic Fields and Lexical Structure. Amsterdam: North-
Holland.
---. 1985. "Markedness and Antonymy." Journal ofLinguistics 21: 397-429.
Lehrer, A., and K. Lehrer. 1982. "Antonymy." Linguistics and Philosophy
5:483-501.
Leibniz, G. W. 1916. New Essays Concerning Human Understanding by Gott-
fried Wilhelm Leibnitz. A. G. Langley, ed. and trans. 2d ed. Chicago: Open
Court.
---. 1966. Leibniz: Logical Papers. G. H. R. Parkinson, ed. Oxford:
Clarendon.
Lerner, J.-Y., and W. Sternefeld. 1984. "Zum Skopus der Negation im kom-
plexen Satz des Deutschen." Zeitschriftfur SprachwissenschaJt 3: 159-202.
Levergood, B. 1984. "'Only' as an Operator over Conversational Implicatures."
Unpublished. University of Texas.
Levi, J. 1978. The Syntax and Semantics ofEnglish Complex Nominals. New
York: Academic Press.
Levinson, S. 1983. Pragmatics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
---. 1987a. "Minimization and Conversational Inference." In The Prag-
matic Perspective, M. Papi and J. Verschueren, eds., 61-129. Amsterdam:
Benjamins.
---. 1987b. "Pragmatics and the Grammar of Anaphora." Journal ofLin-
guistics 23: 379-434.
Lewis, C. I. 1946. An Analysis ofKnowledge and Valuation. La Salle: Open
Court.
Lewis, D. 1969. Convention. Cambridge: Harvard University Press.
---. 1970. "General Semantics." Synthese 22: 18-67. Also appears in David-
son and Harman, eds., (1972), 169-218.
---. 1975. "Adverbs of Quantification." In Formal Semantics ofNatural
Language, E. Keenan, ed., 3-15. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
---. 1979. "Scorekeeping in a Language Game." Journal ofPhilosophical
Logic 8:339-59.
Li, C., ed. 1976. Subject and Topic. New York: Academic Press.
Liberman, M., and I. Sag. 1974. "Prosodic Form and Discourse Function." CLS
10,402-15.
602 Bibliography
Lieber, R. 1981. On the Organization ofthe Lexicon. Ph.D. diss., MIT. Dis-
tributed by IULe.
Linebarger, M. 1981. The Grammar ofNegative Polarity. Ph.D. diss., MIT. Dis-
tributed by IULC.
---. 1987. "Negative Polarity and Grammatical Representation." Linguistics
and Philosophy 10:325-87.
Ljung, M. 1974. "Some Remarks on Antonymy." Language 50:74-88.
LObner, S. 1985. "Quantification as a Major Module of Natural Language Se-
mantics." Unpublished. University of Dusseldorf. To appear in l'!formation,
Interpretation, and Inference, 1. Groenendijk, D. de Jong, and M. Stokhof,
eds. Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
Lorcher, E. 1900. "Die unechte Negation bei Otfrid und im Heliand." Beitriige
zur Geschichte der deutschen Sprache und Literature 25: 543-66.
Lowth, Bishop R. 1762. A Short Introduction to English Grammar. London:
1. Hughs.
Luborsky, P. 1972. Neg-Hopping in English and Russian: A Comparative De-
scription. Honors thesis, Harvard University.
Lukasiewicz, J. [1910].1971. "On the Principle of Contradiction in Aristotle."
Trans. by V. Wedin in Review ofMetaphysics 24 :485-509.
---. 1922. "On Determinism." Trans. in McCall, ed., 19-39.
---. 1930. "Philosophical Remarks on Many-Valued systems of Propositional
Logic." Trans. in McCall, ed., 40-65.
---.1934. "On the History of the Logic of Propositions." Trans. in McCall,
ed.,66-87.
---. 1970. Jan Lukasiewicz: Selected Works. L. Borkowski, ed. Amsterdam:
North-Holland.
Lycan, W. 1984. Logical Form in Natural Language. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Lyons, 1. 1977. Semantics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lyons, 1., and R. J. Wales, eds. 1966. Psycholinguistics Papers. Edinburgh:
Edinburgh University Press.
Mabbott,1. D. 1929. "Negation." Aristotelian Society Supplementary vol. 9,
67-79.
McCall, S. 1967a. "Contrariety." Notre DameJournal ofFormal Logic 8: 121-32.
McCall, S., ed. 1967b. Polish Logic 1920-1939. Oxford: Clarendon.
McCallum-Bayliss, H. 1985. The Modal Verbs: Univocal Lexical Items. Ph.D.
diss., Georgetown University.
McCawley, J. D. 1968. "The Role of Semantics in a Grammar." In Bach and
Harms, eds., 125-69.
---. 1972. "A Program for Logic." In Davidson and Harman, 496-544.
---. 1978. "Conversational Implicature and the Lexicon." In Cole, ed.
(1978),245-59.
---. 1979. "Presupposition and Discourse Structure." In Oh and Dinneen,
225-34.
Bibliography 603
---. 1980. "An Un-Syntax." In Syntax and Semantics 13: Current Ap-
proaches to Syntax, E. Moravcsik and 1. Wirth, eds. New York: Academic
Press.
---. 1981. Everything That Linguists Always Wanted to Know about Logic
(but Were Ashamed to Ask). Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
McGloin, N. H. 1976. "Negation." In Syntax and Semantics 5: Japanese Gen-
erative Grammar, M. Shibatani, ed., 371-419. New York: Academic Press.
---. 1982. Negation in a Verb-Final Language. Unpublished. University of
Wisconsin-Madison.
McNeill, D., and N. B. McNeill. 1968. "What Does a Child Mean When He
Says No?" In Proceedings ofthe Conference on Language and Language
Behavior, E. M. Zale, ed., 51-62. New York: Appleton-Century-Crofts.
McTaggart, 1. McT. E. 1922. Studies in the Hegelian Dialectic. 2d ed. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Madkour, I. 1934. L'Organon d'Aristote dans Ie monde arabe. Paris: Les Presses
modemes.
Madtha, W. 1970. "Negation in Tulu." In Biligiri, ed., 25-28.
Magner, T. 1955. "Negation and Case Selection in Russian." Slavic Word 11:
531-541.
Malkiel, Y. 1959. "Studies in Irreversible Binomials." Lingua 8: 113-60.
Marchand, H. 1938. "Remarks about English Negative Sentences." American
Studies 20: 198-204.
---. 1960. The Categories and Types ofPresent-Day English Word Forma-
tion. Wiesbaden: O. Harrassowitz.
- - . 1969. Marchand (1960), 2d ed. Munich: Beck.
---. 1972. "Reversative, Ablative, and Privative Verbs in English, French,
and German." In Issues in Linguistics: Papers in Honor ofHenry and Renee
Kahane, B. Kachru, R. Lees, Y. Malkiel, A. Pietrangeli, and S. Saporta, eds.,
636-43. Urbana: University of Illinois Press.
Marcuse, H. 1954. Reason and Revolution: Hegel and the Rise ofSocial Theory.
New York: Humanities Press.
---. 1968. Negations: Essays in Critical Theory. Boston: Beacon.
Martin, J. 1979. Some Misconceptions in the Critique of Semantic Presupposi-
tion. Distributed by IULC.
--.-. 1982. "Negation, Ambiguity, and the Identity Test." Journal ofSeman-
tics 1:251-74.
Martin, R. M., ed. 1970. The Paradox ofthe Liar. Reseda, CA: Ridgeview.
Martinet, A. 1962. A Functional View ofLanguage. Oxford: Clarendon.
Martinon, P. 1927. Comment on parle enjram;ais. Paris: Larousse.
Martyna, W. 1983. "Beyond the HeiMan Approach: The Case for Non-Sexist
Language." In Language, Gender, and Society, B. Thome, C. Kramarae, and
N. Henley, eds., 25-37. Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
604 Bibliography
Mates, B. 1949. "Diodorean Implication." Philosophical Review 58:234-52.
---. 1953. Stoic Logic. Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California
Press.
Matilal, B. K. 1968. The Navya-Nyaya Doctrine ofNegation. Cambridge: Har-
vard University Press.
May, R. 1977. The Grammar of Quantification. Ph.D. diss., MIT.
Maynor, N. 1979. "The Morpheme un." American Speech 54:310-11.
Melander, 1. 1916. Etudes sur magiset les expressions adversatives dans les
langues romanes. Uppsala: Almqvist & Wiksell.
Menner, R. 1936. "The Conflict of Homonyms in English." Language 12:
229-44.
Michalski, K. 1937. Le probleme de la volonte aOxford et aParis au XNe
siecle. Leopoli: Studia Philosophica.
Mill, 1. S. [1843] 1919. A System ofLogic. 8th ed. London: Longman.
---. 1867. An Examination ofSir William Hamilton's Philosophy. 3d ed.
London: Longman.
Miller, C., and K. Swift. 1976. Words and Women. New York: Anchor.
Mirambel, A. 1946. "Negation et mode en grec moderne." Bulletin de la societe
linguistique de Paris 43: 57-66.
Mohr, H. 1987. How to Talk Minnesotan. New York: Penguin.
Montague, R. 1974. Formal Philosophy: Selected Papers. R. Thomason, ed.
New Haven: Yale University Press.
Moody, E. 1953. Truth and Consequence in Mediteval Logic. Amsterdam: North-
Holland.
Morgan, 1. 1969. "On Arguing about Semantics." Papers inLinguistics 1:49-70.
---. 1978. "Two Types of Convention in Indirect Speech Acts." In Cole, ed.
(1978),261-80.
Morris, C. W. 1938. Foundations of the Theory ofSigns. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Morpurgo-Tagliabue, G. 1981. "Grammar, Logic, and Rhetoric in a Pragmatic
Perspective." In Parret et aI., eds., 493-508.
Moser, M. 1987. "Pragmatic Ambiguity of Negation." Linguistic Institute, Stan-
ford, CA.
Mullally, 1. P. 1945. The Summulae Logicales ofPeter ofSpain. Notre Dame,
IN: University of Notre Dame Press.
Munro, P. 1976. "Subject Copying, Auxiliarization and Predicate Raising: The
Mojave Evidence," IJAL 42: 99-112.
Murray, L. 1803. An English Grammar. Philadelphia: B. Johnson.
---. 1814. An English Grammar, 2d edition, improved. New York: Collins.
Na, Y.-H. 1981. "A Constraint on the Lexicalization of Negation." CLS 17,
239-48.
Narasimharao, K. V. V. L. 1970. "Negation in Telugu." In Biligiri, ed., 21-24.
Bibliography 605
Nelson, J. O. 1954. "In Defense of the Traditional Interpretation of the Square."
Philosophical Review 63 :401-13.
Nemer, J. 1985. "Negation and Clefiing in Temne." Paper presented at the Six-
teenth Annual Conference on African Linguistics, New Haven.
Newmeyer, F. 1969. English Aspectual Verbs. Studies in Linguistics and Language
Learning, 6. Seattle: Department ofLinguistics, University ofWashington.
---. 1980. Linguistic Theory in America. New York: Academic Press.
Noreen, A. 1904. Vart Sprak: Nysvensk Grammatik, vol. 5. Lund: C. W. K.
Gleerup.
Nyrop, K. 1930. Grammaire historique de la languefran~aise, Tome sixieme.
Copenhagen: Gyldendalske Boghandel.
Ochs, E., and B. Schieffelin, eds. 1979. Developmental Pragmatics. New York:
Academic Press.
O'Donnell, J. R. 1941. "The Syncategoremata of William of Sherwood." Medi-
teval Studies 3:46-93.
Oesterle, 1., ed. and trans. 1962. Aristotle: On Interpretation. Commentary by
Saint Thomas and Cajetan. Milwaukee: Marquette University Press.
Oh, C.-K., and D. Dinneen, eds. 1979. Syntax and Semantics 11: Presupposi-
tion. New York: Academic Press.
Olshewsky, T., ed. 1969. Problems in the Philosophy ofLanguage. New York:
Holt.
Orwell, G. 1946. "Politics and the English Language." Reprinted in Collected
Essays, 353-67. London: Secker & Warburg, 1961.
---. 1949. Nineteen Eighty-Four. New York: Harcourt, Brace.
Osgood, c., and M. M. Richards. 1973. "From Yang and Yin to and or but."
Language 49: 380-412.
Ota, A., and Y. Kato. 1986. "The Relative Scope of NEG and Quantifiers in
English and Japanese." Sophia Linguistica 20121: 25-40.
Otero, C. 1972. "Acceptable Ungrammatical Sentences in Spanish." Linguistic
Inquiry 2:233-42.
Palmer, F. R. 1979. Modality and the English Modals. London: Longman.
Pap, A. 1960. "Types and Meaninglessness." Mind 69:41-54.
Parmenides. 1965. Parmenides. A Text with Translation, Commentary, and Criti-
cal Essays. L. Taran, ed. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Parret, H., M. Sbisa, and 1. Verschueren, eds. 1981. Possibilities and Limitations
ofPragmatics. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Parsons, T. 1985. "Underlying Events in English." In ActionsandEvents, E. Le-
Pore and B. McLaughlin, eds., 235-67. Oxford: Blackwell.
Partee, B. H. 1970. "Negation, Conjunction, and Quantifiers: Syntax vs. Seman-
tics." Foundations ofLanguage 6: 153-65.
---. 1973. "The Semantics of BeliefSentences." In Approaches to Natural
Languages, J. Hintikka, 1. Moravcsik, and P. Suppes, eds., 309-36. Dor-
drechti- D. Reidel.
606 Bibliography
---. 1979. "Montague Grammar and the Well-Formedness Constraint." In
Syntax and Semantics 10: Selections from the Third Groningen Round Table,
F. Heny and H. Schnelle, eds., 275-313. New York: Academic Press.
Partee, B. H., ed. 1976. Montague Grammar. New York: Academic Press.
Patton, T. E. 1968. "Katz on the Semantics of Negation." Journal ofPhilosophy
65:213-31.
Paul, H. 1898. Principien der Sprachgeschichte. 3d ed. Halle: M. Niemeyer.
Payne, 1. 1985. "Negation." In Shopen, ed., 197-242.
Pea, R. 1980a. "Logic in Early Child Language." Annals ofthe New York Acad-
emy ofSciences 27-43.
---. 1980b. "The Development ofNegation in Early Child Language." In The
Social Foundations ofLanguage and Thought: Essays in Honor ofJerome S.
Bruner, D. R. Olson, ed., 156-86. New York: W. W. Norton.
Peirce, C. S. 1933. The Simplest Mathematics. Reprinted as vol. 4, Collected
Papers, C. Hartshorne and P. Weiss, eds., Cambridge: Harvard University
Press, 1960.
Pelletier, 1. 1977. "Or." Theoretical Linguistics 4:61-74.
Perlmutter, D., and C. Rosen, eds. 1984. Studies in Relational Grammar 2. Chi-
cago: University of Chicago Press.
Perlmutter, D., and S. Soames. 1979. Syntactic Argumentation and the Structure
ofEnglish. Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press.
Pesetsky, D. 1985. "Morphology and Logical Form." Linguistic Inquiry 16:
193-246.
Plato. 1937. The Sophist. B. Jowett, trans. New York: Random House.
Poldauf, J. 1964. "Some Points on Negation in Colloquial English." In A Prague
School Reader in Linguistics, 1. Vachek, ed., 366-74. Bloomington: Indiana
University Press.
Pollack, J. 1974. A Re-Analysis of Neg-Raising in English. Master's thesis, Ohio
State University. Appears in OSU Working Papers in Linguistics 21, 1976.
Pope, E. 1972. Questions and Answers in English. Ph.D. diss., MIT.
Postal, P. 1971. Cross-over Phenomena. New York: Holt.
Pott, A. F. 1859. Etymologische Forschungen aufdem Gebiete der Indo-
Germanischen Sprachen. vol. 1. Lemgo and Detmold: Meyer.
Poutsma, H. 1928. A Grammar ofLate Modern English. Groningen: P. Noordhoff.
Price, H. H. 1929. "Negation." Aristotelian Society Supplementary vol. 9,
97-111.
Prince, E. 1976. "The Syntax and Semantics of NEG-Raising, with Evidence
from French." Language 52:404-26.
---.1981. "Toward a Taxonomy of Given-New Information." In Cole, ed.
(1981),223-56.
---. 1983. "Topicalization and Left Dislocation: A Functional Analysis." In
Discourses in Reading and Linguistics, S. White and V. Teller, eds. Annals of
the New York Academy of Sciences, vol. 433.
Bibliography 607
Prior, A. N. 1954. "Entities." Australasian Journal ofPhilosophy 32: 159-60.
---. 1967. "Negation." Entry in Encyclopedia ofPhilosophy, vol. 5, 458-
63. New York: Macmillan.
Putnam, H. 1973. "Meaning and Reference." Journal afPhilosophy 70: 699-711.
Quine, W. V. O. 1948. "On What There Is." Reprint in From a Logical Point of
View, 2d ed. Cambridge: Harvard University Press.
---. 1951. Mathematical Logic. New York: Harper & Row.
---.1952. Methods ofLogic. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
- - . 1953a. "On a So-Called Paradox." Mind 62:65-67.
- - . 1953b. "Mr. Strawson on Logical Theory." Mind 62:433-51.
---. 1960. Word and Object. Cambridge: MIT Press.
---. 1981. "What Price Bivalence?" Journal ofPhilosophy 78:90-95.
Raju, R. T. 1941. "The Reality ofNegation," PhilosophicalReview 50:585- 601.
---. 1954. "The Principle of Four-Cornered Negation in Indian Philosophy."
Review ofMetaphysics 7:694-713.
Randle, H. N. 1930. Indian Logic in the Early Schools. London: Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
Ravindran, N. 1970. "Negation in Malayalam." In Biligiri, ed., 5-8.
Reichenbach, H. 1947. Elements ofSymbolic Logic. New York: Macmillan.
Reinhart, T. 1981. "Pragmatics and Linguistics: An Analysis of Sentence Top-
ics." Philosophica 27: 53-94.
Renou, L. 1946. "Sur la phrase negative dans Ie Rgveda." Bulletin de la societe'
linguistique de Paris 43: 43-49.
---. 1957. Terminologie grammaticale du Sanskrit. Paris: Librairie
Ancienne.
Rescher, N. 1963. Studies in the History ofArabic Logic. Pittsburgh: University
of Pittsburgh Press.
---. 1969. Many-Valued Logic. New York: McGraw-Hill.
Richter, F. K. 1944. "Adolf Hitler and Words." Etc. 1: 256-58.
Robinson, R. H. 1956. "Some Logical Aspects of Niigiil'juna's System." Philoso-
phy East and West 6:291-308.
Rodman, R. 1976. "Scope Phenomena, 'Movement Transformations,' and Rela-
tive Clauses." In Partee, ed., 165-76.
Rosch, E. 1977. "Human Categorization." In Advances in Cross-Cultural Psy-
chology, N. Warren, ed., 1-72. New York: Academic Press.
Rosenbaum, P. 1967. The Grammar ofEnglish Predicate Complement Construc-
tions. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Ross, A. C. 1976. "Meaningless 'De-' in English." Notes and Queries 23:
310-11.
Ross, C. 1978. "The Rightmost Principle ofSentence Negation." CLS 14,416-29.
Ross, 1. R. 1967. Constraints on Variables in Syntax. Ph.D. diss., MIT.
---. 1973a. "Slifting." In The Formal Analysis ofNatural Languages, M.
608 Bibliography
Gross, M. Halle, and M.-P. Schiitzenberger, eds., 133-69. The Hague:
Mouton.
---. 1973b. "Negginess." Paper presented at the annual LSA meeting, San
Diego.
- - . 1974. "Wording Up." Handout for unpublished talk, MIT.
Ross, W. D. 1923. Aristotle. London: Methuen.
Routley, R. 1966. "On a Significance Theory." Australasian Journal ofPhiloso-
phy 44: 172-209.
---. 1969. "The Need for Nonsense." Australasian Journal ofPhilosophy
47:367-84.
Royce, J. 1917. "Negation." Entry in Encyclopedia ofReligion and Ethics,
J. Hastings, ed., vol. 9, 264-71. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons.
Rumbaugh, D., and T. Gill. 1977. "Lana's Acquisition of Language Skills." In
Language Learning by a Chimpanzee: The Lana Project, D. Rumbaugh, ed.,
165-92. New York: Academic Press.
Russell, B. [1900] 1937. A Critical Exposition ofthe Philosophy ofLeibniz. 2d
ed. London: George Allen & Unwin.
- - . 1905. "On Denoting." Mind 14:479-93.
- - . [1908] 1967. "Mathematical Logic as Based on the Theory of Types."
Reprinted in van Heijenoort, ed., 150-82.
---. 1918. The Philosophy ofLogical Atomism, excerpted in Russell (1964),
177-281.
---. 1940. An Inquiry into Meaning and Truth. London: George Allen &
Unwin.
--_
.. 1948. Human Knowledge, its Scope and Limits. New York: Simon and
Schuster.
---. 1954. "The Metaphysician's Nightmare." In Nightmares ofEminent Per-
sons, 31-35. London: Bodley Head.
--.1957. "Mr. StrawsononReferring." Mind 66:385-89.
- - . 1964. Logic and Knowledge: Essays 1901-1950. R. C. Marsh, ed. Lon-
don: Macmillan.
Ryle, G. 1929. "Negation." Aristotelian Society, Supplementary vol. 9, 80-86.
Sadock, J. 1971. "Queclaratives." CLS 7,223-31.
--.1972. "Speech Act Idioms." CLS 8,329-39.
---. 1974. Toward a Linguistic Theory ofSpeech Acts. New York: Academic
Press.
---. 1976. "Larry Scores a Point." Pragmatics Microfiche, Fiche 1.4.
- - . 1977. "Truth and Approximations." BLS 3,430-39.
---. 1978. "On Testing for Conversational Implicature." In Cole, ed. (1978),
281-97.
--.1981. "Almost." In Cole, ed. (1981), 257-71.
---. 1983. "The Necessary Overlapping of Grammatical Components." In
Bibliography 609
Papers from the Parasession on the Interplay ofPhonology, Morphology, and
Syntax, 198-221. Chicago: CLS.
---. 1984. "Whither Radical Pragmatics?" In Schitfrin, ed., 139-49.
---. 1985. "Autolexical Syntax." Natural Language and Linguistic Theory
3:379-439.
Sadock, J., and A. Zwicky. 1985. "Speech Act Distinctions in Syntax." In Shopen,
ed., 155-96.
Sag, I., and M. Liberman. 1973. "The Intonational Disambiguation ofIndirect
Speech Acts." CLS 11, 487- 97.
Sahlin, E. 1979. Some and any in Spoken and Written English. Uppsala: Alm-
qvist & Wiksell.
Sanford, D. H. 1968. "Contraries and Subcontraries." Nous 2:95-96.
Sapir, E. 1930. Totality. Language Monograph Number 6.
---. 1944. "Grading: A Study in Semantics." Reprinted in Selected Writings,
D. Mandelbaum, ed., 122-49. Berkeley: University ofCalifornia Press, 1951.
Schachter, P. 1972. "On Post-Transformational Lexical Insertion." In UCLA
Papers in Syntax I, P. Schachter and G. Bedell, eds. Los Angeles: UCLA
Dept. of Linguistics.
- - . 1985. "Parts-of-Speech Systems." In Shopen, ed., 3-61.
Schitfrin, D., ed. 1984. Meaning, Form, and Use in Context: Linguistic Applica-
tions (GURT '84). Washington: Georgetown University Press.
Schmerling, S. 1971. "A Note on Negative Polarity." Papers in Linguistics
4:200-206.
---. 1975. "Asymmetric Conjunction and Rules of Conversation." In Cole
and Morgan, eds., 211-31.
Scriblerus, M. [1727] 1952. The Art ofSinking. Pseudonymous publication at-
tributed to A. Pope, J. Swift, and 1. Arbuthnot, appearing in first edition of the
Swift-Pope Miscellany. Reproduced under editorship of E. L. Steeves. New
York: King's Crown Press.
Searle, J. 1965. "What is a Speech Act?" In Black, ed., 221-39.
---. 1969. Speech Acts. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
---. 1975. "Indirect Speech Acts." In Cole and Morgan, eds., 59-82.
---. 1979. "Referential and Attributive." In Expression and Meaning: Stud-
ies in the Theory ofSpeech Acts, 137-61. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Sebeok, T. A. 1962. "Evolution of Signalling Behavior." Behavioral Science
7:430-42.
Selkirk, E. O. 1982. The Syntax ofWords. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Seright, O. D. 1966. "Double Negatives in Standard Modern English." American
Speech 41: 123-26.
Seuren, P. 1967. "Negation in Dutch" (revised article on Kraak [1966]). Neo-
philologus 51: 327-63.
610 Bibliography
---. 1969. Operators and Nucleus. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sgall, P., E. Hajicovii, and E. Benesovii. 1973. Topic, Focus, and Generative
Semantics. Kronberg: Scripton Verlag GmbH.
Shanon, B. 1981. "What's in the Frame? Linguistic Indicators." Journal ofPrag-
matics 5: 35-44.
Sharma, Dh. 1970. The Negative Dialectics ofIndia. (no publication data
avaliable.)
Sheffer, H. M. 1913. "A Set of Five Independent Postulates for Boolean Al-
gebra." Transactions ofthe American Mathematical Society 14:481-88.
Sheintuch, G., and K. Wise 1976. "On the Pragmatic Unity of the Rules of Neg-
Raising and Neg-Attraction." CLS 12,548-57.
Shnukal, A. 1980. "Syntactic Indications of Tentativeness in Discourse." In
Contemporary Studies in Romance Languages, F. Nuessel, Jr., ed., 280-99.
Distributed by IULC.
Shopen, T., ed. 1985. Language Typology and Syntactic Description I: Clause
Structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Siegel, D. 1971. "Some Lexical Transderivational Constraints in English." Un-
published. MIT.
---. 1973. "Some Non-Sources for Unpassives." In Syntax and Semantics 2,
J. Kimball, ed., 301-17.
- - . [1974]1979. Topics in English Morphology. New York: Garland.
---. 1977. "The Adjacency Condition and the Theory of Morphology."
NELS 7, 189-97.
Sigwart, C. 1895. Logic, vol. 1, 2d ed., H. Dendy, trans. New York: Macmillan.
German edition published 1889.
Sloman, A. 1969. "Transformations of Illocutionary Acts." Analysis 30:56-59.
Smiley, T. 1960. "Sense without Denotation." Analysis 20: 125-35.
Smith, A. 1933. "Tva Bidrg Till Engelsk OrdfOljd." Moderna Sprak 27:79-82.
Smith, S. 1970. Meaning and Negation. Ph.D. diss., UCLA. Revised and pub-
lished, The Hague: Mouton, 1975.
Soames, S. 1979. "A Projection Problem for Speaker Presuppositions." Lin-
guistic Inquiry 10:623-66.
---. 1982. "How Presuppositions are Inherited: A Solution to the Projection
Problem." Linguistic/nquiry 13:483-545.
Sommers, F. 1963. "Types and Ontology." Philosophical Review 72:327-63.
- - . 1965. "Predicability." In Black, ed., 262-81.
- - . 1970. "The Calculus of Terms." Mind 79: 1-39.
---. 1982. The Logic ofNatural Language. Oxford: Clarendon.
Spencer, H. 1914. Kanarese Grammar. Mysore: WesleY~l Mission Press.
Sperber, D., and D. Wilson. 1986. Relevance. Cambridge: Harvard University
Press.
Spinoza, B. [1934]1965. The Philosophy ofSpinoza, vol. 1. H. Wolf~on, ed.
and trans. Reprint. New York: Meridian Books.
Bibliography 611
Spitzer, L. 1927. "Frz. il ne faut pas que tu meures 'du darfst nicht sterben'."
Germanisch-romanische MonatsschriJt 15:69-73.
Staal, F. 1962. "Negation and the Law of Contradiction in Indian Thought: A
Comparative Study." Bulletin of the School ofOriental and African Studies
25 :52-71.
Stalnaker, R. 1972. "Pragmatics." In Davidson and Harman, eds., 380-97.
---. 1974. "Pragmatic Presuppositions." In Semantics and Philosophy,
M. Munitz and P. Unger, eds., 197-214. New York: New York University
Press.
Steinberg, D. 1970. "Negation, Analyticity, Amphigory, and the Semantic Inter-
pretation of Sentences." Journal ofExperimental Psychology 84: 417- 23.
Steinberg, D., and L. Jakobovitz, eds. 1971. Semantics: An Interdisciplinary
Reader. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Stenner, A. J. 1981. "A Note on Logical Truth and Non-Sexist Semantics." In
Vetterling-Braggin, ed., 299-306.
Stem, G. 1937. Meaning and Change ofMeaning. Bloomington: Indiana Univer-
sity Press.
Stickel, G. 1972. "'Ja' und 'Nein' als Kontoll- und Korrektursignale." Lin-
guistische Berichte 17: 12-17.
Stockwell, R., P. Schachter, and B. H. Partee, 1973. The Major Syntactic Struc-
tures ofEnglish. Chapter 5, "Negation." New York: Holt.
Stoffel, C. 1901. Intensives and Down-toners. Anglistische Forschungen, part 1.
Heidelberg: Carl Winter's Universitatsbuchhandlung.
Stokes, W. 1974. "All of the Work on Quantifier-Negation isn't Convincing."
CLS 10, 692-700.
Strachey, J., ed. 1957. The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological
Works ofSigmund Freud. London: Hogarth Press.
Strang, C. 1960. "Aristotle and the Sea-Battle." Mind 69:447-65.
Strawson, P. F. 1949. "Truth." Analysis 9:83-97.
- - . 1950. "On Referring." Mind 59: 320-44.
---. 1952. Introduction to Logical Theory. London: Methuen.
---. [1964]1971. "Identifying Reference and Truth-Values." Reprinted in
Steinberg and Jakobovitz, eds., 86-99.
Sturel, R. 1908. Jacques Amyot, traducteur des vies paralleles de Plutarque.
Paris: Honore Champion.
Sullivan, M. W. 1967. Apuleian Logic. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
Sweet, H. 1900. A New English Grammar. Oxford: Clarendon.
Tannen, D. 1975. "Communication Mix and Mixup." San Jose State Occasional
Papers in Linguistics.
---. 1983. Communicative Style. Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Tasmowski-De Ryck, L. 1972. "La negation en fran~ais et la formalisation de la
grammaire." Logique et Analyse 15: 171-207.
612 Bibliography
Taylor, K. 1981. "Reference and Truth: The Case of Sexist and Racist Utter-
ances." In Vetterling-Braggin, eds., 307-18.
Tesniere, L. 1959. Elements de syntaxe structurale. Paris: C. Klincksieck.
Thirumalai, M. S. 1970. "Some Aspects of Negation in Thadou." In Biligiri,
ed., 55-60.
Thomason, R. 1973. "Semantics, Pragmatics, Conversation, Presupposition."
Unpublished. University of Pittsburgh.
Thomason, R., and R. Stalnaker. 1973. "A Semantic Theory of Adverbs." Lin-
guistic Inquiry 4: 195-220.
Thompson, M. 1953. "On Aristotle's Square of Opposition." Philosophical Re-
view 62:251-65.
- - . 1954. "A Reply to Mr. Nelson." Philosophical Review 63 :414-19.
Timberlake, A. 1975. "Hierarchies in the Genitive of Negation." Slavic and East
European Journal 19: 123-38.
Tobler, A. [1882a] 1921. "Tout ce qui reluit n'est pas or." Reprinted in Ver-
mischte Beitrage zur jranzosischen Grammatik 1, 3d ed., 195-201. Leipzig:
S. Hirzel.
---. [1882b] 1921. "II ne faut pas que tu meures 'du darfst nicht sterben' ."
Reprinted in Vermischte Beitrage zur franzosischen Grammatik 1, 3d ed.,
201-5. Leipzig: S. Hirzel.
---. [1896] 1908. "ne . .. se . .. non, mais,fors, que." Reprinted in Ver-
mischte Beitrage zur jranzosischen Grammatik 3, 2d ed., 78-111. Leipzig:
S. Hirzel.
Toms, E. 1972. "The Problem of Negation." Logique et Analyse 15: 1-38.
Tottie, G. 1980. "Affixal and Non-Affixal Negation in English-Two Systems
in (Almost) Complementary Distribution." Studia Linguistica 34: 101-23.
---. 1982. "Where Do Negative Sentences Come From?" Studia Linguistica.
36: 88-105.
Trabasso, T., H. Rollins & E. Shaughnessy. 1971. "Storage and Verification
Stages in Processing Concepts." Cognitive Psychology 2:239-89.
Ultan, R. 1978. "Some General Characteristics of Interrogative Systems." In
Greenberg et al., eds., 211-48.
Urmson, J. O. 1952. "Parenthetical Verbs." Mind 61 :480-96.
Vandamme, F. 1972. "On Negation, An Interdisciplinary Study." Logique et
Analyse 15: 39-101.
Van Dongen, W. A. 1918. "At All." Neophilologus 3:62-64.
van Fraassen, B. 1966. "Singular Terms, Truth-Value Gaps, and Free Logic."
Journal ofPhilosophy 63 :481-95.
---. 1968. "Presupposition, Implication, and Self-Reference." Journal of
Philosophy 65: 136-57.
---. 1969. "Presuppositions, Super-Valuations, and Free Logic." In The
Logical Way ofDoing Things, K. Lambert, ed., 67-91. New Haven: Yale
University Press.
Bibliography 613
van Ginneken, J. 1907. Principes de linguistiquepsychologique. Paris: M. Riviere.
van Heijenoort, J., ed. 1967. From Frege to Godel. Cambridge: Harvard Univer-
sity Press.
Van Oosten, J. 1986. The Nature ofSubjects, Topics, and Agents. Bloomington:
IULC.
Varga, L. 1980. "Observations on Negation in Hungarian and English." Acta
Linguistica 30: 67- 96.
Vendler, Z. 1967. Philosophy in Linguistics. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Vennemann, T. 1974. "Topics, Subjects, and Word Order: From SXV to SVX
via TVX." In Historical Linguistics, J. M. Anderson and C. Jones, eds.,
1: 339-76. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
Vetterling-Braggin, M., ed. 1981. Sexist Language: A Modern Philosophical
Analysis. Totowa, NJ: Littlefield, Adams.
Volterra, V., and F. Antinucci. 1979. "Negation in Child Language: A Pragmatic
Study." In Ochs and Schieffelin, eds., 281-303.
Von Wright, G. H. 1951. An Essay in Modal Logic. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
---. 1959. "On the Logic of Negation." Societas Scientiarum Fennica, Com-
mentationes Physico-Mathematicae 22: 1-30.
Wachtel, T. 1980. "Pragmatic Approximations." JournalofPragmatics4:201-12.
Wagenaar, K. 1930. Etude sur la negation en ancien espagnol jusqu'au XV'
siecle. Groningen: J. B. Wolters.
Wales, R. J., and R. Grieve. 1969. "What Is So Difficult about Negation?" Per-
ception and Psychophysics 6: 327-32.
Wali, K. 1972. "Negation Dependent Idioms, and the Structure of Marathi Mod-
als." Papers in Linguistics 5: 382-401.
Walker, R. 1975. "Conversational Implicatures." In Meaning, Reference, and
Necessity, S. Blackburn, ed., 133-81. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Ward, G., and J. Hirschberg. 1985. "Implicating Uncertainty." Language 61:
747-76.
Warner, W. L. 1946. "The Absolute Negative Comparative." American Speech
21 :302-3.
Warren, H. C. 1896. Buddhism in Translations. Cambridge: Harvard University
Press.
Wason, P. C. 1959. "The Processing of Positive and Negative Information."
Quarterly Journal ofExperimental Psychology 11 :92-107.
---. 1961. "Response to Affirmative and Negative Binary Statements." Brit-
ish Journal ofPsychology 52: 133-42.
---.1965. "The Contexts of Plausible Denial." Journal ofVerbal Learning
and Verbal Behavior 4: 7-II.
---. 1972. "In Real Life Negatives Are False." Logique et Analyse 15:
17-38.
614 Bibliography
Wason, P. C., and S. Jones. 1963. "Negation: Denotation and Connotation."
British Journal ofPsychology 54: 299-307.
Wasow, T. 1972. "A Note on Not-Hopping." Foundations ofLanguage 8:274-75.
---. 1977. "Transformations and the Lexicon." In Formal Syntax, P. Culi-
cover, T. Wasow, and A. Akmajian, eds., 327-60. New York: Academic
Press.
Waterlow, S. 1982. Passage and Possibility: A Study ofAristotle's Modal Con-
cepts. Oxford: Clarendon.
Weinreich, U. 1963. "On the Semantic Structure of Language." In Greenberg,
ed., 114-71.
Welte, W. 1978. Negationslinguistik. Munich: Wilhelm Fink.
Wertheimer, R. 1972. The Significance ofSense: Meaning, Modality, and Moral-
ity. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Wheeler, S. 1983. "Megarian Paradoxes as Eleatic Arguments." American Philo-
sophical Quarterly 20: 287- 95.
Whitehead, A. N., and B. Russell. 1910. Principia Mathematica. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Whitney, A. H. 1956. Teach Yourself Finnish. London: Teach Yourself Books,
Hodden and Stoughton.
Williams, C. 1. F. 1964. "Saint Anselm and His Biographers." Downside Review
82: 124-40.
---. 1968. Review of Henry, Logic ofSaint Anselm. Mind 77: 609-11.
Williams, E. 1981. "On the Notions 'Lexically Related' and 'Head of a Word'."
Linguistic Inquiry 12: 245-74.
Williams, E. R. 1944. The Conflict ofHomonyms in English. New Haven: Yale
University Press.
Wilson, D. 1975. Presupposition and Non-Truth-Conditional Semantics. New
York: Academic Press.
Wilson, D., and D. Sperber. 1979. "Ordered Entailments: An Alternative to Pre-
suppositional Theories." In Oh and Dinneen, eds., 299-323.
---. 1981. "Irony and the Use-Mention Distinction." In Cole, ed. (1981),
295-318.
Wittgenstein, L. [1922]1961. Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus. D. F. Pears and
B. F. McGuinness, trans. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
---. 1953. Philosophical Investigations. Anscombe, trans. New York:
Macmillan.
Wood, L. 1933. "The Paradox of Negative Judgment." Philosophical Review
42:412-23.
Wundt, W. 1886. "Das Sittliche in derSprache." DeutscheRundschau 47: 70-92.
Yau, S. C. 1980. Le systeme de la negation en Cantonais. Kowloon, Hong Kong:
Editions Langages Croises.
Ziff, P. 1960. Semantic Analysis. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Bibliography 615
Zimmer, K. 1964. AjJixal Negation in English and Other Languages. Supplement
to Word, Monograph No.5.
---. 1971. "Some General Observations about Nominal Compounds." Stan-
ford University Working Papers on Language Universals 5: CI-C21.
Zipf, G. K. 1935. The Psycho-Biology ofLanguage. Cambridge: MIT Press.
---. 1949. Human Behavior and the Principle ofLeast Effort. Cambridge,
MA: Addison-Wesley.
Zwicky, A. 1973. "Linguistics as Chemistry: The Substance Theory of Semantic
Primes." In Anderson and Kiparsky, eds., 467-85.
Zwicky, A., and G. Pullum. 1983. "Cliticization vs. Inflection: English n't."
Language 59:502-13.
Zwicky, A., and J. Sadock. 1975. "Ambiguity Tests and How to Fail Them." In
Kimball, ed., 1-36.
Index of Names
Abbott, B., 4II-12, 563-64n.14
Abel, C., 93-94, 535n.73
Abelard, P., 25-28, 31,41-42, 100, 138,
464-65
Ackrill, J., 9, 14,38,46, 101-2, 525n.6,
526nn.7, 12, 527nn.14, 17, 529n.31
Adjukiewicz, K., 478, 508
Aitchison, 1., 301
Akmajian, A., 570n.41
Albert of Saxony, 223
Alexander of Aphrodisias, 22, 47
Algeo, T., 281-90
Allen, M. R., 277-78, 280, 283, 285, 287,
290, 553n.13
Allerton, D., 514
Allwood, 1., 365, 420, 422
Ammonius, 100
Anaxagoras, 20
Anscombe, G. E. M.. 101
Anscombre, 1.-C., 241-42; on but, 406-8,
413,427, 569n.37; on comparatives and
equatives, 207, 387, 548n.27; on meta-
linguistic negation, 374, 426-27,
571 n.44
Anselm, Saint, 141,308-9,314-15
Antoine, G., 406-7
Apadeva,86
Apostel, L., 3,74-75,201; on negation as
modality, 63, 203, 532nn.52, 53; on
negation as speech act, 77, 420; on nega-
tive facts, 50, 53-54, 62
Apuleius, 10,24-28,31,34,208, 542n.2
Aquinas, Saint Thomas, 37, 40, 46-47,
154,201,248-49,253,526n.8,
535n.2
Arbuthnot, 1. See Scriblerus, M.
Aristotle, 1-4,6, 18,22,25-26,30-32,
35,41,94, II6, 473, 475, 508, 51O-II,
535 n.3; on the asymmetry of negation
and affirmation, 46-48, 60, 65, 169,
199,420; on category mistakes, 110,
II2, II7, 123, 133, 139; on contrariety,
7-14, 16, 18, 19, 21, 36-38, 40, 42,
53,96,268-69,271,298,441,525nn.3,
5,6, 526n.7, 527nn.15, 16,20, 530n.36,
542n.30, 552nn.2, 4; on existential im-
617
port, 24-30; on falsity and negation,
56-57; on future contingents, 97-102,
123-24, 128, 132, 534n.64, 564n.15;
on the Law of Contradiction, 18-21,
81-84,92,95, 527nn.19, 21, 528n.23;
on predicate denial and predicate term
negation, 14-18,23,32,40,42-43,45,
47-48,64,87,106,122-24,127,
132-40, 144, 152-53, 189,227,291,
297,331,362,369-70,446,463-71,
484-85,489,491,504,506,509,
515-17,520, 526nn.12, 14, 529n.32,
531n.42, 532n.47, 533n.59, 542n.31,
558n.38, 578n.38; on the subcontraries,
II-14, 208-12, 216, 218, 267, 376,
432, 526n.II, 543n.3; on vacuous sin-
gular terms, 8-9, 15,52, 102-4, 107,
109-10,123, 527n.17, 529n.30,
530n.40, 533n.56, 541n.19
Aronoff, M., 283-85, 289, 550n.36,
552n.5
Ashby, w., 454, 456
Atlas, 1., 243, 536n.5; against the ambigu-
ity of negation, 362, 365, 368-70,
422-23,443-44, 561n.l, 562n.5,
579n.46; on clefts, 385, 556n.25; on im-
plicature and logical form, 192, 196,
242,250,345,390,433
Attal, P., 185-87,336,507, 576n.25
Austin, 1. L., 4,94, 199,380; on negation
vs. falsity, 58-59, 63, 71, 420-21, 429,
532n.48
Averroes (ibn-Rushd), 101
Avicenna (ibn-SIna), 35, 40, 60, 71, 140,
21O,223-24,477,532n.47
Axinn, S., 203, 529-30n.33, 540n.14
Ayer, A. J., 3-4, 58, 76-78, 530n.34,
533n.63; on specificity and the negative
statement, 33-34, 199, 202-3, 529n.33,
540n.14
Babby,L., 43,437-39,504, 512-13,
578n.42
Bach,E., 472,478,516
Bacon, F., 3, 60-61,199
Bailey, G., 301
618 Index
Baker, C. L., 354, 494-97, 539n.5,
543n.6,577n.33
Bald, w.-F., 187,402-3,408,504,
566n.26
Baldwin, 1. M., 57, 67-68, 71, 181
Ball, c., 380
Baltin, M., 229
Banjo, A., 220
Bar-Lev, Z., 563n.1O
Barnes, 1., 20, 39, 309, 339, 528n.23,
542n.30
Barrett, R., 225
Bartsch, R., 319-21, 327, 332-33, 340,
343,345
Barwise, 1.: on generalized quantifiers,
245-49,265-66,466-67,478,503,
549nn.30, 31, 551 n.42, 574n.14,
577n.35; on negative quantifiers, 493,
507-9,516; on situation semantics, 470,
575n.23
Baudry, L., 102
Bauer, L., 290
Bayer, S., 329, 346, 440, 538n.18,
539n.5, 556n.26, 558n.41
Bellugi, U., 162,462
Benesova, E., 504, 545n.18, 566n.25
Bennett, M., 470, 482
Bergmann, M., 118, 126, 130-31, 137,
139, 141,423,430, 565n.20
Bergson, H., 3, 46, 67, 77, 164-65, 181,
183,202,414, 532n.51; on subjectivity
of negation, 61-63, 65, 71, 203, 420,
443
Bever, T. G., 297-301, 355, 555n.21
Bhatia, T., 156,238,437,450,504,
557n.34
Bierwisch, M., 315
Binnick, R., 521
Blanche, R., 254
Bloom, L., 162, 167, 182-83
Bloomfield, L., 193
Bochvar, D. A., 124-28, 130-31, 133,
137, 139, 141,364, 537n.12
Bodine, A., 155
Boer, S., 123, 137,365,368-69,486-87
Boethius, 9, 10,24-26,28,31, 103,208;
on future contingents, 99-102, 564n.15.
See also Future contingents, on Boethian
reading (in Subject Index)
Bolinger, D., 155, 158, 193,243,300-
301,434-35, 548n.28, 555n.21,
567n.27; on external negation, 183,
398-99,507, 566r.24; on litotes and
negation, 353-57, 555n.22, 560n.48,
565n.22; on polarity, 397-401; on neg-
raising, 315-16, 324, 339, 347, 556-
57n.30
Borkin, A., 539n.5
Bosanquet, B., 48, 49, 86, 104, 140; on
contrary opposition and the assumed dis-
junction, 272-73, 308, 320, 330, 332-
33,339-40,343,361,518, 557n.35; on
presuppositions of negative statements,
66-68,71,76,86
Bosley, R., 47
Bossuyt, A., 455-59, 461
Boucher, 1., 159-60
Bowerman, M., 163, 460
Boyd, J., 480, 493, 544n.1O
Bradley, F. H., 51, 56, 57, 65-66, 103
Breal, M., 193,453-54, 552n.5
Brecht, B., 268, 270, 552n.4
Brentano, F., 28,43,510-11, 578n.40
Broselaw, E., 552n.5
Brouwer, L. E. J., 128, 135
Brown, M., 247
Brown, P., 338, 352, 559n.42
Buddha, 80, 82
Buelens, 1., 93
Bumblowski, A., 59-60, 532n.50
Buridan, J., 26-28
Burleigh, w., 40-41, 140-41
Burton-Roberts, N., 207, 212, 250, 376-
77, 432; on presupposition and meta-
linguistic negation, 364, 487- 88,
562n.4,575n.24
Burtt, E. A., 79-83
Buyssens, E., 354, 539n.5
Cajetan (Thomas Caietanus), 11-12,36,
38-39,551n.l
Campbell, R. N., 250-51
Caplan, I., 558n.41
Carden, G., 227, 229, 493, 503, 504,
576n.29
Carlson, G., 479, 554n.16
Carlson, L., 136-37, 141,320-22,333,
339~40, 342, 434
Carnap, R., 61, 112,210,307
Carpenter, P. A., 154, 159, 169
Carroll, 1., 193
Carston, R., 207, 250, 362, 376, 432-34,
563n.1O
Castaiieda, H.-N., 57
Cattell, R., 347, 558n.37, 559n.43
Chalmer, K. C., 166-67, 189
Channell, 549n.33
Chao, Y. R., 219-20
Charniak, E., 196
Cicero, 464-65, 544n.12
Choi, S., 441
Chomsky, N., 94-95,115, 121, 155,285,
317,472,521-22, 534n.66; on the
scope of negation, 332-33, 336, 504,516
Chrysippus, 100
Churchward, C. M., 461
Cicero, 464-65, 544n.12
Clark, E. v., 179-80, 193, 552n.5
Clark, H. H., 3, 33, 159, 196, 541 n.23,
542n.30, 552n.5; on implicit vs. overt
negation, 179-81, 184, 187-90, 193,
521; on markedness and the processing of
negation, 168-72, 175-76, 198,202,
539nn.l0, 12, 541 n.21
Clark, R., 138, 141
Cleaver, E., 268, 270, 296, 552n.4
Coates, J., 376
Cole, P., 558n.40
Collinson, w., 108-9, 197,213,221,225,
227, 544n.ll
Comrie, B., 185,449
Coombs, v., 186, 258, 456, 550n.37,
551 n.39, 572nn.3, 4
Cooper, R., 381, 468, 470, 502-3, 576n.30;
on generalized quantifiers, 245-49,
265-66, 466-67, 478, 503, 549nn.30,
31, 551n.42, 574n.14, 577n.35; on
negative quantifiers, 493, 507-9, 516
Cooper, w., 159
Cormack, A., 207, 250, 376, 383-84,
431-33
Cornish, E. R., 169, 172, 174, 177-78,
541 n.21
Cornulier, B. de, 207, 262, 387, 548n.27,
562n.7, 579n.46; on neg-raising, 335-
36,339-40
Covington, M., 287-88
Cresswell, M., 127,307,493
Crockett, D., 437-39, 504, 578n.42
Cruse, D., 274-76, 555 n.19
Culicover, P., 185, 187, 504
Cutler, A., 356-57
Dahl, b., 132,293, 561-62n.4; on nega-
tion and word order, 446, 452, 460-62,
471,573n.1O
Dancy, R. M., 20-21, 92, 527nn.17, 18,
528nn.22, 23, 24
Danell, K. 1., 571 n.45
Davies, A. M., 448
Davison, A., 441, 500, 504-5
Delacruz, E., 487
Delbriick, B., 186,456, 534n.67, 541n.24,
551 n.39, 572n.4
De Mey, M., 175
Index 619
De Morgan, A., 207, 210-11, 219, 222,
330-33. See also De Morgan's Law(s)
(in Subject Index)
Demos, R., 51-53, 67, 532-33n.56
Deutscher, M., 309, 315
de Villiers, J. G., 173
Dharmakirti, 84, 86
Dieterich, T. G., 256-57, 551n.38
Diogenes Laertius, 21-22
Dixon, R. M. w., 448
Donnellan, K., 375-76
Dowty, D., 278, 288, 511, 522; on nega-
tion in Extended Montague Grammar,
468,470-71, 574n.16
Drange, T., 42, 114-20, 122, 139, 141,
289-90, 565n.20
Du Bois, 1., 150,380
Ducrot, 0., 387, 548n.27, 571n.43; on
argumentation-based scales, 241-42,
245,247,249,281; on the asymmetry of
evaluations, 334-36, 352; on but,
406-9,413,427, 568n.33, 569n.37; on
comparatives and equatives, 207, 387,
548n.27; on the discourse presupposi-
tions of negation, 72, 76, 88, 168, 173,
179,414; on metalinguistic conditionals,
380-81; on metalinguistic negation, 374,
425-27,430,476, 563n.11, 571n.44,
576n.25; on pragmatic inference and the
Loi d'Exhaustivite, 145, 148,357,
543nn.4, 8; 547n.25, 547-48n.26
Dummett, M., 378-79, 381-82,420,426,
430,476
Duns Scotus, 101
Edgerton, F., 86
Edghill, E. M., 102
Eifermann, R., 171, 540n.18, 553n.11
Emonds, J., 418
En~, M., 472
Englebretsen, G., 23, 39, 43-45, 135,
331-32; on negation in term logic,
463-65,473,477,508; on presupposi-
tion failure, 138-41
Epstein, S., 311, 319-22, 342
Erasmus, D., 301, 304-5
Escure, G., 557-58n.37
Ewing, A. C., 111-12, 118, 538n.8
Faltz, L., 471, 507
Farkas, D., 573n.12
Fauconnier, G., 419; on negative polarity,
49, 399,452, 539n.5; on pragmatic
scales, 201, 233-34, 240-42, 247, 409,
543n.8,548n.27
620 Index
Fillmore, C., 278; on but, 411-12; on neg-
raising, 312-13, 315; on presuppositions
and negation, 430-31
Firbas, 1.,155,511-12, 478n.41
Flusberg, H. B. T., 173
Fodor, J. A., 169, 171, 188-89,521
Fodor, J. D., 171, 188-89,521
Foley, W, 501
Fraiberg, S., 538n.8
Fraser, B., 537n.15
Frege, G., 3-4, 9, 32-34, 48, 93-94,
378; on existence presuppositions,
104-10, 123, 130, 143,365,485,487,
489, 532n.54, 536n.5, 537n.ll,
575n.24; as spokesman for propositional
negation, 23,31,41-43,58,65,85,
138,307,370,384,463-68,470,476,
517, 537 n.12; against speech act of nega-
tion, 74-77, 165,202,420,473
Freud, S., 4, 93-95, 203, 535n.73
Funk, W.-P., 273, 280, 282, 290-91,
553n.6
Gaatone, E., 428, 453-54
Gabbay, D., 510, 515, 579n.46
Gale, R. M., 4, 35, 53, 60, 63, 69-71, 94,
203; against speech act of negation,
77-78, 420-21
Gandhi, M., 84
Garcia, E., 4, 72, 202, 532n.51
Garner, R. T., 75
Garrett, M., 169, 171, 188-89,521
Gates, D. L., Jr., 404-5, 408, 567n.29
Gautama (the Nyaya), 84-85
Gazdar, G., 503; against the ambiguity of
negation, 123, 362, 365-66, 368-70,
377,486-87; on binary connectives,
225,257,393-95, 563n.10; on for-
malizing scalar implicature, 207,214,
233-34,242, 376,433, 543nn.5, 8; on
negation in GPSG, 481-83, 516,
573n.7, 575n.22; on the projection prob-
lem, 145-46, 152,431
Geach, P. T., 3-4, 224-25, 305, 307; on
exclusive and inclusive disjunction,
224-25; on falsity and negation, 58-59,
63,420-21,429; against multivalued
logic, 129,519-20, 528n.24; on nega-
tion in propositional vs. term logic, 20,
22-23,43-45, 135,467-68, 578n.38;
as a symmetricalist on negation, 46,71,
77-79,94-95,154-55
Gebauer, J., 186,451-52
Geis, M., 89, 196
Gill, T., 443
Giv6n, T., 3-4, 46, 480, 491; on marked-
ness, 155-57, 160-61,202,276,448,
555n.19; on negation as speech act,
73-74, 189, 420; on presuppositionality
of negation, 63, 72-73, 76, 88, 168,
172-73,179,190,198-203,414,
532n.51,533n.60
Gordon, D., 345
Gowda, K. S. G., 450
Graham, A. C., 89, 448
Green, G., 321, 344-45, 355,418,
570n.40
Greenbaum, S., 551n.40
Greenberg, J., 155-56, 158, 160,202,
456; on markedness of negation, 156,
336-37,420, 538n.3
Greene, J., 172, 174, 176
Grevisse, M., 227, 312, 556n.27
Grice, H. P., 88, 355, 365, 419, 486, 510,
537n.14, 563n.10; on assertability,
377-79,426,429-30,476; on conven-
tional implicature, 144-46, 148, 365,
368, 558n.40; on conversational im-
plicature and maxims, 178, 190-96,
211-14,232,300,343-44,361,362,
370,373,376,383-84,386,389,
432-33, 54In.20, 541-42n.27, 543n.4,
545n.13, 548n.27, 562n.9, 576n.27; on
truth-functionality of disjunction, 395-
96,416
Grieve, R., 171, 175-77,263
Grim, P., 372,430
Gross, M., 427-28
Guerard, A. L., 295
Gundel, J., 514
Hajicova, E., 504, 545n.18, 566n.25
Halpern, R., 319-21, 340
Halvorsen, P.-K., 385
Hamilton, Sir William of Edinburgh, 38,
207,210-16,218-19,221,224,252,
267,432, 543n.3, 545n.13, 548n.26
Harnish, R., 196,234, 541n.20
Hare, R. M., 75
Harries, H., 220
Hart, H. L. A., 29-30
Hayakawa, S.1., 83,100, 534n.65, 552n.4
Hegel, G. W F., 3-4, 6, 46, 202,414; on
dialectic, 75, 90-91, 102, 195, 534n.71;
on significant vs. insignificant negation,
64-65,68,70, Ill, 140, 165,451; as
supposed enemy of the Law of Contradic-
tion, 79, 90-91, 94-95, 534n.70
Heim, 1., 399,452, 574n.19
Heinemann, F. H., 58, 61, 163-64
Heldner, C., 426-28, 504
Henry, D., 108, 141,308,485, 526n.13
Heraclitus, 19
Heringer, 1., 229, 491, 576n.29
Herzberger, H., 124, 126-27, 130, 141,
364,369,537n.12
Heyting, A., 128, 134-35, 141
Hilbert, D., 135
Hintikka, 1., 13,210,233-34, 546n.20; on
double negation, 305-7, 309, 555n.24
Hirschberg, J., 145, 191,207,214,231,
232-34, 240, 242, 542n.28, 543n.5,
547n.24, 549n.32, 550nn.34, 35
Hitler, A., 270, 296, 552n.4
Hobbes, T., 32, 56
Hoeksema, J., 507
Hofmann, T. R., 376
Hogben, L., 295
Hoosain, R., 159
Hust, J., 284, 288, 521-22
Ingalls, D. H. H., 224, 534n.67
Jackendoff, R., 33,121,376,504, 573n.lO,
579n.43; on constituent vs. sentence
negation, 17,42, 185-87, 189,332,
446,471,492-93,505-7,515-16,
541 n.25, 579n.46; on focus and nega-
tion, 229-30, 434, 570n.4l; on neg-
raising, 318-19
Jackson, R. M., 382, 444
Jacobbson, B., 169
Jacobs, J., 507
Jakobson, R., 155-56, 158
Jespersen, 0., 181,203,256,294,310-
12,333,339,397,420,533n.60,
545n.18, 550n.37, 552n.5, 573n.8; on
all . .. not, 226-28,498; on the con-
trary nature of affixal negation, 273-74,
277,280-81,289,331,552n.6,
553n.12; on double negation, 296-98,
301-5, 534n.67, 554n.18, 555n.23,
572n.3; on the negation of scalar terms,
204-5,207,213,215-19,221-22,
224,242-43,252-53,266-67,362,
370,374,384, 543n.7, 544n.ll; on
negation and word order (Jespersen's
Cycle), 312, 446, 452-61; on nexal and
special negation, 17,42, 143, 186-87,
297,506-7, 54In.25, 578n.38
Jesus Christ, 92, 270-71, 296, 340,
528n.25,552n.3
Johnson-Laird, P. N., 174
Joly, A., 454, 459, 573n.9
Joseph, H. W B., 49, 56, 63, 67, 209,
545n.14
Just, M. A., 154, 159, 169
Kadmon, N., 250-51
Kamp, H., 250, 574n.19
Index 621
Kant, 1., 3, 32, 42, 46, 65, 73, 93, 165,
199,301,420,540n.17
Kaplan, D., 376
Kalepky, Th., 309-11, 322, 339-40, 342,
556n.28
Karttunen, L., 67, 248, 324, 326, 388,
418, 538n.17; on contradiction negation,
147-49,362,367-70,374,414,423,
426,428,430,485; on conventional im-
plicature, 144-53,433, 558n.40
Kato, Y, 442, 460, 501, 504, 514, 576n.30,
577n.35
Katz, 1., 53, 56, 136-37, 143, 148,369,
467-68,472,497
Kaufmann, W, 534n.70
Kay, P., 537-38n.15
Keenan, E. L., 141, 185,471,507,
537n.12
Keenan, E. 0.,305
Keller-Cohen, D., 166-67, 183, 189
Kempson, R., 146,250,317,420-21,
548n.27, 563n.10; against the ambiguity
of negation, 177,362,365,368-70,
382, 444, 486, 561 n.l, 579 n.46; against
semantic presupposition, 123, 131-35,
486-87; on paradoxical negation, 207,
376,384,431-33
Kennedy, G. A., 448
Keynes, 1. N., 215-16
Kiefer, F., 422
Kierkegaard, S., 93, 95, 528-29
Kimenyi, A., 572n.1
Kiparsky, C., 312, 323-24, 430-31,
536n.5
Kiparsky, P., 312,323-24,430-31,
536n.5, 550n.36; on Avoid Synonymy,
193,279; on the ordering paradox,
283-85
Kissin, P., 34, 35, 48,77,116, 122, 158,
189,203
Kittel, F., 450-51
,!(Ieene, S.C., 124, 127, 143,537nn.ll,12
Klein, E., 207, 503, 548n.27
Klein, S., 386-87
Klima, E., 158, 162,397, 539nn.4, 5,
556n.30, 567n.29, 569n.38, 573n.lO;
diagnostics for sentence negation, 42,
180,184-89,336,490,492,505-7,
515,541 n.25, 579n.46; on double nega-
tion, 297-99; on sentence vs. constituent
negation, 17, 143,316,332,403-4,
446,471
Kneale, Wand M., 100,128
Konig, E., 567n.31
Korzybski, A., 83, 100, 534n.65, 552n.4
Kraak, A., 48, 187,336,504,506,
545nn.15, 18, 573n.10, 579n.46
622 Index
Kratzer, A., 376
Kripke, 5., 107,376,419,485
Kroch, A., 413-15,561 n.3
Kruisinga, E., 134,273,287,299,398,
548n.28
Kuno, 5.,155,440-41,504-5,511-14,
578n.39
Kuroda, S.-Y., 151-52,213,365; on cate-
gorical and thetic judgments, 43, 510-
11, 578 n.40; on negation and denial,
136-37,141,537n.13
Kurrik, M. J., 94-95
Labov, W, 229, 454, 572n.3
Ladd, D., 147,230-31,356-57,368,
374,403,405,41O-11,434,560n.49,
570-71 n.41
Ladusaw, W, 234, 247, 399; on polarity,
349,495, 539n.5, 577n.36; on scope
ambiguities, 499-500, 502-3, 577n.33
Lafitte, P., 453
Lakoff, G., 54,122,288,345,419,478;
on neg-raising, 316, 321, 324; on scope
of negation, 504, 545n.18, 573n.lO,
579n.43; on scope of quantifiers, 502-3
Lakoff, R., 48, 312, 372, 397, 559n.43
Lambert, K., 118-19, 122,486
Lambrecht, K., 578n.40
Lang, E., 407-8, 569n.37, 570n.39
Langendoen, D. T., 297-301, 355,
537n.15, 538n.17, 555n.21
Lapointe,S., 480, 483, 573n.7
Lasnik, H., 504
Lear, 1., 20, 527n.18
Le Bidois, G. and R., 228, 357-58,
556n.29
Lee, K., 493, 507
Leech, G., 399, 544n.lO, 552n.4; on nega-
tive uninformativeness, 198-201,
542n.29; on understatement and polite-
ness, 333-34, 338
Lehmann, W P., 456, 557n.34
Lehrer, A., 207, 276, 285, 376, 385,
423-25,432, 546n.21, 558n.39
Lehrer, K., 207, 276,376,385,423-25,
432, 558n.39
Leibniz, G. W von, 210, 527-28n.21; on
term logic, 138, 464-65, 474; on nega-
tion, 41, 57, 414, 420
Lenin, N., 91
Levergood, B., 248
Levi, J., 285
Levinson,S., 191,233,385, 536n.5,
537n.14, 556n.25, 562n.9; on the inter-
action of the maxims, 192, 194, 196,
345, 390, 541 n.20; on politeness, 338,
352, 559n.42; on scalar implicature, 214,
242, 543nn.5, 8
Lewis, D., 150, 164, 194,307,503,
536n.8, 574n.19
Liberman, M., 147,230,368,374
Lieber, R., 283-84, 292
Lindblom, 8., 541n.26
Linebarger, M., 348-49, 495,504, 539n.5,
545n.18; on external negation and TRUE,
367,413-15,430, 561 n.3
Linsky, L., 100
Ljung, M., 276
LObner, 5., 207, 217-18, 237, 246-47,
265, 325, 548-49n.29
LOrcher, E., 202
Lowth, (Bishop) R., 297
Luborsky, P., 323
Lukasiewicz, 1., 20, 23, 43, 77, 463,
527n.19, 528n.23, 529n.26, 544n.12;
on future contingents and indeterminacy,
99-102, 130, 132, 564n.15; on multi-
valued logic, 110, 124-27, 137,364,
369, 535n.l
Lycan, W, 123, 137,365,368-69,486-
87, 576n.27
Lyons, 1., 183,276,332-34,336, 546n.
21
Mabbott, J. D., 61, 68-70,111,113-14,
140,395-96,451
McCall,S., 39,43-44,135, 138, 141,
546n.22
McCallum-Bayliss, H., 376
McCawley, J. D., 121, 197,225,288,373,
380,441,502,563n.1O
McGloin, N. H., 441-42, 514, 557n.34;
on negative polarity, 348-49, 453; on
scope of negation, 262, 501, 504
McNeilage, P., 541n.26
McNeill, D. and N. B., 162, 166-67,
182-83
McTaggart, 1. McT. E., 90
Madkour, 1., 40, 42, 60, 477
Madtha, W, 451
Malkiel, Y., 159
Marchand, H., 287-89, 291, 573n.8; on ad-
jectival un-, 279-81,283-84, 552nn.5,
6, 553n.13; on double negation, 297-98,
305; on Jespersen's cycle, 454, 456, 458
Marcuse, H., 91, 534-35n.72
Martin, J., 365, 561n.l
Martinet, A., 192
Martinon, P., 311, 351
Marty, A., 43, 510-11, 578n.40
Martyna, W, 155
Marx, K., 4, 91-92, 94-95
Mates, B., 22-23, 59, 379, 529n.26,
544n.12
Matilal, B. K., 63
May, R., 502-3
Melander, 1., 406-7, 568nn.33, 34
Menner, R., 193
Michalski, K., 102
Mill, J. 5.,31-32,38,56, 145,484; as
proto-Grice, 207, 212-13, 216, 226,
255, 376, 384,432, 548n.27
Miller, C., 155
Mirambe1, A., 156,447-48
Mohr, H., 359-60, 560n.51
Montague, R., 67, 144, 152,426,472,
478-79,502,511; on generalized quan-
tifiers, 465-66, 473-74; on negation,
446, 468-71, 481-86, 489-93, 508,
515
Moody, E., 27-28
Moravcsik, 1. E. M., 510, 515, 579n.46
Morgan, 1., 251-52, 343-46, 350, 389,
570n.41
Morganbesser, 5., 554n.19
Morpurgo-Tagliabue, G., 213
Morris, C. W, 3, 61-62
Moser, M., 377, 563n.12
Munro, P., 461-62
Murray, L., 301-2
Na, Y.-H., 551 n.41
Nagfujuna, 83-84
Napoli, D. 1.,256-57, 551n.38
Narasimhao, K. V. V. L., 451
Nelson, 1. 0., 30
Nemer, J., 449
Newmeyer, F., 188,376
Nicod, 1., 257
Nyrop, K., 312
Occam (Ockham), William of, 101,223,
365,416. See also Occam's Razor (in
Subject Index)
Orwell, G., 295-96, 298-302, 304-5
Osgood, C., 159-61,271, 539nn.4, 11
Ota, A., 460, 501, 514, 576n.30
Otero, c., 300
Palacas, A., 563n.1O
Palmer, F. R., 376, 493
Pap, A., 113-15, 118-20, 122, 130, 137,
141, 536n.9, 537n.13
Parmenides, 5-6, 23, 25, 45-46
Parsons, T., 479
Partee, B.H., 54,187,238,243,499,504,
543n.6; on neg-raising, 316-19, 326-27
Pataiijali, 88-89
Patton, T. E., 53, 56, 75
Paul, H., 192-93
Index 623
Payne, 1., 261, 367,439,500,507, 574n.18;
on word order and negation, 452, 461-
62,471,504-5
Pea, R., 167-69, 171, 173,443
Peirce, C. 5.,28,32,61,67-68,71,76,
163,257
Pelletier, 1., 225
Perlmutter, D., 381, 511
Perry, J., 470, 575 n.23
Pesetsky, D., 283
Peter of Spain (Petrus Hispanus, Pope John
XXI), 220, 223, 248-49
Peters,S., 67; on contradiction negation,
147-49,362,367-70,374,414,423,
426,428, 430, 485; on conventional im-
plicature, 144-53,433, 558n.40; on
negation in Montague Grammar, 468,
470-71,574n.16
Plato, 1, 24-25, 46, 60, 157, 169, 199,
420; negation as otherness, 5-6, 35,
50-51,53,55,69-70,113,163,268
Poldauf, 1., 293
Pollack, J., 318
Pope, A. See Scriblerus, M.
Porphyry, 31, 47
Postal, P., 472
Pott, A. F., 219, 222, 447, 452, 543n.8
Poutsma, H., 312, 315-16, 324, 352
Price, H. H., 68-69,111-12
Prince, E., 339, 512, 514, 563n.12
Prior, A. N., 58,100,111-12,118-19,
370
Pullum, G. K., 225, 257, 503, 575n.22; on
negation in GPSG, 481-83,516,
573n.7; on -n't, 460, 480, 483, 551 n.40,
565n.21, 573n.7, 579n.47
Putnam, H., 189
Pyrrho, 83
Quine, W V. 0., 4, 65, 94, 107-8,308,
317,485, 533n.62, 561n.l, 575n.23; on
bivalence, 100, 102, 112, 118, 123, 186;
on exclusive and inclusive disjunction,
224-25, 544-45n.13; on falsity and
negation, 58-59, 71, 420, 429, 532n.48
Raju, R. T., 49,64,79-84
Ravindran, N., 451
Reichenbach, H., 109,536n.7
Reinhart, T., 509, 511, 514
Remler, 1.,166-67, 189
Rescher, N., 20,43,101,127,132, 528n.24,
535n.3; on future contingents, 99-.102,
535n.2 •
624 Index
Richards, I. A., 159-61, 271, 539nn.4, 11
Richter, F. K., 270
Robinson, R. H., 80-84
Roeper, T., 554n.16
Rosch, E., 189
Ross,1. R., 159, 161,450,504, 554n.16,
559n.44; on Elephant linguistics, 83,
534n.66; on Klima diagnostics, 185-86
Ross, W. D., 60, 532n.47
Routley, R., 118-20, 122, 130, 141,
536n.1O
Royce, 1., 33-35, 46, 92-94, 202-3,
528n.24,532n.49
Rumbaugh, D., 443
Russell, B., 3, 9, 15,20,45,46,57-58,
62,68,128-29,138,210,276,298,
387,464-65, 534n.66; on category mis-
takes and type theory, 112-15, 118, 122,
133, 139; on negation as secondary to af-
firmation, 51-53, 59-60, 62, 70-71,
78, 165, 532n.50; on the ontogeny of
negation, 164-65, 167, 171,274; on
vacuous singular terms, 102, 104, 106-
10, 123-24, 127, 139-40, 144, 148,
153,362-65,369-70,475,484-86,
489,520, 536n.7, 537n.12, 54In.19,
576n.27
Ryle, G., 68-69, 395-96
Sadock, 1., 191,243,250-51,418,447,
493, 548n.27, 549n.33, 558n.40,
565n.21, 579n.44; on ambiguity, 176-
77,317,351,440, 56In.l; on speech act
idioms, 343-46, 350
Safire, w., 554n.15
Sag, I., 503, 575n.22; on the contradiction
contour, 147,230,368,374; on negation
in GPSG, 481-83,516, 573n.7
Sahlin, E., 397
Sanford, D. H., 530n.35
Sanjaya, 80-83
SaJ)kara, 3, 63-66, 71, 84, 535-36n.4
Sapir, E.: on gradable predicates, 221-22,
224-25,242,244-48,253,281,334,
544n.l1; on the psychological excluded
middle, 271, 302, 332-33, 552n.4
Schachter, P., 54, 187,238,243,326-27,
451,504,521,543n.6
Schmerling, S., 196,399,452, 563n.10
Scriblerus, M. (pseudonym for A. Pope, 1.
Swift, and J. Arbuthnot), 303-5, 360
Searle, J., 3, 88,166,199,376; on conven-
tions of usage, 343-45, 350, 388; on
illocutionary negation, 74-75, 189, 473
Selkirk, E. 0., 283-85, 292, 553nn.11, 13
Seright, O. D., 404-5, 408, 567n.29; on
double negation, 298, 302-3, 305
Seuren, P., 58, 177, 186-87, 189,504,
506, 544n.10, 545 nn.15, 18, 579n.46
Sextus Empiricus, 22
Sgall, P., 504, 545n.18, 566n.25
Shanon, B., 173,202
Sharma, Dh., 84, 224, 302-3, 305
Sheffer, H. M., 257-58
Sheintuch, G., 316
Shnukal, A., 339, 557-58n.37
Siegel, D., 277, 280, 283, 284, 287
Sigwart, C., 33, 38-39, 42, 57, 60, 128,
140; on contrary negation and the as-
sumed disjunction, 271-73, 320, 332-
33; on double negation, 305-6; on
presupposition and negation, 65-66, 71,
103-4, 172, 181
Sloman, A., 74-75
Smiley, T., 124, 129-30, 136, 141,364,
369, 537n.ll
Smith, A., 436, 567n.30
Smith, S., 207, 250, 432, 504
Soames, S., 146,381, 543n.5
Sommers, F., 39, 138-39, 141, 154-55,
331; on term logic, 23, 464-66, 473-
75,508, 574n.19, 575n.20
Spencer, H., 450
Sperber, D., 136, 146, 194,250,355,431,
433,486
Spinoza, B., 41, 64, 66, 70, 76, 86, 91,
111,140
Spitzer, L., 262, 311-12, 556nn.28, 29
Sridhiira, 84
Staal, F., 79, 84, 87, 534nn.67, 69, 536n.4
Stalnaker, R., 54-55, 376, 431, 487,
537n.15
Steinberg, D., 120
Stenner, A. J., 225, 372
Steru, G., 338, 356-57, 454
Stickel, G., 572n.48
Stockwell, R., 54, 187,238,243,326-27,
504,543n.6
Stoffel, C., 356, 359, 401, 566n.23
Stokes, w., 229, 576n.29
Strang, C., 101
Strawson, P. F., 3, 33, 36,42,43,46,83,
419; on aboutness and truth-value gaps,
131,488,509-11; on category mistakes,
112-16, 122, 140; on disjunction, 224,
395-96; on existential presuppositions,
9,29-30, 109-10, 123-24, 130-32,
137-38, 143, 364, 369,486-89,
536n.7, 537nn. 11 , 13, 14,561-62n.4,
575n.24; on implicature, 212-13; on
negation used for contrast and correction,
73-74, 174, 181, 189, 201-3, 540n.17
Studdert-Kennedy, M., 541 n.26
Sturel, R., 406-7
Sullivan, M. w., 24, 542n.2
Sweet, H., 42, 533n.61
Swift, 1. See Scriblerus, M.
Swift, K., 155
Tanenhaus, M., 193
Tannen, D., 305
Tasmowski-De Ryck, L., 205, 398, 497
Taylor, K., 372
Tesniere, L., 46, 71, 301, 305
Theophrastus, 154,210
Thirumalai, M. S., 572n.1
Thomas It Kempis, 92
Thomas Aquinas, Saint. See Aquinas, Saint
Thomas
Thomason, R., 54-55, 144
Thompson, M., 18,24-25,28,30,
527n.17
Thorue, 1., 480, 493, 544n.1O
Tobler, A.: on all ... not, 227-28,
545n.17; on but, 406, 568n.33, 569n.36;
on neg-raising, 262, 309, 312, 341-42,
347,350,352,355,556n.27
Toms, E., 49, 51, 75
Tottie, G., 182-84, 541n.23
Trabasso, T., 176, 539n.1O
Tridgell, J. M., 174
Trubetzkoy, N., 155,317
Udayana,84
Ultan, R., 472-73
Urmson, 1. 0.,352, 559n.44
Vandamme, F., 33, 164, 529n.30
Van Dongen, W. A., 261
van Fraassen, B., 119, 128-31, 136, 141,
430, 536n.lO, 537n.12
Van Oosten, J., 511, 514
Varga, L., 439-40, 504, 514, 572n.47
Viitsyayana, 85-86, 538n.1
Vennemann, T., 456, 461
Vogt, C., 406-7, 568n.33
Volterra, v., 165-68, 173,208
Von Wright, G. H., 43, 88, 164,210; on
weak and strong negation, 17, 132-38,
141,143-44, 537nn.12, 13
Wagenaar, K., 227, 452-53, 568n.33,
572n.3
Wales, R. J., 171, 175-77,263
Wali, K., 557n.34
Walker, R., 381-82,417
Index 625
Wall, R., 468, 470-71, 574n.16
Wang Fu-Chih, 89-90
Ward, G., 231
Wason, P. C., 3; on contexts of plausible
denial, 72, 168-82, 184, 189, 198-203,
263, 414, 539nn.lO, 12, 13, 540nn.14,
17, 541 n.212; on prohibitive value of
negation, 170-71, 190,274
Wasow, T., 294, 314
Waterlow, S., 210
Weil'lreich, U., 447
Welte, w., 393, 408, 504, 548n.16,
567n.27, 569-70nn.37, 39
Wertheimer, R., 375, 536n.6
Whitehead, A. N., 20, 59
Whitney, A. H., 406, 568n.32
William of Sherwood (Shyreswood), 140,
248-50
Williams, C. 1. F., 308, 314-15
Williams, E., 283-84, 292
Williams, E. R., 193
Wilson, D., 146, 194,250,355,373,380,
416,433; on conjunction, 417, 563n.lO;
on non-truth-functional negation, 371,
428-31; against semantic presupposition,
132,136,486-87,562n.4
Wise, K., 316
Wittgenstein, L., 4, 201-2, 388, 543n.8,
559n.44; on negation, 34-35, 46, 76,
203, 414, 529n.27
Wood, L., 57, 61-62, 70, 108, 181,201,
203
Wundt, w., 274, 276
Yau, S. C., 449, 543-44n.9, 555n.23
Yeats, W. B., 268, 270
Zamenhof, L. L., 294
Ziff, P., 365
Zimmer, K., 48, 298; on affixal negation,
35,42,160,273-79,282,286,287,
29O-94,337,396-97,537n.12,
554n.17, 555n.20, 538n.l; on category
mistakes, 117-18,289, 565n.20; on pro-
ductivity, 276-77, 286, 552nn.5, 6,
553n.9
Zipf, G. K., 88, 192-94, 197
Zwicky, A., 89, 196,258; on ambiguity,
177,317,351,440,561 n.l; on -n't,
460,480,483, 55In.40, 565n.21,
573n.7,579n.47
Subject Index
A (as category in Jespersen). See
Tripartition
A statements, A vertex. See Square of
Opposition
a few, 248-49
Abhava (absence), 85
Acceptable ungrammaticality, 300-30I,
554n.13,555n.21
Acquisition of negation, 161-68, 173,
539nn.7, 8; pragmatic aspects of, 165-
68, 173
Adjacency principle, 277, 280, 553n.8
Affirmation, 9-10, 14, 17, 18, 30-34,
138,463-64, 578n.38. See also Asym-
metry of affirmation and negation
Affixal negation, 33-42,117-18,260-61,
273-307,316,331-32,352,361,523,
525nn.l, 5, 526n.14, 530nAI, 538n.3,
553n.IO, 554n.15, 579nA8; category-
changing, 291-93, 554n.16; in cross-
linguistic perspective, 293-96, 554n.17;
descriptive vs. emotive, 280-82, 286,
289; and level-ordered morphology,
283-85; and metalinguistic negation,
363,392-97, 572nA6; and productivity,
118, 260, 274-78, 282-86, 290-94,
329-30,337-38, 552nn.5, 6, 553n.9;
restricted to positive bases, 274-77,
282-83,286, 552n.6, 553n.8, 554n.15,
555 n.20; restricted to scalar bases, 275,
276,281-83,286, 553n.11. See also
Compositionality; Contradictory opposi-
tion; Contrariety; E-pos and e-neg; Right-
hand Head Rule
all . .. not, ambiguity of, 226-30, 483,
490-93,496-503,517,529n.28,
545n.15, 576nn.28, 29; and intonation,
229-31. See also NEG-Q; NEG-V
Ambiguity of negation, 2-3, 15-18, 45,
75,226-30,336,362-70,423,515-
16, 530n.38, 537n.12, 557n.32,
579n.46; in Extended Montague Gram-
mar, 147-48, 368-70; as represented in
formal systems, 122-44, 147-48; as
(un)represented in natural language,
366-67, 382; in negative category mis-
627
takes, 116-19; in psycholinguistic
studies, 176-77; rejection of by mono-
guists, 123, 152,362-63,365-70,377,
421-23,443-44,486, 56In.l, 562n.5;
in Russellian theory of descriptions, 108,
110, 143,484-90, 576n.27; in term
logic, 137-41,463-65,471-72,477.
See also Pragmatic ambiguity; Privative
opposites; Inner and outer negation;
Scope of negation
and. See Conjunctions
Antonymy, 53, 157, 159-61, 188-89,
275-76, 332-33
Apophatikon (Stoics' propositional nega-
tion), 21-23, 31,116,446,467,487
Arabic logicians. See Future contingents on
Farabian reading; also Avicenna; Aver-
roes (in Index of Names)
Argumentation-based scales, 241-42,
548n.27,563n.11
Assertability and unassertability, 82, 363,
377-79,387,395-96,416,419,421,
430-31,489, 534n.64, 564n.15
Asymmetry of affirmation and negation,
1-4,45-79,85-86,88,89,92,94-95,
190-92, 198-203,312,420-21,517,
532n.51, 539nn.9, 11, 540nn.14, 17;
and asymmetry of Square of Opposition,
264-67; in psycholinguistics, 154-84,
190. See also Eliminating negation;
Markedness of negation
Aufheben, Aufhebung, 90-91,93, 534n.71
Avoid Synonymy, 279-80, 550n.36. See
also Blocking; Elsewhere Condition
B (as category in Jespersen). See
Tripartition
Boethian reading of Aristotle on future con-
tingents. See Future contingents, on
Boethian reading
Bivalence, Principle (Law) of (LBV),
97-101, 123-24, 142; in multivalued
logic, 127-29, 536n.1O
Blocking, 279, 358, 499-501, 550n.36,
552n.5, 553n.11, 558n.39. See also
Avoid Synonymy; Elsewhere Condition
628 Index
Buddhist logic, on negation, 1,80-82,84
but: ambiguity of, 406-9, 568n.32,
569nn.36-38; as diagnostic for monoto-
nicity, 549n.30; as diagnostic for univer-
sal quantification, 346, 559n.44; and
metalinguistic negation, 363, 385,
402-13,427,436-37,450,459-60,
568nn.33, 34; PA (concessive), 404-13,
427, 567n.27, 569nn.36, 38, 39; SN
(contrastive), 392-93, 402-13, 427,
436-37,450,459-60, 567n.29,
568nn.33, 34, 569nn.35, 36, 38,
570n.39
C (as category in Jespersen). See
Tripartition
Case marking and scope of negation, 43,
438-39,512-14,578n.42
Categorical judgments, 14, 41-43, 138,
463-65,471,474-77,510-13,
573n.13,578n.40
Category mistakes, 6, 8,18,97,110-23,
132,138-40,486-9O,504,527n.16,
565 n.20; and meaninglessness, 111-17,
120, 122-23, 133,486,516; presupposi-
tional analysis of, 114, 121-22, 130,
137,140,486-90,509-10; as selec-
tional violations, 121-22; and ungram-
maticality, 115-16, 121-22
Catu,rkoti. See Four-cornered Negation,
Principle of
Chinese philosophy, negation and marked-
ness in, 89-90, 160-61, 539n.11
Choice negation. See Internal negation
Clefts, 385-86, 556n.25; and meta-
linguistic negation, 428, 435-36, 562n.7
Comparatives as scalar values, 386-87,
548n.27
Complementaries, gradable, 275-76
Complementary conversion, 12-14, 209,
526n.11, 543 n.7. See also Modality;
Possibility; Subcontraries
Compositionality, 260-61; and even,
151-52; in multivalued logic, 124-26;
in negative adjectives, 280, 282-83,
285-86,29O,293-95,553n.12
Compromisers, 401-2
Conditionals: Austin, 380; in discourse rep-
resentation theory, 574n.19; metalin-
guistic, 380-81, 564n.16; negation
of, 378-79,476-77; perfection of, 89;
in term logic, 465, 474-77; truth-
functionality of, 378-79
Conjunctions: 254, 256-58; asymmeteric,
373-74, 562-63 n.lO; correlative, 224,
254; metalinguistic, 381-82; as diag-
nostic-for monotonicity, 247-48,
549n.30; negative, 256-58, 455,
551 n.39; in term logic, 474-77. See
also but
Connectives, sentential, in propositional vs.
term logic, 465, 470-71, 474-77, 479
Connotative meaning, as target of meta-
linguistic negation, 371-73, 375, 562n.8
Constituent negation. See Sentence vs. con-
stituent negation; Predicate term nega-
tion; VP negation
Contexts of plausible denial. See Plausible
denial, contexts of
Contracted negation. See n't
Contradiction, Law of. See Law of
Contradiction
Contradiction contour, 107, 147,230,368,
374
Contradiction negation, 147-52,368-69,
414, 423, 426
Contradictory opposition (contradictory ne-
gation), 2, 6-27, 31-33, 35-37, 41-
45,63,66-67,97,98, 103-4, 110,
132-33,204,208-9,213,238,252,
268-70,46O,464,469,502,525n.6,
526n.7, 530n.35, 542n.30; in affixal
negation, 118, 273-76, 278-82, 286-
87,289-91,293-95, 552n.6, 553n.7;
and difficulty of processing negation,
175-76,179-80,200-201,540n.18;
and double negation, 300, 306-7; "filled
in" to contrariety, 270-73, 282, 286,
308,318,331-33,336-38,342,352,
360-61,518; in Extended Term Logic,
472,502,505-7,515,517; in Hegelian
dialectic, 90-92; in Montague Grammar,
468-70; in neg-raising constructions,
308,310-11,328-30,345,352; with
scalar values, 205, 266-67. See also
NEG-Q readings; Predicate denial
Contrariety (contrary opposition, contrary
negation), 1-2,6-14, 18, 19, 21,
35-45,53,66-67,204,208-9,237-
38,464, 468; in affixal negation, 33,
118,273-82,286-87,289-95; in con-
tradictory clothing, 270-73, 282, 286,
308,318,331-33,336-38,342,352,
360-61,518; and difficulty of processing
negation, 175-76; and double negation,
298-99,301-2,305-6; formally de-
fined, 39-40, 269-72; in Indian logic,
87-88; maximization of in natural lan-
guage, 329-30; mediate and immediate,
7-9, 13,39-40,42-43, 110, 142,205,
266,269,286,331,517,525n.3-5,
526n.16, 530n.37, 536n.9, 538n.1,
542n.30, 574n.17, 579n.48; and neg-
raising, 310-11, 328-30, 337-42, 345,
352, 361; operators for, 132-33,
135-38,141, 531nn.43, 44; polar (abso-
lute), 37-40, 530nn.36, 37, 552n.2; in
predicate denials, 492, 505-6; between
propositions, 8-11, 16, 36-38, 40,
44-45,67,81,97, 103-4, 109,
268-69, 527n.15; simple (reductive),
38-40, 530n.37, 551n.l; and under-
statement, 273, 303, 330-61
Contrastive negation, 69, 427, 578n.42.
See also Metalinguistic negation
Conventional implicature, 144-53, 368-
69,485,522, 537nn.14, 15; distin-
guished from conversational implicature,
144-46, 558n.40; projection of, 145,
152; as target of metaiinguistic negation,
363,374. See also Contradiction nega-
tion; Presupposition
Conversational implicature, 190-91, 195-
97,201,433, 541n.20; cancelability of,
145,191,214-15,234-36,363,373,
375; conventionalization of, 202, 251-
52, 273, 306, 322, 344-52, 389-92,
522-23, 549n.32, 550n.35, 558n.40,
56On.50; distinguished from conventional
implicature, 144-46, 558n.40; dualistic
model of, 198-201,517; and lexicaliza-
tion, 253-67; suspendability of, 234-35.
See also Q-based implicature; R-based
implicature; Scalar implicature; Short-
circuited implicature
Cooper storage and scope ambiguities,
502-3, 577n.36
Correction, midsentence, 150,380
Correlation (converseness), 6-7
Correspondence between affirmative and
negative propositions, 47-48, 202
DNAAs. See Double negation with at-
tributive adjectives
de-. See Affixal negation; Reversative verbs
Definite descriptions, 104, 106-10,
129-32, 139,484-90; in Montague
Grammar, 484; pragmatic ambiguity of,
375-76; unpacking of, 106-7,484-86.
See also Vacuous singular terms
De Morgan's Law(s), 222-24, 313,
538n.18
Denial: as category in acquisition, 162-64,
167; explicit vs. implicit, 182-84, 187,
189,541 n.23; joint, 257-59; as logical
Index 629
relation, 21, 136, 141, 143,365; as natu-
ral function of negation, 173-74,201-3;
of a property, 116-17; speaker, 34, 63,
73-74,77,201-3,421-22. See also
Metaiinguistic negation; Plausible denial;
Predicate denial; Speech act, negation as
Deontic values and negation, 86-89,
92-93, 134, 164,216-17, 539n.7,
555n.23; lexicalization of, 259-62, 266;
in neg-raising contexts, 308, 324-28
Descriptive (truth-functional) negation. See
Metalinguistic negation
Determinatio est negatio (Spinoza), 41,
64-66,69,77,86,91,532n.49
Dialectic, 4, 6, 90-92, 94-95, 102, 195,
370, 457,534n.71
Difference, negation as. See Otherness,
negation as
Diminishers, 400-401, 565n.22. See also
Minimizers; Polarity and polarity items
dis-. See Affixal negation; Reversative verbs
Discourse negation, 166-67, 183, 189
Disjunction, 254, 256-59; ambiguist line
on, 224-25, 393-94; assumed (in prag-
matic reasoning), 271-73, 319-22,
330-32,340,343,361; conversational
implicatures of, 225-26, 258-59,
545nn.13, 14; exclusive, 222-25, 393,
529n.26, 544-45n.13; inclusive,
223-25,393, 529n.26, 545n.13; meta-
linguistic, 379-80; in term logic,
474-77, 575 n.20; truth-functionality of,
378-79, 395-96, 415
Disjunctive set. See Eliminating negation
by unpacking into disjunctive set
Division of Pragmatic Labor, 197-98,
304-5,361,441,499,522
Double negation, 296-308, 543n.6,
554nn.18, 19, 555-56n.24, 577n.33;
with attributive adjectives (DNAAs),
298-301, 555n.21; in language process-
ing, 175; logical form of, 305-8, 503;
pragmatic motivation for, 298, 301-6,
308,457,517, 555nn.22, 23; redundant
(pleonastic), 280, 296-97; in theology,
84. See also Law of Double Negation
Down-toners, 401-2, 566n.23
Duals, 217-18, 237-38, 245, 544n.1O
E statements, E vertex. See Square of
Opposition
E-pos and e-neg, 316, 353, 355,358,
559n.46, 56On.47, 566n.23; in affixal
negation, 274-76, 279-82, 286, 289,
293, 396, 552n.6, 555n.20
630 Index
ETL (Extended Term Logic). See Term
logic, extended
Eastern philosophy, negation in, 4, 6,
79-90. See also Indian philosophy,
negation in
Eel-wrigglers, 81-84. See also Law of
Contradiction, opposition to
Eleatic philosophers, 1. See also Par-
menides (in Index of Names)
Elephant linguistics, 83, 534n.66
Eliminating negation, 50-60; by absorbing
into predicate, 32, 53, 56, 59-60,
532n.47; by reducing to falsity, 3-4, 41,
56-59,63,70,71,78,421-22,429,
532n.48; by unpacking into disjunctive
set, 68-70, 78, 114, 533n.58. See also
Otherness, negation as
Elsewhere Condition, 197. See also Avoid
Synonymy; Blocking
Embracing negation, 453-59
Empty singular terms (subjects). See Vac-
uous singular terms
Entailment, semantic, 129, 142, 147,
495-96; as category in acquisition of
negation, 162, 167; in definition of quan-
tity scales, 231, 409, 542n.28; ordered,
136,431; and private opposition, 317-
18. See also Presupposition; Sub-
alternation
Epicureans, on future contingents, 100
Equatives as scalar values, 386-87,
548n.27
Euphemism, 333-34, 338, 351-52, 358-
60, 372-73. See also Negative face;
Politeness
even, 148-52,248, 538n.15; and mini-
mizers, 399,452, 560n.48, 565n.22;
unnegatability of, 149-52, 368-69,
538nn.16-18
Exceptionality Hypothesis, 172-73, 176,
182, 540n.14. See also Plausible denial
Excluded middle. See Contrariety, mediate
and immediate; Law of Excluded Middle;
Psychological excluded middle
Exclusion negation. See External negation
Existential import. See Presupposition and
existential import; Square of Opposition;
Vacuous singular terms
Extended term logic. See Term logic,
extended
External negation, 15,21,75, 141-44,
362-70, 374,414-15,426,537n.12,
S61n.3; in multivalued logic, 125-30,
486,519-20; natural language reflexes
of, 106-7, 126-27,365-67; as reflex of
metalinguistic negation, 362-63, 413,
429-31,472,489,501, 575n.24; Rus-
sellian, 106-7, 116, 118, 123, 362-64;
as second-order statement (in Bolinger),
183,398-99,507,566n.24
Factivity, 130, 323-24
Fall-rise contour, 107, 147, 356-57, 368,
545n.19, 560n.49, 567n.28; as focus in
a given set, 229-31, 410-11; and meta-
linguistic negation, 374, 389, 403-5,
496
Falsity: "de jure" and "de facto," 134-35,
141; operator for, 119, 126; reduction of
negation to, see Eliminating negation by
reducing to falsity
Farabian reading of Aristotle on future con-
tingents. See Future contingents, on
Farabian reading
Four-cornered (Fourfold) Negation, Prin-
ciple of (L4CN, Tetralemma, Catufikoti),
79-83
Freezes (fixed binomials), 159-61
Functional Sentence Perspective. See
Prague school; Presupposition and about-
ness; Topic
Future contingents, 6, 98- 102, 110, 130,
534n.64, 535n.4, 564n.15; on Boethian
reading, 99-102, 123-24, 128, 132,
535n.2, 536n.4, 564n.15; on Farabian
reading, 100-102. See also Aristotle;
Boethius (in Index of Names)
Generalized Phrase Structure Grammar
(GPSG), 481-83, 503, 516-18
Generalized quantifiers. See Quantifiers,
generalized
General Semantics, 83, 100, 534n.65,
552n.4
General terms. See Quantifiers
Gradations, 244-45, 543n.8. See also
Scalar values
Human ignorance and error, negation as
symptom of, 60-63, 65, 68, 92,
540n.17
I statements, I vertex. See Square of
Opposition
IV (IV phrase) negation, 470-71,490,
504, 506. See also Predicate term nega-
tion; VP negation
Idealists, on negation, 46, 57, 60, 64-67,
76,78,85,93,271-73,320,340,414,
532n.48
Illocutionary negation, 74-77. See also
Speech act, negation as
Implicature. See Conventional implicature;
Conversational implicature
Implicit negation. See Inherent negation
iN-. See Affixal negation
Incorporation of negative:. by constraints on,
253-67,287,328-30,392-97,
550n.37, 572n.46; interaction with
Jespersen's Cycle, 453-56; interaction
with neg-raising, 314-16, 328-30; and
narrow scope, 227, 393, 397,477,
565 n.20. See also Affixal negation; In-
herent negation
Indefinite judgments (names, negation,
predication). See Infinite judgments
Indefinites, as reinforcers of negation,
453-55, 459, 572n.3
Indian philosophy, negation in, 79-89,
534nn.67, 69, 535n.4. See also Buddhist
logic; Jainists; MimiiIllsa; Nyava-
Vaise$ika logic
Inference. See Conventional implicature;
Conversational implicature; Entailment;
Presupposition
Inference to the best interpretation, 196,
390
Infinite judgments (names, negation, predi-
cation), 15-17,31,40-41,47-48,
64-65, 140, 526nn.13, 14, 532n.47
Informativeness, Principle of, 196, 390
Inherent (implicit) negation, difficulty of
processing, 179-84, 187-90, 193,
521-24
Inhibited and uninhibited thinkers, 114-15,
119, 141
Inner and outer negation, 217, 237-38,
245,261,265,318,328-29,352
Insignificant negation. See Significant vs.
insignificant negation
Intensifiers and negation, 353-56,
359-60
Internal negation, 106-9, 116, 118, 123,
141-43,362,364-66,374,414,
533n.59, 537n.12; in multivalued logic,
125-30,486,519-20; role in defining
presupposition, 129-30
Intolerant operators. See Tolerant and intol-
erant operators
Intonation, 472-73, 514, 516, 570-
71 n.41, 579n.43. See also Contradiction
contour; Fall-rise contour
Intuitionists, on negation, 128, 134-35
Invited inference, 89
Irony, 306, 341-42, 355, 357, 560n.47
Index 631
Jainists, on the Law of Contradiction,
83,92
Jespersen's Cycle, 311-12, 446, 452-61,
572nn.3, 4, 573nn.5: 6,9; motivation
for, 456-58, 461
LBV, see Bivalence, Principle (Law) of
LC. See Law of Contradiction
LON. See Law of Double Negation
LEM. See Law of Excluded Middle
L4CN. See Four-cornered negation, Prin-
ciple (Law) of
Law of Contradiction (LC), 2, 4, 18-22,
36,51,58,65,97,99,113,133,142,
209,270. 527nn.18-21, 528n.24,
536n.4; in Eastern philosophy, 79-84,
87, 89; and Hegelian dialectic, 90-92; in
multivalued logic, 127-29,519-20; op-
position to, 19-20,79-84, 528nn.22,
23,25, 534n.70; relativized, 83-84, 92;
representation of, 20-21
Law of Double Negation (LON), 2, 4, 22,
65,84,91,134,297,415,529n.27,
534n.67, 543n.6; in multivalued logic,
128-29
Law of Excluded Middle (LEM), 2. 4, 6,
18-22,36,58,65,78,89,95,97,113,
119, 133, 135, 142,205, 528n.24,
559n.45; and the Grim alternative, 372;
in Indian philosophy, 79, 81-84; in fu-
ture contingents, 98-102,124; in multi-
valued logic, 127-29,519-20, 536n.l0.
See also Bivalence, Principle of; Con-
trariety in contradictory clothing
Law of Non-Contradiction. See Law of
Contradiction
Least Effort, Principle of, 88, 192-93,
457-58, 541 n.26
Level-ordered morphology, 283-85,
553n.13
Lexicalization: degrees of, 260-61, 282,
328-30, 498-500; direction of, 278-79;
pragmatically based asymmetries in,
252-67,286-87,336-38,352,451,
480,498-501, 550n.36, 551n.41. See
also Affixal negation; Incorporation of
negative; Inherent negation
Limited and unlimited negation, 114, 119,
137, 141
Litotes, 303-4, 355-56, 358-60, 400,
555n.22, 558n.41, 560n.50; and neg-
raising, 339-42, 352; as talent of ladies,
whisperers, and backbiters, 304, 360
Loi d'exhaustivite, 242, 543n.4, 547-
48n.26,569n.35
1
I
632 Index
London School of Parsimony, 384, 432
Long-form negation in Korean, 440-41
MVL. See Multivalued logic
Markedness of negation, 47,50,85-86,
155-61, 198-203,312,420,517,522,
538nn.2, 3, 539n.4; in antonymic adjec-
tive pairs, 157, 159-61, 188-89,275-
76, 525n.5, 539n.4; and asymmetry of
negative incorporation, 264-67; distri-
butional, 156-57; formal, 47, 78-79,
95, 154, 156,201; and the markedness
implicature, 198-201,522-23,
551 n.38. See also Asymmetry of affir-
mation and negation
Marxism, negation in, 91, 534-35n.72
Maxims of conversation, 193-94, 373; in
dualistic model of inference, 194-98.
See also Conversational implicature;
Scalar implicature; Q Principle; R
Principle
Meaninglessness. See Category mistakes
and meaninglessness
Metalinguistic negation, 71, 140,203,
362-63,370-75,377-444,487-90,
517, 567n.30, 576nn.25, 26; and case
marking, 438; and contrastive stress,
434-35, 449; cross-linguistic reflexes of,
427, 434-42, 447, 450-52, 571 n.44,
572n.48; diversity of targets of, 370-75,
382,391,397,414-15,417,423,426,
429-30,432,477-78, 562n.9; elliptical
analysis of, 385, 424-25; in Extended
Term Logic, 472, 474, 476-79, 487-90,
516; linguistic correlates of, 370-71,
374,381,392-413,432-42,487,510,
572n.47; in NEG-Q readings, 496-97,
499; non-truth-functional nature of, 370,
377,414-16,419,429,434,443-44,
563-64n.14, 565n.20; in ontogeny of
negation, 443, 462; and other metalin-
guistic operators, 379-82, 564n.17;
processing difficulty of, 391-92; rec-
tification of, 374, 402-5, 434-35, 437,
449,516, 566n.26, 571 n.44; use condi-
tions on, 375, 391, 396-97,487,
563n.11; and word order, 403, 411-12,
436-37, 439, 566n.26
MimiiIpsa, Mimamsakas, on negation,
86-87, 134, 199
Minimizers, 400-401, 452, 565n.22; as re-
inforcers of negation, 452-53, 459,
572n.2, 573n.9. See also Diminishers;
Polarity items
Modality,6, 11-14, 16,86-89,92-93;
134,464,479, 539n.7, 543n.9, 545n.17,
575n.21; negation as, 63, 203, 532n.53;
and negative contraction, 259-60,
578n.37; and negative incorporation,
259-61,263-64,266, 551nn.40, 41;
and pragmatic ambiguity, 375-76; and
quantity scales, 208-213, 216-20,
543n.8. See also Complementary conver-
sion; Deontic values and negation;
Possibility
Mode of predication, negation as, 137-38,
142,446,463,469,471-72,517. See
also Predicate denial
Modus ponens, 129
Modus tollendo ponens, 272, 332,415-16
Modus tollens, 129-30
Mohist canon, 89-90
Monoguists (on negation). See Ambiguity
of negation, rejection of; Presupposition,
monoguist opposition to
Monotonicity, 246-50, 253, 507,
549nn.30-32, 551 n.42
Montague Grammar, 144,477; ex-
tended, 147-48,368-70,470-71,482,
574n.16; generalized quantifiers in,
465-66, 471, 473-74; negation in,
468-70,482-83; scope disambiguation
in, 469, 483-86,502-3,531 n.44
Morphology, as target of metalinguistic
negation, 363, 371, 375, 391. See also
Affixal negation, Level-ordered mor-
phology; Lexicalization; Right-hand Head
Rule; Unitary Base Hypothesis
Multivalued logic, 58, 99-100, 109-10,
124-42,364,369-70,486,535n.l,
536-37n.11; purported incoherence of,
128-29, 519-20
NR(P). See Neg-Raising (Phenomenon)
Names, unpacking of, 107-8,485,504.
See also Vacuous singular terms
Negative evaluations, asymmetry of, 334-
37,352,360-61
Negative events, 54-55, 71
Negative face, 338-39, 350-52. See also
Euphemism; Politeness
Negative facts, 3, 47, 49-55, 56, 62, 67,
69,71
Negative judgment, 32-33, 40, 140,
223-24; paradox of, 3, 49-50, 85. See
also Negative propositions
Negative polarity items. See Polarity items
Negative propositions (judgments), criteria
for, 2, 30-35, 40, 42, 51, 529n.31;
problems with, 32-35, 530nn.33, 34
Negative Uninformativeness, Principle of,
198-201,361,542n.29
Neg First, 446, 449-50, 452, 457, 460-
61; and distribution of negative affixes,
292-93; and neg-raising, 311-12
NEG-Q readings, 227-29, 317-18, 393,
483, 490-91, 508; role of context in,
494-97,501, 576n.30, 577n.34; asso-
ciation with fall-rise contour, 230-31,
496, 545 n.19; as metalinguistic nega-
tions, 496-97, 562n.6, 576-77n.31,
577n.33; apparent restriction to univer-
sals, 228-29, 491-502, 517, 562n.6,
577n.32
Neg-raising (Neg-Raising Phemenon,
NRP), 48, 152,308-30,522-23,
556nn.26-30, 557n.33, 578n.37; and
attenuation of negative force, 315-16,
338, 352, 559n.43; cross-linguistic re-
flexes of, 308-12, 322-23, 339, 348,
556n.28, 557n.34; and factivity, 323-
24, 557-58n.37; and politeness, 338-
41; pragmatic explanations of, 311,
319-22,329-30, 338-43,556n.29;
predicate classes in, 309-10, 320,
323-30, 342,345,352,557nn.35-
37; and short-circuited implicature,
345-48,350-51; and the Uncertainty
Principle, 316, 324, 326, 341
NEG-V readings, 227-29, 254, 317-18,
393, 490-93, 498-500, 529n.28,
545n.16, 576n.30; and predicate denial,
492-93; association with straight falling
contour, 230-31
Neo-Hegelians. See Idealists
Nexal Not, 498-501
Nexal vs. special negation, 17,42, 143,
186-87,297,506-7,54In.25,
578n.38
Ni$edlui (prohibition), 86-88, 134
Nonbeing, 1,5-6,47,50,60,80,84-85,
89-90
Nondeclaratives, 98, 164, 536n.8, 539n.6
Nonexistence, as category in acquisition,
162-63, 166, 167
nor. See Conjunctions, negative
not bad, 356-59
non un-, 296-308
not X but Y. See but; Metaiinguistic
negation
No-Type theory, 118-20, 122,486
-n't: as inflection, 460, 480-83, 490-92,
506,517, 551n.40, 565n.21, 573n.7,
597 n.47; pragmatic constraints on,
259-60,480; as sentential (wide-scope)
Index 633
operator, 458, 481-82, 517, 533n.61,
557n.31
Nyaya-Vaise$ika logic, 84-86
o statements, 0 vertex. See Square of
Opposition
O-"E semantic drift, 261-63, 266, 330,
451,455,500-501
Occam's Razor, 365, 375,415-16,432,
434, 542n.29
only, 248-50
Opposition, types of, 6-12. See also
Contradictory opposition; Contrariety;
Privation; Square of Opposition; Sub-
alternation; Subcontraries
or. See Disjunction
Organon. See Aristotle (in Index of Names)
Otherness, negation as, 1,3,35,50-51,
52-53, 55, 67, 69, 85, 89, 113, 163-
64, 531 n.45
Outer negation. See Inner and outer negation
Paradoxical negation, 383-84, 395,431-
34,440. See also Metalinguistic negation
Paradox of Negative Judgment. See Nega-
tive judgment, paradox of
Particulars. See Possibility; some; Square of
Opposition; Subcontraries
Paryudiisa (narrow-scope negation),
86-87, 134
Peripatetics, 15, 268, 463, 468. See also
Term logic; Aristotle (in Index of Names)
Phonetic form, as target of metalinguistic
negation, 363, 371, 375
Plausible denial, contexts of, 72, 168,
172-82, 184, 189, 198, 539nn.12, 13,
540nn.15, 18, 541nn.21, 22, 550n.38
Pleonastic negation, 280, 296-97, 457-58,
572n.3. See also Double negation
Polarity and polarity items, 49, 155, 157,
260, 354, 368, 495-96, 523, 539n.5,
561 n.3, 566n.23, 571 n.45; and Jesper-
sen's Cycle, 452-54; and metalinguistic
negation, 363, 374, 397-402, 413-14,
428, 433, 436-37, 496; and neg-raising,
313,321-22,327,346-49,559n.44.
See also Diminishers; Minimizers
Polarization, and excluded middle, 268,
270-73,332-33,340,552n.3
Politeness, 333-36, 338, 350-61, 559n.42;
with intt;nsifiers, 353-56, 566n.23; as
motivation for neg-raising understand-
ings, 338-41, 350-51
Positive basis of negation. See Positive
ground of negation
634 Index
Positive consequent of negation, 66, 71
Positive difference, negation as. See Other-
ness, negation as
Positive ground of negation, 64-66, 71,
165,201
Positive polarity items. See Polarity items
Possibility: one- and two-sided, 12-14,
209-10,212, 376, 383,432, 526nn.9-
11; parallel with some, 210,213,216,
219, 543n.3. See also Complementary
conversion; Modality; Subcontraries
Pragmatic ambiguity, 363, 370, 375-77,
432, 563nn.12, 13
Pragmatics. See Conversational implicature;
Presupposition, pragmatic
Prague school, 73, 155,361,511-14
Prati$edha (prohibition), 86-88, 134
Pratiyogin (positive counterpart of nega-
tion), 85. See also Positive ground of
negation
Predicate denial, 2, 9-10, 14-18, 21-23,
31,40,41-43,45,48,57,63,87,97,
103,122-23,132,137-41,189,297,
301,331,446-47,450,463-65,
529n.32, 558n.38, 576n.26; ambiguity
of, 498-503; in extended term logic,
471-72,474,476-83,492,504-10,
512,514-18; narrow-scope reading of,
489-90,492-93,498,502-3,510,
512,514-18, 579n.47; wide-scope
(NEG-Q) reading of, 496, 498-99, 502-
3. See also Contradictory opposition
Predicate term negation, 2, 15-18,21,23,
31,40,42-43,45,87,97,103,107-8,
122-23, 132-33, 137-41,297,331,
446-47,464-65, 530nn.39, 41,
558n.38; in extended term logic,
477-78,489-90,492,504-7,509,517;
contradictory reading of, 505-7. See
also Contrariety
Preemption by synonymy. See Blocking
Prefixes, negative. See Affixal negation
Prelogical negation, 163-64
Presupposition: and aboutness, 131, 488,
509-14; and existential import, 24, 29-
30; failure (cancellation) of, 114, 136-
37,139,142,364,375,422,426,431,
488-89, 537n.14, 561-62n.4, 571 n.43,
575n.24; monoguist opposition to, 367-
69,422,430-31,486-87, 576n.27; se-
mantic (logical), 72-73, 97, 123,
129-30, 132, 142-44, 369, 484-90,
532n.54, 536n.5, 570n.41; pragmatic,
73, 145, 152,436,509,516,518,522.
See also Category mistakes; Conventional
implicature; Factivity; Vacuous singular
terms
Presuppositionality of negation, 3-4, 47,
60, 63-73, 79; in discourse, 72, 88; in
Indian logic, 85; as markedness im-
plicature, 190-92, 198-203; psycholin-
guistic investigation of, 72, 165,
180-81, 183 (see also Plausible denial).
See also Asymmetry of affirmation and
negation; Markedness of negation
Privation: for Aristotle, 7, 8, 17,31,33,
41-42,286, 525nn.1, 2, 5, 526n.14; for
Leibniz, 41,57; for Spinoza, 41, 140; in
Stoic logic, 21, 33, 41, 286
Privative opposites, and ambiguity tests,
317-18,351,365-66, 390, 557n.32,
561 n.1. See also Privation
Privative suffixes, 292-93
Privative verbs, 287
Processing of negation, 168-84, 187-92,
198-203,514,521-24
Prohibitive function of negation, 164, 167,
170-71,190,274,276
Propositional attitudes, 320, 326-28, 340
Propositional negation, 23, 31, 41-43, 58,
65,85,116,138,307,370,384,420-
21,463-71,473,517, 537n.12; chimer-
ical nature of in natural language, 460-
62,467-71,476-77, 517, 528n.24,
555n.38, 573n.lO. See also Apophatikon
Prototype theory of negation, 189, 201-3
Psychoanalytic theory of negation, 4,
93-95, 164, 203
Psycholinguistics of negation, 161-84,
187-92, 198-203,521-24
Psychological excluded middle, 271, 302,
332-33. See also Zone of indifference
Q Principle, Q-based implicature, 194-98,
204,211-12,239,242,254-55,345,
383,523, 542n.28, 545nn.13, 14,
574n.l1, 576n.27; and double negation,
304; and Jespersen's Cycle, 457-58; and
metalinguistic negation, 387-89; nega-
tive uninformativeness, 200-201. See
also Conversational implicature; Division
of Pragmatic Labor; Quantitative scales;
Scalar implicature
Qualitative vs. quantitative negation, 186,
451-52, 541 n.24
Qualitative vs. quantitative opposition (on
Square of Opposition), 10, 236, 463-64,
549n.29
Quantificational adverbs, 221-22, 238-39,
574n.19
Quantifiers: generalized, 245-50, 446,
465-67,471,478,503,507-9,531 n.44,
551n.42, 574n.14; interaction with nega-
~ 10,18,31,41,44-45,220-22,
~~~ 483, 490-503, ~08, 517,
538n.18, 540n.16; negative, 253-54,
265-66,498-500,507-9, 577n.33; in
propositional vs. term logic, 464-67,
473-74,478-79,490-503, 575n.20.
See also Monotonicity; Scalar values;
Scope of negation; some; Square of
Opposition
Quantitative scales: vs. argumentation-
based scales, 241-42, 548n.27; end-
points on, 237, 245; extended, 243-44;
pragmatic generalization of, 233, 240-
42,409-13; representation of, 231-34,
324-25; single vs. dual, 235-38, 243-
45. See also Gradations; Scalar values
Quantity, maxim of, 204, 211-13, 250,
264,384, 541n.27, 543n.4, 562n.9,
569n.35. See also Conversational im-
plicature; Maxims of conversation; Q
Principle; Scalar implicature
Queclaratives, 346, 418
Questions: as asymmetric with negation,
472-73; metalinguistic (echo, in-
credulity), 381
R Principle, R-based implicature, 194-97,
566n.23; and double negation, 304, 306;
and Jespersen's Cycle, 457-58; and
metalinguistic negation, 363, 387-92;
and negative uninformativeness,
200-201; in strengthening inferences,
338,345-46,350,352,357-60,523.
See also Conversational implicature; Di-
vision of Pragmatic Labor; Inference to
the best interpretation
RHR. See Right-hand Head Rule
Racism and negation, 372-73, 375, 552n.2
Rectification. See Metalinguistic negation,
rectification of
Rejection, 162-64, 167, 182-83,421,
436,443,510, 531n.46, 563n.11,
566n.25. See also Metalinguistic
negation
Relation, maxim of, 88, 343. See also Con-
versational implicature; Maxims of
conversation; R Principle
Restricted and unrestricted negation, 141,
143
Reversative verbs, 286-88, 291-92,457,
554n.14
Right-hand Head Rule (RHR), 291-93
Index 635
SCI. See Short-circuited implicature
Scalar implicature, 175,211-16, 547nn.23,
26, 549nn.33, 34; with cardinal num-
bers, 213-16, 250-52, 572n.47; epis-
temic rider on, 212-14, 233-34,
543nn.4, 5; formalization of, 232-34; as
target of metalinguistic negation, 363,
370,374,382-89,396,398,427,
439-40, 564-65n.18, 569n.34. See
also Conversational implicature; Quan-
titative scales; Scalar values
Scalar values (scalar operators, scalar predi-
cates), 204-26, 231-67, 357, 540n.16,
543n.8, 554n.18, 560n.48; ambiguist
line on, 297, 216, 250, 376,432-34;
and concessive (PA) but, 409-13; distri-
butional diagnostics for, 234-41, 245,
557n.31; exceptional reading of negation
with, 204-7, 362, 370-71, 383-84,
395,424,431-34,440; extreme (abso-
lute), 237, 245, 560n.49; moderate
(midscalar), 265, 324-29; and neg-
raising, 324-30, 338, 341; and rank
orders, 412-13, 546n.21, 550n.35; un-
marked, 286, 333-35, 360-61,
560n.50. See also Possibility; Quan-
titative scales; Scalar implicature; some;
Subcontraries
Scope of negation, 22, 40,127,147-48,
317-18,332,340,479-518,521,
545nn.17, 18; with respect to descrip-
tion, 106-110, 362-65, 368,447,
483-90; in geometric and nongeometric
theories, 504-5, 577n.36; and meta-
linguistic negation, 370-71, 426, 438,
441; in Montague Grammar, 469, 483-
86,491; and surface order, 15,41, 140,
499, 502, 526n.12, 579n.43; and topic-
hood, 509-18; in verb-final languages,
441-42,500-501. See also all ... not;
Ambiguity of negation; Predicate denial;
Predicate term negation; Quantifiers, in-
teraction with negation
Second-order statement, negation as, 2, 46,
57-58,62,65,67,70-71,165,181-
82,414,420,531 n.46
Sentence vs. constituent negation, 17, 143,
189,316,332,403-4,446,468,471,
492-93, 506-9, 515-16, 531n.42,
548n.28, 579n.45; diagnostics for, 42,
180, 184-89, 336, 490, 492, 505-7,
515, 541n.25, 579n.46
Sexism and negation, 372-73, 375,
573n.8
Sheffer stroke, 257-58
636 Index
Short-circuited implicature (SCI), 251-52,
329,343-52,361,505, 558nn.40, 41;
distributional evidence for, 346-49. See
also Conversational implicature, conven-
tionalization of
Short-form negation in Korean, 440-41
Significance theory, ll8-20
Significant vs. insignificant negation, 51,
64-68,70-71,85, 1l0-1l, 140,
533n.57
Singular terms, nondenoting (vacuous). See
Vacuous singular terms
Situation Semantics, negation in, 470,
·575n.23
some: ambiguist line on, 207, 2IO-ll,
376, 548n.26; in direct denials, 397-99,
497; in generalized quantifier theory, 246;
one- vs. two-sided (indefinite vs. semi-
definite), 210, 215-16, 218-19, 221,
376, 545n.13; in Tripartition, 216-19,
221-22, 544n.l1. See also NEG-Q read-
ings; NEG-V readings; Quantifiers; Scalar
values; Square of Opposition; Sub-
contraries
Sortal incorrectuess. See Category mistakes
Special negation. See Nexal vs. special
negation
Specificity as criterion for negative proposi-
tions, 33-34, 199,202-3, 529n.33,
540n.14. See also Exceptionality Hy-
pothesis; Negative propositions, criteria
for
Speech act: idioms, 343-46, 350; indirect,
329, 343-350, 388-89, 559nn.43, 44;
negation as, 3-4, 63, 73-78, 420-21,
473, 533n.60; objections to negation as,
74-78, 85, 165, 189; theory of, 166
Square of Opposition, 2,10-12,16-17,
23-30,44,208-10,247,498,500-
501,505, 527n.17, 529n.30; annotated
(scalarized), 236-38; existential import
in, 2, 23-30; pragmatic asymmetry of,
252-56, 261-63, 266-67, 287, 329-
30,451,455,480,492,500-501,
543-44n.9,555n.23
Stereotyping, 399-400, 452. See also
Short-circuited implicature
Stoics, 2, 41, 59, 268, 286, 463-65,
544n.12; on disjunction, 222-23; on fu-
ture contingents, 100; on propositional
negation, 2, 21-23, 31, 123,465,468,
529n.27. See also Apophatikon
Strengthening inference, 328-30, 333,
338,360-61,505-6,517,523,542n.l,
559-60n.46; asymmetry in derivation
of, 334-38, 360-61; conventionalization
(short-circuiting) of, 342-43, 345, 350,
352-53, 361. See also Contrariety in
contradictory clothing
Strong negation. See Weak and strong
negation
Subalternation, 12, 17,24,28-30,208-9,
218,231. See also Entailment; Square of
Opposition
Subcontraries, ll-14, 16, 208-13, 215-
16,226,238, 250,492,526nn7, 8,10,
527n.15, 542n.2, 547n.26; asymmetry
in lexicalization of, 254-60, 264-67; in-
formational parity of, 254-55, 263-64;
minimization of, in natural language,
328-30; and neg-raising, 328-29; for
Sapir, 221-22; in Tripartition, 218-19.
See also Complementary conversion;
O-"E semantic drift; Possibility; some;
Square of Opposition
Subjecthood, 131,509-14, 532n.52,
545n.17, 567n.29. See also Categorical
judgments; Presupposition and aboutness;
Scope of negation; Vacuous singular
terms
Subjectivity of negation, 3,46, 53, 62-63,
65,67-70,73, 163-64
Supervaluations, 129, 137
Suppletion of negative forms, 366-67,
446-52,458,572n.l
Syncategorematic introduction of negation,
22,468-69
Teleological negation, 68, 70
Tense, as nonsentential operator, 472
Term logic, 14-15, 21-23,43,45, 108,
463-65, 535n.3; categorical (subject-
predicate) nature of, 14, 41-43, 138,
463-65, 471, 474-77; extended, 446,
463-83,487-518; limits of, 474-77,
575n.20; negation in, 137-41,446,
463-65. See also Predicate denial; Predi-
cate term negation
Tetralemma. See Four-cornered Negation,
Principle of
Theology, negation in, 80-84, 86-89,
92-94
Theme. See Topic
Thetic judgments, 43, 510-14, 578n.40
Tolerant and intolerant operators, 237-38,
265-66, 325-29
Topic, 131,488,509-18, 578nn.39, 41.
See also Presupposition and aboutness
Tripartition of logical operators, 216-20,
226,252-53
true: as connective in multivalued logic,
126-128; in logic vs. natural language,
126-27, 136,413,416-19,476; and po-
larity, 413-14, 561 n.3; as semantic
operator, 367, 413-19, 425, 429
Truth connective, 126, 128
Truth-value gaps, 109, ll3, 123, 130-32,
136, 140, 142-44
Turkey-carpet judgments, 68-69, III
Type-crossing. See Category mistakes
Type theory. See Significance theory
Typology of negation: descriptive, 446-62,
572nn.I-4, 573 nn.5, 6, 9; metalin-
guistic, 434-42, 447, 450-52, 459
un-. See Affixal negation
Unassertability. See Assertability and
unassertability
Uncertainty Principle, 316, 324, 326,
341
Underspecification of utterance interpreta-
tion, 422-23, 433
Unexcluded middle. See Low of Excluded
Middle; Zone of indifference
Uninhibited thinkers. See inhibited and un-
inhibited thinkers
Unitary Base Hypothesis, 289
Unlimited negation. See Limited and un-
limited negation
Unlustaffecte of negation, 274-75
Unrestricted negation. See Restricted and
unrestricted negation
Index 637
V negation, 481-82,504,517. See also
Predicate term negation, VP negation
VP negation, 470-71, 504, 506-7, 517.
See also Predicate term negation
Vacuous singular terms, 2-6, 8-9, 15, 18,
52,97,102-1O,362-65,520,527n.17,
529n.30, 530n.40, 533n.56, 536n.7,
541 n.19, 576n.27; and existential pre-
suppositions, 103-6, 109-10, 123-27,
129-132,136,139-40,143,484-90,
530n.40; in extended term logic, 487-
90,504,509-10,516
Weak and strong negation, 17, 132-35,
137-38,141,143,537n.12
Word order and negation, 15,41, 140,
441-42,449-50,499-502,513-14,
526n.12, 557n.34; and chimerical nature
of sentence negation, 460-62, 467-71,
476-77,517; and Jespersen's Cycle,
3ll-12, 446, 452-61, 572nn.3, 4,
573n.6; and metalinguistic negation,
403,411-12,436-37,439
Yin and yang, 160-61, 539n.ll, 554n.15
Zone of indifference, 7-8, 271, 333, 335,
357, 525n.4, 526-27n.14, 552n.4. See
also Law of Excluded Middle; Psycho-
logical excluded middle
