WHAT IS ‘ENGLISH’? 15
If you use or encounter a language or languages other than English,
which are they, and in which of these contexts do you use them?
2. Now repeat the exercise in (1a), (1b) and (1d), but this time note
down whether you use a particular variety of English in the differ-
ent contexts, and whether you mix between different varieties in the
same context. Why do you think you use different varieties in different
contexts?
Further reading
For a discussion of the concept ‘native speaker’, see particularly Davies
(2003). Useful discussions about language and dialect are found in most
introductory textbooks on sociolinguistics (see references in the further
reading section of the introduction). Language attitudes are discussed
by Preston (2002), and, in the context of the ideology of Standard
English, by Milroy and Milroy (1998).
Notes
1 For brevity’s sake, only part of the definitions is given here.
2 For details of transcription conventions and a list of phonetic symbols,
see the appendix.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 15
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 15 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
16
2 Communities, networks and
individuals
2.1 Overview
In the previous chapter, we looked at some of the ways in which the
concepts of ‘the English language’ and ‘dialects of English’ have been
described and categorised. One of the things we considered was that
speaking English (and speaking a dialect of English) are markers of
identity, so that the very notion of ‘English’ may be a social concept,
because it is associated with (groups of) people. In this chapter, we
focus on the speaker dimension in greater detail, by considering how
speakers of a variety of English might be categorised. Do they form a
well-defined community, with clear demarcations between groups? Or
are individuals linked in an open-ended network, with one community
blurring into the next? What kinds of communities use English, and for
what kinds of purposes? These and similar questions will be addressed
in this chapter.
2.2 What is a community?
A community is something more than simply a random collection of
individuals. A community has a shape and a structure, which is inter-
nally cohesive and externally distinctive. Members of a community
must have enough in common to be identifiable (both to others within
the group and to external observers) as members of that community,
and must show enough differences from non-members to indicate that
they do not belong to any other contrasting communities.
Membership of a community can be both voluntary and enforced,
though enforced membership is rare, and arises usually as a result of
dependence on others: for example, children in many societies have no
option but to be members of a particular community, but as they age,
and begin to establish their own sense of identity and distinctiveness,
their allegiance to that community may change. Much more common
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 16
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 16 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
COMMUNITIES, NETWORKS AND INDIVIDUALS 17
is voluntary community membership, where individuals come together
because they have shared practices, beliefs or knowledge.
Part of this knowledge may be linguistic, and the concept of a shared
language can help a community to achieve social cohesion. As we saw
in the previous chapter, speaking the same language is one way of
indicating identity with some and distinctiveness from others: speakers
of English are ‘like’ other speakers of English and ‘not like’ speakers of
French or Telugu. A potential issue here is that the vast majority of the
world’s population are not monolingual, so bilingual French–English
speakers in Canada or Telugu–English speakers in India either (a) are
members of two communities at the same time (which blurs the distinc-
tiveness of each community); (b) are members of one community when
they speak English and another community when they speak French
or Telugu (which means that they are not members of one community
exclusively, unlike the monolinguals, which has repercussions for the
‘identity’ issue); or (c) are members of an entirely different community,
that of the bilingual speaker (which would, on grounds of cohesion and
distinctiveness, suggest that there is no overlap with either of the mono-
lingual communities, which seems counterintuitive). But the extent of
this problem is greatly magnified by the fact that such a conception of
the speech community is one that is based exclusively on speech (Lyons
1970: 326), and identification of a group of individuals as a community
based on speech alone may be problematic, as we shall see below.
One definition of a speech community we will not be pursuing here
(though we will return to it in the final chapter) is one which idealises
away from issues of real language use, and focuses on the ‘perfect’
speaker of a language in a community which admits of no variation
(Chomsky 1965). Such an ideal has been important in work on other
aspects of language (particularly a variant of formal linguistic theory),
but is not concerned primarily with language in use, which has been of
paramount importance in much sociolinguistic theorising.
2.3 The English speech community and social networks
Can we define the English speech community simply as the people who
speak English? This does not seem problematic at first; after all, if we
talk about a ‘farming community’, we are simply talking about a group
of people who have farming in common (and we are not interested in
other features which may or may not make such individuals cohere as
a group, such as their interest in rock music or the colour of their eyes).
One thing we would want to say about the English speech community
is that they all share some sort of common linguistic knowledge. But this
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 17
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 17 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
18 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
may be where our problems start, because it is hard to agree on what
such ‘knowledge of English’ might actually be. We saw in Chapter 1
that trying to define what ‘English’ is on purely linguistic grounds can
be problematic, so using that as a further criterion to establish another
definition seems ill-advised. Furthermore, defining a group solely in
terms of linguistic behaviour is also problematic. We use more than
just language when we identify a series of individuals as belonging to
a particular group: we might make reference to clothing, conduct, and
so on, so we need to be clear whether or not we want language alone to
be the sole criterion for establishing a speech community. To return to
our farming community, do we include people who own farms, and not
those who work on the farm but do not own it? If we include both, then
we are already invoking things other than simply farming as criteria
for membership (that is, ownership vs. labour). As Patrick (2002: 576)
observes, the notion of the speech community “is evidently fraught with
difficulties”. In this section, we try to unpack such difficulties in relation
to the English speech community, to establish whether and how we
might use the concept.
As part of a discussion of an ongoing linguistic change in Philadelphia,
Labov (1989: 2, 52) wrote:
(1) The English language is a property of the English speech community,
which is in turn composed of many nested subcommunities. There
is no doubt that Philadelphia speakers of English are members of
the larger community of American English speakers, and the even
larger community of all speakers of English . . . Individual behavior
can be understood only as a reflection of the grammar of the speech
community. Language is not a property of the individual, but of the
community. Any description of a language must take the speech com-
munity as its object if it is to do justice to the elegance and regularity
of linguistic structure.
This draws on an earlier suggestion made by Labov, namely that we
require a very specific definition of the speech community in order to
explain the regularity in attitudes to linguistic behaviour across speak-
ers of different social classes (Labov 1972: 120–1). However, not all
sociolinguists agree with this definition of a speech community (see
the comments on Spanish in Texas, Colombia and Spain in Mesthrie
et al. 2009: 36). Labov’s work (which we will consider in more detail in
Chapters 4 and 5) is very important in sociolinguistics generally. Labov
has claimed that the critical issue in establishing a speech community is
the notion of shared norms: a speech community is defined by consensus
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 18
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 18 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
COMMUNITIES, NETWORKS AND INDIVIDUALS 19
on what is and is not appropriate for that community, in terms of par-
ticular aspects of language usage.
These norms are arbitrary, may differ radically in one community
from those in another, and may change over time. For instance, it once
was the case that the pronunciation of /r/ in words like war and ward was
considered the norm for careful (and in some people’s views, correct)
speech in England; now, absence of /r/ in such words is considered
the national norm, while in the United States, the opposite is true. We
can see this by comparing results in a British and an American survey
which looked at the absence of /r/ in such words across different social
classes. The higher the social class, the greater the likelihood that /r/ is
retained in these words in New York (Labov 1966), but the less the like-
lihood that /r/ is retained in these words in Norwich (Trudgill 1974).
We can see here the essential arbitrariness of prestige variants – what
is considered nationally prestigious in America is not nationally pres-
tigious in England, and vice versa. But within each community, there is
a consensus, which manifests itself in patterns associated with stylistic
variation. We will examine stylistic variation in detail in Chapter 4,
but for now it is enough to point out the following observation, based
on many sociolinguistic studies which have considered differences in
speech associated with speakers’ social class and the formality of the
discourse: for many linguistic variables, in more formal styles, speakers
of all social classes use a higher proportion of the variant that is associ-
ated with the upper-middle class.
We can make a parallel with aspects of dress: it happens to be a his-
torical convention that middle-class men in some western communities
are more likely to wear a suit and tie going about their daily business,
outside the home at least – but all men, irrespective of social class, are
more likely to wear a suit and tie on formal occasions (like weddings or
job interviews). The community as a whole has agreed on this behav-
iour – it is arbitrary (there is no inherent need to wear a suit and tie at
a job interview; it is simply conventional to do so), and operates across
the community. Some sociolinguistic studies (for example, Cheshire
1982) have revealed that not everyone may adhere to the equivalent
linguistic norms, so some informants (known as outliers) may continue
to use local pronunciations or grammatical constructions even in the
most formal contexts, just as some people might wear jeans and a t-shirt
to a job interview – but such behaviour is atypical.
An interesting point to raise here concerns the persistence of non-
standard forms, given the power associated with standard language.
Why do non-standard accents and dialects persist, given that studies
of style-shifting have shown that speakers do have the capacity to use
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 19
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 19 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
20 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
standard variants in particular discourse contexts? Again, our dress
analogy is useful – sometimes people simply don’t want to wear a suit
and tie, they want to wear jeans and a t-shirt (possibly because their
friends and family typically wear such clothes), so they identify more
readily with one style of dress – the style they feel most comfortable in
most of the time – but recognise that on occasion they need to change to
fit the appropriate social context. Similarly, people may continue to use
non-standard language because of the associations it has with the other
people with whom they interact.
Although the dress analogy helps to illustrate these points, there
is an important difference between dress codes and linguistic norms.
It is probably more likely that dress codes are established through
comment and (where necessary) correction than is the case with
linguistic norms. Certainly there are some occasions where violation
of a linguistic norm is subject to comment, often from a caregiver
or teacher to a child; but in many cases, linguistic norms are estab-
lished subconsciously by exposure to ordinary language in different
discourse contexts. Note too that the norms that are established in a
community may be associated with widespread or with local models
of behaviour. Widespread norms are the ones which govern behaviour
in more formal contexts, and linguistic variants associated with such
contexts are said to have overt prestige – Standard English is governed
by such norms, so Standard English typically has overt prestige. But
the local norms governing linguistic behaviour may also have prestige
for particular groups, even if this is not overtly recognised. This has
come to be known as covert prestige, and covert prestige – loyalty to
vernacular norms – has been seen as an important factor in resisting
the advance of the standard variety.
Furthermore, what we witness in such cases of social and stylistic
stratification of variation in language is that the variation is not random,
but structured (what is sometimes described as “orderly heterogeneity”,
Weinreich et al. 1968: 100). Such group uniformity is critical in Labov’s
conception of the speech community; most critical is the fact that both
orderly heterogeneity and shared norms are crucial for a group of
speakers to be considered a speech community.
Clearly such a claim has great repercussions for our understanding
of English (and varieties of English). Crucially, the claim that linguistic
knowledge is shared demotes the individual and promotes the group.
‘English’ is not something that any individual knows; it is a ‘property’
of the group, not of any member of the group in isolation. Furthermore,
agreement on a set of shared norms suggests a consensus view of society,
that all members of a speech community agree on a set of shared norms.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 20
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 20 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
COMMUNITIES, NETWORKS AND INDIVIDUALS 21
A partial challenge to this view has been proposed by sociolinguists
who work with the concept of the social network (Milroy 1992; Milroy
2002). As is the case with the speech community, sociolinguists use the
term ‘social network’ in a number of ways, but the following features
are usually accepted in most definitions. Essential to the concept of the
social network is the idea that individuals contract social bonds with
other individuals. Such bonds vary in strength: the social bond between
mother and child is typically stronger than that between a shop assistant
and his customer. Strong sectors of networks – where many individuals
all know each other (that is, the network is dense) and are connected
to one another via a series of bonds (family, kinship, employment etc.,
meaning the network is multilplex) – are typically resistant to changes;
weak sectors (where few individuals know one another and/or where
individuals are connected via only one bond) may serve to bridge a
series of strong sectors in the larger network web.
One of the beauties of network analysis is that it is applicable in
all communities (since all humans contract some kind of social bond,
to some degree, with other humans). In western communities, strong
networks are often found at either end of the class spectrum, with weak
networks characterising the middle classes. This intersection of network
and social class is highly relevant to our discussion of the speech com-
munity. In work on Belfast English (for example, Milroy 1992), it was
argued that strong working-class networks have rather different norms
from strong upper-class networks (with middle-class networks rather
caught in between, with some loyalties to both). Furthermore, it was
clear that disruption to the social fabric of the network correlated with
linguistic changes (particularly the incursion of supra-local forms into a
group of speakers who regularly used vernacular variants). This points
not to a consensus model of social class, but rather to a conflict model.
The different norms held by different networks suggest a number of
things:
• Norms (both social and linguistic) are regulated at highly local
levels.
• Different norms held by a working-class community may explain the
persistence of non-standard varieties of English, despite the wider
cultural dominance of the standard variety.
• Social changes which may disrupt strong network ties will allow for
linguistic changes to take place and/or a shift in the distribution of
variants across other social groupings within the various networks
(for example, males and females, or members of different ethnic
groups).
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 21
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 21 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
22 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
The social network model therefore poses a challenge to Labov’s con-
ception of the English speech community, since it argues for a series of
subgroups of English speakers, who hold differing (and perhaps even
opposing) norms. Gumperz (1996) proposes a model in which aspects of
linguistic behaviour are said to be connected to social meaning in some
way. In this model, speakers might use a variety of English in order to
index a series of social relationships in the group. We will explore this
in more detail in Chapter 4, but it is important to raise this here as it
provides us with another way of thinking about a speech community.
Essentially, such a way of thinking suggests that a speech community is
something that groups of individual speakers do, something created by
speakers as they negotiate aspects of their identity through language: it
is aligned with the social meaning of linguistic variation. Furthermore,
the boundary around the speech community may be rather ill-defined,
when we consider Gumperz’ observation that speech communities
“broadly conceived, can be regarded as collectives of social networks”
(Gumperz 1996: 362). One suggestion about the speech community,
therefore, is that it is not a pre-existing construct, but rather the result
of a particular set of linguistic activities.
2.4 Communities of practice
Communities of practice are defined by three particular characteristics:
mutual engagement, a jointly negotiated enterprise, and a shared rep-
ertoire (Wenger 1998; see also Eckert and McConnell-Ginet 1992a).
An example of a community of practice is a school rock band. Here, a
number of individuals come together in face-to-face contact (mutual
engagement) for a particular purpose, that is, to play music (jointly nego-
tiated enterprise), often conversing using jargon common in discourse on
popular music, such as riff, bridge, amp, bass guitar and so on (shared rep-
ertoire). In fact, many other adolescent groups can legitimately be con-
sidered communities of practice because they involve what Meyerhoff
(2002: 528) describes as “a process of social learning” (see further Lave
and Wenger 1991); and the reason they involve such social learning is
that communities of practice are essentially agentive, by which I mean
they constitute forums through which individuals exercise aspects of
their identity volitionally. Speakers learn the associations of language
and identity in part through the social practices they engage in as
members of specific communities of practice. Unlike in the cases of the
other two kinds of community we have so far considered – the speech
community and the social network – members of a community of prac-
tice are by definition motivated to belong to that community.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 22
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 22 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
COMMUNITIES, NETWORKS AND INDIVIDUALS 23
What can this tell us about a community of English speakers? An
important point about communities of practice is that language is only
one of the resources upon which speakers draw in order to carry out
social learning; conversely, communities of practice are defined by
much more than just language (cf. the earlier discussion of a speech
community). Communities of practice are none the less very useful
ways of exploring how particular dialect variants in English come to
have the social meaning that they do, because in communities of prac-
tice, particular linguistic variants become part of a range of resources
that individuals use to negotiate aspects of their identity, with others in
the same community of practice, and with yet others who are outwith
that community. In other words, a particular feature of the community-
of-practice approach to linguistic variation is that it seeks to embed
local displays of identity and negotiation of social meaning within larger
categories such as networks and speech communities.
An example of this comes from a high school in the north-west of
England. Moore (2004) discusses grammatical variation in two com-
munities of practice at the school, by examining the behaviour of two
groups of girls labelled the ‘Populars’ and the ‘Townies’. The latter
group emerges as a distinct community of practice through participa-
tion in a number of behaviours (such as drug taking) and displays (such
as style of clothing), and the study illustrates the linguistic correlates
of the emergence of this group through a real-time observation of the
communities: as the ‘Townie’ group becomes more distinct in other
aspects of its social practice, so it begins to diverge from the ‘Popular’
group in terms of the proportion of some of the non-standard grammati-
cal variants it uses. For instance, in the north-west (and other) areas of
England, the use of were with a first or third person singular subject (for
example, I were, he were, the boy were) is non-standard, and, as they aged,
the Townies showed a significant increase in the use of this variant com-
pared to members of the Popular group. However, with other variables
(such as right-node raising, as in He’s really stupid, Billy, where the noun
phrase (here Billy) to which the pronoun (he) is linked appears after the
pronoun itself), there was no such divergence between the two groups
– so not all instances of non-standard grammar were being used by the
Townies in the same way. Other linguistic factors might be relevant
here (such as the degree of deviance of the two sets of variables – non-
standard were is subject to more overt stigma than right-node raising, so
variation with the latter is perhaps more acceptable). Taken together,
we can see how in these communities of practice, different patterns
indicate some of the ways in which linguistic variation can acquire
social meaning (often as a product of the interactional purposes of any
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 23
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 23 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
24 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
given communicative event). Particularly, the study illustrates manipu-
lation of the same variables by different groups in order to negotiate
different meanings by signalling different social identities.
2.5 Virtual communities
The kinds of communities we have been discussing so far are those
which often involve a great deal of face-to-face contact, where members
are physically present. As technology has evolved, the possibilities for
communication where speaker and audience may be located in any
place in the world have increased, and this has correlated with some
significant changes to particular varieties of English. An important arena
for the development of ‘new Englishes’ (see Chapter 7) is the web and
other electronic media. A study of electronic English (or e-English)
reveals interesting patterns of relevance for our understanding of
communities and variation. One of the ways in which e-English has
emerged as a new variety concerns changes in English orthography, or
spelling, and punctuation. As we saw in Chapter 1, the standardisation
of English has been most successful in terms of the spelling system:
there is now far greater consensus across users of English in the spelling
of a word like hour than there is in its pronunciation, for example. There
has, however, always been variation in spelling, both as a reflection of
different ways of pronouncing words (as we see in current dialect litera-
ture, for example), or as a result of particular printing practices (in the
mid-eighteenth century, many printers capitalised all nouns, as is the
case in modern German, but this practice fell away towards the end of
the century). What is interesting about text messaging (SMS) in English
is the way in which standard practices are variably ignored (because
they are not policed in the same way), so that some text messages appear
with no capital letters, no punctuation, abbreviations, use of numerals to
represent a series of sounds, and so on (for example, c u 2nite luv g).
Use of mobile/cell phones and the internet forms part of a more
general history in which the development of technology correlates with
changes in the history of English. This is not restricted merely to com-
munication technology (such as the development of printing, radio, and
television), but is true of other kinds of technology which facilitated
face-to-face communication over increasingly wide areas (aeroplanes,
cars, and even the humble bicycle). What is special about e-English,
however, is the rapidity and extent of its spread, and – focusing more on
its formal properties – the way in which it blends aspects of spoken and
written communication.
Some features of electronic communication are not restricted to the
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 24
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 24 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
COMMUNITIES, NETWORKS AND INDIVIDUALS 25
use of English: for example, smileys such as J can be used as politeness
markers in an attempt by the sender of the message to mitigate the force
of an imposition contained elsewhere in the correspondence. Similarly,
some of the properties of communication more generally – such as turn-
taking, interruptions, and overlaps – which have been widely studied by
discourse analysts, can be significantly different in computer-mediated
discourse, but again this is not really an issue of English (apart from the
fact that most people communicate in English). A further issue is the
nature of the imposition of norms on the language used. E-English is
not subject to the kind of filtering that occurs with other written texts:
the text you are reading now has been reviewed and revised a number
of times, proof-read, copy-edited and so on. This is not standard pro-
cedure for a number of web-based publications, particularly in blogs
and chatrooms. In this regard, e-English is much more like spoken than
written language. Spoken language can be edited in a way – there are
false starts, and repairs, in ordinary conversation – but it is not possible
to delete an utterance: once it’s out, it’s out. Furthermore, the policing of
norms of e-English is paradoxically similar to and different from that of
spoken English. It is clear that there are rules governing how language
is used online (known as netiquette), but it is only significant breaches of
accepted use that are overtly commented on; the somewhat impersonal
nature of online discourse means that fewer features of identity are
overtly marked. At the same time, it is clear that particular traits of indi-
viduals do surface when looking at a corpus of online discourse, so there
is evidence that individual styles emerge in this variety of English, just
as they do in ordinary face-to-face communication.
2.6 The individual
So far we have discussed the language associated with groups of speak-
ers; in this section, the focus is on the individual. Individual linguistic
knowledge is not much discussed in sociolinguistics, though there are
some exceptions (see particularly Hudson 1996); usually, the linguistic
knowledge of the individual is associated with formal linguistics. Yet
clearly, all of the groups we have been discussing are groups of indi-
vidual speakers, each with her or his own linguistic experience (which
cannot be shared with anyone else – no one on earth has exactly the
same linguistic experience as you do). What reasons are there for and
against focusing on the language of the individual in sociolinguistics?
One argument that has been proposed against a focus on the indi-
vidual over the community has been that the individual shows great
irregularity and numerous idiosyncrasies compared to the group – the
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 25
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 25 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
26 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
behaviour of the group shows how regular patterns of linguistic vari-
ation and change are (Gumperz 1982). For example, outliers by their
very nature do not correspond to group norms, and so, because they
don’t fit the generalisation, we need to recognise them as special and
discount them. Only group patterns reflect the orderly heterogene-
ity of linguistic variation (and the patterned way in which language
changes). An argument in favour of basing generalisations on indi-
viduals is that each individual constitutes a well-defined variety, if we
follow Hudson’s definition of a variety as a “set of linguistic items with
similar social distribution” (Hudson 1996: 22, emphasis original). Indeed,
it is difficult to think of a better-defined correlation between language
system and language user, if one accepts that the language system
of an individual is unique to that individual. However, this too is a
contentious claim (some sociolinguists and some theoretical linguists
dispute it, though for different reasons) for reasons we will explore in
Chapter 9.
2.7 Summary
In this chapter we have looked at the nature of communities, networks
and individual speakers of English. We have seen that defining the
boundaries around the speech community may be a difficult task, and
that traditional work involving the concept of the speech community
has been complemented by work involving the networks that speak-
ers choose to be part of (including particular communities of practice).
There is little doubt that individuals may be most directly affected by
the practices of those most close to them, and results from network
studies show that some varieties of English (particular non-standard
varieties) are typically used by speakers in strong (that is, dense and
multiplex) networks, which are more resistant to the pressure to use
Standard English. At the same time, work on speech communities shows
how larger groups cohere, and attempt to distinguish themselves from
speakers of other varieties. When we attempt to put boundaries around
different networks or communities, we run into the same kinds of clas-
sificatory difficulties that we saw when we tried to define ‘English’ as a
language. We can only be sure of two kinds of boundary, one social, and
one linguistic. The social boundary is the individual speaker (socially
unique) and the linguistic boundary is the knowledge of language which
that speaker has (linguistically unique). Beyond that, the boundaries
become harder to define. This has a number of ramifications for under-
standing the social dimensions of English as a language, as we will see
in later chapters.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 26
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 26 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
COMMUNITIES, NETWORKS AND INDIVIDUALS 27
Exercises
1. For this chapter, think about the different social bonds you have
with particular individuals with whom you form a group of some kind.
For example, you could think of your family, a club you belong to,
colleagues at work, an online community, and so on. Do you use a par-
ticular kind of English with this group? To what extent is this simply
a matter of lexical choices? Is there variation in some other aspect of
language (such as grammar)?
2. Assuming you are using this book as part of a university course, to
what extent do you think your tutorial, seminar or lecture group con-
stitutes a community of practice? (Remember that this is defined by
mutual engagement, jointly negotiated enterprise, and a shared reper-
toire.) If you believe the group does constitute a community of practice,
what are the linguistic features of this shared repertoire? If you believe
it does not, what particular aspects of the group mean that it is not a
community of practice?
Further reading
Patrick (2002) provides an excellent survey of the treatment of the
speech community in sociolinguistic theory, while Milroy (2002)
and Meyerhoff (2002), in the same publication, give comprehensive
accounts of social networks and communities of practice, respectively.
Another useful publication on communities of practice is Eckert and
McConnell-Ginet (1992a). Hudson (1996) discusses some of the prob-
lems associated with speech community as a concept, and argues for a
sociolinguistic account focusing on the individual. Crystal (2006c, 2008)
provides a good introduction to language, electronic media, and text
messaging.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 27
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 27 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
28
3 English and language planning
3.1 Overview
In Chapter 5, we will look at some of the ways in which variation in
English and interaction between speakers may result in language change,
where some of the variant forms come to be used less frequently, until
they disappear, while new forms replace them. This kind of language
change is part of a natural evolution of human languages, arising from
ordinary interactional discourse. Sometimes, however, the language of
a community may change as the result of particular, organised, and tar-
geted interventions, normally by powerful groups. A government may
make a decision that only one or two languages among many should be
the medium of education in local state-run schools, so that other lan-
guages become restricted in their domains of use; conversely, a media
organisation may decide to produce a new newspaper in a language
which up to that point had not been used to report local, national and
international events, which would increase the domains of use of that
language. A grammar of a hitherto unrecorded language might be pro-
duced by linguists and local educationalists; conversely, a funding body
might decide to limit funding for the production of dictionaries, gram-
mars and other resources in a local language. Such decisions are part of
the ebb and flow of organised language change: this is the main business
of language planning. In this chapter, we will look at the role of English
in language planning; particularly we will consider the following:
• how (standard) English itself was planned in England from the six-
teenth through to the eighteenth century, and continues to have an
effect to this day in the United Kingdom;
• how the spread of English as a global language has affected language
planning in communities across the globe;
• the advantages and disadvantages of having English as the official
language of a community.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 28
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 28 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
ENGLISH AND LANGUAGE PLANNING 29
Before we look in detail at language planning involving English, we will
first look more generally at issues involved in language planning.
3.2 How to plan a language
Language planning can involve anything from suggesting that a diction-
ary like the Oxford English Dictionary include a new word through to the
imposition of a particular language as the official language of a nation, so
it may take very many forms. For instance, in 2009, an English council
made a proposal to remove apostrophes from all of the street signs they
produced, because of the number of complaints they received about
whether or not particular placenames should have an apostrophe, and if
so, where it should be (for example, King’s Norton, Kings’ Norton or Kings
Norton), a decision which was criticised by the Apostrophe Preservation
Society. Such a decision counts as an example of language planning,
albeit on a small, local scale. The critical issue is that a particular
linguistic feature (that is, the apostrophe in the written language) has
become restricted in its domains of use (that is, no longer used on street
signs). This was not the result of a natural development, agreed on
tacitly by members of a speech community; this was an overt decision
made by a group who had the power to enforce it.
While the presence or absence of the apostrophe may seem a rather
trivial issue (though not, it seems, to the Apostrophe Preservation
Society), we can see rather similar processes when a government decides
to impose a particular language as the official language in a community.
In such cases, other languages may become restricted in their domains
of use. For instance, if English is adopted as an official language in
communities where many other languages are spoken, those languages
may become marginalised because they no longer have the range of
functions that they once had: this affects the status of those languages
in that community. So, as we see so often in sociolinguistic issues, we
need to consider both the question of form (for example, whether or
not to use the apostrophe) and the question of function (for example, in
what contexts a particular language is to be used). Indeed, any decision
on language planning must first confront the following questions: is the
purpose of the planning to effect change in the function of the various
languages spoken in a community, or is it to effect change in the form of
one particular language, or is to effect change in both? The first type of
planned change is sometimes referred to as status planning, the second
as corpus planning (Kloss 1969).
Status planning, as its name suggests, involves changing the status of
one or more languages in a community. One way to do this is to declare
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 29
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 29 22/2/10 16:21:18
22/2/10 16:21:18
30 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
a particular language the national language, or the official language, of
a country. It is important to note that sociolinguists usually distinguish
between a national language and an official language, even if govern-
ments do not, and even if the same language functions as both the
national and official language of the country. A national language is one
which functions very much as an identity marker. It works to strengthen
the bond between a community of speakers and a set of linguistic forms
(however fuzzy the distinction between different communities and dif-
ferent languages may be, as we saw in the previous chapters). Indeed,
to declare a particular variety to be a national language may increase
the subjective associations between language and the notion of a ‘nation
state’. By contrast, an official language has a much less affective func-
tion: it is simply a language that is used for governmental, bureaucratic
business.
Corpus planning involves changes to particular aspects of linguistic
form. Consider in this regard the creation of a dictionary. Imagine you
were given the task of creating a dictionary for the variety of English
spoken in your local community. First, which words do you decide to
include in the dictionary, and which do you discard? How do you spell
those words? How much consensus across the community does there
need to be in the definition of the word? Do you include words that are
only used by the elder members of your community? (If you do, when
those people die, your dictionary will include obsolete words; if you
don’t, you’ll lose the opportunity to create an archive of your variety
which made it distinctive.) Do you include very new words, used by
teenagers, even if the particular meaning for that word may be short-
lived? (In the 1980s, some speakers of English used the word bad to mean
‘good’, but fewer people do now, including the people who used it when
they were teenagers.) These, and many others, are relevant questions
involved in planning the lexicon of a particular variety, and the same
kinds of questions will be relevant to anyone planning the grammar of
the variety too.
While it is important to distinguish corpus planning and status plan-
ning, it would be wrong to think that one does not affect the other. The
creation of a dictionary of your variety (corpus planning) has an effect
on what is considered to be a feature of your variety, and what is not,
and also suggests something about how that variety might be regarded
both by members of your community and by members of other com-
munities, namely that it is ‘good’ enough, and distinctive enough, to
warrant a dictionary of its own: these are matters typically associated
with status planning. And the label one gives to a dictionary also reflects
the status of the variety it describes: compare the Dictionary of Smoky
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 30
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 30 22/2/10 16:21:19
22/2/10 16:21:19
ENGLISH AND LANGUAGE PLANNING 31
Mountain English (Montgomery and Hall 2004) with the Dictionary of
the Scots Language (www.dsl.ac.uk), where the former implicitly suggests
that what is described is a dialect of English, and the latter explicitly
denotes Scots to be a language separate from English.
We can also add the following to the list of ways of planning a
language: prestige planning and acquisition planning (see further Lo
Bianco 2004). Prestige planning is more concerned with language atti-
tudes; particularly, it is concerned with engendering, at a community
level, positive attitudes towards the variety that is being selected. So
while both status planning and prestige planning are concerned with the
perceived value of a variety, they differ in that status planning is con-
cerned with establishing appropriate functions for a variety (whether it
should be used in religious ceremonies, in schools, in parliament and so
on), while prestige planning is concerned with establishing a positive
regard for the variety in the society which will be expected to use it in
an extended set of functions. Acquisition planning is usually educational
in focus, and involves the decisions made about what language or lan-
guages should be (a) the medium of education and/or (b) the subject of
education in a community.
What motivates individuals, and groups of individuals, to plan a lan-
guage? Given the associations between language and nationhood, we
might suspect that some attempts at planning are politically motivated.
For instance, a group may decide to adopt English as an official lan-
guage, and to insist that English is the medium of education, in order to
create opportunities for its citizens to gain access to the currently domi-
nant global language; by contrast, a local language might be raised in
status to a national language, in order to promote local identity in oppo-
sition to the globalisation of English, and to distinguish that nation from
others nearby. In other words, motivations for language planning may
stem from perceived problems in the society, which may be addressed
by changes to the form and/or function of a particular language, or
set of languages. Not all of these problems are necessarily resolved by
governmental intervention: some kinds of language planning may take
place at a local and even individual level; furthermore, the planning
may not fulfil the political aims. Choosing to avoid what is perceived
as politically incorrect language (for example, using the term chairper-
son rather than chairman, to avoid inherently sexist language) may be a
personal choice, though it may also be promoted by other groups. But
at whichever level this is implemented – from individual to national
or even supra-national government – it is important to remember that
language planning is deliberate, conscious language change. In relation
to English, language planning has often been associated with colonising
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 31
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 31 22/2/10 16:21:19
22/2/10 16:21:19
32 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
powers, as noted above. But to begin, we consider an early example of
language planning: the vernacularisation (Cobarrubias 1983) of English
in England.
3.3 Planning English in England
In Chapter 6, we will consider some general aspects of English histori-
cal linguistics; in this chapter, we focus particularly on the period from
the late fifteenth century onwards, in order to explore some of the ways
in which English was planned in England. It is sometimes tempting to
think of English in language planning as an issue which only applies
to the spread of English beyond the British Isles (and associated with
the political and economic dominance of the United Kingdom and the
United States of America in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries).
But it is important to realise that language planning was a feature of
English in England too.
From the Norman Conquest to the fifteenth century, English was
not held in very high esteem in England, as far as government, educa-
tion and science were concerned. As England grew in political power,
first in Europe, then further afield, so support grew for the promotion
of the vernacular language as the proper language for government (an
example of status planning); but in order to achieve this, it was recog-
nised that there also had to be an overt, planned, standard variety (an
example of corpus planning). The selection of that standard variety was
linguistically arbitrary, but socially and politically motivated. In the
sixteenth century, as the English nation (and empire) began to establish
itself on the world stage, there was a rise in nationalist feeling which
provoked debate on the status of the English language: a clear link
between language and nationhood was established. Particularly, there
were comparisons between the vernacular language English, and the
supra-local, high-status language Latin:
(1) I love Rome, but London better, I favour Italy, but England more, I
honour the Latin, but I worship the English (Mulcaster, Peroration to
The Elementarie, 1582)
While there was support for the promotion of English as the national
language, it was clear that the diversity of dialects within England
meant that one particular variety would need to be selected, as noted
above. In advising poets which variety of English should be used, the
author of the Arte of English Poesie (published in 1589), thought to be
George Puttenham, suggested a particular regional variety:
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 32
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 32 22/2/10 16:21:19
22/2/10 16:21:19
ENGLISH AND LANGUAGE PLANNING 33
(2) ye shall therefore take the vsuall speach [= usual speech] of the
Court, and that of London and the shires lying about London within
lx. Myles [= 60 miles], and not much aboue [= above].
and a particular social variety:
(3) neither shall he [= the poet] follow the speach of a craftes man or
carter, or other of the inferiour sort, though he be inhabitant or bred
in the best towne and Citie in this Realme, for such persons doe abuse
good speaches by strange accents . . . he shall follow generally the
better brought vp sort . . . men ciuill [= civil] and graciously behau-
oured [=behaved] and bred.
It was not by chance that the London dialect was selected as the stand-
ard variety – although not inherently better, more elegant, or more
suited to the purpose, it was the variety spoken by the social elite and
the politically powerful.
Once selected, the variety had to be codified in various ways.
Codification is a critical part of the standardisation process since it is
this stage which is crucial in attempting to eliminate variation. The
true measure of success of a standard variety is absence of variation – if
there is no phonological or grammatical variation, it is not possible for
one pronunciation or grammatical structure to be rated higher than
another – and codification is concerned with establishing what counts
as standard and what counts as non-standard, by regularising spell-
ings, pronunciations, words and grammar. It is typically the case that
variation in pronunciation is more tolerated than variation in spelling,
grammar and vocabulary, so much so that Haugen (1987) identifies
three kinds of processes involved in codification, none of which includes
regulation of accent variation: graphisation (which aims at developing
a writing system, and increasing uniformity in the written language),
grammatication (reduction in variation in grammar by establishing a set
of overt rules) and lexicalisation (fixing the wordstock of a language).
Such regularisation is attempted by the production of:
• dictionaries, like that of Samuel Johnson, published in 1755, and the
later Oxford English Dictionary;
• grammars, such as The Rudiments of English Grammar (by Joseph
Priestley, published in 1761) and A Short Introduction to English Grammar
(by Robert Lowth, published in 1762);
• usage manuals, and guides to proper pronunciation, such as Errors of
Pronunciation, and Improper Expressions, used frequently, and chiefly by the
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 33
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 33 22/2/10 16:21:19
22/2/10 16:21:19
34 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
Inhabitants of London (an anonymous publication which appeared in
1817).
The fact that guides to proper pronunciation emerge in the eighteenth
and nineteenth centuries suggests that the selected variety had become
accepted by a wider community (such that people who didn’t speak it
were made aware of their ‘errors’); and the fact that such books, and
many others, of many different genres, were written in the standard
language suggests that it had undergone an elaboration of function.
Thus the planning of English in England meets Haugen’s criteria for the
standardisation of a language: selection, codification, elaboration, and
acceptance (Haugen 1966).
Two other aspects of language planning are relevant to the devel-
opment of Standard English in the United Kingdom and beyond. We
can say of Standard English that it emerged as a product of prestige
planning. This involves more than change to linguistic form; it involves
encouraging change in attitudes towards a language, particularly one
which historically was marginalised. In other words, it involves particu-
lar political and social motivation to bring about a change. To a certain
extent, we saw this in the quotations from Mulcaster and Puttenham
above, but they were primarily concerned with particular disputes
about the status of English in relation to Latin, and which of the possible
varieties of English should be selected as the standard one. Below is an
example of a seventeenth-century text which explicitly illustrates pres-
tige planning (note that in cases where the <u> letter appears between
vowels, contemporary standard English would have a <v> letter (for
example, <improued> means ‘improved’):
(4) our language [that is, English] is improued aboue all others now
spoken by any nation, and became the fairest, the nimblest, the fullest;
most apt to vary the phrase, most ready to receiue good composi-
tion, most adorned with sweet words and sentences, with witty quips
and ouer-ruling Prouerbs: yea, able to expresse any hard conceit
whatsoeuer with great dexterity: waighty in weighty matters, merry
in merry, braue in braue. (William Lisle, Preface to A Saxon Treatise,
1623, cited in Barber 1997: 51)
Notice that Lisle here is not suggesting particular changes to the
form of English, nor is he recommending particular functions which
English is fit for. Rather, he is simply promoting the language, attempt-
ing to encourage favourable attitudes towards a language which was
increasingly growing in prestige. Finally, as English developed into
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 34
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 34 22/2/10 16:21:19
22/2/10 16:21:19
ENGLISH AND LANGUAGE PLANNING 35
an international language in the centuries following Lisle, we see the
emergence of acquisition planning, which can involve the promotion of
the language as a target in second language acquisition (which, in terms
of the promotion of English, is part of the work of organisations such
as the British Council). This then leads us to a further issue: language
planning and English beyond England.
3.4 English in Kenya, Sri Lanka and the European Union
We move now in time and space, from England in the seventeenth
century, to Kenya in the twentieth century. Here we see a different
social and linguistic mix, where English is involved in language plan-
ning, but where tensions exist between different local languages, and
between local languages and English (Simango 2006). Kenya gained
independence from the United Kingdom in 1963, having been colonised
in the previous century. English was decreed to be an official language
in Kenya along with Swahili in 1974. That Swahili was chosen as a
co-official language was quite a surprising choice, since few Kenyans
spoke that variety, and Swahili was not commonly spoken in the capital,
Nairobi. The use of English in official domains (for example, as a
medium for education, or as the language typically used by members
of the armed forces) has been contentious, and some have called for a
vernacularisation policy, such that a language like Kamba or Luo be
raised to the status of official language. Reasons in favour of such a move
include the fact that the use of English is in some ways an unwelcome
reminder of colonial oppression; furthermore, given that speakers of any
of the other indigenous languages of Kenya (like Rendille or Samburu)
are in something of a lose-lose situation anyway – they have to use
something other than their native language, whether that be English or
not – there are solid political reasons for selecting two indigenous lan-
guages as the official languages of the country. By contrast, others have
argued that encouraging the use of English among the population gives
Kenyans access to a wider socioeconomic world, with greater employ-
ment prospects; and English is in some ways a sensible choice as an offi-
cial language because, by its very nature as a non-indigenous language,
it does not promote the interests of any particular regional group in
Kenya. (Of course, it does promote the interests of those who have the
easiest access to education, which may mean that use of and exposure to
English are determined by social class rather than regional group.)
The relationship between English and other languages in Kenya
provides a nice example of the tensions between linguistic assimila-
tion and linguistic pluralism (Cobarrubias 1983). Assimilation involves
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 35
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 35 22/2/10 16:21:19
22/2/10 16:21:19
36 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
narrowing, a reduction in variation, sometimes in the hope that promot-
ing a particular language will promote sociopolitical unity. (Notice that
this policy is part of the thinking behind encouraging all immigrants to
countries like the United Kingdom to be proficient in English – it is seen
as part of a citizenship programme.) Pluralism involves the promotion
of diversity, whereby a number of languages may be promoted by the
state. Again, the motivations for this are usually more than purely lin-
guistic, and have a range of economic consequences. On the one hand, a
pluralistic policy encourages multilingualism, and multilingualism may
be a valuable economic resource, particularly in a globalised economy;
on the other, it can be economically costly to ensure that all varieties
are promoted to the same extent, because various educational resources
will need to be produced for each language, language teachers will need
to be trained to provide instruction in schools, and so on.
In Sri Lanka, issues of language planning arose in the nineteenth
century, as part of the expansion of the British Empire. Canagarajah
(2005: 421–2) notes that, having taken the island in 1815, the British
intended to allow a degree of autonomy to local ethnic groups, but soon
realised that a centralised system was essential for optimal governmental
business. In order to achieve this, the Colebrook-Cameron commission
made recommendations that locals be given training in English so that
they could be employed in a series of functionary positions. (Much the
same principles seem to have been in operation in a different commu-
nity almost three hundred years earlier, after the 1536 Act of Union,
which resulted in the political marriage of England and Wales. There,
Welsh speakers were similarly forced to learn English in order to be
appointed to various public offices (Davies 2000: 80).) In nineteenth-
century Sri Lanka, not everyone could receive English-medium edu-
cation: restricting this to a few select individuals was another way of
exercising control over the community at large: “English proficiency
came to be distributed according to the already prevailing caste hierar-
chy” (Canagarajah 2005: 422).
Since preference for access to English was also given to Christians
and urban dwellers, English quickly acquired the status of a class marker
in the wider community. After independence, a rather different lan-
guage policy was implemented, such that one local language (Sinhala)
was accorded official status, though Tamil, now used along with Sinhala
as a medium of education, was not. The political situation in Sri Lanka
involved great tension between Tamil and Sinhalese groups, and with
the rise of Sinhala, many Tamils looked to English to contest the domi-
nance of Sinhala, in addition to promoting Tamil itself. Canagarajah
(2005) shows that this has resulted in a very complex linguistic situation
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 36
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 36 22/2/10 16:21:19
22/2/10 16:21:19
ENGLISH AND LANGUAGE PLANNING 37
in Sri Lanka, where divisions both between and within different ethnic
groups have led to repeated fluctuations in language policy, with dif-
ferent groups promoting different languages. The Sri Lankan situation
also suggests a blurring of the relationship between ethnicity, language
and nation, with speakers recasting the same language in different
lights for different social, political and economic ends. And the kind of
English used in Sri Lanka is also localised: global English is by no means
uniform, and each of the varieties of English used by different speakers
is constructed differently by different groups.
English also has an official role to play in the European Union (EU).
Despite the fact that the EU promotes multilingualism via translators
and interpreters, so that political decisions are made available to indi-
viduals in member states where English is not the first language of most
speakers, it is still the case that the majority of the documents of the
European Commission are first drafted in English, with only a handful
drafted in other languages. This political organisation, then, has made
a distinction between working languages (in the case of the European
Commission, these are English, French and German) and official lan-
guages. In fact, English is only one of twenty-three official languages
of the EU (as of 2007), and the regulation determining language use in
the EU appears actively to promote linguistic pluralism. For instance,
article 2 of the Regulation determining the languages to be used by
the European Economic Community states that “Documents which a
Member State or a person subject to the jurisdiction of a Member State
sends to institutions of the Community may be drafted in any one of the
official languages selected by the sender. The reply shall be drafted in
the same language.”
However, in addition to the twenty-three official languages, there are
also well over a hundred minority languages in Europe. These too are
supported and (to a degree) promoted by the EU, some more so than
others. Some languages are not formally recognised by the EU, despite
being spoken by approximately one in every fifty people in a particular
member state; for example, Turkish in Belgium. As for English, it was
not always an official language of the EU: when greater economic co-
operation between European states was proposed in the 1950s, the UK
was not part of the initial group, so the first four official languages of the
precursor of the EU were Dutch, French, Italian and German; and it is
still the case that, in terms of first languages, there are more speakers
of German than of English in the member states that currently make
up the EU. However, when we include reasonably proficient users of
English as a second or other language, the ranking changes, and English
becomes the most widely spoken language: this also seems to be on the
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 37
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 37 22/2/10 16:21:19
22/2/10 16:21:19
38 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
increase, with more and more younger people becoming proficient in
English. Over time, then, English has grown to be more and more domi-
nant within the EU. This is part of a larger spread of global English,
which raises an important question, addressed in the next section.
3.5 How has the globalisation of English affected language
planning?
At the time of writing, English is one of the world’s languages (includ-
ing, for example, Mandarin Chinese and Spanish) which is currently
gaining in numbers of speakers as either a first or other language. In
some ways, the spread of English is to be welcomed, but in others, there
is a real danger that the domination of a few languages will lead to the
demise of many others. In this section, we explore some of the ways
in which global English is beneficial for communities, and some of the
ways in which it is detrimental.
What might be some of the disadvantages of using English as an
official language? One issue concerns the perceived status of English
in the community, or, more accurately, the perceived status of users of
English. If it is the case that English is perceived as the language of an
elite, it may be the case that there is some resentment towards using
that variety as, for example, the medium of education, because it will
automatically privilege an already privileged group, and serve to mar-
ginalise those who do not come to education with the added advantage
of having a good command of the medium of instruction. A further
issue concerns the vitality of indigenous languages. If English comes
to be used in wider and wider domains, the motivation for speakers to
continue to use indigenous varieties may be marginalised and reduced,
sometimes to the point of extinction. The loss of such languages has
serious repercussions for the preservation of the cultures of various
groups around the world.
Spolsky (2004: 91) has argued that “English as a global language is
now a factor that needs to be taken into account in its language policy
by any nation state”. An important issue in situations of language plan-
ning concerns the rights of minority language speakers. There are
clearly advantages in promoting minority languages in different coun-
tries. For example, such languages can provide an insight into human
culture which is lost when those languages are lost. However, critics
of those who promote minority language rights suggest that protecting
those languages is a wild-goose chase, and even of questionable moral-
ity: speakers of those languages want access to the resources, and the
power, that come with command of a global language. If they are denied
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 38
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 38 22/2/10 16:21:19
22/2/10 16:21:19
ENGLISH AND LANGUAGE PLANNING 39
access to such resources, by having their potential exposure to English
limited, they are denied the opportunity for socioeconomic growth.
Recent work by sociolinguists in Malaysia (David and Govindasamy
2005) and in Iran (Riazi 2005), for example, has suggested that members
of some communities feel quite resentful when a local language is pro-
moted to the detriment of English.
By contrast, research in other countries has shown that in situations
where English is promoted, sometimes by the use of an English-only
policy in some schools (in parts of Eritrea (Wright 2001) and India
(Annamalai 2005), for example), educators have tried to find ways
around the stated policy and attempting to use local languages in par-
ticular ways. Similarly, the addition of English as a further linguistic
resource may not involve loss, but rather gain, because while it may be
the case that certain languages become marginalised in such circum-
stances, many speakers may use English as a way of marking particular
aspects of their local identity. In such cases, ‘English’ no longer symbol-
ises a global phenomenon; it becomes part of a local negotiation of social
roles and relationships. Furthermore, as Ferguson (2006) observes, it is
not the case that language shift is always towards English: many indige-
nous languages are lost because of shift to other local regional languages.
This, in connection with a ‘deanglicisation’ of English (Kachru 1985),
may mean that, in the case of the spread of English, the associations of
linguistic form with particular political and social ideologies become
reduced, and new associations emerge which have social meaning at a
more prominently local level.
3.6 Summary
Crystal (2003), in his discussion of the spread of global English, makes
reference to the political and economic might of two empires: that of
the United Kingdom in the nineteenth century, and the United States
in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. This power is exercised in
a number of ways, and much research currently focuses on matters of
economics, particularly as this relates to globalisation. But it is impera-
tive to realise that brute force had – and in some cases, continues to have
– an impact on the success of language planning, whether the intention
be to promote English, or to promote a local language: we saw that this
was particularly the case in the situation in Sri Lanka. By comparing
some of the issues associated with the planning of English in England,
and the planning of English in other contexts around the world, we see
what is constant and what is variable in language planning. Some factors
do remain constant (for example, the importance of prestige planning in
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 39
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 39 22/2/10 16:21:19
22/2/10 16:21:19
40 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
ensuring wider acceptance of a particular variety); but factors may vary
considerably, given the different social, political and economic contexts
in which language planning takes place. This is part of the reason why,
despite attempts to understand global practices in relation to planning,
a deep knowledge of the local socioeconomic and political practices is
vital in the development of a workable policy.
Exercise
Choose a country where English has had a role to play in language policy,
and try to find out some of the ways in which status planning and corpus
planning have been implemented. To what extent has vernacularisation
also played a role? If you were in charge of developing policy in this
community, how would you ensure that you had sufficient knowledge
of the sociolinguistic situation in the community? What factors might
limit your ability to discover this sociolinguistic situation?
Further reading
Spolsky (2004) is a detailed account of many issues in language policy,
while Ferguson (2006) provides a broad coverage of the relationship
between aspects of language planning and educational policy and
practice. Phillipson (1992, 2003) links many aspects of language policy
to political imperialism with regard to the spread of English within
Europe, and further afield. Another useful book specifically on English
in this regard is Pennycook (1994). On global English, Bauer (2002) and
Crystal (2003) each provide a good introduction, which can be followed
up by reference to various articles in Kachru et al. (2006), and to Jenkins
(2003) and Schneider (2007).
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 40
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 40 22/2/10 16:21:19
22/2/10 16:21:19
41
4 Regional and social variation
4.1 Overview
In the first three chapters, we explored some of the functions of English
in communities across the world. In this chapter, the attention is less on
the function of varieties of English, and more on their formal properties.
Many sociolinguists argue that the function of a particular utterance or
discourse will be an influence on the form or shape that the utterance
or discourse will take, so we will still need to take function into consid-
eration when we examine why particular varieties of English have the
shape that they do. Much of the chapter is devoted to quantitative (also
known as variationist) sociolinguistics, but we begin by considering
regional variation in English.
As we saw in Chapter 1, for many people, the concept of a variety of
English is regionally based: people think of the English-speaking world
as being divided up into distinct geographical areas, each with its own
dialect. Sometimes this corresponds to a group of nations (for example,
Euro English), sometimes to an individual nation (for example, Indian
English), and sometimes to an area within a nation, either urban (for
example, Boston English) or rural (for example, Lancashire English).
These regional dialects are said to have their own distinctive pro-
nunciation, grammar and vocabulary. For instance, some speakers of
English from Auckland, New Zealand, have a different vowel in words
like trap and cat (that is, [trɛp] and [kɛt]) from that of some speakers of
English from York, England (who have [trap] and [kat]); speakers in San
Francisco might introduce a report of somebody else’s speech by saying
He was all (as in he was all, ‘What do you want?’), while speakers in London
might say This is him (as in this is him, ‘What do you want?’).
But such a set of divisions is slightly misleading. It is certainly not
the case that all eight million inhabitants of London have This is him
as a quotative construction. For instance, some Londoners are recent
immigrants to the United Kingdom, who have English as a second or
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 41
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 41 22/2/10 16:21:19
22/2/10 16:21:19
42 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
other language, whose English is different in form from those born in
the English capital; but even those who were born in London, and have
English as their first language, display different varieties of English.
The language of an elderly white woman from the wealthy suburb of
Kensington shows differences from that of a young black man from a
poorer area such as Tower Hamlets. And this pattern is replicated in
many communities in which English is spoken – the variation in form
is not simply a product of the region in which the speakers are located.
The social characteristics of the speaker (their class, gender and ethnic-
ity, for instance), the kind of talk they are engaged in, and the audience
they are speaking to can all be influential in helping us to understand
why varieties of English have the shape that they do.
In terms of the history of research into varieties of English, regional
dialectology predates social dialectology. We will see in Chapter 6, when
we consider aspects of English historical sociolinguistics, that attitudes
towards different regional varieties of English have been expressed
for a great time, and that there have been some attempts to describe
the formal characteristics of regional varieties of British English since
the early Modern English period. But systematic studies of regional
varieties of English – that is, studies which used an extensive sample of
speakers, and collected data using a fairly uniform methodology – are
not found until the twentieth century, and were first carried out in the
United Kingdom and in the United States. It is important to understand
both the aims and the methods of these traditional dialectologists, since
they were the precursors to the sociolinguists whose work we will be
investigating in detail in the remainder of the book.
4.2 Aims and methods of traditional dialectologists
In the past, traditional dialectologists were historical linguists; while
they had a general interest in modern varieties of English, one specific
aim for many traditional dialectologists was the recording of a particular
kind of dialect in order to track the outcome of historical sound changes.
This meant that they needed to select speakers whose speech was
considered to represent ‘pure’ dialect, uncontaminated by the stand-
ard variety. Such speakers are referred to in the literature as NORMs,
an acronym meaning Non-mobile, Older, Rural Males (Chambers
and Trudgill 1998). It is interesting to note that the opposite ‘type’ of
speaker – young, urban, mobile females (who we might call YUMFs)
– have been the focus of much modern sociolinguistic inquiry. Once
selected, the NORMs were asked very specific questions, usually using
a questionnaire which was as uniform as possible in order to provide
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 42
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 42 22/2/10 16:21:19
22/2/10 16:21:19
REGIONAL AND SOCIAL VARIATION 43
consistency across the sample size, to elicit particular responses. These
responses allowed the researchers to record the distribution of particu-
lar lexical items, and to see how the pronunciation of particular vowels
and consonants varied in different parts of the country under investiga-
tion. These data were then presented in dialect maps, which divided
the land mass into specific regions where particular lexical items or
pronunciations were recorded. Figure 4.1, created from data taken from
the Survey of English Dialects (SED, Orton et al. 1962–71), provides an
Figure 4.1 Map taken from the Linguistic Atlas of England showing
variation in pronunciation of the vowel in the word man.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 43
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 43 22/2/10 16:21:19
22/2/10 16:21:19
44 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
example of such a dialect map. It shows the differences in pronunciation
of the vowel in the word man in various areas of England.
The lines on this map are referred to as isoglosses (from Greek,
meaning ‘same tongue’), which were used to establish major dialect
areas of a language in a particular country. Using a range of SED data,
Trudgill (1999a) produced a composite map showing the various
isoglosses which determined the traditional dialect areas of England, as
shown in Figure 4.2.
More recent regional dialectological work has been able to make use
Figure 4.2 Traditional dialect areas of England (Trudgill 1999a: 34).
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 44
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 44 22/2/10 16:21:20
22/2/10 16:21:20
REGIONAL AND SOCIAL VARIATION 45
of advances in technology. While SED researchers sometimes relied
on aural transcription, making notes at the point of recording, modern
dialectologists use digital recorders to record speakers, and computers
to store, process and present the data so collected. For instance, a recent
survey of accents of American English (Labov et al. 2005) has produced
a digital resource which allows researchers to hear the original record-
ings. You can also hear a number of different accents of English by visit-
ing the Sound Comparisons website (www.soundcomparisons.com).
4.3 Aims and methods of variationist sociolinguists
While the traditional dialectologists were interested in recording a
very specific kind of speaker in a fairly formal style, variationist socio-
linguists typically collect data from a range of informants in a range of
speech styles (from casual conversation to reading specific words). Such
a method allows the researcher to do many things. First, he or she can
(using a range of statistical tests) establish what aspects of a speaker’s
social make-up correlate with the use of particular linguistic forms. For
instance, if the speaker sample contains speakers of different ethnicities
and social classes, it is possible to establish whether ethnicity or class (or
both, or neither) is associated with using a particular linguistic variant
or set of variants. Second, the researcher can also investigate the effects
of speech style on the kind of language used. One of the earliest findings
of variationist sociolinguistics is that speakers in certain communities
(typically urban, western communities) will use variants associated with
the local vernacular more frequently in casual conversation, and less
frequently in formal speech styles (Labov 1966). Third, the researcher
can investigate the linguistic behaviour of the individual. For instance,
do all speakers in the group investigated behave in the same way, or are
there some ‘outliers’ whose linguistic behaviour is radically different
from the rest of the group?
Depending on what kind of research is being undertaken, different
methods will be adopted regarding the size of the speaker sample and
the nature of the recordings. Some sociolinguistic surveys are carried
out using a random sample of informants, who are interviewed using
specific questions, and are asked to carry out a variety of linguistic tasks
(for example, Labov 1966). Quite a large number of informants can be
interviewed in a relatively short period of time, following this method.
Other surveys involve a more ethnographic approach, whereby the
researcher spends a significant amount of time familiarising herself with
the social practices of the community under investigation, and col-
lecting typically informal speech over a long period of time. This kind
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 45
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 45 22/2/10 16:21:21
22/2/10 16:21:21
46 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
of research may involve years of observation, and can produce rather
different results than those collected via a structured interview (see
Eckert 2000). These and other methods are often used in sociolinguis-
tic studies, and reveal complementary findings about the relationship
between language and society. Although certain aspects of the method
are different, there are some things which are common to most quanti-
tative studies. Particularly, quantitative sociolinguists are interested in
patterns of variation, and the quantitative distribution of different vari-
ants across different groups. In order to characterise the linguistic vari-
ation as accurately as possible, sociolinguists make use of the concept of
the linguistic variable.
4.4 The linguistic variable
While the aims and methods of traditional dialectologists and variation-
ist sociolinguists are different in many ways, both groups share an inter-
est in understanding patterns of linguistic variation. Before the advent of
modern sociolinguistic research, many linguists had believed variation
in language to be unstructured, with random groups of speakers retain-
ing random pronunciations. Such pronunciations were characteristic
of sound changes in sets of words which reflected the diverse historical
influences on the language of the local area. But this was not the case.
Possibly the biggest contribution made by quantitative sociolinguistics
was one of its earliest contributions: proof that variation in language was
not random, but structured – the “orderly heterogeneity” (or structured
differences, Weinreich et al. 1968) discussed previously. And that proof
came in part from the use of the linguistic variable.
The linguistic variable is a set or, perhaps better, a network of related
linguistic forms, or variants. We often see co-variation between lin-
guistic variables and other variables associated with the speaker (for
example, the speaker’s social affiliation or his or her age), the audi-
ence (for example, whether the addressee is an intimate friend or a
stranger), and the nature and situation of the communicative act (for
example, whether the speaker is giving evidence in court, or talking in
a restaurant). Although the selection of any one variant in the network
will typically not affect the referential meaning of the word or utter-
ance, the network itself may have salient social meaning. For instance,
many speakers of English will pronounce the intervocalic consonant
in the word butter very differently. Many Americans pronounce butter
as [bʌɾɚ], while speakers of London English might pronounce butter as
[bʌʔə]. However, whichever pronunciation is used, the same concept
is denoted in each case. In other words, no matter which of the set of
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 46
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 46 22/2/10 16:21:21
22/2/10 16:21:21
REGIONAL AND SOCIAL VARIATION 47
variants is selected, the concept referred to remains constant. This is the
critical feature of a linguistic variable. We can see similar patterns with
lexical variation (different words referring to the same concept), as in the
various terms for ‘friend’ (including mate, pal, buddy, and marra), and with
grammatical variation (different grammatical patterns conveying the
same message), illustrated by the following different kinds of negation: I
haven’t been to Canberra, I’ve not been to Canberra, I ain’t been to Canberra, and
I ain’t never been to Canberra. But variants like butter as [bʌɾɚ], buddy, and I
ain’t been to Canberra may all be linked in the language user’s mind to the
concept ‘American’.
However, as noted above, such variation is not simply typical of dif-
ferent regions – indeed, some patterns (like the negation example) may
be more typical of social varieties than they are of regional varieties.
Since variation is characteristic of individuals, we have to recognise
that knowledge of variation is part of an individual’s knowledge about
their own language system – one of the things that speakers know about
language is that it varies, so we need a method of representation for that
systematic knowledge.
The method of representation we will use in this book is as follows:
the linguistic variable (that is, the network of forms) is enclosed in
round brackets, and any variants (that is, the members of that network)
under discussion follow the variable, separated by a colon. For instance,
in many varieties of British English, there is a phenomenon known as
H-Dropping, which denotes absence of the glottal fricative [h] at the
beginning of words such as happy, hill and house. But H-Dropping is not
invariable: a speaker might sometimes retain the fricative in such words
in a more formal style, while we might hear the same speaker pronounc-
ing the same words without an [h] in a more casual style. We therefore
have a variable (h), with two variants, namely (h):[h] and (h):ø. (h):ø is
the ‘zero’ variant, and indicates the absence of the glottal fricative at
the beginning of words like hotel and honey. Phonetic and phonologi-
cal variables in the literature are regularly represented in this way; we
will extend this use to lexical and grammatical variables too. When
representing a list of variants, each variant will be separated by ‘~’. For
instance, if we wanted to represent four different words denoting the
meaning ‘very good’ in current British English, we would represent this
as (‘very good’): sound ~ grand ~ mint ~ boss, etc.
The linguistic variable is fundamental to the study of social variation
– Chambers (2003: 26) described the linguistic variable as a “momen-
tous innovation” in linguistic inquiry – so we need to establish why it is
considered to be so important. First, as noted above, it tells us something
about what speakers know about language – the linguistic variable is part
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 47
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 47 22/2/10 16:21:21
22/2/10 16:21:21
48 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
of a speaker’s linguistic system. But there may be some motivation for a
speaker to select from the range of variants, and sociolinguistic studies
have shown that the variables correlate with a number of other parame-
ters, of which some of the main ones are: the social characteristics of the
speaker (their ethnic group membership, for instance); the nature of the
discourse, or speech style (the extent to which the discourse is formal);
the audience (whether the speaker is talking to an intimate friend or a
stranger, for instance); and the linguistic context in which the variable
appears. This last is critical. Linguistic constraints can affect very sig-
nificantly the likelihood of a particular variant being selected; in fact,
linguistic constraints are often more significant in establishing patterns
of variation than social constraints are. For instance, to return to our
example of H-Dropping, (h):[h] is rarely selected – by most speakers of
British English, irrespective of their social characteristics, the discourse
context and their addressees – if the word in which the variable appears
is unstressed. So for instance, in a phrase like his house, under normal
speech conditions, the first of these words, his, receives less promi-
nence (and is therefore considered unstressed) relative to the second
word, house. Many speakers will pronounce his as [ɪz] since the word is
unstressed; however, the likelihood of pronouncing house as [aʊs], rather
than [haʊs], has less to do with the matter of linguistic stress, and more
to do with the social and stylistic factors relating to the participants in
the discourse, and the discourse itself.
Although phonological, lexical and morphosyntactic variables
are all structured in the same way (that is, each variable has a set of
variants), it seems as if different kinds of variable may be put to use
by speakers in different ways. Some recent studies concerning the
geographical diffusion of sound changes have noticed the following
general trends:
• Speakers use different sets of sounds to mark identity. In other words,
evidence from studies of UK dialects suggests that local identity
tends to be marked more clearly by variation in vowels; consonantal
variants have a very wide geographic distribution, and so typically
do not function as highly localised forms (Williams and Kerswill
1999; but see Watson 2006 for an interesting counterexample to this
trend in Liverpool English). For example, in the British Isles, varia-
tion in vowels such as those in words like face and price allow listeners
to identify speakers as belonging to a particular regional area much
more easily than a phenomenon like H-Dropping or TH-Fronting
(as we have seen, in TH-Fronting the dental fricatives [θ] and [ð] are
replaced by [f] and [v] respectively).
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 48
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 48 22/2/10 16:21:21
22/2/10 16:21:21
REGIONAL AND SOCIAL VARIATION 49
• When such consonantal variants diffuse regionally, they typically
do so from urban areas (typically economic centres) into rural areas,
rather than vice versa – see, for example, the development of TH-
Fronting as described in Kerswill (2003). Why this has happened is a
matter of some debate; one suggestion has been that changing patterns
of employment and a willingness to travel over larger distances to
commute to work may have some role to play (Trudgill 1986).
• Trudgill (1999a) has suggested that this kind of diffusion may lead to
the realignment of traditional rural and geographically more compact
varieties into more widespread regions dominated by a particular
urban centre.
This realignment of dialect boundaries has a number of consequences
for perceptions of Standard English in England. Kerswill (2002) has
shown that grammatical and lexical variables on the one hand, and
phonetic variables on the other, can diffuse in different ways, and have
different social correlates. The spread of grammatical and lexical vari-
ables within England has been greatly influenced by the language of the
middle classes from the south-east of England, in careful speech styles.
It is this kind of spoken language that approximates most closely to the
standard variety we discussed in Chapters 1 and 3, such that many parts
of England are now very similar in terms of grammatical and lexical
features. Certain changes affecting phonetic or accent variables, by
contrast, have often not spread beyond the south-east (this is particu-
larly true of variation in vowels, as we will see below). Instead, what
we can witness is a series of local norms being negotiated by speakers,
and these norms typically centre on urban centres like Newcastle and
Manchester. This issue of dialect contact will be considered in more
detail in Chapter 8.
A very important part of Kerswill’s work, and that of many other
specialists who carry out research into accents and dialects of English,
is that it brings together the work of traditional dialectologists with the
work of urban sociolinguists. In order to understand the specific features
of urban sociolinguistics, we need to consider what quantitative studies
of variation can tell us about how varieties of English are structured and
are used by speakers.
4.5 A first example of quantitative variation in English
We begin with a fairly straightforward example of variation, in order to
show how the concept of the linguistic variable is employed in the liter-
ature. The data in Figure 4.3 come from a study carried out in Bradford
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 49
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 49 22/2/10 16:21:21
22/2/10 16:21:21
50 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
in Yorkshire, England, in the 1970s, and illustrates the correlation of the
(h) variable introduced above with a particular social category, namely
social class. In this figure, MMC = middle-middle class, LMC = lower-
middle class, UWC = upper-working class, MWC = middle-working
class and LWC = lower-working class.
The data here illustrate the following:
• Looking at the first and last bars in the chart, we see that at neither end
of the class continuum is there exclusive use of one variant. In other
words, some speakers in even the highest social class occasionally use
(h):ø, while some speakers in even the lowest social class occasionally
use (h):[h]. This illustrates a typical pattern of quantitative studies:
that most speakers have a knowledge and command of variability, that
variation is typical, rather than unusual.
• (h) in Bradford shows clear stratification with social class – the higher
the social class, the greater the incidence of (h):[h].
• Unusually for phonetic and phonological variables, (h) sharply strati-
fies social classes – the biggest drop in the use of (h):[h] occurs between
the lower-middle class and the upper-working class. It is normally the
case that grammatical variables (such as negation markers) function
as sharp stratifiers of social groups, with phonetic and phonological
variables offering a more fine-grained set of distinctions.
On the other hand, the data as presented here do not illustrate the
following:
Figure 4.3 (h) in Yorkshire (based on Petyt 1980: 189).
MMC LMC UWC
Social class
MWC LWC
0
%(h):[h]
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 50
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 50 22/2/10 16:21:21
22/2/10 16:21:21
REGIONAL AND SOCIAL VARIATION 51
• We have no way of knowing – from the data as it is presented here
– what the behaviour of individual speakers within each of the social
classes was. For instance, it might have been the case that there were
some speakers in the lowest social class who were consistently using
(h):ø, while others were using (h):ø fairly infrequently. Indeed, as
Petyt (1980: 189) points out, at least one individual in each of the
two middle-class groups consistently had (h):[h], while at least one
individual in each of the three working-class groups consistently had
(h):ø. What we are presented with here (and what we are usually pre-
sented with in many sociolinguistic surveys) are group scores, and not
scores for individuals.
• By isolating social class, it is not possible to see what other social
factors may correlate with use of (h). For instance, it is not possible to
establish from the data here whether (h) also correlates with the sex of
the speaker.
• The data here do not provide information about stylistic variation; we
do not know the distribution of (h) in different ‘types of talk’.
• No statistical tests are given here to establish whether or not the dif-
ferences are significant, or whether they are simply down to chance.
• We do not know what the linguistic constraints on the variation might
be.
It is important, therefore, to treat all data sets with caution; any claims
that are made concerning the relationship between social stratification
and linguistic variation need to be supported by particular kinds of evi-
dence, and typically should be shown to be statistically significant.
4.6 The issue of style
As we saw in Section 4.3. above, some sociolinguistic interviews involve
speakers engaged in different kinds of linguistic tasks. One motivation
for this was because it was thought that speakers pay varying amounts
of attention to the actual act of speaking depending on what kind of
activity they are involved in. For instance, in relatively informal con-
versation, it was said that speakers pay lower attention to speech than
they do when reading aloud a list of words. The patterns associated
with stylistic variation are of great importance in quantitative socio-
linguistics, because stylisitic variation intersects with social variation.
Sociolinguists have identified three different models associated with
stylistic variation: attention to speech, style as audience design and style
as speaker design.
Attention to speech was a significant issue in early sociolinguistic
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 51
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 51 22/2/10 16:21:21
22/2/10 16:21:21
52 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
accounts of stylistic variation. The hypothesis was that speakers will
use a higher proportion of non-local forms when they are speaking for-
mally, or given particular tasks to do which focus their attention on par-
ticular aspects of language. For instance, if a speaker is asked to read out
a list of words while being interviewed, they may use fewer local forms
than they might if they were having a normal conversation, because
they are concentrating on a particular (and rather unnatural) linguistic
task; and they might use yet fewer forms if they are asked to read out
a list of pairs of words which differ only in terms of the linguistic vari-
able under investigation. The results of such studies (see Labov 1972
for some examples) typically showed that all groups of speakers behave
in the same way with respect to stylistic variation – each group had a
higher proportion of the non-local form in more careful speech styles.
Furthermore, there was little to distinguish, in terms of proportions of
variants, between the casual speech of the highest social class and the
careful speech of the lowest social class.
Although this was quite a well-accepted account of stylistic varia-
tion, some researchers began to seek motivations for stylistic variation.
One proposal was that speakers display stylistic variation in order to
accommodate to a (real or perceived) audience. An important account
of this idea of style as ‘audience design’ comes from a study in New
Zealand (Bell 1984), in which a newsreader was recorded reading the
same news script for two different radio stations, one whose demo-
graphic was largely middle-class, and another whose demographic was
largely working-class. Bell found that the newsreader’s accent changed
depending on which radio station he was reading for. Notice that in
this experiment, the only significant difference is the perceived radio
audience – the speaker was the same, the speech context and formality
were the same, and the script was the same. Yet the newsreader used a
higher proportion of (t):[ɾ] variants with the ‘working-class’ audience,
and a higher proportion of (t): [t] variants with the ‘middle-class’ audi-
ence. The announcer was accommodating (changing his behaviour to
approximate to his idea of that of others) to the norms of his imagined
audience. A study in Cardiff (Coupland 1984) displayed similar results.
Here a travel agent was recorded speaking to a number of different
clients (from different social classes), and again the agent used more
non-local forms with customers from higher social classes, and more
local forms with customers from lower social classes. A particularly
interesting finding from this study was that the agent used different
variables to accommodate to different social groups – so some vari-
ables worked as ‘middle-class accommodators’ and others as ‘working-
class accommodators’. This shows how finely tuned our knowledge of
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 52
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 52 22/2/10 16:21:21
22/2/10 16:21:21
REGIONAL AND SOCIAL VARIATION 53
variation may be, and how specific language users are in accommodat-
ing to others.
In contrast, the notion of style as speaker design is concerned again
with the issue of identity, and with a more agentive approach to varia-
tion, focusing on the speaker’s creativity in displays of speech style. In
this model, style is largely a reflection of the kinds of linguistic resources
a speaker has, which she can use to create and index a set of social rela-
tions. This more performative view of style suggests that speakers are
constantly restructuring the social space in which they operate. Since
style is essentially a marker of intra-speaker variation, we can associate
stylistic variation with some of the ways a speaker positions himself in
relation to a perceived social space, to index the kind of social relations
he understands to exist between him and other individuals. We will
return to the notion of speaker agency when we consider third-wave
approaches to variation in the following section, which explores how
more general theories of sociolinguistics have evolved. This provides
a summary of how thinking about social variation (in English, and in
other languages) has developed, as well as reflecting some changes in
methodology.
4.7 The three waves of variationist sociolinguistics
Some sociolinguists (for example, Eckert 2005) have considered the
evolution of the discipline as consisting of three waves, which can be
characterised by the methodology adopted and the research objec-
tives. The first wave (associated with variationist studies in the 1960s
and 1970s, such as Labov 1966 and Trudgill 1974) was concerned with
surveys of urban populations, where informants were selected using
a method of (quasi-)random sampling. Many such surveys were con-
cerned with the relationship between variation and ongoing change in
the community (see Chapter 5), particularly with the social embed-
ding and transmission of language change. The second wave of studies,
exemplified by Rickford (1986), took a broadly ethnographic approach:
investigators spent a great deal of time in the community under obser-
vation, becoming part of that community in some cases, and trying to
understand the social practices of the individuals involved. While the
community under investigation was typically much smaller than that in
the first wave studies, the period of time spent observing the informants
was much greater. Such studies began to consider the social meaning of
linguistic variation, and the projection of identity which could be shown
to correlate with particular linguistic practices. The studies also aimed to
show connections between local and supra-local linguistic patterns. The
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 53
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 53 22/2/10 16:21:21
22/2/10 16:21:21
54 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
issue of identity has become even more prominent in the third wave of
social dialectology, where variation (particularly stylistic variation) was
associated with social practice. Each of these ‘waves’ is discussed below.
The first wave identified by Eckert (2005) typically involved gross
social categorisation of the community under investigation. One of the
problems associated with the association of linguistic variation with
such gross social categorisation is that the social categories employed
were often conceived of as being rather inflexible, and understood as
being predominantly ‘labels’, rather than ‘ways of being’. For instance,
early sociolinguistic analyses of linguistic differences in the speech
of men and women were often interpreted as binary sex differences
(male vs. female) rather than gradient gender differences (clines of
masculinity and femininity associated with gender roles in different
communities). A nice example of how a social category is gradient
rather than binary is provided by the following observation, from the
Observer Magazine (Sunday 16 July 2006, p. 8). These are the words of
a Los Angeles tattoo artist named Zulu, discussing a change, during his
childhood, in his attitude to being black: “After that, not wanting to be
black went away. After that, I wanted to be as black as I could get.” Being
black is not simply an issue of skin colour; it can also be part of an indi-
vidual’s identity. Recognising this allows us to understand why some
white speakers adopt linguistic practices associated primarily with black
speakers: using language associated typically with a particular social
group is a way of projecting an identity, showing solidarity and promot-
ing affinity with one group, while simultaneously marking ‘difference’
with another. Such acts of identity (Le Page and Tabouret-Keller 1985)
are critical for our understanding of linguistic variation in English, and
were sometimes overlooked by some of the earlier quantitative socio-
linguistic studies.
The second wave approach typically involves social networks of the
kind discussed in Chapter 2. Social network approaches to variation in
English are probably best known through the work of James and Lesley
Milroy in Belfast in the 1970s, though other studies that both pre- and
post-date the Milroys’ work have used the concept of a social network.
A network approach is typically more centred on individual behaviours
and patterns than on those of larger groups. This is not to say that group
patterns are irrelevant; but what is foregrounded is the social ties that
bind a set of individuals, and the linguistic patterns that can be shown
to be correlated with the number and nature of those ties. Social net-
works have been used to explain the persistence of local variants in
situations of dialect contact. In the Belfast studies mentioned above, the
strength of the social network correlated in many instances with the use
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 54
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 54 22/2/10 16:21:21
22/2/10 16:21:21
REGIONAL AND SOCIAL VARIATION 55
of particular linguistic forms: local variants (such as the deletion of the
intervocalic consonant [ð] in words like father and brother) were found
most frequently in strong (that is, more dense and more multiplex)
networks, while supra-local variants were favoured by those whose
networks were typically weak. Network structure was not the only
social variable to be considered in these studies – gender too played an
important role in the variation; more importantly, gender and network
interacted in the social make-up of the various working-class commu-
nities that were investigated in Belfast. Often, disruption to traditional
employment patterns meant that either men had to find work beyond
their local community, or women had to go out and find work, or both.
This led to disruption in the fabric of the social network, which may
have facilitated the spread of innovations into the local accent.
Third wave studies are also concerned with local practices, and
have often been linked to the community of practice, also discussed
in Chapter 2. Such studies are particularly concerned with the social
meaning of variation in a given community, and place a very strong
emphasis on the kind of stylistic variation discussed in Section 4.6
above. Third wave approaches require the analyst to look closely at
local features of variation that cannot be recovered by gross social
categorisation. For instance, (t) in final position has been shown to
mark a number of identities in different communities of practice in
the United States; the variation itself has a meaning, and these mean-
ings are layered, just as groups in a community may be layered. For
instance, for many American speakers, the full release variant of (t) in
final position in a word (for example, [bɪt] for bit) has connotations of
‘Britishness’ (Eckert 2005). But in particular communities, release of
final (t) may be associated with being an intelligent, ‘bookish’ female
(Bucholtz 1998) or with fussiness and preciseness among some gay men
(Podesva et al. 2002). Clearly issues of stereotyping and inferencing are
relevant here (for example, ‘British’ may imply ‘intelligent’, and ‘intel-
ligent’ may imply ‘geek’; or ‘British’ may imply ‘precise’, and ‘precise’
imply ‘fussy’), but these are not generalisations we can apply to every
community. These patterns of variation – and the meanings associated
with the variation – are connected, but may be highly localised, and
suggest a very fine-grained correlation between patterns of variation
and social meaning.
Third wave sociolinguistic studies show that the study of variation
in English has developed quite substantially since the days of the Survey
of English Dialects. But the final section of this chapter looks at some of
the ways in which regional and social variation may be synthesised in a
rather different way.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 55
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 55 22/2/10 16:21:21
22/2/10 16:21:21
56 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
4.8 Synthesising regional and social variation
An important development in the study of varieties of English is the
bringing together of work on regional and social dialectology by con-
sidering geographical space as a kind of social category. In the sections
above, we looked at the way in which various dimensions of social
categories are constructed and negotiated by speakers, partly through
language. In other words, ethnicity or gender, for example, is not some-
thing you are, but something you do. If this is true of categories like
gender and ethnic group membership, is it also true for your sense of
place: is ‘Cockney’ or ‘New Yorker’ something you are, or something
you do? In other words, your regional group membership is yet another
aspect of your identity which might be reflected – and constructed – by
various linguistic practices.
In Middlesbrough, in the north-east of England, research has been
carried out to look at how speakers orient themselves with respect to
competing claims on local identity. Recent research in the area explored
the way in which different groups of speakers negotiated their identity
in part by the linguistic forms they used, and considered how the use of
particular forms correlated with overt comments on regional identity
which the informants expressed. Llamas (2007) studied the distribution
of glottalised variants of the voiceless stop variables (p), (t) and (k), and
found that phonetic patterns associated with the largest conurbation in
the area (Newcastle, some 40 miles to the north) were typically being
used by younger females, distinguishing them not only from older
speakers, but also from more southerly pronunciations in Yorkshire.
(Middlesbrough was officially part of a Yorkshire local government area
until 1968.) Llamas also found that younger speakers were more likely to
identify themselves as north-easterners, as opposed to the older speak-
ers, who saw themselves more as coming from Yorkshire. However, the
young people also did not see themselves as ‘Geordies’ (the name given
to people who come from Newcastle): they saw themselves as distinct.
Llamas has argued that her research on Middlesbrough English has sug-
gested that place is not an objective given; rather that the “psychological
reality of place is not fixed . . . but is socially constructed and can shift”
(Llamas 2007: 582).
This research supports the claims made by Britain (2002) that research
into linguistic variation need consider space in a number of ways:
• Euclidean space (which is objective and asocial);
• social space (how humans use geographical areas for particular commu-
nal activities, including the political organisation of geographic areas);
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 56
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 56 22/2/10 16:21:21
22/2/10 16:21:21
REGIONAL AND SOCIAL VARIATION 57
• perceived space (how, in the practice of particular activities, beliefs
about space evolve and can be shared across communities).
Taken together, these constitute spatiality (Britain 2002: 604), and it is
this coming together of Euclidean, social and perceived space that can
give rise to the kind of dialect isoglosses we identified earlier. We will
return to this notion of spatiality when we consider patterns of dialect
contact in Chapter 8.
4.9 Summary
Contemporary studies of varieties of English are now typically both
regional and social. Partly this is to do with the various social factors
that are shaping new regional dialects; but as we shall see in Chapter
6, when we look at English historical sociolinguistics, we will see that
English accents and dialects have always had regional and social bases.
What we see in many new regional varieties of English is the product
of particular social, political and economic developments in particular
communities; so in studying varieties of English, it is important to ‘think
practically and look locally’ (Eckert and McConnell-Ginet 1992b). For
example, the new regional varieties of English in England are no longer
characterised by the traditional rural or the traditional working-class
urban varieties; however, not all vestiges of local forms have disap-
peared, so in accent at least, we cannot talk of a national standard. What
we witness is the creation of new, non-local, non-standard forms, which
is a matter of language change, the topic of the next chapter.
Exercises
1. This exercise is about regional variation, and particularly, about
dialect words. How many different words do you use to refer to the
following concepts? Example: for the concept ‘mother’, I use the words
mother (rarely) and mam (frequently).
(a) ‘carbonated beverage’
(b) ‘female sibling’
(c) ‘bad tempered’
(d) ‘the smallest finger on your hand’
(e) ‘the nicest room in the house, where you would normally host
visitors’
2. This exercise is about social variation, and particularly about accent.
Think of an accent feature which you consider to be a clear stereotype,
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 57
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 57 22/2/10 16:21:21
22/2/10 16:21:21
58 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
either of your own local accent, or of another accent of English which
you are familiar with. With what kind of speaker would you associate
that pronunciation? Would you expect to find it in all speech styles?
How would you design an experiment to work out whether this stere-
otype is still a feature of the accent, or whether it is just an archaism
which is no longer actively used?
Further reading
Some excellent electronic resources for regional variation in English
are now available, such as Labov et al. (2005) and the Kortmann et al.
(2004) handbook. Regional variation in English is covered by a number
of texts, including Wells (1982), Foulkes and Docherty (1999), Beal
(2006) and Britain (2007). Many books on sociolinguistics have a lot of
data on English (see the list of references in the introduction), as does
Chambers et al. (2002). More general work on regional and social dia-
lectology is discussed in Chambers and Trudgill (1998). For work on
stylistic variation, see Schilling-Estes (2002) and Coupland (2007).
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 58
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 58 22/2/10 16:21:22
22/2/10 16:21:22
59
5 Change in English
5.1 Overview
In Chapter 4 we saw how sociolinguistic research has proven that lin-
guistic variation is not random, but structured, and that such research
provides a methodology for the systematic study of the linguistic behav-
iour of individuals in networks and communities of various kinds. In
other words, sociolinguistics can help us understand some of the ways in
which varieties of English (whether those varieties are associated with
individuals or with groups of individuals) display the patterns that they
do. In this chapter, we consider the relationship between this patterned
variation and processes of linguistic change in English. In particular,
we will consider whether sociolinguistics can tell us anything about
changes which are ongoing.
5.2 What is linguistic change?
We saw in previous chapters that many researchers see English as
varying in two ways – regionally (or diatopically) and socially, that is, in
terms of the social characteristics and practices of individuals and com-
munities who speak English. But English has also varied in another way.
Consider examples (1) to (3) below, which are all recipes taken from
different periods of English: Middle English, early Modern English
and present-day English. The first two examples come from the British
Library’s website Books for Cooks (http://www.bl.uk/learning/langlit/
booksforcooks/booksforcooks.html).
(1) Take Capouns and seeþ hem, þenne take hem up. take Almandes
blaunched. grynd hem and alay hem up with the same broth. cast the
mylk in a pot. waisshe rys and do þerto and lat it seeþ.
(Blanc Mang, from The Forme of Cury, c.1390)
(2) Take a pint and somewhat more of thick Cream, ten Eggs, put the
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 59
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 59 22/2/10 16:21:22
22/2/10 16:21:22
60 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
whites of three, beat them very well with two spoonfuls of Rose-
water: mingle with your Cream three spoonfuls of fine flower: mingle
it so well, that there be no lumps in it, put it altogether, and season it
according to your Tast.
(Quaking Pudding, from The Queens Closet Opened, 1665)
(3) While the chillies are steaming, gently rip up your mozzarella into 4
or 5 pieces and randomly place on a large plate. Peel and deseed the
chillies and slice lengthways as thinly as you like. It’s quite important
to scatter them evenly over the mozzarella and very important to
wash your hands after doing so before you rub your eyes or anything
else! Now rip up some purple and green basil over the top, and sprin-
kle with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper. Add a little squeeze
of lemon juice and a generous lug of olive oil. Nice one.
(Mozzarella and grilled chilli salad, from Oliver 2000: 56)
Diachronic variation is variation over time: English in the twenty-first
century has a different shape from that in the fourteenth century. But
there is also some continuity – we can see similarities in these texts
from the same genre despite the fact that they were written in different
periods. Here are some of the ways in which the Englishes in (1) to (3)
are similar to and different from each other:
Similarities:
• Since the texts are all from the same genre, we might expect to see
some general similarities in the kind of language used. For instance,
notice that many of the clauses in the texts have the form of impera-
tives (for example, Peel and deseed the chillies), since the function of the
text is to direct the reader in a certain course of action (namely pre-
paring food).
• In the second and third text, there is a distinctive use of the second
person possessive pronoun (your) in mingle with your Cream (text 2) and
gently rip up your mozzarella (text 3). In instructional discourse, this seems
to be a variant to mark general definiteness rather than specific posses-
sion, in that it seems to have the same meaning as the (rather than, say,
contrasting with other possessive determiners like his or my).
Differences:
• Orthographic change: the letter shape <þ> (known as ‘thorn’, from
the runic alphabet) is no longer used in English, having been replaced
by the digraph <th>. So <seeþ> in text 1 is a Middle English spelling
of seethe.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 60
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 60 22/2/10 16:21:22
22/2/10 16:21:22
CHANGE IN ENGLISH 61
• Morphological change: the third person plural object pronoun hem has
been replaced by them. These th-pronoun forms are the result of long-
term contact in northern England between English and Old Norse in
the Middle English period (see Chapter 6).
• Semantic/syntactic change: the verb seethe in Middle English could
be used transitively (since it can take a direct object): seeþ hem, literally
‘seethe them’. But in Modern English, the meaning of the word has
changed (from ‘boil’ to ‘be angry’), and this has had consequences for
its syntactic behaviour – it is now only used intransitively, and usually
collocates with the prepositional phrase with rage.
• Lexical change: new words have entered the language (chilli,
mozzarella).
• Stylistic or textual change: the first text consists solely of imperative
clauses, functioning as directives, and the impression created for a
modern reader is of an impersonal, purely instructive text. The final
text, however, has a mixture of clause types: for instance, it includes
a declarative clause, beginning It’s quite important. The function of
the clause is still a directive (the author is still instructing readers to
scatter the chillies in a particular way, and to wash their hands), but its
grammatical form is different. Along with the phrase Nice one, which
acts as a solidarity and politeness marker, this variation creates a text
which is equally instructive, but seems to reduce the social distance
between the author and the reader.
Even from such brief examples as these, we can see that English has
changed in many ways: its writing system, its spelling (and associated
pronunciations), its grammar and its lexical stock. But in order for us to
provide a systematic examination of such changes, we need recourse to
more systematically collected data. Our next question must therefore
be this: how did such changes come about? Sociolinguists have provided
a great deal of evidence to suggest that linguistic change – change in
the structure of a particular variety – materialises when the linguis-
tic system is employed by speakers for communicative purposes, in
a particular social context. Systemic changes in English emerge from
language use and social practices.
5.3 An example of variation in the past
The texts in (4) below are examples of early Modern English. Examples
(4a) and (4b) are from Shakespeare’s King Lear, written at the start of
the seventeenth century, and (4c) and (4d) are from mid-seventeenth-
century court records and depositions.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 61
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 61 22/2/10 16:21:22
22/2/10 16:21:22
62 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
(4a) He hath been out nine years, and away he shall again. The king is
coming. (Shakespeare, King Lear I, i, 31–2)
(4b) What says our second daughter
Our dearest Regan, wife of Cornwall?
(Shakespeare, King Lear, I, i, 6–7)
(4c) The informant saith, that two Monthes since or thereabouts going
along ffishers streete in the towne of Barking vpon his occasions (from
an account given to Essex Justices of the Peace, 28 June 1645, in
Cusack 1998: 33)
(4d) And further saith that he hath heard Goody Penny (who lives
neere the said Ward) say about that tyme that (from the deposition
of Stephen Badcocke taken in Essex in 1645, in Cusack 1998: 146).
Notice the variation in the inflectional suffix which marks present
tense on verbs whose subjects are third person singular (such words are
emboldened in the examples in (4) above): sometimes it is spelt with
-th, sometimes with -s. By the time we get to contemporary English,
something has changed: one morphological form (the -s form) has
ousted another (the -th form). In the early modern period, both variants
were well attested; now, only the -s form has survived. This illustrates a
critical issue for the sociolinguistic study of language change: all change
must have its origin in variation.
What kinds of questions can we ask about the progression of a lin-
guistic change? In a landmark paper on the topic, Weinreich et al. (1968)
identified the following problems:
• Constraints: what constraints exist on possible changes (including
those specifically in a given language at a given time)?
• Actuation: why does a change begin in a language at time t1, and not
at time t2? Why does the change begin in variety v1 but not in variety
v2?
• Transition: how does a change develop, from stage s1 to stage s2, or
from form f1 to form f2?
• Embedding: how is the change embedded in both the linguistic
system and the community in which the language is spoken?
• Evaluation: how do speakers in the community evaluate the change?
Are they aware of the change? Has f1 or f2 become stigmatised?
These questions can be applied directly to an example of a sound
change in some varieties of British English, the loss of /r/ in words like
far and farm:
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 62
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 62 22/2/10 16:21:22
22/2/10 16:21:22
CHANGE IN ENGLISH 63
• Constraints: the loss of /r/ in particular places in a word helps us to
understand what is a possible (and what is an impossible) phonologi-
cal change.
• Actuation: why is the systematic loss of /r/ first recorded in the eight-
eenth century, but not in the twelfth or sixteenth century? Why is
/r/-loss common in most varieties of British English but not in (say)
most varieties of North American English?
• Transition: does the /r/ just disappear from one generation to the
next, or is there some intermediate development?
• Embedding: where and among which social groups is /r/-loss
first recorded? What is its current distribution in the community
under investigation? What is the influence of the phonological
environment?
• Evaluation: what kind of a sociolinguistic variable is (r) in a particular
community? Is /r/-loss stigmatised?
While all change must have its origin in variation, not all variation
implies change. Sociolinguistic studies of English (and other languages)
have shown that certain variables may correlate with social and/or
stylistic categories for speakers and/or types of discourse, but there is
no evidence of a linguistic change taking place: in other words, there is
simply stable sociolinguistic variation. We can make a further distinction
between innovation (in an idiolect) and change (which involves spread),
on which see further Milroy (1992), and note that while an innovation
will certainly mean an increase (however trivial) in variation, it will not
necessarily lead to a change. How then are we to distinguish between
stable sociolinguistic variation and ongoing language change?
5.4 The linguistic behaviour of older and younger speakers in a
community
One piece of evidence which we can use to figure out whether a particu-
lar linguistic change is in progress among a group of speakers is to look
at differences between older and younger members of that group. In
other words, age is the critical speaker variable in situations of language
change. Figure 5.1 shows age-related differences in the use of a phono-
logical variable in Canadian English, (hw), with variants (hw): [w] and
(hw):[ʍ], the latter of which is the conservative variant.
Looking at the distribution of variants for the oldest speakers in the
sample, we can see that while both (hw):[w] and (hw):[ʍ] are used
by members of this particular subgroup, (hw):[ʍ] is the preferred
variant for older speakers; by contrast, when we look at the youngest
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 63
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 63 22/2/10 16:21:22
22/2/10 16:21:22
64 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
speakers, (hw):[w] is preferred. This therefore appears to be an example
of change: the variant favoured by the older speakers is being displaced
by a variant favoured by younger speakers. In other words, typically
only older speakers in this part of Canada will make a distinction
between which and witch, or whales and Wales – when younger Canadians
talk, which and witch typically sound identical.
But how do we really know this is an example of change? Could it not
be the case that the oldest group of speakers are using (hw):[ʍ] more
frequently now, but used (hw):[w] more frequently when they were in
their twenties? We can answer this question by considering two things:
the apparent-time hypothesis and real-time data.
The apparent-time hypothesis is as follows. Assuming that other
factors (social and stylistic variables, for instance) are kept constant,
differences in the use of particular variants by different age groups
are a reflection of diachronic linguistic changes within that commu-
nity: “people of different ages preserve the speech patterns of their
formative years. Speech differences between people of different ages
Figure 5.1 Percentage of (hw):[w] in central Canada by age (Chambers
2002: 360).
%
[w]
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 64
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 64 22/2/10 16:21:22
22/2/10 16:21:22
CHANGE IN ENGLISH 65
therefore reflect differences in the way people spoke in those years”
(Chambers 2002: 358). The hypothesis makes the claim that the speech
of a 40-year-old today is the same as that of a 20-year-old twenty years
ago; so if we compare the language of a group of speakers aged 40 and
a group of speakers aged 20, any differences which appear may be evi-
dence of a linguistic change in progress.
Researchers can supplement these data – and thereby provide evi-
dence to support the apparent-time hypothesis – by making use of
whatever real-time data are available to them. Real-time data come in
a number of forms. One source of data is a previous record of linguistic
variation in the community under observation, like the Dictionary of
American Regional English (Cassidy and Hall 1985–2002) or the Origins of
New Zealand English (ONZE) corpus (see Gordon et al. 2004). This is
not without problems. First, there is the issue of the speaker sample. As
we saw in Chapter 4, the methods of the traditional dialectologists and
those of variationist sociolinguists can be radically different, so that the
kind of speaker used in each survey – and therefore the kind of speech
recorded – may not be consistent, and the researchers using both data
sets to compare apparent-time and real-time data may not be compar-
ing like with like. Second, the way the data were recorded is variable:
earlier dialectological surveys did not necessarily use tape-recorders (so
there is no means of verifying the transcription), and the transcription
methods used by earlier dialectologists may not be the same as those
used by sociolinguists. However, some earlier tape recordings may be
available, which may facilitate more detailed transcriptions.
In order to avoid such problems, researchers have devised other
methods of accessing real-time data. One example of this is a survey
carried out by Mees and Collins (1999), who were investigating vari-
ation in Cardiff English. Rather than using pre-existing data collected
by an earlier group of researchers, Mees and Collins attempted to
interview the same group of speakers at different times (in 1976, when
the informants were aged between 9 and 11, in 1981 and in 1990). Their
survey provided some real-time evidence to suggest that the incidence
of T-Glottaling (the replacement of [t] with [ʔ], typically in intervocalic
or final position) was on the increase in Cardiff English in the latter part
of the twentieth century; the survey also suggested that the change was
being led by young middle-class females. Surveys such as this provide
excellent real-time evidence of changes, but are not without their own
problems: for instance, no results can be published for a considerable
period of time, since it is necessary to collect data over a long time span,
and not all of the informants will necessarily be willing or able to be
recorded at successive intervals, as Mees and Collins discovered: of the
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 65
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 65 22/2/10 16:21:22
22/2/10 16:21:22
66 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
eighty informants they used in 1976, seventy-five were re-recorded in
1981, and that figure fell to fifty-four in 1990. This kind of panel study
(where the same speakers are re-interviewed at different points in time)
contrasts with a trend study (where different but comparable speakers
from the community are interviewed).
A further issue relating to language and age is that of age-grading,
whereby speakers may change their linguistic behaviour during their
lifetime. There is some evidence that speakers, particularly those who
are regularly exposed to standard varieties in their daily lives, may use
a higher proportion of standard variants in their ‘middle years’, but use
a higher proportion of vernacular variants in their youth, and in old age.
Age-grading, therefore, is an idiolectal change across a lifespan, but not
a linguistic change across generations.
Finally, it is the case that not all types of linguistic variable change in
the same way. For instance, with a lexical variable, you have a discrete
choice between one variant and another (for example, couch or chesterfield
or sofa, etc.), but with phonetic variants, the choices may be more gradi-
ent. For example, if a sound change is ongoing whereby a low vowel
like [ɑ] is being fronted to [a], it may be that the sound is changing
via incrementation (Labov 2007); if it is gradually moving from back
to front along a phonetic cline, rather than a ‘leap’ directly to [a] from
[ɑ], a child acquiring a language may observe that other speakers have
a more ‘fronted’ vowel, and so develop the change further by fronting
the vowel even more frequently. A sound change which develops in a
gradual way phonetically, but which simultaneously affects all the words
that have the sound undergoing change, is known as a Neogrammarian
change (named after a group of linguists in nineteenth-century Europe,
the Neogrammarians, who pioneered the study of sound change) – such
changes are phonetically gradual, but lexically abrupt; a sound change
which involves a discrete phonetic change, but which affects some
words in the set before others, is known as a lexically diffusing change –
such changes are phonetically abrupt, but lexically gradual.
5.5 Other social factors in change
Given the fact that change involves variation over time, it is clear that
any analysis of linguistic change will need to take age as the primary
non-linguistic correlate. None the less, there are other patterns which
can be observed in sociolinguistic variation that serve as indicators of
linguistic change in progress. We will make use of the first, second and
third wave distinction introduced in Chapter 4 to structure this part of
the discussion.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 66
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 66 22/2/10 16:21:22
22/2/10 16:21:22
CHANGE IN ENGLISH 67
First wave sociolinguistic investigations into change (for example,
Labov 1966) identified two different kinds of linguistic change,
change from above and change from below (see also Labov 1994).
‘Above’ and ‘below’ refer simultaneously to two different but related
levels: a level of group social status, and a level of individual con-
sciousness. Changes from above are typically introduced into a speech
community through dialect contact (see Chapter 8), and appear first
in the careful, formal speech of a high-status social class (though not
always the highest social class). Often such changes have subsequent
effects elsewhere in the linguistic system (for example, the reintro-
duction of /r/ in words like far and farm in New York, discussed by
Labov (1966), promoted some further changes in the vowel sounds
which precede the /r/ in such words). Changes from below represent
more general changes which are not (at least initially) driven by social
forces, because they may appear first in the casual speech of any
social class. Often these changes may correlate with patterns of local
identity.
In the earliest sociolinguistic studies, particularly those which
involved class stratification, one regularly occurring pattern which
was shown to be indicative of a particular kind of linguistic change
was hypercorrection. Hypercorrection concerns the interplay of social
and stylistic variation, and is typically used to describe the linguistic
behaviour of middle-status groups in more formal speech styles. Such
speakers have been observed to use a higher proportion of standard
variants in such styles than speakers in the social class above them did.
This shows up in graphic form as a crossover pattern in more formal
speech styles, and this irregular pattern of class and style stratification
is taken as a sign of linguistic change in progress. Reasons which have
been suggested for this hypercorrect behaviour of the middle-status
groups include the social insecurity and higher social aspirations associ-
ated with those speakers.
First wave studies are also concerned with the role of factors like
speaker sex and ethnic group membership in the propagation of changes.
In terms of sex and gender, for instance, Labov (1990) attempted to
summarise the linguistic behaviour of men and women in relation to
language variation and change in terms of a set of principles:
• Principle I: In cases of stable sociolinguistic variation, women use
standard variants more frequently than men do (assuming that other
variables such as style remain constant).
• Principle Ia: In cases of change from above, women use the incoming
prestige variant more frequently than men do.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 67
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 67 22/2/10 16:21:22
22/2/10 16:21:22
68 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
• Principle II: In cases of change from below, women are usually the
innovators (though there are some significant exceptions to this,
where men have been in the vanguard of change).
As a result, then, we may wish to consider more generally how changes
spread through a community. Labov (1994: 300–1) points out how a
number of factors may be involved, basing his claims on a series of
studies of vowel shifts in contemporary American English. Leaders in
linguistic change tend to be younger women at the mid-point of the
class hierarchy (that is, in the upper-working class, typically), who are
held in high esteem at a local level (perhaps because of the job they do,
or the ethnic group to which they belong). Notice that when a variant is
new in a community, it may not carry significant social meaning, which
may go some way to explain the apparent contradiction in the princi-
ples listed above. Some women may abandon innovations only when
they become loaded with social meaning (for example, by becoming a
feature of a low-status group with which the speakers do not wish to be
associated). The linguistic change establishes itself as a group marker,
and as it generalises, it becomes recognised as such by those not part of
the group. It is at this point that the change comes to have a particular
‘value’ associated with it (by virtue of being a group marker); as the
change develops, that value may be renegotiated by those in adjacent
social groups. The variation may become more salient as more and
more speakers subconsciously evaluate the variants, with the old variant
associated with one set of values, and the new variant associated with
a different set. If the change continues to be subconsciously evaluated,
the variable may acquire stylistic properties, and become a marker.
(Variables that are not subject to stylistic variation, only to social varia-
tion, are known as indicators.) If the change is subject to overt comment
(and possible criticism), the change may become more limited, and
the variable develops as a stereotype. (See Labov 1994: 78 for more on
markers, indicators and stereotypes.)
Changes go to completion when the older variants become associ-
ated solely with older speakers, and disappear, or become part of fixed
phrases (for example, in the case of the variation described in (4), the -th
variant is no longer productive, and only appears in idioms and prov-
erbs of the kind Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned).
So far, we have discussed some processes involved in change; but we
can discover much about change when we also consider why certain
linguistic features are resistant to change. Second wave studies have
revealed some interesting patterns regarding resistance to linguistic
change. We have seen in Chapter 3 that standard varieties of English,
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 68
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 68 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
CHANGE IN ENGLISH 69
problematic though they are to define formally, are associated with a par-
ticular kind of prestige. They are used in domains that are often seen as
socially, economically, or politically powerful – in schools, as a medium
of government, in print media, and so on. While this is especially true
of the written standard, it is also true of the spoken standard. Given
that this is the case, it is perhaps surprising to see non-standard varie-
ties of English thriving. This is true not only of non-standard varieties
of inner-circle Englishes, using the categorisation proposed by Kachru
(1985), such as American English and British English, but also of outer-
circle and expanding-circle Englishes such as Singaporean English.
Why and how are such varieties continuing to thrive in the face of the
pressures and attractions of the standard variety?
Again, we need to return to the speakers, their practices and the social
networks within which speakers operate. We saw in Chapters 2 and 4 that
sociolinguists like James and Lesley Milroy (Milroy 1992; Milroy 2002)
have used the concept of a social network in order to explain linguistic
variation within what appears to be a socially homogeneous group, and
that such networks vary in terms of their density and plexity (recall the
discussion of dense and multiplex networks in Section 2.3 above). Strong
networks (often found in working-class and upper-class communities)
were those which were relatively dense and multiplex; weak networks
(typically found in middle-class communities) were those which were
relatively sparse and uniplex. Critically, members of strong networks
are less socially and geographically mobile than members of weaker
networks. Those in strong networks are more likely to engage in local,
neighbourhood-based activities (in terms of employment and socialisa-
tion) than those in weak networks; members of a strong, territorially based
network interact with each other on a regular basis, and can foster a strong
sense of local solidarity. This means that strong networks are resistant to
change (both social change and linguistic change), and that speakers who
are members of that network are likely to resist the adoption of standard
variants. Strong networks are effective local norm-enforcement mecha-
nisms, and deviation from the local norms carries a social risk – therefore,
members of such networks who use ‘outgroup’ standard variants (despite
the supra-local power which standard speech might symbolise) are in
danger of signalling their own ‘outgroup’ status through speech.
By contrast, those at the periphery of such networks – speakers who
form weak links which function as bridges between strong networks, or
who contract only weak networks themselves, or both – are not subject
to the same degree of local norm enforcement. This can have a number
of repercussions. First, the social and geographical mobility of such
speakers means they are more likely to come into contact with a wider
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 69
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 69 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
70 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
range of linguistic varieties. We will explore the consequences of such
extensive contact in more detail in Chapters 7 and 8; the critical issue
here is that members of weaker networks are more susceptible to the
influence of standardising and supra-local varieties because they are
more regularly exposed to such varieties, and perhaps identify more
with the symbolic values associated with the standard language. Second,
the fact that such speakers can function as weak links between strong
networks means that the symbolic link of any innovation can itself be
weakened by association with these intermediaries. In other words, we
can see an overlap between the second and third wave studies in the
intersection of social networks and communities of practice in instances
of linguistic change.
This can be illustrated by a study of the linguistic behaviour of
adolescents in a Detroit suburb (Eckert 1988, 1989, 2000). As a result
of long-term participant observation, Eckert was able to identify three
main groups of students in high schools in suburban Detroit. Two of
these groups – the Jocks and the Burnouts – formed networks which
were largely dense and multiplex, although each network was organised
differently. The Jock network – comprised of students who were centred
on school activities, and who supported the general ethos of the school
– was hierarchical; the Burnout network – comprised of students whose
interests led them to develop greater links with urban Detroit, and who
rejected the school ethos – was largely egalitarian. But in both cases, the
groups were tightly knit. The third group of students, however, were
more loosely connected with both groups. These ‘In-betweens’ engaged
in some school-based practices associated with the Jocks, and also with
some of the urban-based practices associated with the Burnouts.
Eckert not only observed the social practices of these groups (for
instance, how they dressed, and how they spent their leisure time), but
also analysed their linguistic behaviour, particularly in terms of the
groups’ participation in a series of related sound changes known as the
Northern Cities Shift (NCS; see Labov 1994; Gordon 2002). The NCS
is associated with a number of urban centres (for instance Chicago,
Detroit and Buffalo) in the northern part of the United States, and is an
example of a particular kind of phonological change, known as a vowel
rotation, a series of changes to the pronunciation of a set of vowels. For
instance, the lowering of /ɪ/ to /ɛ/ means that innovative pronunciations
of bid sound like conservative pronunciations of bed; the backing of /ɛ/
to /ʌ/ means that innovative pronunciations of bed sound like conserva-
tive pronunciations of bud; and so on. While Eckert’s study investigates
most of these sound changes, we will focus on just one, variation in
the bud vowel, usually designated (uh). In fact, the linguistic process
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 70
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 70 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
CHANGE IN ENGLISH 71
involved is rather complex: /ʌ/ undergoes not just backing but lower-
ing, and in some lexical items even raising and rounding (see Gordon
2002). So we have (uh): [ʌ] ~ [ɔ] ~ [ʊ] ~ [ɑ], with the first of these being
the conservative variant, and the remainder innovations, the last of
which is rarer than any of the others. Figure 5.21
illustrates the correla-
tion between the index score for (uh) and group membership.
We can observe the following from this figure:
• All groups show variation in (uh), ranging from more conservative to
more innovative.
Burnouts
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
In-betweens Jocks
girls
boys
(uh)
index
Figure 5.2 Variation in (uh) among Detroit adolescent groups (Eckert 1988:
200).
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 71
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 71 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
72 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
• Despite this significant individual variation within the groups, it is
clear that the Burnouts are more innovative than the Jocks. The In-
betweens are (perhaps unsurprisingly) in between.
• Cross-cutting this group-based variation is sex-based variation: as
discussed above, the female students were generally more innovative
than the males.
How are we to interpret these data? First, we need to explain
why the Burnouts are leading the change. There has been a range of
sociolinguistic studies which have suggested that changes originate in
urban centres and spread outwards (see for example Kerswill 2003),
so we would expect the group with the greatest contact with urban
speakers to be more likely to be in the vanguard of change; given
the Burnouts’ observed socialisation with inner-city speakers, we can
therefore account for the Burnouts leading the change in this suburban
adolescent community. Second, we need to explain the Jocks’ linguistic
behaviour: given that the Jocks are the polar opposites of the Burnouts
in terms of their social practices, why should the Jocks be adopting a
variant which appears to have a symbolic ‘Burnout’ value? The answer
to this question lies with the In-betweens, who renegotiate the value of
the innovation, diluting its symbolic ‘Burnout-ness’, and making it more
acceptable as a variant for the Jocks to adopt. The In-betweens function
as weak links between two strong networks – they help to transmit the
change from one adolescent community to another.
5.6 Beyond the urban west
Most variationist studies of ongoing change in varieties of English have
concentrated on urban communities in the industrialised west. The
remainder of this chapter considers changes in English accents and
dialects spoken by people living in quite different communities: a rural
community in Scotland, and a community living on an island in the
Atlantic Ocean.
Huntly is a community in north-eastern Scotland, and research in that
area (Marshall 2005) has suggested that many linguistic changes in non-
urban centres are exocentric, or brought about by contact, rather than
endocentric (or internally motivated) changes, which are characteristic of
cities. This has a number of consequences for the kind of variants that are
adopted by those driving the change in rural communities. For instance,
since rural communities are typically said to be more non-standard than
urban centres, rural adolescents who innovate may adopt more standard
variants than those used by their elders in the rural community.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 72
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 72 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
CHANGE IN ENGLISH 73
Marshall’s study showed that the typical pattern among young people
in Huntly was a reduction in the use of the local variants. Thus traditional
forms such as [hem] and [meːr] for home and more were increasingly dis-
favoured by successive generations, in a uniform way. However, with
T-Glottaling – (t):[ʔ] in words like butter and cut, an innovative variant
in the Huntly community – the youngest males and females in the
sample, aged between 8 and 12, were showing a higher incidence of the
local form (t):[t] than the older adolescents were. So two main questions
emerged: why did the youngest children (and particularly the youngest
girls) have such a low incidence of T-Glottaling? And why did the older
adolescents have a relatively high incidence of T-Glottaling?
The answer to the first question lies in an understanding of speaker
styles, and the methodology used to collect the data in Huntly. Marshall’s
study elicited relatively careful speech, and therefore it is possible that
even the youngest children were aware that T-Glottaling was somehow
‘inappropriate’ in more formal, careful talk. But such self-monitoring
does not provide an answer to the second question, since with the older
adolescents, we have a high incidence of glottal replacement, despite
the fact that the elicitation method was consistent across the study. One
possible answer to this question relates to the way in which speakers use
variants to project and create identities, as discussed in Section 5.5, and
in Chapter 4: these data provide some answers to Eckert’s question ‘How
do variables mean?’ One of the ways in which the T-Glottaling variable
may mean to these older adolescents is that it allows the opportunity of
selecting a non-standard, yet non-local, form, introducing a new variant
into the local community which conforms neither to local norms, nor
to ‘proper’ speech. Given that the (t) variable in Huntly did not stratify
either by social class or by sex (at least for the three oldest age groups),
only by age, the notion that such a form may serve as a specific identity
marker in the community is an interesting one.
We move now from north-eastern Scotland to what is said to be the
most remote group of islands on earth, Tristan da Cunha in the south
Atlantic ocean, to look at some research which has explored sociolin-
guistic variation and change in a geographically isolated and socially
homogeneous community on an island with fewer than 300 inhabitants
(Schreier 2002, 2003). While Schreier’s work has covered variation in
both accent and dialect, we will focus on one particular grammatical
variable, discussed in detail in Schreier (2002). This variable is known as
completive done, and is exemplified by examples like those in (5):
(5a) They used to get much more . . . two years ago the pensioners done
got a free gas bottle. (Schreier 2002: 156)
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 73
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 73 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
74 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
(5b) That’s one of the hottest summers we’s ever done had. (Schreier 2002:
156)
The use of done as a completive aspect marker (that is, to indicate that
the process denoted by the verb has already happened) is not unique
to Tristan da Cunha; it is found in other varieties including African
American English (Green 2002) and Jamaican Creole (Rickford 1977),
as well as some earlier varieties of English, giving rise to the question
of whether the form was a feature of the language of the original set-
tlers who brought English to different places around the world, whether
there was independent parallel development in these new varieties, or
whether an older form was supported and renewed by a similar feature
in other languages which were part of the contact. Schreier’s research
on Tristan da Cunha provides interesting details regarding language
change in a community which was settled only from the beginning of
the nineteenth century, and which was largely isolated following the
development of new trade routes after the Panama canal was opened
in 1869. This isolation changed after a military outpost was set up in
1942, and after the entire population had to be evacuated to England
during the 1960s, following volcanic disturbances on the island. The
linguistic variety which has emerged is in fact a product of contact
(of American and British varieties, and of other languages including
Dutch and Danish, as well as influence from a group of female settlers
from St Helena), despite the island’s isolation. With regard to comple-
tive done, Schreier (2002) found that the aspect marking in Tristan
da Cunha English was formally distinct from all the possible input
varieties, though there seems to be some overlap in terms of semantic
function. Particularly, the research shows how complex the linguistic
situation is in communities where (historically) there is a great deal of
language and dialect contact: although completive done was a feature of
earlier English, we cannot simply explain the development in Tristan
da Cunha as retention of an archaic form – contact with other varieties
has clearly influenced its development. We will take up the issues of
historical sociolinguistics and contact linguistics in the following three
chapters.
5.7 Summary
Quantitative sociolinguistics can tell us a great deal about the mecha-
nisms and motivations of relevance to linguistic change. In addition
to the findings of large-scale urban dialectology, which has revealed a
great deal about the processes of language change, other studies – which
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 74
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 74 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
CHANGE IN ENGLISH 75
involve detailed ethnographic work in urban communities, and/or
analysis of linguistic variation in non-urban areas – enrich our under-
standing of how varieties of English have evolved.
Exercise
The exercise for this chapter requires you to think about designing the
first part of a study to investigate a particular language change which is
said to be ongoing in Californian English, namely the lowering of lax
front vowels (so bit sounds more like bet, and bet sounds more like bat).
How would you design an experiment to test the hypothesis that front
lax vowels are lowering in Californian English? Here are some things to
think about:
a. What is meant by California English? (Is this change happening
in Los Angeles and San Francisco, for example, or only in San
Diego?)
b. How will you go about selecting participants in your study?
c. Will you record your participants?
d. How long will you spend collecting the data?
e. Will you make use of earlier research on this dialect area? Why
(not)?
Further reading
Labov (1994, 2001) provides a detailed account of principles of lin-
guistic change (both the internal mechanisms of sound change, and the
external motivations associated with language use). McMahon (1994)
provides a comprehensive account of language change, including
specific discussion of the sociolinguistics of change, as does Aitchison
(2001). Milroy (1992) is useful for an understanding of the relationship
between network structure and change. Again, the Handbook of Language
Variation and Change listed in the reading of the previous chapter
provides a number of comprehensive summaries of research on the
sociolinguistics of change. Eckert (1990) is an excellent article on the
relationship between gender and linguistic change.
Note
1. Higher index scores represent more innovative pronunciations.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 75
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 75 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
76
6 English historical
sociolinguistics
6.1 Overview
We saw in Chapter 5 that an important contribution made by variation-
ist sociolinguistics is to our understanding of how current linguistic
variation in a community can be an indication of change in progress;
and we saw in Chapter 4 that an important contribution made by tra-
ditional dialectology is to our understanding of how current linguistic
variation can be an indication of the outcome of past changes. In this
chapter we consider how present-day sociolinguistic methodology
can be employed (with some important modifications) to historical
data, to explain variation and change in the history of English. This
discipline is sometimes known as historical sociolinguistics. Section
6.2 deals briefly with methodological issues – how do we interpret
variation in the history of English, and how do we adapt the methods
used by present-day sociolinguistics to understand variation and
change in the past? Sections 6.3 to 6.6 deal with variation in each of
the major periods of English: Old English (from the first Germanic
invasions through to the Norman Conquest in the eleventh century
ce); Middle English (up to the beginning of the sixteenth century
ce); early Modern English (the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries
ce) and late Modern English (from the eighteenth century ce to the
present). One important issue must be borne in mind. While much of
the discussion for the earlier history of English focuses unavoidably
on the story of English in England, it is important to bear in mind that
‘English’ (however we define it) has always been a mongrel language,
the result of a series of encounters with other linguistic varieties,
which we will explore in more detail in Chapter 7. The myth of pure
English is exactly that – a myth – and we discover this primarily by
examining the social context in which speakers of varieties of English
operated in the past.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 76
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 76 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
ENGLISH HISTORICAL SOCIOLINGUISTICS 77
6.2 Methodology
As we saw in Chapters 4 and 5, researchers interested in contemporary
linguistic variation have paid a great deal of attention to the methods
they use in collecting their data – which informants are selected, the dis-
course context in which the informants are recorded, how the recorded
material is transcribed, are all issues that sociolinguists and dialectolo-
gists need to bear in mind. Similar – but not identical – concerns exist
for historical linguists, who also need to concern themselves with an
honest assessment of the appropriate methods of data collection.
One significant issue concerning the nature of the data collected in
historical sociolinguistic studies is that the data are typically written,
not spoken (unless we are looking at variation from the beginning of the
twentieth century onwards), and that in many cases we know much less
than we would like to about the author, the addressee, and the social
context of the production of the text. This means that we only have
access to the (small) proportion of people who in earlier times were
able to write; and only a small proportion of the written record survives.
This stands in sharp contrast to many of today’s sociolinguistic studies,
as we saw in Chapter 4: now, it is possible to discover a great deal about
the individuals whose speech makes up the corpus for analysis, espe-
cially if one adopts a ‘participant observation’ approach to the initial
data collection. When sociolinguists use such ‘bad data’ (see further
Nevalainen and Raumolin-Brunberg 2003), it is therefore necessary to
make adjustments in the methods used, and to recognise that we cannot
adopt wholesale current sociolinguistic methodology when investigat-
ing historical material.
A further problem comes with the analysis of the linguistic data itself.
It is clear that such evidence is useful for our understanding of aspects
of linguistic variation in the earliest Englishes, but it is equally clear that
interpreting and evaluating that evidence require a great deal of recon-
struction on the part of the analyst: the variant spellings of a particular
word may or may not be indications of different pronunciations of that
word, and if they are, we cannot be certain as to what sound that spelling
represents. It is possible to make a fair assessment of this sound–spelling
correspondence, using established methods of historical linguistics, but
it is obviously the case that such material is very different in kind from
the tape recorded or digitally recorded data used in present-day socio-
linguistic surveys. Furthermore, the fact that we are dealing with written
language (not transcriptions of spoken language) must also be addressed,
since conventions of written language (particularly with regard to clause
structure) may be quite different to those of the spoken language.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 77
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 77 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
78 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
None the less, there have been some studies which have attempted to
apply modern sociolinguistic methods to historical data. A critical issue
in historical sociolinguistics (and in historical linguistics in general)
is the uniformitarian principle (see, for example, Labov 1994: 21–5
for discussion of this principle in linguistics and in other fields). This
principle concerns motivations for change: it suggests that the linguistic
forces which promote and check language change now are no different
in kind from those which promoted and checked language change in
the past. So if we witness a particular kind of change in contemporary
English (for example, the vowel rotation known as Northern Cities
Shift in North America, referred to in Chapter 5), then we can suggest
that similar vocalic changes in the history of English follow similar
principles – there is no reason to assume that mechanisms of change in
the history of English were significantly different from mechanisms of
change in contemporary English. In Chapter 5, the actuation, embed-
ding and transmission of ongoing change were discussed. Most work in
sociohistorical linguistics is concerned with the embedding of a change,
and even more with the transmission of the change (that is, through
different social networks, and in different stylistic contexts); again such
approaches are typically found in studies where quantitative analy-
ses are viable, which typically excludes the Old and Middle English
periods. None the less, since there has been some work on Old English
sociolinguistics, broadly defined, the next section explores variation in
the earliest recorded forms of English.
6.3 Variation in Old English
While we have a range of different kinds of evidence for reconstruct-
ing Old English (OE) – runic carvings on stone crosses, such as that at
Ruthwell in Dumfriesshire, glosses of charters granting tracts of land,
such as those produced in the Canterbury scriptorium, and manuscripts
of poems such as Beowulf – we still have comparatively little material
to deal with. Furthermore, such texts have a widespread geographic
provenance, and were composed at different points in the period of
the language we know as Old English. This means that if we compare
two OE ‘texts’ such as the Ruthwell Cross and a late entry in the Anglo-
Saxon Chronicle, we are comparing two very different kinds of English:
an analogy would be comparing a Shakespeare sonnet with a piece of
twenty-first-century graffiti. OE dialectologists often refer to varieties
of OE such as ‘Northumbrian’, ‘Kentish’ and ‘West Saxon’, but even
taking into consideration the problems we have already identified in
establishing what constitutes a dialect of a language in Chapter 1, OE
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 78
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 78 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
ENGLISH HISTORICAL SOCIOLINGUISTICS 79
dialects do not really correspond with geographical areas of the British
Isles. They are more legitimately considered as text languages, varieties
established by a set of shared features across a set of texts (and which are
not shared by other sets of texts). Other evidence has none the less been
adduced to establish dialect areas of OE, including placename evidence
and variation in the spelling of names on coins.
As noted above, another of the major problems for any sociolinguistic
account of the variation which emerges as a result of that reconstruction
is our lack of knowledge about the speakers and writers involved, and
the social context in which the speakers and writers operated. One thing
we do know is that the majority of the texts that survive are the product
of a specific social or cultural group, namely the aristocracy, or a reli-
gious order: see Hogg (2002: 115). In other words, we cannot reconstruct
the language of women from the Old English period, or explore how
ethnic divisions correlate with linguistic differences, in the way we can
with present-day English varieties: we simply don’t have the evidence
to establish the correlations.
One thing we do know about many of the texts that have survived is
that they were often composed in towns that functioned as centres for
the Christian church in England (towns like Durham and Canterbury),
and that of these centres, one reigns supreme as a source for the major-
ity of extant texts: Winchester, in southern England. Texts produced
in this area have come to be known as West Saxon texts, which are
commonly divided into two diachronic periods, one around the time of
King Alfred the Great (early West Saxon) in the latter part of the ninth
century ce, and another around the time of the cleric and grammarian
Ælfric, around the end of the tenth century ce (late West Saxon). What
is particularly interesting about the writing of Ælfric is the fact that it
displays little internal variation, and writing of a very similar kind can
be found beyond the West Saxon area in the later Old English period.
This lack of variation has led to the claim that the writing of Ælfric rep-
resented a kind of focused language (Hogg 2002: 126), alongside another
focused variety, evident in texts from an area around the English West
Midlands, which Hogg describes as ‘Lichfield Mercian’. These varieties
were certainly not as widespread or as codified as the Standard English
of today, as we saw in Chapter 1; nor do we have evidence that they
were reinforced by educational practice (for the few people who were
formally educated at all) or other kinds of planning. Furthermore, the
origins of the present-day (British) standard language are to be found
not in the Winchester or Lichfield areas, but in the East Midlands
and East Anglia; as Hogg (2002: 8) notes, there is very little evidence
indeed from the Old English period to help us to trace the origins of
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 79
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 79 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
80 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
our present-day standard variety. Yet the patterns which emerge in
the history of the Old English dialects are of considerable interest to
research on present-day dialect levelling, because we can see similar
patterns in both periods (though the level of detail is much greater for
contemporary English than it is for the earliest varieties).
Some current work on varieties of Old English has sought to bridge
the gap between traditional dialectological methodology and more
recent approaches to linguistic variation in a social context. Despite
the problems we have established so far in this section, there have none
the less been some attempts to correlate the spelling variation in some
OE texts with what we know about the social milieu in which speak-
ers and writers of OE operated: Toon (1983, 1992), for instance, has
suggested that certain spelling changes which occurred in Kentish OE
(associated with texts produced in the south-eastern part of England)
in the ninth century are indicative of a sound change which began first
in the Mercian region (a large area of the midlands of England), then
spread to Kent as a result of the political influence which the Mercians
exerted over the Kentish at the time. This research represents an
interesting attempt to apply Labovian sociolinguistics to some of the
earliest records of English, and would equate broadly with a ‘change
from above’ as discussed in Chapter 5: a socially dominant group acts
as a linguistic ‘model’ for a group of lower social status, who through a
process of long-term accommodation may begin to adopt the linguistic
features of the higher-status group. There are, however, problems with
this account: there is not enough evidence to do detailed variationist
work on the data; some of the historical accounts of the sociopoliti-
cal context in Kent at the time suggest that there may have been little
opportunity for long-term accommodation between the Mercians and
the Kentish; and the sound change which occurred in Kentish may
be the result of contact not with Mercians but with immigrants from
continental Europe in the ninth century. In later Kentish we witness
the spread of West Saxon forms; and we can correlate this with a series
of sociopolitical developments, including the establishment of a more
unified Anglo-Saxon kingdom in opposition to the Danelaw (that is, the
area under the control of the Danes, north-east of the old Roman road
known as Watling Street, from London to Chester) – as the Wessex
kingdom became more influential, so we see in the later extant Kentish
texts a mixture of local and supra-local features, some of which show a
significant majority of supra-local forms, just as our theories of present-
day dialect contact would predict (see Chapter 8).
We can see similar issues relating to language contact in the history
of the Northumbrian dialect (as manifest in texts produced in and
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 80
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 80 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
ENGLISH HISTORICAL SOCIOLINGUISTICS 81
around the city of Durham). For instance, the tenth-century ce gloss
to the Lindisfarne Gospels (a magnificent illuminated manuscript pro-
duced on Lindisfarne, an island off the coast of Northumbria, in the late
seventh or early eighth century ce) shows the adoption of some Old
Norse forms which contrast with the forms we find in West Saxon texts.
Moreover, these forms are grammatical items, not just lexical items (for
example, the form aron ‘are’ as opposed to West Saxon synd; see Hogg
2002: 125): as we shall see in Chapter 7, when contact between differ-
ent varieties is very substantial, the borrowings from one variety into
another can involve forms from the grammatical system, in addition
to lexical items. The effects on English of contact with speakers of Old
Norse will be discussed in more detail in the following section.
So we see correlations between some aspects of the variation that we
reconstruct for Old English, and some aspects of the social and political
context that we reconstruct for Anglo-Saxon history. Such correlations
are by no means as detailed as the correlations we are able to make for
present-day varieties, but none the less reveal interesting possibilities
for work on Old English dialects informed by sociolinguistic theory.
6.4 Variation in Middle English
It is sometimes tempting to think about attitudes towards varieties of
English as being a more recent phenomenon, one which arose as a result
of specific kinds of language planning in the modern period. However,
such attitudes are discernible in the earlier history of the language, as
the following example illustrates:
(1) Al þe longage of þe Norþhumbres, and specialych at ʒork, ys so
scharp, slyttyng and frotying, and unschape, þat we Souþeron men
may þat longage unneþe vndurstonde. Y trowe þat þat ys bycause þat
a buþ nyʒ to strange men and aliens þat spekeþ strangelych, and also
bycause þat þe kynges of Engelond woneþ alwey fer fram þat contray:
for a buþ more y-turnd to the souþ. (John of Trevisa’s translation of
Higden’s Polychronicon, 1382, cited in Lass 1999: 7)
(Translation: All the language of the Northumbrians, and especially
in York, is so sharp, biting, piercing and misshapen that we Southern
men cannot easily understand that language. I believe that that is
because they are near to strange men and aliens that speak strangely,
and also because (that) the kings of England always live far from that
country: because they are more turned to [that is, concerned with] the
south).
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 81
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 81 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
82 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
Although comments like these are useful for understanding the linguis-
tic ideology of a particular person, because such comments are fairly
infrequent in the extant documents, very little can be said about how
widespread such views were.
None the less, one thing that a comment such as this suggests is
that dialect variation was salient in Middle English (ME). Partly this
follows from the absence of the same kind of standard language that we
are accustomed to in contemporary English. There is little sense of a
focused variety of ME (compare the earlier discussion of OE), except
in a very few cases where the scribal traditions of OE were maintained.
Furthermore, there is little indication – particularly in the early ME
period – of a supra-local consensus on norms of usage. Indeed, if we
want to talk about norms, the only thing we can claim is that variation
was the norm in ME, even in fairly formal writing. Certainly it was
the case that variation was tolerated more readily than it is in today’s
English. One thing that stands out about ME is the great diversity in the
written language.
With all these issues in mind, it is still possible to make some observa-
tions about variation in ME that we might link to the social and politi-
cal contexts in which English was used. One very important issue with
regard to social change and English concerns the use of English itself.
The Norman invasion of England brought a new style of government,
with a new set of linguistic practices (including the use of Latin in offi-
cial documents, and French in law courts), which had two particular
effects: some marginalisation of English in the early ME period as a ver-
nacular language, and an increase in new words for particular concepts.
The degree of bilingualism in the early Middle English period is quite
substantial, at least among the upper classes and the emergent merchant
class, and as a result a new variety of Anglo-French emerges to become
the prestige language in some formal domains (including government
and law). Over time, the influence of French dwindles, with increased
calls for English to be used in particular contexts (especially legal con-
texts), along with a resurgence of literature in English. Alongside this,
in the fifteenth century, the influence of the London standard begins
to grow, with fewer and fewer texts written in regional varieties: this
process itself is enabled by the development of printing, and the adop-
tion of increasingly uniform spellings in printed text.
As we will see in Chapter 7, when we talk of contemporary language
contact, where varieties of English are transported beyond the British
Isles, it is important to bear in mind that it is in fact different varie-
ties of different languages that come into contact, and the same holds
true for the history of the language within Britain. For example, both
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 82
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 82 22/2/10 16:21:23
22/2/10 16:21:23
ENGLISH HISTORICAL SOCIOLINGUISTICS 83
Norman French and Parisian (or Central) French had an influence on
ME. Phonological differences between the two varieties meant that
what were in French regional variants became two different lexemes in
ME. For instance, many words in Norman French that began with /w/
began with /ɡ/ in Central French: this explains the lexical additions of
a warrant and a guarrant (> Modern English guarantee), or a warden and
a guardian.
As noted in the previous section, speakers of English had also been
in regular contact with speakers of Scandinavian origin, from very early
on in the history of the language, and we see the results of this contact
most clearly in the ME period. The evidence suggests that the contact
between these speakers is likely to have been substantial, because of
the kind of borrowing that takes place. (This will be discussed in more
detail in Chapter 7.) The borrowing from Old Norse involves more than
just borrowing new words; it involves changes in the grammatical struc-
ture of some varieties. For instance, pronoun forms like they and them are
borrowed from Old Norse, and these forms end up as part of the stand-
ard variety. Borrowings which survive into northern English dialects
are more substantial (garth ‘yard’, kirk ‘church’), and placenames in the
north also attest to the strong Norse influence (for example, placenames
ending in -thorpe ‘village’ or -thwaite ‘paddock’).
A final issue concerns whether or not the kind of evidence avail-
able to us allows for a variationist study of ME dialects. Certainly this
has been attempted (see, for example, Milroy 1983 on H-Dropping in
Middle English and the later history of the language); and the range of
evidence we have for ME is greater than we have for OE. But it is still
clear that the lack of evidence we have about the provenance of some
of the data, and about the social characteristics of specific users of the
language, means that the kind of quantitative work that can be done
will need to be of a different kind to modern sociolinguistic surveys: the
problems that hold for OE in this regard continue into ME.
6.5 Variation in early Modern English
It is from the early modern period on that applications of modern
variationist sociolinguistics to the history of English have been most
systematically and successfully made. At the same time, it is in the early
modern period that we witness two important historical developments,
one which led to focusing, and the other which led to diffusion. The
first concerns the development of the standard language, reinforced by
the increase in printed texts following the establishment of the printing
press in England by William Caxton in 1476, noted above; the second
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 83
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 83 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
84 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
concerns the spread of English beyond the British Isles, as settlers moved
to North America, and trade routes developed across the globe. In this
section we look at the following: the use of a corpus of private letters to
explore patterns of linguistic variation in the period; the effects of print-
ing and other social changes on the development of a standard language;
and the establishment of ‘new Englishes’ across the globe.
In the early modern period, for the first time, we can begin to group
together a significant number of texts from the same group of indi-
viduals according to genre. Genre is important since it relates to text
structure, formality and the social context in which texts are created
and used (Nevalainen and Raumolin-Brunberg 2003). The Corpus of
Early English Correspondence (CEEC; for details, see Nevalainen and
Raumolin-Brunberg 1996) is a computerised corpus of personal letters
written by people whose individual histories are fairly well known to
us. We are therefore able to group together individuals who are socially
similar, and explore the extent to which they display similar linguistic
practices. For instance, if we know that a given set of texts was written
by a group of noblemen from the southern part of England, and another
set was written by a group of socially mobile men from the same part of
the country, and we observe that there are statistically significant differ-
ences in their linguistic practices, we can legitimately propose that such
linguistic differences might be an indication of differing social status
in the early modern period. Similar patterns may be attested for other
speaker variables. On the basis of data from this corpus, researchers have
discovered that, for example, women were the leaders in certain linguis-
tic changes, including the development of you as the subject pronoun
for second person plural (replacing the older form ye). Furthermore, the
geographic diffusion of innovations is also attested in such a corpus: the
spread of the -s ending on verbs (replacing -th), mentioned in Section
5.3, is an example of a northern English variant spreading to southern
English in the late 1400s; it also seems to have been adopted more
readily by lower-ranking groups, spreading to high-status groups only
in the following century. Other northern features also seem to spread,
regionally to London, and socially from lower classes to higher classes:
these features include the use of my and thy, instead of mine and thine
(Nevalainen 2006: 140–2). Such features are relevant to the standardisa-
tion of English, discussed in Chapter 3, and revisited briefly here.
It is in the early modern period that we first see English being
established as an official language. This was a period of significant
debate regarding the form and function of English. In addition to the
debate about whether to use archaisms, or whether to use words bor-
rowed from the classical languages (known as the Inkhorn debate: see
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 84
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 84 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
ENGLISH HISTORICAL SOCIOLINGUISTICS 85
Nevalainen 1999, 2006), there were also calls for English to be recog-
nised as an appropriate medium for academic discourse: Isaac Newton,
for instance, wrote some of his scientific work in English (for example,
Opticks, published in 1704) and some in Latin (for example, Philosophiae
Naturalis Principia Mathematica, published in 1687). In this period there
was also the establishment of clear links between language and nation-
hood. As England was developing as an international power, so English
developed as an international language.
Attitudes towards different varieties of English – and the association
of linguistic varieties with types of speaker – continued to be expressed
in this period; and as disputes about the form and function of English
grew, there were further observations which were alleged to charac-
terise the language of particular groups. For example, we begin to see
explicit criticism of the language of women in the early modern period,
as exemplified by the following from Thomas Elyot, who is discussing
what kind of language is appropriate in child rearing, suggesting nurses
should:
(2) speke none englisshe but that whiche is cleane polite perfectly and
articulately pronounced omittinge no lettre or sillable as folisshe
women often times do of a wantonnesse wherby diuers noble men and
gentilmennes chyldren (as I do at this daye knowe) haue attained cor-
rupte and foule pronuntiation. (Thomas Elyot, 1531, The Boke Named
the Gouernour, fol. 19v.)
In addition, it is in this period that we begin to see the extent of the
spread of English beyond the British Isles. And just as the language of
the Germanic tribes encroached further on the indigenous Celtic lan-
guages of Britain in the fifth century, pushing them further to the north
and west of the British Isles, so the spread of English in North America
began in a highly localised community on the north-east coast in the
seventeenth century, and gradually spread westward, following trade
routes and settlement patterns, encroaching on native American and (in
some areas) Hispanic varieties. Contact with native American languages
brought new lexical items into the language (for example, racoon and
squash); and the contest between English and Spanish on the north and
central American continent continues to this day. Further evidence of
the incipient spread of global English comes from the range of source
languages for words borrowed into English in this period. Examples
(even if we restrict this to the set of animal names) include flamingo from
Portuguese, mammoth from Russian, jackal from Turkish, orang-utan
from Malay, and mongoose from Kannada.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 85
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 85 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
86 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
6.6 Variation in late Modern English
Late Modern English (the English of the eighteenth to the twentieth
centuries) was until recently a relatively under-researched period in
the history of the language; yet it is this period in which we can observe
the establishment of some of the practices which are still relevant to folk
linguistics today. The late modern period is the one in which beliefs in
‘correct’ and ‘proper’ English came to the fore, and the one in which the
notion of a standard language, mooted from the late Middle English
period onwards, began to be most systematically developed.
The evidence we have in this period is substantial. Not only do we
have examples of variation in writing (for example, between educated
and uneducated writers) which we can use to reconstruct aspects of
the pronunciation and grammar of the period, but we also have an
increasingly large body of evidence about language, particularly about
good and bad language (on which see also Chapter 1). This evidence
needs to be treated with care (for example, some of the forms alleged
to represent ‘good’ language may be very archaic, and spoken only by
a very few highly educated people from a particular social class), but
there is no doubt that this kind of evidence is much more substantial.
Furthermore, we have the continuing representations of dialect in
literature, as well as literature which is written entirely in a particular
dialect. Again, such material should be analysed with caution, but can
give a good idea of what features typified a particular region. However,
just as was the case for the early Modern period, there is a need to dis-
tinguish between evidence we gather from the printed language, and
that which comes to us from letters and other personal correspond-
ence. The former is likely to reveal far less variation than the latter,
because the former is focused, and highly standardised, while the latter
is more diffuse.
The growth of linguistic ideology in the late modern period (Tieken-
Boon van Ostade 2006; Mugglestone 2006) is one of the major effects of
the codification of English in the eighteenth century. Specifically, there
was a sense that the written language had become contaminated with
variants from the spoken language, and, picking up on some of the views
about the status of English expressed in the previous two centuries, some
sought to demonstrate that English needed to be codified if it were to
function as a national, prestigious language, comparable to Latin. This
resulted in a significant growth in the publication of grammars, includ-
ing that of Lindley Murray (who based much of his work on an earlier
grammar by Robert Lowth). The popularity of Murray’s grammar was
substantial – not only was the grammar frequently reprinted within the
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 86
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 86 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
ENGLISH HISTORICAL SOCIOLINGUISTICS 87
United Kingdom, but it was also translated into a number of languages,
including French, Swedish and Japanese, thus marking “the beginnings
of the spread of English as a world language” (Nevalainen and Tieken-
Boon van Ostade 2006: 285).
One of the consequences of establishing a standard variety is that
non-standard varieties typically becoming increasingly stigmatised.
It was during the late modern period that criticisms of local varieties
began to become increasingly frequent, because in many cases, the
function of the grammar book was as a guide to correct usage – in
order to point out what was the correct form, authors sometimes would
specify a set of errors, often associated with particular regional varie-
ties. Furthermore, we see increasing correlations between stigmatised
language and types of speaker. For instance, in many cases, use of non-
standard forms was said to be characteristic of women (Tieken Boon
van Ostade 2006: 259), often on the grounds that they had not received
the same kind of education as men. Taking both regional and social
provenance together, and borrowing terms from both Wales (2006)
and Coates (1993) respectively, we can suggest that the codification of
the standard language in England was increasingly both austrocentric
(focused on the language of the south) and androcentric (focused on the
language of men).
So far we have been addressing subnational varieties of English,
within what is now the United Kingdom, and predominantly English
English. But we have also seen that in this period English was spread-
ing beyond the British Isles, and in these newly established English-
speaking communities, we see quite a different story. In many cases
British English was seen to be deficient, not fit for purpose for a
new world. A good example of a proponent of this ideology is Noah
Webster, who campaigned for reform of English in the newly independ-
ent United States:
(3) As an independent nation, our honor requires us to have a system
of our own, in language as well as government. Great Britain . . .
should no longer be our Standard. (Webster, Dissertation on the English
Language, 1789)
Note again how this is an issue of ideology: a new variety for a new
nation. This was marked most prominently by a codified spelling reform.
Some of Webster’s reforms did become conventionalised in American
English – for example, using <er> instead of <re> in words like center,
<or> instead of <our> in words like color, and -ize instead of -ise as a
verb forming suffix (e.g. generalize) – but not all did (e.g. tun for ton).
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 87
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 87 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
88 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
6.7 The future of English?
Having explored the aspects of English historical sociolinguistics from
the Germanic invasions to the present day, I now turn to the question of
how varieties of English might develop in the future, based on some of
the incipient developments of today. This is important, because in many
textbooks on the history of English, there is a sense that the ‘English’ of
today is really not that different from the English of 1800 (and presum-
ably therefore unlikely to change radically in the future);1
however,
this is a fallacy. The standard written variety of British or American
English, for example, may not have varied greatly since its extensive
codification; but the spoken language has continued to evolve, and the
development of electronic communications has revolutionised the way
in which English is used around the globe. Again, the social context of
English in use helps us to understand the variable shape of the language
as it changes to suit the needs of its users.
One significant aspect of the English of the future is its current
global status. As Crystal (2003: 189) observes, “[t]here has never been
a language so widely spread or spoken by so many people as English”.
Because of its widespread use around the world at the beginning of the
twenty-first century, comparisons have been made between English and
the medieval ‘global’ language, Latin. There are a number of interest-
ing parallels. Particularly, one of the things that has been suggested is
that English will fracture into distinct, mutually unintelligible varieties
(‘languages’), just as vulgar Latin developed into Romance languages
such as Italian, Romanian and Catalan. One of the forces that might
drive such a development is the increasing number of speakers of
English as a second or other language: in fact, the number of such speak-
ers outnumbers speakers of English as a first language by a ratio of three
to one (McArthur 2006; Crystal 2006a).
But a further parallel is equally important. In the early modern
period, speakers of English made use of Latin in particular registers,
but they often did not simply borrow the Latin form wholesale. They
anglicised Latin, by changing some of the inflectional endings – for
instance, the -us ending on terrificus was dropped to form the ‘English’
word terrific; similarly, as English is the global language of the current
period, speakers of other languages modify and shape English words
to make them fit the shape of their own language. For example, the
borrowing of some words from English into African languages means
that stress patterns need to be reassigned. English is a stress-timed
language (the time interval between stressed syllables is roughly the
same), whereas Zulu is a syllable-timed language (the time interval
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 88
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 88 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
ENGLISH HISTORICAL SOCIOLINGUISTICS 89
between syllables is roughly the same, irrespective of stress); as Crystal
(2006a: 396) observes, when a proper noun like South Africa is bor-
rowed by speakers of Zulu, each syllable receives the same degree
of stress, unlike in English. Furthermore, just as the use of Latinate
vocabulary came to have a special social function for speakers of
English (the association with educated status, for example), so using
English fulfils a local social function in the contemporary societies in
which it is used.
A further important development concerns the use of English as
the medium for many kinds of electronic communication, as noted in
Chapter 2. One reason that e-English is fascinating for sociolinguists
is that it is said to record the ‘voices’ of groups which are traditionally
under-represented in the study of variation and change in the history
of the language (Crystal 2006a). However, just as is the case for all the
kinds of evidence we have looked at in this chapter and elsewhere in
this book, from Anglo-Saxon monuments, through personal letters in
the sixteenth century, to digital recordings of people speaking, we must
treat such evidence with caution, and interrogate it. For example, the
identities of participants in a chatroom may not be what they appear
to be, and someone who claims to be a 14-year-old boy from London
might well be a 50-year-old woman from San Francisco. In other words,
we cannot be sure that the text we are reading definitely comes from an
author who claims to have a particular set of social attributes. Equally,
the dominance of English as the language of the web may be beginning
to fade: the proportion of internet hosts in English dropped to less than
70 per cent by 2003 (Crystal 2006b: 431) – as Crystal observes, however,
this does not necessarily mean that exposure to English via the web is
decreasing, because particular sites in English may still be getting the
largest number of hits.
6.8 Summary
In this chapter we have looked at how we might consider applying
sociolinguistic methods and principles to historical data from varieties
of English. We saw that this process of application becomes harder the
further back in history we go. English historical sociolinguistics is a
growing field of research, from work on language attitudes to quantita-
tive studies. Different kinds of problems appear when we try to analyse
data from different ‘periods’ of English, so again we see the importance
of a rigorous method for this kind of research.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 89
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 89 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
90 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
Exercise
Here is an example of a text from the early Modern English period
(Wilson, The Arte of Rhetorique, 1553), which describes a particular atti-
tude towards the way in which English was perceived to be changing:
Some seke so farre for outlandishe Englishe, that thei forget
altogether their mothers langage. And I dare swere this, if some
of their mothers were aliue, they were not able to tell, what
thei say, & yet these fine Englishe clerkes, wil saie thei speake
in their mother tongue, if a man should charge them for coun-
terfeityng the kynges English. Some farre iornied ientlemen at
their returne home, like as thei loue to go in forrein apparell, so
thei wil pouder their talke wt
ouersea language. He that cometh
lately out of France, wil talke Frenche English, & neuer blushe
at the matter. Another choppes in with Angleso Italiano.
(Translation: Some seek so far for outlandish English, that they
altogether forget their mother tongue. And I’d swear to this:
if some of their mothers were alive, they would not be able to
understand what they say, and yet these fine English students
will say they speak in their mother tongue, if a person should
charge them with counterfeiting the King’s English. Some
well-travelled gentlemen, when they return home, just as they
like to dress in foreign clothes, so they will sprinkle their talk
with foreign language. He that comes recently from France
will talk French English and never blush at so doing. Another
chops in with Angleso Italiano.)
To what extent is this kind of language attitude still present today,
regarding the influence of other languages on English? To what extent
are complaints more to do with the failure to conform to standard
English norms? What evidence can you find of earlier or later examples
of attitudes towards changes in the form of English?
Further reading
The main text for work on quantitative historical sociolinguistics is
Nevalainen and Raumolin-Brunberg (2003), which deals with methodo-
logical and analytical issues, using data from the CEEC. The Cambridge
History of the English Language (six volumes, 1992–2001, general editor
Richard Hogg) contains a wealth of information about variation in
English at different periods. Tieken-Boon van Ostade (2000) discusses
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 90
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 90 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
ENGLISH HISTORICAL SOCIOLINGUISTICS 91
some of the normative approaches to language which characterise
aspects of the recent history of English. Mugglestone (2003) is another
valuable book on the sociolinguistics of the recent history of English.
The history-of-English books which are already published in this series
(Hogg 2002, Horobin and Smith 2002 and Nevalainen 2006) all deal
with variation in the period they are investigating.
Note
1. See Mugglestone (2006: 278–88) for a discussion of what she terms
‘myths of stasis’ in the English of recent times.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 91
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 91 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
92
7 Language contact
i match program sono on-line!
Taken from the website of the Italian football club Inter Milan (www.
inter.it), accessed 9 December 2007
7.1 Overview
This chapter is concerned with contact between speakers of mutually
unintelligible varieties. It begins with a discussion of some pidgin and
creole varieties which have emerged as a result of contact involving
speakers of English and speakers of other languages. There is also a
discussion of code-switching, a common feature of bilingual speakers,
who regularly move between two languages in everyday discourse with
other bilingual speakers. There is finally some discussion of the advan-
tages and disadvantages of English as a global language.
7.2 Pidgin and creole varieties
One of the possible outcomes of a linguistic situation in which speakers
of English come into regular contact with speakers of other languages is
that a new variety – or series of varieties – may emerge. This is a kind
of language change, but a rather special one, because this new variety
emerges rather rapidly. Although Old English looks very different from
contemporary Standard English, we can see the gradual transmission
from one stage to the next, given the wealth of documentary evidence
we have for British English. Labels such as ‘Old English’ and ‘Middle
English’ are labels of convenience for linguists, in an attempt to package
the history of the language into chunks that correlate with particular
linguistic or cultural developments. The change from one stage to
another is almost imperceptible. But this is not the case with varieties
that emerge as a result of contact between speakers of very different
languages.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 92
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 92 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
LANGUAGE CONTACT 93
The label linguists give to a variety often correlates with the function
of that variety in the community in which it emerges, and the extent
to which users of the variety tend to converge on a series of norms.
Sometimes, contact produces a variety which shows great heterogeneity
from speaker to speaker, which has very little in the way of a systematic
grammar, and a great deal of variation in the lexical items used to refer
to the same concept: this is often known as a jargon.
In a large number of cases, the contact variety is more systematic,
with a greater stability in the linguistic system and in the series of
lexical choices. This too may involve a jargon, at least initially; but if
the jargon is the only ‘common ground’ for speakers who do not other-
wise understand one another, that jargon takes on an increased burden
for communicative purposes. The jargon then typically stabilises, and
the speakers typically agree on a series of linguistic conventions. The
pidgin variety which emerges does so in a context where the users of the
pidgin have another set of linguistic resources (via their first language)
to fulfil the roles that the pidgin does not: in other words, the pidgin
functions as an auxiliary language, often with a very specific function
(for example, to facilitate trade).
In cases where a stable pidgin is frequently used in a community, the
children born into that environment may find that their primary input,
as they are acquiring language, is the pidgin; and because the pidgin is
comparatively limited (in function and in form), the children develop
the pidgin, which becomes more complex grammatically, and which
carries a larger functional load (for example, instead of simply using
it to facilitate trade, speakers use features of the more complex pidgin
to mark social identity). When a pidgin variety develops in this way –
becoming formally more complex, increasing its sociolinguistic burden
– and especially when it becomes the ‘first language’ of a new genera-
tion, the emergent variety is known as a creole.
This standard trajectory of jargon > pidgin > creole was quite a
common story in creolistics (the study of pidgin and creole languages),
but did rather oversimplify things. One particular problem, for instance,
is the heterogeneity of many creole varieties, and the very different
formal properties they have, even when they have emerged in similar
social contexts (Mufwene 2006).
Pidgins and creole languages are interesting to a number of different
kinds of linguists (McWhorter 2003): some linguists are interested in
pidgins and creoles because they provide interesting evidence relating
to language acquisition, for instance, while others use data from pidgins
and creoles to test hypotheses about constraints on language change.
Many sociolinguists are interested in pidgins and creoles because they
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 93
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 93 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
94 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
provide evidence regarding the social correlations of language use,
and because many pidgin languages emerge in similar kinds of social
context: for example, many pidgin languages are found in coastal
regions, and emerged in trade colonies in a period of significant political
and economic expansion of a number of European powers in the seven-
teenth to nineteenth centuries.
We can ask what role English has played, and continues to play, in
the formation of pidgins and creoles. Because pidgin and creole varie-
ties often emerge in similar social and economic contexts, there are
many formal similarities which are said to exist across pidgins and
creoles that are found in diverse geographical locales. Some pidgins and
creoles are formed as a result of contact between a European language
other than English (for example, French or Portuguese) and one or
more local languages, but we will concentrate on cases where English
is the non-local language used. The role played by the local language
and English in forming the pidgin is usually slightly different: the local
languages often provide more of the basic grammatical framework (the
sound system and the syntactic patterns), with more of the vocabulary
taken from English. But it is important to be aware that this is an issue
of general weighting: it is certainly not the case that in Papua New
Guinea, for example, where the well-known pidgin variety of Tok Pisin
emerged, all of the grammatical features came from the local languages
like Tolai, and all of the words came from English. Language contact is
never as simple as that. What we see is a larger proportion of the words
coming from English (which is said to be the lexifier for Tok Pisin) than
from the local languages; conversely, more of the grammatical features
come from the local languages. However, as is often the case in lan-
guage change, lexical items taken from the lexifier may come to serve
an increasingly grammatical function. For instance, in Bislama, spoken
in Vanuatu, the pronoun system includes two distinct forms for first
person plurals, equivalent to two possible meanings of we in contem-
porary British English. The first is mifala i, which means ‘me and more
than two other people, but not you’ and the other is yumi, which means
‘you (three or more) and me’ (Meyerhoff 2006: 257). The first of these
is a combination of the pronoun me, the noun fellow and the pronoun he,
which has acquired a particular grammatical function in this variety.
(Incidentally, if you are a monolingual speaker of English, it might
strike you as strange to think of a language having two different first
person plural pronouns, but in fact, this was the case in Old English.)
Given the complex interplay between the different languages involved
in the creation of pidgin and creole varieties, then, it would be inaccu-
rate to think of them as varieties of English (and even worse to think of
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 94
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 94 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
LANGUAGE CONTACT 95
them as bad or faulty varieties of English). This is not only because of
the various social and political issues we addressed in Chapter 3; they
are also formally very different. Furthermore, we can identify degrees
of difference within a creole, depending on the extent to which there is
divergence from Standard English. The variety which approximates
most closely to the standard is known as the acrolect; that which diverges
most is known as the basilect; and the myriad varieties which are located
somewhere along that continuum are known as mesolects.
7.3 Some features and examples of English-lexifier pidgins and
creoles
Many contact languages show simplification in their early stages, and
this may change or may continue. This typically involves a reduction
in a number of linguistic features that may be redundant, or superfluous
to the basic needs of communication. Consider a standard English
expression like three weeks: in this example, the -s ending of weeks is
superfluous (since plurality is already marked by three) – so one way
of simplifying this would be to say three week. This and other kinds of
simplification can be commonly found in pidgin languages: for instance,
case marking may disappear (so there is no distinction between a subject
pronoun like I and an object pronoun like me, and speakers rely on word
order to make the necessary distinctions, as in mi kam), along with other
kinds of inflectional morphology (so that possession, sometimes coded
in standard English with an inflectional clitic ’s, as in John’s house, may
be coded in a pidgin language via the syntax, using particular words
(as in haus bilong John). Other instances of reduction include a limited
set of lexical items. However, these can be combined in innovative
ways, often making use of our cognitive predilection for metaphor. For
instance, concepts like ‘grass’, ‘moustache’ and ‘eyebrow’ all involve
a collection of individual ‘shoots’ that are perceived as a whole – the
first (and most basic) grows in the ground, the second grows above the
mouth, and the third along the top of the eye. This perhaps explains
the forms gras, mausgras (= mouthgrass) and gras antap long ai (= grass
on-top along eye), meaning ‘grass’, ‘moustache’ and ‘eyebrow’, respec-
tively, in Tok Pisin (Romaine 1988: 35). Phonological reduction is also
common in pidgin languages – most typically, this involves a reduction
in the number of phonological contrasts (phonemes) in the variety.
Does this reduction make pidgins easier to understand? The answer
to this question is ‘no’, which is perhaps surprising, given the fact that
we said that pidgins often arose in situations where speakers needed to
communicate with each other yet did not share a common language.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 95
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 95 23/2/10 11:40:39
23/2/10 11:40:39
96 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
Simplification is essentially a benefit for the speaker, rather than the
hearer, who has to rely on more contextual cues (understanding the
pragmatics of the communicative act) in order to interpret the message.
For instance, if a pidgin language dispenses with copular verbs (for
example, he out for ‘he is/was out’), the speaker’s production burden
is decreased, but the hearer’s processing burden is increased, since the
hearer needs to rely either on context, or on pragmatics, to establish
whether the speaker is referring to a present or past state.
Creole languages start to shift in the other direction, showing an
increase in lexical items, more grammatical/inflectional morphology,
increased syntactic complexity, and growth of phonological contrasts.
This development – from a state of initial diffuseness (jargon), we then
get an increase in focusing (pidgin), then a state involving more diffuse-
ness (creole) – is an important one, which we will return to in the next
chapter, which considers dialect contact.
So far I have concentrated primarily on the forms of these contact
varieties, and stressed that it can be hard to distinguish between a
pidgin and a creole on formal grounds. We can talk about either end of
the continuum to highlight gross differences, but it is important not to
forget the fact that this is a continuum. This continuum is perhaps made
clearer when we consider the various functions of pidgin and creole
languages. For example, it is the case that creoles often have a wider
functional load than ‘typical’ pidgins; but it is often the case that pidgins
which fulfil a variety of social functions (being much more than a trade
language, and used in wider social contexts) come to serve as creoles
in particular communities. A further ramification of this increase in the
sociolinguistic contexts of use is an increase in sociolinguistic variabil-
ity (where speakers who are members of the creole community increas-
ingly tend to agree on norms, and evaluate variability in the same way);
but this too may be incipient in a pidgin that has been stable for some
time. Yet again we are faced with the problem of discreteness in defin-
ing linguistic concepts – distinguishing between a pidgin and a creole
is as problematic as distinguishing a language from a dialect. We can
use both formal and functional criteria to make gross categorisations
at either end of the continuum, but the real situation is usually much
more fuzzy.
Here is an example of a contact variety, using data collected from
speakers on the island of St Vincent (the extract and translation are
taken from Le Page and Tabouret-Keller 1985: 90):
(1) won de, nansi wen dong tukuma gu tel aal dem gyel hau he doz raid
bru lai-an. Wel bru lai-ai didn fiil su veri pliiz abaut dat su neks taim
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 96
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 96 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
LANGUAGE CONTACT 97
wen i sii brer nansi i aks brer nansi hau i kud gu aut tukuma gu tel aal
dem gyel hau i doz raid om.
(Translation: One day, Anansi went down to Tukuma to go and tell
all those girls how he was accustomed to ride Brother Lion. Well,
Brother Lion didn’t feel so very pleased about that so next time when
he saw Brother Anansi he asked Brother Anansi how he could go out to
Tukuma and tell all those girls how he was accustomed to ride him.)
From this example, it is clear that English is the lexifier, but there are
a great many distinctive grammatical features (as well as some pho-
nological features suggested by the spellings, such as aal, dem, gyel and
aks). For instance, there is no infinitive marker to to indicate purpose
(wen dong tukuma gu tel); there is a reduction in the number of distinct
morphological forms of verbs, so that we understand sii and aks to mean
‘saw’ and ‘asked’ (that is, the past tense of see and ask, respectively) from
the context; similarly, there is no plural marking on the form for ‘girls’
(gyel), because plurality can be inferred from the quantifier aal ‘all’. Also,
there is an interesting use of the auxiliary verb do (in this variety, doz)
to mark habitual aspect, so doz raid ‘does ride’ means something like ‘is
accustomed to, or regularly rides’.
7.4 Code-switching
A further feature of language contact is the notion of code-switching,
a term used to describe the linguistic situation where a speaker will
alternate between two varieties (or codes) in conversation with others
who have a similar linguistic repertoire. Yet again in such cases we are
required to consider not only the form that such switches take, but also
the function of the variation. Sometimes we can witness switches that
seem to involve just one word:
(2) ƛáq’w
kw
it ‘úxˇw š-Ɂul’ store. . . ši -c
good 2SG.PERF go LOC-to store INDIR -1SG.OBJ
‘Will you go to the store for me please?’ (Rowicka 2005: 314)
This utterance comes from a speaker of Quinault, a Native American
language spoken on the north-west coast of the United States; the
speaker was also a near-native English speaker, though she acquired
English as a second language. This innocent-looking example is actu-
ally quite revealing. Many sociolinguists who study code-switching
recognise differences between genuine instances of switching and other
instances where only one word is borrowed. For example, if I said:
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 97
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 97 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
98 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
(3) I ate a croissant for breakfast.
it would be a questionable claim to suggest that I was code-switching
between French and English, because it looks as though I have simply
used what was a French word in a conventional English sentence. But
the Quinault example in (2) is interesting not so much because of the
word store, but rather because of the form which follows it. In Quinault
and related languages, the -ši form usually only attaches to verbs; its
appearance after the locative phrase (glossed as ‘to store’ in (2)), rather
than directly after the Quinault form for go, leads Rowicka (2005: 314) to
suggest that this speaker’s command of English has led to changes in her
Quinault grammar. In other words, long-term use of English as a second
or other language may lead to subtle grammatical shifts in a speaker’s
first language.
A more extended example of code-switching, this time in an Italian
American community, is provided in (4). In this extract, the symbol :::
marks an elongated sound, and // marks overlapping speech.
(4) 01 Enzo: ((beats his hand on the table and laughs looking at Carlo))
I’m not
02 gonna say anything, Carlo!
03 Carlo: No:::!
04 ((to Peter)) Cosa fai? Ma cosa fai? Adesso che hai messo giù la carta
hai
05 fatto così o hai bussato? [What are you doing? But what are you
doing?
Now that you have put that card down did you do that by chance or
did you knock?]
06 Peter: Ho // bussato! [I knocked]
07 Enzo: // Ha bussato! [He knocked]
08 Carlo: Ok, good! Quello che vogliamo sapere noi. [That’s what we want
to know]
09 Enzo: ((Looking at Peter)) I tempi di questo gioco [the timing of this
game]
10 ((looking at Carlo)) I’ve got to tell him because otherwise he’s
never
11 gonna learn it!
12 Carlo: I know!
13 Enzo: (( to Peter)) Il primo gioco ho fatto io, il primo gioco dove l’ho fatto
io?
14 Dove ho bussato io? [I did the first move, the first move where did I do
it?
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 98
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 98 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
LANGUAGE CONTACT 99
Where did I knock?]
15 Peter: Non ricordo. [I can’t remember]
(de Fina 2007: 381–2)
In her analysis of this discourse, in which Peter (born in America, but
quite fluent in Italian) is being taught how to play a particular card game
by Carlo and Enzo (both born in Italy, moved to America as adults, and
fluent in English), de Fina (2007) observes that the linguistic patterns
are a subtle reflection of changing patterns of interaction, where, for
example, Italian is typically used where the speakers are explaining
aspects of the card game, and English used for clarification and justifica-
tion of actions. Note that Peter (who has Italian as a second language)
none the less speaks in Italian to both Carlo (line 06) and Enzo (line 15);
similarly, Carlo uses English in addressing Enzo (line 10) and Enzo uses
English in addressing Carlo (lines 01–02), despite the fact that both of
them have Italian as a first language. The negotiation of the discourse
comes to be indexed by the very act of switching, as much as by the
particular words and phrases used.
Sometimes speakers of English will choose to use other languages in
a particular communicative act, even if they are not fluent speakers of
that other variety (and may only know a handful of words or phrases).
This is frequently seen in multilingual communities where English is
the official language (either de facto or de jure), and a very good example
of this is the kind of switching among adolescents which has been
described as crossing (Rampton 1999). Rampton has defined cross-
ing as “the use of a language or a variety that, in one way or another,
feels anomalously ‘other’” (Rampton 1999: 55). Crossing is seen as a
particularly performative aspect of code-switching, because it is often
attested in discourse in which verbal play is paramount, like joke telling,
or light-hearted verbal abuse. In fact, the term ‘code-pilfering’ might be
better than ‘code-switching’, because it characterises the fact that the
code that is used in crossing somehow doesn’t belong to the speaker
who uses it, and that they only take a little bit of that code on any given
occasion. Again, then, the issue of identity comes into play – but here,
the very self-conscious nature of the switching means that the speaker
is deliberately drawing attention to the projection of a particular iden-
tity, and most crucially, one that is not associated with the speaker’s
identity. To that extent, then, crossing is much less subtle than the
other indexes of identity that we have discussed elsewhere in this book
(for example, variation in the use of (p), (t) and (k) in Middlesbrough
English in Chapter 4).
Our final example of code-switching comes not from speech, but
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 99
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 99 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
100 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
from writing. The following example (taken from Bhatt 2008:190) is an
advertisement for bread:
(5)
Bakwaas Advertising
First Class Bread
Gharam Dharam called me. Asked “Did you see Bhagat Singh”
I said mubaraka Deol saab. Bacchas have done a good thing
Sunny learnt acting from me. He was a beeba baccha
I have seen him pee in pants. Do poopoo in his kaccha
Bobby was not even born then. Bobby is our nyana
I have so many times scolded him for not eating his khana
He used to love suji da halwa and matter wali rice
Mostly I would feed him Harvest Gold de slice
Harvest Gold
Delhi’s no. 1 Bread
(Bhatt 2008: 190)
As Bhatt observes, a full understanding of this text depends very much
on a deep awareness of language and culture in multilingual India,
and much of the humour in the advertising derives from the ability to
‘read’ the text on a number of levels. For example, the word bakwaas is
a Hindi/Punjabi word meaning ‘bad’ or ‘third-rate’; this is aligned in
a parallel structure with the English ‘first class’, which leads Bhatt to
suggest the advertisers may be playing on stereotypes regarding the
attitudes towards English (first class) and Hindi/Punjabi (third rate)
held by some Indians. There are further hints at the close interaction of
different languages in India in this example (for instance, the use of an
English suffix -s to mark plurality, attaching to a Hindi word (baccha+s =
‘boys’). Taken as a whole, Bhatt suggests that the code-switching in this
text “involves the embedding of local meanings in the global medium”
(Bhatt 2008: 191). The tension between the global and the local in cases
of contact with English is the subject of the final section of this chapter.
7.5 Deanglicisation and conventionalisation
Some evidence from English historical sociolinguistics discussed in
Chapter 6 suggested that it has frequently been the case that some
varieties of English are judged as being ‘better’ than others, to the extent
that some believe in a ‘correct’ variety of English, with departures from
that norm being labelled errors. This is seen not only in non-standard
dialects of English spoken by ‘native speakers’, but also in the varieties
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 100
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 100 22/2/10 16:21:24
22/2/10 16:21:24
LANGUAGE CONTACT 101
that emerge when speakers of a language other than English acquire
English at a later stage in their lives: that is, speakers of English as a
second or other language. However, what are sometimes classed as
errors (because they do not conform to a particular standard) often
become conventionalised in local speech communities, and accepted
as norms for the purposes of those communities. Crystal (2006a: 397)
gives the example of the phrase Welcome in Egypt, where the choice of
in over to is said to be influenced by the Arabic spoken in that com-
munity. Previously considered a mistake, it is now used by both native
English speakers and native Arabic speakers as a norm, even codified
as a local variant in EFL (English as a Foreign Language) textbooks for
the Egyptian market. The fact that it is used by both groups suggests
it could be seen legitimately as a product of linguistic accommoda-
tion. This may in part be associated with some of the advantages and
drawbacks involved in the spread of English across the globe (see also
Chapter 3).
On one side, those who argue that the global spread of English is a
good thing focus on the fact that competence in English allows access
to knowledge and to resources. In this view, English is enabling and
empowering, giving people educational and commercial opportunities
which would be restricted if only the language of the local community
were used. On the other, it has been suggested that English is simply
another way in which a particular community can be controlled and
exploited. A parallel is often made with political and economic globali-
sation (Phillipson 1992): a relatively small group of powerful westerners
come to dominate, not only through the political and economic system,
but also through the cultural system (manifest most strongly, of course,
through language). The spread of English in the British Isles resulted in
the geographical marginalisation of indigenous Celtic languages to the
north and west of the land mass. But this marginalisation is not simply
geographical: it is also cultural and social, and the spread of English
beyond the British Isles sometimes goes hand in hand with the impo-
sition of a set of cultural norms by the colonising powers. If English
comes to be the language of government, education, and business in a
community, then local languages become restricted to specific domains
(sometimes restricted just to the home); as the functional load of English
increases in scope, the functional load of the local language narrows.
This is not stable bilingualism – this is language shift, leading to the
ultimate dominance of English across all domains in the community.
But sometimes this is not what happens. Speakers do one (or both)
of two things, both of which are again connected to the notion of iden-
tity which we have appealed to throughout this book. One option is to
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 101
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 101 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
102 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
maintain the local language, protecting its use in particular domains, and
engaging in some kind of language planning that ensures the community
recognises and values the cultural knowledge associated with the local
variety. Many sociolinguists who work with speakers of languages that
are endangered, or not yet codified, consider it part of the ‘deal’ struck
when they record the speakers for their research, that they make some
contribution to the protection of the local variety, by writing grammars
or dictionaries of the language under investigation. A second option is
to take ‘English’ and make it local. This practice (not always a conscious
one) is what is currently giving rise to the increasingly distinctive ‘new
Englishes’ (see Crystal 2003: 140–6) in various parts of Asia, for example,
to the extent that speakers of these varieties may not easily understand
one another (using the mutual intelligibility criterion, they would be
speaking different languages). As noted in Chapter 6, a similar pattern
is observable in the history of Latin: not only did the network bonds of
speakers of vulgar Latin become so weak that new varieties emerged
(for example, Italian, French, Spanish), but even in communities where
Latin was the language of education and law, and not the language of
interpersonal domains (for example, in medieval England), many words
originating from Latin became ‘vernacularised’. In other words, the
norms in the communities in which ‘new Englishes’ are spoken may not
derive from the practices and principles of the native speaker of English
in the United Kingdom or the United States, but from those using the
language in a particular local setting, for a particular set of communica-
tive purposes, and for the negotiation of particular identities (Graddol
1999). Furthermore, a similar ‘vernacularisation’ takes place in situa-
tions of dialect contact, as we will see in the next chapter. If differences
between languages and dialects are primarily social in nature, then we
should expect similar processes and outcomes in the vernacularisa-
tion of different varieties of English around the world, whether we are
talking about the evaluation of ‘American’ variants in New Zealand
English, or ‘English’ variants in Hindi.
This is a very important feature of English sociolinguistics – the
tension between the status of English as a lingua franca, and the emer-
gence of new Englishes. As English develops rapidly in the world (on
which see further Graddol 2006), it comes to serve a utilitarian function
(where two individuals who don’t speak each other’s language may
decide to communicate in English), so that it rather perversely could
be described as an auxiliary language. Further consequences for the
global spread of English are potentially highly significant. Two varie-
ties of English (namely American and British English) have up until
the beginning of the present century served as the models for learners
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 102
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 102 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
LANGUAGE CONTACT 103
of English as a foreign language. But this may no longer be the case in
the future. Much rests on the extent to which new varieties of English
gain wider recognition and status. In order to describe different kinds of
English in different communities across the world, Kachru (1985) uses
the idea of concentric circles:1
at the heart of ‘English’ are the inner-
circle varieties (such as those spoken in the UK, Australia and Canada),
where, taking the population as a whole, English is the primary lan-
guage; beyond this are the outer-circle varieties (such as are spoken in
Singapore and India), where English was used by colonising powers in
the past, and now has some official status, as we saw in Chapter 3; and
finally, there are the expanding-circle varieties (such as those spoken
in Germany and Japan), where there is no history of colonisation, but
given the global spread of English, the language is often taught as the
first ‘foreign’ language in schools, and may also be used in some media
(see Schneider 2007 for an alternative account of the spread of English
across the world).
Some of the outer-circle varieties of English have become so well
established, and distinct from one another, that new names have been
created to describe them, such as Singlish (Singaporean English) and
Hinglish (Hindi + English). The possible issue here is what will happen
if such varieties become the models for English as a foreign language: the
more such varieties are legitimised, the more likely it is that these new
Englishes will serve as models. But this is perhaps less likely given the
function of English as a lingua franca. When English is used in such con-
texts, often adherence to the formal properties of a particular variety is
of less concern to the interlocutors than is the need to communicate effi-
ciently and display solidarity through consensus on a particular choice
of language. In a sense, any old English will do, as long as the message
gets across, and the appropriate social bond is created. Such a situation
highlights yet again the myth of ‘English’ – we saw this in the discussion
of the history of the language from Old English to the present, and we see
it again in the diversification of English across the globe.
7.6 Summary
A remarkable feature about English has been its spread across the
globe, but this can sometimes be rather exaggerated. First, it is not the
case that ‘one’ English has been transported, but rather a selection of
Englishes. These Englishes have diversified in contact with other lan-
guages, making them yet more distinct from the emergent standard. At
the same time, the adoption of English as the world’s lingua franca in
particular contexts has meant that proficiency in a global standard – one
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 103
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 103 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
104 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
that is functional irrespective of the location in which it is used, and
irrespective of the other linguistic varieties used by the speakers of that
standard – has become a valuable commodity for some, and has resulted
in a further spread of the language in particular domains, in particular
communities. That said, it is important not to forget that many humans
in the world may never use any form of English; and those that do so
may not see such variants as ‘English’, but rather as means to enrich
their linguistic repertoire, and consequently the pool of resources to
draw on in any given communicative act.
Exercises
The exercises for this chapter are discussion topics.
1. What are some of the motivations for code-switching?
2. To what extent is crossing similar to code-switching, and to what
extent is it different?
3. Can a creole be distinguished from a pidgin purely on the basis of a
set of formal properties?
Further reading
There are many books on contact linguistics and pidgin and creole lan-
guages, such as: Le Page and Tabouret-Keller (1985), Romaine (1988),
Mühlhäusler (1997), Sebba (1997), Singh (2000), Thomason (2001),
Winford (2003), and Mufwene (2008). A useful collection of articles
on code-switching is Auer (1998), and a detailed monograph is Myers-
Scotton (1997).
Note
1. While this model of concentric circles is useful for establishing large-
scale differences, there is some gradience and overlap between ‘inner’
and ‘outer’ varieties, and between ‘outer’ and ‘expanding’ varieties.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 104
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 104 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
105
8 Dialect contact
8.1 Overview
In the previous chapter, we considered some of the ways in which
contact between speakers of mutually intelligible varieties could result
in the emergence of new varieties known as pidgins and creoles. We also
considered some of the social psychological motivations for accommo-
dation, and illustrated how accommodation is associated with the devel-
opment of contact languages. Many of the new Englishes have emerged
as a result of patterns of long-term contact between transported varie-
ties of English, and various indigenous languages across the globe.
But what happens when speakers of different dialects come into
contact? If, as we argued in Chapter 1, there is no formal, linguistic dif-
ference between a dialect and a language (that is, if the distinction is
primarily a functional, social one), then we would expect to see similar
kinds of linguistic patterns emerging in cases of dialect contact to those
we see in cases of language contact. In other words, the study of dialects
in contact should prove to be a useful test case for some of the earlier
claims. The degree of difference between the input and output varieties
might be reduced in comparison with language contact scenarios; but the
key issue is whether the general patterns and principles are the same.
We will begin our examination of the principles of dialect contact by
considering some patterns in the dialects of Britain, before moving to
the establishment of new varieties of English in the United States and
in New Zealand. It is also important to understand some of the differ-
ences between what appear to be very similar processes associated with
dialect contact.
8.2 Dialect contact in Britain
One useful distinction to make is that of endogenous vs. exoge-
nous change. Endogenous change is concerned with the ‘internal’
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 105
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 105 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
106 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
development of a particular variety (that is, changes which occur that
seem to be highly localisable to a given accent or dialect); exogenous
changes are ones which are brought about primarily through contact
with other accents and dialects. Trudgill (1999b) provides an account of
endogenous and exogenous changes which have affected the variety of
English spoken in and around Norwich. An example of an endogenous
change concerns the vowel in the TRAP lexical set (that is, in words
such as trap, bat and sack). In Norwich English, the vowel has been shown
to undergo a diphthongisation to [aɛ] – this development is not attested
either in Received Pronunciation (a British accent associated with
upper-class and upper-middle-class speech) or in neighbouring local
accents in the east of England, so it seems to be special to Norwich; it is
one of the ways in which this particular accent is diverging from other
accents, and thereby making Norwich English more distinctive (that is,
it is an instance of dialect divergence).
An example of exogenous change concerns development of
H-Dropping (a feature which was discussed in Chapter 4) in East
Anglia in the mid-to-late twentieth century. H-Dropping, as we saw, is
a salient feature of some varieties of English, and has been stigmatised
for some time. Despite this, there is evidence from Trudgill’s socio-
linguistic studies carried out in Norwich (for example, Trudgill 1974,
1999b) to suggest that H-Dropping is on the increase in that area of
England. East Anglia was one of the few areas of England not to have
noticeable H-Dropping in the Survey of English Dialects (SED), and until
fairly recently, it was the case that only the Norwich urban area showed
patterns of H-Dropping, where it functioned as a clear class marker,
being avoided in middle-class speech, and variably adopted in working-
class speech (Trudgill 1974). More recently, however, speakers from a
wider geographical area in East Anglia have adopted this innovation.
Unlike the development in the TRAP set, the change in the geographi-
cal spread of H-Dropping made the accents of East Anglia more like
those of other areas of England (a process known as convergence), or
at least did so for a time. Somewhat confounding the efforts of the East
Anglians to converge with other southern British English varieties,
many speakers in the south-east are abandoning H-Dropping: evidence
from Milton Keynes and Reading (Williams and Kerswill 1999), and
particularly from ethnic minority groups in working-class areas of inner
London, suggests that (h):[h] variants are more frequently attested in
contemporary urban southern British English.
A further example of convergence is the spread of Standard English
morphosyntactic forms across the British Isles. Looking at the results
of the SED, we see that forms like een, shoon and kine for ‘eyes’, ‘shoes’
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 106
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 106 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
DIALECT CONTACT 107
and ‘cows’ were once well attested in northern varieties, while the
use of her as the subject of a sentence (as in her is my wife) could be
found in south-western varieties. Such morphosyntactic features have
undergone standardisation, such that fewer and fewer speakers use
these forms. The -n plural suffix (which is maintained in the Standard
English plurals oxen and children) was once a more productive suffix of
English, but has been losing out to the -s suffix from the Old English
period onwards. This kind of standardisation involves increased regu-
larity (fewer words are marked as plural using patterns other than
the -s inflection). By contrast, the loss of her as a subject pronoun
increases the morphological complexity of the system: instead of
having her as the pronoun for female referents in all syntactic positions,
there is now a particular pronoun to mark the grammatical subject
(that is, she). But both changes involve the loss of marked features,
because they are either atypical or infrequent formally, regionally or
socially.
Notice that there are therefore two ways in which variants associ-
ated with a larger number of varieties may infiltrate the speech of lan-
guage users in a particular dialect area. One type of exogenous change
involves the adoption of standard forms, the kind of variants that will
typically be used in careful style or by middle-class people, or be associ-
ated with the written language (in the case of morphosyntactic patterns,
or lexical choices). The other type of exogenous change involves the
adoption of widespread non-standard forms. We might think that the
consequence of this will be that a new, general, non-standard variety of
British English emerges, but in fact this is not the case. It is true that par-
ticular features have a wide currency among varieties of British English
(features like H-Dropping as noted above, and also TH-Fronting and
T-Glottaling); but this has to be seen alongside other features which
make a variety distinctive.
An associated issue concerns the way in which linguistic varia-
tion correlates with a speaker’s attempt to mark a particular kind of
social identity. Recall that this issue was discussed in relation to recent
analyses of stylistic variation in Chapter 4. In that chapter, we said that
speakers may choose from a set of variants of a given variable in order
to mark allegiance with a particular social group (which in turn may
simultaneously be associated with a particular region). But it is not
simply the variants which mark identity; the variables themselves may
function as identity markers. By this I mean that the very adoption of
variability may be used to signal some sort of social identity. If a speaker
from a town near Norwich in East Anglia begins to use variable (h), then
it is not simply the presence or absence of [h], but the fact that there is
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 107
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 107 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
108 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
even variation in the first place, that may go some way to characterise a
particular identity.
Before we go on to look in detail at particular instances of dialect
contact, there is one other issue to be addressed, which again is associ-
ated with identity, and the distinctiveness of a particular variety. In
a study of New Zealand English, Meyerhoff and Niedzielski (2003)
examined the distribution of a set of phonological and lexical features
which have recently appeared in New Zealand English and seem to
have been ‘borrowed’ from American English. For example, some New
Zealanders pronounce better as [bɛɾə], with an alveolar tap as the inter-
vocalic consonant; or they may use the word hood instead of bonnet, when
talking about a particular part of a car. While this is certainly evidence
of divergence (an increase in variation in New Zealand English), it is
less clear that this is perceived by New Zealanders to be the adoption
of a set of Americanisms (and thus reflecting the influence, or the glo-
balisation, of American English) – they may simply see this as a new
feature of vernacular New Zealand English. If this is the case, “these
forms are not part of a more self-conscious alignment with a non-New
Zealand identity, but rather, they are part of the variety a speaker may
use in those very contexts when one is least mindful of one’s speech”
(Meyerhoff and Niedzielski 2003: 547). This has important ramifica-
tions for other aspects of the influence of one variety on another. If a
Californian uses the word wee for ‘little’, it is not necessarily the case
that they are attempting to project some sort of ‘Scottish’ identity; and
if a Scotsman uses [f] instead of [θ] in words like tooth, he is not neces-
sarily trying to sound like a Londoner. Rather, the adoption of such
innovation increases the range of variants which – at a local, rather than
a global level – may have correlations with particular kinds of identity.
But this identity is created locally, not globally.
We can now consider particular cases of dialect contact, and the
linguistic outcomes involved. One salient feature that distinguishes
speakers from the north of England from those in the south concerns
the vowel in words like put and putt. Northerners have the same vowel
in the words put and putt (/ʊ/ in both), while southerners have two
different vowels, /ʊ/ for put, and /ʌ/ for putt. This is the result of an
earlier change known as the FOOT/STRUT split, using terms of the
lexical sets of Wells (1982). But there comes a point where north and
south meet, and the question arises as to the phonological system of the
speakers of this area, who are likely to be in frequent contact with both
‘northern’ speakers and ‘southern’ speakers: are speakers at the heart of
this dialect contact area all linguistically either northerners or southern-
ers, or is there some sort of ‘compromise’ variety that emerges?
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 108
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 108 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
DIALECT CONTACT 109
When we consult the SED to explore what was found when field-
workers visited the area in the mid-twentieth century, we discover that
not only did some speakers have a northern system, some a southern
system, and some a ‘compromise’ system, but that those in the last group
compromised in different ways (Chambers and Trudgill 1998: 106–13).
Some had a mixed system ([ʊ] in some STRUT words, like northerners,
but a few STRUT words with [ʌ], like southerners); some had a fudged
system (neither [ʊ] nor [ʌ] in STRUT words, but rather [ɤ], a variant
that shares some features of [ʊ] and some of [ʌ]); and some had a mixed,
fudged system ([ʊ], [ʌ] and [ɤ] in various words in the STRUT set).
These speakers are therefore very creative in negotiating the differ-
ences between the accents that surround them, accommodating to their
neighbours in very sophisticated ways. The system in this transition
zone between the two dialect areas shows a complex pattern of distribu-
tion of old and new forms.
The phenomenon described is one which has emerged as a result of
long-term accommodation over an extended period of time, and the data
we have are collected typically from the NORMs described in Chapter 4,
so contact between speakers in these communities might have been fairly
infrequent (remember that they were typically ‘non-mobile’). Some
sociolinguists have been concerned with exploring patterns which may
be associated with dialect contact in urban communities. In Tyneside
English, for instance, the vowel in the FACE set has been undergoing
some significant changes. A recent survey (see Watt and Milroy 1999 for
further details) showed a number of variants for this vocalic variable in
the speech of a group of Tynesiders, ranging from the highly localised
(for example, [fɪəs] ‘face’) to an RP-like variant (for example, [feɪs]).
These two variants mark extremes on a continuum from the highly local
to the highly supra-local; what’s more, it was clear that few speakers
really favoured either extreme. The most localised form was sometimes
used by male speakers (young and old, middle- and working-class, but
most typical of the older working class), and only very rarely by the
female informants. By contrast, the RP variant was generally very rare
across the entire group. Instead of moving towards either extreme, the
change in Tyneside seems to be more towards a ‘general’ northern form,
something like [feːs] for face. There may be a number of possible motiva-
tions for this change, but one feature which may be relevant is the rela-
tionship between language and identity. Using highly localised features
may be seen to mark a strong affinity with local norms and values, and it
seems to be the case that some speakers from ‘traditional’ urban English
dialect areas are seeking to project a slightly different identity through
the choice of particular linguistic forms. In other words, by rejecting
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 109
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 109 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
110 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
highly localised forms, and by not adopting high-prestige forms associ-
ated with a very particular social category, speakers are able to negotiate
a position which still marks them as ‘generally northern’.
So far we have been discussing the outcome of contact in British
dialects in communities which have been established for a considerable
period of time. What happens when socially and geographically mobile
speakers come into contact in a new community? And more impor-
tantly, what kind of accent do children born into such a community
have? In order to answer this question, we need to find an example of a
community which is newly created.
One example of such a community is the new town (the product of
a government development programme which sets up an urban area
in a previously rural community). Milton Keynes in southern England
is such a new town, and has been the site of substantial sociolinguistic
fieldwork (see Williams and Kerswill 1999 and references therein). The
town has a large proportion of residents from southern England (particu-
larly from London), and others from elsewhere in the UK and the rest of
the world. Linguistic variation in new towns is of particular interest to
sociolinguists, because of the special demographics of such communities.
For many individuals, particular life changes may correlate with disrup-
tion to and reorganisation of the social networks to which the individual
belongs. For instance, going to a new school, or coming to university,
involves the creation of new friendship networks, and the negotiation of
power relations with new individuals. In such cases, these regroupings
take place within a context of established networks (for example, where
older children at school already have established friendship groups). The
creation of a new town involves much more substantial restructuring,
because there are few existing groups in the new community at the point
of its creation. Furthermore, many of the residents of the new town are
(by definition) geographically mobile, and possibly also socially mobile;
and as we saw in Chapter 5, increased social and geographic mobility can
give rise to linguistic change. This contrasts with the kind of linguistic
stability we see in certain sectors of established urban communities,
where strong networks typically inhibit changes. In other words, we see
a parallel between social heterogeneity and linguistic heterogeneity: the
more varied the social ‘make-up’ of the community is, the more diverse
the set of linguistic forms will be, at least initially.
Research into accent variation in Milton Keynes has shown this to be
the case. Table 8.1 shows variation in the vowel of the MOUTH lexical
set.
These data provide us with a great deal of information regarding the
linguistic patterns associated with new dialect formation:
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 110
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 110 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
DIALECT CONTACT 111
• The existing ‘local’ variant is not adopted. The second column in
Table 8.1 shows the proportion of the [ɛʊ] variant in the record-
ings. This is the variant that the traditional dialectological survey,
the SED, found to be typical in the area. Note that this feature is the
one that is favoured by the ‘elderly’ group (this is a group of speakers
who had lived in small villages and towns that now form part of the
larger Milton Keynes conurbation). However, neither the women
age 25–40, who had moved to Milton Keynes from other parts of the
country (and indeed, other parts of the world), nor their children,
used this form at all.
• The set of variants which characterise the women’s language is more
evenly distributed than is the case with either the elderly speakers
or the children. Indeed, not all of the variants produced by the chil-
dren’s caregivers are provided here: there were some caregivers from
Scotland who had a monophthongal [ʉ] in some instances, a further
indication of the diffuse nature of the caregivers’ language with
respect to this particular variable. Elderly speakers clearly favour the
local, traditional form; children, by contrast, are favouring a different
variant [aʊ] that is not imbued with any particular social meaning (in
part by virtue of being non-local; see further Kerswill et al. 2008). So
across the age range, we move from focused (elderly) to diffuse (care-
givers) then back to focused (children), but with a change in which
particular variant the groups focus on.
What has been described here is sometimes called koineisation; it
is important to distinguish this both from dialect levelling and from
geographical diffusion, though all three are connected to patterns of
long-term accommodation. First, dialect levelling has been defined as
“a process whereby differences between regional varieties are reduced,
features which make varieties distinctive disappear, and new features
emerge and are adopted by speakers over a wide geographical area”
Table 8.1 MOUTH in Milton Keynes and surrounding villages (adapted from
Kerswill 2002: 697, table 26.9).
[ɛʊ] [ɛɪ] [ɛː] [aː] [æʊ] [aʊ]
SED 100 – – – – –
Elderly 63.2 25.6 9.8 0 1.2 0
Women age 25–40 0 0 11.7 17.2 38.6 31.5
Girls age 14 0 0 0 5.9 4.7 88.8
Boys age 14 0 0 0 12.3 3.8 83.1
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 111
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 111 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
112 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
(Williams and Kerswill 1999: 149). However, as Watson (2006) observes,
it is helpful to separate out geographical diffusion (the spread of new
linguistic features from one urban community to the next, or from an
urban community into the surrounding rural community, as discussed
in Chapter 4) from levelling, a reduction in phonologically marked vari-
ants. The term ‘markedness’ may refer to linguistic or social features – for
example, one aspect of a linguistically ‘marked’ feature in English is a
diphthongal vocalic variant with a rounded second element (for example,
[əʏ]), while one kind of socially marked variant is one that is associated
with a highly localised group (for example, a variant that is characteristic
of the local rural community in a new town setting, or a variant associated
with traditional lower-working-class speakers in an established urban
community). Both linguistically and socially marked variants are typi-
cally disfavoured in situations of dialect contact; however, it is not always
the case that marked variants disappear. For instance, despite the fact that
[əʏ] is a phonologically marked form in English, there is actually some
evidence of the spread of this feature in outer London female speech,
though it is rarer in inner London communities (Kerswill et al. 2008).
In terms of dialects in England, then, Kerswill’s research has shown
that many of the features associated with careful, middle-class, south-
eastern speech (which we typically associate with the spoken Standard
English of England) have permeated across the UK, with the result
that many parts of the UK are now very similar in terms of dialect
(particularly in terms of lexical and grammatical variation). However,
some features of the accent (that is, the phonetic and phonological vari-
ation) have not in fact spread beyond the south-east: in these cases, what
we see are patterns of local convergence, associated with major urban
centres like Manchester and Glasgow.
8.3 Dialect contact beyond Britain
A very interesting intersection between modern sociolinguistics and
studies in the history of English concerns the development of English
in ‘new’ communities overseas. The spread of English around the world
provides some useful data for testing some of the claims associated
with contemporary dialect contact and levelling. We still need to bear
in mind the issues associated with doing historical sociolinguistics (see
Chapter 6), but it is nevertheless useful to see whether the same kinds
of patterns (for example, initial diffuseness in early contact, followed
by levelling and focusing in the subsequent generation of new dialect
acquirers) seem to emerge from the historical data.
One way of trying to ascertain this is to look at informal observations
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 112
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 112 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
DIALECT CONTACT 113
made by visitors to the new settlements. Some of the comments made
by observers of American English in the colonial and early post-colonial
period reflect not only some interesting attitudes towards the languages
and dialects spoken in different communities, but also provide some
anecdotal evidence in support of the claim that dialect contact was a
factor in the development of the new varieties. For instance, the three
observations below suggest that late eighteenth- and early nineteenth-
century American English is characterised by more levelled varieties
than is the case with British dialects:
(1) it is agreed, that there is greater uniformity of dialect throughout the
United States (in consequence of the frequent removals of people
from one part of our country to another) than is to be found through-
out England. (Pickering 1816: 11)
(2) In England, almost every county is distinguished by a peculiar dialect;
even different habits, and different modes of thinking, evidently dis-
criminate inhabitants, whose local situation is not far remote: but in
Maryland, and throughout adjacent provinces, it is worthy of observa-
tion, that a striking similarity of speech universally prevails . . . The
colonists are composed of adventurers, not only from every district
of Great Britain and Ireland, but from almost every other European
government, where the principles of liberty and commerce have
operated with spirit and efficacy. Is it not, therefore, reasonable to
suppose, that the English language must be greatly corrupted by such
a strange intermixture of various nations? The reverse, however, is
true. The language of the immediate descendants of such a promiscu-
ous ancestry is perfectly uniform, and unadulterated. (William Eddis,
Letter, 1770, cited in Carver 1992: 136)
(3) I ought perhaps to except [from the universal prevalence of dialect]
the United States of America, in which dialect is hardly known; unless
some scanty remains of the croaking, guttural idioms of the Dutch,
still observable in New York; the Scotch-Irish, as it used to be called,
in some of the back settlers of the Middle States; and the whining,
canting drawl brought by some republican, Oliverian and Puritan
emigrants from the West of England, and still kept up by their unre-
generated descendants of New England – may still be called dialects.
(Jonathan Boucher, 1800, cited in Montgomery 2001: 97–8)
This anecdotal evidence is useful as a general indication of some pat-
terns, but is not really sufficient for detailed analysis of the role of
contact and levelling in new dialect formation. What is needed is some
fuller record of earlier speech.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 113
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 113 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
114 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
One such record is the Origins of New Zealand English (ONZE)
corpus, which has been used in a number of studies regarding the forma-
tion of New Zealand English (for example, Gordon et al. 2004; Trudgill
2004). This corpus contains recordings of conversations with elderly
informants, the children of early settlers in New Zealand, who were
recorded in the 1940s. The informants typically came from rural areas.
The accents of these informants are remarkably diffuse, which as we
have seen is atypical of established communities, so this suggests that
such data may be of value for research into new dialect formation.
Trudgill (2004) makes some particular claims regarding the develop-
ment of new dialects: specifically, he argues that the social context of
dialect formation in New Zealand is somewhat different from that of
Milton Keynes, because there is greater continuity with the latter than
is the case with the former (see also Kerswill and Trudgill 2005 for a
comparison of dialect contact in Milton Keynes and New Zealand).
Trudgill goes further to suggest there is something deterministic about
new dialect formation in what he describes as tabula rasa contexts (where
there are no existing speakers of the language). This model marginalises
the role of social factors in certain stages of dialect contact, and relies
instead rather more on pure demographics. Knowledge of the propor-
tion of speakers from different established dialect areas (for example,
central Scotland, or southern England), and the linguistic systems
associated with those dialect areas, at the time of initial contact in New
Zealand, should be sufficient to predict the linguistic system of the new
variety. Accommodation plays an important role for the original set-
tlers and their descendants, as do the processes of levelling and focusing
discussed above.
According to Trudgill, early contact is characterised by rudimentary
levelling (where marked variants disappear, because they are socially
salient, by virtue of being markers of a minority group, for instance, or
being already stigmatised in British English of the period); the next stage
(which is largely represented by the speech of the informants recorded
as part of the ONZE project) is one of significant diffuseness, at the level
both of the individual speaker, and of the group. This is because factors
like prestige do not exert influence in these circumstances, because
the variants are not socially stratified in a meaningful way: there are
no social motivations for dialect acquirers to select any one variant
instead of any other, so a wide range of variants is likely to characterise
the accent of these informants. The only factor which is likely to be of
importance is pure frequency, which itself is of relevance to the focused
variety which emerges in the third stage. Those variants which occur
most frequently are likely to ‘win out’ in the focused variety. A rather
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 114
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 114 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
DIALECT CONTACT 115
different account is provided by Gordon et al. (2004), who argue more
strongly for social factors in the emergence of New Zealand English.
They suggest that New Zealand was not really a tabula rasa, or at least
not for long, since more urban settlements quickly developed along
particular ethnic (often religious) lines, and further immigration from
Britain led to more salient social groupings which would favour the
development of socially marked, and possibly even prestige, variants.
Certainly, educational policy may well have established the promotion
of particular forms as socially more appropriate.
Comparing patterns in Milton Keynes and New Zealand may
develop our understanding of the role of dialect contact in linguistic
change, but the socioeconomic situation is rather different in each case
– not least because the Milton Keynes data detail the creation of an
urban variety, while the ONZE data represent rural varieties. Certainly
there is considerable room for debate regarding the role of social factors
in new dialect formation. With this in mind, the final section of this
chapter concerns the role of networks in dialect contact.
8.4 Networks and dialect contact
One interesting way to correlate patterns associated with dialect contact
and levelling with more general sociolinguistic principles is to return
to our notion of the social network (see Chapters 2, 4 and 5). When we
consider the social processes underlying many of our dialect contact
scenarios, we can observe that one common link to them all is increased
mobility. Whether this concerns contemporary societies (where people
move into new towns, or are increasingly commuting over larger areas,
and into urban centres, for employment) or earlier communities (where
people moved across the globe to settle in new lands), what we see are
social networks where early ties may be broken, and new ones estab-
lished: a change in the density and plexity of the network links, and
potentially of the members of the individual’s network. In Chapters
4 and 5, we saw that the continuation of strong network links in local
areas tends to preserve the vernacular, while disruption to networks
may result in increased standardisation. In situations of dialect level-
ling, we might suggest that the loss of the heavily localised forms may
be related to the disruption of heavily localised strong network bonds;
yet the emergence of regional standards suggests that some strong sense
of identity is maintained across the region. This results in a complex
layering of degrees of localness, all bound up with attempts to project a
kind of identity: not too local to seem ‘small town’, but not too general
to have lost any indications of where a speaker comes from.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 115
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 115 22/2/10 16:21:25
22/2/10 16:21:25
116 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
We can try to link this issue of identity to different kinds of linguistic
variables too. For instance, research on some morphosyntactic varia-
tion seems to suggest that this has become much more homogeneous
over time; levelling and standardisation seem to have affected gram-
matical variables more readily than they have affected the phonological
or phonetic ones. In Milton Keynes, for instance, researchers found
little evidence of local grammatical variation among younger speak-
ers. This did not mean that they were all using Standard English all of
the time; rather, it meant that the speakers typically used supra-local
non-standard forms (Cheshire et al. 2005). Turning to accent variables,
it seems to be the case that consonantal variation (in British English
at least) tends to be used less as a way of marking local identity than
vocalic variation does (see Chapter 4). Many consonantal variants have
a large geographical spread across the United Kingdom, while vocalic
variants continue to be used as a ‘badge’ of localness.
8.5 Summary
How are we to explain the different kinds of reduction in variation that
affect (a) different kinds of variables and (b) different communities?
The decrease in morphosyntactic variation may be partly associated
with increased dialect contact that comes with increased geographical
mobility, but it is also strongly associated with social mobility, par-
ticularly as more and more people become educated, and for a longer
period of time, so more people are exposed more often (and for longer)
to the standard dialect in formal education. Accent variation is more
complex still. While some evidence from adult language may suggest
that accommodation to middle-class norms is of relevance to more
homogeneous language in older speakers, patterns associated with
younger dialect users require additional explanations. It seems to be
the case, however, that studies of dialect contact illustrate nicely the
relationship between linguistic variation and the social characteristics
of the speakers in a given area: in situations of great social diversity (for
example, after periods of initial contact), where the speech community
is more heterogeneous, we see a corresponding diffuseness in the set of
linguistic forms; as that community begins to cohere, we see a reduction
in variation, associated with increased levelling and standardisation.
Exercise
Study the data in Figure 8.1, then answer the questions that follow.
These data show the distribution of TH-Fronting in Glasgow. Note
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 116
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 116 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
DIALECT CONTACT 117
that the figure is an adapted and simplified version of the data presented
in Table 5 of Stuart-Smith and Timmins (2007: 236), because (a) only
data from the word list style have been used and (b) two variants have
not been included in the graph, for ease of visual representation. These
variants are [h] and [m]; there were no instances of [h] in word list style
for any groups; for [m] there was a score of 2.27 among the older working
classes. It is always very important, when describing variation, to ensure
that all the variants of a given variable are recorded and reported (part
of what Labov 1972 describes as the principle of accountability). The
variant [θ]/[f] is described by the authors as being phonetically inter-
mediate between labial and dental fricatives.
a. Describe the distribution of variants of (θ) in Glasgow in this particu-
lar speech style.
Older middle Younger middle Older working Younger working
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
[␪]
[f]
[␪]/[f]
[t]
[s]
Class
%
Figure 8.1 TH-Fronting in Glasgow (Stuart-Smith and Timmins 2007: 236).
Note: Word list style only; scores for [h] (0 per cent for all groups) and [m]
(2.27 per cent for older working class, 0 per cent for all other groups) not
represented.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 117
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 117 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
118 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
b. Based on what has been said about TH-Fronting elsewhere in Britain
(see index for the relevant pages), does this development in Glasgow
appear to be an instance of convergence to other non-standard
accents in the UK, or divergence? On what grounds have you made
this decision?
c. From these data, who appears to be leading the change? Is this typical
or atypical for this kind of change?
d. What other evidence would be useful in explaining the social and
discourse context of TH-Fronting in Glasgow?
Further reading
Trudgill (1986) is an early monograph on dialect contact, and some of
the views expressed there are revised in Trudgill (2004). Dialect level-
ling and dialect contact are explored using data from British English
by Watt and Milroy (1999) and Williams and Kerswill (1999). Kerswill
(2002) provides a comprehensive summary of accommodation and koi-
neisation, using data from a range of languages. Britain (2006) provides a
very helpful summary of central issues in contact linguistics, discussing
both dialect and language contact.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 118
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 118 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
119
9 Sociolinguistics and linguistic
theory
9.1 Overview
This ninth chapter is concerned with the place of sociolinguistics within
the larger context of linguistic theory. Specifically, we will consider
whether some of the findings discussed in the previous chapters are
relevant to discussions about the structure of language. If they are, we
will also need to consider how best to incorporate such findings into
theoretical accounts of language.
In Chapter 1, we considered the notion of English as a social concept,
and we saw that in some ways, the term ‘English’ is used in social and
political discourse about language as if it were a linguistic entity – that
there exist sets of sounds, words and clauses which make up the English
language. This view has been adopted by individuals and groups who
have attempted to plan English, as we saw in Chapter 3. We have also
seen that for some sociolinguists, what makes something ‘English’ is
whatever a community of speakers who claim to speak English believe
to be ‘English’. Taking both of these views into account, English is
therefore a linguistic system which operates as a communal property,
owned and policed in different ways at different levels of the commu-
nity for different purposes. It may be used at the level of government
to promote a particular national policy, and it may be used at the level
of local community to mark a group identity. In terms of a system, we
can suggest that what defines a community grammar of English is a
tacit agreement on a series of shared norms, which explains, in the case
of stable sociolinguistic variables, the regular distribution of variants
across different social groups in different speech styles.
We have also, however, noted that not all linguists (including some
sociolinguists) agree with this account. First, we have seen that it must
be the case that any individual who claims to speak English does not in
fact have command of all of the linguistic resources which could possi-
bly be construed as English. At a trivial level, this can be exemplified by
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 119
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 119 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
120 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
lexical knowledge: no individual knows all of the words of English; they
only know a subset of these words. This holds true not only for lexical
knowledge, but also for phonological and syntactic knowledge. Thus (1)
below is perfectly well formed for some speakers of English in India:
(1) What he is doing?
but would not be considered as well formed for many speakers of
English in other countries. This in itself is not a problem for a commu-
nity grammar account: we can simply state that the norms for speakers
of vernacular Indian English regarding wh- question formation are dif-
ferent from those of speakers of other varieties. But this issue of dialect
variation is critical for an account of language structure, not just in terms
of what it says about broad dialect areas, but also in terms of what it tells
us about individual linguistic knowledge. This is relevant because, as
we have seen, variation is an integral part of the linguistic knowledge
of an individual: our discussion of the linguistic variable has shown that
speakers regularly make use of alternative ways of communicating a
particular message in order to affiliate themselves to a particular group,
or to project a particular kind of identity. This links to some research
in quantitative sociolinguistics which has attempted to understand
‘how variables mean’, and how this relates to identity. A speaker from
the north-east of Scotland who uses (2a) in one speech act and (2b) in
another has command of both variants, and can exploit this knowledge
to signal a range of different social characteristics:
(2a) I don’t know him.
(2b) I na ken him.
The linguistic variation here is phonological, lexical and morphosyn-
tactic. What does it tell us about the place of such variation in terms of
linguistic structure? And how does this relate to the fact that the social
context of the speech act, and the social characteristics of the speaker
and addressee, may influence which of the forms is uttered on any par-
ticular occasion? Is it possible to bring together some of the findings of
‘biolinguistics’ (the subdiscipline of linguistics which is concerned with
the mental representations of phonological and syntactic structures)
and ‘sociolinguistics’ (Cornips and Corrigan 2005), and what (if any)
contribution can this make to our understanding of English? Is there a
significant difference between the mental grammar and language use?
These are the questions we will be seeking to address in this chapter.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 120
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 120 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
SOCIOLINGUISTICS AND LINGUISTIC THEORY 121
9.2 The relationship between biolinguistics and sociolinguistics
Biolinguistic inquiry and sociolinguistic inquiry in the second half of
the twentieth century were practically always treated as two separate
intellectual domains, with very little research which attempted to
bring the two together in a systematic way. Some biolinguists were
concerned about the “theoretical pretentions” (Chomsky 1979: 55) of
sociolinguistics, and believed that variationist sociolinguistics provided
“nothing of interest to linguistic theory” (Smith 1989: 180). Similarly,
some sociolinguists argued that many of the specific axioms of genera-
tive linguistics were of little use to the variationist enterprise, because
such axioms were constantly being proposed, tested and then rejected
(Chambers 2003).
Not all linguists have taken such diametrically opposed views
on biolinguistics and sociolinguistics. Hudson (1986, 1997) takes an
approach which attempts to offer the best of both worlds, by incorporat-
ing sociolinguistic data into a specific (cognitive, ‘prototype’) model of
language structure. His concept of language structure is radically dif-
ferent to what some other models have invoked to explain patterns of
variation in various speech communities, as Hudson notes: for instance,
Guy (1994) examines alternation between the presence and absence
of the alveolar oral stops word-finally where they follow another
consonant (as in guest/guessed and bold/bowled) within a framework of
Lexical Phonology, while Kroch (1994) considers the development of
do-periphrasis (and the concomitant changes involving ‘verb raising’) in
early Modern English using a particular formal apparatus. While there
may be no consensus on which theoretical model of language structure
is best suited to incorporating and explaining variable data, Hudson,
Guy and Kroch do at least seem to agree that there is a real need to
synthesise the findings of sociolinguistic investigations with aspects of
theoretical linguistics. A critical question, however, remains: can the
findings of sociolinguistic inquiry be directly incorporated into a partic-
ular biolinguistic model of language structure (so that there is a genuine
synthesis of the two subdisciplines), or are the two subdisciplines dis-
tinct, but linked in a “mutually supportive” (Chomsky 2001: 41) way?
9.3 What do speakers know?
One of the clearest findings of sociolinguistics is that speakers command
a knowledge of variation, which manifests itself in the use of vari-
ables, giving rise to particular varieties. Sometimes those varieties are
considered to be languages, in which case we speak of ‘multilinguals’;
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 121
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 121 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
122 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
but even in the case of ‘monolinguals’, such speakers display regular
stylistic shifts between more standard and more vernacular forms of the
language. We have seen that such linguistic differences can be exploited
by speakers to negotiate aspects of their identity, to project a particular
aspect of their social persona, or to accommodate to other participants
in the discourse. The last of these was shown to be highly influential in
situations of language and dialect contact (Chapters 7 and 8).
We saw in Chapter 4 that the concept of the linguistic variable has
been a most important one for our understanding of sociolinguistic
variation. The sociolinguistic variable has been defined as “a set of alter-
native ways of saying the same thing, although the alternatives will have
social significance” (Fasold 1990: 223–4). Essentially what this means is
that the variants of a variable all have semantic equivalence: whether
I say pity with an intervocalic tap or a glottal stop is irrelevant to the
semantics of the word; the nouns spanner and wrench can both refer to
the same entity; and the man who died, the man that died and the man as died
are all noun phrases with the same referential meaning, even though
the form of the relative pronoun differs in each case. However, the use
of one variant over another may index a series of stylistic, social and
regional characteristics.
All of these examples, however, have been concerned with particular
kinds of variable (phonetic, lexical and morphosyntactic). Far more
problematic for our purposes is the syntactic variable. We will begin
with a fairly standard example, the agentless passive, and then move on
to another, more complex pattern.
A passive clause is one which is marked by a change in the relation
between grammatical roles (such as subject and object) and semantic
roles (such as agent, the source of the action, and patient, the thing that
is acted upon) in comparison with the active counterpart of the passive
clause. Compare, for example, the active clause (3) and its passive coun-
terpart (4):
(3) My friend has kissed my sister.
(4) My sister has been kissed by my friend.
In the passive version (4), my sister has become the subject and my friend
is now the complement of a preposition: but crucially, the semantic
roles have remained constant – my sister is still the patient, the entity
that is acted upon (in other words, still the thing that is kissed), and
my friend is still the agent, the source of the action. So when an active
clause becomes a passive clause, the grammatical roles change, but the
semantic roles remain the same.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 122
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 122 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
SOCIOLINGUISTICS AND LINGUISTIC THEORY 123
It is also possible to form a passive without mentioning the agent:
(5) My sister has been kissed.
The corresponding active form of (5) would be something like:
(6) Someone kissed my sister.
Now the question is whether (5) and (6) are variants of the same vari-
able. The problem is that with syntactic variables, we are really dealing
with the interface between syntax and discourse, pragmatics or seman-
tics (that is, some kind of meaning). One of the functions associated with
passive constructions is concerned with thematic ordering: by moving
the patient into subject position, we may give it greater discourse
prominence, or we may signal to the hearer that it is the topic of the
utterance. As soon as such discourse issues come in to play, we have to
question whether or not the two variants really mean the same thing.
The second example concerns a phenomenon called right-node
raising (RNR), mentioned in Chapter 2 (see Moore 2004). Examples of
RNR are:
(7) Hei
’s a funny man, Mr Jonesi
.
(8) Thati
’s just stupid, thati
.
The subscript i in examples (7) and (8) indicates co-referentiality (e.g. he
and Mr Jones in (7) refer to the same person). Again, as with the passive,
with RNR we see the interface between syntax and discourse. RNR is a
discourse strategy that speakers of English use to clarify the reference of
a preceding (or anaphoric) pronoun, as in (7). Speakers may still use this
pattern to mark identity – it may well be imbued with social meaning
– but it is more difficult in cases such as these to suggest that there are
genuine variants of one particular variable, because it is by no means
clear that alternative construals unambiguously mean the same thing.
With truly syntactic variation, therefore, we may need to recognise
that the syntactic variable is ontologically different from all other kinds
of linguistic variable (including the morphosyntactic variable, which is
discussed in some detail in the following sections).
9.4 The problem of Standard English and dialect syntax
In Chapters 3 and 6, we considered the rise of Standard English as part
of a survey of language planning and English historical sociolinguistics.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 123
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 123 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
124 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
In those chapters, the notion of Standard English was shown to be a
problematic one, partly because the term has a range of different appli-
cations. It can sometimes be used to describe a codified, planned variety
of English (often associated with the written language) that is alleged
to have a cross-cultural application – it is the variety that is taught in
schools, the variety that is held up as a model of ‘good’ usage to learn-
ers of English as a second or other language (as well as to non-standard
speakers of English as a first language), the variety of serious discourse.
But Standard English has also had a central role to play in the develop-
ment of linguistic theories.
One effect of Standard English on the development of linguistic
theories has been in the nature of the data used to construct and test the
various principles or axioms that go to make up an individual model.
Most of the work in theoretical linguistics uses data that are based on
speaker judgements: the linguist will ask someone (most often, himself)
whether a given linguistic string is grammatical or not. Because the the-
orist is interested primarily in the biological, genetic language faculty
that manifests itself slightly differently in different people, he will
normally adopt what is known as an (internalised) I-language approach
(Chomsky 1986), which is purely concerned with constraints on well-
formed utterances (and the reasons for ill-formedness). Here language
is treated as a purely mental object: an I-language is the internal mental
system which defines a speaker’s knowledge of language. The influence
of the standard is felt here in one of two ways: first, if the data gather-
ing is entirely introspective, the model is likely to be built around a
data set which approximates closely to Standard English, since most
academic linguists will have been educated to such a degree that their
language will be standard; second, even if other speakers are asked to
provide judgements, the effects of the standard – given its association
with appropriate or ‘good’ English – can distort a speaker’s responses. In
addition, what a speaker says and what a speaker does are not always the
same thing: a speaker may therefore consider a particular construction
to be ill formed, while at the same time using it quite happily in specific
discourse contexts. Research on dialect grammar within any given theo-
retical framework therefore raises the very important issue of what the
framework is actually attempting to account for.
9.5 (Socio)linguistic modelling
As Adger and Trousdale (2007) point out, syntactic theories tend to
build on standard data, with some lip service paid to variation. This has
sometimes been justified on the grounds that Standard English, unlike
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 124
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 124 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
SOCIOLINGUISTICS AND LINGUISTIC THEORY 125
native speaker intuitions, is a social object, not a natural one, which
itself is a debatable point, not least because there are some speakers
whose idiolect can be identified with the standard variety. None the
less, introspective data are similarly typically based on the idiolect of
a highly educated speaker, that is, one who has been exposed over a
long time to the standard variety; it is therefore possible that gram-
maticality intuitions for such speakers may not be the direct manifes-
tation of an I-language, but one which has been passed through the
Standard English filter. Moreover, much of the theory is built around
standard written English, rather than spoken data. Bybee (2006) has
also observed that using a corpus of texts, and making generalisations
about externalised language (the E-language perspective as defined by
Chomsky 1986) helps to correct some of the possible biases inherent in
using solely introspection as a guide to well-formedness. The question
is whether (and if so, how) we should bridge the gap between I-language
and E-language for a proper understanding of the nature of variation, its
mental representation, and its social correlates.
For instance, imagine a researcher who has collected a corpus of data
over a period of time, having adopted an ethnographic method, and has
analysed the data, establishing (via the use of a statistical program) whether
the variation correlates with linguistic constraints, social constraints or
both. The question then arises as to what is actually being modelled:
a. the corpus alone (that is, the set of utterances which has made up a
corpus), which we can classify as the E-language approach;
b. the biological, genetic language faculty which generates the structures
underlying such utterances, which we can classify as the I-language
approach;
c. the language of the community of speakers, and the social factors
relevant to the context of production of the utterances, which we can
classify, using terminology adopted in ongoing work by David Adger
and Jennifer Smith, as an S-language approach.
Muchsyntactictheorisinghasbeenbasedontheintuitionsofthenative
speaker, as a reflection of a particular I-language. By contrast, much soci-
olinguistic research is concerned with E-language and with S-language,
largely as a result of the widespread belief among sociolinguists in a com-
munity grammar (based largely on the notion of conventionalisation).
The problem is how to link E- and S-grammars to I-grammars. Some lin-
guists have argued that this is not possible: “There is no way that one can
draw conclusions about the grammar of an individual from usage facts
about communities” (Newmeyer 2003: 696). Others are less pessimistic.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 125
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 125 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
126 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
For Adger and Trousdale (2007: 271), “[t]he reason why people who live
closelytogethercanunderstandeachotherisbecausetheyshareagenetic
endowment (by virtue of being human) and common (linguistic) experi-
ence. However . . . everyone’s experience is slightly different, and so we
expect to see very small variations between the I-languages of people
who, in commonsense terms, speak the same dialect”. Note that there
is nothing here that claims that community grammars exist, and what is
stated here is just as applicable to a network-based model of language and
society (see Hudson 1996). The undoubted sense of a community which
correlates with linguistic variation may be based not on shared norms in
the sense of Labov (1972), but rather on social practices and the creation
of social identity (Eckert 2000; Moore 2004).
9.6 The modular approach
One way in which researchers have tried to incorporate sociolinguistics
into a formal linguistic theory is to divide up what speakers know about
language into a grammar component and a usage component (Adger
2006). The grammar component is uniquely linguistic: that is, there is
no social information encoded in the grammatical representation. For
instance, imagine a speaker who varies between saying he was reading
and he were reading. These data suggest that the speaker has two variants
of a morphosyntactic variable, which we can call (BE past): was and (BE
past): were. Speakers of Standard English use both was and were too, of
course, but this is not variable if the subject of the clause is held con-
stant: that is, Standard English speakers always use was with first person
singular (I) and third person singular (for example, he, she or it) subjects,
and always use were with any other subject. The difference between this
and some non-standard dialects is that the non-standard speaker can
vary between I was reading and I were reading, or he was reading and he were
reading, a variation not available to the Standard English speaker.
In the modular model, the grammar produces these variants, result-
ing in a set of forms which may be selected in a given usage event, in a
way akin to whether or not a given lexical variant is selected. In other
words, in this model, there is only one major difference between the
variants in (9) and the variants in (10):
(9) (BE past): was ~ were
(10) (‘multi-seat piece of furniture’): sofa ~ couch
The difference is that the variants in the first set are generated by the
grammar, and those in the second set are stored in the lexicon. But
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 126
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 126 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
SOCIOLINGUISTICS AND LINGUISTIC THEORY 127
once variants are produced by the grammar, the speaker can select
a particular ‘grammatical’ variant in the same way as he can select
a ‘lexical’ variant. Just as the choice of sofa over couch may correlate
with the group membership of the speaker, or the speaker’s style,
so the choice of I was over I were may correlate with various social
and stylistic factors. Morphosyntactic variation reduces to a matter
of lexical choice, except the choice here concerns functional items
(that is, markers of grammatical categories like tense, aspect or voice).
The critical issue is that grammatical knowledge is kept distinct from
social knowledge: the system itself is very different from the use of
the system, and all the sociolinguistic information about an item
(whether it be a functional item like was or a lexical item like sofa)
is a matter of use. This modular model also supports the notion of a
community grammar, since it would suggest that the constraints on
the system manifest themselves in a set of shared norms across the
local community.
9.7 The usage-based model
The I-language/E-language model outlined above argues for a very
sharp distinction between grammar (a biological property of the human
species) and usage (the application of that system for specific commu-
nicative and social purposes). In such a theory, basic linguistic structure
is hardwired in your brain at birth (as part of the human genome), and
as you are exposed to language as a child, you learn specific constraints
based on the input you receive, from your parents and others. So, for
example, a child brought up in an English-speaking environment learns
that English speakers don’t allow inversion of subject and lexical verb
when yes/no questions are formed:
(11) *Speak you English?
Instead, English speakers use a grammatical (tense) marker (the verb
do), and the lexical verb remains after the subject:
(12) Do you speak English?
In a French-speaking environment, the child would learn that the
subject and the lexical verb do invert:
(13) Parlez-vous anglais?
Speak-you English?
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 127
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 127 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
128 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
Thus there is an innate language faculty, common to all members of the
species, but manifest differently in different communities. This is the
essence of the nativist argument. However, not all experts in language
acquisition agree on this issue of nativism, and specifically on the idea
that there is a distinct language faculty. Some researchers (including
some of those who have tried to establish what makes human cognition
different from that of related animals, such as apes) have argued that
language is not substantially different from other cognitive abilities, and
that children do not acquire language because of a separate language
faculty, but because they are predisposed to do so as a result of more
general cognitive structures (Tomasello 2003). This is the heart of the
usage-based model of language: that a speaker’s regular exposure to
language in use might explain patterns of linguistic behaviour, and that
language is largely constructed, rather than largely inherited. In the
usage-based model, a central notion is that frequent exposure to par-
ticular forms of constructions gives those forms a special status in terms
of a speaker’s knowledge. Specifically, the more that a particular form is
heard, the more directly accessible it is in the speaker’s mind (that is, it
is accessed directly). This has interesting consequences for our under-
standing of sociolinguistic variation.
For example, in this model, it is possible to claim that sociolinguistic
knowledge is a kind of linguistic knowledge, which in turn is a kind of
knowledge. If this is the case, then it is not only desirable to include facts
about sociolinguistic patterns in a theory of grammar: it is essential to do
so. Furthermore, the usage-based account suggests that we learn facts
about language structure and facts about language use in much the same
way. Notice that both sets of facts apply to the same phenomena: many
speakers of British English know not only that gas station is a (com-
pound) noun, but also that it is also used by Americans to mean ‘petrol
station’; when they acquire the new word gas station, they establish a link
between that form and a typical user or context. We can extend this to
issues associated with pronunciation and syntax. For instance, a user of
language is likely to want to be able to report another person’s speech:
this particular function can be coded using a variety of different forms,
which may change over time. From the Old English period to at least
the early Modern English period it was possible to use the form quoth;
in the contemporary language, there are many variants, including forms
like say which have been attested for a long time, as well as more recent
innovations, such as BE like (for example, I’m like ‘what did you say?’), GO
(I went ‘what did you say?’), BE all (he was all ‘what did you say?’), this BE pro
(this is me, this is him etc.), and so on. Sociolinguists have found that par-
ticular variants are favoured by particular kinds of people in particular
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 128
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 128 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
SOCIOLINGUISTICS AND LINGUISTIC THEORY 129
contexts, so a language user is able to identify not just what the variants
mean, but what they index.
The language user is also able to abstract from such usage events to
make more abstract schemas (just as variables may be said to be abstrac-
tions across a set of variants); they are also able to abstract from exposure
to particular people to make abstract social schemas. Your knowledge
of the concept ‘Englishman’ or ‘New Yorker’ is based in large part on
your exposure to particular instances of Englishmen and New Yorkers
(except in cases of stereotyping, where more abstract social schemas are
created on basis of very limited knowledge). Since certain aspects of
sociolinguistic research have shown how types of speaker may be asso-
ciated with types of speech, a link becomes established between these
type-abstractions, as much as between specific instances of use, and par-
ticular people. If you encounter a group of Englishmen who regularly
use glottal stops in words like butter, and you encounter a group of New
Yorkers who regularly use alveolar taps in the same set of words, it is
cognitively much more economical for you to store that information at a
more abstract level (that is, at the level of type) than repeatedly to store
information about individual tokens.
This can be explored in greater detail using an example discussed
elsewhere in this book. In Chapter 5, aspects of linguistic change in
suburban Detroit were discussed (Eckert 1988, 1989, 2000), in which a
particular variable (uh) was progressing through a series of local net-
works, spreading first in the language of the Burnouts, then to the lan-
guage of the In-betweens, and then to the language of the Jocks. Eckert’s
study certainly revealed something about particular linguistic tokens,
and the behaviour of individuals. But it also revealed something about
the network of linguistic and social knowledge that characterises that
community. Although it was possible to identify particular individual
Jocks, it was also possible to generalise, and to talk about a Jock-type.
Similarly, the various phonetic tokens can be subsumed under a general
phonological type, the variable (uh). And just as much as linguistic vari-
ants may index particular social characteristics (recall the discussion of
[t]-release and ‘Britishness’ in Chapter 4), the variation itself – the
existence of variable (uh) – also indexes some kind of social meaning,
because not all groups take part in the variation: if it was the case that
all speakers of English are taking part in the variation, the change will
have come to an end, since the change can spread no further. (Compare
also the discussion of social meaning of variability in dialect contact in
Chapter 8.) Recognising variability – and which groups of speakers take
part in the variation – is also a feature of how variables mean; and this
knowledge comes from exposure to instances of language use, and forms
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 129
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 129 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
130 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
part of what speakers in that community know (that is, it is part of their
cognition). This is at the heart of a usage-based, integrated approach to
language and society.
9.8 What about ‘English’?
An important question remains: what does this discussion about socio-
linguistics and linguistic theory tell us about English? The answer is
‘very little’; and the reason is that both modular approaches to variation
and usage-based approaches to variation are essentially theories of indi-
vidual knowledge, while any account of variation and change in English
must make reference to a larger community. We can try to connect
I-language data to phenomena associated with E- and S-languages,
but here we encounter the same problems as we identified in Chapter
1, namely that establishing a sharp boundary around any given com-
munity is problematic. Thus when Adger writes: “every community
member will have the same grammar” (Adger 2006: 527), it is important
we ask how we establish whether or not someone is a member of that
given community.
We saw in Chapter 1 that there is some evidence to reject the notion
of English as a linguistic concept (though it is clearly a very important
social concept); instead we can take as our basis the fact that individual
speakers form (open-ended) social networks with one another, some parts
of which are close-knit and highly influential in terms of constraining
innovations. Where certain sectors of these networks involve individuals
who mutually agree to come together to fulfil a specific social purpose,
we often see correlations with specific linguistic practices: this is at the
heart of the notion of community of practice, as we saw in Chapter 2. In
such situations, speakers draw on a series of linguistic resources in order
to meet the needs of the group enterprise; so the linguistic practices of
the group are functional in a number of ways, particularly as a means
of negotiating individual identities within a group dynamic. Note that
just as in the case of social networks, communities of practice may be
open-ended, with the greatest correlations between individuals and
linguistic ‘norms’ being found at the most dense and multiplex sector of
the network. As discussed above, this network model of social structure
is mirrored in a network model of language structure, from which we
can generalise further to say that all of cognition is a network (Hudson
2007). Part of that cognitive network is the concept ‘English’, which
may form part of our knowledge about linguistic items. At a lower level
of specification, we may associate particular linguistic forms with par-
ticular varieties (so that some individuals associate den with the concept
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 130
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 130 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
SOCIOLINGUISTICS AND LINGUISTIC THEORY 131
‘room in a house’, but also with the concept ‘American’). This again has
to be the product of particular usage events – you can only know that
den is an American word for what British speakers might call lounge if
you have been told this, or have inferred it from a conversation. Exactly
the same claims can be made for phonological and morphosyntactic
variation. While such information may come from direct instruction, it
is typically the product of inference in conversation.
This is made even clearer in cases of language and dialect contact,
discussed in Chapters 7 and 8, and in cases of language planning,
discussed in Chapter 3. In cases of planning, the concept ‘English’
becomes explicitly, overtly linked to particular linguistic forms: we
could be more specific in some contexts and talk of ‘Standard English’,
but in some cases the distinction need not be made (since most learn-
ers of English as a second or other language do not typically learn
non-standard varieties). Quite the reverse happens in cases of language
contact. Here, associations between ‘English’ and particular linguistic
forms become eroded as speakers mix languages, and create new varie-
ties, which themselves take on new social meanings. It is possible to
talk about a pidgin having English as a lexifier, but as the new variety
becomes the input for acquisition among new language learners, the
historic links with English become diluted – the link may be something
that the linguist knows, but not the speaker. (After all, how many speak-
ers of present-day British English would think of themselves as speaking
Germanic?) And the principles we apply to language contact should
hold true for dialect contact, if the claims made in Chapter 1, concern-
ing the relationship between language and dialect, hold true. When
young speakers from Glasgow use TH-Fronting, the social meaning
of that variation changes – it is not associated with the social concept
of ‘London’, but is appropriated by those speakers and given particular
social meaning in that local social context (so it may index ‘east end of
Glasgow’ or ‘tough’ or ‘male’, or a combination of these).
9.9 Summary
In this chapter we have explored some of the ways in which aspects of
sociolinguistic variation in English can be explained using some aspects
of theoretical linguistics. Essentially, what this research is trying to do
is to investigate whether (and if so, how) facts about language use can
be correlated with what we know about language as a mental system.
This takes us into some very murky waters indeed (which is why it’s so
interesting), because such an exploration forces us to question some of
the central beliefs in both sociolinguistic theory and formal linguistic
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 131
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 131 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
132 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
theory, such as the existence of the speech community, and the idea
that language is organised differently from other aspects of cognition.
Some linguists have argued that the structure of language and use of
language should be kept clearly distinct (for example, Newmeyer 2003);
others have suggested that language structure emerges from the use
of language (for example, Bybee 2006). We perhaps do not know yet
which of these is the more plausible, but it is clearly a fascinating area
of linguistic inquiry.
In this chapter we also explored the relevance of such research for
our understanding of what ‘English’ is, and how we characterise varie-
ties of English. Again, this is a highly debatable topic. Some linguists
have argued for a community grammar approach, where the English
language is a linguistic entity marked by agreement on shared norms;
others have argued for an individual approach, based on social and cog-
nitive networks, which suggests that English is much more of a social
concept than a linguistic one (an issue which we also considered in
Chapter 1). In the next chapter, which concludes this book, we will see
how the many issues raised in both this chapter and the previous ones
might be brought together, to see what the critical issues in English
sociolinguistics might be, and to encourage you to collect and analyse
your own data.
Exercise
These final questions are taxing, especially if you have no training in
formal linguistics. You may find it helpful to read the final chapter of
Hudson (1996) and Adger (2006) before you attempt to answer them.
1. List some of the advantages and disadvantages of incorporating non-
standard data into formal accounts of language structure.
2. Illustrate the different ways in which a formal grammarian and a
variationist sociolinguist might attempt to explain intra-speaker varia-
tion. How might the two traditions be brought together, in your view?
3. What are the advantages of adopting a usage-based model in an
analysis of sociolinguistic variation. What are the drawbacks?
Further reading
For more on the nature of the syntactic variable, see Lavandera (1978)
and Cheshire (1987); for a discussion of the relationship between dialect
syntax and linguistic theory more generally, see Adger and Trousdale
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 132
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 132 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
SOCIOLINGUISTICS AND LINGUISTIC THEORY 133
(2007). The relationship between biolinguistics and sociolinguistics is
discussed in the collection of papers in Cornips and Corrigan (2005): see
particularly the contribution by Adger and Smith. For more on language
networks and cognition, see Hudson (2007). A similar theory of socio-
linguistics and language structure is discussed by Hudson in a number
of other papers, particularly Hudson (1986) and Hudson (1997).
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 133
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 133 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
134
10 Conclusion
In this book, I have tried to show how studying varieties of English can
be informed by the discipline of sociolinguistics. I have not attempted
to cover all of what constitutes sociolinguistics; nor have I dealt with all
of the ways in which English can vary. But I hope to have shown some
of the ways in which English is used by individuals and communities,
and how the shape of such varieties correlates with various features of
the users of those varieties.
We have looked at both formal and functional variation in English;
some chapters have concentrated primarily on form (on regional and
social variation in English, on the sociolinguistic correlations of change
in English, and on the shape of contact varieties); others have con-
centrated primarily on function (on the various attempts to shape and
employ English in contexts of language planning, for example). But all
the way through this book, we have been suggesting that the division
between form and function may be somewhat arbitrary, and that socio-
linguistic studies often try to explore the correlation between form and
function. For example, language planning which involves English often
also involves issues about which form of English to adopt; conversely,
speakers who use a particular spoken form of English may be attempting
to index some particular aspect of social identity, which suggests that
the form selected has a particular function within any given commu-
nity. This interplay between form and function is at the heart of much
sociolinguistic research.
I have also tried to encourage you to think about links between
contemporary societies and those in the past, and about links between
societies with which you might be more familiar, and others which
are likely to be more remote. Researchers of the English language are
very fortunate on two fronts: one is that they have an amazing array of
historical records of English to work with, to look at how the language
has evolved at different times; the other is that contemporary English
is used in so many diverse ways, and in so many diverse communities.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 134
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 134 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
CONCLUSION 135
Taken together, it means we can explore English in use in a significant
number of social contexts, tracking how and why it has come to have
the form and function it does in so many different places on earth. I
hope this book has given you a flavour of some of the things you could
explore when working on English sociolinguistics.
There are some topics which have not been dealt with at all, or not
in great detail, such as aspects of discourse structure, the relationships
between pragmatics and politeness in English, and the relationship
between developing technology and use of English. But I hope this book
has provided you with a framework of ways to think about English in its
social context that would allow you to plan how you might study one or
more such topics, bearing in mind the critical issue of the relationship
between linguistic form and linguistic function.
As you become more expert in the field of English sociolinguistics,
you will realise that some of the claims made here have simplified what
are very complex phenomena. And so it is important to remember that
this is just the conclusion of an introduction to English sociolinguistics,
and that researchers are constantly discovering new ways of analysing
variation in English. Sociolinguists have a great job: they get to talk to
all sorts of fascinating people in all sorts of fascinating communities,
using those data to try to come to some understanding of the complex
relationship between language structure and language use, how speak-
ers use language to negotiate with their addressees, and to mark alle-
giances to others in very subtle ways. Some sociolinguists work on lots
of different varieties, while others focus just on one. And there is no
doubt that there are many questions which still need to be answered
concerning the form and function of English in its social context. I hope
you will enjoy trying to figure out the answers to such questions, as I do;
and I hope you also enjoy coming up with new questions of your own
to explore.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 135
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 135 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
136
Appendix
List of IPA symbols with examples and a note on transcription conventions.
The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) is used by linguists to
represent speech sounds; you can find out more at this website: http://
www.langsci.ucl.ac.uk/ipa/
Below, I have given a list of some of the consonantal symbols which
are most relevant for accents of English, along with an example of the
word in which the sound appears (when spoken by an RP speaker of
English, unless otherwise stated)
/p/ pit /t/ tin /k/ coal
/b/ bit /d/ din /ɡ/ goal
/m/ ram /n/ ran /ŋ/ rang
/s/ sip /z/ zip /ʃ/ ship /ʒ/ measure /tʃ/ chinks /dʒ/ jinx
/f/ fine /v/ vine /θ/ breath /ð/ breathe
/j/ yacht /w/ watt /r/ rot /l/ lot /ʍ/ what (in conservative
RP and some other varieties)
/h/ whole /x/ loch (Scottish English)
The symbol [ʔ] represents the glottal stop. This is a well-known feature
of many British English accents (sometimes represented in dialect lit-
erature by an apostrophe, as in wa’er for ‘water’). In many words which
have [ʔ] between two vowels in British English accents, American,
Canadian, Australian and other accents often have an alveolar tap [ɾ] (so
that words like waiter and wader often sound the same in these accents).
Vowel sounds are more complex, and I have tried to use only a few
examples which involve vocalic variation (some in Chapter 5, more
in Chapter 8). The IPA website mentioned above has a download-
able vowel chart (http://www.langsci.ucl.ac.uk/ipa/vowels.html) which
may be useful for reference. Other useful texts include the phonology
textbook in this series (McMahon 2002) and (for an explanation and use
of the term lexical set) Wells (1982).
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 136
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 136 22/2/10 16:21:26
22/2/10 16:21:26
APPENDIX 137
Symbols enclosed in slash / / brackets in the text are phonemes, and
those in square [ ] brackets are phones. As noted elsewhere in the text,
variables (phonetic, morphosyntactic and lexical) are represented by
curved ( ) brackets, and the variants of those variables are given after
a colon. For example (t): [ʔ] represents the glottal stop variant of the
variable (t).
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 137
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 137 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
138
References
Adger, David. 2006. Combinatorial variability. Journal of Linguistics 42: 503–30.
Adger, David and Graeme Trousdale. 2007. Variation in English syntax:
Theoretical implications. English Language and Linguistics 11: 261–78.
Aitchison, Jean. 2001. Language Change: Progress or Decay? 3rd edition. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Annamalai, E. 2005. Nation-building in a globalised world: Language choice
and education in India. In Angel Lin and Peter Martin (eds), Decolonisation,
Globalisation: Language-in-Education Policy and Practice. Clevedon: Multilingual
Matters, 20–37.
Auer, Peter (ed.). 1998. Code-Switching in Conversation: Language, Interaction and
Identity. London: Routledge.
Barber, Charles. 1997. Early Modern English. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University
Press.
Bauer, Laurie. 2002. An Introduction to International Varieties of English. Edinburgh:
Edinburgh University Press.
Beal, Joan. 2006. Language and Region. London: Routledge.
Bell, Allan. 1984. Language style as audience design. Language in Society 13:
145–204.
Bhatt, Rakesh M. 2008. In other words: Language mixing, identity representa-
tions, and third space. Journal of Sociolinguistics 12: 177–200.
Blommaert, Jan. 2005. Situating language rights: English and Swahili in
Tanzania revisited. Journal of Sociolinguistics 9: 390–417.
Britain, David. 2002. Space and spatial diffusion. In J. K. Chambers, Peter
Trudgill and Natalie Schilling-Estes (eds), The Handbook of Language Variation
and Change. Oxford: Blackwell, 603–37.
Britain,David.2006.Language/dialectcontact.InKeithBrown(ed.),Encyclopedia
of Language and Linguistics. Volume 6. 2nd edition. Oxford: Elsevier, 651–6.
Britain, David (ed.). 2007. Language in the British Isles. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Bucholtz, Mary. 1998. Geek the girl: Language, femininity and female nerds.
In Natasha Warner, Jocelyn Ahlers, Leela Bilmes, Monica Oliver, Suzanne
Wertheim and Melinda Chen (eds), Gender and Belief Systems. Berkeley:
Berkeley Women and Language Group, 119–31.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 138
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 138 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
REFERENCES 139
Bybee, Joan. 2006. From usage to grammar: The mind’s response to repetition.
Language 82: 711–33.
Canagarajah, A. Suresh. 2005. Dilemmas in planning English/vernacular rela-
tions in post-colonial communities. Journal of Sociolinguistics 9: 418–47.
Carver, Craig M. 1992. The Mayflower to the Model-T: The development of
American English. In Tim William Machan and Charles T. Scott (eds),
English in Its Social Contexts: Essays in Historical Sociolinguistics. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 131–54.
Cassidy, Frederic G. and Joan Houston Hall (eds). 1985–2002. Dictionary of
American Regional English. 4 volumes. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press.
Chambers, J. K. 2002. Patterns of variation including change. In J. K. Chambers,
Peter Trudgill and Natalie Schilling-Estes (eds), The Handbook of Language
Variation and Change. Oxford: Blackwell, 349–72.
Chambers, J. K. 2003. Sociolinguistic Theory: Linguistic Variation and its Social
Significance. 2nd edition. Oxford: Blackwell.
Chambers, J. K. and Peter Trudgill. 1998. Dialectology. 2nd edition. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Chambers, J. K., Peter Trudgill and Natalie Schilling-Estes (eds). 2002. The
Handbook of Language Variation and Change. Oxford: Blackwell.
Cheshire, Jenny. 1982. Variation in an English Dialect. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Cheshire, Jenny. 1987. Syntactic variation, the linguistic variable, and sociolin-
guistic theory. Linguistics 25: 257–82.
Cheshire, Jenny. 2007. Discourse variation, grammaticalisation, and stuff like
that. Journal of Sociolinguistics 11: 155–93.
Cheshire, Jenny and Viv Edwards. 1993. Sociolinguistics in the classroom:
Exploring linguistic diversity. In James Milroy and Lesley Milroy (eds), Real
English: The Grammar of English Dialects in the British Isles. London: Longman,
34–52.
Cheshire, Jenny, Paul Kerswill and Ann Williams. 2005. Phonology, grammar
and discourse in dialect convergence. In Peter Auer, Frans Hinskens and
Paul Kerswill (eds), Dialect Change: Convergence and Divergence in European
Languages. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 135–67.
Chomsky, Noam. 1965. Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge. MA: MIT
Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1979. Language and Responsibility: Based on Conversations with
Mitsou Ronat. New York: Pantheon.
Chomsky, Noam. 1986. Knowledge of Language: Its Nature, Origins and Use. New
York: Praeger.
Chomsky, Noam. 2001. Derivation by phase. In Michael Kenstowicz (ed.), Ken
Hale: A Life in Language. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1–52.
Coates, Jennifer. 1993. Women, Men and Language: A Sociolinguistic Account of Gender
Differences in Language. 2nd edition. London: Longman.
Cobarrubias, Juan. 1983. Ethical issues in status planning. In Juan Cobarrubias
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 139
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 139 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
140 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
and Joshua Fishman (eds), Progress in Language Planning: International
Perspectives. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 41–85.
Cornips, Leonie and Karen Corrigan (eds). 2005. SyntaxandVariation:Reconciling
the Biological and the Social. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Coulmas, Florian (ed.). 1998. The Handbook of Sociolinguistics. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Coupland, Nikolas. 1984. Accommodation at work. International Journal of the
Sociology of Language 46: 49–70.
Coupland, Nikolas. 2007. Style: Language Variation and Identity. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Crystal, David. 2000. Language Death. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Crystal, David. 2003. English as a Global Language. 2nd edition. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Crystal,David2006a.Intothetwenty-firstcentury.InLyndaMugglestone(ed.),
The Oxford History of English. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 394–413.
Crystal, David. 2006b. English worldwide. In Richard Hogg and David Denison
(eds), A History of the English Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 420–39.
Crystal, David. 2006c. Language and the Internet. 2nd edition. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Crystal, David. 2008. Txting: The Gr8 Db8. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Cusack, Bridget. 1998. Everyday English 1500–1700: A Reader. Edinburgh:
Edinburgh University Press.
David, Maya, and Subra Govindasamy. 2005. Negotiating a language policy
for Malaysia: Local demand for affirmative action versus challenges from
globalization. In A. Suresh Cangarajah (ed.), Reclaiming the Local in Language
Policy and Practice. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 123–45.
Davies, Alan. 2003. The Native Speaker: Myth and Reality. Clevedon: Multilingual
Matters.
Davies, Janet. 2000. Welsh. In Glanville Price (ed.), Languages in Britain and
Ireland. Oxford: Blackwell, 78–108.
De Fina, Anna. 2007. Code-switching and the construction of ethnic identity
in a community of practice. Language in Society 36: 371–92.
Eckert, Penelope. 1988. Adolescent social structure and the spread of linguistic
change. Language in Society 17: 183–207.
Eckert, Penelope. 1989. Jocks and Burnouts: Social Categories and Identity in the High
School. New York: Teachers College Press.
Eckert, Penelope. 1990. The whole woman: Sex and gender differences in vari-
ation. Language Variation and Change 1: 245–67.
Eckert, Penelope. 2000. Linguistic Variation as Social Practice: The Linguistic
Construction of Identity in Belten High. Oxford: Blackwell.
Eckert,Penelope.2005.Variation,convention,andsocialmeaning.Plenarypaper
presented at the Linguistic Society of America, Oakland CA, January 2005.
Eckert, Penelope and Sally McConnell-Ginet. 1992a. Communities of practice:
Where language, gender, and power all live. In Kira Hall, Mary Bucholtz
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 140
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 140 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
REFERENCES 141
and Birch Moonwomon (eds), Locating Power: Proceedings of the Second Berkeley
Women and Language Conference. Berkeley: Berkeley Women and Language
Group, 89–99. [Reprinted in Coates, Jennifer (ed.). 1998. Language and Gender:
A Reader. Oxford: Blackwell, 484–94.]
Eckert, Penelope and Sally McConnell-Ginet. 1992b. Think practically and
look locally: Language and gender as community-based practice. Annual
Review of Anthropology 21: 461–90.
Edwards, John R. 1982. Language attitudes and their implications among
English speakers. In Ellen Bouchard Ryan and Howard Giles (eds), Attitudes
Towards Language Variation. London: Edward Arnold, 20–33.
Fasold, Ralph. 1990. The Sociolinguistics of Language. Oxford: Blackwell.
Ferguson, Gibson. 2006. Language Planning and Education. Edinburgh: Edinburgh
University Press.
Foulkes, Paul and Gerard J. Docherty (eds). 1999. Urban Voices: Accent Studies in
the British Isles. London: Arnold.
Gordon, Elizabeth, Lyle Campbell, Jennifer Hay, Margaret Maclagan, Andrea
Sudbury and Peter Trudgill. 2004. New Zealand English: Its Origins and
Evolution. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Gordon, Matthew. 2002. Investigating chain shifts and mergers. In J. K.
Chambers, Peter Trudgill and Natalie Schilling-Estes (eds), The Handbook of
Language Variation and Change. Oxford: Blackwell, 244–66.
Graddol, David. 1999. The decline of the native speaker. In David Graddol and
Ulrike H. Meinhof (eds), English in a Changing World, AILA Review 13: 57–68.
Graddol, David. 2006. English Next. London: British Council.
Green, Lisa. 2002. African American English. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Gumperz, John J. 1982. Discourse Strategies. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Gumperz, John J. 1996. Introduction to part IV. In John J. Gumperz and Stephen
C. Levinson (eds), Rethinking Linguistic Relativity. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 359–73.
Guy, Gregory. 1994. The phonology of variation. In Katherine Beals, Jeanette
Denton,RobertKnippen,LynetteMelnar,HisamiSuzukiandEricaZeinfeld
(eds), Papers from the 30th Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society.
Volume 2: The Parasession on Variation in Linguistic Theory. Chicago: Chicago
Linguistics Society, 133–49.
Haugen, Einar. 1966. Dialect, language, nation. American Anthropologist 68:
922–35.
Haugen, Einar. 1987. Language planning. In U. Ammon, N. Dittmar and J. K.
Mattheier (eds), Sociolinguistics. Soziolinguistik. An International Handbook of the
Science of Language and Society. Ein internationales Handbuch zur Wissenschaft von
Sprache und Gesellschaft. Volume 1. Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter,
626–37.
Hogg, Richard M. (general ed.). 1992–2001. The Cambridge History of the English
Language. 6 volumes. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 141
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 141 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
142 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
Hogg, Richard M. 2002. An Introduction to Old English. Edinburgh: Edinburgh
University Press.
Holmes, Janet. 2001. An Introduction to Sociolinguistics. 2nd edition. London:
Pearson.
Horobin, Simon and Jeremy Smith. 2002. An Introduction to Middle English.
Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Hudson, Richard A. 1986. Sociolinguistics and the theory of grammar.
Linguistics 24: 1053–78
Hudson, Richard A. 1996. Sociolinguistics. 2nd edition. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Hudson, Richard A. 1997. Inherent variability and linguistic theory. Cognitive
Linguistics 8: 73–108.
Hudson, Richard A. 2007. Language Networks: The New Word Grammar. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Humphrys, John. 2004. Lost for Words: The Mangling and Manipulation of the English
Language. London: Hodder.
Jenkins, Jennifer. 2003. World Englishes. London: Routledge.
Jones, Charles. 2002. The English Language in Scotland: An Introduction to Scots. East
Linton: Tuckwell Press.
Kachru, Braj. 1985. Standards, codification and sociolinguistic realism: The
English language in the outer circle. In Randolph Quirk and Henry
Widdowson (eds), English in the World: Teaching and Learning the Language and
Literatures. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 11–30.
Kachru, Braj, Yamuna Kachru and Cecil L. Nelson (eds). 2006. The Handbook of
World Englishes. Oxford: Blackwell.
Kerswill, Paul. 2002. Koineization and accommodation. In J. K. Chambers,
Peter Trudgill and Natalie Schilling-Estes (eds), The Handbook of Language
Variation and Change. Oxford: Blackwell, 669–702.
Kerswill, Paul. 2003. Dialect levelling and geographical diffusion in British
English.InDavidBritainandJennyCheshire(eds),SocialDialectology:InHonour
of Peter Trudgill. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins, 223–43.
Kerswill, Paul and Peter Trudgill. 2005. The birth of new dialects. In Peter
Auer, Frans Hinskens and Paul Kerswill (eds), Dialect Change: Convergence and
Divergence in European Languages. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
196–220.
Kerswill, Paul, Eivind Nessa Torgersen and Susan Fox. 2008. Reversing ‘drift’:
Innovation and diffusion in the London diphthong system. Language Variation
and Change 20: 451–91.
Kloss, Heinz. 1967. ‘Abstand’ languages and ‘Ausbau’ languages. Anthropological
Linguistics 9: 29–41.
Kloss, Heinz. 1969. Research Possibilities on Group Bilingualism: A Report. Quebec:
International Center for Research on Bilingualism.
Kortmann, Bernd, Kate Burridge, Raj Mesthrie, Edgar Schneider and Clive
Upton. 2004. A Handbook of Varieties of English: A Multimedia Reference Tool.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 142
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 142 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
REFERENCES 143
Kroch, Anthony. 1994. Morphosyntactic variation. In Katherine Beals, Jeanette
Denton, Robert Knippen, Lynette Melnar, Hisami Suzuki and Erica Zeinfeld
(eds), Papers from the 30th Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society.
Volume 2: The Parasession on Variation in Linguistic Theory. Chicago: Chicago
Linguistics Society, 180–201.
Labov, William. 1966. The Social Stratification of English in New York City.
Washington, DC: Center for Applied Linguistics.
Labov, William. 1972. Sociolinguistic Patterns. Philadelphia: University of
Pennsylvania Press.
Labov, William. 1989. The exact description of the speech community: Short-a
in Philadelphia. In Ralph Fasold and Deborah Schiffrin (eds), Language
Change and Variation. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins, 1–57.
Labov, William. 1990. The intersection of sex and social class in the course of
linguistic change. Language Variation and Change 2: 205–54.
Labov, William. 1994. Principles of Linguistic Change. Volume 1: Internal Factors.
Oxford: Blackwell.
Labov, William. 2001. Principles of Linguistic Change. Volume 2: Social Factors.
Oxford: Blackwell.
Labov, William. 2007. Transmission and diffusion. Language 83: 344–87.
Labov, William, Sharon Ash and Charles Boberg. 2005. The Atlas of North
American English: Phonetics, Phonology and Sound Change. Berlin and New York:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Lass, Roger. 1999. Introduction. In Roger Lass (ed.), The Cambridge History of the
English Language. Volume III: 1476–1776. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 1–12.
Lavandera, Beatrice. 1978. Where does the sociolinguistic variable stop?
Language in Society 7: 171–82.
Lave, Jean and Etienne Wenger. 1991. Situated Learning: Legitimate Peripheral
Participation. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Le Page, Robert B. and Andrée Tabouret-Keller. 1985. Acts of Identity: Creole-
Based Approaches to Language and Ethnicity. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Llamas, Carmen. 2007. ‘A place between places’: Language and identities in a
border town. Language in Society 36: 579–604.
Lo Bianco, Joseph. 2004. Language planning as applied linguistics. In Alan
Davies and Catherine Elder (eds), The Handbook of Applied Linguistics. Oxford:
Blackwell, 738–63.
Lyons, John (ed.). 1970. New Horizons in Linguistics. Harmondsworth: Penguin.
McArthur, Tom. 1998. The English Languages. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
McArthur, Tom. 2006. English world-wide in the twentieth century. In Lynda
Mugglestone (ed.), The Oxford History of English. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 360–93.
McMahon, April. 1994. Understanding Language Change. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 143
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 143 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
144 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
McMahon,April.2002.AnIntroductiontoEnglishPhonology.Edinburgh:Edinburgh
University Press.
McWhorter, John H. 2003. Pidgins and creoles as models of language change:
The state of the art. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics 23: 202–12.
Marshall, Jonathan. 2005. Language Change and Sociolinguistics: Rethinking Social
Networks. London: Palgrave.
Mees, Inger M. and Beverley Collins. 1999. Cardiff: A real-time study of glot-
talisation. In Paul Foukes and Gerard J. Docherty (eds), Urban Voices: Accent
Studies in the British Isles. London: Arnold, 185–202.
Mesthrie, Rajend, Joan Swann, Ana Deumert and William Leap. 2009.
Introducing Sociolinguistics. 2nd edition. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University
Press.
Meyerhoff, Miriam. 2002. Communities of practice. In J. K. Chambers, Peter
Trudgill and Natalie Schilling-Estes (eds), The Handbook of Language Variation
and Change. Oxford: Blackwell, 526–48.
Meyerhoff, Miriam. 2006. Introducing Sociolinguistics. London: Routledge.
Meyerhoff, Miriam and Nancy Niedzielski. 2003. The globalisation of ver-
nacular variation. Journal of Sociolinguistics 7: 534–55.
Milroy, James. 1983. On the sociolinguistic history of /h/-dropping in English.
In Michael Davenport, Erik Hansen and Hans Frede Nielsen (eds), Current
Topics in English Historical Linguistics. Odense: Odense University Press,
37–53.
Milroy, James. 1992. Linguistic Variation and Change: On the Historical Sociolinguistics
of English. Oxford: Blackwell.
Milroy, James and Lesley Milroy. 1998. Authority in Language: Investigating
Standard English. 3rd edition. London: Routledge.
Milroy, Lesley. 2002. Social networks. In J. K. Chambers, Peter Trudgill and
Natalie Schilling-Estes (eds), The Handbook of Language Variation and Change.
Oxford: Blackwell, 549–72.
Milroy, Lesley and Matthew Gordon. 2003. Sociolinguistics: Method and
Interpretation. Oxford: Blackwell.
Montgomery, Michael. 2001. British and Irish antecedents. In John Algeo (ed.),
The Cambridge History of the English Language. Volume VI: English in North America.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 86–153.
Montgomery, Michael and Joseph Sargent Hall. 2004. Dictionary of Smoky
Mountain English. Knoxville, TN: University of Tennessee Press.
Moore, Emma. 2004. Sociolinguistic style: A multidimensional resource for
shared identity creation. Canadian Journal of Linguistics 49: 375–96.
Mufwene, Salikoko S. 2006. Pidgins and creoles. In Braj Kachru, Yamuna
Kachru and Cecil L. Nelson (eds), The Handbook of World Englishes. Oxford:
Blackwell, 313–27.
Mufwene, Salikoko S. 2008. Language Evolution: Contact, Competition and Change.
London: Continuum.
Mugglestone, Lynda. 2003. Talking Proper: The Rise of Accent as Social Symbol. 2nd
edition. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 144
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 144 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
REFERENCES 145
Mugglestone, Lynda. 2006. English in the nineteenth century. In Lynda
Mugglestone (ed.), The Oxford History of English. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 274–304.
Mühlhäusler, Peter. 1997. Pidgin and Creole Linguistics. 2nd edition. London:
Westminster Press.
Myers-Scotton, Carol. 1997. Duelling Languages: Grammatical Structure in
Codeswitching. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Nevalainen, Terttu. 1999. Early Modern English lexis and semantics. In Roger
Lass (ed.), The Cambridge History of the English Language. Volume III: 1476–1776.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 332–458.
Nevalainen, Terttu. 2006. An Introduction to Early Modern English. Edinburgh:
Edinburgh University Press.
Nevalainen, Terttu and Helena Raumolin-Brunberg (eds). 1996. Sociolinguistics
and Language History: Studies Based on the Corpus of Early English Correspondence.
Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Nevalainen, Terttu and Helena Raumolin-Brunberg. 2003. Historical Sociol-
inguistics: Language Change in Tudor and Stuart England. London: Longman.
Nevalainen, Terttu and Ingrid Tieken-Boon van Ostade. 2006. Standardisation.
In Richard Hogg and David Denison (eds), A History of the English Language.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 271–311.
Newmeyer, Frederick J. 2003. Grammar is grammar and usage is usage.
Language 79: 682–707.
Niedzielski, Nancy and Dennis Preston. 2003. Folk Linguistics. 2nd edition.
Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Oliver, Jamie. 2000. The Return of the Naked Chef. London: Penguin.
Omoniyi, Tope. 2006. Hip-hop through the world Englishes lens: A response
to globalization. World Englishes 25: 195–208.
Orton, Harold, Eugene Dieth and P. M. Tilling. 1962–71. Survey of English
Dialects: Basic Materials. Introduction and 4 volumes. Leeds: Arnold.
Patrick, Peter. 2002. The speech community. In J. K. Chambers, Peter Trudgill
and Natalie Schilling Estes (eds), The Handbook of Language Variation and
Change. Oxford: Blackwell, 573–97.
Pennycook, Alastair. 1994. The Cultural Politics of English as an International
Language. London: Longman.
Petyt, K. M. 1980. The Study of Dialect: An Introduction to Dialectology. London:
Deutsch.
Phillipson, Robert. 1992. Linguistic Imperialism. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Phillipson, Robert. 2003. English-Only Europe? Challenging Language Policy.
London: Routledge.
Pickering, John. 1816. A Vocabulary, or Collection of Words which have been Supposed to
be Peculiar to the United States of America. Boston: Cummings and Hilliard.
Podesva, Robert J., Sarah J. Roberts and Kathryn Campbell-Kibler. 2002.
Sharing resources and indexing meaning in the production of gay styles. In
Kathryn Campbell-Kibler, Robert J. Podesva, Sarah J. Roberts and Andrew
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 145
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 145 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
146 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
Wong (eds), Language and Sexuality: Contesting Meaning in Theory and Practice.
Stanford: CSLI, 175–89.
Preston, Dennis. 2002. Language with an attitude. In J. K. Chambers, Peter
Trudgill and Natalie Schilling Estes (eds), The Handbook of Language Variation
and Change. Oxford: Blackwell, 40–66.
Rampton, Ben. 1999. Crossing. Journal of Linguistic Anthropology 9: 54–6.
Riazi, Abdolmehdi. 2005. The four language stages in the history of Iran. In
Angel Lin and Peter Martin (eds), Decolonisation, Globalisation: Language-in-
Education Policy and Practice. Clevedon: Multilingual Matters, 100–16.
Rickford, John. 1977. The question of prior creolization in Black English. In
Albert Valdman (ed.), Pidgin and Creole Linguistics. Bloomington: Indiana
University Press, 190–221.
Rickford, John. 1986. The need for new approaches to social class analysis in
sociolinguistics. Language and Communication 6: 215–21.
Romaine, Suzanne. 1988. Pidgin and Creole Languages. London: Longman.
Rowicka, Graz
.
yna J. 2005. American Indian English: The Quinault case. English
World Wide 26: 301–24.
Schilling-Estes, Natalie. 2002. Investigating stylistic variation. In J. K.
Chambers, Peter Trudgill and Natalie Schilling-Estes (eds), The Handbook of
Language Variation and Change. Oxford: Blackwell, 375–401.
Schneider, Edgar. 2007. Postcolonial English: Varieties around the World. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Schreier, Daniel. 2002. Dynamic mixing or archaic retention? The ambigu-
ous case of ‘completive done’ in Tristan da Cunha English. Diachronica 19:
135–76.
Schreier, Daniel. 2003. Isolation and Language Change: Contemporary and
Sociohistorical Evidence from Tristan da Cunha English. Basingstoke: Palgrave
Macmillan.
Sebba, Mark. 1997. Contact Languages: Pidgins and Creoles. London: Macmillan.
Simango, Ron. 2006. East Africa/Ostafrika. In In U. Ammon, N. Dittmar, J. K.
Mattheier and P. Trudgill (eds), Sociolinguistics. Soziolinguistik. An International
Handbook of the Science of Language and Society. Ein internationales Handbuch
zur Wissenschaft von Sprache und Gesellschaft. 2nd edition. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter, 1964–71.
Singh, Ishtla. 2000. Pidgins and Creoles: An Introduction. London: Arnold.
Smith, Neil. 1989. The Twitter Machine: Reflections on Language. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Spolsky, Bernard. 2004. Language Policy. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Stuart-Smith, Jane and Claire Timmins. 2007. Talkin’ Jockney? Variation and
change in Glaswegian accent. Journal of Sociolinguistics 11: 221–60.
Swann, Joan, Rajend Mesthrie, Ana Deumart and Theresa M. Lillis. 2004. A
Dictionary of Sociolinguistics. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Tagliamonte, Sali A. 2006. Analysing Sociolinguistic Variation. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 146
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 146 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
REFERENCES 147
Thomason, Sarah. 2001. Language Contact: An Introduction. Edinburgh: Edinburgh
University Press.
Tieken-BoonvanOstade,Ingrid.2000.NormativestudiesinEngland.InSylvain
Auroux,E.F.K.Koerner,Hans-J.NiedereheandKeesVersteegh(eds),History
of the Language Sciences. Berlin and New York: Walter de Gruyter, 876–87.
Tieken-Boon van Ostade, Ingrid. 2006. English at the onset of the normative
tradition. In Lynda Mugglestone (ed.), The Oxford History of English. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 240–73.
Tomasello, Michael. 2003. Constructing a Language: A Usage-Based Theory of
Language Acquisition. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Toon, Thomas. 1983. The Politics of Early English Sound Change. New York and
London: Academic Press.
Toon, Thomas. 1992. Old English dialectology. In Richard M. Hogg (ed.),
The Cambridge History of the English Language. Volume I: The Beginnings to 1066.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 409–51.
Trudgill, Peter. 1974. The Social Differentiation of English in Norwich. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Trudgill, Peter. 1986. Dialects in Contact. Oxford: Blackwell.
Trudgill, Peter. 1999a. The Dialects of England. 2nd edition. Oxford: Blackwell.
Trudgill, Peter. 1999b. Norwich: Endogenous and exogenous linguistic change.
In Paul Foulkes and Gerard J. Docherty (eds), Urban Voices: Accent Studies in
the British Isles. London: Arnold, 124–40.
Trudgill, Peter. 2003. A Glossary of Sociolinguistics. Edinburgh: Edinburgh
University Press.
Trudgill, Peter. 2004. New Dialect Formation: The Inevitability of Colonial Englishes.
Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Wales, Katie. 2006. Northern English: A Social and Cultural History. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Wardhaugh, Ronald. 2010. An Introduction to Sociolinguistics. 6th edition. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Watson, Kevin. 2006. Phonological resistance and innovation in the north-west
of England. English Today 22: 55–61.
Watt, Dominic and Lesley Milroy. 1999. Variation in three Tyneside vowels:
Is this dialect levelling? In Paul Foulkes and Gerry J. Docherty (eds), Urban
Voices: Accent Studies in the British Isles. London: Arnold, 25–46.
Weinreich, Uriel, William Labov and Marvin I. Herzog. 1968. Empirical
foundations for a theory of language change. In Winifred P. Lehmann and
Yakov Malkiel (eds), Directions for Historical Linguistics: A Symposium. Austin:
University of Texas Press, 95–188.
Wells, John C. 1982. Accents of English. 3 volumes. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Wenger, Etienne. 1998. Communities of Practice: Learning, Meaning and Identity.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Williams, Ann and Paul Kerswill. 1999. Dialect levelling: Change and conti-
nuity in Milton Keynes, Reading and Hull. In Paul Foulkes and Gerard J.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 147
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 147 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
148 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
Docherty (eds), Urban Voices: Accent Studies in the British Isles. London: Arnold,
141–62.
Winford, Donald. 2003. An Introduction to Contact Linguistics. Oxford: Blackwell.
Wright, Marta. 2001. More than just chanting: Multilingual literacies, ideology
and teaching methodologies in rural Eritrea. In Brian Street (ed.), Literacy
and Development: Ethnographic Perspectives. London: Routledge, 61–77.
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 148
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 148 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
149
Abstand, 7
accommodation, 52–3, 80, 105, 109,
111, 114, 116, 118, 122
acquisition, 11, 35, 93, 128, 131
acrolect, 95
adolescence, 22, 70–3, 99
age-grading, 66
agentless passive, 122–3
American English, 6–7, 12, 18, 45–7,
55, 63, 68–9, 87–8, 98–9, 102,
108, 113, 128, 131, 136
African American English, 6, 74
Detroit English, 70–2, 129
New York English, 9, 19, 67, 113,
129
apparent time, 64–5
Arabic, 101
Ausbau, 7
auxiliary language, 93, 102
basilect, 95
Belfast English, 21, 54–5
bilingualism, 11, 17, 82, 92, 101; see
also multilingualism
biolinguistics, 120–1, 133
Bislama, 94
Bosnian, 7
Canadian English, 63–4
Cantonese, 6
Cardiff English, 52, 65–6
Catalan, 6, 88
Celtic, 2, 85, 101
code-switching, 11, 92, 97–100, 104
codification, 10, 14, 33–4, 79, 86–8,
101–2, 124
community, 4–6, 10–14, 16–17,
24–7, 29–31, 34, 36–40, 42, 45,
53–5, 57, 59, 69, 72–5, 76, 93, 98,
102, 109–10, 112, 114–16, 119,
129–30
community of practice, 22–4, 26,
27, 55, 70–2, 130
speech community, 17–23, 26, 29,
62–3, 67–8, 96, 101, 116, 121,
125–7, 132
community grammar, 119, 126–7,
129–30, 132
completive done, 73–4
contact, 22, 24, 61, 69–70, 72, 80–1,
134
dialect contact, 49, 54, 57, 67, 74,
80, 105–18, 122, 129, 131
language contact, 74, 80, 82–3, 85,
92–104, 122, 131
Cornish, 2
Corpus of Early English Correspondence,
84
correctness, 9–11, 19, 31, 86–7,
100–1
creole, 74, 92–7, 104, 105
Croatian, 7
crossing, 99, 104
deanglicisation, 39, 100–3
dialect levelling, 80, 111–16
Index
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 149
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 149 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
150 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
dialect maps, 43–4
dialectology, 9, 42–5, 54, 56, 74,
76
perceptual dialectology, 9
diffusion, 48–9, 83–4, 111–12
do-periphrasis, 121, 127
Dutch, 37, 74, 113
Early Modern English, 42, 59–62, 76,
83–5, 86, 88, 121, 128
education, 12–13, 28, 31, 35–6, 38–40,
79, 86–7, 89, 101–2, 115–16,
124–5
E-language, 125, 127, 130
English English
Bradford English, 49–51
Liverpool English, 48
London English, 9, 32–3, 41–2, 46,
106, 112
Middlesbrough English, 56,
99
Milton Keynes English, 106,
110–11, 114–16
Norwich English, 19, 106–7
Tyneside English, 109
ethnicity, 6, 21, 36–7, 42, 45, 48, 56,
67–8, 79, 106, 115
Euro-English, 6, 41
focusing, 79, 82, 83, 86–7, 96, 111–12,
114
FOOT/STRUT split, 108–9
French, 11, 14, 17, 37, 82, 87, 90, 94,
98, 102, 127
Norman French, 83
Parisian/Central French, 83
Gaelic, 2
gender, 42, 54, 55, 56, 67–8, 72, 73, 75
genre, 34, 60, 84
German, 7, 24, 37
Germanic, 1–2, 76, 85, 88, 131
globalisation of English, 1–2, 13, 28,
31, 37–40, 85, 88, 92, 100–3,
108
H-Dropping, 47–51, 83, 106–7
Hindi, 100, 102–3
hypercorrection, 67
identity, 4, 9, 11, 16–17, 22–5, 30–1,
39, 48, 53–6, 67, 73, 89, 93, 99,
102, 107–9, 115–16, 119–20,
122–3, 126, 130, 134
ideology, 8, 14, 15, 39, 82, 86–7
idiolect, 5, 6, 63, 66, 125
I-language, 124–7, 130
innovation, 55, 63, 68, 72
isogloss, 44, 57
Italian, 37, 88, 90, 92, 98–9, 102
Japanese, 87
jargon, 93, 96
Kamba, 35
Kannada, 85
koineisation, 111
language attitudes, 8–9, 15, 31, 34, 42,
81, 85, 89, 90, 100, 113
language change, 18, 21, 28, 31, 53,
57, 59–75, 78, 92–3, 110, 129
actuation of change, 62–3, 78
change from above, 67–8, 80
change from below, 67–8
constraints on change, 62–3, 93
embedding of change, 53, 62–3,
78
endogenous vs. exogenous change,
105–6
evaluation of change, 62–3
lexically diffusing sound change,
66
Neogrammarian sound change, 66
transitions in change, 62–3
transmission of change, 53, 78
language faculty, 4, 124–5, 128
language planning, 28–40
acquisition planning, 31, 35
corpus planning, 29–30, 32
prestige planning, 31, 39
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 150
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 150 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
INDEX 151
status planning, 29–32, 40
language policy, 37–40
language shift, 39, 101
Late Modern English, 76, 86–7
lexifier, 94–5, 97, 131
lingua franca, 1, 102–3
linguistic constraints on variation, 48,
51, 62–3, 125, 127
Luo, 35
Malay, 85
Mandarin, 1, 6, 38
markedness, 107, 112, 114, 115
mesolect, 95
Middle English, 59–61, 76, 78, 81–3,
86
mobility, 42, 69, 84, 109–10, 115,
116
modularity, 126–7, 130
morphology, 61–2, 95–7, 107
morphosyntax, 48, 106–7, 116, 120,
122–31
multilingualism, 35–7, 97–100, 121;
see also bilingualism
national language, 30–1
native speaker, 2, 10–11, 15, 100, 101,
125
Navajo, 6–7
network, 46–7, 126, 129–30, 132
density and plexity of social
networks, 21, 26, 55, 69–70, 115
social networks, 16, 21–2, 23, 26,
54–5, 59, 69–70, 72, 78, 102, 110,
115, 130
weak links in social networks,
69–70, 72
new dialect formation, 110,
113–15
New Zealand English, 41, 65, 102,
108, 114–15
non-standard language, 10, 12, 19–21,
23, 26, 33, 57, 69, 72–3, 87, 100,
107, 116, 124, 126, 131, 132
norms, 11, 18–22, 25, 26, 49, 69, 73,
82, 90, 93, 96, 101, 102, 109, 116,
119–20, 127, 130, 132
NORMs, 42, 109
Northern Cities Shift, 70–2, 78
Norwegian, 6
official language, 7, 29–31, 35, 37–8,
84, 99
Old English, 76, 78–81, 92, 94, 103,
107, 128
Old Norse, 61, 83
Origins of New Zealand English corpus,
65, 114–15
orthographic variation, 24, 60; see also
spelling
pidgin, 92–6, 104, 105, 131
Portuguese, 85, 94
prestige, 1, 5, 19–20, 34, 67, 69, 82, 86,
110, 114–15
principle of accountability, 117
Provençal, 6
quantitative sociolinguistics, 41,
46, 51, 54, 74, 120; see also
variationist sociolinguistics
quotative constructions, 41, 128
real time, 23, 64–5
panel vs. trend study in, 66
Received Pronunciation (RP), 106,
109
Rendille, 35
right-node raising, 23, 123
Russian, 85
salience, 10, 46, 68, 82, 106, 114–15
Samburu, 35
Scots, 6–8, 31
Glasgow Scots, 116–17, 131
Huntly Scots, 72–3
semantics, 61, 74, 122–3
semantic equivalence, 122
Serbian, 7
Sinhala, 36
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 151
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 151 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
152 AN INTRODUCTION TO ENGLISH SOCIOLINGUISTICS
S-language, 125
social class, 18–19, 21, 35, 36, 45,
50–2, 55, 57, 65, 67–9, 73, 106–7,
112, 116–17
social meaning, 22–3, 39, 46, 53, 55,
68, 111, 123, 129, 131
social practice, 22–3, 45, 53–4, 61, 70,
72, 126
Spanish, 1, 18, 38, 85, 102
spatiality, 57
spelling, 2, 12–3, 24, 33, 60–1, 77,
79–80, 82, 87; see also
orthographic variation
Standard English, 10, 11–14, 20,
26, 34, 49, 79, 92, 95, 106, 116,
123–6, 131
standardisation, 13–14, 24, 33–4, 84,
107, 115–16
statistics, 45, 51, 84, 125
stigma, 23, 62–3, 87, 106, 114
stratification, 20, 50–1, 67, 73,
114
style, 8, 13, 19–20, 25, 45, 47–9, 51–3,
107, 117, 119, 127
as attention to speech, 51–2
as audience design, 52–3
as speaker design, 53
stylistic variation, 19–20, 51–5, 61,
63, 67, 107, 122
Survey of English Dialects, 43–5, 106,
109, 111
Swahili, 6–7, 35
Swedish, 6, 87
syntactic variation, 122–3, 132
Tamil, 36
T-Glottaling, 8, 56, 65, 73, 107
TH-Deletion, 55
TH-Fronting, 8, 48–9, 107, 116–17,
131
Tok Pisin, 94–5
Tolai, 94
[t]-release, 55, 129
Turkish, 37, 85
uniformitarian principle, 78
usage-based model, 127–30
variable, 19, 23–4, 46–52, 55, 63–4,
66, 73, 84, 107, 109, 111, 116–17,
119–24, 126, 129, 137
marker vs. indicator vs. stereotype,
68
variants of a, 12, 19–21, 23, 45–9,
52, 54–6, 62–9, 72–3, 83, 86, 102,
106–9, 111–12, 114–17, 119,
122–3, 126–9, 137
variationist sociolinguistics, 41, 45–6,
53–7, 65, 72, 80, 83, 121; see also
quantitative sociolinguistics
vernacular, 20–1, 32, 45, 66, 108, 115,
120, 122
vernacularisation, 32, 35, 40, 102
Welsh, 2, 36
Yoruba, 3
Zulu, 88–9
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 152
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 152 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 153
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 153 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 154
M2090 - TROUSDALE PRINT.indd 154 22/2/10 16:21:27
22/2/10 16:21:27
