Contribution of Linguistics in China to the Development of SFL 5
inWales,where Zhou Xiaokang and Huang Guowen both studied for their PhDs.
During the 1990s there appeared a growing number of books and journals,
associations, and conferences in functional linguistics and discourse studies,
which provided the necessary environment for thinking and for trying out ideas.
But it is not my intention here to survey all the work that has been done in
systemic functional linguistics in China; there is a large number of publications
in books, journals, and conference reports, and I have long since given up trying
to keep up to date. Let me mention just a few important enterprises. (1) For
many years an annual conference has been held by the Functional Linguistics
Association, alternating between the topics of discourse analysis and systemic
functional theory. On each occasion a volume of papers has been published,
usually edited by the convenor at the institution where the conference was held.
These provided an excellent picture of current interests and achievements.5
And
because the conferences were held in diﬀerent locations around China, on each
occasion there were participants coming from the local universities and colleges
who would not otherwise have been able to attend. (2) Since 2009, the Higher
Education Press has published an Annual Review of Functional Linguistics,
edited by Huang Guowen and Chang Chenguang, with abstracts, and many of
the articles, written in English. This is an extremely valuable resource enabling
non-sinophones to keep up with what is going on in the ﬁeld in China. (3) A
number of Chinese colleagues have edited work by others, such as Fawcett,
Halliday, Hasan, Martin, and Matthiessen, for publication in China, and in some
instances produced them in Chinese translation. This makes them accessible
to those who are not specialists in English, which is a critical factor in the
development of the theory in China.
This last point needs to be particularly stressed. At ﬁrst it was inevitable that
SFL would have been associated with English studies: not only was by far
the greater part of the source material written in English, but also, with the
expansion of English from “international” status, as one among a dozen or so
such languages, to “global” status (uniquely), the main demand on applied
linguistics was for its contribution to the teaching of English as a second or
foreign language. In one way, this favored SFL in that because the material was
both in English and about English—that is, English was at the same time both
the language describing and the language being described—it was seen by a
relatively large body of readers as being relevant to their own needs. But this
also meant that SFL was often misunderstood: it was taken to be a theory
specially designed for the description of English, instead of what it is, a general
theory for the description of any recognizable language.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
6
The ﬁrst point that needed to be made clear was that SFL descriptions
could be written in any language. What was needed was an agreed technical
register, with terms and expressions that were generally accepted, with the
understanding that such terms and expressions were deﬁned within the theory.
By the late 1980s, a number of my books and articles had been translated into
several diﬀerent languages; each of the translators had selected wordings that
were appropriate for their own language, occasionally asking my opinion but
usually (since they were already familiar with the theory) working them out
for themselves. It should not be forgotten that, although some terms and
expressions had to be devised anew,most of those used in SFL were already well
established in linguistics; I always preferred to stick to these if possible, and only
introduced new forms of expression under one or other of two conditions—
either if the meaning diﬀered too widely from that of the existing terms (e.g. in
the clause complex, where traditional terms like apposition and co-ordination
were too imprecise to be taken over), or if no comparable term seemed to exist
(e.g. metafunction). Once in a while I had to tweak the English language, for
example in calling my book Learning How to Mean; translators were sometimes
troubled by this, and said it couldn’t be matched, but I felt that, if I had had to
stretch my language just a little bit, it was not unreasonable to expect that the
translator should do the same!
When it came to writing systemic functional linguistics in Chinese, the
critical steps were taken by Hu, Zhu, and Zhang when they published their
original Survey; this immediately served as a model for others to follow,and with
very few exceptions the terms they chose to use have become standardized in
Chinese SFL publications. In this connection, I would emphasize the value of
glossaries of technical terms, especially multilingual glossaries such as that for
English, Chinese, and Japanese6
.
But—the second point—while Chinese was evolving as a language of
description, the language under description was still very largely English. This
was not surprising; those who had studied linguistics overseas in the ﬁrst few
years of the exchange program had been chosen because they were teachers
of English, and it was mainly in that context that applied linguistics acquired
value, namely as the discipline that could make the teaching of English more
eﬀective. So the texts selected for discourse analysis were mainly English texts,
and when problems of grammatical theory and description were discussed the
illustrative examples were typically taken from English.
From the start of our work with the Chinese scholars on the exchange
program,I had attempted to shift some of the attention on to Chinese.When Hu
Contribution of Linguistics in China to the Development of SFL 7
Zhuanglin, Long Rijin, and Yang Chaoguang elected to specialize in linguistics
in their second year at the University of Sydney, we pointed out to them that if
they wished they could register for an MA Honors degree; this would entail
completing certain prescribed courses and also writing a research paper
on some approved topic in linguistics. They assumed that this research topic
would be some aspect of modern English; but I suggested instead that they
should work on some topic in the grammar of modern Chinese. Their ﬁrst
response was: but we are here as specialists in English—our deans would not
really approve. I gave my opinion that, since the students they were teaching
were all Chinese, it would be very helpful to them if their teacher had a
comparable understanding of the grammar (and phonology) of the language
that they had in common, and which was the medium through which they were
being taught. I still think that was true. In my view, when you are teaching a
foreign language there are many contexts in which you can usefully invoke the
students’knowledge of their ﬁrst language—provided you know how to describe
a language in general linguistic terms. If all the students have the same ﬁrst
language, and you (as their teacher) also know it, this is an extra bonus of which
you can take advantage.
Sadly, however, this is no longer so easy as it seemed because in China
(and not only China, but also many other places) the character of linguistics
as an academic subject has changed. We see this in the way linguistics is
taught and researched in the universities. Nowadays there are few departments
of “general linguistics,” where linguistics is recognized and taught as a
distinct scientiﬁc discipline. Instead, there is “English linguistics” taught in the
Department of English, “Chinese linguistics” taught in the Department of
Chinese, and there may be similar departments where other languages are
taught. Each language is analyzed and presented as if it was the only language in
the world, with a special kind of linguistics needed for studying it. But there is
no such thing as a special kind of linguistic theory for describing a particular
language. A term such as “Chinese linguistics” means linguistics (that is, the
study of language) as it evolved and was practiced in China.“English linguistics”
could be used in the same sense, to mean linguistics as practiced by English
scholars—although the usual term for this would be “British linguistics,” which
makes the meaning clear because there is no“British language”that it might refer
to. These are historical studies, part of the history of linguistics as it evolved as a
branch of science.
The issue arises because terms such as “English linguistics,” “Chinese
linguistics” are used as a shorthand to mean the description of English, or of
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
8
Chinese, in terms of a general theory of language. This should be no problem—
except that it may easily be taken by students to mean that some particular kind
of theory is involved—as if it was not just the language that was being marked
out, but the approach to the language and the methods to be employed for
studying it. In Chinese, the term Zhongguo yuyanxue clearly means (the history
of) the study of language in China; but a term such as Hanyu yuyanxue would be
ambiguous in the same way that the English term is. These problems would not
arise if we had departments of (general) linguistics, where students were trained
to observe and describe any language from anywhere in the world.
In systemic functional linguistics a distinction is drawn between theoretical
and descriptive categories.7
(This is why I have never used the term “universal,”
because it blurs this important distinction.) Theoretical categories are those
which belong to a general linguistic theory: they are part of the model, the
system of related concepts that make up the scientiﬁc study of language. As
such, they are not subject to empirical veriﬁcation; they are not right or wrong,
true or false. This does not mean, of course, that there cannot be a better theory.
If the model isn’t useful—if it makes wrong predictions, or leads to ad hoc
or implausible explanations—it has to be revised (“tweaked”), or else discarded
altogether in favor of a better one. But the categories of the theory, the system of
related concepts, have to be understood as a whole; they deﬁne each other, and
cannot be exhaustively glossed as if they were independently established and
applied.
Descriptive categories are those which are validated in the description of a
particular language.This does not mean,of course,that they are set up afresh for
each language under description; that would be virtually impossible, but in any
case it would be absurd, since obviously many of what are in some sense “the
same” categories turn up in many diﬀerent languages. Herein lies the diﬃculty:
how do we decide that a category we have recognized in one language is the
same as one that we have found in another? There is no objective criterion for
deciding whether two such categories should or should not be called by the same
name. A question like “is there a passive in Chinese?” can only mean “is there a
category in the Chinese language that is similar enough to what is called passive
(in some reference language, such as English, or Latin) for me to want to call it
by the same name?”That is an entirely valid question to ask; and it is notoriously
diﬃcult to answer.
Diﬃcult,but perhaps not impossible,provided the answer is sought ﬁrst of all
in system, and only after system, then in structure. Here is a possible way of
thinking about it.
Contribution of Linguistics in China to the Development of SFL 9
Where does“passive” function in the grammar of my reference language,
English?
—It is a term in the system of voice.
What is the address of the voice system?
—It distributes the (experiential) participants in the clause into
(interpersonal) roles.
For example?
—For example, it selects whether the Goal is to be Complement or Subject.
How is that signiﬁcant?
—It is signiﬁcant when viewed“from below,” in terms of its structural
consequences: if the Goal is Complement (the default or unmarked case),
the verbal group is active; but if the Goal is Subject, the verbal group will
be passive.
But there is no active/passive system in the Chinese verbal group.
—So that would be one answer:“there is no passive in Chinese.” But now
look at the question“from above”: at what the active/passive option means.
What does it mean?
—Subject and Complement are interpersonal functions: they realize the
options in mood as a system of the English clause. The Complement is any
participant that is a potential Subject: that is, it could have been Subject but
isn’t. So the one we need to elucidate is the Subject. This is the element: that
is said to be“modally responsible”: it has the decisive role in realizing the
mood of the clause.
Is that all it means?
—No: in Modern English, this carries with it a feature of textual meaning,
because the Subject is now the typical, unmarked Theme of the clause; so if
the Goal is selected as Subject, this means that the Goal is taking on this
function as an unmarked Theme.
For example?
—Like the we in we were held up by the traﬃc. This is more likely than the
traﬃc held us up, where the traﬃc is given the status of Theme.
Could we have been Theme but a marked Theme?
—Yes: us the traﬃc held up.You can tell how unlikely that option is! But it’s
not impossible to imagine a context in which that would be a plausible
option.
So the main signiﬁcance of the voice system is textual?
—Yes: in Middle English, the Subject was typically the Actor, with the Goal
as Complement, and this was signalled by the active/passive option in the
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
10
verbal group; but in Modern English the Subject is conﬂated with the
Theme rather than with the Actor, and the voice taken by the verb is a relic
of the earlier phase.
So how do we reason from this across to Chinese?
—The question becomes: is there a system in Chinese which maps
experiential roles on to textual roles in the clause? If there is, then what
are the options in the system? And is there a default choice? If there is,
then we could call the default choice“active” and the marked alternative
“passive.”
In practice, of course, no one is likely to work through all these steps. If they
are writing in English, they will look for translation equivalence with English
categories. But it is useful to recognize a chain of reasoning such as this in
order to be able to evaluate statements that are made on the basis of descriptive
categories carried over from one language to another, whether or not these
have been explicitly discussed. The issue resolves perhaps into something like
this: is there a system having (more or less) the same function and located at
(more or less) the same point of origin? In a systemic grammar of English, the
system of voice has its point of origin in the clause, which makes it readily
comparable with the Chinese.A more problematic example might be the system
of number,since the Chinese“plural”-men appears only with personal pronouns
and some human collectives: its domain of operation is restricted, and, with
nouns, the contrast is not between plural and singular but between plural and
unmarked. And this, in turn, raises a more general issue: where European
languages favor systems in which all terms are marked, like “number: singular/
plural” or “tense: past/present/future,” East Asian languages favor systems in
which one term is unmarked, such as “number: unmarked/plural” or “aspect:
perfective/unmarked.”
The fragmentation of linguistics,with linguistic studies organized as divisions
within departments of languages, makes it harder to maintain the distinction
between descriptive categories, set up for each language on empirical grounds,
and theoretical categories,situated and deﬁned within a general linguistic theory.
This is not a diﬃcult line to draw conceptually; but it gets muddied because
“the same” descriptive category turns up in a variety of diﬀerent languages,
sometimes without its identity being questioned or explained. We may ﬁnd
something to call a “syllable” in, say, English, Japanese, Mandarin, Russian, and
Welsh; but,while the concepts of“rank”and of“phonology”belong to the theory,
the category of “syllable,” as a unit on the phonological rank scale, does not. If it
Contribution of Linguistics in China to the Development of SFL 11
is used as a term in the description of all these languages, we need to ask what is
the set of criteria that suggests they are suﬃciently alike.
Why is this important? It is obviously not simply a matter of names, although
you have to frame the issue in technical terms in order to talk about it. Lurking
behind such questions of“same or diﬀerent?”however,is a much more signiﬁcant
project. It seems very likely that we are moving into a new level of scientiﬁc
achievement, in which the physical, biological, social, and cognitive sciences
are coming together to focus on common problems, issues that have appeared
very diﬀerent (because they look diﬀerent, seen from all these diﬀerent angles),
such as types of complexity, the nature of systems, and the forms of persistence
through change. Linguists have largely remained outside these developments,
seeing themselves in Chomskyan terms as philosophers and logicians rather
than as partners in a common scientiﬁc endeavor as they had been earlier.8
But
I think this may be changing. There is a growing demand for a general theory of
meaning; and this is what linguists are after, even if we are the one group that is
never mentioned in this connection.
Functional linguistics (and I would say especially systemic functional
linguistics, though that is just my personal bias!) can play a central role in this
endeavor. But to do this, those working in the ﬁeld will have to engage much
more widely not only in descriptive but also in comparative and typological
studies, because we need all the evidence we can get from diﬀerent languages
and the diﬀerent types of relationship among them.9
We have been slow, in the
past, in extending the scope of our descriptive studies to languages around
the world, partly because of pressure towards applied linguistic research in a
few major languages, especially in educational contexts. This is now changing,
with SFL colleagues in China working on languages such as Tibetan and
Mongolian,Khmer andVietnamese,where they have good access to information
and resources. Systemic functional research is very demanding, because of its
commitment to language as a meaning potential and its representation as
networks of systems rather than simply as inventories of structures. This factor,
the complexity of the task, may be another reason for hesitating before engaging
with a new language. But that is precisely what makes the enterprise worth
pursuing.
By representing syntagmatic relations in metafunctional terms, showing
ideational and interpersonal structures coalescing in the form of discourse and
then giving these a paradigmatic foundation as networks of meaningful choice,
we bring the study of language into the center of a general theory of meaning.
This is linguistics doing its job as a branch of science. One aspect of a science of
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
12
meaning is the cultural context in which meanings are created and understood:
in this case, the Chinese angle on other East Asian languages. This is a special
case,a uniquely Chinese contribution.But the greater part of the impact of those
working in SFL in China is their contribution as general linguists to the
consolidation and further development of the theory. In this perspective it is
vital to ensure the exchange of ideas—the transmission of published materials
in both directions. Joint research projects can stimulate and maintain the ﬂow,
as do national and international conferences. Knowledge is, after all, a process of
continuous open-ended dialogue—a conversation which all of us, as linguists,
should be able to join in.
Notes
1 In Guowai Yuyanxue (Foreign Linguistics) 1980.5 and 1981.2. But see Foreword to
Huang Guowen (ed.). Discourse, language functions, language teaching (Guangzhou:
Sun Yat-sen University Press, 2002b) [in Chinese].
2 We band of brothers: the story of the ﬁrst Chinese students in Australia after the
cultural revolution (Sydney: University of Sydney, 2010).
3 Hu Zhuanglin, Zhu Yongsheng, and Zhang Delu, A Survey of Systemic-functional
Grammar (Changsha: Hunan Education Press, 1989) [in Chinese].
4 Hu Zhuanglin, Zhu Yongsheng, Zhang Delu, and Li Zhanzi, A Survey of Systemic-
functional Linguistics (Beijing: Peking University Press, 2005) [in Chinese].
5 To be more accurate, the functional linguistics conference always has been biennial,
since its inauguration by Hu Zhuanglin in 1989; the discourse studies conferences
began later, and take place in the alternate years. From the start, a volume of papers
from the functional linguistics conference has been compiled by the conveners at
the host university; these give an excellent picture of the quality, and the variety, of
functional linguistic studies going on in China. Throughout most of the 1990s
(e.g. no.3, Hangzhou 1993; no.5, Chongqing 1997) about half of the papers in the
volume were in English; but from 1999 onwards this has changed. In the seventh
volume in the series, based on papers from the 2001 conference at North-east
Normal University in Changchun, only ﬁve out of the thirty were in English,
while the remainder (including several where the language under description was
English) were all in Chinese. This highlights the importance of making Chinese
work accessible to those who don’t know the language—or whose attempts to
learn Chinese have been frustrated by the demands of the script!
6 As included by Matthiessen in his edition of the trilingual version of my paper
“Computing meanings: some reﬂections on past experience and present prospects”
[Paper presented to PACLING 95, Second Conference of the Paciﬁc Association
Contribution of Linguistics in China to the Development of SFL 13
for Computational Linguistics, Brisbane,April 19–22, 1995], edited by Christian
Matthiessen, with Chinese translation by Wu Canzhong and Japanese translation
by Kazuhiro Teruya, 1998, 72pp. English and Japanese versions: Huang Guowen and
Wang Zongyan (eds), Discourse and Language Functions, Beijing: Foreign Language
Teaching and Research Press, 2002. Chinese version: Huang Guowen (ed.), Yupian,
yuyan gongneng, yuyan jiaoxue [Discourse, Language Functions, Language
Teaching], Guangzhou: Zhongshan University Press, 2002b.
7 Christian M.I.M. Matthiessen, Kazuhiro Teruya, and Marvin Lam, Key Terms in
Systemic Functional Linguistics (London & New York: Continuum, 2010).
8 Cf. Shapiro:“Parallels have long been noted between linguistics and genome
expression, but the evolutionary perspective advocated here will make it much
easier to incorporate lessons about language evolution into theories of organic
evolution. The conceptual change should also temper theorizing in psychology and
linguistics based on 20th Century genetic determinism”—the reference here being
to Stephen Pinker’s The Language Instinct (London: Penguin Books, 1994). See
James A. Shapiro, Evolution: a view from the 21st century (Upper Saddle River NJ:
FT Press Science, 2011). For the perspective from systemic functional theory see
Christian M.I.M. Matthiessen,“The evolution of language: a systemic functional
exploration of phylogenetic phases,” in Geoﬀ Williams and Annabelle Lukin (eds),
The Development of Language: functional perspectives on species and individuals
(London & New York: Continuum, 2004), and other articles throughout the same
volume.
9 I am indebted to David Butt both for the reference to Shapiro’s work in note 8 above
and for his discursive observation that recent work in modeling linguistic typology
suggests that the ancestry of a language is the best predictor of the aﬃnities and
contrasts between languages. Note that this is not the same thing as“genetic
determinism”! Butt was expressing his surprise that“so much about language has
been excluded from the scientiﬁc conversation”. If Chinese thinking is (as often
claimed) more“holistic” than that in the west, this is something that our linguistics
colleagues in China might be able to put right.
14
2
Teaching and Learning SFL in China: Pedagogy
and Curriculum
J.R. Martin
Department of Linguistics, University of Sydney
1 My gaze
Since the year 2000 I have made several trips to China to deliver seminars and
teach intensive courses for post-graduate students, the majority of whom are
doing MAs or PhDs in one of China’s Schools of Foreign Languages; most of
these students are specializing in English. I have also co-supervised several
Chinese PhD students from these schools, who were able to spend one or two
semesters working with me in Sydney. In this paper I will draw on these
experiences to make some observations about the state of the art and future
prospects as far as training research students in systemic functional linguistics
(hereafter SFL) in China is concerned. In doing so I hope to open up discussion
of SFL pedagogy and curriculum in relation to the kind of training needed to
help Chinese postgraduate students develop as the innovative producers of
social semiotic theory, description, and practice the world rightfully expects
from the intellectual superpower China is economically positioned to become.
2 Knowledge structure
As with all discussions of pedagogy and curriculum it is crucial to be very
speciﬁc about the kind of knowledge we are talking about. To frame the
discussion responsibly here I will draw on the ongoing dialogue between SFL
and the social realist theory articulated by Bernstein (e.g. 1996/2000) and neo-
Bernsteinian scholars (e.g.Muller 2007; Maton 2013; Maton and Muller 2007)—
with respect to the SFL register variable ﬁeld and social realist perspectives on
15
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
16
knowledge; for access to this conversation see Christie and Martin (2007),
Christie and Maton (2011), Martin (2011a) and Maton et al. (2016). To begin we
need to distinguish between singulars and regions,a distinction Bernstein (1996:
23) outlines as follows:
A discourse as a singular is a discourse which has appropriated a space to give
itself a unique name . . .for example physics,chemistry,sociology,psychology . . .
these singulars produced a discourse which was about only themselves . . . had
very few external references other than in terms of themselves . . . created the
ﬁeld of the production of knowledge . . .
. . . in the twentieth century, particularly in the last ﬁve decades . . . the very
strong classiﬁcation of singulars has undergone a change,and what we have now
. . . is a regionalization of knowledge . . . a recontextualizing of singulars . . . for
example, in medicine, architecture, engineering, information science . . . any
regionalization of knowledge implies a recontextualizing principle: which
singulars are to be selected, what knowledge within the singular is to be
introduced and related . . . regions are the interface between the ﬁeld of the
production of knowledge and any ﬁeld of practice . . . .
Both singulars and regions are relevant to the discussion here. As far as singulars
are concerned, my focus is on linguistics—on one of its functional theories, SFL,
in particular.And since I will focus on teaching/learning SFL in Schools of Foreign
Languages,the region of literacy education often referred to as the“Sydney School”
is also relevant. Let’s ﬁrst consider the nature of singulars in more detail.
Throughout his career, Bernstein was concerned with the diﬀerence between
common and uncommon sense, and the role education plays in the unequal
distribution of uncommon sense knowledge among learners. His culminative
publications reworked this complementarity as horizontal and vertical discourse
(Bernstein 2000: 157):
A Horizontal discourse entails a set of strategies which are local, segmentally
organized, context speciﬁc and dependent, for maximizing encounters with
persons and habitats . . .This form has a group of well-known features: it is likely
to be oral, local, context dependent and speciﬁc, tacit, multi-layered and
contradictory across but not within contexts.
. . . a Vertical discourse takes the form of a coherent, explicit and systematically
principled structure, hierarchically organized as in the sciences, or it takes the
form of a series of specialized languages with specialized modes of interrogation
and specialized criteria for the production and circulation of texts as in the
social sciences and humanities.
Teaching Systemic Functional Linguistics in China 17
And within vertical discourse he set up a complementarity of hierarchical vs
horizontal knowledge structure. A hierarchical knowledge structure was
characterized as
a coherent, explicit and systematically principled structure, hierarchically
organized” which “attempts to create very general propositions and theories,
which integrate knowledge at lower levels, and in this way shows underlying
uniformities across an expanding range of apparently diﬀerent phenomena.
Bernstein 1999: 161, 162
A horizontal knowledge structure was deﬁned as
a series of specialized languages with specialized modes of interrogation and
criteria for the construction and circulation of texts.
Bernstein 1999: 162
—such as the disciplines of the humanities and social sciences (e.g.for functional
linguistics, the “languages” of systemic functional linguistics, lexical functional
grammar,role and reference grammar,functional grammar,functional discourse
grammar, cognitive linguistics etc.). Bernstein used the image of a triangle to
represent the nature of knowledge in hierarchical knowledge structures, with
general axioms at the top of the triangle integrating lower level understandings;
and for horizontal knowledge structures he used a series of Ls, representing the
proliferation of theoretical perspectives involved.
Figure 2.1 Bernstein’s picture of hierarchical vs. horizontal knowledge structures.
Wignell, presenting at the“Reclaiming Knowledge”workshop at the University
of Sydney in December 2004 (cf. Christie and Martin 2007; Wignell 2007),
commented that the social sciences might be better characterized as a series of
warring triangles—since they tend to model themselves on physical and
biological sciences as far as technicality and integration of concepts are
concerned but are generally more successful at winning institutional rather than
epistemological ascendency. In this respect they contrast with the humanities
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
18
where technicality and the drive to integration via general models and
propositions is less strong (or perhaps even anathema). The broader proﬁle this
implies is outlined in Figure 2.2 below, which uses the size of triangles and Ls to
indicate the sense in which one or another triangle achieves hegemony in the
social sciences, or becomes more fashionable in the humanities.
Figure 2.2 Science, social science, and humanities as structures of knowledge.
The tendency of horizontal knowledge structures to “progress” via the
introduction of a new specialized “language” draws attention to the centrifugal
potential of such disciplines. For a “language” like SFL this raises questions
about the fault lines around which new “dialects,”“registers” or even “languages”
might evolve. Martin (2011b) explores one aspect of this potential, focusing on
axis and stratiﬁcation issues; several additional fault lines are noted in Martin
(2013a). This raises curriculum issues as far as which register of SFL is selected
in teaching programs (e.g. Gregory’s communication linguistics, Fawcett’s
Cardiﬀ Grammar, Hallidayan SFL etc.). For practical purposes I’ll restrict the
discussion in the rest of this paper by assuming the model of SFL consolidated
in Halliday and Greaves (2008), Halliday (1985b), Martin (1992), and Martin
and Rose (2003/2007, 2008) and associated with SFL linguists working in and
around metropolitan Sydney in the 1980s, 1990s, and the 2000s.
Turning to regions my focus is on the reading and writing programs of the
Sydney School. This region recontextualizes relevant dimensions of SFL to
address literacy pedagogy and curriculum (Martin and Rose 2005/2012). It is
often referred to as genre-based literacy pedagogy because of the critical role
played by genre as far as decisions about what to teach (i.e. which genres) and
how to teach (i.e. which curriculum genres) are concerned. While SFL has
been a driving force in this region, the inﬂuence of other singulars has to be
acknowledged—including social realism (Maton 2013), neo-Vygotsykan
constructivism (Gray 1987; Wells 1994, 1996, 1999), ethnography (based on
our teacher-linguists’ experience in schools), New Rhetoric (Miller 1984), and
Cultural Studies (cf. the concern with critical literacy in Macken-Horarik 1998).
Teaching Systemic Functional Linguistics in China 19
Figure 2.3 outlines the dimensions of recontextualizations into teaching/learning
practice noted here (using Mind Culture Activity (MCA), to ﬂag the neo-
Vygotskyan group). In other regions of practice such as clinical linguistics,
forensic linguistics, computational linguistics, and translation studies, SFL
negotiates with very diﬀerent sets of dialogue partners,as reﬂected in the relevant
region-focused chapters in Hasan et al. (2005, 2007) and Webster (2008, 2009).
3 SFL curriculum in China
To begin, let me qualify what I am saying as based on my experience of teaching
research students in China and supervising them in Australia. I am sure that
others with more extensive and direct experience would paint a diﬀerent and
perhaps better informed picture of what is and what could be going on. But a
relative outsider’s voice is sometimes useful in discussions of this kind.
As far as singulars and regions are concerned, research students have some
familiarity with Hallidayan SFL,but have not usually been introduced to Sydney
School educational linguistics. This reﬂects the general concern in China with
Figure 2.3 A sketch of singulars inﬂuencing Sydney School curriculum and
pedagogy.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
20
SFL theory and descriptions and their use in text analysis of various kinds and
the relative lack1
of participation in a range of applications. This foregrounding
of theory over application is the inverse of the picture in most of the rest of the
world, where people get interested in SFL because of what they can do with it,
rather than, in the ﬁrst instance, because of its theoretical appeal. Given the
responsibility Schools of Foreign Languages assume for training language
teachers who will work across education sectors in China, it seems to me that
there is an opportunity here as far as genre-based literacy programs are
concerned. Why not show students how to address language pedagogy and
curriculum from an SFL perspective,2
drawing on the ﬁrst and second language
programmes underway around the world?
As far as familiarity with the Hallidayan SFL singular is concerned, I have
generally found it safe to assume that research students have been introduced to
systemic functional grammar—deriving in one form or another from an
introduction by Halliday (1985 and subsequent editions). In addition, they may
have some familiarity with genre (deriving in one form or another from Martin
1992) and appraisal (deriving in one form or another from Martin and White
2005). Crowded coursework syllabi mean that a lot of this knowledge will have
been accumulated through reading, rather than a comprehensive set of lectures.
Increasing the breadth and depth of coverage, I am told, is not a priority, since
MA or PhD research based solely on the SFL singular would often be viewed as
too narrow; research drawing on more than one theoretical frame is encouraged.
To my mind, there seems to be a confusion of singulars and regions here, since
moststudentsarenotapplyingSFL andthusneedingtoselectivelyrecontextualize
a number of singulars into practice. But I acknowledge this reﬂects misgivings I
have about the gratuitous use of the term interdisciplinarity in the humanities
andsocialsciencesandanapparentlackofrespectfortheintegrityofdisciplinarity
as far as the production of knowledge is concerned (so that “interdisciplinarity”
in fact means conducting research in a relatively common sense space between
disciplines rather than a credible integration of disciplinary insight).
SFL is a vast toolkit, with many more dimensions available than might be
needed for any one descriptive or applied concern.And all coursework programs
have to be selective. The students I have worked with appear to come from
programs in which the following principles of selection are foregrounded:
—the focus is on language rather than on other modalities of
communication (multimodal discourse analysis in other words has not
taken oﬀ in China the way it has in the rest of the world)
Teaching Systemic Functional Linguistics in China 21
—the focus is on English, rather than Chinese3
(when it is arguably very
important for teachers teaching English to Chinese speakers to
understand the similarities and diﬀerences between the two languages
in functional terms)
—the focus is on English rather than other languages taught in the school
(even though useful SFL descriptions of languages such as French,
German, Japanese, Korean, and so on are available to draw on)
—the focus is on English, rather than relevant“heritage”languages such as
Sanskrit or ancient Tibetan, or regional languages such as Tagalog, Thai,
Vietnamese, Khmer, Laotian, or Bahasa Indonesia (so that research on
language typology and functional descriptions of languages other than
English are not fostered)
—in relation to English, the focus is on grammar, rather than other strata
(such as phonology/graphology, discourse semantics, register or genre;
SFL work on discourse semantics and context tends to be presented,
if represented, as one part of a more general course on discourse
analysis)
—in relation to English grammar, the focus is on the clause, rather than
other ranks (group and phrase structure is less familiar,and morphology
less familiar still)
—in relation to axis, the focus is on structure rather than system (students
are generally not trained to write system networks, nor to argue about
the motivation of features in systems based on their realization in
structure)
—in relation to metafunction, the focus is on functional tiers of clause
analysis, rather than on types of structure and modes of meaning in
phonology, discourse semantics or register
—in relation to context, the focus is on genre rather than register (ﬁeld,
tenor and mode are treated, if at all, in common sense terms)
—in relation to hierarchies, the focus is on realization rather than
instantiation or individuation (so that important questions of inter-
modality, inter-linguality and identity are not to the fore)
—in relation to SFL in general, the focus is on descriptions deriving from
the theory (e.g. Halliday’s grammar of English or Martin and White’s
outline of English appraisal resources) rather than on the theory
itself, so that the grounding of key concepts such as rank, metafunction
and strata in axial relations is not given prominence (a focus on L2
rather than L1 in social realism terms4
).
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
22
Of course, every coursework program has to make selections. There do remain
problems of access to key materials in China, and primers in some key areas
have been slow to appear; for example, an introduction to network writing has
only recently been published (Martin et al. 2013). But I remain concerned that
research students with training such as that outlined might have trouble
following papers at a typical regional or international SFL congress, where
familiarity with at least a comprehensive IFG style grammar,appraisal,genre,
and multimodality tend to be assumed. I am also concerned that Chinese
research students are not really being pushed to the edge of knowledge on the
frontiers of SFL. That, after all, is where such bright students who have worked
their way to the top of a very competitive education system deserve to be.
Accordingly, in 2012, in consultation with Fang Yan, Peng Xuanwei, Hu
Zhuanglin, Gao Yihong, and Gao Yanmei, I organized three weeks of intensive
teaching for PhD students from around China.Week one, at Tsinghua University,
focused on a review of key grammar systems and system network writing
(including examples from Tagalog as well as English). Week two, at Beijing
Normal University, dealt with discourse semantics (including hands on work
practicing analysing texts).And week three, at Peking University, covered register
and genre,and multimodality (image grammar in particular).An average of thirty
students attended each session, with thirteen attending all three. I think everyone
involved agreed this was a productive initiative. Three comparable courses are
now available on an annual basis at the Martin Centre for Appliable Linguistics,
Shanghai Jiaotong University. Perhaps cooperative initiatives of a similar kind
might be organized in other key centers in future (e.g.Beijing and Guangzhou),as
a supplement to coursework programs which understandably have to cater for a
range of student interests in relation to the expertise of teaching staﬀ and the
research orientation of diﬀerent schools.China’s annual“SystemicWeeks”provide
another venue for this kind of support, although programs there have tended to
provide a window on a range of SFL research activity by senior scholars5
rather
than an in depth focus on missing links.
A ﬁnal point which might be considered in relation to advanced coursework
has to do with getting organized on a metropolitan rather than an institutional
basis. For example,Australian universities follow a British style PhD supervision
system which has no provision for PhD level coursework programming.Students
work with their supervisors on their research project from the beginning of their
degree; this has the advantage of getting them started on research right away.
Gaps in their training are normally ﬁlled in from undergraduate or MA
coursework programs.There is neither the expectation nor the staﬃng resources
Teaching Systemic Functional Linguistics in China 23
to oﬀer anything more. My feeling has always been that some high level
coursework is needed and so for the past few years, on a volunteer basis, I have
been getting colleagues from around the Sydney region to take turns oﬀering
one advanced PhD course in their area of expertise each semester. Research
students working in SFL from around the Sydney region attend these courses,
with marking handled by their home institution supervisors.I make my students
do one of these courses each semester for the ﬁrst three years of their candidature.
All involved,staﬀ and students alike,have found this an engaging and rewarding
experience. Staﬀ enjoy teaching cutting edge SFL in their area of expertise and
students have the advantage of working with our region’s leading scholars.I oﬀer
this as an example of how the limitations of a particular institution as far as
course oﬀerings are concerned can be overcome.
4 Sydney School pedagogy6
Turning now to pedagogy,the Sydney School has challenged educators to change
the ways in which students are introduced to written genres. Traditional writing
pedagogy (with a “sage on a stage”) typically involves a short lecture, sometimes
accompanied by a model text, on the basis of which students are expected to
write on their own and make progress in relation to “error” oriented feedback
from teachers—typically with a prescriptive focus on spelling, punctuation, and
low level grammar features (e.g. “subject-verb” agreement). Progressivist/
constructivist writing pedagogy (with a“guide on the side”) typically involves an
invitation for students to write, seldom accompanied by a model text, with
progress facilitated by teachers encouraging students to engage with relevant and
motivating subject matter. The basic opposition here is between what Bernstein
(1975) calls visible and invisible pedagogy. Bernstein sources these to factions of
the middle class (old and new respectively), and suggests that neither pedagogy
is likely to work in the interests of students from other social backgrounds, a
point strongly aﬃrmed in our Australian experience (Martin 1999; cf.Alexander
2000). Hattie (2009) statistically conﬁrms Bernstein’s warning about using
invisible pedagogy to teach“other people’s children” (cf. Delpit 1988).
Our educational linguists worked closely with teachers to renovate literacy
pedagogy in the direction of a curriculum genre with the potential to successfully
apprentice all students into high stakes genre writing, regardless of their
background.The best-known model of the curriculum genres deriving from this
action research is presented as Figure 2.4 below (for discussion see Rothery 1989,
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
24
1996; Martin 1999).As the“building ﬁeld”bricks and mortar motif indicates, we
are dealing here with an embedded literacy program in which relevant content
is assembled and shared as part of learning to write a genre. In addition, as the
“setting context” prosody aﬃrms, the role played in the culture by the genre
being taught is continually foregrounded so that the purpose for writing remains
clear.And as the nucleus of the diagram attests,the ultimate goal of the pedagogy
is to give students both control of and a critical orientation to the genre.
As a curriculum genre, the teaching/learning cycle (hereafter TLC) moves
through three main steps—Deconstruction, Joint Construction, and Individual
Construction. Deconstruction involves ﬁeld-building activities leading to
teachers explaining a model text to students. The focus is on its social function,
its name (e.g. factorial explanation), its canonical staging (e.g. Outcome and
Factors), and where shared knowledge about language is available, discussion
of sub-staging—including the key linguistic features composing the text. Joint
Construction involves building up a related ﬁeld followed by teachers acting
as a kind of scribe—composing (on a black board, white board, or smart board,
or using an OHP or butcher’s paper), in front of the class, another model of
the genre based on oral suggestions by students during the scribing process.
This step is designed to make learning to write more like learning to talk, based
on the principle of “guidance through interaction in the context of shared
Figure 2.4 Sydney School teaching/learning cycle for teaching genre writing.
Teaching Systemic Functional Linguistics in China 25
experience”—which we derived from Painter’s studies of spoken language
development by pre-school children and their carers in the home (1984, 1986,
1998; cf. Gibbons 2002, 2006, 2009, and Hammond 2001 on scaﬀolding). The
power of the pedagogy depends crucially on this step (for further discussion see
Hunt 1994). Finally, providing teachers judge students to be ready, another
related ﬁeld is built up and students try writing on their own.The basic principle
is for teachers never to ask students to write anything until they have discussed
a model of the genre at stake with them, jointly constructed another model of
that genre with them and decided they are ready for the independent writing
task. Where students are not ready, further cycles of deconstruction and joint
construction can be undertaken, with smaller groups of students.
For students at all levels, one of the major challenges posed by the Figure 2.4
TLC, just outlined, is the problem of having to read relevant materials for
building ﬁeld as well as to read the model texts that are being deconstructed and
jointly constructed. The Reading to Learn programs developed by Rose and his
colleagues (Rose 2007, 2008, 2010, 2011, Rose and Martin 2005/2012) have
addressed these challenges by designing curriculum genres that provide space
for reading instruction. This has involved both global and local design.
Globally, the Reading to Learn program takes learning a curriculum ﬁeld
through reading as its starting point, and writing for evaluation as its goal, via a
ﬂexible sequence of nine activities. Preparing for Reading supports all students
in a class to follow a text with general understanding as it is read aloud, identify
its key information,and make notes if it is a factual text.These notes may later be
used for a Joint Construction, as described above. Where time permits, Joint
Construction is followed by Individual Construction,in which students may use
the same notes to write texts of their own in the same genre. Conversely, if the
genre under focus is a story, Individual Construction follows the same generic
patterns as the Joint Construction,but with the students’own ideas for characters,
events, and settings. One or two Joint and Individual Constructions are
programmed for each genre,before students are expected to write independently.
To ensure that all students can independently read curriculum texts with full
comprehension, and use their language resources in their own writing, passages
are selected from the reading and model texts for Detailed Reading and
Rewriting. Detailed Reading involves carefully-designed sentence-by-sentence
guidance. Each sentence in the selected passage is ﬁrst paraphrased for students,
in terms that all can understand, and read aloud. Students are then guided to
read each salient element of the sentence through interaction cycles of the kind
outlined in Figure 2.5 (cf. Martin 2007; Martin and Rose 2005/2012, 2007).
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
26
The Prepare move gives the meaning of the element to the class as a whole, in
terms that all can understand.A Focus question is then addressed to a particular
student, whose task is to Identify the element and read it aloud.As a result of the
preparation, the evaluation can always Aﬃrm the chosen student, ensuring that
all are successfully engaged in the interaction around the text. The teacher then
directs the class to highlight the exact wording in the sentence. Their success in
turn ensures that all students beneﬁt from the Elaborate move, in which the
meaning is further deﬁned, explained, or discussed (e.g. unpacking unfamiliar
terms, abstract nominalizations and lexical metaphors) and related to students’
experience.A micro-interaction of this kind might unfold as follows:
Teacher Prepare This sentence tells us the ﬁrst factor that helps mulga
sentence survive droughts.“The shape of the mulga tree is a key to
it surviving dry times.”
Prepare It starts by telling us what that factor is.
Focus Jane, can you see what the ﬁrst factor is?
Student Identify The shape of the mulga tree.
Teacher Aﬃrm That’s exactly right, its shape.
Direct Let’s highlight the word shape.
Elaborate So its shape is one factor that helps mulga survive droughts.
Note that just one or more paragraphs may be selected for Detailed Reading—
ones that are particularly dense or technical, for example. The preparation above
assumes that the term “factor” has already been introduced, as the text’s ﬁeld and
genrehavebeendiscussed.Throughsuchguidance,keyinformationinthepassage
is highlighted.When dealing with factual genres students then take turns scribing
this information as notes on the class board, and the teacher guides them to
rewrite these notes as a new text, in Joint Rewriting. Students can then use the
same notes for Individual Rewriting of a text as diﬀerent as possible from the joint
text, with the teacher circulating and providing as much guidance as needed.
The focus here is on developing the lexicogrammatical and discourse semantic
Figure 2.5 The local design of Reading to Learn detailed reading interactions.
Teaching Systemic Functional Linguistics in China 27
resources for writing technical discourse, embedded in learning the curriculum.
With stories and persuasive genres, Detailed Reading focuses on literary or
evaluative language patterns of a selected passage, and Joint and Individual
Rewriting follow the same language patterns with diﬀerent content.
Particularly in primary school, or in initial ESL/EFL contexts, support may
proceed to Sentence Making, Spelling, and Sentence Writing activities. One or
more sentences from the Detailed Reading passage are written on cardboard
strips, which students are guided to cut up and re-arrange, strengthening their
control over the grammatical patterns. Individual words are then cut up into
their letter patterns,which students practice spelling on individual white boards.
They then use this spelling knowledge to practice writing the whole sentences on
their boards.The focus at this level is thus on foundation literacy skills,embedded
in reading and writing curriculum texts.This level of intensive language activities
can be especially helpful for students who are just beginning to read and write,
who have been struggling with literacy, or are learning English as an additional
language (these activities can be usefully supplemented in ESL/EFL contexts by
drawing the text-based grammar building suggestions in Jones and Lock 2010).
These nine sets of strategies are schematized in Figure 2.6, as three cycles
providing diﬀerent levels of scaﬀolding support for reading and writing the
curriculum.
Figure 2.6 Reading to Learn teaching/learning cycles.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
28
As with all Sydney School curriculum genres, movement around or between
cycles is at the discretion of the teacher, depending on students’ literacy levels in
relation to the challenge of the genres in focus. Educators concerned about the
relevance of the various cycles considered here for able students need to keep in
mind that literacy learning is a lifelong process, and that in these TLCs texts are
generally chosen which challenge the whole class.
In various publications (e.g. Martin 1999; Martin and Rose 2005/2012),
Sydney School pedagogy has been positioned in relation to an adaptation of
Bernstein’s (1990) topology of pedagogies (extending the visible/invisible
pedagogy opposition noted above). In Figure 2.7, his vertical axis positions
pedagogies according to the degree to which they emphasize changing
individuals or changing society; his horizontal axis positions pedagogies
according to whether they emphasize acquisition or transmission. This places
the Sydney School in the lower right hand quadrant, as a visible pedagogy
focusing on apprenticeship into high stakes genres that students can use to make
a diﬀerence—not only for success in their own education but in the world
outside. Martin (1999) accordingly tags this apparently conservative pedagogic
practice as ‘subversive’ (complemented in Figure 2.7 by “liberal,”“conservative,”
and“radical” alternatives).
Figure 2.7 Types of pedagogy (after Bernstein 1990: 213–14).
I have taken time here to outline Sydney School pedagogy for several reasons.
One, as noted above, is that applications of SFL of this kind are less well-known
in China than elsewhere. Another is that so many of the graduates of School of
Teaching Systemic Functional Linguistics in China 29
Foreign Languages programs will be teaching reading and writing throughout
their careers and may ﬁnd this outline helpful.Yet another is that the principles
informing a pedagogy of this kind can be abstracted and used to think about
teaching SFL, the topic I turn to in section 5 below.
5 SFL pedagogy in China
Just as making decisions about curriculum depends on a relevant model of
knowledge structure, so choices about pedagogy depend on an appropriate
model of teaching/learning. The pedagogy deployed for teaching SFL in China
remains,I believe,a fairly traditional one—based on monologic lectures focusing
on an aspect of a singular, enhanced through extensive reading by students on
their own before and after class. This depends on students being able to learn
from reading SFL material, not all of which has been designed to apprentice
students into the ﬁeld. Successive editions of Halliday’s grammar of English, for
example, have become more and more challenging for even advanced students
and colleagues whose ﬁrst language is English. While introductory materials
based on such works thus have a role to play, advanced research students do
eventually have to learn to access complex discourse of this kind. And I suspect
this means that SFL teachers in China will have to adapt Rose’s Reading to Learn
TLCs and implement them as part of their advanced coursework programs.This
means that teachers will have to engage in Sydney School-inspired interactions
with students, such as those outlined above, moving as they do from the upper
right traditional quadrant of Bernstein’s Figure 2.7 topology to the lower right-
hand one. No series of lectures on SFL, however expert, can hope to cover all
that has to be learned; so reading7
is essential. Academic knowledge lives in
writing and it has to be accessed there.
A similar re-orientation will have to be considered in relation to research
student writing. Currently, I understand, academic literacy in Chinese universities
tends to be addressed through generic literacy programmes rather than
embedded programmes tailored to speciﬁc academic disciplines. The Sydney
School pedagogies outlined above, however, lend themselves to application
inside disciplines where the subject-speciﬁc genres and macro-genres of writing
are in focus. In my experience, Chinese research students, like Australian ones,
are uncertain about the genres and macro-genres they need to use to document
their production of knowledge in SFL. We still need considerable research in
this arena before we can be conﬁdent about what is going on.But all SFL teachers
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
30
can make a start by carefully considering the genres they expect their students to
write for evaluation purposes and for their research theses. As outlined above,
students need models of these,and need to experience jointly constructing them
with experts before being asked to write on their own.
Most Chinese students face challenges as far as improving the lexicogrammar
and discourse semantics of their academic writing is concerned. One exercise I
have been exploring with my non-native English speaking students in Sydney is
to get them to perform Reading to Learn TLC-style exercises individually, on a
daily basis. This involves taking a paragraph or two of SFL writing from a key
text they are reading, highlighting its key words and phrases, listing these as
notes and then re-writing the paragraph or two from these notes. They then
compare their writing with the original, noting improvements that might be
made, and re-draft their paragraphs along these lines until satisﬁed with the
result. This seems to be improving their academic writing at the same time as
they note how much it helps them better understand the material they are
reading.Actually, what I think is going on here is that a normal research activity
undertaken by my generation of academics is being restored—namely going to
the library, borrowing a book, making notes from the book and re-writing these
into an essay. My current students have little experience of this since it is so easy
for them to download relevant material from the web and cut and paste it into
assignments (with the concomitant increase in plagiarism this involves).Reading
to Learn activities get students learning to write again,by scaﬀolding their access
of written SFL knowledge and then, in steps, re-working it as their own.
It’s not just reading and writing SFL materials that we need to think about
here. It is relatively unusual, I believe, for Chinese students to get hands-on
guidance as far as grammar or discourse analysis is concerned. For example,
Clare Painter, Christian Matthiessen, and myself recently revised the workbook
we published as Martin et al. (1997) and published it in China as Deploying
Functional Grammar (2010); we chose China so that students and colleagues
there and around the world could better aﬀord to buy it. The book includes
synopses of clause complex, clause, group and phrase systems and structures,
trouble shooting notes, and graded exercises; in addition, it concludes with a
chapter illustrating how to deploy the grammar for text analysis, including
explicit reference to relevant discourse semantic and context systems. During
the ﬁrst of the three intensive 2012 workshops I got the distinct impression that
very few of my thirty-ﬁve students had used the book as part of their
apprenticeship into Halliday’s grammar. Hands-on workshopping of analysis,
whether based on the exercises in the book or its model texts, was not part of
Teaching Systemic Functional Linguistics in China 31
their training. To my mind, mastery of text analysis, on whatever stratum, is
something that beneﬁts greatly from guidance through interaction in the context
of shared experience. It is not something that students can simply master on
their own; reading source material over and over again is just a ﬁrst step.
Becoming skilled at analysis takes practice, guided practice in the early stages.
Once again, Chinese SFL pedagogy, I believe, could usefully move in the
direction of adapting Sydney School TLCs—with more joint construction by
way of helping students build conﬁdence for analyzing by themselves.
A ﬁnal comment I would make relates to research and student presentations,
which we might think of as analogous to the independent construction phase of
a Sydney School TLC. What kind of opportunities are provided for these? For
example, my PhD students in Sydney, along with a few others, meet as a group
one evening a week for two hours during the semester; they take turns to give
presentations on their work to their peers, with me sitting in. This gives them
experience talking about their work, once or twice a year, from the beginning of
their research.For decades now in Sydney,we have also enjoyed Friday afternoon
SFL seminars,8
where local and visiting colleagues, and advanced PhD students
give presentations on their work. Sometimes students warm up in their evening
seminar for a Friday presentation, and use one or both of these as preparation
for a national or international conference presentation. During the semester,
these activities provide them with weekly models of pioneering research, and
give them several opportunities during their candidature to practice presenting
themselves and receive feedback from their elders and peers. It also draws their
attention to the importance of the social dimension of the discipline as a collegial
as well as a research sphere, something some PhDs students forget as they sit
week after week working monastically on their own.
6 Reﬂection
My aim in this chapter has been to open up discussion of the way in which SFL
is taught and could be taught in China. My basic point as far as curriculum is
concerned is that ways have to be found to deepen and broaden the training—to
deepen it beyond a concern with English clause structure, appraisal, and genre,
and to broaden it to include a focus on applications. My basic point as far as
pedagogy is concerned is that traditional lecture and reading practices need to
be expanded to take advantage of SFL’s basic insight into teaching/learning—
namely that it involves guidance through interaction in the context of shared
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
32
experience. There are many ways in which curriculum and pedagogy can be
developed along these lines, and I have made some suggestions here and there
in the paper drawing on my own experiences in Australia and China. I am
conﬁdent my Chinese students and colleagues will respond to these exemplars
in productive ways that will enhance the practice of training young scholars
around the world. China has an incredible pool of talent to mine in this regard.
Unleash the dragon, shall we say?
Notes
1 Exceptions would include the work by Wang Zhenhua and his students at Shanghai
Jiaotong University, with its focus on forensic linguistics, Gao Yihong at Peking
University, Fang Yan at Tsinghua, and Chang Chenguang and colleagues at Sun
Yat-sen in educational linguistics; Gao Yihong is preparing to work on clinical
discourse.
2 A key factor here is that like English Departments in the English speaking world,
English Departments in China do not see themselves as responsible for training
their students as English teachers, even though so many of them will go on to work
as such in their careers.
3 I have even been advised that students in English Departments are not allowed to
study Chinese.
4 In Bernstein’s words (2000: 132), L1“refers to the syntax whereby a conceptual
language is created”; L2“refers to the syntax whereby the internal language can
describe something other than itself.”
5 I have never, for example, been able to secure enough time in these events to deliver
an enabling course on network writing; the large numbers of students attending
these weeks is also an issue for training that depends on small group interaction.
6 This section has been slightly adapted from Martin 2013b.
7 My understanding is that Chinese students still do take reading seriously as a mode
for learning, and this needs to be encouraged; in the west an aversion to print
materials I call“screenophilia” and the ready availability of web-based materials
means that students are reading less and less all the time.
8 To date I have not witnessed much cooperation across metropolitan campuses are
far as regular SFL seminars and shared advanced coursework programs is
concerned, in spite of the huge potential for this in the many large cities which have
several institutions training students in SFL.
Part Two
Showcasing the State of the
Art in China
33
34
The nineteen chapters that follow are representative works by active Chinese
systemicists, aged between their late twenties to more than eighty. The themes
of the chapters cover most areas in SFL with various methodologies, ranging
from the expression plane to the content plane, from lexis to text, from natural
language to multimodal discourse, from lexicology to lexicography, from
monolingual to typological description, from case observation to corpus-based
approach, and from discourse analysis to translation.
The anthology starts with a section dealing with the expression plane of
language, in particular Chinese in its speaking and writing modes. The two
chapters here suggest a way of localization,but are in line with the global horizon
with the value of providing new materials and facts. The chapter contributed by
Peng Xuanwei attempts to account for the stroke systems of Chinese characters
in simpliﬁed regular script. The framework is based on the three metafunctions
in SFL,that is,experiential,interpersonal (appraisal,or compositional / aesthetic
in particular) and textual (point of departure) potentials of strokes and their
constitutional segments, the purpose of which is to single out the relevant
systems. This is the ﬁrst step toward a rank model of Chinese writing, the whole
project of which will be able to highlight the study of other writing systems. Liu
Chengyu presents a corpus-based analysis of the eight core modal particles
(MPs) of modern Chinese, i.e. a (wa, ya, na, la), ba, ma, ne, me, de, le, baile, as
well as their phonological and dialectal variants within the SF matrix of the
Chinese phonological system.The speech functions and phonological variations
of these Chinese modal participles are examined with the aim of illuminating
the interaction between their meanings and phonological variations on the one
hand and the lexicogrammatical and phonological patterns on the other.
The next section concerns lexis, dealing especially with verbs in their
experiential, interpersonal (appraisal) and textual functions from a discoursive
Introduction
HU, Zhuanglin
35
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
36
view. For his study, Song Chengfang collected 444 verbs listed under the
category of “emotion” or “aﬀect” from seven thesauri, from which he selected
sixty verbs for a subsequent cluster analysis on the basis of their conﬁgurative
facts retrieved from the Modern Chinese Corpus developed by the Centre for
Chinese Linguistics at Peking University. The clustering results of the analysis
show a primary distinction between what he refers to as emotion verbs and
emotional verbs. Lu Guoyan and Gao Yanmei also studied verbs, noting how
as a text unfolds, patterns emerge as happenings recur or activities expand.
The recurring patterns of processes display the ongoing creation of a global
incident structure. The co-authors take Folie à Deux by William Trevor as
an example to demonstrate the relations between the verb types and the
process types within clauses, and then show how the distributions of processes
contribute to the creation of a global incident structure throughout the text,
further substantiating the view put forward by Professor Halliday and Professor
Hasan that a fundamental continuity exists between lexis and grammar and
between grammar and discourse.
The following two chapters discuss nominal and verbal groups, one
attempting to refute an improper typological discrimination between English
and Chinese and the other introducing a new system of Chinese tenses, both
being oriented to a structural (hierarchical) and functional (stratal) view.
Yang Bingjun compares measure nominals in English and Chinese through an
analysis of their structure and function from the perspective of SFL, which
reveals that measure nominals in English and Chinese diﬀer in their overt
uses, while sharing certain similarities if various contexts are considered; and
that components of measure nominals in both languages function similarly at
the group level. He Wei and Ma Ruizhi sets up an overall Chinese tense system
and describes the instantiation of the potential system by emphasizing the
instantiation of marked Chinese tenses. She holds that (i) there are four types
of tense in Chinese: primary, secondary, primary-secondary, and secondary-
secondary; and that (ii) there are grammatical and semi-grammatical resources
to construe chains of temporal deictic relationships between pairs of times
indicated in a clause.
There are two chapters in the section on issues related to clause and
clause complex, but with diﬀerent characteristics. Yang Guowen describes the
characteristics of Range in material clauses in Mandarin Chinese by comparing
its grammatical behavior with that of Goal and its counterpart in English. She
found that, due to the lexical and grammatical diﬀerences between the two
languages,circumstantial elements that may be realized by prepositional phrases
in English are more likely to be realized by nouns or nominal groups in Chinese,
37
Introduction
functioning as Range.The basic properties of Range are reﬂected most distinctly
in material clauses. Compared with Goal, Range is much less likely to move
around in clauses. It shows a lower possibility of following the preposition bǎ
(ᢺ) in the bǎ (ᢺ) construction and being the thematic element in the bèi (㻛)
construction. Hsu Fu-mei discusses three characteristic properties of the clause
complex in Chinese.The investigation suggests that parataxis in interdependency
is more commonly used than hypotaxis in Chinese. The use of zero anaphora
and their logical-semantic tendency imply that (i) it tends to be paratactic
extension or enhancement when the zero anaphoric reference is the Actor or the
Carrier of the previous clause;(ii) hypotactic elaboration when the zero anaphora
is Goal or Attribute; and (iii) paratactic elaboration when the zero anaphora is
the whole previous clause.
The next chapter is devoted to text and text types. This is a textual perspective
for generic distributions of English Appraisal categories by Yu Li and her
colleagues. Their evidences come from the Chinese-English Parallel Corpus of
Appraisal Meanings developed by Peng Xuanwei and his research team. The
authors examined three levels of delicacy of the Appraisal system: (i) Appraisal
across ten genres of texts, including, Encyclopedia, Science Fiction, Science and
Technology,History of Science and Technology,General History,Folklore,Fiction,
News Report,Government File and History of Civilization; (ii)Appraisal in terms
of Attitude, Engagement and Graduation across the ten genres of texts; and (iii)
Appraisal by twenty-six subcategories under the three chief categories across the
ten genres of texts.In that regard,the research group discussed two issues in detail:
the generic distribution of Appraisal categories that indicates a global tendency
and the generic diﬀerences of the distribution that suggests speciﬁc Appraisal
features of each particular genre. They found signiﬁcant diﬀerences between
certain genres in terms of Attitude and Engagement,but no signiﬁcant diﬀerences
in Graduation. They also found signiﬁcant diﬀerences between certain genres
in twenty-four out of the twenty-six sub-subcategories. These facts contribute a
probabilistic understanding of the Appraisal system in English.
We have already witnessed analyses on lexis-grammar complementarity and
on typological concern; yet there is a particular chapter devoted to both at the
same time and which provides multi-lingual evidence.Wang Pin investigates the
complementarity between lexis and grammar in the system of Person.He argues
that, as a fundamental discourse semantic system that identiﬁes speech roles in
discourse, Person can be realized by both lexical and grammatical means. The
realization of Person may also be found at those fuzzy areas along the lexis-
grammar continuum. He found that there may be typologically diﬀerent
tendencies across languages for the realization of Person-related meaning. He
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
38
further considered both lexicalization and grammaticalization of Person with
evidences from multiple languages and explored the complementarity in the
construal of Person.
On the subject of semiotics, the chapter by Hu Zhuanglin calls for the
complementary relation between general semiotics and applied semiotics, the
latter being an extension of Halliday’s view of appliable linguistics. Related to
semiotics, there are two chapters dealing with multimodality. Zhang Delu studies
how multimodal texts should be analyzed in terms of the ways they are composed
and realized by diﬀerent modes. Zhang suggests that multimodal texts should be
analyzed in ways that are appropriate for their composition in terms of the roles of
diﬀerent modes that realize them. Chen Yumin’s chapter is also concerned with
multimodality, but examines it from a social semiotic perspective to see how
multimodal resources in China’s EFL pedagogic context are deployed to manage
dialogic engagement. She identiﬁes a number of multimodal features in EFL
textbooks as enabling editor voice to negotiate meanings with character voice and
reader voice, which include labelling, dialog balloons, incomplete jointly-
constructed texts and illustrations. By drawing upon and extending the Appraisal
system of engagement,she shows how those semiotic resources function to realize
various kinds of heteroglossia.After the exploration of the heteroglossic nature of
multimodal EFL textbooks, she discusses the voice interaction in relation to
contact/observing,social distance,and point of view.Her discoveries shed light on
the understanding of dialogic process in a given pedagogic of context.Finally,Yang
Xiran and Jonathan J. Webster’s paper discusses meaning-making in a particular
type of multimodal narrative (Japanese shonen manga/Japanese teenager comics)
by relating processes of meaning-making in manga reading to the reader’s eye
movement. The top-down framework for this multimodal study is Systemic
Functional Theory (SFT)-based, and the bottom-up data are extracted from an
eye-tracking case study using Japanese comics as stimuli.Through examining and
analysing eye movements of the respondent,it is found that ﬁxations and saccades
function on multiple metafunctional levels, distinguishing between diﬀerent
modes and weaving them together.
The chapter contributed by Liu Shisheng and Song Chengfang also looks at
multimodality, analyzing the ways in which illustrations are related to verbal
texts as well as the way in which illustrated texts explicate themes. They contend
that ways of illustrating and ways of explicating occur at levels which correspond
to those of verbalization and of symbolic articulation and that they can be
analogically built into a uniﬁed semiotic model of multimodal art and semiotic
modes similarly with theme at the highest stratum.
39
Introduction
Addressing the issue of translation equivalence from a metafunctional
perspective,Huang Guowen explores the issues involved in evaluating translated
text, in terms of metafunctional equivalence.
The chapter contributed by Sun Yinghui and Ju Zhiqin discusses the generic
nature of Chinese MA theses, aiming at a contrastive analysis for teaching.
Grounded in SFL, the authors investigate ﬁve most frequently-used categories
in the MA theses of Chinese majors of English, that is, introduction, literature
review, research design, result, and discussion. Their corpus contained 200 texts,
with twenty pairs of texts for each category. They found that most Chinese MA
students can actively construct these categories by using a variety of phases and
elements, but they also have problems in overusing some phases and elements
and avoidance of others. Based on these discoveries, the authors designed a
pedagogical model to instruct MA thesis writing in the Chinese environment.
Chang Chenguang discusses the insights that may be gained from SFL in
guiding the compilation of an English-Chinese learner’s dictionary of English
idioms. The author starts by looking at the meanings of English idioms from a
functional perspective, and then explores the implications of such a view of
language for the dictionary design. He proposes that the way idioms are treated
in such a dictionary, including deﬁnitions, illustrative examples, and usage,
should be guided by the functional principle: the meaning is the use.
The study of knowledge construction is oriented to understanding how
scientiﬁc texts are logically organized. Yang Xinzhang focuses on the relevant
linguistic features in chemistry textbooks, speciﬁcally researching how chemical
knowledge is constructed in textbooks. For this purpose, the author examines
the ways of lexicogrammatical resources used to represent knowledge in this
particular ﬁeld. From the ideational perspective, the author looks into the
patterning of grammatical metaphor, transitivity, and technical terms; from the
interpersonal perspective, he examines the use of modal verbs, modal adjuncts,
and personal pronouns; and from the multimodal perspective, he investigates
the use of chemical symbols and formulae in the construction of knowledge.
To sum up, this anthology shows the work done by Chinese systemicists over
the past thirty years or so since SFL was ﬁrst introduced into China in 1977, but
it also suggests an immense potential for further development.
The appearance of this anthology in English promises a brilliant future for the
Chinese systemicists. Please allow me to take this opportunity to express my
sincere gratitude to Professor Jonathan J. Webster and Professor Peng Xuanwei
for their initiation of this project. My thankfulness also goes to the Bloomsbury
Publishing PLC for their support in publishing this present volume.
40
Graphology and Phonology
41
42
1 Introduction
Halliday points out that the previous studies in charactery (the writing system
regarding characters), as well as in syllabary (written symbols for syllables to
make up words) and alphabets of language (see Halliday 1985: 16–23), are far
from satisfactory (Halliday 2009a). This chapter attempts to address the
charactery issue, with particular reference to stroke systems in the simpliﬁed
regular script of Chinese characters (SRS, or RS when traditional regular script
is also referred to) with the aim of investigating the semiosis of the writing
symbols of a language with a distinct cultural and anthropological trait (see
Deely 1982; Sebeok 1994; see also Halliday 1978, Halliday 2008b; Hodge and
Kress 1988).
According to Halliday, the writing system of a language resembles the sound
system in that the former also has a rank hierarchy. In English, for example, the
lowest rank is letter; and next above are ranks of word, comma unit, colon unit,
semi-sentence, and sentence in turn. It follows that an English written word
contains two ranks: letter and word. Chinese has a similar writing system; and
Chinese character is approximately equivalent to English written word (Halliday
1985: 16–19; Halliday 1994a [1985b]: Ch. 1).
However,Chinese characters have four,instead of two,typical ranks: segment,
stroke, grapheme, and character. This can be illustrated with one example in an
ancient form: (࠳, rèn, knife edge), from Jiagu Wen (JGW; oracle bone
inscriptions, inscriptions on bones and tortoise shells in Shang, 16–11 centuries
BC). This character is composed of a long curved line “ ,” a short straight line
3
Stroke Systems in Chinese Characters:
A Systemic Functional Perspective on
Simpliﬁed Regular Script
PENG, Xuanwei (ᖝᇓ㔤)
Guangdong University of Foreign Studies
43
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
44
“ ”and an extended point “ ,” all pertinent to the system of strokes. However,“ ”
can be further discerned as two segments distinguished by the turning at the
lower part of the stroke. Next, above the rank of stroke is the rank of grapheme,
which contains typical grapheme and pseudo grapheme, as can be illustrated
by “ ” and “” respectively. Pseudo grapheme, here “ ,” is pseudo because it
cannot stand alone to play its referential function; that is, it needs to attach to
and co-work with another element to work semiotically; it is also graphemic
because of its potential experiential function of indicating where the edge
of knife is, and it is therefore diﬀerent from the grapheme “ ” (variant of
independent “ ” in JGW: “knife”) that is able to have particular reference and
is also a character. It should be emphasized here that Chinese characters are not
ideographic, but logographic (see, e.g. Halliday 1985: 19; Sampson 2015 [1985]:
Ch. 8), a view that corresponds well with the three-strata idea of language in the
SFL model,that is,realizations from semantics to lexicogrammar to phonology/
graphology (see Halliday 1978; Halliday 1994a [1985b]; see,also,Hjelmslev 1961
[1943]; but, cf. de Saussure 1983 [1916]). This understanding in the sense of
general linguistics construes the Chinese writing system as an essential part of
the Chinese language: it is able to denote the relevant sound system to a high
percentage and symbolically associate the lexical level along lexis-grammar
continuity.
Stroke in general is not an immediate constituent for character formation,but
eﬀective in contributing to the conﬁgurations of character at the graphemic and
even character rank. A systematic account of this fundamental phenomenon is
therefore necessary as it is the ﬁrst step toward a comprehensive description of
the whole writing system of Chinese. Stroke in this sense refers to the various
points, lines, and combinations of lines (compound) that constitute a (semi-)
grapheme and/or character and should each have a recognizable start and ﬁnish,
being made with one complete brush of writing. It may have one or more than
one distinct stage of movement, each as a segment. In SRS, the stroke а has but
one segment, one being also a stroke; but 
ꢧ
has three segments: the horizontal
а, the verticalјand the hook; the lower transitional bent period is identiﬁed as
part of the verticalјin SRS. A segment in writing is the smallest meaningful
unit of graphology in Chinese RS.
In this regard, the ways of stroke classiﬁcation so far, including the citations in
Vochala (1985:126–139),and even the Names of Chinese Character Strokes issued
by the State Language Working Committee of China in 1988 for primary school
pupils to follow (available at numerous websites today, e.g. http://www.360doc.
com/content/14/0404/09/153202_366293906.shtml), are problematic because the
Stroke Systems in Chinese Characters 45
classiﬁcations lack a consistent criterion and the strokes can be systemically
speciﬁed into a smaller set of more basic segments for reconstructing the stroke
systems, which would be diﬀerent from the existing ones.
Of the varieties in Chinese writing, the Song style in print, SRS in particular,
is chosen for the analysis. It is a standard variety of printing appreciated for its
beauty of sedateness and solemnity achieved through a long way of perfecting
(arising from regular writing ﬂourished in Tang 618–907, started in Song 960–
1279, but matured in Ming 1368–1644; Wang 2003) and has been embraced in
formal occasions ever since. Meanwhile, JGW, Jin Wen (JW, inscriptions on
ancient bronze objects, 1300–222 BC) and Xiao Zhuan (XZ, small seal script
oﬃcially adopted in Qin, 221–206 BC) will be referred to when needed for
evolutionary comparison.
In the literature per se, there are countless studies of the evolution of the
Chinese writing system and some basic works are frequently referred to,
including Dong (2006); Duan (2006); Ji (2010); Liu (1998); Ma (2008); Tang
(2005); N.Wang (2013); Xu (1996);Yang (2010); and Zhang (2012) among many
others. These investigations serve as the basis on which the present description
is to proceed (for a fundamental understanding of the development of the
Chinese writing system introduced in English, see, e.g. Creel (1943); Norman
(1988): Ch. 3; Coulmas (1991); Boltz (1993); Daniels and Bright (1996); Chen
Figure 3.1 Rank hierarchy in Chinese characters.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
46
(1999); McNaughton and Li (1999 [1978]); Rogers (2004); Sampson (2015
[1985]: Ch. 8); to name just a few).
Previously,Vochala (1985) has singled out sets of so-called“minimal graphic
units” and their combinations of modern Chinese characters, on which four
features of strokes in writing are sorted out:Shape,Length (Dimension),Position,
and Direction. Shape has three sub-categories: point, straight line, and curved
line, in addition to “a small hook in their ﬁnal, or in their initial part.” Length is
relatively short, medium, or long. Position may be horizontal, vertical, or skewed
in orientation; and Direction of writing has ﬁve main kinds: “from left to right
",”“from up to down $,”“from left up to right down (,”“from right up to left
down ',” and“from left down to right up &,” some of which may have a hook at
the end, such asҵand ҋ.
However, there are severe problems in Vochala’s classiﬁcation. First, what the
terms “position” and “direction” cover is in fact the same thing: the direction of
stroke movement. Second, the relationship of the four categories is not clear.
Third, the description of strokes is neither detailed nor systematic in regard to
the way (࠳, rèn, knife edge) was segmented (see above).
Table 3.1 Names of Chinese character strokes oﬃcially issued. C: curved; CC:
crouching curved; H: horizontal; K: hook; LF: left-falling; OC: oblique/skewed
curved; P: point; RF: right-falling; RR: right-rising; SC: sleeping curve; T: turning; V:
vertical. Note that ᢯ is put in the running style to show the curvedness of the
downward segment.
Stroke Name Case Stroke Name Case
Ѧ P ᒯ, guǎng, broad ҋ H+K ߉, xiě, write
а H ⦻, wáng, king 
ʑ H+T+K ᴸ, yuè, moon
ј V ᐮ, jīn, scarf H+T+C+K ҍ, jiǔ, nine
ѯ LF ⲭ, bái, white H+LF+C+K 䛓, nà, that
RF ‫ޛ‬, bā, eight ʅ H+T+T+T+K ྦ, nái, milk
RR ᢃ, dá, strike V+T+T+K о, yǔ, participate
ʋ LF+P ᐑ, xún, patrol ǐ V+C ഋ, sì, four

ˑ V+RR ߌ, nóng, farming H+T+C ⋯, yán, follow
H+T+RR 䇪, lùn, comment 
ʒ H+T ਓ, kǒu, mouth
C+K ᢯, chéng, hold 
ʏ  V+T ኡ, shān, mountain/hill
ҵ V+K ሿ, xiáo, small 
ʐ LF+T Ӂ, yún, cloud
Ҋ V+C+K ኟ, tún, stock H+LF ≤, shuı̌, water
OC+K ⍵, qián, shallow H+T+T+LF ᔪ, jiàn, build
SC+K ᗳ, xīn, heart ʝ V+T+LF у, zhuān, devoted
Stroke Systems in Chinese Characters 47
Some of the lexicogrammatical categories that realize the three metafunctions
in SFG (Halliday 1994a; Martin and White 2005) are found to be useful for a
comprehensive description of the issue put forward here: (i) the textual “point
of departure” for thematic points and lines of strokes; (ii) the systems of points
and line segments in strokes, including changes in movement direction, by
virtue of their potential referential or experiential functions; and (iii) the
appraisal perspective, in particular Appreciation, of interpersonal function to be
implemented for the aesthetic layout of strokes and segments, such as their
artistically oriented drawing and balanced conﬁgurations in characters. The ﬁrst
two points will be discussed together for organizational motive; and all will be
conducted on a systemic basis. Here, the ideational, interpersonal and textual
perspectives are understood as the due semiosis of strokes, a typical semiotic
way of observation (Halliday 2008b).
2 The stroke system
2.1 A perspective of textual and experiential potentials
To begin with, since variations in point shape do not commit any change in
referential role, which will not be dealt with till the end of 2.2, the focus here
goes to the line system.
According to the criterion of segment identiﬁcation set up above, 10 types of
basic segmental movement can be recognized.
There are four comparative places for a segment to begin with: above and
below; and left and right (cf. Sproat 2000: 51–2). They are“comparative” because
it is diﬃcult to describe exactly all possible places a segment may start in all
characters. Furthermore, segment movement may be divided into two entries
Figure 3.2 Direction system of character writing.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
48
for spatial orientation: squared and skewed. “Squared” means straight and
placed as typical horizontal and vertical, as in а and ј respectively; and
“skewed” may be either straight or curved, as the left-falling in ০ (sī, private)
and the right-falling in ᔻ (yì, shoot with bow and arrow). Ten basic types of
segments can be identiﬁed, suggesting 10 kinds of thematic progression.
(1) vertical (V):ј, as in ॱ (shí, ten) and ਓ (kǒu, mouth)
(2) horizontal (H): а, as in ॱ and ਓ too
(3) left-falling (LF): ѯ
, as in Ѳ (yì, administer; stabilize) and Ҹ
(yú, give)
(4) right-falling (RF): , as in Ѳ or 䘁 (jìn, close to)
(5) right-rising (RR): , as in ࠱ (diāo, tricky) and ߠ (bīng, ice)
(6) bottom-up (BU): as the end hook of Ҋ in, e.g. ҏ (yě, also)
(7) left-rising: as the end hook of ҵ in, e.g. ≤ (shuı̌, water / river)
(8) curved right-falling 1 (CRF1): 
, as in ⣝ (quán, ⣜, dog; radical in,
e.g. ⤬ láng, wolf)
(9) curved right-falling 2 (CRF2): ⎝, as in ᠸ (gē, a danger-like weapon)
(10) curved left-falling (CLF): ⎭, the second stage of 
ʑ
, as in, e.g. प
(sháo, spoon)
Of these, (1–5) are each able to stand alone as independent strokes; and those
remaining should go with another or others to form the stroke. Note that, even
though they look curved, the left-falling (3) and right-falling (4) are straight in
nature: bending is an aesthetic feature (see 2.2). This is diﬀerent from the case in
(10),where the lower bent stage is potentially experiential as it represents part of
an object, as ʑ

in ऩ (bāo, enclose; today as व), the latter of which is written as
in JGW and in small seal, referring to a human in the form of enclosure; so
the lower part of 
ʑretains the relevant iconic embodiment, although it is
entirely symbolic in SRS, even essentially so in small seal.
On the above basis, any kind of segment can be selected out of (1–10) as part
of a stroke. Then twenty-ﬁve types of compound strokes can be identiﬁed, as
listed and illustrated below.
(11) 1Ò2: 
ʏ
, as in ኡ (shān, mountain)
(12) 1Ò2Ò1: 
ʖ
, as in 唾 (dı̌ng, ancient cooking vessel)
(13) 1Ò2Ò6: Ҋ, as in ‫ݯ‬ (ér, child)
(14) 1Ò2Ò10Ò7: , as in ᕃ (gōng, bow), о (yǔ, give) and р (gài, beg
or beggar)
(15) 1Ò5: 
ˑ
, as in 䮯 (cháng, long)
Stroke Systems in Chinese Characters 49
(16) 1Ò7: ҵ, as in Ҷ (le/liáo, clause (complex) ﬁnal particle/terminate)
and Ҿ (yú, preposition similar to at, on or over)
(17) 2Ò1: 
ʒ
, as in ਓ (kǒu, mouth) and ᕇ (fú, no)
(18) 2Ò1Ò2: , as in ࠩ (āo, dented)
(19) 2Ò1Ò2Ò1: , as in ࠨ (tū, protruding)
(20) 2Ò1Ò2Ò6: , as in ࠐ (jı̌, several) and ҍ (jiǔ, nine)
(21) 2Ò1Ò5: , as in 䇐(䀰, yán, speak; radical as in 䈝, yǔ, speech)
(22) 2Ò1Ò7: ʑ, as in ਼ (tóng, alike) and ޵ (nèi, inner, inside)
(23) 2Ò3: ҋ or ɝ, as in ᆰ (mián, house/roof) and ѵ (jiǔ, lasting)
(24) 2Ò3Ò2Ò10: , as in ᔤ (yı̌n, walk; radical form of ᖣ in variation,
as in ᔦ, yán, prolong, extend or protract) and ৺ (jí, and)
(25) 2Ò10Ò7: 
ʑ
, as in з (wàn, ten thousand) and ࣋ (lì, power)
(26) 2Ò3Ò2Ò10Ò7: 
˓
, as in ⳸ (yíng, full)
(27) 2Ò3Ò2Ò6: ҉ (yı
ˇ, second), [an independent character], as also in
Ҏ (qı̌, beg)
(28) 2Ò3Ò8Ò10Ò7: ,as in 䱍 (radical form of 䱌,fù,mound,as one at
the left of a character; also radical form of 䛁, yì, city, as one at the
right of a character, e.g. 䱦, jiē, stair, and 䝉, bı̌, an ancient
administrative area of 500 families)
(29) 2Ò9Ò6: 噋, as in 伎 (fēi, ﬂy)
(30) 3 Ò2Ò3: ʝ, as in у (zhuān, devoted; simpliﬁed from ሸ)
(31) 3Ò4: ʋ, as in ྣ (nǚ, female) and ᐑ (xún, patrol)
(32) 3Ò5:ʟ,as in ɨ (sī,private,no longer in use;⿱ today) and ㌫ (xì,tie)
(33) 5Ò4: Ѱ, as the lower part of ѻ (zhī, of; “go” in origin) and 䘋
(jìn, go forward)
(34) 8Ò10Ò7: , as in ⣝(quán, radical of ⣜, quán, dog: ⤬, láng, wolf)
(35) 9Ò6: , as in ᠸ (gē, a danger-like weapon; see above)
Each of these has various origins. For example, (11) 
ʏ
is part of ॊ (fāng, tool
for holding goods; XZ: ), २ (xì, tool for collection; XZ: ), ࠥ (kán, open
mouth; XZ: ), ਴ (gè; JGW: , foot in downward direction: “coming into
pit”; “each” today), and ࠪ (chū, step out; JGW: , foot in upward direction:
“going out of pit”;“go out”today).For another example,(15) 
ˑ
can be illustrated
with ᠹ (yuè, axe; JGW: , like axe with long handle; JW: ; XZ: ),
љ (jiū; JGW: , silks or gourd canes that entangle; XZ: ), 㢟 (liáng,
good; JGW: ; JW: ; XZ: ), 伏 (shí, eat; JGW: , an eating-like proﬁle,
mouth above and food below in utensil; JW: ; XZ: ; its simpliﬁed radical form
侓 aims to cover the whole of the lower part, as the two left-fallings in (30) у;
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
50
similar case: 䪵, jīn, gold or metal, radical form of 䠁, as in 䬱, suǒ, lock), 䮯
(cháng or zháng, old; JGW: ; XZ: ), ⭿ (wèi, fear; JGW: , a ghost with
a hand holding a stick is most fearful of all; XZ: ), 㢞 (gěn, JGW: , look
back; made from : look forward; XZ: , opposite to ), ⬌ (guā, melon or
gourd; JW: ; XZ: ), 㺓 (yī, clothes; JGW: ; JW: ; XZ: ) and ԕ
(yı̌, use; take; with, by; JGW: , tool for plough; phonetic loan).
It is apparent that their origins vary to a great extent and there is a long
way from the ancient generally curved to the modern straightening, a process
of semiotic evolution from iconicity to indexicality to symbolicness (see, e.g.
Thibault 2004).
Now all the thirty strokes, single and compound, with the ﬁve dependent
segments, are put into systemic network, with pure segments underlined.
Figure 3.3 Stroke system of the SRS.
Stroke Systems in Chinese Characters 51
To sum up, the oﬃcially-issued stroke system contains twenty-eight strokes
whereas the present perspective singles out thirty, with ﬁve single-segment
strokes (Cases 1–5) and twenty-ﬁve compound-segment ones (Cases 11–35).
Note that the traditional “ SC+K” (as in ᗳ, xīn, heart) is allocated to “Ҋ
V+C+K” (as in ኟ, tún, stock) because the former has been neutralized in the
simpliﬁed regular script, which is diﬀerent from the curved shape that only
occurs in its running style.Note also that“耽 V+C”(as in ഋ,sì,four) is classiﬁed
into “
ʏV+T” (as in ኡ, shān, mountain/hill). Meanwhile, four new strokes
are recognized: (12) 
ʖ
, as in 唾 (dı̌ng, ancient cooking vessel), (18) , as in ࠩ
(āo,dented),(19) ,as in ࠨ (tū,protruding),and (21) ,as in 䇐(䀰,yán,speak;
radical as in 䈝, yǔ, speech). The other twenty-six are shared by both systems,
but my understanding of the stroke system is now diﬀerent for backup of the
segment system. The system also reveals the diﬀerence of the relationship of the
general four categories Vochala proposed: length, shape, position, and direction.
2.2 Interpersonal aspect of “line” and “point”: their
aesthetic systems
Here the interpersonal refers in particular to the appraisal category, and more
accurately on the appreciation of attitude, such as composition (i.e. balance
and complexity) (Martin and White 2005: 56). Balance is applied to strokes in
that it concerns the arrangement of lines and points in a character; complexity
is associated with the number of lines and points in a character; both are
concerned with the aesthetic eﬀect of the conﬁguration. With balance and
complexity in mind, other related matters, such as ways of stroke conﬁguration,
width variation in line and point movement and places of strokes will also
inﬂuence the appreciative result. These ﬁve factors are the criteria for observing
the interpersonal aspect of strokes.
I will deal with the line system ﬁrst.There are two sub-systems of line,namely,
contrast and setup, that serve the background for a character to take aesthetic
feature. On the one hand, the line system in the aesthetic sense comes from
“contrast,”the most relevant factors including (i) the density of line conﬁguration
(from highly dense, as in a character that may have more than sixty strokes, to
one stroke alone, e.g. а), (ii) broadness (from broad to narrow), (iii) length
(short-long continuum),(iv) orientation arrangement (convergent/parallel,as in
⭠, or divergent/unparallel, as evidenced by the lowest left-falling to the upper
two in ᖑ),and (v) movement variations in breadth (variant,as in ᖑ,vs.invariant,
as in ॱ). On the other hand, the diﬀerent stages of a stroke and its contact
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
52
manners with other strokes that function as the “setup” of a character, are also a
factor that may inﬂuence the aesthetic property of the conﬁguration of a
character, and, where the unmarked horizontal and vertical may be said to have
decorative ends (start and ﬁnish) as in ॱ, the contacted ends are neutralized in
general, as those in ⭠ (tián, ﬁeld).
Against that, the basic segments, except for (6), (7), and (10) that have no
distinct aesthetic variation, are described below.
It is neutral for vertical ј to be in squared vertical movement, which has
the beauty of neat balance. It starts with a tilted head, and then contracts
towards a triangular shape, but stops half way and, cohering with the left-side
part, goes downward to the bottom, where it contracts again, but into a full
triangle, a cutting characteristic of the RS script. However, the end shape in
such a segment is neutralized when it contacts with others, as in ᐕ (gōng,
exquisite).Apart from this are two marked variations.The ﬁrst can be exempliﬁed
with such characters as ӂ(hù, mutual), 傜(má, horse), and с(chǒu, ugly),
where the two vertical segments stand in parallel but with the head slightly
skewed toward the right. The second variation is evidenced in ᔰ(kāi, open),
Ӆ(jı̌ng, well), ѩ(dān, red), ઘ(zhōu; circumference), and ট(máo, fourth of
twelve Earthly Branches), the left vertical being no longer straight but curved to
avoid dullness, a counterpart against the right typical vertical that balances the
whole character.
Horizontal а also has three cases, including the unmarked case itself, as in а
(yī, one). In printing, it starts with a small triangle toward the left, but then turns
in the opposite direction, and ﬁnishes in the same way as at the start but upside
downandmanytimesbigger.Basedontheabovetherearetwomarkedvariations.
The ﬁrst changes in shape when giving way to another or other stroke(s) or
radical(s) to satisfy the balance motif of conﬁguration. For example, the bottom
horizontals in ൏(tǔ, earth), ᡻(᡼, shǒu, hand), 唁(hēi, black), and ӛ(xiáng,
enjoy) are all neutral horizontal, but, as radical, change into right-rising in
ඇ (kuài, piece; lump), ᨀ(tí, carry; lift; raise), 唈(mò, silent), and 䜝(guō, outer
wall of a city). The second variety is typical in ⌠(tài, peaceful), the lower part
of which is ≤(≪), where the horizontal segment at the upper left transforms
into a typical point (see below). Note that the variations in characters form a
Stroke Systems in Chinese Characters 53
continuum of obliqueness ( ): ॱ, ᔻ, ᯇ(dǒu, a measure; dòu, struggle),
ҏ, and Ҍ(miē, glance sideways).
The left-falling stroke ѯ has four variations in shape: arc, straight, right-
rising, and even horizontal. The arc type can be a segment after a horizontal,
as in ৸(yòu, again), or an independent stroke, as in ѹ(yì, righteousness),
the bent shape being experientially marked (see above) but aesthetically
unmarked: all such segments or strokes are curved when their extent is long.
It can be imagined that, if this segment, and also the right-falling, is
exclusively straight, the character would look rather artiﬁcial. Therefore, the
curvedness itself is aesthetic, softening possible rigidity. Apart from that, there
are three varieties. The ﬁrst is the straight type, which can be prototypically
illustrated by the long segment in ০, the short one in ҋ(as in ⮻, shū, foot),
and the bottom skewed in Ӻ(jīn, today). The second variety appears as right-
rising, a movement exactly opposite to left-falling, as the lower left segment of
≤(≪) in ⌠. Third, it may also appear “horizontal,” as the left segment across
the upper middle of the vertical in ∄ (bı̌, compare), where it changes in
comparison with the left-falling on the right across the due vertical for avoiding
monotonousness since the two verticals are already in parallel. Holistically,
the variations of this segment in orientation form a degree of obliqueness,
too: ѯ , as in ቨ(shī, corpse), ᡧ(hù, one-panelled door), ᒯ(guáng, broad),
ᔰ(kāi, open), བྷ(dà, big), ৸, ѵ, ԃ(cāng, storehouse), ᤯(ná, take away), ᯔ
(jīn, axe; ½ kilogram) and ⬌ (guā, melon or gourd, see above). Note that, in
general, such a segment begins with a squared head and ﬁnishes as a naturally
softened point.
The next case is the right-falling . It has two varieties: an unmarked arc and a
marked long point-like form. On the one hand, the former case, as shown in ৸,
has a serrated point ﬁnish, namely, a distinct contracting part that ends in a
knife-like sharp with the lower side cut distinctly and the above side cohering in
harmony with the immediate former ongoing stage. This segment has two
varieties of start, one being natural, as in Ѳ, which begins with a sharp, and
the other bearing a head, as in ‫ޛ‬(bā, eight). On the other hand, the point-like
right-falling appears to have a supporting function to others, as, again, ≪ in ⌠,
or to give way to another part of the same character, as ৸ (yòu, hand: strength
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
54
or force) in ࣍(quàn, persuade), ⸒(shı̌, arrow) in ⸝(duán, short), and ѵ
(jiǔ, lasting; long) in ⚨(jiū, moxibustion by cauterizing in Chinese medicine).
Meanwhile, there may be occasions in which it may have another appearance, as
in ⬎ (dié, small melon; cf. ⬌) and 㗵(chì, wing; cf. ᭟, zhī, branch), or it may
also change its route,as ( ) in 䗸(mài,stride),ᔦ(yán,extend),Ӕ(jiāo,cross),
and ѹ(yì, righteousness), where the length and obliqueness vary.
The right-rising appears the other way round as regards the left-falling ( , ѯ)
but is always straight. It also starts with a triangular head and fuses into the
ongoing right-rising progression half way, and gradually contracts to a point, a
process of natural narrowing (compare Ґ with Ѳ and ‫ޛ‬).When this segment
becomes part of a stroke, as 
ˑ
in 䮯, the turning takes exactly the shape of the
left-falling head with a horizontal ҋ. Note that its length also changes to the
relative distances from others (cf. the one in 䎺, 䮯, Ґ and ࠱).
Note that in such places, the turning end is softened with a transitional stage. It
behaves in a similar way in another two places: left-falling and vertical rising, as
in ҿ (kuī, lose; lack), о(yǔ, oﬀer; and), and 呏(niáo, bird). The diﬀerence lies in
the transitional stage: the vertical end hook has a more immediate left-rising
behavior than the left-falling end, but much less so when compared with the
right-rising hook at the end of a left vertical 
ˑ
. There is a degree of transition
from soft turning to sharp turning:
Stroke Systems in Chinese Characters 55
The curved right-falling 1 , as in ⣝, has a similar natural start as that in right-
falling ( ), but the movement is bent toward the right along its gradual
increase of breadth for two-thirds of the process and then remains unchanged
before the hook. If the start is in contact with another segment, a small part of it
seems to have been inserted into the latter, as in 䊅 (shı̌, hog). The whole process
looks like a piece of elastic on a straight stick, with the rest smoothly curved.
Finally, the curved right falling 1 ⎝, as in ᠸ, bears a similar start to that in a
vertical and even a left-falling, but bends against the left. The entire movement
remains the same breadth and ends with a vertical hook. Here the start of the
hook has no transition: it looks like it has come directly out from the ongoing
left-falling.
Note the printing format of ᗳ(xīn, heart) again. Very few practical writings
draw the stroke in a squared manner as Ҋ,however,the printed RS usually does:
the printing has made the style its own. In this sense, it is better to treat such a
segment in the same way as that in ᠸ to have a better grouping. In fact, they
share both in general direction of movement, starting from above, then moving
downward to the right to form a smooth curve and ending there with a hook.
The diﬀerence may be acknowledged by variation,but it is exactly Ҋ in the Song
Style of printing. Therefore, there is no need to have two separate strokes as the
previous classiﬁcations generally do.The same goes to ҈(᢯),the middle vertical
line of which was written as in the cursive style,which should also be identiﬁed
as a squared line in SRS (see Wang 2015).
So far, I have ﬁgured out all the aesthetic feature of lines; but there is one
more case left for concern, namely, that of Point, which has its own aesthetics
in printing. The typical shape of a point in a character is not perfectly round
“•”; rather, it takes the form of a water drop in the process of falling “Ѧ.” Still, it
may vary in shape to its position and to the total number of point in consecutive
conﬁguration in a character. In general, point variation may be described in
three general terms: (i) length (comparatively long, medium, or short, as in
‫ޤ‬, xīng, prosper, rise; xìng, mood or desire to do something; and ߜ, dōng,
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
56
Figure 3.4 Aesthetic conﬁguration systems of lines in SRS characters.
Stroke Systems in Chinese Characters 57
winter), (ii) location (high, medium, and low; left, middle, and right) and
(iii) number in sequence (from one up to four,as in ᇍ,báo,treasure; in ‫ޤ‬; or in
㗄, gāo, lamb).
Take ‫ޤ‬, for example, as it represents most of the variations. It contains ﬁve
points: three upper and two lower, some are diﬀerent to the others. The third
upper point starts in contrast with and occupies a similar amount of space as
the ﬁrst two, but it ﬁnishes in closer placement and in an diﬀerent and longer
shape, backing up the ﬁrst and inviting the latter part of the horizontal to
respond in constitution balance. Note that the last point supports all on the left
and those above.
Altogether, there are twenty-one cases of placement in maximum
(see Figure 3.5).
Figure 3.5 Point system in the composition (aesthetic) sense.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
58
As Figure 3.5 shows, the twenty-one cases contain six possible shapes in SRS
(bald-faced), as listed in (36).
(36) a. unmarked, right-falling (round-ended): as Ѧ in ѫ(zhǔ, host;
master)
b. left-falling (line-like): as the two in ‫ޤ‬
c. high horizontal (line-like): as а enclosed in the upper-middle of
䴚 (xuě, snow)
d. marked, left-falling (round-ended): as in ⛸(liè, strong) or
ᗴ(radical of ᗳ, xīn, heart, as in ᛵ, qíng, feeling)
e. low right-rising (line-like): as in ≥
(radical of ≤, as in ⊏, jiāng,
river)
f. low mid turning (line-like): as the long in ྣ and ᐑ
To sum up, the function of a point shape, whether true point or line, can be
described as cohesive, which may be either continuative (as in 㓿), or expecting
(・) or comparative and contrastive (ধ or ᴮ) in the appraisal and aesthetic
sense of composition.
3 Conclusion
By virtue of the experiential,appraisal,and textual principles of SFL,this chapter
has reworked and hence carried out a systematic description of the stroke
systems of Chinese characters in their SRS. Even for this simplest print type, the
variations are very complicated. Next, a systematic description of each of the
other forms, such as JGW, JW, XZ, Li Shu (Clerical Script current in Han, 206
BC–220 AD) and running script (cursive and grass) would be much more
intricate from, again, the aesthetic perspective, an issue to be discussed in a
separate thesis.As for the issue of rank hierarchy,what follows is to approach the
phenomena of graphemic and character systems.It is then apparent that such an
attempt will be insightful to the understanding of the other writing systems of
languages in the world.
Acknowledgment: This study is supported by the 2013 Keynote Program of the
Centre for Chinese Folklore, Classics and Characters at Beijing Normal
University (ेӜᐸ㤳བྷᆖ≁؇ި㉽᮷ᆇ⹄ウѝᗳ), a Key Research Base of
the Chinese Ministry of Education (No.:13JJD740004).
4
A Corpus-based Systemic Functional
Phonological Approach to Modern Chinese
Modal Particles
LIU, Chengyu (ࡈ᢯ᆷ)
Southwest University
1 Introduction
Modal particles (MPs) are a special category of lexical items which are often
used to supplement the intonation system as an important aspect of the Mood
andModalitysystemof modernChinese.1
Theycanbeusedaslexicogrammatical
resources alongside intonation, pitch variation, and other supra-segmental
features to realize choice of mood,whether declarative,interrogative,imperative,
exclamatory, assumptive, tentative, hesitative, or other (Chao 1968; Chu 2005;
Ding et al. 1999; M.Hu 1981,1988;Y.Hu 1984; Z.Hu 1994a; Jiang 1986; Jin 2011;
Li 1990; Lin and Wang 1985; Liu and Wu 2001; Lu 1984; Lü 1999b; Peng 1997,
2011; Qi 2002; Shao 1989; van den Berg and Wu 2006; Wang 1999; Wang 1993;
Yang 2009; Zhang 2001; Zhang and Fang 2014; Zhang 2003). They can also take
on various phonological features, such as segmental variation, segmental
lengthening and/or shortening, segmental pitch ascending and/or descending,
and tone choices, to realize interpersonal meaning.
In this chapter, modern Chinese MPs will be analyzed according to the
systemic-functional (SF) matrix of the Chinese phonological system, in which
linguistic system is postulated to have three fundamental dimensions, namely
rank, function, and delicacy, which are organized along an axis (Ou and Liu
2014). This chapter will focus on the eight core modern Chinese MPs, i.e. a ୺,
ba ੗, bàle 㖒Ҷ, de Ⲵ, leҶ, ma ੇ, ma ో2
, ne ઒, based on examples collected
from the Modern Chinese Corpus provided by the Centre for Chinese Linguistics
(CCL), Peking University, and the Contemporary Chinese Dictionary (CCD).
59
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
60
The speech functions and phonological variations of these MPs will be analyzed
with an aim to illuminate the interaction between the meanings construed and
the lexicogrammatical and phonological patterns.
2 SF matrix of the Chinese phonology
In systemic functional linguistics (SFL), phonology (along with phonetics) is
deﬁned as an expression stratum, which is the realization of the content strata
(including semantics and lexicogrammar) conditioned by context (Halliday
2014: 26). Therefore, if one wants to take a comprehensive view of the grammar
of any language, one must ﬁrst make an excursion into its phonology (ibid,
p. 11), Halliday (1963a, 1963b, 1985b) also discusses the textual function of
tonicity and rhyming, holding that the prosodic system of English contributes
signiﬁcantly to the construction of the Information Structure and the
Interpersonal function of tone choices for realizing Mood and Modality.
Based on the Firthian prosodic analysis, systemists formulated the research
paradigm of systemic phonology, which seeks to make a systematic description of
the phonological system of language. Within this approach, the phonological
system is described “in terms of structures of hierarchically ranked units and
systems displayed in networks” (Tench 1992: 15; see also Prakasam 1977). The
Firthian principles manifested in systemic phonology include undividability,
prosody,syntagmaticandparadigmaticrelations,andpolysystemacity(Firth1957).
As a whole,however,systemic phonology focuses more on the systemic aspect
of language but does not pay due attention to the functional aspect of
phonological units. To make up for this gap, Ou and Liu (2014) proposes the SF
matrix of phonology, which is theoretically based on the following: (i) system
and function are interrelated; (ii) system is organized by delicacy; and (iii) rank
and metafunctions should be observed along the syntagmatic and paradigmatic
relations (see Figure 4.1).
As is shown in Figure  4.1, the SF matrix is three-dimensional in which
linguistic system has three fundamental dimensions,organized along three axes:
(i) ranks: syllable—foot—prosodic word—tone group—tone group sequence—
discourse; (ii) metafunctions: ideational, interpersonal, and textual; and (iii)
delicacy: a cline from most delicate through median to least delicate.To describe
the phonological features of each region in the matrix, such a three-dimensional
approach will be used to analyze phonological constituency as an interrelation
of ranks and to scrutinize metafunctions as simultaneous choices.
Corpus-based Phonological Approach to Modal Particles 61
3 Analyzing modern Chinese MPs in the SF matrix
of phonology
3.1 Deﬁnition of MPs
In Chinese,MPs refer to words which are used in a sentence to indicate the mood
of verb and/or to indicate the speaker’s attitude towards the content of sentence.
The typical MPs of modern Chinese include: a ୺ (including ya ੰ,na ଚ,wa ૷,
la ஖,see 4.1),ba ੗,bàle 㖒Ҷ,de Ⲵ,le Ҷ,ma ੇ,ma ో,ne ઒ (Ding et al. 1999:
209). Traditionally, MPs are known as “modal auxiliaries,” being attached to the
end of a sentence to indicate the mood or attitude (e.g. Y. Hu 1984: 330). But as
Huang and Liao (2002: 45) and Guo (2002: 215) observe, MPs can also occur in
the middle of a sentence to indicate a pause or in the place before another MP to
form a complex MP (e.g. aya ୺ੰ, lema Ҷో, neba ઒੗, nema ઒ో).
In this chapter, MPs refer to the grammatical particles used to indicate the
mood of clause or the speaker’s attitude toward the content of clause or clause
complex. They may occur in the following three positions in a clause or clause
complex:
A.At the end of a clause or clause complex
(1) ᡁ ᇣᙅ ੇ˛䘉䟼 ަᇎ ӰѸ Ӫ ҏ ⋑ᴹ ୺Ǆ
Wŏ hàipà ma? Zhèlı̌ qíshí shénme rén yĕ méiyŏu a.
Am I scared? Actually there is no one here.
Figure 4.1 The SF matrix of phonological system.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
62
B. In the middle of a clause or clause complex
(2) എ≁ Ⲵ ඏཤ‫ݯ‬ ୺ˈ
ᱟ ᯩ Ⲵˈ
䮯ᯩ ⲴǄ
Huímín de féntóur a, shì fāng de, chángfāng de.
The tombs of the Huis are square, or rectangular.
C. Before another MP
(3) ྩ нᱟ 䐏 ֐ ൘ а䎧 ઒ੇ˛
Tā búshì gēn nı̌ zài yìqı̌ nema?
Isn’t she be together with you?
Note that Mood in English is deﬁned in terms of the exchange of goods and
services,and information.The four primary speech functions of oﬀer,command,
statement and question are lexicogrammatically realized by Mood elements (i.e.
Subject and Finite) (Halliday 1985b). In contrast, MPs in Chinese are an
important lexicogrammatical means to realize the various speech functions (cf.
Yang 2009). For example:
(4a) 㘱 ᵾˈ䈧 ் ⛩ ⲭ䞂 ੗Ǆ(oﬀer)
Lăo Lı̌, qı̌ng hē diăn báijiŭ ba.
Lao Li, please drink some liquor.
(4b) 㘱 ᵾˈ் ⛩ ⲭ䞂 ޽ 䎠Ǆ (command)
Lăo Lı̌, hē diăn báijiŭ zài zŏu.
Lao Li, you may go after drinking some liquor.
(5a) 㘱 ᵾ ் Ҷ ⛩ ⲭ䞂Ǆ(statement)
Lăo Lı̌ hē le diăn báijiŭ.
Lao Li drank some liquor.
(5b) 㘱 ᵾ ் Ҷ ⛩ ⲭ䞂 ੇ˛ (question)
Lăo Lı̌ hē le diăn báijiŭ ma?
Did Lao Li drink any liquor?
Besides,as the forthcoming analysis will indicate,modern Chinese MPs can also
be used to convey Modality meanings,such as completion of an action or change
(e.g.le Ҷ) and assumption (e.g.ba ੗).Thus,Chinese MPs should be categorized
as belonging to the Mood and Modality system (cf. Palmer 2001).
Along the phonological rank scale of modern Chinese, MPs belong to the
category of prosodic words (cf. Feng 1996, 1997/2009). They can go along with
other prosodic features such as tone, segmental lengthening and/or shortening,
segmental pitch ascending and/or descending and others to perform various
speech functions (see also 4.2).
Corpus-based Phonological Approach to Modal Particles 63
3.2 Metafunctions of modern Chinese MPs
3.2.1 Sentence-ﬁnal MPs
Modern Chinese MPs can all occur at the end of a clause or clause complex to
perform the following speech functions in an appropriate context:
3.2.1.1 Ideational metafunction
All the eight Chinese MPs can be used in declarative sentences to construe a
certain experience of the speaker as well as to indicate his or her position on or
attitude toward the action or situation coded in the relevant clause or clause
complex. Speciﬁcally, they are used to perform the following speech functions.
Figure 4.2 The prosodic system of modern Chinese.
Table 4.1 The ideational metafunctions of modern Chinese MPs in declaratives.
MP Speech function MP Speech function
a ୺ Indicating approval or self-
protectiveness
le Ҷ Indicating a change or a new
situation, including: (a) something
has happened or is about to
happen; (b) a certain situation
under certain conditions; (c) a
change in one’s understanding,
idea, view or action
ba ੗ Indicating (a) consent, approval;
(b) doubt without seeking an
answer; (c) conjecture and
consultation.
ma ੇ Same as“ma ో”, often used after
“нᱟ . . .”,“нቡ. . .”, etc.
bàle
㖒Ҷ
Meaning“no more than, merely” ma ో Indicating that something speaks
for itself
de Ⲵ (a) Indicating aﬃrmation; (b)
expounding the truth
ne ઒ Reinforcing the assertion or play
up the eﬀect of exaggeration;
Indicating the continuation of an
action or situation
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
64
3.2.1.2 Interpersonal metafunction
All the eight Chinese MPs can be used in interrogative sentences to enact the
interpersonal relationship between the speaker and the hearer, but with varied
restrictions in structure or usage.
The MPs ba ੗,le Ҷ,a ୺ and ma ో can also be used in imperative sentences
to make a request, command, or prohibition.
Table 4.2 The interpersonal metafunctions of Chinese MPs in interrogatives.
MP Speech function MP Speech function
a ୺ Indicating doubt (with obligatory
interrogative words and a rising
tone at the end of the sentence)
le Ҷ Asking about a change or a new
situation
ba ੗ Implying (i) doubt or supposition;
(ii) consultation
ma ੇ Usu. used in yes-no questions (but
not ne ઒); if ma ੇ is used in a
special question, then the
question actually functions (i) as a
yes-no question (e.g. Ԇкଚ‫ݯ‬৫
Ҷੇ˛ Tā shàng nǎ’ér qù le ma?
/“Did he go somewhere?” (Ding
et al. 1999: 210), (ii) as an echoic
question (e.g.A: ֐ࠐᰦࣘ䓛˛
Nĭ jĭshí dòngshēn?/When will you
set out? B: ᡁࠐᰦࣘ䓛ੇ˛᰾‫ݯ‬
аབྷᰙቡ䎠Ǆ Wŏ jĭshí dòngshēn
ma? Míng’ér yīdàzǎo jiù zŏu./
When shall I set out? I am leaving
early tomorrow morning.
bàle
㖒Ҷ
Rarely used in interrogative
sentences (only six instances in
CCL)
ma ో Implying mild criticism or blame.
de Ⲵ Asking about an assertion or a
supposition
ne ઒ Used in special, alternative and
rhetorical questions (but not ma
ੇ)
Table 4.3 The interpersonal metafunctions of Chinese MPs in imperatives.
MP Speech function
a ୺ Indicating an urge or a prohibition; implying extortion
ba ੗ Indicating a mild request or strong command, implying soliciting
somebody’s advice, suggestion, or physical or mental response
le Ҷ (a) Indicating a request or command; (b) indicating a prohibition of a
completed action
ma ో Expressing hope or giving advice
Corpus-based Phonological Approach to Modal Particles 65
The MPs“a ୺” and“le Ҷ” can also be used in exclamatory sentences to express
the speaker’s admiration or pride.
(6) Ӻᒤ Ⲵ ᒴぬ 䮯 ᗇ ⵏ ྭ ૷ʽ
Jīnnián de zhuāngjià zhăng de zhēn hăo wa!
What a good crop this year!
(7) ѝഭ Ӫ≁ ㄉ 䎧ᶕ Ҷʽ
Zhōngguó rénmín zhàn qı̌lái le!
The Chinese people have stood up.
3.2.2 Sentence-middle MPs
Some modern Chinese MPs can be used in the middle of a clause or clause
complex to realize the following metafunctions:
3.2.2.1 Ideational metafunction
The MP “a ୺” can be used to enumerate a number of things or actions for
exempliﬁcation.
(8) 
Җ
 
୺

ᵲᘇ
 
୺

᩶┑ Ҷ а ṼᆀǄ

shū a, zázhì a, băimăn le yī zhuōzi.
The desk is stacked full of books, magazines and what not.
The MP “de Ⲵ”can also be used after two words or groups / phrases of the same
category or construction to mean“etc.”.
(9) 㘱ґԜ ⊿㥦 ‫≤ق‬ Ⲵˈ
ᖵ ᡁԜ ᖸ ✝ᛵǄ
Lăoxiāngmen qīchá dàoshuı̌ de, dài wŏmen hěn rèqíng.
The folks made tea and served hot drinks, treating us warmly.
3.2.2.2 Textual metafunction
The MPs “a ୺” and “ma ੇ” occur in the middle of a clause or clause complex
to topicalize the preceding NP or to draw the addressee’s attention to the
subsequent action or situation.
(10) े෾
䘉аᑖ ୺ˈ
䘉аᑖᐞнཊ䜭ᱟ┑Ӫཊˈ┑ӪཊǄ
Běichéng zhèyīdài a,zhèyīdài chàbùduō dōushì Mănrén duō,Mănrén duō.
In the northern part of the city, you see, many Manchurians live
there, so many Manchurians!
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
66
(11) Ԇ 䘉њ Ӫ ੇˈ ᡁ ⵏ нᮒ ᚝㔤Ǆ
Tā zhègè rén ma, wŏ zhēn bùgăn gōngwéi.
As for this person, I really cannot compliment him.
The MPs“ba ੗”and“ne ઒”can both be used in the middle of a clause or clause
complex to present two alternative actions or situations and the clause before the
particle functions as the condition of action or situation coded in the subsequent
clause.
(12) 䘉 ь㾯 ֐ௌ⅒ ઒ˈ
ቡ Ҡл˗нௌ⅒ ઒,ቡ࡛ҠǄ
Zhè dōngxī nı̌ xı̌huān ne, jiù măixià; bù xı̌huān ne, jiù biémǎi.
If you like this, then buy it; if you don’t like it, then don’t buy it.
The MP “le Ҷ” can be used in a series of consecutive structures to denote a
sequence of changes in the state or situation.
(13) ኡ ᵇ⏖ 䎧ᶕ Ҷ,
≤ 䮯 䎧ᶕ
Ҷ
,
ཚ䱣 Ⲵ
㝨 㓒䎧ᶕҶ
Ǆ
Shān lăngrùn qı̌lái le, shuı̌ zhăng qı̌lái le, tàiyáng de liăn hóng qı̌lái le.
Mountains and hills turn more luxuriant, rivers and lakes fuller and
clearer, and the sun hotter.
The MPs in examples (12) and (13) actually function as cohesive devices to help
achieve cohesion and coherence between the consecutive clauses or clause
complexes per se.
4 Phonological variation of modern Chinese MPs
In SFL, language is deﬁned as a social semiotic, which means that language
should be interpreted “within a sociocultural context, in which culture itself is
interpreted in semiotic terms—as an information system” (Halliday 1978: 2).As
a system of systems, language is then interpreted to have four strata, with
semantics and lexicogrammar as the content strata and phonology and phonetics
as the expression strata. The content strata are conditioned by the context of
situation at the micro level as well as the sociocultural context at the macro level
and then are realized by the expression stratum. (Halliday 2014: 24-27) Within
the content stratum, lexicogrammar is“naturally” related to semantics (Halliday
1994a: xvii) in that the former realizes the latter; within the expression stratum,
phonology is realized by phonetics.
Corpus-based Phonological Approach to Modal Particles 67
This suggests that language can be viewed as a complex adaptive system. That
is,language is intrinsically dynamic in that,on the one hand,the language system
and its various subsystems as a whole may adapt themselves to the sociocultural
context; and on the other hand, the various subsystems are interrelated and may
adapt themselves to each other.
Focusing on the phonological system, we can infer that it is dynamic and
adaptive in nature. At the macro level, the phonological system may adapt itself
to the sociocultural context; at the micro level, the various constituents of the
phonological system may adapt themselves to each other; at the intermediate
level, the phonological system may adapt itself to lexicogrammar, which may in
turn adapt itself to semantics.This adaptive and dynamic nature is manifested in
various phonological variations, which will be examined below.
4.1 Assimilation and conﬂation
In phonology, a phoneme can be modiﬁed to be similar with its neighbouring
sound(s). This phenomenon is technically called assimilation, which can be
classiﬁed into two categories: (i) coalescent assimilation, where one sound
changes to another for the preceding sound; and (ii) anticipatory assimilation,
where one sound changes to another for the subsequent sound.
In modern Chinese, the sentence-ﬁnal and sentence-middle modal particle
“a ୺” undergoes the following process of coalescent assimilation:
Table 4.4 Phonological assimilation of the modern Chinese MP“a ୺.”
Preceding vowel or coda Phonological assimilation and graphological
representation
a, e, i, ai, ei, o, ü a Ò ia: a ୺Òya ੰ: ᴸӞᱟӰѸੰ˛ yuèliàng shì
shénme ya./What is the moon?
ao, ou, u a Ò ua: a୺Òwa૷: ࣚቄ૸䎔࣋≄нሿ૷Ǆ
Nŭěrhāchì lìqì bù xiǎo wa./Nurhaci is so strong.
-n (e.g. an, en) a Ò na: a୺Òna ଚ: ӪェҶਟᙌଚʽ Rén qióng le
kĕlián na./Poor people are miserable.
-ng (e.g. ang, eng, ing, ong) a Ò nga: ᆷᇉѝᴹ䇨ཊཙփˈᚂᱏ୺ˈ㹼ᱏ୺ˈছ
ᱏ୺ˈㅹㅹǄ Yŭzhòu zhōng yŏu xŭduō tiāntı̌,
héngxīng nga, xíngxīng nga, wèixīng nga, dĕngdĕng./
There are many celestial bodies, such as stars, planets,
satellites, and so on.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
68
The phonological variation may also take the form of phonological conﬂation,
where a phoneme is conﬂated with its neighbouring sound(s). In modern
Chinese, when the MP “a ୺” occurs after the MP “le Ҷ,” they may be conﬂated
into a single character“la ஖.”
(14) ԆԜ Ӫ 䜭 䎠 ஖Ǆ
Tāmen rén dōu zŏu la (=le Ҷ + a୺)
They have all left.
4.2 Functional diversiﬁcation
As discussed above, phonology in SFL is interpreted as the realization of
lexicogrammar (i.e. wording), which is in turn the realization of semantics (i.e.
meaning). Therefore, the communicative functions determine (i) whether a
certainphonologicalfeatureisusedornot;and(ii)if yes,thenwhichphonological
feature should be used.Table 4.5 is a summary of the lexicogrammatical patterns
in which modern Chinese MPs are located and the various speech functions
they serve.
As MPs belong to the category of prosodic words, which can occur with
other prosodic features to perform various speech functions,3
the speaker can
utter the MP in diﬀerent tones when used in diﬀerent contexts to serve
diﬀerentcommunicativefunctions.Forexample,the“a୺”isusedinadeclarative
sentence to indicate assurance as in example (15) is usually uttered in the falling
tone (tone 1), whereas “ma ੇ” used in an interrogative sentence to indicate
doubt as in example (16) where it is usually uttered in the rising tone (tone 2).
The corresponding segmental pitch ascending and/or descending are also
involved here.
(15) ᡁ ⋑ ৫ ᱟ ഐѪ ᡁ ᴹһ ୺Ǆ
Wŏ méi qù shì yīnwèi wŏ yŏushì a.
I didn’t go there because I was busy.
(16) ֐ ᢮ ᡁ ᴹһ ੇ˛
Nı̌ zhăo wŏ yŏushì ma?
Is there something you want to see me about?
Table 4.6 is a summary of the tone choices employed in the phonological
system of modern Chinese MPs.
When the same MP is used to serve diﬀerent communicative functions or in
diﬀerent lexicogrammatical patterns,phonological variations,such as segmental
Corpus-based Phonological Approach to Modal Particles 69
Table 4.5 Lexicogrammatical patterns and speech functions of modern Chinese MPs.
Speech functions Lexicogrammatical patterns Obligatory
MP
No MP present MP present
Declarative
positive pure
positive
de Ⲵ, le Ҷ, ne
઒, ma ో, a ୺,
bàle 㖒Ҷ
___
double-
negative
н. . . . . .н. . . . . . ___
negative н + V/Adj . . . ___
Interrogative
yes-no question declarative (+ DP) ma ੇ, ba ੗ ___
speciﬁc question
(or wh-question)
interrogative pro-forms
or adverbs such as: 䈱
ӰѸᘾṧ
ne ઒a ୺ ___
alternative question clauses connected by
‘. . . . . .䘈ᱟ. . . . . .’
ne ઒, a ୺ ___
a-not-a question
V н99н ; . . . . . .ˈ
ᱟнᱟ㹼н㹼ྭ
нྭ
ne ઒, a ୺ ___
Imperative
command /
prohibition
no subjects no MP
request / dissuasion declarative + MP le Ҷ, a ୺, ba ੗ ___
Exclamatory
interjections make up
the whole exclamatory
sentence.
noun or noun phrase +
MP
a ୺, ya ੰ ___
Slogan
ཊཊѸྭⵏ. . .
. . .MP
wa ૷, ya ੰ ___
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
70
Table 4.6 tone choices for modern Chinese MPs.
Mood
tone choices
Assurance Doubt
13
1a 1b 3 4 5 2 2a 2b
Declarative
1: statement
1a:statement +
assertion
reservation assertion solemnity
Interrogative
2: demanding
information
2a:echoic question
2b:conﬁrmation
Imperative
1: request
1a: command
command+
indiﬀerent
Exclamatory
1: praise
1a: praise, sign
lengthening and/or shortening, can also be involved. For example,“a ୺”used in
a declarative sentence to indicate for sure (as in example (17)) is usually uttered
as a shorter segment than that used in an imperative sentence to express an
earnest request or urge (as in example (18)).
(17) 䘉䟼 ަᇎ ӰѸ Ӫ ҏ ⋑ᴹ ୺Ǆ
Zhèlı̌ qíshí shénme rén yě méiyŏu a.
Actually there is nobody in here.
(18) ֐ ਟ 㾱 ሿᗳ ୺ʽ
Nı̌ kě yào xiăoxīn a!
Do be careful!
4.3 Dialectal variation
In modern Chinese,most MPs may be written as diﬀerent characters.Such cases
reﬂect the dialectal variation.For example,the MP “ne ઒”in Mandarin Chinese
Corpus-based Phonological Approach to Modal Particles 71
can take the phonological variant “le ଙ” in some regional dialects; and the
Mandarin Chinese MP “ba ੗” can take the phonological variant “bei ઇ” in
some regional dialects.The Mandarin Chinese MP “ma ో”can take the dialectal
variant“ma Ѹ”.
5 Conclusion
This chapter has looked at modern Chinese MPs within the SF matrix of the
Chinese language, illustrating how the three-dimensional rank-metafunction-
delicacy matrix can be applied as an eﬀective framework for a systematic analysis
of modern Chinese MPs. It can also serve as a fundamental theoretical basis for
SF phonology,a sub-domain of SFL which has witnessed some developments in
the past decades (e.g. Firth 1957; Halliday 1963a, 1963b, 1967, 1970a, 1985a,
1985b, 1992; Tench 1992, 1996; Halliday and Greaves 2008; Bowcher and Smith
2013), but much of which is still to be developed. For example, a more
comprehensive study on modern Chinese MPs should be done in light of SF
Table 4.7 Typology of Chinese tones and the corresponding semantic features.
tone Representation
Mood/Semantic features
Visual symbol Term
Falling
Even–falling tone1 Declarative–statement; imperative–
request
High–falling tone1a Declarative–assertion; imperative–
command; exclamatory–praise
Low–falling tone1b Exclamatory–praise, sign
Rising
Even–rising tone2 Interrogative–demanding
information
High–rising tone2a Interrogative–second time question
Low–rising tone2b Interrogative–conﬁrmation
Kinetic
Falling–rising
(dipping)
tone3 Declarative–statement + reservation
Rising–falling
(peaking)
tone4 Declarative–statement + assertion
Static
tone5 Declarative–solemnity; imperative–
command + indiﬀerence
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
72
phonology so that a more delicate and systematic system can be formulated; a
national survey is needed to investigate the geographical and social distribution
patterns of the various dialectal phonological variants of modern Chinese MPs;
some experiments should be conducted with sonographs, phonographs, and
other equipment to examine the phonological variations in diﬀerent
lexicogrammatical patterns, including tone choices, variations in tones,
segmental lengthening and/or shortening, segmental pitch ascending and/or
descending.
Notes
1 Modal particles in Classical Chinese include: qí ަ, fú ཛ, wéi ᜏ (ୟ㔤), yě ҏ, yĭ
⸓, yĭ ᐢ, ěr 㙣, ěr ቄ, yān ✹, hū Ѿ, yú о (⅔), yé 㙦 (䛚), zāi ૹ, xī ‫ޞ‬, wéi Ѫ, éryĭyĭ
㘼ᐢ⸓, yěyĭyĭ ҏᐢ⸓ and others. But they are no longer used in modern Chinese
except when people quote from classical literature (Yang 1981).
2 According to Ding et al. (1999), one of the typical modern Chinese modal particles
is“ma Ѹ,” but according to the CCL corpus,“ma ో” is more frequently used than
ma Ѹ. So ma ో is discussed here as one of the core modal particles.
3 The typology of tones in modern Chinese and their corresponding semantic
features are as follows. (Cf. Ou and Liu 2014).
Lexis
73
74
1 Introduction
Verbs realizing emotions, as a grammatically as well as semantically deﬁned
lexical category,are signiﬁcant both in the ﬁeld of lexicogrammatical studies and
in the research area of discourse semantics, as they realize emotive processes on
the one hand (Halliday 2004: 208–10) and inscribe affect on the other (Martin
and White 2005: 45–52). Inspired by Halliday’s (1961) proposition that lexis
can be deﬁned as “most delicate grammar,” previous lexical studies from the
perspective of SFL have sought to develop system networks for words from a
speciﬁc semantic ﬁeld, for example Hasan (1987) and Tucker (1998). However,
the basis on which their networks are drawn is mainly that of lexical items’
semantic features, and the words in the networks are limited in number.
Grammatical patternings of lexical items, though regarded as important, in
devising lexical networks, are as yet underdeveloped due to the technological
challenges in collecting the data of the structural conﬁgurations of those lexical
items (Hasan 1987:188;Tucker 1998:96–98).Appraisal analyses of the evaluative
meaning of a text, on the other hand, usually assume that the evaluative items
used in a text can be rather conﬁdently and exhaustively identiﬁed by employing
grammatical patterns that have so far been proposed as criteria (e.g. Martin and
White 2005: 58–61). Nevertheless, the grammatical patterns as listed in Martin
andWhite (2005: 58–61) are language-speciﬁc and are only applicable to English
adjectives. Moreover, they are not empirically justiﬁed.
To answer the challenge of collecting conﬁgurative data and to improve the
objectivity and feasibility of the Appraisal analysis of Chinese texts, this chapter
5
Emotion Verbs and Emotional Verbs in
Chinese: Their Distinctions and Sub-
classiﬁcations Based on Conﬁgurative Facts
SONG, Chengfang (ᆻᡀᯩ)
University of International Business and Economics
75
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
76
chooses to adopt the method of cluster analysis to summarize formal or syntactic
features of Chinese verbs expressing emotions, and to make a list of these verbs
and provide a classiﬁcation of them on the basis of their grammatical patterns.
First, 444 verbs listed under the category of “emotion” or “aﬀect” were collected
from seven Chinese thesauri. Then the conﬁgurative facts in the form of the
grammatical features of sixty verbs, selected from the complete collection by
interval sampling, were examined with the help of the Modern Chinese Corpus
of the Centre for Chinese Linguistics at Peking University (the CCL Corpus
hereafter). Consequently, a cluster analysis was conducted on the sixty verbs on
the basis of this examination. It was found that Chinese verbs construing
emotions are of two types: emotion verbs which inscribe or explicitly express
emotions and emotional verbs which indexically signify emotions, and each
type is identiﬁable by a set of shared grammatical features, which can, in turn,
function to exclude other verbs from lists of emotion and emotional verbs.
2 Methodology
2.1 Theoretical background
LexicogrammaticalanalysesfromtheSFL perspectivearelargelybasedonWhorf’s
(1956) notion of reactance, which refers to the “deﬁnite linguistic conﬁgurations”
associated with the members of a covert category (88) or “lexicogrammatical
patternings” as interpreted by systemic functionalists (Hasan 1987: 185; Halliday
and Matthiessen 1999: 26–7). Theoretically speaking, the grammatical patternings
can be summarized by using technical terms from diﬀerent linguistic schools.
However, Whorf (1956: 88) argues that formal terms are to be preferred because
they are likely to be recognizable to all observers, and labels like functional ones
should be employed only after conﬁgurative facts are made manifest.His argument
is accepted in this study, but mainly for a diﬀerent reason.As will be shown below,
the grammatical features of verbs to be analyzed in this chapter are examined with
reference to a raw corpus, which oﬀers little tagged information. Observations of
how a word behaves would be more eﬃcient and objective if they were made with
referencetonotionswhicharebasedonformalfeatures.Therefore,theexamination
of grammatical features in this study relies mostly on collocations, which have
been shown by Tucker (1998) to be signiﬁcant in devising systems of lexis,and uses
formal terms mostly from traditional grammar and functional terms that are easily
deﬁned with reference to formal features.
Emotion Verbs and Emotional Verbs in Chinese 77
2.2 Candidate verbs
Systemic functionalists, for example Matthiessen (1990), have argued that
thesauri,rather than dictionaries,provide a better model for lexical organization
at the stratum of lexicogrammar, because they foreground meanings.And as the
purpose of a thesaurus is to provide language users with as many words as
possible from the same semantic domain (Mei et al. 1983), thesauri are an ideal
source for collecting verbs expressing emotions. To date, seven thesauri which
collect Chinese verbs have been published in China; one of them, the PKU CCL
Modern Chinese Thesaurus, is available online.
All seven thesauri have a category of “emotion”or“aﬀect,”and it is from these
thesauri that words were ﬁrst collected. However, these words do not naturally
make up the list of candidate verbs, as they are of diﬀerent styles and diﬀerent
structures. A selection process had to be implemented to ensure that candidate
verbs were uniform in these respects.1
Eventually 442 verbs were chosen for
further analyses.2
2.3 Method
Cluster analysis is a statistical method which aims to classify a set of objects
according to their similarities, and its resulting categories include members that
are more similar to their co-members than to those from other categories. The
ﬁrst step in a cluster analysis is to determine the parameters along which the
objects to be examined diﬀer from one another. Drawing on the grammatical
analyses of mental verbs, the superordinates of verbs expressing emotions
(e.g.Yuan 2010),and the distinction between volitional and non-volitional verbs
(Ma 1992), Song (2012a) has summarized thirty-one parameters, which are
given below in the form of polarity questions.
(1) Is it possible for the verb to be modiﬁed by hěn (ᖸ, very)?
(2) Is it possible for the verb (used as a Predicator) to take a Complement?3
(3) Is it possible for the verb to be used in the construction“hěn (ᖸ,very)
+ Predicator + Complement”?
(4) Is it possible for the verb to have a Subject which has the semantic
feature [+human]?
(5) Is it possible for the verb to have a Subject which has the semantic
feature [−human]?
(6) Is it possible for the verb to have a Complement that is absent but
retrievable from the context?
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
78
(7) Is it possible for the verb to have a Complement which has the
semantic feature [+human]?
(8) Is it possible for the verb to have a Complement which has the
semantic feature [−human]?
(9) Is it possible for the verb to have another verb as its Complement?
(10) Is it possible for the verb to have a clause as its Complement?
(11) Is it possible for the verb to have two Complements?
(12) Is it possible for the verb to have a Complement which is introduced
through a preposition?
(13) Is it possible for the verb to have a prepositional phrase which
introduces a reason?
(14) Is it possible for the verb to be used in a bèi (㻛) construction?4
(15) Isitpossiblefortheverbtobeusedinashòudào(ਇࡠ)construction?5
(16) Is it possible for the verb to be used in a dédào (ᗇࡠ) construction?6
(17) Is it possible for the verb to be used in a positive imperative clause?
(18) Is it possible for the verb to be used in a negative imperative clause
formed with bié (⇓)?
(19) Is it possible for the verb to be used in a negative imperative clause
formed with béng (⭝)?
(20) Is it possible for the verb to stand alone as a Predicator,without using
the aspect marker le (Ҷ)7
?
(21) Is it possible for the verb to be used in a progressive aspect by using
the aspect marker zhe (⵰) after the verb?
(22) IsitpossiblefortheverbtobeduplicatedandthenusedasaPredicator?
(23) Is it possible for the verb to be immediately followed by sentence
ﬁnal particles like ba (੗), ne (઒), and ma (ੇ)8
?
(24) Is it possible for the verb to be negated by bù (н)?
(25) Is it possible for the verb to be negated by méi/méiyǒu (⋑⋑ᴹ)?
(26) Is it possible for the verb to be modiﬁed by mǎshàng (傜к,at once)?
(27) Is it possible for the verb to be used immediately after jiāyı̌ (࣐ԕ,
give), yán jiā (ѕ࣐, strictly implement), yǔyı̌ (Ҹԕ, give, grant),
jìnxíng (䘋㹼, have, enforce, take on)?
(28) Is it possible for the verb to be used immediately after kěn (㛟,
willing)?
(29) Is it possible for the verb to be used immediately after zhíde (٬ᗇ,
worthy)?
(30) Is it possible for the verb to be used in the construction “shı̌
(֯, make) + noun + verb”?
Emotion Verbs and Emotional Verbs in Chinese 79
(31) Is it possible for the verb to be used in the construction “shı̌
(֯, make) + noun 1 + verb + noun 1”?
To obtain objective and reliable results,the examination of a verb will rely on the
CCL Corpus. If a case described in one of the thirty-one questions can be found
in the corpus, the answer to the question will be positive; otherwise negative.
2.4 Analytical procedure
Ideally speaking, with the grammatical parameters, which are expressed in the
form of polarity questions in the above section,the 442 candidate verbs could be
examined one by one by searching the CCL Corpus; and once the results were
obtained, a cluster analysis would produce a systematic classiﬁcation of these
verbs according to their similarities and allow us to summarize the grammatical
features of each category. However, this approach would be time consuming
and is technically untenable, as the number is too large. Therefore, a sampling-
extension design was used in this study.
First, a random process was applied to the 442 candidate verbs, and then the
interval sampling method was employed to collect sixty verbs from the
randomized list for further investigation (see Section 3 and Figure 5.1).
Next, the sixty verbs were examined by answering the thirty-one questions
listed above with reference to the CCL Corpus; and with the help of the software
SPSS, a cluster analysis of these verbs was conducted on the basis of the results,
which was designed to yield a classiﬁcation of these verbs and allowed us to
generalize the grammatical features shared by members of each category.
Consequently,the grammatical features of each category were used as criteria
to select other members of the category from the other 382 candidate verbs.9
Based on the assignment of each candidate verb to a category, a classiﬁcation
of these 442 Chinese verbs has been ﬁnally proposed.
3 Results
The grammatical examination of the sixty verbs with reference to the CCL
Corpus shows that juéwàng (㔍ᵋ, be in despair), dòngqíng (ࣘᛵ, be touched),
bùpíng (нᒣ, be discontented), zhènjìng (䭷䶉, be unperturbed), píbèi (⯢᜛,
be exhausted) can take hěn (ᖸ, very) as their pre-modiﬁer, but do not take
any type of Complement. According to Yuan (2010: 196), they belong to the
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
80
category of adjectives.Furthermore,gǎndòng (ᝏࣘ,move,moved),wěiqu (ငቸ,
wrong, feel wronged), kuānwèi (ᇭហ, be relieved), kùnrǎo (ഠᢠ, perplex),
ěxin (ᚦᗳ, feel disgusted), wúsuǒwèi (ᰐᡰ䉃, be indiﬀerent), and nánwàng
(䳮ᘈ, unforgettable) can be used both as adjectives and verbs. As the chapter
focuses on verbs, juéwàng, dòngqíng, bùpíng, zhènjìng, píbèi, and the adjectival
usages of gǎndòng, wěiqu, kuānwèi, kùnrǎo, ěxin, wúsuǒwèi, and nánwàng
are excluded from the cluster analysis. Moreover, jiūjié (㓐㔃) means being
entangled in the corpus,and its new usage to denote ambivalence is not recorded;
so this word is also excluded from the further study because the grammatical
investigation is corpus-based.In contrast to the above excluded words or usages,
zhéfú (ᣈᴽ) is investigated as zhéfú1 and zhéfú2, as it has two senses: one is
to force somebody to accept some ideas or to surrender, the other is to convince
somebody.
The grammatical investigation of these ﬁfty-ﬁve verbs shows that all of them
can be used as Predicators without the aspect marker le (Ҷ) and they diﬀer from
one another along the other thirty dimensions stated as questions in Section 2.3,
which means that all the questions, except the twentieth, are valid variables for
the cluster analysis. By assigning “1” to a positive answer and “0” to a negative
answer in the data input stage and by deﬁning as multiple response sets those
questions that focus on the same grammatical feature, for example questions
4 and 5 which both examine the feature of the Subject, a cluster analysis of the
ﬁfty-ﬁve verbs using SPSS 18.0 ﬁnally produces a classiﬁcation of these verbs as
depicted in Figure 5.1.
4 Discussion
As indicated in Section 2.2, all ﬁfty-ﬁve verbs were thought to express emotions
(at least by the compilers). However, if Whorf (1956) and Halliday and
Matthiessen (1999) are right in proposing that words with diﬀerent syntactical
features should belong to diﬀerent categories, this should not be the case, as it is
shown in Figure 5.1 that they do have diﬀerent syntactic behaviors.
With reference to previous studies in this ﬁeld and the clustering of verbs as
depicted in Figure 5.1, it is found that verbs expressing emotions can be divided
into two groups: emotion verbs which denote emotions, and emotional verbs
which indexically signify emotions. And other verbs in the candidate list are
modal verbs or verbs expressing desires, verbs construing verbal processes, and
verbs expressing judgement and appreciation.
Emotion Verbs and Emotional Verbs in Chinese 81
Figure 5.1 Clusters of Chinese verbs under investigation.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
82
4.1 Emotion Verbs
As Martin and White (2005: 61–8) show, there are diﬀerent strategies for
construing emotions. The most direct and explicit one is to inscribe emotions.
Words inscribing emotions are usually referred to as the emotion lexicon
(Shaver, Murdaya, and Fraley 2001), or vocabulary of emotions (Storm and
Storm 1987). This chapter chooses to refer to verbs that inscribe emotions
as emotion verbs. On the basis of the results of a questionnaire which asked
native speakers of Chinese to rate the initially selected sixty verbs in terms
of how sure they are that the words refer to emotions, and of some
comparison with emotion items discussed in Shaver, Wu, and Schwartz
(1992), Song (2012b) shows that only words in Clusters 1.1.2, 2.2.1.2 and 1.2.1
belong to this category, including àohuı̌ (៺ᛄ, repent), chījīng (ਲ਼᛺, be
surprised), dānxīn (ᣵᗳ, worry), mǎnyì (┑᜿, satisﬁed), qìngxìng (ᒶᒨ,
rejoice), tǎoyàn (䇘়, resent), huáiniàn (ᘰᘥ, miss), jídù (ჹ࿂, envy), jìngwèi
(ᮜ⭿, awe), jìngyǎng (ᮜԠ, esteem), liánmı̌n (ᙌᛟ, feel sorry for), liánxī
(ᙌᜌ,sympathize),tònghèn (Ⰻᚘ,loathe),tóngqíng (਼ᛵ,sympathize),xiànmù
(㗑ច, covet); gǎndòng (ᝏࣘ, move, moved), and wěiqu (ငቸ, wrong, feel
wronged).
The grammatical features shared by them include the following ones:
(1) They can be used in the construction: hěn (ᖸ, very) + Predicator +
Complement (Question 3);
(2) They can be used in a progressive aspect (Question 21);
(3) They can be used in sentences with diﬀerent mood markers
(Question 23);
(4) They can be negated by bù (н) (Question 24).
In addition to the above four features, the verbs from Cluster 1.1.2 are also
similar in terms of the following criteria:
(1) Their Subjects must have the feature [+human] (Questions 4 and 5);
(2) Their Complements can be absent but retrievable from their context
(Question 6);
(3) They can be used in the construction“prepositional phrase (Cause) +
verb” (Question 13);
(4) They cannot be used in the shòudào (ਇࡠ) and dédào (ᗇࡠ)
constructions (Questions 15 and 16);
(5) They can be used in the construction “shı̌ (֯ make) + noun + verb”
(Question 30).
Emotion Verbs and Emotional Verbs in Chinese 83
The additional similarities of the verbs in Cluster 2.2.1.2 are as follows:
(1) Their Subjects must have the feature [+human] (Questions 4 and 5);
(2) Their Complements have the feature [+human] (Question 7);
(3) Their Complements can be introduced through prepositions
(Question 12);
(4) They can be used in bèi (㻛), shòudào (ਇࡠ) and dédào (ᗇࡠ)
constructions (Questions 14–16);
(5) They can be used immediately after kěn/zhíde (㛟/٬ᗇ)(Questions
28 and 29);
(6) They can be used in the construction “shı̌ (֯, make) + noun + verb”
(Question 30).
And the features that characterize Cluster 1.2.1 also include:
(1) Their Subjects must have the feature [-human] (Questions 4 and 5);
(2) Their Complements have the feature [+human] (Question 7);
(3) They can be used in bèi (㻛), shòudào (ਇࡠ) and dédào (ᗇࡠ)
constructions (Questions 14–16);
(4) They can be negated by méi (⋑) (Question 25);
(5) They can be used immediately after jiāyı̌ (࣐ԕ, give), yán jiā (ѕ࣐,
strictly implement), yǔyı̌ (Ҹԕ, give, grant), jìnxíng (䘋㹼, have,
enforce, take on) (Question 27);
(6) They can be used immediately after kěn/zhíde (㛟/٬ᗇ)(Questions
28 and 29).
The verbs in the above three categories are typical emotion verbs. But according
to the prototype theory (Ungerer and Schmid 1996: 10–14; also see Halliday and
Matthiessen 1999: 72 for a discussion of it in SFL), there must be some less
typical emotion verbs. The verb bùfú (нᴽ, disgruntled) in Category 1.1.1.1.2
and zháomí (⵰䘧, fascinated) and nánwàng (䳮ᘈ, unforgettable) in Category
1.1.1.2.1 merely diﬀer from the second type of emotion verbs in the following
two aspects:
(1) They can be used in bèi, shòudào (ਇࡠ) and dédào (ᗇࡠ)
constructions (Questions 14–16);
(2) They cannot be used immediately after kěn/zhíde (㛟/٬ᗇ)
(Questions 28 and 29).
To draw as complete a list of emotion verbs as possible, verbs in these two
categories are also treated as emotion verbs.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
84
4.2 Emotional verbs
Martin and Rose (2003/2007: 29–30) have included under direct expressions of
emotion such psycho-physiological behavior (Halliday 2004) as rushed breathing,
shrieks. Arguing that they are lower in degrees of consciousness, rationality,
and semiotic complexity, Arndt and Janney (1991: 256) have characterized
them as emotional communication and contrasted them with emotive
communication which is performed by using emotion verbs as listed in
Section 4.1. Adhering to Arndt and Janney’s (1991) distinction, we choose to
refer to them as emotional verbs.The words in Cluster 1.1.1.1.1 all belong in this
category. The key features that set them apart from emotion verbs are that they
can neither be modiﬁed by hěn (ᖸ, very) nor take any Complement, which, in
fact, excludes them from the category mental verbs (Yuan 2010: 196). The
grammatical investigation of the words in this cluster has mostly produced
negative answers to the questions listed above, which means these features
provide little help for their further classiﬁcation. The following categories are
made mainly with reference to Halliday’s (2004) transitivity system, as it is
designed to classify all verbs and, more importantly, it makes some ﬁner
distinctions of behaviors.
The ﬁrst category is exempliﬁed by fānù (ਁᙂ,have an outburst of anger) and
fā píqì (ਁ㝮≄, have a temper). They usually have a verb, with a noun denoting
an emotion. They diﬀer from emotion verbs in that they stress the acts of
emotions and can hence be referred to as emotional acts.
The following three verbs, fēnshén (࠶⾎, distracted), shéncǎi yìyì (⾎䟷྅྅,
beaming and buoyant in spirits), and yì yóu wèijìn (᜿⣩ᵚቭ, not to one’s
satisfaction),belong to another category.As the nouns in them—shén (⾎,spirits)
and yì (᜿, satisfaction)—are psychological entities, they are referred to as
psychological states as they are mainly used to give state descriptions.
Wúsuǒshìcóng (ᰐᡰ䘲Ӿ, be at a loss as to what to do) and fādāi (ਁ੶, stare
blankly) in the same cluster are two examples of a third category. As they are
more observable, they can be called behavioral activities.
In addition to the verbs discussed above, the ﬁve verbs in Cluster 1.2.2.1,
namely, ěxin (ᚦᗳ, disgust), kuānwèi (ᇭហ, relieve), kùnrǎo (ഠᢠ, perplex),
mízhù (䘧տ, enchant) and zhéfú (ᣈᴽ, overcome, convince), can also be
classiﬁed in this broad category. They are similar to the verbs listed above in that
they cannot be modiﬁed by hěn (ᖸ, very). They are diﬀerent in that they take a
Subject with the feature [-human] and a Complement with the feature [+human].
The construction “Subject + Predicator + Complement” in which they are used
Emotion Verbs and Emotional Verbs in Chinese 85
can be changed into a causative construction “Subject + shı̌ (֯, make) +
Complement + Predicator.”
4.3 Other verbs
The other verbs in Figure 5.1 diﬀer from the ones in the above two categories in
one way or another. The ﬁrst four verbs in Cluster 1.1.1.2.2, yuànyì (ᝯ᜿,
willing), shěde (㠽ᗇ, be willing to part with), bùrěn (нᗽ, cannot tolerate), and
bùxiè (нኁ,disdain),can be modiﬁed by hěn (ᖸ,very) and usually take another
verb or verbal phrase as their Complement; that is, they are like modal verbs in
English. The other verbs in the same category diﬀer from the four discussed
above in that they cannot be modiﬁed by hěn (ᖸ, very) and can be termed
desiderative verbs with reference to Halliday’s (2004: 208) classiﬁcation of
mental processes.
Guàizuì (ᙚ㖚, blame) in Cluster 2.1 cannot be modiﬁed by hěn (ᖸ, very)
and can have two Complements. As one of them is the target of the blaming
process,it should be regarded as a verbal process (Halliday 2004: 252–6).Neither
can bı̌qì (䝉ᔳ, disdain) and yuánliàng (৏䈵, forgive) in the same cluster be
modiﬁed by hěn (ᖸ, very); therefore, they should be excluded from mental
processes.As they mainly express an evaluation of their Subject with the feature
[+human],they are verbs expressing“judgment”(Martin andWhite 2005: 52–6).
The same applies to zhòngshì (䟽㿶,take something seriously) and zhēnxī (⧽ᜌ,
value) in Cluster 2.2.1.1 and chóngshàng (ጷቊ, treasure) in Cluster 2.2.2, except
that they mainly express an “appreciation” of their Complement (Martin and
White 2005: 56–8).
5 Conclusion
The analysis in this chapter shows that verbs expressing emotions have their
own grammatical patternings, and verbs that express emotions in diﬀerent ways
also diﬀer in their grammatical behavior. For example, the three subcategories
of emotion verbs have diﬀerent grammatical features; and emotion verbs and
emotional verbs share few similarities. The lists of these verbs provide a basis
for the drawing of system networks of Chinese verbs expressing emotions. But
this is a huge challenge as such system networks have to incorporate formal
diversities as well as systemize the semantic similarities of such a large number
of verbs.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
86
Notes
1 As space does not allow a detailed explanation of the selection process, interested
readers are referred to Chapter 2 of Song (2012b) for details.
2 As verbs expressing emotions will be listed in the following sections, to save space
they are not provided here.
3 “Predicator”,“Complement” and“Subject” (e.g., in Question 4) are three functional
terms. They are used in this chapter because they correspond closely to word classes
and are thus easily retrievable from the corpus.
4 The Bèi (㻛) construction is used to express passive voice in Chinese and it takes the
form“patient + bèi (+ actor) + verb.”
5 Shòudào (ਇࡠ) literally means“receive” or“get.” The shòudào construction takes the
form“shòudào + (actor + de) + verb,” which is an alternative way of expressing
passive voice in Chinese.
6 The dédào (ᗇࡠ) construction is similar to the shòudào-construction both in form
and in function.
7 Le (Ҷ) expresses“perfective” aspect in Chinese.
8 These three sentence ﬁnal marks are mostly used to mark the mood of the sentence
in which they are used.
9 Due to the limitation of space, other verbs extracted from the other 382 are not
listed, analyzed, and classiﬁed in the following sections, but they are available by
contacting the author via cfsong@uibe.edu.cn.
1 Introduction
Within the framework of systemic functional grammar (SFG), language is
understood as a semiotic system, a system of resources for meaning. Grammar
and lexis are not treated as two separate components of a language, but as “the
two ends of a single continuum” (Halliday 2004: 7, 24).
This continuity was ﬁrst recognized by Saussure and developed by Halliday in
his 1961 paper where he stated that it is the grammarian’s dream that lexis is the
“most delicate grammar” (Halliday 1961: 267). Hasan (1987) proposed one way
of realizing the grammarian’s dream by elaborating on the lexical-grammar of
three groups of verbs: verbs of acquisition and two types of verbs of deprivation.
Her description of the semantics of the verbs is by far the most delicate and
closest to what Halliday has envisioned.
Martin (1992) treats lexis as a textual resource whose major function is to
establish lexical cohesion. This new concept of lexis is further broadened in the
discourse semantics theory of Martin and Rose (2003/2007),where taxonomical
and logical relations are systemized as networks of resources for construing
activity sequences and overall pictures of people and things as well. Though not
as delicate as Hasan (1987), this new endeavor marks the most striking eﬀort in
the past two decades.
Halliday, Hasan, Martin, and many others have reckoned the status of lexis as
“most delicate grammar”; however, much more research is needed on the
contribution of lexis to meaning-making in language and to the realization of
6
Verb Types, Process Types, and Incident
Structure: From Lexis to Discourse Semantics
LV, Guoyan (੅ഭ⠅)
Peking University; Beijing Information Science and Technology University
GAO,Yanmei (儈ᖖẵ)
Peking University
87
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
88
ideational, textual, and interpersonal meta-functions. In this chapter, we will
focus on the experiential and textual meanings of verbs to demonstrate the
mutual dependency/interface between lexis and grammar and further between
grammar and discourse. We will try to unveil how clause-level verb choices
contribute to the global construal of phases of an incident based on the analysis
of the patterning of verbs and process types in ﬁctional discourse.
2 Construing experiences: process types and verb types
2.1 Process types
Transitivity is a system of construing human experience. Three components of
transitivity are generally recognized within the SFG framework: Processes,
Participants, and Circumstances, which are typically realized by verbal groups,
nominal groups, and adjuncts respectively. Detailed classiﬁcation of process
types are laid out in Halliday (2004). General SFG approach recognizes six
process types: material, mental, relational, behavioral, verbal, and existential
(Halliday 1994a; Halliday 2004). The type of process is typically determined by
the main verb in the clause (Fawcett 2001: 49). Chow and Webster (2007) equate
process with the verbal group, as the latter acts as the “nucleus of a clause
determining the type of experience construed” (Chow and Webster 2007: 2).
2.2 Verb types
Verbs carry semantic features of their own, which constitute the potentials for
being selected by language users when needed. Halliday (2004: 44) showed how
verbs of saying can be diﬀerentiated according to the degree of forcefulness of
the order, the authority behind them, and the positive or negative loading. For
instance, tell displays neutral force, neutral authority, and neutral loading; forbid
expresses personal/institutional authority and negative loading;require expresses
institutional authority and positive loading.
Meanwhile, verbs, in general, inherently require a certain number of
participants: some verbs (intransitive) require at least one participant, Actor;
some (transitive) require two participants,Actor and Goal; some (“ditransitive”in
traditional grammar) even require three participants,Actor,Goal and Beneﬁciary.
Take the verb ask as an example. It requires a Sayer (or Agent in VerbNet,
[+animate|+organization]),aRecipient([+animate|+organization]),
and a Verbiage (Topic in VerbNet).
Verb Types, Process Types, and Incident Structure 89
Moreover, there are various kinds of taxonomic relations among verbs.Verbs
can be synonyms (blame, accuse), contrasts (give vs. receive; remember vs. forget),
and co-class (slap, punch). These relations help organize the activity sequences
into more global phases of incidents.
The semantics of verbs is elaborated in projects like the FrameNet, WordNet,
and VerbNet. Systemic functional linguists (Chow and Webster 2007) are trying
to make use of these projects for the construction of a lexical semantic knowledge
base for verb classiﬁcation and for the analysis of ideational meaning of language
from the perspective of SFG.
Combining the major ﬁndings in SFG, the major verb types in diﬀerent
process types can be generalized,along with examples from the text Folie à Deux
as follows:
Verbs of doing and happening—material:
Verbs of happening associated with one participant role: occur, emerge, ﬂoat,
and others.
(1) . . . it (the Li-lo) ﬂoated out.
it ﬂoated out
Actor/Medium Process
Verbs of doing with one, two, or more participant roles: turn, go, come, visit,
tip, give.
(2) Still without communicating, the man who has come from the kitchen
turns and goes away, leaving Wilby with the impression that he has
been mistaken for someone else.
the man . . . turns and goes away, . . .
Actor/Medium Process
(3) He visits Paris once in a while to make the rounds of salerooms
specializing in rare postage stamps, usually spinning out his time when
he is there, since he can aﬀord to.
He visits Paris once in a while . . .
Actor/Medium Process Location Extent
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
90
(4) The old waiter has his overcoat ready for him at the door, and Wilby tips
him a little for that.
Wilby tips him a little for that.
Actor/Agent Process Beneﬁciary Medium Cause
Verbs of sensing—mental: see, hear, think, believe, wish, hope, like, fear.
(5) Wilby assumes that the man is an envoy sent from the kitchen to
apologize for the delay in the cooking of the ﬁsh he has ordered.
Wilby assumes that . . .
Senser Process: cognitive Phenomenon: projected
idea
Verbs of being—relational: be, have, get, etc.
(6) Saying that, quite suddenly the man is someone else.
. . . the man is someone else.
Identiﬁed Process Identiﬁer
Verbs of behaving—behavioral: listen, taste, watch, look, smile, frown.
(7) Nothing was said when they watched the drowning of the dog.
Verbs of saying—verbal: say, speak, ask, mutter, talk.
(8) “What is all this?” Even as he puts the question, Wilby’s choice of words
sounds absurd to him.“Anthony?” he says.
Verbs of existing—existential: be, exist.
(9) In the dark there is a pinprick glow of red somewhere on the television
set.
3 Constructing incidents
At the clause level, verbs construe experiences into processes. Beyond the clause,
verbs help develop these processes into more global phases of incidents. This
section provides a detailed investigation of the transitivity in a sample text
to show the relations between choices of lexis and the construal of global events.
Verb Types, Process Types, and Incident Structure 91
3.1 The text and annotation
The text used in the study is a short story titled, Folie à Deux,1
by Irish novelist
William Trevor. It is a story about two men whose lives are both profoundly
aﬀected by a dark secret they share in their childhood when they were best
friends. The two men are Wilby and Anthony and their dark secret is that they
unintentionally made Anthony’s pet dog drown when they were nine years old.
The text has a total of 5,520 words and 797 clauses, the calculation being
based on Halliday (2004).The coding of the process types adopts the categorizing
criteria proposed in SFG (Halliday 1994a; Halliday 2004), and the coding tool is
BFSU Qualitative Coder 1.1 (developed by Xu Jiajin and his team). The
annotation was achieved through the team work of linguistic graduate students
in discussion with professors.
3.2 Incident structure
Eight macro-phases2
are recognized in this piece of ﬁction. They are the
Beginning, Transition (to the past), Childhood, Dog-drowning Event, Middle
School, Before Middle-age Encounter, Middle-age Encounter, and Ending.
The Beginning of the work describes a coincidental meeting (without fully
mutual recognition yet) of two old friends,Wilby,a visitor in Paris,and Anthony,a
dishwasher,at a café.The Transition depicts the reaction of the two men after their
meeting. The Childhood phase is a ﬂashback on how they became best friends as
youngsters. The Dog-drowning Event relays how the two boys placed Wilby’s
handicapped dog on a raft, and how they witnessed the dog washed away. The
phase of Middle School is about the two boys staying away from each other and
Anthony becoming isolated from other people. The phase of Before Middle-age
Encounter is about Wilby’s reﬂection of the past. The Middle-age Encounter is
about how the two men interact with each other when they meet again.The Ending
closes the story with Wilby’s thoughts about his friend, himself and their lives.
3.3 Process patterns and incident structure
Clause-level annotation and calculation brought out the distributional pattern
of process types and their connection with the local level phase structures of the
story. At a higher discourse level, the concurrent patterns of verb types and
process types function dynamically in shaping and managing the development
of global incidents.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
92
3.3.1 Process type distribution
The process type distribution is shown in Figure 6.1 below. It indicates that the
most frequent process types found in Folie à Deux are Material, Relational, and
Mental processes. This pattern corresponds to what is stated in Halliday (1994a)
and Halliday (2004) that humans experience of the outer world (Material), the
inner world of consciousness (Mental), along with identifying and classifying to
relate one segment of experience to another (Relational) to form the kernel types
of human experience and the three types of processes construing these three
kindsof experience,constitutethemaintypesof processintheEnglishtransitivity
system.
The instances of the behavioral process are not signiﬁcantly high, which may
suggest that the outer manifestation of inner workings, such as people’s
consciousness or physiological states, is not prominent in the discourse. Yet, a
comparison between this and the mental process will reveal some interesting
pattern of interaction between diﬀerent processes in carrying out the themes of
the discourse.
3.3.2 Process types in each phase
Figure  6.2 shows the distribution ratios of the ﬁve process types: material,
relational, verbal, mental, and behavioral3
over the eight phases of the story:
Beginning, Transition, Childhood, Dog-drowning Event, Middle School, Before
Middle-age Encounter, Middle-age Encounter, and Ending. Three phases are
singled out: Childhood, Middle School (after the drowning event), and the
Middle-age Encounter. These phases contain the most prominent “ups and
downs” in the process-type interaction which construes the major alternations
in the two men’s lives as folie à deux, two men carrying the same secret scar
throughout their lives.
Figure 6.1 Process type distribution in Folie à Deux.
Verb Types, Process Types, and Incident Structure 93
The Childhood phase, as is shown in Figure 6.2, features the highest ratio
of verbal processes (accounting for about 25 percent of the annotated instances
of processes) and the lowest ratio of material type (about 35 percent). The
event in Middle School, however, proﬁles the highest ratio of material processes
(about 60 percent) and the nearly bottom level of verbal processes (around
5 percent).
Between the phase of Childhood and Middle School, the Dog-drowning
Event shows a climbing pattern of material processes (about 40 percent) from
the Childhood phase,but a dropping for the verbal processes (about 15 percent).
This is understandable,because this phase foregrounds the doing and happening
of things, which causes shocking eﬀects to the two boys who had no idea about
what to say or what to do as they witnessed the drowning of the dog. This is also
what makes this phase a turning point in the two boys’ lives.
The Middle-age Encounter features the down-to-bottom level of material
type (lower than 40 percent) and a pickup level of verbal (15 percent) but still a
lot lower than that in Childhood phase. And the mental processes (higher than
15 percent) at this stage sustains its stable trend starting from the Middle School
period.What is interesting is that both material and verbal processes are similar
to those in the Dog-drowning phase. This seems to reﬂect the theme that
Anthony is thought to be“materially” dead probably due to the sense of guilt he
felt or became long“lost” verbally along with his pet, the dog.
3.3.3 Verbal processes and the Sayer roles
What is shown in Figure  6.2 reﬂects other facts about the process patterning,
among which the verbal process attracts our attention. First, the distribution of
the verbal processes seems to have an interesting role in allocating the focus of
Figure 6.2 Process type ratios in each phase.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
94
attention to construing the event structure in the whole discourse. As shown in
Figure 6.3,this process type is distributed very unevenly in the development of the
story.
Figure  6.3 indicates the annotated clausal instances of verbal process in
diﬀerent phases,starting from the Beginning to the Ending,clockwise.The phase
of Childhood has the highest number of verbal processes (45), whereas the
Middle School has a signiﬁcantly lower number (only 5). In other words, the
verbal processes seem to be prominently foregrounded in the childhood phase
when the two boys got to know each other and established friendship. However,
after the Dog-drowning Event, the two boys seemed to engage rarely in any
verbal communication. This suggests that verbal processes help construct a
normal image of childhood friendship when the two young boys did a lot of
talking and had a good time together. The lack of this kind of process also helps
create an abnormal picture of the two middle-school boys who purely engaged
in conversation.
In the Middle-age Encounter in France, a foreign country, long after Wilby
left home, more verbal exchanges between two old friends would be expected,
yet the actual number of verbal processes in this phase (12) is not impressive.
The potential questions might be: who does most of the talking in the verbal
process during these events? Are there alternations in the pattern of Sayer roles?
In other words,verbs of a process may not tell the whole story.The participants—
Sayer, in this case—may tell us more about the actual process. Figure  6.4
illustrates who were the Sayers in the verbal process of the four phases:
Childhood, Dog-drowning, Middle School and Middle-age Encounter.
Figure 6.3 Verbal distribution.
Verb Types, Process Types, and Incident Structure 95
From Figure 6.4 we learn that during Childhood, Anthony seemed to be the
main Sayer and the one who initiated and nurtured the relationship between the
two friends. He has a peculiar way of communicating, which is asking questions.
For example,at the beginning of this phase,the ﬁrst few verbiages from Anthony
are: “What’s his name?” he asked. When Miss Davally told him about the name,
he responded with two more questions: “Why’s he called that?” Anthony asked.
“Why’re you called that?”
Wilby, on the other hand, has only one verbiage, a response to Anthony’s
question:“It’s my name.”Anthony’s verbiages are full of questions, such as “shall
we play in the garden?” or “Miss Davally was an orphan, That’s why she lives with
us. Do you know what an orphan is?”
All these verbiages in the form of questions establish an image of a young and
innocent boy full of vigor and curiosity, and who is eager to communicate with
people. This part of the story also shows more variety in the Sayer roles in the
verbal processes: Miss Davally (Anthony’s relative and caretaker) and Anthony’s
father are both actively involved in this phase. However, things changed
dramatically after the Dog-drowning Event, in which all of these Sayers seemed
to fall into silence, especially Anthony, who has no verbal communication. This
distinct alternation can be considered to display one of the symptoms of the folie
à deux,the aloofness to each other and to the world.Their lives started to veer oﬀ
the normal track.
When they happened to meet again in an alien country in the Middle-age
Encounter, Wilby shifted to become the one who speaks and questions a little
more. He keeps asking the same questions: “How are you, Anthony?” The
undertone might be:have you recovered from the trauma in childhood? Probably
not, because the only deﬁnite answers from Anthony are simply: “I went away
from Ireland” and“I haven’t died.”
Figure 6.4 Distribution of Sayers in the verbal process.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
96
Figure 6.4 also shows that there are three instances of verbal process during
the Dog-drowning Event and the Sayer is realized by “they,” referring to Wilby
and Anthony.Actually,“they” here represents a silent Sayer as follows:
(10)They did not even speak to one another about the drowning of the dog.
They did not ever say that they had not meant it to happen. . . . They
had not called it a game, only said they wondered what would happen,
what the dog would do.
Verbal processes as such suggest that neither Anthony nor Wilby actually said
anything at all after the Dog-drowning Event.4
The only real Sayer in this phase
is Miss Davally who was the primary caretaker of the boys in Anthony’s home,
and who was not there when the accident happened. This patterning of verbal
processes further distinguishes the Dog-drowning phase to be a turning point,
from which the youngsters and their friendship, along with the death of the dog,
start to drift away from the normal track of life.
3.3.4 Mental and behavioral processes
Apart from the verbal process, another two types of process also construe the
alternations in the two men’s experience of life: the mental and behavioral
processes. Figure 6.5 illustrates the distribution of the mental processes in the
major phases of the story.
Figure  6.5 shows that mental processes are most frequently found in the
phase of Childhood, and rarely in the period of Middle School. Again, the
contrast is found between the events of the Childhood and the Middle School,
that is, between what is before and what is after the life-changing Dog-drowning
Event. This suggests that the disastrous death of the dog caused them both to
Figure 6.5 Distribution of mental processes.
Verb Types, Process Types, and Incident Structure 97
retreat to their own worlds verbally and mentally,especiallyAnthony,who seems
to be“lost” after the event.
Looking into the verbs of mental and behavioral processes, we can see a
clearer picture of how the events of Childhood, Middle School and Middle-age
Encounter are construed (shown in Table 6.1).
Table 6.1 indicates that the mental processes in Childhood feature“knowing”
because diﬀerent forms of the word “know” has six instances. The behavioral
processes are diversiﬁed, representing true-to-life behaviors, such as crawl, look
out, wag, dance,and smile, which all construe a characteristic,the animate side of
normal children’s lives.
On the other hand, after the death of the dog, the two children’s perception of
life seems totally overturned. In the phase of the Middle School, no instances of
Table 6.1.
Childhood
Friendship
Middle School Middle-age
Encounter
Verbs of Mental
Process
knew (3)
think (1)
knowing (1)
see (3)
liked (3)
known (1)
recalling (1)
called upon (1)
didn’t know (1)
seen (1)
hated (1)
realized (1)
wonders (1)
believing (1)
ignored (1)
was found (1)
noticed (1)
notices (1)
looks to see (1)
knows (2)
has guessed (1)
remembers (1)
attempt (1)
doubts (1)
expected (1)
tasted (1)
see (1)
wanted (1)
Verbs of
Behavioral
Process
pretended (1)
looked up (1)
watch (1)
sniﬃng (1)
crawled (1)
clawing (1)
looked out (1)
does not sleep (1)
limping (1)
wagging (1)
smiling (1)
dance (1)
cocked (1)
holding out (1)
watching (2)
waiting (1)
sat (1)
creeping back (1)
waiting (1)
waits (1)
does not look
back (1)
nods (1)
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
98
“know”is found, which may have to do with the macro-theme of this phase, that
is, Anthony stays aloof from others, not knowing how to get over the loss of his
dog. This also explains verbs like wait, watch, and creep back occur, which
construe the experience that both Wilby and Anthony underwent during a time
when life should have been much more active for middle school boys.
As with the Middle-age Encounter, the range of mental processes is extended
to guess, doubt, and expect, all of which represent Wilby’s complicated feelings,
questions, and uncertainty about his friend and also himself. Correspondingly,
behavioral processes are: wait, not look back,and nod which partly reﬂectWilby’s
attitude toward the encounter—waiting and Anthony’s reaction towards Wilby’s
questions and expectation, “no looking back” but a silent way, redemption, for
what he had done to his pet dog.
4 Discussion
Three questions emerged from our transitivity analysis, the answers of which we
have not found in literature: (i) negated processes; (ii) the process types of
grammatical metaphors; and (iii) the polysemy of verbs.
4.1 Negated processes
In the distribution of the verbal clauses of Folie à Deux in Figure 6.4,Anthony is
the Sayer of more verbal processes than Wilby in their Middle-age Encounter,
yet three of the verbal clauses are as follows:
(11)He doesn’t mention the Cliﬀ Castle Hotel.
(12)He doesn’t say he misses the Irish Times, . . .
(13)Anthony doesn’t say that, either, . . .
What the above clauses draw to our attention is negation.Negation is a powerful
tool to presuppose expected activities that have not been actualized. The
presupposed positivity and the actualized negativity can actually produce a
sharp contrast.This can be seen in the verbal processes involving Anthony in the
three major macro-phases of the story, as shown in Table 6.2.
Apart from the negated verbal processes, there are quite a number of negated
behaviors in the Middle-Age Encounter phase. Some of them are listed below:
(14)But Anthony crosses the street then, and opens with a key the side door
of the brasserie. He makes no gesture of farewell, does not look back.
Verb Types, Process Types, and Incident Structure 99
As shown here, when negated verbal processes recur, logogenetic patterns
of expected utterances emerge like small waves spreading across diﬀerent
macro-phases.
4.2 Grammatical metaphor and process types
Intermsofprocessclassiﬁcation,nominalizedverbalprocessesandmetaphorically
transferred process types pose the greatest challenges to the criteria of process
classiﬁcation established on the basis of unmarked, congruent usages. While
Fawcett (2001: 49) conﬁdently claims that “the Process is typically expressed in
the MainVerb (90% reliable),”we ﬁnd that in Folie à Deux,this conﬁdence can be
easily undermined. Consider the following examples:
(15)A resemblance ﬂickers: the smooth black hair, the head like the rounded
end of a bullet, the fringe that is not as once it was but still a fringe, the
dark eyes.
(16)Memory won’t let him go now; he knows it won’t and makes no eﬀort to
resist it.
(17)Sometimes guilt pricked.
In these examples, if the verbs are treated as the decision-maker, then ﬂicker, let
go, and prick should be a verb of doing or happening, then the clauses would be
material clauses and the nominal groups, a resemblance, memory, and guilt,
would be the Actors.
Table 6.2
Sayer Polarity Childhood Dog-drowning Middle-age encounter
Anthony positive asked (3)
said (5)
called (1)
wondered (1)
says (5)
adds (1)
negative doesn’t mention (1)
doesn’t say(2)
They negative Nothing was
said (2)
did not ever
say. . .(1)
not called. . . (1)
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
100
Martin and Rose (2003/2007) suggest a way to handle grammatical metaphor:
to unpack them back to the congruent structures. In light of this principle, the
three clauses above can be transformed into:
(18)A resemblance ﬂickers: . . .
Wilby felt that the man in front was like someone else. Mental process
(19)Memory won’t let him go now
He could not bury/forget the memory. Mental process
(20)Sometimes guilt pricked.
Sometimes he felt guilty. Mental process
While these unpacked forms help us judge the process types, they cannot be
properly annotated in the corpus.Additionally,the unpacked forms fail to convey
the rhetorical or stylistic eﬀect of the metaphorical originals: in the ﬁrst one, the
long dormant familiarity came to be felt, and the unexpected reencounter was
under way; in the second and the third, the congruent mental processes lost all
the passivity of the poor Senser as the victim of the unpleasant memory and
painful feelings.Therefore,the unpacking strategy,though helpful as an analytical
tool, is not as convincing as it should be. Other perspectives should be explored
to help bring out such implications.
4.3 The polysemy of verbs
Halliday classiﬁes verbs into diﬀerent types, yet the sense of verbs may vary in
diﬀerent contexts,such as She nodded for the receipt,as opposed to She nodded to
him. The former one is not a typical behavioral type of verb, because it is
synonymous to the verb ask or signal, which is diﬀerent from the latter case nod,
a behavioral type of verb, similar to smile or sit.
Halliday points out that descriptions with a high degree of delicacy are needed
to test such a hypothesis, and at that time these had not yet been made. As a
consequence of this state of aﬀairs, Halliday (1961: 267, 270) observes: “For the
moment it seems better to treat lexical relations . . . as on a diﬀerent level, and to
require a diﬀerent theory to account for them . . .There must,therefore,be a theory
of lexis,to account for that part of linguistic form which grammar cannot handle.”
5 Conclusion
The system of transitivity oﬀers language users a set of options with which they
can encode their experience of the internal and external world. In writing, the
Verb Types, Process Types, and Incident Structure 101
writer can make choices in framing up the verbs, roles of participants, and
circumstances in diﬀerent processes, depending on the progress of stages of the
story and the overall subject-matter of the work. This dynamically unfolds from
the beginning to the end.
Based on the analysis of the process types and incident structure of the ﬁction,
Folie à Deux, we have found that clause and text structure are analogous (e.g.
Mitchell 1957; Halliday 1971; Sinclair and Coulthard 1975; Hasan 1984; Martin
1992; Martin and Rose 2003/2007), such that clausal constituents mark the
diﬀerent phases of an incident. The concurrence of similar process types and
the taxonomical relations set up by repetition, synonyms, contrast, among the
processes, as shown in Table 6.1, corresponds to the development of the story.
Notes
1 The title of the story in French literally means“a madness shared by two” and it
clinically refers to a psychiatric syndrome where symptoms of a delusional belief are
transmitted from one individual to another.
2 Since recognizing stages is not the main concern of this chapter and the diﬀerence of
stages and phases has little impact on the analysis; the notion of “phase” is therefore
used in a more general sense here.
3 The existential process was annotated and counted as one of the six process types,
yet its distribution ratio against the total was not calculated because this process
rarely occurs in any of the phases of the story. This may have to do with the genre of
the discourse in question, and also with the theme of the ﬁction.
4 The negativity in these clauses is addressed in Discussion.
102
Word Group
103
104
1 Introduction
“Describing a sentence as a construction of words is rather like describing a
house as a construction of bricks, without recognizing the walls and the rooms
as intermediate structural units” (Halliday 2014: 362). Similarly, describing a
group as a construction of words makes the description too simple, and fails to
reveal the internal structure and function of the group. This is particularly true
with a nominal group that functions as measuring in both English and Chinese,
i.e. measure nominals under the category of Numeratives.
There are two types of Numerative: a quantifying Numerative which speciﬁes
either an exact number (e.g.three books) or an inexact number (e.g.many books);
and an ordering Numerative which speciﬁes either an exact place in order (e.g.
the second game) or an inexact place (e.g. a forthcoming game). In theories other
than SFL, quantifying Numeratives are discussed under the category of count/
mass nouns. It is generally believed that the count/mass distinction applies to
most languages but diﬀerences are obvious, so those languages in which
classiﬁers are not obligatory for nouns are called non-classiﬁer languages and
those in which classiﬁers are obligatory are called classiﬁer languages (Allan
1977; Wu and Bodomo 2009). Following this distinction, Chinese is treated by
many as a typical classiﬁer language and English as a typical non-classiﬁer
language.
In this chapter,I will argue against this distinction by showing the similarities
in structure and function of measure nominals in English and Chinese. First, I
will provide a sketch of measure nominals in English and Chinese and then
discuss their structure and function from the perspective of systemic functional
7
Structure and Function of Measure Nominals
in English and Chinese
YANG, Bingjun (ᶘ⛣䫗)
Shanghai Jiao Tong University
105
106 Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
linguistics (SFL),and on this basis argue for why such a distinction is not correct
for Chinese and English.
2 A sketch of measure nominals
2.1 Measure nominals in English
In English grammar books,nouns are divided into count nouns and mass nouns.
Count nouns refer to entities which present themselves naturally in discrete and
countable units, while mass nouns refer to substances which do not present
themselves in such units.In order to be counted,mass nouns have to be preceded
by measure words: three bottles of milk. Such groups of English for mass nouns
are called measure nominals. Measure nominals may include those groups
formed for count nouns, but in this article I focus mainly on the construction
“numeral + measure word + noun.”
Measure nominals include both measure partitives and general partitives.
The former relates to precise quantities denoting length,area,volume,and weight
(e.g. a mile of cable), and the latter relates to other quantities (e.g. a crowd of
people) (Quirk et al. 1985: 251).Measure words,when they include both measure
partitives and general partitives, equal classiﬁers by other linguists (Allan 1977;
Lehrer 1986). According to Lehrer (1986), classiﬁers in English can be put into
the following categories by combining Keith Allan’s taxonomies with Eloise
Jelinek’s proposal:
(1) Unit counters: two heads of cattle
(2) Fractional classiﬁers: three quarters of the cake
(3) Number set classiﬁers: dozens of birds
(4) Collective classiﬁers: two clumps of grass
(5) Varietal classiﬁers: two species of wheat
(6) Measure classiﬁers: one liter of wine
(7) Arrangement classiﬁers: two rows of beans
(8) Metaphorical comparison classiﬁers: a bear of a man
This taxonomy is illuminating in understanding measure nominals, which
usually denote a part of a whole. The structure of these nominals is basically the
same, except that metaphorical comparison classiﬁer is special and needs to be
treated separately. However, a very important issue concerns the status of “of
noun” in these nominals. “In most cases of cannot be replaced by another
Structure and Function of Measure Nominals 107
preposition, nor can it be paraphrased as a compound which reverses the order
of the two nouns” (Lehrer 1986: 110). But is “of noun” a Postmodiﬁer of the
measure word? If so, is it a down-ranked prepositional phrase?
2.2 Measure nominals in Chinese
Wang (1985: 260–75) proposed that measure nominals in Chinese can be put into
six types: natural units; collective units; units of length, volume, weight, and
monetary units; container; units about writing; and event units out of actions. A
diﬀerent categorization was then put forward by Lu Jianming (Lu 1987), who
classiﬁed measure words in modern Chinese into four categories: action (e.g.cì ⅑,
tàng 䏏,zhèn 䱥); time (e.g.tiān ཙ,nián ᒤ, miǎo 。); unit (e.g.jīn ᯔ,chı̌ ቪ); and
nominal (e.g. gè њ, zhāng ᕐ, zhī ᭟, tiáo ᶑ, wǎn ⻇, bēi ᶟ). Lu’s categorization
avoids overlapping and simplicity inWang’s categories,but the action type and the
nominal type are still too general. Some measure words serve as typical cases in
both the action type and the nominal type, e.g.“zhāng” in yī zhāng gōng (аᕐᕃ,
“a bow,”action) and yī zhāng zhuōzi (аᕐṼᆀ,“a table,”nominal).
A more comprehensive categorization was later put forward by Shi Xiyao. Shi
(1992: 38–46) divided measure nominals in Chinese into two general categories:
individual and collective. Those for individual things were further classiﬁed into
six types:
(9) Shape measure nominal: yī piàn xuěhuā (а⡷䴚㣡, a ﬂake of snow)
(10) Activity measure nominal: liǎng tiāo shuı̌ (є᥁≤, two shoulders of
water)
(11) Component measure nominal: sān tóu niú (йཤ⢋, three heads of
cow)
(12) Container measure nominal: sì píng jiǔ (ഋ⬦䞂, four bottles of
liquor)
(13) Unit measure nominal: wǔ dūn mı̌ (ӄ੘㊣, ﬁve tons of rice)
(14) Other measure nominal: liù wèi yào (‫ޝ‬ણ㦟, six tastes of medicine)
Forshapemeasurenominals,thesizeof shapeortheshapeitself maybeperceived
diﬀerently: so such expressions as yī piàn yún (а⡷Ӂ, a piece of cloud) and yī
piàn shùyè (а⡷ṁਦ, a piece of leaf) are all acceptable. For activity measure
nominals, some measure words which originally describe activity may collocate
with nouns which are not directly related to activity. For example, in liǎng tiāo
shuı̌ the measure word tiāo originates from the activity of shouldering water and
in wǔ zhāng zuı̌ (ӄᕐ౤, ﬁve mouths), the measure word zhāng originates from
108 Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
the activity of opening the mouth. For container measure nominals, the choice
of the measure word sometimes depends on the actual container in context. So
yī bēi jiǔ (аᶟ䞂, one glass of liquor), yī píng jiǔ (а⬦䞂, one bottle of liquor),
yī wǎn jiǔ (а⻇䞂, one bowl of liquor), yī tǒng jiǔ (аẦ䞂, one barrel of liquor)
are all good collocations. The measure words may extend to any container that
can hold the thing:
(15) yī dài jiǔ (а㺻䞂, one bag of liquor); yī hé jiǔ (аⴂ䞂, one box of
liquor); yī xiāng jiǔ (а㇡䞂, one case of liquor); yī tán jiǔ (аඋ䞂,
one jar of liquor); yī chē jiǔ (а䖖䞂, one wagon of liquor)
Measure nominals for collective things are further classiﬁed into two categories:
those for pairs and those for groups.
(16) Pair measure nominals: liǎng shuāng xiézi (єৼ䶻ᆀ, two pairs of
shoes)
(17) Group measure nominals: liǎng pái liǔshù (єᧂḣṁ, two rows of
willow)
Pair measure nominals are restricted to nouns in which two components of
things always appear together and the measure words for them include duì (ሩ,
pair), shuāng (ৼ, pair), fù (࢟, pair or set), and others. For group measure
nominals, the measure words vary with the nouns and there are a large number
of such measure words in Chinese: sān tào jiājù (й྇ᇦާ, three sets of
furniture) and sān qún rén (й㗔Ӫ, three crowds of people) among others.
So far we have brieﬂy reviewed the principal studies of measure nominals in
Chinese.Yet a question arises:a measure word to measure nominals is mandatory
or not in Chinese? Before answering this question, it is helpful to turn to the
distinction between what is referred to as a classiﬁer language vs.a non-classiﬁer
language.
2.3 Classiﬁer or non-classiﬁer?
The languages of the world can be divided into two groups with regard to
numeral classiﬁers: those that have classiﬁers, such as the majority of languages
in East and Southeast Asia, and those that do not, such as most European
languages, including English (Allan 1977; Greenberg 1990). It is thus widely
believed that English is a non-classiﬁer language while Chinese is a classiﬁer
language, for in Chinese all nouns are like mass nouns in the sense that, for a
noun to be counted, a measure word is mandatory.
Structure and Function of Measure Nominals 109
Upon discussing measuring words in Chinese, some scholars identiﬁed two
categories: classiﬁer and massiﬁer (e.g. Cheng and Sybesma 1998), one for a
closed class and the other for a non-closed class. Soon after, Cheng and Sybesma
(1999) argued that classiﬁers in Chinese are equivalent to a deﬁnite article. But
Wu and Bodomo (2009) argued against this position on empirical grounds and
proposed that Chinese classiﬁers are not on the same footing as deﬁnite
determiners. Some other scholars even distinguished between classiﬁers and
“true measure words,” though they structurally both follow immediately after a
numeral and appear before a noun (Lyons 1977; Li 2000).They held this view for
two reasons: true measure words usually occur with uncountable mass nouns
but classiﬁers usually occur with count nouns.In any case,the general viewpoint
is that Chinese is a classiﬁer language.
I would argue, however, that to label Chinese as a “classiﬁer language” and
English as a “non-classiﬁer language” is not well-grounded for the following
reasons: both languages contain numerous classiﬁers but some are covert and
some others are overt,and the choice of a classiﬁer (the measure word) is entirely
context-dependent; the structure and function of measure nominals where
classiﬁers locate are basically similar in English and Chinese.
3 Context-dependency in using measure words
The choice of a classiﬁer (the measure word) entirely depends on contexts.First,if
one takes all possible contexts into consideration, both English and Chinese
contain countless things that are mass and numerous things that are countable.
The cognitive foundation for countability is basically similar although cultural
diversity may result in diﬀerences. It is already well-known that English and
Chinese regard things that cannot be individuated as uncountable,and things that
can be individuated as countable.Consequently,we have many uncountable nouns
such as‘water, sand, grass, warmth’in English and their counterparts in Chinese.
Second, in contexts where the units can be inferred, the measure word is not
necessary for Chinese,not for uncountable nouns in English either.Such contexts
include idiomatic expressions and expressions to which measure words are
redundant. See (18).
(18a) wǔ fēng shí yǔ (ӄ仾ॱ䴘, ﬁve wind and ten rain,“timely wind and
rain”)
wǔ hú sì hǎi (ӄ⒆ഋ⎧, ﬁve lakes and four seas,“all corners of the
country”)
110 Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
(18b) six waters a cart (COCA)
40,000 soaps each day (COCA)
Third, the omission of measure words in Chinese and English results in various
usages for diﬀerent contexts rather than improper collocations. Count nouns in
Chinese can be directly put after numerals without measure words while mass
nouns in English can be used directly after numerals without measure words.
This brings forth usages of diﬀerent kinds, particularly true of spoken forms of
the two languages. See (19).
(19a) sān fáng (йᡯ,“three houses”)
(19b) three coﬀees
The instances in (19) may have many meanings in diﬀerent contexts. First of all,
(19a) may mean: sān gè fáng jiān (йњᡯ䰤,three rooms) or sān gè qīzı̌ (йњ࿫
ᆀ, three wives). Similar colloquial nominals can be found in Chinese where
measure words are redundant.It is even abnormal to use measure words together
with some nominals, for example, wǔ xíng (ӄ㹼, ﬁve elements, i.e. metal, wood,
water, ﬁre, and earth), sān shēng (й⭏, the three births, or reincarnations, past,
present, future). Likewise, the meaning of (19b) in English depends on context.
It may mean: three cups of coﬀee; three packs of coﬀee; three cans of coﬀee. In
certain contexts, these nominals may sound rather strange to ordinary people.
To stevedores, (19b) may mean three ships of coﬀee; and to real estate staﬀ, (19a)
may mean sān dòng zhù fáng (йḻտᡯ, three buildings of houses). In other
words, the presence of the measure word is not mandatory here.
To sum up, the presence of a measure word is necessary for mass nouns in
both English and Chinese, but mandatory only where things need to be referred
to as units. Mass things, if put into certain containers or divided into certain
units, will be used in the same way as count nouns do. The presence of the
measure word is redundant for count nouns in English, but count nouns can be
used as measure words in other expressions (e.g. a book of words). A measure
word is necessary for mass nouns in English, but mass nouns can be used as
measure words in other expressions (e.g. a cloud of words/smoke). Clearly, it is
not ﬁxed but context-dependent in using measure words for nouns both in
English and in Chinese. It is, therefore, incorrect to say that measure words are
mandatory for nouns in Chinese and mass nouns in English.
This view gains support from Allan (1980), who proposed eight levels of
countability that argued for the degree of uncountableness.He found that nouns
Structure and Function of Measure Nominals 111
in English “can be used both countably and uncountably in diﬀerent NP
environments” (Allan 1980: 541). The issue of countability of nouns was not
taken into account in Halliday (1994a),but a“cline of countability”was suggested
for considering nouns in Halliday (2004: 326; 2014: 385), which ranges “from
those nouns (and pronouns) which construe things as fully itemized, at one end,
to those which treat them as totally unbounded at the other.”Being countable or
uncountable just reﬂects certain usages in certain typical contexts. When the
elements of the context change, the degree of countability will alter and so will
the necessity of using measure words.
Having considered context-dependency, I shall move back to the question
raised in Section  2.1 above: Whether of noun constitutes a down-ranked
prepositional phrase to modify the measure word in English measure nominals?
I will seek answers to this question by analyzing the structure and function of
measure nominals from the perspective of SFL.
4 Analyzing metafunctional meanings of measure nominals
4.1 Experiential meaning of measure nominals
Structure and function go hand in hand and cannot be separated in SFL analysis.
According to Halliday (2014: 392), the internal structure of the measure
expression (or other embedded numerative) in English can be drawn as follows:
a cup of tea
Numerative Thing
Premodiﬁer Head Postmodiﬁer
β α
Figure 7.1 Internal structure of the measure expression (Halliday 2014: 392).
Linguistic analysis by means of SFL should be carried out for the purpose of
locating or revealing“meaning.”However, when we take“cup”in“a cup of tea”as
Head (see Figure 7.1), it would seem odd to locate a meaning of this nominal
which does not focus on “tea.” If “of tea” is Postmodiﬁer, it is secondary in status
to “cup.” But in fact, it is not diﬃcult to locate ‘tea’ as the most important
information in this nominal expression.
112 Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
The problem becomes more apparent if we follow the analysis in Figure 7.1 to
analyze the internal structure of the measure expression in Chinese, which is
typical both for count nouns and mass nouns. See Figure 7.2 below.
Closer examination of yī bēi chá reveals that it is unreasonable to take bēi
(cup) as Head and chá (tea) as Postmodiﬁer, for chá should be the word which
carries the most important information. The group may be well-understood if
bēi is omitted but diﬃcult to get across if chá is absent. One may argue that the
two languages are diﬀerent in measure nominals and should be analyzed
diﬀerently. This sounds rational, but since all would agree that both “a cup of’
and‘yī bēi” function as Numeratives, why it seems all right to take“cup” as Head
while it is rather unreasonable to take “bēi” as Head. When “of tea” is taken as
Postmodiﬁer, it is down-ranked in status, lower than“cup.” Likewise, when“chá”
is treated as Postmodiﬁer, it is down-ranked in status, lower than “bēi.” This is
contradictory to the fundamental meaning of the nominal group,in which those
function as Thing should be higher in status. See an improved analysis for such
expressions in Chinese in Figure 7.3.
In this analysis, Head is conﬂated with Thing and the measure word comes
together with the Numeral,functioning as Numerative and Premodiﬁer.In other
words, the measure word “bei” is part of the Premodiﬁer and it should not be
treated as Head.The Head and the Premodiﬁer can be further modiﬁed by other
yī а
a/one
bēi ᶟ
cup
chá 㥦
tea
Numerative Thing
Premodiﬁer Head ? Postmodiﬁer ?
β α?
Figure 7.2 Potential internal structure of the typical measure expression in Chinese.
yī а
a/one
bēi ᶟ
cup
chá 㥦
tea
Numerative Thing
Premodiﬁer Head
β α
Figure 7.3 Improved internal structure of the typical measure expression in Chinese.
Structure and Function of Measure Nominals 113
modiﬁers respectively. In the same manner, “cup” in “a cup of tea” shall not be
taken as Head.
The Numerative denotes the number while the Thing is always the most
important information. In cases where the Thing is the default information
known to language users, the Numerative may become more prominent. This
applies to measure nominals both in Chinese and in English. Therefore, we may
provide an improved analysis of “a cup of tea” in Figure 7.4.
Here we treat “a cup of” as an adjectival group, functioning as Numerative
and Premodiﬁer in the experiential meaning. In the default use of a measure
nominal, the Thing (‘“tea” in this example) is what is to be modiﬁed. All those
that denote the measuring of a Thing should be treated as modiﬁers.For example,
“cup” and “tea” can be further modiﬁed (e.g. two full cups of green tea), but all
these modiﬁers are eventually used to modify“tea.”
Such treatment ﬁnds support in the history of English in the use of preposition
“of.” According to Oxford English Dictionary (OED), “of” displays about sixty-
three distinct usages in the history of English. One of these usages is to indicate
“quantity,age,extent,price,etc.”See the following instance which was used in 1523:
(20)syxe foote of lengthe (six foot of length)
Can we say that “of lengthe” is a Postmodiﬁer of “foote”? This is redundant both
in meaning and structure, for “six foot” is already the exact length. Another
explanation is to follow the usage illustrated by OED and say that ‘of’ here
functions as the indicator of“quantity,”so“foote of”should be treated as a whole,
functioning as Epithet. The modern measuring construction (e.g. a cup of tea)
most probably inherits this usage, and one may consider “of” in “a cup of tea” as
an indicator of quantity.
Such measuring constructions are rather diﬀerent from other types of “of
nominals”in English.For example,the legs of three compasses.In these instances,“of
nominals” functions as a postmodiﬁer of “legs.” The most important information
conveyed in these instances is “legs,” which functions as Head, conﬂating with
a cup of tea
Numerative Thing
Premodiﬁer Head
β α
Figure 7.4 Improved internal structure of the measure expression in English.
114 Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
Thing. Chinese counterparts of these nominals may further help explain the status
of “of nominals” here (e.g. zhı̌ nán zhēn de zhı̌ zhēn, ᤷই䪸Ⲵᤷ䪸). In the
counterparts,the most important information loads on‘zhı̌ zhēn’(ᤷ䪸,legs).
4.2 Logical meaning of measure nominals
In the section above, I have already noted the logical structure of measure
nominals in the four ﬁgures. Logical meaning, however, is more complicated
than that.According to Halliday (2014: 390),“What the logical analysis does is to
bring out the hypotactic basis of premodiﬁcation in the nominal group, which
then also explains its penchant for generating long strings of nouns.” Univariate
and multivariate structures are identiﬁed in logical analysis.When each element
in a structure has a distinct function with respect to the whole, the structure is
multivariate. For example:
(21) those two splendid old electric trains (Halliday 2014: 364)
The functions of the elements in (21) are as follows: Deictic + Numerative +
Epithet1 + Epithet2 + Classiﬁer + Thing. The logical structure, therefore, is
multivariate, with“trains” as the anchoring element.
The nominal group is unusual for we have to interpret its structure in both
ways simultaneously“to understand how it functions as a resource for construing
complex things” (Halliday 2014: 390). As to the measure nominal, the logical
analysis in Figure 7.1 shows that the measure word is regarded as the central
element in the logical structure (α). This measure nominal is a multivariate
structure. The problem is, then, how to determine the status of “of noun” in the
logical analysis of measure nominals.One can see no answer to this in Figure 7.1
and the discussions related.
If one instead views measure nominals from a diﬀerent perspective and takes
‘a cup of’ in ‘a cup of tea’ as an adjectival group, the logical analysis works. See
Figure 7.5 for an improved analysis of the logical meaning.
a cup of tea
Premodiﬁer Head
β α
ββ βα
Figure 7.5 Improved logical analysis of the measure expression in English.
Structure and Function of Measure Nominals 115
4.3 Interpersonal meaning of measure nominals
Expressions which contain typical measure words may not be used to measure.
Such expressions carry strong interpersonal meaning and they are frequently
used in English and Chinese. See (22) for some English expressions and their
Chinese counterparts:
(22a) hundreds of, rows and rows of, ﬁrst/last of
(22b) chéng qiān shàng wàn (ᡀॳкз), yī pái pái (аᧂᧂ), shǒu gè
(俆њ)
The interpersonal meaning of these expressions includes probability (hundreds
of,chéng qiān shàng wàn),intensity (rows and rows of,yī pái pái),and temporality
(ﬁrst,shǒu gè).They are not measure nominals,for they do not measure anything
but just describe degrees of probability, intensity, or temporality.
Typicalmeasurenominalssuchas“acupoftea”donotcarrymuchinterpersonal
meaning, except when “cup” is used out of expectation. For example, if the
speaker/writer ﬁnds“tea”in a huge mug but uses“a cup of tea”to express that,he/
she already conveys some comments.
When some modiﬁers which usually appear together with measure nominals
are taken into consideration, the interpersonal meaning is obvious. We input
“cup of”in the advanced search box of the OED on CD-ROM (v. 4.0) published
in 2009 and the following expressions pop up among the hundreds of results.
Chinese counterparts are also provided in brackets for comparison.
yīа
a/one
bēiᶟ
cup
chá㥦
tea
Premodiﬁer Head
β α
ββ βα
Figure 7.6 Logical analysis of the measure expression in Chinese.
In this analysis, the only element that has not been explained is “of.” Since we
treat“a cup of”as a whole and“of”is only meaningful in association with“a cup”
and the noun that follows, we may label it as “Relator.” By contrast, in Chinese
measure nominals, no relator is needed (See Figure 7.6).
116 Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
(23) a cup of hot wine (аᶟ✝㥦, yī bēi rè chá)
a cup of very peculiar-tasting tea (аᶟણ䚃⢩࡛Ⲵ㥦, yī bēi wèidào
tèbié de chá)
a cup of pure water (аᶟ㓟߰≤, yī bēi chúnjìngshuı̌)
a cup of her ale (аᶟྩⲴஔ䞂, yī bēi tā de píjiǔ)
a cup of such coﬀee (аᶟ䘉⿽૆஑, yī bēi zhè zhǒng kāfēi)
These instances show that modiﬁers can be naturally used before the Thing,
conveying modality in them. The Epithet“hot” (rè) in“a cup of hot tea” (yī bēi rè
chá) indicates some degree of intensity in typical context. In some particular
context (e.g. in outdoor places), it may function interpersonally in the same way
as“good”(hǎo) does.The Epithet“pure”(chúnjìng) in (23) carries some degree of
judgment concerning morality and“very peculiar-tasting”(wèidào tèbié) conveys
some degree of appreciation concerning desirability.As to the last two instances,
“her” (tā de) and “such” (zhè zhǒng) show some degree of deicticity. Modiﬁers
can be put before the measure word as well. See (24) from the OED for example.
Their Chinese counterparts are also provided for comparison.
(24) a comforting cup of Bovril (аᶟ㡂䘲Ⲵ⢋㚹≱, yī bēi shūshì de
niúròu zhī)
an excellent cup of coﬀee (аᶟк҈Ⲵ૆஑,yī bēi shàngchéng de kāfēi)
a refreshing cup of tea (аᶟᨀ⾎Ⲵ㥦, yī bēi tíshén de chá)
a silent and thoughtful cup of tea (аᶟᰐ༠㘼փ䍤Ⲵ㥦, yī bēi
wúshēng ér tı̌tiē de chá)
In (24),the Epithets“comforting,excellent,refreshing”(shūshì,shàngchéng,tíshén)
convey some degree of judgment concerning morality.What is special here is that
the last two measure nominals in (24) are not simple. The Epithets “silent and
thoughtful” (mòmò ér tı̌tiē) imply that the expressions are metaphorical. It is not
easy to decide what element does the Epithet in each of (24) modify. Traditional
grammar treats these Epithets as modiﬁers of “cup”but the Chinese counterparts
already give us hints for a diﬀerent interpretation. These Epithets modify the
whole nominal group rather than “cup,” for the focus is on the Thing in each of
them. The interpersonal meaning of judgment therefore falls on the entire
nominal. Besides modiﬁcation shown in (23) and (24), measure word and Thing
can be simultaneously modiﬁed by Epithets. See (25) and their Chinese
counterparts in brackets.
(25) a giant cup of Irish breakfast tea (аབྷᶟ⡡ቄ‫ޠ‬ᰙ㥦, yī dà bēi
àiěrlán zǎo chá)
Structure and Function of Measure Nominals 117
a whole cup of hot coﬀee (аᮤᶟ✝૆஑, yī zhěng bēi rè kāfēi)
a second cup of hot tea (ㅜҼᶟ✝㥦, dì èr bēi rè chá)
the small cup of iced coﬀee (䘉ሿᶟߠ૆஑, zhè xiǎo bēi bing kāfēi)
From the instances in (25), we may ﬁnd that Epithets, Identiﬁers, Ordinatives,
and Deictics can all be used in the measure nominals, either before the measure
word or before the Thing. Such uses carry interpersonal meanings of diﬀerent
degrees. The interpersonal meanings of these may become more apparent if we
follow Martin and White (2005) and consider Judgment and Appreciation.
5 Conclusion
Whether to use or not to use a classiﬁer may not be grammatically determined
(Li 2000),but it could be discourse and/or pragmatically sensitive (Hopper 1986).
Since countability is a matter of degree (Allan 1980) which varies with contextual
elements,itisnotconstructivetolookintomeasurenominalsfromtheperspective
of mass/count distinction. From what we have observed, transference of
countability needs to be carefully considered.A typical uncountable noun can be
transferred to be countable and vice versa (e.g. two coﬀees, a cloud of smoke).
Functional analysis of measure nominals in English and Chinese further
reveals that such a distinction as classiﬁer language and non-classiﬁer language
should be withdrawn in discussing measure nominals. The distinction may be
useful in a certain context,but the choice of measure words is a matter of context.
Both English and Chinese contain numerous count nouns and mass nouns and
both languages may or may not use measure words in expressing measuration.
The group “of noun” that follows the measure word in a measure nominal does
not modify the measure word as Postmodiﬁer and it is not a down-ranked
phrase. The word“of”after the measure word can be taken as Relator in measure
nominals and “measure word + of” functions as an adjectival group. Context
dependence should be highly respected before typicality is considered in speciﬁc
contexts. A more constructive and meaningful way of studying measure
nominals is to categorize the potential contexts and principles of identiﬁcation
via such theories as SFL.
118
1 Introduction
The study of the modern Chinese temporal system can be traced back to
the 1930s and 1940s, during which temporal concepts such as “present,”
“past,” and “future” have been used (Gao 1986: 221; Li 2001; Lü 1982: 215–23).
However, since there is no morphological variation in Chinese (Lü 2005: 79),
the earlier studies either denied or ignored the existence of tense as a
grammatical category in Chinese while focusing on the phenomena of time
words, aspect and some functional words (Gao 1986: 190–9; Li 2001; Lü 1982:
215–33; Ji 2002: 85–94, 211–23). Entering the 1980s and 1990s, along with
the proposal of a threefold temporal framework including phase, tense, and
aspect by Chen (1988: 401–22), the study of modern Chinese temporal
system saw a substantial development (see He and Ma 2011: 19–27). Scholars
shifted their research focus from whether there is a tense in Chinese as to
how the temporal meaning, including temporal deictic meaning, is realized.
Perspectives of the temporal meaning have been approached from diﬀerent
angles. Meanwhile, studies of the modern Chinese temporal system have been
extended to a much wider scope, covering the areas of machine translation,
dialect studies, theoretical studies of translation, and contrastive analysis.
However, up until now, a compromise as to a consistent temporal framework of
Chinese has hardly been arrived at. This chapter will propose an overall Chinese
tense system and describe the instantiation of the potential system in the light of
SFG (Halliday 1985b, 1994a).
8
A Systemic Functional Study of Marked
Chinese Tenses1
HE,Wei (օՏ) & MA, Ruizhi (傜⪎㣍)
University of Science and Technology Beijing
119
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
120
2 Tense in Chinese
2.1 Deﬁnition of tense in Chinese
According to the explicitness of tense realizations in Chinese, this study
categorizes tenses in Chinese into groups of marked tense and unmarked
tense. It approaches the marked tense system in the light of SFG (Halliday
1985, 1994a; He 2007, 2008) and regards the marked tense as a grammatical
or semi-grammatical resource which construes the deictic relationship(s)
between (a) pair(s) of times indicated in a clause. Situated at the clause level,
a complete tense involves the relationship between a reference time and the
event time under discussion. It reﬂects the external temporal framework of
an event, i.e. the temporal deictic relationship(s) between the event and its
reference time(s).
2.1.1 Tense in a broad sense
Diﬀerent from inﬂectional languages such as English, there is no morphological
variation in Chinese (Lü 2005: 79). Chinese is regarded as a discourse-oriented
language, in which clauses are usually not self-contained (Cao 1995). Therefore,
for a thorough understanding of the language, a wider research scope covering
the factors within the clause as well as factors beyond the clause is encouraged
(Li 2010). Also, due to the scarcity of morphological variation in a strict
sense, some scholars (e.g. Ma 1981) suggest a more ﬂexible interpretation of
“morphological variation,” i.e. functional words in a broad sense, including
repetitive forms, auxiliaries, particles, adverbs, and others should be regarded as
formal variation in Chinese.
In this study,the temporal deictic relationship will be approached from within
as well as from between the clauses. Exploration of the realizations of tense will
be extended to auxiliaries and adverbs which have been grammaticalized or
semi-grammaticalized.
2.1.2 Tense on the clause rank
In Chinese, no temporal deictic meaning can be inferred by judging merely
verbal groups. Scholars usually base their research on a “sentence” which is
marked by a period and no speciﬁcation is made for the exact location of tense
(see,e.g.Chen 1988; Gong 1995; Shang 2007).This vague location of tense makes
a thorough and comprehensive study of Chinese tense diﬃcult. Take the
following Chinese sentences as examples:
A Systemic Functional Study of Chinese Tenses 121
(1) yínjià zài yītiān nèi zhǎng le 14%.
silver price at one day inside rise TA2
14%.
(The silver price rose by 14% within one day.)
(2) shāngǔ lǐ wúmíngde xiǎoxī, cóng yījiǔèrqīnián dào yījiǔsānqīnián
valley inside nameless brook, from 1927 to 1937
zhè shínián jiān, cónglái jiù méi qīng guò.
these ten years between always just not clear TA.
(The nameless brook in the valley, during the ten years between 1927 and
1937, was never clean.)
(3) hái méi děng tā zhànqǐshēn, Màisān jiù pāde yì zhǎng dǎ guòlái.
yet not till he stand up, Maisan just ONO3
a hand slap forward.
(Before he could stand up, Maisan had given him a slap.)
(4) tā zǒu guòqù bǎ chuāngzǐ guānshàng.
he walk over make window close.
(He went over and closed the window.)
The above examples indicate that the division of clauses in Chinese is based on
the meaning of the event4
—neither period nor comma can be regarded as the
division mark. This study takes tense as being located at the clause level. To
deﬁne a clause, reference should be made to the identiﬁcation of an event.
2.2 Basic elements in temporal deictic meaning structure
As the deﬁnition of tense indicates, the temporal deictic meaning of an event
involves the event time (Et) and the reference time (Rt), a special case of which
is the speech time “now.” The event time is the time point where the event takes
place; the reference time is the time point to which the event time is anchored;
and the speech time is a special case of reference time where “now” is taken as
the coding time.
In SFG, components of the temporal structure follow the rules of three
divisions and recursion (Halliday 1994a; He 2007, 2008): (i) the event time and
its reference time hold a threefold temporal relationship, i.e. simultaneity,
posteriority or anteriority; and (ii) the event time can be directed to a past,
present, or future time in relation to the reference time. Series of temporal
relationship can be established when the reference time is consecutively selected.
Figures 8.1, 8.2, and 8.3 respectively illustrate the temporal deictic relationship
of anteriority, simultaneity, and posteriority.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
122
2.3 Tense system
While analyzing the logical structure of verbal groups, SFG (Halliday 1994a:
198) distinguishes two kinds of natural tense: primary tense and primary-
secondary tense. The primary tenses are tenses of past, present, or future relative
to the coding time while the secondary ones “express past, present or future
relative to the time selected in the previous tense.”However, this classiﬁcation of
tense is not exhaustive and cannot provide convincing explanations to some
of the tense phenomena in clause complexes. Take the following clause complex
as an example:
(5) The lawyer consulted Mary after she had left John after she had
thrown a pot of hot coﬀee at him when he yelled at her after they had
just come home from the party (see He 2005: 54–7).
Tenses in the dependent clauses initiated by“after”and“when”do not directly
relate the event time to the coding time, but to another reference time. In
this sense, it is believed that a full description of tense should take the cases of
clause complexes into consideration. A reclassiﬁcation of tenses enriches the
tense system as a system including four tense types: primary tenses, secondary
tenses, primary-secondary tenses, and secondary-secondary tenses (He 2005:
Figure 8.1 Anteriority.
Figure 8.2 Simultaneity.
Figure 8.3 Posteriority.
A Systemic Functional Study of Chinese Tenses 123
54–7; 2007: 49–56). Figure 8.4 is a brief illustration of the improved tense
system.
For the sake of simplicity, abbreviated forms are used to explain the temporal
relationship, among which “Et” represents the event time,“Rt1” the coding time,
and “Rtn” (n≥2) the other reference time in serial tense choices. Primary tenses
“represent a temporal relation between the Et or Rt2 and Rt1”; secondary tenses
represent a temporal relation between the Et or one Rt and another Rt,where the
secondary tense can be a ﬁnite form as well as a non-ﬁnite form; primary-
secondary tenses represent a compound tense with Et relative to Rtn, . . . and Rt2
relative to Rt1; secondary-secondary tenses represent “more than one serial
tense choice, the ﬁrst of which takes a secondary deictic center as the reference
time and the second centers around the time established in its preceding tense,
etc.” (He 2007: 49–56) In the following part, examples will be given to illustrate
diﬀerent types of tense:
(6) yīgè xīngqī yǐhòu, wǒ jiāngyào cānjiā zìxué kǎoshì.
one week after, I TA participate self-taught examination.
(In one week, I will attend the examination for self-taught students.)
Rt1: now
Event: I attending the examination for self-taught students
Et: future time (in one week)
Example 6 is a simple clause consisting of the future event “I attending the
examination for self-taught students.” The future event which will take place “in
one week” is anchored to the speech time “now,” thus forming a primary tense
expressing the temporal deictic meaning of posteriority.
Figure 8.4 Tense system (see He 2007: 49, 2008: 12).
Figure 8.5 Tense structure of Example 6.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
124
(7) Zhào Mèngtáo chàng zhe “Nánníwān” jìn le sùshè.
Clause 2 Clause 1
Zhao Mengtao sing TA Nanniwan enter TA dorm.
(Zhao Mengtao entered the dorm, singing the song Nanniwan.)
Rt1: now
Event1: Zhao Mengtao entering the dorm
Et: past time
‘Rt15
=Et
Event2: Zhao Mengtao singing the song Nanniwa
‘Et: now
Figure 8.6 Tense structure of Example 7.
Example 7 is a clause complex composed of two clauses. Two events
are encoded in the clause complex, “Zhao Mengtao entering the dorm” and
“Zhao Mengtao singing the song.” Since the latter is an event accompanying
the former, its reference time ‘Rt1 is not the speech time “now,” Instead, it
coincides with the past event time of the other clause. Therefore, for Clause 2,
the event time ‘Et is simultaneous with ‘Rt1 which is decided by the event time
of Clause 1. In this way, the tense auxiliary zhe ⵰ in Clause 2 is used to mark
a secondary tense.
(8) děngdào xiàyīgè yuè, wǒde wénzhāng zǎojiù xiěhǎo le.
till next month my article TA complete TA.
(By next month, my article will have been completed.)
Rt1: now
Rt2: future time (next month)
Event: my article being completed
Et: past time
A Systemic Functional Study of Chinese Tenses 125
In Example 8, the event “my article being completed” is anchored to two
reference times in turn, a future time Rt2 located by the temporal circumstance
“next month”s and the speech time “now” which serves as Rt1. The event time is
anterior to the future time Rt2 which is posterior to the speech time ‘now’, thus
forming a primary-secondary tense.
(9) Lǐmíng shuō,děngdào xiàyīgè yuè, tāde wénzhāngzǎojiù xiěhǎo le.
Liming say, till next month, his article TA complete TA.
(Liming said that by the next month, his article would have been
completed.)
Rt1: now
Event: Li Ming saying
Et: past time
‘Rt1=Et
‘Rt2: future time (next month)
‘Event: his article being completed
‘Et: past time
Figure 8.7 Tense structure of Example 8.
Figure 8.8 Tense structure of Example 9.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
126
A comparison of Example 9 and Example 8 indicates that, with the whole
event as the projection of another clause, the projected event, in addition to its
original temporal deictic structure, is anchored to a past time located by the
projecting clause. In Example 9, a secondary-secondary tense is constructed in
the projected clause.
As we can see, operating by the principles of three divisions and recursion,
the event time is directed to a reference time posterior to, simultaneous with or
anterior to it, and this reference time is correspondingly directed to the speech
time or other reference times on the time axis. In this way, the tense structure of
an event takes shape. When there are only two time points in the event, i.e. the
event time and its reference time Rt1, a simple tense is formed. When there
are three or more than three time points in the event, i.e. the event time, Rt1, Rt2
and . . . Rtn, a serial tense will come into being. When Rt1 is identiﬁed with the
speech time “now,” the initiating tense of the event will be a primary tense;
otherwise, it would be a secondary tense (see Figure 8.5).
3 Instantiation of marked Chinese tense
With a broader interpretation of morphological variation and a diachronic view
of language in mind, i.e. seeing grammaticalization in Chinese as an ongoing
process (Zuo 2007; Li 2010), both grammatical resources and semi-grammatical
resources are taken as markers for Chinese tense in this study. As for the
unmarked tense, this study regards it as the default state, analysis of which will
be made in further studies.
According to the functions of the grammaticalized or semi-grammaticalized
resources, tense auxiliaries in Chinese are categorized into three groups, those
conveying the meaning of anteriority, those delivering the meaning of
simultaneity, and those indicating the meaning of posteriority. Tense auxiliaries
in these categories, according to their location in a clause, are further divided
into groups of post-verb auxiliaries, pre-verb auxiliaries and post-clause
auxiliaries (see Figure 8.9). In the following part, description of tense structures
of each category will be made.
3.1 Grammaticalized resources
Among the grammaticalized tense auxiliaries, guo (䗷), le 1
6
(Ҷ1
), ceng (ᴮ),
yi(jing) (ᐢ(㓿)), le2
(Ҷ2
), laizhe (ᶕ⵰), etc. are used to direct a past event to its
A Systemic Functional Study of Chinese Tenses 127
reference time; zhe (⵰), zheng (↓), (zheng)zai ((↓)൘) and others are used to
anchor an event to a simultaneous reference time; jiang (ሶ), yao(㾱), hui(Պ),
kuai(yao)(ᘛ(㾱)), jiu(yao)(ቡ(㾱)), jijiang(ণሶ) and others are employed to
point a future event to its reference time. In the following part, illustrations of
the tense structures for each category will be made.
Anteriority
(10) qùnián wǒmén yóulǎn guò chángchéng.
last year we visit TA the Great Wall.
(Last year, we visited the Great Wall.)
Rt1: now
Event: we visiting the Great Wall
Et: past time (last year)
Figure 8.9 Instantiation of marked Chinese tense.
Figure 8.10 Tense structure of Example 10.
(11) zhège xiǎozǔ shòudào le biǎoyáng.(ModernChineseDictionary)
this group receive TA praise.
(This group received praise.)
Rt1: now
Event: this group receiving praise
Et: past time
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
128
Both guo and le1
are tense auxiliaries located after the verb used as Predicator
and before its Complement.In Example 10,guo is placed between“youlan”(visit)
and “changcheng” (the Great Wall). The tense auxiliary guo indicates that the
event in the clause is a past event relative to its reference time and the temporal
circumstance “qunian” (last year) pinpoints the event to an accurate time in the
past. In Example 11, tense auxiliary le1
is used between “shoudao” (receive) and
“biaoyang” (praise) to direct the past event to its reference time.
Compared with guo and le1
, ceng and yi(jing) can also locate a past event
relative to its reference time, though they are located in a diﬀerent position in
the clause.
(12) Liáoníng, Shāndōng, Shànghǎi sānzhī zúqiúduì dōu céng
Liaoning, Shandong, Shanghai three football team all TA
huò quánguó guànjūn chēnghào.
win national champion title
(Liaoning, Shandong and Shanghai, the three football teams all once
won the title of National Champion.)
Rt1: now
Event: Liaoning, Shandong and Shanghai, the three football teams
winning the title of National Champion
Et: past time
Figure 8.11 Tense structure of Example 11.
Figure 8.12 Tense structure of Example 12.
(13) chūnqiū zhànguó shíhòu, jìnyángchéng
spring and autumn warring states time Jinyang City
yǐ xiāngdāng yǒumíng.
TA quite famous.
A Systemic Functional Study of Chinese Tenses 129
(In the Spring and Autumn Period and the Warring States Jinyang
City had been quite famous.)
Rt1: now
Rt2: past time (in the Spring and Autumn Period and the Warring
States Period)
Event: Jinyang City being famous
Et: past time
Figure 8.13 Tense structure of Example 13.
Figure 8.14 Tense structure of Example 14.
In Example 12, there are two elements in the tense structure, the event time
and its reference time“now.”The tense auxiliary ceng directs the past event to the
speech time, thus forming a primary tense. In Example 13, the tense structure of
the event consists of three elements: Rt1 (the speech time now), Rt2 (a past time
pinpointed by the temporal circumstance “chunqiu zhanguo shihou” [in the
Spring and Autumn Period and the Warring States Period], and Et (the past
event time).
(14) tā líkāi jiā hǎojǐtiān le.
he leave home quite a few days TA.
(He has left his home for quite a few days.)
Rt1: now
Rt2: now
Event: he leaving his home for days
Et: past time
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
130
(15) wǒ gāngcái zài jiēshàng kànjiàn Xiǎolǐ láizhe.
I just nowon the street see Xiaoli TA.
(I saw Xiaoli on the street just now.)
Rt1: now
Event: I seeing Xiaoli
Et: past time (just now)
Figure 8.15 Tense structure of Example 15.
Both le2
and laizhe are employed at the end of a clause to mark a past event.
Similar to the diﬀerence between ceng and yi(jing), the tense structure of le2
contains a reference time which is simultaneous with, yet diﬀerent from the
reference time it is anchored to, thus forming a serial tense while laizhe directly
relates the past event to its reference time and forms a simple tense.
Simultaneity
To realize the temporal deictic meaning of simultaneity, tense auxiliaries such as
zhe,zheng,(zheng)zai are used to direct the event time to its reference time.There
are two diﬀerences between zhe and zheng, (zheng)zai: (i) zhe is usually located
betweentheverbusedasPredicatorandtheComplement,whilezheng,(zheng)zai
usually lie in front of the verb; (ii) the tense structure of zhe is composed by two
elements: the event time and the reference time; while the tense structure of
zheng or (zheng)zai consists of three elements: the event time, the coding time
and a reference time simultaneous with, yet diﬀerent from the coding time.
(16) tā dǎ zhe hóngqí zài qiánmiàn zǒu.
Clause 2 Clause 1
he carry TA red ﬂag at the front walk.
(He walked in the front, carrying the red ﬂag.)
Rt1: now
Event: he walking in the front
Et: past time
‘Rt1=Et
‘Event: he carrying the red ﬂag
‘Et: now
A Systemic Functional Study of Chinese Tenses 131
(17) jiějiě zài zuò gōngkè.
sister TA do homeword.
(My elder sister is doing her homework.)
Rt1: now
Rt2: now
Event: my elder sister doing her homework
Et: now
Figure 8.16 Tense structure of Example 16.
Figure 8.17 Tense structure of Example 17.
(18) mùqián, yīngguó yǒuguān dāngjú zhèng duì cǐshì jìnxíng diàochá.
presently British relevant government TA toward this case do investigation
(Presently, the British government is investigating this case.)
Rt1: now
Event: the British government investigating this case
Et: now
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
132
Example 16 is a clause complex including two simple clauses. Clause 1,
inferred from the context, is a past event while Clause 2 takes the event time of
Clause 1 as its coding time and, in this way, constructs a secondary tense. In
Examples 17 and 18, the event time is anchored directly to a reference time
simultaneous with the coding time before it is further directed to the coding
time. The existence of a reference time between the event time and the coding
time is to indicate that relative to the coding time,the event is an ongoing process.
Posteriority
Example 19 is a simple clause in whose tense structure the future event time is
directed to the reference time “‘now” through the use of tense auxiliary jiang
(see Figure  8.11). Besides jiang, other auxiliaries such as yao, hui, kuai(yao),
jiu(yao), jijiang are also employed to direct a future event to its reference time.
These auxiliaries are usually found before the verb used as Predicator in the
clause.
(19) zhōngyāng diànshìtái jiāng zhuǎnbō qízhōng de sānchǎng bǐsài shíkuàng.
CCTV TA broadcast therein three match live.
(CCTV will televize three of the matches live.)
Rt1: now
Event: CCTV televizing three of the matches live
Et: future time
Figure 8.18 Tense structure of Example 18.
Figure 8.19 Tense structure of Example 19.
A Systemic Functional Study of Chinese Tenses 133
3.2 Semi-grammaticalized resources
As is conﬁrmed in some studies (Zuo 2007; Li 2010), the grammaticalized
resources in Chinese are evolving. Some substantives are gradually being
formalized into functional words.Among the resources which help construe the
temporal deictic relationship in a clause, there are some words whose original
meaning as a substantive is weakening, while at the same time they play the role
similar to that of a functional word.
(20) tā dǎsuàn míngtiān yīzǎo chūfā.
he TA tomorrow morning set oﬀ
(He is about to set oﬀ early next morning.)
Rt1: now
Event: he setting oﬀ
Et: future time
Figure 8.20 Tense structure of Example 20.
(21) Zhāng Shǒuyì běnlái shì xuéyóuhuàde.
Zhang Shouyi TA be oil painting major
(Zhang Shouyi was an oil painting major.)
Rt1: now
Event: Zhang Shouyi be an oil painting major
Et: past time
Figure 8.21 Tense structure of Example 21.
Dasuan in Example 20 can be regarded either as a verb which means “making
plans” or as an auxiliary exerting similar function as jiang or yao. In this clause,
its original meaning“making plans”has weakened.It is more likely to convey the
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
134
Subject’s inclination for a future event. Therefore, in this study, dasuan in
Example 20 is taken as a semi-grammaticalized resource for temporal deictic
meaning construction. Benlai in Chinese is usually categorized as an adverb
meaning “originally.” However, in Example 21, benlai implies an undeﬁned time
anterior to the present speech time. It can be replaced by the auxiliary ceng
without aﬀecting the tense structure of the event. In that case, it is in some sense
playing the role of a tense auxiliary. Besides dasuan and ben(lai), similar cases
can also be found in clauses containing zhunbei, yubei, mashang, like and others.
4 Conclusion
This study is an exploration of the tense system of modern Chinese in the light
of SFG. Attempts have been made to uncover components of the tense system
and the instantiation of marked tenses. Based on the principle of “meaning prior
to form,”this study approaches the Chinese tense system from the realizations of
temporal deictic meaning. It is held that there are grammatical resources or
semi-grammaticalized resources for construing chains of temporal relationships
between pairs of times indicated in a Chinese clause. The tense structure which
consists of the event time and its reference times follows the basic principles of
three divisions and recursion. According to characters of the tense structure,
tense in Chinese can be categorized into primary tense,secondary tense,primary-
secondary tense,and secondary-secondary tense.In this way,a general picture of
the Chinese temporal system, including the tense types and instantiations, has
been constructed in this study. However, due to limited time and energy, this
study is far from being enough.Research has been mostly focused on the marked
Chinese tenses. To further the study of Chinese tense system, more eﬀorts need
to be made on issues of unmarked Chinese tenses, tense structures in negative
clauses, the relationship between tense and temporal circumstances, usage of
tense auxiliaries in diﬀerent types of discourse and others.
Notes
1 This study is supported by the National Social Science Fund (11BYY007). It is a
revised and shortened version of “Systemic Functional Study of the Chinese
Temporal System: Marked Chinese Tenses”, which is a much longer paper accepted
in the proceedings of 38th International Systemic Functional Congress. That paper
A Systemic Functional Study of Chinese Tenses 135
also discusses the relationship between tense and aspect and the concept of “tense
auxiliary compound.”
2 TA here is used as a label for tense auxiliary le.
3 ONO here is used as a label for onomatopoeia.
4 Event is part of a proposition.An event together with a tense forms a proposition
(He 2008: 15).
5 ‘Rt1 and‘Et here are time points in Event 2. The mark“‘” is used to distinguish time
points in the dependent clause (Clause 2) from time points in the dominant clause
(Clause 1).
6 To distinguish le appearing after a verb and le at the end of a clause, the two are
respectively marked as le1
and le2
in this study.
136
Clause and Clause Complex
137
138
9
Range Characteristics in Material Clauses in
Mandarin Chinese
YANG, Guowen (ᶘഭ᮷)
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences
1 Introduction
Range described in this chapter is a generalized term for a kind of non-inherent
participants of processes deﬁned within the theoretical framework of systemic
functional grammar (SFG; Halliday 2004; Halliday and Matthiessen 1999).
Clause is the basic grammatical unit that represents a process in terms of SFG.
The semantic conﬁguration of a process is experientially constructed from the
process itself, the participants of the process and the circumstances associated
with the process.Processes are divided into six types,material,mental,relational,
behavioral,verbal,andexistential,eachof whichhasitsowninherentparticipants.
Processes may be also associated with some additional participants.Studies have
shown that process types and transitivity in English and Chinese are very similar,
although some distinctions do exist at the level of surface realization (McDonald
1998; Halliday 2007c; Halliday and Matthiessen 1999; Hu 1999a; Yang 2002,
2004, 2007; Peng 2011).
Material processes in SFG represent the experience of doing and happening
and involve two inherent participants, Actor and Goal. Four additional
participants, Scope, Recipient, Client, and Attribute, may also occur in material
clauses to indicate respectively the domain over which the process takes place,
the role that goods are given to, the role for which services are done, and the
resultant qualitative state of Actor or Goal (Halliday 2004: 190–5).
The term Range is rooted in the mode of ergative interpretation of processes
(Halliday 2004: 293–5). It speciﬁes the range and domain of process. Unlike the
inherent participants of processes, Range is semantically not a participant of
process in any way,but grammatically treated as if it was.Range is considered an
139
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
140
additional participant and generally covers speciﬁc elements of clauses
interpreted in the transitive mode,including the Scope of material processes,the
Verbiage of verbal processes,the Phenomenon of mental processes,the Behavior
of behavioral processes, and the Attribute and Value of relational processes.
These elements grammatically look like participants of process, but their
characteristics may provide some clues as to distinguishing them from those
inherent participants, especially from the Goal-like participants. From a
comparative point of view, the Range elements in Chinese behave in some
unique ways, which are simultaneously manifested in lexical, clausal, and
textual respects. The diﬀerences between Range and inherent participants of
processes can be more easily found in material clauses. This chapter describes
Range characteristics in material clauses in Chinese by comparing its
grammatical behavior with that of Goal and its counterpart in English (cf.Yang
2001, 2002, 2004).
2 Range in material clauses
2.1 The functions and forms of range
Material clauses are the processes of doing and happening, with Actor as an
inherent participant of it, bringing about the unfolding of the process through
time that may extend to another participant, Goal, which is directly aﬀected by
the performance of process, e.g. “the tourist” in “the lion caught the tourist”
(Halliday 2004: 180). The unmarked linear structures of material clauses in
Chinese are “Actor + Process + Goal”/“Actor + Process ± (Scope),” in which
symbol “±” means with or without, and the element in parenthesis, i.e. “Scope,”
functions as Range.We can probe material processes by asking:“What does the
Actor do to the Goal” or “What happens to the Goal.” Nevertheless, we cannot
ask the same questions about Range since it may not be an entity at all. Range in
material processes functions in two ways:“it either (i) construes the domain over
which the process takes place,or (ii) construes the process itself,either in general
orspeciﬁcterms”(Halliday2004:192).Therearebothsimilaritiesanddistinctions
between English and Chinese in these two respects.
Concerning the ﬁrst function of Range, i.e. indicating the domain over which
the process takes place, Chinese and English have, on the one hand, similar
expressions, e.g. pá shān ⡜ኡ (climb mountains), zuò yóuxì ‫⑨ڊ‬ᠿ (play
games), and tán gāngqín ᕩ䫒⩤ (play the piano), in which Range is realized by
Range Characteristics in Material Clauses 141
a noun behaving as the complement of the verb in both languages. From the
viewpoint of probabilities,on the other hand,such nominal expressions of Range
occur more directly and frequently in Chinese than in English,e.g.qù xuéxiào ৫
ᆖṑ (go to school),cháxún xìnxī ḕራؑ᚟ (look up the information),and zhǎo
gōngzuò ᢮ᐕ֌ (look for a job). The prepositions in these English examples are
included in “phrasal verbs” and cannot be left out (Halliday 2004: 351–3),
although in some other cases they might be unnecessary, for example,“await the
opportunity”/“wait for the opportunity,”and“play the lead”/“act as the lead”(this
is a relational process).In contrast to this,the same constituent after the verb can
only be directly realized as a noun without being preceded by a preposition in
Chinese, i.e. děngdài jīhuì ㅹᖵᵪՊ and bànyǎn zhǔjué ᢞ╄ѫ䀂.
With respect to the second function of Range, i.e. to serve as another name
for the process, there are also similarities and distinctions between Chinese and
English. In English, it is common to see the process semantically represented by
Range and the main verb of the clause is lexically empty. At the same time, the
two parts are often separated by a numeral quantitative compound or a modiﬁer
of the noun, e.g.“do a little dance,”“made minor revisions,”“take another quick
look,” and “have a hot bath” (Halliday 2004: 193). The pattern of this kind can
also be found in Chinese, having still an aspect marker in between the verb and
the Range as in Examples (1) and (2). In the examples, le Ҷ is the marker of the
unmarked-realized aspect (URE) (Yang 2007), and “CL” denotes classiﬁer (Li
and Thompson 1981).
(1) Ԇ ᶕ Ҷ а ⇥ ࣢ 㡎Ǆ
tā lái le yī duàn jìng wǔ
he do URE one CL vigorous dance
(He did a vigorous dance.)
(2) Ԇ ᵍ ྩ ‫ڊ‬ Ҷ њ 伎⵬Ǆ
tā cháo tā zuò le gè fēiyǎn
he towards her make URE CL wink
(He gave her a ﬂirtatious wink.)
Similar to that of English, the verbs lái ᶕ (do) and zuò ‫ڊ‬ (make) in Examples
(1) and (2) have no concrete meaning and the meanings of the processes are
represented by the elements of Range jìngwǔ ࣢㡎 (vigorous dance) and fēiyǎn
伎⵬ (ﬂirtatious wink).
In addition, Range in Chinese is often realized by the so-called líhécí ⿫ਸ䇽
(separable word),most of which are disyllabic.The second part of a líhécí ⿫ਸ䇽
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
142
serves as Range,being semantically dependent on the ﬁrst part,and the two parts
can be separated by some other constituents. The Range of this type includes the
so-called “cognate object” in tradition, e.g. wǔ 㡎 and gōng 䓜 in tiàowǔ 䐣㡎
(dance) and jūgōng ䷐䓜 (bow/make a bow). The two parts of the word function
together to construe the process and so the verb like lái ᶕ/zuò ‫ڊ‬ (do) is needless;
hence expressions lái yīgè tiàowǔ ᶕањ䐣㡎 and zuò yīgè jūgōng ‫ڊ‬ањ䷐䓜
are hardly acceptable; instead, they are commonly expressed as tiào yīgè wǔ 䐣а
њ㡎 (do a dance) and jū yīgè gōng ䷐ањ䓜 (take a bow).
By describing Range characteristics, we do not mean that Range in Chinese
cannot be circumstantially realized as commonly found in English.With speciﬁc
textual background, some forms of Range in Chinese can also be realized
circumstantially by a prepositional phrase, e.g. guàng gōngyuán 䙋‫ޜ‬ഝ (strolls
around in the park) and zài gōngyuán lı̌ guàng ൘‫ޜ‬ഝ䟼䙋 (strolls around in
the park),but this will not be fully discussed in this chapter (seeYang 2001; Peng
2011).
Range is an important constituent in material clauses, which, as described
above, is a nominal element and usually takes the same form as Goal. Compared
with English, Range in material clauses in Chinese is more likely to be confused
with the element of Goal that may cause some diﬃculties in explaining relevant
grammatical phenomenon. Distinguishing various kinds of verb objects (in
traditional terms) in Chinese has always been a signiﬁcant research topic among
grammarians and numerous achievements have been obtained in the ﬁeld (e.g.
Teng 1984; Xu 1985; Meng, Zheng, Meng and Cai 1999; Li 1990). I shall discuss
the properties of Range in material clauses in more detail below.
2.2 The types of range
While referring to the existing achievements, especially the work of Li (1990)
and Meng et al. (1999), we suggest the following twelve types of Verb-Noun
patterns which are more likely to appear in material processes: process-patient,
process-creature, process-place, process-time, process-purpose, process-reason,
process-suﬀerance, process-tool, process-manner, process-change, process-
cognate, and process-quantity.Among the twelve types of nominal elements, the
patient and creature are of the Goal type. The expression of quantity can be of
either Goal or Range depending on the property of the thing it represents. The
other nine are of the Range type,expressing the meaning of place,time,purpose,
reason, tool, manner, suﬀerance, change and cognate respectively. With respect
to types and properties of Range in Chinese see also Teng (1984), McDonald
Range Characteristics in Material Clauses 143
(1998), and Peng (2011). Range is more likely to occur in middle clauses, but
sometimes they are also found in eﬀective clauses. Each type of Range is then
interpreted as follows.
The Range of place indicates the spatial place toward or within which the
actor moves. The Range of time refers to the time at or during which the process
happens. The Range of cognate occurs in the form of líhécí ⿫ਸ䇽, which has
been described in the last section, construing the Process itself together with the
main verb. The Range of purpose indicates the Actor’s purpose of taking the
action. The Range of reason denotes the reason why the Actor takes the action.
The Range of tool denotes the tool with which the Actor takes action; it may
happen to both one-participant and two-participant processes. One additional
point to be addressed here is that the pattern of “verb + Range”is to some extent
lexically restricted. We cannot arbitrarily build the pattern without considering
the lexical properties because some of these expressions are intrinsically
idiomatic. For example, we say chōu biānzi ᣭ䷝ᆀ(whip), but not chōu gùnzi
ᣭỽᆀ (whip with a stick).Similarly,we say dǎ gùnzi ᢃỽᆀ (beat with a stick),
but not dǎ biānzi ᢃ䷝ᆀ (beat with a whip). The Range of manner represents
the manner in which the Actor acts; it may appear in both one-participant and
two-participant processes. The Range of suﬀerance denotes a kind of suﬀering
on the part of the Subject.The Range of change expresses the resultative status of
either Actor or Goal after undergoing a change brought about by the
transformative process, occurring in both one-participant and two-participant
clauses.
Generally speaking, the elements of Range in Chinese make various
complementary explanations on processes. The two types of Goal, i.e. the Goal
of patient and creature, are semantically diﬀerent from Range. The Goal of
patient directly undergoes the action conducted by Actor, and the Goal of
creature denotes the created product of process.The Goal of both types serves as
the inherent participant of process, the presence of which in the corresponding
process is obligatory. Nevertheless, the two types of Goal behave diﬀerently in
some grammatical respects that will be described in the next section.
2.3 Range in special clause constructions
Semantic ﬁgures of processes can be structured in various clause constructions,
depending on diﬀerent registers of context.There are two important grammatical
constructions in Chinese, the bǎ ᢺ and bèi 㻛 constructions, which can be
considered the “operative” and “receptive” in voice respectively. In both of the
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
144
constructions, the Process is put at the end of the clause, functioning as New
information. In the bǎ ᢺ construction Actor functions as the grammatical
Subject and the textual Theme; however, in the bèi 㻛 construction Goal or
Range functions as the grammatical Subject and the textual Theme. Hence, the
two constructions “allow the speaker to control the information ﬂow” (Halliday
2007c: 349) by reordering the constituents of the clause. Material processes are
most likely to be found in the bǎ ᢺ and bèi 㻛 constructions (Yang 2002, 2004).
Nevertheless, Goal and Range behave diﬀerently in diﬀerent constructions that
will be described below.
2.3.1 Range in the bǎ ᢺ construction
The bǎ ᢺ construction is unique to Chinese. While talking about information
structure, Halliday (2004: 353) describes the bǎ ᢺ construction in following
words:
Suppose, however, that I want the focus of information to be the Process rather
than the Goal. . . . In Chinese, which has a similar word order and information
structure, there is a special construction, the ba (ǎ) construction, for achieving
this; but in English, it is impossible—I cannot say they the meeting cancelled—
unless the Process is split into two parts. This therefore is what happens, with a
phrasal verb: it splits the Process into two parts, one functioning as Predicator
and the other as Adjunct,with the Adjunct coming in its normal place at the end:
they called the meeting oﬀ
I have divided the bǎ ᢺ construction into three types by considering its
grammatical characteristics and the systemic theory of information structure,
i.e. (i) the process-disposal bǎ ᢺ construction: “A + bǎ ᢺ + B + V + (Asp),”
where the “Asp” denotes the aspect marker; (ii) the result-descriptive bǎ ᢺ
construction: “A + bǎ ᢺ + B + V + C + (Asp),” where C denotes the verbal
Complementintraditionalterms;and(iii)thething-gain/lossbǎᢺconstruction:
“A + bǎ ᢺ + B + V + (C) + (Asp) + D/E.”As some grammarians (e.g. Teng 1984;
Lü 1999a; Lü et al. 1999b; Tao and Zhang 2000) indicate: the“object” of bǎ ᢺ in
the bǎ ᢺ construction should be speciﬁc either to both the speaker and the
listener or only to the speaker.Range exhibits diﬀerent characteristics in diﬀerent
types of the bǎ ᢺ construction. The Range in material processes can follow the
preposition bǎ ᢺ in the result-descriptive bǎ ᢺ construction, but it rarely
follows bǎ ᢺ in process-disposal and thing-gain/loss bǎ ᢺ constructions. The
Goal of patient can follow the preposition bǎ ᢺ in any type of bǎ ᢺ construction.
However, the Goal of creature grammatically performs like a Range and only
Range Characteristics in Material Clauses 145
follows the preposition bǎ ᢺ in result-descriptive bǎ ᢺ constructions (Yang
2001, 2004). I will discuss this in more detail below.
The semantics of bǎ ᢺ construction is traditionally interpreted as“to dispose
of something” (Wang 1982: 82). See Example (3).
(3) Ԇ ᢺ 䛓 ሱ ؑ ✗ ҶǄ
tā bǎ nà fēng xìn shāo le
he BA that CL letter burn URE
(He burned the letter up.)
According to the results of my investigation of the bǎ ᢺ and bèi 㻛 constructions
(Yang 2001, 2004), the “disposal” viewpoint on the bǎ ᢺ construction to some
extent still holds.The verbs with the disposal meaning can construct the process-
disposal bǎ ᢺ construction, including the duplicated verb form. Thus, the
semantic interpretation of the process-disposal bǎ ᢺ construction is: the entity
A takes an action to dispose of the speciﬁc thing B.
Meanwhile, I would propose that the descriptive statement presented by
both Wang (1982) and Hsueh (1994) can be reasonably adopted to explain
the meaning conveyed by the result-descriptive bǎ ᢺ construction. This
construction emphasizes the result of process, i.e. C, which is put at the position
of unmarked focus in terms of information structure. Thus the semantic
interpretation of the result-descriptive bǎ ᢺ construction is: under the inﬂuence
of A, a process aiming at the speciﬁc thing B takes place that brings up some
kind of result expressed by C,as illustrated in (4).The auxiliary de ᗇ in Example
(4) is considered the marker of depictive Attribute of process (cf. Halliday 2004:
195).
(4) 䛓Ӌ Ӫ(A) ᢺ Ԇ(B) ᢃ ᗇ 啫䶂㝨㛯(C)Ǆ
nàxiē rén bǎ tā dǎ de bíqīngliǎnzhǒng
those people BA him beat DE black and blue
(Those people beat him black and blue.)
Diﬀerent from the two types of bǎ ᢺ constructions elaborated above, the thing-
gain/loss bǎ ᢺ construction includes another nominal element“D/E”at the end
of the pattern. The functional interpretation of the thing-gain/loss bǎ ᢺ
construction is: under the inﬂuence of A, a process takes place that either makes
the speciﬁc thing B be transferred to D or makes the entity E appear or disappear,
gain or lose, as shown in (5). In Example (5),“PEF” is the marker of the perfect
aspect (Yang 2007),“Part”denotes a“sentence particle,”and the personal pronoun
at the end of the clause, tā Ԇ (him), is the Recipient of the transfer.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
146
(5) ᡁ(A) ᐢ㓿 ᢺ 䛓Ӌ ь㾯(B) 㔉 Ԇ(D) ҶǄ
wǒ yı̌jing bǎ nàxiē dōngxi gěi tā le
I PEF BA those thing give him Part
(I have already given those things to him.)
Range in material processes can enter the bǎ ᢺ construction and serve as the
complement of the preposition bǎ ᢺ, but that is conditional. In principle, Range
rarely appears in the process-disposal bǎ ᢺ construction. Clause (6) is an
example in which the nominal constituent after bǎ ᢺ, i.e. rìzi ᰕᆀ (life), is a
Range of time and the clause is unacceptable because the Range here cannot be
semantically disposed of in any way.
(6) *ԆԜ ᢺ ᰕᆀ 䗷 ҶǄ
tāmen bǎ rìzi guò le
they BA life spend URE
In contrast, Range can sometimes follow the preposition bǎ ᢺ in the result-
descriptive bǎ ᢺ construction as in Example (7).
(7) ԆԜ ᢺ ᰕᆀ 䗷 ᗇ 䎺ᶕ䎺ྭǄ
tāmen bǎ rìzi guò de yuèláiyuèhǎo
they BA life spend DE better and better
(They have been leading a life that is steadily getting better.)
In addition to the process-disposal bǎ ᢺ construction, Range usually does not
follow the preposition bǎ ᢺ in the thing-gain/loss bǎ ᢺ construction either.The
Range of tool type, however, can sometimes follow bǎ ᢺ in the thing-gain/loss
bǎ ᢺ construction as in Example (8). Here, the noun after bǎ ᢺ, i.e. zhı̌ 㓨
(paper), is a Range of tool and chuānghu デᡧ (window) is a Goal.
(8) ྩ ᢺ 㓨 ㋺ デᡧ ҶǄ
tā bǎ zhı̌ hú chuānghu le
she BA paper stick with paste window Part
(She stuck the paper on the windows.)
The Goal of creature behaves grammatically like a Range. It can follow bǎ ᢺ in
the result-descriptive bǎ ᢺ construction but not in the process-disposal bǎ ᢺ
construction, as shown in (9) and (10).
(9) ᡁԜ ᢺ ᾬ ⴆ 䎧ᶕ ҶǄ
wǒmen bǎ lóu gài qı̌lai le
we BA building build up URE
(We have already built the building up.)
Range Characteristics in Material Clauses 147
(10) *ᡁԜ ᢺ ᾬ ⴆ ҶǄ
wǒmen bǎ lóu gài le
we BA building build URE
The Range and the Goal in material processes show an obvious diﬀerence in the
possibility of being the complement of the preposition bǎ ᢺ in the bǎ ᢺ
construction. According to statistics, in the overwhelming majority of clauses
with the bǎ ᢺ construction, the nominal constituent following bǎ ᢺ is the Goal
of patient, which amounts to about 96 percent. Most of the remaining, in which
the preposition bǎ ᢺ is followed by either a Range or a creature Goal, are in the
result-descriptive bǎ ᢺ construction. Only a few clauses are in the thing-gain/
loss bǎ ᢺ construction (Yang 2004).
2.3.2 Range in the bèi 㻛 construction
From an inﬂectional viewpoint, Chinese does not have any passive structure
built on the changes of verb forms. However, Chinese does have a few
clause patterns expressing passive meanings, and the bèi 㻛 construction is
the most prominent. The bèi 㻛 construction is used less than the bǎ
ᢺ construction and the proportion of the two is about one-fourth (Yang
2002, 2004).
The bèi 㻛 construction does not have corresponding correlations with the
passive construction in English.In many cases,clauses in the bèi 㻛 construction
do not express the meaning of adversity. I divide the bèi 㻛 construction into
three types based on my research (Yang 2002),i.e.(i) the process-unexpected bèi
㻛 construction: “A + bèi 㻛 + B + V + (Asp),” including the duplicated verb
form; (ii) the result-descriptive bèi 㻛 construction: “A + bèi 㻛 + B + V + C +
(Asp)”; and (iii) the thing-gain/loss bèi 㻛 construction:“A + bèi 㻛 + B +V + (C)
+ (Asp) + D/E.”
The semantic distinctions between diﬀerent types of bèi 㻛 constructions in
Chinese can be interpreted by investigating their grammatical structures and
corresponding functions.The semantic interpretation of the process-unexpected
bèi 㻛 construction is as follows: being activated by B, a process which is
unexpected to A takes place and the process is beyond A’s control. This type
of bèi 㻛 construction mainly expresses the meaning of adversity as described
by grammarians, e.g. Li and Thompson (1981). The constituent A in the
process-unexpected bèi 㻛 construction requires the property of patient as in
Example (11).
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
148
(11) Ԇ(A) 㻛 ‫؍‬ᆹ 䜘䰘(B) ᢓᣬ ҶǄ
tā bèi bǎoān bùmén kòuyā le
he BEI security department detain URE
(He was detained by the security department.)
The semantic interpretation of the result-descriptive bèi 㻛 construction is as
follows: under the inﬂuence of B, a process relevant to A takes place, which
brings some kind of result expressed by C. This is illustrated by Example (12).
(12) Ԇ(A) 㻛 Ӫ(B) ᢃ Ք(C) ҶǄ
tā bèi rén dǎ shāng le
he BEI people beat wound URE
(He was beaten and injured by some people.)
The semantic interpretation of the thing-gain/loss bèi 㻛 construction is as
follows: under the inﬂuence of B, a process takes place that either makes the
speciﬁc thing A be transferred to D or makes an entity E which is relevant to A
appear or disappear, gain or lose. It is common to see that beneﬁciary clauses
take this type of bèi 㻛 construction.
Both Goal and Range can be thematized in bèi 㻛 constructions,but there are
some diﬀerences between them. The Goal of patient can have thematic status in
any types of bèi 㻛 constructions. Range can have thematic status in the result-
descriptive bèi 㻛 construction, but it rarely has thematic status in process-
unexpected and thing-gain/loss bèi 㻛 constructions. Compare (a) and (b) in
Example (13).
(13a) 䛓 俆 ⅼ 㻛 ྩ ୡ ᗇ ࠪ⾎‫ॆޕ‬Ǆ
nà shǒu gē bèi tā chàng de chūshénrùhuà
that CL song BEI she sing DE be superb
(She performed the song superbly.)
(13b) *䛓 俆 ⅼ 㻛 ྩ ୡ ҶǄ
nà shǒu gē bèi tā chàng le
that CL song BEI she sing URE
(That song was sung by her.)
We can see from (13b) that the Range element nà shǒu gē 䛓俆ⅼ (that song)
cannot be put at the beginning of the clause,because the clause takes the process-
unexpected bèi 㻛 construction. Clause (13a), however, is grammatically
acceptable because it takes the result-descriptive bèi 㻛 construction with a
Range Characteristics in Material Clauses 149
depictive Attribute after the verb, in which case the focus of the information is
diverted from Process to the descriptive result of the process and the requirement
of the patient property for the thematized constituent is metaphorically
weakened.
Unlike Range of other types, the Range of tool can have thematic status more
easily in the thing-gain/loss bèi 㻛 construction, as in Example (14).
(14) 㓨 㻛 ྩ ㋺ デᡧ ҶǄ
zhı̌ bèi tā hú chuānghu le
paper BEI she stick with paste window Part
(The paper was stuck to the window by her.)
The Goal of creature behaves grammatically like a Range in this respect.
Generally speaking, Range and the Goal of creature show a very low possibility
of being thematized in bèi 㻛 constructions.
3 Conclusion
Due to the lexical and grammatical diﬀerences between English and Chinese,
circumstantial elements that may be realized by prepositional phrases in English
aremore likely tobe realized by nounsor nominalgroupsinChinese,functioning
as the elements of Range. Range in material processes (also in other types of
processes) in Chinese generally makes complementary speciﬁcations of the
process, which can be about place, time, purpose, reason, change, tool, manner,
suﬀerance, cognate, role, and quantity under the general term of domain.
Material clauses reﬂect the characteristics of Range more distinctly compared
with other process types. Range and Goal in material processes take the same
form, but they behave very diﬀerently in grammar. Distinguishing Range from
Goal in various patterns of clauses is important for both clause analysis and
generation. Range is semantically not an inherent participant of process and is
syntactically more dependent on Process. Hence, compared with Goal, Range is
much less likely to move around in clauses. It shows a lesser possibility of
following the preposition bǎ ᢺ in the bǎ ᢺ construction and being the thematic
element in the bèi 㻛 construction.
Range is rarely found in both the process-disposal bǎ ᢺ construction and the
process-unexpected bèi 㻛 construction because it lacks the patient property
strongly required by the two kinds of constructions. In contrast, Range is more
possibly found in the bǎ ᢺ and bèi 㻛 constructions of result-descriptive and,
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
150
occasionally, thing-gain/loss types, because in these constructions the nominal
element after the preposition bǎ ᢺ in the bǎ ᢺ construction and the thematized
element in the bèi 㻛 construction are semantically less restricted.
Chinese is rich in clause patterns, thus providing the speaker with various
ways to thematize or emphasize things. Grammatical characteristics of Range
are manifested in the selections of these patterns as described in this chapter.
Acknowledgments: I thank the Chinese Journal of Studies in Language and
Linguistics (Yǔyán Yánjiū 䈝䀰⹄ウ) for allowing me to use the main content
(including sample sentences) of my paper (Yang 2001) in this chapter.
1 Introduction
Almost all the cases I am going to discuss in this chapter have already been noted
by scholars from various approaches; however, they are here to be interpreted
from the perspective of systemic functional grammar (SFG), in particular the
interdependency and logico-semantic relations clause complexes bear, and
hence generalize, as a categorical fact being characteristic of Chinese in
comparison with English. In other words, the previous studies were carried out
using diﬀerent approaches; the present author wishes to have a systematic
classiﬁcation of all the relevant cases with a uniﬁed model, namely, the model of
clause complex developed by Halliday.
The system of clause complex developed by Halliday (see,e.g.Halliday 1994a;
Halliday 2004) has two dimensions, one being interdependency and the other
logico-semanticrelationsof expansionandprojection.Interdependencyincludes
two types: parataxis and hypotaxis; expansion has three sub-types: elaboration,
extension, and enhancement; and projection also has two types: locution and
idea.Since there are already some preliminary studies in this area and projection
sees little diﬀerence between English and Chinese (see Ouyang 1986; Zhang
2012), I will focus on the characteristics of the former two in Chinese. In
particular, I will discuss three points: (i) Chinese characteristics of parataxis; (ii)
Chinese characteristics of zero anaphora and logico-semantic relations; and (iii)
Chinese characteristics of nominal group as clause.
10
Chinese Characteristics of Clause Complex:
The SF Perspective of Achievements from
Former Accounts
HSU, Fu-mei (ᗀᇼ㖾)
Yuan-ze University, Taiwan
151
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
152
2 Chinese characteristics of parataxis
AccordingtoHalliday,interdependencyismadeupof amatrixwithonedimension
being parataxis and hypotaxis,and the other primary and secondary,the marriages
of these categories yield four kinds of interdependent relations in clause complex:
Table 10.1 Interdependent relations in clause complex (from Halliday 1994a: 219).
Primary Secondary
Parataxis 1 (initiating) 2 (continuing)
Hypotaxis α (dominant) β (dependent)
ForEnglish,eachtwoclauseswithinaclausecomplexshouldhavecertainformal
markers, whether conjunctive or semi-colon, to indicate their interdependency.
When we turn to Chinese,however,the situation is rather diﬀerent.In other words,
it is common for Chinese to have no conjunction in a clause complex, so it is
sometimes diﬃcult to make a distinction whether a certain relation should be
paratactic or hypotactic; and a comma or period between clauses makes the matter
even more complicated.For example:
(1) tā méiyǒu dāngshàng lǐngdǎo,/. xīn fángzı̌ bùhuì fèn gěi tā.
he NEG get the position leader new house NEG give to him
“He fails to get the position of the leadership. The new house will not
be given to him.”
A slash is put between the two clauses to suggest that there are two ways of
separation. These two possibilities each have their respective readings.
(2a)||| β
tā méiyǒu dāngshàng lı̌ngdǎo, || ×α
xīn fángzı̌ bùhuì fèn gěi tā. |||
(2b)||| 1
tā méiyǒu dāngshàng lı̌ngdǎo. || +2
xīn fángzı̌ bùhuì fèn gěi tā. |||
Example (2a) can be read as a causal relation in between: “The new house was
not given to him because he failed to get the position of leader.” Example (2b)
may read like a clause complex in English: “He fails to get the position of the
leader and the new house will not be given to him.” But the Chinese may be
either clausal enhancement or additive extension. That is, the vagueness of
interdependency in Chinese occurs owing to lack of explicit conjunctive and/or
diﬀerent uses of punctuation.
Tai (1985) holds that the relative order between two elements in Chinese is
determined by the temporal order of the states represented in the conceptual
Chinese Characteristics of Clause Complex 153
world. On that basis, we proposed a conceptual diﬀerence between English and
Chinese (Hsu and Tsai 2012: 92):
Figure 10.1 Tense language and locus language.
There are two dimensions in this ﬁgure. One is“arrow”and the other“chunk.”
In Chinese, the horizontal arrow line indicates the clausal linear sequence; that
is, the clauses are basically arranged according to temporal sequence.
These observations can explain the reason why the dependent clause usually
precedes the dominant one in Chinese.If the dominant clause and the dependent
one exchange their sequential position, it will aﬀect the judgment of their
interdependency relation and hence become paratactic. Below is an English
example with its Chinese translation equivalent:
(3a) ||| α
I have a friend, || =β
who is dead. |||
(3b) ||| 1
wǒ yǒu yī gè péngyǒu, || +2
tā sı̌ le. |||
I have a CL friend he die PAR
The English clause complex in (3a) is hypotactic but the counterpart in Chinese
(3b) is paratactic. In other words, there is no relative pronoun such as“which”or
“who” in Chinese that serves to indicate the relation in between. In such a
situation, a relative clause in English is often translated into several paratactic
clauses in Chinese. For that reason, Wang (1954: 452–3) pointed out that
paratactic relation is common in Chinese. Recently, Li (2007: 81) argued that
there should merely exist parataxis but no hypotaxis in elaboration. Li even
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
154
demonstrated the possibilities of intricacy when expansion cross-cuts the
tactic relation:
Table 10.2
Taxis
Expansion
Parataxis Hypotaxis
Elaboration 1=2 Ø
Extension 1+2 β +α
Enhancement 1×2 β ×α
α ×β
The table shows that there is no hypotactic relation (ø) in elaboration. As for
extension, there is no “α +β” type. That is, parataxis tends to be pervasive than
hypotaxis does.
3 Chinese characteristic of zero anaphora
and logico-semantic relations
This section discusses how zero anaphora, a Chinese characteristic compared
with English, is related to some types of logico-semantic relations. Halliday
(2004: 365) states that the eﬀect of combining clauses into a clause complex is
one of tighter integration in meaning. Li (2007: 76) indicated that, while a
sentence signiﬁes a graphology, it matches the boundaries of a clause complex.
However, it is common in Chinese for several clauses to constitute one clause
complex or a group of clauses that cannot be said to be either clause complex or
“segment,” the latter being a term Longacre (1979) used to refer to several
independent sentences that have several coherent meaning units. Therefore, no
clear boundary between clause complexes is able to be determined.
Peng(2000:298–302)discussedChineseclausecomplexesandthephenomena
beyond. He analyzed an example with ﬁve clauses (see also Li 2007: 69–70),
which may be treated as one clause complex or several clause complexes
according to their tightness of meaning relation.In many cases,the identiﬁcation
of the relative logico-semantic relation has to be made with subjective judgment.
He said that it is easier to diﬀerentiate the diﬀerence between a clause complex
and clause complexes in English than in Chinese: English usually has an explicit
Chinese Characteristics of Clause Complex 155
period marker when a sentence ﬁnishes in written text, while Chinese does not
entirely depend on punctuation marks.
3.1 Zero anaphora and paratactic extension/enhancement
This sub-section examines how several clauses form a clause complex with zero
anaphora in between. For example, several clauses often form a clause complex
in which the ﬁrst clause has an Actor or a Carrier, and the clauses that follow use
zero anaphora or default ellipsis mutually recognizable. These clause complexes
mostly have the relation of paratactic extension or enhancement, as shown in
Examples (4–6):
(4) ||| 1
tā chǒu, || +2
Φ lǎo, || +3
Φ lì hài. |||
she ugly old powerful
“She is ugly, old but powerful.”
(5) ||| 1
Chǔ Shì-jié zuò qı̌lái, || ×2
Φ fā le zhènzı̌ lèng,
Chu Shi-jie sit up happen PAR a while daze
|| ×3
Φ cái bǎituō shuìyì. |||
then get rid of drowsiness
“He sat up,was in a daze for a while and then got rid of his drowsiness.”
(6) ||| 1
tā xiǎng le yīxià, || ×2
Φ jı̌n zǒu jı̌ bù.
he think PAR a moment hurriedly walk some steps
||| ×3
Φ dào le shízìlùkǒu, || ×4
Φ yī pìgǔ zuò xià.|||
arrive PAR crossroads whole ass sit down
“He thought for a moment, and walked a few steps hurriedly.
When arriving at the crossroads, he sat down with his whole ass.”
The reference of zero anaphora in each of (4) and (6) is“tā (s/he)”; but that in (5)
is ‘Chǔ Shì-jié’. Note also that that in (6) crosses the boundary of the clause
complex. Furthermore, (4) is a paratactic extension whereas (5 and 6) are
paratactic enhancement.
3.2 Zero anaphora and hypotactic elaboration
Li pointed out that there is no hypotactic elaboration; however, I did ﬁnd cases
that are hypotactic, elaboration in particular, where the reference of the zero
anaphor in the secondary clause is the same as the Goal or Attribute in the
primary clause. For example:
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
156
(7) ||| α
tā yǒu gè dìdì, || =β
Φ dāng bīng de. |||
he has CL younger brother be soldier PAR
“He has a younger brother, who is a soldier.”
(8) ||| α
tā shǒulı̌ lā zhe yī tóu lu, || =β
Φ yòu shòu yòu xiǎo. |||
he in hands pull PAR a CL donkey and thin and small
“He pulled in his hands a donkey, which was thin and small.”
(9) ||| α
wǒmen yě yǒu le nàme hǎo de yī jiān fángzı̌,
we also have PAR so good PAR one CL house
|| =β Φ nuǎnyángyángde. |||
warm PAR
“We have also a so good house, which is warm.”
The reference of zero anaphora in (7) is “dìdì” (younger brother); that in (8) “lu”
(donkey); and that in (9)“fángzı̌” (house). The secondary clause in each of these
examples is the explanation of the Goal or the Attribute of the primary clause.
Now make a comparison.
(10a) ||| 1
wǒ yǒu yī gè péngyǒu, || +2
tā sı̌ le. |||
I have a CL friend he die PAR
(10b) ||| α
wǒ yǒu yī gè péngyǒu, || =β
Φ sı̌ le. |||
I have a CL friend Φ die PAR
Example (10a) is derived from (3b). The diﬀerence between (10a) and (10b) is
that (10b) has a zero anaphora while (10a) uses the pronoun “tā” (he). That is,
either a pronoun or a zero anaphora may be used in the secondary clause.
Compared with (10b), there is more emphasis on the pronoun in (10a) and the
logico-semantic relation thus diﬀers.
3.3 Zero anaphora and paratactic elaboration
Halliday(1994a:227)divideselaborationintoparatacticandhypotacticrelations.
He illustrates hypotactic elaboration with the following example:
(11)||| α
They decided to cancel the show,|| =β
which upset everybody alike.|||
The reference of “which” here represents the whole previous clause. Peng (2000)
illustrated this point with Chinese examples, where either a determiner “zhè” or
Chinese Characteristics of Clause Complex 157
zero anaphora is used to refer to the whole primary statement.However,they are
in paratactic elaboration, as in,
(12) ||| 1
liǎngyǎn yě shì xiānhóng de,
eyes also be red PAR
|| =2
zhè dàyuē shì tā áoyè áo chūlái de. |||
this about be he stay up late stay up COM PAR
“His eyes were red. This is about for his staying up late.”
(13) ||| 1
rìběn xiānqı̌ le cíxué de yòuyīgè rècháo,
Japan raise PAR ci-poetics PAR another upsurge
|| =2
Φ yě kě suànshì cíxué fùxìng. |||
also can be regarded ci-poetics reviviﬁcation
“Japan raised another upsurge of ci-poetics. It can also be
regarded as the reviviﬁcation of the ci-poetics.”
Example (12) uses the determiner“zhè” while (13) uses zero anaphora, referring
to the whole previous clause.
The three points may be summarized as Table 10.3.
Table 10.3
Zero anaphora Logico-semantic relation
Actor or Carrier Paratactic extension/enhancement
Goal or Attribute Hypotactic elaboration
The whole previous clause Paratactic elaboration
3.4 Zero anaphora and intricate cases
In fact, there are more intricate logico-semantic relations in a larger clause
complex. Below are two examples.
(14) ||| 11
zhāng xiānshēng shìyè zuò dé hěn chénggōng,
Zhang Mr career do PAR very successful
|| +121
Φ1 tàitài yòu xiánhuì yòu piāoliàng,
wife and virtuous and beautiful
|| +122
Φ2 hái shāo dé yīshǒu hǎocài,
also cook PAR by her hands good food
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
158
|| =2
Φ1 shì běndì rénrén chēngxiàn de duìxiàng. |||
be local everybody admire PAR object.
“Mr Zhang does his career very successfully. His wife is
virtuous and beautiful. She also cooks very well. Everybody
admires Mr Zhang.”
In (14) there are four clauses.The ﬁrst three form two hypotactic extensions,which
in turn stand in paratactic elaboration with the fourth one.Note that the last three
clauses use zero anaphora. These clauses have diﬀerent references: Φ1(Mr Zhang)
– Φ2(his wife) – Φ1(Mr Zhang), a phenomenon that is common even though
their reference changes. Here is another example cited from Hu (1994b: 66):
(15) ||| 11
yīzhàngqīng dàniáng zhàn zài líbā wài de sănliŭ yīn xià
tall and pungent aunty stand at fence outside PAR willow shade under
|| ×12
Φ1 fàng yāzi,
looking after ducks
|| ×2α
Φ1 yījiàn jĭ gè qiànfū,
saw several CL boat trackers
|| +2β1
Φ2 chìshēnloùtĭ,
naked
|| +2β2
Φ2 zhĭ jìzhe yī tiáo wéiyāo,
only wearing a CL cloth around waist
|| +2β3
Φ2 kùzi juăn qĭlái pán zài tóu shàng,
trousers roll COM around at head up
|| ×3
Φ1 biàn duànhè yī sheng. . .|||
then shout one sound
“The tall and pungent aunty stood in the willow shade outside
the fence to look after her ducks. She saw a boat tracker, who
was naked, wearing a strip of cloth around his waist, trousers
rolled up around his head, and then she shouted. . .”
The seven clauses are united with complicated interdependency and logic-
semantic relations, with six zero anaphors. Φ1 refers to “yīzhàngqīng dàniáng”
(the tall and pungent aunty) and Φ2 to “qiànfū” (the boat tracker). Their zero
anaphoric reference chain is: Φ1- Φ1 – Φ2 – Φ2 – Φ2 – Φ1.
4 Chinese characteristics of nominal group as clause
This type of nominal group diﬀers from the general type in that the latter does
not have a clausal characteristic whereas the former type has, or at least it reads
like something similar to a rankshifted clause in English. For example:
Chinese Characteristics of Clause Complex 159
(16) ||| wáng xiānshēng, [Xiàmén Dàxué xiàozhǎng],
Wang Mr Xiamen University president
tīngdào xiāoxī zhīhòu hěn jīngyà. |||
hear news after very surprised
“Mr Wang, [the president of Xiamen University,] was surprised
after hearing the news.”
Here “Xiàmén Dàxué xiàozhǎng” (the president of Xiamen University, marked
with single bracket) is but a nominal group to express apposition. This seems to
have the status of a relative clause; however,this is not the case I have in mind.In
fact, there are three unique constructions in Chinese that have clausal function.
4.1 De-construction
The word de is a particle with high frequency of occurrence in Chinese and
usually helps the previous part of a nominal group function as modiﬁer, as in wǒ
de shū (I possessive case book: my book). It is therefore a kind of conjunction
between the modiﬁer and its head. However, there are cases in which de-
construction may function as a clause.
I once dealt with three types of de-construction in Chinese and investigated
their complementarity (Hsu 2013). The ﬁrst type is the typical use of de-
construction, which is called the standard-type. The second type is the proﬁle-
type which highlights the focus of information. The third type refers to the
phenomenon that Huang (2008) calls “pseudo-attributive” and that I think is a
covert-type. The second and third types are atypical of the de-construction and
complementary to the ﬁrst type at the lexicogrammatical level, but are what I
refer to as nominal functioning as clausal.
(17) yī dòng piàoliàng de fángzı̌
a CL beautiful PAR house
This is the typical use of the standard-type. The particle de helps the modiﬁer
“piàoliàng” (beautiful) modify the head“fángzı̌” (house).
The examples of the proﬁle-type are below:
(18) ||| wǎnshàng wǒmen jù le yīxià,
tonight we get together PAR a moment
|| Lín xiānshēng pào de chá. |||
Lin Mr make PAR tea
“We got together for a while tonight.It was Mr Lin who made the tea.”
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
160
(19)||| zuótiān chūwǔ,
yesterday the ﬁfth day
|| wǒ qù nuxù jiā chī de jiǎozı̌. |||
I go son-in-law home eat PAR dumplings
“Yesterday is the ﬁfth day. It was at my son-in-law’s home where I
ate dumplings.”
(20)||| huódòng jiéshù hòu wǒmen qù chī wǎncān,
activity end after we go eat dinner
|| lǎobǎn kāi de chē. |||
boss drive PAR car
“We went to dinner after the activity.It is the boss who picked us up.”
The verbal groups in these clauses have a particle de added and the relevant part
in each case can be treated as a clause being rankshifted as a constituent in each
nominal group. For me, such a de is a marker to weaken the relevant verb into
Given information and single out the element before the verb as information
focus,where the focus marker shì (be) can be added.However,if there is no other
element,the marked focus usually locates after de as contrastive.Please compare:
(21a) [[Lín xiānshēng pào chá]]
Mr Lin made the tea.
(21b) [Lín xiānshēng pào de chá]
Mr Lin made PAR the tea
(22a) [[wǒ qù nuxù jiā chī jiǎozı̌]]
I went to my son-in-law’s home to eat dumplings.
(22b) [wǒ qù nuxù jiā chī de jiǎozı̌]
I went to my son-in-law’s home to eat PAR dumplings
(23a) [[lǎobǎn kāi chē]]
The boss drove the car.
(23b) [lǎobǎn kāi de chē]
The boss drove PAR the car
Examples (a) in (21 to 23) are clauses and Examples (b) with a particle de are
nominal groups. They proﬁle the information focus as marked in front of the
verbal. For example, (21b) “Lín xiānshēng pào de chá” proﬁles “Lín xiānshēng”
Chinese Characteristics of Clause Complex 161
(Mr Lin); (22b) “wǒ qù nuxù jiā chī de jiǎozı̌” proﬁles “qù nuxù jiā” (went to my
son-in-law’s home). Example (23b) “lǎobǎn kāi de chē” proﬁles “lǎobǎn” (the
boss). Note that such de-construction clauses usually appear as secondary and
the Processes of the clause complex also change from Material into Relational.
The logico-semantic relation therefore changes from“1+2” to“1=2.”
But note that the case is diﬀerent from the kind of de that locates at the ﬁnal
position of a clause.
(24) tā zuótiān dào de guǎngzhōu
he yesterday arrive PAR Guangzhou
“He arrived at Guangzhou yesterday.”
(25) tā zuótiān dào guǎngzhōu de
he yesterday arrive Guangzhou PAR
“He arrived at Guangzhou yesterday.”
The proﬁled constituent in (24) is only ‘zuótiān’ (yesterday) whereas that in (25)
the whole verbal group“zuótiān dào guǎngzhōu”(arrived Guangzhou yesterday),
where the verbal group is part of the focus.
Examples of the covert-type are given below:
(26) ||| jīnwǎn de jīngjù,
tonight PAR Peking opera
Mǎ Lián-liáng de Zhū-gě Liàng,||Yuán Shì-hǎi de Cáo Cāo |||
Ma Lian-liang PAR Zhu-ge Liang Yuan Shi-hai PAR Cao Cao
“About the Peking opera tonight, Ma Lian-liang acts as Zhu-ge
Liang and Yuan Shi-hai as Cao Cao.”
(27) ||| zhè cì kāihuì, || nı̌ de zhǔxí, || wǒ de jìlù. |||
this CL meeting you PAR chairman I PAR recorder
“As for this meeting, you are the chairman and I am the recorder.”
(28) ||| tā de lǎoshī dāng de hǎo. |||
he PAR teacher act PAR good
“He is a good teacher.”
Examples (26 to 28) no longer have the relation of modiﬁer plus modiﬁed: they
conceive that of transitivity process. In (26), Mǎ Lián-liáng is the name of a
famous actor and Zhū-gě Liàng is a dramatic role. “Mǎ Lián-liáng de Zhū-gě
Liàng”means“Mǎ Lián-liáng acted as Zhū-gě Liàng.”By the same reason,(28)“tā
de lǎo shī” means“he is a teacher,” not“his teacher.” Now see the comparison:
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
162
(29a) [[nı̌ zuò zhǔxí]], [[ wǒ zuò jìlù]]
you be chairman I be recorder
“You are the chairman. I am the recorder.”
(29b) [nı̌ zuò de zhǔxí], [wǒ zuò de jìlù]
you be PAR chairman I be PAR recorder
(29c) [nı̌ de zhǔxí], [wǒ de jìlù]
you PAR chairman. I PAR recorder.
Example (29a) is a clause; (29b), like (21b), is a nominal group with de inserted;
and (29c) is covert of the verb. The processes of these clauses are Identifying
Relational. They are predictable, known as the covert-type because the verbs of
‘act as’ or‘be’ do not appear but the meaning can be inferred.
To sum up, the proﬁle type and the covert type read like a rankshifted element
from clause to nominal group and thus function as clauses,at least in comparison
with similar cases in English.
4.2 Nominal group with a particle le
The second type of nominal group as a clause is that with a particle le, as proposed
by Xing (2001). For example:
(30)||| dàxuéshēng le , || yào yǒulı̌mào! |||
university student PAR must polite
“(You are already) a university student. Be polite.”
(31)||| dà gūniáng le , || yào zhùyì zhěngjié! |||
big lady PAR must pay attention tidy
“(You are already) a lady. Pay attention to your tidiness.”
(32)||| dōu shěnme shíhòu le , || hái zài shuìjiào! |||
all what time PAR still PROG sleep
“What the time it is.You are still in sleep.”
Nominal groups with le express a change of state. In Example (31), it changes
from the state of being a girl into a lady.A universal quantiﬁer“dōu”is sometimes
added, like Example (32). This type of nominal group has the property of
description. The Processes of these clauses with Relational “already be” are also
implicit. The contrasts are shown below.
Chinese Characteristics of Clause Complex 163
(33a) [[yı̌jīng shì dàxuéshēng le]]
“(You) are already a university student.”
(33b) [dàxuéshēng le]
a university student
In English, each clause has an overt Process of transitivity, while in Chinese it
may be in covert form, especially for the clauses with Relational Processes. It can
therefore be said that the clauses with Relational Processes reﬂect Chinese
characteristics.
Halliday and McDonald (2004: 361) mentioned the diﬀerence per se between
English and Chinese: in English the quality is incorporated into the nominal
group as Epithet while in Chinese it functions as Process. Examples are shown
below.
(34)nà tiáo hé hěn kuān.
that CL river wide.
“That river is very wide.”
(35)tā sǎngzi hěn hǎo.
she voice very good
“Her voice is very good.”
In Examples (34) and (35), the ascriptive word “hěn kuān” (very wide) and “hěn
hǎo” (very good) function as Process in the clauses. By the same reason, the
nominal groups in Chinese can function as Identifying Processes, as in,
(36)jīntiān xīngqīyī.
today Monday
“Today is Monday.”
(37)tā Wáng Dà-míng.
he Wang Da-min
“He is Wang Da-min.”
(38)jiǎngpı̌n yī bù diànnǎo.
prize a CL computer
“The prize is a computer.”
The Relational Processes in these examples are expressed by nominal groups;
that is,the nominal groups have the function of Process.In fact,it is common for
Chinese to use the covert form of Relational Process even though they have an
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
164
equivalent expression of an overt Process“shì” (be) in between, which should be
a modern loan from Endo-European languages because a clause in the history of
the Chinese language that has no verb is unmarked.
4.3 Nominal group with numeral and classiﬁer/quantiﬁer
This observation was provided by Xing (1979). The examples below are from his
illustration:
(39)||| jı̌ pán yěwèi,
some CL wild food
|| bàn bēi màijiǔ,
half CL ale
|| lǎo rénjiā de huà lái le. |||
old man PAR words come up PAR
“After eating some dishes of wild food and drinking half cup of ale,
the old man became talkative.”
(40)||| jìnrù bàngōngshì,
enter oﬃce
|| yī piàn suànpán shēng. |||
one QUAN abacuses sound
“When I entered the oﬃce, there was full of the sound of the
abacuses.”
(41)|| yī zhèn língshēng, || shàngkè le. |||
one QUAN ring go to the class PAR
“The bell is ringing. It’s time to go to the class.”
The nominal groups in (39 to 41) function as clauses, not adverbials. The
Processes of these nominal groups are predictable according to their lexical
collocation. Example (39) above may imply (42a–b) below:
(42a) [[chī le jı̌ pán yěwèi]],
eat PAR some dishes wild food
[[hē le bàn bēi màijiǔ]],
drink PAR half cup ale
[[lǎo rénjiā de huà lái le]].
old man PAR words come up PAR
Chinese Characteristics of Clause Complex 165
(42b) [jı̌ pán yěwèi],
some dishes wild food
[bàn bēi màijiǔ],
half cup ale
[[lǎo rénjiā de huà lái le]].
old man PAR words come up PAR
The diﬀerence between (42a) and (42b) is that two nominal groups in (42b)
correspond to two verbal groups in (42a). Two verbs “chī le” (to have eaten) and
“hē le” (to have drunk) are added. Xing suggested that the type of nominal
groups has the property of description; they are therefore regarded as clauses in
this chapter.In fact,it is diﬃcult to judge that the above examples have omissions
even though verbs can be added. It is unnecessary to use the overt Process
components there. What follows is a well-known example of nominal groups
that make up clauses or clause chains, a poem entitled Tiān Jìng Shā by Mǎ Zhì-
yuǎn in the Yuan Dynasty.
(43)||| [kū téng], [lǎo shù], [ hūn yā],
withered vine, old tree, drowsy crow,
“the withered vine, the old tree, and the drowsy crow,”
|| [xiǎo qiáo], [liú shuı̌], [ rén jiā],
small bridge, running stream, people houses
“a small bridge, a running stream, and some people houses,”
|| [gǔ dào], [xī fēng], [shòu mǎ].|||
old road, west wind, lean horse.
“an old road, the west wind, and the lean horse.”
||| [[ xīyáng xī xià]], || [[duàncháng rén zài tiānyá]]. |||.
sunset west down heartbroken person in end of world
“The sunset has gone down. I, the heartbroken person, am now in
the end of the world.”
There are only twenty-eight words in this poem. But more than one half of
nominal groups are arranged together without verbs. Note that the verb‘kàn’ (to
look) is implicit and predictable.
5 Conclusion
The chapter has so far discussed a number of characteristic properties of the
clause complex in Chinese. It is suggested that parataxis in interdependency is
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
166
more commonly used than hypotaxis in Chinese. The use of zero anaphora and
their logico-semantic relation suggests that it tends to be a paratactic extension
or enhancement when the zero anaphoric reference is the Actor or the Carrier of
the primary clause; it tends to be hypotactic elaboration when the zero anaphora
is Goal or Attribute; and it tends to be a paratactic elaboration when the zero
anaphora stands for the whole previous thesis.However,these are just a tendency
of the logico-semantic relation. Moreover, nominal groups as clauses were also
discussed, which include three types: nominal group of de-construction, that
with a particle le and that with numeral and classiﬁer/quantiﬁer. These facts
provide a better understanding of Chinese in the typological sense.
Text
167
168
11
Generic Distributions of English Appraisal
Categories Based on Appraisal Corpus
YU, Li (Ҿѭ)
Heilongjiang University
PENG, Xuanwei (ᖝᇓ㔤)
Guangdong University of Foreign Studies
HE, Zhongqing (օѝ␵)
University of Science & Technology Beijing
LIU,Yujie (ࡈ⦹⌱)
Beijing Normal University
ZHANG, Ranran (ᕐ޹޹)
Shanghai Jiaotong University
TAN, Xianfang (䈸ԉ㣣)
Dalian Neusoft University of Information
WANG,Yuying (⦻⦹㤡)
Cangzhou Technical College Hebei
1 Introduction
Appraisal is one interpersonal category of language in systemic functional
linguistics (SFL; Martin 2000; Martin and Rose 2003/2007; Martin and White
2005). It incorporates three axes: Attitude, Engagement, and Graduation,
reﬂecting speaker’s/writer’s intersubjective stance in texts (Martin and White
2005).Each of the three axes comprises a number of subcategories and altogether
twenty-six can be speciﬁed for application purposes, as presented in Figure 11.1.
In recent years, research on Appraisal has become one of major issues in SFL
study, focusing priority on cases that demonstrate the theoretical model.
Appraisal studies have involved a variety of genres yet the size of the generic
texts selected has been limited in general, which tends to give rise to subjective
inference or inconsistencies (Read and Carroll 2012).
169
170 Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
Figure 11.1 Appraisal system of language.
The rapid development of corpus linguistics has prompted some researchers
to begin to use the data-based approach to make up for these deﬁciencies.Among
the studies conducted are the following: (i) annotation and retrieval of Appraisal
meanings, looking for ways of annotating Appraisal categories and adopting
search engines to extract automatically appraisal expressions from the corpora
(e.g. Taboada and Grieve 2004; Read and Carroll 2012); (ii) discourse analysis
based on the Appraisal system in terms of the corpus-based methodology
to search and analyze expressions with appraisal features (e.g. Coﬃn and
O’Halloran 2005, 2006; Liu 2009); and (iii) comparative Appraisal analysis
based on comparatively large amount of linguistic data (e.g. Bednarek 2008;
Meng 2007).
However, the limitations of such attempts are apparent. First, the genres
selected for research are limited or far from systematic. In fact, most of the
corpus-based studies have a preference for Attitude, in particular on Aﬀect in it,
and seldom concern the Engagement and Graduation systems. Second, the ways
of annotations and retrievals are too simplistic to ensure the reliability of
research results: Appraisal is a complicated theoretical framework whose
categoriesarediﬃculttoidentify;oversimpliﬁcationleadstolessthanconvincing
results (Wang and Ma 2007). Third, limited corpora and genres conﬁne any
Generic Distributions of English Appraisal Categories 171
substantial study to a general, theoretical level. As has been noted, “at present
there are no machine-readable Appraisal-annotated texts publicly available”
(Read and Carroll 2012). Against these limitations, the idea of developing
an annotated corpus of meanings with considerable size occurred and then
came the Chinese-English Parallel Corpus of Appraisal Meanings (CAPCAM or
Appraisal Corpus or AC for short).
2 Design and development of Appraisal Corpus
2.1 The data
The CEPCAM contains one million words. The original texts were selected from
the Chinese-English Parallel Corpus, a general corpus developed by Professor
Wang Kefei, the National Research Centre for Foreign Language Education at
the Beijing University of Foreign Studies. In our selection, the production time,
genre, author and other related aspects of each text were speciﬁed ﬁrst. Then, we
sought to ensure a balance between Chinese original versus English translation
texts, as well as English original versus Chinese translation texts. The general
structure of the CEPCAM is laid out in Figure 11.2.
The overall CEPCAM consists of (i) two primary bilingual sub-corpora:
“Chinese original vs. English translation corpus” and “English original vs.
Chinese Translation corpus”;(ii) four monolingual sub-corpora:“English Original
Corpus,”“Chinese Original Corpus,”“English Translation Corpus,” and “Chinese
Translation Corpus”; and (iii) two derived comparative corpora:“English original
and English Translation Corpus” and “Chinese original and Chinese Translation
Corpus.”
Figure 11.2 The structure of CEPCAM.
172 Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
2.2 Corpus annotation
All annotators received formal training in Appraisal learning before annotation.
The annotation involved a three-step procedure. The ﬁrst step contained several
sub-procedures: trial manual annotations on paper-texts, cross-checking of the
results, solution of disagreements by group discussions, and criterion setup for
identiﬁcation of Appraisal features. The second step involved formal manual
annotation on paper-texts.The third step was to annotate the electronic texts with
UAM Corpus Tool (V2.0). This three-step annotating procedure was planned to
guarantee the accuracy and consistency (cf. Read and Carroll 2012). However, it
must be noted that, even with vigorous checking, there were still about 3 percent
to 5 percent of mis-annotations and oversights in the ﬁnal corpus.
3 Methodology
The corpus adopted for this study is the annotated English original texts in the
CEPCAM, with about 200,000 words. The overall structure of the corpus of texts
in English original comprises ten genres (see Table 11.1).
The analyses will concern three levels across the ten genres: Appraisal as a
whole; the three categories of Appraisal: Attitude, Engagement, and Graduation;
and the speciﬁed twenty-six subcategories of the system (see Figure 11.1). The
original data were processed by Excel 2007 and SPSS 17.0.
Table 11.1 The makeup of the English original corpus by generic categories
Genres No. of Words No. of Texts
Encyclopedia (EP) 4823 6
Science Fiction (SF) 8156 5
Science and Technology (ST) 10556 12
History of Science and Technology (HST) 7894 7
General History (GH) 17749 13
Folklore (FL) 10321 8
Fiction (FC) 71766 3
News Report (NR) 6181 9
Government File (GF) 52178 4
History of Civilization (HC) 12657 14
Total 202281 81
Generic Distributions of English Appraisal Categories 173
Figure 11.3 Ascending order of frequencies of Appraisal features in the ten genres.
Table 11.2 Ascending order of frequencies of Attitude,Engagement,and Graduation (%)
Genre ST FL HC HST EP GF NR SF GH FC
Attitude 1.961 2.432 4.898 4.928 5.619 5.761 5.808 5.971 6.484 6.718
Genre GH EP GF HST ST FL HC NR FC SF
Engagement 3.854 4.479 4.586 4.89 4.964 4.97 4.977 5.355 6.085 6.976
Genre FL ST EP HST HC NR GH FC GF SF
Graduation 9.108 9.502 9.911 10.375 10.421 10.759 10.941 11.45 11.756 11.758
4 Generic distributions of appraisal in general
Figure 11.3 displays the frequencies of the Appraisal features in the ten genres,
arranged in ascending order. The results of ANOVA testing demonstrate that
Appraisal is not a key feature of the ten genres at the 0.05 level, because the
signiﬁcant level of the testing is 0.071.
The generic distributions of Attitude,Engagement,and Graduation are shown
in Table 11.2. For Attitude, the texts of Fiction have the highest frequency of all
and those in Science and Technology the lowest. For Engagement, the texts of
Science Fiction have the most features whereas those of General History the
least. For Graduation, the genre of Science Fiction contains the highest numbers
of features but that of Folklore the lowest.
ANOVA testing further shows that Attitude is a distinct feature of all the ten
genres at the 0.000 level whereas Engagement (0.131) and Graduation (0.693)
are below the level of signiﬁcance (0.05). The results of multiple comparisons
demonstrate that the primary diﬀerences between the ten genres on Attitude,
Engagement, and Graduation are reﬂected by Attitude and Engagement (only
the diﬀerences that are signiﬁcant at the 0.05 level are included).
174 Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
ForAttitude,thestatisticsdemonstratesthatthemaindiﬀerencesareembodied
in the comparative results among the genres of Encyclopedia, Science Fiction,
Science and Technology, and Folklore with the others.What follows is the detail:
Genre 1 Genre 2 Sig.
Encyclopedia Science and Technology .002
Folklore .003
Science Fiction Science and Technology .001
Folklore .002
Science and Technology History of Science and Technology .040
General History .000
Fiction .001
News Report .000
Government File .000
History of Civilization .006
Folklore History of Science and Technology .046
General History .000
Fiction .001
News Report .001
Government File .000
History of Civilization .010
The table shows that the Attitude features in Encyclopedia texts exceed those in
ScienceandTechnology,andFolklore;thatis,thediﬀerencesbetweenEncyclopedia
and the two compared genres are signiﬁcant at the level of 0.002 and 0.003
respectively, both of them being less than 0.05. Therefore, Attitude is a signiﬁcant
feature of Encyclopedia in comparison with Science and Technology,and Folklore.
The percentage of Attitude in Science Fiction is much higher than that of
Science and Technology or Folklore; and the diﬀerences are signiﬁcant at the
level of 0.001 and 0.002 respectively. Such results show that Attitude is also a
signiﬁcant feature of Science Fiction when compared with Science and
Technology, and Folklore.
Science and Technology, in comparison with the other genres, is signiﬁcantly
diﬀerent in turn from History of Science and Technology, General History,
Fiction,News Report,Government File,or History of Civilization.The signiﬁcant
levels of the diﬀerences are at 0.040, 0.000, 0.001, 0.000, 0.000, and 0.006
Generic Distributions of English Appraisal Categories 175
respectively, all being less than 0.05. Table 11.2 also shows that the percentage of
Attitude in Science and Technology is much lower than any of the compared
genres. So with 95 percent of possibility Attitude is a speciﬁc feature of History
of Science and Technology, General History, Fiction, News Report, Government
File, and History of Civilization in comparison with Science and Technology.
The results of genre-by-genre comparison also suggest that Folklore is
signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from the other genres except Science and Technology.
Meanwhile, the percentage of Attitude of Folklore is the lowest among the
compared genres. Therefore, Attitude is a speciﬁc feature of History of Science
and Technology, General History, Fiction, News Report, Government File, and
History of Civilization with at least 95 percent of possibility.
For Engagement, the main diﬀerences are borne by comparing Science
Fiction and General History with other four genres:
Genre 1 Genre 1 Sig.
Science Fiction General History .002
History of Civilization .050
General History Science and Technology .011
News Report .018
The percentage of Engagement in Science Fiction is higher than that in General
History and in History of Civilization; that is,Engagement is a speciﬁc feature of
Science Fiction compared with General History and Civilization.
Also informed by Table 11.2 is that General History has less Engagement
features than Science and Technology or News Report; and the diﬀerences are
signiﬁcant at the level of 0.011 and 0.018 respectively. Hence, with 95 percent of
possibility is Engagement a speciﬁc feature of Science and Technology,and News
Report in comparison with General History.
5 Generic distributions across the twenty-six subcategories
Table 11.3 demonstrates the generic distributions of the twenty-six subcategories
in each genre and reveals the diﬀerences of distributions, with the columns
describing the generic distributions and the rows the distribution of each
category in each genre.
The table shows the generic diﬀerences of the distributions. For example, other
categories identical with Encyclopedia in column 1 are Veracity, Pronounce, and
176 Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
Table 11.3 Generic distribution of the 26 Appraisal categories (%)
EP SF ST HST GH FL FC NR GF HC
Inclination 0.37 0.38 0.09 0.23 0.29 0.05 0.56 0.24 0.26 0.16
Happiness 0.29 0.48 0.02 0.18 0.15 0.07 0.60 0.16 0.02 0.07
Satisfaction 0.27 0.38 0.01 0.10 0.13 0.01 0.20 0.05 0.07 0.06
Security 0.10 0.40 0.05 0.10 0.09 0.00 0.37 0.11 0.10 0.07
Normality 0.29 0.28 0.01 0.33 0.19 0.08 0.24 0.28 0.08 0.10
Capacity 1.18 0.55 0.09 1.04 0.83 0.21 1.14 1.07 0.34 0.58
Tenacity 0.52 0.59 0.09 0.75 1.12 0.08 1.05 0.86 1.62 0.52
Veracity 0.02 0.01 0.00 0.06 0.05 0.01 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
Propriety 0.64 0.70 0.01 0.23 1.01 0.08 0.36 0.89 0.77 1.01
Reaction 0.46 1.42 0.20 0.67 0.56 0.67 1.25 0.55 0.14 0.48
Composition 0.23 0.18 0.15 0.23 0.26 0.34 0.14 0.16 0.12 0.20
Valuation 1.24 0.59 1.23 1.01 1.80 0.84 0.79 1.42 2.20 1.63
Deny 1.02 1.89 0.48 0.84 0.76 0.49 1.44 0.92 0.64 0.85
Counter 0.77 1.35 0.80 1.05 0.87 1.23 1.09 1.36 0.74 0.94
Concur 0.19 0.66 0.24 0.34 0.34 0.38 0.50 0.36 0.23 0.27
Pronounce 0.02 0.22 0.04 0.11 0.14 0.05 0.14 0.32 0.54 0.18
Endorse 0.02 0.00 0.15 0.08 0.02 0.06 0.00 0.02 0.09 0.02
Entertain 1.87 2.24 2.73 1.61 1.34 2.26 2.21 2.09 1.83 1.63
Acknowledge 0.56 0.55 0.53 0.82 0.35 0.47 0.71 0.26 0.51 1.01
Distance 0.04 0.06 0.00 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.00 0.03 0.01 0.07
Number/
Amount
1.39 1.21 2.09 1.74 1.12 1.84 1.31 1.60 2.34 1.68
Mass/
Presence
0.46 0.28 0.22 0.22 0.38 0.16 0.49 0.39 0.53 0.18
Extent 2.18 2.33 1.36 1.89 2.42 1.11 1.94 1.91 1.73 1.87
Quality 1.97 2.51 1.92 2.31 3.04 1.82 1.88 2.73 2.81 2.33
Process 3.57 4.95 3.54 3.69 3.39 3.69 5.43 3.83 3.79 3.60
Focus 0.35 0.47 0.36 0.54 0.60 0.47 0.40 0.29 0.55 0.75
Total 20.01 24.71 16.43 20.19 21.28 16.51 24.25 21.92 22.1 20.3
Endorse; Happiness and Normality; and Reaction and Mass/Presence; but the
frequency of the ﬁrst identical group is the lowest and that of Process the highest.
Meanwhile, Inclination in Row 1 is most frequent in Fiction and least so in
Folklore.
However, Table 11.3 cannot be taken as the criterion for judging whether the
diﬀerencesaresigniﬁcantenoughtosuggestsomecategoryofAppraisalasaspeciﬁc
Generic Distributions of English Appraisal Categories 177
feature of a particular genre. The result of an ANOVA examination shows that
Happiness (0.000), Satisfaction (0.001), Security (0.000), Normality (0.009),
Capacity(0.000),Tenacity(0.003),Propriety(0.000),Reaction(0.007),Deny(0.001),
Counter (0.037), Pronounce (0.000), Entertain (0.007), Acknowledge (0.047),
Extent (0.022), and Focus (0.027) are distinctive features in the ten genres at the
signiﬁcant level of 0.05,whereas Inclination (0.053),Veracity (0.681),Composition
(0.764), Valuation (0.071), Concur (0.108), Endorse (0.063), Distance (0.548),
Number (0.141),Mass (0.482),Quality (0.146),and Process (0.204) are not.
In addition, the results of multiple comparisons indicate that there are
signiﬁcant diﬀerences between some genres at each of the subcategories, except
for Composition and Mass. Here, for the reason of space, only the results of a
multiple comparison of Happiness, Security, Capacity, Propriety, and Pronounce
are provided to exemplify the generic diﬀerences.
First, for Happiness, there are signiﬁcant diﬀerences between:
Genre 1 Genre 2 Sig.
Encyclopedia Science and Technology .000
History of Science and Technology .024
General History .003
Folklore .004
News Report .024
Government File .004
History of Civilization .001
Science Fiction Science and Technology .000
History of Science and Technology .004
General History .000
Folklore .001
News Report .003
Government File .001
History of Civilization .000
Fiction Science and Technology .000
History of Science and Technology .000
General History .000
Folklore .000
News Report .000
Government File .000
History of Civilization .000
178 Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
Table 11.3 demonstrates that the percentage of Happiness in Encyclopedia is
higher than that in Science and Technology, History of Science and Technology,
General History, Folklore, News Report, Government File, or History of
Civilization. Moreover, the diﬀerences are all signiﬁcant at the level of 0.05. Such
statistics show that Happiness is a speciﬁc feature of Encyclopedia with 95
percent of possibility.
Science Fiction tends to employ more features of Happiness in comparison
with Science and Technology, History of Science and Technology, General
History, Folklore, News Report, Government File, and History of Civilization;
and the diﬀerences between them are signiﬁcant at the level of, respectively,
0.000,0.004,0.000,0.001,0.003,and 0.000,all less than 0.05.Therefore,Happiness
is a speciﬁc feature of Science Fiction in comparison with the six compared
genres with at least 95 percent of possibility.
Table  11.3 also reports that the percentage of Happiness is comparatively
higher in Fiction than in Science and Technology, History of Science and
Technology, General History, Folklore, News Report, Government File, and
History of Civilization; and the diﬀerences between them are all signiﬁcant at
the level of 0.000. That means that Happiness is as well a speciﬁc feature of
Fiction in comparison with the seven compared genres with at least 95 percent
of possibility.
Second, for Security, there are signiﬁcant diﬀerences between:
Genre 1 Genre 2 Sig.
Encyclopedia Science Fiction .001
Folklore .049
Fiction .003
Science Fiction Science and Technology .000
History of Science and Technology .000
General History .000
Folklore .000
News Report .000
Government File .000
History of Civilization .000
Fiction Science and Technology .000
History of Science and Technology .000
General History .000
Folklore .000
Generic Distributions of English Appraisal Categories 179
News Report .001
Government File .001
History of Civilization .000
For Encyclopaedia, the percentage of Security is comparatively higher than that
in Folklore, but less so than that in Science Fiction or Fiction. Moreover, the
diﬀerence between Encyclopedia and Folklore is signiﬁcant at the level of 0.049;
and the diﬀerences with Science Fiction and Fiction are signiﬁcant at the levels
of 0.001 and 0.003 respectively. So Security is a speciﬁc feature of Encyclopedia
in comparison with Folklore; and it is also a speciﬁc feature of Science Fiction or
Fiction with 95 percent of possibility when compared in turn with Encyclopedia.
The statistics in Table 11.3 indicate that the percentage of Security in Science
Fiction is the highest compared with the numbers in Science and Technology,
History of Science and Technology, General History, Folklore, News Report,
Government File, and History of Civilization; that is, the diﬀerences are all
signiﬁcant at the level of 0.000.Therefore,Security is a speciﬁc feature of Science
Fiction in comparison with the seven genres per se with at least 95 percent of
possibility.
The percentage of Security in Fiction is comparatively higher when compared
with Science and Technology, History of Science and Technology, General
History, Folklore, News Report, Government File, and History of Civilization;
and all the diﬀerences are signiﬁcant at the level of 0.05. Security is therefore a
speciﬁc feature of Fiction in the comparison under discussion.
Third, for Capacity, there are signiﬁcant diﬀerences between:
Genre 1 Genre 2 Sig.
Encyclopedia Science Fiction .036
Science and Technology .000
Folklore .000
Government File .001
History of Civilization .008
Science Fiction Fiction .016
News Report .026
Science and Technology History of Science and Technology .000
General History .001
Fiction .000
News Report .000
180 Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
Genre 1 Genre 2 Sig.
History of Civilization .031
History of Science and
Technology
Folklore .000
Government File .003
History of Civilization .027
General History Folklore .003
Fiction .045
Government File .018
Folklore Fiction .000
News Report .000
Fiction Government File .001
History of Civilization .005
News Report Government File .001
History of Civilization .003
For Encyclopedia, the statistics in Table  11.3 show that the percentage
of Capacity is higher when compared with Science Fiction, Science and
Technology, Folklore, Government File, and History of Civilization; and
the signiﬁcant levels of diﬀerences between them are 0.036, 0.000, 0.000, 0.001,
and 0.008 respectively. These results suggest Capacity is a speciﬁc feature of
Encyclopedia with 95 percent of possibility in comparison with the ﬁve genres
concerned here.
The percentage of Capacity in Science Fiction is lower when compared with
Fiction and News Report. The diﬀerences are signiﬁcant at the level of 0.016
and 0.026 respectively. That is to say, Capacity is a speciﬁc feature of Fiction
and News Report when compared with Science Fiction with 95 percent of
possibility.
Table 11.3 reports that the percentage of Capacity in Science and Technology
is lower when compared with History of Science and Technology, General
History, Fiction, News Report, and History of Civilization, the diﬀerences being
signiﬁcant at the levels of 0.000, 0.001, 0.000, 0.000, and 0.031 respectively. That
is, all the ﬁve compared genres have a speciﬁc feature of Capacity in comparison
with Science and Technology, with at least 95 percent of possibility.
History of Science and Technology has a higher percentage of Capacity
compared with Folklore, Government File, and History of Civilization. The
diﬀerences between them are signiﬁcant at the levels of 0.000, 0.003, and 0.027
respectively. The statistics prove that Capacity is a speciﬁc feature of History of
Generic Distributions of English Appraisal Categories 181
Science and Technology in comparison with Folklore, Government File, and
History of Civilization with 95 percent of possibility.
The percentage of Capacity in General History is higher than that in Folklore
or Government File, but lower than that in Fiction. To be speciﬁc, the levels of
signiﬁcance of the diﬀerences between General History and Folklore, Fiction,
and Government File are 0.003, 0.045, and 0.018 respectively. Then Capacity is a
speciﬁc feature of General History in comparison with Folklore and Government
File; but it is also a speciﬁc feature of Fiction with 95 percent of possibility when
compared in turn with General History.
The percentage of Capacity in Folklore is lower in comparison with that in
Fiction or News Report: the diﬀerences between them are both signiﬁcant at the
level of 0.000. That is, Capacity is also a speciﬁc feature of Fiction and News
Report when compared with Folklore at least with 95 percent of possibility.
YetwhenFictioniscomparedwithGovernmentFileandHistoryof Civilization,
the percentage of Capacity in it is much higher; and Capacity is hence a speciﬁc
feature of Fiction there with at least 95 percent of possibility.
News Report has a higher percentage of Capacity when compared with
Government File and History of Civilization. The diﬀerences between them are
signiﬁcant at the levels of 0.001 and 0.003 respectively. So Capacity is a speciﬁc
feature of News Report in the comparison per se with at least 95 percent of
possibility.
Fourth, for Propriety, there are signiﬁcant diﬀerences between:
Genre 1 Genre 2 Sig.
Science and Technology General History .002
News Report .017
Government File .000
History of Civilization .003
History of Science and
Technology
General History .033
Government File .000
History of Civilization .040
General History Folklore .010
Government File .002
Folklore News Report .042
Government File .000
History of Civilization .013
182 Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
Genre 1 Genre 2 Sig.
Government File Encyclopedia .001
Science Fiction .002
Fiction .001
News Report .001
History of Civilization .002
When Science and Technology is compared with General History, News Report,
Government File, and History of Civilization, the percentage of Propriety in it is
much lower.And the diﬀerences are signiﬁcant at the levels of 0.002,0.017,0.000,
and 0.003 respectively.So Propriety is a speciﬁc feature of each of the four genres
with at least 95 percent of possibility.
When History of Science and Technology is compared with General History,
Government File, and History of Civilization, the percentage of Propriety in
History of Science and Technology is lower: the diﬀerences are signiﬁcant at the
level of 0.033,0.000,and 0.040 respectively.In other words,Propriety is a speciﬁc
feature of General History, Government File, and History of Civilization in
comparison with History of Science and Technology with 95 percent of
possibility.
General History, if compared with Folklore and Government File, has
a higher percentage of Propriety, the diﬀerences being signiﬁcant at the level
of 0.010 and 0.002. So Propriety is a speciﬁc feature of General History
in comparison with Folklore and Government with at least 95 percent of
possibility.
Folklore is less likely to adopt Propriety compared with News Report,
Government File, and History of Civilization. The diﬀerences are signiﬁcant
enough at the level of 0.05. Then each of the latter three has a speciﬁc feature of
Propriety with 95 percent of possibility.
When Government File is compared with Encyclopedia, Science Fiction,
Fiction, News Report, and History of Civilization, the percentage is higher than
that in Encyclopedia, Science Fiction, or Fiction but lower than that in News
Report or History of Civilization. Therefore, if Government File is compared
with Encyclopedia, Science Fiction, and Fiction, it has a speciﬁc feature of
Propriety; but when compared with News Report and History of Civilization,
Propriety is then a speciﬁc feature of News Report and History of Civilization
with 95 percent of possibility.
Fifth, for Pronounce, there are signiﬁcant diﬀerences between:
Generic Distributions of English Appraisal Categories 183
Genre 1 Genre 2 Sig.
Encyclopedia Government File .000
Science Fiction .000
Science and Technology .000
History of Science and Technology .000
General History .000
Folklore .000
Fiction .000
News Report .000
History of Civilization .000
The statistics inform us that,for the distribution of Pronounce,only Government
File is signiﬁcantly diﬀerent (0.000) from each of the other nine genres with at
least 95 percent of possibility; and the percentage of Pronounce in Government
File is the highest. Such statistics prove that Government File has a speciﬁc
feature of Pronounce when compared with any of the other nine genres.
6 Conclusion
So far, the chapter has presented the generic distribution of Appraisal categories
in the ten genres of English texts and described the diﬀerences of distributions.
As the statistics show,there do exist signiﬁcant diﬀerences between some genres.
However,as the ﬁndings show,Appraisal is universal: from working class families
to schools and universities, from business ﬁelds to political areas and from
childhood to senior citizenship. One cannot live without appraisal in society,
whether speaking out or conceiving deep in one’s ideology.
184
Typology
185
186
1 The system of person
person as a linguistic concept identiﬁes and diﬀerentiates speech roles in
discourse, namely the addresser, the addressee, and the party referred to that is
neither the addresser nor the addressee. Along with number, case, tense, aspect,
and so on, Person is primarily perceived in linguistics as a grammatical category
involving a semantic distinction reﬂected in a phono-morphological paradigm.
From the perspective of systemic functional linguistics (hereafter SFL), the
underlying principle for paradigmatic ordering of language is a “system”
consisting of a set of options. In this sense, Person is a fundamental system in
language organization and represents an essential aspect of meaning potential
in human language. Where there is human consciousness of the distinction
between one’s self and others, the system of Person exists.“A language without
the expression of Person is unimaginable” (Benveniste 1971: 225).
The system of Person is a signiﬁcant and ubiquitous linguistic phenomenon
whenobservedeitherwithinonesinglelanguage,synchronicallyordiachronically,
or from a typological viewpoint across a number of languages. Given the vast
spectrum of linguistic resources realizing the meaning of Person, this chapter
focuses on how such meaning is realized through lexical and grammatical means
in language and how the two types of realization complement each other on the
basis of SFL theories of stratiﬁcation and realization. It needs to be noted that
the term “Person”’ in this chapter is used in a discourse semantic sense, the
realization of which includes,but is by no means restricted to,personal pronouns.
For all the key positions personal pronouns have in identifying speech roles,
they cannot represent the whole picture. Any means that serves to identify
12
Lexis-grammar Complementarity and System
of person: A Systemic Typological Perspective1
WANG, Pin (⦻૱)
Shanghai Jiao Tong University
187
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
188
speech roles in discourse, lexical or grammatical, falls within the scope of the
present study.
2 Complementarity between lexis and grammar
According to SFL stratiﬁcation theory, the relationship between the strata is
one of realization, i.e. the selection of meaning (discourse semantics) is realized
by the selection of wording (lexicogrammar), which is in turn realized by the
selection of actual expression (phonology).The term“lexicogrammar”represents
a view of language that combines what are traditionally known as “words” and
“structures.”Lexis and grammar are not seen as two separate levels,but two ends
of a single stratum, forming a continuum in between.
Consideration of lexicogrammar as a single stratum is a long-established idea
in SFL’s development (see Halliday 1961, 1978). Hasan (1987) is recognized as
the key paper that further develops Halliday’s “grammarian’s dream” of treating
lexis as delicate grammar. Other studies of the lexis-grammar relation by
systemic functional linguists include Berry (1977), Fawcett (1980), Matthiessen
(1990), Tucker (1998, 2005, 2007).
According to Halliday (2008b), the complementarity between lexis and
grammar is the basis for the idea of lexicogrammar as a single uniﬁed stratum,
most prominent in the ideational function. World experience can be construed
either way—either lexically or grammatically,each bringing its own contribution
to the meaning of the whole. Lexical items are compared to particles because
they are speciﬁc members that construe phenomena as particulars; grammatical
systems are compared to waves since they are general terms that construe
experiences as generalities.
3 Lexicalization of person
Lexis refers to the open-class words of a language that accept addition of new
items, carry the primary information load of a discourse, and are generally
variable in form. Typically, lexical items include nouns, verbs, adjectives, and
adverbs. They are also called content words in traditional grammar as opposed
to function words or grammatical words.
ExaminedfromtheSFLperspective,lexisisseenasoneendofthelexicogrammar
continuum. Halliday (2004: 37) gives a brief description of lexis—“starting at the
Lexis-grammar Complementarity and System of person 189
lexical end—with the‘content words’of the vocabulary—we ﬁnd names of entities,
names of processes and names of qualities.” The use of entities, processes and
qualities to identify Person is addressed below as lexicalization of Person.
3.1 Lexicalization: entity
3.1.1 Noun indicating the third person
A speech role in discourse is often referred to by a nominal group—often realized
by a noun as the Thing—since it is by nature an entity. To highlight the contrast
between nouns and pronouns, the former is a lexical means while the latter a
grammatical one and the discussion needs to move down from group rank to
work rank. In many cases, a noun is employed to denote the third party that is
neithertheaddressernortheaddressee.Inlanguageswherethereismorphological
inﬂection in verbal group for the third Person,the noun may,in accordance with
its syntactic status, require corresponding agreement on the part of the verbal
group to ensure concord.In Example (1),Emily requires a certain morphological
change to the verb (have to has) to achieve the agreement.
(1) Emily has two sisters.
As is seen above, the third Person speech role of nouns is so self-evident that it
should take up no further account in this section.In contrast,the ﬁrst and second
persons are normally realized by grammatical means such as personal pronouns,
clitics, verbal aﬃxes, or some combination of these resources; however, there are
certain occasions where nouns are used to play the ﬁrst and second person roles
as well.
3.1.2 Noun indicating the ﬁrst person
Under some circumstances, the ﬁrst person reference can be realized by nouns.
Here the contextual factor“tenor” has a role to play, which serves the negotiation
of socialrelationshipsbetweentheaddresserandtheaddressee.Suchrelationships
are reﬂected on discourse semantics via appraisal: attitude; and the appraisal in
person is realized by nouns rather than pronouns.For example,the Chinese noun
gū literally means“orphan”or“lonely man,”but is often employed by feudal kings
in the Chinese history as a humble term to refer to himself, as in Example (2).
(2) zhūrén chíyì shèn shī gū wàng
people proposal greatly lose lonely man hope
“People’s proposals greatly disappointed me.”2
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
190
A similar example would be guărén, with a literal meaning of “man of little
virtue,”but is a self-addressing expression used exclusively by Chinese emperors.
The originally humble terms carry meaning that shows a power relation and a
condescending attitude on the part of the addresser. To show genuinely a sense
of modesty and humbleness, Chinese people used to call themselves by their
given name, as in Example (3).
(3) jīn tiānxià yīngxióng wéi shĭjūn yǔ Cāo ěr
now under heaven hero only provincial civil oﬃcial and Cao but
“The only heroes in the world are you and I.”3
Other self-referring humble terms usually incorporate appraisal, speciﬁcally
negativejudgment,toshowone’sincompetence,humbleness,inferiority,ignorance,
immaturity, and senility, such as xiăorén (little man), bĭrén (vulgar, humble man),
pú (slave), wănbèi (junior), lăofū (old man), and so on. On some occasions the
addresser refers to him or herself using his or her occupation or social position,
optionally combined with attitude-invoking elements, such as chén (minister), qiè
(concubine),xiàguān (inferior oﬃcial),and wănshēng (young scholar).These self-
addressing terms are open-class and there is no ﬁxed limit to the set.
By using a noun denoting a social role to identify oneself, a sense of intimacy
can also be produced, typically in baby-talk, as in Example (4).
(4) Tommy, daddy’s gonna tell you a story.
Another connotation that a noun functioning as ﬁrst person indicator can bring
about is the detachment of the speaker from the discourse. This undertone is
especially useful when the discourse is supposed to convey information with
objectivity and authenticity.This explains why academic theses are written using
the author/writer in English and zuòzhě/bĭzhě (author/writer) in Chinese,instead
of the more subjective-sounding ﬁrst person pronoun I and wŏ.
It is also noted that many celebrities in politics, sports, or entertainment
circles address themselves using their names (or nicknames) instead of the ﬁrst
person pronoun. In Example (5), the personality seems to be detaching herself
from the discourse, but she adopts the proper noun to represent herself as an
iconized image in public view.
(5) néng chànggē gěi nĭmen tīng shì Fànfàn
able sing for you pl listen be Fanfan
zuì kāixīnde yījiàn shìqíng
most happy a thing
“It is the happiest thing for Fanfan to be able to sing for you.”4
Lexis-grammar Complementarity and System of person 191
The nouns indicating the ﬁrst person are all in third person concord where
agreement is needed. Thus the ﬁrst person realized by nouns usually contains
some sort of socially or stylistically varied meaning according to the tenor of the
context.
3.1.3 Noun indicating the second person
The most commonly seen noun indicating the second person would be
vocative—a name, title, or social identity used to directly address or invoke a
participant in the discourse, e.g. Tommy in Example (4).
A non-vocative noun indicating the second person can also be used.This may
imply some special social meaning—status, contact, and aﬀect in particular
(Martin 1992: 523); shĭjūn in Example (3) is such an instance. Or in English:
(6) I yet beseech Your Majesty, if for I want that glib and oily art.5
In Japanese, it is very common to use nouns in place of second person pronoun,
although there is a whole set of such pronouns like anata, kimi, and omae. The
Japanese typically avoid using them, something which might be attributed to the
hierarchicalcharacteristicsof theJapanesesocietywheresecondpersonpronouns
are often eschewed because they are not considered as capable enough of
expressing various social and interpersonal relationships. See Example (7) below.
(7) sensei-wa o-isogashii desu-ka
teacher-top hon-busy be-int
“Is the teacher busy? (Are you busy?)”
In contrast to nouns, the use of second person pronouns in Japanese is virtually
restricted to dialogue between husband and wife,very close friends or a superior’s
addressing a subordinate.“The main rule of thumb about pronouns in Japanese
is to avoid them completely in every polite conversation, and to avoid them as
much as possible everywhere else” (McClure 2000: 234). Here lexical resources
are taken advantage of to negotiate tenor.
Similar to Japanese, Korean also prefers nouns to second person pronouns in
addressing people with higher social status, although a good number of second
person pronouns can be found in Korean, too, such as dangsin, geudae, and neo.
See Example (8) below.
(8) seonsaeng-nim do ga-seyo
teacher-hon also go-hon
“Is the teaching going, too? (Are you going, too?)”
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
192
According to Lee and Ramsey (2000: 94),second person pronouns in Korean are
“normally not used to refer to someone who must be respected; there are many
instances where one can only use a noun to refer to such a person.” Therefore, in
the above example, the tenor does not allow the teacher to be replaced by a
pronoun.
Like the ﬁrst person discussed in 3.1.2, the second person realized by nouns
also comprises interpersonal meaning to be retrieved from the context.
3.2 Lexicalization: Process
Many languages integrate the meaning of a speech role into a process with verbal
aﬃxation. However, this realization of person is a grammatical one. The
lexicalization of person through uninﬂected verbs is indeed rare.But in Japanese,
there are a set of such verbs incorporating the meaning of person, i.e. giving and
receiving verbs, honoriﬁc and humble verbs.
InJapanese,someverbsof givingandreceivinghave“anintrinsicdirectionality
which helps to identify the person performing the act of giving” (Lange 1988:
502).A typical giving verb is kureru,as well as its honoriﬁc form kudasaru,which
is not entirely equivalent to the English verb“give”but means“giving by someone
other than the addresser to the addresser or a member at the addresser’s side.”
Example (9) contains no personal pronoun, but the ﬁrst person meaning rests
fully on the verbal group in the Process of the clause.Explicit use of a ﬁrst person
Recipient would be seen as redundant.
(9) tomodachi-ga purezento-o kure-mashi-ta
friend-nom present-acc give-hon-past
“My friend gave me a present.”
In contrast, verbs like ageru, sashiageru, and yaru6
mean “giving something to
someone other than the addresser.” In other words, these three verbs do not
permit ﬁrst person Recipient in the giving process. Thus Example (10) would be
ungrammatical with a mismatched giving verb and an explicit Recipient.
(10) *hayashisan-ga watashi-ni purezento-o age-ta
Mr. Hayashi-nom I-dat present-acc give-past
“Mr. Hayashi gave me a present.”
Some verbs in Japanese have special honoriﬁc and humble forms, used in
accordance with the addresser’s attitude to the addressee or topic of the discourse.
For example,the verb suru (do) has an honoriﬁc form nasaru and a humble form
Lexis-grammar Complementarity and System of person 193
itasu. Honoriﬁc verbs are used by raising the status of the subject and thus
indicate the second or third person, never the ﬁrst. Humble verbs are used to
lower the addresser’s status, so they are always associated with the addresser or a
member at the addresser’s side, most of the times reﬂecting the ﬁrst person
speech role in the discourse. Example (11) below is always interpreted as I’ll
show you the way, although the ﬁrst person I is not explicit in the discourse but
is embodied by the choice of verb.
(11) go-annai itashi-masu
hon-guidance do-hon
“I’ll show you the way.”
3.3 Lexicalization: quality
The class adjective typically functions as the Post-deictic, Classiﬁer, or Epithet in
a nominal group, specifying the noun’s attribute, class, and others. However,“the
relationship between function and class is not one-to-one” (Martin et al. 2013:
36) and the experiential function Thing and the logical function Head in a
nominal group, though typically realized by a noun, can be realized by an
adjective as well. The adjective realizing a Thing/Head can also be preceded by a
Deictic/Modiﬁer, even though it does not otherwise meet criteria that typically
distinguish a lexical item as noun. For instance, the plural suﬃx cannot be
attached to it in English, e.g. the poor vs. *the poors.
The function of such adjectives as Thing/Head enables them to identify
speech roles in discourse and the unmarked reference would presumably be the
third person. In English, the deﬁnite determiner the usually precedes such an
adjective which is in a plural concordance with the verb if the adjective is the
grammatical subject. See Example (12).
(12) The rich are privileged.
Adjectives indicating the ﬁrst and the second person can be found, too. In the
case of the ﬁrst person in Chinese, some adjectives with humble and self-
degrading attitude are often employed to refer to oneself in literary works or
formal writing, such as bùcái (good for nothing), bùxiào (unworthy), xiăode
(little), and lăoxiŭ (old and worthless). Again, the lexical resources have to do
with appraisal, realizing a tenor for negotiating social relationships.
Adjectives referring to the second person are generally used as vocatives,
most of which are terms of endearment involving positive judgment, such as
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
194
qīnàide in Chinese,dear in English,cher/chère in French.Occasionally adjectives
other than dear are used as vocative, as in Example (13).
(13) dànshì cōngmíngde nĭ gàosù wŏ
but clever you tell me
wŏmende rìzi wèishénme yī qù bù fùfăn ne
our day why once go not return int
“Now,you the wise,tell me,why should our days leave us,never to return?”7
4 Grammaticalization of person
Grammaticalized person markers may adopt various morpho-phonological
forms,whichperformdiﬀerentsyntacticfunctionsandhavediﬀerentdistribution
patterns cross-linguistically.Grammatical person forms that are closest to lexical
items are personal pronouns, which constitute individual words and may take
primary stress. Dependent person forms cannot receive primary word stress;
normally they are morphologically and orthographically dependent on other
elements, phonologically reduced and/or restricted in distribution, including
clitics, aﬃxes and zero form.
4.1 Grammaticalization: personal pronoun
Personal pronouns are used to substitute nominal expressions in discourse, but
they diﬀer from nouns in that they have their distinctive morphological and
syntactic properties. Personal pronouns are classiﬁed as grammatical words,
because they are a closed class and do not diﬀerentiate lexical meaning beyond
general grammatical classes such as gender, case and number.
Sugamoto (1989: 287) introduces a scalar approach to personal pronouns, in
which the distinction between nouns and pronouns is gradable. Personal
pronouns in some languages display more pronominal features while those in
other languages exhibit more nominal characteristics.
Chinese personal pronouns are found somewhere between Japanese and
English personal pronouns, i.e. Chinese personal pronouns possess more
pronominal features than Japanese but fewer than English. Thus, the personal
pronouns of English, Chinese and Japanese are located at diﬀerent positions
along the nominal-pronominal scale, as is roughly shown in Figure 12.1.
The reason for positioning English pronouns to the pronominal end is that
more semantic systems are grammaticalized, such as gender, number, case;
Lexis-grammar Complementarity and System of person 195
in contrast, Japanese pronouns realize the semantic systems more lexically,
sharing many features with nouns. Chinese pronouns have more grammatical
featuresthanJapanese,butfewerthanEnglish.Thefollowingisabrief comparison
of personal pronouns across the three languages.
Firstly, personal pronouns usually belong to a closed class in a paradigmatic
set of a limited number of words. In English, there is basically one pronoun for
each grammatical person,number and case variety.This is also true with modern
Chinese. In classical Chinese, however, there are more members for each
grammatical person, e.g. wú, wŏ, yú for the ﬁrst person singular; and rŭ, ĕr, ruò,
and năi for the second person singular. The multiplicity of Japanese personal
pronouns is also well known, such as watashi, watakushi, boku, ore for the ﬁrst
person singular and anata, kimi, omae, kisama for the second person singular.
Secondly, personal pronouns tend not to have the same morphological
aﬃxation with nouns to realize semantic features. This is true in English in that
suppletive forms are used to indicate diﬀerent numbers and cases, e.g.
I/we/me/my. However, personal pronouns in Chinese and Japanese do not use
suppletion but form the plural and possessive with the same aﬃx as nouns
would do.
Thirdly,an importantbenchmarktomeasurepronominalityistheincapability
to take modiﬁers. English personal pronouns do not normally take determiners,
demonstratives or possessives, e.g. *the he, *those them, *your her. They only take
modiﬁers under very restricted circumstances: the accusative form of a pronoun
may be preceded by certain adjectives of judgment used in exclamation, as in
(14); sometimes a pronoun can take a Deictic, as in (15), but such occasions are
not applicable to all contexts.
(14) Lucky you!
(15) It’s a she. (not male)
In Chinese, the restrictions are less tight, resulting in more possibilities for
personal pronouns to take modiﬁers, as in (16). But personal pronouns in
Chinese can still not combine with modiﬁers freely, as in (17) and (18).
Figure 12.1 English/Chinese/Japanese personal pronouns on the Pronominality
Scale.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
196
(16) shí nián qián de wŏ
ten years ago gen I
(17) *zhèxiē tāmen
these they
(18) *zhèngzài dú shū de nĭ
prog read book gen you
“you, who are reading a book.”
Closer to the nominal extreme, Japanese personal pronouns allow a greater
range of modiﬁcations. They can be modiﬁed by demonstratives, adjectives, or
even embedded clauses. See Examples (19) to (21).
(19) kono kare
this he
(20) yasashii kanojo
gentle she
(21) sensei-ni home-rare-ta watashi
teacher-agt praise-pass-past I
“I, who was praised by the teacher.”
Typological studies have found that personal pronouns in diﬀerent languages ﬁt
into diﬀerent spots along the cline (for Thai and Polish see Siewierska 2004:
9–13), hence the complexity of personal pronouns and their idiosyncratic
performances in discourse.
4.2 Grammaticalization: clitic
Clitics are morphemes that share properties of both inﬂectional aﬃxes and
independent words. They “present analytic diﬃculties because they are neither
clearly independent words nor clearly aﬃxes” (Zwicky 1977: 1). Phonologically,
clitics resemble inﬂectional aﬃxes in that they generally do not take the stress
and have to form a tonic group with their host; they also tend to be monosyllabic,
while independent words are open to more than one syllable. Orthographically,
clitics may look either like independent words because they are written separately
on some occasions, or like aﬃxes when they are attached to the host in writing.
The essence of understanding clitics is that they function at group rank
instead of word rank and a clitic always has a host to attach itself to. Clitics with
Lexis-grammar Complementarity and System of person 197
meaning of person are regularly found in Romance languages; (22) and (23) are
examples from Spanish.
(22) Te me recomendó
You sg dat I acc recommend  sg past
“He/she recommended me to you.”
(23) Dámelo
give 3 sg imp^ I dat^ it acc
“Give it to me!”
The clitics te and me in (22) are separate words but are actually dependent on
their host verb recomendó and function at the rank of the verbal group. They
cannot occur alone nor can they take primary stress. However, they have some
relative independence in that they are written separately from their host. In (23),
two personal clitics are graphologically attached to the host. The sequence of the
two clitics in each clause is determined by their respective functions. The mood
of the clause determines the position of the clitics at the beginning or end of the
verbal group and this mobility diﬀerentiates clitics from aﬃxes, whose position
in the verbal group is ﬁxed.
Consequently, cliticization of person forms is a further grammaticalization
step than independent personal pronouns. Then, aﬃxation, a still further step
towards the grammar end, loses more independence and becomes ﬁxed in
relation to the Process of the clause.
4.3 Grammaticalization: aﬃx
The identiﬁcation of speech roles can be realized by inﬂectional aﬃxes, the most
common forms of which are verbal conjugation suﬃxes such as those found in
Indo-European languages. Through conjugation, a verb can derive from its
dictionary entry form (or“principal part”’ following the Latinate tradition) a set
of inﬂected forms that indicate number, tense, aspect, mood, voice and
grammatical person.
A conjugation paradigm is often oﬀered to students learning languages with
complex verb aﬃxation, especially where portmanteau morphemes are involved
(see Robins 1959). For example, from the ending -mus in the ﬁnite Latin verb
donamus, the Actor of the clause is known to be we.
Apart from suﬃxes, other types of inﬂectional aﬃx indicating person, i.e.
preﬁx, inﬁx and circumﬁx are very rare and not found in major languages in the
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
198
world.And in“polysynthetic”languages where words are composed of a number
of morphemes, several Participants can be aﬃxed simultaneously. Example (24)
is the Mexican language Nahuatl, showing how such clause-rank functions as
Initiator, Actor, Goal, and Recipient are integrated into the Process so that the
aﬃxes indicating Participants function at word rank.
(24) Ni-mitz-tē-tla-maqui-ltī-z
I-you-someone-something-give-caus-fut
“I shall make somebody give something to you” (Suárez 1983: 61).
It should be noted that an inﬂectional aﬃx is incorporated into the verb and thus
becomes one part of it. It functions at the rank of word and represents a more
general grammatical feature. It is ﬁxed, inﬂexible, and fully dependent on the
verb and hence aﬃx is envisaged as taking a further step towards the grammar
end along the lexicogrammar continuum.
4.4 Grammaticalization: zero form
If the cline of grammaticalization of person is further extended, zero person
form might be viewed as the ultimate state of grammaticalization,developing all
the way from fully independent personal pronouns,clitics,and aﬃxes.In English,
the absence of a phonological form can be understood as implicit marker of
person on some restricted occasions, such as unmarked realization of the
imperative mood, as in (25), ellipsis across clauses, as in (26), and at times
declarative clause in informal and colloquial usage, as in (27). The empty
positions can be interpreted as referring to you, Mary and I respectively.
(25) Φ Go away!
(26) Mary hugged John and Φ left.
(27) Φ Wasn’t home yesterday.
In contrast to English with restricted use of zero person form,Japanese regularly
adopts zero person form in clauses of all types of mood structure. See the
conversation in Example (28).
(28) A: Φ itsu nihon-e ki-mashi-ta-ka
when Japan-dir come-hon-past-int
“When did you come to Japan?”
Lexis-grammar Complementarity and System of person 199
B: Φ senshuu-ni ki-mashi-ta
last week-tmp come-hon-past
“I came last week.”
It is totally acceptable and normal for Japanese to omit person forms in discourse
where the speech role is self-evident and known to each party. It would sound
very unnatural to put personal pronouns anata and watashi in the slots. Though
speaker A may employ a nominal expression to refer to speaker B as discussed in
3.1.3, it is extremely unlikely and almost never possible for speaker B to use any
phonological person form to refer back to him/herself. Here, at clause rank, the
Participant is elided as a result of the tenor.
Zero person marker may also result from the lack of explicit person form in
the language system, hence the obligatoriness of a null in the clause. The set of
personal pronouns realizing nominal group rank system pronominality
simply does not have a certain member. A notable example can be drawn from
Old Chinese,8
which lacks the third person nominative pronoun. The third
person pronouns qí and jué are used only in the genitive case and zhī in the
accusative case (Wang 1980: 264). See Example (29), where the third person
subject has to be left empty for lack of such a pronoun. If not empty, the opening
must be ﬁlled with a full nominal expression Zĭgòng. The English translation
below supplies the proper nominal.
(29) zĭ wèi Zĭgòng yuē
Confucius say Zigong proj
rŭ yŭ Huí yĕ shú yù
you and Hui top who superior
Φ duì yuē Cì yĕ hé găn wàng Huí
answer proj Ci top how dare look over Hui
“Confucius, speaking to Zigong, said,‘Who is superior? You or Hui?’
Zigong answered, saying,‘How could I compare myself to Hui?’”9
5 Migration along lexis-grammar continuum
When all the aspects addressed in Sections  3 and 4 are taken into account,
the lexical and grammatical means of expressing the concept of person can
be summarized with a cline, starting from lexical item and developing all the
way to the grammatical pole. As analyzed in 4.1, personal pronouns can be
regarded as the transition between the lexis end and the grammar end, and the
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
200
pronominality-nominality scale stands as compelling evidence for the
complementarity between lexis and grammar.
Lexical item > independent pronoun > clitic > aﬃx > zero form
This cline is particularly signiﬁcant in accounting for the complementarity
between lexis and grammar in relation to person. The complementarity between
lexis and grammar, according to SFL, is most prominent in the ideational
metafunction. When it comes to the system of person, its ideational function is
mainly performed in the identiﬁcation of and reference to the speech roles in
the clause. The speciﬁc expressions of person chosen by the addresser along the
lexis-grammar continuum reﬂect how he or she judges the accessibility of the
particular entities for the addressee. The addresser chooses a person form with
high mental accessibility to the entity (more to the grammar end) when the
information of this speech role is not so diﬃcult for the addressee to retrieve in
the current phase of discourse. Likewise, when the information of speech role
needs to be more speciﬁcally provided, the addresser would select a less
attenuated form (more to the lexis end). All the choices come from the vast
reservoir of meaning potential that language has to provide, either lexical or
grammatical, for the construal of ideational meaning about person.
Diachronically, person meanings characteristically move from the lexis end
to the grammar end, a process also termed grammaticalization. The person
markers are found to originate from lexical items, just as other grammatical
items often begin their life as regular lexical items (Meillet 1912).
From a lexical item to a grammatical marker, a certain person form goes
through a series of changes in phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics.
Phonologically, the item undergoes reduction in sound and results in simpler
pronunciation; morphologically, it loses independent word status through
cliticizationandaﬃxation;syntactically,thepositionof theitembecomesfossilized;
and semantically, it drops full semantic content and assumes more abstract and
general features.For example,the ﬁrst person pronoun boku in Japanese originally
means “servant” or “slave” when it was borrowed from Chinese, but it has now
grammaticalized into a personal pronoun with no more such humbleness.
Once grammaticalized into a personal pronoun, the person marker might
continue moving along the lexis-grammar continuum further to the grammar
end and reduces to a clitic, a bound morpheme, or ultimately a zero form.
Previous studies indicate that typologists have arrived at a consensus that most
clitics and verbal inﬂections are gradual development of pronouns (Greenberg
1966; Givón 1976; Steele 1977; Dixon 1979, 1980; Comrie 1981; Bosch 1983;
Lexis-grammar Complementarity and System of person 201
Lehmann 1987; Hopper and Traugott 1993; Ariel 2000). As the movement of
personal forms from lexical items to grammatical structures cannot take place
simultaneously for all persons, numbers, genders, or among diﬀerent languages,
intermediatestates,suchasthefuzzyboundarybetweennominalandpronominal
features of personal pronouns, reﬂect the migration in progress.
6 Coda
In construing meaning as either particularity or generality, lexis and grammar
play their respective role along a continuum with diﬀerent degrees of delicacy.
Some phenomena can be looked at either way, since the boundary between the
two aspects is obscure. Typologically, a same experience may be construed
through varied levels of lexicalization and grammaticalization across languages.
A meaning is also subject to migration along the lexis-grammar continuum
diachronically, which is by no means a transfer across strata.
This chapter veriﬁes the above points in terms of the system of person and
addresses how the two types of realization complement each other in the
construal of meaning related to person. It is suggested that lexis and grammar
constitute a balanced entirety for the system of person,and diﬀerent strategies of
person meaning construal, both lexical and grammatical, are involved in the
semogenic process as a unity, jointly exercising their function of transforming
person-related meaning into speciﬁc wording.
Notes
1 The author is profoundly indebted to Prof. J.R. Martin for many valuable suggestions
for this chapter’s improvement. The abbreviations used are as follows—acc:
accusative; agt: agentive; caus: causative; dat: dative; dir: directional; fut: future;
gen: genitive; hon: honoriﬁc; imp: imperative; int: interrogative; nom: nominative;
pass: passive; past: past; pl: plural; prog: progressive; proj: projection; sg:
singular; tmp: temporal; top: topical; 3: third person.
2 Volume 65, Comprehensive Mirror for Aid in Government (“䈨Ӫᤱ䇞ˈ⭊ཡᆔ
ᵋǄ”ǉ䍴⋫䙊䢤Ǌধ‫ॱޝ‬ӄ).
3 Chapter 21, Romance of the Three Kingdoms, English translation by C.H. Brewitt-
Taylor. (“Ӻཙл㤡䳴ˈᜏ֯ੋо᫽㙣Ǆ”ǉйഭ╄ѹǊㅜҼॱаഎ).
4 Cited from the blog of Wei Chi Fan, who, nicknamed Fanfan, is a pop singer of
Taiwan.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
202
5 King Lear, I. i.
6 Ageru is used in describing giving to an equal or a superior with an intrinsic element
of politeness to the receiver; sashiageru is used when the giver is inferior to the
receiver; yaru lacks politeness, usually used in an informal and plain manner.
7 Rush, by Zhu Ziqing, English translation by Zhang Peiji. (“նᱟˈ㚚᰾Ⲵˈ֐੺䇹
ᡁˈᡁԜⲴᰕᆀѪӰѸа৫н༽䘄઒˛”ᵡ㠚␵ǉशशǊ).
8 Old Chinese (кਔ≹䈝), also known as Archaic Chinese, refers to the Chinese
language from the initial stage of written record (circa 1200 BC) until the third
century BC.
9 “Gongye Chang,” The Analects of Confucius, English translation by A. Charles Muller.
(“ᆀ䉃ᆀ䍑ᴠ˖þྣоഎҏᆠ᜸˛ÿሩᴠ˖‘䎀ҏօᮒᵋഎ˛’”ǉ䇪䈝Ь‫ߦޜ‬
䮯Ǌ).
Semiotics
203
204
1 Introduction
I reported in my 1999 paper “Issues concerning the contemporary semiotic
research” that there are two extreme positions on the disciplinary status of
semioticresearch,“onerelatedtoextremesubjectiveassertionandself-conﬁdence,
another related to extreme disappointment and depression” (Hu 1999b: 1).
I drew my impressions from the wordings of Marshall Blonsky and Jonathan
Culler. Blonsky (1985: xviii) noted that internationally recognized authorities in
this ﬁeld used the expression “the agony of semiotics” to imply “the crisis of
theory.” This makes one think of the reasons why general semioticians more
often than not ﬁnd themselves “at the crossroads,” doubting the relevance of the
elaborated concepts and the validity of research and methodology. In contrast,
Culler (1989) commented in his Presidential Address that“. . .the major problem
for semiotics is its ambitions” and “The value of semiotics is linked to its
unwillingness to respect disciplinary boundaries” as it sees everything in the
world as sign.
2 A uniﬁed theory for semiotics
In my 1999 paper, I touched upon the fact that there still lacks a uniﬁed theory
to see semiotics as a discipline as well as a comprehensive rationale to link
semiosis at the levels of culture, society, and nature. I drew this idea from
John Deely, a professor of the University of St. Thomas, Houston, Texas. In
the preface to his Basics of Semiotics (1990), Deely compared the image of the
13
Issues Concerning the Disciplinary
Status of Semiotics
HU, Zhuanglin (㜑༞哏)
Peking University
205
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
206
modern semiotic universe to that of astronomy in 1611 as suggested by John
Donne: “’Tis all in pieces, all coherence gone; all just supply, and all Relation.”
Deely attempted to draw people’s attention to the following point: in the
second half of the last century, people showed more emphasis on semiotic
research and began to publish writings with diﬀerent viewpoints and emphases.
With the development of this sort of discourse, one could feel the need of
a clearer deﬁnition and objective. It is this positive attitude which urged
Deely to work for a coherent and uniﬁed framework and inspired Deely to
make the following statement: “This book is a remedy for that absence, a ﬁrst
approximation to a comprehensive rationale for the linking of semiosis at
the levels of culture, society, and nature organic and inorganic.”Deely illustrated
his point by saying that if one wants to look for the way to link the history of
art and anthropology, he has to consult a semiotician, because semiotics is
a matter of viewpoint: how to see the world. He further illustrated his point
by saying that the semiotic view results from“the whole of our experience, from
the most primitive origins in sensation to its most reﬁned achievements of
understanding, is a work of web of sign relations.”(Deely 1990: 13) Here, Deely’s
view signiﬁcantly diﬀers from Saussure’s mere recognition of human language.
In fact, the boundary of semiotics is much wider, which concerns the material
ﬁeld, the biological ﬁeld, and the speciﬁc experience of human beings (Deely
2001). That is to say, all living beings play a role in semiosis, in spite of the fact
that only human beings are involved in the investigation of semiosis as well as
semiotic activities. The main concern of semiosis is realization, that is, how to
mean the whole of human experiences. Unexceptionally, this is achieved by
interpretative construction in the course of semiotic participation and support
(Deely 1990: 5).
With respect to the lack in a uniﬁed theory in semiotic research, Deely (1990:
9–12) also made a distinction between “a point of view” and “a method.” He
argued that a method serves mainly to realize a point of view or some aspects of
a point of view. Semiotics, like logical positivism or behaviorism, is a point of
view, not a method. Next, it is doubtful that a point of view can only be realized
by one method. In fact, the implicit contents of a well-established point of view
can be realized by more than one method. Based on this argument, Deely has
managed to prove that semiotics should establish its own theoretical framework,
comprehensive and ﬂexible, so as to cope with various aspects of phenomena. It
is for this reason that Deely’s viewpoint does not criticize semiotics for lacking
a uniﬁed theory or framework. On the contrary, he has tried his best to establish
a comprehensive theory or framework.
Issues Concerning Disciplinary Status of Semiotics 207
What has caused Deely to think so? I think the main reason lies in Deely’s
argument that “symbols do not just exist, they also grow” (Deely 1990: 23). In
other words, the signifying relation of a sign has been changing over time, or the
signiﬁcance of a sign has been continuously extending.Because of this,a rational
semiotic framework should welcome any method which is able to show the
ongoing of semiosis. In the same way, it is dangerous to disguise a method with
a point of view, because this will presuppose a privileged position to stop an
investigation. If we stipulate a boundary in semiotic research, we will see those
outside the boundary as heretic, non-scientiﬁc, and irrelevant. This will for sure
hamper the development of semiotic research.
3 The agony and crisis of semiotics
With regard to Blonsky’s observation (1985: xviii) of “the agony of semiotics,”
the emergence of “crisis” in semiotic theory and semiotic research being “at
the crossroads,” Nazarova (1996) did try to explain that Blonsky’s sayings are
due to the reason that some semioticians attempted to list every phenomenon
in semiotic research as its general theory, which expands the boundary of
semiotic research irrationally. This relatively extreme situation also reﬂects the
inconsistency resulting from the separation between theory and practice. Some
semioticians attempted to escape from the burden of practical work and were
unwilling to be involved with concrete and practical investigation or the writing
of procedures.
4 Does the discipline of semiotics exist or not?
Scott Simpkins is a well-known semiotician, teaching Critical Semiotics at the
University of North Texas. His often-quoted comment that “‘Semiotics’ could
be said to exist only as a topic of discussion” originated in his ﬁrst lecture of
the course (Simpkins 1996). This utterance is directed toward the notion of
“traditional semiotics” mentioned in the book co-authored by Robert Hodge
and Gunther Kress (1988) because “the ‘tradition’ of semiotics is not monolithic
or even an agreed body of theories and concepts.” Some semioticians regard
Saussure as the representative of traditional semiology and the dualistic relation
between signiﬁer and signiﬁed as fundamental theory. Such a tradition does not
help with the development of semiotics as a discipline, nor does it comply with
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
208
the practical situation of the development of semiotics. For instance, shortly
after Saussure put forward his assumption of semiology as well as the dualistic
theory of sign, Peirce (1931), in America, proposed his view of a tripartite
division, the third element being “interpretant,” and Morris (1938) put forward
the notion of“pragmatics,”focusing on the study of“context.”All these show that
semiotics is the common concern of scholars and a uniﬁed theory is to be
established.
Hodge and Kress (1988) argued in favor of “social semiotics,” which covers
research objects such as: How do members in a social community design and
interpret meaning? How are texts analyzed? How is a sign system shaped
by social interests and ideology? How is such a system adjusted following
social changes? Owing to the fact that discussions of a semiotic nature is very
sensitive and timely changeable,the existence of semiotics is an inherent dialogic
process.
Simpkins held the view that for centuries semiotics can be seen as repeated
discussions of the nature of sign and meaning from various directions with
various points of view, and could also be seen as a basic and solid discipline
ﬁnally (Simpkins 1996). The reason for Simpkins to name his ﬁrst talk as
“the lingua franca of semioticians” lies in the fact that he intended to look
for a language abstracting sameness from diﬀerences. We should try our
best to strive for sameness if possible. By doing so, semioticians of diﬀerent
inclinations are able to discuss with the help of a lingua franca. In the same
manner, John Deely’s textbook Basic of Semiotics (1990) harbors the same
intention for its title. This shows not only Deely’s expectation of those who are
interested in semiotic research, but also his own attempt to realize this objective.
The same is true for Daniel Chandler with his Semiotics for Beginners (1994).The
expressions found in the book are close to those terms commonly recognized,
an illustration of the common understanding in many aspects reached by
semioticians.
Concerning this topic, I would like to mention an anecdote here, that is,
Simpkins touched upon the message about “the Indiana Group” in his textbook.
The group included researchers stationed in Language and Semiotics Studies at
Indiana University,the University of Indiana Press,the general editor Thomas A.
Sebeok of the series Advances in Semiotics. The Indiana Group openly declared
that it did not represent a uniﬁed semiotic point of view. The name of this group
was used to facilitate the discussion of semiotic questions of its members.
Everyone could express his or her own view, such as: How is the semiotic system
under study related to meaning? How is meaning expressed through signs? How
Issues Concerning Disciplinary Status of Semiotics 209
do signs constitute the system? Is the system relation inherent and all-inclusive?
How is the validity of the system measured?What is“signiﬁcance”? Is signiﬁcance
related to“context,”“intention,”“structure,”or“cultural convention”? With this in
mind, it would be easier to capture Simpkins’ real intention of exploring “the
lingua franca of semiotics.”Simpkins does not hesitate to discuss the existence of
semiotics as a discipline. He holds the view that the most pressing matter is to
seek the mutual understanding of lingua franca. Once we make the ﬁrst move, it
would be easier for us to make the second move.
5 The rebellion against current semiotic research
Among the various comments concerning current semiotic research, J.L. Lemke
openly used the term “rebel”: “We rebel, we transgress. We want the freedom to
construct a materiality of mind,an intelligence of the body.We want to re-situate
cognition in a larger meaning-making system of which our bodies and brains
are only one part” (Lemke 1997: 1). Against what or whom did he want to rebel
against? Why did he choose to do so? The way to answer these questions turns
out to be my concern.
Why does Lemke use such strong language? I think Lemke’s real purpose was
to call on semioticians to breakout of those circles which inhibit their research
eﬀorts and turn to the view that mind and material, brain and body, all play a
role in the system of meaning generation. It is better for semioticians not to play
the role of overseers of those circles,but active and creative participants.Because
of this, Lemke accepted C.S. Peirce as one of the ﬁrst rebels who attempted to
integrate logic and nature into a single system of meaning-making processes. It
is a natural“semiosis”; it is also a semiotic Nature.
What should be noted here is that Lemke (1997: 2) expressed the view that
meaningful activity is not arbitrarily bounded by the brain or the body; it is
relatedtointeracting“ecology,”whichincludesbody,brain,tool,andenvironment.
Lemke called attention to the work done by Jean Lave. Lave and her colleagues
observed people in the daily activities in their lives, the activities in connection
with problem-solving and the immediate, concrete, speciﬁc, and meaningful
contexts in practice. In these activities, both “things” and “minds” contribute to
the coding of message and meaning (Lave 1988; Lave and Wenger 1991). Thus,
Lemke (1997: 17) concluded that various “events, moments, practices, activities,
communities of practice, historical periods, stages of life, texts, etc.” are all the
constitutive elements of the network of ecosocial systems.Such ecosocial systems
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
210
are layered, each having its own network. Thus, the ultimate purpose of Lemke’s
rebellion was to clear the way for establishing his theory of ecosocial system, an
ecological semiotics.
6 Afterthoughts
Here I would like to mention some of my afterthoughts following the above
discussion as well as my reﬂections in connection with the disciplinary status of
semiotic research.
First of all, it is to be expected that semioticians would have diﬀerent
perspectives on the role of semiotics. This reﬂects the exact situation in the
course of the development of semiotic research. We have to recognize the fact
that when Saussure mentioned that linguistic signs and linguistics serve as a
branch of the yet-to-come semiology at his time, the urgent task was to solve
problems concerning the nature of language and consequently linguistics.This is
the reason why most scholars in the last century focused on approaches such as
structuralism, generativism, formalism, functionalism, cognitivism, and others.
It was not the right time for the study of semiology or semiotics, to say nothing
of becoming a dominant discipline. However, when it came to the last two
decades of the last century, semiotic research did start to develop.
Secondly, there are also various criteria to account for the disciplinary status
of semiotics. People tend to take the process of the development of discipline in
the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries as the norm of criteria, serving as the
mould of discipline establishment. In contrast, many scholars today break away
from this tradition in exploring new knowledge. People have begun to see that
the world is multi-dimensional;matter and mind co-exist;reality is multi-layered
and complex; and various sources of knowledge are interacting and blendable.
As a result, the exploration of new knowledge cannot be done by a single
discipline, but only cross-disciplinarily. Here, the notion of cross-disciplinarity
has also undergone several stages, such as multidisciplinary research (each
based on its own discipline), interdisciplinary research (new disciplines being
formed after integration) and transdisciplinary research (theme-based research
with participants from various backgrounds and areas of expertise, including
governmental oﬃcials, representatives of the society and of diﬀerent interests)
(Hu 2012). The function of semiotics is a science to study meaning; meaning
concerns the understanding and communication of the world, material and
mental, and the production, uses, and changes of signs. Naturally, we ought to
Issues Concerning Disciplinary Status of Semiotics 211
discuss its disciplinary status in accordance with all these features and not to
limit ourselves with out-dated disciplinary criteria.
Thirdly, why did semiotics begin to ﬂourish in the last two decades of the last
century? Apart from the experience and knowledge gained in the last century,
the development of science and technology also laid the foundation for semiotic
research and widened the perspectives of semioticians. For instance, computer
science has pushed forward the development of information technology.
In addition to language, people can communicate and express meaning
multimodally. This shows that our understanding of signs is not merely a matter
of the relation between concept and sound image as we used to think, it is also
related to elements such as participants, moments, context, tool, culture, history,
and others. If a semiotician does not see diﬀerences and changes in all these
elements, it would be diﬃcult for him to make a break-through in semiotic
research.
Fourthly, the development of modern science and technology since the
Renaissance beneﬁted from the notion of atomism, that is, things can be divided
step-by-step without end, or the philosophical notion “one divides into two,”
which has proved true in physics, biology, chemistry, economics, and politics.
Now, a new trend has emerged in the development of our knowledge of the
society and the world, especially, integration, that is, diﬀerent things can be
integrated and can merge into a new form with greater energies than the original.
With regard to semiotic research, if we only choose to stand either on the side of
Saussure’s binarity or Peirce’s tripartite division, we cannot move far. At this
point, Saussure’s arbitrariness shut the door on developing semiotic research. In
China, I would like to mention Professor Wang Mingyu, whose book Modern
Linguistic Semiotics (2013) put forward a clear-cut stand that the production,
comprehension,and application of sign are not separable from human body and
society.Wang does not avoid the opposition between Saussure and Peirce; but as
a courageous and creative semiotician,he tried his best to integrate the two in his
framework.
Fifthly, the comment that semiotics is at its crossroad is usually directed
toward those researchers of general semiotics.As a matter of fact,this reﬂects the
disjunction between general semiotics and applied semiotics in contemporary
semiotic research.As we know,the development of a discipline is both theoretical
and applicable, the two being inseparable.As pointed out by Eco (1984), science,
whether it is hard science or soft science, should be able to change the status of
things under discussion. A theory will have less eﬀect if it fails to change the
status quo, and fails to expound and solve emerging problems in practical life.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
212
Regrettably, in most periods of the twentieth century, semioticians showed
greater concern over problems relevant to general semiotics, but did not care
much about the applicability of relevant theoretical assumptions, the meta-
concern of those assumptions, and enough acknowledgment of their values. If
general semioticians are determined to lessen their “agony”, to judge the right
direction at the “crossroad,” they have to unite their theoretical research with
practice and solve any problems in the course of their practice. Lemke called on
semioticians to get rid of the conﬁnement of general semiotics, to be involved
in actions to make changes through personal participation and to seek truth
from practice. In the same way, only through actions can we be clear about
what context is and how context determines meaning. Therefore, “action” and
“participation” are helpful in solving problems arising from the separation of
mind and matter, in answering the question how meaning is produced in the
material system (Lemke 1997: 3). For sure, our ultimate objective is by no means
the study of sign for sign.The basic objective of the study of sign is to understand
the world better, to facilitate our communication and to improve and raise our
living standard to a new height.
Multimodality
213
214
1 Introduction
In systemic functional linguistics, multimodal discourse analysis was mainly
initiated by the study of the grammar of semiotic systems,especially the grammar
of visual designs (O’Toole 1994; Kress and van Leeuven 1996). However, after
nearly two decades, multimodal grammar was still in its developing stage. We
still have many questions to answer, including: (i) Should we study multimodal
grammar or not in studying multimodal discourse analysis (Bateman and
Schmidt 2012)? (ii) Do the semiotic systems other than language have a grammar
(Machin 2007)? And (iii) What is lexicogrammar and what is text in multimodal
discourse?
Accordingly, the present chapter is intended to study: (i) whether semiotic
systems other than language have a grammar comparable to that of language;
(ii) how we can diﬀerentiate units of grammar from the units of text and how the
units of grammar realize elements of the text; and (iii) how a multimodal text
can be analyzed in terms of text and lexicogrammar?
2 Semiotic systems
Signs function in systems, that is, they function by being chosen from the
semiotic systems to form texts. In social semiotics, the system is considered
more essential than the individual signs and the communication is envisaged as
a process of making choices from the semiotic systems. However, the system is
not an arbitrary one, but motivated: “a semiotic ‘potential’ is deﬁned by the
14
Lexicogrammar and Text in Multimodal
Discourse Analysis
ZHANG, Delu (ᕐᗧ⾴)
Tongji University
215
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
216
semiotic resources available to a speciﬁc individual in a speciﬁc social context”
(Kress and van Leeuven 2006: 10). In systemic functional linguistics, signs exist
as resources of meaning or meaning potential.Therefore,when we talk about the
sign,we should think of it as an item in a system and its relation with other signs
in the same system.
Then, what is a semiotic system? We know language is a semiotic system
in which both spoken and written languages are sub-systems and others are
sign language, such as Morse Code and Braille. More simple semiotic systems
are traﬃc light systems, gestures, and facial expressions. More diﬃcult semiotic
systems are dance, ballet, and music among others.
Kress and van Leeuven (1996/2006) also talk about the grammar of visual
design,but do all these signs of visual design belong to the same semiotic system,
including color, diagrams, ﬁgures, and tables? According to Kress and van
Leeuven (1996/2006), they are sub-categories of the same semiotic system and
are studied in the same visual grammar. Color is studied as a sub-system of the
visualgrammarsimilartomodalityinlanguagefortherealizationof interactional
meaning.But later,it is taken as an independent mode,which also has a grammar
(Kress and van Leeuwen 2002) as it is used for the realization of ideational,
interpersonal, and textual meanings.
In a way of challenging the theory of multimodal discourse analysis,
Martin (2011c) asks thirty-ﬁve questions on thirteen aspects of the theory of
multimodality. Those concerned with stratiﬁcation are:
(1) For a given semiotic system, how many strata are you proposing and
on which stratum is your description located?
(2) Are your strata related by metaredundancy (as patterns of patterns)?
(3) Are there distinct systems of value on each of the strata you propose?
First, in terms of strata based on Halliday (1985b), Machin makes a diﬀerence
between a simple semiotic system which is stratiﬁed into two levels: “sign →
meaning”; and a complex semiotic system which is stratiﬁed into three levels:
“sign → grammar → meaning” (Machin 2007: 3). If “the picture of a lion simply
means a lion” (Machin 2007: 3), and there is no combination of signs in a
sequence, then the semiotic system from which it is chosen is a simple system.A
complex system is one like language, which has a grammar mediating between
the sign and the meaning. But one question that remains here is what “the sign”
stands for. Is it the material aspect of the sign like sound, image, written symbol,
or form of the sign as a word? To Machin (2007: 3), the signs are “lexical items,”
that is, the form of the sign in a simple semiotic system; but in language, the sign
Lexicogrammar in Multimodal Discourse Analysis 217
could be more than just the lexical item as a lexical item is at the level of
lexicogrammar, as shown in Halliday (1978: 128):
Semantic (the meaning)
Lexicogrammatical (the wording, i.e. syntax, morphology and lexis)
Phonological (the sound)
So the sign stands for the sound or phonology (or graphology) together with the
item at the upper level that it realizes. In this sense, in distinguishing between a
simple semiotic system (a two-level system) and a complex system (a three-level
system), we often confuse form (words) with substance or in multimodality,
confuse mode with medium. So we should consider all semiotic systems as
three-level systems which consist of a medium level,a form level,and a meaning
level. In a simple system, the form is the lexis, while in a complex system, the
form is lexicogrammar (see Table 14.1).
Table 14.1 Strata in diﬀerent semiotic systems
system
Strata
simple Complex
Semantics meaning meaning
Form lexis lexicogrammar
Medium medium medium
Figure 14.1 Multimodal traﬃc light text.
For a simple system (what is called a two-level system),the text is only composed
of words, one-word text, or word-follows-word text, such as a traﬃc light text,
which consists of, maybe, a single word: red (stop), or series of words: red—
amber—green. They are not forming one “sentence,” but are three separate
‘sentences’ in succession in a text:
Text: go---ready to stop---stop---ready to go----go
Lexis: [green]---[amber]---[red]---[amber]---[green]
Medium: green----amber------red ----amber------green
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
218
We consider it a two-level system because the medium and the word have a one-
to-one relationship, that is, their relationship is characterized by redundancy.
Secondly, the complex three-level systems have a grammar, so it becomes
much more complex as the grammatical system is really composed of system
networks in which systems of diﬀerent delicacy are interwoven and the choices
from the system are not once for all, but a succession of sequential and
simultaneous choices, which will result in syntagmatic structures. In such a
system, there is a complex system for each level and there are diﬀerent complex
systems although they are related by the realization relationship. At the same
time, each system is realized by certain syntagmatic patterns, that is, structures;
and diﬀerent levels will also be characterized by diﬀerent structures. So they are
of a diﬀerent kind of redundancy, as patterns of patterns at diﬀerent levels.
Thirdly, the semantic level is meaning-oriented, the lexicogrammar is the
mediation level in terms of organization of meaning and the medium is the
material carrier of the meaning. Each has its own value in the communication
system. From a systemic functional point of view, a sign is recognized as a sign
because it has a function in realizing meaning. The sign red is functional
in directing the traﬃc by ordering it to stop, while an image is functional in
depicting an animal like a lion.
3 Text and grammar in multimodal discourse
When we talk about the grammar of visual design, we assume that diﬀerent
modes interact with and complement each other at the level of lexicogrammar.
But if we look closely at the multimodal text, we can ﬁnd that it is not the case:
what are interacting with and complementing each other are mostly small texts
or segments (elements) of texts realized by diﬀerent modalities.
The image text as a multimodal one is an advertisement of puriﬁed water
brandedVittel.As an advertisement,it takes place in a certain context of situation,
which consists of the following three variables: (i) ﬁeld: promotion of the sale of
puriﬁed water;(ii) salesmen and readers as potential customers;relations:distant
and unfamiliar; (iii) mode: written and drawn to be read in newspapers; written
words, pictures and layout design interact and synergize with each other.
However, the context of situation, or register in Martin’s term (Martin 1992:
497),is made eﬀective by the genre motivated for the communicative purpose of
interactive event.The purpose of promoting the sale of mineral water is the most
important motivation for the production of the ad multimodal text.The function
Lexicogrammar in Multimodal Discourse Analysis 219
of the water,apart from quenching thirst,is to keep the customer healthy.Healthy
water should be puriﬁed, containing healthy minerals and, at the same time,
people like to do what the majority of people do; it also appeals to the desire of
the people to buy the product. So its healthiness, purity, and popularity become
the main features for promotion.
The total eﬀect of the advertisement is achieved by the whole image which is
acombinationof threesmalltexts:awrittentextandtwopicturetexts,speciﬁcally
the picture of water-drinking, the written words, and the water bottle. They are
related to each other by certain kinds of logical semantic relations.In the picture
part, the man seems to try to drink the water from a pool (which is what can
be seen), while the woman looks at him with a smiling face. It does not show
where the water comes from,whether it is drinkable or not,and where and when
the event takes place. In the written text,“Pure Vitality” can be seen as the title
of the passage, which shows the source of the water and the healthy elements
the mineral water contains. The water bottle itself can stand independently as a
“one-word” text as it represents a real entity. But it is not so simple, as it contains
the brand and the introduction to the water on the surface of the bottle, which
are embedded texts within the bottle text. Then the three“passages” or texts join
together to form a multimodal text, in which each serves as a constituent of
generic structure in the text and has its own function in the generic structure.
The water bottle text shows the identity of the product to be advertised; the
Figure 14.2 Vittel advertisement (New Idea, December 5, 1987) (Kress and van
Leeuven 2006: 67).
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
220
written text and picture text together show the quality and function of the
product, so they are used to enhance the bottle text. The picture invites
the viewer’s desire of purchase by showing such an event, while the written text
complements it by adding more detailed information about the quality, use
and source of the water. The relations among the three texts can be shown in
Figure 14.3:
Figure 14.3 Relations among component texts in multimodal mineral water ad text.
At the level of lexicogrammar, the written text is realized by ﬁve clauses. In
terms of transitivity,the ﬁrst is a material process with a human actor withVittel,
the mineral water as the circumstance of place. The other three are elliptical. The
second is an attributive relational process, showing the essential quality of the
water; the third is existential, denying the existence of any negative factors
(additives and bubbles); the fourth is another identifying relational process,
foregrounding the purity of the water, and the ﬁfth is another attributive
relational process, further highlighting the quality of the water (see Figure 14.4).
In terms of mood, all are declaratives; and in terms of thematic structure, the
theme of the ﬁrst clause is human (Australians) and the following are elliptical
ones mainly with Vittel as theme. The text provides background information
about the water: how people like it, its source and quality.
The picture can be said to be realized by two clauses: one actional which
corresponds to the ﬁrst clause of the written text as an instance, and one mental
showing the reaction of another participant, who seems to be the wife of the
Lexicogrammar in Multimodal Discourse Analysis 221
“Actor” drinking water from the pool from where the mineral water was taken
(Figure 14.5).
Interactively, as there is no direct gaze to the viewer, the picture mainly oﬀers
information about the quality of the water and shows people’s attitude towards
it. The size of the frame is medium close, showing that the distance is social in
Figure 14.4 Transitivity analysis of the written text in Vittel advertisement.
Figure 14.5 Transitivity analysis of the picture text in Vittel advertisement.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
222
nature, which means that buying and selling is a social event. In terms of
perspective, the picture is taken from a horizontal angle, showing the high
involvement of the viewer in the event.
Compositionally, the man drinking water is placed in the center and in the
foreground, highlighting the eagerness of the man for the water and, at the same
time, the woman in the background reacts favorably to his act. The picture text
forms the main body of the multimodal text. It clearly and speciﬁcally shows
that the water is really liked by people like the man and the woman.
The bottle text is realized by one clause, an existential one with the bottle of
water as existent.The above two texts serve to enhance the last one,an existential
process, which is also the macro-new of the multimodal text.
Taken together, the representational (ideational) meaning of liking, drinking,
and reacting is formed of the integration of the three sub-texts, as shown
in Figure  14.3. Their meanings and relationship are further realized by the
lexicogrammar of the three sub-texts. The material process of the written
text elaborates the actional process of the picture; the quality of the water
is represented by relational and existential processes of the written text;
the aﬀection is derived from the high quality of the water. The interpersonal
meaning of informing and persuading is realized by the declaratives of the
written text, indirect gaze, medium close shot, and horizontal perspective,
showing that the multimodal text mainly gives information about the quality
of the water and invites the viewer to buy the product illustrated in the ad.
The textual or compositional meaning is realized by framing, salience, and
information value. The text is framed into three parts with the picture text
looming large in relation to other parts,while the written text on the left as given
information and the bottle text as new. The title is placed at the top as an ideal to
be pursued, while the nominal group at the bottom represents the actual quality
of the water.
So the design of the ad will be controlled and regulated by this essential
factor. Then the advantages of the modes should be considered ﬁrst. The written
language is good at giving detailed explanations and illustrations, while the
picture is good at showing the concrete details and attracting the attention of
viewers. So the picture text and the written text complement each other, and
synergize to accomplish the communicative purpose.
But there are certain types of visual designs that are more appropriately
analyzed at the lexicogrammatical level. It means that a complete grammatical
sentence or clause is not formed by a choice of words and grammar from one
mode, but is complemented by choice of elements from other modes. Take
Lexicogrammar in Multimodal Discourse Analysis 223
Figure  14.6 for example. It seems that the verbal part is integrated with the
elements of the visual structure to realize the multimodal text.
In Figure 14.6, the verbal components do not form their own independent
text but are integrated with the elements of the visual structure to realize the
visual text. In terms of the image, the total map of Australia is divided into six
parts, with each occupying a certain percentage of the total. If it is taken as a
clause (ﬁgure), it is an analytic process in terms of transitivity, which is as shown
in Figure 14.7.
The verbal part can be seen as a series of relational processes with the same
pattern: Token—Process—Value (See Figure 14.8).
So here the multimodal text is seen as consisting of one image text and six
verbal segments, with each seen as a separate unit. The verbal text segments
are each ﬁrst independently related to one element of the image text and then
Figure 14.6 Australia: the segments (Bulletin, January 10, 1989) (from Kress and van
Leeuven 1996/2006).
Figure 14.7 The proportions of diﬀerent types of people in Australia shown in an
analytic process.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
224
related with each other in terms of intertextual cohesion (see Figure 14.9). Note
that the full line indicates text structure and the dotted line indicates clause
structure. So the verbal part can independently form a small text with the
method of classiﬁcation, that is, the Australians are classiﬁed into six types and
each occupies a certain percentage of the total. But when they are integrated
with the image, they become isolated parts of an analytic process of the visual
image, with the whole being cut up into six segments.
Taken together, the image text is the dominant mode, which is realized by a
clause, an analytic process. The verbal part can be seen ﬁrstly as six separate
isolated text segments as they are not related to each other, but are directly
related to the segments of the visual image, and each of them is realized by an
identifying relational process.
Here we can ﬁnd that the meaning of the image in one ﬁgure as a two-
dimensional unit is comparable to a series of clauses in language.As language is
linear,whatisapartinatwo-dimensionalimagebecomesawholeinthelanguage.
Figure 14.8 The identifying relational processes shown by the language segments in
the image.
Figure 14.9 Lexicogrammar and text in Australia: the segments.
Lexicogrammar in Multimodal Discourse Analysis 225
This suggests that diﬀerent semiotic systems may have diﬀerent grammatical
patterns. Language has a linear grammar while the image has a two-dimensional
grammar.
Interpersonally, all the language segments are declaratives; there is no direct
gaze; the shot is medium and perspective is a bit vertical. So it is objective and
strictly to give information, and the designer is supposed to have more power
over the viewer.
Compositionally, the visual image is framed in the center and occupies the
major part of the layout, leaving some isolated places to the verbal segments. It
is foregrounded as the most salient part, meaning that the visual image is
highlighted.
This is again motivated by the context of situation, in which the ﬁeld is
concerned with classiﬁcation of the Australians into diﬀerent groups and types;
the tenor is news reporter and the reader: social distance: great; and the mode
is written and drawn to be read, with the visual image as the main mode for
representation, and the verbal part complementing and supplementing the
visual part. Newspaper readers mainly read newspaper articles to get new
information or to get pleasure from it. They are often selective in reading the
articles. So the reporter has to make his product easily accessible to the reader;
and visual image is much more conspicuous and appealing than words, so in the
visual design here, the image is the main mode and the words only serve to
supplement it by adding some details.
4 Discussion
In Kress and van Leeuven (1996/2006),it is assumed that an image is like a clause
or sentence which can be analyzed by a visual grammar like the grammar of
human language. However, when we look closely at the various types of images,
we can ﬁnd that the image may be composed of segments of texts larger than a
sentence; segments of texts realized by diﬀerent modes, such as verbal elements,
pictures, diagrams. So we need to re-examine them in a more detailed way from
more than one perspective.
First, an image is a text or segment of text, not a grammatical unit like a clause.
An image may stand independently as a text in a context of situation.
Second, an image as a multimodal text may consist of sub-texts constituting the
generic structure of the text realized by lexis and grammar of diﬀerent modes. An
image text may not be realized directly by a multimodal grammar,but formed of
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
226
texts of diﬀerent modes, each serving as an element as the generic structure of
the multimodal text as an instance of a genre.
Third, elements of one mode, such as words in language, may be included
or inserted as a sub-element in the structure of another mode as its complement
or supplement, as is shown in Figure  14.6. Therefore, a multimodal text has
very complex relationships at both the semantic level manifested by the
discourse structure and the meaning of each element in the structure, and the
lexicogrammatical level with the grammatical units of each mode joined together
to realize the text of that mode. It also shows that modes of diﬀerent dimensions
may have grammar of diﬀerent kinds, exhibiting the features of that dimension.
In that case,what can be dealt with easily with grammar in one mode may not be
possible in another mode.
In this sense, in multimodal discourse analysis, the ﬁrst thing we should do
is to ﬁnd out if the multimodal text can be analyzed into their components
in terms of generic structure and if the diﬀerent components are realized by
diﬀerent modes. If they are, then analyze each component text in terms of its
generic structure, and method of development and then how it is realized by
lexis and grammar of that modality from a functional perspective.
Then study how the component text functions in the multimodal text to ﬁnd
out how the component texts of diﬀerent modalities synergize and interact with,
and complement each other in social communications.
As a result, we shall further study how diﬀerent modes synergize and interact
with, and complement each other lexicogrammatically in the multimodal text.
If they do not, then it means that the multimodal text is predominantly
realized by lexicogrammar of one mode and the segments of the text realized by
another mode or modes only serve as elements or sub-units of the text. In that
case, we should analyse the text mainly in terms of the predominant mode in
terms of its generic structure, and then lexicogrammar, and then ﬁnd the
appropriate positions for the elements realized by the other mode in the overall
generic structure and also the grammatical structure. These segments of the text
mainly supplement the main text in terms of providing details and background
information.
However, if the multimodal texts cannot be analyzed into their component
texts,then we should be careful in ﬁnding out the exact relationship between the
diﬀerent modes. Some word units, clause units, or even passages of text of one
mode may serve as elements and complements of the elements of the clause
structure of another mode. Here, the text or segment of text may be realized by
one-word unit, or clause unit, or a sequence of clauses, or clause complexes.
Lexicogrammar in Multimodal Discourse Analysis 227
The general procedure of multimodal discourse analysis is the same for all.
First, look at the context to see what meanings are likely to be exchanged in such
an environment; then,look at how meanings or patterns of meaning are realized
by the lexocogrammar of diﬀerent modalities, and ﬁnally, ﬁnd out how the
diﬀerent modes synergize and interact with each other in cooperatively realizing
the meaning of the text.
228
1 Introduction
The present research attempts to locate the semiotic examination of
linguistic and visual construction of dialogic engagement in the context of
teaching English as a foreign language (henceforth EFL). This concern has
partially grown out of what is presumably lacking in the given pedagogic
setting. Dialogic process is advocated throughout classroom teaching in
China and this textbook is considered to be an essential component in
this process (Zhong 2006).Given the evolving multimodal features in pedagogic
materials, modes other than language may further enable diversity in editor-
readeralignment.Nonetheless,thewaymultimodalresourcescanbemanipulated
to mediate the heteroglossic space in pedagogic materials remains under-
examined.
It is believed that a close reading that takes into account multiple semiotic
systems will hopefully enable deeper understanding of how multimodal
resources “multiply” (Lemke 1998) meaning potential, which may in turn have
implications for designing and utilizing pedagogic materials. In recent years,
Chinese scholars have conducted extensive research on multimodal discourse in
foreign language teaching (Zhang 2009; Zhang 2010). Continuing the social
semiotic analysis of multimodal pedagogic discourse along this line,this chapter
investigates the multimodal construction of dialogic engagement by drawing
upon and extending the engagement system within appraisal (Martin 2000;
Martin and White 2005).
15
A Study of Multimodal Engagement Resources
and Voice Interaction in Pedagogic Discourse
CHEN,Yumin (䱸⪌᭿)
Sun Yat-sen University
229
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
230
2 The engagement system
The engagement system sets up networks of options for modeling the expansion
and contraction of heteroglossic space in a text.The engagement network covers
“all those locutions which provide the means for the authorial voice to position
itself with respect to, and hence to ‘engage’ with, the other voices and alternative
positions construed as being in play in the current communicative context”
(Martin and White 2005: 94).
The taxonomy of engagement meanings includes four main categories,
i.e. “disclaim,” “proclaim,” “entertain,” and “attribute.” More delicately, these
engagement meanings can be divided into sub-categories.For instance,“disclaim”
is further divided into “deny” and “counter” to specify dialogic positioning. Less
delicately, the four types of engagement meanings can be generalized into
two broad categories “dialogic expansion” and “dialogic contraction.” Those
resources that “entertain” alternative voices within the text and those that
“attribute” propositions to voices outside the text function to open up the
heteroglossic space (hence classiﬁed as dialogic expansion), while those that
“disclaim” oppositional opinions and those “proclaiming” a given proposition
function to close down the heteroglossic space (hence categorized as dialogic
contraction). In adapting and extending engagement to multimodal discourse,
this study will investigate the multimodal features that encode heteroglossic
meanings.
3 Multimodal resources as engagement devices
3.1 Labeling as an engagement resource for editor’s proclamation
The term “labeling” used in the present study refers to the practice of inserting
certain labels into a visual image to indicate information concerning some
objects in the image. In primary and junior secondary EFL textbooks labeling is
frequently observed in the images depicting contexts for language in use. See
Figure 15.1 below for example.
Figure 15.1 is taken from a teaching unit entitled“How do you make a banana
milk shake?” in a junior secondary EFL textbook. It embraces an image of
“narrative representation”(Kress and van Leeuwen 2006: 45).Through the use of
labels indicating the names of utensils, fruits, and other ingredients, editor voice
intrudes upon the image that depicts Marie and Katie making fruit salad. The
Multimodal Engagement Resources 231
reader of the textbook is required to ﬁll in the table on the left of the image
with the labels proclaimed by editor voice. The proclamations like “yogurt” and
“apples” actually rule out other possibilities such as milk and strawberries, and
such emphasis or insistence implies some degree of resistance to any potential
opposing viewpoint. Therefore, the formulation of labeling recognizes the
heteroglossic diversity in the communicative context through presenting editor
voice as challenging against any dialogic alternative. These labels function to
close down the heteroglossic space in the text and help concentrate the reader’s
attention on the pronounced vocabulary items, which are supposed to be part of
the language goals that are prescribed to achieve.
It can be inferred from the above analysis that editor voice is interpolated into
the text through the use of labeling so as to stress the prescribed teaching goals
and confront possible contrary positions. These instances of “pronouncement,”
according to Martin and White (2005: 129), are dialogic in the sense that they
acknowledge the presence of counter viewpoints in the given communicative
setting. They are “contractive” in terms of dialogic management due to their
challenge or resistance to possible dialogic alternatives.
3.2 Dialog balloon as an engagement resource for
character’s demonstration
Dialog balloon, with an oblique protruding line, links the sayer with the
utterance.Along with its other functions as an engagement device (Chen 2010),
dialog balloons can function to explain the rules of games by demonstration, as
illustrated in Figure 15.2.
Figure 15.1 Labeling as an engagement resource (Go for it Students’ Book I for Year 8,
2005: 42. Reproduced with permission).
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
232
In Figure 15.2, two visual images lie beneath a verbal text that serves as an
instruction given by the editor to show how to conduct a mimic survey on“Who
is the healthiest?” Through the use of three imperative clauses (i.e. “Add ﬁve
questions to the survey on page 81,”“Then ask three classmates the questions and
take notes,” and “Discuss and decide”) and one WH-interrogative clause (i.e.
“Who is the healthiest student”), the editor demands action and information
from the reader. The accompanying two images provide a visual demonstration
to support the verbal text. The image on the left (henceforth Image I) takes a
“public distance” shot (Kress and van Leeuwen 2006: 124) and includes within
the picture frame the ﬁgures of eight students who are interviewing each other
and taking notes.The other image on the right (henceforth Image II) portrays at
the “close personal distance” (ibid.) a student reporting his ﬁndings to the class.
While the verbal text primarily conveys editor voice, the two visual images
mainly express character voice. A corresponding relationship can be found
between the two semiotic resources. Take speech function (Halliday 1994a: 69)
for instance.Table 15.1 below summarizes the speech functions in the verbal text
of Figure 15.2 and their corresponding visual patterns in Images I and II.
It can be inferred from Table  15.1 that the verbal instruction and visual
demonstration in Figure 15.2 work in tandem to encourage the reader to carry
out a similar survey about habits and health, with the visual demonstration
already setting a good example for the reader to follow. Here character voice
echoes editor voice in the way that the dialog balloons demonstrate what kind of
questions should be added to the survey and how a report should be made.
Therefore, it may be justiﬁed to say that the dialog balloons in Figure 15.2 have
the dual functions of explaining the rules of games by demonstration as well as
lending support to editor voice. The images as a whole, on the one hand, can be
Figure 15.2 Dialog balloon as an engagement resource (Go for it Students’ Book I for
Year 8, 2005: 5. Reproduced with permission).
Multimodal Engagement Resources 233
read as an elaboration (Halliday 1994a) of the verbiage, that is, as an example of
how to conduct the survey,while on the other,they work together with the verbal
texts in giving instructions to the reader, though in an implicit way.
It is noteworthy that the visual demonstration with dialog balloons can be
frequently observed in the task-oriented teaching sections such as “Let’s play,”
“Task time,” “Pair work,” and “Group work.” In those teaching sections the
interaction between readers is required in fulﬁlling the tasks and at least one way
of accomplishing the tasks is vividly demonstrated by the characters in the visual
images. Here the dialog balloons actively make allowance for character voice,
hence opening up the heteroglossic space and encoding the engagement meaning
of “attribute.”
3.3 Jointly-constructed text as an engagement resource for
inviting reader’s participation
“Jointly-constructed text” refers to any text intentionally unﬁnished, which aims
at involving the reader’s participation in its ultimate completion. It takes a great
variety of forms, and the multimodal modes of communication further enrich
the ways of engaging reader voice. Take Figure 15.3 below for example, which is
taken from a senior secondary EFL textbook.
In Figure 15.3, editor voice is explicitly conveyed in the instruction that lies
above a speech draft as well as four stamps that depict the new Tangshan:
Table 15.1 Speech functions and their corresponding visual patterns in Figure 15.2
speech
functions
verbal instances
(editor voice)
corresponding visual patterns (character
voice)
command add ﬁve questions In Image I, a demonstration of two of the
questions is given, as is presented in the dialog
balloons (i.e. How often do you eat vegetables?
and What sports do you play?).
command ask three classmates
the questions, take
notes, discuss
In Image I, students ask each other questions,
take notes and have free discussion in groups of
four people.
command decide In Image II, a demonstration of a student
reporting to the class on Maria’s healthy
lifestyle is provided, as is indicated in the dialog
balloon (i.e. Maria exercises every day. She likes
to play . . .).
question who is the
healthiest student
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
234
Imagine that after your speech, Zhang Sha asks you to give a short talk about the
new stamps to honour the city.You may use the model or write your own little talk.
By using an imperative clause, editor voice directs the reader to envisage
preparing for a short talk about the four new stamps designed to honor Tangshan
City. The use of a ﬁnite modal operator “may” in the second clause indicates the
low degree of obligation.In other words,the reader is allowed to make use of the
model provided in the draft, while the alternative choice of not using the draft is
still valid. The character Mr. Zhang Sha is verbally introduced into this text but
not visually represented. His identity was indicated in the previous teaching
sections as an oﬃcer from the government of Tangshan City. Through the
introduction of this external character voice, the heteroglossic space of the text
is expanded. Reader voice is invited to engage interactively with editor voice as
well as character voice, in that the exophoric references of the second person
“you” and the possessive deictic “your” associate the external reader voice with
the proposal being advanced in the verbal instruction. Nevertheless, the jointly-
constructed speech draft will not be ﬁnalized until the reader’s contribution is
considered.
The multimodal resource of jointly-constructed text brings in reader voice
and is identiﬁed in the engagement network as encoding “attribute.” Character
voice is often introduced into the jointly-constructed text through a variety of
semiotic modes and the relationship of power and solidarity in EFL textbook
discourse can be negotiated through the play of the multiple voices.
Figure 15.3 Jointly-constructed text as an engagement resource (New Senior English
for China Student’s Book 1, 2004: 30. Reproduced with permission).
Multimodal Engagement Resources 235
3.4 Readership construal in jointly-constructed texts
In this section I will further examine the construal of readership in jointly-
constructed texts. As Martin and White (2005: 163) point out, it is the act of
reader interpretation that is at the end of the“cline of instantiation”from system
to reading. Therefore, the lowest level of instantiation is the meaning taken from
the text based on the social subjectivity of a reader,rather than the text itself.The
cline from the system of meaning-making potential to the ﬁnal reading position
is summarized in Table 15.2.
Following Martin and White’s (2005) view on alignment and the putative
reader, I consider that the jointly-constructed texts construe for themselves an
“ideal,” “intended,” or “envisaged” reader, with whom the textbook editor aims
to align. As was analyzed above, jointly-constructed texts open up the space for
the dialogic alternative from the reader, thus aligning the reader in the ﬁnal
completion of the texts.
A text construes or models its reader by presenting the writer as taking for
granted that the reader shares with the writer a particular viewpoint, or as
assuming that the proposition being advanced is problematic/unproblematic, or
as supposing that the reader needs to be convinced of a particular viewpoint
(Martin and White 2005: 95). In the case of jointly-constructed texts, the editor
assumes that the reader shares with him/her a certain amount of knowledge to
understand the requirements of the texts.In Figure 15.3,for instance,the English
language level of the intended reader is assumed to be advanced enough to
comprehend and perform the tasks.
Table 15.2 Cline of instantiation—from system to reading (Martin and White
2005: 163)
1. system (the global meaning making potential provided by the language)
2. register (contextual variants or sub-selections of the global meaning making
potential—involving more fully institutionalized reconﬁgurations of the
probabilities for the occurrence of particular meaning-making options or for
the co-occurrence of options)
3. text type (groups of texts with comparable conﬁgurations of the probabilities
of occurrence of options—involving less fully institutionalized conﬁgurations
of the probabilities)
4. instance (individual texts—the actualization of the global meaning making
potential, typically in conformity with the sub-potential settings of a given
register)
5. reading (the uptake of meanings in a text according to the listener/reader’s
subjectively determined reading position.)
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
236
However, the issue of alignment or solidarity is by no means a matter of total
agreement between the communicative parties.As Martin and White point out:
. . . solidarity can turn, not on questions of agreement/disagreement, but on
tolerance for alternative viewpoints,and the communality into which the writer/
speaker aligns the reader can be one in which diversity of viewpoint is recognized
as natural and legitimate.
Martin and White 2005: 96
The blanks or gaps in the jointly-constructed texts mentioned above are left for
the reader to complete, while the reader still has a certain degree of freedom,
which depends largely on the context, to provide alternative answers other than
the keys stipulated by the editor.Take the three examples in our data,for instance.
The reader of Figure 15.3 enjoys more freedom in composing the speech draft,
as long as the writing agrees with the communicative context of accepting the
invitation to give a talk about the stamps to honor the city.
Based on the orientation of reading position, Martin and Rose (2007: 312–3)
classify diﬀerent types of reading into three categories, i.e. compliant reading,
resistant reading,and tactical reading.Compliant readings take up,or subscribe to,
the reading position which is naturalized by the general trajectory of meanings in
a text; resistant reading positions work against the naturalized reading position;
while tactical readings rework the reading position naturalized in a text for some
speciﬁc interests or social purposes.It can be inferred from the above analysis that
the reading position construed in the jointly-constructed texts in multimodal EFL
textbooks is generally a compliant one, in that the completion of the texts requires
the cooperative performance of the ideal reader. This dialogic editor-reader
alignment permits to some extent the possibility of answers other than those
prescribed by the editor.Nevertheless,the construed putative reading position only
allows for the possible alternatives that comply with the communicative context.
3.5 Background/foreground illustration as an engagement
resource for lending support to editor voice
In our data, character voice is found to lend support to editor voice through the
use of illustration, in which the supportive image is backgrounded or
foregrounded. A case in point is Figure  15.4, which is taken from a senior
secondary EFL textbook.
In Figure 15.4 the verbal text entitled“Anne’s Best Friend”tells the story about
a Jewish girl named Anne Frank, who had to hide away from German Nazis in
Multimodal Engagement Resources 237
World War II. She treated her diary as her best friend who she called Kitty,
and recorded her experiences and feelings in it. At the end of the verbal text an
imperative clause is used (i.e.“Now read how she felt . . .”) to direct the reader to
read an extract of Anne’s diary, which takes the form of a piece of torn paper
from the diary. A monochromatic photograph of Anne is presented as the
background of the ﬁrst paragraph of the verbal text “Anne’s Best Friend,” where
the character Anne is ﬁrst introduced. Anne’s voice is further detected in the
image of the extract of diary, at the foot of which the sepia-tone photograph of
her diary is foregrounded. The photographs of Anne and her diary represent
Anne as a real person and her diary as a tangible genuine document, which bear
evidence of the facticity of the anecdote. Here the voice of the character Anne
lends support to editor voice in the verbal text via illustration, which functions
to expand the heteroglossic space and can be identiﬁed as the engagement device
encoding“attribute.”Meanwhile,through supporting editor voice,this attribution
further enhances the authenticity of what is described by the editor in the story,
hence reinforcing the engagement meaning of “proclaim” in the text.
Figure 15.4 Background/foreground illustration as an engagement resource (New
Senior English for China Student’s Book 1, 2004: 2. Reproduced with permission).
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
238
4 Voice interaction in multimodal EFL textbook discourse
In the previous section I identiﬁed four types of multimodal engagement devices
in EFL textbook discourse (i.e. labeling, dialog balloon, jointly-constructed text,
and illustration), and accounted for how these multimodal resources realize the
engagement meanings. These multimodal engagement devices contribute to the
expansion and contraction of the heteroglossic space in a text. This section will
be devoted to the discussion of interplay of the multiple voices and will also
explore the interactive meaning encoded in multimodal EFL textbook discourse
in terms of contact/observe, social distance and point of view.
4.1 Focalization and eye contact
A large number of the images in the EFL textbooks depict people or human-like
creatures with eyes and facial expressions, while the majority of these animate
participants in the picture frame do not gaze at the viewer. In other words, they
are “observe” images (Painter 2007). Some of these represented participants
in our data are characters in a story (e.g. Figure  15.1), while others provide
demonstrations for the reader to follow (e.g.Figure 15.2).The reader views them
impersonallyasitemsof informationandobjectsof observation.Thisobservation
mainly happens directly instead of vicariously.
There are, nevertheless, exceptions to the dominant “observe” type of
image. In these cases, the character looks directly at the viewer, and therefore the
viewer is engaged in an eye contact with the character.The character requires the
reader to do the exercises or answer questions according to the requirements,
and the character’s gestures and/or utterances further specify what is required.
In other words, the character is often portrayed as directly addressing the reader
instead of passive phenomena merely for observation. These images belong
to the “contact” type and more often than not they are also jointly-constructed
texts that demand reader’s participation. Together with the imperatives and
interrogatives in the dialog balloons, the “contact” images invite the reader to
participate in the jointly-constructed texts,bringingin reader voice and encoding
the engagement meaning of “attribute”.
4.2 Reader involvement and social distance
The choice of social distance is another parameter indicating various types of
interaction between the viewer and the character inside the picture frame. In
Multimodal Engagement Resources 239
visual communication, the diﬀerent degrees of social distance are interpreted as
the continuum of the“size of frame”of shots (Kress and van Leeuwen 2006: 124).
Our data cover a wide range of shots from “extreme close-up” to “long shots,”
which suggests the extent of distance variations from “intimate distance”’ to
“public distance” with intermediate degrees.
The social distance implied in the visual displays corresponds with the voice
interaction. Some images in our data show the full ﬁgures of the represented
participants and their surroundings and thus the relationship between the viewer
and the character(s) is that of“public distance,”which is often adopted in the images
where editor voice engages with character voice (e.g. Figure 15.1). In these cases,
the reader is addressed by the proclamation or disclamation from editor voice
instead of actively engaging himself/herself with the voices within the discourse.
This low degree of reader involvement also echoes the choice of public distance.
The high degree of reader involvement can be found in jointly-constructed
texts. The medium shots that show the ﬁgure from waist up suggest the “far
personal distance,” while the extreme close-up implies “intimate distance.” As
observed in our data, the characters in jointly-constructed texts are often
presented within easy touching distance to the viewer. This agrees with the
meaning of “attribute” encoded in the jointly-constructed texts, in which the
reader is invited to participate in the ultimate completion of the texts and thus
has access to the ﬁeld of heteroglossia.
While the association between voice interaction and social distance is
signiﬁcant, voice interaction does not necessarily play the decisive role in the
choice of social distance. The choice of shots that conveys the degree of social
distance is a complex issue.Other factors such as the conventions in visual genres
(Kress and van Leeuwen 2006: 126) should also be taken into account before a
comprehensive understanding of the social distance in visual images is achieved.
4.3 Character engagement and point of view
The third factor that should be considered in relation to voice interaction is
point of view, which can be approached along the horizontal axis and vertical
axis. The horizontal angle implies whether the interactive participant (i.e. image
producer and viewer) is involved with the represented participants (i.e. frontal
angle) or is detached from them (i.e. oblique angle). The vertical angle indicates
whether it is the interactive participant who has power over the represented
participants (i.e.high angle) or vice versa (i.e.low angle) or whether their relation
is an equal one (i.e. eye level angle) (Kress and van Leeuwen 2006: 133–43).
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
240
The majority of the images under examination adopt the frontal and eye level
angle,and hence what is depicted in the image is presented as“part of our world.”
In other words, the relation between the character and the viewer is one of
equality. The frontal angle indicates a high degree of reader identiﬁcation and
involvement, which has a lot to do with the engagement of character voice.
Although the power diﬀerences do exist between the textbook editor and reader,
due to the unequal possession of knowledge, the interpolation of characters into
the heteroglossic setting enables the reader to negotiate alignment with the
characters on an equal footing.That at least partially explains why the characters
in textbooks are often seen from the point of view of the eye level, rather than
from a low angle to demonstrate power to the viewer.
In closing,I summarize the interaction between editor voice,reader voice,and
character voice in the multimodal EFL textbook discourse in Figure 15.5 below.
The functions of the multimodal engagement devices (i.e.labeling,dialog balloon,
jointly-constructed text, and illustration) are indicated above or underneath the
arrows between the multiple voices.To be speciﬁc,the broken-line arrow between
editor voice and reader voice indicates that editor voice overtly instructs the
reader through the use of section titles that may take the forms of imperatives or
nominal groups, whereas the real-line arrow represents the way in which reader
Figure 15.5 Voice interaction in multimodal EFL textbook discourse.
Multimodal Engagement Resources 241
voice interpolates editor voice via jointly-constructed text. The arrows between
editor voice and character voice show that dialog balloon and illustration
introduce character voice into the otherwise monoglossic texts,while editor voice
intrudes itself into character’s visual story or verbal recount by attaching labels in
verbal texts. As for the interaction between character voice and reader voice, a
character may undertake the responsibility of instructing the reader via dialog
balloon, whereas reader voice is engaged in the co-construction of multimodal
text in which character voice often provides the visual communicative setting.
The multimodal engagement devices, along with other semiotic resources, work
in concert to construe the heteroglossic harmony in EFL textbook discourse.
5 Summary
I have analyzed and discussed the multimodal resources for the management of
heteroglossic space in multimodal EFL textbook discourse. Four types of
multimodal resources have been identiﬁed as the engagement devices encoding
engagement meanings. To be speciﬁc, the practice of labeling in multimodal
texts signals the intrusion of editor voice, thus encoding the engagement
meaning of“proclaim.”Dialog balloons and illustrations bring in character voice
and a given proposition or viewpoint is thus attributed to the character(s).
Jointly-constructed texts open up the space for dialogic alternatives,contributing
to the construal of an ideal or putative readership.
In addition to the identiﬁcation of engagement resources, voice interaction
has also been examined in relation to contact/observe, social distance and point
of view. It is found that the character’s eye contact with the reader is only
established in those images where the character gives directions and requires
actions from the reader. The diﬀerent choices of social distance indicate various
types of relationship between the character(s) inside the picture frame and the
reader who observes them. Moreover, the interpolation of characters’ accounts
for the adoption of the frontal and eye-level angle in most of the images. Based
on the investigations above, a triangle involving editor voice, reader voice, and
character voice is set up, demonstrating the roles of multimodal engagement
devices in the play of multiple voices in multimodal EFL textbook discourse.
Drawing upon the engagement system and a social semiotic approach to
visual images,this semiotic exploration has sought,albeit brieﬂy,to suggest ways
in which semiotic resources function to realize various kinds of heteroglossia. It
is hoped to shed some light on the understanding of dialogic process in
multimodal pedagogic context.
242
1 Introduction and rationale
The measurement and quantiﬁcation of reading as a perceptive and cognitive
process is made possible by technological developments in eye-tracking devices
(Rayner 1998; Crowe and Narayanan 2000; Cowen et al. 2002; Jacob and Karn
2003; Holmqvist et  al. 2011). Although the eye-mind hypothesis (Just and
Carpenter 1980; Holmqvist et al. 2011) does not endorse an unconditional link
between physical movement and mental activity, using eye movements to reﬂect
on-the-spot attention has proven to be a substantial and reliable methodology to
bridge the gap between oculomotor cue and cognitive activity (Henderson 1992;
Rayner 1998; Graesser et al. 2005).
This chapter aims to build on a previous systemic functional theory (SFT)-
based multimodal study of meaning-making in Japanese shonen manga by
relating meaning-making in manga reading to readers’eye movements (seeYang
and Webster 2015).1
Even without standard eye-tracking equipment, Ingulsrud
and Allen (2009),who adopted simpliﬁed eye-tracing methods in surveys,found
that the verbal contents in manga, compared to graphics, were less likely to be
skipped. Later research that applied eye tracking to comics reading has focused
on certain aspects of manga as visual art such as panel sequencing (Cohn 2013)
and participant identiﬁcation (Jain et al. 2012). These studies have opened up
new possibilities for incorporating eye-tracking methodology into the study of
visual discourse, but have not scrutinized the ways in which meaning is weaved
and organized inside manga panels.2
Entering the third phase of eye-movement study (Rayner 1978, 1998),
researchers have gradually turned their foci of research from traditional text to
16
Meaning-making in Multimodal Visual
Narrative: Patterns of Visual Weaving
YANG, Xiran (ᶘ㘅❦) & Jonathan J.Webster
City University of Hong Kong
243
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
244
multisemiotic reading materials which accommodate diversiﬁed visual targets
such as written texts, images, and real-world scenes (see Henderson 1992, 2003;
Henderson and Hollingworth 1998; Henderson et al. 1999; Hyönä 2010). This is
exactly where the present study becomes feasible and timely—to shed some light
on the multimodal meaning making and comprehending against the backdrop
of a sub-genre of widely read and enjoyed comics.
In recent years, eye-tracking experiments have largely been carried out in
studies related to pedagogical applications such as measuring the eﬃciency of
multisemiotic instructional materials (Graesser et al. 2005; Boucheix and Lowe
2010;de Koning et al. 2010).Owing to recent progress in eye-tracking equipment
as well as software support,it is now possible to not only record but also to replay
the readers’ eye movements during eye-tracking sessions (van Gog and Scheiter
2010). However, there are two crucial diﬀerences between studying multimedia
learning and comics reading.
Firstly, the standard of understanding is diﬀerent. Multimedia learning
usually aims at memorization and application of certain knowledge that is
conveyed by the reading material. The standard of understanding could be
equalized to participants’ capability of solving related questions. With comics,
however,the absorption of information is subjected to the reader’s individualized
needs in reading for fun.There is hardly a model answer that is standardized and
comprehensive enough to measure every aspect of understanding a manga story.
Secondly, the purpose of reading is diﬀerent. Reading learning material exerts a
sense of mission on the participants to learn something new and may evoke in
them greater eﬀort and engagement.As was found to be the case in early studies,
such task-related factors may lead to diﬀerences in eye-moving patterns (Yarbus
1967). However, reading comics for entertainment is supposed to be a relaxed
activity.
Moreover, it should be noted that eye tracking in multimedia learning has an
underlying purpose: to identify the optimal cognitive processing pattern which
could be manipulated by visually cueing or training the readers. In comics
reading, however, it might not be necessary to look for the most eﬃcient way
possible to cover everything.
Considering the particularity of comics as experimental material and multiple
factors that may aﬀect results such as gender-age matching and individualized
preference, a case study instead of a group study has been carried out in order to
(a) gather empirical data for tentative analysis and theorization under the SFT
framework, and (b) minimize the discrepancies brought about by individual
diﬀerence.
Meaning-making in Multimodal Visual Narrative 245
2 A short review of literature on earlier
eye-tracking researches
2.1 Key concepts in eye tracking
Eye movements reﬂect the pattern in which a normal reader’s eyes move across
a certain page or screen. While diﬀerent readers have diﬀerent reading habits
and may display varied eye-moving patterns, some phenomena reﬂected by eye
trackingareuniversal,amongwhichsaccadeandﬁxationplaythemostimportant
roles. Following Gilchrist (2011: 85): “Saccades are fast ballistic movements of
the eye. A saccade is followed by a ﬁxation—a period of time when the eye is
relatively stationary and useful visual information is gathered.”
Fixation is essential to analyzing eye movement since “acuity and color
sensitivity [in human vision] are greatest at the point of ﬁxation and fall oﬀ
rapidly as visual eccentricity increases” (Henderson 2011: 593). In viewing
pictures or scenes, information is gathered through ﬁxating on certain parts of
the target. Saccade itself is jerky and rapid, with comparatively little information
being absorbed.Yet the saccadic length,direction,and landing point (ﬁxation) are
useful in reﬂecting the viewer’s mental activity (see Gilchrist 2011; Ludwig 2011).
Under diﬀerent experimental conditions,the range and frequency of saccades
together with the number and duration of ﬁxations are basic variables reﬂecting
the patterns of readers’ attention. Secondary measures may be produced by
performing relevant calculation and comparison (e.g.percentage,rate) or adding
constraints (e.g. interest area) on saccades and ﬁxations (Jacob and Karn 2003).3
In recent years, eye tracking as a valuable methodology that accurately and
objectively records human eye movements has been used in diﬀerent ﬁelds such
as reading research (Rayner 1998; Liu 2005), language processing (Allopenna
et al. 1998; Dussias 2010), multimedia learning (de Koning et al. 2010; Mayer
2010), and neuroscience (Katsanis et al. 1997; Ettinger et al. 2005; McDowell
et al. 2011).
2.2 Eye-tracking data analysis: top-down and bottom-up
Admittedly, various target materials and diﬀerent research questions and
concerns will highlight miscellaneous aspects of data analyses, and will deﬁne
the guiding principles according to speciﬁc research purposes, yet a recurrent
dichotomy underlies this issue which has been frequently labeled as top-down
and bottom-up (approaches).
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
246
Goldberg et al. (2002: 51) deﬁnes the top-down approach as eye-tracking data
analyses that“start with a cognitive or other goal-driven internal model,then use
eye tracking results to conﬁrm or deny aspects of the model,”and the bottom-up
approach as analyses that “attempt to develop behavioural inferences, starting
from model-free eye tracking derived data.” In practical studies, the top-down
approach may have implications for memory, domain knowledge, and certain
cognitive schemas, while the bottom-up approach may center on the stimulus
presented to subjects and their perceptual processes (Henderson 2003; Canham
and Hegarty 2010; Gilchrist 2011).
It is possible to rely on only one approach in interpreting data. Yet, however
variable and particularized the meaning of top-down and bottom-up analyses
may be in a speciﬁc research context, they are mutually dependent in helping
disclose the relation between eye movements and mental activities. In this study,
SFT as a top-down framework will be guiding the integration and inference of
eye movement data, and the patterns displayed by bottom-up eye-moving data
will provide feedback to the theoretical framework.
3 Top-down framework of the present study
3.1 SFT-based top-down framework
Systemic functional theory, pioneered by Halliday (1994a, 2002a, 2002b) and
further developed by other scholars (see Halliday and Hasan 1985/1976; Caﬀarel
et al. 2004; Hasan et al. 2007; Halliday andWebster 2014),has been widely applied
in multimodal study and other related researches (Kress and van Leeuwen 2001,
2002, 2006; O’Halloran 2004; Jones and Ventola 2008; Martin and Rose 2008;
Huang and Archer 2014). SFT studies how people use language to mean (Martin
and Rose 2008), adopting a metafunctional approach toward the study of
language, which takes into account the ideational (experiential and logical),
interpersonal, and textual (or more commonly referred to as compositional in
multimodal studies) metafunctions of language (Halliday 1994a, 2002a, 2002b).
According to Yang and Webster (2015) where manga analyses have been
conducted within SFT framework, the experiential metafunction in manga is
realized by a range of components in diﬀerent modes: image, eﬀect line,
onomatopoeia, word, etc. (Figure 16.1). The world of a comic story is diﬀerent
from the realistic world. The time-space system of the story can be termed as
diegetic to distinguish it from that of reality (Bordwell & Thompson 2008).4
Meaning-making in Multimodal Visual Narrative 247
Along the multimodal cline consisting of various manga components, the
more verbal elements (that mainly perform symbolic function) such as words
and onomatopoeias (+DTL) display a stronger connection to diegetic time lapse
as they represent on spot conversation and other physical action or sound.5
On
the other hand,the more graphic elements (that mainly perform iconic function)
such as images and emblems (−DTL) do not incur direct perception of diegetic
time. The manga components marked as +DTL can be further understood as
conveying narrative information, whereas those with −DTL property impart
descriptive information.
The logical metafunction that forms the inner structure amongst diﬀerent
components is realized through two-dimensional positioning. The relative
positions of diﬀerent elements: emitting, accompanying, or backdropping,
indicate their logical correlation (subordinate, adjunctive, or circumstantial).
The elements connected by 2D-positioning formulate meaningful modules,
which are usually intra-panel meaning-bearing units but may stretch over
multiple panels. A typical example of meaningful module may include a sayer,
his/her verbiage inside a balloon (usually with a tail pointing to the sayer), and
(sometimes) a listener (Figure 16.2).
The compositional metafunction is in charge of the coherence and cohesion
of a comic work through establishing a consistent diegetic space both intra-
panelly and inter-panelly.Within panels cohesive devices such as ellipsis can be
used to imply unchanged locale of the story; outside panels, the shape of the
panel frame is used to indicate ﬂashback or other modes of narration.
Taking diﬀerent levels of visual representations, a step further would render
a map of stratiﬁcation in comics, which is typically modeled as “nested co-
tangential circles” in SFT (Martin and Rose 2008: 29). The typical stratiﬁcation
of language consists of phonology, lexicogrammar and discourse semantics
(ibid.), with phonology as the lowest core. Manga as a multimodal discourse is a
Figure 16.1 Multimodal continuum/cline of manga (braces indicate the possibility
of balloons) (Yang and Webster, 2015).
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
248
system of meaning,but instead of speech sounds or phonology,visual contrast is
the fundamental expression—perceptible visual contrasts (monochromatic or
chromatic, paper-printed, or digitalized) function as distinguishing features of
visual meaning and enable comics to function as a meaning bearing medium
(Figure 16.3).
Figure 16.2 A meaningful module in manga (Oda 2013/1997: 70).
Figure 16.3 Stratiﬁcation of manga/comics as a multimodal discourse.
Meaning-making in Multimodal Visual Narrative 249
Mode, as a higher stratum, refers to how scrambled lines and shapes are
recognized as diﬀerent elements of meaning-making semiotics. In manga,
diﬀerent modes can be arranged along a multimodal cline,stretching from Image
to Word. Each element may function by itself or with other elements (of same or
diﬀerent modes) to build larger units—meaningful modules. The interpretation
of meaningful module is crucial to understanding manga stories, which consists
of multiple meaningful modules along an overriding diegetic time line.
The metafunctional structure of manga echoes features of narrative in general.
According to Bordwell and Thompson (2008: 75), time, space, and cause-eﬀect
relationship are all integral to the deﬁnition of narrative, and the systemic
functional inspection of manga has made possible a more comprehensive
account for manga as a functional multimodal narrative (Table 16.1).
An SFT framework has guided this empirical case study to gather ﬁrst-hand
data that could reﬂect eye-moving patterns of reading multimodal narrative.The
methodology of eye tracking has been applied to record reading activity with
Japanese manga as stimuli. Other methods such as interview and questionnaire
have also been used when necessary to make the data set speciﬁc for carrying
out qualitative as well as quantitative analyses. A single case is not suﬃcient for
conclusive and comprehensive results, but nonetheless demonstrates the
appliability of SFT in guiding and interpreting eye-tracking data analyses.
3.2 Bottom-up data analysis
3.2.1 Online and oﬄine data
Hyönä (2010: 173) points out the following widely-held concern about eye-
tracking method: “Even though it provides highly valuable information (i.e.,
about what is perceived as task-relevant) it does not as such tell the researcher
anything about the success or failure of comprehending the relevant piece of
information.” In practice, uncertainty over the degree of comprehension is
usually compensated for by conducting diﬀerent types of performance measures
Table 16.1 The formation of the texture of manga (Yang and Webster 2015)
Metafunctions echoing with the key features of narrative
diegetic time lapse—temporal—experiential metafunction complemented and
interconnected by
interpersonal
metafunction
2D-positioning—cause-eﬀect—logical metafunction
diegetic locale—spatial—compositional metafunction
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
250
according to the speciﬁc needs of the experiment. The performance tests or
other types of data collected together with eye-tracking tasks could be termed as
oﬄine in contrast to the eye-movement data which is online (see Hyönä 2010;
Canham and Hegarty 2010; Henderson et al. 1999).
In the present case study, the online data consists of eye-movement records
and statistics.The oﬄine data that helps ensure the reliability and authenticity of
the experiment includes a pre-experiment questionnaire that investigates the
participant’s familiarity with manga reading and a short follow-up interview that
explores the participant’s degree of comprehension and appreciation of manga
as reading material.
There are basically two reasons why an interview instead of a gradable test is
carried out as oﬄine complement in this study: ﬁrst, information such as
personal preference and introspective understanding of manga reading obtained
through interview will be useful in interpreting eye movements in a more
speciﬁc manner; second, the way to interpret a certain manga story varies and
the researcher is in no position to prescribe a so-called “correct” way of
understanding manga.
4 Case study
4.1 Method
The respondent was a male Japanese undergraduate exchange student who likes
manga and has abundant experience in reading diﬀerent genres of manga. The
stimuli included two sets of manga pages and one set of manga panels. Excerpts
from Japanese manga books were scanned into the computer and adjusted for
the use of the experiment.6
Pages or panels from one manga story were arranged
in sequence and programmed as a single set of stimuli to be read in one recording
session.
There are three sets of stimuli altogether: setA consists of whole pages of a part
of Hunter X Hunter (Togashi 1998/2012); set B consists of sequential panels from
One Piece (Oda 1997/2013); set C consists of whole pages of an excerpt from Liar
Game (Kaitani 2005/2010).7
While sets A and B are typical Japanese shonen
manga, set C is youth manga and includes more verbal contents.8
The length of
each set varied from ten pages to around thirty, depending on the contents of the
story. Eﬀorts were made to make the short excerpts as unambiguous as possible
so that no new character or confusing setting abruptly appeared.
Meaning-making in Multimodal Visual Narrative 251
4.2 Procedure
The respondent, who was unaware of the nature and the purpose of the eye-
tracking experiment, ﬁrst ﬁlled in a questionnaire that evaluated his familiarity
with manga and general preference for genre of comics/manga.9
The respondent
was then shown the instructions. A mock test was carried out before the actual
recording to help ensure the data quality.10
After the recordings, the respondent
was asked to take part in a short semi-open interview which checked his
understanding of manga and his personal preferences in manga reading.
4.3 Results and discussion of online data11
4.3.1 General statistics
On the level of experiential metafunction,the salience of foregrounded narrative
elements (+DTL) as well as descriptive ones (−DTL) is demonstrated by ﬁxation
patterns. On the logical and compositional level, the texture of meaningful
modules is materialized by saccadic movements. The following table contains
basic statistics for each set (Table 16.2).
Table 16.2 Basic measures of the three sets
Set Average
duration per
page (ms)
Average
ﬁxation count
per page
Average
ﬁxation
duration (ms)
Average
interest area
count per page
A (pages) 12270.00 35.23 302.74 4.46
B (panels) 6268.18 18.88 292.69 2.58
C (pages) 22539.67 60.83 305.80 10.17
In general, more ﬁxations are made on one page than on one panel, but not
proportionately—one panel usually takes up ¹⁄₅ to ¼ of one page, but the total
ﬁxation number was only reduced by half in shonen manga sets. This may have
been due to the enlargement of the panel, which made it easier for the reader to
look at the ﬁner details of each panel. Thus it is possible to acquire a higher level
of engagement with the reader by using larger panels.
4.3.2 Experiential layer: towards the verbal end of the multimodal cline
Verbal elements impart narrative information. Since set A, B, and C are from
worksbythreediﬀerentauthors,theidiosyncraticdiﬀerencealoneisconsiderable.
However, while diﬀerent authors have used varying amounts of purely
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
252
descriptive/graphic panels (44 percent in A, 0 percent in B, 6 percent in C), they
have structured narrative panels similarly: 77 percent of the +DTL panels in A,
92 percent in B and 86 percent in C all have verbal texts (diegetic or extra-
diegetic) in upper-right or upper-central positions of the panel. This means the
reader is expected to ﬁrst look at the textual elements in the panel according to
the reading sequence of Japanese manga.
To acquire detailed information on the respondent’s eye movements when it
comes to verbal parts, all the verbal elements (with or without balloons of various
shapes) have been deﬁned as interest areas (IAs) in data analysis.12
The area of
verbal elements, which is a combined outcome of verbal length and verbal
typography,showsapositivecorrelationwiththenumberof ﬁxationsintheinterest
area and holds through all three sets (statistically signiﬁcant at the 0.01 level).Yet
the weight of verbal components relies not only on the correlation between IA area
and ﬁxation count, but also on the percentage of ﬁxations on IAs of one page in
comparison to all the ﬁxations on the page and the area percentage of the IAs
(Table 16.3). The data obtained indicates that verbal areas attract ﬁxations more
than non-verbal areas,and ﬁxation density peaks on verbal components in manga.
Table 16.3 Percentage of interest area ﬁxations (average)
Set Overall IA ﬁxation
percentage
IA area percentage
(average on one
page)
Fixation density ratio (ﬁxation
density in interest areas : overall
ﬁxation density)
A 88% 7% 7.44
B 98% 23% 2.77
C 87% 18% 3.92
4.3.3 Experiential layer: towards the graphic end of the multimodal cline
The analysis of eye movements on descriptive elements(−DTL) was carried out
using eye track images and ﬁxation maps.13
Among foregrounded graphic elements,the most common agents are animate
ones, namely the characters in the story. Certain patterns are evident from the
examination of the ﬁxations which fell on animate agents. For an agent whose
full body was depicted in manga, the ﬁxations were mostly directed to the head.
There were occasions when ﬁxations fell on other parts of the body, and when
they did,there was a high probability that the agent was presented as descriptive,
namely, with few or no accompanying +DTL elements such as verbiage or
onomatopoeia (Figure 16.4).14
Meaning-making in Multimodal Visual Narrative 253
In those instances where the body of an agent was not shown, but the head or
face was present, the respondent’s ﬁxations largely fell on the character’s facial
area. Faces are typically co-presented with +DTL elements such as verbal
balloons as a common way of depicting conversation. Compared to purely
descriptive images, ﬁxations on images that appear with verbal elements tend to
fall in a smaller range with a relatively low density (Figure  16.5). There are
exceptions, however: for example, when a certain part of a face is exaggerated
(e.g. an oversized mouth, etc.), ﬁxations increase in number and become more
dispersed.
Among all the images,faces appear to be more powerful in attracting ﬁxations.
In set A, 71 percent of the faces were ﬁxated; in set B, the percentage was
Figure 16.4 Fixations away from the character’s head (Togashi 1998/2012: 20).
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
254
87 percent; in set C 75 percent.15
Such results are in line with what has been
found when viewing real-world scenes, where the face provides an important
clue for the viewer to grasp the meaning of the scene (Castelhano et al. 2007). In
this study of manga, it has also been noticed that faces accompanied by speech
balloons were skipped more often than purely graphic faces.Since the respondent
has no problem understanding the ﬂow of the story (known from oﬄine data),
one possibility is that the verbal information was suﬃcient for understanding
the scene, and the respondent was able to tell the identity of the speaking
character without ﬁxating on them.
In general, the respondent has demonstrated high eﬃciency in processing
images when reading manga.Such performance reminds us of real-world scene/
picture viewing, where the scene could usually be understood through a single
eye ﬁxation (VanRullen and Thorpe 2001; Henderson 2011).While manga pages
are far from realistic in most cases, the iconic nature of graphic elements and
recurrent graphic contents (e.g. the same character) are likely to make visual
processing easy on the reader’s part.
For backgrounded graphics, which mainly function on the compositional
level and contribute to coherence and cohesion, ﬁxations were much scarcer.
While sporadic ﬁxations could be found on detailed backgrounds, almost no
ﬁxation fell on elliptical backgrounds.In processing visual information,“eﬃcient
performance requires an attention mechanism that selects features from the
possible locations and suppresses features from irrelevant locations” (Geisler
and Cormack 2011: 440). The scarcity of ﬁxation on backgrounds implies that
the respondent has been able to distinguish foregrounded information from
backgrounded information.
Figure 16.5 Fixations on verbal elements and graphic elements in +DTL modules
(Togashi 1998/2012: 21, 24).
Meaning-making in Multimodal Visual Narrative 255
4.3.4 Experiential layer: towards the center of the multimodal cline
The distribution of ﬁxations reveals salience at both ends of the multimodal cline,
but whatever falls in between verbal elements and graphic elements awaits further
examination.Basedonthecurrentdata,onomatopoeiaandeﬀectlineareexamined.
Onomatopoeias which are common in shonen manga are intrinsically verbal
but come in stylistic and transformed shapes. However, the ﬁxation pattern on
onomatopoeia is diﬀerent from that on verbal text,even though the ﬁxation rate on
onomatopoeia is not low (67 percent for set A and 61 percent for set B). The
ﬁxations on verbal text have a more complete coverage, while the ﬁxations on
onomatopoeias resemble those on graphics and usually have a limited coverage.
For example, an onomatopoeic expression would only receive ﬁxation on one or
two of its characters (usually the initial and the middle characters).Thus,despite its
inherent textual nature, onomatopoeia is viewed more like graphic elements than
verbalelements.Thismightbeexplainedbytherelativelymonotonousinformation
and predictable relevance to the context carried by onomatopoeic words—almost
always related to sound or manner, and from a relatively small repertoire.16
Eﬀect lines are less graphic than images yet may still perform iconic function,
and roughly coincide with the DTL zero point along the multimodal cline. Their
DTL values are dynamic or sometimes even ambiguous. Eﬀect lines usually
accompany agents or actions, and add dynamism to otherwise static images. They
are partly symbolic but not arbitrary,substantiating certain features (trace,speed,or
momentum) of the agents or actions.Yet throughout this case study,the respondent
never ﬁxated on eﬀect lines despite their slightly higher frequency of appearance
than onomatopoeias (there are sporadic cases where ﬁxation fell on elements
superimposed with eﬀect lines). The eﬀect lines, where present, have never been
regarded as a piece of information that deserves deliberate visual processing.
Therefore, at least in this respondent’s reading experience, eﬀect lines were
backgrounded. However, the eﬀect lines may have been processed by parafoveal
sight and their function could still be justiﬁed on the logical and compositional
levels (Reilly and Radach 2006; Schotter et al. 2014).
4.3.5 Logical layer: saccadic realization of 2D-positioning
In eye movement data, ﬁxations stand for discrete attentional foci that fall on
diﬀerent components; saccades occur between ﬁxations and connect discrete foci
sequentially.In other words,logical relations are mainly reﬂected by saccades in eye-
movement recordings.According to SFT-based interpretation of Japanese comics,
the most common forms of 2D-positioning are shown in the following table (4).
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
256
In this study, saccades happen within, as well as in between, components. The
more accurate statement would be: logical relations are mainly reﬂected by inter-
componential saccades (usually visibly longer) in eye movements.
Emittingandpointing2D-positions,whichservetoconnectsayerstoverbiages,
are seen everywhere in comics.According to the data, the respondent would read
through the verbal balloons ﬁrst and then follow the balloon tails to the speaking
characters. Wherever more than one speech balloon was interrupted by
foregrounded images, the most deterministic factor of reading sequence seemed
to be the relative positions of the components inside a panel: the respondent
would read through each component (with diﬀerent ﬁxation patterns) along the
line of general reading sequence of Japanese comics (right to left, up to bottom).
Surrounding or splitting 2D-positions are realized by saccadic moves that
target the surrounding or split components such as onomatopoeic expressions.
These components provide circumstantial information and are usually placed
nearby the images that are agents of the narration or description. Backdropping
and overlapping 2D-positions, like the backgrounded information discussed in
the previous section, are not visited by conspicuous eye movements in this case.
They are probably neglected or have been processed by the respondent using
peripheral attention.
To sum up, logical relations in Japanese shonen manga that are materialized
by saccadic movements have the most prominent form in connecting speech
balloons to their speakers, and circumstantial messages to their attributants. The
sequence in which the participant conducts saccades is decided by the logical
relations among the components as well as the relative positions of the
components inside a panel.
4.3.6 Saccadic reﬂection of meaningful modules
Meaningful modules are groups of components that are logically connected and
physically adjacent. Meaningful modules go beyond 2D-positioning, which
could be piecemeal and fragmented, and form consecutive scenes within the
Table 16.4 2D-positioning: forms and functions (Yang and Webster 2015)
Forms of 2D-positioning Functions
emitting/pointing
backdropping
surrounding/splitting
overlapping
pointing to participant(s);
locating process;
specifying manner;
adding sound eﬀect;
depicting physical relation
Meaning-making in Multimodal Visual Narrative 257
story. Ultimately, the demarcation of meaningful modules is achieved on the
interpersonal level and is left for readers to decide, because (a) there are ﬁner
details in manga that may or may not draw readers’ attention, and (b) how to go
about and visit each component within a module partly depends on personal
reading habit. Simply put, the author has a ﬁnal say in how detailed the story
could be in the process of creating comics, but the author does not get to decide
how detailed the story actually is for each individual reader in each reading.
Through studying panel-based eye movements, we ﬁnd that the respondent
sometimes indicated what might be called closure or boundary of a meaningful
module during reading (McCloud 1994). The respondent did so by revisiting
previously ﬁxated component(s) after having ﬁnished reading all other major
components of the module (Figure 16.6). In some other cases, the respondent
Figure 16.6 Meaningful module closed by revisited component (Oda 1997/2013: 14).
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
258
simply ﬁnished oﬀ without going back, leaving the modular boundary to be
decided naturally by panel frames.
By revisiting modular components, the reader seems to be reinforcing the
logical relationship among them. In Figure 16.6, for example, the respondent’s
saccadic movements could be mapped as follows:
Speech balloon (verbiage) → Character 1 (sayer) → Character 2 (addressee) → Character 1 (sayer)
Even if the addressee has his back turned to the sayer, we can recognize him as
the other interlocutor from his outﬁt, position, and laughing (marked by eﬀect
lines) posture. The respondent’s going back to the sayer could be understood as
the conﬁrmation of the module composition as well as the intra-modular
relationshipof thecomponents.Itmightbesafetospeculatethatif therespondent
found the logical connections dubious, he would linger and search for other
components to close this module before going further.
4.3.7 Interpersonal and compositional layers: reading as
an organic whole
Reading sequence is a set rule for most narrative comic stories and graphic
novels. It is a piece of common knowledge presumed on the readers’ part by
comic artists. Reading sequence thus performs as a guiding principle through
the process of creating comics on the author’s side and digesting comics on the
reader’s side, and stands as a crucial part of interpersonal exchange.
While the artistic appeal—another central reﬂection of interpersonal
metafunction, cannot be easily measured by eye-tracking experiments, reading
sequence has been shown to provide an embracing impetus in the generation of
eye movement patterns in comics reading: even a seemingly chaotic piece of
comics that may be processed in any order would likely be read with orderly eye
movements.
The compositional aspect of meaning-making in manga is also reﬂected by
eye movements. One thing noteworthy in this case study is the absence of
ﬁxation on elliptical backgrounds—the reader appears to have understood the
empty background as a continuation of the previous setting and spares no extra
attention on it.Another indirect reﬂection has to do with the ease with which the
respondent recognizes the characters, for the respondent only needed to make
highly concentrated ﬁxations that have limited coverage on the image to grasp
the identity of the character.
Meaning-making in Multimodal Visual Narrative 259
4.4 Oﬄine data
Following the comprehension test that helped verify the reliability of the data,
the respondent was asked a series of questions to obtain more particular
information on his understanding of eye-tracking material and some of his
usual reading habits. Some of the oﬄine data was reﬂected by the respondent’s
eye movements, such as careful reading of the characters’ lines that led to dense
ﬁxations on textual components, or attention toward characters’ faces was
reﬂected by facial ﬁxations. Apart from the fact that most narrative or +DTL
panels used in eye-tracking session have verbal elements positioned such that
they are the ﬁrst thing along the line of reading sequence, the respondent
exhibited his personal preference for reading texts ﬁrst even if it is the image that
he noticed ﬁrst.
Some of the respondent’s answers, however, did not agree with the online
data. To begin with, the respondent said he would read emblems, but there was
no ﬁxation found on emblems in the data. It is possible that the respondent saw
emblems as part of the image and absorbed the general impression rather than
seeing them as independent symbols.
Another discrepancy between online and oﬄine data is the attention directed
to backgrounds. As discussed in previous parts, backgrounds have not been
much ﬁxated in online data. However, the respondent was positive that he does
read backgrounds. This may be justiﬁed by the large amount of information the
viewer is capable of taking in with a single ﬁxation (Henderson 2011),but should
be better explained with more speciﬁcally targeted eye-tracking tasks.
5 Conclusion: top-down and bottom-up combined
for a more comprehensive interpretation
5.1 Fixational patterns
Based on this case study as well as the SFT-based theoretical framework which
has highlighted the importance of words and images for narrative and descriptive
information respectively,it would be safe to infer that for most manga readers,the
general tendency to ﬁxate will increase towards both ends of the multimodal cline.
Fixations mostly fall on foregrounded components in manga, and usually
multiple ﬁxations would fall on one piece of manga component, forming a
ﬁxation group. It has been observed from this case that diﬀerent types of manga
components attract ﬁxations (groups) of diﬀerent nature (Table 16.5).17
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
260
The ﬁxation groups on words are dense along extended texts and cover a wide
range of the verbal component. Since they follow a conventionalized reading
path of text, their positions are more predictable than those of graphic elements.
Fixation groups on graphic elements in +DTL modules are more concentrated
and cover a comparatively small portion of the image while ﬁxations on graphic
elements in −DTL modules,which mainly perform descriptive function,usually
appear to be more dispersed within the bound of the image, with their landings
being less regular. Fixations on onomatopoeia are sparse and only directed to
certain part(s) of the element.
5.2 Saccadic patterns
Unlike ﬁxation which mainly functions intra-panelly and on the experiential
level, saccade reﬂects meaning-making in experiential, compositional as well as
interpersonal levels (Diagram 16.1). In this study, there has been a major
distinction between inbound saccades and outbound saccades in terms of the
typological relation between saccades and manga elements underneath
(Table 16.6).
Inbound saccades occur within the boundaries of each component of manga
and serve to connect ﬁxations within the same ﬁxation group. They could be
seen as forming texture of eye movements on a certain type of component—on
verbals the saccades are more compact and orderly than those on graphics,
helping reinforce the sequentiality of the ﬁxational pattern.
Outbound saccades occur across the boundaries of diﬀerent components and
serve to establish connections among diﬀerent elements (ﬁxation groups).
Table 16.5 Features of ﬁxations for diﬀerent manga components
Manga components Fixational pattern
First landing Coverage Distribution Sequentiality
Word (diegetic and
extradiegetic)
Regular High Dense with
high coverage
High
Onomatopoeia Less regular Mid Sparse Mid
Image in +DTL
modules
Regular for
characters (on
head/face)
Low Concentrated
with low
coverage
Mid
Image in −DTL
modules
Irregular Mid Dispersed Low
Meaning-making in Multimodal Visual Narrative 261
Outbound saccades could be further divided into intra-panel saccades and
inter-panel saccades. Intra-panel outbound saccades usually glue meaningful
modules together, endowing diﬀerent elements/modes diﬀerent logical roles;
inter-panel outbound saccades cross panel boundaries and reﬂect the direction
of diegetic time ﬂow as well as the ﬂow of“conversation”between the author and
the reader.
The pattern of saccadic movement is not solely determined by logical relations
among diﬀerent components, but is also inﬂuenced by interpersonal factors
such as reading sequence and conventional arrangement of the components
within a panel.
5.3 Eye-movement reﬂection of metafunctional and
multilevel meaning-making
Through examining eye-movement data, the ways in which the reader of manga
interprets diﬀerent modes of components and their relations have been reported
and discussed. It seems that at least for the present case study, the reader has
displayed an intuitive yet highly accurate and economical ability in decoding
manga as a type of multimodal discourse. The corresponding relations between
multilevel meaning-making of manga based on SFT and eye movements are
summarized in Diagram 16.1.
What remains an important topic in eye movement study (especially in
viewing real-world scenes) is the degree to which eye movements are determined
by the properties of stimulus (color, lighting, etc.) versus top-down factors
such as the overall meaning of the given scene and the purpose of viewing/
reading (Henderson 2003). Reading visual narrative is diﬀerent from viewing
realistic scenes. However, the graphic components in manga also carry
Table 16.6 Saccades on diﬀerent metafunctional levels
Type of saccade Shape Function Level(s) of function
Inbound Comparatively
short; zigzag
Interconnects a ﬁxation
group
Experiential
(Outbound)
Intra-panel
Comparatively
medium-length;
linking
Establishes logical
relations among
diﬀerent components
Logical; interpersonal
(Outbound)
Inter-panel
Comparatively
long; trajectory
Provides
compositional clue
Compositional;
interpersonal
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
262
similarities with real-world scenes. So far this case study has initiated a
functionally based discussion of this topic.
Within the context of reading manga, the properties of stimulus are
concentrated in its multimodal composition, which is established through a mix
of iconicity, symbolization and other tunnels that generate interpretation in the
reader’s mind. In this case study, some of the properties of stimulus have been
reﬂected by the respondent’s ﬁxational patterns on diﬀerent modality. More
importantly,with the metafunctional framework of SFT,this study has provided
concrete evidence of the ways in which top-down factors guide and help interpret
the reader’s overt eye movements.
Fixations (groups) function primarily on ideational level and mark the
salience identiﬁed by the reader through discerning and demarcating various
modes. Saccades function on ideational and compositional levels and help
establish logical relations among ﬁxations. Therefore, saccadic patterns could be
interpreted on multiple levels (in/outbound, intra-/inter-panel) which prioritize
diﬀerent metafunctions. The absence of ﬁxation and saccade (economy of eye
movements) reﬂects the compositional organization underlying the reading
process and downplays peripheral information. The reciprocating results
between SFT-based top-down framework and multimodal discourse as bottom-
up stimulus of this study have demonstrated the appliability of systemic
functional theory as a theoretical scaﬀold in organizing and interpreting eye
movement data as well as multimodal visual narrative.
Diagram 16.1 Eye-movement reﬂection of multilevel meaning-making in manga.
Meaning-making in Multimodal Visual Narrative 263
Notes
1 Shonen is the romanized spelling of the Japanese word ቁᒤ (Kana: ǬȜǛȂȨ),
which means teenage boy. Manga (Kanji: ╛⭫, Kana: ȓȨǡ) is the Japanese word
for comics. Content-wise, shonen manga mainly refers to a widely read type of
Japanese comics that features adventurous stories. Following SHUEISHA Inc.’s
requirements, all the manga pages/panels are reproduced with copyright label and
solely for academic study. There is no intention of tampering with the original
manga work, ﬁxations and saccades are only marked for academic purposes.
2 There are atypical panels such as unframed panels in Japanese manga. However, for
the sub-genre (shonen manga) that is being studied here, panels are usually framed
and regularized, so irregular panels or gutters are not considered in this study.
3 Interest area, or area of interest, deﬁnes (usu. smaller) regions in the stimulus that
the researcher is interested in gathering more detailed or more speciﬁc data
(Holmqvist et al. 2011: 187).
4 The concept of diegesis is especially important in discussing the language used in
visual narrative. See Yang and Webster (2015) for detail.
5 DTL stands for Diegetic Time Lapse in the manga story, and the“+/−” mark
indicates the presence/absence of DTL (see Yang and Webster 2015 for detail).
6 The adjustments of the scanned pages include page division, adjustment of contrast
ratio, adjustment of brightness, adjustment of ﬁle background and ﬁle type.
7 The panels were ampliﬁed for easier view but their shape and original proportion in
one page were reserved.
8 While shonen manga is usually understood as teenager comics, youth manga usually
targets young people around/above twenty. The purpose of including youth’s manga
is to prevent the respondent from assuming that this study is about a particular
manga genre.
9 Only someone who is experienced in manga reading would be asked to do eye-
tracking recording.
10 During the eye-tracking recording, the head of the respondent was held still by a
chin holder. The stimuli were displayed at 1024×768 pixels (resolution). The refresh
rate of the screen was 85 Hz.
11 All decimals in this study are rounded to two decimal places (percentages shown as
integers).
12 In the present study, interest areas will mainly be referring to the verbal components
of manga. The boundaries are determined as such that (a) all verbal contents are
covered, (b) shape of speech balloon is reﬂected, and (c) certain margin area for
unframed verbal elements is reserved.
13 Eye track image usually shows ﬁxations as dots and saccades as lines. Fixation map
summarizes ﬁxations through coloring. Typically, regions with many ﬁxations are
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
264
highlighted with warmer colors and regions with few ﬁxations are highlighted with
colder colors (Holmqvist et al. 2011).
14 For all ﬁxation/saccade overlay pictures in this study, red circles indicate ﬁxations
and blue lines indicate saccades. There is no intention of tampering with the
original manga work, ﬁxations and saccades are only marked for academic purposes.
15 Here the faces may be with or without body, frontal or proﬁle, complete or partial,
human or inhuman, but the facial expression must be distinguishable.
16 It should be noted, however, that Japanese is rich in onomatopoeia compared to
many other languages such as English (Schodt 1986; Fukuda 1993).
17 All the features summarized in this table only reﬂect this case study and are
described in a comparative sense within this case study. The methods of calculation
are explained as follows: (a) First landing: qualitative calculation based on the feature
of the components and ﬁxational data. First landing regularity refers to the landing
position of the ﬁrst ﬁxation on the component. (b) Coverage: quantitative
calculation based on ﬁxational map, which show ﬁxational coverage page by page
and are automatically generated as a part of eye movement data. (c) Distribution:
quantitative calculation based on ﬁxational data. (d) Sequentiality: qualitative
calculation based on ﬁxational and saccadic data. Sequentiality refers to the
predictability of ﬁxational path on a certain element.
Stylistics
265
266
1 Introduction
Hasan (1989: 94–9) proposes a semiotic model to account for the art of verbal
art,holdingthatitliesinthesymbolicarticulationof themethroughverbalization.
It is our contention that such a model could be revised and employed in the
exploration of the art of multimodal art. Aiming to investigate how symbolic
articulation mediates between theme and verbalization in multimodal texts, this
chapter ﬁrst proposes a revised semiotic model of multimodal art and semiotic
modes, and then introduces the data and the method to be used in the analysis.
On the basis of the analysis, ways of illustrating in terms of image-text relations
and ways of explicating in terms of manners of articulation are ﬁnally discussed.
2 Theoretical framework
2.1 Semiotic model of multimodal verbal art
Systemic functional linguistics holds that language is a multiple coding system,
which consists of three strata: semantics, lexicogrammar and phonology, with
semantics being realized by lexicogrammar and lexicogrammar in turn by
phonology (e.g., Halliday and Matthiessen 1999: 5). Hasan (1989: 96) holds that
verbal art can be theorized as a semiotic system, resembling that of the semiotic
17
Ways of Illustrating and Ways of Explicating:
Multimodal Symbolic Articulation in
Illustrated Shì Shuō Xīn Yu
ˇ1
LIU, Shisheng (ࡈц⭏)
Tsinghua University
SONG, Chengfang (ᆻᡀᯩ)
University of International Business and Economics
267
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
268
model of language as proposed above. The lowest stratum of the semiotic model
of verbal art is verbalization, which means that a literary text is like any
other text: the reader knows the meanings encoded in it through knowing the
language; while the stratum of theme is “the deepest level of meaning in verbal
art” (Hasan 1989: 97). These two levels interrelate with each other through the
stratum of symbolic articulation, which functions in the semiotic model
of verbal art in a way similar to that of lexicogrammar in language: like a power
generator, it turns the meanings of language into signs having a deeper meaning
(Hasan 1989: 98). This semiotic model of verbal art and language on the one
hand makes clear what accounts for verbal art, and on the other provides an
explanation for the relationship between the understanding of a text and its
thematic articulation.
We contend that a revision of this model, as presented in Figure 17.1, can be
used to explain multimodal art as well, for multimodal texts diﬀer from verbal
texts in that they deploy more than one semiotic mode to make meanings.
2.2 Multimodal literal articulation in narratives
In Hasan’s (1989) model, the meaning of a text which is to be decoded through
understanding language in which the text is written (i.e. the literal meaning of a
text) is termed as verbalization. As the literal meaning of a multimodal
text is construed through language and also other non-verbal modes, we use
a more general term, multimodal literal articulation, to replace
verbalization.
This multimodal literal articulation has its own features. Zhang
and Mu (2012) point out that, although words and images realize a single
text and are mostly complementary to each other, each of them makes its own
Figure 17.1 A semiotic model of multimodal art and semiotic modes.
Ways of Illustrating and Ways of Explicating 269
contribution to the meaning of text. This is especially the case with illustrated
texts, where illustrations are mostly added to verbal texts at a later time.
To add this feature into the semiotic model of multimodal art, we identify
articulations of diﬀerent modes at this bottom level. As will be shown below,
the multimodal texts to be analyzed in this chapter are verbal-pictorial texts.
Therefore,twotypesof articulationareidentiﬁedinFigure 17.1:verbalization
and pictorial articulation, with a double arrow drawn between them to
show their interaction.
Hasan’s (1989) analyses at the level of verbalization generally fall into two
categories: those of structural resources and those of non-structural resources.
And when she analyses short stories, she (1989) also includes what are
traditionally called narrative techniques and devices in her analyses. Although
some of them can be equally accounted for in terms of grammatical notions, for
example, presenting thoughts and speeches in terms of projection, others are
mainly at the discourse level, such as planes of narration. Martin (1992) has
argued that the line drawn between structural and non-structural resources
sometimes unnecessarily classiﬁes into diﬀerent categories resources that
construe the same semantic motif at the level of discourse, failing to provide a
coherent framework for discourse analysis. Therefore, our revised model (see
Figure 17.1) adopts Martin’s (1992) more elaborate language model, which, by
proposing an opposition between grammar and discourse semantics, provides a
more powerful tool to analyse text-oriented resources for making meanings.
2.3 Theme
As deﬁned in Hasan (1989: 97),theme is the meaning of the deepest level and“is
what a text is about when dissociated from the particularities of that text.” By
analogy with the grammatical notion“Theme”in SFL (i.e.Halliday 2004: 64),we
contend that the theme of a text consists of both a thematic topic and a thematic
statement.
2.4 Multimodal symbolic articulation and
semiotic foregrounding
Hasan (1989: 98) holds that the stratum of symbolic articulation in
the semiotic model of verbal art is analogous to that of lexicogrammar in the
semiotic model of language, and deﬁnes the stratum of symbolic articulation as
the place“where the meanings of language are turned into signs having a deeper
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
270
meaning.”Moreover,her analysis (1989:14) also shows that symbolic articulation
diﬀers from lexicogrammar in that it takes the form of non-structural patterns
of foregrounding in making meaning.
Foregrounding has, up to now, been a concept used to analyze verbal texts,
or, at most, monomodal texts, and foregrounded items are identiﬁed through
being compared or contrasted with items at the same level and of the same
rank. Nevertheless, multimodal texts pose challenges to this notion, as the
architecture of a multimodal text consists of several sets of components, which
means that contrast and comparison across modes have to be included in
stylisticians’ agendas to ﬁnd out foregrounding across modes. In fact, studies
on intersemiotic relations in multimodal discourse analysis have proposed
several terms to account for multimodal construal of meaning in multimodal
texts: namely,“resemioticization”(Iedema 2003: 30),“multiplication of meaning”
(Lemke 1998),“semiotic metaphor” (O’Halloran 1999), and “translation” (Kress
and van Leeuwen 2006: 78). By analogy with O’Halloran’s (1999) semiotic
metaphor, we propose to analyze the motivated patterning across modes in
terms of “semiotic foregrounding.” As far as the analysis in this chapter is
concerned, this means that the level of multimodal symbolic articulation has
to take account of three types of foregrounding: verbal foregrounding, visual
foregrounding, and semiotic foregrounding.
3 Method
3.1 Data
The study of multimodal symbolic articulation, the intermediary level of the
three-layered semiotic model, will be easier if the other two strata are constants
or are simple enough to be given a clear account. The illustrated version of Liu
Yiqing’s Shì Shuō Xīn Yu
ˇ published by Zhonghua Book Company in 2007
provides ideal data for such a kind of study.
This version contains all thirty-six sections from the original work, but it
just selects 255 texts from the entire collection. Among the 255 texts, 106 are
illustrated with one or two images, contributing altogether 149 illustrations.
And these illustrations are also of various kinds, including portraits, calligraphy,
wall paintings, and spring festival drawings. Therefore, these texts with their
illustrations are both quantitatively suﬃcient and qualitatively adequate for
exploring ways of multimodal symbolic articulation. Moreover, the title of
each section makes clear the thematic topic of the texts included in each section;
Ways of Illustrating and Ways of Explicating 271
and each text is usually three or four lines long and is convenient to analyze
in full.
3.2 Analysis
Martin’s (1992) discourse semantics theory presents a powerful toolkit for
analyzing verbal texts, and recent developments in multimodal discourse
analysis have also put forward“grammars”of other modes to analyze non-verbal
meaning-makings (e.g. Kress and van Leeuwen 2006) and have devised
frameworks to explore intersemiotic relations in multimodal texts (e.g.Martinec
and Salway 2005). Therefore, we are now equipped with a rich assembly of tools
to conduct detailed multimodal discourse analyses.
Visual analyses are conducted ﬁrst by employing Kress and van Leeuwen’s
(2006) framework, which proposes to analyze images in terms of SFL’s
metafunction theory.However,the visual analyses,due to limitation of space,are
largely conﬁned to the ideational component of images.
Then image-text relations are examined by adopting as the framework
Halliday’s (for example, 2004) theory concerning clause relations and Martinec
and Salway’s (2005) system of image-text relations which is based on Halliday’s
theory for its exhaustiveness and applicability. However, some revisions will be
made as narratives have their own principles,such as“part for whole”as discussed
in Section 4. The analyses in the ﬁrst two steps, taken together, should produce a
summary of the various ways in which illustrations are made.
In a multimodal text, despite their contribution to the overall eﬀect, each
semiotic mode is said to construe meaning independently as well (Royce 1998;
Zhang and Mu 2012). Similarly, they should also articulate their own themes.
Since themes of verbal texts have been identiﬁed, the visual articulation of these
themes is explored as the third step.
And on the basis of the above discussions, ways of multimodal symbolic
articulation will be ﬁnally analyzed.
4 Results
4.1 Ways of illustrating
The preliminary distinction Martinec and Salway (2005) make in analyzing
image-text relations is between image-and-text-independent and image-and-
text-dependent. The analyses of intersemiotic relations show that the two types
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
272
of intersemiotic relations are both employed in the illustrated book. However,
due to limitation of space, only cases where a text and an image are independent
of each other are discussed in this chapter.
4.1.1 Image and text independent, exposition
The ﬁrst type is exposition.As far as the ideational aspect of images is concerned,
Kress and van Leeuwen (2006) propose that a distinction should be made
between narrative and conceptual representations. Images involved in this type
of relation with texts usually have a narrative structure.For instance,Figure 17.2,
entitled“The elder brother ordering his younger brother, Cao Zhi, to compose a
poem,” depicts Cao Zhi (the young man facing the other three) composing a
poematCourtinaccordancewithhisroyalbrother’s(theonesitting)instructions,
and with two other people in their company (the lady is half hidden). The
following is the multimodal text,2
from Section 4“Letters and Scholarship”:
Example 1
Emperor Wen of Wei (Ts’ao (sic.) P’ei (Cao Pi),3
r.  220–6) once ordered the
Prince of Tung-o (Ts’ao Chih) (Cao Zhi) to compose a poem in the time it would
take to walk seven paces. If it was not completed [in time], [a heavy penalty
would be imposed on Cao Zhi]. On the spur of the moment Chih (Zhi) then
composed the following poem:
“Boiled beans are taken to make a soup,
Strained lentils utilized for stock.
While stalks beneath the pot are blazing up,
The beans within the pot are [sobbing].
Originally from the same root grown,
For one to cook the other, why such haste?”
The emperor looked profoundly ashamed (Liu 1976: 126).
Strictly speaking, the illustration only provides a snapshot of the event. If the
strict criteria proposed in Martinec and Salway (2005) are applied, the image
is just related to part of the verbal text, because the detailed instructions,
including a possible penalty, and the poem itself are not included in the image;
consequently, the relation between them is one of “image dependent on text.”
But such an analysis is weird, especially to a native speaker of Chinese,
because other details are like elements that, together with information provided
in the illustration, create a “historical gestalt,” to coin a term. Mei (2004:
Ways of Illustrating and Ways of Explicating 273
Figure 17.2 The elder brother ordering his younger brother, Cao Zhi, to compose a
poem.4
209–16) identiﬁes “part for whole” as a narrative principle in Shì Shuō Xīn Yu
ˇ.
We hold that this principle applies equally to visual narration and thus
analyze the relation in this case as “independent”’ with respect to status and
“exposition” in terms of logico-semantics as they are at the same level of
generality.
In the illustrated edition, this type of illustration is also employed in “Xie An
inviting his relatives to compose poems on snow,” “Xie An playing Weiqi with
others,” and another two stories concerning Zhao Jun and Shi Chang.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
274
4.1.2 Image and text independent, extension
The second type is extension. Images of this type are the same as images of the
ﬁrst type,having a narrative structure,serving to trigger readers’stored historical
knowledge and telling a complete story. This type diﬀers from the ﬁrst one in
that the story is narrated through the image “extending” the verbal story in the
sense of “addition” (Halliday 2004: 378). The following are two examples from
Section 1“Virtuous Conduct” and Section 2“Speech and Conversation.”
Example 2
Wang Hsiang (Wang Xiang) in serving his stepmother, Madam Chu, was
extremely conscientious. There was a plum tree (li) in their home whose fruit was
exceptionally good, and his stepmother always had him protect it. Once when a
storm of wind and rain [came to pass],Hsiang (Xiang) embraced the tree,weeping.
On another occasion Hsiang was sleeping on a separate bed when his
stepmother herself came over and slashed at him in the dark. As it happened,
Hsiang (Xiang) had gotten up to relieve himself and her vain slashing struck
only the bedclothes. After Hsiang (Xiang) returned to the room he realized his
Figure 17.3 Wang Xiang breaking ice to catch carp.
Ways of Illustrating and Ways of Explicating 275
stepmother bore him an implacable resentment and kneeling before her he
begged her to end his life. His stepmother then for the ﬁrst time came to her
senses and loved him ever afterward as her own son. (Liu 1976: 8)
Example 3
When K’ung Jung (Kong Rong) was apprehended,those both inside and outside the
court were panic-stricken.At that time Jung’s (Rong) older son was in his ninth year
and the younger in his eighth. The two boys continued[,] as before[,] their game of
throwing spikes (cho-ting) without the slightest agitation showing in their faces.
Figure 17.4 Liu Bei Rescuing Kong Rong at Beihai.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
276
Jung (Rong) said to the oﬃcer who had come for him,“I trust the punishment
ceases with my own person. May my two sons be spared?”
The sons came forward gravely and said,“Father,would you expect to ﬁnd any
unbroken eggs under an overturned nest?”
In a short while oﬃcers came to apprehend them as well. (Liu 1976: 27)
In the above two examples, each illustration tells a story diﬀerent from the
one narrated verbally. Figure 17.3 shows another of Wang Xiang’s ﬁlial acts of
devotion: his stepmother wanted to eat ﬁsh on an icy winter day, so Wang Xiang
came to the river and decided to melt the thick ice with his body heat; and ﬁnally
when he was almost frozen to death he caught some ﬁsh which leaped out of the
hole under his body. Figure 17.4 depicts a story about Kong Rong from the
Romance of the Three Kingdoms: when he held his position at Beihai, he was
attacked and was in danger; so he pleaded with Liu Bei to save him and Liu Bei
agreed and ﬁnally sent troops and helped him get out of trouble.
Both stories, although related to the verbal ones presented alongside them in
diﬀerent ways, as discussed in the following section, are independent and can
stand alone. This type of illustration is predominant in the 2007 edition, where
about twenty multimodal texts follow this practice. Maybe this is a result of
“intertextuality,” a popular phenomenon in literary work.
4.1.3 Image and text independent, enhancement
The third type is enhancement.Diﬀerent from images in the above two types,the
images in this type belong to the category of conceptual representation.Example
4 from Section 26,“Contempt and Insults” is an instance.
Example 4
After Fu Huang (Fu Hong) had rebelled against the Later Ch’in (384–417) and
returned his allegiance to the Chin (Jin) (in 384), the grand tutor, Hsieh An
(Xie An), often entertained him. Hung (Hong) considered himself to be very
self-conﬁdent and in most cases enjoyed getting the better of other people. On
one occasion there was no one present who could [get the better of] him, but it
happened that Wang Hui-chih (Wang Huizhi) arrived and the grand tutor had
them converse together.Wang merely stared at him for a long time,then,turning,
said to the grand tutor, “He, too, in the end is no diﬀerent from the others.”
Fu withdrew in great embarrassment (Liu 1976: 339–40).
Figure 17.5 is a photo of an ancient tile, which was made and used in the
Early Qin Dynasty. Since the ancient tile is not mentioned in the accompanying
Ways of Illustrating and Ways of Explicating 277
verbal text, we analyze the relation between images and texts in this case as
independent. In his analysis of typography, van Leeuwen (2005) mentions that
written signs sometimes indicate meaning through the principle of discursive
import. It seems that the illustration can be interpreted as denoting a symbolic
process (Kress and van Leeuwen 2006: 105-6), in which the carrier is identiﬁed
by means of its temporal location due to the period from which it, as a sign,
originates.That is,Figure 17.5 makes clear the period in which the story narrated
in the verbal text happened.
4.1.4 Image and text independent, metaphor
Elaboration (of which exposition,discussed in Section 4.1.1,is a type),extension
and enhancement are the three logico-semantic relations proposed in Martinec
and Salway’s (2005) framework. Nevertheless, the 2007 edition also contains
some multimodal texts whose intersemiotic relation can hardly be interpreted as
one of them. Example 5 from Section 1“Virtuous Conduct” is such a case.
Example 5
After Yin Chung-k’an (Yin Zhongkan) had become governor of Ching Province
(Jing Province) (Huan-Hupei) (Hubei), he encountered a shortage of food due to
Figure 17.5 Tiles of the Former Qin.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
278
ﬂoods. His meals always consisted of ﬁve bowls, and there was no extra food
beyond what was in the dishes. If a grain of rice fell between the dishes and the
mat, he would always pick it up and devour it.Although in doing so he wished to
set an example for others,he was also following the true simplicity of his nature.He
would often say to his sons and younger brothers,“Don’t imagine, because I have
accepted oﬃce in the present province, that I have given up my usual attitude of
earlier days.At present the situation in which we are living is not easy,but‘poverty
is the gentlemen’s normal state.’Why should he climb out on [to] the branches and
lose contact with his roots?You [should all] preserve this principle!”(Liu 1976:19).
Like the images discussed in the last section,Figure 17.6 is probably intended to
present another instance in which meaning is created through a symbolic process.
The most obvious interpretation is as follows. The carrier is the Celadon sheep of
the Jin Dynasty, and as a priceless antique, it has the attributes of beauty, elegance,
antiquity, rarity, and so forth. But in the verbal text, neither the carrier nor these
attributes are mentioned.If the two components indeed deﬁne a coherent text,the
relation seems not to be at the logico-semantic level but at a higher level, most
likely that of theme,where a sound interpretation can be made thatYin Zhongkan’s
conduct,just like the Celadon sheep,is beautiful,elegant,and full of ancient virtue.
Therefore, this type of illustration is referred to as “image and text independent,
metaphor.”There are, in fact, other cases of this type in the 2007 edition.
4.2 Ways of multimodal symbolic articulation
Every illustrated text is a new text.So how does the new text articulate its theme?
Figure 17.1 shows that this question needs to be answered by taking into account
Figure 17.6 Celadon sheep from the Jin Dynasty.
Ways of Illustrating and Ways of Explicating 279
two factors: one is the semiotic foregrounding, that is, the patterning of the
patterns of the multimodal text; the other is the theme articulated by each
component.
Semiotic foregrounding,as discussed in Section 2.4,involves comparison and
contrast of items of the same nature across modes. The analysis of image-text
relations in the above section provides a basis for such a type of comparison
and contrast. As text-image relations have been ﬁrstly classiﬁed according to
status relations, multimodal articulation in terms of semiotic foregrounding can
also be divided into two groups. The ﬁrst group can be termed compound
articulation, by analogy with compound words, just as the verbal text and its
illustration, like the components of a compound, can stand alone. The second
group can be referred to as inﬂectional articulation (again a term from
morphology) as in this case either the text or the image is independent with
the other dependent on it. As only cases of image-and-text-independent are
discussed in Section 4.1, only compound articulation is discussed here.
Moreover, another preliminary distinction should be made between identical
and diﬀerent in order to account for the thematic contributions of each mode.
Consequently, compound articulation can be further classiﬁed into duplicate
articulation if the themes articulated by the verbal text and by the image are
identical; and combinational articulation if the themes articulated through the
diﬀerent modes are diﬀerent from each other.
4.2.1 Compound articulation: duplicate
Reduplication is deﬁned as “the repetition of all or part of the radical element”
and regarded as one of the grammatical processes in Sapir (1921: 79). We use it
here to refer to cases in which images and texts are of equal status and articulate
the same theme as discussed above. The foregrounding in this case is achieved
through repetition.
Examples 1 and 2 are two illustrations. But as the analysis of their logico-
semantic image-text relations shows, there are some subtle diﬀerences. In
Example 1, the verbal text and its corresponding illustration narrate the same
story, which shows that Cao Zhi excels in letters, and the duplicate articulation is
that of re-articulation. In Example 2, the verbal text and its illustration, in fact,
tell two diﬀerent stories,which provide two pieces of evidence as toWang Xiang’s
ﬁlial piety. As it is widely accepted that there is an iconic relation between the
quantity of form and the quantity of meaning, that is,“the more form, the more
meaning” (Hiraga 1994: 11), and the duplicate articulation in Example 2 can
be more concisely termed “ampliﬁcation,” if the rhetorical eﬀect is taken into
account.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
280
4.2.2 Compound articulation: combinational
This category diﬀers from the ﬁrst one in that the themes articulated in each
component are diﬀerent. Thus, the foregrounding in this category results from
the diﬀerences.This category,like the ﬁrst one,is also subject to ﬁner distinctions.
Examples 3 and 5 are two illustrations.
The diﬀerence between the verbally articulated theme and the visually
articulated theme in Example 5 is larger than that in Example 3, as the verbal
text is a narrative which reports Yin Zhongkan’s virtuous conduct, while the
image is a photo of a Celadon sheep from the Jin Dynasty. Our previous analysis
has noted that the interpretation of this multimodal text needs to be based
on the parallelism between attributes of the Celadon sheep and those of Yin
Zhongkan’s conduct. That is, the articulation of theme in the multimodal text is
through the interaction of two diﬀerent themes. With reference to Peircean
semiotics (for example,Pharies 1985),we refer to this combinational articulation
as metaphorical articulation.
In Example 3, the diﬀerence is smaller, as both the verbal text and the image
tell stories about the same person, Kong Rong. Nevertheless, the themes of
the two texts are diﬀerent: the verbal story is about his two sons’ unexpected
reaction and artful speech in face of his apprehension, while the visual story is
about how Liu Bei came to his rescue when he held positions in Beihai. Kong
Rong was a great man of letters and was also famous for his righteousness. The
two stories, providing two accounts of his miserable life, make us feel sorry for
him, which in turn makes us admire more his sons’ swiftness and keenness in
understanding the situation and in giving an artful answer. That is, in this case
the visual story facilitates the articulation of the theme, which is, technically
speaking, a scaﬀolding articulation.
In addition to the 4 examples discussed above, there is one more example,
Example 4, in Section  4.1. As the illustration in it just functions to provide
circumstantial information, it does not contribute much to the articulation of
the theme.
5 Concluding remarks
Illustrated classics are now becoming more and more popular. The descriptive
analysisconductedinthischapteronthebasisof visualgrammarandmultimodal
semiotics shows that multimodal texts comprised of verbal texts and illustrations
Ways of Illustrating and Ways of Explicating 281
construe meanings in diﬀerent manners and themes originally explicated only
by verbal texts are, consequently, mostly modiﬁed in one way or another in the
new multimodal texts. A comparison of the two groups of ﬁndings, that is,
the ways of illustrating and those of explicating, reveals that status relations
between images and texts play a more important role than logico-semantics
in identifying ways of illustrating and that ways of explicating are, to a certain
extent, independent of ways of illustrating, which, as contended by Hasan (1989:
98), is perhaps a reﬂection of the loose relationship between theme and
verbalization (i.e. multimodal literal articulation in this chapter).
Notes
1 For Chinese proper names, the system of Hànyu
ˇ Pīnyīn is adopted in this chapter.
In cases where other systems, for example,Wade-Giles, are originally used, their
Pīnyīn counterparts are provided in brackets.
2 The text is originally in Chinese. The English version included in this chapter is
taken from Liu (1976) with some revisions, which are put in square brackets. Liu
(1976) includes many notes giving extensive background information. Readers not
familiar with Chinese culture of the Wei and Jin Dynasties are encouraged to read
these. The position of the image in the multimodal text is not identical with that in
the original text for technical reasons. Other examples follow suit.
3 In this and the following examples, all the Pīnyīn transcripts in brackets are our
own notes.
4 Liu (2007) does not provide any information concerning the illustrations it makes
use of.As most of them are pictures, photos, spring festival drawings, which are
freely available online, we assume that there is no need to obtain permissions to use
them. But if anyone happens to have the copyright of the illustrations used in the
chapter, they are encouraged to contact the authors as soon as possible.
282
Translation
283
284
1 Introduction
As an appliable linguistics or “an appliable kind of linguistics” (Halliday
2012/2013: 150), systemic functional linguistics (SFL) is characterized and
recognized as “a problem-oriented theory” (Halliday 2009b: 61). It has been
designed to identify and solve problems that are related to language and
language use in a social context. As a result, SFL has been applied to many
ﬁelds of studies, including translation. It is an opportunity as well as a challenge
to investigate issues and problems related to translation studies within the
framework of SFL.
For the past years, Halliday has used his theory of language to handle issues
and problems concerning translation studies, especially translations between
Chinese and English. He takes an SFL approach to translation studies and he
believes that the study of translation from a linguistic perspective is impossible
without a theory of language. As early as 1962, in a paper on linguistics and
machine translation, Halliday argued that the description of language and
language use, including translation studies, should need a theory of some kind:
“It is impossible to describe language without a theory, since some theory,
however inadequate,is implicit in all descriptions; but it is quite possible to make
a description that is in practice unsystematic, with categories neither clearly
interrelated nor consistently assigned” (Halliday 1962/2005: 23).
Recent years have witnessed publications of translation studies from an SFL
perspective,such as Halliday (2001,2009c/2013,2012/2013),Matthiessen (2001),
Steiner and Yallop (2001), and Huang (2006), not to mention many other early
18
Searching for Metafunctional
Equivalence in Translated Texts
HUANG, Guowen (哴ഭ᮷)
College of Foreign Studies
South China Agricultural University, P.R. China
285
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
286
studies such as Halliday (1962/2005) and Catford (1965), or SFL-oriented
studies such as Bell (1991).
The literature to date indicates that scholars of diﬀerent ideological, social,
cultural, educational, and professional backgrounds approach translation issues
from many diﬀerent perspectives with diﬀerent motivations and purposes, and
they are proposing diﬀerent theoretical models for studying translation. As
Halliday (2001: 13) points out,“for a linguist, translation theory is the study of
how things are: what is the nature of the translation process and the relation
between texts in translation.” For Halliday, an SFL theory of translation is a
“declarative”rather than“imperative”theory,which studies how things are rather
than how they should be.In deﬁning the“environments of translation”in relation
to translation equivalence, Matthiessen (2001) theorizes that the environments
are deﬁned by the various dimensions in line with the organizing principles of
human language, which include stratiﬁcation, rank, instantiation, metafunction,
delicacy,and axis; these six dimensions are respectively illustrated by Halliday in
a number of places (e.g. 2001, 2009c/2013, 2012/2013).
In line with the ideas and suggestions made by Halliday and others in the SFL
ﬁeld, the aim of this chapter is to discuss issues concerning metafunctional
equivalencewithspecialreferencetotranslatedtextsof asectionintheConfucian
Analects (i.e. Lun Yu)1
.
2 The notion of equivalence
One of the important issues in translation studies is that of equivalence, as it is
related to the nature of translation.As Meethan and Hudson (1972: 713, cited in
Bell 1991: 6) put it,“translation is the replacement of a representation of a text in
one language by a representation of an equivalent text in a second language.”
This clearly outlines the nature of translation: to express the meaning in a text
realized in one language by using another language with the aim of having the
equivalent message in the translated text. As is observed by Munday (2001: 35),
equivalence has been one of the most prominent issues being debated for
translation studies since the 1950s. This concept has been at the center of
theoretical approaches to translation studies, because“equivalence is obviously a
central concept in translation theory” (Chesterman 1989: 99). Or in Yallop’s
(2001: 241) words, equivalence is regarded as “a clear aim of translation,” as
almost everyone in the translation ﬁeld has been thinking of this issue,no matter
whether they are interested in translation theory or translation practice.
Metafunctional Equivalence in Translated Texts 287
Jakobson, in his paper entitled “On linguistic aspects of translation”
(1959/2002), distinguishes three kinds of translation: intralingual, interlingual,
and intersemiotic, and he assumes that in interlingual translation, “translation
from one language into another substitutes messages into one language not for
the separate code-units but for entire messages in some other language”and that
“translation involves two equivalent messages in two diﬀerent codes”(1959/2002:
272). For both scholars of translation studies and practitioners in the ﬁeld, the
hope is that the translated text, though in a diﬀerent language, will have an
equivalent message, which serves the same communicative function in context.
Since Jakobson (1959/2002: 272) takes a linguistic approach to translation
studies, he argues that “equivalence in diﬀerence is the cardinal problem of
language and the pivotal concern of linguistics.”
Like Jakobson (1959/2002), Nida also adopts a linguistic approach to the
study of equivalence in translation and his theoretical basis is partly inﬂuenced
by Noam Chomsky’s transformational-generative model of language.Discarding
traditional terms such as “literal” and “free” translation, Nida (1964: 159)
proposed two “basic orientations” or two types of equivalence (i.e. formal
equivalence and dynamic equivalence) and introduced a receptor-based (or
reader-based) orientation to translation theory. According to Nida (1964: 159),
“formal equivalence focuses attention on the message itself, in both form and
content,” and “the message in the receptor language should match as closely as
possible the diﬀerent elements in the source language”; this is in contrast with
his idea of dynamic equivalence which is based on his “principle of equivalent
eﬀect,” where “the relationship between receptor and message should be
substantially the same as that which existed between the original receptors and
the message.”To achieve dynamic equivalence,Nida suggests that one should try
to seek “the closest natural equivalent to the source-language message” (Nida
1964: 166) and the message should meet the receptor’s linguistic needs and
cultural expectation if one “aims at complete naturalness of expression.” Nida’s
receptor-based orientation to translation theory has aroused great interest in the
ﬁeld and at the same time it has led to many criticisms, one of which is that
“the whole question of equivalence inevitably entails subjective judgement from
the translator or analyst” (Munday 2001: 43), and this in fact has been used to
challenge the claimed“scientiﬁc” nature of Nida’s theory of translation.
Inﬂuenced by Nida (e.g.Nida 1964,Nida and Taber 1969),Koller (1979/1989:
99–104) proposes to describe and deﬁne ﬁve diﬀerent types of equivalence:
denotative equivalence, connotative equivalence, text-normative equivalence,
pragmatic equivalence, and formal equivalence. The literature shows that there
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
288
have been many others in recent years who are still working on issues and ideas
concerning the concept of equivalence in translation studies (see Munday 2001).
Although achieving equivalence is usually regarded as “a clear aim of
translation” (Yallop 2001: 241), it must be remembered that it is very diﬃcult (if
not impossible) to achieve equivalence in all aspects (both linguistic and
contextual) on the one hand and that “there is no absolute equivalence or
absolute non-equivalence” (Halliday 2009c/2013: 121) on the other hand. This
issue will be discussed in more detail later.
To summarize, it is generally assumed that aiming at equivalence is vitally
important in evaluating translated texts but that there are occasions when
equivalence is an impossible goal to attain.Thus,what needs to be done is search
for ways of tackling problems in relation to“non-equivalence”(shift) both at the
level of form (e.g. grammatical, lexical, phonological, graphological) and at the
level of meaning (semantics).A good model of translation theory should include
parameters of equivalence and the relationship between diﬀerent kinds of
equivalence.
3 SFL studies on equivalence
In 1962, Halliday (1962/2005), in his discussion on linguistics and machine
translation, touched upon concepts such as “grammatical equivalence” and
“lexical equivalence.”But these concepts are not closely related to metafunctional
equivalence that is being talked about in this chapter.
Catford (1965), using an early systemic model of language (i.e. Halliday’s
Scale and Category Grammar, Halliday 1956) to study translation, states that
translation is “the replacement of textual material in one language (SL) by
equivalent textual material in another language (TL)”(Catford 1965/2002: 281).
He also illustrates the concept of “textual material” by explaining that‘in normal
conditions it is not the entirety of an SL text which is translated, that is, replaced
by TL equivalents’ (Catford 1965/2002: 282). As Halliday (2001: 15) observes,
Catford describes the concept of equivalence “explicitly by reference to the
diﬀerent strata in language,” and Catford’s rank of translation is involved with
diﬀerentiation in translation in relation to the rank in the language“hierarchy at
which translation equivalence is established” (Catford 1965/2002: 286).
Like Catford (1965), Meetham and Hudson (1969), whose theoretical
framework is more or less systemic-functional, also treat translation as “the
replacement of a representation of a text in one language by a representation of
Metafunctional Equivalence in Translated Texts 289
an equivalent text in a second language” (Meetham and Hudson 1969: 713, cited
in Bell 1991/2001: 6). They argue that “texts in diﬀerent languages can be
equivalent to diﬀerent degrees (fully or partially equivalent),in respect of diﬀerent
levels of presentation (equivalent in respect of context, of semantics, of grammar,
of lexis, etc.) and at diﬀerent ranks (word-for-word, phrase-for-phrase, sentence-
for-sentence)” (Meetham and Hudson 1969: 713, cited in Bell 1991/2001: 6).
Catford (1965/2002: 290) makes a distinction between “textual equivalence”
and“formal correspondence”by regarding the former as“any TL text or portion
of text which is observed on a particular occasion . . . to be equivalent of a given
SL text or portion of text”and the latter as“any TL category (unit,class,structure,
element of structure) which can be said to occupy,as nearly as possible,the‘same’
place in the‘economy’of the TL as the given SL category occupies in the SL.”The
ideas presented by Catford (1965) and Meetham and Hudson (1969) have
proved useful in establishing a theory of translation from a SFL perspective (e.g.
Halliday 2001; Matthiessen 2001).
Baker (1992), though not within an SFL framework, uses SFL ideas in her
discussion on translation studies by organizing the chapters around diﬀerent
kinds of equivalence: “equivalence at word level,” “equivalence above the word
level,” “grammatical equivalence,” “textual equivalence,” and “pragmatic
equivalence.”
Although Huang (2014) focuses on the discourse structure of the dialogic
sectionsinthetranslatedtextsof LunYu,healsodiscussestheEnglishtranslations
by asking whether the translated text is experientially, logically, interpersonally
and textually equivalent of the source text, and he points out that in translation
studies the focus should be on the communicative eﬀectiveness of the meaning
expressed.
In a number of papers published in recent years, Halliday argues that“’in any
particular instance of translation, value may be attached to equivalence at
diﬀerent ranks, diﬀerent strata, diﬀerent metafunctions” (2001: 17). In terms of
the relationship between equivalence and metafunctions, Halliday (2001: 16)
points out, “as a general rule, ‘translation equivalence’ is deﬁned in ideational
terms; if a text does not match its source text ideationally, it does not qualify as a
translation, so the question whether it is a good translation does not arise.” For
Halliday, the ideational metafunction is the most important of all the
metafunctions in relation to translation equivalence.
Matthiessen (2001) discusses translation equivalence in relation to
“’translation shift,”and he hypothesizes that“there is a high degree of‘equivalence’
or congruence between language as far as metafunctions are concerned and that
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
290
this applies along the full extent of the cline of instantiation, from translation of
text instances and to mappings between systems” (Matthiessen 2001: 99). He
then argues that “in translation metafunction tends to be preserved,” which
echoes Halliday’s (2001: 16) argument that when a (translated) text and the
source text do not match ideationally,it is not considered as a translation.As can
be seen from Halliday’s recent publications on translation equivalence, one of
the most important contributions made by Matthiessen (2001) is that he treats
‘translation as a semiotic process (mapping)’ and highlights “the semiotic
environments of translation.”
Matthiessen (2001: 78) assumes that “translation equivalence and translation
shift are two opposite poles on a cline of diﬀerence between languages . . . from
maximal congruence to maximal incongruence.”And he further argues that“the
general principle is this: the wider the environment of translation,the higher the
degree of translation equivalence; and the narrower the environment, the higher
the degree of translation shift.”What Matthiessen suggests here, as postulated by
Halliday (2009c/2013: 106), is the principle of contextualization: “the widest”
environment is that in which the translation is “maximally contextualized” and
therefore, by the same token, is likely to be“maximally eﬀective.”
Matthiessen (2001: 115) also looks at the location of translation in relation
to “an ordered series of contextualization from the most global (widest)
environmentstothemostlocal(narrowest),”suggestingthatthesetwotranslation
clines“move from the most global environment to the most local ones: both‘free’
translation and ‘translation equivalence’ are located as poles on these clines
within the most global environment and both‘literal’translation and‘translation
shift’ are located as the opposite poles on these clines within the most local
environments.”
As Halliday (2009c/2013: 106; 2012/2013: 147) summarizes, Matthiessen’s
(2001: 115) “environments of translation” are deﬁned by the dimensions of
language organization: stratiﬁcation, rank, instantiation, metafunction, delicacy,
and axis.
4 Metafunctional equivalence
Broadly speaking, metafunction in SFL is used to refer to “a complex of three
orders of meaning” (Halliday 2009c/2013: 108) in any instance of language
(text).Basically,metafunctions are to do with the diﬀerent strands of meaning in
the clause. The experiential metafunction is about the representational aspect of
Metafunctional Equivalence in Translated Texts 291
meaning; that is, meaning as the construal of experience, and typically
experiential metafunction is analyzed by focusing on the Transitivity of process
types and participant roles as well as circumstantial elements. The logical
metafunction is concerned with the relationship between the messages and the
ways the connection between messages is signaled. Typically, the logical
metafunction is analyzed in terms of logical dependency and logico-semantic
relations. In the SFL framework, the experiential metafunction and the logical
metafunction together form the ideational metafunction. The other two
metafunctions are interpersonal metafunction and textual metafunction. The
interpersonal metafunction is related to the ways of interacting with people
and the interactants’ attitudes, evaluations, judgments, and negotiation in
communication, and this is typically realized by the choice of Mood, modality,
and evaluation. The textual metafunction involves the organization of the
message and information, and this metafunction is typically realized by the
choice of thematic structures,information structures,and cohesive elements and
cohesive ties.
Metafunctional equivalence has to do with the match of metafunctional
equivalence in the translated text with the corresponding source text, and the
match should be examined by looking at diﬀerent metafunctions in diﬀerent
contexts.
If we are looking at metafunctional equivalence in the translated text, we
should ﬁrst of all identify the importance of order of the three (or four)
metafunctions, although in the SFL framework there is no ﬁxed order among
them. In the context of translation studies and the evaluation of translation
equivalence, the experiential metafunction should be given the priority, since if
the translated text does not match its source text experientially it does not qualify
as a translated text, a point made by Halliday (2001: 16). However, we should
note that when Halliday says that “‘translation equivalence’ is deﬁned in
ideational terms,” what he means is the experiential metafunction rather than
both the experiential metafunction and logical metafunction.
5 Analysis
In this section I shall analyze a number of examples in respect of metafunctional
equivalence with the hope that this will help us to understand the relationship
between the diﬀerent kinds of metafunctional equivalence.I shall begin with the
experiential equivalence.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
292
5.1 Experiential equivalence
In SFL, the experiential metafunction is mainly concerned with the clause (the
ﬁgure) in terms of the representational aspect of meaning, the construal of
experience, and this function is typically recognized by the process and the
expected participants associated with it. When we talk about experiential
equivalence,we consider the match of the experiential meaning.Let us now look
at two very simple examples of Chinese-English translation:
(1a) Chinese: tā [Ԇ/he/Head] shì [ᱟ/be/Verb] gè [њ/a/Deictic] yīngyǔ
[㤡䈝/English/Classiﬁer] lăoshī [㘱ᐸ/teacher/Head]
(1b) English: He is a teacher of English.
(2a) Chinese: tā [Ԇ/he/Head] jiào [ᮉ/teach/Verb] yīngyǔ [㤡䈝/English/
Head]
(2b) English: He teaches English.
Looking at the process type, (1a) is a Relational Process (shì/be) with a Carrier
(tā/he) and an Attribute (gè/a+yīngyǔ/English+lăoshī/teacher: a teacher of
English), and (2a) is a Material Process (jiào/teach) with an Actor (tā/he) and
Goal (yīngyǔ/English). In (1a) the focus is on the membership of the person: he
belongs to the group of people who are teachers of English, and in contrast in
(2a) the focus is on the activity the person engages in: what he does (every day)
is teaching English.
In daily communication, one may use either (1b) or (2b) to express the
meaning in (1a) or (2a) without conveying seriously incorrect information. But,
in terms of translation evaluation and translation equivalence, (1a) and (1b) are
experiential equivalents and by the same token (2a) and (2b) are equivalents in
their experiential metafunction.If we use (2b) to translate (1a) or (1b) to translate
(2a), then there is translation shift in experiential terms. However, if we use (3)
below to translate either (1a) or (2a), then there is nothing to be said about
translation equivalence as (3) is not a translation at all.
(3) They are taxi drivers.
Although both (1a) and (3) are relational processes, there is no similarity
between them,as (1a) is describing a person with a job of teaching English while
(3) is saying about people (two or more persons) with a totally diﬀerent job.Here
the focus is on equivalence at the rank of group, not the clause.
The analysis and discussion here may suggest that in talking about equivalence
of experiential metafunction of translation both the process type (at the rank of
Metafunctional Equivalence in Translated Texts 293
clause) and the corresponding (expected) participant roles and circumstantial
elements (at the rank of group/phrase) are of vital importance.
5.2 Interpersonal equivalence
The interpersonal metafunction is about the clause as exchange, the way the
speaker interacts with other people and how he expresses his attitudes, opinions,
and evaluations. This function is usually examined by the choice of Mood and
modality.When we look at interpersonal equivalence,we take into consideration
the match of the interpersonal meaning. Let us now turn to the issue of
interpersonal equivalence by looking at the following example:
(4a) Chinese: tā [Ԇ/he/Head] shì [ᱟ/be/Verb] gè [њ/a/Deictic] yīngyǔ
[㤡䈝/English/Classiﬁer] lăoshī [㘱ᐸ/teacher/Head] má [ੇ/
Mood/question marker]
(4b) English: Is he a teacher of English?
The diﬀerence between (1a) and (4a) lies in the fact that (1a) is a statement (a
declarative clause) while (4a) is a question (an interrogative clause). Although
both (1a) and (4a) are concerned with the same process and participants in
respect of Transitivity, (1a) is giving information whereas (4a) is seeking
formation.Thus,the roles of both the speaker and the listener are totally diﬀerent
in these two situations. Experientially, (1a) and (4a) are the same but they are
diﬀerent in terms of interpersonal metafunction. Thus, strictly speaking, (4b)
cannot be regarded as a translation of (1a) because of interpersonal non-
equivalence.
However, if we look at translated examples by referring to the idea of
grammatical metaphor (Halliday 1985), then we may come across other
interesting examples and interpretations.Let us now look at the following pair of
examples:
(5a) Chinese: wŏmen [ᡁԜ/we/Head] huí [എ/return/Verb] jiā [ᇦ/
home/Head] ba [੗/Mood marker]
(5b) English: Let’s go home.
(5c) English: Shall we go home?
Suppose that the context of situation in (5a) is that a married couple is away
from home and one suggests to the other that they return home. Clearly (5a) is a
suggestion for action and in terms of the communicative function either (5b)
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
294
(an imperative clause) or (5c) (an interrogative clause) can be treated as a
translation of (5a), the diﬀerence being in the tone of speaking: (5b) is more
director(5c)ismoretentativeduetotheirdiﬀerentlexicogrammaticalstructures.
If we have to ask which of the two, (5b) or (5c), is a more equivalent translation,
then the answer is (5b), because the original Chinese utterance is a direct
suggestion.However,itmustberememberedthatalthough(5c)isaninterrogative
clause in form its function is a suggestion as well, though not as direct and
straightforward as (5b).By the same token,both“Please close the door”and“Can
you close the door?”can be used in the same context of situation in which one is
requesting the other to close the door, the diﬀerence between them being that
the imperative clause is more straightforward whereas the interrogative clause
more polite. With examples such as (5c) and “Can you close the door?”
respectively in connection with (5b) and “Please close the door,” we can treat
them as examples of grammatical metaphor, which are incongruent in the
present context.
Unlike the pair of (1a) and (4a) which are not translation equivalents, (5b)
and (5c) can be treated as more or less equivalent of the same source utterance
of (5a). This is because both (5b) and (5c) have more or less the same
communicative function in the same context of situation, which is in contrast
with (1a) and (4a), each of which has a diﬀerent communication function: in
(1a) the speaker is giving information whereas in (4a) the speaker is expecting
the listener to give information, although the experiential meaning of both
clauses is the same.
5.3 Logical equivalence
The logical metafunction is involved with the semantic relations between the
clauses in the clause complex, one of which is the primary clause and the other
the secondary clause. The semantic relations between the clauses in the clause
complex are recognized in terms of logical dependency and logico-semantic
relations. With logical equivalence, we pay attention to the logical relationships
between the clauses in the nexus. The example below is taken from Chapter Six
of the Confucian Analects (Lun Yu)2
:
(6a) Chinese: Zĭ [ᆀ/Confucius/Proper name/Head] jiàn [㿱/see/Verb]
Nánzĭ [ইᆀ/Nanzi/Proper name/Head] Zĭlù [ᆀ䐟/Zilu/Proper
name/Head] bú [н/not/Adverb] yuè [䈤/pleased/Adjective]
(6b) English: Confucius visited Nanzi; Zilu was displeased.
Metafunctional Equivalence in Translated Texts 295
Example (6a) is made up of two clauses from a section in the Confucian Analects
(Lun Yu), which was compiled in ancient Chinese (which did not have any
punctuation and clear segmentation) more than 2,500 years ago. In the Chinese
text there are eight characters: ᆀ㿱ইᆀᆀ䐟н䈤 (zĭ + jiàn + nán+zĭ + zĭ+lù +
bú + yuè).“Zi”was Confucius,“Nanzi”was“the concubine of Prince Ling of Wei,”
and “Zilu” was a disciple of Confucius. The literal (direct) English translation of
(6a) is (6b).
In terms of the logical metafunction, the two simple clauses in (6a) are not
connected by any Linker or Binder in lexicogrammatical terms,and their possible
semantic relations are implicit, one of which can be a time-sequential one in a
narrative manner. However, as translated versions such as (6c), (6d), (6e), and (6f)
belowwillshow,thelogico-semanticrelationsof thetwoprocesseswereinterpreted
quite diﬀerently by diﬀerent translators. As will be illustrated in the following
section,these four translated examples are far from being fully equivalent in terms
of logical metafunction,with (6f) as the obvious example of shift.By contrast,(6h)
is fully equivalent and (6g) is nearly fully equivalent. More on the logical
metafunction and logical equivalence will be discussed in the following section.
5.4 Textual equivalence
Thetextualfunctiontreatstheclauseasmessageandisconcernedwithorganizing
the message and information in the clause.This function is typically discussed by
looking at the choice of the Theme in the clause or clause complex, apart from
the information structure and cohesive elements and/or cohesive ties.
Lexicogrammatically speaking, there are two simple clauses in (6a) and each
has its own simple Theme realized by a Head of the nominal group (i.e. a proper
noun), as is illustrated in Table 18.1 below:
Table 18.1 Thematic structures of Example (6a)
Theme Rheme
Clause 1 zĭ (ᆀ) jiàn nánzĭ (㿱ইᆀ)
Explanation zĭ: Proper name → Confucius jiàn: Process → visit + nánzĭ:
Proper name → concubine of
Prince Ling of Wei
Clause 2 zĭlù (ᆀ䐟) bú yuè (н䈤)
Explanation zĭlù: Proper name → a disciple
of Confucius
bú: Negator → not + yuè:
Adjective: pleased
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
296
As there is no subordinating or coordinating marker or connective word in
(6a),it gives the translator the responsibility to interpret the relationship between
the two messages/clauses. The following is the translation rendered by James
Legge, a noted Scottish sinologist in the 1800s, who was the ﬁrst person who
translated the whole Confucian Lun Yu into English (Legge 1861/2011).
(6c) The Master having visited Nan-tsze,Tsze-lu was displeased . . .(Legge
1861/2011: 193).
From (6c) above one can see that although there is no subordinating or
coordinating conjunction the two independent clauses in the source text are
treated as a clause complex in the relationship of expansion-enhancement, with
the ﬁrst clause functioning as the secondary clause of time: After Master had
visited Nan-tsze, Tsze-lu was displeased.
Below is the translation of (6a) by Waley (1938: 121):
(6d) When the Master went to see Nan-tzu, Tzu-lu was not pleased.
Like the translation by Legge in (6c),Waley’s version also treated the two clauses
as a clause complex, with the ﬁrst clause in the source text as a dependent clause
in a semantic relationship of expansion-enhancement,clearly signalling the time
relationship. Thus, the second clause in the source text became the primary
clause in the clause complex.
Similarly, in Ku’s (1898: 46) translation, which was the ﬁrst complete
translation rendered by a Chinese scholar, the translator treated the ﬁrst clause
as a prepositional phrase (a circumstantial element), similar to the when-clause
in (6d):
(6e) On one occasion when Confucius allowed himself to be presented to
a princess of a State who was notorious for the irregularities of her
life, his disciple, the intrepid Chung Yu,3
was vexed.
The translated versions in (6c), (6d), and (6e), though structurally diﬀerent, are
similar in their semantic relations.
By contrast, Roberts (2007: 85) regarded the ﬁrst clause in the source text as a
secondary/dependent clause by making it a that-clause expressing reason:
(6f) Tsze-lu was displeased that Kung Fu-tsze had visited Nan-tsze.
According to Quirk et al. (1985: 1222–3), the that-clause in (6f) is an adjective
complementation; this dependent clause speciﬁes the reason why Tsze-lu was
not pleased.
Metafunctional Equivalence in Translated Texts 297
Unlike Legge (1861/2011: 193),Waley (1938: 121), or Roberts (2007:85) who
either treated the ﬁrst clause in the source text as secondary clause of time
serving an enhancement function of time or an enhancement function of reason,
Slingerland (2003: 62) regarded both clauses in the source text as of equal status
and in an equal relationship, and thus translated them as a clause nexus of
parataxis:
(6g) The Master had an audience with Nanzi, and Zilu was not pleased.
In terms of the logical metafunction, (6g) is much better than any of (6c), (6d),
and (6e). Unlike the translations in (6c), (6d), (6e), (6f), and (6g) which consider
the two clauses in the source text as a clause complex, Leys (1997: 27) regarded
the two clauses in the source text as independent simple clauses and he thus
translated them into two simple (independent) clauses:
(6h) The Master went to see Nanzi, the concubine of Duke Ling. Zilu was
not pleased.
In terms of the logical metafunction, (6h) is fully equivalent/congruent and by
contrast (6f) is shift/incongruent.
As there are over sxity English versions of the Confucian Lun Yu,there will be
many other variations if we keep on quoting them. But the examples cited so far
are good enough to serve our purpose of discussing the issue of translation
equivalence in respect of logical and textual metafunctions.
If we analyze examples of (6c), (6d), and (6e) in terms of their thematic
structures, the elements that serve as Theme are similar on the one hand and
diﬀerent on the other: similar because the thematic element signals time-
relationship and diﬀerent because the thematic elements are of three diﬀerent
lexicogrammatical types: (6c) a non-ﬁnite clause, (6d) a dependent ﬁnite clause,
and (6e) a prepositional phrase.
Table 18.2 Thematic structures of Examples (6c), (6d), and (6e)
Example Theme Rheme
(6c) The Master having visited Nan-tsze Tsze-lu was displeased
(6d) When the Master went to see Nan-tzu Tzu-lu was not pleased
(6e) On one occasion when Confucius allowed
himself to be presented to a princess of a
State who was notorious for the irregularities
of her life
his disciple, the intrepid
Chung Yu, was vexed
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
298
The element serving as Theme in (6c) is a non-ﬁnite clause realizing a
Material Process and the two clauses are in a nexus of expansion-enhancement
relation.With (6d),the ﬁrst clause in the source text was translated as a dependent
clause of time and it is a secondary clause. The Theme in (6e) is realized by a
prepositional phrase serving as a circumstantial element, and it has been packed
with much information, violating the principle of “end-weight” (Quirk et  al.
1985: 323).
With (6f), it is “Tsze-lu” that serves as a simple Theme, with “was displeased
that Kung Fu-tsze had visited Nan-tsze” as Rheme. This is an example of
translation shift in terms of textual metafunction.
Since (6g) is a clause complex in a paratactic relationship, there are two
thematic structures, each with a diﬀerent Theme, as illustrated in Table  18.3
below:
Table 18.3 Thematic structures of Example (6g)
Clause Theme Rheme
(a) The Master had an audience with Nanzi
(b) and Zilu was not pleased
Table 18.4 Thematic structures of Example (6h)
Clause Theme Rheme
(a) The Master went to see Nanzi, the concubine of Duke Ling
(b) Zilu was not pleased
Clause (a) in (6g) has a simple Theme (the Master) and Clause (b) has a
multiple Theme with ‘‘and’’ as the textual Theme and ‘‘Zilu’’ as the Experiential/
topical Theme.
And ﬁnally, with (6h), the analysis of the thematic structures is straight
forward: each of the two simple clauses has their own simple Theme:
The thematic analysis of the source text in Example (6a) and the analyses of
diﬀerent English translations in (6c)–(6h) can be summarized as follows:
(i) The translation in (6h) by Leys (1997: 27) is fully equivalent, because
both the source text and the translated text have two simple
(independent) clauses with two simple Themes realized by two proper
nouns and because the logical relation is the same as that in the source
text.
Metafunctional Equivalence in Translated Texts 299
(ii) With the translation in (6g) by Slingerland (2003: 62),it is thematically
equivalent though not as fully equivalent as (6h).
(iii) With (6c), (6d), and (6e), the Theme is not equivalent as the ﬁrst
independentclauseinthesourcetextwastranslatedasacircumstantial
element signalling time relation to the other (major) clause, which
became the primary clause in the translation.
(iv) The translation in (6f) is exceptional in that the second clause in
Chinese was treated as the ﬁrst, primary clause with the original ﬁrst
clause translated as a secondary clause of adjective complementation
expressing reason.
If we put the six diﬀerent translations on the cline of “equivalence/congruence—
shift/incongruence” in terms of logical metafunction and textual metafunction,
the picture will look like this:
Figure 18.1 The cline of “equivalence—shift.”
Although the distance between each translation is not as exact as what is
represented in Figure 18.1 above,we can use this to illustrate the relative position
of each of the translations in the cline of “equivalence—shift,” which tells us
something about the translation equivalence of each of the diﬀerent
interpretations and translations. These examples may serve as evidence for
Matthiessen’s (2001:78) assumption that“translation equivalence and translation
shift are two opposite poles on a cline of diﬀerence between languages . . . from
maximal congruence to maximal incongruence.”
6 Discussion
The section above illustrated roughly how close or diﬀerent is each of the
translated versions from translation equivalence in respect of diﬀerent
metafunctions. Speciﬁcally, (6c), (6d), (6e), and (6f) can be regarded as examples
of translation shifts, if we take into consideration the textual metafunction and
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
300
the logical metafunction. The question to ask now is: Can we simply use one or
more of the metafunctions as a criterion or criteria to determine whether a
certain translation is a good/eﬀective or bad one? The answer is obviously “No”
and the issue is quite complicated.
There are translations which are ideationally (experientially, logically),
interpersonally and textually equivalent and Example (6h) (by Leys 1997: 27)
is such an example. Translation (6g) (by Slingerland 2003: 62) is a
nearly metafunctionally equivalent example, since the Linker “and” in the
translation only signals a time-sequential relationship, which is implicit in the
source text. Therefore, we can say that (6h) is a fully metafunctional equivalent.
By contrast, translations in (6c), (6d), (6e), and (6f) are experiential and
interpersonal equivalents but not textual and logical equivalents. It can be
assumed that in translation practice there are many cases (especially long
texts) which are not textually and/or logically equivalent, and this may be
argued as the norm rather than deviation in translation practice. As Halliday
(2009c/2013: 108) observes, in translation practice “priority is usually given to
the ideational (‘denotative’) meaning, partly because it is felt to be more
important and partly, perhaps, because it is easier to decide whether the
translation is right or wrong.” Here we should understand that the “ideational
meaning” used by Halliday is better to be understood as “experiential”
without “logical” meaning. However, we would assume that even if a certain
translated text is fully metafunctionally equivalent, it does not guarantee that
it is always an eﬀective text in the particular context of situation and the context
of culture.
Although in the SFL framework there is no ﬁxed order of importance among
the three or four metafunctions,we should try to identify the order of importance
of diﬀerent metafunctions when we evaluate translated text in terms of
metafunctional equivalence. We agree with Halliday (2001: 16) who assumes
that translation equivalence is deﬁned in experiential terms, because if the
translated text and the source text do not match experientially, then we are not
dealing with anything that can be called translation.
Obviously, experiential equivalence is the essential element in any good
examples of translation. Based on the analysis of the translated versions in (6c),
(6d),(6e),(6f),(6g),and (6h),we would hypothesize that the order of importance
for the metafunctions will be like this: the experiential metafunction is the most
important and the textual metafunction the least important, with the
interpersonal metafunction more important than the logical metafunction, as
illustrated in Figure 18.2 below:
Metafunctional Equivalence in Translated Texts 301
Althoughthefocusof thispaperisonmetafunctionalequivalence,wemaintain
that there are many diﬀerent kinds of equivalence that exist and that should be
further studied. For example, Matthiessen (2001) talks of the environments of
translation in relation to equivalence in terms of stratiﬁcation,instantiation,rank,
delicacy, and axis, apart from metafunction, and these are identiﬁed as the
parameters that deﬁne translation equivalence. It will be more complicated if we
talk about translation equivalence of diﬀerent kinds at the same time in the same
paper, and this will help us to see the justiﬁcation that Halliday (2012/2013)
mainly discusses equivalence in respect of stratiﬁcation and axis.
As the analysis of the examples in this chapter shows, there are diﬀerent
degrees of equivalence and “there is no absolute equivalence or absolute non-
equivalence,” as Halliday (2009c/2013: 121) asserts; it is always“a matter of more
or less.” Therefore, equivalence is a matter of degree and should be discussed in
relative rather than absolute terms, because there is rarely full equivalence or full
non-equivalence. There are so many kinds of equivalence, which makes it
impossible to achieve all kinds of equivalence in the same translated text.Yallop
(2001: 242) emphasizes the “relative nature” of equivalence by arguing that
“equivalence is not a relationship that is ﬁxed once and for all, and the question
is, as always, what kind of similarity we are prepared to accept as equivalence in
a particular context for a particular purpose.” Thus, for Yallop (2001: 242),
“equivalence is constructed,not out of absolute identity but out of a rich diversity
of similarities.”Therefore,there is“no ultimate guarantee of equivalence,whether
in the translation of technical manuals,contracts or commercial correspondence,
orinthetranslationof moreobviouslyuniquetexts”’(Yallop2001:242.).However,
Figure 18.2 Order of importance of metafunctional equivalence.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
302
we may argue that diﬀerent text types may require diﬀerent degrees of eﬀort in
achieving equivalence, as it is easier to reach equivalence of a technical manual
thanapoem.Butthisisanothercomplicatedissuethatneedsfurtherinvestigation.
The equivalence with diﬀerent metafunctions carries diﬀerent values.As was
pointed out earlier, in terms of the metafunctional equivalence, experiential
equivalence is the most important element, which means that it carries the
highest value and by contrast textual equivalence carries the lowest value. As
Halliday (2009c/2013: 119) argues, “diﬀerent kinds of equivalence have
diﬀerential value, and that the value accorded to diﬀerent kinds of equivalence
will vary according to the context, both the context of situation and the context
of culture.” We should be aware of the concept of ‘‘value’’ used here, as it is a
subjective concept and may yield diﬀerent interpretations and explanations.
Similarly, equivalence at diﬀerent linguistic strata (phonological/
graphological, lexcogrammatical, semantic) has diﬀerent values. It is argued that
lexcogrammatical equivalence carries more value than phonological/
graphological equivalence, and semantic equivalence more than
lexicogrammatical.But as Halliday (2001: 15) warns us,“these relative values can
always be varied, and in any given instance of translation one can reassess them
in the light of the task.”
Since there are diﬀerent kinds of equivalence and diﬀerent degrees of
metafunctional equivalence,we should look at the translated text by considering
diﬀerent factors involved. In all the cases, the translator has to decide,
consciously or unconsciously, the priority of the forms of equivalence, and such
decisions will, at the same time, produce results of translation shifts or non-
equivalence. It is often the case that when the focus is on certain kinds of
equivalence this will lead to obvious shift or non-equivalence in other aspects/
kinds of equivalence.
7 Conclusion
Although everybody understands that translation equivalence is the aim of
translation and it is a concept that has been studied for many decades, scholars
in the ﬁeld have not yet agreed on the criteria of determining equivalence,partly
because there are so many kinds of equivalence and partly because the
relationship between the diﬀerent kinds of equivalence is so complicated that
focusing on one of them may aﬀect another, as it is impossible to reach
equivalence of all kinds in the same translated text in the given context. The
Metafunctional Equivalence in Translated Texts 303
focus of this paper is on metafunctional equivalence within the SFL framework
and our argument is that of all the metafunctional equivalences that are involved
in the translation process, the experiential equivalence is the most important of
all,because if the text is said to be a translated text it must at least be experientially
equivalent in respect of the source text. As Halliday (2009c/2013: 106–7)
observes,“all translators know from their own experience that there are diﬀerent
kinds of equivalence whose demands very often conﬂict; but beyond very
general labels like ‘literal’ and ‘free’ we seldom come across a clear typology of
equivalences which can put them into a coherent frame.”
In the general framework of SFL, there are diﬀerent strata of language, and
for Halliday, the lexicogrammatical stratum is the core. Whether we are talking
about discourse analysis or the evaluation of translated text, linguistic analysis is
of vital importance. As Halliday (e.g. 1994a: xv, 2001: 13) argues, by doing
linguistic analysis we are able to explain why the text means what it does and
why we understand the text the way it is; we are also able to evaluate the text: why
the text is valued as it is. With translated text, we also have these two goals:
understanding of the text and evaluation of the text.The goal of evaluating a text
is harder to attain:“It requires an interpretation not only of the text itself but also
of its context (context of situation, context of culture), and of the systematic
relationship between context and text”(Halliday 1994a: xv).Therefore,in talking
about an SFL approach to translation studies we need to be able to analyse
language in both the source text and the target text, and at the same time we
need to be able to evaluate, by using the principles and assumptions in SFL, the
translated text,only by then can we say that what we are doing is an SFL attempt
to the study of translation.
Notes
1 The research that is drawn on here was in large measure carried out as part of the
2014 Chinese National Social Sciences Project entitled“A Functional Approach to
Contrastive Studies of the Confucian Lun Yu and Its English Translations”
(No. 14BYY027).
2 According to Wu (2012: 195), the historical fact of this section is this: Confucius was
then in the State of Wei, and the state ruler was Prince Ling of Wei. He was old and
incapable and the state was under the control of Nanzi, his favorite concubine, who
was a woman of bad repute. She respected and admired Confucius because of his
knowledge and talents and hoped to meet him.At ﬁrst Confucius did not want to
meet her, but later he went to see her simply out of courtesy. Zilu, one of his favorite
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
304
disciples, was not pleased by the fact that Confucius met Nanzi because illicit activity
may have occurred during Confucius’ audience with the notoriously lascivious
Nanzi.
3 “Zilu” is the courtesy name of “Chung Yu” (Zhong You), and“Chung” (Zhong) is
the family name and“Yu” (You) is the given name.Also note that the proper name
of “Nanzi” (which refers to a deﬁnite person) was not translated; instead, it was
paraphrased as someone who was not deﬁnite:‘a princess of a State who was
notorious for the irregularities of her life’. This is another example of translation
shift.
Teaching
305
306
1 Introduction
Genre research has been gaining popularity over the last two decades and,
among various studies, great attention has been paid to research papers.
Researchers have shown interest in nearly every section of a research paper, and
studies have been conducted in genres of introduction (Bunton 2002; Samraj
2002, 2005; Skulstad 2005; Sun 2008; Swales 1981, 1990, 2004; Swales and Najjar
1987), literature review (Chen 2006; David and Penny 2005; Krishnan and
Kathpalia 2002; Kwan 2006), result (Brett 1994;Williams 1999;Yang and Allison
2003), discussion (Bitchenera and Basturkmenb 2006; Holmes 1997; Hopkins
and Dudley-Evans 1988; Peacock 2002), conclusion (Bunton 2005; Yang and
Allison 2003), and even abstracts that precede research articles (Hyland 2000;
Martin 2003; Samraj 2005). These studies have contributed greatly to our
understanding of diﬀerent genres in a research paper.
However,issues worth further exploration are far from being exhausted.Most
genre studies are conﬁned to research papers of expert writers and studies on
those of students are limited.Moreover,most studies examine the inclination for
one speciﬁc section of a research paper, but research on exploring the generic
features of a whole paper is not enough.
Recent years have seen a rising number of English majors pursuing an MA
degree in China,many of whom ﬁnd it diﬃcult to write a satisfactory MA thesis.
However, little is known about their actual writing situation.
19
Genres in Chinese Students’ MA Theses:
An SFL-based Contrastive Analysis and
Implications for Teaching
SUN,Yinghui (ᆉ䗾ᲆ)
Beijing Normal University
JU, Zhiqin (䷐ᘇऔ)
Qingdao Agriculture University
307
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
308
This chapter will therefore explore how Chinese students of English (CSEs)
go about the task of writing their MA thesis. Five genres which are most typical
of a thesis will be examined,namely,the genres of introduction,literature review
(LR), research design (RD), result, and discussion. A contrastive analysis has
been carried out with theses written by Native English Students (NSs).
2 Analytical framework and data
Martin deﬁnes genre as staged, goal-oriented social processes (Martin 1992;
Martin and Rose 2003).According to Martin (2009: 13),a genre is staged“because
it usually takes more than one phase of meaning to work through a genre”; it is
goal-oriented “because unfolding phases are designed to accomplish something”;
and it is social “because we undertake genres interactively with others.” To
paraphrase the deﬁnition,agenrecomprisesaseriesof phaseswhichfulﬁl a general
communicative function. These phases are arranged in a sequence and unfold as
the social interaction progresses. Each phase is supposed to accomplish a speciﬁc
communicative function so as to support the general function of the genre.
Hasan (1985) proposed a model of genre, aiming to explain text structure.
Genre in Hasan’s model refers to texts that are embedded in the same situation
type and share the same text structure.The description of the shared text structure
of a genre can be achieved by analyzing the obligatory structural elements in texts
within a particular genre. Hasan’s (1985: 64) Generic Structure Potential (GSP)
describes“the total range of optional and obligatory elements and their order.”
For the present study, genre is understood to be structured by its obligatory
phases and elements in a genre-phase-element hierarchical pattern.
Swales(1990)onceestablishedhisfamous“CreatingaResearchSpace”(CARS)
model to characterize the generic structure of a research article introduction.
Three moves are identiﬁed in his model: Establishing a Territory, Establishing a
Niche, and Occupying the Niche, with each containing a number of component
steps. The ﬁrst move includes Claiming centrality, Making topic generalization(s),
and Reviewing items of previous research; the second move may include any of the
followingsteps:Counter-claiming,Indicatingagap,Question-raising,orContinuing
a tradition; and the third move includes Outlining purposes, announcing present
research, and Announcing principal ﬁndings. Swales’ terminology, “moves” and
“steps,”is similar in many respects to“phases”and“elements”in SFL.
The data are from MA theses in the ﬁeld of applied linguistics within the
past ten years. The NSs data was selected randomly from PQDD, which is the
Genres in Chinese Students’ MA Theses 309
world largest and one of the most authoritative databases for master and doctoral
theses and the CSEs data were from a full-text database of a university library in
China. As far as the size is concerned, forty texts are chosen, with twenty from
NSs and twenty from CSEs.
3 Analysis of phases
For current study, only those phases and elements occurring with above
50 percent regularity are counted as stable or obligatory.Analysis shows that, for
the ﬁve genres—introduction, LR, RD, result, and discussion, twenty-seven
phases were identiﬁed for each group, among which twenty-two were found to
be stable for each group. Detailed demonstration of the ﬁndings is summarized
in Table 19.1 with pairs of numbers of phases for each genre. The ﬁrst number
indicates the total number of phases in each genre and the second obligatory
phases (or stable phases). Phases in brackets refer to optional choices.
Similarities as well as diﬀerences were detected between the two groups in
the choice of phases. As shown in Table 19.1, CSEs share the same phases with
NSs for the ﬁrst two genres—genres of introduction and LR. For the genre
of introduction, the three moves in Swales’ CARS model (1990), Establishing a
Territory, Establishing a Niche, and Occupying the Niche, which constitute the
main generic structure of the texts, were all present in the introduction part of
both groups’MA theses,indicating that both groups of the students were actively
constructing their role as researchers in the process of creating their research
space.A fourth phase was found, that is, making introductory statements.While
not providing information out of the content, this phase employs some
transitional sentences or paragraphs.
As for the genre of LR, four phases were identiﬁed in both groups’ data,
Making introductory statements → Establishing a thematic territory → Evaluating
the state of the ﬁeld → Occupying the research niche, and these four phases are all
eﬀective means to achieve the communicative purpose of the genre.
Among phases for RD, eight phases were abstracted, with six obligatory for
CSEs and ﬁve for NSs.Phase 1 making introductory statements,while obligatory
for CSEs was optional for NSs. The resemblance in phases of RD suggests that
like NSs, CSEs have also attached great emphasis to presenting preliminary
information, instruments, procedure, and methods related to data collection as
well as data analysis when constructing the RD of MA theses. The additional
obligatory phase in the CSEs’ texts shows that they prefer to make a brief
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
310
Table 19.1 Phases in the ﬁve genres
Genres Groups Phases
Introduction CSEs (4/4) Making introductory statements → Establishing
a territory → Establishing a niche → Occupying
the niche
NSs (4/4) Making introductory statements → Establishing
a territory → Establishing a niche → Occupying
the niche
LR CSEs (4/4) Making introductory statements → Establishing
a thematic territory → Evaluating the state of the
ﬁeld → Occupying the research niche
NSs (4/4) Making introductory statements → Establishing
a thematic territory → Evaluating the state of the
ﬁeld → Occupying the research niche
RD CSEs (8/6) Making introductory statements → Presenting
preliminary information → (Describing
experimental procedure and materials) →
Describing data collection instruments →
Describing data collection methods →
Describing data analysis methods →
(Summarizing the whole chapter/study)
NSs (8/5) (Making introductory statements) → Presenting
preliminary information → (Describing
experimental procedure and materials) →
Describing data collection instruments →
Describing data collection procedure →
Describing data collection methods → Describing
data analysis methods → (Summarizing the whole
chapter/study)
Result CSEs (5/4) Presenting preparatory information → Reporting
results → Commenting on results →
Summarizing results → (Evaluating the study)
NSs (4/3) Presenting preparatory information → Reporting
results → Commenting on results →
(Summarizing results)
Discussion CSEs (6/4) Introducing background information →
Reporting results → (Summarizing results) →
Commenting on results → (Evaluating the study)
→ Making deductions from the research
NSs (7/6) Introducing background information →
Reporting results → (Summarizing results) →
Commenting on results → Summarizing the
whole study → Evaluating the study → Making
deductions from the research
Genres in Chinese Students’ MA Theses 311
introduction to the whole chapter at the beginning of the RD. While for NSs,
directness is preferred. They usually begin the RD with Phase 2 Introducing the
preliminary information.
Among the ﬁve phases discovered in the genre of result,CSEs are found to be
alike with NSs in the ﬁrst three phases when demonstrating the result: ﬁrst
presenting the preparatory information (Phase 1), then reporting the results
(Phase 2), which is followed by commenting on results (Phase 3). These three
phases are obligatory for both CSEs and NSs. The similarity means CSEs share
the same procedure with NSs when presenting what they have discovered in
their studies.
Variation was also demonstrated in the result section. The number of phases
in the CSEs group outnumber those of the NSs group. CSEs tend to summarize
the results and take it as an obligatory phase, while NSs regard it as optional.
Some CSEs would like to evaluate the study (Phase 5) to conclude the result
section. None of NSs did so, probably thinking that the aim of the result section
is mainly for reporting what has been found, and the tone should be as objective
as possible.
Seven phases are abstracted in the genre of discussion. CSEs adopt the same
ﬁrst four phases with NSs: Phase 1 Introducing background information, Phase 2
Reporting results, Phase 4 Commenting on results obligatory, and Phase 3
Summarizing results optional. Discussion is the only genre where CSEs resort to
fewer phases than NSs do. NSs employ a more complex phase pattern than
CSEs by utilizing two extra phases, namely, Phase 5 Summarizing the study and
Phase 6 Evaluating the study.
The discussion section, as the name suggests, calls for writer’s opinions.
Here NSs strive to demonstrate the uniqueness of their studies and tint the
writing with personal characteristics. CSEs on the other hand do not attach as
much importance to this phase, preferring instead to keep themselves in the
background and not express their point of view.
4 Analysis of elements
Both CSEs and NSs have resorted to a variety of elements for constructing each
phase, showing that both groups have tried to construct the phase pattern from
diﬀerent perspectives.However,diﬀerences exist.The analysis of elements shows
NSs have a more abundant reservoir of elements than CSEs, with 105 elements
in NSs’data and ninety-eight elements in CSEs’data.Further comparison shows
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
312
that deviations also exist in the choice of speciﬁc elements for each phase.As the
elements in the ﬁve genres are too enormous to be exhaustively presented, we
present one example in each genre which best reﬂects how CSEs diﬀer from NSs
in their choice of elements.
As is revealed in the previous section, NSs and CSEs share the same phases
while composing the genre of introduction.When the phases are segmented into
smaller units—elements, diﬀerences become visible. We take elements in the
phase of Establishing a Niche for example. Nine elements have been used by NSs
and seven by CESs. The speciﬁc elements and their percentages of occurrence
are presented in Table 19.2.
The function of this phase is to show the reason for carrying out the research.
From the elements chosen for the phase, we can see that all the nine elements
used by NSs are very eﬀective means for achieving this purpose. CSEs tend to
make heavy use of some elements and avoid use of others, with three elements
Table 19.2 Elements in the phase of Establishing a Niche
Elements Groups Percentage
1. Counter-claiming CSEs 0%
NSs 15%
2. Indicating the gap CSEs 70%
NSs 50%
3. Question-raising CSEs 50%
NSs 20%
4. Continuing a tradition CSEs 5%
NSs 15%
5. Showing disagreements among researchers CSEs 5%
NSs 10%
6. Pointing out existing problems CSEs 45%
NSs 30%
7. Stating personal reason/research interest CSEs 15%
NSs 15%
8. Showing challenges CSEs 0%
NSs 20%
9. Indicating necessity to do the research CSEs 35%
NSs 10%
Genres in Chinese Students’ MA Theses 313
over or around 50 percent and two elements—Element 1 Counter-claiming and
Element 8 Showing challenges, not appearing at all.
As the terms indicate, Counter-claiming and Showing challenges are perhaps
the two strongest arguments in this phase, through which the student is
encouraged to propose a totally diﬀerent idea.While 15–20 percent of NSs have
employed the two elements in their introductions, neither of them is found
in CSEs’ data. For CSEs, who have long been educated to respect authority,
this element is not regarded as appropriate. Instead, most CSEs would like
to choose milder ways for pointing out the gap (70 percent), indicating the
real world problem (45 percent) and illustrating the necessity to do the research
(35 percent).
The elements identiﬁed are not evenly distributed in the LR of each group
either.An interesting contrast between NSs and CSEs is seen from the elements
chosen in phase of Establishing a thematic territory. Both groups have employed
seven of the eight elements identiﬁed in this phase. However, the focus of each
group is not the same, as can be seen from the percentages listed in Table 19.3.
Table 19.3 Elements in the phase of Establishing a Thematic Territory
Elements Groups Percentage
1. Describing social background CSEs 0%
NSs 10%
2. Surveying related knowledge and theories CSEs 65%
NSs 80%
3. Surveying research activities CSEs 45%
NSs 40%
4. Claiming centrality CSEs 20%
NSs 5%
5. Providing real world examples CSEs 5%
NSs 5%
6. Deﬁning and clarifying terms CSEs 15%
NSs 5%
7. Describing previous research CSEs 5%
NSs 5%
8. Listing previous research topics CSEs 5%
NSs 0%
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
314
As we can observe from Table 19.3, the most preferred element in this phase
by the two groups is Element 2—Surveying related knowledge and theories, with
80 percent for NSs and 65 percent for CESs. The students’ second concern
comes from Element 3 Surveying research activities, which lags behind Element
2 but still surpasses.As LR is the part where previous studies should be reported,
it is very necessary to choose these two elements. NSs are very focused in this
phase by choosing mainly these two elements, with other elements nearly to be
ignored in percentage. For the CSEs, two more elements, claiming centrality
(Element 4) and Deﬁning and clarifying terms (Element 6) are also present as
main constituent components of this phase, which makes the propositions for
this quite diverse.
Table 19.4 Elements in the phase of Presenting preliminary information
Elements Groups Percentage
1. Stating the purposes of the study CSEs 90%
NSs 40%
2. Proposing the research questions CSEs 95%
NSs 40%
3. Describing the subjects/samples/participants CSEs 100%
NSs 100%
4. Introducing more related information about the study CSEs 70%
NSs 70%
Both groups show diﬀerences in their choice of the elements in the genre of
RD. Typical diﬀerences are seen in the elements used for phase of Presenting
preliminary information. Table 19.4 shows the detailed information.
As we can observe from Table 19.4, all the four elements identiﬁed for this
phase are very frequently used for CSEs,ranging from 100 percent to 70 percent,
indicating that CSEs attach great importance to all of them; while for NSs, two
of these four elements,i.e.Element 3 Describing the subjects/samples/participants
(100 percent) and Element 4 Introducing more related information about the
study (70 percent) are used with a very high frequency. The ﬁrst two elements,
Stating the purposes of the study and Proposing the research question,are relatively
lower in percentages for the RD.
With the function of indicating what is the research about, the ﬁrst two
elements are usually introduced in the ﬁrst section—the introduction part and
Genres in Chinese Students’ MA Theses 315
may be re-mentioned in the second section—the literature review part. As the
purpose of RD is mainly about how the research is designed, the details of the
data and the procedure for carrying out the research receive greater attention.
We can see that without taking research purposes and research questions as
necessary elements in this phase, NSs pay more focused attention than CESs on
presenting detailed description about the research.
For the elements in the genre of result, we take the phase of Commenting on
results as an example to show diﬀerences between the two groups. Commenting
on results serves the purpose of establishing the meaning and signiﬁcance of the
research results which goes beyond the “objective” results. Four elements have
been identiﬁed and the percentages of each can be seen in Table 19.5.
Table 19.5 Elements in the phase of Commenting on results
Elements Groups Percentage
1. Interpreting results CSEs 100%
NSs 80%
2. Comparing results with literature CSEs 45%
NSs 10%
3. Accounting for results CSEs 50%
NSs 5%
4. Evaluating results CSEs 5%
NSs 0%
We can see from the table that NSs and CSEs diﬀer greatly in their element
choice. Among the four elements identiﬁed, only Phase 1 Interpreting results
appears regularly enough (80 pecent) to be counted as an obligatory element for
NSs. However, for CSEs, besides Element 1, Element 2 Comparing results with
literature (45 percent) and Element 3 Accounting for results (50 percent) are also
of very high frequency.We can see that CSEs employ more obligatory elements
than their native counterparts for this phase. After demonstrating the results,
CSEs prefer to provide diverse comments ranging from the comparison with
other sources to some statements of underlying reasons. For NSs, they simply
present results and interpret whenever possible.
For the genre of discussion, diﬀerences in the elements of the last phase,
Making deductions from the research, are presented in Table 19.6.
Among the three elements, CSEs take Drawing pedagogical implication as a
stable element while for NSs, Making suggestions and Recommending further
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
316
research are stable ones.This result suggests that CESs are more concerned about
establishing the pedagogical relevance in this section. For NSs, they would like
to go deeper in the discussion section by proving concrete suggestions based on
the research result and pointing out the line for future research.
5 Pedagogical implications
The above contrastive analysis between CSEs and NSs shows that CSEs have
the awareness of employing various rhetorical devices to construct each genre
by resorting to diﬀerent phases which are in turn achieved through a variety of
elements. However, problems also exist, as can be seen in the overuse of some
unnecessary phases and elements and avoidance of some necessary ones. One
reason is that some students do not understand fully the communicative purpose
of the genre; another reason is that they lack the skill of employing eﬀective
means to achieve their purpose.This ﬁnding is of great signiﬁcance for academic
writing teaching in Chinese circumstances.
First of all,it is essential for students to understand the function of each genre
in thesis writing. Following that, practices for the construction of genre by
employing some necessary phases and elements should be emphasized.Focusing
on conveying some necessary genre knowledge and on the practice of how to
achieve the communicative function, genre-based teaching approach is an
important method for teaching academic writing.
Rothery (1989, 1996) designed a genre-based pedagogy cycle featuring three
stages: the deconstruction stage, which foregrounds modeling and requires
teachers to expose students to the models of the target genre; the joint
Table 19.6 Elements in phase of Making deductions from the research
Elements Groups Percentage
1. Making suggestions CSEs 10%
NSs 65%
2. Recommending further research CSEs 30%
NSs 80%
3. Drawing pedagogic implications CSEs 50%
NSs 35%
Genres in Chinese Students’ MA Theses 317
construction stage, where teachers are expected to describe another example
of the same genre based on suggestions from students; and an individual
construction stage,which hands over the responsibility to students for writing in
a genre for the ﬁrst time on their own.Rothery’s genre-based pedagogy cycle has
been further developed by Rose (2004), and by Martin and Rose (2005) and
applied in the“reading to learn” model.
Combining the genre-based pedagogy cycle designed by Rothery (1989,
1996), the “reading to learn” model proposed by Rose (2004), and Martin and
Rose (2005), we have elaborated a detailed schema in the form of cycle as can be
seen in Figure 19.1, which can be applied to the teaching/learning of speciﬁc
genres in an MA thesis for CSEs.
The proposed cycle schema consists of 6 steps.
Step 1: Distribute good samples of genres from research papers and MA
theses by NSs to students and ask them to abstract the communicative function
of each genre.The purpose of this step is to expose the students to some deﬁning
features of genres, namely, goal-oriented and social. Let them understand that
each genre in a research paper and an MA theses is aimed to realize certain
communicative functions.
Step 2: Ask students to segment the sample genre into phases and phases
into elements. The purpose of this step is to make students aware of the
constructs of the genre. Let them understand that phases are arranged in
certain sequential order. Each phase is supposed to accomplish a more speciﬁc
Figure 19.1 Schema for MA thesis writing cycle.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
318
communicative function as so to back up the general one of the genre and
elements are woven together to form the texture of phase.
Step 3: Let students work in groups. Students are required to take notes about
what are obligatory phases and elements in thesis composition,and to sketch out
their framework for these genres.
Step 4: Distribute samples of genres in MA theses and ask students to repeat
Step 2. This step aims to expose students to some diﬀerences and possible
problems on writing patterns. Students are also asked to discuss the reasons
contributing to these diﬀerences and problems.
Step 5:Ask students to organize their writing,bearing in mind the diﬀerences
in the choice of phase-element types between NSs and CSEs and possible
problems. Encourage them to vocalize their opinions when structuring their
own theses.
Step 6: Ask students to revise their writing independently. Make it clear to
them that genre is purpose-driven and let them choose phases and elements
which can better serve the genres they are writing.
The purpose of this schema is to facilitate CSEs’ composition of academic
articles. Through the recommended procedures, students can gain a general
understanding of certain genre and gradually develop a routine of connecting
purposes with the proper generic patterns. Of course, learning the conventions
of certain genres means no rigid copying in the actual writing.To avoid an overly
prescriptive approach that might lead to stereotypical view of genres, when
applying genre analysis in the classroom,it is very important to stress the aspects
of schematic variation, as well as cultural inﬂuences, and expose students to
diﬀerent example of texts from the same genre and across diﬀerent genres so as
to sensitize them to the notion of generic variation.
Lexicography
319
320
1 Introduction
English idioms make up a large part of our knowledge of the language. They
facilitate communication as they serve to limit processing eﬀort and ensure
rapid production. For learners of English as a foreign language, English idioms
are in many ways crucial if they want to achieve native-like ﬂuency. As far as
Chinese EFL learners are concerned, these expressions pose many problems.As
a special category of English vocabulary, English idioms are characterized by
their compositeness, institutionalization, and non-compositionality. Moreover,
they are often culture speciﬁc and have particular sociocultural connotations
and associations (Fernando 1996: 3; Moon 1998: 6–9). As a result, Chinese EFL
learners often misinterpret English idioms (as “false friends”) and use them in
inappropriate contexts.
As important reference books to help Chinese learners cope with English
idioms, many English-Chinese dictionaries of English idioms often seem
insuﬃcient in their treatment of them. This chapter will explore how insights
from SFL may guide the compilation of an English-Chinese learner’s dictionary
of English idioms so that it can better accommodate both the decoding and
encoding needs of the learners.
20
Deﬁning English Idioms in a
Bilingual Learner’s Dictionary:
Applications of Systemic Functional
Linguistics in Lexicography
CHANG, Chenguang (ᑨᲘ‫ݹ‬)
Sun Yat-sen University
321
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
322
2 Studies of English idioms from a functional perspective
There is a long tradition of the study of English idioms,especially within the ﬁelds
of lexicology and lexicography.In fact,the ﬁeld of idiomatology is one of the most
heavily explored in lexicology. In addition to work in Britain and the USA, there
is a rich literature produced by those working in German and Russian/East
European lexicology (for a select bibliography, see Cowie and Howarth 1996).
Outside the immediate domain of lexicology/lexicography, researchers of
English idioms in the past have largely focused on the syntactic and semantic
properties of such expressions, e.g. Fraser (1970), Healey (1968), Makkai (1972),
Mitchell (1971), Weinreich (1969), with a few exceptions, notably Strässler
(1982), Fernando (1996), and Moon (1992, 1994, 1998), who analyze English
idioms from a broadly functional approach.
Commenting on the treatment of idiomaticity, Béjoint (2000: 220) points out
that traditional dictionaries have tended to emphasize words in isolation. In
many dictionaries, very little is said about how they are used in discourse. To
improve on the situation, it is essential to emphasize the functions of idioms in
use when providing deﬁnitions for idioms in the dictionary, and SFL has a lot to
oﬀer in this respect.
Halliday (1994a) points out that language is structured to make three main
kinds of meanings simultaneously.
All languages are organized around two main kinds of meaning, the“ideational”
or reﬂexive, and the “‘interpersonal” or active. These components, called
“metafunctions” . . ., are manifestations in the linguistic system of the two very
general purposes which underlie all uses of language: (i) to understand the
environment (ideational), and (ii) to act on the others in it (interpersonal).
Combined with these is a third metafunctional component, the “textual”, which
breathes relevance into the other two.
Halliday 1994a: viii
In SFL, language is treated as a resource for mapping ideational, interpersonal,
and textual meanings onto one another in virtually every act of communication.
The three metafunctions, as Eggins and Slade (1997: 48) argue, can be identiﬁed
in linguistic units of all sizes: from a word and phrase to a text. This insight into
the functions of language provides the basis for the functional exploration of
English idioms.
Several studies of English idioms have been conducted based on this
multi-functional perspective. Fernando (1996), for example, applies Halliday’s
English Idioms in a Bilingual Learner’s Dictionary 323
metafunctions to the study of English idioms and analyzes how they are used to
convey representations of the world (ideational idioms), evaluate people and
situations, signal conviviality and conﬂict (interpersonal idioms), and create
coherent, cohesive texts (relational idioms).
Moon (1998) provides a more comprehensive account of English ﬁxed
expressions and idioms. Based on an 18-million-word corpus of contemporary
English, her study reports on the frequencies, forms, and functions of ﬁxed
expressions and idioms in English, and tries to establish correlations between
function, form, and frequency.
Chang (2004a) is another researcher on English idioms based on Halliday’s
metafunctional perspective.It is found in this study that,as complex packages of
information, English idioms diﬀer from single words in terms of their construal
of experience. They are typically imagist, concrete, and metaphorical (e.g. skate
on thin ice,rock the boat, make a mountain out of a molehill).In addition,they are
complex in the sense that their lexical format and semantic make-up enable a
great deal of information to be packaged into small units like phrases and
semi-clauses. Due to their etymological origins, many idiomatic expressions
(e.g. ﬁddle while Rome burns, burn one’s boats) denote segments of experience
mediated by collective perceptions and come trailing clouds of shared cultural
knowledge and background with them.
In terms of interpersonal meanings, Chang (2004a) maintains that idioms
play an important role in maintaining and stabilizing relationships between
interactants. The choice of diﬀerent types of idioms can also be linked to
the relative status of communicative partners.It is argued in the study that the use
of idioms serves as a membershipping device,providing a resource for indicating
degrees of solidarity, especially when idioms are intentionally manipulated
in discourse. The punning or word-play memberships communicative
partners as “belonging” to a community with shared linguistic and cultural
values.
Moreover,many idioms serve an evaluative function (Chang 2004a).Working
within the Appraisal framework in SFL (Martin 2000; Martin and Rose
2003/2007), it is shown that idioms are used to express diﬀerent kinds of
attitudinal meanings and to provide grading or scaling.
As regards the relation of English idioms and the textual metafunction, it is
found that many English idioms serve to organize text or to signal textual
information. The tendency for idioms to appear in macroThemes/hyperThemes
and macroNews/hyperNews, or other positions to signal topic termination or
transition, can be tied to the evaluative functions of idioms (Chang 2004a).
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
324
The Hallidayan functional approach essentially equates meaning with
function. This is especially true when we attempt to provide deﬁnitions for
English idioms. Therefore, the way we treat English idioms in a dictionary, both
in terms of the microstructure of each entry and the macrostructure of the
overall listing of the entries, should be guided by this functional, meaning-
orientated principle.
3 Deﬁning idioms in an English-Chinese learner’s dictionary
English idioms come in many diﬀerent types.In this chapter,an English idiom is
taken to be a conventionalized multi-word expression whose syntactic and
lexical form is to a greater or lesser degree ﬁxed,and whose semantics are opaque
and discoursal functions specialized,also to a greater or lesser degree.This broad
deﬁnition of idioms will include both ﬁgurative ﬁxed expressions, which are the
focus of most idioms dictionaries, as well as other multi-word items that are
particularly associated with functions, such as stock phrases, proverbs, and
discoursal formulae. For Chinese learners of English, the more ﬁgurative type of
idioms often cause problems in comprehension, whereas the other kinds may
often be used inappropriately. Thus it is advisable for a Chinese learner’s
dictionary of English to include both types.
In view of the functional principle reviewed above, it is essential that
deﬁnitions of English idioms in a dictionary should take into account all the
multiple strands of meanings that idioms are often used to express. As the
meaning of an idiom is more than the sum of the individual words, it will not
work if one simply deﬁnes it with the traditional “genus + diﬀerentia” formula.
Instead, a style of deﬁnition that explains the idioms in terms of function is
needed.
The usage-style deﬁnition, which is often associated with the COBUILD
learner’s dictionaries, seems to provide a better solution. The main advantage
of this style of deﬁnition is that it places a lexical item in a complete sentence,
which provides its context of usage. This style has been adopted by other EFL
dictionaries. The following examples are taken from some recent editions of
EFL dictionaries published in Britain.
blow the whistle on sb/sth If you blow the whistle on someone,or on something
secret or illegal, you tell another person, especially a person in authority, what is
happening.
Collins COUBUILD Advanced Learner’s English Dictionary, 2009
English Idioms in a Bilingual Learner’s Dictionary 325
(You) mark my words! old-fashioned something that you say when you tell
someone about something that you are certain will happen in the future.
Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary, 2005
knock on wood AmE spoken something you say when you want your good luck
to continue. People sometimes knock on something made of wood when they
say this.
Macmillan English Dictionary for Advanced Learners of
American English, 2002
be/get tarred with the same brush if someone is tarred with the same brush as
someone else, people think they have the same faults or have committed the
same crimes, even if they have not.
Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English, 2003
Halliday (1993) regards the COBUILD “folk-style” deﬁnition as “a highly
innovative approach to deﬁning, classifying and contextualizing English words,”
although it has been criticized by others as being too “clumsy” and a waste of
space. Indeed, if we are to deﬁne idiomatic expressions like excuse me, with all
due respect, if you ask me, we will have to explain how they are used by
contextualizing them in a way similar to what is exempliﬁed in the dictionary
deﬁnitions above.
This style of deﬁnition,however,is yet to make its impact on English-Chinese
dictionaries in China. The following, for example, is how an English-Chinese
dictionary deﬁnes the expression if you ask me:
if you ask me ֐㤕н㿱ᙚˈнⷂ֐䈤ˈ㾱䈤઒ቡᱟ. . . .
A New English-Chinese Dictionary, The Commercial Press, 2000
If the Chinese deﬁnition is translated into English, it would mean something
along the lines of “if you don’t mind, to be honest with you . . ., etc.” The reason
why this deﬁnition is not clear enough and may even be misleading is that it does
not tell us clearly how the expression is actually used. Compare the following
version:
if you ask me spoken in my opinion (to emphasize that you are stating your
personal point of view) ൘ᡁⴻᶕ˗ᡁ䇔Ѫ(ᕪ䈳㓟኎њӪ㿲⛩): If you ask
me, this is a complete waste of time. . . .
Here, the function and the interpersonal aspect of meaning are made more
explicit.The following is a more extended example,where the diﬀerent functions
of the expression excuse me are explained following the same principle:
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
326
excuse me spoken
(1) (used when you want to politely get someone’s attention, especially
when you are about to ask them a question) ˄⭘Ҿᕅ䎧ԆӪ⌘᜿ˈ
⢩࡛ᱟ߶༷ᨀ䰞ᰦⲴ⽬䊼⭘䈝˅˖ Excuse me, is anybody sitting
here? . . .
(2) (used to apologize to someone when you have disturbed or
interrupted them) ˄൘ᢃᢠᡆᢃᯝḀӪᰦⲴ䚃ⅹ⭘䈝˅˖Excuse
me interrupting, but there’s a thing I feel I’ve got to say. . . .
(3) (used for disagreeing with someone, for expressing a contradictory
point of view or for showing that you are annoyed) ˄⭘Ҿ㺘⽪н䎎
ᡀḀӪⲴ᜿㿱ˈਁ㺘⴨৽Ⲵ㿲⛩ˈᡆ㺘⽪нᛖ˅˖Excuse me,
but I think you are mistaken . . .
(4) (used as a polite way to indicate that you are about to leave the room,
or to indicate that you are about to stop talking to someone) ˄㺘⽪
㠚ᐡ㾱⿫ᔰᡯ䰤ˈᡆ㾱‫→ڌ‬оḀӪӔ䈸ᰦⲴ⽬䊼⭘䈝˅˖
Excuse me a minute, I’ll be right back . . .
(5) (used to ask someone politely to move so that you can walk past)
˄⭘Ҿ䈧≲࡛Ӫ䇙䐟Ⲵ⽬䊼⭘䈝˅˖Excuse me, could I just
squeeze past you? . . .
(6) (used to apologize when you have done something slightly
embarrassing or impolite, such as burping, hiccupping, or sneezing)
˄‫ڊ‬Ҷᴹ⛩ԔӪቤቜᡆཡ⽬Ⲵһᛵᰦ⭘֌䚃ⅹ⭘䈝˅˖Oh,
excuse me, I didn’t know anyone was in here. . . .
(7) AmE (used to apologize when you hit someone accidentally, make a
small mistake,etc) ˄⻠ࡠ࡛Ӫᡆ⣟ሿ䭉䈟ㅹᰦ⭘֌䚃ⅹ⭘䈝˅˖
Excuse me, did I step on your toe? . . .
(8) especially AmE (used when you have not heard or understood
something) please repeat that ˄⭘Ҿ⋑ᴹੜࡠᡆੜ៲Ḁһᰦ˅䈧
޽䈤а䙽ˈ䈧䟽༽ал˖ “What time is it?” “Excuse me?” “I asked
you what time it is.” . . . (Chang, forthcoming).
With many discoursal expressions,this seems to be the best way of deﬁnition.As
Thompson (1996: 26) points out, sometimes some sort of “circumlocution” is
necessary to explain the functions of such idiomatic expressions.
With regard to interpersonal meanings, many English idioms are highly
evaluative, or they can often serve to augment attitudinal meaning and raise or
intensify the interpersonal impact or force (Chang 2004a). The interpersonal
aspects of meaning in idioms can be explicitly signalled in the deﬁnitions,
English Idioms in a Bilingual Learner’s Dictionary 327
sometimes with the help of parentheses. For example, the graduated evaluation
in idioms can be incorporated in the deﬁnitions, as in the following:
come hell or high water informal (used for emphasis) whatever the
diﬃculties or opposition may be . . .
like a bull in a china shop used to say that someone is very clumsy,
especially in a situation where they need to be careful . . .
The textual meanings of some English idioms can also be indicated in a similar
manner. As we mentioned earlier, many English idioms have textual functions:
serving to organize text or signalling textual information. Here is an example of
how this can be shown in a dictionary entry:
It never rains but it pours saying (used as a preface to or a summary of a
series of unpleasant things) when one bad thing happens,a lot of other bad
things also happen, making the situation even worse: First of all, it was the
car breaking down, then the ﬁre in the kitchen and now Mary’s accident. It
never rains but it pours! . . ./ It never rains but it pours! First, I found that the
carhadbeenstolenandthendiscoveredIhadlostthekeystomyapartment. . . .
In this example, it is indicated explicitly how this idiomatic expression is often
used as a textual device, i.e.“as a preface to or summary of a series of unpleasant
things.” This is further exempliﬁed in the example sentences, which serve to
illustrate how the expression is actually used in this function.
As far as experiential meaning is concerned, deﬁnitions of idioms in a
dictionary can also be inaccurate or incomplete at times. For instance, the idiom
“climb (jump, get) on the bandwagon,” is deﬁned as follows in an English-
Chinese dictionary.
climb (jump, get) on the bandwagon ৲࣐˄᭟ᤱ˅㜌࡙൘ᵋⲴ᭯‫ފ‬
˄䘀ࣘㅹ˅
(A New English-Chinese Dictionary, Shanghai Yiwen Press, 2000.)
The English translation of the Chinese deﬁnition would be “to join or support a
winning political party, movement, etc.,” which is obviously incomplete. The
deﬁnition also misses the interpersonal aspect of meaning, since the idiom
clearly involves negative appraisal. The evaluative meaning, which is negative
here,can be made more explicit in the deﬁnition“to support a plan or a cause for
personal proﬁt or advantage.”
In light of Halliday’s view of the complementarity between lexis and grammar,
many English idioms, as multi-word expressions, can be said to lie at an
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
328
intermediate point in the lexis-grammar continuum (Halliday 2008b), which
lend themselves easily to word-play and manipulation. Without knowledge of
their etymological origins, it is hard to appreciate the meanings of the idioms in
manipulated forms. For example, experientially speaking, the idiom “climb
(jump, get) on the bandwagon” often lends itself to manipulation, as attested in
the following examples.
Fewer and fewer people are pulling the economic wagon and more and more
people jumping on it.
David Duke, candidate for governor of Louisiana, November, 1991
Many companies hustled into the Eighties hotel boom, ignoring the principle of
the old-fashioned “personalized” proprietor. They assumed they would make
megabucks out of country-house hotels whose managing directors sat in an
oﬃce block somewhere, leaving managers to run them all. Long established
hotels also have the edge over the bandwagon crowd in that they have“customer
muscle”—in other words, return business.
Sunday Telegraph, May 17, 1992
In a learner’s dictionary of English idioms,where we can aﬀord a more thorough
treatment,it is necessary to provide information about the origins of such idioms
so that learners can better understand them, such as the following:
Note: In elections, political rally used to be heralded by a band playing on
board a horse-drawn wagon. The candidate would be up there on the
wagon with the band and he would be joined by people who wished to
show their allegiance. Some of them were loyal supporters; others were
just looking for reward if the candidate were elected.
Since corpus studies have shown that many of ﬁxed expressions and idioms in
English are often played upon or manipulated (Moon 1998; Langlotz 2006),
informationabouttheoriginsofidiomsaresometimesessentialintheunderstanding
of their creative use. Halliday (2007a), commenting on language play of this kind,
highlights that such play involves “departing from a norm,” and it cannot be
meaningful unless learners are aware of the norm that is being played upon.
Sometimes the manipulation can even be institutionalized, so it is necessary
in some instances to indicate possibilities of exploitation in a note form or
provide actual examples of such creative use.
put two and two together guess the truth from what one sees, hears, etc. . . .:
Joan’s car is often outside Tom’s house, but only when his wife is at work; so it’s not
diﬃcult to put two and two together . . .
English Idioms in a Bilingual Learner’s Dictionary 329
Note: People sometimes say someone has put two and two together to make
ﬁve, meaning that they have guessed wrongly about something. . . .
Such notes about origin and manipulation can be easily incorporated in an
English-Chinese learner’s dictionary of idioms, to help learners better
comprehend or use these expressions.
To brieﬂy summarize, we can make use of the diﬀerent elements in the
microstructure of an entry in an idioms dictionary to explain the meaning and
use of an idiom. The examples, usage notes and information about origins of
idioms can all work together with the deﬁnitions to bring out the meanings of
idioms more comprehensively.
4 The macrostructure of an idioms dictionary
To better help Chinese learners with their encoding needs, we may also need to
look into the macrostructure of an English idioms dictionary and change the
way the idioms are listed from the perspective of meaning.
Halliday (2007b: 5) points out that there are two principal methods for
describing lexical items: one is by writing a dictionary and the other is by writing
a thesaurus. In a thesaurus, lexical items that are similar in meaning are grouped
together, whereas in a dictionary, the entries are arranged in alphabetical order.
The two methods can be combined in various ways.
The advantage with the alphabetical ordering is that it is by far the easiest
and the fastest system for the dictionary user, especially for decoding purposes,
yet it is obviously not a satisfactory arrangement if the dictionary is to be used to
ﬁnd “ideas” rather than forms (Béjoint 2000: 15). With most English idioms
dictionaries,theitemsaregenerallyarrangedaccordingtothekeywordscontained
in the idioms,although the way of determining a keyword in an idiom may diﬀer
from dictionary to dictionary.In any case,the place where an idiom occurs in the
dictionary often tells us virtually nothing about what it means. For example, all
the idioms with the keyword “CAT” may be listed together as follows, where
neighboring entries often have nothing to do with each other in meaning:
CAT
cat and mouse
a cat on hot bricks
the cat’s pyjamas
a fat cat
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
330
ﬁght like cat and dog
grin like a Cheshire cat
let the cat out of the bag
like a scalded cat
like the cat that got the cream
look like something the cat dragged in
no room to swing a cat
put the cat among the pigeons
see which way the cat jumps
. . .
In contrast,a thesaurus groups words together on the basis of their meaning under
one and the same concept that is part of a layered umbrella system of concepts.This
kind of arrangement was inspired by the idea that the reality in the world around us
can be roughly divided into a system of concepts. As lexical items are arranged
semantically in a thesaurus, the location of an entry-item is in itself a piece of
semantic information.In Roget’s Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases (1852),for
example, all the words are divided into six main categories (e.g.Abstract Relations,
Space, Matter, Intellect, Volition, and Aﬀections), each of which is divided into
smaller and appropriate subdivisions.As Halliday (2007b: 12) explains,a thesaurus
arranges all the lexical items it contains“in a single comprehensive taxonomy.”
Another well-known thesaurus-type reference book is the Longman Lexicon
of Contemporary English (McArthur 1981), which contains 15,000 lemmas,
subdivided into fourteen main categories of the following types: Life and Living
Things, The Body: its Functions and Welfare, People and the Family, etc. These
categories are each in turn divided into subcategories. As a result, the whole
vocabulary is organized in three tiers in the Lexicon.
Life and living things
Verbs: Existing and causing to exist
exist, be, create, animate
Verbs: Living and dying
live, live on, exist, die, decay, decompose, rot, survive
Adjectives: Living and dead
living, alive, live, animate, dead, dying
Nouns: Life and death
life, existence, creation, animation, birth, nativity, death,
mortality . . .
. . .
English Idioms in a Bilingual Learner’s Dictionary 331
The body: its functions and welfare
. . .
People and the family
. . .
A more recent example is the Longman Language Activator (1993), which is
essentially an encoding dictionary due to the thesaurus-like nature of its
macrostructural arrangement of the entries. The Activator groups together
“individual word-meanings or phrase meanings that generally share the same
idea, concept, or semantic area.” These concepts or ideas are referred to as
Keywords in the Activator.Each Keyword is divided into smaller sections,which
are shown in a numbered menu of meanings. The user can start from a general
concept (a Keyword such as “walk”), and select the menu number that most
closely corresponds to the idea that they want to express (such as “to walk
quietly”),and then go to that section to ﬁnd the most appropriate word or phrase
needed (such as“tiptoe”) (for a review, see Chang 1996).
The main advantage of the thesaurus-like arrangement, as Halliday (2007b:
15) argues,is that words grouped together in this way“share the same address,as
it were, within our overall semantic space.” This principle of organization can be
applied to an English idioms dictionary. An attempt is made in An Active
Learner’s Dictionary of English Idioms (Chang 2004b), an English-Chinese
bilingual dictionary,where all the idioms included in the dictionary are grouped
under 110 notions or functions. These notions/functions include “admiring
people and things,admitting something,agreeing and disagreeing,telling people
to go away, giving an opinion, telling people to be quiet,” etc. Included under
“telling people to be quiet,” for example, are the following idiomatic expressions:
telling people to be quiet
button up/it
cut the cackle
drop dead
shut your face/mouth
shut your gob
get knotted
button one’s lip(s)
pack it in
hold one’s peace/tongue
pipe down
give it a rest
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
332
shut it/up
put a sock in it
zip up
Each expression is then deﬁned and illustrated separately as in a normal
dictionary entry, taking into consideration the diﬀerent strands of meaning
discussed in the previous section.
There are still many obstacles that this type of semantically-arranged
dictionary should overcome. First, there is the problem of coverage: how can the
dictionary include as broad a range of idioms as possible within the limited
number of concepts/functions.Then there are problems with polysemous idioms
and overlapping categorization. Moreover, as with most semantically-arranged
reference books, consultation is not easy (especially for encoding purposes),
since it is based on an organization of human knowledge that is bound to vary
from person to person.
Some of these diﬃculties can be easily resolved. For example, the problem
with consultation can be partly resolved by equipping the dictionary with an
alphabetical index.With polysemous idioms and overlapping categorization, we
can resort to cross-referencing. However, the system of notions/functions and
the classiﬁcation of idioms under these categories are to be further revised and
reﬁned so that the dictionary can really meet the learners’ encoding needs.With
more experimentation, the two methods for describing idioms as well as other
lexical items, the dictionary and the thesaurus, can be better combined.
5 Summary
In this chapter, I have discussed some of the insights that may be gained from
SFL in guiding our lexicographical practice, in this case deﬁning English idioms
in a bilingual learner’s dictionary. I argued that it is essential that deﬁnitions of
English idioms in such a dictionary should take into account all the diﬀerent
strands of meanings that idioms are used to express,especially interpersonal and
textual meanings, which have tended to be neglected. It is shown that all the
elements in the microstructure of an entry can work together in the delineation
of meaning.
As far as the macrostructure of an idioms dictionary is concerned, the two
methods for describing lexical items, the dictionary and the thesaurus, can be
combined. The advantage of the thesaurus-like arrangement lies in its semantic
English Idioms in a Bilingual Learner’s Dictionary 333
orientation and should be further explored if the learner’s encoding needs are to
be better accommodated.
Although the discussion here has focused primarily on an English idioms
dictionary for Chinese learners, the principles of SFL are also apparently
applicable in the treatment of word meaning in general-purpose bilingual
dictionaries.
334
Register Variation
335
336
1 Introduction
In the past few years, some scholars have focused their attention on disciplinary
discourses in school textbooks in such subjects as history, geography,
mathematics, and chemistry. The aim of textbooks is to enrich students’
knowledge in a particular ﬁeld. Chemistry has traditionally been among the
major school subjects of natural sciences for students. Due to its importance in
social life and in schools, the discourse of chemistry has entered the academic
vision of researchers and some insightful studies have been done. To enhance
the understanding of how chemistry knowledge is presented linguistically in
textbooks, a study of the linguistic features of knowledge construction in
chemistry textbooks would be worthwhile.
Based on a self-built corpus of chemistry textbooks,this chapter is an attempt
to examine how ideational, interpersonal, and multimodal resources are used to
construct chemical knowledge in textbooks. To facilitate this study, the corpus,
which includes three widely-used undergraduate chemistry textbooks, i.e.
Carey’s (2004) Organic Chemistry, Cooper’s (2004) Biophysical Chemistry, and
Harvey’s (2000) Modern Analytical Chemistry, consists of 525,392 words. Since
chemical knowledge is constructed mostly by the use of language, this study
takes the systemic perspective and examines the use of semiotic resources from
three perspectives. Ideationally, this chapter will examine the use of technical
terms, grammatical metaphor, and transitivity patterning. Interpersonally, the
use of modal adjuncts and personal pronouns will be explored.Textually,the use
of multimodality will be discussed to see how chemical knowledge is constructed
by diﬀerent semiotic resources.
21
The Linguistic Features of Knowledge
Construction in Chemistry Textbooks
YANG, Xinzhang (ᶘؑᖠ)
Xiamen University
337
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
338
2 Linguistic studies in textbooks
Sjöström (2007) gives a study of the discourse of chemistry and takes the
discourse of chemistry as a cultural activity within the broader cultural context.
Sjöström (2007) discusses, on the one hand, how chemists look at their science
and how chemical knowledge is understood by the public and, on the other
hand, how chemists look at their own role and the role of chemistry within
society.
The language of textbooks has caught the attention of many scholars in the
ﬁelds of linguistics and education, and has been analyzed and described in
systemic functional linguistics. Wignell et al. (1990) studies junior high school
geography textbooks and explores how language is used in geography to observe,
order, and explain the experiential world (Wignel et  al. 1990: 360). Besides
geography textbooks, Eggins et  al. (1993) studies how language is used to
represent knowledge in junior high school history textbooks and ﬁnds that the
major grammatical resource used is grammatical metaphor, especially
nominalizations. Also from the perspective of systemic functional linguistics,
Sriniwass (2010) describes the lexicogrammatical features of the chemistry
textbook and explores how the disciplinary knowledge of chemistry is
constructed by the use of the clause complex. Based on Halliday’s (2004) system
of clause complexing resources,Sriniwass (2010) examines in detail the systemic
choices of taxis and logical-semantic relations in 3,265 clauses from three
diﬀerent chemistry textbooks and ﬁnds that paratactic exposition and hypotactic
elaboration through ﬁnite relations are the preferred modes in elaboration
relations and paratactic extension relations are used more to extend knowledge
(Sriniwass 2010: 446–50). These studies enhance our awareness of the way
disciplinary knowledge is constructed lexicogrammatically, which would help
students to be familiar with the linguistic features of chemistry textbooks and
make chemistry knowledge more easily accessible to students.
To Engberg (2006), the characteristics of the participants and the purposes
pursued by them can determine the way texts are written. Chemistry textbooks
have their own special characteristics and exemplify a special ﬁeld of knowledge
in the curriculum. The three chemistry textbooks used in this study are
those used in undergraduate chemistry courses, the purpose of which is
obviously to introduce to students the fundamental concepts and methods in
chemistry. They naturally involve the interpersonal relationship between
chemistry textbook writers and student readers who are beginning to enter the
world of chemistry.
Linguistic Features of Knowledge Construction 339
3 Use of technical terms
Allan (2006: 109) deﬁnes jargon as the language peculiar to a trade, profession,
or other groups and as the language used in a body of spoken or written texts
dealing with a circumscribed domain in which speakers share a common
specialized vocabulary, habits of word usage, and forms of expression. In this
sense, technical terms are a special feature of jargon. Scientiﬁc discourse, as
observed by Engberg (2006),is characterized by a high degree of abstraction and
a considerable amount of terminology. The creation of technical terms results
from the need to classify things and phenomena in the world. Wignell et al.
(1990: 367) puts technical vocabulary under the heading of technicality and
points out that there are two ways to set up a technical vocabulary: naming and
deﬁning (Wignell et al. 1990: 373).
The naming of things and phenomena from the chemical perspective
necessarily involves the use of technical terms. A brief survey of the chemistry
textbooks shows that the majority of technical terms are nouns. By using
nouns, chemistry construes natural phenomena as things. Nouns, as Huddleston
and Paullum (2008: 84) deﬁnes, can be classiﬁed into pronouns, common nouns,
and proper nouns. Common nouns can be further divided into countable and
uncountable nouns.According to Biber et al. (1999: 242–3), countable nouns are
used to denote persons, concrete objects, actions/events, and other abstractions
while uncountable nouns are used to denote substances, emotional states,
qualities,events,relations,and abstract concepts.These nouns often appear in the
form of single nouns, noun phrases, and abbreviations. In chemistry textbooks,
the technical terms take the forms of single nouns such as hypochromicity,
ellipticity, ﬂuorophore, depolarization, polarizability, noun phrases such as
diﬀusion coeﬃcient, isosbestic point, and abbreviations such as DNA, CCD. For
example,
(1) DNA and RNA spectra are quite sensitive to conformation, since the
regular stacking of the nucleotide chromophores in helical structures leads to
the phenomenon of “hypochromicity”.
Cooper 2004: 37
In this example, DNA and RNA are abbreviations acting as pre-modiﬁers of
spectra in the nominal phrase. Words like conformation and hypochromicity are
single nouns while nucleotide chromophores and helical structures are noun
phrases.All these nouns are technical terms which denote things and phenomena
in the ﬁeld of chemistry.
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
340
As noted in Wignell et al. (1990: 373), technical terms can be named by using
thegrammaticalresourcesof projectingandnon-projectingprocesses.Inchemistry
textbooks, similar cases are found but in most cases non-projecting processes are
used. Chemistry textbooks use lexicogrammatical resources such as identifying
relational processes, embedded clauses to give names to things and phenomena
and thus specify the specialized meaning of technical terms.For example,
(2) Because water molecules have such a high aﬃnity for each other, nonpolar
molecules have diﬃculty ﬁtting into aqueous solutions. This is known as the
hydrophobic eﬀect.
Cooper 2004: 14
(3) Helium, neon, and argon belong to the class of elements known as noble
gases or rare gases.
Carey 2004: 10
(4) The components of interest in the sample are called analytes, and the
remainder of the sample is the matrix.
Harvey 2000: 36
In these examples,the lexicogrammatical resources of be known as,be called,and
be are used for naming and establishing chemical terminology. In Examples
(2) and (4), known as, called and is are the predicator whereas in Example
(3) known as is used in the embedded clause known as noble gases or rare gases.
4 Nominalization
Nominalization is a type of grammatical metaphor. In their study of history
textbooks, Eggins et al. (1993) regards grammatical metaphor as the principal
linguistic resource used for distancing in history textbooks and identiﬁes
grammatical metaphor, especially nominalizations, as the major linguistic
resource for representing historical knowledge and experience. Halliday (1994a)
ﬁnds instances of nominalizations in his study scientiﬁc English. In the process
of nominalization,processes are mapped into things.To ﬁnd out the workings of
nominalizations in chemistry textbooks, this study takes a search of words
ending with such suﬃxes as -tion, -ment, -ity, -ancy,and -ency.The search results
are shown in Table 21.1.
This table shows that among the 525,392 words in the corpus, the most
frequently used nominalizations are those that end with -tion. They appear
12,642 times in the corpus. Those ending with -ity rank second. Thus, the use of
Linguistic Features of Knowledge Construction 341
the suﬃx -tion becomes the most favorite type of nominalizing process and
quality in chemistry textbooks. These nominalizations are mostly chemical
terms and abstract common nouns. For example,
(5) In a single-point external standardization, we ﬁrst determine the value of k
by measuring the signal for a single standard containing a known concentration
of analyte.
Harvey 2000: 117
(6) Consequently, it is found that the electrophoretic mobility of DNA is just
proportional to the length of the chain.
Cooper 2004: 150
Example (5) uses the nominalizations of standardization and concentration
while Example (6) adopts the nominalization of mobility. Nominalization helps
theorize chemical phenomena and thus increase the abstractness of text.The use
of nominalizations meets the requirements of chemists to set up chemistry as a
science and to talk about chemistry in a scientiﬁc way.
5 Transitivity patterning
Transitivity is closely related to the ﬁeld of discourse. When dealing with
transitivity, Halliday (1994a) identiﬁes several process types, i.e. material
processes, relational processes, mental processes, verbal processes, behavioral
processes, and existential processes. In their investigation of the discourse of
geography, Wignell et  al. (1990: 374) points out that the frequently used
grammatical resource for deﬁning a technical term is an identifying
relational clause, in the patterning of “x is deﬁned by y,”or,“y serves to deﬁne the
identity of x.”These processes include verbs such as equal, add up to, come out at,
signify, mean, deﬁne, spell, indicate, express, suggest, act as, symbolizes, play,
Table 21.1 Occurrences of suﬃxes
Suﬃxes Occurrences Suﬃxes Occurrences
-tion 12642 -ancy 14
-sion 909 -ency 391
-ity 2004 -ness 74
-ment 1182 -ance 921
-acy 119 -ence 1149
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
342
represent, stand for, refer to, exemplify (Wignell et al. 1990: 373–4). Based on this
list, a search for the verbs used was conducted and the results are shown in
Table 21.2.
Table 21.2 Occurrences of verbs
Verbs Occurrences Verbs Occurrences
Deﬁne 126 Express 81
indicate 125 Suggest 64
Act as 16 Symbolize 2
Stand for 10 Refer to 24
Represent 91 Stand for 10
Exemplify 1 Know as 72
Function as 3 Equal 51
Add up to 0 Come out at 0
Signify 3 Mean 11
Spell 0
Table 21.2 shows the occurrences of the verbs used in the chemistry textbooks.
The table indicates that the frequently deﬁning verbs in the corpus are indicate,
deﬁne, and represent, though other verbs can be used.
(7) The rate of reaction at any time is deﬁned as the overall rate of formation of
products, or loss of reactants.
Cooper 2004: 124
(8) The tendency of an atom to draw the electrons in a covalent bond toward
itself is referred to as its electronegativity.
Carey 2004: 15
(9) Alternatively, and in the absence of determinate errors, the 95% conﬁdence
interval indicates the range of values in which we expect to ﬁnd the population’s
true mean.
Harvey 2000: 82
In Examples (7) and (8), deﬁne and refer to are used in the passive voice and in
the structure “be deﬁned as” and “be referred to as” respectively, whereas in
Example (9) indicate is used in the active voice to explain “the 95% conﬁdence
interval.”
Table 21.2 also shows that verbs like add up to, come out at, and spell are not
used in chemistry textbooks but there are a few occurrences of exemplify, signify,
and symbolize. In addition to the above-mentioned list of verbs, there are others,
such as involve, be. A corpus search shows that involve occurs 154 times, much
Linguistic Features of Knowledge Construction 343
more frequently than the above-mentioned verbs in the corpus.It is mostly used
to deﬁne chemical terms and phenomena. For example,
(10) Static quenching involves the formation of an equilibrium complex
between the quencher (Q) and the ﬂuorescent group (F). . . .
Cooper 2004: 48
(11) Proteins are polymers made up of speciﬁc sequences of L-amino acids
linked together by covalent peptide (amide) bonds (Figure 1.1).
Cooper 2004: 2
The verb involve in Example (10) is used to deﬁne what static quenching is. A
close survey of the use of these verbs in the corpus indicates that although they
can be used to deﬁne technical terms, these verbs can also be used to deﬁne
chemical phenomena and symbols. For example,
(12) Digits to the left of the decimal are not included as signiﬁcant ﬁgures since
they only indicate the power of 10. A pH of 2.45, therefore, contains two
signiﬁcant ﬁgures.
Harvey 2000: 14
(13) We use a double-headed arrow to represent resonance between these two
Lewis structures.
Carey 2004: 24
(14) . . . where N represents the“native” or folded form of the protein. . . .
Cooper 2004: 133
In Examples (12), (13), and (14), indicate and represent are used to deﬁne digits,
a double-headed line, and the symbol N mentioned in the textbooks.
What is worth noting is that in some cases they are not used as the identifying
relational process but as other process types. For example,
(15) It is more conventional to express sedimentation coeﬃcients in Svedberg
units (S), in honour of the Swedish scientist T. Svedberg (Nobel Prize 1926). . . .
Cooper 2004: 89
In Example (15) express is used as a verbal process, but not as a relational
identifying process.
Halliday (1988, 1994b, 1998) studies scientiﬁc English and identiﬁes two
types of clause as the favorite clause types of the language of science:“a causes/is
caused by x” and “b proves/is proved by y.”According to Halliday (1994a), there
are several types of logical-semantic relations with clause, group and phrase
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
344
complexes. In his study of the language of science, Halliday (1994b) notes that
the logical-semantic relations can be grammaticalized in English by conjunctions
and prepositions or lexicalized by verbs. In the case of grammaticalization,
according to Halliday (1994b: 141), the causal logical-semantic relationship can
be realized typically by conjunctions and prepositions such as so, because of
while the temporal logical-semantic relationship can be realized typically by
then and after. The result of a search for these conjunctions and prepositions in
the corpus is shown in Table 21.3.
Table 21.3 Occurrences of conjunctions and prepositions
conjunctions and
prepositions
occurrences conjunctions and
prepositions
occurrences
So 238 Because of 40
Then 355 After 322
Note: The counts for then exclude those used for indicating condition and past time.
Table 21.4 Occurrences of conjunctions and prepositions
conjunctions and
prepositions
occurrences conjunctions and
prepositions
occurrences
Thus 27 Therefore 240
Because 338 Before 220
Table 21.3indicatesthatamongthefourtypicalconjunctionsandprepositions,
then occurs most frequently and that the occurrences of after rank second. A
glance at the search results shows that both then and after are typically used to
establish temporal relations. So, which ranks third, is typically used to set up
causal relations. The conjunction then in Example (16) is used to suggest the
temporal order of “produced” and“accelerated.”
(16) When a photon of suﬃcient energy strikes the ﬁrst electrode in the series,
a photoelectron is produced which is then accelerated towards the next electrode
in the cascade.
Cooper 2004: 30
As is known, the causal and the temporal relations can also be realized by
conjunctions and prepositions such as thus, because, therefore, and before. Thus,
another search is done of these four words and the results are shown in Table 21.4.
Linguistic Features of Knowledge Construction 345
It can be seen from Table 21.4 that because occurs most frequently in the
corpus whereas therefore and before rank the second and the third respectively.
Taking both Table  21.3 and Table  21.4 into consideration, we can ﬁnd that
then and because are preferred for the expression of the causal relation and that
after and before are most frequently used for the expression of the temporal
relation.
In the case of lexicalization, the causal relation can be established by
verbs such as produce, arise from, depend on, lead to while the temporal relation
can be set up by verbs such as follow, precede, anticipate, co-occur with
(Halliday 1994a: 141). To ﬁnd out how these verbs function in chemistry
textbooks, we did a corpus search. The search results are listed in Table 21.5 and
Table 21.6.
Table 21.5 Occurrences of verbs for the causal relation
Verbs Occurrences Verbs Occurrences
Produce 7 Arise from 9
Depend on 101 Lead to 110
Table 21.6 Occurrences of verbs for temporal relations
Verbs Occurrences Verbs Occurrences
Follow 5 Precede 4
Anticipate 2 Co-occur with 0
Although there are 168 instances of produce in the corpus, there are only
seven instances used for the causal relation and the other instances are used as
the material process. Table 21.5 shows that the favored verbs used for the causal
relation are depend on and lead to. For example,
(17) Simple electrostatics dictates that the work needed to separate these
charges will depend on the polarity or dielectric constant (relative permeability)
of the surroundings.
Cooper 2004: 39
In Example (17), depend on establishes the causal relation between “the work
needed to separate these charges”and“the polarity or dielectric constant (relative
permeability) of the surroundings.”
Table 21.6 lists the search results of the occurrences of verbs for temporal
relations. The table shows that the use of verbs for temporal relations is not very
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
346
signiﬁcant. Clearly, lexicalization is not the favorite method for the textbook
writer to construe temporal relations. Both Table 21.5 and Table 21.6 indicate
that the chemistry textbook writer uses lead to and depend on frequently when
talking about the causal relation. For temporal relations, the chemistry textbook
writer prefers to use grammaticalization.
6 Interpersonal meanings
From the interpersonal perspective, the textbook involves the relationship
between the textbook writer and the student reader. Interpersonal meanings are
realized by a variety of ways. This writer-reader relationship can be established
lexicogrammatically by the explicit use of person of pronouns. Table 21.7 shows
the use of ﬁrst person pronouns in the corpus.
Table 21.7 Occurrences of personal pronouns
Pronouns Occurrences Pronouns Occurrences Pronouns Occurrences
I 13 Me 4 My 9
We 943 Us 89 Our 93
As can be seen in Table  21.7, the ﬁrst person pronoun we is the most
frequently used among all the ﬁrst person pronouns. By using we, the textbook
writer brings the student reader into his text and thus shortens the distance
between them. This will arouse the student reader’s interest in chemistry
and enable the student to obtain chemical knowledge in a friendly atmosphere.
For example,
(18) That is why the milk“looks”white in color: what we see is the light scattered
back to our eyes.
Cooper 2004: 27
The ﬁrst person singular pronoun I is used in the Introduction of the textbook
to show the author’s identity.
However, interpersonal meanings can also be presented through the
expression of modality, which, according to Halliday (1994a: 88), is the
intermediate degrees between yes and no. Modality indicates the attitude,
judgment,and opinion of the speaker/writer and is often expressed by the use of
lexicogrammatical resources such as modal verbs and modal adjuncts.
Linguistic Features of Knowledge Construction 347
7 Modal verbs
Biber et al. (1999: 73) classiﬁes can, could, may, might, must, shall, should, will,
and would into the category of central modal verbs. These modal verbs can be
used to express the modal meanings of permission,possibility,ability,obligation,
necessity, volition and prediction (Biber et al. 1999: 485). Diﬀerent modal verbs,
when used in diﬀerent contexts, can have diﬀerent modal meanings. Halliday
(1994a: 362) attaches the values of high, medium and low to diﬀerent modal
verbs. To see the degree of the chemistry textbook writer’s involvement in the
text, we conducted a corpus search of the occurrences of central modal verbs in
the corpus. The results are shown in Table 21.8.
Table 21.8 Occurrences of central modal verbs
Modal Verbs Occurrences % Modal Verbs Occurrences %
Must 381 11.43% Can 1383 41.51%
May 625 18.76% Could 39 1.17%
Might 98 2.94% Shall 7 0.21%
Will 515 15.46% Should 156 4.68%
Would 128 3.84%
Table 21.8 indicates that can and may occur most frequently, taking up 41.51
percent and 18.76 percent of all the central modal verbs in the corpus.These two
modal verbs,according to Halliday’s (1994a) classiﬁcation,belong to the category
of low value modal verbs. This means that the textbook writer, when describing
chemical phenomena, tries to avoid being too authoritative and assertive and
takes a moderate tone. Most of the instances of can are used to indicate the
writer’s judgment of possibility and ability. For example,
(19) A mole, for example, contains 602,213,670,000,000,000,000,000 particles,
and some analytical techniques can detect as little as 0.000000000000001 g of a
compound.
Harvey 2000: 12
(20) All of these anomalous properties can be attributed to the polarity and
hydrogen bonding ability of the water molecule.
Cooper 2004: 11
Can in Example (19) is used to express the ability of some analytical techniques
while can in Example (20) is used to indicate possibility. May in the corpus is
used to show the writer’s judgment of possibility,as can be seen in Example (21).
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
348
(21) These reactions may involve any combination of precipitation, acid–base,
complexation, or redox chemistry.
Harvey 2000: 38
8 Modal adjuncts
Apart from modal verbs, modal adjuncts can also be used for the expression of
modality. According to Halliday (1994a: 82), adjuncts of probability include
items such as probably, possibly, certainly, perhaps, and maybe whereas adjuncts
of usuality include items such as usually, sometimes, always, never, ever, seldom,
and rarely. Moreover, adjuncts of obligation include items such as deﬁnitely,
absolutely, at all costs, and by all means. Adjuncts of readiness include items such
as willingly, readily, gladly, and easily. Based on this distinction, we conducted a
search for the four types of adjuncts in the corpus. The occurrences of these
adjuncts are shown in Table 21.9.
Table 21.9 Occurrences of modal adjuncts
Adjunct Types Occurrences
Probability 29
Usuality 324
Obligation 1
Readiness 115
Table 21.9 reveals that the most frequently modal adjunct used in the corpus
is those of usuality. Adjuncts of readiness rank the second. This means that the
chemistry textbook writer pays more attention to the usual and normal aspects
of the chemical phenomena, thus avoiding being too assertive in presenting
chemical knowledge.Among adjuncts of usuality usually is used most frequently
whereas among adjuncts of readiness easily is the most frequent one, as can be
seen in Examples (22) and (23).
(22) Adjacent peaks will usually diﬀer in both charge and mass by one unit.
Cooper 2004: 76
(23) Homogeneous solutions are easily sampled by siphoning, decanting, or by
using a pipet or syringe.
Harvey 2000: 193
Linguistic Features of Knowledge Construction 349
9 Multimodality
Kress and van Leeuwen (2001: 20) deﬁnes multimodality as the use of several
semiotic modes in the design of a semiotic product or event. In the multimodal
society, meaning-making is often done with the use of two or more semiotic
systems. The use of multimodality can be seen everywhere in the chemistry
textbooks, where diﬀerent semiotic resources of language, pictures, symbols,
graphs, tables, ﬁgures, formulae are used together to construct chemical
knowledge.
There are two special features of multimodality in chemistry textbooks. The
ﬁrst feature is that formulae have become an integrated part of a clause, without
which it would be diﬃcult for the writer to present chemical knowledge in the
textbook. For example,
(24) Since there are four carbon atoms in butane, and one carbon atom in CO2
,
we write
4×moles C4
H10
= 1×moles CO2
.
Harvey 2000: 22
In Example (24), the equation “4 moles C4
H10
= 1×moles CO2
” is part of the
clause complex.The second feature has to do with the fact that pictures,symbols,
graphs, tables, ﬁgures, and formulae are used as complements to elaborate,
extend, and enhance the meanings made by language. Language plays the
principal role in the construction of chemical knowledge, but without other
semiotic resources the meaning-making enterprise seems impossible.
10 Conclusion
From the above corpus-based analysis of chemistry textbooks, we can see that
there are several interesting ﬁndings. First, technical terms take the form of
single nouns,noun phrases and abbreviations.The use of the suﬃx -tion becomes
the most favorite type of nominalizing process and quality in chemistry
textbooks. Second, the favorite verbs to be used for deﬁning chemical terms and
phenomena are involve, indicate, deﬁne, and represent. We also ﬁnd that then
and because are preferred for talking about the causal relation and that after and
before are preferred for talking about the temporal relation.Third,the ﬁrst person
pronoun we is more frequently used in chemistry textbooks to create a friendly
atmosphere and to bring the textbook writer and the student reader together to
Applying Systemic Functional Linguistics
350
share chemical knowledge. In terms of lexicalization, lead to and depend on are
usedtodealwiththecausalrelation,butfortemporalrelations,grammaticalization
is preferred. Fourth, adjuncts of usuality and readiness and the modal verbs of
can and may are the favorite lexicogrammatical items used in chemistry
textbooks for the expression of modality. Fifth, pictures, symbols, graphs, tables,
ﬁgures, and formulae play an important role in the construction of chemical
knowledge. They can be integrated with language or act as complements of
meaning.
So far,a picture of how chemistry textbooks present and construct knowledge
is formed. Although this study is limited by the size and variety of its corpus, it
reﬂects the general tendency of the use of certain lexicogrammatical resources
in the construction of chemical knowledge.The study can be helpful for content-
based instruction, which is committed to teaching both language and content.
Moreover, the examination of the language of chemistry can give insights into
classroom instruction and textbook writing. An understanding of the role of
language in the construction of chemical knowledge will make chemistry
textbooks more accessible to students and invoke active learning. This kind of
study can be extended to textbooks of other school subjects.
Alexander, R. and A. Stibbe (2014),“From the analysis of ecological discourse to the
ecological analysis of discourse,” Language Sciences, 41: 104–10.
Alexander, R. (2000), Culture and Pedagogy: international comparisons in primary
education, Oxford: Blackwell.
Allan, K. (1977),“Classiﬁers,” Language, 53: 281–311.
Allan, K. (1980),“Nouns and Countability,” Language, 56: 541–67.
Allen, K. (2006),“Jargon,” in K. Brown (ed.), Encyclopedia of Language and Linguistics
(2nd ed.), vol. 6., Oxford: Elsevier.
Allopenna, P.D., J.S. Magnuson, and M.K. Tanenhaus (1998),“Tracking the time course
of spoken word recognition using eye movements: evidence for continuous mapping
models,” Journal of Memory and Language, 38 (4): 419–39.
Ariel, M. (2000).,“The Development of Person Agreement Markers: from Pronouns to
Higher Accessibility Markers,” in M. Barlow and S. Kemmer (eds), Usage-based
Models of Language, Stanford: CSIL.
Arndt, H., and R.W. Janney (1991),“Verbal, Prosodic, and Kinesic Emotive Contrasts in
Speech,” Journal of Pragmatics, 15: 521–49.
Baker, M. (1992), In Other Words: A Coursebook on Translation, London: Routledge.
Bateman, J., and K. Schmidt (2012), Multimodal Film Analysis: How Film Means,
London: Routledge.
Bednarek, M. (2008), Emotion Talk across Corpora, London and New York: Macmillan.
Béjoint, H. (2000), Modern Lexicography: An Introduction, Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Bell, R.T. (1991), Translation and Translating: Theory and Practice, London: Longman.
Benveniste, E. (1971), Problems in General Linguistics, Cora Gables: University of Miami
Papers.
Bernstein, B. (1975), Class, Codes and Control 3: towards a theory of educational
transmissions. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul (Primary Socialization, Language
and Education).
Bernstein, B. (1990), Class, Codes and Control 4: the structuring of pedagogic discourse,
London: Routledge.
Bernstein, B. (1996), Pedagogy, Symbolic Control and Identity: theory, research, critique,
London: Taylor & Francis. [Revised ed. 2000].
Bernstein, B. (1999),“Vertical and horizontal discourse: an essay,” British Journal of
Sociology of Education, 20 (2): 157–73.
Berry, M. (1977), Introduction to Systemic Linguistics: 2, Levels and Links, London:
Batsford.
References
351
References
352
Biber, D., S. Johansson, G. Leech, S. Conrad, and E. Finegan (1999), Longman Grammar
of Spoken and Written English, Harlow: Pearson.
Bitchenera, J., and H. Basturkmenb (2006),“Perceptions of the Diﬃculties of
Postgraduate L2 Thesis Students Writing the Discussion Section,” Journal of English
for Academic Purposes, 5: 4–18.
Blonsky, M., ed. (1985), On Signs: A Semiotics Reader, London: Blackwell.
Boltz,W.G. (1993), The Origin and Early Development of the Chinese Writing System
(American Oriental Society, volume 78), Mass.: American Oriental Society.
Bordwell, D., and K. Thompson (2008), Film Art: An Introduction (8th ed.), New York:
McGraw-Hill.
Bosch, P. (1983), Agreement and Anaphora, London: Academic.
Boucheix, J.M., and R.K. Lowe (2010),“An Eye Tracking Comparison of External
Pointing Cues and Internal Continuous Cues in Learning with Complex Animations,
Learning and instruction, 20 (2): 123–35.
Bowcher,W., and B.A. Smith, eds (2013), Systemic Phonology: recent studies in English,
Sheﬃeld: Equinox.
Brett, P. (1994),“A Genre Analysis of the Results Section of Sociology Articles, English
for Speciﬁc Purposes, 13 (1): 47–59.
Bunton, D. (2002),“Generic Moves in Ph.D. Thesis Introductions,” in J. Flowerdew (ed.),
Academic Discourse, Harlow: Pearson Education.
Bunton, D. (2005),“The Structure of PhD Conclusion Chapters,” Journal of English for
Academic Purposes, 4: 207–24.
Caﬀarel,A., J.R. Martin, and C.M.I.M. Matthiessen, eds (2004), Language Typology:
A functional perspective (vol. 253),Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing.
Canham, M., and M. Hegarty (2010)“Eﬀects of Knowledge and Display Design on
Comprehension of Complex Graphics,” Learning and instruction, 20 (2): 155–66.
Cao, F. (1995) Zhu
ˇtí Zài Hànyu
ˇ Zhōng de Gōngnéng Yānjiū (ѫ仈൘≹䈝ѝⲴ࣏㜭⹄ウ,
A Functional Study of Topic in Chinese), Beijing: Chinese Philology Press.
Carey, F.A. (2004), Organic Chemistry (5th ed.), London: McGraw-Hill.
Castelhano, M.S., M.Wieth, and J.M. Henderson (2007),“I See What You See: eye
movements in real-world scenes are aﬀected by perceived direction of gaze,” in
Attention in Cognitive Systems. Theories and Systems from an Interdisciplinary
Viewpoint, Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer.
Catford, J. C. (1965/2002), A Linguistic Theory of Translation, London: Oxford University
Press. [Reprinted in Y.P. Shen, ed. (2002), The Western Translation Theories Reader,
Beijing: Foreign Language Teaching and Research Press.]
Chandler, D. (1994), Semiotics for Beginners, http://www.music.indiana.edu/~ltomlin/
semiotic. html#top
Chang, C. (1996), Introducing“The Longman Language Activator,” Foreign Language
Teaching and Research, 4: 63–5.
Chang, C. (2004a), English Idioms and Interpersonal Meanings, Guangzhou: Sun Yat-sen
University Press.
References 353
Chang, C. ed. (2004b), An Active Learner’s Dictionary of English Idioms, Guangzhou:
Guangdong People’s Press.
Chang, C. (forthcoming), A Learner’s Dictionary of English Idioms, Guangzhou:
Guangdong People’s Press.
Chao,Y. (1968), A Grammar of Spoken Chinese, Berkley: University of California Press.
Chen, M. (2006), Reporting in Literature Reviews of English Dissertations, Unpublished
PhD dissertation, Xiamen University.
Chen, P. (1988), Lùn Xiàndài Hànyǔ Shíjiān de Sān Yuán Jiégòu. (䇪⧠ԓ≹䈝ᰦ䰤㌫㔏
Ⲵй‫ݳ‬㔃ᶴ,“On the Tripartite Structure of the Temporal System of Contemporary
Chinese”), Studies of the Chinese Language, 6: 401–21.
Chen, P. (1999), Modern Chinese: history and sociolinguistics, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Chen,Y. M. (2010),“Exploring Dialogic Engagement with Readers in Multimodal EFL
Textbooks in China,” Visual Communication, 9 (4): 485–506.
Cheng, L.L.-S., and R. Sybesma (1998),“Yi-wan Tang, Yi-ge Tang: Classiﬁers and
massiﬁers,” Tsing Hua Journal of Chinese Studies, 3: 385–412.
Cheng, L. L.-S., and R. Sybesma (1999),“Bare and Not-so-bare Nouns and the Structure
of NP,” Linguistic Inquiry, 30: 509–42.
Chesterman,A., ed. (1989), Readings in Translation Theory, Helsinki: Finn Lectura.
Chomsky, N. (1975), The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory, Chicago and London:
University of Chicago Press.
Chow, I.C., and J.J.Webster (2007),“Integration of Linguistic Resources for Verb
Classiﬁcation: FrameNet Frame,WordNet Verb and Suggested Upper Merged
Ontology,” in A. Gelbukh (ed.), Computational Linguistics and Intelligent Text
Processing, 8th International Conference (CICLing), Mexico City, Mexico, February,
18–24, 2007.
Christie, F., and J.R. Martin, eds (2007), Language, Knowledge and Pedagogy: functional
linguistic and sociological perspectives, London: Cassell.
Christie, F., and K. Maton, eds (2011), Disciplinarity: functional linguistic and sociological
perspectives, London: Continuum.
Chu, C. (2005), Hànyŭ Rènzhī Gōngnéng Yu
ˇfá (≹䈝䇔⸕࣏㜭䈝⌅, A Cognitive-
Functional Grammar of Mandarin Chinese), Harbin: Heilongjiang University Press.
Coﬃn, C., and K. O’Halloran (2005),“Finding the Global Groove: theorizing and
analyzing dynamic reader positioning using APPRAISAL, corpus and a
concordance, Critical Discourse Studies, 2 (2): 143–63.
Coﬃn, C., and K. O’Halloran (2006),“The Role of Appraisal and Corpora in Detecting
Covert Evaluation,” Functions of Language, 13 (1): 77–110.
Cohn, N. (2013),“Navigating Comics: an empirical and theoretical approach to
strategies of reading comic page layouts,” Frontiers in Psychology, 4.
Comrie, B. (1981), Language Universals and Linguistic Typology, Oxford: Blackwell.
Cooper,A. (2004), Biophysical Chemistry, London: McGraw-Hill.
Coulmas, F. (1991), Writing Systems of the World, New Jersey: Wiley-Blackwell.
References
354
Cowen, L., L.J. Ball, and J. Delin (2002),“An Eye Movement Analysis of Web Page
Usability,” in People and Computers XVI-Memorable Yet Invisible, London: Springer.
Cowie,A.P., and P. Howarth (1996)“Phraseology–A Select Bibliography,” International
Journal of Lexicography, 9 (1): 18–51.
Creel, H.G. (1943), Chinese Writing,Washington, DC: American Council on Education.
Crowe, E.C., and N.H. Narayanan (2000),“Comparing Interfaces Based on What Users
Watch and Do,” in Proceedings of the 2000 Symposium on Eye Tracking Research and
Applications,ACM.
Culler, J. (1989), Presidential Address: Semiotic Ambitions, American Journal of
Semiotics, 6: 2–3.
Daniels, P., and W. Bright, eds (1996), The World’s Writing Systems, New York: Oxford
University Press.
David, N.B., and B. Penny (2005),“Scholars Before Researchers: On the centrality of the
dissertation literature review on research preparation, Educational Researcher, 34 (6):
3–15.
De Koning, B.B., H.K. Tabbers, R.M. Rikers, and F. Paas (2010),“Attention Guidance in
Learning from a Complex Animation: seeing is understanding? Learning and
Instruction, 20 (2): 111–22.
De Saussure, F. (1915/1966), Course in General Linguistics,W. Baskin (trans.), New York:
McGraw-Hill.
De Saussure, F. (1993), Saussure’s Third Course of Lectures on General Linguistics
(1910–1911) (eds. E. Komatsu and R. Harris), Oxford: Pergamon.
Deely, J. (1982), Introducing Semiotics: its history and doctrine, Bloomington, IN: Indiana
University Press.
Deely, J. (1990), Basics of Semiotics, Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press.
Deely, J. (2001), Four Ages of Understanding, Toronto: University of Toronto Press.
Delpit, L.D. (1988),“The Silenced Dialogue: Power and Pedagogy in Educating Other
People’s Children,” Harvard Educational Review, 58 (3): 280–98.
Ding, S. et al. (1999), Xiàndài Hànyu
ˇ Jiǎnghuà (⧠ԓ≹䈝䇢䈍, Topics on Modern
Chinese grammar), Beijing: Commercial Press.
Dixon, R.M.W. (1979),“Ergativity,” Language, 55 (1): 59–138.
Dixon, R.M.W. (1980), The Languages of Australia, Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Dong, L. (2006), Shuōwén Jiězì Kǎo Zhèng (䈤᮷䀓ᆇ㘳↓, A Critical Reading of
Shuōwén Jiězì), Beijing: The Press for Writers.
Dreyfus, S., S. Hood, and M. Stenglin (2011), Semiotic Margins: Meaning in
Multimodalities, London: Continuum.
Duan,Y. (Qing Dynasty; annotated) (2006), Shuōwén Jiězì Zhù (䈤᮷䀓ᆇ⌘,
Annotation to Shuōwén Jiězì Compiled by Xu
ˇ Shèn), Shanghai: Shanghai Press of
Classical Works.
Dussias, P.E. (2010),“Uses of Eye-tracking Data in Second Language Sentence
Processing Research,” Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 30: 149–66.
References 355
Eco, U. (1984), A Theory of Semiotics, Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press.
Eggins, S., and D. Slade (1997), Analysing Casual Conversation, London: Cassell.
Eggins, S., J.R. Martin, and P.Wignell (1993),“The Discourse of History: distancing the
recoverable past,” in M. Ghadessy (ed.), Register Analysis: theory and practice,
London: Pinter.
Engberg, J. (2006),“Languages for Speciﬁc Purposes,” in K. Brown (ed.), Encyclopedia of
Language and Linguistics (2nd ed), vol. 6, Oxford: Elsevier.
Ettinger, U.,V. Kumari, T.J. Crawford,V. Flak, T. Sharma, R.E. Davis, and P.J. Corr (2005),
Saccadic Eye Movements, Schizotypy, and the Role of Neuroticism, Biological
Psychology, 68 (1): 61–78.
Fang, L., Z. Hu, and K. Xu (1977),“Tantan xiandai yingyu yufa de sanda tixi he jiaoliu
yufaxue” (“On the Three Grammatical Systems and the Communicative Grammar in
Modern English”), Yuyan Jiaoxue yu Yanji, Zengkan 1 (Language Teaching and
Research, Supplement 1), 6:1–28.
Fang,Y. (1996),“Gongneng yuyanxue zai zhongguo fazhan de jinkuang” (“On the
Recent Development of Functional Linguistics”), Guowai Yuyanxue (Linguistics
Abroad), 1996/4: 22–6.
Fawcett, R.P. (1980), Cognitive Linguistics and Social Interaction: towards an integrated
model of a Systemic Functional Grammar and the other components of a
communicating mind, Heidelberg: Julius Groos and Exeter University.
Fawcett, R.P. (2001), Functional Syntax Handbook: analysing English at the level of form.
London: Continuum.
Fawcett, R.P. (2008),“Invitation to Systemic Functional Linguistics Through the Cardiﬀ
Grammar,” in G. Huang,W. He, and C.Y. Liao, An Introduction to Systemic Functional
Grammar: The Cardiﬀ Model, Beijing: Peking University Press.
Feng, S. (1996), Lùn Hànyǔ de Yùnlǜcí (䇪≹䈝Ⲵ严ᖻ䇽,“A Discussion on Prosodic
Words in Chinese”), Social Sciences in China, 1: 161–76.
Feng, S. (1997/2009), Hànyu
ˇ de Yùnlǜ,Cífă yu
ˇ Jùfă (≹䈝Ⲵ严ᖻ䇽⌅оਕ⌅, Interaction
between Morphology Syntax and Prosody in Chinese), Beijing: Peking University
Press.
Feng, Z. (2005),“On Linguistic Metalanguage and Metalinguistic Studies,” Foreign
Language Teaching and Research, 40 (6): 403–10.
Feng, Z. (2011),“On the Logical Nature of Modality in Functional Grammar,” in
G. Huang (ed.), Studies in Functional Linguistics and Discourse Analysis (III),
Beijing: Higher Education Press.
Feng, Z. (2012a),“On the Logical Nature of Systemic-Functional linguistics,” in
J. Qian (ed.), Language Studies and Foreign Language Teaching, Beijing: Higher
Education Press.
Feng, Z. (2012b),“Linguistic Indeterminacy and Fuzziness in Systemic-Functional
Grammar,” Foreign Language Research, 5: 41–7.
Feng, Z. (2013),“On‘Grammatical Logic’ in Systemic-Functional linguistics,”
Contemporary Foreign Languages Studies, 4: 5–11.
References
356
Fernando, C. (1996), Idioms and Idiomaticity, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fill,A., and P. Mühlhäusler, eds (2001),“The Ecolinguistics Reader: Language, Ecology
and Environment,” London: Continuum.
Firth, J. R. (1957). Papers in Linguistics 1934–1951. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Firth, J.R. (1968),“A Synopsis of Linguistic Theory, 1930–55,” in F.R. Palmer (ed.),
Selected Papers of J R Firth 1952–59, London: Longman.
Fraser, B. (1970),“Idioms Within a Transformational Grammar,” Foundations of
Language, 6: 22–42.
Fukuda, H. (1993), Flip, Slither, and Bang: Japanese sound and action words, Tokyo:
Kodansha International.
Gao, M. (1986), Hànyu
ˇ Yu
ˇfá Lùn (≹䈝䈝⌅䇪, On Chinese Grammar), Beijing:
Commercial Press.
Geisler,W.S., and L.K. Cormack (2011),“Models of Overt Attention,” in S. Liversedge,
I. Gilchrist, and S. Everling (eds), The Oxford Handbook of Eye Movements, Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Gibbons, P. (2002), Scaﬀolding Language, Scaﬀolding Learning: teaching second language
learners in the mainstream classroom, Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.
Gibbons, P. (2006), Bridging Discourse in the ESL Classroom: students, teachers and
researchers, London: Continuum.
Gibbons, P. (2009), English Learners Academic Literacy and Thinking: learning in the
challenge zone, Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.
Gilchrist, I.D. (2011),“Saccades,” in S. Liversedge, I. Gilchrist, and S. Everling (eds), The
Oxford Handbook of Eye Movements, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Givón, T. (1976),“Topic, Pronoun, and Grammatical Agreement,” in C.N. Li (ed.),
Subject and Topic, New York: Academic Press.
Goldberg, J.H., M.J. Stimson, M. Lewenstein, N. Scott, and A.M.Wichansky (2002),
“Eye Tracking in Web Search Tasks: design implications,’ in Proceedings of the 2002
Symposium on Eye Tracking Research and Applications, ACM.
Gong, Q. (1995), Hànyu
ˇ de Shíxiàng, Shízhì, Shítài (≹䈝Ⲵᰦ⴨ЬᰦࡦЬᰦᘱ, Phase,
Tense and Aspect in Modern Chinese), Beijing: Commercial Press.
Graesser,A.C., S. Lu, B.A. Olde, E. Cooper-Pye, and S.Whitten (2005),“Question Asking
and Eye Tracking During Cognitive Disequilibrium: comprehending illustrated texts
on devices when the devices break down,” Memory and Cognition, 33 (7): 1235–47.
Gray, B. (1987),“How Natural is‘Natural’ Language Teaching: employing wholistic
methodology in the classroom,” Australian Journal of Early Childhood, 12 (4): 3–19.
Greenberg, J.H. (1966), Language Universals, with Special Reference to Feature
Hierarchies, The Hague: Mouton.
Greenberg, J.H. (1990).,“Dynamic Aspects of Word Order in the Numeral Classiﬁer,” in
K.M. Denning and S. Kemmer (eds), On Language: selected writings of Joseph H.
Greenberg, Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Guo, R. (2002), Xiàndài Hànyu
ˇ Cílèi Yánjiū (⧠ԓ≹䈝䇽㊫⹄ウ, A Study on Modern
Chinese Categories), Beijing: Commercial Press.
References 357
Halliday, M.A.K. (1956),“Grammatical Categories in Modern Chinese,” Transactions of
the Philosophical Society: 177–224.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1961),“Categories of the Theory of Grammar,” Word, 17 (3): 241–92
[reprinted in M.A.K. Halliday (2005), On Grammar, Volume 1 in the Collected Works
of M.A.K. Halliday, J.J.Webster (ed.), London: Continuum].
Halliday, M.A.K. (1962/2005),“Linguistics and Machine Translation,” in M.A.K.
Halliday, Computational and Quantitative Studies, J.J.Webster (ed.), London:
Continuum.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1963a/2007),“Intonation in English Grammar,” in J.J.Webster (ed.),
Studies in English Language, vol. 7, Beijing: Peking University Press.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1963b),“The Tones of English,” Archivum Linguisticum, 15: 1–28.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1967), Intonation and Grammar in British English, The Hague:
Mouton.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1970a), A Course in Spoken English: intonation, Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1970b),“Functional Diversity in Language as Seen from a
Consideration of Modality and Mood in English,” Foundations of Language, 6 (3):
322–61.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1971),“Linguistic Function and Literary Style: an enquiry into the
language of William Golding’s The Inheritors,” in S. Chatman (ed.), Literary Style:
a symposium, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1978), Language as Social Semiotic: the social interpretation of
language and meaning, London: Edward Arnold.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1985a),“English Intonation as a Resource for Discourse,” Beitrage
zur Phonetik und Linguistik, 48: 111–17.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1985b), An Introduction to Functional Grammar, London: Edward
Arnold. [revised 2nd ed. 1994; revised 3rd ed., with C.M.I.M. Matthiessen, 2004;
revised 4th ed., with C.M.I.M. Matthiessen, 2013].
Halliday, M.A.K. (1985c), Spoken and Written Language, Geelong,Vic.: Deakin
University Press.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1988),“Poetry as Scientiﬁc Discourse: the Nuclear Sections of
Tennyson’s In Memoriam,” in D. Birch and M. O’Toole (eds), Functions of Style,
London: Pinter.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1990/2003),“New Ways of Meaning: the challenge to applied
linguistics,” Journal of Applied Linguistics, 6: 7–16. Reprinted in J.J.Webster (2003)
(ed.),“On Language and Linguistics,” in The Collected Works of M.A.K. Halliday,
vol. 3, London: Continuum.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1992),“A Systemic Interpretation of Peking Syllable Finals,” in
P. Tench (ed.), Studies in Systemic Phonology, London: Pinter.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1993),“Quantitative Studies and Probabilities in Grammar,” in
M. Hoey (ed.), Data, Description and Discourse: papers on the English language in
honour of John M. Sinclair on his sixtieth birthday, London: HarperCollins.
References
358
Halliday, M.A.K. (1994a), An Introduction to Functional Grammar (2nd edn.), London:
Edward Arnold.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1994b),“The Construction of Knowledge and Value in the Grammar
of Scientiﬁc Discourse, with Reference to Charles Darwin’s The Origin of Species,” in
M. Coulthard (ed.), Advances in Written Text Analysis, London and New York:
Routledge.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1995a),“On Language in Relation to Fuzzy Logic and Intelligent
Computing,” in Proceedings of 1995 I.E.E.E. International Conference on Fuzzy
Systems, Piscataway: IEEE [reprinted in Computational and Quantitative Studies,
Collected Works of M.A.K. Halliday, vol. 6. (2005), J.J.Webster (ed.)].
Halliday, M.A.K. (1995b),“Fuzzy Grammatics: a systemic functional approach to
fuzziness in natural language,” in Proceedings of 1995 I.E.E.E. International
Conference on Fuzzy Systems, Piscataway: IEEE [reprinted in Computational
and Quantitative Studies, Collected Works of M.A.K. Halliday, vol. 6. (2005),
J.J.Webster (ed.)].
Halliday, M.A.K. (1998),“Things and Relations: regrammaticising experience as
technical language,” in J.R. Martin and R.Veel (eds), Reading Science: critical and
fundamental perspectives on discourses of science, London and New York: Routledge.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2001),“Towards a Theory of Good Translation,” in E. Steiner and
C.Yallop (eds), Exploring Translation and Multilingual Text Production: beyond
content, Berlin: Mouton.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2002),“On Grammar,” in Collected Works of M.A.K. Halliday, Vol. 1,
J.J.Webster (ed.), London: Continuum.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2002a). The Collected Works of M.A.K. Halliday, Vol. 1, J.J.Webster
(ed.), London: Continuum.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2002b), The Collected Works of M.A.K. Halliday, Vol. 2, J.J.Webster
(ed.), London: Continuum.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2003),“On Language and Linguistics,” in Collected Works of M.A.K.
Halliday, Vol. 3, J.J.Webster (ed.), London: Continuum.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2004), An Introduction to Functional Grammar (3rd ed.), C.M.I.M.
Matthiessen (revised), London: Hodder Arnold.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2005), Computational and Quantitative Studies (Collected Works of
M.A.K. Halliday, Vol. 6) J.J Webster (ed.). London: Continuum.
Halliday, M.A. K. (2007a),“The Spoken Language Corpus: a foundation for grammatical
theory,” in J.J.Webster (ed.), Computational and Quantitative Studies (Collected
Works of M.A.K. Halliday, Vol. 6), London: Continuum.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2007b),“Lexicology,” in M.A.K. Halliday and C.Yallop, Lexicology:
a short introduction, London: Continuum.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2007c), Studies in Chinese Language, J.J.Webster (ed.), London:
Continuum.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2007d),“Applied Linguistics as an Evolving Theme,” in J.J.Webster
(ed.), The Collected Works of M.A.K. Halliday,Vol. 9, London: Continuum.
References 359
Halliday, M.A.K. (2008a),“Working with Meaning: towards an appliable linguistics,” in
J.J.Webster. (ed.), Meaning in Contex, London and New York: Continuum.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2008b), Complementarities in Language, Beijing: Commercial Press.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2009a),“Linguistics in the University,” talk delivered at the First
PolySystemic Symposium: A forum for the Pearl River Delta on the topic of
“Language and the Humanities,” The Hong Kong Polytechnic University,April 8–9,
2009.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2009b),“Method–Techniques–Problems,” in M.A.K. Halliday and
J.J.Webster (eds.), Continuum Companion to Systemic Functional Linguistics,
London: Continuum.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2009c/2013),“The Gloosy Ganoderm: systemic functional linguistics
and translation,” in J.J.Webster (ed.), Halliday in the 21st Century, London:
Bloomsbury.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2012/2013),“Pinpointing the Choice: meaning and search for
equivalents in a translated text,” in J.J.Webster (ed.), Halliday in the 21st Century,
London: Bloomsbury.
Halliday, M.A.K. (2014), Halliday’s Introduction to Functional Grammar (4th ed.),
C.M.I.M. Matthiessen (revised), London: Hodder Arnold.
Halliday, M.A.K., and C.M.I.M. Matthiessen (1999), Construing Experience Through
Meaning: a language based approach to cognition, London and New York:
Continuum.
Halliday, M.A.K., and C.Yallop (2007/2009), Lexicology: a short introduction, London:
Continuum/Beijing: World Books Publishing Company.
Halliday, M.A.K., and E. McDonald (2004),“Metafunctional Proﬁle of the Grammar of
Chinese,” in J.A. Caﬀere, J.R. Martin, and C.M.I.M. Matthiessen (eds), Language
Typology: a functional perspective,Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Halliday, M.A.K., and J.J.Webster (2014), Text Linguistics: the how and why of meaning,
London: Equinox Publishing.
Halliday, M.A.K., and R. Hasan (1976/1985/2001), Cohesion in English, London and
New York: Longman.
Halliday, M.A.K., and R. Hasan (1985/2012), Language, Context, and Text: aspects of
language in a social-semiotic perspective, Geelong,Vic.: Deakin University Press/
Beijing: World Books Publishing Company.
Halliday, M.A.K., and W.S. Greaves (2008), Intonation in the Grammar of English,
London: Equinox.
Hammond, J. ed. (2001), Scaﬀolding: teaching and learning in language and literacy
education, Sydney: Primary English Teaching Association (PETA).
Harvey, D. (2000), Modern Analytical Chemistry, London: McGraw-Hill.
Hasan, R. (1984),“The Nursery Tale as a Genre,” Nottingham Linguistic Circular, 13:
71–102.
Hasan, R. (1985),“Lending and Borrowing: from grammar to lexis,” Beiträge zur
Phonetik und Linguistik, 48: 56–67.
References
360
Hasan, R. (1987),“The Grammarian’s Dream: lexis as most delicate grammar,” in M.A.K.
Halliday and R.P. Fawcett (eds), New Developments in Systemic Linguistics, vol. 1:
theory and description, London: Pinter.
Hasan, R. (1989), Linguistics, Language, and Verbal Art (2nd edn.), Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Hasan, R. (2011), Selected Works of Ruqaiya Hasan on Applied Linguistics, Beijing:
Foreign Language Teaching and Research Press.
Hasan, R. (2015), Hasan on Language (1973–2013), Chinese translation by Wang
Hongyang et al., Beijing: Peking University.
Hasan, R., C.M.I.M. Matthiessen, and J.J.Webster, eds (2005), Continuing Discourse on
Language: a functional perspective. Vol. 1, London: Continuum.
Hasan, R., C.M.I.M. Mattihessen and J.J.Webster, eds (2007), Continuing Discourse on
Language: a functional perspective. Vol. 2, London: Continuum.
Hattie, J.A.C. (2009), Visible Learning: a synthesis of over 800 meta-analyses relating to
achievement, London: Routledge.
He,W., and R. Ma. (2011)“Xiàndài Hànyǔ Shíjiān Xìtǒng Yānjiū Zōngshù” (⧠ԓ≹䈝ᰦ
䰤㌫㔏⹄ウ㔬䘠,“An Overview of Studies of Modern Chinese Temporal System”),
Journal of University of Science and Technology Beijing, 1: 19–27.
He,W. (2005),“Zài Tán Yīngyǔ Shítìi de Zhǒnglèi” (޽䈸㤡䈝ᰦᘱⲴ⿽㊫,
“Re-classiﬁcation of English Tenses”), Foreign Language Education, 6: 54–7.
He,W. (2007), On English Tense, Beijing: Higher Education Press.
He,W. (2008), English Tense in Discourse, Beijing: Peking University Press.
He,W., S.W. Gao, P.P. Jia, J. Zhang, and J.N. Qiu (2015), Hanyu Gongneng Jufa Fenxi
(Functional Syntactic Analysis of Chinese), Beijing: Foreign Language Teaching and
Research Press.
Healey,A. (1968),“English Idioms,” Kivung (Journal of the Linguistic Society of the
University of Papua New Guinea), 1 (2): 71–108.
Henderson, J.M. (1992),“Visual Attention and Eye Movement Control During Reading
and Picture Viewing,” in Eye Movements and Visual Cognition, New York: Springer.
Henderson, J.M. (2003),“Human Gaze Control During Real-world Scene Perception,”
Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 7 (11): 498–504.
Henderson, J.M. (2011),“Eye Movements and Scene Perception,” in S. Liversedge,
I. Gilchrist, and S. Everling (eds), The Oxford Handbook of Eye Movements,
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Henderson, J.M., and A. Hollingworth (1998),“Eye Movements During Scene Viewing:
an overview,” in G. Underwood (ed.), Eye Guidance in Reading and Scene Perception,
Oxford: Elsevier.
Henderson, J.M., P.A.Weeks Jr., and A. Hollingworth (1999),“The Eﬀects of Semantic
Consistency on Eye Movements During Complex Scene Viewing,” Journal of
Experimental Psychology: human perception and performance, 25 (1): 210–28.
Hiraga, M.K. (1994),“Diagrams and Metaphors: iconic aspects in language,” Journal of
Pragmatics, 22: 5–21.
References 361
Hjelmslev, L. (1961 [1943]), Prolegomena to a Theory of Language (trans. Francis
J.Whitﬁeld), Madison: University of Wisconsin Press.
Hodge, R., and G. Kress (1988), Social Semiotics, Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Holmes, R. (1997),“Genre Analysis and the Social Sciences: an investigation of the
structure of research articles discussion section in three disciplines,” English for
Speciﬁc Purposes, 16 (4): 321–37.
Holmqvist, K., M. Nyström, R.Andersson, R. Dewhurst, H. Jarodzka, and J.Van de
Weijer (2011), Eye Tracking: a comprehensive guide to methods and measures,
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Hopkins,A., and Dudley-Evans, T. (1988),“A Genre-Based Investigation of the Discussion
Sections in Articles and Dissertations,”English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 7: 113–22.
Hopper, P. (1986),“Some Discourse Functions of Classiﬁers in Malay,” in C. Craig (ed.),
Noun Classes and Categorization,Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Hopper, P.J. and E.C. Traugott (1993), Grammaticalization, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Hsu, F., and Y. Tsai (2012),“Shízhì Yǔyán hé Wèizhì Yǔyán zài Xùshù Jiégòu jí Jùzı̌
Rènzhī Gàiniàn shàng de Duìbı̌ Chāyì—yı̌ Guānxì Xiǎojù yǔ Bèidòng Jù de Yīng
Hàn Yǔpiān Fānyì Wéi Lì” (ᰦࡦ䈝䀰઼սࡦ䈝䀰൘ਉ䘠㔃ᶴ৺ਕᆀ䇔⸕ᾲᘥк
Ⲵሩ∄ᐞᔲüüԕ‫ޣ‬㌫ሿਕо㻛ࣘਕⲴ㤡≹䈝ㇷ㘫䈁Ѫֻ,“Contrast of Tense
Language and Locus Language in Narrative Construction and Sentential Cognitive
Concept: with English-Chinese translation of relative clauses and passives as
examples”), in G. Huang (ed.), Studies in Functional Linguistics and Discourse
Analysis, vol. iv, Beijing: Higher Education Press.
Hsu, F. (2013),“Three Types of De-construction in Mandarin Chinese and Their
Complementarity,” 40th International Systemic Functional Congress (ISFC-40),
Guangzhou: Sun Yat-sen University.
Hsueh, F.F.S. (1994),“Bèi Zì Jù hé Bǎ Zì Jù de Jiégòu Yìyì” (㻛ᆇਕ઼ᢺᆇਕⲴ㔃ᶴ᜿ѹ,
“The Structural Meaning of the bèi Construction and the bǎ Construction”), in
J. H-Y. Tai, and F.F.S. Hsueh (eds), J. Shen (tr.), Functionalism and Chinese Grammar,
Beijing: Beijing Language Institute Press.
Hu, M. (1981),“Běijīnghuà de Yǔqì Zhùcí hé Tàncí” (ेӜ䈍Ⲵ䈝≄ࣙ䇽઼਩䇽,
“Modal Particles and Interjections in Mandarin Chinese”), Chinese Philology, 6:
416–23.
Hu, M. (1988),“Yǔqì Zhùcí de Yǔqì Yìyì” (䈝≄ࣙ䇽Ⲵ䈝≄᜿ѹ,“The Modal Meanings
of Modal Particles”), Learning Chinese, 6: 4–7.
Hu,Y. ed. (1984)., Xiàndài Hànyu
ˇ (⧠ԓ≹䈝, Modern Chinese), Shanghai: Shanghai
Education Press.
Hu, Z. (1983),“Hanlide” (“Halliday”) Guowai Yuyanxue (Linguistics Abroad), 2: 60–3.
Hu, Z. (1984),“Hanlide de yuyanguan” (“Halliday’s Views on Language”) Waiyu Jiaoxue
yu Yanjiu (Foreign Language Teaching and Research), 1: 23–9.
Hu, Z. (1984),“Summary of Six Central Thoughts in Hallidayan Linguistics,” Foreign
Language Teaching and Research, 1: 2–8.
References
362
Hu, Z. (1994a)“Yīnghàn Yíwèn yǔqì xìtǒng de duō céngcì hé duō yuángōngnéng jiěshì”
(㤡≹⯁䰞䈝≄㌫㔏Ⲵཊቲ⅑઼ཊ‫࣏ݳ‬㜭䀓䟺,“A Multilevel and Metafunctional
Interpretation of the Chinese Interrogative Mood System”), Journal of Foreign
Languages, 89 (1): 1–7.
Hu, Z. (1994b), Yu
ˇpiān de Xiánjiē yu
ˇ Liánguàn (䈝ㇷⲴ㺄᧕о䘎䍟, Discourse Cohesion
and Coherence), Shanghai: Shanghai Foreign Language Education Press.
Hu, Z. (1999a),“Xìtǒng Gōngnéng Yǔfǎ yǔ HànyǔYǔfǎYánjiū” (㌫㔏࣏㜭䈝⌅о≹䈝
䈝⌅⹄ウ,“Systemic Functional Grammar and the Study of Chinese Grammar”), in
Q. Ma (ed.), Yu
ˇfǎ Yánjiū Rùmén (䈝⌅⹄ウ‫ޕ‬䰘, Gateway to Grammar Study),
Beijing: Commercial Press.
Hu, Z. (1999b),“Dāngdài Fúhàoxué Yānjiū de Ruògān Wèntí” (ᖃԓㅖਧᆖ⹄ウⲴ㤕ᒢ
䰞仈,“Issues Concerning the Contemporary Semiotic Research”), Foreign Languages
in Fujian, 1: 1–5.
Hu, Z. (2012),“Chāo Xuékē Yānjiū Yǔ Xuékē Fāzhǎn” (䎵ᆖ、⹄ウоᆖ、ਁኅ,“The
Transcisciplinary Research and Disciplinary Development”) Foreign Languages in
China, 6: 16–22.
Hu, Z.,Y. Zhu, and D. Zhang (1989), A Survey of Systemic-functional Grammar,
Changsha: Hunan Education Press.
Hu, Z.,Y. Zhu, D. Zhang, and Z. Li (2005), A Survey of Systemic-functional Linguistics,
Beijing: Peking University Press.
Huang, B., and X. Liao (2002). Xiàndài Hànyu
ˇ (⧠ԓ≹䈝, Modern Chinese, 3rd ed.),
Beijing: Higher Education Press.
Huang, C. (2008),“Cóng‘Tā de Lǎoshī Dāng dé Hǎo’ Tánqı̌” (Ӿ“ԆⲴ㘱ᐸᖃᗇྭ”䈸䎧,
“On Ta de Laoshi Dang-de Hao and Related Problems”), Linguistic Sciences, 7 (3):
225–41.
Huang, C.W., and A.Archer (2014),“Fluidity of Modes in the Translation of Manga: the
case of Kishimoto’s Naruto,” Visual Communication, 13 (4): 471–86.
Huang, G. (2000),“Xitong gongneng yuyanxue zai zhongguo 20 nian huigu” (“Systemic
functional linguistics in China in the past 20 years”), Waiyu yu Waiyu Jiaoxue
(Foreign Languages and Their Teaching), 5: 50–3.
Huang, G. (2002a),“Hallidayan Lingusitics in China,” World Englishes, 21 (2): 281–90.
Huang, G. ed. (2002b), Discourse, Language Functions, Language Teaching, Guangzhou:
Sun Yat-sen University Press.
Huang, G. (2006), Linguistic Explorations in Translation Studies, Shanghai: Foreign
Language Education Press.
Huang, G. (2009),“Zhongguo xitong gongneng yuyanxue yanjiu: fazhan yu zhanwang”
(“Systemic Functional Linguistics Studies in China: development and prospect”), in
Z.X. Zhuang (ed.), Zhongguo Waiyu Jiaoyu Fazhan Zhanlue Luntan (Forum on the
Development and Strategic Planning of Foreign Language Education in China),
Shanghai: Shanghai Foreign Language Education Press.
Huang, G. (2011),“Challenges of Developing SFL in China,” Dangdai Waiyu Yanjiu
(Contemporary Foreign Languages Studies), 12: 15–23.
References 363
Huang, G. (2014),“Analysing the Reporting Clause in Translating Confucius’s Lun Yu
(the Analects),” in Y. Fang and J.J.Webster (eds), Developing Systemic Functional
Linguistics: theory and application, London: Equinox.
Huang, G., and H.Y.Wang (2009), Systemic Functional Grammar: a ﬁrst step into the
theory, (trans.) Matthiessen, C.M.I.M. and M.A.K. Halliday, Beijing: Higher
Education Press.
Huang, G., and H.Y.Wang (2010),“SFL Studies in the Chinese Context,” in C.Wu,
C.M.I.M. Matthiessen and M. Herke (eds), Proceedings of ISFC 35: Voices Around
the World, Vol. 2, The 35th ISFC Organizing Committee, Sydney, Sydney:
Macquarie Lighthouse Press.
Huang, G.,W. He, and C.Y. Liao (2008), Xitong Gongneng Yufa Rumen: Jiadefu Moshi
(An Introduction to Systemic Functional Grammar: the Cardiﬀ Grammar), Beijing:
Peking University Press.
Huddleston, R., and G.K. Pullum (2008), A Student’s Introduction to English Grammar,
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hunt, I. (1994), Successful Joint Construction. PETA PEN, Sydney: Primary English
Teaching Association.
Hyland, K. (2000), Disciplinary Discourses: social interactions in academic writing,
Harlow: Pearson.
Hyönä, J. (2010),“The Use of Eye Movements in the Study of Multimedia Learning,
Learning and Instruction, 20 (2): 172–6.
Iedema, R. (2003),“Multimodality, Resemioticisation: extending the analysis
of discourse as a multi-semiotic practice,” Visual Communication, 2 (1):
29–57.
Ingulsrud, J., and K.Allen (2009), Reading Japan Cool: patterns of manga literacy and
discourse, Lanham, UK: Lexington Books.
Jacob, R.J., and K.S. Karn (2003),“Commentary on Section 4. Eye Tracking in Human-
computer Interaction and Usability Research: ready to deliver the promises,” in
R. Radach, J. Hyona, and H. Deubel (eds), The Mind’s Eye: cognitive and applied
aspects of eye movement research, Leiden: Elsevier.
Jain, E.,Y. Sheikh, and J. Hodgins (2012),“Inferring Artistic Intention in Comic Art
Through Viewer Gaze,” SAP ’12 Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Applied
Perception, 55–62.
Jakobson, R. (1959/2002),“On Linguistic Aspects of Translation,” in Y. P. Shen (ed.)
(2002), The Western Translation Theories Reader, Beijing: Foreign Language Teaching
and Research Press.
Jakobson, R. (1960),“Linguistics and Poetics,” in T. Sebeok (ed.), Style in Language,
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Ji, X. ed. (2002), Collected Papers of Wang Li, Changchun: Northeast Normal University
Press.
Ji, X. (2010), Shuōwén Xīn Zhèng (䈤᮷ᯠ䇱, New Evidences for Character Interpretation
in SHUŌWÉN), Fuzhou: People’s Press of Fujian.
References
364
Jiang, L. (1986),“Yíwèn Yǔqìcì Ne de Láiyuán” (⯁䰞䈝≄䇽“઒”ⲴᶕⓀ,“The Origin of
Chinese Modal Particle Ne”), Language Study, 2: 17–26.
Jin, Z. (2011), Xiàndài Hànyu
ˇ Jùmò Yu
ˇqìcì Yìyì Yánjiū (⧠ԓ≹䈝ਕᵛ䈝≄䇽᜿ѹ⹄ウ,
Study on the Meaning of Modern Chinese Sentence-ﬁnal Modal Particles),
unpublished PhD dissertation, Shanghai, Fudan University.
Jones, C., and E.Ventola, eds (2008), From Language to Multimodality: new developments
in the study of ideational meaning, London: Equinox.
Jones, R., and G. Lock (2010), Functional Grammar in the ESL Classroom: noticing,
exploring and practicing, London: Palgrave.
Just, M.A., and P.A. Carpenter (1980),“A Theory of Reading: from eye ﬁxations to
comprehension,” Psychological Review, 87 (4), 329–55.
Kaitani, S. (2005/2010), Liar Game-1, Tokyo: Shueisha.
Katsanis, J., S. Kortenkamp,W.G. Iacono, and W.M. Grove (1997),“Antisaccade
Performance in Patients with Schizophrenia and Aﬀective Disorder,” Journal of
Abnormal Psychology, 106 (3): 468–72.
Koller,W. (1979/1989),“Equivalence in Translation Theory,” in A. Chesterman (1989)
(ed.), Readings in Translation Theory, Helsinki: Finn Lectura.
Kress, G., and T. van Leeuwen (1996 [2006]), Reading Images: the grammar of visual
design, London and New York: Routledge.
Kress, G., and T. van Leeuwen (2001), Multimodal Discourse: the modes and media of
contemporary communication, London: Hodder Arnold.
Kress, G., and T. van Leeuwen (2002),“Color as a Semiotic Mode: notes for a grammar
of color,” Visual Communication, 1 (3): 343–68.
Kress, G., and T. van Leeuwen (2006), Reading Images: the grammar of visual design
(2nd ed.), London: Routledge.
Krishnan, L.A., and S.S. Kathpalia (2002),“Literature Reviews in Student Project
Reports,” IEEE Transaction on Professional Communication, 45: 187–97.
Ku, H.M. (1898), The Discourses and Sayings of Confucius, Shanghai: Kelly &
Walsh.
Kwan, B.S.C. (2006),“The Schematic Structure of Literature Reviews in Doctoral Theses
of Applied Linguistics,” English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 25: 30–55.
Lakoﬀ, G. (1972),“Linguistics and Natural Logic,” in D. Davidson and G. Harman (eds),
Semantics of Natural Language, Dordrecht: Reidel.
Lakoﬀ, G. (1973),“Hedges: a study in meaning criteria and the logic of fuzzy concepts,”
Journal of Philosophical Logic, 2: 458–508.
Lakoﬀ, G. (1988),“Cognitive Semantics,” in U. Eco, M. Santambrogio, and P.Violo
(eds), Meaning and Mental Representations, Bloomington, IN: Indiana University
Press.
Langacre, R. (1979),“The Paragraph as a Grammatical Unit,” in T. Givón (ed.), Syntax
and Semantics, London and New York: Academic.
Lange, R.A. (1988), 501 Japanese Verbs, New York: Barron’s Educational Series.
Langlotz,A. (2006), Idiomatic Creativity: A Cognitive-linguistic Model of Idiom-
representation and Idiom-variation in English,Amsterdam: Benjamins.
References 365
Lave, J., and E.Wenger (1991), Situated Learning: legitimate peripheral participation,
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lave, J. (1988), Cognition in Practice, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lee, I., and S.R. Ramsey (2000), The Korean Language,Albany: State University of New
York Press.
Legge, J. (1861/2011), The Chinese Classics with a Translation, Critical and Exegetical
Notes, Prolegomena, and Copious Indexes, vol. I, London: Trübner and Co./Shanghai:
East China Normal University Press.
Lehmann, C. (1987),“On the Function of Agreement,” in M. Barlow and C.A. Ferguson
(eds), Agreement in Natural Language, Stanford: CSLI.
Lehrer,A. (1986),“English Classiﬁer Constructions,” Lingua, 68: 109–48.
Lemke, J.L. (1997),“Cognition, Context, and Learning: a social semiotic perspective,” in
D. Kirshner and A.Whitson (eds), Situated Cognition, NJ: Earlbaum.
Lemke, J. L. (1998),“Multiplying Meaning: visual and verbal semiotics in scientiﬁc text,
in J.R. Martin and R.Veel (eds), Reading Science: critical and functional perspectives
on discourses of science, London: Routledge.
Leys, S. (1997), The Analects of Confucius, New York: W.W. Norton and Company.
Li, C.N., and S.A. Thompson (1981), Mandarin Chinese: a functional reference grammar,
Berkeley: University of California Press.
Li, E.S.H. (2007), A Systemic Functional Grammar of Chinese, London: Continuum.
Li, J. (2001), Xīn Zhù Guóyu
ˇ Wénfá (ᯠ㪇ഭ䈝᮷⌅, The New Chinese Grammar),
Beijing: Commercial Press.
Li, L. (1990), Xiàndài Hànyu
ˇ Dòngcí (⧠ԓ≹䈝ࣘ䇽, Verbs in Mandarin Chinese),
Beijing: China Press of Social Sciences.
Li,W. (2000),“The Pragmatic Function of Numeral-Classiﬁers in Mandarin Chinese,”
Journal of Pragmatics, 32: 1113–33.
Li, Z. (2010), Hàn Yīng Yu
ˇ Shíjiān Biāojì Xìtòng Yu
ˇfáhuà Dùibı̌ Yānjiū (≹㤡䈝ᰦ䰤ḷ䇠
㌫㔏䈝⌅ॆሩ∄⹄ウ, A Contrastive Study of Chinese and English Time Marking
Systems), Beijing: Peking University Press.
Li, Z.Z., and X.K. Zhou (2006) (trans. M.A.K. Halliday, 1962–97), Chinese Anthology of
Hallidayan Linguistics, Changsha: Hunan Education Press.
Lin, T., and L.Wang, (1985), Běijīng Yǔyīn Shíyàn Lù (ेӜ䈝丣ᇎ傼ᖅ, Working Papers
on Experimental Phonetics), Beijing: Peking University Press.
Liu I-C. (1976), Shi-shuo Hsin-yü: A new account of tales of the world, R.B. Mather (tr.),
Minneapolis, MN: University of Minnesota Press.
Liu, J. (1998), Kǎi Zì Biān (ᾧᆇ㕆, Collection of Characters in Regular Script), Beijing:
The Press of Chinese Cultural Relics.
Liu, L., and J.Wu (2001). Hànyu
ˇ Biǎodá (≹䈝㺘䗮, Chinese Expression), Nanning:
Guangxi Education Press.
Liu, S. (2009),“A Corpus-based Study on the Conﬁguration of Aﬀect in Appraisal
System,” Foreign Language Education, 30 (2): 22–5.
Liu,Y. (2007), Shì Shuō Xīn Yu
ˇ (ц䈤ᯠ䈝, with illustrations), Beijing: Book Company of
China.
References
366
Liu, Z. (2005),“Reading Behavior in the Digital Environment: changes in reading
behavior over the past ten years,” Journal of Documentation, 61 (6): 700–12.
Long, R.J. (1982),“Lundun xuepai de yuyan bianyi lilun jianjie” (“A Brief Introduction to
the Language Variation Theory of the London School”), Guowai Yuyanxue
(Linguistics Abroad), 4: 58–61.
Longacre, R.E. (1979),“The Paragraph as Grammatical Tool,” in T. Givón (ed.), Discourse
and Syntax, New York: Academic Press.
Lu, J. (1984). Xiàndài Hànyǔ lı̌ de Yíwèn Yǔqìcí (⧠ԓ≹䈝䟼Ⲵ⯁䰞䈝≄䇽, On the
Interrogative Modal Particles in Modern Chinese). Chinese Philology, 5: 330–7.
Lu, J. (1987),“Shùliàngcí Zhōngjiān Chārù Xíngróngcí Qíngkuàng Kǎochá” (ᮠ䟿䇽ѝ
䰤ᨂ‫ޕ‬ᖒᇩ䇽ᛵߥ㘳ሏ,“On Numeral-classiﬁer with Adjectives Inserted
Between”), Language Teaching and Research, 4: 53–73.
Lü, S. (1982), Zhōngguó Wénfă Yàolüè (ѝഭ᮷⌅㾱⮕, A Sketch of Chinese Grammar),
Beijing: Commercial Press.
Lü, S. (1999a),“Bèi Zì Jù Bǎ Zì Jù Dòngcí Dài Bīnyǔ” (㻛ᆇਕ, ᢺᆇਕࣘ䇽ᑖᇮ䈝,“The
Verb with Object in bèi and bǎ Constructions”), in Lü Shuxiang Hànyu
ˇ Yu
ˇfǎ Lùnwénjí
(੅਄⒈≹䈝䈝⌅䇪᮷䳶, The Collected Works of Lü Shuxiang on Chinese
Grammar), Beijing: Commercial Press.
Lü, S. (1999b), Xiàndài Hànyu
ˇ Bābái Cí (⧠ԓ≹䈝‫Ⲯޛ‬䇽, Eight Hundred Words of
Modern Chinese), Beijing: Commercial Press.
Lü, S. (2005), Hànyu
ˇ Yu
ˇfá Fēnxī Wèntí (≹䈝䈝⌅࠶᷀䰞仈, Issues on Chinese
Grammatical Analyses), Beijing: Commercial Press.
Lü, S. et al., eds (1999), Xiàndài Hànyu
ˇ Bābǎi Cí (⧠ԓ≹䈝‫Ⲯޛ‬䇽, Eight Hundred
Words in Mandarin Chinese). Beijing: Commercial Press.
Ludwig, C.J.H. (2011),“Saccadic Decision-making,” in S. Liversedge, I. Gilchrist, and
S. Everling (eds) The Oxford Handbook of Eye Movements, Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Lyons, J. (1977), Semantics, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Ma, Q. (1981),“Shí Liàng Bīnyǔ hé Dòngcí Yānjiū de Lèi” (ᰦ䟿ᇮ䈝઼ࣘ䇽⹄ウⲴ㊫,
“Quantitative Temporal Objects and Verbal Category”), Studies of the Chinese
Language, 2: 86–90.
Ma, Q. (1992),“Zìzhǔ Dòngcí hé Fēi Zìzhǔ Dòngcí” (㠚ѫࣘ䇽઼䶎㠚ѫь㾯,
“Volitional and Non-volitional Verbs”), in Q. Ma. Hànyu
ˇ Dòngcí hé Dòngcíxìng Jiégòu
(≹䈝ࣘ䇽઼ࣘ䇽ᙗ㔃ᶴ, Chinese Verbs and Verbal Constructions), Beijing: Beijing
Language Institute Press.
Ma, R. (2008), Yīnxū Jiágúwén Shíyòng Zìdiǎn (⇧໏⭢僘᮷ᇎ⭘ᆇި, A Practical
Dictionary of Jiágúwén Unearthed in Yīnxū), Shanghai: Shanghai University Press.
Machin, D. (2007), Introduction to Multimodal Analysis, London: Hodder Arnold.
Macken-Horarik, M. (1998),“Exploring the Requirements of Critical School Literacy: a
view from two classrooms,” in F. Christie and R. Misson (eds), Literacy and Schooling,
London: Routledge.
Makkai,A. (1972), Idiom Structure in English, The Hague: Mouton.
References 367
Malmkjaer, K. (1991), The Linguistics Encyclopedia, London and New York: Routledge.
Martin, J.R. (1992), English Text: system and structure,Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Martin, J.R. (1999),“Mentoring Semogenesis:‘genre-based’ literacy pedagogy,” in
F. Christie. (1999). [reprinted in Martin 2012].
Martin, J.R. (2000),“Beyond Exchange: appraisal systems in English,” in S. Hunston and
G. Thompson (eds), Evaluation in Text: authorial stance and the construction of
discourse, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Martin, J.R. (2007),“Metadiscourse: designing interaction in genre-based literacy
programs,” in R.Whittaker, M. O’Donnell, and A. McCabe (eds), Language and
Literacy: functional approaches, London: Continuum [reprinted in Martin 2012].
Martin, J.R. (2009),“Genre and Language Learning: a social semiotic perspective,”
Linguistics and Education, 20: 10–21.
Martin, J.R. (2011a),“Bridging Troubled Waters: interdisciplinarity and what makes it
stick,” in F. Christie and K. Maton (eds), Disciplinarity: functional linguistic and
sociological perspectives, London: Continuum.
Martin, J.R. (2011b),“Metalinguistic Divergence: centrifugal dimensionality in SFL,”
Annual Review of Functional Linguistics (Higher Education Press, Beijing), 3: 8–32.
Martin, J.R. (2011c),“Multimodal Semiotics: theoretical challenges,” in S. Dreyfus, S.
Hoo, and M. Stenglin (eds), Semiotic Margins: meaning in multimodalities, London:
Continuum.
Martin, J.R. (2012), Language in Education. Vol. 7: Collected Works of J.R. Martin,Wang
Zhenhua (ed.), Shanghai: Shanghai Jiao Tong University Press.
Martin, J.R. (2013a),“Modelling Context: matter as meaning,” in C. Gouveia and
M.Alexandre (eds), Languages, Metalanguages, Modalities, Cultures: functional
and socio-discursive perspectives, Lisbon: BonD & ILTEC.
Martin, J.R. (2013b),“Genre-based Literacy Programmes: contexualizing the SLATE
project,” Linguistics and the Human Sciences, 7: 5–27.
Martin, J.R., C.M.I.M. Matthiesssen, and C. Painter (2010), Deploying Functional
Grammar, Beijing: Commercial Press.
Martin, J.R., and D. Rose (2003/2007), Working with Discourse: meaning beyond the
clause, London: Continuum.
Martin, J.R., and D. Rose (2005). Designing literacy pedagogy: scaﬀolding asymmetries.
In Hasan et al. (eds) [reprinted in Martin 2012].
Martin, J.R., and D. Rose (2007),“Interacting with Text: the role of dialogue in learning
to read and write,” Foreign Languages in China, 4 (5): 66–80.
Martin, J.R., and D. Rose (2008), Genre Relations: mapping culture, London: Equinox.
Martin, J.R., and P.R.R.White (2005), The Language of Evaluation: appraisal in English,
London: Palgrave.
Martin, J.R.,Y.S. Zhu, and P.Wang (2013), Systemic Functional Grammar: a next step into
the theory–axial relations, Beijing: Higher Education Press.
Martin, M. (2003),“A Genre Analysis of English and Spanish Research Paper Abstracts
in Experimental Social Sciences,” English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 22 (1): 25–43.
References
368
Martinec, R., and A. Salway (2005),“A System for Image-Text Relations in New (and
old) Media,” Visual Communication, 4 (3): 337–71.
Maton, K., and J. Muller (2007),“A Sociology for the Transmission of Knowledges,” in
F. Christie and J.R. Martin, London: Continuum.
Maton, K. (2013), Knowledge and Knowers, London: Routledge.
Maton, K., S. Hood, and S. Shay, eds (2015), Knowledge-building: educational studies in
legitimation code theory, London: Routledge.
Matthiessen, C.M.I.M. (1990),“Lexico (Grammatical) Choice in Text Generation,” in
C.L. Paris,W.R. Swartout, and W.C. Mann (eds), Natural Language Generation in
Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Computational Linguistics, Boston: Kluwer.
Matthiessen, C.M.I.M. (1995),“Fuzziness Construed in Language: a linguistic
perspective,” in Proceedings of Fuzz-IEEE/IFES, 1995,Yokohama.
Matthiessen, C.M.I.M. (2001),“The Environments of Translation,” in E. Steiner and
C.Yallop (eds) Exploring Translation and Multilingual Text Production: beyond
content, Berlin: Mouton.
Matthiessen, C.M.I.M. (2004),“The Evolution of Language: a systemic functional
exploration of phylogenetic phases,” in G.Williams and A. Lukin (eds), The
Development of Language: functional perspectives on species and individuals,
London and New York: Continuum.
Matthiessen, C.M.I.M. (2010), Key Terms in Systemic Functional Linguistics, London
and New York: Continuum.
Matthiessen, C.M.I.M., K. Teruya, and M. Lam (2010). Key Terms in Systemic Functional
Linguistics, London and New York: Continuum.
Matthiessen, C.M.I.M., and M.A.K. Halliday (2009), Systemic Functional Grammar:
a ﬁrst step into the theory, Beijing: Higher Education Press.
Mayer, R.E. (2010),“Unique Contributions of Eye-tracking Research to the Study of
Learning with Graphics, Learning and Instruction, 20 (2): 167–71.
McCloud, S. (1994), Understanding Comics: the invisible art, New York: Harper Perennial.
McClure,W. (2000), Using Japanese: a guide to contemporary usage, Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
McDonald, E. (1992),“Outline of a Functional Grammar of Chinese for Teaching
Purposes,” Language Sciences, 14: 435–58.
McDonald, E. (1998), Clause and Verbal Group System in Chinese: a text-based
functional approach, unpublished PhD thesis, Macquarie University.
McDowell, J.E., B.A. Clementz, and J.A. Sweeney (2011),“Eye Movements in Psychiatric
Patients,” in S. Liversedge, I. Gilchrist, and S. Everling (eds), The Oxford Handbook
of Eye Movements, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
McNaughton,W., and Y. Li. (1999 [1978]), Reading and Writing Chinese: traditional
character edition, a comprehensive guide to the Chinese writing system, North
Clarendon,VT: Tuttle Publishing.
Meetham,A.R., and R.A. Hudson (1969), Encyclopaedia in Linguistics, Information and
Control, Oxford: Pergamon.
References 369
Mei, J. (2004), Shì Shuō Xīn Yu
ˇ de Yu
ˇyán yu
ˇ Xùshì (ц䈤ᯠ䈝Ⲵ䈝䀰оਉһ, The
Language and the Narration in Shì Shuō Xīn Yu
ˇ), Taipei, Taiwan: Le Jin Books.
Mei, J.,Y. Zhu,Y. Gao, and H.Yin (1983), Tóngyìcí Cílín (਼ѹ䇽䇽ި, A Collection of
Synonyms), Shanghai: Shanghai Press of Lexicography.
Meillet,A. (1912),“L’évolution des Formes Grammaticales,” reprinted in Meillet (1958),
Linguistique Historique et Linguistique Générale, Paris: Champion.
Meng, C., H. Zheng, Q. Meng, and W. Cai, eds (1999), Dòngcí Yòngfǎ Cídiàn (ࣘ䇽⭘⌅
䇽ި, The Dictionary of Verb Usage), Beijing: Commercial Press.
Meng, M. (2007), A Corpus-based Contrastive Study of Evaluative Language in English
Research Papers of Chinese and NSE Authors, unpublished PhD dissertation,
Shanghai International Studies University.
Miao, X. et al. (2015) Language as Social Semiotic: the social interpretation of language
and meaning, trans. M.A.K. Halliday (1978), Beijing: Peking University Press.
Miller, C. (1984),“Genre as Social Action,” Quarterly Journal of Speech, 70: 151–67
[Reprinted in Freedman & Medway 1994, Genre and the New Rhetoric, London:
Taylor & Francis (Critical Perspectives on Literacy and Education)].
Mitchell, T.F. (1957),“The Language of Buying and Selling in Cyrenaica,” Hesperis, 44:
31–71.
Mitchell, T.F. (1971),“Linguistic‘Goings on’: Collocations and Other Lexical Matters
Arising on the Syntagmatic Record,” Archivum Linguisticum, 2: 35–69.
Moon, R. (1992),“Textual Aspects of Fixed Expressions,” in P.Arnaud and H. Béjoint
(eds), Vocabulary and Applied Linguistics, London: Macmillan.
Moon, R. (1994),“The Analysis of Fixed Expressions in Text,” in M. Coulthard (ed.),
Advances in Written Text Analysis, London: Routledge.
Moon, R. (1998), Fixed Expressions and Idioms in English: a corpus-based approach,
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Morris, C. (1938),“Foundations of the Theories of Signs,” in O. Neurath (ed.),
International Encyclopedia of United Science, vol. 1 no. 2, Chicago: University of
Chicago Press [Reprinted in Morris 1971, The Hague: Mouton].
Morris, C. (1971), Writings on the General Theory of Signs, The Hague: Mouton.
Muller, J. (2007),“On Splitting Hairs: hierarchy, knowledge and the school curriculum,”
in F. Christie and J.R. Martin. (eds), Language, Knowledge and Pedagogy: functional
linguistics and sociological perspectives, London: Continuum.
Munday, J. (2001), Introducing Translation Studies, London: Routledge.
Nazarova, T. (1996),“Linguistic and Literary Semiotics,” Applied Semiotics, 1(1), 19–28.
Nida, E.A. (1964), Toward a Science of Translating, Leiden: E.J. Brill.
Nida, E.A., and C.R. Taber (1969), The Theory and Practice of Translation, Leiden: E.J. Brill.
Norman, J. (1988), Chinese, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
O’Halloran, K.L. (1999),“Interdependence, Interaction and Metaphor in Multisemiotic
Texts,” Social Semiotics, 9 (3): 317–54.
O’Halloran, K.L., ed. (2004),“Multimodal Discourse Analysis: Systemic Functional
Perspectives,” London and New York: Continuum.
References
370
O’Toole, M. (1994), The Language of Displayed Art, London: Leicester University Press.
Oda, E. (1997/2013), One Piece-1, Tokyo: Shueisha.
Ou,Y., and C. Liu (2014),“A Systemic Functional Matrix of Chinese Phonology,”
Linguistics and the Human Sciences, 10 (3): 220–46.
Ouyang, X. (1986),“Clause Complex in Chinese,” MA Honours Thesis, Department of
Linguistics, University of Sidney.
Painter, C. (1984), Into the Mother Tongue, London: Pinter.
Painter, C. (1986),“The Role of Interaction in Learning to Speak and Learning to
Write,” in C. Painter and J.R. Martin (eds), Writing to Mean: teaching genres
across the curriculum,Applied Linguistics Association of Australia (Occasional
Papers 9).
Painter, C. (1998), Learning Through Language in Early Childhood, London: Cassell.
Painter, C. (2007),“Children’s Picture Book Narratives: reading sequences of images,” in
A. McCabe, M. O’Donnell, and R.Whittaker (eds) Advances in Language and
Education, London: Continuum.
Palmer, F.R. (2001), Mood and Modality, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Peacock, M. (2002), Communicative Moves in the Discussion Section of Research
Articles, System, 30: 479–97.
Peirce, C.S. (1931/1958), Collected Papers, vol. 2, C. Hawthorne and P.Weiss (trans.),
Cambridge, MA.: Harvard University Press.
Peng, X. (1997),“Yīnxī Zīǔzhī de Yǔpiān Tèzhēng” (丣㌫㓴㓷Ⲵ䈝ㇷ⢩ᖱ,“Textual
Features of Phonological Organisation”), Journal of Chongqing University (Social
Science), 4: 75–81.
Peng, X. (2000), Yīng Hàn Yu
ˇpiān Zōnghé Duìbı̌ (㤡≹䈝ㇷ㔬ਸሩ∄, A Comprehensive
Comparison between English and Chinese Texts), Shanghai: Shanghai Foreign
Language Education Press.
Peng, X. (2011). Yŭyán Yu
ˇ Yŭyánxué Gàilùn: Hànyŭ Xìtǒng Gōngnéng Yŭfá (䈝䀰о䈝䀰
ᆖᾲ䇪——≹䈝㌫㔏࣏㜭䈝⌅, An Introduction to Language and Linguistics:
systemic functional grammar of Chinese), Beijing: Peking University Press.
Peng, X. (2014), Appraisal Stylistics, Beijing: Peking University Press.
Peng, X. et al. (2010) (trans. M.A.K. Halliday, 1994), An Introduction to Functional
Grammar (2nd edn), Beijing: Foreign Language Teaching and Research Press.
Peng, X. et al. (2015) (trans. M.A.K. Halliday, 2002–7), Collected Works of M.A.K.
Halliday, 10 vols., Beijing: Peking University Press.
Pharies, D.A. (1985), Charles S. Peirce and the Linguistic Sign,Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Pinker, S. (1994), The Language Instinct, London: Penguin Books.
Prakasam,V. (1977),“An Outline of the Theory of Systemic Phonology,” International
Journal of Dravidian Linguistics, 6: 24–42.
Qi, F. (2002), Yŭqìcì yu
ˇ Yu
ˇqì Xìtǒng (䈝≄䇽о䈝≄㌫㔏, Modal Particles and Mood
System), Hefei: Anhui Education Press.
Quirk, R.S., S. Greenbaum, G. Leech, and J. Svartvik (1985), A Comprehensive Grammar
of the English Language, London: Longman.
References 371
Rayner, K. (1978),“Eye movements in Reading and Information Processing,”
Psychological Bulletin, 85 (3): 618–60.
Rayner, K. (1998),“Eye movements in Reading and Information Processing: 20 years of
research,” Psychological Bulletin, 124 (3): 372–422.
Read, J., D. Hope, and J. Carroll (2012),“Annotating Expressions of Appraisal in English,”
Language Resources and Evaluation, 46: 421–47.
Reilly, R., and R. Radach (2006),“Some Empirical Tests of an Interactive Activation
Model of Eye Movement Control in Reading, Cognitive Systems Research, 7: 34–55.
Roberts, H.H. (2007), The Analects of Confucius, No location: Anjeli Press.
Robins, R.H. (1959),“In Deference of WP,” Transactions of the Philological Society,
116–44.
Robins, R.H. (1997),“A Short History of Linguistics” (4th edn.), London: Longman.
Rogers, H. (2004), Writing Systems: a linguistic approach, New Jersey: Wiley-Blackwell.
Rose, D. (2004),“Sequencing and Pacing of the Hidden Curriculum: how indigenous
children are left out of the chain,” in J. Muller,A. Morais, and B. Davies (eds), Reading
Bernstein, Researching Bernstein, London: Routledge.
Rose, D. (2007),“Towards a Reading Based Theory of Teaching,” Plenary Paper in
Proceedings 33rd International Systemic Functional Congress 2006, http://www.pucsp.
br/isfc/proceedings/
Rose, D. (2008),“Writing as Linguistic Mastery: the development of genre-based literacy
pedagogy,” in R. Beard, D. Myhill, J. Riley, and M. Nystrand (eds), Handbook of
Writing Development, London: Sage.
Rose, D. (2010),“Meaning Beyond the Margins: learning to interact with books,” in
S. Dreyfus, S. Hood, and M. Stenglin (eds), Semiotic Margins: reclaiming meaning,
London: Continuum.
Rose, D. (2011),“Genre in the Sydney School,” in J. Gee and M. Handford (eds), The
Routledge Handbook of Discourse Analysis, London: Routledge.
Rothery, J. (1989),“Learning About Language,” in R. Hasan and J.R. Martin (eds),
Language Development: learning language, learning culture, Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Rothery, J. (1996),“Making Changes: developing an educational linguistics,” in
R. Hasan and G.Williams. (eds), Literacy in Society, London: Longman.
Royce, T.D. (1998),“Synergy on the Page: exploring intersemiotic complementarity
in page-based multimodal text,” JASFL Occasional Papers, 1 (1): 25–50.
Sampson, G. (2015 [1985]), Writing Systems (2nd ed.), London: Equinox.
Samraj, B. (2002),“Introductions in Research Articles: variations across disciplines,”
English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 21: 1–17.
Samraj, B. (2005),“An Exploration of Genre Set: research article abstracts and
introductions in two disciplines,” English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 24: 141–56.
Sapir, E. (1921), Language: an introduction to the study of speech, New York: Harcourt
Brace & Co.
Schodt, F. (1986), Manga! Manga! The World of Japanese Comics, Tokyo: Kodansha
International.
References
372
Schotter, E.R., E.D. Reichle, and K. Rayner (2014),“Rethinking Parafoveal Processing in
Reading: serial-attention models can explain semantic preview beneﬁt and N+ 2
preview eﬀects,” Visual Cognition, 22 (3–4): 309–33.
Sebeok, T.A. (1994), Signs: an introduction to semiotics, Toronto: University of Toronto
Press.
Shang, X. (2007), Yīnghàn Tı̌ Fànchóu Dùibı̌ Yānjiū (㤡≹փ㤳⮤ሩ∄⹄ウ,
Contrastive Study of Chinese Aspect and English Aspect), Shanghai: Shanghai
People’s Press.
Shao, J. (1989),“Yǔqìcì Ne zài Yíwènjù zhōng de Zuòyòng” (䈝≄䇽“઒”൘⯁䰞ਕѝⲴ
֌⭘,“The Functions of the Modal Particle Ne in Interrogative Sentences”), Chinese
Philology, 3: 76–85.
Shapiro, J.A. (2011), Evolution: a view from the 21st century, Upper Saddle River NJ: FT
Press Science.
Shaver, P.R., S.Wu, and J.C. Schwartz (1992),“Cross-cultural Similarities and Diﬀerences
in Emotion and its Representation: a prototype approach,” in M.S. Clark (ed.),
Review of Personality and Social Psychology, Newbury Park, CA: Sage.
Shaver, P.R., U. Murdaya, and R.C. Fraley (2001),“Structure of the Indonesian Emotion
Lexicon,” Asian Journal of Social Psychology, 4: 201–24.
Shi, X. (1992),“Origin and Use of Measure Words For Thing,” Language Teaching and
Research, 2: 38–46.
Siewierska,A. (2004), Person, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Simpkins, S. (1996),“Lecture One: the lingua franca of semioticians,” Critical Semiotics,
http://projects.chass.utoronto.ca/semiotics/cyber/sim1.html
Sinclair, J., and M. Coulthard (1975), Towards an Analysis of Discourse, Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Sjöström, J. (2007),“The Discourse of Chemistry (and Beyond),” HYLE–International
Journal for Philosophy of Chemistry, 13 (2): 83–97.
Skulstad,A.S. (2005),“The Use of Meta-Discourse in Introductory Sections of a New
Genre,” International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 15 (1): 71–86.
Slingerland, E. (2003), Confucius Analects: with selections from traditional commentaries,
Indianapolis/Cambridge: Hackett Publishing Company.
Song, C. (2012a),“Grammatical and Semantic Features of Chinese Emotion Verbs,”
Foreign Languages Research, 4: 10–18.
Song, C. (2012b), Qínggǎn Yìyì de Duōwéi Yánjiū (ᛵᝏ᜿ѹⲴཊ㔤⹄ウ, Exploring
Aﬀective Meaning from a Multidimensional Approach), unpublished post-doctorate
project report, Beijing: Tsinghua University.
Sproat, R. (2000), A Computational Theory of Writing Systems, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Sriniwass, S. (2010), Knowledge Construction in the Genre of Chemistry Textbooks: a
systemic functional perspective, Saarbrücken: VDM Veriag Dr. Müller.
Steele, S. (1977),“Clisis and Diachrony,” in C.N. Li (ed.), Mechanisms of Syntactic
Change,Austin: University of Texas Press.
References 373
Steiner, E., and C.Yallop, eds (2001), Exploring Translation and Multilingual Text
Production: beyond content, Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Storm, C., and T.A. Storm (1987),“Taxonomic Study of the Vocabulary of Emotions,”
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 53 (4): 805–16.
Strässler, J. (1982), Idioms in English: a pragmatic analysis, Tubingen: Gunter Narr
Verlag.
Suárez, J.A. (1983), The Mesoamerican Indian Languages, Cambridge and New York:
Cambridge University Press.
Sugamoto, N. (1989),“Pronominality: a noun-pronoun continuum,” in R. Corrigan,
F. Eckman, and M. Noonan (eds), Linguistic Categorization,Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Sun,Y. (2008), The Creation of Research Space in Chinese MA Theses: a genre analysis of
Chinese MA thesis introductions, Beijing: National Defense Industry Press.
Swales, J., and H. Najjar (1987),“The Writing of Research Article Introductions,”
Written Communication, 4 (2): 175–89.
Swales, J. (1981), Aspects of Article Introductions, Birmingham: University of Aston.
Swales, J. (1990), Genre Analysis: English in academic and research settings, Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Swales, J. (2004), Research Genres: exploration and applications, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Taboada, M., and J. Grieve (2004),“Analyzing Appraisal Automatically,” in Q.Yan,
J. Shanahan, and J.Wiebe (eds), Proceedings of AAAI Spring Symposium on Exploring
Attitude and Aﬀect in Text, Stanford: Stanford AAAI Technical Reports. http://www.
aaai.org/Papers/Symposia /Spring /2004/SS-04-07/SS04-07-029.pdf [accessed
18/05/2011].
Tai, H. (1985),“Temporal Sequence and Chinese Word Order,” in J. Haiman (ed.),
Iconicity in Syntax,Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Tang, L. (2005), Zhōngguó Wénzìxué (ѝഭ᮷ᆇᆖ, Chinese Graphology; new version),
Shanghai: Shanghai Press of Chinese Classics.
Tao, H., and B. Zhang (2000),“Wúdìng Shì Bǎzìjù Zài Jìnxiàndài Hànyǔ Zhōng de Dìwèi
Wèntí jíqí Lı̌lùn Yìyì” (ᰐᇊᔿᢺᆇਕ൘䘁ǃ⧠ԓ≹䈝ѝⲴൠս䰞仈৺ަ⨶䇪᜿
ѹ,“The Status of Indeﬁnite Ba-constructions in Modern and Contemporary
Chinese and its Implications”), Chinese Philology, 5: 433–46.
Taylor, T.J. (2003),“Language Constructing Language: the implications of reﬂexivity for
linguistic theory,” in H. Davis and T. Taylor (eds), Rethinking Linguistics, London and
NY: Routledge.
Tench, P., ed. (1992), Studies in Systemic Phonology, London: Pinter.
Tench, P. (1996), The Intonation Systems of English, London: Cassell.
Teng, S. (1984), Hànyu
ˇ Jíwùxìng Guānxì de Yu
ˇyì Yánjiū (≹䈝৺⢙ᙗ‫ޣ‬㌫Ⲵ䈝᜿⹄ウ,
A Semantic Study of Transitivity Relations in Chinese), Taipei: Students Books.
Thibault, P.J. (2004), Brain, Mind and the Signifying Body: an ecosocial semiotic theory,
London: Continuum.
Thompson, G. (1996), Introducing Functional Grammar, London: Edward Arnold.
References
374
Thompson, G. (2004/2008), Introducing Functional Grammar (2nd ed.), London:
Arnold/Beijing: Foreign Language Teaching and Research Press.
Tian, G., and M.Wang (2008).“Gongneng yuyanxue zai zhongguo de yingyong yanjiu
yu fazhan” (“Application and Development of Functional Linguistics in China”),
Beijing Keji Daxue Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban) (Journal of University of Science and
Technology Beijing (Social Sciences Edition)), 2: 98–103.
Togashi,Y. (1998/2012), Hunter X Hunter-1, Tokyo: Shueisha.
Tucker, G. (1998), The Lexicogrammar of Adjectives: a systemic functional approach to
lexis, London: Cassell.
Tucker, G. (2005),“Extending the Lexicogrammar: towards a more comprehensive
account of extraclausal, partially clausal and non-clausal expressions in spoken
discourse,” Language Sciences, 6: 679–709.
Tucker, G. (2007),“Between Lexis and Grammar: towards a systemic functional
approach to phraseology,” in R. Hasan, C.M.I.M. Matthiessen and J.J.Webster
(eds), Continuing Discourse on Language: a functional perspective, Vol. 2, London:
Equinox.
Ungerer, F., and H.J. Schmid (1996), An Introduction to Cognitive Linguistics, London:
Longman.
van den Berg, M., and G.Wu (2006), The Chinese Particle Le: discourse construction and
pragmatic marking in Chinese, London: Routledge.
van Gog, T., and K. Scheiter (2010),“Eye Tracking as a Tool to Study and Enhance
Multimedia Learning,” Learning and Instruction, 20 (2): 95–9.
van Leeuwen, T. (2005),“Typographic Meaning,” Visual Communication, 4 (2): 138–43.
VanRullen, R., and S.J. Thorpe (2001),“Is it a Bird? Is it a Plane? Ultra-rapid visual
categorisation of natural and artifactual objects,” Perception-London, 30 (6): 655–68.
Vochala, J. (1985), Chinese Writing System: minimal graphic units, Praha: Univerzita
Karlova.
Wales, K. (1989), Dictionary of Stylistics, London: Longman.
Waley,A. (1938), The Analects of Confucius, London: George Allen and Unwin.
Wang, H. (1999), Hànyŭ Fēixiànxìng Yīnxìxué (≹䈝䶎㓯ᙗ丣㌫ᆖ, Non-linear
Phonology of Chinese), Beijing: Peking University Press.
Wang, H.Y. (2010), Systemic Functional Linguistics Studies in the Chinese Context,
Beijing: Ocean Press.
Wang, J. (1993),“Hànyǔ Shēngdiào de Shēngchéng Yīnxìxué Yánjiū” (≹䈝༠䈳Ⲵ⭏ᡀ
丣㌫ᆖ⹄ウ,“A Generative Phonological Study on Chinese Tones”), in J. Liu and
J.Y. Hou (eds.), Zhōngguó Yu
ˇwén Yánjiū Sìshí nián Jìniàn Wénjí (ѝഭ䈝᮷⹄ウഋॱ
ᒤ㓚ᘥ᮷䳶, Paper Collections on the 40th Anniversary of Studies on the Chinese
Language), Beijing: Beijing University Press of Language and Culture.
Wang, L. (1954), Zhōngguó Yu
ˇfǎ Lı̌lùn (ѝഭ䈝⌅⨶䇪, Theory of Chinese Grammar),
Jinan: Shandong Education Press.
Wang, L. (1980), Hànyu
ˇ shĭgăo (≹䈝ਢは, History of Chinese), Beijing: Book Company
of China.
References 375
Wang, L. (1982), Hànyu
ˇ Yu
ˇfǎ Gāngyào (≹䈝䈝⌅㓢㾱, An Outline of Chinese
Grammar), Shanghai: Shanghai Education Press.
Wang, L. (1985), Zhōngguó Xiàndài Yu
ˇfá (ѝഭ⧠ԓ䈝⌅, Modern Chinese Grammar),
Beijing: Commercial Press.
Wang, L.J. (2003), Sòngdài Diāobǎn Kǎishū Gòuxíng Xìtǒng Yǎnjiū (ᆻԓ䴅⡸ᾧҖᶴᖒ
㌫㔏⹄ウ, Systems of Character Conﬁgurations in Regular Scripts of Wood Block
Printing in Song Dynasty), Shanghai: Shanghai Education Press.
Wang, M. (2013), Xiàndài Yu
ˇyǎn Fúhàoxué (⧠ԓ䈝䀰ㅖਧᆖ, Modern Linguistic
Semiotics), Beijing: Commercial Press.
Wang, N. (2013), Hànzì Gòuxíngxué Jiǎngzuò (≹ᆇᶴᖒᆖ䇢ᓗ, Lectures on Chinese
Character Conﬁgurations; new edition), Taibei: Sanmin Bookstore.
Wang, N. (2015), Hànzì Gòuxíngxué Dǎolùn (≹ᆇᶴᖒᆖሬ䇪, Introduction to Chinese
character conﬁgurations), Beijing: The Commercial Press.
Wang, Z., and Y. Ma (2007),“Appraisal Theory: charm and dilemma,” Foreign Language
Education, 26 (6): 19–23.
Wang, Z.Y. (1980),“Lundun xuepai dianjiren fusi de yuyan lilun” (“The linguistic theory
of Firth of the London School”), Guowai Yuyanxue (Linguistics Abroad), 5: 1–8.
Wang, Z.Y. (1981),“Ping hanlide de xiandai hanyu yufa fanchou” (review of Halliday’s
“Grammatical categories in Modern Chinese”), Guowai Yuyanxue (Linguistics
Abroad), 2: 55–62.
Webster, J.J. (2002), Editor’s Introduction, in J.Webster (ed.), On Grammar (Collected
Works of M.A.K. Halliday, Vol. 1), London: Continuum.
Webster, J.J. (2005),“M.A.K. Halliday: the early years, 1925–1970,” in R. Hasan, C.M.I.M.
Matthiessen, and J.J.Webster (eds), Continuing Discourse on Language: a functional
perspective, vol. 1, London: Equinox.
Webster, J.J., ed. (2008), Meaning in Context: strategies for implementing intelligent
applications of language studies, London: Continuum.
Webster, J.J., ed. (2009), A Companion for Systemic Functional Linguistics, London:
Continuum.
Weinreich, U. (1969),“Problem in the Analysis of Idioms,” in J. Puhvel (ed.), The
Substance and Structure of Language, Berkeley: University of California Press.
Wells, G. (1994),“The Complementary Contributions of Halliday and Vygotsky to a
Language-based Theory of Learning,” Linguistics and Education, 6: 41–90.
Wells, G. (1996),“Using the Tool-kit of Discourse in the Activity of Teaching and
Learning,” Mind Culture Activity, 3 (2): 74–101.
Wells, G. (1999), Dialogic Inquiry: toward a sociocultural practice and theory of
education, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Whorf, B.L. (1956), Language, Thought, and Reality: selected writing of Benjamin Lee
Whorf, B. Carroll (ed.), Cambridge, MA.: MIT Press.
Wignell, P. (2007),“Vertical and Horizontal Discourse and the Social Sciences,” in
F. Christie and J. R. Martin (eds), Language, Knowledge and Pedagogy: functional
linguistic and sociological perspectives, London: Cassell.
References
376
Wignell, P., J.R. Martin, and S. Eggins (1990),“The Discourse of Geography: ordering
and explaining the experiential world,” Linguistics and Education, 1 (4): 359–91.
Williams, I.A. (1999),“Result Sections of Medical Research Articles: analysis of
rhetorical categories for pedagogical purposes,” English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 18:
347–66.
Working Committee for Standardization under the National Working Committee for
Chinese Languages and Characters (1997), Xiàndài Hànyu
ˇ Tōngyòng Zì Bíshùn
Guīfàn (⧠ԓ≹䈝䙊⭘ᆇㅄ亪㿴㤳, Norms for Stroke Movements of Common
Modern Chinese Characters), Beijing: Chinese Philology Press.
Wu, G.Z. (2012), The Analects of Confucius (A New Annotated English Version), Fuzhou:
Fujian Education Press.
Wu,Y., and A. Bodomo (2009),“Classiﬁers Determiners,” Linguistic Inquiry, 40:
487–503.
Xing, F. (1979),“Lùn Ding-míng Jiégòu Chōngdāng Fènjù” (䇪ᇊ਽㔃ᶴ‫ݵ‬ᖃ࠶ਕ,“On
Attribute-nominal Construction as Clause”), Chinese Philology, 1: 23–30.
Xing, F. (2002), Hànyu
ˇ Fújù Yánjiū (≹䈝༽ਕ⹄ウ, Studies of Clause Complex in
Chinese), Beijing: Commercial Press.
Xu, S. (1982),“Zhuwei he shuwei” (“Theme and Rhyme”), Waiyu Jiaoxue yu Yanjiu
(Foreign Language Teaching and Research), 1: 1–9.
Xu, S. (1985), Bīnyu
ˇ Hé Bu
ˇyu
ˇ (ᇮ䈝઼㺕䈝, Object and Complement), Harbin:
Heilongjiang People’s Press.
Xu, Z., ed. (1996), Hànyu
ˇ Dà Zìdiǎn (≹䈝བྷᆇި, A Comprehensive Dictionary of the
Chinese Characters [the reduced format version]), Chengdu: Sichuan Press of
Dictionary; Wuhan: Hubei Press of Dictionary.
Yallop, C. (2001),“The Construction of Equivalence,” in E. Steiner and C.Yallop (eds),
Exploring Translation and Multilingual Text Production: beyond content, Berlin:
Mouton.
Yang, B. (1981), Gu
ˇ Hànyŭ Xūcí Cídiăn (ਔ≹䈝㲊䇽䇽ި, A Dictionary of Classical
Chinese Function Words), Beijing: Book Company of China.
Yang, C. (2009),“Lùn HànyǔYǔqìcì de Rénjì Yìyì” (䇪≹䈝䈝≄䇽ⲴӪ䱵᜿ѹ,“The
Interpersonal Meaning of Chinese Modal Particles”), Foreign Language and
Literature, 6: 26–32.
Yang, G. (2001),“HànyǔWùzhì Guòchéng Zhōng‘Fànwéi’ Chéngfèn yǔ‘Mùbiāo’
Chéngfèn de Qūbié” (≹䈝⢙䍘䗷〻ѝ‘㤳ത’ᡀ࠶о‘ⴞḷ’ᡀ࠶Ⲵ४࡛,“Diﬀerences
Between Range and Goal of Material Processes in Chinese”), Studies in Language
and Linguistics, 45 (4): 8–17.
Yang, G. (2002),“Hànyǔ Bèizìshì Zài Bùtóng Zhǒnglèi de Guòchéng Zhōng de Shı̌yòng
Qíngkuàng Kǎochá” (≹䈝㻛ᆇᔿ൘н਼⿽㊫Ⲵ䗷〻ѝⲴ֯⭘ᛵߥ㘳ሏ,“An
Investigation of the Usage of the bèi Construction in Diﬀerent Types of Processes in
Chinese”), Contemporary Linguistics, 4 (1): 13–24.
Yang, G. (2004),“The Systemic Theory of Process Types Applied to the bă Construction
in Chinese,” Journal of Chinese Language Teachers Association, 39 (2): 49–84.
References 377
Yang, G. (2007), The Semantics of Chinese Aspects: theoretical descriptions and a
computational implementation, Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Yang, R., and D.Allison (2003),“Research Articles in Applied Linguistics: moving from
results to conclusions,” English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 22: 365–85.
Yang, S. (2010), Zhōngguó Wénzìxué Gàiyào (㘱␵ॾ䇢ѹЬѝഭ᮷ᆇᆖᾲ㾱,
Introduction to Chinese Graphology, talks delivered at early days of Tsinghua
University; new version), Changsha: Hunan People’s Press.
Yang, X., and J. J.Webster (2015),“To Be Continued: meaning-making in serialized
manga as functional-multimodal narrative,” Semiotica, 2015 (207): 583–606.
Yarbus,A.L. (1967), Eye Movements and Vision, New York: Plenum Press.
Yuan,Y. (2010), Hànyu
ˇ Pèijià Yu
ˇfǎYánjiū (≹䈝䝽ԧ䈝⌅⹄ウ, Studies on Chinese from
the Perspective of Valence Grammar), Beijing: Commercial Press.
Zhang, B., and M. Fang (2014), Hànyu
ˇ Gōngnéng Yu
ˇfă Yánjiū (≹䈝࣏㜭䈝⌅⹄ウ,
Functional Studies of Chinese Grammar), Beijing: Commercial Press.
Zhang, B. (2001), Xiàndài Hànyu
ˇ Xūcí Cídiǎn (⧠ԓ≹䈝㲊䇽䇽ި, A Dictionary of
Modern Chinese Function Words), Beijing: Commercial Press.
Zhang, C. (2012),“Hànyǔ Fújù Fènlèi Xìtǒng de Gōngnéng Jiǎodù Gòujiàn” (≹䈝༽ਕ
࠶㊫㌫㔏Ⲵ࣏㜭䀂ᓖᶴᔪ,“Classiﬁcation System of Clause Complex in Chinese: a
functional perspective”), in G. Huang (ed.), Studies in Functional Linguistics and
Discourse Analysis, vol. IV, Beijing: Higher Education Press.
Zhang, D., and Z. Mu (2012),“On the Theoretical Framework of Multimodal Functional
Stylistics,” Foreign Language Education, 33 (3): 1–6.
Zhang, D. (1998),“Lun xitong gongneng yuyanxue zai zhongguo fazhan de neibu
tiaojian” (“On the internal conditions for the development of systemic functional
linguistics in China”), Waiyu yu Waiyu Jiaoxue (Foreign Languages and Their
Teaching), 4: 11–13.
Zhang, D. (2004),“Xitong Gongneng Yuyanxue de Xin Fazhan” (“New Developments in
Systemic Functional Linguistics”), Dangdai Yuyanxue (Contemporary Linguistics), 1:
57–65.
Zhang, D. (2009),“The Application of Multimodal Discourse Analysis and Media
Technology in Foreign Language Teaching,” Foreign Language Education, 30: 15–20.
Zhang, D. (2010),“Preliminary Investigation into the Concept of Design and the
Selection of Modalities in Multimodal Foreign Language Teaching,” Foreign
Languages in China, 7: 48–53.
Zhang, D. et al. (2007), (trans. M.A.K. Halliday and R. Hasan, 1976), Cohesion in English,
Beijing: Foreign Language Teaching and Research Press.
Zhang, D., E. McDonald,Y. Fan, and G. Huang (2005),“The Development of Systemic
Functional Linguistics in China,” in R. Hasan, C.M.I.M. Mathiessen, and J.J.Webster.
(eds), Continuing Discourse on Language: a functional perspective, vol. 1), London:
Equinox.
Zhang, S. (2012), Hànzì Jiégòu Yǎnbiàn Shı̌ (≹ᆇ㔃ᶴ╄ਈਢ, Structural Evolution of
Chinese Characters), Shanghai: Shanghai Press of Chinese Classics.
References
378
Zhang, X. (2003), Xiàndài Hànyu
ˇ Yŭqìcì Ba, Ne, A de Huàyu
ˇ Gōngnéng Yánjiū (⧠ԓ≹䈝
䈝≄䇽“੗”“઒”“୺”Ⲵ䈍䈝࣏㜭⹄ウ,A Discourse Analysis of Mood Particle Ba,
Ne and A in Mandarin Chinese), unpublished PhD dissertation, Shanghai: Normal
University of Shanghai.
Zhong, Q. (2006),“Curriculum Reform in China: challenges and reﬂections,” Frontiers of
Education in China, 3: 370–82.
Zuo, S. (2007),“Xiàndài Hànyǔ de‘Tı̌’ Gàiniàn” (⧠ԓ≹䈝Ⲵ“փ”ᾲᘥ,“A Diachronic
Study of the Mark-System of Tense and Aspect in Chinese”), Chinese Linguistics, 2:
11–23.
Zwicky,A.M. (1977), On Clitics, Bloomington: Indiana University Linguistics Club.
Analects 202, 286, 294–5
anaphora 37, 151, 154–8, 166
appliable 38, 285
Appraisal 20–2, 31, 35, 37–8, 47, 51, 58, 75,
169–73, 176, 183, 189–90, 193, 229,
323, 327
attitude 37, 51, 61, 63, 98, 169–75, 189–90,
192–3, 206, 221, 278, 346
axis 18, 21, 28, 59, 126, 239, 286, 290, 301
‘ba’ 35, 37, 59, 69, 78, 121, 143–50, 155,
293
behavioural 84, 88, 92, 96–8, 100, 139–40,
246, 341
‘bei’ 107–8, 112, 115–17, 148–9, 164–5,
275–6, 280
Bernstein, B. 15–17, 23, 28–9, 32
Catford, J.C. 286, 288–9
causal 152, 344–6, 349–50
cognitive 11, 17, 90, 109, 243–4, 246
cohesion 66, 87, 224, 247, 254
cohesive 58, 66, 247, 291, 295, 323
comics 38, 243–4, 247–8, 251, 255–8,
263
complementarity 16–17, 37–8, 159, 188,
200, 327
Confucius 199, 202, 294–7, 303–4
construal 38, 88, 90, 200–1, 235, 241, 270,
291–2, 323
construe(-ing) 36, 44, 60, 63, 76, 80, 82,
87–8, 90, 92, 94, 96–8, 111, 114,
133–4, 142–3, 188, 201, 235–6, 241,
268–9, 271, 281, 346
contrastive 39, 58, 119, 160, 303, 307–8, 316
corpus 35–7, 39, 59, 72, 76, 79–80, 86, 100,
169–72, 323, 328, 337, 340, 342–50
curriculum 15, 18–20, 23–32, 338
‘de’-construction 159, 161, 166
deictic 36, 114, 119–21, 123, 126, 130,
133–4, 195, 234, 292–3
delicacy 37, 59–60, 100, 201, 218, 286, 290,
301
delicate 60, 72, 75, 87, 188
dialogic 38, 208, 229–31, 235–6, 241, 289
diegetic 246–7, 249, 252, 260–1, 263
evolution 13, 45, 50
experiential 9–10, 35, 44, 47–8, 58, 88, 113,
193, 246, 251–2, 255, 260–1, 290–2,
294, 298, 300, 302–3, 327, 338
eye-movement 243, 250, 261–2
eye-tracking 38, 243–50, 258–9, 263
Fawcett, R.P. 4–5, 18, 88, 99, 188
ﬁction 37, 91, 101, 172–83
foregrounding 20, 220, 270, 279–80
foregrounded 20, 24, 94, 225, 236–7,
251–2, 254, 256, 259, 270
genre 18, 20–6, 31, 37, 101, 171, 173,
175, 177–80, 218, 226, 251, 263,
307–18
grammaticalization 38, 126, 194, 196–8,
200–1, 344, 346
grammaticalized 120, 126, 133, 194,
200, 344
Halliday, M.A.K. 3, 5, 18, 20, 36, 43–4, 47,
60, 62, 66, 71, 75–6, 80, 83–5, 87–8,
91–2, 100–1, 105, 111, 114, 119–22,
139–41, 144–5, 151–2, 154, 156, 163,
188, 216–17, 232–3, 246, 267, 269,
274, 285–91, 293, 300–3, 328–31,
340–8
Hasan, R. 5, 19, 36, 75–6, 87, 101, 188, 246,
267–9, 281, 308
heteroglossic 38, 229–31, 233–4, 237–8,
240–1
idioms 39, 321–33
imperative 59, 64, 70, 78, 198, 201, 232, 234,
237, 294
Index
379
Index
380
interpersonal 9, 11, 35, 39, 47, 51, 59–60, 64,
88, 115–17, 169, 191–2, 216, 222, 246,
249, 257–61, 291, 293, 300, 322–3,
325–7, 332, 337–8, 346
interrogative 59, 64, 68–9, 201, 293–4
intersemiotic 270–2, 277, 287
Jakobson, R. 287
Kress, G. 43, 207–8, 215–16, 219, 223, 225,
230, 232, 239, 246, 270–2, 277
van Leeuwen, T. 216, 230, 232, 239, 246,
270–2, 277, 349
Lemke, J.L. 209–10, 212, 229, 270
lexical 17, 26, 36–7, 44, 59, 75, 77, 87, 89,
100, 140, 143, 149, 164, 187–9, 191,
193–4, 199–201, 217, 288, 323–4,
329–30, 332
lexicogrammatical 26, 35, 39, 47, 59–60,
62, 68–9, 72, 75, 159, 217, 222,
226, 294–5, 297, 302–3, 338, 340,
346
lexis 35–7, 72, 75–6, 87–8, 90, 100, 188,
199, 200–1, 217, 225–6, 289, 327
literacy 18, 20, 23–4, 27–9
logico-semantic 151, 154, 156–7, 161, 166,
277–8, 291, 294–5
manga 38, 243–64
Martin, J. 4–5, 15–25, 28, 30, 32, 47, 51, 75,
82, 84–5, 87, 100–1, 117, 169, 191,
193, 201, 216, 218, 229–31, 235–6,
246–7, 269, 271, 307–8, 317, 323
Martinec, R. 271–2, 277
Matthiessen, C.M.I.M. 5, 12–3, 30, 76–7, 80,
83, 139, 188, 267, 285–6, 289–90, 299,
301
metafunction(-al) 6, 11, 21, 35, 38–9, 47, 60,
63–5, 111, 200, 246–7, 249, 251, 258,
261–2, 271, 285–303, 322–3
metaphor(-ical) 39, 100, 106, 116, 270,
277–8, 280, 293–4, 323, 337–8, 340
modal 35, 39, 59, 72, 80, 88, 234, 337, 346
modality(-ies) 20–1, 59–60, 62, 116, 216,
218, 226–7, 262, 291, 293, 346, 348
multimodal(-ity) 20, 22, 35, 38–9, 212,
215–63, 267–72, 277, 279–81, 337,
349
narrative 38, 243, 245, 247, 249, 251–63,
269, 272–4, 280, 295
Nida, E.A. 287
nominal(s) 36, 88, 99, 105–17, 141–2,
145–7, 149–51, 158–66, 189, 193–4,
196, 199, 201, 222, 240, 295, 339
numerative 105, 111–14
onomatopoeia 135, 246, 252, 255, 260, 264
Painter, C. 30, 238
paradigmatic 11, 60, 187, 195
parataxis/paratactic 37, 151–8, 165–6,
297–8, 338
pedagogy 15, 18–20, 23–5, 28–9, 31–2,
316–17
pedagogic(-al) 28, 38–9, 229, 241, 244,
315–16
phonology(-ical) 3, 7, 10, 21, 35, 39, 59–72,
188, 198–200, 217, 247–8, 267, 288
pragmatic 287
prosodic 3, 60, 62–3, 68
Range 36–7, 139–50
rank 10, 21, 35, 43–51, 58–60, 62, 120, 189,
196–9, 270, 286, 288, 290–3, 301, 340,
344–5, 348
Rothery, J. 23, 316–17
saccade(s)(-ic) 38, 245, 251, 255–6, 258,
260–4
de Saussure, F. 44, 87, 206–8, 210–11
semantic(s) 21–2, 26, 30, 37, 44, 60, 66–8,
71–2, 75, 77–8, 85, 87–9, 139, 143,
145, 147–8, 187–9, 194–5, 200,
217–9, 226, 247, 267, 269, 271, 288–9,
294–6, 302, 322–4, 330–2
semiosis 43, 47, 205–7
semiotics 15, 38, 47, 52, 66, 84, 87, 202,
205–12, 215–17, 225, 229, 232, 234,
241, 249, 267–71, 279–80, 290, 337,
349
speech 35, 37, 49, 51, 60, 62–3, 68–9, 121,
123–6, 129, 134, 187–9, 192–3, 197,
199–200, 232–4, 236, 248, 254, 256,
258, 263, 280
strata/stratum 21, 31, 38, 60, 66, 77, 188,
201, 216–17, 249, 267–70, 288–9,
302–3
Index 381
symbolic articulation 38, 267–70
syntagmatic 11, 60, 218
syntax 32, 200, 217
tense(s) 36, 119–35, 153, 187, 197
textual 9–10, 35, 37, 47, 58, 60, 68, 87–8,
140, 142, 144, 216, 222, 246, 252, 255,
259, 288, 291, 295, 297–300, 302,
322–3, 327, 332
thematic 37, 47–8, 148–9, 220, 268–70, 279,
291, 295, 297–8, 309–10, 313
Thompson, G. 141, 147, 246, 249, 326
translation 4–5, 10, 13, 19, 35, 39, 119, 153,
171, 199, 201–2, 281, 285–304, 327
writing 4, 6–7, 10, 18, 22–32, 35, 39, 43–7,
58, 100, 107, 193, 196, 207, 236,
307–8, 311, 316–18, 329
