Perspectives on English
17
meat of good old Anglo-Saxon cows and pigs. This is probably a job for
the ordinary perspective.
The cognitive and neural perspectives aren’t totally irrelevant to this
problem, though. For instance, they may well be able to tell us about
how in general the systems in people’s heads—especially in the heads of
language learners—respond to multilingual input. And this may turn out
to be relevant to how English changed in the 12th and 13th centuries.
Once again, so what is English? It depends on which perspective
you’re taking. Which one is the right perspective? That depends on your
interests and goals.
18
4
Perspectives on sunsets, tigers,
and puddles
It’s not as though this choice among ordinary, cognitive, and neural per-
spectives is a peculiarity of the term English. What’s a sunset? In the ordi-
nary perspective, the sun goes down. From an astronomical perspective,
the earth turns and sunlight ceases to fall where we are. From a cogni-
tive perspective, we might want to explain why it looks as though the sun
is going down. From a physical perspective, there are just photons strik-
ing or failing to strike certain molecules in retinal cells and so on. Should
we take from this that there’s no such thing as a sunset, or that people
talking about sunsets are simply wrong or misguided? I hope not. After
all, the time of sunset can be found in newspapers and on the internet,
and people rely on these sources for various things they do. It’s odd to
say everyone is just making a big mistake. The philosopher of science
Thomas Kuhn points out that the ordinary perspective is actually the
best one for navigation by the stars.
Another well-known example of dependence on perspective is money.
Like language, money is only used by people. The physical form of
money—coins, bills, checks, and bits in the bank’s computer—is only
relevant if these objects count as money and can therefore be used in
monetary transactions. With money, then, a functional perspective is
where the interesting action is—how much of it you need to pay for
things.Aphysicalperspectiveonlycomesintoplaywhenwe’rediscussing
Perspectives on sunsets, tigers, and puddles
19
things involving the physical form of money, like how big a wallet has to
be, how to detect counterfeiting, and of course where you stashed your
spare cash.1
In his influential essay “The meaning of ‘meaning’,” the philosopher
Hilary Putnam argues that most people don’t know the meaning of a
word like gold. Its Real Meaning, he says, is known only to experts—
metallurgists and chemists—who can determine its atomic composition.
Similarly, the Real Meaning of tiger has something to do with its DNA.
The implication (although Putnam conveniently doesn’t point it out) is
that, until the advent of modern chemistry and biology, no one at all
knew what these words meant! Come on!
I think a better approach is to say that atomic composition and DNA
signatures belong to the interests and goals of a “physicalist” perspective,
and that it is this perspective the scientists (and Putnam) are talking
about. Indeed, most people don’t associate their words gold and tiger
with these scientific concepts. But for as long as people have encoun-
tered gold and tigers, they have always had ordinary concepts of them,
which have been perfectly adequate for most everyday interests and
goals. And these ordinary concepts are what are associated with the
words gold and tiger in people’s minds.
Here’s another sort of response to Putnam: What’s the meaning of
the word puddle? Of course there’s an ordinary way of thinking about
puddles, but is there any other way? It’s hard to imagine what a function-
alist or physicalist perspective on puddles could contribute to the ques-
1
The philosopher Wilfrid Sellars calls the ordinary understanding of the world the
“manifest image,” contrasting this to a “scientific perspective” which encompasses my cogni-
tive, neural, and physicalist perspectives. The philosopher John Searle uses the term “institu-
tional facts” for the use of money in transactions, along with other phenomena such as points
in a game and boundary markers. He contrasts these with “brute physical facts” such as the
size and color of a $10 bill.
Language,Words, and Meaning
20
tion about what constitutes a puddle—what some future science would
have to say about them, what a “puddlologist” would find worth
studying.
In the same vein, what’s the meaning of laundry? Of junk? Of buddy?
Everyone knows what they are, the same way they know what tiger
means. They probably can’t give you an airtight definition (as we’ll see
in Chapter 11). But they certainly react appropriately when someone
says “Look out for the puddle!” or “Let’s get this junk out of here”—just
as they react appropriately when someone says “Look at that gorgeous
sunset” or “Look out for the tiger!” The only difference is that, unlike
English and sunset, words like puddle, laundry, junk, and buddy don’t lend
themselves to perspectives other than the ordinary one.
On the flip side, some words don’t have an ordinary conceptualization,
and can only be understood from one technical perspective or another.
Three examples are c-command (a technical term of syntactic theory), dif-
ferentiable (a technical term of mathematics), and eruv (a Hebrew word
borrowed into English as a technical term of Judaism). These are words
for which, unlike puddle, only certain people are in the know.
It seems to me that Putnam’s argument grows out of a long-standing
philosophical tradition: real knowledge can only be attained through the
scientific method. This is why his approach to meaning might kind of
make sense for words like gold and tiger—words for things that there are
scientific theories about—but has nothing to say about words like puddle
and laundry.
Perspectives on sunsets, tigers, and puddles
21
I’m not just worrying here that Putnam’s approach to meaning only
accounts for some words but not others. I’m also concerned that it has
the curious effect of delegitimating our ordinary way of understanding
the world. On one hand, this approach may be useful and even fun,
because it “makes the familiar strange” and invites us to think in new
ways. On the other hand, some people might think it’s a way of asserting
power—the power conferred by knowledge. This sort of rhetorical
move dates back to Socrates (“I’m wiser than you, because at least
I know what I don’t know”). Here, I’d like to show more respect for
ordinary conceptualizations, because after all, they’re conceptualizations
too—ways of understanding the world that often do the job quite well,
thank you.
I want to draw three points out of this little discussion of gold and
puddles. First, we see that treating the word English in terms of multiple
perspectives isn’t a fluke—I haven’t made it up just for this one case.
Rather, this approach helps us understand what’s going on with all sorts
of words. In this respect, English isn’t so different from any other word.
Second, in the chapters coming up, I’ll be asking what meanings are.
Here we’ve learned something important about meanings: the meaning
of a word is partly dependent on the perspectives it can be embedded in.
Third, it’s important to notice when we’re operating in multiple per-
spectives, and which perspective is most useful for which purposes.
I guess this too is a perspective. We might call it the “perspectival
perspective.”
22
5
What’s a word?
Before we can tackle meaning, we have to dig a bit deeper into what a
language is. Obviously, an important part of language is words. So our
next question is: “What’s a word?”
From the ordinary perspective, words have some of the same peculi-
arities as languages. The word puddle may seem like something out in
the world that speakers use. But where is it? It’s not in puddles!1
How should we think about words, then? Does the word puddle exist
all the time, or only when somebody uses it? I think it seems to exist all
the time. Fine, but now a trickier question: What kind of thing is the
word puddle? Sometimes we talk about a word as if it’s something like a
hammer—we pull it out of the drawer whenever we need it. (“Okay, I’ll
need to use puddle in my next sentence.” “You should have used intelli-
gent instead of smart in that paragraph.”) But sometimes we talk about a
word as though it’s more like an endless supply of identical nails, and we
can use a new one each time. (“I used four puddles, including this one, in
this paragraph.”) These comparisons may seem silly, but they give us a
sense of what an odd thing a word is.
1
Even so, we may have a feeling that the word is an inherent property of the object it
names. For instance, one of my daughters, at the age of 7 or 8, asked me, “If people weren’t
around when the dinosaurs were alive, how do we know what they were called?”—as though
a stegosaurus’s name was as natural a property as its size and and its diet. (She did catch on,
though, when I told her that people made the name up.)
What’s a word?
23
People sometimes say it’s not a real word unless it’s in a dictionary (or
in “the” dictionary)—as though dictionaries have some deep or magical
authority about the “real” language out there in the world. But diction-
aries don’t come down from heaven. People write them, after observing
how other people use words in speech and writing. And, as we’ll see in
the next chapter, people writing dictionaries face a delicate juggling act
in deciding how many meanings a word has and in writing definitions
for them all—just compare different dictionaries’ treatment of the same
word (try double, doubt, and down, for example).
A new word “comes into the language” because someone makes it up
and other people use it. It gets into the dictionary because some editor
notices that people use it, and especially when it appears in print enough
times.2
It gets its “official meaning”—its dictionary definition—because
some lexicographer writes it, following policies set out by the editor. So
the authority we grant to dictionaries shouldn’t come from a sense of
their “objectivity,” it should be based on our trust in the editors’ judg-
ments. (This is only one of the problems with dictionaries. A more seri-
ous one turns up at the end of Chapter 11.)
Anyhow, the dictionary isn’t the place where words exist. As I men-
tioned in Chapter 2, there are plenty of languages that aren’t written. If
they aren’t written, they don’t have dictionaries. But their words still
exist in the same peculiar way that words of English do.
Words aren’t the only things with these odd properties. We find simi-
lar peculiar symptoms in other sorts of things that, like words, take place
in time. For instance, the song “Row, Row, Row Your Boat” exists, and
it has existed ever since someone made it up. But there is no place that it
2
In June 2009, the press made a small fuss over the addition of the “millionth word of
English,” which, according to an organization called the Global Language Monitor, was Web
2.0. Their rather arbitrary criterion for inclusion was 25,000 appearances on the internet. And
then, various bloggers got upset that the millionth word was so prosaic. What was all that
about? Exactly how do you count the words of English anyway? One difficulty, as we’ll see in
the next chapter, is that it’s not always clear when we have two (or six) different words rather
than two (or six) uses of the same word.
Language,Words, and Meaning
24
exists. Where is it when no one happens to be singing it? Is it out there in
“music space” to be pulled out whenever someone wants to sing it? Or
is it an endless supply of copies somewhere out there, and one copy gets
used up every time someone sings it? Neither choice makes a lot of
sense.
Days and months like Tuesday and Valentine’s Day and September
are something like this too. Sometimes we say, “Tuesday’s here again,”
as though it’s the very same day that’s gone away and come back. And
sometimes we say, “Aargh, another Tuesday!” as though there’s an
endless supply of Tuesdays somewhere (in the future?), and right now
another one is with us until it’s over. Neither way of thinking about
Tuesday seems to be the “right” way.3
So let’s go back to words, and see what the cognitive perspective has
to say. Here, words are part of the system in people’s heads that they use
to build messages. Even when you’re not uttering puddle or listening to
someone say it, it’s still there in your memory. In order for people to
understand each other, they have to have a substantial shared stock of
words in their heads. Let’s call each person’s stock of words their own
personal “mental dictionary.” If you use a word that’s not familiar to
me—that’s not part of my mental dictionary—I may be baffled, and
I may have to guess what message you have in mind. Of course, this is
also what kids learning language have to do all the time (and what we
often have to do when little kids are talking to us).
3
George Lakoff and others in cognitive linguistics propose that our conceptualization of
time is metaphorical, and that it’s modeled on our understanding of space. Some of the basic
evidence for this claim is that in many languages, most prepositions for time are also preposi-
tions for space: at 10:00, on Tuesday, before breakfast, after the concert, in five minutes, and so on.
(On the other hand, English also has during, until, and since, which can only be used for time,
not for space; and it also has to the left of, behind, and beneath, which can only be used for space,
not time.) We’ve just seen that the way we think about temporal entities such as words,
songs, and Tuesdays doesn’t fit the mold of spatial entities like screwdrivers and nails very
well. So although there are definite parallels, our understanding of entities that take up time
can’t be entirely modeled on or derived metaphorically from our understanding of entities
that take up space.
What’s a word?
25
From the cognitive perspective, then, the notion of, say, “the word
tomato” is a lot like “the English language.” It’s an abstraction or ideali-
zation of something stored in the heads of the members of a speech
community, as part of their mental dictionaries, and they can use it as
part of their communication with each other. What each speaker stores
may or may not be exactly the same as what the others store—you say
tomayto and I say tomahto—but it’s usually safe to assume it is. A word
“stays in the language” over time if new speakers keep learning it and
using it. It becomes “obsolete” when no one uses it anymore and all the
people who used to use it die off (though it still may be recorded in
dictionaries).
I want to compare this approach with a physicalist perspective, in
which a word is basically just a sound. This perspective makes it hard
to characterize words at all. For one thing, it can’t tell us how people
use words to convey meanings. But even at the level of sound there
are problems. When you say tomato and I say tomato (even if we both
say tomayto, not tomahto), our voices are acoustically different, so we
make different sound waves. I myself make different sound waves
when I whisper tomato and when I scream tomato. And when I say you
say tomato, there’s no separation in the sound between you and say, or
between say and tomato, even though we understand the words as
separate.
The late Alvin Liberman, one of the founders of modern acoustic pho-
netics, used to talk about the early attempts to get computers to under-
stand speech, back in the late 1940s. He and his colleagues thought you
could just segment the acoustic signal into speech sounds, say “p,” “ah,”
and “t,” and you’d put them together and get pot (as pronounced by a
speaker of “standard” American English). It turned out that this didn’t
work at all, and Liberman devoted his career to finding out why. He and
his colleagues found that the acoustic correlate of each speech sound
depends not only on the speaker’s voice, but also on the acoustics of the
speech sounds around it. For instance, the sound “ah” is acoustically dif-
ferent in pot, top, mob, and so on—even though it sounds the same to us.
Language,Words, and Meaning
26
In addition, speakers tend to “swallow up” a lot of acoustic detail, and
they unconsciously rely on hearers to make sense of the message any-
way. For an extreme example, you can (sort of) understand someone
talking with their mouth full, despite the mangled acoustics. On the
other hand, if you only have acoustics to go on—say if you’re trying to
take dictation in a language you don’t know—it’s pretty much impossi-
ble to tell what sounds you’re hearing, much less tell where one word
ends and the next begins.
It turns out that you identify what words you’re hearing partly by
finding the best match between the sound and the words you already
know, and partly by guessing what the speaker might be talking about—
all completely unconsciously. In other words, your understanding of
speech relies heavily on identifying not just the acoustics but also the
meaning. Although we know how to get computers to deal with acous-
tics pretty well by now, meaning is still elusive. This is one reason that
after sixty years of research on computer understanding of spoken lan-
guage, there’s still quite a way to go.
The acoustic problems only get worse when we add accents to the
mix. If you speak “standard” American English, you pronounce the “r”
in park. If you’re from Boston, you may say “pahk”; if you’re from New
York you may say “pawk.” Yet they all count as the word park, because
the systems they belong to differ consistently in the same way (“heart”
vs. “haht” vs. “hawt”, “guard” vs. “gahd” vs. “gawd” and so on). That’s
not all: in the context of different systems, the very same sound may
count as a different word. We understand “gahd” spoken by a midwest-
erner to be god; spoken by a Bostonian, guard; by a Texan, guide. As long
as we can “tune into” the accent, we can interpret it in terms of our own
accent. So what counts as the same word depends on what system (or
version of the system) it’s in, in this case the accent it’s spoken with. The
word gets its identity partly from its place in the system—what other
words it contrasts with, what other words it rhymes with, and so on. At
the same time, the system is only a system because of the parts that
make it up, including the words. Is this circular? Yes.
What’s a word?
27
But it’s not a vicious circularity. Notice that something similar is going
on with Tuesday. What makes a particular day Tuesday? Only that it fol-
lows Monday, precedes Wednesday, and is seven days after the last
Tuesday. If there weren’t people naming days, there wouldn’t be Tues-
days (right?). But as long as we’re all operating inside the same system,
we understand each other fine.
You might say Tuesday is a “convention.” But like putting our direct
objects after our verbs, we don’t normally have a choice whether to
adopt it or not. One part of this convention is when Tuesday starts. We
normally take it for granted that it begins at midnight (which in turn
depends on conventions like clock time and time zones). But in the tra-
ditional Jewish reckoning of time, the new day begins at sunset (which is
why Genesis says “And the evening and the morning were the first day”).
This way works just as well, at least for religious purposes.
The point of all this is that a physicalist perspective doesn’t give us a
useful way to talk about words. What does it take to identify two sounds
as the same word? We have to abstract away from each individual speak-
er’s voice quality, their tone of voice on any particular occasion, and
their accent. And to abstract away from their accent, we need a notion
of the sound system in which it’s embedded. None of this makes sense
purely in terms of acoustics. It only makes sense in terms of the systems
in people’s heads, as described from the cognitive perspective.
28
6
What counts as the same word?
A whole other set of issues about words comes up when we try to take
into account what they mean. These issues are stock in trade for linguists
like me, and I’d like to give you a feel for how tricky they can be.
Let’s start with an easy case. Do these two sentences have the same
last word?
She went down to the river and stood on the bank.
She went to town to take some money out of the bank.
If we’re playing Scrabble, only the spelling makes a difference, so the
answer doesn’t matter. But if we care about what the word means, there
are two ways to describe the situation. One way is to say that the same
word bank has two meanings. The other is to say there are two words
with different meanings that happen to be pronounced and spelled the
same. Compared to the cases we’ll look at next, the second way turns out
to make more sense, so I’ll say there are two different words pronounced
bank. The technical term is that the two banks are “homonyms.”
What about these four sentences? Is the last word the same?
The ice will melt.
Every spring the ice melts.
The ice is melting.
The ice has melted.
In Scrabble, these count as different words. But traditional grammars—
and psycholinguistic experiments—tell us that in some sense they’re the
What counts as the same word?
29
Moving right along, a smoke (#5) is something you smoke (#3), like
a cigarette. It’s definitely not something that you smoke (#4), like a
salmon. Finally, smoking someone out (#6) is making them come out
from a closed place such as a house or cave, by forcing smoke (#1) into
the place—or metaphorically, making them reveal themselves. Looking
at this list as a whole, we could put it in either of two ways: we could say
same word, but in different grammatical forms (infinitive, third person sin-
gular present tense, present participle, and past participle).
How about the word smoke in these six sentences?
(1) The fire gave off a lot of smoke.
(2) The fire smoked a lot.
(3) Bill smoked the cigar.
(4) Bill smoked the fish.
(5) Do you have a smoke?
(6) Let’s smoke him out.
At first this may look like the same situation as the two banks. But this
time the six uses are related in meaning. When a fire smokes (#2), it
gives off smoke (#1). When you smoke a cigar (#3), you make it smoke
(#2), by holding the end of the smoking object in your mouth, sucking
the smoke in, and puffing it out. Smoking a fish or a ham (#4) is quite
different: you don’t make it give off smoke (#1) by puffing on it, you
make smoke go into it, by putting it in an enclosure with a fire.
Language,Words, and Meaning
30
that these are six different but related words, or that they’re different
senses of the same word. The technical term for this situation is that
smoke is “polysemous,” as though it’s the same word with six related
senses. (Some people would rather say it’s two words—a noun and a
verb—each of which is polysemous.)1
Going a little further afield, think about the word smoker, which has
the suffix –er tacked onto smoke. It can be used for someone who habitu-
ally smokes (#3), or for a device in which you smoke things (#4). These
two uses are distant cousins, related to each other only because they
both have something to do with smoke (#1). Smoker also used to have a
third use, now pretty much obsolete: a railroad car in which people were
allowed to smoke (#3). What we see overall for smoke and smoker, then,
is a network of nine related words, some pronounced exactly the same,
and some pronounced in related ways. And of course, we could extend
this network further by adding words such as smoky and smoked.
None of these issues arise in the way people ordinarily think of what
counts as a word. Still, it’s strange to say that people don’t know what
words really are. I’d rather say there are different perspectives on words,
suitable for different purposes. For the purpose of spelling bees or count-
ing the words in a written document, the ordinary perspective works
pretty well. But for the purpose of looking into the relation of language
to thought and meaning, we need to be aware of the distinctions we’ve
just explored:
1
I actually don’t care for this terminology, for the following reason. English has some
polysemous words in which one meaning denotes an object or substance, and the other
denotes the process of removing that object or substance. For instance, to dust the house is to
remove dust from it; to scale a fish is to remove its scales. But, there are other cases where the
same meaning relation is conveyed by a different word with a related form: one de-claws a
lobster and beheads a person. Treating polysemy as something special obscures (or at least de-
emphasizes) the fact that all four of these pairs exhibit the same meaning relation. So I’d prefer
to think of cases like smoke, dust, and scale as separate words with related meanings and identi-
cal pronunciation. In this way they differ minimally from pairs of words with related mean-
ings that differ in form only by a prefix or suffix. I don’t think it makes any difference for what
we’re doing here, though.
What counts as the same word?
31
Homonyms—two words that sound the same but aren’t related at
•
all in meaning (bank, bank)
Different forms of the same word (
• melt, melting)
Polysemous words, which have two or more related meanings
•
(smoke #1, smoke #2, etc.)
Words that are related in sound and related in meaning (
• smoke, smoker)
These distinctions make a difference in dictionaries. Homonyms typi-
cally get two separate entries. Different forms of the same word aren’t
even mentioned, unless they’re irregular (such as think and thought).
Polysemous words often have separate subentries under a single word.
Words related in sound and meaning may appear as subentries, or one
may be used in the definition of the other (for instance: “Smoker: a per-
son who smokes”).
Turning to the cognitive perspective, what about in people’s mental
dictionaries? I think it’s safe to say that the people who write dictionaries
classify words the way they do because it corresponds to their sense of
how closely different words and meanings are related in people’s heads.
And linguists and psycholinguists spend a lot of effort trying to further
clarify the character of relations among words. We’ve only scratched the
surface here. For instance, there’s a substantial literature on the many
senses of the word over. Is it the same word over in somewhere over the
rainbow and he turned the pancake over? Or are they homonyms? How
about the over in overeat and overthrow the government?
People sometimes have a preconception that if it’s spelled the same, it
must be the same word. For bank and smoke, it’s easy enough to see that
this isn’t so, and it’s no big deal. I’m going through these complications
because they’ll serve as a baseline when the same symptoms turn up
with words with more philosophical weight, such as meaning, conscious-
ness, and true. If smoke is this complicated, why should we expect meaning
to be simple?
32
7
Some uses of mean and meaning
It’s time to start thinking about what meaning is. But wait! Are we
thinking about Real Meaning in some profound sense? Or just the
word meaning? Well, we’ll have to think about both. I’d like to proceed
first the way we did with language, word, and smoke in the previous chap-
ters, looking at how the word is used in the ordinary perspective. We’ll
then turn to the cognitive perspective in Chapter 9.
If we want to find out what meaning is, what should we be looking at,
and what should we be looking for? In his Philosophical Investigations,
the prominent early 20th-century philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein
famously said, “Don’t look to the meaning, look to the use.” People
often take him to be saying we should just look at the use of language
and then stop, because there is no such thing as meaning, aside from the
use of linguistic expressions in context. I take home a different message.
I think he’s saying we shouldn’t be trapped by our prejudices about what
the meaning of a word ought to be, based on a few well-worn traditional
examples. We should be gathering evidence, searching out all the word’s
uses—not just for their own sake, but in an effort to see the larger pat-
terns. “One cannot guess how a word functions. One has to look at its
use and learn from that.” In other words, be a linguist.
(There is some justice in the standard interpretation of Wittgenstein,
though. Like many philosophers of his time, he believed that a scientific
account of language could not rely on such unobservable entities as minds.
So for him, explanation from a cognitive perspective was unthinkable.)
Some uses of mean and meaning
33
The Investigations are full of creative and playful examination of data.
But Wittgenstein didn’t give us any analytical techniques for going beyond
the data. In fact, he painfully rejects his own earlier formal techniques, and
says “We must do away with all explanation, and description alone must
take its place.” Personally, I think this amounts to giving up. How can you
arrive at understanding without trying to explain things? The past half cen-
tury of linguistics and cognitive science has developed some tools that can
help out a bit. So here we go with some more linguistics, looking at the
uses of mean and meaning. You might want to fasten your seat belt.
Let’s start with the basic grammatical frame X means Y. In this frame,
the word means is sort of like smoke—it has a number of related senses. In
one family of senses, the object of the sentence (Y) is used to explain or
interpret the subject of the sentence (X), which the speaker presumes
the hearer is less familiar with.
Interpretation uses of X means Y
(The German word) Rauch means smoke. (Translation)
Slithy means lithe and slimy. (Definition)
(Humpty Dumpty in Through the Looking Glass)
Osculating means doing this. (Demonstration)
A red light means you should stop. (Explanation of symbols)
Because the subject of the sentence is supposed to be less familiar than
the object, we can’t reverse these sentences and put the more familiar
item first. (‘*’ is linguists’ notation for recording that a sentence sounds
odd. ‘?’ and ‘??,’ which I use below, mean the sentence doesn’t sound
absolutely terrible, but it doesn’t sound great, either.)
*Smoke means Rauch.1
*Lithe and slimy means slithy.
*Doing this means osculating.
*That you should stop means a red light.
1
Well, we might say this sentence if we’re speaking English to a German speaker who
doesn’t happen to know this particular English word. But then, as in the other cases, the
subject of the sentence is unfamiliar and the object is familiar.
Language,Words, and Meaning
34
2
This reversible relation of cause and effect is not unique to the word mean. It also shows
up with the words reason and why. For instance, in these two sentences, the situation in the
first clause is a result of the situation in the second clause.
The reason that leaves are green is that (or because) they have chlorophyll.
Why are leaves green? Because they have chlorophyll.
But in the next two sentences, the situation in the second clause is a result of the situation in
the first.
The reason that leaves have chlorophyll is to be able to metabolize carbon dioxide.
Why do leaves have chlorophyll? So they can metabolize carbon dioxide.
In some cases, the difference is marked by the grammatical form of the second clause: a tensed
clause denotes a cause, and an infinitival (to be able) or modal (can) clause denotes a result. If we
exchange the tense in the first and third examples above, the sentences say something odd:
??The reason that leaves are green is to have chlorophyll.
??The reason that leaves have chlorophyll is that they’re able to metabolize carbon
dioxide.
When we speak of the meaning of a word, phrase, or sentence, we’re
usually talking about definition or translation. A dictionary of English
gives the meanings of English words in the definition sense. A German–
English dictionary gives the meanings of German words in the transla-
tion sense.
A different use of X means Y expresses a linkage of some sort between
the subject of means and the object:
Linkage uses of X means Y
Smoke means fire.
A sharp pain in your left side may mean appendicitis.
It doesn’t mean you’re top dog just because your ass is bleeding.
(Norman Mailer, quoted in Newsweek, 4 September 1989)
This means war!
Smoke is a result of fire, and therefore is evidence that there may be a fire.
Likewise, pain is a result of appendicitis, and therefore is evidence that you
may have appendicitis. Similarly, Mailer is saying that bleeding is not evi-
dence that you’re top dog. But in the last example, the relation is reversed:
this (whatever it is) isn’t the result of war, but rather the reason or cause or
motivation for it.2
Some uses of mean and meaning
35
Is it the same word mean in all these uses? Or are some of them just
related senses, like the six smokes, or even homonyms, like the two banks?
To get some perspective, here are three uses of mean that are obvious
homonyms:
What does he mean to do next? [= ‘intend’]
That’s one mean and ugly dog. [= ‘nasty’]
The mean temperature in Lower Slobbovia is minus 6. [= ‘average’]
In comparison to these last three uses, all of the interpretation uses and
the linkage use seem pretty close.
But they’re not quite all the same either. One way to see this is by
looking at two other grammatical frames. In some of the uses, the new
grammatical frames say the same thing as our original frame. But in
other uses, the new frames simply sound odd.
Frame A: The meaning of X is Y
The meaning of Rauch is smoke.
[=Rauch means smoke] (Translation)
The meaning of slithy is lithe and slimy
[=Slithy means lithe and slimy] (Definition)
?The meaning of osculate is doing this. (Demonstration)3
?The meaning of a red light is that you
should stop. (Explanation of symbols)
*The meaning of smoke is fire. (Linkage)
Frame B: X has the same meaning as Y
(The German word) Rauch has the same
meaning as (the English word) smoke. (Translation)
Slithy has the same meaning as lithe and slimy. (Definition)
*Osculate has the same meaning as doing this. (Demonstration)
*A red light has the same meaning as that
you should stop. (Explanation of symbols)
*Smoke has the same meaning as fire. (Linkage)
So these frames appear to divide the five uses into three groups: the
translation and definition uses, which sound fine in Frames A and B; the
3
Some speakers think this example and the next sound fine, but others don’t.
Language,Words, and Meaning
36
demonstration and symbol explanation uses, which sound so-so in Frame
A and pretty bad in Frame B; and the linkage use, which sounds really
bad in both frames.
But we’re not done. Another use of mean appears in the grammatical
frame X means Y for Z. Here, Y describes how some situation X affects Z.
I’ll call this the “impact” use. In these examples, I’ve underlined the
affected character.
Impact use: X means Y for Z
What the stock market decline means for us is that we can’t retire soon.
What do the latest insights of brain imaging mean for music theory?
Another use might be called “emotional impact.” This one talks about
how much something means, and we can use the adjective meaningful.
Emotional impact use: X means a lot/a little to Z;
X is meaningful to Z
Your thank-you note meant a great deal to my wife.
The situation in Rwanda means very little to most Americans.
Graduating from Tufts was very meaningful to Karen.
If we try to force the interpretation and linkage uses into the grammati-
cal frame for the emotional impact use, we get nonsensical sentences.
This shows how different the emotional impact use is from the others.
*Rauch means smoke very much to Sam.
*A red light means that you should stop a great deal to Igor.
*Smoke is very meaningful to fire.
Just to be as complete as I can: What’s the sense of mean in what it
means to be human or what it means to be an American Jew? I think this is a
combination of the linkage sense—one is looking for all the conse-
quences of being human—and the impact sense—how being human
matters for one’s existence. This sense also appears in another gram-
matical frame: To be human means to suffer.
And where does the expression the meaning of life fit in? The best para-
phrases I can come up with are ‘what life is for,’ ‘the purpose of life,’ or
Some uses of mean and meaning
37
4
The logicians Jon Barwise and John Perry based a whole theory, Situation Semantics, on
the hypothesis that the explanation use of mean (Slithy means lithe and slimy) can be understood
in terms of the the linkage use (Smoke means fire). From the analysis here, we can see that this
is like trying to understand how to smoke a cigar in terms of how you smoke a herring.
possibly ‘the deep value of life.’ The last of these is sort of like the emo-
tional impact use in Your thank-you note meant a lot to my wife.
Then there’s the use found on bottled water: Poland Spring: What it
means to be from Maine. (I didn’t make this up!) I can’t make any sense of
this at all, beyond general atmospherics of profundity. I think you’re sup-
posed to take from it that Poland Spring exhibits all the quintessential
good qualities that one associates with Maine, but I’m not sure how it
says this.
You may be finding this analysis of mean and meaning outrageously
baroque. “Surely there has to be a simpler explanation—after all, it’s
only one word.” This attitude is just the sort of preconception that Witt-
genstein is ranting about.4
If it’s any consolation, I want to assure you
that mean is quite ordinary. Practically any random word gets us into the
same sort of difficulty. We’ve already seen some of the complexity of
language, word, and smoke. We’ll see more of this sort of thing as we go
along.
38
8
“Objective” and “subjective”
meaning
We’re not quite done with mean. In addition to all its uses in the last
chapter, it’s also used to describe a character’s subjective take on a situa-
tion. I’ll call this character the “interpreter.”
This further use has two subcases. Here’s the first one, in a variety of
grammatical frames. (I’ve underlined the interpreter in each example.)
Subjective interpretation of a word, phrase, or sentence
In Bill’s opinion, “All trespassers will be shot” means anyone but him
[...will be shot].
In the Investigations, language game means any use of language in a
context.
Language means something different to linguists than it does to
computer scientists or philosophers.
“No” may mean “yes” to you, but it means “no” to me!
When I say “no,” I MEAN “no”!
By reference, David Lewis means reference in all possible worlds.
By “look to the use,” Wittgenstein means that we shouldn’t be
trapped by our preconceptions.
I meant by impenetrability that we’ve had enough of that subject,
and it would be just as well if you’d mention what you mean to
do next, as I suppose you don’t mean to stop here all the rest of
your life.
(Humpty Dumpty again; notice that he also uses mean to mean ‘intend’)
“Objective” and “subjective” meaning
39
Like the interpretation use of mean in the last chapter (such as “Rauch
means smoke”), this use provides an interpretation or explanation of
some word or phrase. But, unlike the use in the last chapter, it points out
that this interpretation is just the way the interpreter understands this
phrase. The person uttering the sentence may not agree that this is the
right interpretation, and may be implying that not everyone understands
the phrase the same way. So we might call this a “subjective” use of
mean—it describes the interpreter’s point of view.
By contrast, the interpretation use of mean in the last chapter presents
the interpretation of a phrase as a fact: it’s a fact that Rauch means
‘smoke,’ and anyone who doesn’t think so is just wrong. So I’ll call this
the “objective” interpretation sense.
The second new use of mean also describes someone’s understanding,
this time their understanding of a linkage between situations.
Subjective linkage between two situations
In some people’s minds, the president’s behavior means that he’s
losing his grip.
To me, the look on Bill’s face means that we’d better get out of here
fast.
Again, this differs from the linkage use we discussed in the last chapter.
It adds that this linkage is someone’s interpretation of the relation
between the two situations. And again, our original linkage sense
presents the linkage as simply a fact: smoke simply means fire. So I’ll call
this previous use the “objective” linkage sense.
I’m putting “objective” in scare quotes because, of course, the speaker
is only expressing his or her own take on the situation. We, the hearers,
might well disagree. The sentence presents the interpretation as a fact,
but saying it’s a fact doesn’t make it so.
This duality of “objective” and “subjective” uses is actually pretty
common among words of English. (By now, you might have guessed
I was going to say that!) Think about these examples, which involve a
number of different grammatical frames.
Language,Words, and Meaning
40
Tom adores Olive.
Tom enjoys playing checkers.
(also detests, hates, loathes, and many others)
Syntax is fascinating to Noam.
Syntax fascinates Noam.
Noam is fascinated with syntax.
(also terrifying/terrifies/terrified of, surprising/surprises/surprised at,
disgusting/disgusts/disgusted with, exciting/excites/excited about,
and many others)
These convey the attitude of some person (here, Tom or Noam) toward
some thing or activity. The person uttering the sentence doesn’t neces-
sarily hold the same attitude, and may be implying that other people see
things differently. So these examples parallel the “subjective” uses of
mean.
But the same or related words can also be used to convey an evalua-
tion pure and simple:
Olive is adorable.
Playing checkers is enjoyable.
Syntax is fascinating.
(also detestable, hateful, loathsome, terrifying, surprising, disgusting,
exciting, and many others)
Here the speaker is conveying a “fact” about Olive, playing checkers,
and syntax. Again, I put “fact” in scare quotes, because the person hear-
ing the sentence might well disagree, and think the speaker is wrong
about Olive, playing checkers, or syntax. So these examples are like the
“objective” uses of mean.
This distinction between “subjective” and “objective” is interesting in
itself. I bring it up, though, because it will also loom large in Part Three,
when we discuss what truth (or Truth) might be.
41
9
What do meanings have to be
able to do?
So far we’ve been talking about the words mean and meaning. Now it’s
time to ask what Real Meaning could be like, if there is such a thing.
Over the next few chapters, I want to show you that it can’t just be a
matter of working up a better dictionary with better definitions.
Let’s start with a puzzling question raised by Wittgenstein. What
does the word this mean?—not when we’re pointing at anything, just
the plain word this on its own. None of the uses of mean we talked
about in Chapter 7 do the trick. We can’t define this in terms of some-
thing more familiar, as when we say “Slithy means ‘lithe and slimy.’”
And we can’t demonstrate it, as when we say “Osculating means doing
this [demonstrating].” So we don’t know how to answer. We certainly
don’t want to say the word this is meaningless, that it’s a nonsense syl-
lable like bliff and thit. It isn’t a nonsense syllable, and of course it’s
meaningful.
In what sense is it meaningful, though? We say that jobs and love
affairs can be meaningful or meaningless—in the sense of having emo-
tional impact. But the meaningfulness of this doesn’t have anything to
do with its emotional impact. What does it have to do with?
Here are some sentences that raise a similar puzzle.
“The bear was chased by the lion” means the same thing as “The lion
chased the bear.”
Language,Words, and Meaning
42
“It appears that the war is lost” means the same thing as “The war
appears to be lost.”
And I just can’t resist this example:
“X and Y mean the same thing” means the same thing as “X means
the same thing as Y.”
Here we’re talking not about the meanings of words, but about the
meanings of sentences. What is this thing that these pairs of sentences
both mean? What’s the same about them?
It’s not just that they have the same words in them. After all, these
next two sentences have the same words, but they don’t mean the same
thing:
The lion chased the bear.
The bear chased the lion.
And these next two sentences have the same words, but the second one
doesn’t mean anything at all (in English, anyway).
It appears that the war is lost.
*The it appears war lost is that.
There’s something about how the words are put together that plays a
role in what sentences mean.
I think we sense something deeper, something hidden behind the
words and sequences of words. It’s not just a definition in terms of other
words. When we say the word this is meaningful, we’re saying that,
unlike thit, it has a meaning—whatever a meaning might be. But here’s
where the trouble begins. What could this hidden, deeper something
be?
Plato thought the meaning of a word like dog is a sort of timeless
essence of “dogginess,” something we can never experience directly. But
he didn’t talk about the meanings of sentences, and he also didn’t talk
about the meaning of the word this (or its Greek equivalent)—what
could the essence of “thisness” be like? Other philosophical approaches
What do meanings have to be able to do?
43
have tried to explicate word and sentence meanings in terms of kinds
(the meaning of dog is the natural kind ‘dog’), sets (the meaning of dog is
the set of all dogs), and sets in all possible worlds (the meaning of dog
is the set of all dogs in all possible worlds). And some approaches in lin-
guistics have tried to identify word and sentence meanings in terms of
abstract Deep Structures or Logical Forms. As different as these
approaches to meaning are, they agree on one thing: we have no direct
perceptual access to meanings—they are indeed hidden from us.
I’d like to work gradually toward describing what meanings are by
asking: Whatever meanings of words and sentences might be, what do
they have to do? What are the design specs for meanings? Here are six
properties we have to keep in mind.
1. Meanings are linked to pronunciations
The first thing a meaning has to do is to be linked to a spoken (and/or
written) form of the language. The form this has a meaning attached to
it, while the form thit doesn’t. What makes a word a word is that it is a
pairing between a pronounceable piece of sound—a “phonetic” or
“phonological structure”—and a meaning.
Let’s call something a “phonological word” if it has a pronunciation—
whether or not it’s paired with a meaning. If a phonological word is
paired with a meaning, we’ll call it a “meaningful word.” The 19th- and
early 20th-century linguist Ferdinand de Saussure called such a pairing a
“sign.” For instance, thit and bliff are simply phonological words—
pronunciations that aren’t linked to meanings. This is a meaningful word
(or a sign). And thqs is just a string of letters that doesn’t even spell a
phonological word.
In the Cratylus, one of the crazier of Plato’s dialogues, Socrates discov-
ers with great delight that word after word he thinks about has a pronun-
ciation that perfectly suits its meaning. When he comes across a word
whose pronunciation doesn’t match its meaning (by whatever weird cri-
teria he’s invented), he guesses that at one time it used to match, but that
Language,Words, and Meaning
44
sound changes over history have degraded the pronunciation from its
original “perfect” form. De Saussure knew better. One of his lasting
contributions is the notion of the “arbitrariness of the sign”: the sound
‘dog’ bears no relation at all to what dogs are like. This is of course why
words for the same thing, like smoke and Rauch, can be so different from
language to language.
(Well, usually there’s no relation between the sounds of words and
what they mean. Some very small number of words, especially words for
noises like meow, whoosh, and hiccup, are onomatopoeic—that is, to some
degree they imitate the sounds they name. But only to some degree. For
instance, in French dogs go gnaf-gnaf, not bow-wow. Words like mama and
papa and dada are widespread in the languages of the world, but not
because they sound like mothers and fathers. Rather, these are among the
first sounds babies make, so mothers and fathers narcissistically think
they themselves are what the babies are talking about.)
Some of the signs of signed languages do resemble what they refer to.
But only to some degree. If someone tells you what the sign means, you
can sometimes see the resemblance. If you just see the sign alone,
though, you’d be hard put to guess what it’s meant to resemble.
Where is the pairing between pronunciations and meanings located?
In the ordinary view of language, where language is “out in the world,”
meanings are there too. The late 19th-century logician Gottlob Frege
insisted on this perspective, and most modern Anglo-American philoso-
phers of language have followed suit. I won’t. From the cognitive perspec-
tive, if speakers are going to be able to use words and sentences, they have
to have them in their heads. So meanings—as well as the links between
pronunciations and meanings—have to be in the heads of speakers too.
Thinking in terms of paired pronunciations and meanings helps
make our analysis of smoke in Chapter 6 clearer. The word smoke in
smoke a cigar and the word smoke in smoke a ham have the same
pronunciation, but it’s attached to two different meanings. One com-
ponent of each of these meanings is the meaning of the word smoke in
cigar smoke. That’s why the three words are related.
What do meanings have to be able to do?
45
2. Meanings of sentences are built from the meanings
of their parts
It seems obvious that the meaning of a sentence has something to do
with the meanings of the words in it. The sentence The lion chased the
bear involves a lion, a bear, and some chasing. But the meaning of the
sentence is more than just the sum of the meanings of the words. After
all, The bear chased the lion has the same words in it, but it doesn’t mean
the same thing. Here’s why. Chasing is an action involving two charac-
ters with different roles: a chaser and someone being chased. The two
sentences differ in which role is being played by the lion and which by
the bear. The grammatical structure of the sentence tells us which is
which: the subject of the sentence names the chaser, and the direct object
names the character being chased.
Let’s make the example just a little more elaborate: The fat lion chased
the sleepy bear. Who’s fat and who’s sleepy? It depends where the words
are: The fat sleepy lion chased the bear, The sleepy lion chased the fat bear, and
so on. Again the difference comes from the grammatical structure: if an
adjective precedes a noun (in English), the property named by the adjec-
tive belongs to the character named by the noun.
A passive sentence like The bear was chased by the lion contains a little
grammatical marker was, followed by the verb in its past participle form.
These tell us to reverse which character plays which role. So the bear
ends up the character being chased, and the lion is the chaser. The result
is that this sentence ends up attached to the same meaning as The lion
chased the bear (or to something pretty close).
For a different case, the nonsensical string of words The it appears war
lost is that has a pronunciation, but no grammatical structure at all. As a
result, although its individual words can be paired with meanings, the
pieces of meaning can’t be combined, and so the string as a whole can’t
be paired with a meaning—it’s not a meaningful sentence.
Examples like this lead to a general idea that has been called
“compositionality” and is attributed to Frege:
Language,Words, and Meaning
46
“Fregean compositionality”: The meaning of a compound expres-
sion (a phrase or sentence) is a function of the meanings of its parts
and of the grammatical rules by which they are combined.
Traditionally, Fregean compositionality has been taken to imply that
the meaning of a phrase or sentence is made up entirely of the meanings
of its words, pasted together according to instructions given by the gram-
matical structure. The meanings of fat and lion are pasted together to
form the meaning of fat lion, so a fat lion is something that’s both fat and
a lion. The meanings of chase and the bear are pasted together to form the
meaning of chase the bear, so something is a chasing of the bear in case it
is an act of chasing and the character being chased is the bear. And so on.
But in reality it’s not that simple.1
In Chapter 12 we’ll see some ways this
traditional view has to be amplified in order to accommodate the won-
derful richness of linguistic expression.
1
For one thing, the words aren’t the only “parts” that are combined into phrase and sen-
tence meanings. There are other possibilities, for instance:
I
• DIOMS such as kick the bucket and cut and dried are made up of ordinary words, but their
meaningsaren’tmadeupfromthemeaningsoftheirparts,exceptperhapsmetaphorically.
You have to learn these phrases as entire units.
C
• OMPOUNDS such as snowman and hot dog function as meaningful units. Sometimes the
words that make up a compound contribute to its meaning, as in snowman, and
sometimes they don’t—a hot dog isn’t a kind of canine, and a honeymoon doesn’t have
anything directly to do with honey and the moon. In some compounds such as cranberry,
one of the parts (here, cran) is only a phonological word, not a meaningful word. And
even when the words do contribute to the meaning of a compound, they don’t always
tell you the whole meaning. A garbage man isn’t a man made of garbage, and a snowman
isn’t a man who takes away the snow.
In idioms and compounds, a unit whose meaning combines with the rest of the sentence
•
is larger than a single word. But there are also meaningful units that are smaller than
words, for instance the underlined parts of these phrases:
a ketchupless hot dog [= ‘a hot dog without ketchup’]
an ex-copilot [= ‘a former copilot’]
an unzippable jacket [=‘a jacket that cannot be zipped’]
These prefixes and suffixes can be paraphrased by words, and so we can see that they’re
linked to their own independent meanings. The meaning of a prefix or suffix combines
with the meaning of the word it’s attached to, in much the same way as word meanings
are combined into phrases.
What do meanings have to be able to do?
47
3. Translations should preserve meaning
The third thing we want from meanings is that translations of words
and sentences into a different language should preserve meaning—
that’s what a translation is. English smoke and German Rauch are pho-
nological words from different languages that are linked to the same
meaning. If you’re translating a story from Yiddish into Japanese, you’re
creating a sequence of phonological words in Japanese that’s linked to
the same meaning as the Yiddish sequence. (This doesn’t necessarily
mean that every word of Yiddish has a direct Japanese translation. Some-
times it might take a whole phrase of Japanese to translate a single word
of Yiddish.)
Someone in the audience always objects that you can’t fully translate
between languages. Well, sure, it’s often hard to convey all the delicate
nuances of something you’re translating, especially if it’s literature or
poetry. But for lots of practical purposes, even important ones like
diplomacy, we take it for granted that translation works pretty well at
preserving meaning. And that degree of approximation is enough to
make my point. (In Chapter 14 we’ll talk about some of the potential
barriers to more accurate translation.)
4. Meanings have to connect language to the world:
the referential function
The fourth thing we want meanings to do is connect language to the
world. Suppose I point at something and ask you, “Is this a dagger which
I see before me?” In order to answer me, you have to pick out the object
I have in mind and see whether it satisfies the meaning of dagger. More
subtly, the word this signals you to pick out something that I’m pointing
to. (Aha! That’s roughly what this means, at least in this context.) This is
the referential function of meanings.
If meanings are in the head, how can they connect to the world? I’ll
deal with this question in Parts Two and Three.
Language,Words, and Meaning
48
5. Meanings have to connect with each other:
the inferential function
The fifth thing we want meanings to do is serve as a vehicle for reason-
ing (or inference). If I say Amy is hungry and Tom is cooking, you can infer
that Amy is hungry. This follows from the standard logical axiom
P & Q Æ P. For a less trivial example, one that doesn’t follow auto-
matically from standard logical axioms, suppose I tell you:
Amy convinced Tom to go to New York for the weekend.
Then you ought to be able to infer that:
Originally, Tom didn’t plan to go to New York for the weekend. Now
he does.
This is the inferential function of meanings: from one sentence, another
follows.
A long tradition in philosophy attempts to mechanize the process of
inference and make it explicit, starting with Aristotle’s treatment of syl-
logisms, and running through Leibniz, Frege, and Russell to contempo-
rary formal logic, with offshoots into artificial intelligence and heuristic
reasoning (reasoning in terms of best guesses). This tradition has also led
to theories of computation, giving rise eventually to the invention of
digital computers, artificial intelligence, and (thanks to Noam Chomsky)
formal theories of language.
The cognitive perspective demands an explicit account of inference
too. It’s different from the logicians’ approach, though, because it’s inter-
ested not just in formal systems of inference but in how people make
inferences—how inference takes place in the head.
No matter which perspective we take, inference can’t be derived
from the phonological words. In the example above, for instance, the
pronunciation of didn’t plan has nothing to do with the pronunciation
of convince. Rather, the connection has to do with something about
their meanings.
What do meanings have to be able to do?
49
Relationships among the meanings of words can often be spelled out
in terms of inference. For instance, returning to smoke, from Bill smoked
(#3) the cigar, we can infer that Smoke (#1) came out of the cigar. Similarly,
from The room was smoky we can infer that There was smoke (#1) in the
room. From these inferences we can see how smoke (#1) forms part of the
meanings of smoke (#3) and smoky.
6. Meanings are hidden
Going back to the issue that started this chapter, a crucial property of
meanings is that they’re hidden. (Exactly the sense in which I mean
“hidden” here will become clearer as we go along. I certainly don’t have
anything mystical in mind.) In the pairing of meaning with a pronuncia-
tion, say the phonological word this, we can hear the pronunciation (or
see it, if it’s written). And we have an immediate conviction that the
phonological word is meaningful. But we can’t explain its meaning, and
we can’t hear or see its meaning, despite the fact that it’s in our head.
In other words, the meaning side of a sound–meaning pair is uncon-
scious, except for producing the feeling that the attached piece of sound
is meaningful. We’ll work this part of the picture out in Part Two, includ-
ing its rather startling consequences for a theory of consciousness.
You might protest that meanings don’t have to be hidden or
unconscious. After all, if I hear the word dog, I may well have a con-
scious visual image of a dog. Couldn’t that picture in my mind do the
work of a meaning? The short answer is No. I’ll give a longer answer in
the next chapter.
Let’s sum up: In the cognitive perspective, the meaning of a word or
sentence is something in the head of a language user—a speaker or
hearer—that:
links to or associates with the spoken or written form;
•
combines with the meanings of other parts of the sentence;
•
can link to translations of expressions into other languages;
•
Language,Words, and Meaning
50
can connect with the world;
•
serves as a vehicle for inference; and
•
is hidden from awareness.
•
To work this story out, three big questions have to be answered
eventually:
How are meanings hidden from awareness?
•
How do meanings connect with the world?
•
And above all: How can meanings be in the head?
•
51
10
Meanings can’t be visual images
One loose end in the last chapter was the possibility that meanings of
words and sentences might be visual images rather than definitions in
terms of words. Here are some reasons why this won’t work.
The 18th-century philosopher George Berkeley’s famous example is
triangles. Suppose the meaning of the word triangle is a visual image of
a triangle. Now an image of a triangle has to have a particular shape.
So let’s say your image of a triangle is like this one.
The problem is that triangles don’t all have the same shape. Look at
these next two. You might be tempted to say, “Well, these are close
enough in shape to my triangle that they count as triangles.”
Language,Words, and Meaning
52
But now look at this next thing. I think it looks more like your triangle
than the other two do.
But this one isn’t a triangle. “Well,” you might say, “this last figure
doesn’t have three sides.” Hold it, though: nothing in the visual image
itself tells us that having three sides is what’s important for trianglehood.
Once you state that as the critical feature, you’ve gone outside of what
visual images can do. If all we have is pictures, how do we know how to
compare things to the “ideal”?
Similarly, dogs don’t all look alike, and a German shepherd actually
looks less like a toy poodle than like a wolf.
WOLF
DOG
DOG
So how can a single visual image of a dog be the meaning of the word?
The conclusion is that a single image—whether you imagine it or
actually draw it—is too particular to stand for all the different ways a
triangle or a dog can look.
Or look at this picture.
Meanings can’t be visual images
53
Here’s what Wittgenstein has to say:
Imagine a picture representing a boxer in a particular stance. Now, this pic-
ture can be used to tell someone how he should stand, should hold himself;
or how he should not hold himself; or how a particular man did stand in
such-and-such a place; and so on.
Again, the visual image can’t tell you what it’s important to pay atten-
tion to—what meaning is supposed to be conveyed.
The famous example of another 18th-century philosopher, David
Hume, is causation. What’s the meaning of this sentence?
The white ball hit the green ball, and that caused the green ball to move.
All you can visualize is the white ball hitting the green ball, followed by
the green ball moving. But this is the same thing you would visualize for
this sentence, which says nothing about causation:
The white ball hit the green ball and then immediately the green ball moved.
Causation is a compelling aspect of the way we ordinarily understand the
world,butit’snotinthevisualimageassuch—it’sonlyinourinterpretationof
the image, the meaning we assign to it. (I return to this issue in Part Two.)
Language,Words, and Meaning
54
And what could you put in visual images that would convey the
meanings of these sentences? Little arrows and other annotations aren’t
allowed! Our visual images don’t have them.
There’s a bird in that tree.
A bird was in that tree yesterday.
Is there a bird in that tree?
A bird might be in that tree.
Nothing visual can distinguish present time from past (first sentence vs.
second), declaratives from questions (first sentence vs. third), or state-
ments of fact from statements of possibility (first sentence vs. fourth).
Going further afield, consider these sentences:
Birds like that tree.
That tree looks like a bird.
All birds sit in trees.
I owe you $10.
Millard Fillmore was the thirteenth President of the US.
Nothing in a visual image can describe the birds’ state of mind, as con-
veyed by the first sentence. A visual image for the next sentence might
be a drawing of a bird-shaped tree, but how does that make specific the
tree’s birdiness?
Meanings can’t be visual images
55
Similarly, visual imagery can’t depict the meaning of all (third sentence),
of social concepts and values like money and owing (fourth sentence), or
any of the unvisualizable concepts in the last sentence, whose meaning
doesn’t depend on knowing what President Fillmore looked like. And
finally, going back to our original puzzle, of course the word this can’t be
captured in a visual image.
In short, although the meanings of words and sentences sometimes
evoke visual imagery, they can’t all be visual images. So I stand by my
assertion that meanings are hidden (or largely so).
Saying that meanings are hidden doesn’t imply that they don’t have
effects. We see their effects in what we can do with them. We can iden-
tify and categorize objects in the world. We can follow instructions,
draw inferences, draw pictures, and utter sentences that other people
seem to understand. All of these depend on “grasping” meanings. The
paradox is that we grasp meanings even though we have no awareness
of their form. I’ll make this clearer in Part Two.
56
Al definitely isn’t bald, and Hank definitely is. But no particular
amount of hair divides bald from non-bald people. Is Dave bald or not?
11
Word meanings aren’t cut
and dried
(You can’t avoid the slippery slope)
Let’s explore a little more deeply what meanings are like. This chapter
looks at what you might call the “texture” of word meanings.
In the ordinary perspective, words stand for categories with sharp
boundaries. Something either is or is not snow, or gold, or a tiger, or a
puddle—there’s a fact of the matter. If we have a hard time making up
our mind about it, this is because we’re ignorant of the true nature of the
category or the true definition of the word (remember Putnam on tigers
and gold in Chapter 4?).
For many purposes, this perspective works fine. But in other cases, it
leads us to expect sharp boundaries where there aren’t any. A well-
known old case is bald.
Al Bob Charley Dave Ed Fred Gus Hank
Word meanings aren’t cut and dried
57
How about Ed? How about Fred? We can’t establish a definite fact of the
matter, and I don’t think it’s because we don’t know what bald means.
No scientific or logical or mathematical theory of baldness is going to fix
this. (The ancient philosophical version of this argument is called the
“sorites paradox.”)
Another familiar case is color terms. Red and orange have central (or
basic) hues—the color of red and orange crayons, or of blood and
oranges. But between them is a smooth transition of hues. There’s no
sharp dividing line where one side is definitely red and the other is defi-
nitely orange. And if we try to clear matters up by inserting a new cate-
gorybetweenthem,sayred-orange,wejustendupwiththesameproblem
at the boundary between red and red-orange.
Suppose we set up an experiment: we show people various colors and
ask them to name them. We find that our subjects are a little slower and
a little less consistent with in-between colors than they are with basic
colors. We also find that their responses to in-between colors depend
more on context. For instance, if they’ve just been looking at colors in
the orange range, they’re more likely to call an in-between color “red.”
But if they’ve most recently been looking at reds, they’re more likely to
call the very same in-between color “orange.”
It seems odd to say one of these answers is “right” and the other
“wrong.” And it’s certainly funny to say our victims don’t know what the
words red and orange mean. Of course they do. A better scientific under-
standing of light won’t change the situation either. In the physics of light,
there’s just a smooth transition of wavelengths with no dividing line.
A more cognitive way to think about this situation is that the word red
in the speaker’s head is linked strongly with basic red, and orange with
basic orange, while non-basic shades are linked less strongly. So when a
speaker is faced with in-between shades, the two links are about equally
strong (or weak), and the brain is torn between the two choices. As a
result, it responds more slowly, and its judgments are more fragile.
Youexperiencethesamesortofconflict,onalargerscale,anytimeyou’re
making a tough decision. Should you order the duck?—or the halibut? They
Language,Words, and Meaning
58
both look great. You end up deciding more slowly than if there’s only one
thing that appeals to you that night, and you may be more easily influenced
by what someone else orders or what the waiter recommends. In naming
in-between colors, we may not be so acutely conscious of our mental con-
flict, but our hesitation is still measurable by careful experiments.1
Another way that word meanings can smudge the boundaries involves
so-called “family resemblance” concepts. What does the word climb
mean? You might think of a sentence like this—
The bear climbed the tree.
—and you might conclude that climbing is defined as something like
‘moving yourself upward by grabbing onto (or clambering on) a vertical
surface.’ But let’s be linguists, and look at some other examples.
The bear climbed down the tree.
The bear climbed across the cliff.
Here, the bear is moving by grabbing onto a vertical surface, but he isn’t
moving upward. So going upward can’t be essential to the definition of
climbing. And now look at these examples:
The snake climbed the tree.
The airplane climbed to 30,000 feet.
Here, the snake and the airplane are moving upward all right, but they
can’t be clambering, since snakes and airplanes don’t have arms and legs.
In fact, the airplane isn’t even contacting a vertical surface. So clamber-
ing and vertical surfaces aren’t essential either.
Is anything atall essential? Well, if we get rid of both moving upward and
clambering at the same time, we discover that the sentences are now odd.
1
We’ll get the same result no matter what collection of colors a particular language
chooses to name. The boundaries between them are always fuzzy. We might get a different
story if color names morphed smoothly into each other the way colors do—if every in-between
shade had a name whose pronunciation sounded somewhere in between its neighbors, so that
there was no discrete boundary between the pronunciations of red and orange. But human
languages just don’t work like that.
Word meanings aren’t cut and dried
59
*The snake climbed down the tree.
*The airplane climbed down to 10,000 feet.
What’s going on?
One possibility is that there are actually two different words pro-
nounced climb, just like there are two words pronounced bank. One of
them means ‘move upward,’ as in The snake climbed the tree, and the other
means ‘clamber,’ as in The bear climbed down the tree. Fine. But now go
back to our original example, The bear climbed the tree. Which kind of
climbing do we mean? Is the bear going upward or is he clambering? On
this story, it has to be one or the other.
This feels like a phony choice. The sentence really means both going
upward and clambering, as we thought at the start, and it describes
stereotypical climbing—the most normal or standard case. In contrast,
climbing down and snakes climbing up are a little more unusual. They
have a status rather like someone who is “kind of” bald.
So what we want to say about climb is that it really is a single word, not
a pair of unrelated homonyms like the two banks. Its meaning involves
two conditions—moving upward and clambering. If some action meets
both conditions, we can call it climbing for sure. But on the other hand, an
action doesn’t need both conditions in order to qualify as climbing—just
one will do the trick, though perhaps with not quite as much conviction.
Up
Clambering
Less Stereotypical
Climbing
Less Stereotypical
Climbing
Stereotypical
Climbing
Language,Words, and Meaning
60
You might object: “Well, this crazy business with climb is just an
exceptional case. Surely we don’t have to worry about it too much.” But
in fact, cases like this are all over the place. Think about books. A stereo-
typical book is an object that consists of bound pages, with information
inscribed on them in the form of pictures or written words. On the other
hand, there are also blank books, with no words or pictures. And at the
moment, the book I’m now writing consists only of information that
isn’t inscribed on bound pages. In the old days its physical form would be
a pile of paper; now it’s a bunch of electronic files. The electronic files
and the bound blank pages have nothing at all in common. Yet they both
count as books, because each is a facet of a stereotypical book. We might
want to call them “honorary books” or “books by courtesy.”
The most famous example of a family resemblance concept—the one
that introduced the term—is Wittgenstein’s analysis of the word game.
He points out that for any factor you can think of—competition, having
rules, being for amusement, and so on—you can find games that violate
it, so there’s no essential feature that all games have. (This is even
clearer in the original German, where the word for game, Spiel, also
translates as play.) The way Wittgenstein puts it is that games resemble
each other the way members of a family do, each sharing different fea-
tures with the others. And he makes it clear that this isn’t peculiar to the
word game: it’s typical of all sorts of words.
Another example of a family resemblance concept, due to George
Lakoff, is mother. A stereotypical mother has contributed genetic mate-
rial to the child, has given birth to the child, and has raised the child.
But surrogate mothers, adoptive mothers, and biological mothers who
have given their child up for adoption each violate one or more of
these conditions. Which one is the child’s real mother? Often no single
answer suits everyone’s interests, because the ordinary meaning has
fragmented.
What happens when the desire for cut-and-dried word meanings runs
up against real life? A curious instance arose in 2006, when the Interna-
tional Astronomical Union wanted to deal with the discovery of more
Word meanings aren’t cut and dried
61
and more objects orbiting the sun at a great distance, many of them
close to the size of Pluto. They didn’t want to have to say there are more
and more planets in the solar system—it might get out of hand. And sci-
entific standards wouldn’t allow them to talk about “sort of planets.” So
they decided to call these objects dwarf planets—an in-between category
like red-orange—and they adopted a definition for planet that excluded
dwarf planets. The unfortunate side effect was that they had to demote
Pluto from its prestigious planetary status, to the annoyance of many
astronomers and lay people. So the sentence Pluto is a planet changed
from true to false.
One of the ringleaders of this coup is quoted as saying, “The debate
about whether or not Pluto is a planet is critical to our understanding of
the solar system. It is not semantics. It is fundamental classification.”
I beg to differ. It is semantics, and part of semantics is classification. After
all, what changed about the solar system? Nothing—only that more of
its objects were discovered by astronomers. And what changed about
Pluto? Only what astronomers decided to call it.
And their decision didn’t really settle matters for good. Suppose that
someday we discover, even further out from the sun, a lot of objects that
are somewhere in size between Pluto and Mercury. Will they count as
planets? Or as dwarf planets? We’re back in the sorites paradox. So what
difference does it really make what we call them? Only that if they’re
planets, their discoverers get more famous and schoolchildren have to
memorize their names. (And notice: planet is a scientific term, the kind of
thing that is supposed to be precise and objective!)
Sometimes the consequences are more serious. Suppose the govern-
ment passes a law that says: “Bald people are exempt from military serv-
ice.” Then Dave and Ed will want to claim they’re bald, and they’ll try to
find reasons to justify it. But suppose instead the law is: “All bald people
must report for military service.” Then Ed and Fred will want to claim
they’re not bald and find reasons to justify that—and Gus and Hank will
try to get hair transplants! The government will have to issue a clarifica-
tion to the effect: “For the purposes of this regulation, a person is bald
Language,Words, and Meaning
62
if … etc.” and will have to set up examination boards to rule on cases like
Ed and Fred. And maybe academics of a certain school of thought will
start arguing that baldness is not an inherent property but a social con-
struct. This is a silly example, but if you change bald to black or Jew it isn’t
so silly any more.
Some other real cases (I’m sure you can think of more):
How many people do you have to kill in order to call it
• genocide?
Three, no; six million, yes. But what about a million and a half? Or
half a million? Where do you draw the line?
Is a fertilized human egg a person? Probably not. Is a nine-month
•
fetus a person? Probably yes. Where in between does it change?
This isn’t entirely a matter of scientific fact. Hence the debate about
abortion.
How insane or mentally challenged does a criminal have to be
•
before you can say that he didn’t understand his crime, so we’ll
institutionalize him instead of imprisoning him?
The ordinary perspective usually presumes there are clear categories
and abhors the prospect of the slippery slope. In practice, categories usu-
ally aren’t so clear, and the slippery slope has to be accepted and care-
fully negotiated.
Dictionary definitions basically ignore all these facts of actual practice.
This is why I distrust anyone who starts a discussion by citing Webster
or some other dictionary, as though that makes controversial terms
clear.
And, as Wittgenstein points out, if ordinary words like bald and climb
and book are like this, there is no reason to expect language and mean and
true to be any different.
63
12
Not all the meaning is
in the words
Let’s now look at how word meanings (unruly as they are) are com-
bined into the meanings of phrases and sentences. As I suggested in
Chapter 9, the basic intuition is that the meaning of each grammatical
chunk of the sentence is built by pasting together the meanings of the
words in that chunk. This intuition is made explicit in the notion of
Fregean compositionality, which says that the meaning of a phrase or
sentence is made up of the meanings of its words, and that the gram-
matical structure tells how to paste the word meanings together.
Philosophers often seem to think of Fregean compositionality as
almost sacred—as if without it, language would be completely out of
control, unruly and unusable. Well, the news is that language is far from
perfect. We keep discovering more and more things in it that violate
Fregean compositionality (the dwarf planets of language). But it doesn’t
follow that language is unruly and unusable. Obviously we use it. I’d
rephrase compositionality this way:
“Enriched compositionality”: The meaning of a compound expres-
sion (a phrase, sentence, or discourse) is a function of the meanings of
its parts, of the grammatical rules by which are they combined—and
of other stuff.
What’s this “other stuff”? I’m going to sketch four places where
Fregean compositionality faces a problem, and this will help us get a feel
Language,Words, and Meaning
64
for what the “other stuff” is like. The message is that these things aren’t
blemishes on language, they’re integral to its texture.
Implicature and discourse connection
Let’s start with some examples of a sort made famous by the philosopher
Paul Grice in the 1970s. As I’m going out the door, my wife says,
Will you be going near a mailbox?
What she means, of course, is ‘Would you mail some letters for me?’, but
she’s saying it politely. Or:
Amy: Hey, d’ya wanna get some lunch?
Tom: There’s that nice Italian place around the corner.
Tom’s meaning goes beyond the words he utters: implicitly, he’s answer-
ing “Yes,” and then he’s going on to suggest where to get some lunch.
We might also notice that Italian place is understood as meaning ‘Italian
restaurant’—it gets its full meaning not from the meanings of the words
alone but also from the discourse context. So some of the “other stuff”
comes from the need to understand a sentence in its social context: what
would the reason be for saying this in this particular situation?
In these examples and many others to come, we can’t paraphrase the
understood material with precise and unique words. So we can’t save
Fregean compositionality by saying the words are there to compose the
meaning, but you just haven’t uttered them.
People often excuse cases like this by calling them “pragmatic” infer-
ences (or, to use Grice’s term, “implicatures”) and taking them to be
external to a theory of the meaning of sentences. But they’re sure part of
understanding each other, all the time.
Not all the meaning is in the words
65
Ellipsis
Here’s an example from Chapter 9:
Originally, Tom didn’t plan to go to New York for the weekend. Now
he does.
We understand the second sentence as saying ‘Now he does plan to
go to New York for the weekend.’ How does it get that meaning?
One way to answer this question would be to say that, in a sense,
this sentence “really is” Now he does plan to go to New York for the
weekend—but the speaker has left out all the words that copy parts
of the previous sentence. This is the approach of classical transfor-
mational grammar in the Chomskyan vein, as well as that of many
philosophical theories: the fuller version of the sentence is its “deep
structure” or “logical form,” but much of it is erased before it’s spo-
ken. This answer would satisfy Fregean compositionality, because
the words are there in the logical form. But it also requires us to say
that your utterance includes words you don’t pronounce, and that
you don’t pronounce them because they’re the same as words in the
previous sentence.
Alternatively, we could say that the meaning of the second sentence
isn’t just put together from the meanings of its words and the way they’re
grammatically combined. It also includes the meanings of parts of the
previous sentences and the way they are combined. There are no hidden
words, there’s only a more complex way of building the meaning—
through enriched compositionality.
How can we tell which way is better? Is it just a matter of taste? Well,
no. For one thing, in some cases of ellipsis, the context has no words at
all. Yet the speaker’s meaning is still perfectly understandable, and in fact
the very same utterance can have radically different meanings. Look at
these situations.
Language,Words, and Meaning
66
Here, nobody has previously mentioned kissing or stepping off a roof.
So the woman can’t have left these words out because of some identical
words in an earlier sentence. Rather, her meaning obviously depends on
understanding the nonlinguistic context. So in this case the nonlinguistic
context serves as the “other stuff” in enriched compositionality.
For a more complicated case, here are the lyrics of a 1930s Rodgers
and Hart classic:
It seems we stood and talked like this before. We looked at each other
in the same way then. But I can’t remember where or when.
We can’t spell out the way we understand the last sentence just by copy-
ing words blindly from the previous two sentences. It takes a certain
amount of ingenuity to construct a good paraphrase. This monster is
about the closest I can get (maybe you can do better?):
...But I can’t remember where or when we stood and talked like this
before and looked at each other in the same way we’re looking at
each other now.
It seems funny to think of Rodgers and Hart’s lyric as having a “logical
form” that contains all these words, as Fregean composition would require.
Enriched compositionality allows us to say that the lyric has no hidden
words, and that its meaning comes partly from the meaning of the previ-
ous sentences. I don’t think we should find this too far-fetched. After all, in
the dialogue above, Tom’s reply to Amy can’t be derived from words in
Amy’s sentence either. (Although I do have to admit that right now,
nobody has a detailed theory of how such indirect connections work.)
Not all the meaning is in the words
67
Reference transfer
Another case of enriched compositionality arises when we use the name
of one thing to talk about something else.
Plato is up there on the top shelf, next to Wittgenstein.
[‘Plato’ = ‘book by Plato’]
Let’s check out the wax museum. They have the Beatles on display!
[‘the Beatles’ = ‘statues of the Beatles’]
Joe is parked out back. [‘Joe’ = ‘Joe’s car’]
[One waitress says to another:] The ham sandwich in the corner wants
some coffee.
[‘ham sandwich’ = ‘person who ordered/who’s eating a ham
sandwich’]
There are three possible strategies to account for the way we under-
stand these sentences. One is to say that, although we never noticed it
before, the name Plato is actually ambiguous. It can mean either the phi-
losopher or a book he wrote, and it so happens that in the example above
it means the book. This approach allows us to hang on to Fregean com-
positionality. But it has the odd consequence that every time you learn a
person’s name, you have to learn that it’s also a name for books by that
person and for statues of that person and for that person’s car—they’re
completely separate meanings for that name. It doesn’t make sense to
think we learn this for every name, one by one. When you learn a name,
you automatically know it can stand for these other things as well.
Another strategy for preserving Fregean compositionality is to say that
Plato still means ‘Plato’ in the first example—it’s not ambiguous—but the
logical form of the sentence has the words book by in it. Then we conven-
iently delete book by. This approach is just like the deletion approach to
ellipsis, which (as we’ve just seen) runs into uncomfortable problems.
But there’s a simpler strategy. We can say that these examples have
some pieces of meaning that just aren’t expressed by words. As an English
speaker, your system for relating meaning to pronunciation lets you take
a short cut—you can leave these pieces of meaning out of what you
Language,Words, and Meaning
68
actually say. (If you want to, you can express them as book by, statue of, and
so on, but you don’t have to.) Because your hearers have the same system,
you can count on them to make out your meaning. Sure, this approach
violates Fregean compositionality, because the words aren’t there to
express the meaning. But it doesn’t endanger the coherence of language.1
Aspectual coercion
Here’s a subtler case. Compare these sentences.
Joe jumped until the bell rang.
Joe jumped when the bell rang.
Joe slept until the bell rang.
In the first sentence, we understand Joe as jumping repeatedly. But if we
change until to when, as in the second sentence, then Joe jumps only
once. And if jumped is changed to slept, as in the third sentence, Joe is not
understood as sleeping repeatedly. So where does the sense of repetition
(so-called aspectual coercion) come from?
We have the same three possibilities as with reference transfer. First,
we could save Frege by saying that jump and all the hundreds of other
verbs that undergo aspectual coercion are actually two related verbs:
jump means either ‘make one jump’ or ‘make repeated jumps.’ This
approach, though, requires that every time you learn one of these verbs,
you have to learn both meanings. Not so good.
Second, we could say that the logical form of Joe jumped until the bell
rang contains the word repeatedly, but the speaker leaves it out. But
exactly what is left out? It would be equally plausible for the logical form
to contain the words repeatedly, or over and over, or many times. There’s
1
From this description, you might think the strategy of deleting words and the strategy of
enriched compositionality are pretty much the same thing, and it’s impossible to tell them
apart. I assure you that once you start to work out the technical details, they do turn out to be
different. For the courageous, Peter Culicover and I have worked out the arguments in our
book Simpler Syntax. Suffice it to say here that enriched compositionality wins.
Not all the meaning is in the words
69
no definite way to say. What these choices have in common, of course,
is their meaning—but not their pronunciation.
Third, we could say that in combining the meanings of jump and until,
a piece of meaning has to be added in. If you want to, you can express
this piece as repeatedly or over and over, but you don’t have to say it at all.
This violates Fregean compositionality, because the extra meaning
doesn’t come from the words. But as long as the principle for inducing
the extra piece of meaning is well defined, everything works fine.
In each of these cases—discourse connections, ellipsis, reference transfer,
and aspectual coercion—we’ve found pieces of meaning that go beyond just
combining the individual word meanings with the grammatical structure.
Some of these pieces come from the linguistic or nonlinguistic context, and
some are special unexpressed pieces of meaning that help glue word mean-
ings together in non-Fregean ways. I’ve shown you only the tiniest sample
of these phenomena. They pervade the texture of the language. They are
the “other stuff” in enriched composition. They’re nothing to be afraid of,
they aren’t totally wild, they don’t threaten language with chaos.
I haven’t even touched here on literary devices such as metaphor, which
go even further beyond what’s present in the words and grammatical struc-
ture. My aim here has been to show that even the humblest everyday lan-
guage use is shot through and through with enriched compositionality.
People sometimes say that language is a “mirror of thought” or a
“window into human nature” (as in the subtitle of Steven Pinker’s book
The Stuff of Thought). These phrases raise the expectation that it’s trans-
parent: just look through language and you’ll see what thought is like.
That’s what Frege thought. Faced with the kinds of things we’ve been
talking about here, though, some of my students have decided language
is actually more like a “cubist mirror” or a “funhouse mirror” or a “fun-
nel for thought.” It turns out that if you look at the details of Pinker’s
“window,” language is more like a collection of small and oddly shaped
peepholes with distorting lenses. If we squint through them all the right
way, we can assemble the various perspectives into a sense of the larger
schema behind them. And that’s what we need linguistics for.
70
13
Meanings, concepts, and thoughts
We’re now maneuvering into a position to begin to answer our original
question from Chapter 1: What’s the connection between language and
thought?
From the cognitive perspective, the meaning of a word or sentence is
something in a speaker’s head that’s linked to a pronunciation. It has all
the interesting properties I listed in Chapter 9: sentence meanings are
built from word meanings (and “other stuff”), meanings are preserved
in translation, meanings serve as basis for reference and for inference—
and meanings are hidden.
It’s common to say that a word expresses a concept, where the con-
cept is something in a speaker’s head too. I’d like to pull meanings and
concepts together, and say that the meaning of the word is the concept
it expresses.
It’s also common to say a sentence expresses a (complete) thought,
which is supposed to be something in the speaker’s head as well. So
again, I’d like to connect these two notions, and say the meaning of a
sentence is the thought that it expresses.
I have to make it clear, though, that not all concepts and thoughts
are meanings of words or sentences. Plenty of concepts and thoughts
can’t be expressed very well in language, such as the thought of the
exact pattern of light and shade on your desk or (to use Wittgenstein’s
example) the concept of what a clarinet sounds like. These sorts of
concepts and thoughts can exist on their own in the head without being
Meanings, concepts, and thoughts
71
1
There is a strain of philosophy of mind that asks if there could be such a thing as
“nonconceptual content.” As far as I understand it, the question is whether there could be
such a thing as goncepts that aren’t concepts, or whether there could be parts of concepts that
are only goncepts. Of course there could.
attached to words. But when a concept or thought can be attached to a
pronunciation, I’d like to say that it serves as the meaning of that string
of sounds.
We adult humans aren’t the only ones that have thoughts we can’t
express. Apes and babies have concepts and thoughts without having any
language at all. They find their way around in the world, they react in
complicated yet consistent ways to what’s going on around them, they
solve problems. Something must be going on in their heads to direct their
understanding of the world and their actions in it. Why not call these
things in their heads concepts and thoughts?
Well, some people might insist that by definition, concepts and
thoughts have to be attached to words, that something doesn’t count as
a concept or thought unless you can say it. Okay, then we’ll need a dif-
ferent term for what I’m calling “concepts and thoughts that aren’t
attached to words.” Suppose we call them “goncepts” and “shmoughts.”
If you prefer that terminology, then what I’m trying to say is that the
meaning of a word is a “goncept,” and it achieves the status of a “concept”
simply by being linked to a pronunciation. On the other hand, the way
we understand what a clarinet sounds like would only be a goncept, not
a concept. And apes and babies would have no concepts, only goncepts,
and they can’t think, they can only shmink.
Using this terminology, we can ask what the difference is between the
goncepts of apes and babies and those of adult humans, and we can ask
what the difference is between goncepts that are also concepts, such
as what triangles are, and goncepts that aren’t also concepts, such as
exactly what a clarinet sounds like. Whichever terminology we adopt,
the issues that we have to sort out are exactly the same, as far as I can
tell. So I’ll stick to my original terminology. You’re free to translate into
whatever terminology you like.1
Language,Words, and Meaning
72
You might be concerned that there’s potentially a slippery slope here.
If we attribute concepts to apes, what about pigs? lizards? paramecia, for
goodness’ sake? And how about computers? Thermostats, anyone? I’m
not too worried. As we saw in the last chapter, lots of other concepts
threaten a slippery slope without becoming incoherent. So why not the
concept “concept”?
Instead of talking about “thoughts,” philosophers often speak of
“propositions,”whicharesupposedtobewhatasentenceexpressesregard-
less of how it’s actually said. For instance, My dog is dead and the German
sentence Mein Hund ist tot express the same proposition.2
So far this sounds
just like the way I’ve been using the phrase “meaning of a sentence.” But
there are at least two differences. For one thing, most philosophers seem
to think of a proposition as something independent of the speaker, not as
something in the speaker’s head. For another, they often say: “A proposi-
tion is something that can be true or false.” In ordinary language, a declar-
ative sentence can be true or false, but it’s odd to say the meaning of this
sentence is true or false. And non-declarative sentences—questions, impera-
tives, and sentences like Oh, if only it were Friday!— certainly have mean-
ings, but neither they nor their meanings can be true or false.
I think this has caused some confusion about what a proposition is
meant to be. Like differentiable in Chapter 4, the word proposition is
intended as a term of art. But is it supposed to correspond to the ordi-
nary usage of the term meaning of a sentence or to the ordinary usage of
the word sentence? The confusion is perpetuated by locutions like Consider
the proposition that snow is white, which is often used as though the propo-
sition is the sentence Snow is white. For this reason, I’m going to avoid
the term proposition here.
2
Just to be careful, technically a proposition is supposed to include parts of the meaning
that need to come from the context. If I say My dog is dead, it refers to a different situation in
the world than if you say the same thing. So the proposition I express when I say My dog is dead
is something like ‘Ray Jackendoff’s dog is dead.’ If I say It’s raining, I express a proposition
something like ‘It’s raining at Tufts University in Medford, Massachusetts, on October 15,
2010, at 2:46 p.m.’
Meanings, concepts, and thoughts
73
Sometimes people say “thought is like a language,” and this concep-
tion has been enshrined in the term “the language of thought.”3
I find
this terminology misguided too. A language is a system that links con-
cepts and thoughts with pronunciations. But concepts and thoughts
themselves don’t have pronunciations, they’re connected to pronuncia-
tions. In other words, thoughts are not like a language, they function as
a part of a language. Saying “thought is like a language” is as nonsensical
as saying “wheels are like bicycles” or “peach pits are like peaches.”
I suspect these locutions have arisen because people tend to think of
pronunciation as mere pronunciation, an inessential and culturally
dependent part of language. It’s just a convenient way to get the Real
Essence, the thought, from one person to another. What possible philo-
sophical interest could there be in sequences of speech sounds? By con-
trast, the truths of Real Meaning are too profound to have to depend
on mere people.
But if we adopt the cognitive perspective, and ask how language
works for people, we find that the character of pronunciation is hugely
important. It’s an essential medium for the communication of thought.
And, as we’ve seen in earlier chapters, the scientific investigation of the
sound structure of language has yielded a rich and complex organiza-
tion of patterns, well worth taking seriously.
(If you’re wondering about the status of “private languages”, please
be patient till Chapter 36.)
3
This term was made popular by philosopher/psychologist Jerry Fodor. It plays on the
fact that in certain technical circles, the word language is like smoke—it’s polysemous. One
sense is the one we’ve been talking about here: a systematic mapping between thoughts and
pronunciations in the heads of speakers. Another sense refers to any formal combinatorial
system, whether it’s a communication system or not. In this sense we can speak of musical
and mathematical notation as formal languages. In fact, the sound structure of language in the
first sense is itself a formal language in the second sense. In this second sense, thought is a
language. But when people say “thought is like a language” they’re usually thinking of the first
sense, unfortunately.
74
14
Does your language determine
your thought?
Here’s another take on the connection between language and thought.
People outside linguistics often ask me, “Don’t you agree that the lan-
guage we happen to speak affects the way we think?” This is a strong
and widespread sentiment, and it seems at odds with the view I’ve
been pushing here—that the same thought can be equally expressed in
different languages. The most extreme version of this idea, often called
“linguistic relativity,” or “linguistic determinism,” or the “Sapir–Whorf
hypothesis” (after the early 20th-century linguists Edward Sapir and
Benjamin Lee Whorf), is that your thought is deeply structured by the
structure of your language, and that therefore speakers of different lan-
guages may not just talk in mutually incomprehensible fashion, but
may also think in mutually incomprehensible fashion. It isn’t that lan-
guage is a mirror of thought, but rather that thought is a mirror of
language.
A popular anecdote connected with linguistic relativity is that the Eski-
mos have lots of words for different kinds of snow, so presumably they
think about snow differently than we do. But even if it’s true, this doesn’t
show that their language determines the way they think. If anything, the
influence goes the other way: they have to deal with snow more than we
do, so they invent more words. Likewise, I would guess that we have
more words than they do that have to do with software—and certainly
Does your language determine your thought?
75
more than we ourselves did fifty years ago. Our vocabulary is mostly
shaped by human interests and needs, not the other way around.
I don’t want to deny that vocabulary affects thought. Having a word
for something can affect both what we notice and the way we divide
objects and events into categories. Sometimes this is good: it might be
important to recognize such a thing as genocide (remember Chapter
11). And sometimes it’s bad, such as when it makes us insist on sharp
lines where there aren’t any—it’s either genocide, in which case we
apply sanctions, or it’s not, in which case it’s not so serious and we can
ignore it.
Over the past decade some psycholinguists have done experiments
exploring linguistic relativity in less obvious areas of language. Here’s
one fairly typical example. The Mayan language Tzeltal is spoken in a
village on a mountainside, and it so happens that this language doesn’t
have words that translate as left and right. Rather, if you want to say
where something is in relation to something else, you use the mountain-
side: the object is “uphill” or “downhill” or “transverse” from the other
object (a lot like uptown, downtown, and crosstown in Manhattan). So the
question is: if you ask Tzeltal speakers to do a task that involves spatial
relations but doesn’t involve language, will they behave differently from
speakers of a standard European language? If they do, it shows that the
language makes them think differently, even when they’re not speaking.
And indeed some differences turn up, especially if the task is highly
ambiguous (such as “Make this array of objects look the same as that
one”). The significance of these results has been subject to a lot of dis-
pute (I have friends on both sides), and there’s no space here to go into
more details. I just want you to notice: these are not Big Effects. It’s not
like Tzeltal speakers perceive the world hugely differently from us.
Some languages have a different collection of words for primary
colors than English. For instance, Japanese has a single word that covers
both green and blue, and Russian has completely different words for
what we call light blue and dark blue. It turns out that even without
using words, speakers of these languages classify colors differently, and
Language,Words, and Meaning
76
An area of language that may make a more radical difference is num-
bers. Many languages have been reported to have number words that
only go up to two or three at most. One of these is the Amazonian lan-
guage Pirahã, which has received a lot of attention recently. The way
children achieve the concept of numbers that go as high as you want
seems to be first through learning the sequence of number words one,
two, three, four,....After that, they figure out what the sequence is for,
namely counting things. If you don’t have words for counting, it’s much
harder—maybe impossible, but I’ll leave that open—to engage in
they show the sorts of in-between effects we talked about in Chapter 11,
but at different points in the spectrum. Again, this is far from showing
that their thought is incomprehensible to English speakers.
In French, German, and many other languages, nouns are sorted into
“genders,” which are marked by various grammatical devices. For
instance, English the translates into French le when it precedes a mascu-
line noun, and into la when it precedes a feminine noun. It so happens
that sun translates into French as a masculine noun, and moon into a
feminine noun, while German is just the opposite. Well, if you ask
French speakers to free-associate characteristics that go with the sun vs.
with the moon, it turns out that they give you more “masculine” char-
acteristics for the sun and more “feminine” for the moon—and German
speakers are just the opposite. So at some level they do think of them
differently, and this may well show up in contexts like poetry, where
free association motivates metaphors and the like. But again it’s hardly
a Big Effect.
le soleil la lune die Sonne der Mond
Does your language determine your thought?
77
commerce, construct precise calendars, do science, and so on. So this is
an area where a linguistic invention opens up huge domains of human
endeavor.
But if we’re looking for radical differences in the way people think, a
much more fruitful place to look is culture, not language. We can even
keep the language identical. Compare the thought processes of Americans
on the liberal left and the religious right. We find huge differences on
matters like morality, foreign policy, economics, and education. These
differences are far more consequential than the subtle little things due to
language that have been discovered experimentally.
Well, you might say (and we do sometimes), the left and the right
speak different languages. That’s why they can’t understand each other.
Um, yes, I suppose—the network of relations among the meanings of
words like marriage, liberty, freedom, and patriotic is systematically differ-
ent all over the place. And they choose buzzwords that favor their posi-
tions, like pro-choice vs. pro-life. But the structure of the language is
identical, and the vocabulary is being manipulated to serve the culture,
not the other way around.
The point is that it doesn’t take differences in language to make radi-
cal differences in thought. Differences in culture—which may produce
differences in language—do just fine. And these cultural differences can
be much more striking than anything stemming from language itself. So
why get excited about the minor linguistic biases on thought, when
there are these huge cultural ones?
Coming attractions: In Chapter 38, we’ll talk about how having lan-
guage really does make certain kinds of thought possible. But it doesn’t
do this in a way that differs from language to language—all languages
help in pretty much the same way.
This page intentionally left blank
Part Two
Consciousness and Perception
This page intentionally left blank
81
15
What’s it like to be thinking?
I keep insisting that the meanings of words and phrases and sentences
are hidden. It’s time to explore this more carefully. It’s going to take us
surprisingly far afield.
As I mentioned in Chapter 9, Plato thought that the meanings of
words are eternal essences that we mere humans have no access to. The
meaning of dog, for instance, is an eternal essence of “dogginess.” So in a
way, Plato agrees that meanings are hidden.
If you think languages are out in the world, eternal essences make a
kind of sense. But wait a minute. Do you think 21st-century American
English is eternal? Will it still exist 23,000 years from now? Were there
eternal essences of carburetors and telephones two thousand years ago, but
people just hadn’t made any actual ones yet? Were there eternal essences
of sentence and toenail back when the only living things on earth were
bacteria? Well, even if your answer to these weird questions is yes, Pla-
to’s eternal essences aren’t much help in explaining how people use lan-
guage—what people do have access to that enables them to understand
other people’s utterances about carburetors and toenails and to formu-
late their own.
Plato sort of thought meanings are “too far away from us”—they’re in
a part of the universe we can’t access. I’d like to suggest instead that
meanings are “too close to us,” in a part of our minds we can’t access. Put
more baldly, meanings are mostly unconscious. To make clearer what
I mean, I’d like you to do a little delicate introspection.
Consciousness and Perception
82
What are you aware of when you’re thinking? I don’t know about you,
but I personally experience a lot of my thinking as talking to myself—
verbal imagery, a Joycean stream of consciousness. For many of us, the
running commentary hardly ever stops. Some people manage to shut it up
for a while by meditating or doing yoga.
Of course we also experience other kinds of imagery, especially visual
imagery. In fact, some people report that their imagery is mostly visual or
kinesthetic. Good cooks probably have lively images of tastes and smells.
And I have music running in my head almost all the time. But for most
people, especially those of us who use words for a living, verbal imagery is
what feels like Real Thinking.
Plato has this very impression (in the Sophist):
Stranger: Are not thought and speech the same, with this exception, that
what is called thought is the unuttered conversation of the soul
with herself?
Theaetetus: Quite true.
Stranger: But the stream of thought which flows through the lips and is audi-
ble is called speech?
Theaetetus: True.
A lot of more modern people from all different quarters come to the
same conclusion. Here’s John B. Watson, one of the fathers of behavior-
ism:1
The hypothesis that all of the so-called “higher thought” processes go on in
terms of faint reinstatements of the original muscular act (including speech
here)...is, I believe, a tenable one.
Here’s the philosopher Peter Carruthers:
1
A central issue in psychology in the late 19th and early 20th centuries was whether there
could be such a thing as “imageless thought.” Those who thought there could be such a thing
reported only the frailest of introspective evidence, and they were eventually discredited. But
the proponents of thoughts as images didn’t win either. Rather (at least in the received history
of the field), the whole notion of a scientific study of thought as something in the head was
discredited by the behaviorists. They were aided and abetted by the rising anti-psychologism of
the philosophy of the time, e.g. Frege’s. See also remarks on the behaviorists in Chapter 18.
What’s it like to be thinking?
83
It is images of natural language sentences which are the primary vehicles of our
conscious thoughts. [Even my 4 1/2-year-old son said,] “I think in English...
I can hear myself think.”
Noam Chomsky also hints that thought is unspoken language:
Language is not properly regarded as a system of communication. It is a
system for expressing thought, something quite different....Language use is
largely to oneself: “inner speech” for adults, monologue for children.
Wittgenstein has been here too:
When I think in language, there aren’t “meanings” going through my mind
in addition to the verbal expressions: the language is itself the vehicle of
thought.
But he admits he’s a bit uneasy:
“So you really wanted to say...” One is tempted to use the following pic-
ture: what he really “wanted to say”, what he “meant” was already present
somewhere in his mind even before we gave it expression.
—which implies that there’s some sort of meaning independent of the
language.
What’s the voice in my head like? Above all, I hear it. My inner
voice speaks in English, with English pronunciation, English word
order, English verb agreement, and so on. Someone who speaks both
English and French may say, “I speak both languages all right, but
I think in French.” Speaking of efforts to teach the Cherokee language
to the younger generation, the superintendent of the tribe’s schools
is reported to have said “What makes you a Cherokee if you don’t
have Cherokee thoughts?” (Notice the presumption that the lan-
guage both determines the character of thought and cements ethnic
identity.)
This all seems very natural. But it doesn’t sit very comfortably
alongside some of the things about thought and meaning that came
up in Chapter 9. Thinking is supposed to be pretty much independ-
Consciousness and Perception
84
ent of what language you think in. The thought or the meaning is
supposed to be the same when we translate from one language to
another. You can’t ask, “What language are you meaning in?” or
“What language are your meanings in?” Yet we, like all the folks
quoted above, have the compelling conviction that these English (or
Greek or Cherokee) phrases and sentences running through our
heads are our thoughts.
I have to respectfully ask you to suspend this conviction for now. If we
step into the cognitive perspective, a different story emerges. Pronuncia-
tion and meaning are both in our minds. The pronunciation of a word or
sentence enters our awareness when someone actually says it, but also
when the inner voice is “speaking.” Some chunks of pronunciation, such
as this, are meaningful—they’re linked to a concept or a thought—and
some, such as thit, are not.
But now the important part: When a chunk of pronunciation is
meaningful, we still can’t directly perceive its meaning! We’re aware of
the presence of the meaning only because the pronunciation acts as a
perceivable “handle” attached to it. The meaning itself stays backstage.
(Other images, especially visual images, can also serve as “handles” for
thoughts, which is why people often think they’re thoughts too. I’ll
come back to visual images in Chapter 25.)
There’s a second part to the story. A piece of pronunciation that func-
tions as a “handle” comes with a conscious feeling of “meaningfulness.”
This feeling is absent when we hear a chunk of pronunciation like thit or
fendle that isn’t a “handle” for anything. Through the feeling of meaning-
fulness, we get the conviction that the pronunciation is the thought, not
just a symbol or vehicle for the thought.
An iconoclastic way of putting this would be to say there really are no
such things as conscious thoughts (just as there really are no sunsets and
no English language). Here’s a more forgiving way of putting it. In the
ordinary perspective, as we’ve seen, we have the conviction that our
verbal images simply are our conscious thoughts. But from the cognitive
What’s it like to be thinking?
85
perspective it’s not so simple. What we call a “conscious thought” actu-
ally has three components. Two of them are conscious: the verbal
imagery and the feeling of meaningfulness. The third is the meaning
attached to the pronunciation. It does all the heavy lifting of establishing
inference and reference—but it’s unconscious.
In other words, we experience our verbal images as thoughts because
their (imaged) pronunciation is accompanied by the feeling of meaning-
fulness. Our intuitive conviction is sort of right: the verbal images them-
selves aren’t thoughts, but they’re connected to thoughts.
Here’s an approximation of what I have in mind. The ordinary per-
spective is the way it seems to us. The cognitive perspective is closer to
the way it works.
Having a conscious thought
Ordinary perspective Cognitive perspective
THOUGHT=
MEANINGFUL
VERBAL IMAGE
THOUGHT
MEANINGFUL
VERBAL IMAGE
A piece is still missing. How do we end up with this conviction that
our verbal images are our thoughts? From the cognitive perspective,
where we’re asking how the mind works, it’s very important to
remember that convictions, no matter how strong, don’t come by
magic. A conviction has to come from something going on in the head too. So
the cognitive perspective has to explain not only the pronunciation
and the meaning of a sentence, but also the feeling of meaningfulness
that goes with the pronunciation.
Consciousness and Perception
86
For convenience, I’ll use the term “the Unconscious Meaning
Hypothesis” to refer to this whole package:
Pronunciation is conscious.
•
It’s accompanied by a conscious feeling of meaningfulness.
•
It’s linked to unconscious meaning—the thought or concept that
•
the pronunciation expresses.
Discussions of consciousness often speak of “qualia,” the components
of experience such as the blueness of blue things, the painfulness of pain-
ful things, and so on. For readers who like qualia language, the Uncon-
scious Meaning Hypothesis might be understood as saying that the
qualia associated with so-called conscious thought are phonological
rather than conceptual in character.2
2
Here’s a point of linguistics that picks up on our earlier discussion of different uses of
mean. Two of the uses we’ve noticed are shown in these sentences.
“Ex-copilot” means “former copilot.” (Ch 7)
“Ex-copilot” means the same thing as “former copilot.” (Ch 9)
These two sentences mean about the same thing. This is grammatically peculiar. After all, Pat
hugged Sandy doesn’t mean the same thing as Pat hugged the same thing as Sandy.
Here’s the reason the two sentences mean the same thing. In X hugged Y, X is supposed to
be a person and Y is supposed to be another person, or perhaps a dog or a tree (in linguists’
lingo, these are the “selectional restrictions” of hug). In X means Y, X is supposed to be a word
or phrase and Y is supposed to be a meaning. You can cite words, so there’s no problem filling
in X. But, according to the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis, you can’t cite meanings. So
how do you fill in Y?
One way to get around the problem is to fill in Y with words that are attached to the mean-
ing you have in mind. That is, former copilot in the first example actually refers not to the words
but to the meanings attached to the words. On this view, it’s another example of reference
transfer, like The ham sandwich wants some coffee in Chapter 12. Another way to get around the
problem of filling in Y with meanings is by circumlocution, and that’s what we’re seeing in the
second example: I’m not going to tell you directly what ex-copilot means, but whatever former
copilot means, that’s it.
The idea, then, is that these two sentences are both ways of dealing with the fact that you
can’t say meanings, you can only say phonology. And because we have the conviction that the
phonology is the meaning, this all feels perfectly harmless, and both ways of saying it seem
perfectly natural.
87
16
Some phenomena that test the
Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis
You may find the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis strange and coun-
terintuitive, maybe even as weird as eternal essences of telephones.
I want to spend the next few chapters sharpening it and helping you get
used to it. First let’s look at some things it explains about our experience
of thought and meaning.
We first came to the idea that meanings are hidden in Chapter 9,
when we looked at synonymous sentences like The bear chased the lion
and The lion was chased by the bear. These sentences are linked to the
same meaning (they express the same thought). But we’re hard
pressed to say what that shared meaning is, other than perhaps by
pointing to a picture or offering more paraphrases. The Unconscious
Meaning Hypothesis says that this is just what we should expect. The
meaning is there in our heads, and we can use it to draw inferences
and to pick out a picture the sentence describes. But since it’s uncon-
scious, we can’t describe it except by means of more sentences. In
other words, the two sentences are different “handles” for the same
unconscious thought.
Translation offers the same story. The German sentence Der Bär hat
den Löwen gefangen means the same thing as The bear caught the lion. But
what’s the same about them is something we can’t hear. If you speak
both German and English, you just know they’re the same. Again the
88
Consciousness and Perception
sentences are different “handles” for the same unconscious meaning,
which can’t be made palpable except by expression in a language or by
pointing to a picture.
In Chapter 12, we found all sorts of bits of meaning that don’t need to
be expressed by words. Sometimes, of course, they can be expressed by
words, but still, it’s often hard to say exactly which words are the right
ones. For instance, in aspectual coercion (John jumped until the bell rang),
is the unexpressed meaning repeatedly, over and over, or many times? Any
one of these could be used to express the hidden part of the meaning. So
what is this hidden part, if it’s not the words themselves?
The Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis says the meaning is an uncon-
scious piece of mental structure that in this case happens not to have a
“handle.” We know it’s there because of its effect on inferences. If you
say John slept until the bell rang, I know he slept once. But if you say John
jumped until the bell rang, I know he jumped many times. The extra jumps
come from this part of the meaning that’s hidden, that has no link to
pronunciation.
Another perspective on the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis
comes from a well-known quote: “How can I know what I think until
I see what I say?” This is usually cited to make the point that you don’t
have a thought until you actually say it. In other words, thought and
language are the same. But all it really shows is that you aren’t aware
of the thought—you don’t know what it is—until it comes out clothed
in words. Before that, before it gets a phonological “handle,” it’s
unconscious.
What about when you say: “The thought came to me in a flash”?
Here you may have the sense of knowing what you want to say, but it
may take a while to form all the sentences that express it. You know you
have a thought, but you can only perceive it when it takes on phonologi-
cal clothing as speech or verbal imagery—or when it comes to you as
some other kind of image, say a visual image.
Next, think about what happens when you have a word or a name on
the tip of your tongue. You know exactly what you mean, and you can
Some phenomena that test the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis
89
try out possibilities and reject them. “Um, is it refrangible? No. Refractory?
No, dammit!” Or maybe you have some vague idea of what it sounds
like: “I’m sure it starts with an r and goes ‘di-DA-di-da.’” Or: “I know
that guy over there, and I’m sure I know his name, but I can’t come up
with it.” Or: “I’m sure I know the French word for mushroom, but what
the hell is it?” What’s happening is that you’re failing to connect a piece
of meaning with a piece of pronunciation. The result is that you have the
conviction of meaningfulness, but it appears in your experience with
only a vaguely perceivable form, or with a sense of a yawning gap—the
absence of a perceivable form.1
In all these situations, meaning is formless unless it’s connected to
imaged pronunciation. Without a linked pronunciation, all that’s left in
awareness is the conviction of meaningfulness.
What’s it like for speakers of signed languages to think? I’m told that
instead of hearing sounds in their heads, they either feel hands moving
or see hands moving—the signed language counterpart of pronuncia-
tion in spoken languages. And it turns out that when they have trouble
remembering words or names, they experience a counterpart of the tip-
of-the-tongue phenomenon that might be called a “tip-of-the-fingers”
sensation. This is exactly what the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis
predicts.
What would it be like for people who speak no language? The Uncon-
scious Meaning Hypothesis leads us to guess that they don’t experience
1
This account of what the tip-of-the-tongue sensation feels like is offered by the late 19th-
century philosopher/psychologist William James. It’s the most prominent case of what has
been termed the “Feeling of Knowing.” However, the research on Feeling of Knowing typi-
cally considers only the case where you can’t recall something but feel you know it. I’d like to
see this as a variation of the more usual situation where you do recall something and have the
conviction that it’s right.
A different situation occurs in the more massive word-finding difficulties (anomia) experi-
enced by people who have certain kinds of strokes. I’m told that these people basically draw a
blank—they have no idea of the appropriate words. And the blank doesn’t come with a sense
of meaningfulness, as though there should be a word for their thought. (Thanks to David
Caplan for discussion of this issue.)
90
Consciousness and Perception
the verbal stream of consciousness that we normal speakers do, because
they lack phonological “handles” to attach to their thoughts. Prelinguis-
tic children would be a good example, except that we can’t ask them
how they experience their thought. And by the time they can talk, they
can’t remember what it was like back then.
A more promising source of evidence comes from congenitally deaf
individuals who have had no exposure to a signed language. If they
learn a signed language as adults, we can ask them what their thinking
was like before. In a BBC documentary on the relatively new signed
language of Nicaragua, one such person says (in the English transla-
tion), “I didn’t even know what it meant to think. Thinking meant
nothing to me.” Of course he must have been able to think before he
learned to speak—after all, he wasn’t a robot or a zombie, he was func-
tioning in society at least to some degree. But—as predicted by the
Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis—he wasn’t aware of it.2
In the last chapter, we saw Wittgenstein in a bind. His intuition is that
if you erase the language that expresses his thought, there’s nothing left
going through his mind. But at at the same time, he realizes that it makes
sense to say, “What I just said doesn’t express what I was trying to say”—
as if there is indeed something there besides the words.
The Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis resolves the puzzle. It says
that we can only be aware of the content of our thoughts if they’re linked
2
Another report presents the experience of a deaf individual who had never put together
an English sentence until he was 9 or 10 years old, and was not exposed to sign language until
college. He has memories of wondering how the world worked, but having no way to ask the
questions. He recalls having a sense that other people could communicate with each other,
but that he wasn’t able to. He describes saving up his questions until he had a way of asking
them.
For example, he reports having wondered at 5 or 6 years old how people communicated
on the telephone. One day he wanted his mother to stop talking on the phone. He knew from
observation that a hose could be crimped to stop the flow of water, so he applied this reason-
ing to the telephone cord and tried to stop the sound by crimping the cord (to no avail, of
course).
According to this report, then, this deaf boy had questions in his mind without having a
language to think in. What’s more, his story about the telephone shows that he was able to
use analogical reasoning without talking his way through the logic in his head. (cont.)
Some phenomena that test the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis
91
with pronunciation. So if we haven’t yet turned a thought into words,
we’re only aware at best of thinking going on, not of exactly what the
thought is. If we then utter a sentence, we can unconsciously compare
the thought it expresses with the thought we intended to express, and
we can get the feeling that the utterance is inadequate. This is what
keeps happening to me as I’m trying to write this book, and it’s why it’s
taking me so long. (What’s the “feeling that it’s inadequate”? We’ll get to
that in Chapter 35.)3
The Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis leads us to ask: In what form did he experience
these questions and this reasoning? Does this represent some form of “imageless thought”?
From his description when asked about it, it sounds as though his experience was in terms of
some kind of visual or kinesthetic imagery—the feel one has for “how things work”— accom-
panied by a feeling of connection or of questioning a connection between observed actions.
As we’ll see in Chapters 37 and 39, these intuitive feelings of connection and of questioning
connections are also an essential part of thought carried on in inner language. (I am grateful
to Naomi Berlove for this report.)
3
A view close to the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis is found in the work of the nine-
teenth-century philosopher, psychologist, and Judaic scholar Heymann Steinthal. I can’t resist
quoting him, because he’s so obscure. In his 1881 Abriss der Sprachwissenschaft (“Sketch of
Linguistics”), he spends many pages debunking the notion that thought and language are the
same thing. As evidence, he points to the possibility of translation, to the intelligent behavior
of animals and of deaf individuals with no exposure to language, to the nonlinguistic under-
standing of how machines work, and to the intelligence involved in the appreciation of art and
music. He says that these phenomena are “only possible and understandable, if we recognize
that language creates its forms independently of logic, in fullest autonomy.” He acknowledges that
“Thinking is easier for us with the help of the word, because we are accustomed to this
crutch.” But in light of the evidence, he concludes “that the asserted inseparability of thought
and speech is an exaggeration, and that man does not think in sounds and through sounds, but
rather with and in accompaniment of sounds” [my translation, his emphasis]. In other words, he
recognizes that thought is independent of language, and that the accompaniment of thought
by conscious sounds is just that, an accompaniment.
The Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis actually goes a bit beyond Steinthal. It tries to
explain why it’s so seductive to identify thought with language—because of the feeling of
meaningfulness that goes with inner speech. (Many thanks to Pim Levelt for bringing Steinthal
to my attention.)
92
17
Conscious and unconscious
To work out the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis further, we’d better
think more carefully about what it means for something to be conscious
or unconscious. This is always a perilous undertaking, but it has achieved
(or re-achieved) some aura of respectability over the past twenty years.
I want to start by doing some more linguistic therapy, this time on the
uses of conscious, consciousness, and related words. This will help us see
how the ordinary perspective on consciousness works—what we nor-
mally take consciousness to be. Then we can start thinking about a cog-
nitive perspective.
Here’s one use of conscious and unconscious.
Pat is conscious of the noises out in the street.
Pat is conscious that there are noises out in the street.
Pat was unconscious of the smell of gas in the kitchen.
Aware and unaware can be used the same way, with about the same
meaning.
Pat is aware of the noises out in the street.
Pat is aware that there are noises out in the street.
Pat was unaware of the smell of gas in the kitchen.
In this use, conscious and its relatives describe something going on in the
head of an individual, who I’ll call the “experiencer,” that concerns
something in the world, which I’ll call the “stimulus.” In these sentences,
the experiencer is Pat, and the stimuli are the noises and the smell.
Conscious and unconscious
93
The stimulus can also be in the experiencer’s body, as in the next two
examples below, or even in the experiencer’s head, as in the third and
fourth examples.
Pat is conscious of the pain in her leg.
Pat is aware of her hunger.
Pat is conscious of a tune running through her head.1
Pat is aware of the nagging suspicion that she left her keys at home.
Another use of conscious and unconscious doesn’t mention any stimu-
lus.
Pat is conscious.
Pat is unconscious.
This use describes a general state of arousal, and it might be paraphrased
as ‘conscious of things in general.’ Unconscious might be paraphrased just
as ‘knocked out,’ or more specifically as ‘unconscious of things in general.’
Even though the stimulus isn’t named, it’s there in the meaning.2
A third use of conscious and unconscious leaves out the experiencer
instead of the stimulus, as in this example.
The pronunciation and the feeling of meaningfulness are conscious.
But the attached meaning is unconscious.
1
I occasionally have the experience of part of a symphony running through my head, then
losing track of it. Then some minutes later, I notice it again, and I’m hearing a place later in
the piece, as if it has continued playing in my head even though I was unconscious of it. Do
we want to say that during the time in between, the music was still running through my head?
Certainly not consciously. I’m not sure ordinary language gives us a good way to say this.
2
This relation between conscious of X and just plain conscious isn’t too unusual. Consider
the word polite. You can’t be polite without being polite to someone. So Pat is polite is best
understood as ‘Pat is polite to people in general,’ and Pat only said that to be polite is understood
as ‘...polite to the person she was talking to.’ That is, one of the characters in the situation
isn’t mentioned, but it’s still present in the meaning anyway, because of what conscious or
polite means. Linguists call these unmentioned characters “implicit arguments.” They’re
another sort of enriched composition in the sense of Chapter 12—parts of the meaning that
don’t get said.
94
Consciousness and Perception
Again, the experiencer is there in the way we understand it: ‘the pronuncia-
tion is conscious to people’ or ‘people are conscious of the pronunciation.’
Now for the term consciousness. It has at least three uses. One is simply
the noun form of conscious, and it appears in phrases entirely parallel to
conscious of the noises in our original examples.
Pat’s consciousness of the noises out in the street grew more acute.
Pat’s consciousness of the tune running through her head drove her
nuts.
The negative version of this is unconsciousness, as in Pat’s unconsciousness
of the noises out in the street.
The second use is quite different. It’s like a place or a vessel in your mind
where experiences of things occur. Things are “in it” and “out of it.” Daniel
Dennett calls this “place” the “Cartesian theater.”
The noises in the street intruded themselves into Pat’s consciousness.
The noises in the street don’t reach Pat’s consciousness.
Pat tried to keep the pain in her leg out of her consciousness.
The importance of this situation goes beyond Pat’s consciousness.
The negative version of this isn’t unconsciousness, but rather unconscious
or subconscious.
The influences of Pat’s background in Imperialist Grammar are
still lurking in her unconscious/in her subconscious. (*in her
unconsciousness)
This suggests that the influences are in her mind “somewhere,” but not
in the “place” where things are conscious, where she experiences it.
The adverbs consciously and unconsciously also seem to pertain to these
“places” in the mind.
Pat is consciously trying to eat less.
Pat unconsciously wants to fail the exams.
The first of these says that Pat is “keeping in mind” her attempts to eat
less. The second says that Pat has a desire but doesn’t (consciously) know
Conscious and unconscious
95
it—it’s working on her behind the scenes, outside the spotlight of con-
sciousness.
And there’s one more use of consciousness:
Pat drifted in and out of consciousness for days.
In this use, consciousness is again a like a “place.” But this time it isn’t
stimuli that go in and out, it’s the experiencer. When Pat drifts into con-
sciousness, she’s conscious of things in general. When she drifts out—or
“falls into unconsciousness”—she’s unconscious of things in general.
Here’s a tricky question: Are you conscious when you’re dreaming?
On one hand, we want to say you’re unconscious, because you’re not
experiencing things in the world. On the other hand, you’re certainly
having experiences: seeing things, talking to people, maybe even flying.
So it’s some funny way of being conscious, out on the fringes—sort of
like when we talk about snakes and airplanes climbing, as we discussed
in Chapter 11.
96
18
What does “What is
consciousness?” mean?
If we ask “What is consciousness?”, what are we asking? I don’t want to
ask it in a deep portentous voice,
WHAT IS CONSCIOUSNESS?
I’m not interested in transcendental cosmic profundity, I’m interested in
how the mind works. (We’ll get to the profundity in Chapter 26.)
What does “What is consciousness?” mean?
97
The first thing we have to settle is which sense of consciousness we’re
talking about. If we have in mind the “process” sense (Pat is conscious of
the noise), the question could be rephrased as: “What’s going on when
someone is conscious of something?” If we’re thinking of the “vessel”
sense (The noise entered Pat’s consciousness), the question could be:
“When someone is conscious of something, where is the relevant
action going on?”
There’s a very traditional view, most prominently associated with
Descartes, that the “vessel of consciousness” is the same thing as the
mind. If someone isn’t conscious of something, it simply hasn’t “entered
their mind.” In this view, being conscious—or having a mind—is one of
the Big Things that Make Us Human:
Humans have souls.
•
Humans are conscious.
•
Humans are rational.
•
Humans have language.
•
Humans have moral responsibility.
•
Some people add an appealing fillip of profundity:
Humans know they’re going to die!
•
For Descartes, consciousness and the mind are part of the nonphysical
soul, so they’re outside the purview of physical investigation. (We’ll get
to souls in Chapter 31.)
According to this view, animals are mere machines (these days maybe
we’d say they “only operate by instinct”). They lack souls, rationality,
minds, language, and moral responsibility. They’re unconscious. Instinct
is mere instinct or brute instinct, something less than rational, something
to be devalued.
Sometimes human emotions also go in this “lower” animal category—
or at least negative and selfish emotions like lust, greed, and gluttony do.
In order to achieve our true humanity, we’re supposed to try to suppress
98
Consciousness and Perception
these bad impulses, rise above them. On the other hand, certain other
emotions like pure love of God and transcendental ecstasy are some-
times considered higher and more valuable than even reason. It depends
who you talk to.
In the early 20th century, Freud proposed that beneath the “vessel” of
consciousness is the deep, dark, roiling, scary domain of the unconscious,
full of forbidden and threatening thoughts and motives. Freud’s vision of
the mind entailed a wrenching conceptual shift that took a long time to
take hold. Even as late as the 1950s, the journalist Max Eastman could
write of Freud’s theory, “Brain action can be unconscious, and largely is,
but to be mind and to be unconscious is, if words are to have genuine
meaning, a contradiction in terms.” Wittgenstein, writing around the
same time, seems to equate “mental” and “conscious” too—at least he
never talks about the “unconscious mind.” Nowadays, though, anyone
who does psychotherapy takes Freud’s perspective for granted (even if the
contents of the unconscious may be a lot different than Freud thought).
Around the same time, the behaviorists, led by John B. Watson and
later B. F. Skinner, took a different tack, and proclaimed that science
(that is to say, Science) could and should only investigate the mechani-
cal aspects of humans—their behavior. Talking about minds, they said,
is all superstition. Look how much science gained when it stopped attrib-
uting desires and intentions to rocks. We could make even more progress
if science would only stop attributing them to humans too. As for con-
sciousness, forget it! A taboo subject.
The second half of the 20th century gave birth to the “cognitive
revolution.” The brain came to be thought of as an information-process-
ing device, sort of like a computer. Older readers will remember that the
early computers were nicknamed “electronic brains.” And of course
computer scientists borrowed the term “memory” from its counterpart
in humans. (Then the computer term was borrowed back when we
started talking about people “retrieving things from their memory
banks”—computer memories in those days were huge racks of vacuum
tubes—and about people’s memories being “full.”)
What does “What is consciousness?” mean?
99
Since the beginning, computers have been routinely described from
two perspectives. The “hardware” perspective describes what goes on in
the physical device: the power supply, the layout of circuits, the changes
of voltage in each circuit, and how each physical part of the computer
contributes to the activity of other parts. The “software” perspective
talks about the logic of what the computer is doing: the structure of pro-
grams and how they manipulate data structures (which may include
other programs). These perspectives aren’t independent. Everything
going on in the software has to be physically supported by something
going on in the hardware. Otherwise the computer couldn’t do what it
does from the software perspective—it doesn’t work by magic. But usu-
ally we don’t have to know how the hardware works—only the engineer
and the repairman do. We can act as though the computer just carries
out the software instructions, period. For all we care, as long as it works,
it might as well be magic.
These two perspectives on computers made it attractive to think in a
similar way about the brain and the mind. The brain plays a role like the
physical computer, with neurons instead of transistors and blood vessels
instead of a power supply. But we can also think of the brain as processing
information or performing computations, and we can ask about the logical
structure of this information and these computations. This is a version of the
cognitive perspective, going back to pioneers such as John von Neumann.
Cognitive scientists often use the word mind (or mind/brain) for this per-
spective, but it’s quite different from the Cartesian or even the Freudian
notion of the mind. For instance, as we discussed earlier, in Chapter 2, the
basic approach of modern linguistics is to think of language users as having
a system of principles in their heads. But when we talk about the rules of
grammar or of phonological structure being in the mind, we’re not talking
about anything conscious. Speakers can’t tell you what the principles are,
and no process like psychotherapy can uncover them. The principles are as
inaccessible to introspection as the condition of your spleen. Speakers just
use them intuitively—that is, unconsciously. This makes no sense in the
traditional perspective that equates “mental” and “conscious.”
100
Consciousness and Perception
This computational notion of the mind is an advance on the
behaviorists—it does admit there’s such a thing as a mind that’s worth
investigating scientifically. But it still looks at the mind/brain as a
mechanical system, subject to the laws of physics, and it actually doesn’t
have much to say about consciousness. To be sure, it says that some of
the information in the mind, such as the rules of grammar, are uncon-
scious. But it doesn’t say why any of the information in the mind should
be conscious. Why isn’t everything unconscious? Consciousness doesn’t
seem to play much of a role in this picture.
There’s a more serious problem. In the ordinary perspective, a person
is conscious of something in the world. It makes no sense to say a brain is
conscious of its neural firings, or that a mind (in the computational sense)
is conscious of information that it’s processing. This is even true when
we’re talking about imagery. If you hear the Joycean stream of conscious-
ness, or if you dream of a flying cow, it’s not because there are words or
a flying cow actually in your head. From the brain perspective, there are
only neural firings in there, not too different from the neural firings
when you hear spoken words or see real cows. From the computational
perspective, there are only data structures (or “mental representations”)
in there, being manipulated by computational processes.
But the computational perspective on brain and mind can still help us
make sense of the question “What is consciousness?” Your experiences
depend on what’s going on in your brain. If you take drugs that alter the
operation of your brain, or if you suffer brain damage, it affects not only
your behavior but your experience. When you’re recognizing a face, dif-
ferent parts of your brain are active than when you’re recognizing build-
ings. If your skull is opened for brain surgery and different parts of your
brain are electrically stimulated, you may report various experiences: tin-
gles in parts of your body, hearing tunes, nostalgic memories, and so on.
To understand the connection between stuff going on in your brain
and your having an experience, we need to ask: How can anything in the
mind/brain, whether we regard it as neural firings or as information
manipulation, add up to experience? This is the traditional mind–body
What does “What is consciousness?” mean?
101
problem, where “mind” is understood in the traditional sense, not the
computational sense.
In answering this question, it’s important to remember that we’re not
just asking about your ability to respond to stimuli intelligently. That’s a
question about what determines your physical behavior. We can account
for that with a mechanistic solution (at least in principle). No, we’re ask-
ing about having experiences. I’m writing this while sitting out on my
patio on a beautiful late June day, experiencing the sight of the screen of
my laptop, the stone wall, and the bushes; the sounds of kids playing and
birds singing and traffic going by and my computer’s little whine; the
feel of the keyboard under my fingers. How do we get to any of that
from neural firing or information processing?
David Chalmers has called this the “Hard Problem,” the real sticking
point in a physical explanation of consciousness. Many philosophers
and neuroscientists concur with Chalmers (for example John Searle and
William Robinson). Many others, such as Daniel Dennett and Paul and
Patricia Churchland, contend that the problem actually isn’t so hard,
and maybe if we look closely enough we’ll find that we’ve already solved
it. I personally don’t think this question is tractable at this point in the sci-
ences of the mind and brain, so I’d just as soon set it aside for now. (On the
other hand, I’m not one of those guys who says “We’ll have it solved in
fifteen years!” or “We’ll never solve it!” or “It’s beyond human capacities
to solve it!” Let’s just keep our eyes open for the right opportunity.)
Meanwhile, we don’t have to give up hope. There’s a second impor-
tant question we can ask about the connection between the brain and
experience: What particular patterns of neural firing and information
manipulation are correlated with which particular aspects of experience?
This question, I think, is tractable, and in fact it’s the subject of vigorous
research. We can break it down: Is being conscious of things a special
property of neurons? Of certain kinds of neurons? Of big enough collec-
tions of neurons? Of big enough collections of neurons with some par-
ticular organization? Or from the computational perspective: Is being
conscious of things a special property of certain forms of data structures
102
Consciousness and Perception
and information manipulation? Are certain brain activities (from one
perspective) and certain data structures (from the other) more responsi-
ble for the sight of the stone wall, and others for the sound of the birds?
Within the brain perspective, Francis Crick and Christof Koch have
called this the question of the “neural correlates of consciousness,” and
along with many others they have investigated it primarily in terms of
visual experience. Thinking in terms of the “vessel” sense of conscious-
ness, they ask: What areas of the brain are most directly correlated with
what aspects of experience? In terms of the “process” sense, they ask:
When we’re having such-and-such kinds of experience, what are these
areas doing (in concert with the rest of the brain, of course)?
From the computational perspective, we can pose a parallel question
about the “cognitive correlates of consciousness.” In the “vessel” sense
of consciousness, we can ask: Among the different sorts of data struc-
tures the mind processes, which sorts correlate best with the character
of various aspects of experience? In the “process” sense, we can ask:
Exactly what is happening to these data structures when the relevant
aspects of experience are present?
To sum up this chapter: “What is consciousness?” is best answered in
terms of both brain and computational (or cognitive) perspectives. From
either perspective, we can ask which parts of the mind/brain correlate
with which aspects of experience, and exactly what is going on in these
parts when a particular experience is taking place. In addition, though,
we face the Hard Problem of how anything going on in the brain could
add up to experience. Along with Crick, Koch, and many others, I sug-
gest we can make a lot of progress on the question of correlation with-
out first answering the Hard Problem.
103
19
Three cognitive correlates
of conscious thought
Let’s now go back to the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis—the idea
that what we experience as conscious thought gets its form not from
meaning, but from the inner voice, the verbal images of pronunciation.
We can now think of this as a hypothesis about the cognitive correlates
of consciousness.
From the cognitive perspective, a linguistic expression consists of
three linked data structures in the mind: phonology (pronunciation),
syntax (grammar), and semantics (meaning). Phonology organizes the
expression as a pattern of speech sounds grouped into syllables, words,
and phrases, and overlaid with intonation (the rises and falls in the pitch
of the voice). Syntax organizes the expression in terms of grammatical
units: nouns, verbs, and so on, grouped into phrases, clauses, and sen-
tences. Semantics organizes the meaning in terms of conceptual units:
conceptualized objects and persons (such as lions and bears) play roles in
conceptualized situations and events (such as events of chasing). Seman-
tics is the data structure involved in thinking—it links to the rest of our
understanding of the world.
The Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis says that among these three
data structures, the one that most resembles the experience of thought
is phonology. We hear phonological words in our heads, words from
a particular language—“I think in English.” In other words, imaged
Consciousness and Perception
104
pronunciation rather than meaning is the main cognitive correlate of
conscious thought. If you still find this hypothesis unsettling, please
continue to bear with me. And you may want to review the reasons
that led us to it in Chapters 15 and 16.
In Chapter 15, we talked about a second component in the experience
of your inner voice: the feeling of meaningfulness that’s associated with
the pronunciation. What’s the cognitive correlate of this component of
the experience? Could it be the thought? If so, that would disprove
the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis, because then thought would be
conscious.
But I don’t think this is the right answer. Here’s why. When you hear
something like thit that isn’t linked to a meaning, no feeling of meaning-
fulness comes along with it—it’s just a noise. When you do have the feel-
ing of meaningfulness, it actually doesn’t much matter exactly what the
meaning is. All that matters is that the pronunciation has a link to some
meaning or another. So the feeling of meaningfulness really only depends
on the existence of a link, not on the thought the link is attached to.
There’s one more important thing we still have to account for. When
you hear other people (or yourself) actually speaking, you recognize it
as a real sound, out there in the world. When you’re hearing the inner
voice in your head, you recognize it as a voice in your head, as a verbal
image. In either case, your mind/brain has to link up phonological,
grammatical, and semantic structures, so the sound goes with the mean-
ing. But if they’re the same in this respect, what makes having a verbal
image different from hearing actual speech?
Remember: The difference can’t just be that you simply know where
the sound is coming from. The mind/brain can’t achieve this under-
standing by magic—it has to create it. In fact, the mind doesn’t always get
it right. When people talk to us in our dreams, we experience the speech
as their real voices, not as voices in our own heads. And schizophrenics
experience unbidden voices not as inner speech, but as someone (such as
God or the devil) speaking to them. “So what?” you may say; “These are
abnormal situations. They don’t count. After all, we get it right when
Three cognitive correlates of conscious thought
105
things are normal.” Well, the thing is, these less normal cases show that
our experience isn’t hooked up directly to reality. Our sense of reality
has to be generated by the mind/brain—even when what’s out there
really is real. (And by the way, what’s so abnormal about dreaming?)
Just to make life a bit more uncomfortable: As we noticed in Chap-
ters 5 and 6, pronunciation isn’t exactly “out in the world” anyway. All
there is out in the world is sound waves. It’s an incredible computational
feat for the brain to divide these waves into sounds and words, a feat that
we’ve had a hell of a time getting computers to duplicate. When you
experience real speech in terms of words made of speech sounds, are you
right (even though it’s “really” sound waves”)? Or are you having an illu-
sion? A funny question. I guess we could say you’re right if you manage
to decode the words that the speaker had in mind. But that goes way
beyond the physical signal “out in the world.” It’s talking about what’s in
the speaker’s mind, which we can’t observe directly. And is it wrong if
you hear a parrot or a computer as speaking, rather than just making
noises? Well, only kind of. All in all, right and wrong seem to me the
wrong categories here.
Here’s a better way to think about it: When you’re hearing external
speech (others’ or your own), your mind is receiving auditory signals
from the ears and constructing patterns of pronunciation linked to
them. When you’re imagining speech or just hearing it in your head,
your mind is constructing a pronunciation without a link to auditory
signals. So the presence or absence of this link can act as a normal cog-
nitive correlate of the distinction between the experiences of “really
hearing” and “imagining hearing.”
I say a “normal” cognitive correlate in order to take into account the
experience of dreamers and schizophrenics. In these cases, something
else must be responsible for the sense of externally heard speech. One
possibility is that the correlate isn’t the link itself, but a “monitor” that
checks for the presence of a link between pronunciation and auditory
signals. Normally it signals “external” when it finds a link, and “image”
when the link is absent. But when you’re dreaming, it signals “external”
Consciousness and Perception
106
no matter what (and not just to speech but to objects too—you see things
out there, as if they were real, as we’ll discuss in Chapter 21). In schizo-
phrenia, perhaps the monitor signals unsystematically, accounting for
the schizophrenic’s blurred sense of reality. It’s sort of like when some-
thing is wrong with your car’s engine, but the “check engine” light fails
to go on, because something is wrong with the circuit for the light itself.
You go driving merrily along, thinking everything is okay. The same
sort of thing is happening with the sense of reality in dreaming and schiz-
ophrenia. The idea, then, is that we experience verbal images when we
have a pronunciation in mind that isn’t linked to an auditory signal—and
the monitor is working normally.
Of course there are other auditory signals that don’t link to pronun-
ciations, such as music and the sound of the traffic. These aren’t heard as
speech—they acquire their cognitive significance through other routes
in the mind. Also, signed languages replace auditory input with visual,
and replace verbal pronunciation with linguistically structured hand and
face configurations.
Here’s a diagram that sums up where we’ve gotten so far with the
Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis. It’s an elaboration of the way I laid
out the cognitive perspective in Chapter 15.
THOUGHT
PRONUNCIATION
I
IMAGE
MONITOR
AUDITORY
INPUT
EARS IMAGE!
MEANINGFULNESS
MONITOR
MEANINGFUL!
Having a conscious thought
Three cognitive correlates of conscious thought
107
As in the previous diagram, an unconscious thought is linked to a pro-
nunciation that’s a cognitive correlate of consciousness. The pronunciation
contributes the form of the experience—hearing the thought in English.
This diagram has two new parts. The first is the “meaningfulness
monitor,” which checks to see if there is a link between the pronuncia-
tion and a thought. In this case there is a link, so the monitor registers
the feeling “meaningful” linked to the pronunciation, as a cognitive cor-
relate of consciousness. I’m going to call this feeling of meaningfulness a
“character tag”—it signals the overall character of the experience.
The second new part is the “image monitor,” which checks to see if
there is a link between the pronunciation and auditory input delivered
from the ears. In this case there isn’t a link (as I’ve indicated by the dashed
line), so the monitor registers the feeling “image” as another character
tag linked to the pronunciation, again as a cognitive correlate of con-
sciousness.
The pronunciation is a rich data structure in the mind that correlates
with a rich aspect of experience. The other two cognitive correlates, the
character tags, are relatively simple data structures—the presence or
absence of links between different data structures in the mind. They cor-
relate with simple yet profound distinctions in the “feel” of the experi-
ence. In Chapters 25 and 26 we’ll return to these sorts of distinctions of
“feel” and lay out a few more.
108
20
Some prestigious theories
of consciousness
Before pushing on farther, I’d like to pause a moment and see what the
Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis has to say about some other
approaches to consciousness. As I mentioned in Chapter 18, there’s a
long tradition of thinking that our intelligence and our consciousness are
the highest, most noble, most awe-inspiring aspects of being human.
And because intelligence and consciousness are both awe-inspiring, peo-
ple often infer (or take for granted!) that they must be the same thing.
For instance, the neuroscientist Antonio Damasio says that conscious
images are “the highest level of biological phenomena.” Another neuro-
scientist, Bernard Baars, says that consciousness “is king of the hill: all
active mental processes make use of it.”
According to the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis, this is a big mis-
take. For one thing, we now know that other animals, especially higher
primates like chimpanzees and gorillas, can think. In the laboratory, they
solve complicated problems set by clever experimenters, and in real life
they navigate the world, find food, avoid predators, and even create
tools. Most impressively, they deal with a sophisticated social environ-
ment in a fashion that has been termed “Machiavellian intelligence.”
Maybe they don’t think with the precision and scope we do—they don’t
invent plows and televisions and theories of consciousness—but neither
are they just “driven by instinct” like machines, as Aristotle and Des-
cartes thought.
Some prestigious theories of consciousness
109
Of course, there are major differences between us and our primate
cousins. One difference is that we have language—the ability to con-
vert our thoughts into communicable form by linking them to pro-
nunciation. According to the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis, this
linking bestows on us a second difference: language enables us to be
conscious of our thoughts in a way that animals can’t be. But it’s not
through awareness of the thoughts themselves. Rather, it’s through
awareness of the phonological “handles” linked to the thoughts,
which other animals lack. (This is not to say that if other animals had
language, they’d be as smart as us. There are lots of other important
cognitive differences.)
In short, beings without language can have thoughts, and our con-
sciousness derives its form from the pronunciation of the inner voice,
not directly from our thoughts themselves. So thought and conscious-
ness aren’t the same thing at all.
From the standpoint of the traditional view of consciousness, this con-
clusion seems crazy. How can the contents of consciousness be nothing
but a string of sounds? That’s way too trivial, not nearly awe-inspiring
enough. Nevertheless, the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis is based on
really paying attention to the experience of thinking, not by starting with a
preconception that consciousness must somehow be Profound.
The Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis also calls into question many
views of consciousness that have been popular among recent philoso-
phers and neuroscientists. I can’t go through them all, but I’ll mention
some of the more prominent ones. Readers who have a favorite I don’t
mention are invited to see how it fares in light of the Unconscious Mean-
ing Hypothesis.
Some theories of consciousness from a neural perspective attribute it
to some general property of neurons, such as some particular quantum
activity, the activity of certain receptors on neurons, or some “proto-
awareness” connected to the receptive fields of neurons. I certainly agree
that certain neural activities must be necessary for you to be conscious
rather than out cold. But why do the neural activities responsible for
Consciousness and Perception
110
pronunciation correlate closely with the form of your experience, yet
those responsible for thought don’t? In fact, even if you think that thought
is a cognitive correlate of consciousness, everybody knows that the neu-
ral activities connected with producing eye movements and regulating
heart rate aren’t correlates of consciousness. So why some neural activi-
ties and not others? As far as I know, these theories never even ask these
questions.
A more promising theory is that consciousness is a sort of “executive”
capacity that oversees the activity of the mind when it gets into diffi-
culty. The idea is that as an activity becomes more automatic, it fades
from consciousness. For instance, as you’re learning to drive, you gradu-
ally stop thinking about where the brake pedal is, and you don’t need to
consciously put your foot there—it just goes there automatically. This
view is espoused by people as different as the philosopher/psychologist
William James, the developmental psychologist Jerome Bruner, the
computer scientist Marvin Minsky, and the neurophysiologist John
Eccles.
In the same vein, the neuroscientist Christof Koch proposes that the
contents of consciousness are “potent symbolic representations of a
fiendish amount of simultaneous information associated with any one
percept—its meaning.” He views consciousness as providing an “execu-
tive summary” of the current situation, which can be “sent off to the
planning stages of the brain to help decide a future course of action.”
“The function of consciousness, therefore, is to handle those special situ-
ations for which no automatic procedures are available.” In other words,
consciousness is the best, highest, and most important part of thinking.
The proponents of this “executive” view never seem to notice that
plenty of conscious activities don’t present any difficulties at all. Think of
lying on the beach on a beautiful day. You’re perfectly relaxed, there’s
no stress. You hear the waves, watch people, listen to the seagulls, and
so on. The “executive” theory predicts that since there are no problems
to be solved here, the environment should fade from your awareness.
But it doesn’t—unless you doze off, of course.
Some prestigious theories of consciousness
111
My guess is that executive activity is actually more a function of
attention than of consciousness. After you learn to drive, you don’t have
to pay attention to where your foot is going, and when you’re con-
scious of all the stuff at the beach, you may or may not pay attention
to it.1
Even if this view of consciousness as an “executive” manages to deal
somehow with the experience of the beach, it’s still in serious trouble.
According to the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis, the main cognitive
correlate of the experience of thinking is pronunciation. But pronuncia-
tion—a string of sounds—isn’t any use at all to the “executive” or plan-
ning part of the brain, which, as Koch notices, needs the meaning.
Meaning is unconscious, aside from the simple feeling of meaningful-
ness. This means that the contents of consciousness can’t be what the
brain needs in order to cope with difficult situations.
According to another popular view of consciousness, espoused by
Douglas Hofstadter among many others, consciousness somehow arises
when the mind creates a reflexive representation of itself—conscious-
ness consists of (or is produced by) “higher-order” thoughts about think-
ing, so-called “metacognition.” This sounds appropriately profound, and
Hofstadter even manages to make it sound awe-inspiring.
The Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis does recognize two compo-
nents that sort of look like the mind representing itself. One is the feeling
of meaningfulness, which comes from the mind keeping track of whether
it has linked pronunciation with meaning. The other is the sense that a
chunk of language is an image in the head rather than someone speak-
ing, which comes from the mind keeping track of whether it has linked
pronunciation to an auditory input. These two components are indeed
1
The philosopher Ned Block distinguishes “phenomenal consciousness”—the full con-
tents of your field of awareness—from “access consciousness”—the contents of consciousness
that you can actually report verbally. Access consciousness might be identified with the focus
of attention, and hence with the parts of experience that can be linked to elements of thought
involved in conscious planning. In Block’s terms, I’m interested here in phenomenal con-
sciousness, which seems to be a good deal broader.
Consciousness and Perception
112
mental representations of what’s going on in the mind, and they do con-
tribute an important part to the character of our experience.
But these factors don’t contribute the form of our experience. They’re
much too crude—they can’t distinguish one thought from another. The
main thing that differentiates the experience of one word or phrase from
another is its pronunciation. And pronunciation as such is completely
useless for representing thoughts about your own mind or your own
thoughts. It’s only a coding of sounds that are linked with thought—
something way more humble than this “metacognitive” view expects.
(In Chapter 38 we’ll see how having phonological “handles” for thought
does help us reflect on our thoughts. We still have a lot of ground to
cover first, though.)
Another influential theory of consciousness is Bernard Baars’s view of
the conscious field as a “global workspace”:
...conscious contents become “globally available” to many unconscious
systems. The reader’s consciousness of this phrase, for example, makes this
phrase available to interpretive systems that analyze its syntax and meaning,
its emotional and motivational import, and its implications for thought and
action.
David Chalmers puts it like this:
...the contents of awareness are to be understood as those information
contents that are accessible to central systems, and brought to bear in a
widespread way in the control of behavior.
Stanislas Dehaene and Lionel Naccache say:
...dynamic mobilization makes [information available within one faculty of
mind] directly available in its original format to all other workspace
processes.
This view again treats consciousness as closely linked with thought—
consciousness broadcasts thoughts to the whole mind. It’s easy to see
that this approach has the same problem as the “executive” and “meta-
cognitive” approaches. The “central systems” of the mind are concerned
Some prestigious theories of consciousness
113
with making inferences, integrating knowledge, and planning a course
of action. They have to work with meaning or thought, which is not a
cognitive correlate of consciousness. The data structure or “format” that
does correlate with consciousness is pronunciation—patterns of sounds,
which are of absolutely no use to the central systems! So again, the form
of thought and the form of consciousness aren’t the same.2
I think all of these views suffer from the fact that they don’t pay atten-
tion to the experience of “hearing thoughts” as language in the head.
And when they do mention language, they fail to distinguish between
the two entirely different data structures involved in meaning and in
pronunciation. It’s meaning that does the work the “executive” and
“global workspace” theories want consciousness to do. But it’s the other
data structure, pronunciation, that’s actually conscious.
2
A reader has suggested that the quotes above are speaking of access consciousness in Ned
Block’s sense (note 1). If so, (a) they leave the nature of phenomenal consciousness com-
pletely open, and (b) they still fall to the objection that the form of consciousness is deter-
mined by pronunciation.
114
21
What’s it like to see things?
So far I’ve been talking about thought and consciousness in terms of
language. But we can’t stop there. We also have to look at nonverbal
kinds of thought and consciousness, the sorts we might share with babies
and apes. So I want to look a bit at the experience of seeing.
We take seeing for granted. The world out there is full of all these
things, and our eyes tell our brains about them. Seeing the world seems
totally transparent, even more so than using language. Well, it turns out
it’s not that simple. What comes to the eyes isn’t enough to explain what
we see.
In Chapter 10, we looked at why visual imagery alone can’t serve as
the form of thought. The same examples I used there also show why
understanding the things we see in the world involves more than what
comes to the eyes. For instance, seeing that something is a triangle
involves comparing it not just to some particular triangle we might have
in memory, but to the abstract definition of a triangle—having three
sides and three angles. And when we see an action causing something to
happen, all our eyes provide is the action taking place, followed by the
other thing happening immediately after. To understand that this adds
up to causation, our minds have to make additional connections that
aren’t present in the visual input. Our minds make these connections
even when we watch cartoons, where all that reaches our eyes is a
sequence of pictures created by an animator.
What’s it like to see things?
115
It turns out that visual perception has many properties reminiscent of
language perception, and it’s interesting to explore the parallels. Let’s
start with ambiguous sentences, whose pronunciation can be linked with
more than one meaning.
Visiting relatives can be boring.
You have no idea how good meat tastes.
The man in the chair with a broken leg is drooling.
In just the same way, visual displays like these can be understood in
more than one way.
Necker cube duck - rabbit
Wittgenstein has a long passage about the duck-rabbit and related dis-
plays. He ruminates about seeing it under different “aspects,” and he
senses a “close kinship” between seeing something in a particular aspect
and “experiencing the meaning of a word.” I don’t know of a convenient
term for the duck-rabbit figure without any interpretation. Let’s call it a
“visual surface.” This is the most we can get from the eyes alone. I’d like
to think of the experience of the “duck-rabbit as duck” as linking the
visual surface to one meaning, and “duck-rabbit as rabbit” as linking it to
another—different ways of achieving a “visual understanding” of the
visual surface. The fact that the same visual surface can be linked to two
ways of understanding it shows that the mind is adding something to
what the eyes alone provide.
Consciousness and Perception
116
I’m going to try to show you that just as the meaning of a sentence is
unconscious, visual understanding is too. That is, there is a counterpart
of the Unconscious Meaning Hypothesis for vision. For example, let’s go
back to our example of “reference transfer” from Chapter 12.
The ham sandwich in the corner wants some coffee.
In order for this sentence to make sense, its subject has to be understood
not as ‘the ham sandwich’ but as ‘the person with the ham sandwich’,
even though the words the person with aren’t there in the pronunciation.
A sort of visual counterpart of reference transfer is so-called “amodal
completion” in examples like the “Kanizsa triangle” below. You can’t
help but see an upright triangle in front of three circles and an upside-
down triangle, even though the visual surface doesn’t give you the com-
plete borders of any of these shapes.
Kanizsa triangle
So your visual understanding goes beyond what’s presented to the eyes,
in much the same way as linguistic understanding goes beyond what’s
presented in the pronunciation.
Another case we discussed in Chapter 12 was ellipsis:
Amy doesn’t want to go to New York, but I do.
This is interpreted as ‘...but I do want to go to New York.’ It can’t be
interpreted as, say, ‘...but I do like cheese.’ A counterpart in vision is
so-called “modal completion,” or occlusion. In the left-hand figure
What’s it like to see things?
117
below, you can’t help but see a horizontal bar passing behind the vertical
bar. That is, you see it as the middle figure below. Of course, if the left-
hand figure had a real vertical bar that you could remove, it just might
turn out that behind the vertical bar was some weird shape, as in the
right-hand figure. But it’s real hard to see the left-hand figure that way.
Occlusion Can be seen as: Very hard to see as:
Actually, if you think about it, all visual perception involves occlusion.
You don’t see the backs of objects, but you assume they’re there. You’d
be freaked out if the person you’re looking at turned around and what
you saw was a hollow shell like the back of a mask. When I’ve spoken of
meanings in language being “hidden,” I’ve basically been drawing on the
analogy to seeing. At least half of every object we see is hidden.
Another example: what’s the difference between seeing a bookcase
and a bookcase with a cat behind it?
Consciousness and Perception
118
They look the same—they present the same visual surface—but they feel
different. The difference is in your visual understanding. This case is sort
of parallel to the difference between Plato is on the top shelf when you
mean the real guy Plato and when you mean the book by Plato. They
sound the same but feel different, because of the difference in the way
you understand them.
In the next two sentences, the individual words are meaningful, but
they don’t add up to anything that makes sense.1
Colorless green ideas sleep furiously.
I’ve forgotten the score of the sonata I hope to compose someday.
Visual displays like the next two have the same problem. Any small part
makes sense, but you can’t put all the parts together.
1
These are famous examples of Chomsky’s, the first from his Syntactic Structures, the sec-
ond from Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. The first sentence might be understood with a very
heavy application of metaphor; the second sentence might be understood as ironic. In either
case, they only make a sort of sense because lots of meaning has been added through enriched
composition.
“trident”
M. C. Escher, “Waterfall”
What’s it like to see things?
119
What would be the visual analogue of a meaningless utterance—an
utterance that can’t be linked to a meaning at all? Consider the way the
display below looks if you haven’t yet had the experience of “seeing it”:
“Oh, that’s what it is!”
Perhaps a linguistic parallel to this figure would be this mock-French
expression, which is made of real French words that make no sense
together, but which “pops” into English if you read it out loud.
Pas de lieu Rhône que nous.
In both cases, the perception comes with the “aspect” of meaningless-
ness, and then suddenly, when it “pops,” it becomes linked to a meaning
that makes the experience altogether different.2
There’s a huge number of phenomena like these, many far more strik-
ing (but they often involve color and/or videos so I can’t show them to
you here). They’re the stock in trade of psychologists and neuroscien-
tists studying visual perception, just as odd sentences are the stock in
trade of linguists. Here’s why I’m showing them to you: From the ordi-
nary perspective, “seeing the world” is perfectly straightforward, and
2
In case you don’t get it: The picture is a Dalmatian seen from the left and behind, and the
sentence is Paddle your own canoe.
Consciousness and Perception
120
these phenomena are somewhat mysterious and (to at least some peo-
ple) titillating. From the cognitive and neural perspectives, though, we
want go beyond mystery and titillation to know how these things
work.
Why is it interesting to study illusions? The reason is that when we
experience illusions like the ones I’ve shown you, the visual system is just
doing its job in the normal way. But it so happens that in these cases it
comes up with unexpected results. So these phenomena help reveal the
tricks that the visual system uses to come up with visual understanding.
It turns out that “seeing the world as it is,” that is, achieving visual
understanding, involves a phenomenal amount of mental computation.
Somehow, the brain converts the patterns of light arriving on the retina
into perceptions of a rich three-dimensional external world—which, as
we’ve just seen, includes lots of things that aren’t in the patterns of light
at all. As Kant guessed, and as the gestalt psychologists of the early 20th
century really demonstrated, our mind/brains have to construct the
world that we see. The prominent psychologist George Miller put it
like this:
The crowning intellectual accomplishment of the brain is the real world...all
the fundamental aspects of the real world of our experience are adaptive
interpretations of the really real world of physics.
A lot is understood about how this is accomplished, but far from every-
thing.
One thing becomes clear right away in this research: How the mind
arrives at visual understanding is completely hidden from consciousness.
We can’t figure out how it works by just reflecting on our experience, as
the philosophers of the past tried to. Above all, we have absolutely no
sense that our view of the world is generated inside our heads. Visual
understanding comes with an unshakable conviction of objective real-
ity—awareness of “the world out there.” You never think to question
this conviction, unless you’re an artist or you’re studying visual percep-
tion, in which case it breaks down pretty fast.
121
22
Two components of thought
and meaning
When I used the term “meaning” in the last chapter in reference to vis-
ual perception, was I talking about the same thing as when I talk about
the meaning of a word, phrase, or sentence? Let’s sum up the things they
have in common.
Linguistic meaning is hidden from awareness, but much of it is
•
linked to pronunciation. Similarly, the last chapter suggested that
visual meaning (or visual understanding) is hidden from awareness,
but some parts of it are linked to a visual surface.
A pronunciation feels meaningful when it’s linked to a meaning. It
•
then serves as a conscious “handle” for the meaning. Similarly, a
visual surface feels meaningful when it’s linked to a visual meaning.
It then serves as a conscious “handle” for the visual meaning.
An ambiguous phrase or sentence is linked to two different
•
meanings. An ambiguous visual surface like the Necker cube or the
duck-rabbit is linked to two different visual meanings.
Linguistic meanings are what make inference possible. Visual
•
meanings are what make “spatial inference” possible. For example,
they lead us to anticipate what we’ll see when we remove an
occlusion or move around to the back of something. And if we a see
a car heading for a tree, we expect a crash.
Consciousness and Perception
122
Still, this doesn’t mean that linguistic and visual meaning are the same
thing. In fact, there are lots of reasons to believe they’re not. In Chapter
10, we saw many aspects of thought that can be expressed in language
but not in pictures: causation, states of mind, possibility, social relations,
and even simple things like triangles in general. By the same token, many
aspects of visual understanding can’t be expressed in language. As they
say, a picture is worth a thousand words. Try to describe in words exactly
what the duck-rabbit looks like.
But there has to be some connection between the two kinds of
meaning. If there weren’t, how could we talk about what we see—
however imperfectly? How do we connect one way of seeing the
duck-rabbit with the word duck, and the other way with the word
rabbit?
From the ordinary perspective, of course, this question hardly
bears asking. We just talk about what we see in the world, and that’s
all there is to it. It’s as natural and obvious as anything. It’s only when
we enter the cognitive perspective, and ask how we do it, how our
brains do it, that suddenly there’s a big puzzle. After all, speech
sounds don’t resemble visual appearances at all. What connects
and duck?
Here’s a sketch of how we make this connection. Thought and mean-
ing draw on two complementary kinds of mental representation (or data
structures). One kind, which I’ll call “spatial structure,” is more closely
related to visual perception and visual imagery. The other kind, which
I’ll call “conceptual structure,” is more closely related to language. Each
has its own virtues for encoding thoughts.
Spatial structure deals with matters like the detailed shape of objects,
how they’re laid out in space, and how they move around. But it’s more
than a picture or a video, because it encodes everything you understand
about the size, shape, and position of objects. For instance, even though
two objects may be different sizes in the visual surface, you may under-
stand them as the same size, because spatial structure encodes them as
the same size but at different distances.
Two components of thought and meaning
123
And spatial structure encodes not just the parts of objects you see at
the moment, but their full shapes, even things like a balloon being hol-
low. When the cat goes behind the bookcase, you don’t see it, because
it’s not encoded in the visual surface. But you still know it’s there,
because it’s encoded in spatial structure.
Conceptual structure encodes different sorts of things. It deals
with matters like keeping track of the individuals you know, assign-
ing objects to categories (such as ‘dog’), and decomposing events
into the actions of their characters (such as bears chasing lions). In
addition to the parts of meaning linked to words, it encodes all the
parts that aren’t linked to words, such as those I talked about in
Chapter 12.
There’s an important difference between the two structures. The
relation between spatial structure and a visual surface is based on the
geometric principles that relate three-dimensional shapes to how they
look from a particular point of view. In contrast, as we saw in Chapter
9, the relation between a conceptual structure and a phonological
word is completely arbitrary (Saussure’s “arbitrariness of the sign”).
Nothing in the sound dog gives any clue that its meaning has anything
to do with those animals that people keep as pets. We have to learn
Consciousness and Perception
124
these associations one by one. Still, once we learn the associations,
they’re as automatic as seeing.
Now we add a new piece: Spatial structure and conceptual structure
are also linked to each other. The totality of thought and meaning is an
amalgam of the two.
Here’s a way to think about the relation between the two struc-
tures. Have you ever used Google Maps? The 2008 version (it keeps
changing) offered three ways to look at the area you’ve selected: a reg-
ular map, a satellite photo, and a “hybrid,” which superimposes the
regular map on the satellite photo. What you get from the satellite
photo is sort of like spatial structure. You can see all the details of shape
and color, all the surfaces of the streets (complete with cars), all the
tops of the buildings, all the trees, and so on. So if there are particular
visual details you’re looking for, the satellite photo is great. But—it
can’t tell you the names of the streets, whether any of them are one-
way, where the subway stop is, and so on. The regular map is perfect
for this. Sort of like conceptual structure, it provides you with a lot of
precise, discrete details that can’t emerge from a picture. But it doesn’t
tell you anything about colors, buildings, trees, and so on. In other
words, each of these formats has its own strengths and weaknesses.
We can draw from the best of both by using the hybrid map, which
links the two together.
We can now see the beginning of an answer to how we manage to
talk about what we see. Light striking the eyes leads the mind/brain
to compute a visual surface. The mind/brain links this to a visual
meaning, encoded in terms of spatial structure. The spatial structure
in turn can link to a conceptual structure, which can link to pronun-
ciation, which then can be converted into motor instructions to the
vocal tract so you say something. In other words, there’s a multi-step
linkage from the eyes’ view on the world to motions of the vocal tract.
But the only parts of this that are present to experience are the visual
surface and the pronunciation—conscious seeing and conscious talk-
ing. The rest is hidden.
Two components of thought and meaning
125
So far I may have given the impression that language is only linked to
conceptual structure and vision to spatial structure. It’s actually more
interesting than that. Think about the meaning of a word like mosquito.
Its conceptual structure might say that it’s a kind of insect, that it bites
people and sucks blood, that it spreads disease, and so on. But this infor-
mation wouldn’t help you identify a mosquito if you saw one (“Oh, look
out, there’s a mosquito on your neck!”). So the word also has to include
a link in memory to what mosquitos look like, which is exactly what
spatial structure is good at. You probably also know what mosquitos
sound like, which would presumably be encoded in a link to some sort
of “auditory structure” (which I haven’t shown in the diagram). And you
know what a mosquito bite feels like, which might be encoded by a link
to some sort of data structure that concerns body sensations (also not
shown). So a word meaning and the knowledge associated with it may
include several sorts of structures, all linked together.
Here I have to pause for a little sermon. This question of how we talk
about what we see hasn’t been a concern to most theories of meaning, if
it’s mentioned at all.1
Linguists and philosophers often seem to treat the
SPATIAL
STRUCTURE
PRONUNCIATION
Talking about what you see
EYES
VISUAL
INPUT
MOTOR
INSTRUCTIONS
VISUAL SURFACE
CONCEPTUAL
STRUCTURE
VOCAL TRACT
1
I am forever grateful to my late friend, the psychologist and philosopher John Macna-
mara, for posing this question so clearly, and providing hints about the linkage between spa-
tial structure and conceptual structure.
Consciousness and Perception
126
meanings of words and sentences as though they’re sealed in their own
little box, isolated from more general understanding. The word mosquito
is just taken to refer to mosquitos, with little or no discussion of how this
connection comes about. Sometimes the connection is said to come
through a mysterious notion of “intentionality” that constitutes the
“aboutness” of words and connects them to the world. This way of
thinking about word meanings arises from taking the ordinary perspec-
tive on language and on seeing. Words are just out there in the world
(and maybe in the head too), and they refer to what’s out there in the
world. The mystery is how they could do this.
The cognitive perspective gives us a way to unravel the mystery. In
this approach, the relation of linguistic meaning to perception is abso-
lutely central. Meaning draws deeply on all sorts of perceptual under-
standing, and this is what enables us to use language in the context of
our real lives (not just in a semantics text).
At this point, you might be asking: “If we have this rich spatial struc-
ture, why do we need conceptual structure too? Wouldn’t it be simpler
if there were only one form for thought?”
The answer is that there are lots of things that conceptual structure is
good at encoding that can’t be done with spatial structure—in the same
way as maps are good at encoding things that satellite photos can’t show.
Let’s go back again to our examples in Chapter 10. Nothing in a visual
surface or a spatial structure can tell us things like:
The relationships among different categories, for example that dogs
•
and worms are both kinds of living things;
The names of individuals—nothing about what this guy looks like
•
can tell you that his name is Humphrey Bogart;
The time at which something is thought to be taking place—past,
•
present, or future;
Relationships other than spatial relationships, such as two people
•
being cousins, my cousin owning a dog, your liking ice cream, and
Wittgenstein being a famous philosopher;
Two components of thought and meaning
127
Whetherwethinksomethingisactuallythecaseorwe’rewondering
•
whether it’s the case (the difference between a declarative sentence
and a question);
Whether some property pertains to the object I’m looking at (
• THAT
swan is white) or to all objects of the same sort (ALL swans are
white).
“Fine,” you might reply, “I’ll agree that conceptual structure is neces-
sary for the meanings of linguistic expressions. But why couldn’t it be
just for language, a special kind of thought that language gives us?” The
answer is that monkeys and apes also make use of some conceptual rela-
tions that can’t be encoded in spatial structure. The primatologists Dor-
othy Cheney and Robert Seyfarth demonstrate that “baboon
metaphysics”—the relations that baboons and other monkey species rec-
ognize in their world include social relations such as ‘X is kin to Y,’ ‘X is
dominant to Y,’ and ‘X is allied with Y.’ None of these can be encoded
just as part of the way other baboons look. The baboon world is full of
these annotations that specify social relations among individuals. They
have a huge influence on baboon behavior—as it were, baboons have a
complex social map overlaid on the perceptual map.
It’s worth mentioning that these baboon social relations are proto-
types for human relations as well. The notion of kinship is basic to con-
cepts like ‘brother,’ ‘cousin,’ and ‘family.’ The notion of one person
being dominant over another is basic to things like ‘boss,’ ‘sergeant,’ and
‘command.’ The notion of two people in an alliance underlies ‘friend,’
‘buddy,’ ‘ally,’ and ‘collaborate.’ Again, these relations can’t be repre-
sented in terms of how people and their actions look, so they must be
encoded in conceptual structure.
To sum up, thought and meaning are shared between two linked data
structures in the mind, conceptual structure and spatial structure (and
perhaps others). If you’re coming to thought from hearing language,
conceptual structure is dominant, but spatial structure and other struc-
tures such as auditory structure are easily engaged. If you’re coming to
Consciousness and Perception
128
thought from vision, spatial structure is dominant, but conceptual struc-
ture plays an essential role in encoding the abstract relations among the
objects you’re looking at. The linkage between the two structures is
what permits us to talk about what we see.
But remember: Neither of these structures is a cognitive correlate of
consciousness. Rather, the relevant structures are pronunciation in lan-
guage and the visual surface in vision.
129
23
Seeing something as a fork
Among the aspects of our understanding that belong to conceptual
structure, a very basic one is the “type/token distinction.” Suppose you
have a particular spatial structure, say of a fork, stored in memory.
There’s nothing in the way it looks (the visual surface it’s linked to) that
Consciousness and Perception
130
tells you whether this is a representation of a particular fork, say the one
I just put in the sink, or of forks in general, or maybe of forks of the same
design as the one I just put in the sink. If it’s meant to be a particular fork,
the conceptual structure linked to it marks it as a “token.” If it’s meant to
be a category of forks, the conceptual structure marks it as a “type.”
Now the interesting thing is that everything you perceive is a particular
individual (a token)—you can’t perceive categories (types). And you can
only imagine particular individuals—you can’t imagine categories. If you
try to imagine a type, say forks in general, your image is still a particular
fork, a particular token. This was the problem we encountered in Chap-
ter 10, when we asked if a visual image of a triangle could be the mean-
ing of the word triangle—it was too specific.
When you recognize something in your visual environment (a token)
as an instance of a particular type you know (Ah, a fork!), what happens?
In the act of perceiving the object, your mind generates a visual
•
surface and a spatial structure in response to the environment.
The spatial structure in turn is linked to a conceptual structure that
•
says this is a particular object—a token.1
This combination of a spatial structure and conceptual structure is
•
matched up with the concept of forks in general, stored in your
1
Linking a spatial structure to a token isn’t an entirely trivial matter. Through various
experimental techniques, it is possible to present a stimulus (say a printed word) in such a
way that experimental subjects aren’t conscious of it—they claim they haven’t seen it. But it
still has effects on what they do next, such as how fast they identify another related word. It
turns out that when they are conscious of the stimulus, there is longer-lasting and more
broad-based activation in the brain than when they don’t see the stimulus. This long-lived
resonance is usually interpreted as evidence for the Global Workspace theory of conscious-
ness mentioned in Chapter 20. Within the present story, though, it seems to indicate a broad
linking of different data structures concerned with different aspects of understanding, such as
spatial and conceptual structures. And when this linking is achieved, the stimulus acquires a
“thatness”—it is encoded as something rather than, say, a fluctuation in ambient noise. It is its
“thatness” that makes a mental representation available for attention and therefore for being
noticed. In the context of the present discussion, we can identify “thatness” with the linking
to a token feature.
Seeing something as a fork
131
The only parts of this that reach consciousness, though, are the visual
surface and the phonological word (or pronunciation). So as far as we’re
aware, seeing something as a fork is much simpler:
long-term memory. This concept consists of a spatial structure,
which encodes what forks look like, linked to a conceptual structure
that says this is a type of object, that you use it to eat with, that it has
a number of parallel points, that it’s usually made of metal or plastic,
and so on.
The conceptual structure in turn is linked to the phonological word
•
fork, also in long-term memory.
The diagram below shows all these linkages. The dotted arrows are the
links that are established as part of this particular situation of seeing the
fork. The solid arrows are the links that are stored in long-term mem-
ory—what you know about forks.
light
visual surface
Spatial Structure Spatial Structure
TOKEN TYPE
Conceptual Structure Conceptual Structure Pronunciation
fork
SEEING SOMETHING CONCEPT OF
A FORK
PHONOLOGICAL
WORD
SEEING SOMETHING AS A FORK
(Cognitive Perspective)
eyes
Consciousness and Perception
132
And this is indeed the way the ordinary perspective understands the
process—as a direct connection between and fork.
I haven’t yet said why you see the object in the world rather than in
your head. We’ll get to that in Chapter 25.
Token concepts can come about because of what you perceive. But
since you can’t perceive types—category concepts—where do they come
from?
From the ordinary perspective, you learn that various things go
together in a category of dogs or forks or triangles. But from the cogni-
tive perspective, “learning” a category amounts to your mind construct-
ing a type concept in response to sample tokens. This leads to an
important conclusion:
We can understand things in the world as belonging to categories
only because we (or our minds) construct the categories.
What your mind constructs, though, mostly consists of spatial and
conceptual structures—which aren’t cognitive correlates of conscious-
ness. This has an interesting consequence for what it’s like to learn a
type. You may just notice that you “get it”—you can tell whether things
belong to the category or not, without knowing exactly how you do it.
This is because the concept you’ve constructed is unconscious. Only its
effects in judging tokens are conscious.
WORLD
fork
WORD
SEEING SOMETHING AS A FORK
(Ordinary Perspective)
Seeing something as a fork
133
The type concept may also be linked to some examples you’re famil-
iar with. These tokens may be associated with visual images, which you
can be conscious of. This sort of experience may lead you to think that
learning a type just amounts to collecting a lot of examples (the so-
called “exemplar” theory of category learning). This won’t work, for
much the same reason that a single visual image won’t work: you still
have to specify what you have to pay attention to in each example, and
you also have to work out what all the examples have in common—
which amounts to constructing the type concept. Showing in detail
why this approach to types won’t work would be too long a digression,
though, so if you don’t mind, I’ll drop this line of investigation and
move on.
134
24
Other modalities of spatial
perception
So far I’ve been talking about spatial structure as though it’s a sort of
souped-up visual image. But you can also use your sense of touch (or
“haptic” perception) to determine the shapes and arrangements of
objects, turning them over in your hands or running your hands over
them. You can even use your tongue to tell the shapes of things like nuts
and pills, by rolling them around in your mouth. (When my grand-
daughter was 8 months old, she seemed to think you could learn at least
as much about objects by mouthing them as by handling them.)
The sense of shape you get haptically has to line up somehow with
the sense of shape you get visually. If an object you’re handling in the
dark feels like a cube, you’ll sure be surprised if the lights are turned on
and it looks like a sphere.
From the ordinary perspective, this seems perfectly obvious. (Is this
line getting predictable?) But from the cognitive perspective, there’s the
usual question of how the brain does it. The sensation of taking in a
shape with your eyes is totally different from the sensation of taking in a
shape by moving your hand across it. Yet these two sensations add up to
the same understanding: it’s an object of such-and-such a size and shape.
The smallish experimental literature suggests that we’re pretty good at
correlating the two—though not entirely perfect, especially when shapes
get complex and subtle.
Other modalities of spatial perception
135
Within the story we’re working out here, we can sort of see how it
has to work. Using touch and pressure sensations from your hand, your
mind/brain has to compute the way an object feels at each moment. We
might call this sort of mental representation a “haptic view.” The way
objects feel is another cognitive correlate of consciousness. That is, the
haptic view is yet another possible “handle” on what we’re encountering
in the world.
The way an object feels on a particular haptic view usually isn’t
enough to understand its overall shape. Most of the time, we have to
integrate a sequence of haptic views as we move our hands over the
surface of the object. If the object is large, say an elephant or a room, we
have to walk around it, feeling it all the while.1
What are the haptic views
integrated into? Well, if they’re going to be compared with what you see,
somehow they have to be linked to a spatial structure that encodes the
overall shape of the object. And eventually, through spatial structure
and conceptual structure, you can link your haptic perception to lan-
guage: “Aha—it’s an elephant.”
Of course you can’t find out everything about an object through hap-
tic perception—its color, for instance. In fact you can’t find out anything
about it if it’s not within reach. On the other hand, vision can’t tell us
much about the weight or the temperature of objects, but haptic percep-
tion can. Haptic perception is also better for determining texture—slip-
pery, smooth, rough, hard, soft—for finding out what parts can be
wiggled, and sometimes for detecting vibration that can’t be seen. Haptic
perception can’t read ordinary print, which depends on color contrast.
But letters carved into a gravestone aren’t too hard to make out by
touch, and people do learn to read Braille. So just as language and vision
are good at encoding different things—with some overlap—so are vision
and haptic perception. In the end it can all get integrated into a hybrid
understanding.
1
Actually, if you’re looking at a large object, you have to take it all in with a series of eye
fixations. So in some cases seeing actually is a bit like handling. But it still doesn’t feel that way.
Consciousness and Perception
136
This all suggests that the congenitally blind ought to have a pretty
good understanding of shape and spatial layout for things they can reach
and touch. And this seems to be correct. For instance, when Barbara
Landau and Lila Gleitman led blind children along two sides of a room
and asked them to go back directly to where they started, the children
had no trouble cutting across the diagonal.
Another modality of perception (or possibly a collection of modali-
ties) is “proprioception,” perception of your own body configuration.
When you’re climbing stairs, you have a pretty good idea of how high to
lift your feet, without looking. You don’t have to watch your hand every
moment while you’re reaching for something—you know how to get
your hand there. When I’m playing the clarinet, I can’t see my fingers or
my mouth, but I have a pretty good idea of what they’re doing by how
they feel. A more impressive example of this sort is the blind Art Tatum
playing stride piano at lightning speed. And try watching the gymnastics
of a violinist’s bow arm, which is guided only through proprioception.
For that matter, try watching gymnastics. Like other things we’ve talked
about, at least the simple cases of this coordination seem so straightfor-
ward and transparent that they require no explanation. But they do
require one!
Some further phenomena help show how complex proprioceptive per-
ception can be. When you’re using a tool, say a hammer or a tennis
racket, have you noticed that you seem to know where the head of the
tool is? You temporarily experience the tool as part of your arm—you feel
the contact of the hammer on the nail or the racket on the ball, not the
pressure on your hand and the torque on your arm. This shows that your
mind/brain can compute the position and trajectory of your body in an
adaptable fashion, creating what might be considered a useful illusion.
For an entirely different sort of case, Oliver Sacks describes the case of
a woman who through brain damage lost proprioceptive sensation. She
wasn’t paralyzed, but she had no idea where her limbs were—unless she
looked at them. She was gradually able to train herself to get around
with great effort, by watching all her limb movements. Again, this shows
Other modalities of spatial perception
137
that your own body position doesn’t come for free—the brain has to
figure it out.
Since proprioception typically coordinates with vision and touch, it
must be linked to them via spatial structure. Unlike vision and touch,
proprioception only yields information about a single object in the envi-
ronment, but it’s a very important one: your own body. This informa-
tion is especially crucial for guiding action.2
Here’s a diagram of how all these parts link up.
2
Hearing can also be a source of spatial information, such as when you’re biking and hear a
car coming up behind you. Bats have a much more sophisticated system of this sort: they use
echolocation to identify objects and navigate through complicated environments. In the end,
this too has to converge on the bat’s counterpart of spatial structure, so that it can be coordi-
nated with vision, proprioception, and the guidance of motion. To the extent that bats are con-
scious, the present story leads us to guess that somewhere in the bat’s stream of computation
starting with the auditory signal and culminating in spatial structure, there ought to be a kind of
mental representation associated with echolocation that is a cognitive correlate of conscious-
ness. Of course there’s probably no way of ever knowing, since we can’t ask the bats about it.
Auditory signals
Pronunciation Conceptual Structure
Instructions
to vocal tract
Retinal input Visual surface
Haptic input Spatial Structure
Haptic view
Proprioceptive input Feel of body
SENSATION
AND
MOTOR OUTPUT
PERCEPTION COGNITION
(THOUGHT AND
MEANING)
(COGNITIVE CORRELATES
OF CONSCIOUSNESS)
Consciousness and Perception
138
I’d better add that not all thought goes on in terms of spatial and con-
ceptual structure. When a composer is writing music, the work of imag-
ining and evaluating creative alternatives isn’t going on in conceptual
structure. Rather, the goal is to create some sort of satisfying auditory
structure that has nothing to do with pronunciation. In the case of
Beethoven, who wrote down a lot of his preliminary ideas in his sketch-
books, we can actually follow the course of his musical thought—he
often begins with rather banal scraps of melody and gradually molds
them into familiar masterworks.
Similarly, when a cook is deciding how to season the soup, the work
of imagination and evaluation is going on in the modalities of taste and
smell, whatever cognitive structures are responsible for them.
Another very important part of cognition is left out of this diagram.
People often forget that the main reason for having a brain is to work the
body. It doesn’t do an organism any good to find out about the world if
it can’t put its knowledge to use in doing things. So the system also needs
an action component whose input is spatial structure and propriocep-
tion—the spatial arrangement of the world and one’s own body within
it—and which culminates in instructions to the muscles.
139
25
How do we see the world
as “out there”?
Now I need to pick up a point that I left hanging a little way back. The
diagram in the previous chapter labels pronunciation and visual surfaces
as cognitive correlates of consciousness. These provide experience with
its form. Chapter 19 talked about two other cognitive correlates of con-
sciousness in language, the “character tags” that contribute the “feel” of
meaningfulness and the “feel” of reality versus imagery. In contrast to
the complexity of pronunciation and visual surfaces, these “feels” are
simple binary distinctions: Is what I’m hearing meaningful or not? Is it a
sentence that someone uttered, or is it “in my head”?
I’d like to look more closely at these “character tags,” which mark the
overall character of the experience.1
I’ll contrast them with the “content
features” of conceptual structure and spatial structure—such as that this
object belongs to the category ‘fork,’ it’s heavy and smooth, it has points,
you use it to eat with, it belongs to you, it’s 17 years old, and
so on.
It’s not hard to extend these character tags to vision. Here’s an exam-
ple from Chapter 21 again.
1
It’s hard to think of an appropriate name for these things. In Consciousness and the Compu-
tational Mind I called them “affects,” and in Language, Consciousness, Culture I called them “val-
uation features.” Call them whatever you’d like.
Consciousness and Perception
140
The first time you saw this, it may have looked to you like just a bunch
of spots—maybe a black and white Jackson Pollock or something. At
some point the dalmatian “popped out,” and suddenly the picture was
meaningful to you (or it never popped out and you were frustrated). By
analogy with our analysis of language, we might say that a visual surface
is experienced as meaningful if it can be linked with a spatial structure.
The cognitive correlate of the experience is a character tag that marks
the presence or absence of this link.
The other character tag—external reality vs. imagery—has more star-
tling effects. When you look at something out in the world, light strikes
your eyes, and in response your brain constructs a visual surface. The
visual surface encoded in your brain is the cognitive correlate of your
visual consciousness—but you experience something real out in the world.
Why do you experience it out in the world and not in your head?
From the ordinary perspective, this seems like another silly question.
It’s out there, so naturally that’s where you see it. But from the cogni-
tive perspective, as always, we have to ask how the brain makes this
happen.
Here’s one reason you experience an object out there. Among the
object’s content features—its representation in spatial and conceptual
How do we see the world as “out there”?
141
structure—is its location, there in front of your eyes, outside your head.
That fork is located over there in the sink, not stuck inside your brain. So
you can’t help but understand it as being external to you.
That might seem to settle the matter. But actually it’s not quite
enough. To see why, let’s think about visual imagery. Say you imagine
an ostrich (or if you prefer, Big Bird). You have a visual experience, but
it’s not linked to anything coming in through your eyes. Rather, it’s just
a visual surface that’s linked to some visual understanding in spatial and
conceptual structures. And because it’s a visual surface, you experience
it—it’s conscious.
Now, where is this ostrich you imagine? You may experience it as
being inside your head, even though you can’t look there. But you can
also imagine the ostrich walking through the door into the room you’re
in right now—out there in the world. From the cognitive perspective,
even though it’s an image, you’ve endowed it with content features that
give it an external location, just like objects you perceive.
In other words, experiencing something as out there in the world isn’t
the same as experiencing it as real. So what makes the difference between
vividly imagining the ostrich walking in and seeing one really walk in?
One possibility is that an imagined ostrich, no matter how vivid it might
be, still isn’t as vivid as a real ostrich—that is, the content features of an
image are vaguer than those of a real perception. This may be a differ-
ence between them most of the time. But not always. You may be able
to imagine something so vividly that it’s almost like seeing it. And you
may only be able to see some real things very vaguely, say through a
fog—so vaguely that you’re not even quite sure you’re seeing them. So
vagueness isn’t the criterion we’re looking for to tell images and real
things apart.
There’s another difference between perception and imagery, though.
When you experience something as real, there’s a link between the vis-
ual surface and input from the eyes. By contrast, when you experience
an image, there’s no such link. So this link—or, alternatively, the detec-
tion of this link by a monitor—can serve as a character tag, a cognitive
Consciousness and Perception
142
correlate of this “feel” of reality in visual consciousness. It works in
exactly the same way as the character tag I discussed in Chapter 19,
which gives us the difference between the experience of hearing some-
one speak and the experience of a verbal image.
As with verbal imagery, there are two important exceptions to this
story. First, when you’re dreaming, the eyes aren’t providing any input,
but still you have the experience of interacting with real things and real
people. Second, people who have hallucinations may experience them
as completely real—that’s one reason they can be so frightening.
The account we gave for verbal imagery works the same way here.
These are situations where the monitor that checks for a link between
input from the eyes and the visual surface isn’t functioning normally. Dur-
ing dreams, it seems to be simply turned off.2
And during hallucinations,
it’s behaving erratically, like a malfunctioning “check engine” light.
We’ve now arrived at another surprising conclusion:
The presence of a link between input from the eyes and the visual
surface is (normally) what makes the world look real.
Ouch. This conclusion is so alien to the ordinary perspective that it
may be hard to stomach. On the other hand, it is an answer to the ques-
tion of how we manage to experience the world. The ordinary perspec-
tive either doesn’t ask the question at all, or is forced to answer it by
appeals to mystery or, in the old days, God.
Does this conclusion mean that our experience of the world out there is
an illusion? I don’t think that’s the right way to think about it. It only makes
sense to talk about an illusion in comparison to some standard of what’s
not an illusion. And seeing the world out there under normal conditions is
about the best example we have of something that’s not an illusion.
2
If the monitor is turned off, you shouldn’t be able to have dreams of having imagery. I’ve
never heard a report of such a thing. But if people do have such experiences, I guess I’ll have
to make my story more complicated.
143
26
Other “feels” in experience
We now have two character tags that play a role in the “feel” of both
language and vision: meaningful vs. meaningless, and real vs. image. I’d
now like to look at some more of these “feels.”
Familiarity and novelty
Think about the feeling of familiarity that comes with some things you
perceive. You see a face in a crowd and say to yourself, “Who is that? I’m
sure I know him!—Oh yeah, of course: he used to run that deli in Kend-
all Square!” Or you hear some music on the radio and after awhile you
say to yourself, “What is that? I’m sure I know it!” (and in my own case,
“I’m sure I’ve played it!”). How does the sound of the tune change as the
feeling of familiarity dawns? There’s nothing in the notes that’s different.
Sometimes you have this response first, and then it takes you a while to
remember the name of the person or tune, or where you encountered
them before. (You may find this paragraph a Wittgensteinian sort of
observation. The Investigations are full of this sort of thing.)
The feeling of familiarity doesn’t come for free. Just having seen
something before doesn’t make it look familiar. As with everything else
we’ve discussed, the mind/brain has to create or construct this feeling and
link it to the thing being perceived. Presumably, like the previous two
“feels” we’ve talked about, it arises from a monitor that detects a con-
nection between two different things going on in the brain, and assigns
Consciousness and Perception
144
a character tag to the experience. This monitor checks whether what’s
being perceived or imagined connects or resonates with something
stored in long-term memory. When there isn’t any such resonance, the
object you’re seeing feels novel or unfamiliar.
To help see that the sense of familiarity is constructed, think about the
experience of déjà vu. This is a feeling of familiarity attached to some-
thing that you “rationally” know is unfamiliar. You may also have had
the experience of jamais vu, of seeing something familiar “as if altogether
new.”
Or think about what happens in memory experiments. One day the
psychologists show you a bunch of pictures. Then the next day you
come back for another bunch, and they ask you which ones you’ve seen
before. Some just look familiar to you and others just don’t—what else
do you have to go on? The experimenters then compare your responses
to what they showed you the previous day, in the hope that they’ll learn
something about how the mind/brain works from your pattern of
answers. They may be trying to find out things like: Has your brain
actually not stored the ones you don’t recognize, or has it stored them
but failed to produce the feeling of familiarity? When you say you’ve
seen a picture that they actually didn’t show you, what accounts for it?
And so on.
People with a sort of brain damage called “proposagnosia” find all
people’s faces unfamiliar—sometimes even their own. They can see
other things perfectly well, and they can often recognize people by their
voices. Certain experimental manipulations show that at some uncon-
scious level of processing, they are actually reacting differently to famil-
iar and unfamiliar faces. So it’s not as though their memory is wiped out.
Still, they tell you quite sincerely that they have no idea who any of these
people you’re showing them are. Their impairment is evidently in the
part of the mind/brain that registers familiarity: they can see the form of
faces, but faces all feel novel. Oliver Sacks’s famous Man Who Mistook His
Wife for a Hat suffers from a more general “visual agnosia”—he fails to
recognize not only faces but all sorts of objects. The feeling of familiarity
Other “feels” in experience
145
or novelty doesn’t just pertain to things we see and hear. It also comes
along with images or ideas that flit through our minds. If an image has
the feeling of familiarity, we experience it as a memory. If it has the feeling
of novelty, we experience it as a new idea. This version of the character
tag—memory vs. new idea—is notoriously error-prone (from the ordi-
nary perspective). Here’s a familiar clash that depends on it: “I’m sure
I asked you to take out the trash!” “Well, it’s news to me!”
More serious (for academics, anyway) is when we discover that some-
thing we’ve published as a new and original idea later turns out to be
something we read years before and forgot about. Still more serious for
real life is the problem of the reliability of eyewitness testimony. It’s not
too hard to coax people into experiencing memories of things that never
happened to them, sometimes with unfortunate legal consequences for
other individuals involved in the alleged events.
Does it matter? Positive or negative?
Another important character tag is the sense that something matters—
it’s important, worth paying attention to. Things can matter either in a
positive or a negative way. We find ourselves attracted to positive things
(we like them, we desire them) and aversive toward negative things (we
dislike them, we shun them, we fear them). We might think of this as a
link between the percept and an emotional response. (I think this is what
Antonio Damasio means by “somatic markers” attached to memories, in
his Descartes’ Error.)
A lot of the time you can’t say exactly what makes something attrac-
tive or yummy or ugly or yucky, or why you care even though evidently
I don’t. Your primary reaction is an immediate, intuitive gut feeling.
Explanations come later, and they’re often after the fact and not entirely
comprehensible. Just why do you like the way Landowska plays Bach?
Just what is it about the wine that makes it taste so good? And although
the difference is in your response to it, it feels like the attractiveness or
ugliness is a property of the object itself, just like its shape, color, and
Consciousness and Perception
146
size. It’s definitely not in the eye of the beholder, or at least the beholder
doesn’t experience it that way.
As with meaningfulness and familiarity, this feeling can apply to
images as well as objects. I can imagine an encounter with my nemesis
and experience him in imagination just as negatively as in real life (or
even more so). I can imagine a party I’m dreading and get all uptight.
I can imagine playing a passage of Brahms in a way that I’ve never heard
before—or a way of phrasing this sentence that I’ve never heard before—
and experience it as pleasing or not.
Sacred and taboo
A related character tag is the feeling of something being sacred—you
experience it as being charged with this very special luminosity or inten-
sity (well, there’s really no good word for it...). The negative counter-
part is taboo, where you experience the object with this very special
darkness.
This feeling is central to religious experience. People attach a sense of
the sacred to God, to houses of worship, and to ritual objects and ritual
practices. But it isn’t restricted to religious stuff. We may experience it in
the presence of great mountains, or the ocean, or a stunning sunset. We
may experience it under the influence of certain drugs. Some epileptics
(such as Dostoevsky, apparently) experience it before a seizure. Some
scientists, especially (it seems to me) mathematicians and cosmologists,
experience it in the presence of a great theory—and describe it as a reli-
gious experience (such as when Stephen Hawking closes A Brief History
of Time with: “For then we will have seen the mind of God”). Less con-
sequential things can be invested with this feeling too. Some people feel
that, say, Descartes’ birthplace is sacred. For other people it might be
Earl Scruggs’s banjo or the baseball that Barry Bonds hit for his record-
breaking home run. Some people even experience it when thinking
about the mysteries of consciousness—this is why consciousness feels so
.
Other “feels” in experience
147
From the neural perspective, this feeling evidently has something to
do with activity in the right temporal lobe. But the feeling isn’t of some-
thing in the brain. Again, we experience it as a property of things in the
world.
Self-controlled vs. non-self-controlled
Next think about images—they could be verbal or visual, or for that
matter proprioceptive (say, remembering what it felt like when you
twisted your ankle). Some of them have the feel of just “popping into
your head.” Others feel like you deliberately made them up: “I’m now
imagining an ostrich walking in the door,” “I’m now imagining how I’m
going to repaint the kitchen.” Of course, even when they do pop into
your head, your mind/brain has made them up, so from a cognitive
perspective the difference is hugely phony. But there’s no question the
distinction is part of your experience, so a theory of consciousness and
understanding has to explain where it comes from. Let’s call this distinc-
tion the feeling of “non-self-controlled” vs. “self-controlled” images.
We can apply this character tag to perception as well. Visual percep-
tion always has the feel of being non-self-controlled—the world is impos-
ing itself on you, you have no choice. In the language domain, though,
you have a feeling for when you’re listening to your own voice (self-
controlled) vs. someone else’s (non-self-controlled)—and maybe you
occasionally have the feeling of hearing your own voice as though it’s
someone else’s (as I do). The sound of my clarinet as I play it has the feel
of being self-controlled; when my duet partner Steve plays his clarinet, I
experience the sound as non-self-controlled.
The domain where this character feature really comes to the fore is in
action. It feels different when you deliberately move your leg and when
you twitch involuntarily. “In the first case, I did it.” That is, you experi-
ence a self-controlled action as willed, deliberate, intentional. And there’s
also: “The grief just welled out of me, I couldn’t help sobbing”—non-self-
controlled. Again, from a cognitive point of view there’s no question
Consciousness and Perception
148
that your brain generates the twitch and the sobbing just as much as the
deliberate movement of your leg. It’s just that you don’t experience
them as coming from you, from your will.
Oddly enough, you don’t necessarily have to actually perform an
action in order to get the feeling you’ve done it intentionally. In dreams,
we experience ourselves doing all kinds of things on purpose that we
don’t actually do at all—we’re still lying in bed.
If this way of thinking about deliberate action is at all on the right
track, it has a terribly disturbing consequence:
Our sense of free will doesn’t come out of nowhere. Our mind/
brain has to construct it. It is just another one of these “feels” that
our minds build into conscious experience.
Well, maybe this shouldn’t be a surprise. For centuries people have been
arguing whether or not we have free will, and they have recoiled from
the taboo conclusion that we don’t.
Fuel has been added to the fire by recent evidence from cognitive
neuroscience. According to some experiments, it looks like our sense of
willing an action may arise in consciousness some hundreds of millisec-
onds after the brain has initiated the performance of the action. And,
with the proper experimental setup, you can trick people into thinking
they did things on purpose that they couldn’t have done (their “inten-
tion” monitor lights up). Reviewing lots of evidence of this sort, Daniel
Wegner reveals his view on the matter in the title of his book, The Illu-
sion of Conscious Will.
By now this line of reasoning should have a familiar ring to it. If
we’re willing to say that free will is an illusion, we ought to also accept
the argument that there’s no such thing as the English language
(Chapter 3), that there’s no such thing as words (Chapter 5), that
there’s no such thing as baldness (Chapter 11), that there’s no such
thing as causation (Chapters 10 and 21), and even that our experience
Other “feels” in experience
149
of a real visual world is an illusion (Chapter 25). This is nuts. All dis-
course breaks down. There has to be a better way to talk about this
stuff.
In line with the approach in the previous situations, I think it helps to
keep track of what perspective we’re operating in. In the ordinary per-
spective, yes Virginia, we have free will. And sometimes we think we’re
acting out of free will when we aren’t, and vice versa. If we take the cog-
nitive and neuroscientific perspectives, we approach the issue differently:
The mind/brain must be doing something that gives us the feeling of
free will, and our job as scientists is to figure out what it is. We can ask,
as Daniel Dennett has, why evolution would equip us with the experi-
ence of free will—why it might be adaptive to have such a sort of experi-
ence, and why our human experience of free will came out the way it
did. But in this perspective it’s kind of funny to ask whether free will is
really free. It just is what it is.
What’s new in the approach I’m proposing here is that the experience
of volition has a specific cognitive correlate, namely the character tag
‘self-controlled’ vs. ‘non-self-controlled.’ This character tag belongs to a
small family of character tags in human cognition, each of which con-
tributes one of these profound but elusive “feels” in experience. So our
sense of free will isn’t a splendidly isolated puzzle here—it fits in with the
equally puzzling issues of our sense of reality, our sense of meaningful-
ness, our sense of familiarity, and our sense of the sacred.
I’m imagining that some readers won’t find this rhetorical tack very sat-
isfying. I submit that no other approaches—aside from complacently
throwing science and philosophy out the window—are very satisfying
either.
* * *
If you haven’t given up on me by now, let me see if I can put this all
together. Our understanding of the world has to be created by our mind/
brain. It’s encoded in terms of a combination of conceptual structure
Consciousness and Perception
150
and spatial structure, which aren’t specific to a single modality of
perception, as well as other representations that I’ve had less to say
about, such as auditory structure.
Our experience of the world also has to be created by the brain, but it
draws more directly on perceptual representations that are grounded in
particular sensory modalities, such as pronunciation in language, the
visual surface in vision, and the haptic view in haptic perception. These
provide the content features of experience, which give experience its
form. You’re seeing, hearing, or touching something in the world, and
sensing the position and motion of your body. And you know which of
these kinds of sensation you’re having.1
But there’s more to our awareness of the world. It also partakes of
“metacognitive” character tags that contribute a feel to the entities we
experience. They cut across all modalities.
The distinction between perception and imagery can be found in
•
vision, hearing, language, the haptic sense, and proprioception.
Percepts and images in any modality can be either familiar or
•
novel.
The distinction between meaningful and meaningless percepts can
•
be found in both vision and language.
Thedistinctionbetweenpositivelyimportant(attractive),negatively
•
important (aversive), and neutral can be found in percepts of every
modality, as can the distinction between sacred, taboo, and
neutral.
And the distinction between self-controlled and non-self-controlled
•
percepts is available in a range of modalities, especially in
imagery.
1
Some of these sensations may originate from input in other sensory modalities. Tastes
contain a large admixture of smell information, but the experience is still of taste. More sur-
prisingly, you can alter a video of a speaker’s lip movements, leaving the audio the same, and
viewers will hear the sound as different—it sounds like a b instead of a d. So visual input can be
interpreted by the brain as a sound. This is called the McGurk effect, after its discoverer.
Other “feels” in experience
151
The fact that content features are modality-dependent suggests that
their neural correlates ought to be found in perceptual areas of the brain.
And indeed that’s where the people working on visual consciousness
look for them. But the character tags don’t belong to any perceptual
modality—they cut across all of them. This suggests that their neural
correlates might have quite a different configuration.
All of this is by way of expanding the Unconscious Meaning Hypoth-
esis, showing that it’s not simply a hypothesis about language and
thought, but part of a more comprehensive view of how we understand
the world and how we experience it. The relation between language and
thought is just a special case of how the mind works in general.
This page intentionally left blank
Part Three
Reference and Truth
This page intentionally left blank
155
27
How do we use language to talk
about the world?
It’s time to get back to meaning and see what kind of progress we’ve
made. Let’s review the properties we want meanings to have (from
Chapter 9):
(a) Meanings are in the heads of language users.
(b) Meanings are linked to or associated with the spoken or written
form.
(c) Word and phrase meanings combine with the meanings of other
parts of the sentence.
(d) Synonymous expressions, either within or across languages, are
linked to the same meaning.
(e) The referential function of meaning: (at least some) meanings can
be connected with the world.
(f) The inferential function of meaning: meanings serve as a vehicle
for reasoning (making inferences).
(g) Aside from a feeling of meaningfulness, meanings are hidden from
awareness.
Here’s what we’ve found so far. Meanings consist of conceptual struc-
tures and spatial structures linked together in the heads of language users
(check off a). They can be linked to spoken or written forms of language
(check off b). If a linkage of a conceptual structure and a spatial structure
is connected to different pronunciations in the same language, or in
Reference and Truth
156
different languages, the expressions mean the same thing (check off d).
Conceptual structures and spatial structures can also exist without links
to linguistic expression, in which case they serve as (part of) nonlinguis-
tic thought.
We experience spoken language in the form of pronunciation. We
experience thought as a voice in the head—also in the form provided by
pronunciation. Conceptual and spatial structures don’t contribute directly
to the form of our experience, except for the character tags that give con-
sciousness its “feel”—that is, they’re almost entirely hidden (check off g).
I can’t say much in this book about (c), the way word and phrase
meanings combine—beyond the fact that much of meaning isn’t found
in the meanings of the words (Chapter 12). Nor can I say much about
( f ), the inferential function of meaning. That would require a detailed
study of the properties of conceptual and spatial structures. Much of my
research over the years has been about making conceptual structure rich
and explicit enough for a formal theory of compositionality and infer-
ence, and a lot of work in formal semantics and cognitive grammar is
alsodirectedtowardthisgoal.Unfortunatelythere’sbeenfarlessresearch
on a theory of spatial structure.
In the next few chapters, I’d like to look at (e), the referential function
of meaning—how we use language to talk about the world.
One thing conceptual structure has to do is keep track of the individu-
als you know something about. Each of these individuals is encoded in
conceptual structure with a token feature (to use the term of Chapter
23), which is linked to everything you know about the individual—both
its content features and its character tags. Let’s call the combination of a
token feature with this other material a “reference file.”
When you first notice something in your visual field, your mind/
brain has to link up the spatial structure created by your visual system
with a token feature. If your mind can locate a compatible reference file
to link to, you experience the sight as familiar. If no such file can be
found, you have to set up a new token feature that’s linked to the new
spatial structure, and you experience the sight as novel.
How do we use language to talk about the world?
157
Seeing something isn’t the only way to invoke a reference file. Lan-
guage gives us another way. Suppose I say something to you about my
cousin Beth’s dog Buddy. In doing so, I’ve mentioned three individuals:
Buddy, Beth, and myself. What happens in your mind?
On the strength of my mentioning them, your mind will provide
•
each of these individuals with a reference file. You presumably have
a file for me already, and you may or may not have to set up new
ones for Beth and Buddy.
Each of these files specifies that the individual in question has a
•
name, linked to a pronunciation (Buddy, Beth, Ray).
Buddy’s file is linked to the type ‘dog.’
•
If you know what Beth and Buddy and I look like, our files contain
•
spatial structures that encode that knowledge.
The files are linked to each other by relations that specify that Beth
•
is my cousin and that Beth owns Buddy. These linking relations can
be considered part of both reference files, since you know of Beth
that she owns Buddy, and you know of Buddy that Beth owns her.
The figure below shows all the linkages (I’ve substituted ordinary pic-
tures for the much more abstract spatial structure).1
1
For the fastidious: I’ve notated the arrows linking me and Beth pointing in both direc-
tions, because the relation ‘cousin of’ is symmetrical—each of us is the cousin of the other. But
the other arrows are unidirectional, because ownership and being an instance of a type are not
symmetrical.
Spatial Structure
| | |
Conceptual Structure Token  ‘cousin’ Token  ‘owns’  Token  ’instance-of’ Type
Name Name Name Name
| | | |
Pronunciation Ray Beth Buddy dog
Reference and Truth
158
If you know a person by appearance but not by name (say a familiar
bit actor in a film), their reference file contains only spatial structure
features plus a token feature. If you know a person by name but not by
appearance (say Julius Caesar), their reference file contains linguistic fea-
tures such as their name, but not visual features. If you know both the
person’s appearance and name (the way I know my cousin Beth), the file
contains both kinds of features.
The two halves of a partially occluded object, such as the horizontal bar
here,
are linked to a unified entity in spatial structure, and from there to a single
token feature and a single reference file. That’s what makes you under-
stand them as a single object. And when you pay attention to parts of an
object—say the handle on a cup—the handle gets its own reference file,
linked by the ‘part-of’ relation to the file for the whole object.
When information about an object comes in from multiple modali-
ties, say a person’s appearance and voice, they’re unified into an under-
standing of “this object” by being integrated into a single reference file.
When characters in a film speak, their voices come from speakers that
aren’t usually in the same place as the visual image. Yet because our
minds unify the sound with the visual image, we hear the voices coming
from the characters’ mouths.
Objects we perceive “out in the world” aren’t the only things that
have reference files. Mental images have reference files too, just with
different character tags. When I see a unicorn in my dream, it comes
with the character tag of objective externality. But when I wake up
and think about it, it has a different character tag, which I’ll call “virtual.”
How do we use language to talk about the world?
159
Like“virtualreality,”entitieswiththischaractertagarepureconstructions
that mimic reality. This character tag also shows up in our concepts of
individuals like Santa Claus and Sherlock Holmes (to whom we’ll return
in Chapter 30).
Normally, once a reference file is established, it remains there in your
conceptual structure. That’s why you think the cat is still there even when
it’s run behind the bookcase. The psychologist Karen Wynn has shown
that even young infants keep track of hidden objects. For instance, if they
watch you put two toys behind a curtain one after another, they’re sur-
prised if you open the curtain and there’s only one toy there. Somewhat
stranger is Fei Xu and Susan Carey’s finding: if you put a duck behind the
curtain, and then open the curtain to reveal a truck instead, infants under
about 10 months old aren’t surprised. In our terms, they’re keeping track
of the hidden objects as tokens, but they aren’t keeping track of their visual
appearance. (They start getting it right at about 12 months.)
But reference files aren’t forever. When you break a lump of clay in
half, you now have two files: the previous file has been split. At the same
time, you keep track of their history, associating with each file the mem-
ory that they stem from a single individual. So altogether three reference
files are involved in understanding the situation—the original lump and
its two descendants.
Here’s a more surprising situation: You’ve been seeing this woman
from time to time around the neighborhood, but one day you see two of
her at the town pool, and you realize that they’re actually identical twins.
Or: For a long time I vaguely knew about a literary/cultural theorist
named Bloom. I thought he had died a few years back. Then one day,
I was surprised to come across a new book by him, and suddenly had the
embarrassing realization “Ohhh! There’s Harold Bloom, who wrote the
book, and then there’s Allan Bloom, who died!” Achieving this realiza-
tion required me to split the “Bloom” file into two, each with its own
token feature.
You can also merge two files, when you stick two lumps of clay
together and mold them into a sphere (and again you keep track of its
Reference and Truth
160
history as originally two individuals). Or you may discover that those
streams running through different parts of town are actually parts of the
same stream. We also merge files when we discover that the individuals
we’ve identified under two names or descriptions are actually the same
individual—the reverse of the twins case. Classic examples are Frege’s
The morning star is the evening star and the more widely known Clark Kent
is Superman.
Now it’s easy to provide an account of the referential function of
meanings. A linguistic expression refers to something if it’s linked to a
reference file. That’s all there is to it.
“Wait!”—I hear you saying—“It can’t be that simple. How do linguis-
tic expressions refer to things in the world?” The answer is that they refer
to the things that we conceptualize as being in the world. If the character
tags that go with a reference file mark this as something that’s objective
and external, then the expression refers to something that’s experienced
or thought of as objective and external. If the character tags mark this as
“virtual”—as an image or as imaginary—then the expression refers to
something that’s experienced and understood as an image or imaginary.
If this is right, the puzzle about how linguistic expressions manage to
be “about the world” isn’t exactly a puzzle about language. It’s more a
puzzle about cognition: how do conceptual structures and spatial struc-
tures and pronunciation and visual surfaces and character tags in some-
one’s head add up to the experience of a world out there full of words
and objects? Once we figure out the mental structures that lead us to
experience the world—as we discussed in Part Two—it’s not too hard to
link language up to them.
Of course, this account of reference only works if we’re operating in
the cognitive perspective. From the ordinary perspective, the linguistic
expression is out there in the world, and so is the thing it refers to. Exot-
ica like reference files and character tags simply aren’t part of the picture.
From the cognitive perspective, though, the question is how people use
linguistic expressions to refer. People can only refer to things that they’ve
conceptualized. If you haven’t thought of it, or if you haven’t noticed it,
How do we use language to talk about the world?
161
how can you refer to it? In turn, for there to be an “it” for you to think of
or notice, you have to have a conceptual structure that includes a token
feature. And for you to experience or understand the “it” as “out in the
world,” its conceptual structure has to come with a certain configuration
of character tags.
“But what about all the things in the world that we haven’t conceptu-
alized yet? How does language refer to them?” This question again falls
back into the ordinary perspective. From the cognitive perspective, the
world we conceptualize just is the world as far as we are concerned. We
have nothing to say about things we haven’t conceptualized in one way
or another, so why should we worry how our language refers to them?
If someone else has conceptualized them, then fine, they can refer to
them. (And just to be careful: “Things we haven’t conceptualized” is
itself a conceptualization!)
162
28
Mismatching reference
in conversation
Let’s look a little closer at what happens when somebody refers to some-
thing. Suppose you and I are talking and I say, “Hey, look at that funny
cloud!” and point. You look where I’m pointing and figure out what
cloud I’m talking about. How does this work?
In the ordinary perspective, the phrase that funny cloud refers to an
object in the environment. In the cognitive perspective, it’s a little more
complicated. I use the phrase to refer to the cloud, and you figure out
what I’m referring to.
Let’s unpack this some more: My mind registers the cloud in the
environment by constructing a spatial structure. It links this spatial
structure to a token feature and to character tags that give me the
experience of something out there. Then I decide to say something
about it, so I link the pronunciation that funny cloud to this reference
file, and say it. When you hear the phrase, you take it that I’m referring
to something we can both see. So you (or your mind) set up a token
feature, and with the help of your observation of my pointing, you try
to link it with something in your visual field that meets the description
of a funny cloud. When you succeed, you may say: “Oh yeah, that!” By
using this phrase, you tell me that you’ve achieved conceptual and
spatial structures that (you think) match mine—that is, you’ve under-
stood the message.
Mismatching reference in conversation
163
But suppose we’re talking on the phone and I say “Hey, look at that
funny cloud!” You’re baffled. The meaning of my expression tells you to
set up a token feature, but you can’t link it with anything we can both
see. As a result, the expression refers for me, but it doesn’t for you. I’ve
failed my responsibility in the conversation, which is to enable you to
achieve conceptual and spatial structures that match mine—that is, to
pass my thought on to you.
The demonstratives this and that are among a number of grammatical
devices that help the hearer manage reference files. Some others are
underlined in the following little narrative.
A centaur galloped by.
There was this unicorn standing there singing. [unstressed this]
The centaur stopped and stared.
She couldn’t believe her eyes.
In the first sentence, the indefinite article a signals the hearer to set up a
new token feature—to introduce a new individual of the type ‘centaur’
into the understanding of the situation. In informal speech, unstressed
this has the same effect, as we see in the second sentence. In the third
sentence, though, the definite article the signals that the centaur in
question should already have a reference file in the hearer’s collection.
A definite pronoun like she can have the same effect, as we see in the
fourth sentence.1
A thoughtful speaker chooses expressions that guide the hearer
through the cast of characters. Not everyone is so considerate. I bet you
can think of people who litter their conversation with definite expres-
sions and pronouns that you have no idea how to identify. When
1
Just to be cautious: these aren’t the only uses of indefinite and definite articles and pro-
nouns—just the ones relevant to what I’m talking about here.
By the way, this narrative contains some hidden referents. In the first sentence, the cen-
taur has to have galloped by some particular place, and this place serves as the understood point
of view of the narration. And in the context of the first two sentences, you probably under-
stand the third sentence as saying the centaur stared at the unicorn, even though it doesn’t say
so. More enriched compositionality.
Reference and Truth
164
children do it, we’re tolerant and make an extra effort to understand.
When adults do it, it’s just annoying.
Philosophy of language situated in the ordinary perspective some-
times gets tied in knots about reference because it doesn’t take account
of the possibility that different people’s reference files might not match.
One well-known case comes from Keith Donnellan: Gina says some-
thing to Phil about theguydrinkingamartinioverthere and gestures toward
Bob. In Donnellan’s telling, Bob is actually drinking water. So, Donnel-
lan asks, does Gina’s phrase refer to Bob, even though he’s not a guy
drinking a martini? And the answer proves controversial, in ways I won’t
bother going into.
From the cognitive perspective, the story has to be told a little differ-
ently. I want to be very careful here. The issue isn’t Gina’s description
of Bob vs. the Truth About Bob. Rather, it’s Gina’s description of Bob
vs. the Narrator’s description of Bob. If Gina has used her phrase sin-
cerely, she must think Bob is drinking a martini. From her point of
view, then, she has referred to Bob—her expression is properly linked
to her reference file for Bob. But the Narrator’s reference file for Bob
has Bob drinking water. If we went and tasted Bob’s drink, we might
find we agree with Gina, or we might agree with the Narrator. If we
agree with Gina, then it’s the Narrator whose description is out of
touch.
Now, what about Phil? Suppose Phil has no idea what the guy is drink-
ing. Then he’ll accept Gina’s description. Gina’s reference to Bob goes
through without a hitch, and Phil ends up adding to his reference file for
Bob that he’s drinking a martini. On the other hand, suppose Phil thinks
Bob is drinking water. Then he takes Gina’s description of Bob to be
inaccurate, and he has to deal with the discrepancy. There are various
ways he can do this. He may guess who Gina has in mind, and charitably
ignore what he takes to be her misdescription. Or he can ask her for
clarification: “Do you mean Bob over there?” Or if he doesn’t mind being
a little rude, he might say “You mean the guy with the water, don’t
you?”
Mismatching reference in conversation
165
The goal in any case is for Phil and Gina to achieve a mutual impres-
sion that they’re on the same page. As long as they’re satisfied, that’s all
that matters for the moment. Of course, they may discover later that
they weren’t actually on the same page, in which case they have to
undertake some sort of repair.
This description of the situation seems to me altogether true to life. It
begins to show us how people’s language use works when communica-
tion isn’t entirely pristine. It seems a pointless diversion to ask if Gina
really referred to Bob, or if the phrase the guy drinking a martini really
referred to Bob. What matters is whether Gina and Phil end up under-
standing each other. You can’t demand a clean answer when the situa-
tion is dirty.
166
29
What kinds of things can we
refer to? (Cognitive metaphysics,
Lesson 1)
The basic question of metaphysics, a major branch of philosophy, is
what sorts of very fundamental things exist. Are there objects? times?
properties? events? numbers? types? Recently a subfield has developed
called metametaphysics, whose question is: When we ask metaphysical
questions, what are we talking about? Are we talking about reality (the
“realist stance”)? Or just about how we talk about reality (the “deflation-
ary stance”)?
As far as I know, metametaphysicians haven’t explored a third possi-
bility: a cognitive stance. In these terms, metaphysical questions are
about how people understand the world—about what sorts of entities
people’s minds populate the world with. We talk about reality a certain
way because of the way we take reality to be.1
To see what I mean, let’s
do a little linguistics again.
Demonstrative pronouns like this or that are the simplest expressions
we use to refer to entities in the world we conceptualize. If I say the
1
In his book Individuals, P. F. Strawson calls this enterprise “descriptive metaphysics.” He
says (p. 10), “Metaphysics has a long and distinguished history, and it is consequently unlikely
that there are any new truths to be discovered in descriptive metaphysics.” The present chap-
ter and the next two suggest that there actually are some.
What kinds of things can we refer to? (Cognitive metaphysics, Lesson 1)
167
sentence below, my pronunciation that is linked to a token feature that is
also linked to something I experience in the world and am pointing to.
Would you pick that up, please? [pointing]
What I’m asking you to pick up in this example is some unspecified sort
of physical object. Physical objects are mostly what the philosophical lit-
erature on reference talks about—things like tables, chairs, forks, dogs,
Socrates, that guy over there drinking a martini, and the present king of
France (who we take up in the next chapter). Reference to objects is all I’ve
talked about so far too. But we can actually use demonstrative pronouns
to refer to a much richer range of things. Let’s look at some examples.
I’d sure like one of those! [pointing to a Porsche driving by]
Here the speaker points to the Porsche, but, oddly enough, uses a
plural pronoun. This sentence expresses the speaker’s desire not to have
that car, but rather to have something of the type (or category) the car
belongs to. So the demonstrative pronoun is being used to refer to a type
rather than to a token. The world looks the same, but the sentence
guides the hearer to attend to it differently. The moral for a cognitive
metaphysics: If we can understand something as an instance of a type,
then we must understand the world to contain types.
In pointing to the Porsche, we’re still talking about objects. We can go
farther afield:
Did you hear that?
Listen to this.
The verbs hear and listen describe auditory experiences. The phrase fol-
lowing them refers to what’s being experienced: either a sound (Did you
hear some honking just now?) or an object making a sound (Did you hear an
ambulance just now?). As usual, this and that are linked to reference files.
But the meaning of the verb tells us that the contents of the files have to
describe sounds, not objects. Since speakers can refer to sounds this way,
they must understand the world to contain sounds. Big surprise.
Reference and Truth
168
(People in metaphysics rarely talk about sounds. But they’re interest-
ing. Remember the metaphysical puzzle that sounds such as words and
songs posed back in chapter 5? In present terms, the question is this: Is
the word puddle a token that we experience every time we say or hear it?
Or is it a type, of which we create a new token every time we say or hear
it? There seems no way to decide. The type/token distinction seems
fuzzier for these sorts of entities than for physical objects.)
How about this example?
Please put your coat right here [pointing] and your hat over there.
[pointing]
Right here and over there are used to refer not to objects but to places.
What’s a place? Places are often described in relation to an object, as in
under the bed, along the beach, inside the box. But the place isn’t the same as
the object. We can use the same object to define many different places:
in the box, on the box, next to the box, behind the box, five feet away from the
box, and so on. And some places aren’t defined in terms of an object,
such as in outer space or I’d like the chandelier to hang down to here [pointing
to a place in the air in the middle of an empty room]. So the demonstra-
tives here and there in the example are linked to reference files, but the
contents of the files describe a place rather than an object.
Even though we can point to places, they’re not “visible” as such—
they aren’t present in the visual surface. But they are present in visual
understanding, that is, in spatial structure. So they’re part of our concep-
tualized world.
Next:
Can you do this? [demonstrating]
‘Osculating’ means doing this. [demonstrating] (an example from
Chapter 7)
When a demonstrative pronoun occurs with the verb do, it turns out to
refer to an action rather than an object—something you can do. There’s
What kinds of things can we refer to? (Cognitive metaphysics, Lesson 1)
169
an interesting wrinkle. If I demonstrate an action and say Can you do
this?, I’m asking you to perform the action that I performed. If I say ‘Oscu-
lating’ means doing this and I demonstrate, I’m showing not what I do, but
what anyone does in performing the action. That is, these expressions
abstract the action away from the person performing it—it counts as the
same (type of) action no matter who does it.
(It’s beginning to look like the ability to understand this kind of
abstraction has a brain basis in the so-called mirror neurons. Monkeys’
mirror neurons fire either if they’re performing a certain action or if
they’re watching someone else do it. So their brains seem to be sensitive
to the same action, no matter who’s doing it. It’s still a big mystery how
the inputs to these neurons are set up so this happens!)
Please indulge me for one more case.
I’d like you to make the shelf about this long. [holding the hands a
certain distance apart]
There were only this many people at the party last night. [holding up
four ﬁngers]
In the first example, the speaker isn’t using this to refer to an object.
Rather, it refers to a length or a distance that the not-yet-existing shelf is
supposed to satisfy. And in the second example, this is being used to refer
not to fingers, but rather to the number of fingers. Now a two-foot long
shelf doesn’t look like a two-foot space between your hands, and four
people don’t look like four of your fingers. In fact, in I heard this many
honks [holding up four fingers], the number isn’t even used to count
something you can see. So lengths and numbers abstract really far away
from the way the world looks. You might say we don’t see them, but we
read them into what we see. This might make a standard metaphysician
rather uneasy. Still, we refer to them, so they must be part of the world
as we understand it.
Summing up these examples: By using demonstratives in different
grammatical contexts, a speaker can invite a hearer to derive a whole
Reference and Truth
170
variety of interpretations from the very same visual surface. The differ-
ences among these interpretations are encoded only in spatial structure
and/or conceptual structure. Yet in each case the speaker points to
something or demonstrates something that the demonstrative refers to.
So these examples show that we can refer to types, sounds, places, direc-
tions, actions, lengths, and amounts in the external world as we under-
stand it, using the very same basic mechanism of language that we use to
refer to objects. They all can get reference files in conceptual structure.
Here’s some more evidence that we recognize all these sorts of enti-
ties. We can ask a question that requests the hearer to identify a physical
object. The hearer can reply either with a linguistic expression or by
pointing to something “out in the world.”
What did you see? A unicorn. [or point to
something]
And it turns out that we can also also ask about all these other sorts of
entities. The answer to the question can be either a linguistic expression,
a nonlinguistic point to something, or a demonstration.
What kind do you want? A Porsche. [or pointing]
What did you hear? Some honking. [or imitation
of sound]
Where’s my hat? In the kitchen. [or pointing]
What did you do? Stuck out my tongue. [or demonstrating]
How long was the ﬁsh? Two feet long. [or holding hands
apart]
How many people came? Four. [or holding up
four ﬁngers]
And we can use the same to compare either two physical objects or two
of any of these other sorts of entities.
He wore the same hat he always wears.
He ate the same sandwich he always eats.
[It had better be the same type, not the same token!]
The car is making the same scary noise it always makes.
What kinds of things can we refer to? (Cognitive metaphysics, Lesson 1)
171
Your hat is in the same place as your coat.
You can do the same thing you always do. Anything you can do, I can
do better!
The ﬁsh was the same length (or just as long) as my arm.
There were the same number of people (or just as many people) at the
party as in the class.
We talk and act as though this whole menagerie of entities is “out
there in the world” for us to refer to, point to, and demonstrate. So,
within the ordinary perspective, they all exist. From the cognitive per-
spective, though, these examples show us not what there is in the
world, but what’s involved in forming our understanding of the world.
Our way of talking about the world isn’t “in error” or “misguided” or
“just language.” If we didn’t understand the world this way, there
wouldn’t be anything in our minds to link linguistic expressions like
these examples to. As for what’s really really in the world, maybe that’s
the business of theoretical physics, but an answer that we humans can
formulate and understand still has to be filtered through the human
cognitive apparatus.
These examples far from exhaust the entities we understand the world
to have in it. They’re just the relatively concrete ones. There are lots of
more abstract ones too, like values and relationships and mortgages. For
our purposes here, one very important one is sentences. We can point to
sentences with demonstratives:
Did he really say that?
We can ask questions whose answers are quoted sentences.
What did he say? “The stock market is collapsing.”
And we can make statements of identity:
I think Bill just said the same thing you said.
As we saw in Chapter 5, words and sentences are strange kinds of enti-
ties. But whatever their weird properties from the point of view of
Reference and Truth
172
traditional metaphysics, we talk and act as though they’re right out there
along with cars and stars.
More technically, when you speak, hear, or imagine a sentence, it gets
a reference file so you can refer back to it and compare it with other
sentences. This is going to be important in a few minutes.
173
30
Reference ﬁles for pictures
and thoughts
René Magritte entitled this painting La trahison des images (‘The treach-
ery of images’). The caption says “This isn’t a pipe.” Of course it isn’t a
pipe, silly—it’s only an image of a pipe. Let’s figure out how we under-
stand this.
The painting is something we perceive out in the world. So our mind
gives it a reference file whose character tag is ‘real.’ Its content features
say that it’s a token object and that it’s a two-dimensional pattern on the
page. Since we pick out the pipe-image as part of the painting (the same
Reference and Truth
174
way we pick out a handle as part of a cup), it gets its own reference file.
It too has the character tag ‘real,’ and its content features also say it’s a
token object that’s a two-dimensional pattern. In addition, the two refer-
ence files are linked by a ‘part-of’ relation—the pipe-image is part of the
painting. So far, so good.
But why is this particular part of the painting understood as an image
of a pipe? The reason is that it represents or depicts a pipe.1
Now comes the
tricky part. What’s the status of the pipe that the image depicts? We
understand it not as a two-dimensional pattern on the page, but as a
three-dimensionalfree-standingobject.Sinceweunderstandthedepicted
pipe this way, it must have its own reference file! So we end up with not
two but three reference files: one for the painting, one for the pipe-
image, and one for the depicted pipe.
“Wait! Where did this extra entity come from? There’s no real pipe
around!” That’s right. By understanding the painting as a depiction,
we’ve constructed what might be called a “virtual pipe,” which forms part
of our conceptualization of the painting. The conceptualization of a vir-
tual pipe does differ from the conceptualization of a real pipe, but not in
its content features—its shape, color, and so forth. Rather, the difference
is in its character tags—it carries the feature ‘virtual’ rather than ‘real.’
The figure on the next page sketches the conceptualization of the pic-
ture. (As in Chapter 27, I have to let actual images stand in for spatial
structure. And since the images are all two-dimensional, I have to add
annotations to indicate that the image is two-dimensional but the virtual
pipe is three-dimensional.)
1
Exactly what does it take for an image to represent or depict something? This is pretty
complicated and I don’t want to get into it here. A hint: Representations don’t have to be
“realistic.” Cartoons are representations, and in a way, so are the notches that a hunter puts
on his gun to commemorate the animals he’s killed.
Reference ﬁles for pictures and thoughts
175
Now, suppose I ignore Magritte’s warning and talk about the picture
the way we normally do:
Gosh, that pipe looks like one my Dad used to smoke.
Am I referring to the pipe-image, or to the virtual pipe? Well, it’s kind of
hard to tell. In this sentence—
That pipe is a sort that isn’t very expensive.
—I’m talking about the cost of that sort of real pipe, not the cost of paint-
ings of pipes. On the other hand, in this sentence—
That pipe is painted in lush realistic colors.
—I’m talking about the image. So it looks as though in the context of the
picture, the expression that pipe can refer either to the pipe-image or the
virtual pipe.
Usually this ambiguity is harmless, and the context makes it clear
when necessary. But not always. Here’s a context where the ambiguity
makes a difference.
There’s a scratch on the pipe in the painting.
On one meaning, the painting has gotten scratched in the area of the
pipe-image. On the other, the virtual pipe is depicted as having a virtual
scratch on it.
When we use the words pipe and scratch to talk about images this way,
nothing has changed in the meanings of the words themselves. Rather, a
general principle of language lets us talk about depictions by using the
Spatial Structure
(2D) (2D) (3D)
| | |
Conceptual Structure Token  ‘part-of  Token  ‘depicts’  Token  ‘instance-of’Type
2D Object 2D Object 3D Object 3D Object
| | | Name
Character tags ‘real’ ‘real’ ‘virtual’
Pronunciation Pipe
Reference and Truth
176
words for what they depict. We encountered this principle back in
Chapter 12, when we used the sentence They have the Beatles on display to
talk about statues of the Beatles in a wax museum. There, it seemed odd
to say that the name the Beatles has two meanings, the actual guys and
their statues. In the same way here, it would be funny to say that the
word pipe has two meanings, the thing you smoke tobacco in and an
image—as if the two uses are like smoking a cigar vs. smoking a herring.
It makes more sense to say that the word always names the object but
that, thanks to enriched compositionality, we can also use the word to
talk about an image that depicts the object.
In addition, when we talk about an image or a statue as a depiction of
something, we’ve set up this double reference to the image and what it
depicts. This too is a case of enriched compositionality, where the mean-
ing of the sentence contains parts that don’t come from the meanings of
the words.
Here’s a related case. What are we doing when we use a banana as a
pretend telephone? We’re performing a real action, speaking a certain
way while holding a banana a certain way, and this action depicts another
action, a virtual action. One of the characters in the real action is a
banana, which depicts a virtual telephone that is a character in the vir-
tual action. Because the banana depicts a telephone, we’re entitled to call
it a telephone.
That’s not all. Since the virtual action is a phone call, there has to be
another character on the other end of the conversation. So we under-
stand there to be a virtual character we’re “talking to,” and we set up a
reference file for him so we can talk about him as part of the pretense:
“Uncle Harold wants to know when you’re coming to visit.”
Not all pictures depict virtual objects, of course. How do we concep-
tualize Johann Georg Edlinger’s portrait of Mozart?
Reference ﬁles for pictures and thoughts
177
Again there’s a reference file for the painting as a whole, and one for the
figure itself. This time, though, the figure is linked to a reference file for a
real individual, not a virtual one (assuming you know who Mozart was).
Here’s where it gets interesting. Nothing in the picture itself tells you
whether the depicted individual is to be understood as real or virtual. Only
the name attached to the picture can tell you that. If the painting were called
18th-century Viennese gentleman, we would have no way of knowing whether
the guy was an actual person or a figment of the artist’s imagination.
When a picture depicts a real person, we may be able to compare the
depiction with the person. One of Mozart’s friends might have said to
the artist,
That’s quite a portrait! You’ve made Mozart handsomer than Mozart
really is.
What he’s conveying is that the person as depicted doesn’t match the
actual person—the depiction relation isn’t quite accurate. Let’s look a
little more closely at how this works. The second Mozart in the sentence
clearly is meant to refer to the real guy. But the first Mozart is meant to
refer to the image—the Mozart that Edlinger made. So the sentence
Reference and Truth
178
compares real-Mozart’s handsomeness to the depicted handsomeness of
image-Mozart.
Pictures aren’t the only thing that leads us to construct reference files
for virtual individuals. Chapter 27 mentioned fictional people like Sher-
lock Holmes. Holmes came into virtual existence by way of language
rather than pictures (though pictures soon followed). He’s conceptual-
ized as a virtual person who has virtual adventures. Most of the language
we use to talk about such folks is exactly the language we use to talk
about real people. At best we rely on little cues like the mythical Santa
Claus or Once upon a time to determine that they’re meant as virtual.
Sometimes the cover of a book says “A novel.” Often, though, it’s just a
matter of understanding the context.2
A case I find especially fascinating is the status of legends and myths.
These present themselves as history, depicting real characters in real
events. We may have the sense that they’ve originated as figments of
someone’s imagination, but still we sometimes kind of like to believe (or
pretend) they depict real events. This presents a quandary: Does the ref-
erence file for Achilles have the character tag ‘real’ or ‘virtual’? Well, it
may not matter for enjoying the story, so maybe we just leave the ques-
tion open. But it’s not always that easy. Kids who are beginning to sus-
pect Santa Claus is virtual sometimes still want to believe in him. And
exactly what are the character tags for Moses and Jesus? For lots of people,
the choice is hugely important!
It’s not just pictures and stories that we understand as depicting things.
Here’s a famous example from Bertrand Russell:
I thought your yacht was larger than it is.
A curious thing about this sentence is that if you take off I thought, the
remainder means something completely different—that the yacht has
2
In his book Frame Analysis, the sociologist Erving Goffman discusses in exhaustive detail
these sorts of contexts that alter the way we understand objects and actions. Prime among his
examples is our understanding of theater, in which the actors depict virtual characters. He
calls such a systematic alteration or amplification of understanding a “keying,” and the context
in which a virtual world is depicted a “frame,” evoking an analogy to a picture frame.
Reference ﬁles for pictures and thoughts
179
gotten smaller. This isn’t the way we understand the full sentence,
though. Rather, it describes an inaccurate depiction, just like what we
imagined Mozart’s friend saying. So here’s the analysis.
Parallel to the reference file for the painting, there’s a reference file
•
for my thought, with the character tag ‘real.’ I’m saying I had a real
thought.
Parallel to the reference file for the image, there’s a reference file for
•
my yacht-concept, with the character tag ‘real,’ which forms part of
the thought. I’m saying I had a real concept of your yacht.
Parallel to the reference file for the real Mozart, there’s a reference
•
file for your actual yacht. My yacht-concept depicted your yacht.
However, my yacht-concept failed to depict your actual yacht
•
correctly.
The phrase
• your yacht refers to my yacht-concept. The pronoun it
refers to your actual yacht.
The context that leads us to this enriched interpretation of the
•
sentence is the phrase I thought, which has an effect parallel to the
presentation of a picture or the phrase In this picture...
From this example, we learn that we ordinarily think and talk about
thoughts in much the same way as we think and talk about pictures. We
conceptualize thoughts as entities in people’s heads. They can depict
either actual objects and actions or virtual objects and actions (in which
case we call them “imaginary”), and sometimes mixtures of the two.
When they depict actual objects and actions, they may be inaccurate, in
which case we call them something like “false beliefs.”3
3
This approach, then, is an account of the naïve Theory of Mind, our ability to understand
others’ thoughts and perceptions. There is a rich experimental literature on when Theory of Mind
develops in children, whether apes ever achieve it, and whether autistic individuals lack it.
I think this account can be extended to all the standard examples of de dicto vs. de re (also
known as referential opacity vs. transparency) in the philosophical literature. My Semantics
and Cognition goes through the examples in a framework a little different from the one devel-
oped here, but similarly drawing out the relevant parallels with descriptions of pictures. None
of the philosophical accounts I am familiar with notices these parallels, which I think are cru-
cial to understanding what’s going on in these phenomena.
Reference and Truth
180
Let’s go back to the last chapter’s theme of “cognitive metaphysics”—
what sorts of things do we act as though the world has in it? We now see
that in order to talk about people’s thoughts, we have to accord the
thoughts their own reference files. We also have to construct reference
files for the parts of a thought—the image-characters and image-actions
that make up the thought. In addition, we understand thoughts, like pic-
tures, as depicting or representing objects and actions, sometimes real
and sometimes virtual.
It doesn’t matter if that’s not the way thoughts really work, on the
cognitive and neural perspectives. But that’s the way the cognitive per-
spective says that the ordinary perspective treats them.
181
31
More cognitive metaphysics:
Persons
In Chapter 18 I talked about a traditional view of “what makes us
human,” going back at least to Descartes: Humans have souls, are con-
scious, are rational, have language, and have moral responsibility. I want
to look at this view a little more closely. Its intuitive appeal tells us some-
thing about the ordinary perspective on people.
Here’s the idea. We understand the world to contain physical objects
like rocks, trees, bicycles, and tables. Among the physical objects, certain
kinds, such as ants, worms, rats, and tigers, can move around under their
own power. And among these “animate” entities is the very special class
of persons. Unlike animals and inanimate objects, persons have social
relations, social roles, rights, obligations, and moral responsibility.
As with all the other concepts we’ve looked at (especially in Chapter
11), the notion of ‘person’ isn’t cut and dried. We’re happy to think of
some non-humans as “honorary” persons, particularly pets and personi-
fied animals like Brer Rabbit and Bugs Bunny.1
Still, we do draw the line
somewhere: the mosquito buzzing in your ear isn’t a person by any
stretch of the imagination, at least in our culture. Much more noxious is
1
Another “honorary” case is the modern American legal treatment of corporations as per-
sons. This has the salutary result that one can sue a corporation and hold it legally responsible
for its actions. On the other hand, as many have pointed out, you can’t put a corporation in
jail. And, as a person, a corporation has the right to free speech, leading to the legality of mas-
sive corporate influence on elections and legislation.
Reference and Truth
182
when things go in the other direction—when people treat humans as
non-persons. It’s all too common for people to declare that their enemies
or members of lower-status social groups are dogs, pigs, or monkeys,
and to use that to justify treating them without compassion.
The conceptual twist here is that persons, unlike animals, are taken to
have a special part that’s separate from the body—an entity we might call
“mind” or “soul” or “spirit” or “self,” take your choice. To see how this
might work, let’s return to our discussion of book back in Chapter 11. We
saw there that a stereotypical book has a physical aspect—a collection of
bound pages with writing on them—plus an “informational” aspect—the
ideas conveyed by the writing. But these two aspects can be detached
from each other, since there are physical books consisting of blank pages,
and there are pageless “informational” books on a computer.
The idea is that persons have the same sort of dual aspect. We think
of a normal person as having both a body and a soul, but we can also
conceive of the two coming apart. A dead body is one “from which the
soul has departed.” But all cultures seem to think of it still as a kind of
person, treating it with a kind of respect we don’t accord to other inani-
mate objects. And on the other hand, all cultures seem to have concepts
of souls existing independently of bodies: souls ascending to heaven after
death, spirits of departed ancestors watching people’s lives, and pure dis-
embodied spirits like angels, ghosts, gods, and devils.
We can also conceive of a soul detaching from a body and attaching to a
differentone,inatleastfourdifferentways.Thefirstisreincarnation,where
the soul of someone who has died is implanted in a new body. (And if it’s a
culture where they think you can be reincarnated as an animal, then they
think animals have souls too.) The second is metamorphosis: the prince is
changed into a frog—but he’s still the prince! The third is body-switching,
as in the movie Freaky Friday, where mother and daughter wake up in each
other’s bodies. The fourth is spirit possession, where a spirit gets into some-
one’s head or body and takes over control of their actions. Ideas like these
are completely straightforward to understand, and lots of cultures come up
with one or another of them in their folktales, legends, or religion.
More cognitive metaphysics: Persons
183
In dreams, we sometimes “know” a person is different from the one
he or she looks like: “I dreamt I was talking to Uncle Sol, but for some
reason he was young and blond, not old and bald.” And people with an
affliction called Capgras Syndrome will swear that their spouse (or some
other socially significant person) has been replaced by an impostor—
who looks just the same!2
In these cases too, the person’s identity is
somehow conceived of as separate from their physical features.
We can only imagine these sorts of switches because we conceive of
the body and the soul as separate. It’s hard to imagine ordinary “soul-
less” objects undergoing this kind of change. Try to think of your coffee
mug and frying pan becoming each other, or two ordinary non-anthro-
pomorphized frogs in the pond trading identities. It’s simply weird.
2
The protagonist of the novel Atmospheric Disturbances, by Rivka Galchen (Picador, 2008)
apparently suffers from Capgras Syndrome, as does a character in The Echo Maker, by Richard
Powers (MacMillan Picador, 2006). During an illness, my wife’s aunt showed these symptoms
intermittently, at various times declaring that her husband, her daughter, or her nurse were
impostors.
Reference and Truth
184
Who you are, your personal identity, goes with your soul, not with
your body. When Descartes wanted to prove that he existed (Cogito, ergo
sum), it was the existence of his mind, not his body, that mattered. And
the mom and the daughter wake up with their minds in each other’s
bodies—they don’t wake up in their own bodies but with each other’s
minds.
Religions all incorporate this conception of persons, and it feels per-
fectly natural. One of the central issues that religions deal with is what
happens to you—your soul, your identity—when you die. Notice, they
don’t question whether you have a self or a soul. They only differ in
what they say happens to it. Religions also populate the world with all
sorts of supernatural beings like spirits and gods, who interact with
people in one way or another. They display human characteristics like
jealousy, forgiveness, benevolence, malevolence, justice, and revenge,
and they’re often taken to be responsible for preserving the natural
and moral order.
In Descartes’ version of the cognitive perspective, this was perfectly
okay. In fact, right after proving that he himself exists, he sets himself the
task of proving that God exists too.
A modern cognitive perspective will have none of this. Some people
take a hard line: “There’s no soul. Everything in the world of our experi-
ence and thought has a physical cause.” Others take a less hard line that
adds up to the same thing: “I bet there’s no soul, and I bet we can explain
everything in the world of our experience and thought in physical terms.”
For instance, the title of Antonio Damasio’s book Descartes’ Error refers
to the philosopher’s belief in a soul. And Francis Crick’s Astonishing
Hypothesis is a bet that there isn’t such a thing. Except for some niggling
doubts (well, some people see them as overwhelming) about the “Hard
Problem of Consciousness” (Chapter 18), the case against the soul seems
pretty strong these days.
The modern cognitive perspective joins forces with biological and
evolutionary perspectives, and claims that the human mind came to be
the way it is through mindless processes of genetic mutation and natural
More cognitive metaphysics: Persons
185
selection. The explanation doesn’t require a God who thought us up and
created us. And humans have moral codes, not because some God
decreed the moral order, but because natural selection happened to
favor groups of people who were biased to take care of each other over
groups where everyone was biased to just look out for themselves.3
That
is, moral codes, like languages, are a product of the human mind.
This is all very well and good, but when we get down to brass tacks,
look what it says: There’s nothing special about you. You’re just a chance
product of a mindless evolutionary process operating in an insignificant
corner of the vast universe. Your life has no meaning. In fact, there’s not
even a You, there’s just a clump of neurons interacting with each other
that happen to converge on a convenient computation of “Selfhood.”
Well. Between this picture and one in which you not only exist but
are important, where your life is meaningful and even sacred, where it
matters what you do, where there’s a God out there who cares about
you, which would you choose? I think a lot of people would say, “If sci-
ence tells me I don’t exist, and that there’s no right and wrong, then the
hell with science.” And I think this is one reason we see such widespread
public resistance to teaching evolution in the schools.
The scientists have countered with attacks on religion, specifically on
the existence of God. My sense is that the existence of God isn’t the real
issue here. The real crisis is in the subtext: the existence and importance
of Me. One thing I miss in this literature is any discussion of the sense of
the sacred, which, as pointed out in Chapter 26, is a vital aspect of reli-
gious experience. Another thing I miss is a possible way to resolve the
3
A little more careful formulation for readers who might be concerned that I’m inappro-
priately invoking group selection: Natural selection favored people who formed groups, and
who were inclined to take a bit of care for people in their group, over people who either
shunned groups or, when in a group, still only looked out for themselves. And why, you
might ask, did natural selection favor such groups? The answer I find most satisfying, if also
most distressing, is that looking out for each other within the group was an advantage in fight-
ing and defeating other groups. A modern manifestation of this is the increase in patriotism
and national cohesion in the time of war.
Reference and Truth
186
crisis, suggested by movements as different as existentialism, Chasidism,
and Buddhism, at least as I understand them: your life becomes mean-
ingful and sacred by your making it so, through the way you live it.
The disconnect here should look familiar. It’s just a more drastic ver-
sion of “There’s no such thing as English, sunsets, words, colors, free will,
etc. etc.” And again, the way to resolve it is to recognize that it arises from
not keeping track of which perspective we’re in. The ordinary perspec-
tive is insistent on people having something “soulular” in addition to their
bodies, something that gives them their identity. The cognitive perspec-
tive tries to do without—though it still has to explain why we understand
or conceptualize people in terms of souls. Is one of these perspectives
wrong? As in all the other cases, it depends what your purpose is.
Getting back to our main theme here, a cognitive metaphysics has to
treat persons the same way it treats books. There’s a single reference file
for a person, but if necessary we can split the reference file into two. One
part, the body, has content features that situate it in the physical domain.
The other part, the mind/soul/spirit/self, has content features that situ-
ate it in this other mysterious “personal” domain. That seems to be the
way we conceptualize ourselves and each other.
187
32
What’s truth?
It’s time to tackle that most sacred of philosophical topics, Truth. Right
from the start, we have to remember that true and truth are just words.
If bald and smoke and climb are full of complexity and indeterminacy, we
should expect no less from true and truth. We can’t let ourselves suc-
cumb to the temptation of assuming Truth has some underlying pure
Essence.
First, some linguistics, to get a better idea of what we’re talking about.
The use of true that philosophers are most interested in, and the one I’ll
concentrate on here, ascribes a property to a declarative sentence. The
sentence in question may be quoted, or it may be referred to by a phrase
like that sentence.
“Snow is white” is true.
It’s true that snow is white.
The preceding sentence is true.
That statement/claim/assertion/proposition is true.
Here’s a traditional description of the meaning of true: A sentence is
true if it corresponds to the way the world is. Alternatively, using the
terms of Chapter 30, a sentence is true if it depicts the world accu-
rately—in the same way that a picture or a thought may depict the
world accurately.
Less often remarked is that this same use of true can be ascribed to a
string of sentences that form a narrative, as in these three sentences.
Reference and Truth
188
What you say is true. [a sentence or a narrative]
What the newspaper says about the president is true. [a narrative]
This story can’t be true. [a narrative]
Questions, imperatives, proposals, and performatives (sentences that
establish a fact by being uttered) can’t be characterized as true. And jokes
are made up of declarative sentences, but they can’t be characterized as
true either.
*“Is snow white?” is true. [question]
*“Eat your dinner” is true. [imperative]
*“Let’s get some lunch” is true. [proposal]
*“I now pronounce you husband and wife” is true. [performative]
*“A priest, a minister, and a rabbi walk into a bar...” is true. [joke]
Here are two grammatical variants of this use.
a true sentence/story/statement/claim/assertion/proposition
the truth of that sentence/story/claim/assertion/proposition
The opposite of true in this use is of course false, and the opposite of truth
is falsity.
“Snow is green” is false.
What you say/what the newspaper says is false.
a false sentence/statement/story/claim/assertion/proposition
the falsity of that sentence/statement/story/claim/assertion/proposition
Another use of truth appears in the next example. Its counterpart is
falsehood rather than falsity.
the truth about 9/11
*the falsity about 9/11
a falsehood about 9/11
The next examples contain a grammatical variant on this use.
He’s telling the truth.
I want to ﬁnd out the truth.
What’s truth?
189
These have a hidden piece of meaning—the truth means something like
‘the truth about X,’ where X is some character or situation we understand
from the context.1
Still another use in this subfamily is:
We take these truths to be self-evident: That all men are created
equal...
Here truth means ‘true sentence’ or ‘true proposition.’
A slightly more distant use of true turns up in phrases like these.
a true copy of the document
a true belief about the war
a true picture of Mozart2
These too are used to describe accurate depictions, except that this time
the entity that is doing the depicting isn’t a sentence.
And here’s a still more distant use:
the true cause of the smell in the attic
the true solution to our problems
a true lover of opera
a true friend
Again, the thing that’s true isn’t a sentence. But in this case it’s not even
an object that depicts something:
This is the true cause of that smell in the attic! [holding up a dead
squirrel]
False doesn’t work in this context either.
*the false cause of the smell in the attic
*the false solution to our problems
1
We’ve seen this sort of thing before, in examples like be polite, which has to mean ‘being
polite to so-and-so’ or ‘be polite to people in general,’ and be unconscious, which means ‘be
unconscious of things in general.’
2
Actually, this phrase is as likely to be applied to a verbal description as to an actual pic-
ture, as in The biography of Mozart by Einstein doesn’t give a true picture of his love life.
Reference and Truth
190
*a false lover of opera
(although a false friend)
This use can often be paraphrased by genuine or real—
the genuine/real cause of the smell
a genuine/real lover of opera
a genuine/real friend
—whereas the “sentential” use of true can’t.
*“Snow is white” is genuine/real.
“Snow is white” is a genuine/real sentence. ≠ “Snow is white” is a
true sentence.
In addition, there are some uses in idioms like true to life, which
describes an accurate depiction, and the somewhat archaic his aim was
true, which describes an accurate shot (in a different though related use
of accurate).
All these uses show a family resemblance, not unlike the uses of smoke
in Chapter 6 and conscious in Chapter 17.
191
33
Problems for an ordinary
perspective on truth
Now let’s go back to the first use of true, where it expresses a property of a
sentenceornarrative.Howdoyoutellwhetheraparticularsentenceistrue?
One well-known explication was proposed by the logician Alfred Tarski:
“Snow is white” is true if and only if snow is white.
This is rescued from silliness by saying that the second snow is white is
intended as a temporary stand-in for a set of conditions stated in a “met-
alanguage” such as logic or mathematics. Tarski’s goal is a “theory of
truth” that states “truth-conditions” for all sentences of natural lan-
guages. If the world satisfies the truth-conditions for a sentence, the sen-
tence is true; if it doesn’t, the sentence is false. This is all within the
ordinary perspective, of course.
This sort of theory of truth runs into various sorts of problems. I’ll go
through a few. First, remember our bald guys in Chapter 11? Here are
three of them.
Al Ed Hank
Reference and Truth
192
Our friend Ed is bald compared to Al, but not bald compared to Hank.
Is the sentence Ed is bald true or false? It’s not clear.
Here’s a related case.
The distance from Boston to New York is 200 miles.
Is it true? It does the job if you’re trying to figure out whether you can
drive from Boston to New York in an hour (no) or in a day (yes). On the
other hand, if you need to be more accurate, how do you measure the
distance? From the center of Boston to the center of New York? From
the nearest border to the nearest border? Or from your actual starting
point in Boston to your actual endpoint in New York? Do you measure
by the fastest road, or the shortest, or the one you’re actually going to
take? The absolute truth of the sentence seems less the issue than its suit-
ability for your current purpose.1
Speaking of baldness, another much-discussed example goes back to
Russell: The present king of France is bald. Russell thought it must be false,
because there’s no present king of France. The problem is that if it’s
false, then its negation, The present king of France isn’t bald, must be true.
But it can’t be, because there’s no present king of France. So some peo-
ple conclude the sentence is neither true nor false. A similar issue comes
up with our example in Chapter 28, where Gina says of Bob, The guy with
a martini is talking to Heather, but (according to the Narrator) Bob is
drinking water. Is the sentence true or false?
For a last example, how can both these sentences be true?
1
The philosopher Jerrold Katz once asserted that this sentence is either true or false, and
that’s the end of the story. The problems I’ve posed here come from my response.
This example is also interesting because, like some examples in Chapter 29, it seems to refer
to a distance. The philosopher Jim Higginbotham thinks it doesn’t. He proposes that the logi-
cal form of this sentence is really something like ‘The number of miles from Boston to New
York is 200’, so the sentence is really about numbers, not distances. However, (a) he doesn’t
show how to relate this proposed logical form to the actual sentence, and (b) he neglects to
notice that a mile is a distance—and if you’re counting miles, you’re referring to them.
Problems for an ordinary perspective on truth
193
Sherlock Holmes was British.
Sherlock Holmes didn’t exist.
Since there was no Holmes, Sherlock Holmes was British ought to have the
same funny status as The present king of France is bald, whatever we want
to say that status is. But actually, we automatically understand the sen-
tence within another (unmentioned) context—the virtual world depicted
in the story. Within this world, Sherlock Holmes was indeed British, not,
say, Romanian. So Sherlock Holmes was British is true—within this virtual
world. (William James gives this account too.)
How about Sherlock Holmes didn’t exist? This one’s obviously false
within the virtual world of the story. But in the ordinary world, there
was no Holmes, so the sentence is true. In other words, both these sen-
tences are ambiguous as to what world they depict, and we interpret
them whichever way is most informative, without any sense of con-
scious choice. From this we see that our original intuitive definition—a
sentence is true if it corresponds to the way the world is—leaves open
a crucial question: the way which world is?
These sorts of examples reinforce my admonition at the beginning of
the last chapter that true is a word just like any other, full of unclear and
indeterminate cases. The philosophical problems with truth arise for
four interrelated reasons.
They take for granted the ordinary perspective, in which sentences
•
in the world are connected directly to states of affairs in the world.
They take for granted that truth must be totally clear and totally
•
sharp-edged.
They insist that a theory of meaning has to begin with a theory of
•
truth.
They act as though all we need to do in the face of these sorts of
•
problematic examples is sharpen this perspective.
As usual, the cognitive perspective makes the problem quite different:
What are people doing when they judge sentences to be true?
Reference and Truth
194
Immediately I hear the usual suspects piping up: “Judgments of truth
may be all well and good, but what about the real thing—truth, plain and
simple? What about the eternal truths of mathematics? They aren’t a
matter of someone’s judgment. Two plus two equals four was already true
when only bacteria roamed the earth.” Well, if you want to insist on the
ordinary perspective, on Real Truth, then yes, that’s what you have to
say. From the cognitive perspective, though, the issue is rather: How do
we humans come to grasp mathematical statements as true, and why do
they seem to us to be eternal? And that’s an interesting question for psy-
chology and neuroscience, not a matter of pure philosophy.
This is not to say the ordinary perspective on truth is wrong. As with
sunsets, in some circumstances the ordinary perspective works best, and
in other circumstances, a sun-centered or a brain-centered perspective is
more suitable. I’m proposing that if our goal is to understand how
thought and meaning work, part of that is to understand how people
judge sentences to be true, and for this the cognitive perspective is going
to be more suitable. But you’ll have to judge for yourself.
195
34
What’s it like to judge
a sentence true?
The ordinary view of truth does get one thing right. Truth does require
a correspondence between a sentence and the world (or at least some
world). But it doesn’t tell us how there can be a correspondence between
two things in the world as different as bald heads and sentences.
The cognitive perspective lets us do better. Let’s look at the act of
judging a sentence true. So imagine: You’re looking at a visual scene like
this one:
and I say There’s a cat on the mat. What are you experiencing?
The linguistic part of the experience has the form of a string of words
out there in the world, accompanied by the feeling that they’re meaning-
Reference and Truth
196
ful. The visual part of the experience has the form of a visual surface out
there accompanied by the feeling that it’s meaningful. What else? Well,
suppose instead my sentence were There are two cats on the mat. You
would still find it meaningful. How would the experience be different?
The first sentence might come with a feeling of a sort of silent “Uh-
huh,” and the second with a silent “Nope.” Or you might have a prop-
rioceptive image of nodding or shaking your head—or you might actually
nod or shake your head. The words and the head gestures on their own
don’t mean much, but they’re conscious “handles” for feelings associ-
ated with the sentences. We might describe one feeling as assent (or
conviction, or congruence), and the other as dissent (or opposition, or
incongruence). That is, judging a sentence true or false is marked in
experience by a feeling associated with the sentence. We can express this
feeling of conviction about the sentence by saying “There’s a cat on the
mat is true.” (What does it feel like to judge “There’s a cat on the mat is
true” as true? Well, it comes with the same feeling of conviction.)
Shrieks erupt: “Truth is a feeling? For heaven’s sake, my feelings have
nothing to do with whether a sentence is true!” Well, so far this is just a
description of the experience of judging a sentence true. Now we go behind
the scenes and review what your mind is doing to create that experience.
In response to light reflected off the picture, your mind constructs a
visual surface, which is a cognitive correlate of consciousness. It also
constructs a spatial structure and a conceptual structure, which are not
cognitive correlates of consciousness. The presence of the link between
visual input and the visual surface leads to a character tag of ‘real.’ The
presence of the link between the visual surface and the spatial structure
leads to a character tag of ‘meaningful.’ So you experience the visual
surface as a real meaningful object out there.1
1
Actually, in the situation here, the sentence matches a picture, not reality. Within the
virtual world depicted by the picture, there’s a token cat. But whether it’s supposed to depict
any particular real cat isn’t an issue. So your understanding the picture and assenting to the
truth of There’s a cat on the mat depends on your “entering the virtual world,” just like your
judgment of Sherlock Holmes being British.
What’s it like to judge a sentence true?
197
In response to the sounds I make in saying the sentence, your mind
constructs a pronunciation, which is a cognitive correlate of con-
sciousness. It also constructs a conceptual structure and (in this case)
a spatial structure, which are not cognitive correlates of conscious-
ness. The link between the auditory input and the pronunciation leads
to a character tag of ‘external sound.’ The link between the pronun-
ciation and the conceptual structure leads to a character tag of ‘mean-
ingful.’ So you experience the pronunciation as a real and meaningful
utterance.
So far, your mind has an understanding of a picture and an under-
standing of a sentence. But now, because both are couched in terms of
conceptual and spatial structures, your mind can compare them and
look for a match. And unlike the ordinary perspective, your mind is in
the fortunate position of comparing apples and apples. You end up judg-
ing the sentence true if there’s a match—or, at the next degree of approx-
imation, if there’s a good enough match for the present context. (What’s
good enough for the corner bar may not work so well in court or the
operating room.)
How do we get from a match to a conscious judgment? As usual,
this can’t happen by magic. Remember, all the structures your mind is
comparing are unconscious, so you don’t have any experience of them.
But suppose there’s a mechanism in the mind that detects a match or its
absence. We encountered a number of mechanisms like this in Chap-
ters 19, 25, and 26. We said there that each of these mechanisms assigns
a character tag that’s a cognitive correlate of a feeling associated with
things you perceive—‘real,’ ‘meaningful,’ ‘familiar,’ ‘sacred,’ and so
on. In the case of truth-judgments we’re dealing with a three-way
distinction: you may judge a sentence true or false, or you may just be
turning it over in your mind, in which case you’re noncommittal or
neutral.
The hypothesis, then, is that, from the cognitive perspective, assent-
ing to a sentence—judging it’s true—amounts to assigning it a character
tag that we might call ‘commitment’ or ‘conviction.’ The conscious
Reference and Truth
198
feeling correlated with this feature is that the sentence out there in the
world depicts reality accurately—the sentence is “objective.” Disagree-
ing with a sentence (finding it false) amounts to assigning it the opposite
value of this feature, ‘dissent’ or ‘opposition’; and not making a judg-
ment assigns it the neutral value of the tag.
There’s a kind of paradox here, in that truth is understood as an objec-
tive property of the sentence, despite the fact that it’s the result of a
subjective judgment. The paradox is resolved by the fact that the experi-
ence of objectivity is constructed by the mind, as part of making the
judgment. As we saw in Chapter 25, “seeing the world” as objectively
“out there” is a construction on the part of the mind. We also encoun-
tered this sort of situation way back in Chapter 8, in connection with
words like enjoyable and interesting. We talk about someone enjoying an
activity. But we also talk about the activity being simply enjoyable, as
though that’s an objective property of the activity, independent of there
being anyone around to enjoy it. Similarly, even further back in chapter
2, we talked about how we think of a language as an “objective” thing in
the world, independent of a community of speakers. These other exam-
ples show us that the ordinary understanding of truth as “objective” isn’t
a peculiarity of truth. From the cognitive perspective, it’s quite undistin-
guished in this respect.
Let’s go back to the cat on the mat. When you judge the sentence true,
you’re matching the sentence’s meaning with spatial and conceptual
structures that come from what you see. But the spatial and conceptual
structures could also come from your pre-existing understanding—your
memory. Where did your pre-existing understanding come from? Three
possibilities: from your own perceptual experience in the past, from
things you figured out from other pre-existing understanding, or from
things people told you.
Think about this last situation. When someone tells you something,
your mind constructs a meaning for the utterance (which, if all goes
well, matches the meaning they had in mind). If this meaning jibes with
something already within your understanding, you’ll judge the utter-
What’s it like to judge a sentence true?
199
ance true. If it conflicts with something already within your understand-
ing, you’ll judge it false.
But now suppose this meaning isn’t already within your understand-
ing, but doesn’t conflict with your understanding either. If you assume
the speaker is sincere, then you’ll just add the meaning to your under-
standing of the world. You don’t judge the sentence true, you simply
accept what the speaker says as true—you take it to be depicting a situa-
tion with the character tag ‘real.’ (In computer science terms, you update
your database.) We saw this sort of situation in Chapter 28, when Gina
was telling Phil about the man drinking the martini, and Phil simply
accepted her description. That’s how we normally use sentences that
convey information, like these:
I’ve got a pain in my toe.
My house is the ﬁrst house in the third block on the right, and it’s
green.
The ballgame is on TV at 7 tonight.
The man drinking a martini is my department chair.
Millard Fillmore was the thirteenth president of the US.
You are made of bazillions of tiny molecules.
When you die, you go to heaven. [a foundation for religious belief!]
Of course there are lots of atypical situations in which you don’t
immediately accept a speaker’s statement. For instance, the context may
contain one of those formulas that signals a virtual world: “Once upon a
time...,” “So a priest, a minister, and a rabbi walk into a bar and...,” or
(from the opening of this chapter) “Imagine: You’re looking at a visual
scene and...”
Or you may decline to accept the speaker’s statement, because you
judge that he or she is lying or teasing or just plain unreliable. It isn’t
always easy to decide whether you can trust the speaker. If you’re con-
stantly worried about it, you’re probably paranoid. On the other hand,
constant worry is probably a useful tactic if you’re in, say, a prison camp
or 1980s East Germany.
200
35
Noticing something’s wrong
Suppose you’re confronted with one of the following situations, in which
two different sources of information apparently conflict:
You see something within reach, but when you reach for it, you
•
can’t feel anything (as in a virtual reality situation). Or you walk
into a glass door. In either case, there’s a strong feeling of confusion.
(Conflict between visual and haptic perception)
You remember having put your keys in your pocket and now when
•
youreachforthem,they’renotthere.Againamomentaryconfusion.
(Conflict between memory and haptic perception)
You see two of that woman you’ve seen at the pool. There’s a
•
feelingofconfusionbeforeyourealizeshe’stwins.(Conflictbetween
visual perception and prior understanding)
You’re following my directions to my house (“first house in the
•
third block”) and the street ends after one block. Confusion: Are the
directions wrong, or did you make a mistake following them?
(Conflict between verbal input and visual perception)
The president says there are nuclear weapons in Lower Slobbovia.
•
Your professor says there aren’t. You’re confused. Who do you
trust? (Conflict between two verbal sources)
You’re a subject in a famous experiment by Solomon Asch: You’re
•
shown a line and asked which of three others it matches in length.
But before making your judgment, you hear several other subjects
(who, unbeknownst to you are in cahoots with the experimenter)
Noticing something’s wrong
201
render a uniform but different judgment. Many of Asch’s subjects,
confronted with this conflict between their senses and what the
others said, had a strong tendency to go along with the others, while
feeling confused about their own vision and sanity.
In the same situation, you might instead respond to the confusion
•
by deciding to trust your own judgment—as did some of Asch’s
subjects. Truth doesn’t equal consensus or received wisdom. In
some situations, it’s a Good Thing to say “The emperor has no
clothes!”
Your brother says “This toy is mine!” and you say “No, it’s mine!”
•
Your anxiety might lead to a fight, or you might come to some
negotiation, or you might appeal to a higher authority. This scenario
also applies to conflicting nations, cultures, religions, and schools of
scientific thought. (Conflict between verbal input and your
understanding of the situation)
I want to focus on this feeling of confusion or disorientation for a
moment. We tend to brush it aside and try to reach a consistent sense of
the situation as quickly as possible. No question—it’s distressing and we
don’t want to pay attention to it. This is the experiential signal of not
being able to make sense of what’s going on.
As usual in the cognitive perspective, we can’t take this feeling for
granted. Again we seem to need some sort of character tag as its cogni-
tive correlate. The situation that leads to this experience is two compet-
ing conceptual/spatial structures, each of which on its own would lead
to a feeling of conviction. But they’re not consistent, and at the moment
the mind/brain is unable to commit to one and reject the other. Let’s
call this character tag huh? or double-take.
The mind/brain actually is constantly confronting competing analy-
ses of what’s going on. Very few of these conflicts reach consciousness as
a huh? reaction. Suppose you hear the beginning of a sentence:
Put the apple on the....
Reference and Truth
202
This could be continued in either of these two ways:
Put the apple on the towel.
Put the apple on the towel in the cup.
The first of these implies that the apple should end up on the towel; the
second implies that the apple starts out on the towel.
Put the apple on the towel. Put the apple on the towel in the cup.
These are clearly in conflict. But if we hear either of these sentences, we
experience no sense of confusion at the point when we’ve only heard Put
the apple on the....Evidently the brain takes care of this conflict before it
generates a character tag that reaches consciousness.
Remember the duck-rabbit? During the time you’re seeing it as a duck,
your brain is suppressing the rabbit—the conflict has been resolved.
When it switches to the rabbit, is there a split-second of huh?, as the com-
petition is suddenly opened and then clamped down again? I’m not sure.
A more interesting place where huh? doesn’t appear is in dreams,
where nonsensical things happen all the time. As in Chapter 31, Uncle
Sol doesn’t look like Uncle Sol at all, he’s young and blond instead of old
and bald. You may sort of notice it but it doesn’t bother you. Or you may
not notice it at all until you wake up and are trying to tell someone about
it. As in the other dream-situations we’ve talked about, it’s as though the
monitor for consistency is turned off, like a broken “check engine” light.
So you think everything’s fine.
Here’s two more places where there’s no sense of conflict between ver-
bal input and a perception, because the “check engine” light is broken.
Noticing something’s wrong
203
A schizophrenic hears God speaking. You tell him it’s in his
•
imagination. Without hesitation, he tells you you’re wrong.
A patient suffering from left-sided neglect due to brain damage finds
•
this weird hand lying in his bed. The doctor tells him it’s his own
hand. “No,” the patient says, “it’s not.” “Whose is it, then?” “It must
be yours, doctor!”
All the other character tags have a converse case: familiar vs. novel,
real vs. image, and so on. Does huh? have a converse? I suppose it’s the
feeling of comfort: yes, this makes sense, all’s well with the world.
This page intentionally left blank
Part Four
Rationality and Intuition
This page intentionally left blank
207
36
What’s it like to be thinking
rationally?
Descartes was one of the few who think, therefore they are,
Because those who don’t think, but are anyhow, outnumber them by far.
(—Ogden Nash)
What do we take rational thinking to be? I think the ideal for rational
thinking is to be totally explicit about how to get from assertion A to
assertion B, without any assumptions and without any leaps of faith.
And being totally explicit means being verbally explicit—spelling it all out
in sentences, either through overt speech (if you’re trying to convince
someone else) or at least in verbal imagery (if you’re trying to convince
yourself). If you can’t explain it, you don’t really know it. Here’s the way
Descartes puts it, in the Discourse on Method:
The first [rule] was never to accept anything as true that I did not know to be
evidently so....
The second, to divide each of the difficulties...into as many parts as might be
possible....
The third, to conduct my thoughts in an orderly way, beginning with the
simplest objects....
And the last, everywhere to make such complete enumerations and such
general reviews that I would be sure to have omitted nothing. . . .
Rationality and Intuition
208
[W]hat satisfied me the most about this method was that, through it, I was
assured of using my reason in everything, if not perfectly, at least to the best
of my ability.
Modern formal logic grew out of the attempt to build such a theory of
totally explicit step-by-step thought, suitable for doing rigorous mathe-
matics and science. And that in turn led to the development of digital
computers and all the wonderful things we’ve gained from them.
But!! There are rock-bottom fundamental reasons why you can’t be
totally explicit. One reason comes from Lewis Carroll’s entertaining lit-
tle essay of 1895, “What the Tortoise Said to Achilles.” Here’s a brief
version of the argument:
Take the very simplest case of rational thought, a standard syllogism
like this one. Let’s call it A.1
A: All houses on Goden St are worth over $600,000.
My house is a house on Goden St.
Therefore my house is worth over $600,000.
What makes this a logical argument? The time-worn answer (back to
Aristotle) is that any argument of the form in B is valid.
B: All Xs are Y.
Z is an X.
Therefore, Z is Y.
Hold your horses! (says the tortoise to Achilles). How does that prove
that A is valid? After all, Aristotle’s answer relies on a hidden syllogism,
which I’ll call C:
C: All arguments of form B are valid.
Argument A is an argument of form B.
Therefore, argument A is valid.
1
You might ask how I’m supposed to know the first premise of the syllogism—the value
of each house—without first determining the conclusion—the value of my house. Well, let’s
assume somebody told me the first premise. Maybe they’ve checked the value of my house,
but I haven’t, so I still have to do the reasoning.
What’s it like to be thinking rationally?
209
Okay, but how do we know that argument C is valid? It’s actually another
argument of form B, and so its validity relies on another hidden syllo-
gism:
D: All arguments of form B are valid.
Argument C is an argument of form B.
Therefore, argument C is valid.
And how do we know D is valid? Etcetera. There’s an infinite regress. So
you can’t fully prove that argument A is a valid argument. That’s more
or less the tortoise’s story.
It gets worse. One thing Wittgenstein carries on about is: Even if you
know what the rules are, how do you know you’ve applied them cor-
rectly? In following the tortoise’s reasoning, we’ve taken it for granted
that arguments A and C are arguments of the form B. How can we prove
that argument A is an argument of the form B? To do this, we have to
line argument A up with B:
All houses on Goden St lines up with All Xs
worth over $600,000 lines up with Y
my house lines up with Z
How do we know we’ve done it right? Well, we need a further rule that
tells us how to line arguments up. And how do we know we’ve applied that
rule correctly? Another infinite regress stares us in the face, and so we have
another reason we can’t prove argument A valid.2
Kant too notices this
problem. He speaks of the “faculty of judgment,” the capacity of “distin-
guishing whether this or that does or does not stand under a given rule.”
2
Wittgenstein then takes this argument in a curious direction: he suggests you could never
have a “private language”—a rule-governed system that you use to talk to yourself—because
there’s no independent way to tell that you’re following the rules. But if you think about it,
the same argument ought to apply just as well to “public” languages. How can you tell that
other people are following the rules, or that you’re using the same rules they do? By this cri-
terion there are no “public” languages either. In the case of real languages like English, the
answer to Wittgenstein is that we almost never ask whether we or anyone else are applying
the rules properly, unless we notice that they don’t talk the same as we do (see Chapter 2).
(cont.)
Rationality and Intuition
210
Now if this logic wished to give some general direction...how we should
distinguish whether this or that did or did not stand under [these rules], this
again could not be done otherwise than by means of a rule. But this rule,
precisely because it is a rule, requires for itself direction from the faculty of
judgment.
Worse still (and Wittgenstein didn’t notice this), the rule for lining up
argument A with argument B has its pitfalls. Here’s another putative
argument that lines up with B just as well as A does. But it’s not valid. The
third line not only doesn’t follow from the first two, it’s nonsensical.
E: All houses on Goden St are clumped together in one block.
My house is a house on Goden St.
*Therefore, my house is clumped together in one block.
You might respond: Well, maybe for some reason argument E is an
exception to All arguments of form B are valid. Maybe we’re not entitled to
line up clumped together in one block with Y in argument B. I’d reply: But
how do we know it’s an exception? Ah, you say—because if it weren’t an
exception, then argument E would be valid. Hold on, though: you can
only make this argument because you’ve already judged that argument
E is invalid—which of course begs the question.
Or you might say, Aha: Even though All houses on Goden St are
clumped together in one block looks like an instance of All X are Y, it has a
different logical form, and that’s why the first line of argument E doesn’t
count as an instance of the first line of argument B. This is actually the
right reason. In argument B, we thought of property Y as something that
applies to single individuals, and the first line of argument B asserts that
Here’s a possible real example of a “private language”: Congenitally deaf children who
grow up in an environment where a sign language is not in use often develop a “home sign,”
their own idiosyncratic system of signs that they use to communicate with their family. We
know the children have devised it and not their parents, because they’re more fluent in it than
their parents. Thus in a sense they are the only fluent speakers of their language, the only ones
who are really in command of all its rules. Yet research on these languages has shown that
they are systematic—probably without any conscious efforts at systematicity on the child’s
part.
What’s it like to be thinking rationally?
211
each X has this property. Worth over $600,000 is such a property. But
clumped together is a property that can only be ascribed to a collection
of individuals, not to a single individual, so it can’t possibly apply to a
single house.
But saying that clumped together has a different logical form from worth
$600,000 amounts to admitting that argument C is wrong. We have to
replace it with:
F: All arguments with the logical form of B are valid.
Argument A is an argument with the logical form of B.
Therefore, argument A is valid.
Now the problem is: how do we determine an argument’s logical form?
And how do we compare that to the logical form of B? We’ve just seen
that the sentence’s grammatical form alone isn’t a reliable guide. The
problem is that logical form is an aspect of meaning, not of grammar,
and, as we saw way back in Chapter 12, grammar alone isn’t enough to
determine meaning.
So now we’re in big, big trouble. Why? Because, as we’ve been see-
ing over the last twenty-some chapters, meaning is hidden. You can’t
inspect it and line it up with other meanings using an explicit rule. So
this is yet another obstacle to conducting totally rational, totally explicit
reasoning.
In addition to these three arguments, here’s an argument from the
neuropsychologist Karl Lashley, from a brain and cognitive perspective:
No activity of mind is ever conscious. [Lashley’s italics] This sounds like a
paradox, but it is nonetheless true. There are order and arrangement, but
there is no experience of the creation of that order. I could give numberless
examples, for there is no exception to the rule. A couple of illustrations
should suffice. Look at a complicated scene. It consists of a number of objects
standing out against an indistinct background: desk, chairs, faces. Each
consists of a number of lesser sensations combined in the object, but there is
noexperienceofputtingthemtogether.Theobjectsareimmediatelypresent.
When we think in words, the thoughts come in grammatical form with
subject, verb, object, and modifying clauses falling into place without our
Rationality and Intuition
212
having the slightest perception of how the sentence structure is pro-
duced....Experience clearly gives no clue as to the means by which it is
organized.
I think this observation is right on target. As we saw in Part Two,
research in psychology and neuroscience has revealed how tremen-
dously intricate the processes are that our minds use to construct the
world of our experience. Yet these processes feel totally transparent.
Oh sure, every now and then we experience a sense of effort – it’s
hard to see this, it’s hard to understand that, now I’m having trouble
expressing myself, now I’m confused about what’s going on. But
that’s far from being conscious of the actual processes that give rise
either to our perception or to the sense of effort that comes with it.
Even when we’re aware of our thoughts, we’re not aware of the proc-
ess of thinking.
What does Lashley’s observation mean for rational thinking? In order
for us to understand our syllogism A, some process of mental/neural
computation has to make the connection from the premises (the first
two lines) to the conclusion (the third line). The result of this computa-
tion is just the third line, not the process of getting from the first and
second lines to the third. The part we want to justify, though, is how we
get from the first and second lines to the third. And this, according to
Lashley, simply can’t be brought into awareness.
What is present in awareness is a feeling that we might express as
“Uh-huh, it follows,” an intuitive feeling of conviction again. If we try to
justify this intuition, we might appeal to syllogisms B and F. But our use
of them is in the end supported by “Uh-huh” judgments too. In the same
way, our sense that argument E is invalid doesn’t come from rational
justification, but from an intuitive dissenting feeling, “Nope,” the sense
that something’s amiss.
By now, you can probably guess what I’m going to say next. All
together now: “As usual, these intuitive feelings don’t come by magic!”
Behind the feeling of conviction that syllogism A is valid and syllogism E
What’s it like to be thinking rationally?
213
is not, your mind/brain is doing hard work—just as it’s doing hard work
in understanding the sentences in the first place. But because the work is
unconscious, it all feels totally transparent.
The conclusion from all of this is that ultimately, you have to trust
your gut:
It’s logically and psychologically impossible to achieve the ideal of
purely explicit rational thought. What we experience as rational
thinking is necessarily supported by a foundation of intuitive
judgment. We need intuition to tell us whether we’re being rational!
Not to be pessimistic, but the situation is actually even less promising.
Remember that the meanings of sentences are hidden. What’s conscious
when you understand a sentence is (a) its pronunciation (or written
form), and (b) the feeling that the sentence is meaningful. So it’s not just
the connections that are unconscious—the meanings of the premises
and conclusions are too:
The cognitive correlates of the experience of rational thinking are
(a) the pronunciation (or written form) of the premises and the
conclusion, (b) the feeling that all of these are meaningful, and (c)
the feeling that the conclusion is valid.
You may find this unwelcome, but that’s life.
There are the usual two ways to phrase this conclusion. The iconoclas-
tic one is that there’s no such thing as rational thinking (just like there’s
no such thing as sunsets, words, free will, truth, and You). I personally
finditmoreusefultosaythatrationalthinkingisn’tquitewhatwethought
it was, at least from the cognitive perspective. What is it, then?
Pop science sometimes identifies rationality with the left hemi-
sphere of the brain and intuition with the right. Or sometimes what
I’m calling intuition is classified as “emotion” and relegated to the
Rationality and Intuition
214
evolutionarily older parts of the brain—like the thoughts of animals.
Or rational thinking is characterized as “classical” and intuitive think-
ing as “romantic.”
It’s not like that at all. What we call rational thinking simply can’t
take place without a huge complex background of intuitive thinking
that’s registering in consciousness only as “Uh-huh, that follows” or
“Nope, it doesn’t follow.” In other words, rational thinking isn’t an
alternative to intuitive thinking. Rather, it depends on intuitive thinking,
and (as we’ll see in Chapter 38) it serves as a refinement or enhancement
of intuitive thinking.
One proposed division of the mind that is supported by considerable
experimental research suggests that we have two modes of reasoning,
sometimes called “System 1” and System 2.” System 1 is supposed to be
fast, effortless, automatic, and non-conscious. It corresponds pretty well
to what I’m calling intuitive thought. System 2 is supposed to be slow,
effortful, controlled, linear, conscious—and unique to humans. It does
exactly the kind of reasoning I’ve been calling rational thought.
What I’m proposing here in effect is that System 2 isn’t separate from
System 1. Rather, it “rides on top of” System 1. It’s thought that’s linked
to a cognitive correlate of consciousness, namely to the pronunciation of
language. Since pronunciation is linear and discrete, rational thought is
linear and discrete. Since pronunciation is slow compared to the speed of
thought itself, rational thought is slow. Since thought is unconscious, we
can gain conscious access to it only if it has a conscious “handle” such as
pronunciation. Since only humans have language, only humans have
System 2. I tentatively conclude from this that System 2 amounts to
nothing more than System 1 plus language (and perhaps other forms of
thought that can be linked to conscious “handles”).3
3
As mentioned in Chapter 20, this is not to say that if a chimpanzee could master language,
it would be as smart as us. Humans’ System 1 is doubtless more sophisticated than that of
chimps.
What’s it like to be thinking rationally?
215
And if this is how it is, it behooves us to show intuitive thinking more
respect. It’s neither sloppy, “irrational,” “emotional” thinking nor won-
drous mystical magical thinking, it’s the workaday cognitive foundation
of all thinking. It just happens that, like the cognitive processes of seeing
the world and understanding language, it’s pretty much all uncon-
scious.
216
37
How much rational thinking
do we actually do?
The goal of the Enlightenment, as I understand it, was to rebuild our
knowledge of the world on firm rational foundations. You should make
your own truth-judgments, you shouldn’t take anything on faith, you
should question everything, you shouldn’t believe mere hunches, and
above all, you shouldn’t trust the Received Wisdom—especially the
Received Wisdom of the Church. This is of course the basic ethos of
modern science.
But if you step back, it’s obvious that we don’t have the luxury of
questioning everything in our day-to-day lives. How many people bother
to find out where their food comes from, how electricity gets into the
plugs in their house, how water gets into their faucets and from their
drains into the ocean,1
how their computers and cellphones work, how
the monetary system works, how their clothes and chairs and dishes and
tools are manufactured,2
what happens to their garbage, how the details
of the government work, and a bazillion other essential aspects of every-
day life? We basically take all these things on trust. The environmentally
1
I’m recalling a very very long New Yorker article describing the water supply and sewer
systems of New York City. The two parts of the article were joined by the single sentence
“The water flows out of the faucet and into the drain”—the only part of the water supply that
we’re normally conscious of.
2
How do they make drill bits? How do they make the machines that make drill bits?
How much rational thinking do we actually do?
217
and politically conscious among us—and the economic and engineering
nerds—may worry about one or another of them from time to time. But
if you got serious about all of them, there wouldn’t be any time to live.
(Believers might say, “Only God has enough time for all that!”)
The same is true even in the citadel of science. Who has time to read
all the scientific literature, even in their own subspecialty, not to men-
tion in other areas? Much less do all the experiments themselves? We
have little choice but to trust other scientists most of the time. Just decid-
ing which Received Wisdom to trust can sometimes be a full-time job.
For practical reasons we simply have to accept an “epistemic division of
labor,” and place our bets on somebody else’s truth-judgments.
What about other parts of life? When you pick out a novel to read at
bedtime, are you doing it—and could you do it—on rational grounds?
When you’ve just met someone and unexpectedly find yourself in an
engaging conversation and maybe even attracted to them, are you doing
so—and could you do so—on rational grounds? Did you decide—and
could you have decided—to become a scientist (or whatever you are) on
totally rational grounds? I’d guess that very little of our lives, and even
very little of what’s important in our lives, is based on rationality.
Intuitive reasoning isn’t at all random. Just because we can’t be con-
scious of its workings doesn’t mean it’s crazy. A lot of experimental
research has been devoted to uncovering people’s unconscious proc-
esses when they’re reasoning intuitively. Much of this research is dedi-
cated to showing how often people are irrational from a logical or
mathematical point of view. Some of it is devoted to finding the quick
and dirty strategies that people use to reason, which work perfectly well
under most normal circumstances but break down every now and then
(like the visual principles that give rise to the illusions in Chapter 21).
Some of this research is devoted to finding special principles of reasoning
that apply in, say, the social and moral domains.
The overall gist of this research is that our human ability to make
intuitive judgments has arisen from an evolutionary process that
equipped us to quickly figure out what’s going on, predict what’s next,
Rationality and Intuition
218
and act accordingly. We share many aspects of this ability with our pri-
mate cousins. Intuitive reasoning can’t be 100% accurate, the way logic
is supposed to be, because we rarely have full information about the cur-
rent situation, because we have limited capacity for processing informa-
tion, and above all because we have limited time in which to act. Given
these constraints, our natural intuitive strategies for reasoning do pretty
well a lot of the time.
219
38
How rational thinking helps
At the end of Chapter 36, I suggested that thinking with the accompani-
ment of conscious “handles” enhances or refines intuitive thought. Let’s
see how it does this.
In what we experience as rational thinking (let’s just say “in rational
thinking” from here on), we’re expressing our thoughts as sentences,
either out loud or in verbal imagery. According to the Unconscious
Meaning Hypothesis (Chapter 15), the part of a sentence that’s conscious
is its pronunciation, and its meaning remains unconscious. But as we
saw in Chapter 20, pronunciation as such can’t serve as the vehicle of
thought—only meaning can do that. So what difference does the con-
scious pronunciation make? Does the pronunciation just serve as a
“crutch” for thinking? With enough practice, could we toss the pronun-
ciation away and think with “pure meaning”? Well, actually I think the
conscious “handle” of pronunciation is a lot more useful than that.
Here’s why. The “handle” of pronunciation enables you to give the
thought a reference file of its own: it’s understood as a self-standing
entity in the world (Chapter 29). This enables you to do lots of useful
things with the sentence. First of all, even when you’re done uttering the
sentence, it’s like the cat behind the bookcase: it still exists for you, and
you can retrieve it when you want it. “Hold that thought!” “As I just
said,...”
Second, a sentence expresses not just the content of a thought but also
the character tags associated with it.
Rationality and Intuition
220
There’s a cat on the mat. [= There’s a cat on the mat + conviction]
There isn’t a cat on the mat. [= There’s a cat on the mat + dissent]
Is there a cat on the mat? [= There’s a cat on the mat + noncommittal]
So now the character tags aren’t just experienced as feelings. You can
hear them, remember them, and manipulate them.
An important example of this manipulation arises when a sentence
gives rise to a huh? experience. You’re in Asch’s experiment (see Chapter
35), judging the length of one line against three others. You judge that it
matches the middle one, but everybody else says “It matches the longest
one,” and you feel huh? With language, you can turn that feeling into a
question: “Can that be right? Is the line really that long?” And now you
can hold that thought and ruminate on it.
Here’s another important way you can use language to manipulate
thought:
Why is there a cat on the mat?
This sentence expresses a thought to which you assent, and it initiates a
search for reasons or causes behind the thought. This manipulation is
one of the primary generators of scientific inquiry—and also inquiry into
people’s motives (“Now why did she say that?”).
A third thing you can do with thoughts expressed as sentences is make
intuitive judgments of the connections among them. This is the activity
that’s experienced as reasoning.
Today’s Tuesday + Tomorrow’s Wednesday [character tag: consistent]
Today’s Tuesday + Tomorrow’s Thursday [character tag: inconsistent]
Then you can build these character tags into a sentence in various ways,
and you can make truth-judgments on the results:
If today’s Tuesday, then tomorrow’s Wednesday. [conviction]
“Today’s Tuesday” entails “Tomorrow’s Thursday.” [dissent]
How rational thinking helps
221
You can manipulate these sentences the same way you do with simple
sentences like There’s a cat on the mat.
If today’s Tuesday, is tomorrow Wednesday?
“Today’s Tuesday” doesn’t entail “Tomorrow’s Thursday.”
What’s interesting is that these last four examples don’t make any
commitment to the sentences within them. Even if you have no idea
whether today is in fact Tuesday, you can assent to If today’s Tuesday,
then tomorrow’s Wednesday.
A different manipulation expresses both a connection between the
two sentences and a commitment to the first one:
Because today’s Tuesday, tomorrow must be Wednesday.
These linguistic manipulations are extremely important to our
thought. They free us from being bound to the current situation. They
enable us to conceptualize virtual worlds, and keep them in mind, and
through that we can do hypothetical reasoning.
Another important way two thoughts can be connected is to be under-
stood as alternatives to each other. Language gives us a way to make this
sort of connection explicit too.
Either it’s snowing or I’m dreaming.
This expresses a conviction about the thought as a whole, while remain-
ing noncommittal about each of the parts.
We can also focus more sharply on exactly where the differences
between the alternatives lie:
Either JOHN or BILL ate the leftover pasta.
John ate either the leftover PASTA or the turkey SANDWICH.
With these tools, you can explore the possibilities methodically, using
hypotheticals like If it’s snowing, then...; If JOHN ate the pasta, then...
When you’re trying out one possibility, you don’t lose the other, because
you still have a “handle” on it and on its connection to the possibility
now under consideration. You can start with a thought on which you’re
Rationality and Intuition
222
noncommittal—a question. You can trace its connections to other
thoughts step by step until you reach a thought for which you have a
clear conviction or dissent. Then you can trace the connections back to
arrive at a yes or no answer to your original question.
These procedures enable us to question our intuitive reasoning and
break it down into smaller, explicit steps. The ideal, just as Descartes put
it (Chapter 36), is to make the intuitive connections as transparent and
trivial as possible—although, as we also saw in Chapter 36, there comes
a point of diminishing returns.
These sorts of processes do exactly the things we want rational thought
to do. They would be impossible without the phonological “handles”
both for the contents of thought and for its character tags. We can’t delib-
erately manipulate unconscious thoughts on their own, we can’t hold
them in mind, and we can’t experiment with their character tags. And as
we saw in Chapter 10, visual imagery (except for sign language) can’t help
in the ways language can. It doesn’t provide us with “handles” for all the
abstract things that language can express—especially character tags. So
language, by providing “handles” for all these aspects of thought, gives us
a fantastic tool for enhancing and enriching thinking.
Not to mention its advantages for communicating thought. Our under-
standing is vastly increased through collaborative thinking, which
requires continual linguistic give-and-take among participants. Above
all, it permits us to communicate the thought of previous generations, so
we’re not always starting from scratch.1
1
Did language arise in our distant ancestors primarily as an enhancement of communica-
tion, or as an enhancement of thought? (More properly, were the reproductive benefits con-
ferredonourancestorsbyhavinglanguageprimarilyduetotheirbetterabilitytocommunicate
or due to their better ability to think?) We can’t go back there and find out. Nearly everyone
assumes that the primary advantage was in communication. But Noam Chomsky, never to be
taken lightly, has argued that communication had little to do with it. For him, the primary
innovation was structured thought. What he calls “externalization”—the ability to speak
one’s thoughts out loud—was a later development. But for him, “externalization” includes
pronunciation, which provides the very “handles” that make rational thinking possible. So, on
the present story, he’s got to be wrong. My inclination is to think that the language faculty
developed in the service of enhancing communication, but the immediate enhancement of
thought was a huge side benefit.
223
39
Some pitfalls of apparently
rational thinking
Using language as a scaffolding for thinking has its limitations too. One
has come up a number of times already: the illusion of binarity. Either
someone is bald or he’s not. Either something is a genocide or it’s not.
Either you’re a scientist or you’re not. From the ordinary perspective,
the word itself more or less is the concept (Chapter 15). And words
have a tendency to sharpen boundaries—the “handle” is more discrete
than the concept it’s a handle for (Chapter 11). So relying on the word
makes it easy to avoid the fragile middle ground and the slippery slope.
The world comes to be divided up into black and white, and you don’t
have to (or aren’t allowed to) recognize its full color.
As we saw in Chapters 11, 13, and 14, not having a word for some
concept can render it invisible. Going back to one of our examples there:
If you think that thinking equals rational thinking, then by definition
monkeys can’t think, because they don’t talk. But what do they do? If the
only other term you have is “(mere) instinct,” it’s hard for you to appre-
ciate how sophisticated their behavior actually is. They might as well be
no different from turtles. So how can we talk about whatever it is that
monkeys do? Well, okay, if you don’t want to call it thinking, then let’s
call it something else, say “shminking.” Now we’re in business. We can
ask: do turtles shmink too? If so, how is monkey shmought different
from turtle shmought? Does human thinking amount to shminking plus
language, or is it something else altogether? And so on. Without this
Rationality and Intuition
224
new word, discourse is stymied. By adding it to our repertoire, we’re off
and running.
It’s not just words that lead to pitfalls. You can put words together in
a way that conforms to grammatical structure but fails to convey a uni-
fied meaning. Here are two examples from Chapter 21, which obviously
make no sense.
Colorless green ideas sleep furiously.
I’ve forgotten the score of the sonata I hope to compose someday.
More dangerous is when a speaker or writer combines words to cre-
ate an “aura” of meaningfulness, for instance in this sentence from an
interview with the philosopher Alva Noë:
I don’t think of consciousness as something that happens in us or to
us but as something that we achieve or something that we do
through our action and interaction with the world around us.
At first this might sound convincing enough. But if we take it apart and
reconstruct its relative clauses, we find some pretty questionable pieces:
Consciousness doesn’t happen in us.
*Consciousness doesn’t happen to us. [What could this mean?]
We achieve consciousness.
*We do consciousness through our action and interaction with the
world around us.
Even the first and third sentences, even though they sound sort of okay,
are a bit fishy. What could it mean to say “Consciousness happens”? Is it
like “Shit happens”? I’m not sure. And usually when we say “We achieve
consciousness,” it’s in the passive sense of ‘waking up.’ But the author
seems to have in mind something more active and intentional, more like
“We achieve a victory.” Again, I don’t think being conscious is some-
thing we “intend” to do. The writer is apparently groping for something,
but maybe it’s kind of like the gap between “thought” and “instinct”:
there’s no appropriate word for what he has in mind.
Some pitfalls of apparently rational thinking
225
The linguistic therapy I’ve been applying here to words like smoke,
meaning, consciousness, and true is intended to help guard against this kind
of foggy use of language as a crutch for foggy thinking. Sure, it’s some-
times useful and necessary to stretch the use of language (Chapters 11
and 12). But this requires care and close attention.
In addition, remember that rational thinking relies not just on under-
standing sentences but also on forming intuitive connections among sen-
tences. So it’s only as reliable as our intuitive judgments of connection.
This is why we’re always encouraged to check our reasoning—to ques-
tion every connection and make sure it makes sense. Unfortunately, it’s
all too easy to be complacent, especially when our reasoning leads us to
a conclusion we like. It’s only when somebody else’s reasoning leads to a
conclusion we don’t like that we’re likely to look hard for the flaws in the
argument. (Psychologists call this “confirmation bias.”)
One place where people are prone to being complacent about connec-
tions is in explaining reasons for their actions. One of my favorite exam-
ples comes from an experiment by Richard Nisbett and Timothy Wilson.
They asked customers in a department store to judge which of a number
of pairs of stockings they liked best, and then to say why they liked them
best—that is, to explain their intuitive judgment. What the customers
didn’t know was that all the stockings were identical. Yet they gave all
sorts of reasons for their preferences, with full conviction.
This is an experimental situation, a trick. It’s more pernicious when it
turns up in real life. One day as I was writing this, thousands of dead
birds fell out of the sky in Arkansas, and certain people asserted with full
conviction that this was because God disapproved of Congress’s vote to
allow gays to serve openly in the military. This is an especially blatant
example. But the same sort of reasoning occurs far more subtly all the
time. I’m sure you’ve known someone who gives you a different reason
every time for the same unfortunate outcome—turning in assignments
late, getting into car accidents, failing in relationships, failing in jobs,
reducing taxes, starting wars, and so on. It’s not that they’re lying and
Rationality and Intuition
226
think they can put one over on you. They sincerely believe their stories
with utmost conviction. Only you suspect that these are self-justifying
excuses, and that there has to be some deeper reason for their doing the
same thing over and over again. In fact, if you suggest there might be
such an underlying cause, they may well get angry at you. They really
are convinced of the connection, and they see no flaw, logical or other-
wise, in their reasoning. Their therapist will say they’re in denial.
And what are you and I in denial about? Are we being rational, or are
we just rationalizing? From the inside, we have no way to tell. The best
we can do is to watch for cues from our physical and social environ-
ments that conflict with our convictions. Being alert to the possibility
that one may be wrong at least keeps one modest, I guess.
227
40
Chamber music
I’d like to talk a bit more about how rational thinking is integrated with
intuition. My example will be, of all things, playing chamber music.
Some people think that playing music is a question of “inspiration.”
Other people think that, at least for classical music, it’s just a matter of
playing the notes the composer wrote. Actually, figuring out how to
“play the notes” isn’t always so easy. A well-known way to damn some-
one’s performance by faint praise is to say “Um, he played all the
notes....” In the same vein, a composer friend of mine recently told me
about a performance of one of his pieces, in which the performers had
played brilliantly, but they “really didn’t get it.” I once had this experi-
ence from the other side, when I was asked to perform a piece of tradi-
tional Japanese music on the clarinet. I had no problem playing all the
notes in time and in tune, but I didn’t have a clue what was going on. My
playing was wooden and incomprehending, I had no idea how to
improve it, and I’m sure my Japanese hosts knew. It was as if I had tried
to read them a Japanese poem from a phonetic transcription.
When musicians try to figure out how to go beyond (or read between)
the notes, here’s the kind of thing that happens. I’m rehearsing with four
colleagues for a performance of the Brahms Clarinet Quintet, one of the
great pieces of all time. It seems to me that the violins, Colin and Lena,
aren’t playing the opening with enough character—it sounds too wimpy.
I consult the score and discover that the violins are marked f (for forte,
‘loud’).
Rationality and Intuition
228
I ask Colin and Lena if they can play with more force. This turns out not
to be so easy, because of the passage’s sustained character and the part of
the violin’s range it falls in.
Ken, the violist, notices that the only dynamic markings Brahms uses in
the whole first movement are forte, piano (‘soft’), and pianissimo (‘very
soft’). So he suggests that forte here doesn’t have to mean ‘loud.’ It just has
to contrast with ‘soft’—anywhere from ‘healthy sound’ to ‘ferocious’,
depending on the musical context. We settle on ‘healthy’ for this passage.
I still don’t like what I’m hearing. It seems too mechanical, it’s not
expressive enough. My attention is drawn to the decrescendi (‘getting
softer’) in the first two measures, notated by the long wedges. What do
they mean? Taken at face value, they would tell us that the second meas-
ure should be played softer than the first, and the third measure still
softer. But this doesn’t make sense, because the viola and cello enter in
the third measure with an accompaniment marked forte, and they
shouldn’t be louder than the violins.
Colin and Lena try starting upbow, which, because of the way the
bow naturally exerts pressure on the string, creates a crescendo (‘getting
louder’) in the first half of the measure. The downbow in the second half
then creates a natural decrescendo. We’re not convinced. For one thing, it
Chamber music
229
means the violins have to start softer than forte. And besides, if Brahms
had meant crescendo in the first half of the measure, he could have writ-
ten it. So what does he mean by the decrescendo?
I suggest that the sense of the decrescendi might not be so much a mat-
ter of volume as of emphasis: bringing out the first note of each group of
six by slightly lengthening it, and then gradually speeding up, almost
“throwing away” the last three notes in the group. (A technical term for
this is rubato. A non-technical term is “schmaltzy.”) I demonstrate by
singing: “Do it like this....” My description sounds artificial, but (to me
at least) my demonstration sounds expressive, and its flexibility suits
Brahms’s Romantic genre. Of course, Brahms never comes out and tells
you to do things like this. They’re just part of the tradition.
(Recalling Chapter 12, you may notice that this is a bit like some things
that happen in language: Why are you asking me Can you pass the salt,
when you know perfectly well that I can? Aha, you must be asking me to
pass the salt! Similarly, why does Brahms write decrescendo without cor-
responding crescendo, when he can’t mean it? Aha, he must mean some-
thing else, maybe rubato.)
Colin and Lena hate this interpretation of the decrescendi. They find it
mannered and self-indulgent. At this point, the discussion has consumed
ten or fifteen minutes of rehearsal time for six seconds of music, so we
drop the subject and move on. We never do reach agreement about
what Brahms means, Colin and Lena more or less ignore the decrescendi,
and I remain dissatisfied. So it goes.
(Some months later, I hear a recording of the Quartetto Italiano play-
ing this passage just the way I had imagined it. I think it sounds great,
and I feel vindicated. Meanwhile, looking back, I can think of other ways
to play the decrescendi that might have made Colin and Lena happier.)
I want to draw two things out of this little episode. The first has to do
with what mean means. The questions “What does forte mean?” and
“What does Brahms mean by decrescendo?” aren’t supposed to be
answered by sentences. Sentences can only give hints toward the real
answers, which are how the music is to be played. Verbal descriptions
Rationality and Intuition
230
can talk about instrumental technique (“start upbow”), timing (“make
this note longer and this one shorter”), or about emotional state (“play
more urgently here”), or even metaphor (“healthy,” “throw these notes
away”, “at this point the bottom drops out”). But the meaning can also
be expressed directly by playing the music—“Decrescendo here means
playing like this” [demonstrating]. Any of these might work in describ-
ing how to play a passage. Or they might not. It depends on the players’
sensibilities—whether they catch on to your (or “the”) meaning.
Among the uses of mean that we discussed back in Chapter 7, the clos-
est analogues to these uses are the explanation of symbols (“A red light
means you should stop”), and demonstration (“Osculating means doing
this” [demonstrating]). They’re quite different from the sense that the
music theorist Leonard Meyer had in mind when he entitled his book
Emotion and Meaning in Music. Meyer is interested in the “emotional
impact” sense: What makes music meaningful? (I suspect that what we
call “meaningfulness” in music is connected to a character tag: we
respond to some emotional impact the music has on us, and we attribute
the depth of feeling to the music itself. But I digress.)
The more important thing I want to get from this episode is that my
colleagues and I are having a rational discussion of how to interpret the
symbols in Brahms’s music—we’re consciously reasoning about how to
play the piece. But this rational discussion begins and ends with intuitive
judgments. At the beginning, it’s triggered by an intuitive huh? reaction:
“This somehow doesn’t sound right.” And the conclusions we reach
aren’t truth-judgments of sentences, they’re intuitive judgments about
the music: “Yes, now it sounds better!” or “Nope, it still doesn’t sound
right!”
In between the huh? and the uh-huh, though, our conversation has all
the hallmarks of the language-aided manipulations of thought that we
saw two chapters back. “If the decrescendo marking means to get softer,
the accompaniment will be louder than the melody. The accompani-
ment shouldn’t be louder than the melody. Therefore the marking must
mean something else. What else could it mean? It could be this, or this,
Chamber music
231
or this. If it’s this,...,” and so on. What’s different from our earlier cases
is that our reasoning is in the service of satisfying intuition. We’re using
rational thinking to help us decide not what is true, but what to do.
Overall, the goal is a collective sense that the five of us are all under-
standing the music the same way—just as when (in Chapter 28) Gina
and Phil had to converge on the guy with the martini. And even though
our goal isn’t a linguistic utterance, we need the language of rational
thought to work towards it. In this case, thanks to time constraints—
plus differences in taste—we unfortunately end up without complete
convergence, and we have to settle for something less. Still, we know
we’re all in this together, and we’re trying to create a coherent perform-
ance that satisfies us and the audience—and that would, we hope, satisfy
the composer.
You may have noticed that all our discussion is about a place in the
Brahms where I’m not even playing. Why should I be jumping in and
making suggestions here? Well, it has to do with the need for a collective
sense of rightness. In chamber music, you can’t just play your own part.
You have to be constantly listening to everyone. The lead shifts from
moment to moment. Sometimes I have the lead, and sometimes I have
to follow the viola or the second violin. Even when I’m not playing, the
way everyone else plays affects what I do when I come in next.
Not to be too heavy-handed, but I think science is a lot like chamber
music. You can’t just do your own stuff. You have to be constantly lis-
tening to everyone. Sometimes the crucial facts come from your own
field, sometimes from the most unexpected place in someone else’s.
We’re all in this together, and the goal is to create a coherent story about
thought and meaning and the mind and the brain that will satisfy us—
and, we hope, posterity.
232
41
Rational thinking as a craft
It’s all well and good to be able to use language as a “handle” to manipu-
late thoughts. But where do the thoughts we manipulate come from? Of
the gazillions of thoughts we could turn into questions, how do we
choose which ones we’re actually going to spend our time on? And
where do the candidate answers (“Try upbow,” “Try a little rubato”)
come from? We generally call it imagination. And imagination’s not
rational. What is it? It feels a little like magic.
At this point you should be expecting me to jump into the cognitive
perspective. But this time I have no idea how to do it. (And I don’t think
anyone else does either.) So please indulge me as I go at this question
indirectly, looking at music a little more from the ordinary perspective.
Whatever musical understanding is, it lies somewhere behind the
notes, in the relations among them and the shapes of the patterns they
make. No matter how many markings composers may put in the written
music to make their intentions more explicit, it’s never enough. Perfor-
mers still have to make that intuitive leap to the sense of the music.
Doesn’t this sound a lot like what I’ve been saying about language?
The main difference is that in music there’s no demand for truth-
conditions—only for faithfulness to the composer’s intention, as much as
you can divine it, and for the satisfaction of the players and the listeners.
When you’re learning to make music, an important element in
improving is endless practice of all the low-level technical things you
need even just to play all the notes. That too can be a subject of
Rational thinking as a craft
233
rational analysis. But I’m interested here in what it takes to go beyond
the notes, as we were trying to do in the Brahms.
You learn from a good teacher how to take the situation apart when
your musical intuitions reach their limit. The advice is mostly about the
particular piece you happen to be working on. Here’s how to get the
right tempo for this place. Don’t get too loud too soon here. A little
accent right there makes the point of the phrase. You have a tendency to
go flat here, so be careful. You have to listen to the second violin here,
and then the cello here. This is how Casals used to play this place. Here
the sun comes out. Here’s how this phrase fits into the whole piece, and
here’s how that changes the way you should play it. Your teacher illus-
trates these suggestions with sung or played demonstrations, and above
all, conveys them with great passion.
With enough attention, openness, desire, and luck, you successfully
imitate the demonstrations—and you “get” them. You resonate with
your teacher’s passion, you play your heart out, as though your life
depends on every note, and you find things that you didn’t know you
had in you. If all goes well, these messages sink in and you can apply
them to other pieces too. Your intuitions become sharper. You begin to
hear what better players than you are doing, and why that makes them
better. And you hear yourself better, more “objectively,” you avoid bad
habits that you didn’t even know you had, and you find ways to play
with ever greater vitality and depth of expression.
I think that through this process you end up with two important
things. One is a heightened sensitivity to huh? You notice more of the
little sloppy infelicities—slightly out-of-tune notes, slight unintended dis-
tortions of rhythm, slight miscoordinations between players, slight let-
downs in intensity. And you also notice more opportunities—places
where a little adjustment suddenly brings out an expressive detail.
The other thing you end up with is a grab bag of tools—things to try
when you encounter a huh? These might be tricks of fingering, tricks of
rhythm, how to find the rhythmic and harmonic point of a phrase, how
to build gradually to a climax, when to think of metaphors, when it’s
Rationality and Intuition
234
important to think ahead, how to communicate with the other players,
how to look elsewhere in the piece or even in other pieces for hints on
how to play this passage, and so on and so on. A lot of our “imagination”
consists of noticing a huh? and having a hunch about what trick might fix
it. That’s what my colleagues and I are doing when we’re working on
the Brahms.
None of the details you improve on are necessarily so important by
themselves. But collectively they add up to the difference between a
vivid performance and a routine one. A lot of listeners will be able to tell
the difference, but they may not be able to say why.
And every so often there comes one of those times you live for.
Everything “clicks,” no discussion is needed, it all happens by intuition.
You and the other players play off of each other, inspire each other, you
don’t know where it’s coming from. And when it’s over, there’s nothing
to do except look at each other in astonishment and say “Oh my!”
I’m only talking about music because it’s something I know well. But
I think the same thing goes on with theater directors, sports coaches, art
and writing teachers. Through the teacher’s spirited suggestions and dem-
onstrations, the student learns how to attend to more and more details,
how to be sensitive to possible pitfalls and possible opportunities, and how
to relate every step to a vision of the finished product. This is what’s
involved in learning the craft.
I’m beginning to think this is an attractive model for rational thinking
(or, as it’s sometimes called, “critical thinking”). We need rational think-
ing when intuition isn’t enough to do the job—when we don’t “get it” or
it’s “not working.” I’ve tried to show you that the ideal of totally explicit
rational thinking, with no appeals to intuition, is logically and psycho-
logically impossible. What I’m suggesting is that people’s actual use of
rational thought is a lot more flexible than that. When we’re thinking
well, we appreciate more subtleties and we have better tools for analyz-
ing them. We can avoid pitfalls and find opportunities. Our intuitions
become better at telling us what we shouldn’t take for granted, what we
should question—the uh-huh and nope are finer-grained. We’re able to
Rational thinking as a craft
235
anticipate what questions could be raised by someone with interests
other than ours—we can see our argument more “objectively.” We’re
able to come up with apt metaphors, and we notice appropriate parallels
in tradition. In the ideal case, the overall vision of where we’re trying to
go informs our appreciation of every detail.
Again, a huge part of this is possible only through the ability to articu-
late all the parts verbally, to hold them in memory, to retrieve them,
manipulate them, and compare them. At the same time, the end result is
judged by how well it satisfies intuition. The craft is in the proper mix-
ture of intuition and rationality.
If I’m right about this, then learning to think rationally can’t be taught
explicitly. Here’s why. Nobody can tell you how to serve a tennis ball or
play Brahms without giving you a demonstration. Your teacher’s words
are only hints about what to pay attention to. They can’t capture that
intuitive step of “getting it.” Some teachers rely more on words, some
rely more on demonstrations—and some students respond better to
more words and some to more demonstrations.
Just because rational thinking is carried out in words doesn’t mean the
situation is any different than in tennis or Brahms. Take science, the
epitome of rational thought. You don’t start to learn science by having
someone tell you all about the scientific method or the philosophy of
science. (In fact, philosophy of science ties itself in knots over everyday
notions that working scientists know “by the seat of their pants,” such as
what counts as evidence or as an explanation.) To learn science, you need
lots of demonstrations, lots of supervised practice in the lab, lots of prac-
tice on your own. You have to build up your repertoire of data, litera-
ture,techniques,andquestions,sothatyouhavematerialforunconscious
understanding to build on, and so that when you need to make rational
connections, you have a rich store of imagination at your disposal. The
craft of doing science, like making music, lies in the proper mixture of
rationality and intuition.
And every once in a long while, something takes hold and intuition
sweeps you along. It all “flows,” you don’t know where the ideas came
Rationality and Intuition
236
from. Sometimes they even turn out to be good ones! This too is some-
thing we live for.
Here’s a version of the same thing, from an artist:
When you start working, everybody is in your studio—the past, your friends,
enemies, the art world, and above all, your own ideas—all are there. But as
you continue painting, they start leaving, one by one, and you are left
completely alone. Then, if you’re lucky, even you leave.
I want to ratchet this up just one more level. How should you teach—
teach anything, say reading or mathematics? There seem to be these two
opposing poles in philosophy of education. If I may caricature them, one
pole insists on breaking things down into the smallest parts, doing things
by rote, by the book, with lots of drill, for the test—allegedly the
“rational” way. This is ridiculously stultifying, students hate it, and they
never get the big picture. The other pole advocates “intuitive” holistic
understanding, the big picture, and believes the details will take care of
themselves. The students may like it better, but they don’t really learn to
read or do math. The trouble with both approaches is that they don’t
recognize how important it is to get the right mixture of rationality and
intuition. And because that mixture is intuitive, you can’t articulate a
formula for it. You can only give useful hints and point out noteworthy
cases. Wise teachers know how to use this mixture—if their school’s
educational policy lets them.
And how do you teach teachers to have these intuitions? Teaching is
a craft too. I don’t have to go around the circle again. You get the idea.
237
42
Some speculation on science
and the arts
Half a century ago, C. P. Snow complained about the mutual incompre-
hension and lack of respect between the “two cultures” of the humani-
ties and science. The situation is pretty much the same now. The main
difference is that, in Snow’s time, the humanities controlled the British
intellectual establishment and science was relatively low-status, whereas
now (at least in the US) science is flourishing, and it’s the humanities
that are starved for resources and prestige. Books and articles appear
with titles like What’s Happened to the Humanities?, Does Literary Studies
Have a Future?, “A world without literature?,” and “Will the humanities
save us?”
I want to put the questions posed by these titles in a larger context. By
“humanities,” Snow and everyone else in this conversation mean essen-
tially literature and literary theory as taught in departments of English,
foreign languages, and classics. These studies are actually less closely
related to other traditional humanities such as philosophy and history
than they are to the arts – fine arts, music, theater, film, and architecture.
So I want to rephrase these questions as: What’s the point of the arts?
It’s not hard to justify science. It leads to concrete results that translate
into our prosperity—better food, better health, better transportation,
better access to information, and so on. Well, yes, but don’t forget that
it’s also brought us nuclear weapons and other unpleasant side effects
Rationality and Intuition
238
like global warming. And not all science has concrete benefits. What
practical good is there in knowing about dwarf planets, or the first thou-
sandth of a second after the Big Bang, or the color of some dinosaur’s
feathers? Still, on balance it’s clear that Science is a Good Thing.
By these standards it’s hard to justify the arts. A degree in English Lit-
erature doesn’t prepare you for a job the way a degree in chemistry does.
Economic statements like “Every dollar of arts funding brings $10 into
the community” don’t really speak to what the arts are about.
Less materialistic justifications ring a bit hollow: “Students learn to
enter into conversations with great authors” about “the meaning of
life” and “the human condition.” Reading a classic “helps you to define
yourself in relation or even in opposition to it.” One learns “ways of
reading,” “making the ordinary strange,” and “bringing what is hidden
into the open.” The classics “provide models of response to misfortune
that...will outlast us.” “The defining quality of the arts is the expres-
sion of the human condition by mood and feeling.” “Arts project the
human presence on everything in the universe.” These all carry a nice
aura of profundity, but what do they actually say?
The literary theorist Stanley Fish rejects arguments of this sort, and
proclaims
To the question “of what use are the humanities?,” the only honest answer
isnonewhatsoever.Anditisananswerthatbringshonortoitssubject....The
humanities are their own good.
Conclusions like this don’t win a lot of hearts on the university’s board
of trustees or at the Department of Education.
I suspect that “Of what use?” is the wrong way of putting the ques-
tion, and that part of the trouble comes from the concentration on
literature. A work of literature necessarily is about something—
anything from a small scene to a historical epic. If the purpose of lit-
erature is to convey something about the human condition or the
meaning of life, why isn’t a journalist’s or a historian’s way of convey-
ing it just as useful?
Some speculation on science and the arts
239
The answer is that in the arts, there’s something important about the
form in which the material is conveyed. It matters that the content is
embodied in a novel or a poem or a play, and it matters that the form in
itself yields satisfaction. So let’s ask the same question about an artistic
medium that’s all form. What’s the point of music? Why play and study
Brahms? People sometimes say that music too expresses the “human
condition.” But the Clarinet Quintet doesn’t tell us about life experi-
ences, moral imperatives, or models of response to misfortune, at least
not in any direct way.1
Nor do the facts of Brahms’s life and the condi-
tions under which he wrote the Quintet give much insight into the
music. Rather, we understand the music better, both as listeners and as
performers, through coming to appreciate the originality and depth with
which Brahms has put all its details together from basic musical materi-
als. This deeper insight into the form gives us a deeper experience of the
music. And one can say the same for literature and the visual arts.
Let’s cast the net wider. Why do people like novels, plays, music,
dance, art, and film—and not just the classics? Why do kids like poetry—
maybe not Wallace Stevens, but poetry nevertheless? Even more
broadly: Why do people in every culture like to decorate their houses,
their pots, and themselves? (Why do I care that there’s a frog on my cof-
fee mug?) Why do we like gourmet food? Why do we like all kinds of
beautiful stuff—so much that we spend huge amounts of time and effort
on creating it, acquiring it, experiencing it?
In light of what we’ve been doing here, I’d like to offer a conjecture:
Science resonates with the rational parts of thinking, and the arts reso-
nate with something in the intuitive parts. (Whatever “resonate” means!)
Science can be justified on rational and often utilitarian grounds. The
point of science is to answer explicit questions, to explain observations,
to draw connections among phenomena, to make statements that are
1
Indirectly, yes. My friend Henry reported (hyperbolically, of course) that during our per-
formance of the Brahms Quintet, at least three members of the audience were so moved that
they committed suicide.
Rationality and Intuition
240
subject to truth-judgments. With luck it also leads to material improve-
ments in our lives—even if not all scientists care about that.
This isn’t the point of the arts at all. Art isn’t about being true. Its
“rightness” doesn’t lie in its “correctness.” As we saw in the rehearsal of
the Brahms, reasoning about a work of art leads not to a truth-judgment,
but to a judgment of artistic quality or artistic integrity. Where science
seeks ever greater generalizations, artistic appreciation seeks ever more
intricate and subtle details and patterns. The works of art that we call
great are the ones that you can keep going back to and finding more.
Science seeks abstraction from the surface of appearances. Art revels
in the character of the surface—it’s not just what’s said, it’s very much
how it’s said. And more fundamental than reasoning about art is the pure
experience of it. This is especially the case in music, dance, abstract art,
and architecture, where there’s no “propositional” content, only form.
But it’s certainly true of literature as well.
The improvements the arts make in our lives definitely aren’t mate-
rial. In studying literature, music, and art, we get better acquainted with
great works, we grow to appreciate what’s great about them, we learn
to unfold more and more from them—in short, we deepen our sense of
their beauty and increase our satisfaction in knowing them.
I suspect the traditional importance of studying the artistic canon—all
the dead white men like Shakespeare, Rembrandt, and Beethoven—
doesn’t have to do with helping you define yourself so much as giving
you a sense of who we are—our cultural community and heritage.
Arguments about what might replace the traditional canon are implicitly
about how broad a community we want our students to learn to identify
with.
None of this makes a lot of sense rationally. Louis Armstrong said
about jazz, “If you have to ask what it is, you’ll never know.” The arts
speak to us on some level other than conscious rationality. It’s probably
the fact that we can’t explain it rationally that leads to all the profound
stuff about the human condition and so on—pretty much all of which is
rationalization.
Some speculation on science and the arts
241
If there’s to be any explanation of art’s value to us, I suspect it’s going
to come from the cognitive and neural perspectives. What’s going on in
your mind/brain when you’re experiencing art? How does the experi-
ence draw on ordinary seeing and hearing, and how does it go beyond
them? And why does that make a difference to us? I’d guess that the
answers to these questions won’t be found just in Great Art, but also in
less exalted things like pueblo pottery, folk music and garage bands, and
even comic strips. E. O. Wilson, in Consilience, is right in seeing the forms
of art as shaped by the character of the human mind/brain, at a very
general level, and possibly in very particular ways as well.
On the other hand, Wilson seems to think that the whole goal is to
explain our aesthetic response to art in terms of human biology and
human evolution. That’s the cognitive/neural perspective. But, as with
sunsets and free will, this doesn’t erase the ordinary perspective—
studying and experiencing art as art. And here the goal is to appreciate the
glorious particularities of individual works of art on their own terms.
There’s now a flourishing tradition in the cognitive neuroscience of
music. I don’t know about the other arts. But even in music, the neuro-
science of the aesthetic response is still a mystery. And by the way, find-
ing its location in the brain still won’t tell us how it works, nor why
Brahms is so great.
A rational enterprise like science is good at justifying its existence: you
just keep talking. Fundamentally intuitive enterprises like music and lit-
erature aren’t so good at justifying their existence. Because intuition is
thought without linguistic expression, it’s easy for all the language of
rationality to crowd it out, both inside and outside your head. And the
language of rationality by its very nature misses the point.
If there’s any message in what we’ve been doing here, it’s that rational
thinking isn’t what people think it is, and that it requires the underpin-
ning of intuition to work at all. To understand a rational argument, you
have to “get it.” The arts go right to the “getting it” without the inter-
vention of all the talking. And when you “get it,” the experience is richer
in ways that can never be conveyed by language.
Rationality and Intuition
242
Again, this isn’t to say there’s anything wrong with rational
thought—only to suggest that it isn’t the single highest goal of our
mental life, and that intuition calls for at least equal billing. And also to
suggest that the arts aren’t just foolish decoration in our lives. They
may not bring in as much money, but they’re as essential to us human
beings as science is.
243
43
Learning to live with multiple
perspectives
Let me try to tie this all together. One thing I’ve been trying to develop
here, over these many tortuous chapters, is a better understanding of the
distinction between rational thinking and intuitive thinking. Rational
thinking is allegedly completely conscious, and every step is spelled out
explicitly. Intuitive thinking is unconscious, and only the result comes to
consciousness, as if by magic.
I’ve tried to show that this distinction ought to be understood rather
differently. What we experience as rational thinking consists of thoughts
linked to language. The thoughts themselves aren’t conscious. Rather,
what’s conscious is the “handles” of pronunciation that are linked to the
thoughts, plus some character tags that lend the pronunciation a sense of
meaningfulness and conviction. And the conscious sense that one sentence
logically follows from another—that your reasoning is rational—is itself
an intuitive judgment. So rational thought isn’t an alternative to intuitive
thought—rather, it rides on a foundation of intuitive thought. To state it a
bit iconoclastically, rationality is intuition enhanced by language.
This isn’t to say that there’s something wrong with rational thinking.
I’ve talked a lot about its amazing benefits. Maybe the most important is
the ability it gives to ask questions. Intuitive thinking gives us little
beyond huh?—a sense that something’s the matter. Rational thinking,
using the “handles” provided by language, allows us to make the huh?
more explicit and precise, to focus on different alternatives, to follow up
Rationality and Intuition
244
hypothetical consequences, and to pay attention to many more fine
details. We need rational thinking to do science. We need rational
thinking to understand intuition!
On the other hand, thinking enhanced by language has its pitfalls,
partly because it conceals all the parts of meaning that language doesn’t
express. We can use rational thought more effectively if we learn to
appreciate the intricate and not entirely systematic relation of spoken
and written language to meaning.
I’ve been stressing, though, that whatever advantages rational
thought offers, it still relies on a grounding in intuitive thinking. This
has led us to pay some attention to the deep role intuitive thinking plays
in all sorts of other activities at the core of our lives. In doing so, we
don’t have to glorify intuitive thinking at the expense of rationality. We
should just recognize the importance of finding the appropriate balance
between the two—which may differ from problem to problem and from
moment to moment. And finding this balance may itself take a combina-
tion of reasoning and hunches.
Rationality vs. intuition is only one dimension of what we’ve been
looking at here. Another dimension has been in the background from
the beginning. In Chapter 4, I called it the “perspectival perspective”—
the idea that our understanding makes use of a set of partially connected
perspectives. Each perspective has its strengths and its weaknesses, each
contributes its own part to our understanding, and none can be com-
pletely reduced to any of the others.1
1
The “perspectival perspective” bears some resemblance to what Richard Rorty approv-
ingly calls the “ironic” position. He too rejects the notion of absolute truth and absolute real-
ity. However, he comes to the issue from a Wittgensteinian and Davidsonian point of view:
rather than different perspectives (i.e. ways of understanding), there are just different vocabu-
laries, different metaphors, different language games, different traditions. Although the cogni-
tive perspective that I’ve focused on here does introduce some new vocabulary, I don’t think
that’s what distinctive about it. Its vocabulary follows from the structure of its concepts, not
the other way around. And I don’t think the cognitive perspective is a metaphor for anything.
On the other hand, it does have this in common with Rorty’s “traditions”: it takes a lot of
work to get comfortable with it.
Learning to live with multiple perspectives
245
The ordinary perspective is the one from which we conduct our daily
lives. I’m inclined to think it’s the one nature has equipped us with. With
no effort, we experience a world full of objects and people, words and
sentences, events happening, things causing other things, people acting of
their own free will. Sentences are true or false on the basis of how they
correspond to the world. We also experience an inner life of images and
thoughts. If we examine our thoughts, they turn out to be sentences in our
head, and from this we may conclude that our thought is inner language.
Intuitively, all this is perfectly satisfactory. We can live our lives with-
out questioning it. But our language capacity allows us to frame ques-
tions that don’t have immediate answers. What makes the sun rise and
set? What are words, really? Where does our free will come from? What
happens to us when we die? And so on. Some sorts of answers involve
just adding things to the ordinary perspective, new entities that maybe
we can’t see. There’s a god with a chariot hauling the sun around. Words
live in an eternal space of essences. Free will is given to us by God. When
we die, we go to heaven or hell.
Other kinds of answers are more radical: you have to construct a new
perspective. Perspectives other than the ordinary are always to some
degree jarring to intuition. They rely far more on rational thinking than
does the ordinary perspective. So, for instance, to understand sunsets,
you have to imagine stepping off the earth into space. Then you’ll see
that the sun isn’t going up and down. Rather the earth is rotating, so that
from the earth it looks like the sun is going up and down.
In this book, we’ve kept stepping into the cognitive perspective, asking
what’s going on inside a person’s mind that accounts for his or her experi-
ence of the world—including the conviction that there’s really a world
out there. None of the entities in the ordinary perspective can be taken
for granted, not even physical objects. From this perspective, the issues
are things like: what gives you the conviction that there’s an object out
there, that this caused that, that this sentence implies this other sentence,
that you’re acting out of free will? And from this perspective, we’ve been
able to make some better sense of the way we experience our thought.
Rationality and Intuition
246
(Another question for the cognitive perspective is: How do we create
and manage new perspectives, including the cognitive perspective itself?
I suspect that this ability is a fundamental aspect of human intelligence.)
We can step into perspectives even more distant from the ordinary.
We can ask how the neurons in our brains create the phenomena of the
cognitive perspective such as pronunciation, spatial structure, reference
files, and character tags. And we can go even further and ask how neu-
rons do these things by virtue of their chemistry and physics.
But look what happens. As we move from an earth-centered to a sun-
centered perspective, and then on to larger and larger cosmological per-
spectives, persons fade from view—we’re just insignificant specks on a
piece of dust. In the same way, as we move from the ordinary perspective
to the cognitive and neural perspectives, and eventually to a physical/
chemical perspective, we also lose sight of the person entirely—
persons are kind of too big. Neither direction offers room for notions
like human dignity any more.
Even basic things like physical objects dissolve. From a subatomic per-
spective, physical objects are mostly empty space. From a cognitive per-
spective, we perceive a physical object when a certain kind of spatial
structure is linked to a reference file and a certain character tag. And look
how the answers from these two perspectives have absolutely nothing
to do with one another.
From the perspectival perspective, it’s important to keep track of what
perspective you’re in. If you start mixing perspectives, you end up with
weird assertions: There are no sunsets. There is no such thing as a lan-
guage. There is no such thing as free will. There is no such thing as truth.
The whole world is just a product of my mind. There is no such thing as
Me. And so on.
It’s important to keep asking which perspective is right for your current
purpose. If you’re trying to understand what makes sentences true, the
ordinary perspective leads to confusion and paradox. The cognitive per-
spective says that’s the wrong question—you can make much more
progress if you ask how people judge sentences true. If you’re trying to
Learning to live with multiple perspectives
247
understand why the sky is blue, it turns out that you need a subatomic
quantum perspective, in order to explain the wavelengths of light that
strike your eyes. But you also need a cognitive/neural perspective to
explain why we experience that mixture of wavelengths as the color blue.
And there are still lots of activities for which the ordinary perspective
is right where you want to be: playing the Brahms Clarinet Quintet,
planning a party, advocating for social justice. The cognitive perspective
may be able to explain why we have morals, but it can’t answer moral
questions—what’s the right thing to do, which set of morals we should
adopt. These too are questions for the ordinary perspective.
Finally, from the perspectival perspective, it’s important to recognize
that there’s no overarching, perspective-free Truth About The World.
Our questions about our world don’t converge on a single mutually con-
sistent set of answers. There are only different ways of understanding
our world, some of which work better for some kinds of questions, and
some of which work better for others. This is not the ideal solution to
the Problem of Knowledge, but it’s the best we can do, so we’d better
learn to live with it.
This is not to say there’s no point in trying to understand, that every-
thing is relative, so why bother. Rather, I’m hoping to sharpen our tools
so we can try harder.
This page intentionally left blank
249
References and further reading
Chapter 1
Two expositions of the cognitive perspective on language that focus
on grammar are Noam Chomsky, Reflections on Language (Pantheon,
1975); Steven Pinker, The Language Instinct (Morrow, 1994).
Chapter 2
Early expositions of the notion of mental grammar: Noam Chomsky,
Syntactic Structures (Mouton, 1957); Aspects of the Theory of Syntax (MIT
Press, 1965).
The notion of “speech community”: Judith T. Irvine, “Speech and lan-
guage community,” Encyclopedia of Language and Linguistics, 2nd edition
(Elsevier, 2006), pp. 689–96.
ThelanguagesituationintheformerYugoslavia:RobertD.Greenberg,
Language and Identity in the Balkans: Serbo-Croatian and its Disintegration
(Oxford University Press, 2004).
The notion of “social construction” comes from Peter L. Berger and Tho-
mas Luckmann, The Social Construction of Reality (Anchor Books, 1966).
On Nicaraguan Sign Language, see Judy Kegl, Ann Senghas, and Marie
Coppola, “Creations through contact: Sign language emergence and
sign language change in Nicaragua,” in Michel DeGraff (ed.), Language
Creation and Language Change (MIT Press, 1999), pp. 179–237.
The quote from David Lewis is from p. 5 of his “Languages and
language,” in Keith Gunderson (ed.), Language, Mind, and Knowledge
(University of Minnesota Press, 1975), pp. 3–35.
Chapter 3
Chomsky’s terms “E-language” and “I-language” come from his
Reflections on Language (Pantheon, 1975).
For the distinction between systems strictly for language and more
general mental systems, see Marc Hauser, Noam Chomsky, and
Tecumseh Fitch, “The faculty of language: What is it, who has it, and
References and further reading
250
how did it evolve?,” Science 298 (2002), pp. 1569–79; Steven Pinker
and Ray Jackendoff, “The faculty of language: What’s special about it?,”
Cognition 95 (1975), pp. 201–36. For a different take, see Michael Toma-
sello, Constructing a Language (Harvard University Press, 2003).
David Lewis on conventions: see references to Chapter 2.
Language as a Platonic object: Jerrold Katz, LanguageandOtherAbstract
Objects (Rowman & Littlefield, 1981); D. Terence Langendoen and Paul
Postal, The Vastness of Natural Languages (Basil Blackwell, 1984).
Consilience: E. O. Wilson, Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge (Alfred
A. Knopf, 1998).
Chapter 4
Navigation by the stars: Thomas Kuhn, The Copernican Revolution
(Random House, 1957).
Manifest image: Wilfrid Sellars, Science, Perception, and Reality
(Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1963).
“Institutional” vs. “brute physical” facts: John Searle, The Construction
of Social Reality (Free Press, 1995).
The meaning of gold: Hilary Putnam, “The meaning of ‘meaning,’” in
Keith Gunderson (ed.), Language, Mind, and Knowledge (University of
Minnesota Press, 1975), pp. 131–93.
Chapter 5
For a treatment of some of the questions in this chapter and the next
from a philosophical viewpoint, see Brian Epstein, “The internal and
external in linguistic explanation,” Croatian Journal of Philosophy 8.22
(2008), pp. 77–111.
Time as metaphor: George Lakoff and Mark Johnson, Philosophy in the
Flesh (Basic Books, 1999). For discussion of the limitations of the cogni-
tive linguistics view of metaphor, see Ray Jackendoff and David Aaron,
review of Lakoff and Turner, More Than Cool Reason, Language 67 (1991),
pp. 320–38; Ray Jackendoff, Language, Consciousness, Culture (MIT Press,
2007), pp. 342–4.
Acoustics of speech: Alvin Liberman, “Some assumptions about
speech and how they changed,” Haskins Laboratories Status Report on
Speech Research SR-113 (1993); online at: http://www.haskins.yale.
edu/sr/sr113/SR113_01.pdf
References and further reading
251
Chapter 6
Psycholinguistic research on different forms of the same word: Steven
Pinker, Words and Rules (Basic Books, 1999).
The many senses of over and similar phenomena: George Lakoff,
Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things (University of Chicago Press, 1987).
(Disclaimer: I don’t necessarily endorse all of his analyses.)
Chapter 7
Ludwig Wittgenstein, Philosophical Investigations (Basil Blackwell,
1953). “One cannot guess how a word functions” (p. 109); “We must do
away with all explanation” (p. 47).
Situation Semantics: Jon Barwise and John Perry, Situations and
Attitudes (MIT Press, 1983).
Chapter 8
I discuss evaluative terms like adore and interesting in much more detail
in chapter 7 of Language, Consciousness, Culture, and I extend the analysis
to notions of value in chapter 9 of that volume.
Chapter 9
Wittgenstein on the meaning of this: Philosophical Investigations, p. 18.
See my Foundations of Language (Oxford University Press, 2002), chap-
ters 9 and 10, for discussion of many of the alternative notions of mean-
ing (sets etc.). Section 4.2 discusses the notion of Deep Structure, its
relation to meaning, and how it echoes Wittgenstein’s term Tiefengram-
matik (‘deep grammar’).
For discussion of how idioms, compounds, prefixes, and suffixes can
behave like words, see Foundations of Language, chapter 6.
Douglas Hofstadter’s Gödel, Escher, Bach (Basic Books, 1979) is an enter-
taining introduction to the theory of computation and its application to
theories of the mind. Noam Chomsky’s Syntactic Structures and Aspects of
the Theory of Syntax revolutionized linguistics; see Foundations of Language,
especially chapters 1–6, for a more contemporary assessment.
Chapter 10
Wittgenstein on the boxer: Philosophical Investigations, p. 11.
References and further reading
252
Chapter 11
For many more examples and discussion of the experimental litera-
ture on color naming and other categorization, see Gregory Murphy,
The Big Book of Concepts (MIT Press, 2002); and chapter 1 of Eric Margolis
and Stephen Laurence’s Concepts: Core Readings (MIT Press, 1999).
The proposal that words like climb are actually ambiguous was once pro-
posed by the philosopher of language Jerrold Katz, in his The Philosophy of
Language (Harper & Row, 1966), p. 73. This analysis of climb first appears in
Charles Fillmore, “Towards a descriptive framework for deixis,” in R. Jar-
vella and W. Klein (eds), Speech, Place, and Action (Wiley, 1982), pp. 31–52;
Ray Jackendoff, “Multiple subcategorization and the theta-criterion: The
case of climb,” Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 3.3 (1985), pp. 271–95.
Wittgenstein on game: Philosophical Investigations, pp. 31–2.
George Lakoff’s example of mother is one of many discussed in his
Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things. For more cases, see my Foundations of
Language, pp. 352–6.
The quotation about Pluto is from Mike Brown, How I Killed Pluto and
Why It Had It Coming (Spiegel & Grau, 2010), as quoted in a review in the
Boston Globe (Jan. 1, 2011).
Chapter 12
Paul Grice discusses cases like “Will you be going near a mailbox?” in
his Studies in the Way of Words (Harvard University Press, 1989). See also
chapter 8 of Steven Pinker’s The Stuff of Thought: Language as a Window
into Human Nature (Penguin Books, 2007).
The Rodgers and Hart song is given a haunting performance by
Peggy Lee in a memorable 1941 recording with Benny Goodman.
Onellipsis:PeterCulicoverandRayJackendoff,SimplerSyntax(Oxford
University Press, 2005), chapter 10.
Chapter 13
Wittgenstein on what a clarinet sounds like: Philosophical Investiga-
tions, p. 36.
For discussion of the cognition of non-human primates, see Wolfgang
Köhler, The Mentality of Apes (Kegan Paul, 1927); Jane Goodall, In the
Shadow of Man (Dell, 1971); Richard Byrne and Andrew Whiten,
Machiavellian Intelligence: Social Expertise and the Evolution of Intellect in
References and further reading
253
Monkeys, Apes, and Humans (Clarendon Press, 1988); Dorothy Cheney and
Robert Seyfarth, How Monkeys See the World (University of Chicago Press,
1990);CheneyandSeyfarth,BaboonMetaphysics(UniversityofChicagoPress,
2007); Frans deWaal, GoodNatured:TheOriginsofRightandWronginHumans
and Other Animals (Harvard University Press, 1996); Daniel Povinelli, Folk
Physics for Apes (Oxford University Press, 2000); Michael Tomasello (ed.),
Primate Cognition (special issue of the journal Cognitive Science 24.3) (2000).
On “nonconceptual content,” see José Bermúdez and Arnon Cahen,
“Nonconceptual mental content,” in Edward N. Zalta (ed.), The Stanford
Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2010 edn): http://plato.stanford.edu/
archives/spr2010/entries/content-nonconceptual/
On the concepts of paramecia: Jerry Fodor, “Why paramecia don’t have
mental representations,” Midwest Studies in Philosophy 10 (1987), 3–23.
On the language of thought: Jerry Fodor, The Language of Thought
(Harvard University Press, 1975).
Chapter 14
The Sapir–Whorf hypothesis: John B. Carroll (ed.), Language, Thought,
and Reality: Selected Writings of Benjamin Lee Whorf (MIT Press, 1956);
Geoffrey Nunberg, The Great Eskimo Vocabulary Hoax and Other Irreverent
Essays on the Study of Language (University of Chicago Press, 1991).
Tzeltal sense of space and related topics: Stephen Levinson, Space in
Language and Cognition (Cambridge University Press, 2003); Peggy Li and
Lila Gleitman, “Turning the tables: Language and spatial reasoning,”
Cognition 83 (2002), pp. 265–94; Peggy Li, Linda Abarbanell, Lila Gleitman,
and Anna Papafragou, “Spatial reasoning in Tenejapan Mayans,” Cognition
120 (2011), pp. 33–53.
The domains of spatial expressions, colors, and grammatical gender are
the main areas stressed by Guy Deutscher in his Through the Language
Glass: Why the World Looks Different in Other Languages (Metropolitan
Books, 2010), which attempts to show (unsuccessfully in my view) that
language profoundly affects thought.
On the language Pirahã: Daniel Everett, Don’t Sleep, There Are Snakes
(Pantheon, 2008); Peter Gordon, “Numerical Cognition without Words:
Evidence from Amazonia,” Science 306 (Oct. 15, 2004), pp. 496–9.
On children learning numbers: Rochel Gelman and C. R. Gallistel,
The Child’s Understanding of Number (Harvard University Press, 1978);
Stanislas Dehaene, The Number Sense (Oxford University Press, 1997);
References and further reading
254
Heike Wiese, Numbers, Language, and the Human Mind (Cambridge
University Press, 2003).
Chapter 15
Much of the material in Part Two is drawn from my Consciousness and
the Computational Mind (MIT Press, 1987) and chapter 3 of Language,
Consciousness, Culture. What I’m calling here the Unconscious Meaning
Hypothesis is called there the “Intermediate Level Theory.”
John B. Watson quote: “Psychology as the behaviorist views it,”
Psychological Review 20 (1913), pp. 158–77.
Peter Carruthers quote: Language, Thought, and Consciousness
(Cambridge University Press, 1996), p. 51.
Chomsky quote: OnNatureandLanguage (Cambridge University Press,
2002), pp. 75–7. Similar remarks appear in Robert Berwick and Noam
Chomsky, “The Biolinguistic Program: The current state of its
development,” in Anna Maria Di Sciullo and Cedric Boeckx (eds), The
Biolinguistic Enterprise: New Perspectives on the Evolution and Nature of the
Human Language Faculty (Oxford University Press, 2011), pp. 19–41.
Wittgenstein quotes: Philosophical Investigations, pp. 107–8.
Cherokee: quoted in Boston Globe (Dec. 24, 2010).
Chapter 16
“How can I know what I think until I see what I say?” Google tells me
this quote has been attributed variously to Henry David Thoreau, W. H.
Auden, the political theorist Graham Wallas, the novelist E. M. Forster, a
little girl quoted by Graham Wallas, and an old lady quoted by E. M.
Forster. Well, for our purposes I guess it doesn’t really matter who said it.
Tip-of-the tongue: William James, Principles of Psychology (1890; Dover
reprint 1950).
Feeling of knowing: Asher Koriat, “How do we know that we know? The
accessibilitymodelofthefeelingofknowing,”PsychologicalReview100(1993),
pp. 609–39; Valerie A. Thompson, “Dual-process theories: A metacognitive
perspective,” in Jonathan Evans and Keith Frankish (eds), InTwoMinds:Dual
Processes and Beyond (Oxford University Press, 2009), pp. 171–95.
Tip-of-the-fingers sensation: Robin Thompson, Karen Emmorey, and
Tamar H. Gollan, “‘Tip of the finger’ experiences by deaf signers,”
Psychological Science 16 (2005), pp. 856–60.
Nicaraguan Sign Language: See references to Chapter 2.
References and further reading
255
Chapter 17
Daniel Dennett on the “Cartesian theater”: Consciousness Explained
(Little, Brown, 1991).
Chapter 18
Descartes’ view of the “vessel of consciousness,” for instance in the
Discourse on Method, Discourse 5.
Max Eastman quote: Einstein, Trotsky, Hemingway, Freud, and Other
Great Companions (Collier Books, 1962), p. 132.
John von Neumann, The Computer and the Brain (Yale University Press,
1958).
The “Hard Problem” of consciousness: David Chalmers, “Facing up
to the problem of consciousness,” in Jonathan Shear (ed.), Explaining
Consciousness: The Hard Problem (MIT Press, 1997), pp. 9–30; John Searle,
“Minds, brains, and programs,” Behavioral and Brain Sciences 3 (1980), pp.
417–24; William Robinson, “The hardness of the Hard Problem,” in
Shear (op. cit.), pp. 149–61; Daniel Dennett, “Are we explaining con-
sciousness yet?”, in Stanislas Dehaene (ed.), The Cognitive Neuroscience of
Consciousness (special issue of Cognition 79) (2001), pp. 221–37; Paul
Churchland and Patricia Churchland, “Recent work on consciousness:
Philosophical, theoretical, and empirical,” in Naoyuki Osaka (ed.), Neural
Basis of Consciousness (John Benjamins, 2003), pp. 123–38.
Neural correlates of consciousness: Francis Crick, The Astonishing
Hypothesis (Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1994); Francis Crick and Cristof
Koch, “Toward a neurobiological theory of consciousness,” Seminars in
the Neurosciences 2 (1990), pp. 263–75; Cristof Koch, The Quest for
Consciousness (Roberts, 2004).
Chapter 19
For the three linked data structures in language—phonology, gram-
matical structure, and meaning—see my Foundations of Language, chap-
ters 1 and 5.
Chapter 20
Antonio Damasio quote: “A neurobiology for consciousness,” in Tho-
mas Metzinger (ed.), Neural Correlates of Consciousness (MIT Press, 2000),
pp. 111–20. Bernard Baars quote: “Working memory requires conscious
References and further reading
256
processes, not vice versa: A Global Workspace account,” in Osaka (ed.),
Neural Basis of Consciousness, p. 11.
Primate cognition: See references to Chapter 13.
Consciousness as quantum activity: Stuart Hameroff and Roger
Penrose, “Conscious events as orchestrated space-time selections,” in
Shear (ed.), Explaining Consciousness, pp. 177–95.
Consciousness as the activity of certain receptors on neurons: Hans
Flohr, “NMDA receptor-mediated computational processes and phe-
nomenal consciousness,” in Metzinger (op. cit.), pp. 245–58.
“Proto-awareness” connected to the receptive fields of neurons: Bruce
MacLennan, “The elements of consciousness and their neurodynamical
correlates,” in Shear (op. cit.), pp. 249–66.
“Executive” theory of consciousness: James, Principles of Psychology;
Jerome Bruner, In Search of Mind (Harper & Row, 1983); Marvin Minsky,
“Matter, mind, and models,” in Minsky (ed.), Semantic Information
Processing (MIT Press, 1968), pp. 425–32; Karl Popper and John Eccles,
The Self and its Brain (Springer International, 1977).
Koch, The Quest for Consciousness. First quote, p. 234; second quote,
p. 233; third quote, p. 318.
I talk about the role of attention in Consciousness and the Computational
Mind, section 13.4, and in Language, Consciousness, Culture, section 3.4.
Victor Lamme makes a similar distinction between awareness and
attention, in his “Why visual attention and awareness are different,”
Trends in Cognitive Sciences 7 (2003), pp. 12–18.
Phenomenal vs. access consciousness: Ned Block, “On a confusion
about the function of consciousness,” Behavioral and Brain Sciences 18
(1995), pp. 227–87.
Consciousness as produced by higher-order or reflexive representa-
tions: Hofstadter, Gödel, Escher, Bach; David Rosenthal, “Two concepts
of consciousness,” Philosophical Studes 94 (1986), pp. 329–59; Peter
Carruthers, Language, Thought and Consciousness (Cambridge University
Press, 1996); Wolf Singer, “Phenomenal awareness and consciousness
from a neurobiological perspective,” in Metzinger (ed.), Neural Correlates
of Consciousness, pp. 121–37; Gerald Edelman and Giulio Tononi,
“Reentry and the dynamic core: Neural correlates of conscious
experience,” in Metzinger (op. cit.), pp. 139–51; Josef Parvizi and Antonio
Damasio, “Consciousness and the brainstem,” in Dehaene (ed.), The
Cognitive Neuroscience of Consciousness, pp. 135–60.
References and further reading
257
“Global workspace” theory of consciousness: Bernard Baars, A Cogni-
tive Theory of Consciousness (Cambridge University Press, 1988); Baars,
“Understanding subjectivity: Global Workspace Theory and the resur-
rection of the self,” in Shear (op. cit.), pp. 241–8. The quote from Baars is
from the latter of these, p. 241. The quote from David Chalmers is in
“Facing up to the problem of consciousness,” in Shear (op. cit), p. 22.
The quote from Stanislas Dehaene and Lionel Naccache is in “Towards
a cognitive neuroscience of consciousness: Basic evidence and a work-
space framework,” in Dehaene (op. cit.), p. 15.
Chapter 21
Wittgenstein on the duck-rabbit and related phenomena: Philosophical
Investigations, p. 193–214.
Examples of visual illusions: Donald Hoffman, Visual Intelligence
(W. W. Norton, 1993); Richard Gregory, The Intelligent Eye (McGraw-
Hill, 1970); Richard Gregory, Eye and Brain (Princeton University Press,
1990); Béla Julesz, Foundations of Cyclopean Perception (University of Chi-
cago Press), 1971; Irwin Rock, The Logic of Perception (MIT Press, 1983).
Some impressive videos can be found at V. S. Ramachandran’s website:
http://cbc.ucsd.edu/ramaillusions.html
Visual understanding: references above plus David Marr, Vision (Free-
man,1982);Koch,TheQuestforConsciousness;NaomiEilan,RosaleenMcCa-
rthy, and Bill Brewer (eds.), Spatial Representation (Basil Blackwell, 1993).
Immanuel Kant, Critique of Pure Reason.
Gestalt psychologists: Wolfgang Köhler, Gestalt Psychology (Liveright/
Mentor Books, 1947); Kurt Koffka, Principles of Gestalt Psychology (Har-
court, Brace & World, 1935).
George Miller quote from “Trends and debates in cognitive psychol-
ogy,” Cognition 10 (1980), pp. 215–25; this quote from p. 222.
Chapter 22
On intentionality: Searle, “Minds, brains, and programs”; Jerry Fodor,
Psychosemantics: The Problem of Meaning in the Philosophy of Mind (MIT
Press, 1987).
Primate social world: Cheney and Seyfarth, Baboon Metaphysics.
For more discussion of social concepts, see my Language, Consciousness,
Culture and Erving Goffman, Frame Analysis (Harper & Row, 1974).
References and further reading
258
Chapter 23
Long-lived resonance in conscious brain activity: Stanislas Dehaene,
Jean-Pierre Changeux, Lionel Naccache, Jérôme Sackur, and Clair
Sergent, “Conscious, preconscious, and subliminal processing: A testable
taxonomy,” Trends in Cognitive Sciences 10 (2006), pp. 204–11.
Being able to judge categories without being able to say how: Michael
Polanyi, Personal Knowledge (University of Chicago Press, 1962). Polanyi
discusses many cases of knowledge of this sort, which he calls
“connoisseurship.”
“Exemplar” theories of category learning: Gregory Murphy, The Big
Book of Concepts (MIT Press, 2002); Edward Smith and Douglas Medin,
“The exemplar view,” in Eric Margolis and Stephen Laurence (eds),
Concepts: Core Readings (MIT Press, 1999), pp. 207–21.
Chapter 24
The issue of how sight and touch are correlated goes back to John
Locke’s Essay Concerning Human Understanding (1690). Locke cites a letter
from William Molyneux, asking whether a blind man whose sight was
restored could distinguish shapes by sight that he previously knew only
by touch. Recent discussions include Irwin Rock, The Logic of Perception
(MIT Press, 1983); J. Farley Norman, Hideko F. Norman, Anna Marie
Clayton, Joann Lianekhammy, and Gina Zielke, “The visual and haptic
perception of natural object shape,” Perception and Psychophysics 66
(2004), pp. 342–51; Marc Ernst and Martin Banks, “Humans integrate
visual and haptic information in a statistically optimal fashion,” Nature
415 (Jan. 24, 2004), pp. 429–33; and several articles in Eilan, McCarthy,
and Brewer, Spatial Representation: Problems in Philosophy and Psychology.
Blind children navigating a room: Barbara Landau and Lila Gleitman,
Language and Experience: Evidence from the Blind Child (Harvard University
Press, 1985).
The woman lacking proprioception: Oliver Sacks, The Man Who
Mistook His Wife for a Hat (Summit Books, 1985), chapter 3.
Beethoven’s thought processes: Paul Mies, Beethoven’s Sketches (Dover
Books, 1974); Lewis Lockwood and the Juilliard String Quartet, Inside
Beethoven’s Quartets (Harvard University Press, 2008).
References and further reading
259
Chapter 26
The “feeling of familiarity” is discussed in Valerie A. Thompson,
“Dual-process theories: A metacognitive perspective,” in Evans and
Frankish, In Two Minds: Dual Processes and Beyond, pp. 171–95.
Visual agnosia: Sacks, The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat.
Unreliability of eyewitnesses: Elizabeth Loftus, Eyewitness Testimony
(Harvard University Press, 1979).
Somatic markers: Antonio Damasio, Descartes’ Error: Emotion, Reason,
and the Human Brain (G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1994).
Free will: Daniel Wegner, The Illusion of Conscious Will (MIT Press,
2002); Daniel Dennett, Freedom Evolves (Viking, 2003).
McGurk effect: Harry McGurk and John MacDonald, “Hearing lips
and seeing voices,” Nature 264 (1976), 746–8; Dominic Massaro, Perceiving
Talking Faces (MIT Press, 1997).
Chapter 27
Theories of compositionality and inference: Ray Jackendoff, Semantics
andCognition (MIT Press, 1983); SemanticStructures (MIT Press, 1990); Foun-
dations of Language; Language, Culture, Consciousness; Meaning and the Lexicon
(Oxford University Press, 2010). In formal semantics (assuming Fregean
compositionality): Irene Heim and Angelika Kratzer, SemanticsinGenerative
Grammar (Blackwell, 1998). In Cognitive Grammar: Ronald Langacker,
Cognitive Grammar: A Basic Introduction (Oxford University Press, 2008).
On Spatial Structure: David Marr, Vision (Freeman, 1982); Paul Bloom,
Mary Peterson, Lynn Nadel, and Merrill Garrett (eds), Language and
Space (MIT Press, 1996).
Experiments on infants’ token features: Karen Wynn, “Addition and
subtraction by human infants,” Nature 358 (1992), pp. 749–50; Fei Xu and
Susan Carey, “Infants’ metaphysics: The case of numerical identity,”
Cognitive Psychology 30 (1996), pp. 111–53.
Chapter 28
Misfiring reference in conversation: Keith Donnellan, “Reference and
definite descriptions,” Philosophical Review 75 (1966), pp. 281–304.
References and further reading
260
Chapter 29
The material in this chapter is discussed in greater detail in my Seman-
tics and Cognition, chapter 3, and Foundations of Language, section 10.8.
“Descriptive metaphysics”: P. F. Strawson, Individuals: An Essay in
Descriptive Metaphysics (Methuen, 1959).
Mirror neurons: Vittorio Gallese, Luciano Fadiga, Leonardo Fogassi,
and Giacomo Rizzolati, “Action recognition in the premotor cortex,”
Brain 119 (1996), pp. 593–609; Christian Keysers, “Mirror neurons,”
Current Biology 19 (Nov. 17, 2009), pp. R971–R973.
Chapter 30
Frame analysis: Goffman, Frame Analysis.
“I thought your yacht was longer than it is”: Bertrand Russell, “On
denoting,” Mind 14 (1905), pp. 479–93.
Theory of Mind: David Premack and G. Woodruff, “Does the
chimpanzee have a theory of mind?” Behavioral and Brain Sciences 1
(1978), pp. 515–26; Simon Baron-Cohen, Mindblindness: An Essay on
Autism and Theory of Mind (MIT Press, 1997).
My earlier account of pictures and beliefs: Semantics and Cognition,
chapter 11. Gilles Fauconnier has expanded this analysis to a large
number of complex situations in Mappings in Thought and Language
(Cambridge University Press, 1997).
Chapter 31
On the body/soul split: Paul Bloom, Descartes’ Baby (Basic Books,
2004); see also my Language, Consciousness, Culture, chapter 5.
Capgrassyndrome:RyanMcKay,RobynLangdon,andMaxColtheart,
“‘Sleights of mind’: Delusions, defences, and self-deception,” Cognitive
Neuropsychiatry 10 (2005), pp. 305–26.
Cross-cultural studies of religion from a cognitive perspective: Pascal
Boyer, Religion Explained (Basic Books, 2001); Scott Atran, In Gods We
Trust (Oxford University Press, 2002).
There’s no such thing as a soul: Damasio, Descartes’ Error: Emotion,
Reason, and the Human Brain; Crick, The Astonishing Hypothesis.
Evolutionary origins of the human mind: Daniel Dennett, Darwin’s
Dangerous Idea (Simon & Schuster, 1995); Steven Pinker, How the Mind
Works (W. W. Norton, 1997); Richard Dawkins, The Selfish Gene (Oxford
University Press, 1989).
References and further reading
261
Evolutionary sources of morality: Robert Boyd and Peter Richerson,
The Origin and Evolution of Cultures (Oxford University Press, 2005);
Richard Alexander, The Biology of Moral Systems (Aldine de Gruyter,
1987).
The form of human moral concepts: my Language, Consciousness,
Culture; Marc Hauser, Moral Minds (HarperCollins, 2006); John Mikhail,
Elements of Moral Cognition (Cambridge University Press, 2011).
Attacks on religion: Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion (Houghton
Mifflin, 2006); Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell (Viking Penguin, 2006);
Sam Harris, The End of Faith (W. W. Norton, 2005).
Reasons why we conceptualize people in terms of souls: One
interesting suggestion is Daniel Dennett’s “self as center of narrative
gravity” in Darwin’s Dangerous Idea.
Chapter 33
“‘Snow is white’ is true if and only if snow is white”: Alfred Tarski,
“The concept of truth in formalized languages,” in his Logic, Semantics,
and Metamathematics (Oxford University Press, 1956), pp. 152–97. This
approach forms the foundation of modern formal semantics, such as in
Irene Heim and Angelika Kratzer, Semantics in Generative Grammar (Basil
Blackwell, 1998).
“The distance from Boston to New York is 200 miles”: Jerrold Katz,
“Chomsky on meaning,” Language 56 (1980), pp. 1–41; Ray Jackendoff,
“On Katz’s autonomous semantics,” Language 57 (1981), pp. 425–35;
James Higginbotham, “Jackendoff’s conceptualism,” BehavioralandBrain
Sciences 26 (2003), pp. 680–81.
“The present king of France is bald”: Bertrand Russell, “On denoting,”
Mind 14 (1905), pp. 479–93.
William James on fictional characters: Principles of Psychology, vol. 2,
p. 292.
Chapter 35
Asch experiment: Solomon E. Asch, “Opinions and social pressure,”
Scientific American 193 (1955), pp. 31–5. Online at: http://www.panarchy.
org/asch/social.pressure.1955.html
Denying ownership of one’s own body parts: V. S. Ramachandran
and Sandra Blakeslee, Phantoms in the Brain (HarperCollins, 1998). See
also Sacks, The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat, chapter 4.
References and further reading
262
Chapter 36
Descartes, Discourse on Method, Discourse 2.
Lewis Carroll, “What the tortoise said to Achilles,” Mind 4 (1895),
pp. 278–80. Reprinted in Hofstadter, Gödel, Escher, Bach, pp. 43–5.
Wittgenstein on how you know you’ve applied the rules correctly:
Philosophical Investigations, pp. 38–9, 85–6.
“Home sign”: Susan Goldin-Meadow, The Resilience of Language
(Psychology Press, 2003).
Kant quote: Critique of Pure Reason, Introduction to Book II, Analytic of
Principles.
Karl Lashley quote: “Cerebral organization and behavior,” in
H. Solomon, S. Cobb, and W. Penfield (eds.), The Brain and Human
Behavior (Williams &Wilkins, 1956), pp. 1–18. This quote is from p. 4.
System 1 and System 2: Evans and Frankish, In Two Minds: Dual
Processes and Beyond.
Chapter 37
Some of the more accessible recent expositions of the research on
intuitive thinking are Gerd Gigerenzer, Gut Feelings: The Intelligence of
the Unconscious (Viking, 2007); Malcolm Gladwell, Blink: The Power of
Thinking Without Thinking (Little, Brown, 2005); Jonah Lehrer, How We
Decide (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2009). Two earlier expositions are
Michael Polanyi, Personal Knowledge (University of Chicago Press, 1962);
Daniel Kahneman, Paul Slovic, and Amos Tversky (eds), Judgment Under
Uncertainty: Heuristics and Biases (Cambridge University Press, 1982).
Chapter 38
Chomsky on the evolutionary source of language: Reflections on Lan-
guage (Pantheon, 1975); New Horizons in the Study of Language and Mind
(Cambridge University Press, 2000).
Chapter 39
“I don’t think consciousness is something that happens to us...”: Alva
Noë in The Nation (Mar. 16, 2009), quoted with sincere apologies.
The experiment on judgments of stockings: Richard E. Nisbett and
Timothy DeCamp Wilson, “Telling more than we can know: Verbal
reports on mental processes,” Psychological Review 84 (1977), pp. 231–59.
References and further reading
263
Chapter 40
Similar conversations about musical interpretation are reported by
Arnold Steinhardt of the august Guarneri Quartet, in his Indivisible by
Four (Farrar, Straus, and Giroux, 1998), pp. 93, 99, 163, and 284.
A different sense of musical meaning: Leonard Meyer, Emotion and
Meaning in Music (University of Chicago Press, 1956).
Chapter 41
“When you start working...”: Philip Gaston, quoted by Barry
Schwabsky in The Nation (Jan. 10–17, 2011).
Chapter 42
Humanities vs. science: C. P. Snow, The Two Cultures (1959; repr.
Cambridge University Press, 1998); Alvin B. Kernan (ed.), What’s
Happened to the Humanities? (Princeton University Press, 1997); Eugene
Goodheart, Does Literary Studies Have a Future? (University of Wisconsin
Press, 1999); Michael Wood, “A world without literature?” Daedalus
(Winter 2009), pp. 58–67; Stanley Fish, “Will the humanities save us?”:
http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2008/01/06/will-the-
humanities-save-us/
“Students learn...”: Anthony Kronman, quoted in Fish (op. cit.);
“helps you define yourself...”: Italo Calvino, quoted in Wood (op. cit.);
“ways of reading,” “making the ordinary strange”: Wood (op. cit.);
“bringing what is hidden into the open”: Kronman, quoted in Fish (op.
cit); “provide models of response”: J. M. Coetzee, quoted in Wood (op.
cit.); “The defining quality of the arts...”: E. O. Wilson, Consilience: The
Unity of Knowledge (Alfred A. Knopf, 1998), p. 213; “Arts project...”:
Wilson (op. cit.), p. 200; “To the question ‘of what use are the
humanities?’...” Fish (op. cit.).
Cognitive neuroscience of music: Aniruddh Patel, Music, Language,
and the Brain (Oxford University Press, 2008); Fred Lerdahl and Ray
Jackendoff, A Generative Theory of Tonal Music (MIT Press, 1983).
Chapter 43
The “ironic” position: Richard Rorty, Contingency, Irony, and Solidarity
(Cambridge University Press, 1989).
This page intentionally left blank
265
abortion 62, 77
accents see dialects
Achilles 178, 208
action structures 138
action, self-controlled vs.
non-self-controlled
147–8
aesthetic response 241
ambiguity
in vision vs. language 115
in sentence processing 201–2
amodal completion 116
anomia 89n
Arabic 9
arbitrariness of the sign 44
vs. visual meaning 123–4
Aristotle 108, 208
Armstrong, Louis 240
artificial intelligence 48
artistic canon 240
arts vs. science 238–42
Asch, Solomon 200–1, 220
aspectual coercion 68–9, 88
atomic composition 19
attention 111
auditory experience 167
auditory localization 137n
auditory perception
(nonlinguistic) 106
auditory structure 125, 127,
138, 150
Baars, Bernard 108, 112
baboon metaphysics 127
bald, meaning of 56–7, 191–2
Barwise, Jon 37n
bats’ echolocation and spatial
structure 137n
Beatles 67
Beethoven, Ludwig van 138
behaviorism 82n, 98
Berkeley, George 51
Berlove, Naomi 91n
Big Things that Make Us
Human 97, 181
blind individuals, spatial cognition
in 135–6
Block, Ned 111n, 113n
Bloom, Allan/Harold 159
body sensation,
see proprioception
body-switching 182, 184
book, meaning of 60
concept of 182
bowling 7
Brahms, Johannes 227–9,
239, 247
brain activity
as computation 98–9
localization 4, 241
storage 7
Bruner, Jerome 110
Buddhism 186
Index
Index
266
Capgras Syndrome 183
Caplan, David 89n
Carey, Susan 159
Carroll, Lewis 208
Carruthers, Peter 82–3
Cartesian theater 94
cartoons 174n
categories 130
as cognitive constructions 132
cause and effect 53, 114
expression of 34n
Chalmers, David 101, 112
Chang, Olive 40
character tags 107, 143–51,
162, 243
for commitment/conviction of
truth 197–8
for confusion (huh?) 201, 220,
230, 233, 243
for familiarity 143–5
for free will 147–9
for mattering 145–6
for meaningfulness of
sentence 197
for meaningfulness of visual
field 196
for sacredness 146–7
for sense of reality 156, 173,
177–9
“virtual” 158, 160, 177–9
Chasidism 186
Cheney, Dorothy 127
Cherokee 83–4
Chinese 9
Chomsky, Noam 8n, 15n, 48, 65,
83, 118n, 222n
Churchland, Paul and
Patricia 101
clarinet 70–1, 136, 227–8
self-controlled vs. non-self-
controlled 147
climb, meaning of 58–9
coercion 67–8
cognitive correlates of
consciousness 137,
196–7
in bats 137n
in haptic perception 135
in language 102–7, 131–2
in rational thinking 213
in vision 128, 131–2
cognitive grammar 156
cognitive perspective 3, 245–7
on art 241
on connecting vision and
language 122, 126,
131–2
on conscious thought 84–5
on free will 147–8
on haptic vs. visual
perception 134
on language 15–7
on perceiving reality 140–1
on persons 186
on rational thinking 213
on reference 160–1, 164
on the soul 184
on thought 180
on truth 193–8
on words 31
on word meanings 49–50, 57,
73, 84–5
vs. Rorty’s “ironic”
position 244n
cognitive revolution 98
color terms 57, 58n, 75–6
Index
267
compositionality 41–2, 45–6,
156
enriched 63–9, 88, 93n,
163n, 176
Fregean 46, 63–9
compound nouns 46n
computational perspective on
mind/brain 99–100, 102
concepts 8
word meanings as 70–3
conceptual structure 122–8,
131, 139, 149, 155–7,
161–2, 170
necessity for 126
conflict between sources of
information 200–3
consciousness 4–5, 96–113, 224
apparent profundity of 146
construction of
understanding 148–9
content features 139, 140
conventions 27
of language and of society 11
convictions as cognitive
constructions 85
corporations as persons 181n
Crick, Francis 102, 184
Culicover, Peter 68n
cultural differences affecting
language 77
Damasio, Antonio 108, 145, 184
de dicto vs. de re 179n
de Saussure, Ferdinand 43–4
deep structure 43, 65
definitions see dictionaries
Dehaene, Stanislas 112
déjà vu 144
denial 226
Dennett, Daniel 94, 101
depiction 174–9
by sentences 187
Descartes, René 97, 99, 108, 181,
184, 207
dialects 9, 16, 26
dictionaries 23, 31, 34
definitions 41
failings of 62
discourse 64
distances, metaphysics of 192
DNA 19
Donnellan, Keith 164
dreaming 95, 104–6, 142, 148,
158, 183, 202
duck-rabbit 115, 122, 202
Dumpty, Humpty 33, 38
dwarf planets 61, 63
Eastman, Max 98
Eccles, John 110
Edlinger, Johann Georg 176–7
ellipsis 65–6, 116
emotion 97, 145, 213, 215
endangered languages 12
English 6–13, 21, 23, 81
existence of 14
Enlightenment 216
epilepsy 147
epistemic division of labor 19,
217
Eskimos 74
Esperanto 10
evolution 184–5, 241
of language 222n
“executive” theory of
consciousness 110–1
Index
268
“exemplar” theory of category
learning 132
existentialism 186
experience
of reality 160–1
of sentences 195–6
of the world as illusion 142
eyewitness testimony 145
face recognition 144
faculty of judgment (Kant) 209–10
“false beliefs” 179
family resemblance
concepts 58–60
family resemblance of meanings
of true 190
feel of consciousness 156
feeling
of confusion/
disorientation 200–3
of conviction 196, 212, 214, 225
of familiarity 143–5
of knowing 89n
of mattering (positive or
negative) 145–6
of meaningfulness 84–5, 104, 107
of reality 104–7, 120
of sacredness 146–7
of self-control 147–9
Fish, Stanley 238
Fodor, Jerry, 73n
formal languages 73n
formal logic 48, 208
formal semantics 156
frame analysis 178n
free will 147–9, 245
Frege, Gottlob 15n, 44–6, 48,
82n, 160
French 76
Freud, Sigmund 98–9
game, meaning of 60
gender, grammatical 76
Genesis 27
genocide 62, 75
German 76
gestalt psychology 120
“getting it” 132, 233–4, 241
Gleitman, Lila 136
global workspace theory of
consciousness 112–3, 130n
God 98, 104, 142, 147, 184–5
Goffman, Erving 178n
gold, meaning of 19
goncepts 71
Google Maps 124
grammar 3
Grice, Paul 64
gut feelings see intuitive thinking
gymnastics 136
hallucinations 142
“handles”
for concepts 223
for consciousness 84
for haptic perception 135
for meaning in vision 121
for thoughts 214, 219–21
for unconscious meaning in
language 88, 90, 109, 121
haptic perception 134–5, 137
vs. visual perception or vs.
memory 200
haptic view 135, 150
Hard Problem of
consciousness 101–2; 184
Index
269
Harpaz, Beth 157
Hart, Lorenz 66
Hawking, Stephen 146
heat transfer 16
heuristics 217
Higginbotham, Jim 192n
Hofstadter, Douglas 111
Holmes, Sherlock 159, 178, 193
home sign (invented by deaf
children) 210n
homonyms 28, 59
how do we talk about what we
see? 122–8
huh? character tag 201, 220, 230,
233, 243
humanities vs. science 237–42
Hume, David 53
idioms 46n
illusion 105, 140
of free will 148
of real world 142
visual 116–20
imageless thought 82n, 91n
imagery 145, 146, 158
musical 93n
self-controlled vs.
non-self-controlled 147
verbal 82–6, 103–7, 207, 219
visual 51–5, 82, 84, 114, 122,
133, 140–2
as putative meanings 49,
51–5, 130
vs. verbal imagery 142
imagination 232, 234
implicature 64, 229
implicit arguments 189n
inference, linguistic vs. spatial 121
inferential function of
meaning 48–9, 155–6
insight see intuition
instinct 97
intelligence vs. consciousness 108
intensional contexts 178–9
intentionality 126
intuitive thinking 5, 213–5, 217
balance with rational
thinking 233–6, 239, 242–4
intuitive connections among
thoughts 211–2, 225
James, William 89n, 110, 193
Jesus 178
Jewish reckoning of time 27
Kanisza triangle 116
Kant, Immanuel 120, 209
Katz, Jerrold 15n, 192n
Klingon 10
Koch, Christof 102, 110–1
Kuhn, Thomas 18
Lakoff, George 24n, 60
Landau, Barbara 136
Langendoen, Terence 15n
language 6–13
as a funny mirror of
thought 69
as idealization across speech
community 12, 14–6, 25
as like organism or species 6
political implications of 9,
12–3, 83
registers 10
self-controlled vs. non-self-
controlled 147
Index
270
language change 12, 16–7, 23, 25
language learning 10, 24, 44
“language of thought” 73
Lashley, Karl 211–2
learning 132, 232–6
legends 178,182
Leibniz, Gottfried 48
Levelt, Pim 91n
Lewis, David 11, 15n, 38
Liberman, Alvin 25
linguistic relativity/linguistic
determinism
(Sapir-Whorf)
74–7, 83
linguistic variation 16
logical form 43, 65, 210–1
long-term memory 7
Machiavellian intelligence 108
Macnamara, John 125n
Magritte, René 173
Mailer, Norman 34
marriage counseling 8n
masked priming 130n
mathematics 194
Mayan languages 75
McGurk effect 150n
mean, meaning of 33–40, 229–30
meaning 32–73
as hidden 41–2, 49, 155–6
as use (Wittgenstein) 32
as visual imagery 51–5, 122
in vision vs. in language 121–122
inferential function of 48, 155–6
of life 36, 185
referential function of 47,
129–33, 155–86
meaningfulness, feeling of 139
meaningless sentences and visual
displays 118–9
memories vs. new ideas 145
memory experiments 144
mental dictionary 24, 25, 31
mental grammar 8
metacognition 150
metacognitive theory of
consciousness 111–2
metametaphysics 166
metaphor 24n, 29, 69
metaphysics, cognitive 166–86
descriptive 166n
Meyer, Leonard 230
Miller, George 120
mind-body problem 100–2
Minsky, Marvin 110
mirror neurons 169
modal completion 116–7
money 18–9, 54–5
monitor that checks links in
brain 105–7
as metacognitive 111
morality 97, 181, 185, 247
Moses 178
mosquito, meaning of 125
mother, meaning of 60
Mozart 176–8
music 73n
composition of 138
perception 106
playing 146, 227–35
musical understanding 227–34,
239–40
Naccache, Lionel 112
narrative 163, 187–8
Nash, Ogden 207
Index
271
natural selection 185;
see also evolution
navigation 18
Necker cube 115
neglect, left-sided 203
neural correlates of
consciousness 102, 151;
see also cognitive
correlates of
consciousness
neural perspective 15–7, 100, 102,
109, 246
on art 241
Nicaraguan Sign Language 10n, 90
Nisbett, Richard 225
no such thing as...246
baldness 56
causation 53, 114
conscious thoughts 84
English 14
free will 148–9
rational thinking 213
soul 184
sunsets 18
words (physicalist
perspective) 25
You 184–5
Noë, Alva 224
nonconceptual content 71n
nonlinguistic thought 156
novelty, of expression 7- 8
of thought 8
number words 76–7
object tracking in infants 159
“objective” vs. “subjective”
meaning 38–40, 198
occlusion 116–7
onomatopoeia 44
ordinary perspective 245–7
on art 241
on connecting vision and
language 122, 126, 132
on conscious thought 84–5
on consciousness 100
on experience of reality 140, 160
on haptic vs. visual
perception 134
on language 14–5, 44
on persons 186
on rational thinking 223
on reference 162, 164, 171
on thoughts 180
on truth 191–5
on word meanings 62
on words 30
vs. physicalist perspective 20–21
paramecia, concepts in 72
passive sentences 41, 45
patriotism 185n
penal code 62
perception of tokens, not types 130
Perry, John 37n
personal identity 184
persons 100, 181–6
as non-persons 182
perspectival perspective 21, 244–7
perspectives 18–21 see also
cognitive perspective,
neural perspective,
ordinary perspective,
perspectival perspective,
physicalist perspective
on computers, “hardware” and
“software” 99
Index
272
“phenomenal” vs. “access”
consciousness 111n, 113n
phonological structure 43;
see also pronunciation
phonological word 43, 48
physicalist perspective
18–20, 246
on words 25–7
Pinker, Steven 69
Pirahã 76
planet, meaning of 61
Plato 42–3, 81–2
Platonic essences 15, 42, 81
polysemy 29–31
of conscious and
unconscious 92–5
of language 73n
of mean 33–40
of smoke 29–31, 44, 49
Postal, Paul 15n
prefixes and suffixes 46n
pretending 176
primate cognition 127,
218, 223
private language
(Wittgenstein) 209n
pronouns 163
pronunciation 43, 45, 71,
103–7, 113, 124, 128, 131,
155–7, 243
as “handle” for thought
84, 219
awareness of 84–6
philosophical interest of 73
propositions 72
proprioception 125, 136–7, 147
puddle, meaning of 19–20, 22
Putnam, Hilary 19–21, 56
qualia 86
quantum theory of
consciousness 109–10
questions 72, 170, 188
rational thinking 5, 207–36
advantages of 219–222
balance with intuition 233–6,
239, 242–4
disadvantages of 223–6
impossibility of 207–13
in music 227–31, 240
rationalization 226
reality
“real” 171
feeling of 139–42
red, meaning of 57
reduction of one theory to
another 16
reference 47, 155–80
to actions 168–9
to amounts 169, 192n
to places 168
to sentences 171–2
to sounds 167
to statues 67–8
to types 167
reference file 156–60, 162, 167,
170, 172
for depicted objects 173–7
for persons 186
for sentences 219
for thoughts 179–80
reference transfer 67–8, 116, 118
referential function of meaning 47,
129–33, 155–86
referential opacity 178–9
reincarnation 182
Index
273
religion 182, 183, 185–6, 216
religious experience 147
Robinson, William 101
Rodgers, Richard 66
Rorty, Richard 244n
Russell, Bertrand 48, 178, 192
Sacks, Oliver 136, 144
sacredness 185–6
Santa Claus 159, 178
Sapir, Edward 74
Sapir-Whorf hypothesis 74–7
schizophrenia 104–6, 203
science
conduct of 98, 217, 231, 235–6
vs. humanities and arts 237–42
scientific method 20, 235
Scrabble 28
Searle, John 19n, 101
self 147–9, 182–6
Sellars, Wilfrid 19n
Serbo-Croatian 9
Seyfarth, Robert 127
shmoughts 71
signed language 89–90, 106, 210n
Situation Semantics 37n
Skinner, B. F. 98
slippery slope 72
Snow, C. P. 237
social construction of
language 10
social groups 185
social relationships 126–7, 181
Socrates 21, 43
“somatic markers” 145
songs (metaphysics of) 23–4
sorites paradox 57, 61–2, 191–2
soul 97, 182–6
spatial cognition in the
blind 135–6
spatial structure 122–8, 130–1,
134–7, 139, 150, 155–7,
162, 170
speech community 9, 12, 25
speech, acoustics of 25–6
recognition by computers 25–6
spirits and spirit possession 182
“standard English” 9, 12, 26
statues, reference to 67–8
Steinthal, Heymann 91n
stereotypical instances of a
concept 59
Strawson, P. F. 166n
stream of consciousness 82
verbal absence of in babies 90
syllogism 208–11
syntax 103
System 1 vs. System 2 214
talking about what we see
129–33, 162–5
Tarski, Alfred 191
taste and smell 138, 150n
Tatum, Art 136
teaching 233–6, 238
tennis 235
theater, understanding of 178n
Theory of Mind 179n
this and that, meaning of 41, 49,
55, 163, 166–9, 171
thought, see also intuitive
thinking, rational thinking
as “like a language” 73
in apes and other animals 71,
97, 108–9
in babies 71
Index
274
thoughts, sentence meanings
as 70–3
tiger, meaning of 19
time 126
time expressions vs. spatial
expressions 24n
tip-of-the-tongue experience
88–9, 143
tone of voice 25
tool use and proprioception 136
transformational grammar 65
translation 33–4, 47, 84, 87, 155
true, meaning of 187–90
truth 72, 187–99, 245
truth-conditions 191
Tuesday (metaphysics of) 24, 27
type-token distinction 129–30
for sounds 168
Tzeltal 75
Umans, Stephen 147
Unconscious Meaning
Hypothesis 86–91,
103–13, 151, 219
counterpart in vision 116–20
unconscious, Freudian 98
unconsciousness of
meaning 4–5, 49–50, 55,
81–91
unconsciousness of mental
processes 211–2
“virtual” objects 174
vision 114–20
visual agnosia 144
visual experience 196
visual occlusion 158
visual perception vs. haptic
perception, memory,
verbal input 135, 230
visual surface 124, 128–9
and places 168
war 185n
Watson, John B. 82
Wegner, Daniel 148
Weinreich, Max 9
“Where or When” 66
Whorf, Benjamin Lee 74
Wilson, E. O. 16, 241
Wilson, Timothy 225
Wittgenstein, Ludwig 32–3, 38,
41, 53, 60, 62, 70, 83, 90,
143, 209–10
seeing under different
“aspects” 115
words 22–31
as idealization across speech
community 25
as tools or nails 22
grammatical forms of 28–9
meanings of 56–63
related meanings of, see
polysemy
written language 11–2
Wynn, Karen 159
Xu, Fei 159
