INTRODUCTION 13
the particular affordances to which the animal has eo-adapted provide the
animal with information which is already an intrinsic part of its environment.
The perceptual pick-up ofenvironmental stimulus information is already primed
by the ways in which perception mediates action. There is no requirement here
that all of the relevant information be stored in the animal in the form of passive
and behaviour-neutral databases that the animal consults in order to infer or
reason about the appropriate course of action to undertake. Instead, the envi-
ronmental stimulus information which is ambient to the organism provides
information that is directly constitutive of the animal's action repertoire. That is,
the organism does not process information or data about an objective environ-
ment 'out there' and then infer an appropriate course of action. Rather, the
affordances of the environment directly specify possible courses of action for the
organism. In specifying what an environmental event is, they also specify what
the animal can do in relation to that event.
We need not worry about all the details of Gibson's theory to understand the
main point for our present purposes. Perception and action are closely linked to
each other at the same time as they implicate, on-line, and constantly respond
to, neural, motor, and contextual (environmental) factors. The traditional
conception of the brain as a central processing unit that 'represents' or 'models'
an external world has no place here. Rather, the brain is primarily concerned
with the regulation of sensori-motor activity. That is, the brain regulates
relations between the body and the environment at the same time as these body-
environment transactions act on and shape body-brain functions. The brain is
then a contextual organ which regulates the organism's engagements with its
environment. Gibson's theory helps us to see that brain, body, and environment
are interlinked as functioning components in a larger-scale system that cannot be
explained in terms of or reduced to anyone component part of the larger whole.
Gibson's notion of affordances is important here for two reasons. First, affor-
dances are environmental phenomena (objects, events, and so on) that are
ambient to or surround the animal in some way that is potentially significant to
the animal. Secondly, the affordances of an animal's environment are a
functional component of the trajectory that extends from the organism's central
nervous system through its bodily (sensori-motor) activity and into its environ-
ment and then loops back again to the organism. The point is that affordances
are functional components of a trajectory that extends beyond the biological
organism and which selectively imports features of the organism's environment
back into the organism's internal dynamics. The notion of the trajectory is a
fundamental one in this book (see Salthe 1993: 181-8). Trajectories, as we shall
see later, occur on many different space-time scales. In the present context, both
cognition and meaning-making activity can be thought of as time-bound trajec-
tories that extend from the body-brain complex into the environment only to
loop back again such that the information- or meaning-potential of the environ-
ment is selectively re-contextualized in the internal dynamics of the individual
(see also Bateson 1973a: 285-91;Juarrero 1999: 212-13).
Now, the traditional model of the brain as the source of reason and rational-
ity and hence as the central executive or governor which oversees and controls
behaviour does, of course, require that brains make contact with the external
14 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
world. The difference between the approach I am proposing here and the tra-
ditional one can be explained as follows. First, in the approach I am arguing in
favour of here, the brain perseis not the sole locus of cognitive activity, as in the
traditional approach. Instead, cognition and/or semiosis are a distributed
activity implicating a trajectory which links brain, body, the available semiotic
resource systems, and ecosocial environment. The seat of cognition and semiosis
is the trajectory; it is not the brain perse. Meaning-making activity is not unilat-
erally caused by a central executive inside the brain. Rather, it is the emergent
consequence of the ways in which both the intrinsic dynamics of the organism -
e.g. patterns of neural activation, neuromuscular activity, cognitive capacities
such as memory, attention, and so on - interact with contextual factors, relevant
intertexts, the available material and semiotic resources such that both intrinsic
and extrinsic factors are jointly recruited and eo-deployed in the real-time
assembling of the meaning-making trajectory. Secondly, Gibson's theory of
affordances is one theory which shows that the environment of an animal is
meaningful for the animal in non-trivial ways. That is, meanings are located and
stored at the higher-scalar level of the environment which surrounds the animal,
rather than being located in or caused by lower-scalar biological mechanisms
that are entirely within the organism.
In this way, we can begin to glimpse the need for a theory which can discuss
different scalar levels that are implicated in the organism's transactions with the
affordances in its environment. Salthe points out that, for most purposes, a basic
three-level system is 'minimally needed in order to preserve the complexity'
(1993: 46). The three-level system therefore avoids the temptation of reducing
all levels to a single, privileged level at the same time as it preserves the recogni-
tion that there are processes taking place on different scalar levels. Higher-scalar
levels provide the integrating contexts for lower-scalar ones. They act as
contextual constraints or boundary conditions on the lower levels. Lower-scalar
levels constitute enabling conditions of higher-scalar ones. Generally speaking,
the intermediate level is selected as the focal level.
The interactions between the organism and some affordance can be taken as
the focal level in the present account. Below this level, there are the biological
properties of organisms and the physical-material and possibly biological
properties of the affordances that organisms interact with and which predispose
them to some kinds of organism-affordance engagements rather than others.
Above the focal level of these organism-affordance transactions, there is the envi-
ronment of the organism. Importantly, it is in the environment of the organism
that the meanings of environmental events are located and interpreted. This is
so because meanings, in the extended sense I am using the term here, are not
solely located in the individual organism, but are distributed across an entire
population and its environmental niche. It is the environment as repository of
meanings that mediates and brings into relation an individual organism qua
member of that species and a particular environmental affordance in a given
time and place. But it is the environment of the animal, as defined above, and,
therefore, the possibilities of perception and action, in the first instance, that it
affords the animal which mediates this relation and which makes possible its
interpretation for the organism. To paraphrase Bateson (1973b: 392), there is
INTRODUCTION 15
contextual redundancy (see section 6, pp. 26-30) in the organism-plus-
environment system such that the morphology and behaviour of the organism
provide information concerning the environment that the organism inhabits. In
the processes of eo-adaptation and eo-evolution that create the organism-plus-
environment system, the environment is imported into the organism's internal
dynamics such that it entrains these to its own dynamics (see above).
The relevant system of relations is hierarchically organized in terms of three
levels. The three-level hierarchical system which I have derived can be
formalized as follows:
L+1: Environment of animal qua system of interpretance which brings into
relation (mediates) animal and its affordances and provides the higher-
scalar principles whereby these affordances and their relation to the
animal can be interpreted in ways that afford perception and action;
L: The focal level of the animal's engagements with the affordances that it
encounters in its environment;
L-l: The biological and other physical-material properties of organisms and
environmental affordances that enable them and predispose them to
engage in transactions with one another and selected aspects of their
environment.
The system of relations that I have outlined here provides a synoptic description
of a cognitive and/or semiotic process that extends beyond the individual
organism and into its environment. The three-level scalar hierarchy view shows
that the organism's transactions with the affordances it encounters and
interprets are embedded in and mediated by a higher-scalar environment which
cannot be defined in terms of any given individual perse. Furthermore, the lower-
scalar neural processes in the brain and central nervous system, along with the
body's sensori-motor activity, are neither the source nor the 'cause' of meanings
and their interpretation. Instead, the physical properties of body and brain and
the dynamical processes which these enable on their timescale are integrated to
and contextualized by processes occurring on the still larger timescales of the
progressively higher-scalar levels Land L+1.
This also means that lower-scalar neural and bodily dynamics are entrained to
the dynamics of the higher scales and their processes. It is only when such
entrainment to a higher-scalar semantic or other meaningful property takes
place that we can say that bodily activities and the physical properties of objects
qua artefacts are involved in the instantiation of operations that are meaningful
on higher levels. In other words, it is only when such activities and properties are
functional in the processes of enacting, storing, and transmitting information
which the organism can construe as meaningful in the service of its particular
goals that we can say they are performing cognitive and/or semiotic functions.
The focal level L is the level on which the individual's agency is manifested
and enacted in specific encounters with environmental affordances and the
actions they enable the agent to carry out. The agent is not the biological
16 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
organism. Rather, the agent represents the integration of the lower-scalar neural
and bodily (sensori-motor) resources of its organism on level L-l to the per-
spective of the self and the agency which manifests its selfness on level L. The
individual is an agent in its own processes of individuation because it can deploy
and change its knowledge, experience, and perspectives through its own activity.
The agent can use its own neurological and bodily processes, as well as those of
others, as a tool or an affordance in its own activities. The agent is not defined
in terms of its neurological processes or its sensori-motor activities. These are
lower-scalar (L-l) phenomena whereas the agent is a higher-scalar phenomenon
on the focal level L. The lower-scalar phenomena are sub-personal with respect
to the agent. Agents contextually integrate these lower-scalar affordances to their
own level, in the process completing them by integrating them to the personal
perspective ofa determinate self (Salthe 1993: 49; see also Prodi 1989). At the
same time, the agent and its activities on level L are constrained and mediated
by the higher-order system of interpretance on level L+1.
The agency which is manifested on the focal level L is an emergent
phenomenon which results from the complex, non-linear relations between (l)
the 'upwardly' emergent affordances of the body-brain on level L-l and how
these are contextually integrated to the next higher-scalar level (L) and (2) the
'downwardly' acting system of contextual constraints on the higher level L+l of
the system of interpretance which is in operation. Thus, the agent and its agency
on the focal level are constituted by the ways in which higher-order constraints
and lower-order enabling conditions (affordances) give rise to an emergent
intermediate level of organization which is a consequence of the ways in which
the semiotic and material processes in the observed system of relations are
organized on the intermediate (focal) level.
Thus, bodily activities such as gaze orientation, pointing, gesturing, speaking,
facial expressions, body movement, neural dynamics, and so on provide
resources which afford joint social meaning-making with others. The extension
of these possibilities to extra-somatic artefacts such as texts qua material objects,
tools, toys, calculating machines, and so on, means that typological semiotic
resources not only spread throughout the ecosocial environment and colonize
it, as Lemke (2000a: 203) has put it, but they also adapt to and colonize the brain
itself (Deacon 1998 [1997]: 327). The brain is not the 'cause' of these processes;
rather, it is a functional participant in a semiotic-material trajectory that extends
across potentially many diverse space-time scales. It is by virtue of his or her
being embedded in a higher-scalar ecosocial environment and the meaning-
making trajectories which this enables that we can say that the individual, in the
sense of the person who participates in social meaning-making with others, is not
the biological organism, but the trajectory-in-time. This trajectory extends from
the neural dynamics of the individual in ways that regulate, entrain and
modulate motor dynamics so that the meaningful content of the neural
dynamics is transduced into an instance of a given act-token. Writing on how
intentions organize and channel action trajectories that originate in semantic
neural space,]uarrero has formulated this question as follows:
INTRODUCTION 17
Thinking of prior intentions as self-organized dynamics within conscious
semantic space, of proximate intentions as control knobs governing that
space, and of act-types as attractors through that space allows us to conceptu-
alize act-tokens as individual behavioural trajectories within that semantic
space. These trajectories originate in intentional dynamics that both activate
and then channel and regulate motor processes top-down such that the latter
preserve and execute the invariant relations that embody the intention's
meaningful content. (Juarrero 1999: 212)
Semantic neural space is itself the result of the ways in which the higher-scalar
systems of interpretance emanating from the ecosociallevel have entrained the
brain's neurological processes to their own dynamics. In this way, the body-brain
is contextually in tegrated to the dynamical (ecosocial semiotic) processes of the
higher-scale. Kinsbourne (2001: 246) argues that meaning and experience in the
brain are not assembled piecemeal fashion from smaller bits that are aggregated
into larger wholes, bottom-up fashion. Rather, the global network of neurons, of
which the newborn has a full complement, progressively differentiates out of a
less differentiated whole into an increasingly more differentiated network of
networks of networks ... (Kinsbourne 2001: 246) by virtue of the ways in which
the brain is functionally embedded in and entrained by ecosocial dynamics, as
well as by its own internal dynamics. The brain is then sculpted by the dynamics
of the topological and typological functions of the body and its extra-somatic,
artefactual extensions and the ways these operate across different space-time
scales in the ecosocial environment.
This approach suggests that we need to develop a new discourse for talking
and thinking about the ways in which brain, body, and ecosocial semiotic envi-
ronment are embedded in and are functioning participants in higher-scalar
systems that link all three components in complex, hierarchically organized and
non-linear interactions across the many levels of relations and space-time scales
that are involved (Togeby 2000). Such an approach needs to be combined with
an ecosocial theory of meaning-making activity. This also suggests that the shape
- the intrinsic patterned organization - of our semiotic resource systems
constitute principles of environmental organization that can be seen as funda-
mental components of brain organization itself. Neural dynamics and neural
architecture will thus be seen to be in tune with the dynamics of the body and
the ecosocial environment. Consider in this respect the following observations
made by Kinsbourne on the left-right hemispherical organization of the brain:
We learn that most people's left cerebral hemisphere is concerned with
language, their right with spatial orientation. More broadly still, the left caters
to sequential analysis and the generating of action sequences, the right to
setting such activities into a spatial framework. Most general of all, the left
hemisphere controls motivated approach sequences (handling, eating, and so
on), progressively focusing and acting upon the target; the right hemisphere
is more involved with the person's movement through the intervening space
and the spatial background of the target. The left hemisphere's activities can
be context free, whereas the activities of the right are context bound. The
18 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
hemispheres are complementary in their functioning. (Kinsbourne 2001:
236)
These observations by Kinsbourne show the diverse, yet complementary, roles
that the two hemispheres play in the regulation ofsensori-motor activity. The left
hemisphere is 'analytical' and 'focal'; the right hemisphere is 'general' and
'global'. It is not difficult here to see how the metafunctional organization of
language that is postulated by systemic-functional theory can be related to the
properties of the global hemispherical network, encompassing both left and
right hemispheres. According to systemic-functional theory, language form is
organized in terms of a number of diverse functional regions which are simulta-
neously configured in the forms of language on various levels of organization
(see section 10, pp. 46-9, below). Given that social semiosis is an extension and
further elaboration of the body-brain's neural and sensori-motor activity, we can
postulate that the brain is attuned to the metafunctional organization of
language and other semiotic modalities (see Chapter 5).
For example, the 'analytical' and 'focal' properties of the left hemisphere that
Kinsbourne identifies in the above quotation can be related to the typological-
categorial bias of the experiential and logical metafunctions. On the other hand,
the 'general' and 'global' properties of the right hemisphere can be related to
the topological-eontinuous bias of the interpersonal and textual metafunctions.
This claim has nothing whatsoever to do with the notion that language is coded
in the brain in the form of a neural code, seen as the ultimate neural substrate
of contextualized, linguistically mediated activity. However, it does claim that
brain dynamics, on their particular scale, are entrained to the dynamics of semi-
otically mediated activity and in ways which enable brains to regulate the body's
meaning-making activity so that it will be both integrated with and appropriate
to its contexts. The biological architecture of the brain is consistent with the
organization of ecosocial semiotic processes, though this does not mean that the
latter can be explanatorily or causally reduced to the former.
4. The Brain as Regulator of Sensori-motor Activity: Implications for Social
Semiosis
The brain is not a symbolic processor, but a regulator of sensori-motor activity.
As we shall see later, sensori-motor activity can be seen as proto-metafunctional
in its organization. Social semiosis emerges through the entrainment of
embodied sensori-motor activity to the higher-scalar meaning-making practices
of the ecosocial system. It is through brain-regulated sensori-motor activity that
individuals extend their selves and, hence, their trajectories into their ecosocial
environment at the same time that that environment is selectively incorporated
into the individual's body-brain dynamics in the form of higher-scalar or top-
down contextual constraints. The cross-modal basis of the brain's regulation of
sensori-motor activity is, in this way, extended into semiotically mediated forms
of activity (meaning-making). That is, the original cross-modal basis of the body-
brain's sensori-motor engagements with its environment gets extended into
INTRODUCTION 19
increasingly specified and socially constrained multimodal forms of meaning-
making involving both somatic and extra-somatic resources and their
combinations.
By the same token, the body-brain's lower-scalar sensori-motor activity consti-
tutes bottom-up affordances which are entrained to the higher-scalar, top-down
constraints of the social meaning-making practices and conventions in which the
lower-scalar body-brain dynamics of individuals are embedded. It is the inter-
action and combination of these two levels which enables newly emergent
intermediate levels such as, for example, the dyads that characterize the 'primary
intersubjectivity' of mother-newborn interaction, to emerge (Thibault 2000a).
Moreover, it is the embedding of body-brain dynamics in and their entraining to
the higher-scalar dynamics of the socia-cultural processes that are characteristic
of some community or social network that allows us to recognize and interpret
the emergent properties of brain-regulated sensori-motor activity as being both
semiotically salient and socially functional. In this way,the metafunctional organ-
ization of linguistically mediated and other forms of social semiosis can be seen
as an emergent consequence of higher-scalar patterns on the ecosocial scale.
The logic of the three-level hierarchy view is evident here. Thus, the
emergence of social semiosis in the individual is not the result of a biological or
mental programme on level L-l. On this level, biological initiating conditions in
the form of the values (Edelman 1992; Thelen and Smith 1994: 185-6) that
nudge the individual organism along some developmental pathways rather than
others (e.g. orienting to faces as a source of meaning and affect; attending to
human voices, and so on) are entrained by higher scalar factors on the ecosocial
level. At the focal level of the (mother-infant) dyads in which infant semiosis is
observable and at which level the infant engages with our perspectives, the infant
moves from dynamic attractor to attractor as development unfolds in time.
Lower-scalar sensori-motor activity (L-l) constitutes affordances which stand
in no single or fixed relation to higher scalar meanings. For example, the neu-
rological processes which regulate sensori-motor activity and emergent social
meanings stand in no fixed relation to these meanings. Neural firings in the
brain do not generate meanings. Nor do they represent symbolic tokens that are
stored in the brain. Rather, lower-scalar neural activity self-organizes to form
higher, more global patterns of brain activity that embody the brain states that
we recognize and experience, as well as attribute to others, as thoughts,
intentions, feelings, meanings, and so on. These higher-scalar mental states do
not stand in any fixed relationship to the neurological processes that realize
them. It does not therefore matter which neurological patterns on level L-l
realize higher-scalar mental states (Juarrero 1999: 190). In this sense, the lower-
scalar neurological processes are affordances which are entrained to the
dynamics of higher-scalar meanings.
The lower-scalar neurological processes afford their selective reorganization
as more global patterns which are meaningful on the higher-scalar perspective
of the self. Juarrero argues that behaviour is meaningful action depending on
'whether or not the neural processes transmit information as mental' (1999:
191). In this way, arm movement induced by an involuntary spasm and arm
movement that is construable as an instance of an act-type such as greeting
20 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
someone are distinguished. Only the latter's trajectory, Juarrero (1999: 191)
points out, originates in and takes place in semantic space. The main point here
is the role that meaning plays in regulating and bringing about the given motor
behaviour qua act-token. Neurological processes therefore do not cause
meaningful action. Rather, they are affordances in the sense that they constitute
an information potential which is selectively reorganized on higher levels as
'meaning', in the broadest sense of the term, in the perspective of a self.
As we shall see in more detail later in this study, the information potential of
the lower-scalar neurological and sensor-motor dynamics (level L-l) are reor-
ganized by the next-higher level (level L) as semiotically salient differences or
relations - typological or topological - that are recognizable and interpretable
for the relevant system of interpretance on level L+1. Strictly speaking, it is not
pace Juarrero (see above) a matter of whether the neurological processes
'transmit' a meaningful content or not. Rather, it is a question of whether
lower-scalar neurological processes constitute information which is able to be
reorganized in ways that are meaningful to higher-scalar levels of organization.
The principles which I have outlined here have been formulated by Lemke
(1999) as the Principle of Alternation. We shall see later that Lernke's principle
is a powerful and elegant theoretical tool that plays a key role in building the
theoretical bridges between brain, body, meaning, and ecosocial environment.
Furthermore, it fits perfectly with Edelman's theory of neuronal group selection.
There is no homunculus or other ultimate causal or executive factor in the brain
which directs the process of meaning-making. Rather, neural dynamics, on their
timescale, interact with and provide support to events on other timescales.
Meaning is the emergent outcome of the interaction across these processes on
diverse levels.
The crucial factor here is the operation of different timescales on the
different levels that constitute the given system. Salthe points out: 'Processes at
different scales change direction, cycle, or go to completion at different rates
(have different rate constants), with lower-scale ones behaving faster and having
smaller relaxation times than higher-scale ones (which, however, can travel at
greater absolute speeds)' (1993: 46). Salthe's observations pertain to the organ-
ization of scalar hierarchical systems (see section 3, pp. 14-16). With respect to
the physical brain processes that realize it, a mental content is a higher-scalar
process; it has a slower, larger timescale with respect to the much faster scale of
the neurological processes that are its substrate. The latter occur beyond the
level of our awareness, whereas mental contents on the higher-scalar level
constitute the phenomena of awareness.
This suggests that faster, lower-scale neurological processes are reorganized
across different scalar levels as perceptual and mental contents that are salient to
and congruent with the timescale on which the self experiences and interprets
meanings of all kinds (see also Finnemann 2000: 300). Again, we see here the
impossibility of insulating one timescale from the other, for the very fast
timescale of the neurological processes, say, is not isolated from the slower,
higher-scalar level ofphenomenal awareness and experience, but is integrated to
it such that no insulation of the dynamical relations and processes on each level
can be postulated. This integration across levels suggests that the emergence of
INTRODUCTION 21
meaningful contents in the brain is based on the principle of the heterarchical,
rather than strictly, hierarchical organization of the different scalar levels that
are involved.
Kinsbourne (2001: 240) argues on the basis of extensive neuropsychological
observation and research that cerebral organization can be understood as 'an
architecture of nested functional units'. To quote Kinsbourne:
We emerge with an understanding of cerebral organization as an architecture
of nested functional units. Within an overall sequential analytic mode, the left
hemisphere generates word sequences in one of its parts, action sequences in
another, and sequential identification (for instance, of letters) in yet another.
Within subareas of the respective areas, it enables both recognition and
expression. In subareas of those subareas, it enables material-specific
processing, for example, of action words, color names, names of animals, or
the connotations of 'right' and 'left.' Within its overall spatial relational
mode, the right hemisphere enables orientation in ambient space in one of
its parts and pattern perception in another. In subareas of these subareas, it
permits subskills like map reading, face recognition, or identifying sketched
shapes ('perceptual closure'). A recursive organization emerges; superordi-
nate processing modes differentiate into distinctive domains of functioning,
and these again into different specific applications. I envisage a relatively
undifferentiated whole that progressively differentiates (in child develop-
ment? in evolution?) into the rich set of specifically human potential skills
and alternative strategies. (Kinsbourne 2001: 240)
The brain is organized as a global network of networks of networks of networks
... (Kinsbourne 2001: 241). Furthermore, the higher mental functions
constitute a further development of the brain's original adaptive function as a
regulator of sensori-motor activity. Abstract, symbolic forms of thinking,
reasoning, and meaning-making are not localized in special modules that
developed later, but are emergent from the requirements of sensori-motor
regulation. Moreover, in emerging from sensori-motor regulation, abstract
semantic categories are able to reorganize and to direct the flow of sensori-
motor behaviour along semantically guided trajectories. This is so both from the
point of view of behaviour and from the point of view of perception: we can
semantically entrain our own behaviour so that it instantiates a token of a rec-
ognizable act-type at the same time that we can construe observed behaviour as
an instance of this or that act-type. This is clearly evident in the ways in which the
semantically organized lexicogrammatical categories of, for example, [Agent-
Action-Affected] and their more specific instantiations (e.g. [Actor-Action-
Goal], [Sayer-Verbal Process-Verbiage], and so on) can be seen as deriving from
sensori-motor categorizations at the same time as constituting their more
abstract reorganization as the semantic categories that we use in higher-order
mental functions such as verbal reasoning, planning, and symbolic construal of
our inner and outer environments.
The recursive organization of cerebral organization is reflected in the
recursive organization of language itself (see above quotation). This does not
22 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
mean that cerebral architecture is hard-wired for universal principles of
linguistic organization. Rather, it reflects the wayin which neurological processes
are entrained to higher-scalar attractor states such as the meanings that derive
from the ecosocial level. Specifically, it reflects the way in which the brain is
entrained to principles of linguistic organization that are shared by very large
numbers of people on the much slower, larger timescale of the historical
evolution of a language community of many generations. Boundary conditions
are established by higher-order, more schematic categories which set the
parameters within which more specific categories and their instantiations in
behaviour are meaningful. Thus,
Patients with focal brain lesions do not violate the rules that governed their
premorbid performances. They remain guided by preexisting parameters but
become less specific, slower, and less stable in their responses. (Kinsbourne
2001: 243)
Patients with focal brain lesions can be said to recede further 'up' the scale of
instantiation such that the broader, shallow systemic properties are retained in
ways which constrain behaviour in some more schematic domain whereas the
more delicate, more context-specific properties are impaired, compromised, or
lost in ways which adversely affect the patient's ability to make very fine-tuned
contextual adjustments to more specific domains. This suggests that the neural
networks for language and those for other domains are organized according to
similar principles of recursive organization.
In each case that Kinsbourne describes, the patient regresses to more
schematic, hence less specific, categories that regulate behaviour and specify its
meaningfulness in increasingly broader, shallower ways. These observations of
Kinsbourne suggest that the information that is potentially afforded by lower-
scalar neurological processes and the reorganization across progressively higher-
scalar levels of organization is what enables linguistic forms to 'differentiate out
ofless-specific preconscious precursor states, with the word order implicit in the
precursor state. The brain models and remodels until the utterance is perfected
in its analytical detail' (Kinsbourne 2001: 244). In terms of the Principle of
Alternation (Lemke 1999), we can say that the brain organizes and reorganizes
topological pre-semantic states on lower levels of neural organization until the
typological-categorial linguistic form emerges. Rather than a bottom-up
assemblage of parts into whole, language in the brain is a result of the cross-
scalar reorganization across levels of the information potential that is afforded
by lower levels as meaningful patterns on higher levels. Kinsbourne expresses
the matter in the following terms:
While no truly apt metaphor for how the brain works comes to mind, 'crys-
tallizing out' seems more fitting than 'assembling together.' Interestingly,
brain development proceeds according to similar principles. The newborn
has a full complement of neurons; further development proceeds by selective
cell death and elimination of synaptic connections. The biological chisel
prefigures the microgenesis of brain states. (Kinsbourne 2001: 246)
INTRODUCTION
5. Topological and Typological Modes of Semiotic-material
Interdependence
23
Mental states, experiences, feelings, and so on, are generally assumed to have
properties that are intrinsic to them. But it is more useful to think of such
phenomena as complexly constructed meanings that we define in terms of
patterned contextual relations. The term 'meaning' is normally reserved for the
kinds of patterned relations that we recognize and use in, for example, language.
Terms such as mental states and experience refer to particular patterns of
meaningful relations that our community's habitual ways of thinking and acting
have taught us to regard as phenomenal givens that are the personal property or
possession of a particular individual. However, our ability to construe something
as a mental state or an experience depends on our making sense of patterns of
relations whereby we connect some things to other things and not to others
(Gendlin 1962). There is a widespread tendency for people to say, for example,
that they are conscious of something, that they are having or have had a certain
experience, or that a certain mental state occurred in their mind. In the present
study, I shall assume that the given experience, mental state, and so on, is made
meaningful for us by the ways in which we construe it in relation to other expe-
riences, mental states, material phenomena, and so on. That is, we construct
contexts for something through the patterned relations that we construe
between some events, things, inner body states, and so on, and others.
Experience of all kinds is based on and depends on patterned contextualizing
relations which select or foreground some patterns rather than others, in the
process drawing attention to only some aspects of all the possible ways in which
our inner and outer environments are meaningful to us.
Following Lemke (2000a: 194), we can say that selves relate to and interact
with both their inner and their outer environments on the basis of two kinds of
semiotic-material interdependence. The first kind is topological and is based on
continuous variation. Lemke (2000a: 194) points out that this topological mode
of semiosis is 'primary and characteristic of thermodynamic and biological
systems'. Topological semiosis is based on quantitative or analogue differentia-
tion or variation that makes a difference in relation to some system of relations.
Topological semiosis is not based on differences or contrasts between discrete
(digital) categories.
The second kind ofsemiotic interdependence is typologicaL It functions on the
basis of discrete categories, e.g. the lexicogrammar and semantics of natural
language (Halliday 1988). Typological semiosis creates meaning through the
contrasting of discrete categories and types. A given sign is contrasted with other
signs in ways which are, in turn, construed by still higher-order contextualizing
relations that specify how a given combination of signs is relevant and
meaningful in relation to that context, rather than other possible contexts in
which it might have occurred and in which its meaning might have been
different.
The distinction between topological and typological semiotic interdependen-
cies is a further development of Bateson's (1973c: 342-4) distinction between
analogic and digital coding (see also Wilden 1980 [1972]: chapter 7, 1981:
24 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
19-21). The former, Bateson argues, is concerned with 'patterns and contingen-
cies of relationship' (1973c: 337, 1973b: 388). The latter solves the problem as to
'how to be specific about something other than relationship' (1973c: 337).
Bateson (1973b: 387) also argues that human verbal language is not derived 'in
any simple way' from the iconic-indexical semiotic modalities of, say, 'kinesics'
and 'paralanguage'. In my view, this means that human language, with its
typological-categorial grammatical and semantic categories, did not simply
emerge, bottom-up fashion, from these evolutionarily prior modes. Nor does it
mean that language is a unique, one-off result of a language gene that distin-
guishes us from all other animal species. Both of these accounts, in their
different ways, are reductionist.
The first account is reductionist because it assumes that lower-level enabling
conditions such as the motor processes of the body are building blocks which
can be assembled into human language in bottom-up fashion. The second
account is reductionist because it invokes explanations based on innate genetic
factors existing on the lower-scalar level of the organism (not the person). In this
account, privileged sub-personal causal agents that originate from within the
biological organism are primary whereas environmental factors play no more
than a subsidiary or 'triggering' role. Language is an emergent intermediate
level of organization that is the result of the interaction between both higher-
scalar ecosocial constraints and lower-scalar biological (neurophysiological,
genetic) affordances. The fact that the (phylogenetically and ontogenetically)
prior topological semiotic modalities that are concerned with relationship are
not transcended by language, but are integrated to and reorganized by it,
requires explanation.
In the Darwinist view, lower-level processes bring about effects on higher
levels through a process of bottom-up emergence. In this view, the whole is an
aggregate of its component parts. But this view has nothing to say about how
higher-level processes act on and bring about constraining effects on lower-scalar
levels. How can our systems of meaning-making (L+1) and the agents (L) who
deploy them act upon and bring about effects on lower-level (L-l) biological
processes? (see also Finnemann 2000: 281). The old dichotomies, though still
persistent, between 'biology' and 'culture', or between 'nature' and 'nurture',
are both useless and irrelevant. As the previous discussion of Gibson's ecological
theory of perception emphasized, both the information afforded by the envi-
ronment and the neurophysiological characteristics of the biological organism
are component levels of a single system comprising many different levels and
their dynamic interactions in time. What is important is not the reduction ofone
level to the other, but an account in which social semiosis, or meaning-making,
is explained in terms that are consistent with what we understand about the
biological basis of semiosis without, however, reducing all of semiosis to biology
per se.
Rather than explanations based on one-way efficient causality and the models
and metaphors derived from the digital computer, the emphasis will be on a
conceptual framework of complex, dynamic, open, adaptive and goal-seeking
systems which share certain fundamental thermodynamic properties with all
living systems, as well as with some abiotic systems such as ponds, eddies, and
INTRODUCTION 25
deep-sea vents whose macroscopic configurations qua dissipative structures
provide both the thermodynamic potentials and the kinetic substrate for living
systems to emerge (Salthe 1993: 277-8). Human agents qua trajectories-in-time,
as well as the ecosocial semiotic systems they are embedded in, though on
different scalar levels, are systems which evolve or individuate (Salthe 1993:
147-51). The same can be said of particular semiogenetic trajectories. Evolving
systems are neither designed nor rule-based. Their organization, their structural
integrity at any given moment of their existence, is a result of the ways in which
the relational dynamics of the system as a whole constantly adjust to and self-
organize in response to changing contextual parameters on diverse timescales.
Topological semiosis is characteristic of our interactivity with our immediate
material environment, including the external world, our own bodies, and felt
inner states of the body. We can then ask the question as to how our semiotic dif-
ferentiations - both topological and typological - function in the ways in which
we construe and construct our relations between our inner and outer states, our
bodies, and the material world with which we interact. For example, the ways in
which we construct meaningful patterned relations between perceived or felt
inner states of the body and our (always constructed) sense of a self with an
individual identity, or the ways in which we use our bodies to engage with and to
interact with our external material environments, entail the use of the body itself
as a material artefact whose topological interactivity with its immediate environ-
ment provides the basis for the emergence of typological modalities of semiosis
that greatly extend the possibilities for meaningful interaction between our
body-brains and the wider, or higher-scalar, ecosocial system in which organisms
are embedded and to whose dynamics their body-brains are entrained. In this
view, topological semiosis, which forms the ground for all of our interactions
with our environment, enables typological semiosis to emerge and, at the same
time, the former is never transcended by the latter. In this way, the body-brain
itself, along with its extra-somatic artefactual projections in the form of texts,
tools, toys, electronic gadgets, and so on, are vectors (Lemke 2000a: 202) for the
spread of typological semiosis and its categories through a particular ecosocial
system.
Both continuous variation (topological) and discrete contrast (typological)
can be picked up by the organism and construed as signs of inner and/or outer
environmental events and experiences. In this way, organisms build up and
elaborate in the Innenwelten that are stored in their central nervous systems
models, or systems of interpretance, for responding to and acting on the world
in ways that are mediated by topological or typological modes of semiosis (see
section Il, pp. 49-54). It is not difficult to see here that the 'signs' which most
immediately engage the organism are topological ones, based on the ways in
which continuous change or variation in material phenomena are picked up and
interpreted as signs of environmental events.
For example, continuous variation in a given haptic or olfactory stimulus is
picked up by the receptor organs and transduced into neural impulses that stand
in no necessary relation to the environmental event. In contrast, the stimulus
information about some environmental that was picked up by the receptors
stands in an indexical, therefore, a necessary relation to that event. This
26 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
transduction into neural impulses means that the resulting neural impulses
stand in a symbolic relation to the environmental event, i.e. they are translated
into information stored in neural impulses that constitute a higher-scalar system
of symbolic possibilities, based on informational-semiotic constraints, for inter-
preting and responding to specific events that are (indexically) picked up by the
organism.
6. Contextualization and Meta-redundaney
Typically, we say that we tasted, smelt, felt, and so on, such and such, as if it were
a thing, a phenomenal given that we experience as such. However, this way of
talking overlooks the essentially relational and contextual nature of the
experience. The relational and contextual nature of the patterns of experience
can be described in terms of the principle of meta-redundancy that Lemke
(l984c: esp. 35-9) has developed on the basis of the earlier proposals of Gregory
Bateson concerning meta-communication and meta-learning (e.g. 1973d:
102-11). Redundancy refers to the likelihood or the probability with which two
items, say, connect or combine to form a larger patterned whole or relation.
Consider, for example, the eo-occurrence of language and gesture. A
redundancy relation exists between some combination of linguistic utterance
and gesture when not all possible combinations ofwords and gestures are likely
or possible when we speak. When such a redundancy relation exists, this means
that the word and the gesture mutually predict each other's eo-occurrence.
There is a better than random chance of their combining or occurring together.
Thus, linguistic expression and gesture are redundant with (redound with) each
other in the sense that the occurrence of one predicts the probability of its being
combined with the other.
Now, language and gesture are very different semiotic modalities, organized
according to different principles. It is not the case that each modality is simply a
different material means for expressing the same kinds of meanings. Language
is predominantly typological-eategorial; it is based on discrete categorial contrast
or difference. Gesture, on the other hand, is topological-continuous; it is based
on continuous variation of visual and spatial relations. The two semiotic
modalities do not simply express the same meanings by alternative means of
expression. Instead, they make different meanings on the basis of their different
principles of organization. Furthermore, there are no fixed, context-free
meanings which language and gesture have independently of the contexts in
which they are combined. This means that the two modalities can combine in
many different, situation-specific wayssuch that their combinations produce new
possibilities for meaning in different contexts. By the same token, there are also
limits on the number and kinds of combinations that actually do occur. Not all
possible combinations are equally probable and some combinations are more
likely or typical than others even though the range of possible combinations of
the two modalities is obviously very large indeed. It is this flexibility of combina-
tion, within limits, which allows for the creation of meanings that would not be
possible on the basis of words or gestures taken separately.
INTRODUCTION 27
The combination of words and gesture depends on the context. The com-
bination of word and gesture forms a patterned relationship in which the words
and the gesture are redundant with each other. The words and the gesture
constitute a first-order redundancy relation. However, the patterned combina-
tion of words and gesture on this particular level depends, in part, on the expec-
tations people have about the contexts in which this particular combination is
typically used. The context is redundant with the combination of words and
gesture, not with the words or the gesture, taken separately. That is, the context
is redundant with the redundancy between the words and the gesture on the first
level. Situations are of a higher logical type than are the combinations of words
and gestures. For this reason, a situation or context is said to stand in a second-
order or meta-redundancy relation to the first-order redundancy relation
between words and gestures. Words and gestures combine to form patterned
relationship on the first level. However, this level in itself does not specify the
context which the patterned relationship on the first level indexes or in some
way creates or defines. For this reason, it is necessary to specify the second-order
or meta-redundancy relation of the context in which a particular combination of
words and gestures might have the meaning that it does. Importantly, there is
usually no fixed relationship between the context and the combination of words
and gestures: the meaning of the latter can vary according to the different
contextual relations that they participate in or are redundant with.
Following the me ta-redundancy formalism proposed by Bateson (l973d:
102-7) and developed further by Lemke (l984c), the different orders of
relations that are involved in a given contextualizing relation are represented by
the use of the slash, i.e. 'I'. A single slash indicates a first-order redundancy
relation, a double slash a second-order or me ta-redundancy relation, and so on.
In the following example, the two orders of relations are therefore represented
as follows:
word I gesture I I situational context
Let us now return to the previous discussion of examples involving our
experience of taste, smell, and so on. It is not difficult to show how the same
basic logic of contextualization applies here as well. For example, the perceptual
pick-up of stimulus information about some environmental event is a first-order
redundancy relation along the lines discussed above. In this case, the stimulus
information that is picked up by the receptor organs in the form of energy that
is produced by the given environmental event is redundant with that event.
Thus, stimulus information and environmental event are redundant with each
other. Importantly, redundancy relations are always symmetrical. Thus, stimulus
information is redundant with some environmental event and, at the same time,
the environmental event is redundant with the stimulus information that is
picked up by the perceptual systems of the organism. Likewise, words are
redundant with the gestures that eo-pattern with them just as the gestures are
redundant with the words. The same logic also applies to the meta-redundancy
relations between the redundancy relations on the first-level and the contextu-
alizing relations on the second level of the given hierarchy of contextualizing
relations. Thus, context, C, is meta-redundant with the redundancy ofwords and
28 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
gestures, just as the redundancy of the words and gestures are meta-redundant
with context C.
To return to our example involving the perceptual pick-up of stimulus infor-
mation, we can postulate the existence of symbolic information in neural
impulses for interpreting the significance of the first-order redundancy relation
between stimulus information and environmental event. Once again, higher-
order contextualizing relations define the significance of the first-order relations
and, at the same time, the latter create patterned relations that constitute the
former. This is so because contexts are enacted, created, and defined by the
patterned combinations of items on the level of first focus at the same time as
the higher-order context operates as a frame of reference in which the relations
on the first level are interpreted, or given meaning for the observer. In the
present example, the orders of relations involved may be represented as follows:
stimulus information / environmental event / / interpretation: response / / /
SI in central nervous system ...
More concretely, we can imagine a scenario such as the following by way of illus-
tration. A monkey encounters a species of venomous snake in the tropical rain
forest. In so doing, the monkey, in detecting the movement of the reptile
through the debris of the jungle floor, picks up stimulus information (visual,
auditory, and so on) about the given environmental event, i.e. the presence of
the snake, its movement, its location relative to the monkey, and so on. The
stimulus information which is picked up provides the monkey with information
about a material event in its environment. Stimulus information and environ-
mental event constitute a first-order redundancy relation. The monkey's
reaction is one of fear and he withdraws from the scene so as to avoid the danger
posed by the snake. The monkey possesses in his central nervous system a model
as to how to behave with respect to snakes. That is, his central nervous system
constitutes a higher-scalar system of interpretance which enables the monkey to
interpret the lower-order redundancy relationships in the appropriate way -
danger! - as well as to adopt an appropriate course ofaction (flight). In this case,
the levels of contextualizing relations involved may be approximated as follows:
stimulus information / presence of snake / / danger: flight / / /
SI in central nervous system ...
Thus, the monkey's physiological reaction ('fear') and its behavioural response
('flight') are second-order redundancy relations which are redundant with the
redundancy between the stimulus information and the environmental event on
the first level. In this example, a third-order relationship shows the presence in
the monkey's central nervous system of a system of interpretance which enables
it to interpret the first-order relation in the appropriate way and therefore to
adopt an appropriate course of action.
Now, the symmetrical or two-waynature of (meta)-redundancy relations does
not assume a determinate or fixed relationship between levels in the meta-
redundancy hierarchy. Such an assumption would mean that, for example,
INTRODUCTION 29
second-order or meta-redundancy relations are reducible to and, therefore,
indistinguishable from the first-order ones which constitute them. In other
words, this would mean that the description of the second-order relation is
exhausted by the description of the first-order one. This would also mean that
there is no distinction between context on the second level and the patterned
combination of relations on the first level. However, we have seen that a given
combination of, for example, words and gestures on the first level can be
specified by different contexts. The meaning of the first-level combination eo-
varies according to the higher-order context in relation to which it is interpreted.
On the other hand, the assumption of a fixed or determinate relation between
the two levels would mean that no such variation between lower-level (linguistic
and gestural) forms and higher-level contexts could exist.
The principle of redundancy, on the other hand, demonstrates that the
relations between higher and lower levels allow for constrained variability in the
relations between levels (Thibault 1991a: 92; Finnemann 2000: 280). Thus, the
same lower-level redundancy relations may participate in a higher-order meta-
redundancy relation with different contextualizing relations. The same formal
relation can be contextualized in different ways. Secondly, the same contextual
relation, the same meaning, may be realized in different lower-level patterned
combinations oflexicogrammatical, gestural, pictorial, or other formal relations.
There is no fixed or wholly determinate relationship across levels in the meta-
redundancy hierarchy.
The various examples discussed above were all hypothetical. In asense, they
constitute thought-experiments, though this has been for a purpose. My purpose
has been to show that both the interpretative activities of different species
(human and monkey) and what we commonly think of as semiosis and
perception can be seen to share a similar underlying logic. This does not mean
that the differences between perception and activity are being disregarded. Nor
does it mean that the me ta-redundancy formalism as presented here can reveal
the detailed neurophysiological and other architecture of either perception or
semiosis. What I am interested in here are some general principles which they
both share. In particular, we see that it is the recognition of patterned relations
as occurring in certain contexts rather than others which is the salient point in
both cases.
In relating patterned relations to some contexts and not others, both humans
and monkeys are able to attribute significance to these patterns and hence to act
accordingly. Moreover, the patterned relations to which a given individual -
human or monkey - attributes significance are constrained by higher-order
boundary conditions. In the monkey case, the boundary conditions are the
tropical rainforest and the existence of life-threatening species of snakes, in
relation to which the monkey adopts - partly through learning, partly through
genes - a particular behavioural stance. In the human case, the boundary
conditions are the cultural practices which constrain and regulate human activity
in a particular community or social network.
The principle of meta-redundancy refers to a system of contextualizing
relations among different classes of acts, e.g. words and gestures. First-
order redundancy relations are constrained by second- and higher-order
30 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
meta-redundancy relations. The principle of meta-redundancy thus shows how
meanings are made on the basis of relations of relations of relations ..., of
systems of systems of systems . . ., and so on. Higher-order relations act as
contextual constraints on lower levels by synchronizing the component parts
of the lower levels in ways which permit order and patterned arrangements or
meaningful combinations to emerge. That is, the probability of combination of
the items on a given level is contextually dependent on the higher-order
relations which constrain its possible patterns of combination. These constraints
impose limits on the possible patterns ofcombination on lower levels. In the case
of language, the syntagmatic and paradigmatic patterns of its lexicogrammar
result from the correlating of the previously discrete functional regions that are
typical of protolanguage into a more complexly differentiated and interrelated
whole. This shows how different functional regions in the grammar of a
language, or in different semiotic modalities, depend on the ways in which the
other components of the whole behave in relation to each other.
The first-order redundancy relation that we considered above between word
and gesture means that the occurrence of the particular words depends on and
predicts the likelihood of its eo-occurrence with a given gesture, and vice versa.
The establishment of such a two-way or symmetrical redundancy relation
between the two items means that they are systematically and internally related
to each as parts of some larger whole, e.g. an occasion of talk or some part of
this. To the extent that word and gesture are now internally (contextually)
related to each other, or, in other words, to the extent that they are now mutual
contexts for each other's interpretation, we can say that words, say, have been
integrated to the internal dynamics of gesture, and vice versa.
Meta-redundancy relations are not static and timeless. Instead, they are
dynamic, time-bound, and historical relations and processes. A given contextu-
alizing relation at a given moment in time depends on its history on diverse
timescales - the history of the unfolding discourse occasion, its intertexts (what
was said, done, and so on, yesterday, last week, last year, and so on), the
individual histories of the participants, the history of the community and its
meaning-making practices.
7. A Critique of the Causal View of Brain-mind Relations
Semiotic relations and practices are always materially embodied in physical-
material processes and interactions, though not reducible to them. As I pointed
out in section 2 (pp. 8-11) we can talk about social semiotic practices in two
ways: (I) in terms of their meaning relations to other practices in a given social
formation; and (2) in the language of physics and biology, in terms of the
physical processes and relations which embody them (Lemke 1995b: 106--7).
Physical and biological processes can only have the meanings they do in a given
social and historical formation through the social meaning-making practices of
that formation. In this section, I shall consider some of the problems that arise
when social semiosis is reduced to or causally explained in terms of physical
brain processes.
INTRODUCTION 31
The two domains - the semiotic and the physical - are distinct, though com-
plementary. This complementarity means that the social semiotic can be seen
from the dialectically dual perspective of these two conceptual domains, which
are not reducible the one to the other. The trouble starts, as Bhaskar (1979: 126)
points out, when the social and psychological sciences seek to overcome their
own conceptual inadequacies by reducing the domain of their inquiry to the
conceptually more highly developed domains of the biological, chemical and
physical sciences. Such a move, as Bhaskar points out, can only be explanatorily
adequate when the 'to-be-reduced science' is itself conceptually adequate. Given
the current conceptual and epistemological inadequacies and confusions which
are rife in the social sciences, this means that the resulting reduction explains
very little. Social meaning making (viz. semiosis) is only possible through the
enactment of material processes which acquire meaning as social semiotic
practices. The conflation of the two domains misses a number of crucial points:
(1) the same social semiotic (c.f. social and psychological) processes may be
embodied by 'lower'-level material processes in a plurality of different ways; and
(2) there are multiple social semiotic ways of construing material (c.f. neuro-
physiological and other) states. Typically, such a conflation entails the following
kind of downwards reduction:
(a) Social semiotic relations and practices (social)
~
(b) Psychological states and cognitions (mind)
~
(c) Neurophysiological relations and processes (biological organism)
The problem with these reductive explanations is that while all social semiosis
occurs in accordance with physical-material processes and laws, social semiosis is
not completely explainable in terms of them. Again, social meaning-making is
not reducible to the intentions and 'inner' cognitive processes of the individual
social actor. These processes, too, are constructed and construed out of the same
resource systems through which we make and exchange meanings with others in
social situations. The fact that these resource systems have been adapted to
specialized 'inner' uses does not mean that a separate 'psychology' of the
individual is required, seen as explanatorily independent of social semiotic
relations and practices. What we call the 'psychological' in Western cultures is a
methodological (and political) focus on the individual as an independent
domain of cause and effect. The principles of organization of the individual
certainly draw on and make use of a folk-theoretical repertoire of (individual)
beliefs, intentions, wants, and so on, which form the hypostatic local accounts
which actors deploy in order to explain their own and others' behaviour. But these
notions are really contextually organized and constructed relations and practices,
not reducible to such hypostatic local accounts that are founded on an epistemol-
ogy of mind, seen as an independent and reified domain of cause and effect.
Now, the meta-redundancy relations that constitute the different levels of a
contextualization hierarchy are not related to each other by efficient causality
(see also Halliday 1992a). As I pointed out above, me ta-redundancy constitutes
32 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
a system of constraints in which all levels operate on and constrain all others.
The failure to understand the essentially contextual nature of experience,
mental states, and so on, is evident in those accounts of the mind-brain relation
that try to account for this in causal terms. For example, Bhaskar, in order to
uphold the causal relation between 'mind-states' or 'belief and neurophysio-
logical states or 'matter', argues that: '... such causality as holds between beliefs
and matter must be conceived, in the absence of any connecting mechanism, as
transcategorial' (1979: 132). Earlier in the same book, Bhaskar had pointed out
that this criterion is needed so as to overcome the objections that (1) cause and
effect must be embodied in a common medium or share common properties;
and (2) the absence of any such medium constitutes an arbitrary break in the
chain of cause and effect (1979: 131). Psychologists and others often use such
criteria to justify an independent science of psychological or mind states on the
grounds that this constitutes an autonomous domain of cause and effect. For
example, they may argue that P-states (intentions, wants, etc.) CAUSALLYACT
UPON/AFFECT N-states (neurophysiology).
Why is it seen as so important to justify an autonomous psychology? According
to Bhaskar (1979: 108), the social meaning of an action - e.g. greeting someone
- is recognizeable as being an act of a certain cultural type. This is seen as inde-
pendent of the occasion-specific intention whereby it is performed by a given
social actor. This then allows for a causal chain to be reconstructed such that the
reasons (beliefs) which lead the actor to want or to intend to perform a
particular action may be postulated. The causal chain runs like this: (1) SOCIAL
ACTION is caused by (2) ACTOR'S INTENTION is caused by (3)
BELIEFS/REASONS LEADING TO INTENTION. Two separate dyadic series are
thus postulated. But rather than say that I is caused by 2, and that 2 is caused by
3, we can say, following Halliday and Lemke, that 1 redounds with the
redundancy of 2 and 3, in a given context of culture, let us call it O. Note that
Bhaskar wanted to separate this out from the intentional action performed by
the actor. When we put the ecosocial system back into the picture we can see
that: 0 redounds with the redundancy of (1, 2, and 3). For Bhaskar, agency
emerges from the psychological links between actors and the locally defined
resources they use to interpret each others' intentions. This meets his criterion
of synchronic emergence, which correctly recognizes that the higher-order
principles cannot be completely explained in terms of the lower-order ones
(Bhaskar 1979: 125). Agency, then, is a psychological phenomenon, not
reducible to neurophysiological states. But this causal way of reasoning struggles,
as we have seen, with the problem of finding some linking mechanism -
transcategorial or otherwise - which can relate cause and effect. With the notion
of meta-redundancy, the problems of form-substance dualism from which this
derives are irrelevant. Let us now see why.
Earlier, I referred to the complementary dual nature of the relations between
the semiotic-discursive and the physical-material domains. Bhaskar attempts to
overcome the problem of reductionism with the notions of transcategorial
causality and synchronic emergence. His attempt to do so relies on the onto-
logical stratification of the domains of the social, the psychological, and the
biological. The resulting localization of these domains, along with Bhaskar's
INTRODUCTION 33
(transcendental) realism, means that these domains are seen as further decom-
posable into the given reality described and the way this is talked about. The
complementarity of our dual perspective means, on the other hand, that there
is no essential separation of these domains. Instead, which level of reality is
construed depends on which level of contextualization and which operations
this performs on the relevant system of relations. This approach accords with
Bohr's (1948) principle of complementarity in quantum mechanics: there is no
single or global perspective which can reveal an 'objective' description of a
complete system. Instead, there are multiple construals and contextualizing
principles which operate on different levels of the system, thereby giving rise to
a plurality of complementary ways of construing this 'reality', without, however,
being reducible to any single principle. Thus, we can say that the social
redounds with the redundancy of the psychological with the redundancy of the
neurophysiological.
The complementary duality of semiotic-discursive systems and practices and
physical-material relations and processes does not mean (1) that actions are
caused by psychological states (intentions, ete.), which are caused by neuro-
physiological states, but rather (2) that actions redound with the redundancy of
psychological states with neurophysiological states. The emergent properties can
be explained not in the language of (transcategorial) causality, but in the
contextual language of me ta-redundancy (chapter 6, section 7, pp. 300-1). The
units and their relations on the psychological level redound with another set of
units and relations on the neurophysiological level, so that the units and
relations on the higher-level ecosocial semiotic level redound with the
redundancy of the psychological with the neurophysiological. The psychological
level of analysis, as McKellar (1990: 337) points out, is really a contextualization
of the functional, open, and adaptive interface between the biological (neuro-
anatomical, neurophysiological, and neuropsychological relations and
processes) and the social semiotic relations with which it both eo-evolves and
contextually redounds. Thus defined, there is no autonomous or independent
domain of psychological theory; the psychological domain is always definable in
relation to the two levels of the biological and the social semiotic mentioned
above. This does not alter the fact that in Western culture an ontology of the psy-
chological is constructed in and through the social practices of both our official
('scientific') and folk-theoretical (,common-sense') accounts of the individual.
But this is a local cultural hypostatization.
Where do notions such as agency, subjectivity, and so on, come from? The
causal species of reasoning which we have examined here locates this in the
(ontological) domain called the psychological, seen as part of a causal chain
whereby intentions, motivations, and so on, are derived, explained, and
attributed. The ontological stratification of the domain of the psychological in
such accounts does not distinguish between the accounting procedures and folk-
theoretical (common sense) explanations which derive from the local hypostatic
culture of the informants, and wider explanatory claims of a truly 'scientific'
psychology.
In other words, given the fact that informants regularly deploy a repertory of
notions such as 'self', intentionality, agency, and so on, what is the relation
34 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
between the use of these terms in the theory and in the folk-theoretical accounts
of the culture it seeks to explain? This is a major, though unaddressed problem,
in those psychological, philosophical, and other accounts which are based on the
kind of ontological stratification that I discussed above. Such theories use a
causal-deductive model of explanation, which is not formally recursive.
This means that the explanatory bases and me ta-theoretical assumptions of
such theories and explanations go undisclosed and are not subject to meta-
theoretical scrutiny (see Thibault 1991a, 1999a, 1999b for further discussion).
8. Defining and Extending the Notion of Meaning in Terms of the
Three-level Hierarchy and the Specification Hierarchy
The notion of 'meaning' can be thought about in terms of a system comprising
three levels. Meaning is not to be confused with the notion of information in
information theory (Shannon and Weaver 1949). The latter notion is concerned
with how all forms of information can be quantified in terms of common units
such as bits or bytes (see Bateson 1987 [1951]; Wilden 1980 [1972]: 233-6;
Lemke 1995c: 169-70). Information theory is concerned with the statistical
frequency with which different units and their combinations come about. Infor-
mation theory is not, therefore, concerned with the interpretation of meaning.
Information is independent of particular observer perspectives. When we focus
on meaning, on the other hand, we are interested in the differences between the
diverse semiotic modalities and the different ways in which their distinctive
patterns of difference - whether topological or typological - are organized so as
to form a distinctive kind of semiotic system.
To go back to our previous example (section 6, pp. 26-30), we are concerned
with the different sets of alternatives, the different principles of their combina-
tion, the different contexts with which they redound, and so on. Traditionally,
semiotics, or the study of signs, has been concerned with the interpretation and
classification of signs (Noth 1990). However, the term 'sign' will not be central
in the present study. The pervasive and uncritical acceptance ofthe notion of the
sign as something which calls to mind something other than what it is has failed
to clarify the ontological status of the concept of the sign or the ways in which
this concept relates to processes of meaning-making and their textual and arte-
factual products (see Bouissac 1998: 737). The fundamental question in the
context of the present study has to do with the contextualizing relations that we
construct and enact in order to recognize pattern and organization in our
experience and in our interactions with the world beyond the self, i.e. the
nonself, including other selves.
In terms of the logic of the three-level hierarchy, interaction between an inter-
preter and some portion of the world is the focal level. This is the level on which
the self encounters the nonself. The self qua self-organizing system is a firstness
in Peirce's sense. A firstness has the characteristic of existing in the world and of
having particular perspectives on the world by virtue of its position in the world.
But firstness does not exist alone; it is always defined in relation to that with
which it interacts in the world, viz. secondness. However, the interaction between
INTRODUCTION 35
firstness and secondness occurs and is made possible by the existence of a
higher-scalar system which mediates the relations between firstness and
secondness and which makes the interaction between them possible. A higher-
scalar system of this kind, e.g. a system of interpretance, is an example of
thirdness. The relations between firstness, secondness, and thirdness can be
described in terms of the three-level hierarchy system of relations. I shall now
explain how Peirce's categories can be assimilated to the logic of the three-level
hierarchy in order to provide some very general principles for thinking about
the notion of meaning.
The Italian bio-chemist and semiotician Giorgio Prodi has shown that any
interaction between an interpreter and some change in a given material
phenomenon presupposes some relation of correspondence between the
phenomenon observed and the interpreter. Observation, Prodi (1977: 20)
points out, is always a participation in the processes of change: the interpreter,
in other words, is always altered by the phenomenon which it observes. This
discovery of the mutual interference of observer and observed was first made in
the early years of the twentieth century by advances in the theory of quantum
mechanics, as developed by N. Bohr and W. Heisenberg. To a given variation in
some object, there corresponds a correlated variation in another object, or series
of objects. In all such cases, these correspondences occur through the modifica-
tion of a system of relations, i.e. through exchanges of energy. This basic point
is so whether we are talking about a biochemical interaction between two
molecules, or the mother-infant dyads in and through which early infant
semiosis emerges (see below).
Any physical-material perturbation in a given environment constitutes a
catastrophic release of a certain quantity of energy. This release of energy may
impinge upon the interpretative apparatus of some interpreter. The perturba-
tion in the environment that is entailed by a given release of energy brings about
a corresponding change in the interpretative apparatus of the interpreter. The
interpreter is biologically adapted to construe certain kinds of perturbation in its
environment as being in some way significant to its further development and
survival. Observation, so defined, is not 'outside' or 'external to' the observed
event. Instead, observer and observedjointly participate in the event, and in ways
which change the observer-cum-interpreter. In other words, the processes
involved are transactional in character.
Prodi also discusses more complex 'situations of correspondence' in which
the exchange of energy between, say, A and B is conditioned by the reciprocal
adaptation to each other of the two terms in the exchange process. Thus, the
material correspondence which triggers the exchange of energy presupposes
some more specific relation of 'reciprocal adaptation' between A and B. Prodi
(1977: 22) emphasizes two important facets of such processes: (1) the release of
energy is conditioned by the existence of a specific (interpretative) 'key'; and (2)
the triggering of the exchange of energy is subordinated to its being in contact
with this key. It is clear here that A and B, taken separately, are formally
equivalent to what Peirce called firstness. The interaction - the reciprocal
adaptation - between A and B is a secondness. Moreover, the interpretive 'key'
that regulates and mediates this reciprocal adaptation is a thirdness.
36 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Now, the phenomena that we are discussing here are very general in nature
and are common to all biological and social systems. This is indifferently so
whether we are talking about two molecules, A and B, in a reciprocal relation to
each other, two amoeba, or the two members ofa parent-infant dyad in a human
social system. The basis of this reciprocal adaptation - the exchange of energy
and the establishment of material correspondences between A and B - is the
same in all cases. What is different is the level and degree of the complexity
involved, as well as the extent of the socio-historical processes, in the case of
human, and other, social systems which have further elaborated the dynamics of
the exchange processes involved and the ways in which these cross-couple
physical-material and semiotic-discursive processes.
The prerequisites of this process are as follows. First, there must be two
material objects which interact. In so doing, they are transformable. It is not the
case that two objects happen to interact by chance, as it were. Again, we can note
the principle of the contextual redundancy of the organism-plus-environment
system that Bateson pointed out (see section 6, pp. 26-31). The three-level
hierarchy is useful in sorting out the levels of relations involved. Thus, the A and
B parties to the interaction are on the focal level L. This level is subordinated to
some higher-order principle of correspondence, or of complementarity - cf.
Prodi's interpretive 'key', or some higher-scalar system of interpretance - on level
L+1. Such a principle is a contextual relationship which specifies that in a given
context-type, A and B select each other as a function of that context. There is, in
other words, a contextually governed relation of complementarity between A and
B, which, in selecting each other, remain indifferent to other potentially available
information in their environment. That is to say, the resulting A-B dyad discrim-
inates and selects contextually relevant information from its environment in
species-specific ways,which are relevant to its further development and survival.
Secondly, whatever principles of 'order' or 'structure' are derivable from such
a me tastable complex of relations are completely immanent in them. These do
not simply reside in either A or B, taken 'separately'. Rather, A and B are con-
textually organized in relation to each other. This obviates the need for some
extrinsic metaphysical principle of order (intention, purpose, or plan) which the
structure simply contains.
Thirdly, the relation of complementarity between A and B is always regulated
by material forms (substrates) and thermodynamic potentials which constitute
the intrinsic dynamics of A and B and which make the exchange process
physically possible. Such material substrates and thermodynamic potentials are
the affordances on level L-l that I discussed in section 3 (pp. 11-18). The
general principles discussed above can be extended to the human case. To
illustrate this, I shall now discuss the dyadic interaction that characterizes joint
mother-infant semiosis in the phase that Trevarthen has defined as 'primary
intersubjectivity' (1978, 1987, 1992).
Trevarthen (1987: 184) describes the way in which newborns seek out eye
contact with significant others (parents, caretakers). For Trevarthen, these
activities constitute the very earliest stages of dialogic interaction. Such
expressive movements on the part of the newborn 'trigger' reciprocal and cor-
responding acts on the part of the caretaker, who construes the newborn's
INTRODUCTION 37
movement as having some meaning relevant to the emerging dyad. For this to be
so, it means that the caretaker must construe the newborn's movement -
perhaps the establishing of eye contact - as having a form which regulates the
exchange. The form which the caretaker construes in the newborn's movement
elicits a complementary action on the part of the caretaker. The relevant form
emerges out of the joint, or dialogic, act of meaning, in and through which
forms are construed in the material processes (bodily movements and orienta-
tions) which always implicate the release of energy.
This process is always a semiotic one. The two participants in the emerging
and developing dyad are dialogically oriented to each other insofar as the dyad
is governed by higher-order contextualizing principles which regulate the
exchange. The child turns his or her gaze towards the caretaker. This action con-
stitutes a release of energy which impinges on the consciousness of the senior
member of the dyad. In so doing, the caretaker construes this release of energy
in wayswhich bring about complementary changes and responses on the part of
the caretaker. As embodied beings, A and B are entities whose materiality, along
with the exchange of energy in and through the interaction ofA and B, provide
the only basis whereby a given form may be construed. The embodied beings A
and B enter into a structured relation of complementarity which cannot but exist
without a particular spatio-temporal configuration and a particular material
form.
In the case of the early mother-infant dyads studied by Kaye, Trevarthen, and
Halliday, the dialogic exchange process means that the two members of the dyad
engage in a reciprocal exploration of and a selective attention to the environ-
ment in which the dyad is formed. In the first instance, this means the reciprocal
exploration and selective attending to each other as embodied beings in the
space-time of the dyad. In this way, as Halliday (l992a) shows, the earliest
notions of 'you' and 'me' emerge. It is only after this stage that the two members
of the dyad jointly explore and attend to the physical-material environment, of
which they are always a constituent part, in any case. What is important to
emphasize here is that this exploration, too, can only occur through the
resources provided by the dyad. Thus, the two members of the dyad, in the
process of being constituted as 'you' and 'me', are reciprocally oriented to each
other in a process of mutual exploration and interpretation (see also Bates
1979).
The child's attention-seeking gaze is an act of exploration. It is both a
physical-material act performed by an embodied being in space-time, as well as
being a release of energy. Such an act is not random; it is an exploratory act
which is oriented to getting a significant response from the other member of the
dyad. In this sense, it is a 'reading' of reality, because it is oriented towards
selecting a significant response from the other. The newborn explores the reality
of his or her Umwelt through the dyad and in so doing he or she also seeks a
complementary response from the other. When that happens - when A's dialogic
orientation to B produces a significant complementary structure or orientation
in B (a response, in other words) - then a specific change may be said to have
been induced both in the overall organization of the dyad and in the internal
structural organization of its members. A's dialogic act is a specific intervention
38 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
in and an orientation in the space-time of the dyad. While it is true to say, as
Halliday does, that the resulting interact has no content in the adult sense, it
does, nevertheless, constitute a judgement on - a proto-modalization of - the
space-time of the dyad and on the nature of the relationship between the two
parties to the transaction. It both intervenes in and comments on that relation.
As an intervention, it plays a significant part in the co-ordination and chan-
nelling of matter, energy, and information flows in the dyad. As a commentary,
it provides an implicitjudgement - a meta-communication - about the relations
between the two members of the dyad.
It is the exchange process which both enables and facilitates the progressive
self-organization and individuation of both members of the dyad. The members
of the dyad, as I noted earlier, are embodied social beings. However, this does
not mean that they reduce to mere physical points in Newtonian space-time.
Rather, they are also internally complex beings (Ham'; 1983: 75), capable of
further internal elaboration and self-organization. This point is not in contra-
diction with the fundamentally dyadic and dialogic nature of the organizational
principles involved. The dyad and the exchange processes it enables are funda-
mental. Without these, there would be no exchange processes, no principles of
self-organization, no 'individual' members. In other words, the processes,
relations and structures involved are fundamentally transindividual and
ultimately socio-cultural in nature. This does not imply an opposition between
the biological and the social dimensions of these processes. There is no contra-
diction here because the biological processes are themselves, at all levels of
organization, attuned to and consistent with the socio-cultural processes to
which they are integrated and entrained. Thus, any equation of the biological
organism with the 'individual', and of the social with the 'collective', is false
because there is no contradiction, or discontinuity, between the two. Our bio-
chemical, neuroanatomical, and neurophysiological makeup predisposes us to
participate in complexly interrelated processes of matter, energy, and informa-
tion exchange at all levels of organization (Prodi 1977; McKellar 1987, 1990).
Now, the last example discussed here most clearly applies to the specifically
human systems in which meaning is made, stored, and interpreted. But if we
compare it to the two examples that I have derived from Prodi, we can conclude
that meaning, as seen from our human perspective, is a more highly specified
subclass of progressively less specified subclasses that stretch all the way back
through the symbolic capacities of bonobos such as Kanzi and Panbanisha
(Savage-Rumbaugh et al. 1998; Benson et al. 2002, 2004; Thibault 2004a) to the
proto-language of other mammals such as dolphins, cats, and dogs, right back to
the 'situations of correspondence' between, say, an amoeba and its food source.
The notion of meaning is a highly specified category which we normally reserve
for the kinds of semiotic transactions with others and the perspectives these
afford that characterize oursemiotically mediated transactions with the non-self
(cf. secondness), including our conspecifics.
However, the progressively more general, or less specified, cases mentioned
above show, albeit to differing levels of specification, that our human notion of
meaning (semiosis), rather than being something which is unique to and
criterial for our perspective, is, in actual fact, a subclass of a very large number
INTRODUCTION 39
of progressively less specified subclasses. In saying this, I am adopting the logic
of the specification hierarchy, as defined by Salthe (1993: 52-74; see also Lemke
1995a: 93-6; Thibault 2000a: 298-300). Thus, each level in the specification
hierarchy is what Salthe (1993: 7Q-4) calls an integrative level: more-specified
levels integrate less-specified levels to their own perspective, as well as being
informed by the lower-level perspectives which make up the whole hierarchy.
This means that meaning, as understood from the specifically human perspec-
tive, includes and integrates to its own perspective, progressively vaguer, more
general classes which we might refer to, starting with the human case, as working
backwards, as follows: meaning ... [meaning} ... IImeaning}} ... IIImeaning}}},
ete. The unbracketed term 'meaning' here applies to the most specified case, viz.
human semiosis: the use of single, double, triple, ete. curly brackets serves to
designate progressively more general, vaguer analogues for this term as we
progress towards the most general, least specified analogues of meaning.
Similarly, we might say that the reciprocal adaptation of A and B in the example
discussed above is a less-specified case of IIldialogue}}}, as seen from the per-
spective of human serniosis.
9. The Signifying Body: Rethinking the Stratified view of Semiosis in Terms
of the Three-level Scalar Hierarchy
The notion of the sign has been central in serruoucs for many centuries.
Generally speaking, signs are defined in terms of their stable and unchanging
properties, rather than in relation to the processes in which they participate and
through which they are defined. That is, signs are defined as stable things which
simply are. This fact is evidenced in the ways in which signs are classified
according to properties of their substance (acoustic, manual-brachial, visual, and
so on). In such a substance-based view, the fundamental unit of analysis is some
kind of entity or particle. This view mirrors the concerns of the reductionist
project of the classical view of how the world is structured and came into being.
For example, the model of hierarchical constituency in language reflects the
spatial metaphor according to which larger-scalar or higher-level units (e.g.
sentences, discourses) are de-composed and analysed in terms of interactions
among smaller-scalar units and subsystems. The spatial modelling of these
relations views them as a hierarchy of relations among units on progressively
smaller (or larger) scales such as sentence, phrase, word, morpheme, and so on,
on the grammatical level. Analogous hierarchies are postulated for the phono-
logical level.
In general, smaller-scalar units are seen as the building blocks out of which
larger-scalar units are assembled in a bottom-up, aggregative fashion. Process
and time are largely absent in this view. Such views of the sign are not concerned
with the dynamics of time-bound processes in and through which 'signs' emerge
in semiosis. In a dynamical, process-oriented view, meaning-making (serniosis)
can be understood as the integration of faster, smaller, more local processes into
slower, larger and more global ones (Salthe 1993: 46; Lemke 2000b: 275;
Thibault 2003a: 137-8). The linguistic notion of the stratification can be refor-
40 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
mulated in the light of this understanding. But first, a few words concerning the
way in which stratification is usually understood in linguistics with respect to
spoken language.
The stratified model of the language system takes a given linguistic form as
comprising various interconnected layers of organization. For example, it can
be shown that the phonological organization of / dogz/ is a single syllable
comprised of four phonemes, but that this does not correspond to its grammat-
ical organization in any direct way. Grammatically, it is a morphemic word
comprising the two morphemes [dog] + [z]. The various layers of organization
- phonological and morpho-syntactic in the present example - are called strata,
following Hjelmslev (1954), Lamb (1966), Halliday (1979), and Martin (1991).
The various strata are related to each other by means of realization relationships
(themselves a sub-class of the more general meta-redundancy relations that
occur among the diverse levels of a given contextualization hierarchy). Realiza-
tory relationships functionally relate the selection and organization of units on
a given stratum to the strata 'above' and 'below' it. Realization relationships are
interstratal coding relationships. Each stratum also has its own principles of
organization for the units and structures that occur within that particular
stratum. These are referred to as tactic relationships.
In stratal terms, we can define a given unit in functional terms along three
different dimensions: (1) its tactic relations with other units on its 'own' level;
(2) its realizatory relationships with the stratum 'above'; and (3) its realizatory
relationships with the stratum 'below'. Realizatory relations are not one-way or
deterministic, but are best seen as a two-way productive dialectic, whereby units
and relations on a given stratum are constructed and construed in relation to
principles of organization on some other stratum. Interstratal realizatory rela-
tionships are both dynamic and open. For example, the morphosyntactic
structure [[dog] + [z]] realizes the meaning - the semantics - of this composite
grammatical structure at the same time as the given meaning is realized by the
grammatical structure in question. Likewise, the morphosyntactic structure is
realized by a given phonological structure at the same time as the phonology
realizes the relevant grammatical structure.
Rather than falling back on shop-worn definitions of the sign that have been
refined and reinterpreted according to the assumptions and requirements of
various philosophical and theological discourses since classical antiquity to the
effect that the sign is something which calls to mind something, or that it is
something which stands to someone for something (see Bouissac 1998: 737), we
can reconsider the stratified view of semiosis in terms of the three-level scalar
hierarchy view of complex, dynamic open systems (Salthe 1993: 36-46; Lemke
1995b: 106-12; Thibault 2000a: 296-8). Thus, a spoken utterance consists of
patterns of neuromuscular (vocal tract and other) activity whereby the distinc-
tive sound patterns of the particular language are produced. These patterns of
neuromuscular activity take place on a very fast timescale relative to the words,
phrases, clauses, and so on, on the next higher level of the proposed hierarchy
ofrelations (see also Cowley 1998: 547-51).
For example, Lemke points out that the articulation of a typical English vowel
takes about one-tenth of a second (Lemke 2000b: 276). Below the level of artic-
INTRODUCTION 41
ulation, there are still smaller, faster timescales such as the activation of the
neuronal networks that co-ordinate muscular activity on the timescale of tens of
milliseconds, and below this there is the timescale of the neurotransmitter flows
where events have a duration that can be measured in milliseconds (see Lemke
2000b: 276). The events that I have referred to here occur on a timescale that is
below the level of human awareness. Events on these timescales cannot be
observed by humans except by technologically enhanced means. The point is
that events on these very small, fast timescales do not belong to the environment
which we inhabit and in which we interact with others. They are not 'cogent
moments' on the ecosocial scale where our own observer perspectives are to be
found. At all levels of organization both 'above' and 'below' the focal level of a
given analysis, there is organization of process on different space-time scales,
though there is no reduction of processes on higher levels to localized and
atomized substances with causal powers on lower levels of organization
(Bickhard and Campbell 2000: 330-1). Meaningful pattern and organization on
higher levels is not supervenient on some ultimate, substance-based level of
atomized causal factors. Instead, it is the reorganization across scalar levels of
pattern and organization of lower levels such that what constitutes meaning to
our observer perspectives on our scale - seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks,
... years - is pattern or organization of process that is relevant to our own scale.
Consider the following example:
L+1: discourse, dialogic exchange
L: dialogic exchange units
L-1: vocal tract articulatory (neuromuscular) activity
Following the logic of the three-level hierarchy view, the middle level of any
given triplicate of levels is the focal level (i.e. level L). The focal level is the level
on which the processes which represent the focus of interest in a particular
analysis occur. In the present example, level L consists of dialogically co-
ordinated utterances, realized by lexicogrammatical units of such as words,
phrases, clauses, and so on. However, the lexicogrammatical patterns that are
observable on level L are themselves made possible by and depend on processes
on level L-l. The neuromuscular patterns of activity on level L-1, as Lemke
(2000b: 277) points out, constitute affordances for processes on level L. By the
same token, level L processes are constrained by longer-timescale processes on
the next higher level L+1. In the present case, level L+1 represents an emerging
pattern of discourse-level activity. The emerging pattern on this level is able to
influence the probability of patterns and processes on the next level down,
thereby acting as a set of boundary conditions or constraints on the lower level.
The three-level hierarchy principle, as applied here to linguistically mediated
semiosis, illustrates the principle whereby processes on different timescales
become cross-coupled in more complexly interdependent systems with many
interacting variables on many different levels of organization. In the newborn's
vocal tract, there are potentially very many degrees of topological freedom such
42 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
that, within the constraints afforded by biology, different patterns of neuromus-
cular activity are possible. Over time, the infant develops an increasingly large
repertoire of possibilities of the co-ordination of vocal-tract muscular activity by
neuron impulses. The co-ordination of these possibilities acts as catalysts for still
more patterns of activation. A situation is then reached in which a relatively
restricted set of patterns of activity in the form of regular, repeatable vocal-tract
gestures emerges (see also section 11, pp. 49-54).
Consequently, other possible patterns that are potentially afforded by the neu-
romuscular substrate tend to wane as the activation of the substrate is entrained
to the newly emergent level of organization. The newly emergent pattern of
vocal-tract gestural activity is afforded by the topological variety of the neuro-
muscular substrate, though it is not determined by this. The newly emergent
level of gestural activity takes place on a longer, slower timescale with respect to
the neuromuscular patterns of activity on the next-lower scale. This means that
patterns of activation on the lower level are filtered or buffered by the newly
emergent level of organization. Information on the lower-scalar level of neuro-
muscular patterns can only be meaningful to longer-scalar L+1 processes such as
the dialogic exchange of meanings between mother and infant after being
filtered by the newly emergent level of the vocal gestures on level L. Thus:
L+1: protolinguistic dialogic exchange
L: vocal gesture repertoire
L-l: neuromuscular patterns of activity
In infant semiosis, the emergence of level-L vocal gestures alters the probability
landscape of the lower-level neuromuscular patterns by entraining them to its
own dynamics. By the same token, the emergence of proto-linguistic vocal
gestures in the infant on level L itself provides a basis for the emergence of the
new intermediate level of organization of lexicogrammar between the previously
existing levels L-l and L+1 of the proto-linguistic stage. In this way, previously
discrete functional components - cf. Halliday's (1975) discrete micro-functions
in infant protolanguage - become co-ordinated and reorganized into a more
complex and internally differentiated system of multiple, overlapping functional
components which greatly enlarge the phase space of the system and hence the
variety of contexts it can access on an increasingly diverse number of space-time
scales beyond the here-now interactional event (see also Silverstein 1985).
The two examples discussed above show the timescales that operate above and
below the focal level of utterance and proto-linguistic gesture, respectively. Each
level in the hierarchy represents the dynamical processes and the timescale that
are characteristic of a particular type of event or activity, relative to its scale. With
respect to focal-level processes on level L, the processes on the next level down,
viz. level L-l, provide principles of organization that make possible the patterns
of organization on the next higher level L. At the same time, the patterns of
organization on the still next higher level L+1 constitute higher-scalar levels of
organization which provide the context for lower-scalar processes and their
INTRODUCTION 43
interpretation. Higher-scalar processes can thus be seen as deploying lower-
scalar affordances in the direction of particular semiotic attractors. Neuromus-
cular activity is meaningful insofar as it is integrated to and interpreted as part
of an utterance, rather than being a mere movement of the vocal tract in its own
right. In its turn, an utterance is integrated to and interpreted as part of an
unfolding discourse exchange between the interlocutors in that event.
The principles that I have outlined above draw attention to the ways in which
semiosis, or social meaning-making activity, violates the principle of the separa-
bility or insulation of non-adjacent timescales. This is the principle which Lemke
has formulated as scalar heterogeneity in contrast to the scalar homogeneity of
systems that are 'described solely in thermodynamic or biological terms' (Lemke
2000a: 183). Systems of the latter type are characterized by the way in which the
ontological isolation of levels in scalar hierarchical systems ensures that
'dynamics at different levels are screened off from one another, with descriptive
variables necessarily representing a single level only, ...' (Salthe 1993: 45). Each
level has its own specific characteristics; hence the ontological isolation of the
component levels of the system (Salthe 1993: 46). This reflects the principle of
the 'nontransitivity of effects across levels' (Salthe 1993: 45).
Lemke (2000a: 182) points out that the properties of scale homogeneity, such
that the ontological isolation of levels is the norm, is problematic in the case of
human ecosocial systems, which are characterized by cross-couplings of physical-
material processes and interactions and semiotic-discursive ones which mediate
human activity in the overall ecosocial system. In my view, the structuralist
reading of the semiotic notion of stratification has overemphasized the non-
transitivity of the relations across different strata. This view had led to the
assumption that descriptive variables pertaining to any given stratum - e.g.
phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics in traditional accounts - pertain to
only one level. In this account, the variables on any given level constrain those on
other, especially adjacent, levels, yet the abstractions of phonological and
morphosyntactic form, on their particular levels, are not connected to bodily
processes on other, lower-scalar levels. The structuralist account of the relation
between phonology and morphosyntax is an example. In this account, phono-
logical distinctions, which are not considered to be meaningful in any way,merely
function to constrain and specify morphosyntactic distinctions on their level.
Thus, human cultural systems cannot be adequately described in terms of
scale-homogeneous systems whose regularities can be described in terms of ther-
modynamic and biological processes per se (see above). The emergence of
typological-categorial modalities of serniosis, Lemke (2000a: 183) points out,
quickly leads to a situation in which radically different spatial and temporal scales
intersect in meaning-making activity. In this way, the here-now event of neuro-
muscular activity in the vocal tract, for example, implicates meanings on many
different space-time scales - e.g. the very fast timescales of neuronal processes,
the neuromuscular timescale of vocal-tract articulation, the timescale of the
utterance quameaningful event exchanged between interlocutors, the conversa-
tional episode, the intertextual links between today's conversation and the one
held last week with the same person, the historical-biographicallifespan scale of
the individual, the history of the community in which the individual lives, the
44 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
history of the culture, the language itself and the ecosocial system in which the
language is embedded (see Lemke 2000b: 275-9). In semiosis, particularly of the
typological-eategorial sort, all of these scales may be implicated in ways that are
seamlessly interwoven with the here-now event or occasion of interaction
between two or more individuals.
The two hypothetical examples discussed above are intended to show how
higher-scalar dynamical processes on their timescale have constraining effects on
much shorter timescales (Lemke 2000b: 280). For example, the much longer,
slower timescale of the emergence of semiotic action formations - i.e. the
discourse genres, activity-structure types - in a community have constraining
effects on the shorter, faster timescale of the neuromuscular processes of the
human vocal tract. The human body has signifying potential because it is a
semiotic-material participant in dynamical processes on diverse timescales. For
example, fast small-scale neuromuscular activities of the body on, say, the here-
now scale of a given interpersonal exchange between two persons are attracted
to and integrated with the socio-cultural systems of meanings and practices that
pertain to processes on much larger timescales, as compared to the immediate
context of the body's material interactivity with its here-now environment (see
Lemke 2000a: 194).
Human bodies qua material artefacts circulate in social networks, participat-
ing in some kinds of activities and not others, according to one's social position-
ing in these networks and their associated activities on the basis of factors such
as sex, age, profession, social class, leisure activities, consumer patterns, lifestyle,
and so on. Taken as a whole, the body's participation in various activities in these
networks, the movement from one activity to another in the course of shifting
from one context to another, amount to a longer-timescale semiotic process, as
compared to any of the individual shorter-scale activities that the individual par-
ticipates in. This longer-timescale semiotic process will be defined in this book as
the individual's lifespan or historical-biographical trajectory.
The body qua artefact is a material participant in processes - activities - that
afford its semiotic integration to and interpretation by higher-scalar systems of
interpretance that persist on time scales that go beyond the material body itself.
Brains function to co-ordinate, to cross-couple body-brain systems to the
ecosocial environment by means of the mediating effects of semiotic artefacts,
including objects, textual artefacts, tools, technological aids (computers, calcu-
lators, slide rules, OHPs, and so on), architectural features, human bodies (both
our own and those of others). It is through such processes of semiotic mediation
that the trajectories-in-time of selves and their dialogic intertwining with the
trajectories of other selves come into view on various scales - semiogenetic,
ontogenetic, historical-biographical, and so on.
While I agree with the critique put forward by integrationallinguists such as
Harris (l995a) and Cowley et at. (In press) that language tokens are not real
mental entities that are 'represented' by neural processes in the brain, I also
argue for the need to reframe the counter-elaim put forward by Harris and other
integrationalists to the effect that linguistic forms and meanings are 'second
order entities arising through the codification (see Harris 1995a) central to both
lay and professional metalinguistic analysis' (Cowley et al. In press). We must be
INTRODUCTION 45
careful here not to think that language forms and meanings are mere appear-
ances with respect to some truer or more real underlying reality such as, for
example, biomechanical activity. In saying this, I am not denying that both lay
and professional me ta-linguistic analyses construct linguistic 'objects', as indeed
Saussure (1971 [1915]: 23-7; 1993: 187-8) well understood.
My point is that language forms, just like neuromuscular activity, have their
own patterns, which are distinctive to their own level of organization, rather than
being false to some truer underlying reality. I have suggested that language
forms and meanings are integrated with bodily processes and can be understood
to be the result of these same processes. At the same time, language forms and
meanings have properties and relations that cannot be reduced to or explained
wholly in terms of the lower level. Thus suggests that (1) words emerge from
neuromuscular activity when neuromuscular activity is entrained to certain
patterns rather than others; and (2) the emergent patterns make a difference,
i.e. are semiotically salient in some community or social network. Point (2)
further suggests that language forms have the potential to make differences that
bear directly on our own experience, as well as on the experience of others. In
this way, we see that language forms and meanings have the capacity to entrain
and direct physical-material processes and flows, including biological ones, by
virtue of the properties and relations that are specific to their own level of
organization.
The fact that the practices - lay and professional - of meta-linguistic codifica-
tion accord properties to second-order entities such as sentences suggests that
lexicogrammatical forms and their meanings are themselves treated as second-
order artefacts that circulate in social networks. This does not mean that these
second-order artefacts float free of or transcend their material embodiments in,
say, neuromuscular activity or visual tracings on a treated surface (themselves the
extra-somatic products of neuromuscular activity) What it does mean is that
lexicogrammatical forms and their meanings are more abstract semiotic artefacts
which our meta-semiotic practices, in part, de-locate from the full multimodal
system in which they are deployed and treat as objects of meta-semiotic
reflection and manipulation in their own right.
This perspective on multimodality in the mature system may be compared to
the early-infant system where the separation into distinct semiotic 'modalities' -
language, gesture, gaze, movement, and so on - is problematic on account of the
inherent topological vagueness and relative indeterminacy of the infant system.
Cowley et al. (In press) refer to the infant's 'full-bodied sense making' to capture
the fact that in early-infant semiosis this separation into diverse modalities and
their combinations and recombinations has not yet occurred. This is so because
the lower-scalar affordances of the immature system are sub-personal in the
sense that they have not been fully contextually integrated to the perspective of
the agent, as in the mature system (see section 3, pp. 11-18).
In the mature system, on the other hand, diverse semiotic modalities have
become discursively, or semiotically, determinate. Therefore, it is possible to talk
about in some meta-serniotic discourse - either lay or professional - language,
gesture, gaze, movement, and so on as 'distinct' systems. Here, too, this does not
mean that the vagueness and indeterminacy of the earlier system have been
46 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
transcended or superseded. Rather, the properties and effects of the earlier,
immature system have receded further down the scale of implication such that
the diverse modalities can be distinguished and described according to the
requirements of the meta-discourse. Moreover, the increasing determinacy of
the diverse semiotic modalities also allows for individuating patterns whereby
some (topological) differentiations make a difference concerning individual
identity, personality, and so on. The arguments advanced here further suggest
that the term 'rnultimodality', as applied to the semiotic resource systems of the
mature system, is a meta-semiotic term that best captures the increased determi-
nacy of specific resources in the mature system and, at the same time, the term
presupposes the increasing capacity to deploy and to (re)combine specific
modalities in ways that display a relative independence and distinctiveness with
respect to the primordial vagueness and indeterminacy of the immature system.
10. Systemic-functional Linguistic Theory: Bringing Together the
Intra-organism and Inter-organism Perspectives on Meaning-making
The present study draws on and is informed by the systemic-functional theory of
language which has been developed by Michael Halliday and colleagues over the
past forty or so years. A central tenet of this theory is that the internal organiza-
tion of language - its phonological, graphological and lexicogrammatical form
- is shaped by the diverse functions which phonology, graphology and lexico-
grammar play in the construction of discourse - spoken and written - in its social
contexts of use (Halliday 1994 [1985]; Matthiessen 1995). This claim has
entailed a shift away from the sentence-based units that characterized formal
grammars, which were mainly based on assumptions about written languages. It
has also meant a focus on the fundamentally dialogic nature oflanguage and on
the ways in which discourse contributes to and maintains a sense of the semiotic
wholeness and unity of particular discourse contexts. In so doing, systemic-
functional theory has helped to redefine what grammar itself is and does.
In this perspective, grammatical patterns and relations and grammatical
categories are seen as standing in an intrinsic and motivated relation with the
activity-structures in which the former are deployed and embedded. Thus, the
description of grammar and the description of meaning-making activity are seen
as commensurate - the one is responsive to and sensitive to the analytical and
descriptive requirements of the other. The relationship between the internal
organization of language form - e.g. its lexicogrammar - and meaning has led
Halliday and others working within the systemic-functional framework to
postulate the existence ofa small number of diverse functional regions known as
the metafunctions in order to explain the always fluid, dynamic, and contextu-
alized nature of the ways in which language forms relate to meaning in context.
What does the term 'rnetafunction' mean? Halliday (e.g. 1979) has proposed
that the content stratum of language - viz. its lexicogrammar and semantics - is
internally organized into three or four different kinds of very general functional
regions which are simultaneously interwoven and configured in the internal
organization of this stratum. He has glossed these as the experiential, interper-
INTRODUCTION 47
sonal, textual, and logical dimensions of linguistic meaning, respectively. There
have also been further developments and extensions of this principle with
respect to semiotic systems other than language (see ]ohnston 1992; Kress and
Van Leeuwen 1996; Lemke 1998; Thibault 1994, 2000b, 2001; Van Leeuwen
1999).
Experiential meaning interprets the phenomena of the world as categories of
experience, as configurations of, for example, clause-level process-types (actions,
events, states, and so on), the participants that take part in these, and the cir-
cumstances that may be attendant upon them. Experiential-meaning relations
are realized in the grammar as particulate or part-whole structures which are
based on the principle of constituency. Interpersonal meaning is concerned with
the grammatical resources for organizing language as interaction (c.f. speech
acts, dialogic moves), the expression of attitudinal and evaluative orientations
(modality), and the taking-up and negotiating of particular subjective positions
in discourse. Typically, interpersonal meaning is expressed by field-like prosodies
rather than particle-like segments. Textual meaning is concerned with the organ-
ization of language into semantically coherent text in relation to its context. It is
concerned with the distribution of information in text, continuity of reference,
and lexico-semantic cohesion. Textual meanings tend to be realized by wave-like
peaks of prominence. Logical meaning is concerned with relations of causal and
temporal interdependency between, say, clauses. Logical meanings are realized
by recursive structures which add one element to another so as to build up more
complex structures.
In the systemic-functional framework, the language system is a network of
value-creating relationships. The meta-grammar is a description of the pro-
portionalities, the paradigmatic systems of options, and the value-making
distinctions in and through which the resource systems (phonology and
lexicogrammar) for constructing texts are organized. Theory, then, is concerned
with how these realize, construct, and construe social reality. The grammar is a
resource - a meaning potential - for making meanings in and through texts,
which are produced and assembled in meaning-making activity. The grammar is
semantically oriented and internally organized along multifunctionallines, as in
Halliday's (l978a; 1979) metafunctional hypothesis. The relevant epistemology
is one of 'complexity': lexicogrammatical forms realize a complex interplay of
multiple semantic factors, aspects of which may be selectively foregrounded in
the real-time process of meaning-making, so as to construe some dimension of
material-phenomenal reality, which is being attended to in the process of social
interaction. The multiple strands of meaning potential in linguistic form eo-
occur in a subtle and indeterminate relationship of 'complementarity', which
can never be reduced to a single or determinate meaning on account of the
dynamic and open nature of the interacting functional semantic subsystems
involved. Systemic-functional linguistic theory provides useful guidelines as to
how the semiotic principle of value as first developed by Saussure (1993) can
be reconnected with an account of meaning-making activity (see section 11,
pp. 49-54).
By and large, systemic-functional theory has been seen as a socially based
semantic theory of lexicogrammar and its role in the construction of discourse
48 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
(see Halliday's 1978a notion oflanguage as a form of social semiotic; see also his
distinction between the 'intra-organism' and 'inter-organism' perspectives on
the study oflanguage in Halliday 1978: 10; see also Wells 1999: 10-11). Biological
discourses have not played a prominent role in the development of systemic-
functional theory (see, however, Halliday 1995; McKellar 1987, 1990; Lemke
2000a; Thibault 2000a). This may be due to the conviction - perfectly correct -
that social semiotic phenomena are not reducible to biological phenomena.
However, more recent developments in the theory of complex dynamic open
systems show the importance of developing a theory of social semiosis in which
the socio-cultural and the biological domains of inquiry are brought into a new
dialogue with each other (see also Wilson 1998). It is now becoming possible to
make a start in the process of building the theoretical bridges between the 'intra-
organism' and the 'inter-organism' perspectives on meaning-making activity
such that there is no contradiction or dichotomy between the two.
I define my own starting point in the present study as follows. The purpose of
language and other semiotic modalities is to guide and co-ordinate our interac-
tions with the non-self and to integrate us with our ecosocial environment across
space-time scales that go beyond the here-now scale of the biological organism's
material interactivity with its immediate physical environment. Given this
premise, it seems logical to say that the intrinsic organization of language has
evolved in the species (phylogenesis) and develops in the individual (ontogene-
sis) so that it cross-couples both with the biological architecture of the body-
brain system and with our ecosocial semiotic environment in ways that closely
relate to the kinds of social activities that humans perform and the meanings
they make in and through these activities. The functional and contextual basis
of systemic-functional theory will prove to be an ideal conceptual and analytical
tool for developing these links.
Rather than the frozen 'syntactic islands' that are studied by formal theories
of language, the emphasis here is on discourse as a form of activity that is richly
constrained by both society and culture, on the one hand, and by the language
system qua meaning-making resource and by the emerging constraints of a
particular discourse context, on the other (Halliday 1978a; Beaugrande 1997:
48). Rejecting the view that a universal grammar enables language users to
represent the world through relations of 'truthful' correspondence between the
syntactic forms of a language and an objectified external world, the importance
given in systemic-functional theory to the interpersonal and textual dimensions
of meaning in discursive activity, in addition to the experiential dimension,
draws attention to the role of discourse in mediating and enacting body-world
relations, rather than seeing language as a symbolic-referential means for
revealing and transmitting disembodied 'inner' thoughts, intentions, and
symbol tokens. The metafunctional basis of meaning-making activity and the
semiotic resources that are eo-deployed in discourse contexts therefore suggest
a number of parameters in terms of which both body-environment transactions
and body-brain functions are co-ordinated and organized without in any way
suggesting that either body-environment transactions or body-brain functions
are explanatorily or causally reducible to principles of semiotic organization or
formal structure per se.
INTRODUCTION 49
However, the emphasis suggested here does require us to take the intrinsic
organization of semiotic activity seriously not as an end itself, but as a guide to
the ways in which semiosis enables body-brains contextually to integrate with
their ecosocial environments across potentially very many different space-time
scales (see chapter 5). In this perspective, body-brain organization can be con-
ceptualized in terms of the way it affords possibilities for the contextual integra-
tion of persons into meaning-making activity, rather than in terms of putative
internal mental states and competences that 'cause' semiotic activity. The alter-
native is to remain in the old mentalist paradigm according to which language
and other semiotic modalities are, above all, formal windows on internal mental
states, rather than modes of embodied meaning-making activity-in-time which
directly contribute to the self-organization of neural processes at the same time
as the latter - neural processes - directly participate, on their own scalar level, in
semiotic processes, rather than lying behind these as the efficient causes of
semiotic activity. In this view, discourse, irrespective of the specific semiotic
modality or combination of modalities, is a dynamic, time-bound interface
between socio-cultural and material processes and constraints in the world and
the body-brain processes and functions that afford the production and reception
of vocalizations, gestures, and so on.
Moreover, the dialogical basis of all forms of meaning-making, including the
very earliest infant-parent dyads, suggests that meaning-making is inseparable
from the forms of semiosis that are specialized to the inner realm and usually
described in terms of a separate language of 'thought' and 'cognition'. As
Vygotsky has shown, interaction with others both precedes and guides and
shapes the transition to the forms of 'inner' dialogue that we conventionally call
'thought'.
11. Reconnecting the Semiotic Concept of Value to the Body-brain System
and to Meaning-making Activity
Saussure (e.g. 1993: 357-66) theorized the language system (la langue) as a
system of differences (see Thibault 2004b). The value of a given term in the
language system is defined in terms ofits differential relationships with the other
terms with which it contrasts in that system. The language system is a (de-
contextualized) system of differences, abstracted from actual uses of this system
in contexts. Saussure's theory was by and large eo-opted by structuralism. In the
structuralist view, there is no real place for time or for change. Structures are
unchanging and immanent potentialities that are not linked to real-time activity,
or to developmental and evolutionary processes on their timescales. They are
seen to pre-exist their manifestations in texts and social practices, rather than
being emergent properties of self-organizing processes on various timescales.
The alternative view that I put forward here seeks to connect the concept of
value with the theory of complex self-organizing dynamic open systems. Time
and activity are central to this account. In this account, the language system is
not a pre-existing code, but is emergent from the real-time meaning-making
activities that individuals engage in.
50 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
On the cultural level, a given language community displays considerable
diversity and variability in its patterns of meaning-making both on the individual
level as well as on the level of particular social groups and the heteroglossic
relations of alliance, cooperation, competition, conflict, co-optation, and so on,
among these. This diversity is manifested in the range of social meaning-making
practices and their distinctive discourse voices that constitute the system ofsocial
heteroglossia of a given community. A language system qua system of differential
values is an n-dimensional semantic space (Halliday 1991; 1992a: 30). Such a
space is a purely hypothetical region encompassing a very much wider range of
possibilities than those that are typically or actually used. The system of social
heteroglossia refers to the range of typical discourse voices and their associated
evaluative viewpoints, their relations of alliance and conflict with other voices in
the same community. Typically, the system of social heteroglossia activates only
some of the semantic regions of the n-dimensional semantic state space because
only some possible combinations from among the very many theoretically
possible ways actually get made and recognized in a given community. However,
a language system is always also embedded in a higher-scalar ecosocial semiotic
environment, which it in part constitutes. Changes in the ecosocial system - e.g.
changes in social institutions, social practices, heteroglossic alignments of
discourse voices, matter-energy flows, and so on - can lead to changes in the
attractor spaces of the language system of a given community.
Similar observations can be made concerning the individual level. In the
infant's semiotic development, the primordial richly interconnected network of
neurons is a very large state space which gets channelled along more specific
pathways and more specific functional differentiations in the course of its devel-
opment. As the infant engages in meaning-making activity with others, this rich
initial vagueness will, in time, shift to functionally more specific semantic
regions, depending on the type and the frequency of the various discourse expe-
riences that the infant participates in. Each individual has a unique trajectory
through this semiotic state space because individuals can occupy a range of
diverse semantic state spaces as well as adopt unique pathways for getting from
one to another. By the same token, individuals also converge on similar solutions
to the kinds of problems that they are required to resolve in their discursive
interactions with others. This convergence can be explained in terms of the
operations of constraints working on various levels: (1) the constraints of the
language system itself; (2) the constraints of the discourse genre or social-activity
type which is perceived to be in operation; (3) the constraints of the particular
situation or context as it emerges in real-time activity; (4) the constraints of the
specific meanings that participants are negotiating or think they are negotiating;
and (5) the constraints of individual experience and one's personal historical-
biographical trajectory. Rather than saying that a given grouping of individuals
'shares' an already pre-existing language system, it is more logical to say that
individuals are constrained by factors operating on various interrelated scalar
levels of organization - e.g. phylogenetic, ontogenetic, and semiogenetic - such
that they converge on solutions which are construed as being the same or similar
and, at the same time, there is considerable diversity and variability in the ways
in which they may arrive at these solutions.
INTRODUCTION 51
The differences that characterize a given language system are the semiotically
salient differences that are recognized and used by the members of a given
language community. It will be clear that I do not in any way assume that the
system of differences is identical or homogeneous for all the individuals who
make use of its resources. It is not therefore a uniformly 'shared' system. As an
abstraction, it refers to what some theoretical viewpoint constructs as the regular
and typical patterns of language that are recognized and used by a given set of
language users, however large or small this set may be. The system of differences
refers to the possible kinds of meanings that language users can make in the
various types of social contexts and social relationships which language is used to
enact and mediate. This system of possible kinds of meanings can then be
connected to the various ways in which meanings are actually made, in which
contexts, and by which social participants.
The system of differences that constitutes a given language system is not value-
free in a very non-trivial sense. The semiotically salient differences that are
recognized in a given language community are a system of typological-categorial
distinctions whereby the users of the resources of that system can orient to,
categorize, evaluate, act in, and interpret the world in and through their partic-
ipation in discourse. Rather than seeing the brain as a sort of digital computer
which operates on and manipulates abstract symbol strings inside individual
heads, the notion of value, as discussed here, shows how we can connect biology
and society in a conceptually unified way through the notion ofactivity. Both the
primitive, biologically intrinsic, pre-semiotic value biases in the newborn, as
discussed by Edelman (1992) and Thelen and Smith (1994), and the full-fledged
systems of ecosocial semiotic values characteristic of semiotic systems such as
language, gesture, facial expressions, depiction, and so on, afford ways of
orienting to, interpreting, and acting in one's material and social environments.
They do so in ways which are always dependent on activity in real-time. It is in
this way that prior, more primitive value biases afford access to more complex
discriminations in and through the time-bound activities that these values
motivate infants to engage in. This is where value connects with activity.
The activities in which the infant participates enable the child's engagement
with other persons, sounds, faces, texts, tools, artefacts, symbols, pictures, and so
on. These activities loop from the world to the child's intrinsic body-brain
dynamics in ways which shape and reorganize them. There are no symbols,
words, signs, texts, and so on, in the individual's head. Rather, symbols, words,
signs, and texts are dually semiotic-material artefacts that exist in the external
world - the ecosocial environment - by virtue of somatic or extra-somatic
processes of production and manipulation. It is their dual status as material and
semiotic artefacts which affords their integration both to the here-now scale of
body-brain activity and to other processes, activities, happenings, and so on, on
other space-time scales, beyond the here-now one of the text as material artefact.
In this way, semiotic-material artefacts such as texts are extra-somatic resources
that enable the participants in meaning-making activity to co-ordinate and
integrate their contributions to that activity. Texts qua semiotic-material artefacts
are functional components of a meaning-making (semiogenetic) trajectory that
extends from the organism's central nervous system through its bodily (sensori-
52 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
motor) activity and into its ecosocial environment and then loops back again to
the organism. Meaning-making is distributed among all the components of this
trajectory-in-time. Participants in meaning-making activity must lock into and
draw on the resources afforded by texts in order to co-ordinate their activities
across a diversity of space-time scales.
When Saussure points out, in his famous discussion of linguistic value, that
'the purely conceptual mass of our ideas, the mass separated from the language
system represents a sort of unformed cloud' (1993: 362), he is showing how a
system of typological-categorial differences - i.e. the terms and their values in a
given language system - emerge from and, in turn, reorganize and give more
specified meaning to the topological-eontinuous substrate ofwhat he calls 'ideas'
(see Thibault 1997a: 164-73). The principle ofvalue therefore has the potential
to contextualize the phenomena of human experience in and through the
system of semiotically salient differences that characterize a particular language
system. However, Saussure did not take the further step of showing how signs
contrast with each other in wayswhich also depend on the discourse contexts in
which they function in the making and negotiating of meanings in human life.
Saussure's observation is not unlike those made by Edelman and Kinsbourne
that the primitive state of the brain in the infant is a richly interconnected
network ofneurons that differentiates or 'crystallizes' into a more clearly defined
set of functional distinctions through processes of activation and entrainment of
neural networks into more highly specified functional sub-regions by virtue of
the initial value-biases that set these processes in motion in the first place.
Edelman showed that the values placed on early infant behaviour lead to
some activities being preferred rather than others. It is these biologically
intrinsic values which, in the first instance, motivate infants to attend to their
surroundings, to cry when some need has to be satisfied, to seek warmth, food,
and affection, to orient to and discriminate faces, to lock into and to engage with
adult meaning systems, and so on. Thus, babies attend to the faces, the sounds,
the movements of adult caretakers, in ways that enable them to integrate their
activities with those of more senior others. They do so, in the first instance, on
the basis of their sensori-motor capacities for interacting with and integrating
with their immediate material environment. The resulting dialogic closure
(BratenI992; Thibault 2000a) of the human dyads so formed leads, in time, to
the transformation of the infant's body-brain system and the building up of
increasingly more specified and differentiated semiotic takes on the world.
]ohnson and Morton (1991) have postulated that the initial value orientation
that infants have to faces is based on an initial discrimination between a number
of contrasting 'blobs', corresponding to the location of the mouth and eyes
(chapter 4, section 12, pp. 209-12; see also Thelen and Smith 1994: 315). This
primitive distinction is based, initially, on topological-continuous variation,
rather than on the typological-categorial distinctions of the kind that are found
in the lexicogrammar and semantics of natural languages. The discriminations
that the newborn begins to make are motivated in the first place by a value on
the infant's self-organizing activity such that the infant's intrinsic dynamics are
biased towards preferring to orient to his or her caretaker's face. This preferen-
tial bias occurs in synergy with the dynamics of other interacting subsystems such
INTRODUCTION 53
as, for example, the need - itself a value - to lock into and obtain information
from one's caretakers. The initial value bias discriminates between 'orienting to
faces' versus 'not orienting to faces'. In time, this leads to the further discrimi-
nation between the 'blobs' corresponding to the eyes and the 'blob' correspon-
ding to the mouth, and so on. These early primitive differentiations themselves
become the topological substrate for increasingly more complex and highly
specified differentiations whereby the faces of others serve not only to index
individual identity, but function as a complex semiotic system of facial expres-
sions involving many interacting subsystems, including, for example, the
position and movement of the eyebrows, the eyes, the mouth, the lips, the nose,
and so on. Each of these subsystems, along with the possible interactions among
them, as well as the interactions with other semiotic systems such as language,
means that the face is a semiotic-material artefact. It is capable of making a
complex set of semiotically salient distinctions that can be interpreted, both in
relation to other semiotic modalities and in relation to the overall situation in
which they occur, as having particular meanings. Adults smile and pull faces at
infants in ways that treat the baby as a full participant in the interactions between
them. They do so partly on the basis of the infant's own repertoire ofbehaviours
for eliciting responses from adults. Babies are thus entrained to the idea that
faces are an important source of information about the others' meanings,
including their intentions and feelings.
The complex systems of differentiations that can be made by the different
sub-regions of the face, both separately and in relation to each other, are
semiotic values - i.e. semiotically salient distinctions - which can be used both to
modulate and to orient to activity and to one's interpersonal engagements with
others. The initial value bias to orient to faces is biologically driven and is
founded on the intrinsic biological dynamics of the newborn. In time, however,
the increasingly complex range of discriminations that can be made by the face
in partnership with the child's increasing attunement to the potential signifi-
cance of these in discursive interaction entrains the system to a more highly
specified system of differentiations that has social semiotic significance in a
particular community.
The processes described here for the face are also relevant to the proto-
linguistic sounds that infants produce in their first nine months or so. In time,
the infant's vocalizations are entrained to the articulatory practices that subtend
the phonological system of a given language system. At the same time, they learn
to integrate the phonological units and structures of the language with its lexi-
cogrammatical and semantic structures in contextually relevant ways. The
infant's vocal-tract activity is a complex topological space that is capable of dis-
criminating, initially, a far wider range of phonetic distinctions than those that
are recognized by the system of phonological distinctions that are salient in a
given speech community. Through processes of mutual activation and entrain-
ment over time, the child's body-brain, and more particularly its vocal-tract
activity, is shaped so as to recognize and use a more limited set such that other
possible distinctions wane and fall into disuse.
The very primitive value biases that function to initiate and guide the infant's
earliest activities along some pathways rather than others can therefore be seen
54 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
as the vaguer, less specified precursors of the more highly differentiated and
more specified systems of distinctions that are characteristic of full-fledged
semiotic systems such as language. Following the logic of specification hierarchy
thinking (section 8, pp. 34-9), this does not mean that the earlier, vaguer, more
general stages are transcended as later, more specified ones emerge along the
individual's ontogenetic trajectory. Instead, the earlier stages are integrated to
and reorganized by the emergence of the later stages. The earlier stages can be
said to prepare the emergence of the later stages insofar as the earlier stages
constitute the substrate from which the later stages arise as newly emergent inter-
mediate levels of organization. Thus, the presence of the more specified later
level implicates the presence of the less specified earlier level, but not the reverse
(Salthe 1993: 64). The earliest, most primitive value-biases motivate the infant to
lock into and engage with the semiotic and material resources that are afforded
by both caretakers and the physical milieu such that their body-brains are
entrained along particular developmental trajectories.
The semiotic principle of value thus has the potential to contextualize and to
entrain both the body-brain and the world to its categories in and through the
system of semiotically salient differences that characterize a particular language
system. The concept of value, when reconnected with activity in the way
suggested here, is therefore an important component in an ecosocial semiotic
theory of how body-brain systems are contextually integrated with their ecosocial
environments.
12. A Thumbnail Sketch of the Book
The book is divided into three Parts. Part I consists of the general theoretical
overview that was presented above in the present chapter. Part II focuses on the
expression stratum - the phonetics and phonology - of spoken language in
order to explore the principle of scalar heterogeneity in semiotic systems.
Chapter 2 takes as its point of departure Hjelmslev's account of the stratified
nature of language as a semiotic system. In this chapter, Hjelmslev's insights
concerning the ways in which the expression stratum interfaces with and
construes the 'phonetico-physiological sphere of movement' (1961 [1943]: 54)
are explored. With reference to Lernke's (2000a) notion of 'scale heterogeneity'
or 'scale mixing' in ecosocial semiotic systems, Hjelmslev's seminal insights are
theoretically reconstituted in order to shed light on the ways in which the artic-
ulatory processes of the vocal tract in vocalization are cross-coupled with higher
scalar systems of meaning relations and practices on the ecosocial level.
Chapter 3 begins by considering the ways in which action and meaning
emerge from the time-dependent cross-eoupling of a diversity of systems on
different space-time scales. The Principle of Alternation (Lemke 1999) is
introduced and its implications for how the continuous topological variety of the
sounds produced at level L-I of the perceptual-motor activities involved in the
production and perceptual pick-up of speech sounds is reorganized and inter-
preted as discrete phonological categories at level L+I, corresponding to the
phonological system of a language. In chapter 3, I also explore the iconic,
INTRODUCTION 55
indexical, and symbolic dimensions of both the expression and content strata of
language. The cross-scalar nature of both expression and content is discussed in
terms of a nested specification hierarchy consisting of iconic, indexical, and
symbolic layers of organization. Edelman's (1992) account of the brain as a
selective recognition system which recategorizes sensori-motor routines as
conceptual ones is related to the cross-coupling of expression and content. In
turn, the above considerations are related to the ways in which individuals are
integrated to their semiotic trajectories by virtue of the ways in which diverse
timescales are integrated across expression and content.
The three chapters in Part III address different aspects of how brain processes
and functions relate to meaning-making on multiple timescales. In chapter 4, I
begin by rejecting the view that consciousness can be explained in terms of
lower-scalar neural processes per se. I critically discuss Terrence Deacon (1998
[1997]) on the relationship between subjective experience and brain processes
and begin to develop an alternative to the 'theory of mind' that is invoked by
Deacon (see also Shanker 1996). I propose that self-organization entails an
increase in a system's overall semiotic complexity and specification as a result of
the collection of the products produced by its own cascading. This proposal
prepares the ground for the central argument of this chapter, viz. consciousness
is a structured system of meanings involving all levels of the specification
hierarchy of iconic, indexical, and symbolic modalities of semiosis. It is in this
way that we organize our experience around a notion of the self along a
trajectory. The metafunctional character of semiosis is then related to the ways
in which the hemispherical organization of the brain itselfsuggests waysin which
the structure and dynamics of meaning-making are consistent with our neuro-
anatomical architecture without, however, being reduced to this. A further
important development in this chapter concerns the entropic character of
meaning. Using Salthe's (1993) theory of infodynamics as my starting point, I
suggest that the meaning which is stored along the individual agent's historical-
biographical trajectory increases as the trajectory develops and individuates. The
implications of this are further discussed in terms of developmental issues.
Chapter 5 takes up the issue of the metafunctional organization of semiosis by
suggesting that lexicogrammar is embodied in dynamical attractors or con-
strained pathways through the multidimensional semantic space that constitutes
higher-order consciousness. The question is posed as to how we can talk about
the temporal and spatial grounding of consciousness, its richly patterned con-
nectivity that implicates networks of relations across many diverse space-time
scales, and the sense ofbeing part ofand related to a wider social and perceptual
field of relations, which includes others. Some further developmental aspects of
this question are discussed in connection with the perceptual-motor phase of
categorization in the infant's earliest sensori-motor engagements with the world
in the work of Thelen and Smith (1994) and in Halliday's (1975, 1992a, 1993)
account of a child's transition from protolanguage to language. These discus-
sions prepare the ground for an extended discussion of the metafunctional
shape of consciousness in relation to Darnasio's (1999) theory of the relationship
between the experiencing self and the object of consciousness. The dialogical
basis of consciousness is also briefly discussed in relation to some connections
56 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
which I postulate between recent work on mirror neurons and interpersonal
meaning. The chapter concludes by extending these observations to inner
speech and its relationship to higher-order consciousness.
Chapter 6 begins by emphasizing the unity and continuity of the physical-
biological and the social-eultural dimensions of our existence. This initial
emphasis forms the backdrop for an extended discussion of Flohr's (1991)
theory of phenomenal awareness. Flohr is interested in overcoming the
prevailing dualism between the physical and phenomenal dimensions of brain
states. In my view, Flohr's description of 'activity-dependent self-organization of
neural nets' shows that contextualizing relations are relevant on the diverse
scales of neural organization that give rise to phenomenal awareness. The
principle of me ta-redundancy operates here as well. I then show that the
Principle of Alternation provides a further crucial perspective on the brain as
meaning-making organ. Thus, the transformation from discrete, local neural
firings to global configurations of neural networks on higher scales of brain
activity and the transformation of such global configurations to objects of
conscious experience within the brain constitute a semiotic transformation, such
that conscious experience emerges in the perspective of the self.
Part 11
Thispage intentionally left blank
2 Sensori-motor Activity, Movement, and
Social Meaning-making: Rethinking
the Expression Plane of Semiosis
I. Some Early Signposts from Saussure and Hjelmslev: The Expression
Plane as Embodied Articulatory Movement
Saussure's notion of the 'signifier' and Hjelmslev's concept of the 'expression
stratum' of semiosis have often been mistakenly interpreted as if they referred to
a carrier, vehicle, or medium that is distinct from the level of meaning. Phono-
logical or graphological forms, rather than contributing to the overall process of
meaning-making, are simply seen as the means for communicating a meaning
which is separate from them. Thus, form and meaning are dichotomized. In this
mistaken view, phonological and graphological forms are not considered to play
an active and constitutive role in the process of meaning-making. In some
accounts, they simply serve as the means for differentiating meaningful distinc-
tions in the morphology and syntax of the language in question; in others, they
are no more than the means of transmission of a meaning which is separate from
them. In both versions, form and meaning are separated. Furthermore, such
accounts, in virtue of a strict dichotomization of phonological form and
phonetic substance, fail to account for the ways in which material (e.g. bodily)
and semiotic processes and their dynamics necessarily intersect in semiosis.
In my view, both Saussure and Hjelmslev developed the beginnings of a very
different view, one which has to do with the ways in which material, bodily
processes and semiotic processes cross-couple and intersect in the dynamics of
social meaning-making. In so doing, the two kinds of processes may be said to
mutually determine the overall dynamics of the system. In this perspective, a very
different status is given to the expression plane of semiosis. Rather than postu-
lating the separation of 'form' and 'meaning', each on distinct levels, there are
constant and simultaneous transactions across all levels and in all directions -
from sensori-motor activity to perception to actions performed in the environ-
ment of the self. We act on and explore the world, we orient to others in and
through articulatory movements of our bodies, which bring about specific
matter-energy effects and consequences in the world, including our interactive
partners. In turn, the vocal-tract gestures that we articulate, the sounds that
result from these, and their cross-modal couplings with visual or other events in
the environment of the participants to discourse events produce reentrant
mappings onto the very bodily gestures that engendered these cross-modal
perceptions-cum-actions in the first place.
60 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Saussure's (1971 [1915]: 156--7;see also Thibault 1997a: 166--71) discussion of
the way in which language emerges between the two 'amorphous' or topological-
continuous substrates of 'sound' and 'thought' can be seen as an early attempt to
explain how language and other semiotic resource systems must reduce and
entrain the many degrees of freedom - the vague and indeterminate possibilities
- of both the bodily processes and dynamics involved in the articulation and
production of speech sounds and the stimulus information which the organism
picks up in its environment (Gibson 1986 [1979]: 55-7). Saussure put it like this:
The characteristic role of the language system [la langue] vis-a-vis thought is
not to create a material phonic means for the expression of ideas, but to serve
as the intermediary between thought and sound, so that their union neces-
sarily leads to the reciprocal delimitation ofunits. (Saussure 1971 [1915]: 156;
my translation)
B
In the first case, a given language system provides the phonological (or other)
resources whereby the initially vague or indeterminate potential of the muscles,
joints, and so on involved in vocal-tract or other motor functions are entrained
and categorized as co-ordinated and patterned bodily movements for the
purposes of dialogic interaction. This is the task of the stratum of the signifier
(Saussure) or the expression plane (Hjelmslev) of semiosis. Saussure makes it
quite clear that, in his view, the signifier is not simply a material carrier of a more
abstract and extracorporeal signified.
In the second case, the language system provides the lexicogrammatical and
semantic resources in and through which individuals construe the phenomena
of experience as a more determinate, though never fixed or unchanging, system
of semiotic categories. However, these are not two separate activities. Nor are
they on two distinct levels of abstraction. Saussure shows that language form
entails a 'reciprocal delimitation of units' in both 'sound' and 'thought.' In
acting as the intermediary or the interface between the two, language cross-
couples and synchronizes the bodily (articulatory) dynamics of the individual
with those of other individuals as well as with their shared Umwelt of perceptual
information, tools and other environmental affordances. I am using Cibson's
term perceptual information rather than the more physiologically based concept
of a perceptual stimulus because the former refers to environmental affordances
which act as material causes relative to the environment of the individual. A
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 61
perceptual stimulus, on the other hand, is an efficient cause insofar as the appli-
cation of energy will stimulate a receptor. However, a perceptual stimulus does
not specify any information about the source of the stimulus. As a material cause
relevant to the organism's behaviour, perceptual information is a relevant or
salient aspect of the environment with which the individual interacts in
meaningful ways.
In this Gibsonian framework, it is possible to re-interpret Saussure's distinc-
tion between 'sound' and 'thought' in the following terms. The semiotic
entraining of the body's many degrees of freedom, whereby the indeterminate
flux of sound is re-construed as articulate speech, is a way of putting the
individual into contact with relevant aspects of its ecosocial environment,
including his or her conspecifics. Articulate speech and other semiotically
entrained motor functions or gestures of all kinds constitute bodily activity
whereby socially shareable ways of interacting and integrating one's bodily
activity with others are projected into the environment. At the same time, indi-
viduals pick up relevant perceptual information by means of their perceptual
systems and then semiotically elaborate or re-construe this in their Innenwelt
according to the categories of their stored langue interieure: In the first instance,
this information provides indexical information about certain relevant aspects of
the environment, as perceived by the individual. However, the emergence of a
language system between 'sound' and 'thought' means that the indexical rela-
tionship of necessity between environmental events and their perceptual pick-up
is severed. That is, their semiotic re-eonstrual in and through the resources of a
shared language system is based on the fact that the individual's stored langue
interieure provides a means for both producing and interpreting such environ-
mental events as symbolic possibilities, rather than as indexical necessities
(Salthe 1993: 176). The existence of this capacity presupposes, of course, the
ability to recognize that other organisms also share the same system of symbolic
possibilities whereby environmental events are interpreted and acted on as signs,
rather than as indices of physical events per sein the here-now relation between
the organism and its immediate physical environment. In this way, the many
degrees of topological freedom of the phenomena of experience - cf. Saussure's
'thought' - are themselves entrained to the semiotic categories of a given
ecosocial system.
Thus, the sensori-motor functions of the body must be harnessed and co-
ordinated so as to cross-eouple with and function in relation to the extra-somatic
world of perceptual information. By the same token, the semiotic activity of
construing the world as meaningful 'content' must be cross-eoupled to and
matched up with the dynamics of the agent's bodily activity. If this were not the
case, then there would be no way in which body-brains could be co-ordinated
and synchronized through jointly made interaction procedures for the purpose
of social meaning-making. Furthermore, this co-ordination of body-brains shows
that motor activity, perception, and meaning-making are all of a piece - they are
all heterogeneous dimensions of the one overall self-organizing system in and
through which meanings are made in ecosocial space-time. As Saussure and
Hjlemslev understood, a language system entails the progressive differentiation
and entraining of both sensori-motor activity and its products ('sound') and the
62 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
phenomena of experience ('thought') to the categories of the expression and
content strata of a given language system (see Thibault I998a).
It makes little sense, then, to think in terms of the phonological realization per
se of a particular linguistic meaning, seen as existing on a different level of
conceptual or symbolic abstraction. Instead, there is a rich, on-line connectivity
between bodily articulation, the acoustic information which is projected into the
environment, and its correlations with objects, events, and so on, in other
sensory modalities such as the visual, the spatial, movement, and so on. This rich
connectivity suggests that a primary function of the signifier or expression
stratum of semiosis is the physical-material integration of multimodal perceptual
events into a more global meaning which constrains lower-levels. In other words,
the expression stratum both (1) indexes its connections with other sensori-
motor and perceptual events in other modalities and (2) affords possibilities of
its symbolic construal in virtue of its mediation by, for example, the lexicogram-
mar and semantics of language. In such a view, we may hypothesize that, for
example, audible vocal-tract gestures, facial movements, and manual-brachial
gestures are connected by re-entry such that the visual, auditory, and movement
systems, while independently mapped in the brain (Edelman 1989: 64-90), are
also mutually connected so that higher-order or me ta-level relations among
them emerge. These higher-order relations, however, do not simply face one way
- to the body of the articulator. They are both proprioceptive and exteroceptive
- they also face outwards to the world of the non-self. That is, emergent cross-
modal connections among sensori-motor activities are directed to and focused
on perceptual events in the purview of the participants in some occasion of inter-
action. This is where lexicogrammatical mediation comes in: in mediating the
cross-modal integration of sensori-motor activity and its indexical connections
with specific events in the world, the symbolic possibilities of lexicogrammar
massively expand and elaborate in culturally specific and shareable ways the
meaning-making potential of sensori-motor classification, and in ways that go
beyond the here-and-now of perceptual categorization per se (Edelman 1989:
187).
Salthe points out that models of complex systems 'change the rate at which
the processes we are modelling occur so as to bring them into line with our own
observation rates' (1993: 48). Insofar as language and other semiotic systems
model and construe the world, we can say that such systems are smaller-scale
models of the higher-scalar ecosocial system that we are embedded in. The
models of the world afforded by language and other semiotic modalities belong
to our own scale, i.e. the world in which we live and in relation to which we share
perspectives with others. Since the reference scale includes our own embodied
sensori-motor activities, this suggests, for example, that the phonological
entraining of vocal-tract gestures as a semiotically formed expression substance
is a means whereby the many degrees of freedom or difference - the vague and
indeterminate possibilities - of the bodily processes and dynamics involved in
the articulation and production of speech sounds constitute a means of bringing
the phenomenon which is modelled into line with our own embodied observa-
tion rates. Thus, factors such as intonation, rhythm, tempo, and syllabification
on the expression stratum entrain vocal-tract dynamics at the same time as they
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 63
construe the lexicogrammatical units and structures on the higher-level content
stratum. It is the latter stratum which, in turn, interfaces with the world so as to
construe the phenomena of experience in and through the semantic categories
provided by the language system. The content stratum thus construes the
phenomena of experience with which it interfaces as meaning. Halliday (I 992a)
points out that for meaning to be made there is necessarily a second interface -
viz. the expression stratum - whereby meaning as construed on the content
stratum is transduced into bodily processes of articulation. In Halliday's own
words, 'it is the transduction of the phenomenal back into the phenomenal via
these two interfaces of content and expression' (1992a: 22). The two 'outer'
faces of content substance and expression substance embody what Halliday calls
the 'contradiction between the material and the conscious' (1992a: 22). The
relationship of realization between the expression and content strata thus shows
how our semiotic models of the phenomena of experience are self-referentially
linked to the observational rates and dynamics of our own bodies.
The two outer faces of this relationship both work to complete or integrate
their respective lower-level phenomena. The expression stratum thus works to
complete the physiological activity of the vocal tract by entraining and integrat-
ing it into the meaningful categories of the phonological system of a given
language. Likewise, the content stratum integrates and completes the
phenomena of experience by placing them within some system of interpretance
such as a given language system so as to give them a meaning. Generally
speaking, the stratal organization of language is represented as a series of levels,
or strata, which are re cursively related to each other. However, this way of con-
ceptualizing stratification does not tell us how the system of relations between
strata is self-reflexively connected to the embodied agents who deploy the system
in discursive interaction. In other words, where is the language user situated with
respect to the (potentially) infinite regress of levels that the recursive nature of
the relations between levels involves? Given that stratification is always relative to
some system of interpretance, an agent can be said to constitute an interruption
or break in the recursive relations between strata (see Salthe 1993: 51). That is,
the agent is located between or interfaces with both the expression and content
strata, as shown in Table 2.1. The location of the agent between these two
interfaces thus constitutes a break or interruption in the stratified hierarchy of
recursive relations.
The agent's interfacing with the two strata of expression and content has two
main consequences. First, it provides a means whereby the agent is attuned to
the meaning-making resources of the higher-scalar ecosocial semiotic system.
That is, the agent is sensitive to the contextual constraints which emanate from
this level. Secondly, the agent has internal dynamics which buffer the system
from disturbances which would otherwise compromise, destroy or overwhelm it.
In this sense, an agent is said to be robust (Salthe 1993: 51; Juarrero 1999:
249-50). Thus, the agent maintains its structural integrity and its agentive deter-
minativeness - i.e. its embodied presence and agentive effects - in relation to the
system of relations in which it is embedded. This system of relations is itself
determined in and through the agent's interactions with other agents who share
the same perspectives and viewpoints in some system of interpretance. Agency is
64 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Table 2.1: The robustness of the agent and its interfacing with the expression and
content strata oflanguage
Content Purport Vague topological-continuous; many degrees of
difference
SOCIAL CONTEXT OF SITUATION
Content Substance
(construal of
phenomena of
experience in 'outer'
and 'inner' domains
Content Form
Field Tenor
DISCOURSE SEMANTICS
metafunctional interface
LEXICOGRAMMAR
(clause to morpheme)
Mode
Interface with the Domain of the Phenomena of Experience
~
SELF AS EMBODIED AGENT with its own internal dynamics
~
Interface with the Domain of the Body-brain
Expression Form PHONOLOGY
tone group
foot
syllable
phoneme
GRAPHOLOGY
paragraph
orthographic sentence
sub-sentence
orthographic word
grapheme
Expression Substance AUDITORY ACT
auditory perception
vocal tract articulation
VISUAL-GRAPHIC ACT
visual perception
hand-arm-joint-eye
kinaesthesis
Expression Purport Neuroanatomical, neurophysiological and
neuropsychological capacities of organism as initiating
conditions (material affordances) of semiosis
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 65
progressively revealed during the historical emergence of the individual in terms
of the way the agent interrupts and interfaces with both the expression and
content strata in semiosis. Agents individuate and have effects in meaning-
making activity by virtue of the ways in which both their bodies and the ecosocial
environment are mediated by the expression and content strata. Table 2.1
models the robustness of the agent in relation to the two strata of expression and
content.
Phonologically entrained and habituated vocal-tract gestures enact specific
trajectories in the ecosocial environment of speaker and listener. This is a result
of the history of the use of such gestures both on the scale of the individual
language user and that of an entire speech community. It is because of this
history that there has been reentrant mapping of specific gestures with specific
perceptions and categorizations of the world. These gestures are, then, more
thanjust body movements perse. As a result of the history of their use, they create
expectations which are based on an understanding of the correlations between
these and other events in the world. The continuous experience ofusing phono-
logically habituated vocal-tract gestures in relation to some classes of perception
and action rather than others leads to the emergence of stable attractors. Thus,
the same patterns of vocal-tract activity used by different speakers on many
different occasions will lead to the same kinds of consequences in the world -
approximately the same kind of awareness and categorization of objects, events,
and so on; the same kind of interactional routines; the same kinds of integration
of cross-modal correlations into our unified understanding of the resulting
whole as a socially stabilized meaning. There are no stored internal representa-
tions of external events in the world which are then matched with the former
and interpreted. Rather, patterns of socially entrained bodily activity are stable
attractors for the multimodal integration of events and actions, including
internal ones in 'thought', as emergent, context-specific occasions of social
meaning-making.
This requires us to take into account what Lemke (2000a: 181) has discussed
as 'scale heterogeneity or scale-mixing' in dynamic systems. In other words, the very
different scales of what Hjelmslev revealingly calls the 'phonetico-physiological
sphere of movement' (1961 [1943]: 54; my emphasis) in the vocal tract of the
speaker and higher-scalar ecosocial systems of meaning relations and practices
are strongly cross-coupled to each other. The cross-coupling of the two cuts
across and reveals the inadequacy of those views which artificially separate the
biological and social-cultural dimensions of meaning-making activity. Rather,
meaning-making activity emerges from the interaction in time of a wide variety
of diverse elements on different space-time scales. The cross-coupling of
expression and content is what makes this scalar heterogeneity - the continuity
of time scales - possible in meaning-making activity. Importantly, Hjelmslev, like
Saussure before him, also notes the fact that the expression plane of semiosis
functions in ways which are precisely analogous to the content plane. Typically,
there has been a division of labour between those sub-disciplines - phonetics
and phonology - which concentrate on the expression plane of spoken language
and those which focus on lexicogrammatical and semantic relations on the
content plane - semantics, grammar. Hjelmslev's approach grasps the necessary
66 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
unity of the two in an overall theory of meaning-making. However, this approach
has not been widely assimilated into mainstream thinking about language, which
continues to operate the divisions and consequent fragmentations of under-
standing mentioned above.
How do Hjelmslev's proposals help us develop a new way of thinking about
the role of the body in social meaning-making? Having defined content-form
and its relation to content-substance, Hjelmslev, following in the tracks already
laid down by Saussure (see above), then proceeds to investigate the precisely
analogous functions which expression-form (e.g. phonology) has in relation to
expression-substance (e.g. phonetics), as follows:
Just as, for example, the color zone or the morpheme zones are subdivided
differently in different languages in that each language has its own number of
color words, its own number of numbers, its own number of tenses, etc., so we
can also disclose, by subtraction from a comparison oflanguages, zones in the
phonetic sphere which are subdivided differently in different languages. We
can, for example, think of a phonetico-physiological sphere of movement,
which can ofcourse be represented as spatialized in different dimensions, and
which can be presented as an unanalyzed but analyzable continuum - for
example on the basis ofJespersen's system of 'antalphabetic' formulze. In such
an amorphous zone are arbitrarily included in different languages a different
number of figurze (phonemes) since the boundaries are laid down in
different places within the continuum. An example is the continuum made by
the median profile of the roof of the mouth, from the pharynx to the lips. In
familiar languages this zone is usually divided into three areas, a back k-area,
a middle z-area, and a front ?area. If we consider only the stops, however,
Eskimo and Lettish, among others, distinguish two k-areas, whose lines of
division do not coincide in the two languages. Eskimo places the boundary
between a uvular and a velar area, Lettish between a velar and a velo-palatal
area. (Hjelmslev 1961 [1943]: 54-5)
It is clear on a close reading that Hjelmslev's 'unanalyzed but analyzable
continuum' refers to the 'phonetico-physiological sphere of movement' of the
organs of speech in the vocal tract. This 'expression-purport' - cf. Saussure's
'sound' - is defined in terms of 'spatialized' or topological parameters in which
difference is perceived in quantitative or analogue terms as, for example, more
or less degrees of intensity rather than in terms of discrete, digital categories.
Therefore, the epithet 'amorphous' must be taken to refer to the analogue or
topological-continuous character of this 'unanalyzed' continuum before the
entraining effects of a specific system of typological-eategorical semiotic possi-
bilities. It is the typological-eategorical distinctions of expression-form - e.g. the
phonology of a given language - which add new emergent properties to the
topological parameters of the phonetico-physiological sphere of movement by
'laying down', as Hjelmslev puts it, 'different places within the continuum' as
phonologically salient configurations of vocal-tract movements or gestures. For
Hjelmslev, the language system does not exist sui generis. Rather, it exists insofar
as it is a resource for acting on and intervening in physical-material and social
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 67
reality. Ordinarily, this is taken to refer to the world which we perceive through
our senses and which is selectively transduced by the symbolic categories of
content-form as a content-substance. However, as Hjelmslev shows, this affirma-
tion applies equally to both the content and the expression planes of linguistic
organization. Hjelmslev explains this last, most fundamental point as follows:
That a sign is a sign for something means that the content-form of a sign can
subsume that something as a content-substance. Just as we felt before a need
to use the word purport, not simply of the content, but also of the expression,
so here again, in the interest of clarity, despite the time-honoured concepts
whose shortcomings now become increasingly evident, we feel a desire to
invert the sign-orientation: actually we should be able to say with precisely the
same right that a sign is a sign for an expression-substance. The sound
sequence [nu] itself, as a unique phenomenon, pronounced hic et nunc, is an
entity of expression-substance which, by virtue of the sign and only by virtue
thereof, is ordered to an expression-form and classified under it together with
various other entities of expression-substance (other possible pronunciations,
by other persons or on other occasions, of the same sign).
The sign is, then - paradoxical as it may seem - a sign for a content-
substance and a sign for an expression-substance. It is in this sense that the
sign can be said to be a sign for something. On the other hand, we see no
justification for calling the sign a sign merely for the content-substance, or
(what nobody has thought of, to be sure) merely for the expression-substance.
The sign is a two-sided entity, with a Janus-like perspective in two directions,
and with effect in two respects: 'outwards' toward the expression-substance
and 'inwards' toward the content-substance. (Hjelmslev 1961 [1943]: 57-8)
If content-form functions semiotically to construe the phenomena of the world
- real, imagined, hypothetical, it does not matter - as instantiations of the
categories which belong to content-form, i.e. as a content-substance, then, as
Hjelmslev argues, exactly the same reasoning also applies to the phonetico-
physiological movements of the vocal tract. These, too, are entrained,
channelled, and categorized as a language-specific expression-substance
according to the typological-eategorical parameters of some expression-form
(phonology, graphology, ete.). In the final analysis, the language system is not
detached from the physical-material reality to which it 'refers' on both sides of
its internal organization. Rather, it is, through a long process of eo-evolution,
derived from it. This is so both from the point of view of the way in which
expression-form interfaces with the kinetic processes of the body and its tech-
nological extensions, and from the point of view of the way in which content-
form interfaces with the perceived phenomena of the world we live in. Rather
than say, for example, that the kinetic or articulatory movements of the vocal
tract and the system of phonological categories are two distinct scalar levels, we
can say that there is a high degree of eo-evolved heterogeneity or intersection
between them. Bodily processes are mediated and entrained by the possibilities
afforded by the system itself. In other words, bodily processes are shaped by and
adapted to a given ecosocial system both systemically and instantially.
68 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
2. Energy Exchange and the Complementarity of Interacting Body-brains
The relationship between vocal-tract gestures and the phonology of a given
language is not a private or individual matter which refers uniquely to the body
of the single speaker. Instead, it is a collective and ecosocial one. The emergence
of a semiotically formed expression-substance means that the gestural potential
of the body becomes standardized and, hence, reproducible across many
different occasions and social agents. It also means that possible bodily gestures
may be hypothesized and their correspondence with actual bodily states may
then be corroborated. From the evolutionary perspective, the first possibility
arises as a result of the second: the standardization of bodily movements and
gestures occurred on the basis of a perspective which goes beyond the
individual's body per se. Thus, the emergence of a socially shared expression-
substance is the semiotic-material resource which (1) integrates a multiplicity of
individual bodies into the social body of shared bodily dispositions, movements,
etc. by construing and entraining these articulatory movements in standardized
ways; and (2) affords the possibility of dialogic interaction among them. These
two possibilities arise from the fact that semiotically formed expression-substance
emerges from and is tied to the body of the user at the same time as it is system-
ically harnessed and channelled so as to co-ordinate intentionally directed
dialogic interaction with others.
However, this intentionality of the 'individual' body does not in itself
constitute the meaning-making act. The intentionality of the meaning-making
body expresses the selective focusing of the system's resources on the specific act
ofmeaning-making; yet, the systemic possibilities for meaning-making exist inde-
pendently of the specific act. That is, at high-scalar levels of ecosocial organiza-
tion at the same time that they speak through the individual act and give form
to it. This 'giving form' to bodily kinetics as semiotically formed expression-
substance is always intersubjective rather than subjective in character. It is always
formed with a view to (1) mutually synchronizing and co-ordinating bodies for
the purposes of dialogic interaction; and (2) selectively fixing the attention of
these body-brains on some aspect of the world which is semiotically construed
and exchanged in the act of meaning-making. It follows that gestural activity
always 'faces two ways': (l) to the body of the articulator insofar as it is the artic-
ulation of subjective, embodied feeling states, and so on; and (2) to the body of
the interlocutor - the other - insofar as the gesturer's own body is constituted as
an 'object' which affords possible dialogic interaction with and for the other.
This 'facing two ways' of human gestural activity rests on a very general
relation of complementarity between the parties to the interaction. That is, the
reciprocal and dialogic orientation of the two interactants is based, in the first
instance, on the fact that bodily movements release energy into the environment
of the organism. This entails a change in both the gesturer and a corresponding,
though by no means identical, change in the interlocutor. In this way, the par-
ticipants to some meaning-making act impact upon and bring about change in
each other. The release of energy by one or the other of participants to the inter-
action is mediated by the constraining effects of a system of interpretance which
connects the participants both to each other as well as to the world which they
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 69
share, i.e. to relevant aspects of their environment - their Umwelten - and their
selective internalizations of this as their respective Innenwelten. In such a view, the
individual's lang;ue interieure, as Saussure called it, is rightfully restored as consti-
tuting possibilities for action and interaction with others relative to a shared
ecosocial environment. Thus, signs are assembled in the Innenwelt from the
resources of one's stored langue interieure and then projected into the environ-
ment as possibilities for social interaction with others. The reciprocal and
dialogic orientation of the participants is, then, subordinated to the forming of
an emergent, higher-order metastable complex such as, at the very least, an
interactive dyad. This occurs on the basis of standardized and reproducible
patterns of bodily movement whereby the reciprocal orientation of the partici-
pants emerges and is distinguishable from the analog flux of Saussure's pre-
semiotic 'amorphous nebula' (1971 [1915]: 155-6). That is, semiotically
entrained body movement transforms the coming together of body-brains in
interaction into a process of the selective and adaptive modification of the one
in relation to the other. In the midst of the indeterminate - indifferent? - flux
of things in general, the body-brains reciprocally engaged in meaning-making
selectively orient to each other for the purposes of enacting their jointly made
meaning-making activity. Bodily movement is, then, at the basis of the matter-
energy exchanges which make semiosis possible. Insofar as such movement
conforms to a semiotically formed 'expression-substance', as Hjelmslev would
put it, this means that the semiotically formed and entrained movements of
participant A are perceived as being complementary to those of participant B.
The newly emergent semiotic properties consequently alter and entrain the
prior topological dynamics of the interacting biological organisms along socially
organized lines.
3. The Stratified Model of Semiosis: The Problem of Conceptual
Abstractness and Scalar Homogeneity
Typically, the stratum of expression-form is considered to be 'below' that of
content-form. In other words, lexicogrammar (morphosyntax) and semantics
are assumed to be strata which are 'above' that of the 'lower' level of expression-
form (phonology, graphology, etc.), as shown in Table 2.2.
According to proponents of the stratified view of semiosis, each stratum has
minimal units which are specific to that stratum. These combine to form larger
Table 2.2: Stratified model oflang;uage, showing vertical hierarchy ofdifferent levels of
abstraction
Semantics
CONTENT FORM
Lexicogrammar
Phonology; graphology EXPRESSION FORM
70 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
structures which are specific to that stratum. The minimal unit of phonology is
the phoneme; that of lexicogrammar the morpheme; and the sememe in the
case of the semantic stratum. The relationship between strata is seen as a two-way
realizatory one. This means, for example, that the sequence of phonemes /k<et/
realizes the lexicogrammatical word 'cat', which in turn realizes the semantic
unit [THING; ANIMATE; FELINE]. This encoding perspective may be reversed
in the sense that the semantic unit [THING; ANIMATE; FELINE] is realized by
the lexicogrammatical unit 'cat', which is, in its turn, realized by the sequence of
phonemes /k<et/. That is, the relationship of realization is a two-way and sym-
metrical one at all levels. The notion of stratification designates a system of
nested levels (strata) that continue in both directions from some focal level. The
units and the relations these enter into at any given level are parts which are
nested in larger wholes which are usually described in terms of a hierarchy of
nested constituent units. Further, the relations across levels, or strata, are seen as
indirect in the sense that the relations on anyone level do not directly affect
those on other levels. For example, there is not for the most part a direct rela-
tionship between phonology and lexicogrammar. In this way, the integrity and
the scalar homogeneity of the units and their relations on any given scalar level
are preserved in the prevailing structuralist reading of the ways in which the
various strata are related to each other (SaIthe 1993: 45; Lemke 2000a). In my
view, the structuralist attribution of scalar homogeneity to what are, in actual
fact, radically scalar heterogeneous relations among the diverse levels of
relations involved can be explained as follows. Typically, the stratified character
of linguistic semiosis is treated as a formal system in its own right, rather than
being seen as the means whereby body-brain and ecosocial system are cross-
coupled in ways which enable the continuity and the seamlessness of the diverse
timescales that are implicated in the concept of scalar heterogeneity.
In such a view, the tendency is to describe the 'lower' stratum of the
expression plane as a medium for the 'expression' or the 'encoding' of a
meaning or content on the higher strata of lexicogrammar and semantics. In
part, this arises from the tendency to describe the relations among the various
strata as a series ofvertically organized levels ranging from 'higher' to 'lower' or
from more abstract to less abstract. For example, systemic-functional linguistic
theory distinguishes three symbolic orders of abstraction - viz. in descending
order of abstraction, semantics, lexicogrammar, and phonology/graphology - in
this sense with respect to language (see for example Davidse 1992: 108 for
further discussion of the systemic-functional perspective; see also Whitson 1997,
esp. 125-8 for a critique of'conceptual abstractness'). Thus, semantics is realized
by lexicogrammar and lexicogrammar is realized by phonology/graphology. In
this view, phonology and graphology are seen as a resource for realizing more
abstract lexicogrammatical forms as spoken sounds or written notation. The
problem with this view is that the more abstract lexicogrammar and semantics
are still seen as transcendent with respect to the embodied 'lower'-level activities
of vocal-tract or other articulatory movement. Yet this view does not, properly
speaking, show how the expression plane of phonology or graphology also looks
two ways. It does not tell us how phonology, say, specifies and construes what
Hjelmslev had called the 'phonetico-physiological movements' of the speaker's
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 71
vocal-tract gestures. What, then, is the relationship of phonology to bodily
dynamics? I shall now discuss this question in the following paragraph. As
we shall see, the alternative allows us to see that meaning-making emerges
directly from embodied activities. It is not a second-order happenstance or
epiphenomenon.
If, on the other hand, the expression plane is related directly to bodily
movement and activity, it is possible to conceive of this relationship in a quite
different way. In this alternative view, A's vocal-tract or other gestural activity is
sensori-motor activity which is meaningful for B in the sense that it brings about
a complementary change in B. That is, A's body movements constitute a specific
material action which intervenes in and exchanges energy with its environment,
of which A and B are constituent parts (chapter 1, section 8, pp. 34-9). Further,
this bodily action and its corresponding exchange of energy are in some sense
organized and oriented by A's relationship to B (i.e., the non-self, the environ-
ment, the other). This means that patterns of vocal-tract and other gestural
activity qua expression plane depend on their context-specific, moment-to-
moment mappings to the external world. It is in the first instance this exchange
of energy which establishes the possibility of a reciprocal, dialogical contact
between A and B. Moreover, this energy exchange is itself socially organized and
directed in ways which allow participants to access and to orient to specific
socially defined situations.
In this view, form is not something which is separate from matter. Instead,
semiotic forms supervene in and organize physical-material, including bodily,
states and dynamics for the purposes of social meaning-making. When we say
that the sensori-motor movements and actions of A and B are organized in
relation to each other, this means that these bodily movements are structured
and formed in relation to each other, though always in virtue of some higher-
order system ofinterpretance (cf. Peircean thirdness), C. It is C which provides
A and B with a shared system of resources for jointly contextualized acts of
meaning-making. Thus, form is not something which carries a particular
content. I would say, instead, that the recognition of form arises as a conse-
quence of specific matter-energy exchanges between A and B. This means that
form is itself a material state as it is interpreted by another material state in
relation to some higher-order principle, C, which links A and B to each other.
Thus, meaning-making is the process whereby A and B, through their eo-
deployment of material and semiotic resources, texts, environmental affor-
dances, and so on, act on and bring about socially relevant change both in each
other and in their Umwelt.
Vocal-tract and other forms of gestural activity are a means of acting on and
exploring the Umwelt, including the other persons with whom one interacts.
These embodied and socially entrained patterns of movement bring about
changes in the world of the non-self (the other) that we can perceive. It is our
perception of the consequences of these material transactions with the Umwelt
and the reentrant mapping (Edelman 1989) of these perceptions onto the
material activity itself which allow semiotic values to be assigned to classes of
patterned bodily movement. It is important to emphasize here that such change
may refer to the reorganization of neural maps in the brain, the selective
72 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
attending to some object, event, etc. in the material purview of A and B, making
some perceptual experience or categorization semiotically salient, a change of
embodied feeling state, sensori-motor activity, and so on. This does not means
that A and B change in identical ways. The point is that meaning-making is not
localizeable in the textual records and products of such exchanges, but must be
explained in terms of the dynamics ofwhat A and B do to themselves and to each
other in and through such externalized resources. Texts perseare not the same
as meaning-making. I would say, instead, that they are the socially organized
products and records of our meaning-making activity (Lemke 1984a: 78-80;
Thibault 1991a: chapters 2-4, 1994).
4. Blackboxing the Sensori-motor Dimension: Language Seen as Modality-
independent Centralized Processing Mechanism
Many linguists' conceptions of language rarely make contact with the neuro-
physiological, sensori-motor and actional dimension of language as eo-
articulated bodily movement or gesture in ecosocial space-time. Many accounts
of language in linguists, philosophy, and psychology are based on the notion that
language primarily functions to alter the thinking or the consciousness perseof
the other. There is correspondingly less attention given to the ways in which
language functions dialogically to organize and co-ordinate the sensori-motor
and feeling states of the bodies of those who engage in social semiosis. Typically,
the sensori-motor dimension has been seen in a somewhat restricted way as the
province of the usually highly technical subdisciplines of phonetics and
phonology.
Over the past decade, there have been interesting developments which have
seen a new convergence of the insights of the two subdisciplines. Nevertheless,
linguists have been slow to rethink the question as to the waysin which meanings
map onto the sensori-motor and actional dimensions of bodily movement or
articulation (see, however, Armstrong et al. 1995). In part, this is due to the
tendency to view language in mechanistic and formal terms as a bottom-up
assemblage of parts into larger wholes. That is, language is viewed as a kind of
machine in which the parts are treated as regularities which have to be explained
in relation to deterministic rules, seen as efficient and/or formal causes. This
sort of reductionist analysis leads to black boxes in which language 'behaviour',
motor activity, and so on, are explained in terms of central programs in which
either (1) all the spatio-temporal details of articulation are already contained in
the program or (2) there is a referent signal or goal-state in terms of which the
current behaviour of the system is compared and appropriate instructions are
issued. The first of these corresponds to the AI model of computer program-
ming; the second to the cybernetic model. The search for black boxes leads to
the postulation of internal mechanisms per sefor the generation of linguistic
behaviour or for the vocal-tract activity which produces articulate speech sounds.
In other words, the sole burden of this causal-explanatory framework is placed
on lower-scalar mechanisms which are seen as internal to the mind or the brain
of the individual organism. There is little or no accounting for the higher-scalar
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 73
levels of, for example, the ecosocial system in which such behaviour takes place
and in relation to which it has the meanings it does.
This view may also lead to the conclusion that the 'formal' structure of a
language is not required to change 'when "translated" from one modality to
another', as Marshall (1980: 277) puts it. In Marshall's view, syntax is formal and
autonomous in accordance with the Chomskyan tradition. Thus, Marshall argues
that the '(peripheral) medium imposes no constraints upon the (central)
syntactic structure of messages' (1980: 276). The latter is autonomous with
respect to the former and is in no way shaped by it. In other words, sound and
visual images are the physical medium of language, but that understanding
language has little or nothing to do with understanding the physical character-
istics of the peripheral activities which realized it. Marshall's claims are premised
on the view that there is a language faculty which is constrained by universal
principles and parameters which are independent of sensori-motor modality of
execution and reception. Even allowing for the observed fact that language and
gesture are co-ordinated when people interact with each other, Marshall
concludes that this is due to 'some central mechanism that keeps mouth and
body working together to the same communicative ends' (1980: 284). Marshall's
argument is a species of downwards reductionism to lower-scalar causal
mechanisms which are blackboxed and located in the mind or brain of the
individual. One problem with such a view is that it fails to explain that modality-
specific interactional dynamics are shaped by the activity as it unfolds in
ecosocial space-time and that particular semiotic modalities have eo-evolved
through their joint use in the making and interpreting of particular social
occasions of meaning-making by embodied social agents.
In effect, Marshall's argument is representative of that species of view
according to which that which needs to be explained in socio-cultural activity is
located at the level of the individual biological organism. Thus, meaning-making
activity is a mere secondary happenstance - cf. performance - which does not
significantly impinge on the structure and functioning of semiotic forms. In
other words, there are no significant constraints from higher-scalar levels than
that of the individual body-brain complex. There is nothing which might suggest
how ecosocial factors have contributed to the emergence of meaning-making
activity and its structure and function as an intermediate scalar level which links
the individual body-brain to the ecosocial environment of which the individual
is a constituent and functioning part. The notion of a central processing and
governing mechanism for the co-ordination of 'talk' and 'gesture' assumes a
Cartesian-Euclidean-Newtonian model of the world. That is, a unique and
absolute space-time in an objective world which is represented in the brain
independently of human action and movement.
Yet, sensori-motor processes are oriented to action in task-specific ways. The
combining of various sensori-motor modalities of action is not controlled by a
single principle of the Cartesian-Euclidean-Newtonian type. Instead, diverse
sensori-motor modalities may be variably cross-coupled in the production of a
movement which is directed towards a specific goal. The various sensori-motor
subsystems and their neural substrates are local with respect to their integration
into some more global corporeal schema. Rather than universal and absolute
74 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
frames of reference which are independent of bodily experience, this suggests
that these subsystems may be differentially integrated according to such factors
as the dynamics of the specific occasion of meaning-making and the semiotic
modalities used, the memories of previous interactions which are accumulated
in the individual body in the unfolding of a specific historical-biographical
trajectory, and socio-cultural habitus and dispositions resulting from class,
ethnic, gender, generational, and other factors.
In my view, the notion of a central controlling mechanism simply serves as an
alibi for not explaining the real complexity of the body-brain complex whenever
we engage in social meaning-making with others. Rather than the static and
reductive model ofa central controlling mechanism, we shall need to explore the
complex, adaptive, and open nature of the relations between sensori-motor
modalities, psychological intentions, and social meanings. We shall need to focus
on the dynamic and changing relations between the body-brain and its ecosocial
environments in the processes of meaning-making. As a first step, let us reflect on
the distinction that Marshall makes between 'talk' and 'gesture', as discussed
above. This distinction results from the attempt to understand higher cognitive
functions by privileging an autonomous language faculty as the seat of human
reasoning. It has its origins in the Cartesian view oflanguage as a uniquely human
faculty of reasoning which separates us from the other animals (see Shanker 1998
for an impressive critique). In recent decades, this has lead to a view of the brain
as a central processor and governing principle. The brain so conceived is based
on the computation of symbol strings in which cognition is seen both as tran-
scending its neuroanatomical substrate and as being the sole property of the
individual. The resulting separation of mind and brain and of individual from
ecosocial environment serves to recapitulate the Cartesian dualistic separation of
mind and body: I think therefore I float free of my material body!
What Marshall's distinction between 'talk' and 'gesture' fails to heed is that
both are sensori-motor activities of the body. Both are based on the command
and control of bodily movements and the inertia and other forces which are
opposed to these in the media (e.g. air, water) and surfaces (the ground)
through and/or over which we move (Berthoz 1997: 9). The degrees of freedom
of the two movements are reciprocally constrained together over the entire body-
brain complex acting in its ecosocial context. In other words, the body-brain
complex encounters 'friction' or resistance in the world with which it interacts
(see Volosinov 1983: 116; Salthe 1993: 97-9; Thibault 1995: 81-3 for further
discussion of the notion of semiotic friction). This friction or resistance, in order
to be overcome, or otherwise productively harnessed, requires that work -
physical and/or semiotic - be done. Thus, talk and gesture are not independent
faculties or bodily actions which are co-ordinated by some central mechanism. It
is not the case that the person talks and gestures. Instead, he or she engages in
a single overall activity of the body-brain-in-its-ecosocial-environment. This
means that the body-brain complex reconstructs and anticipates this brain-body-
environment-movement relation as a single overall action through the
harnessing and co-ordination of many kinaesthetic receptors (Berthoz 1997: 11).
These derive simultaneously from the sensory receptors associated with vocal-
tract activity and hand-arm-joint-body kinaesthesis.
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 75
The coherence I have just referred to derives from the embodied sense of
congruence between the various sources of sensori-motor information and the
action schema which are stored in memory, and which enable the body-brain to
predict the consequences of its actions in relation to the environment. Moreover,
this sense of congruence is not simply a moment-to-moment feeling state, but is
constituted by the history of the body's transactions with its environment both
on the scale of the historical-biographical time of the individual and the yet
more extended time-space scale of the accumulated history of such interactions
in the life of a given social body. The many degrees of freedom of movement of
the body's sensori-motor systems are regulated and constrained so as to produce
relatively few degrees of freedom in the form of co-ordinated actions or
sequences of actions. Such actions are always in response to friction or resistance
- the secondness - that are incurred whenever the organism is required to focus
and harness its available energy in response to some environmental event which
offers resistance to the organism's completion of some goal or purpose (Salthe
1993: 99). Thus, gestures harness available energy in some situation by means of
the regulation of degrees of freedom of movement of the skeletomuscular
systems in the service ofsome intention, need or purpose. All movement is, then,
oriented to some generalized principle of otherness - cf. the non-self - which is
the purposeful outcome of the body work - semiotic and material - that is
carried out.
5. The Intentional Character of 'Inner' and 'Outer' Sensori-motor Activity:
Towards a Unified Account
The fact that internalized motor images of movement may be activated irrespec-
tive of whether the movement is physically executed or not shows that the brain
can simulate and, hence, predict a movement without actually performing it
(Berthoz 1997: 36). It is the motor dimension of linguistic activity which acts on
and produces the peripheral (e.g. auditory and articulatory) sensations. Further,
this motor dimension is intentionally directed or focused. This means that
language activity is not primarily or only a matter of the transduction of
peripheral perceptual and articulatory events by the brain. Rather, internalized
motor routines act on and influence auditory and perceptual sensations. I think
this is what Langacker means when he argues that both the auditory and articu-
latory facets of speech sounds are 'conceptual':
Even the articulatory facets of speech sounds are properly regarded as
conceptual, in the broad sense in which I understand this term. Consider the
segment [i]. From the perceptual standpoint, speakers can deal with this
sound in either of two ways: they can actually hear the sound as a stimulus-
driven perceptual event, or they can simply imagine hearing it, i.e. they can
activate an auditory image of it (as in silent verbal thought). Moreover, the
auditory image is plausibly taken as primary, in the sense that it is used to
categorize acoustic input as an instance of this particular sound. Exactly
analogous observations can be made about the articulatory representation of
76 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
[i]. A speaker can actually implement the articulatory routine and produce
the sound, or he can simply imagine implementing it, i.e. he can mentally run
through the motor routine without this mental activity being translated into
muscular gestures. Once again the cognitive representation is primary, in the
sense that it directs the motor sequence but can also occur autonomously.
(LangackerI987: 78-9)
This position reverses the view according to which our perception of sensory
stimuli is primary for the organization of action. Instead, it recognizes the very
central role of internalized action schemata in the organization of perception.
From this point ofview, internalized schemata for movement and language - cf.
Saussure's langue interieure - are but two specific cases of the notion of action
schema. Auditory, articulatory and other sensory images are neural events which
may occur without the sensory stimulation of a receptor organ. When this is so,
they are no less instantial to their schemata than are those which are evoked by
the peripheral stimulation of receptor organs. The same basic principle also
applies to articulation.
We can for this reason speak, as does Langacker, of mentally 'directing and
executing the act of throwing a ball or articulating a certain speech sound'
(1987: 112) without the execution of a motor response such that the internalized
motor image of these events is not translated into muscular (gestural) activity.
Even in the case of inner speech, there is internally simulated cross-modal
linking of the movement of the vocal organs with their linguistic meaning as well
as between the external actions of the agent and objects and events, and so on
that are perceived by visual, haptic, auditory or other means in the stimulus
array. In my view, these observations show that gestural activity ofall kinds cannot
be reductively considered as mere responses to external stimulations. Instead,
they are internalized action schemata which are a function ofthe goals and plans
of the agent who actively engages with his/her environment. Rather than
responding to environmental stimuli, (internalized) gestural (movement)
schemata - cf. auditory, motor, and other sensory images - are a means of
actively constituting and orienting to the ecosocial space-time of human inter-
action. This space-time is actively constituted by the gestural and other bodily
movements of social agents as a function of their own projects.
The above observations call into question the distinction between the sensory
and the motor: an internalized sensory - e.g. auditory or motor - image may be
used to elicit either a peripheral response or internal neural activity which is not
peripherally connected. The same neural structures are used for 'imagined'
gestures as well as for peripherally executed ones. In this way, sensory images
show how the brain has a fundamentally predictive function. Sensory images
show how the brain takes up and enacts orientations in the world even before
the body carries out the designated movement. Mental imagery is implicated in
the possibility of not executing a certain gesture. In this way,it provides schemata
for orienting the body in the world and for the internal simulation of
movements, bodily orientations as a means of modulating bodily movements in
response to social meanings. However, the notion of sensory imagery does not
presuppose a dichotomy between 'autonomous' and 'peripheral' or between
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 77
'imaginary' and 'executed' movement. The one always implicates the other;
execution implies internal simulation (Berthoz 1997: 232). To perceive one's
body in the world is to imagine the actions which implicate its use.
6. The Symbolic Possibilities of Bodily Movement
Salthe (1993: 97) discusses how the secondness offriction, from the point ofview
of the production of a specific phenomenon - thought, in his example - may be
the energy required 'just to keep the neurons alive, because that is only
indirectly relevant (because at a lower-scalar level) to the product of interest
(here, ideas).' Friction requires the productive focusing of energy to obtain the
right relations between means and end. By the same token, the energy
consumed is greater than that which is productively focused on for the
attainment of the desired goal. The regulation of degrees of movement in
the production of vocal and other gestural activity means that only some of the
energy consumed by the brain-body is construed as semiotically salient activity
relative to an observer. Such an observer, from our social semiotic perspective, is
physically, biologically and semiotically constrained. It is in this way that we can
distinguish the meaningful from the meaningless in the body's articulation of a
particular (semiotic) project. Thus, some movements (e.g. vocal-tract gestures)
are more strongly cross-coupled to the symbolic possibilities of lexicogrammar
whereas others are more weakly cross-eoupled. Relative to an observer perspec-
tive, the expression plane construes, entrains, and motivates the neurophysiology
of body movement as symbolic possibilities for social meaning-making without,
however, transcending the materiality of the body.
It is important to insist on the symbolic possibilities of bodily movements.
Symbolic meaning is not inherent in the movement or gesture per se. Rather,
social agents harness the meaning-making possibilities of the body in the service
of their own projects. Yet, the body is not a passive medium through which
meanings are transmitted to others. The body does not only transmit a force or
energy to another body, though it also does this (section 7, pp. 78--81). This
would reduce meaning-making to indexical necessity. Symbolic possibility means
that others take up and transform the articulatory labour of my body and rework
it according to their own projects. In the process, the symbolic possibilities of
bodies are continually modified by others who take up and adapt these possibil-
ities for their own purposes. Somatic resources for meaning-making, as distinct
from extrasomatic resources, maximally foreground difference, negotiation, and
instability (Iedema 1997: 11, 108ff., 222). They are the raw materials out ofwhich
social agents fashion the techniques whereby bodies are harnessed and
entrained for the purpose of creating and perhaps sustaining associations with
other bodies. In this way,as Latour has shown, the social body is a contingent and
constantly remade result of the harnessing of such somatic resources for the
forming of associations with others (1986: 277). Such associations may be as
fleeting as a single dyadic exchange between two individuals or as seemingly
enduring as the millions of associations which sustain the social body itself on
much larger space-time scales.
78 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
The semiotic phenomenon of language is not reducible to some privileged
bio-physical or mental parameter of explanation. This view fails to explain that
human language is an ecosocial semiotic phenomenon which transcends any
modality-specific physical manifestation such as speech sounds, written notation,
Braille, or manual-brachial signing. By the same token, I pointed out in section 4
above, pp. 72-5, this does not mean that these specific modalities reduce to a
question of the physical medium of language without also contributing to the
architecture and functioning of language. At the same time, language is not
reducible to physical modality per se because any such reduction would fail to
account for the higher levels of linguistic organization, viz. its lexicogrammar, its
semantics, and its discourse-level principles of organization. As Merleau-Ponty
points out, without the (human) intention of 'orienting oneself in relation to the
possible, to the mediate, and not in relation to a limited milieu; ...' (1983 [1942]:
176), there would be no phenomenon oflanguage. There can be no reduction to
the bio-physical principles ofvocal-tract or other articulation without losing sight
of the factors addressed by Merleau-Ponty. Furthermore, the fact of the diverse,
modality-specific physical manifestations of language means that language can be
reduced to no single physical principle of organization. Nor, on the other hand,
can language be reduced to some disembodied, modality-independent central
controlling mechanism. This latter view assumes that language is somehow above
embodied human experience and action in the world.
Instead, I posit that linguistic and other meaning-making activity cannot be
seen as unified either by some mono-modal principle - e.g. spoken vs. written,
visual vs. verbal, etc. - or by domain-specific controlling mechanisms. Rather, it
emerges from the interaction of heterogeneous elements in the real-time of
human activity. That is, there is no single, homogeneous or unified thing called
linguistic, visual or any other form of semiosis. As a form of human intentional
activity, language makes both the reality we live in and itself in and through the
dynamic and interacting interplay of many factors and resources - perceptual,
actional, material, semiotic. Without this form of intentional action, there would
be no language. In this perspective, language functions as a higher-order
constraint or boundary condition which allows symmetry-breaking relative to an
observer perspective to occur. The mediating and categorical functions of
language discussed by Merleau-Ponty integrate the environment into the
Innenwelt of the organism.
7. Articulatory Movement Seen as Actional Semiotic, Not Physical
Behaviour
What if both language and movement may be viewed as having both an articula-
tory and a semantic stratum of organization, i.e. an expression and a content
stratum? Typically, language and movement are not seen as being commensurate
in this way. Yet movement, like language, may also be treated as involving a
realizatory relationship between the semantic and bio-kinematic strata or levels
of organization. Until recently, the theory of movement has remained bereft of
a grammatical and semantic description. Recently, Radan Martinec (1998,2000)
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 79
has re-explored this problem using the analytical tools and insights of systemic-
functional linguistics. This lifts movement out of the realm of mere physical
behaviour and shows that the formal organization of movement is, gram-
matically and semantically, probably just as rich and complex as that found in
language.
For example, Martinec shows that movement has a rich experiential semantics
and grammar describable in terms of configurations of a semantic Process, the
Participant(s) in the process, and the attendant Circumstance(s). In this way,
movement is an actional semiotic rather than physical behaviour per se. Like the
transitivity system of language, movement is revealed to be describable as a
system of semiotically salient differences in which categories of movement are
distinguished as the various act-types, event-types, state-types which operate in
various contexts of human action. In other words, movement, like language,
operates in specific contexts for the fulfilment of specific individual and social
purposes and intentions. Human movement is dually a semiotic-discursive and
physical-material actional resource for organizing and carrying out our
responses to specific problems and situations in the human Umwelt. Further,
movement as actional semiotic is functionally organized in ways which relate it
to its environments. The cross-coupling of movement and environment mutually
constrain each other.
Seen 'from below', the spatio-temporal articulation of motor activities on the
expression plane is not controlled by a single central governing or causal
principle. Articulation is not homogeneous in this sense. Instead, articulation is
heterogeneous: the bio-kinematic activities which realize a given action are
distributed over many interacting subsystems. This is true of both movement-
as-action and movement-as-vocalization or vocal-tract activity in speaking. The
principle of distributed (not centralized) control means that many different
degrees of freedom in Bernstein's (1967) sense may be harnessed and eo-
deployed to achieve a common, overall purpose. By the same token, the same
degree of freedom may be used on different occasions and in different ways to
achieve different, local purposes or intentions. There is, in other words, a
synergistic entraining of many different subsystems, seen as independent
variables. No single subsystem (e.g. muscle linkage) on a lower-scalar level such
as the articulatory or expression level of movement can bring about change on
some higher, semantic level of organization. If movement, like language,
involves higher-order boundary conditions or constraints of a social semiotic
nature, this means that the lower-level articulatory stratum and the subsystems
that synergistically operate on this level are amplified in ways that are functional
according to the semantics of social interaction rather than to physical or
biological principles per se.
Different principles of muscle linkage comprise an equivalence class not
because they all have the same degree of freedom, but because they realize the
same actional semantics. This means that the physical movement potential of
the body is constrained by factors which are not uniquely physical and
biological (Berthoz 1997: 231-2). To be sure, the actional semiotic of human
movement emerges from biological systems just as these in turn emerge
from physical ones. Yet, there is also what Salthe (1993: 213) refers to as the
80 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
supervenience of, say, the specifically social semiotic level of human action and
intention. There would, in other words, be no significant effects on bio-
mechanical processes deriving from the social semiotic level. This may be
explained with reference to a discussion in Armstrong et al. (1995: 223)
concerning the origin and evolution of language. These authors divide theories
of the origin and evolution of language into two broad categories. In the first
category, language is seen as 'evolving slowly out of precursors in the commu-
nication systems common to the primates' (Armstrong et at. 1995: 223). The
view that language derived from prior, gestural forms of communication in the
primates belongs in this category. In the second category, a radical break is
postulated between language and other communication systems. This is the
neo-Cartesian view of, for example, Chomsky (e.g. 1965, 1976) and followers.
Armstrong et al. discuss this phenomenon in terms of historical emergence.
This is consistent with the Darwinian perspective that these researchers assume.
Alternatively, I shall borrow and adapt for my purposes Salthe's (1993: 214-15)
notion of developmental emergence as a means of bridging the gap between
higher-order social semiotic boundary conditions and the bio-physical processes
these constrain and entrain.
The emergence of language and other social semiotic resource systems
represents, from the evolutionary point of view, a new level of organization
which is intermediate between the body-brain complex of the biological
individual and the precursor ecosocial system that this is a part of. It is the
expression plane which interfaces between the sensori-motor potential of the
body-brain complex and the higher-scalar level of the ecosystem. It is possible to
conceive of a proto-semiotic evolutionary phase when the relations between our
ancestral precursors were mediated by no more than proximate bodily activities.
With the emergence of the intermediate level of social semiosis, the body-brain
complex is increasingly regulated by its integration into the higher-scalar level of
the social semiotic system. Its capacity to engage with distal environmental events
on diverse space-time scales beyond the here-now scale is correspondingly
enhanced. The newly emergent expression plane of semiosis integrates with
sensori-motor processes of the body-brain complex. In the process, it both
channels and directs these in ways which go beyond the requirements of neuro-
physiological functions per se at the same time as these are connected to a
still-higher-scalar level - the content plane - whereby the lower level of
bio-kinematics of the body as construed and directed by the expression plane
can be interpreted in relation to a still wider discourse of social meanings and
practices. This shows that there was no prior existing code or system of signs
which constituted the intermediate level of organization between body-brain and
environment. The system is itself a historically evolving artefact which is, in time,
constructed as signs are made and standardized in and through the micro-
encounters between embodied individuals in specific niches of their potentially
expanding Umwelt. The latter is the accumulated result of that which is trans-
formed from pre-semiotic indifference into semiotically salient and ecosocially
relevant difference. The emergence of a system of signs is the history of the
stabilization of the many signifying acts which in time come to be mediated
through the emergent thirdness of the system.
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 81
It does not matter whether sensori-matter activity is simulated or imagined, as
in inner speech, or peripherally executed as in audible speech sounds. The same
neural structures underpin both forms of sensori-motor activity. Inner speech is
still internally simulated motor and hence gestural activity even though this
activity is not peripherally executed. Thus, the brain may 'imagine' or simulate
inner speech precisely because the motor activity may be inhibited at different
levels without, however, suppressing the closed loops in which such activity is
simulated (Berthoz 1997: 230). The point is that inner speech is still gestural
activity which the 'speaker' performs even though the motor systems responsible
for the peripheral execution of the skeletomuscular systems of vocal-tract-lip-
mouth-face-skin kinaesthesis are inhibited.
8. Inner and Outer Body States and Social Semiosis
The issues discussed in the previous section raise questions about the 'etc.'
function, the unspoken, the background, and so on, which have to do with all
those material and bodily processes that defy categorical specification in a
semiotic system of typological-categorial differences per se. As I indicated in
chapter 1 (section 5, pp. 23-6), any such limitation of our inquiry to the
typological-categorial is a restriction on the notion of semiosis which needs to be
lifted so that we can take on board a much wider set of phenomenal states and
processes and their cross-couplings with the semiotic. How does one talk about
the 'inner' visual experience of reading a poem, for instance? Some hints are
provided by the earlier work on synaesthesia, but we can probably go further.
The kind of experience I am referring to would be a non-linguistic order of
contextualization 'above' the denotative level of the linguistic text - a type of
non-linguistic 'connotative' semiotic. Needless to say, more work needs to be
done on how this is established. Is the evocation of visual imagery when one
reads the poem an attempt to create or invent a multimodal coherence for
integrating in (internalized) space-time the experience of reading the text? That
is, is it a higher-order ('connotative') contextualization which functions to find
a solution to the problems of local coherence posed by the text? In this way, the
visual imagery which is internally stimulated and experienced in the silent
reading of a poem would be seen as internally stimulated perceptions at very
abstract cortical levels whose function is to provide solutions to sensori-motor
incongruities and incoherences - the 'inexplicable swarm and equivocal
generation of motions in our own brains', as Coleridge (1967: 77) expresses it-
which the text generates. The work of Shepard (1984) is suggestive in this
regard. I would say that problems of this kind only foreground what is in fact a
more general phenomenon whenever we read a text of any kind.
Reading is an activity which requires the space-time integration of the reader
with the text. It is an ecosocial activity even though (1) physical movement is
slight, being limited, perhaps, to the scanning by the eyes of the written notation
on the page and the turning of pages by means of a synergy of hand-arm-joint-
eye kinaesthesis; (2) it is often 'silent' and contemplative insofar as one does not
read aloud either to oneself or to others; and (3) much of the reading activity
82 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
takes place on the basis of internalized sensori-motor activity and resulting
imagery. But silent reading is no less a multimodal and embodied ecosystemic
activity than is, for example, the activity of talking aloud. From the point ofview
of internalized sensori-motor activity, we know from modern neurophysiology
and neuropsychology that a cooperative synergy of sensori-motor modalities is
harnessed for the purposes of the space-time integration of participants in some
ecosocial act of meaning-making. These entail a multiplicity of complementary
corporeal schemata which may be combined and associated in many context-
specific ways for the purposes of such integration. There are, I suggest, non-
linguistic modalities - visual, for example - of 'inner' semiosis which are relevant
here. They are, I think, specialized deployments of the same 'outer' resources we
use in talking, depiction, movement, and so on. Again we see the principle,
discussed above, that simulated inner movement cross-couples with other
perceptual and semiotic modalities and helps to guide the emergence of inner
semiotic activity.
There are, then, different levels of organization - neural, sensori-motor, bio-
kinematic, expression form - each with its own scale of physical size and rate of
change. Each in turn is both regulated by the level(s) above it and at the same
time regulating the levels below it. In this perspective, there is no abstract central
programme or mechanism which must then be translated into muscular
movement, and so on. Instead, the four levels of organization mentioned above
are organized into larger-scale 'synergies' (Bernstein 1967) which are mutually
regulating at all levels. As Salthe (1993: 48-9) puts it, the higher-scalar levels in
part 'complete' or 'integrate' the lower ones by conferring on them a local
meaning which they would not have on their own, Thus, neural activity is
integrated with sensori-motor activity which is integrated with skeletomuscular
kinaesthesis, which is integrated with the semiotic categories (phonological,
graphological, etc.) of some expression form.
The processes of integration described here reflect the interdependence
between the topological-continuous properties of the lower-level bio-physical
processes and the typological-categorical properties of the expression plane in
relation to these. The latter are based on discrete contrasts. Lemke (2000a: 203)
points out that the typologizing properties of semiosis tend to spread or cascade
throughout the world, invading the world with semiotic categories, particularly
when harnessed to some artefact which enhances their use. However, no such
process can ever completely exhaust the meaning-making potential of the
topological substrate, i.e. the bio-physical dynamics of the body in human social
interaction.
As I shall argue below, the metafunctional hypothesis provides a wayof talking
about the various dimensions along which both the typological-categorical and
the topological-continuous are integrated with each other from the point ofview
of the expression plane. Thus, the bio-physical kinematics of the body are not
read or interpreted in exclusively typological-categorial terms. The body-in-itself
is noumenal or pre-semiotic until it is construed as meaningful by some inter-
preter. This means that there is a relationship of complementarity between this
bio-physical semiotic potential and the interpreter who reads it. In itself this
potential is, so to speak, indifferent and depends on a socio-cultural interpreter
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 83
and system of interpretation which can harness and direct its thermodynamic
matter-energy flows in socially relevant ways.
9. The Semiotic Mediation and Entraining of Embodied Bio-kinematic
Potential
As I said earlier, the expression plane is also integrated with the content plane of
semiosis. In the case of language, this means its lexicogrammar and semantics.
An expression without a content is a contradiction in terms and no sign-making
can take place in the absence of one or the other of these levels of semiosis. The
content stratum is a higher-order level which further completes or integrates the
expression stratum. The lexicogrammatical mediation and integration of, say,
speech sounds means that the bio-kinematic interface is partially integrated with
a system of interpretance which links embodied socially shareable meanings to
the wider ecosocial system and its interpretation. By the same token, the lower-
level interface between the body and the expression plane is not simply
completed by the higher-level content stratum, but is also a model of it. This
helps us to see more clearly that the expression plane is itself metafunctionally
organized (see section 12, pp. 90-4).
From the point of view of articulation, we have seen how the bio-kinematics
of the body are brought into play in order to realize a given act-type. In the
present perspective, this may, indifferently, refer to vocal-tract activity in the act
of speaking or limb, muscular and other systems which I use in order to carry an
object across the room. In both cases, the proximate bodily activities of respira-
tion, muscular and other activity in the vocal tract, visible lip and other facial
movements (in the case of speaking) and the interplay of anatomical (muscles,
nerves, limbs, bones, joints) and time-bound constraints that selectively modify
degrees of freedom of movement according to a trajectory in the case of
locomotion provide lower-level constraints - 'from below' - which are the
system's initiating conditions (Salthe 1993: 214). It is the interaction of the two
sets of constraints - time-dependent or dynamical and time-independent -
which allows the system to anticipate further possibilities and, hence, to act in
determinate contexts.
Thus, the lower scalar level of the body-brain bears the corporeal traces - the
.memories - of previous social interaction (Threadgold 1997: 97-103). These
memories serve both to maintain the overall stability of the system in the face of
external fluctuations and to provide internal models of the body and its relations
to its Umwelt (Berthoz 1997: 7). In this sense, individual organisms have a
repertoire of movement schemata which are activated and deployed according
to the dynamical requirements of the movement as it takes place in time and
space. Salthe makes the further point that such models or schemata '... are
lower-level to the organism as a whole, and certainly their dynamics are vastly
faster than the environmental dynamics they could be relevant to, thereby
allowing anticipation of environmental changes' (1993: 215). Rather than saying
that movement is physical, whereas language is cognitive or psychological, we
may see how both movement and language are forms of actional semiotic which
84 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
directly mediate and entrain the lower-level bio-kinematic systems which are
their expression planes.
However, the expression plane is not an objective or ostensive domain in the
reductively Newtonian sense. Instead, it specifies the bio-kinematic potential of
bodily synergies to be harnessed and channelled in specific directions for the
purposes of social meaning-making. This means, in other words, that the neuro-
physiological and motor activities that are variously involved in both movement
and speaking are constrained by higher-order boundary conditions, acting as a
system of context-sensitive constraints on the activities of lower levels. In this
way, a potentially very large number of degrees of freedom of movement
are channelled into a relatively small repertoire of gestures which exhibit
structural stability from one occasion to another in spite of many situation and
performance-specific variations in their use. Furthermore, rather than postulat-
ing more and more layers offormal constraints to explain this as in much phono-
logical theory, it is possible to describe a much more direct relationship between
motor activity and its mediation by lexicogrammar and semantics. This brings
about the possibility of a new rapprochement between the bio-physical and the
social semiotic dimensions of language and other modalities of social semiosis,
Thus, bio-physical systems are dynamic, open and adaptive systems that engage
in constant exchanges of matter and energy with their environments. They are
also comprised of nonlinearly related internal subsystems that may stochastically
fluctuate. This leads to a transformation to some new global structure when the
internal dynamics of the system are coupled to, for example, a critical change in
energy flow. The emergence of a new global structure marks a corresponding
reduction in the degrees of freedom of the system's internal dynamics. Further,
the corresponding increase in stored information means that the informational
cross-coupling potential of the many subsystems comprising its motor activity
potential are reduced.
According to homeokinetic theory (Kelso et al. 1986), this transformation
from a high-energy source to a low-energy sink functions to stabilize the system
as an ensemble of nonlinear oscillators. This means that the main organizing
principle underlying motor activity is that of rhythmical periodicity. Motor
activity and the articulatory forms that emerge from this are shaped by the bio-
kinetics ofweakly coupled oscillators of varying periodicities, Furthermore, vocal
and other forms of articulatory activity are describable in terms of nested cycles
of rhythmic periodicities on many different timescales which mutually model
and entrain each other.
In the case of speech, it is the breath group or the tone group (Trager and
Smith 1951; Halliday 1967a; Laver 1970: 68-70; Lieberman 1984: 118-20;
Edelman 1989: 174-5; Coulthard 1992) which is the primary unit responsible for
the regulation of the energy which is stored, released, and dissipated in
phonation. The breath-group theory proposes that the articulatory cycle is
organized by grouping around six or seven syllables on average into complete
expirations which are further characterized by having pauses at their boundaries
(Laver 1970: 68). As Halliday and Coulthard, among others, have shown, these
tone-group or breath-group boundaries, which are organized in terms of
a respiratory cycle, are functional in the organization of spoken discourse into
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 85
units of information. That is, bodily processes are both integrated into and
mediated by lexicogrammatical and discourse semantic factors on the content
stratum (see also sections 13 and 14, pp. 94-100). The following short analysis
serves to illustrate the structure of the tone group. Following Coulthard (1992),
tone units' boundaries are marked by a double slash; the tonic segment is in
upper case:
Dion: / / what's he SPILLT it / / alREADy?
/ / look at the MESS / / PAUL / / you're gonna have to CLEAN UP / / in
HERE / / it's a PIG STY / /
Paul: / / it is RATHer a PIG STY / /
/Dion: / YES / / WELL / / it's YOUR ANimal / /
The breath group is the major phonological unit which carries both intonation
and rhythmic periodicity. Lieberman points out that rhythmic periodicity
'follows from the fact that we can generate a steady subglottal air pressure
function throughout most of the expiration' (Lieberman 1984: 119). It is
necessary, as Lieberman (1984: 119) further points out, that this subglottal air
pressure be stabilized in order to avoid 'uncontrolled variations in perceived
pitch and amplitude'. Neonates are unable to achieve this degree of control
when they cry because of their inability to control the fundamental frequency of
phonation during the cry. At the age of around three months children begin to
learn to control 'their subglottal air function throughout the duration of the
expiratory phase' (Lieberman 1984: 119). This occurs as the infant becomes
more attuned to the intonational and rhythmic regularities in the ambient
speech of parents and other caretakers.
For example, Vihman and de Boysson-Bardies (1994; see also Vihman 1991)
have shown that phonological structure is an emergent effect of the dynamic
interaction of many different factors on different scales - the neuromotor and
perceptual systems, individual experience with language, and the ambient
linguistic influences of caretakers and others. The child acquires new habits as
the stored information in this newly emergent level increases. In this way, the
child's motor activity is entrained to and becomes more specialized to the
requirements of a given phonological system.
But I do not see this process as one of learning abstract and formal phono-
logical rules. Rather, I see it as one principle among others for constructing
those global and potentially shareable principles of coherence which allow us to
dialogically co-ordinate our bodily activities with those of others. Thus, a phono-
logical system is a system of categorial, rhythmic and other regularities in the
speech practices of some community which, as seen from the expression plane
point of view, synchronize both peripheral and imagined speech motor activities
with those of the other or the non-self - real or imagined - in the Umwelt. It is a
means of harnessing friction to productive semiotic ends. This occurs against a
bodily background of those primal vagaries and indexical necessities that are not
86 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
assimilable to the symbolic purpose to hand. In this way, meaningful bodily
movement - vocal-tract activity, manual-brachial gestures, etc. - always entails a
constant interplay of the regular and the surprising. The latter interferes with
the predictability and stability of the former, in the process contributing to our
sense of pleasure in movement based on the interplay of these two elements.
However, this process of integrating the vagaries of the child's immature
motor activity to the supervenient level of the adult phonological system does
not mean that prior, non-phonological dimensions of articulation are altogether
transcended (Salthe 1993: 213). In phonation, the breath group functions as a
motor schema whereby the brain simulates and predicts vocal-tract activity
before execution takes place. It is in this sense that Laver (1970: 68) writes of
'anticipatory adjustments in articulation'. The basic schema thus comprises an
articulatory movement sometimes bounded by pauses, and in which there is one
prominent syllable characterized by a major change in pitch in intonation.
Typically, there is also a fall in fundamental frequency and amplitude at the end
of the breath group, though this tendency may contrast with a rising pattern at
the end of the breath group (Lieberrnan 1984: 130).
The breath group is an articulatory prosody. It is a prime candidate for what
Carol Fowler (1986: 5), following in the tradition of Gibson's ecological theory
of event perception, calls an environmental event. Such events are sources of
environmental information which can stimulate the perceptual systems of the
perceiver. They have 'affordances' or possibilities of interaction with the
perceiver. In the case of speech, the environmental event is the vocal-tract
gestural activity of the speaker.
10. Metafunctional Diversity on the Expression Plane
In this section, I shall explore the possibility that the expression plane of
semiosis, no less than the content plane, is organized metafunctionally. The
metafunctional explanation oflanguage form was briefly outlined in chapter 1,
section 10, pp. 46--9.
In my view, there are analogues of experiential, interpersonal, textual, and
logical organization and meaning on the expression plane. That is, correspon-
ding principles of metafunctional diversification operate on the expression
stratum in relation to the topological-eontinuous substrate of the articulatory
dynamics of the body which these entrain and construe as expression-substance.
I am treating the expression plane as a class of physical-material events which are
constrained by the sensori-motor and perceptual activities of interactants as well
as being motivated by and mediated by higher-order social semiotic factors,
expression-form (phonology, etc.) in the first instance. Rather than the abstract
formalisms of much phonological theory, with its emphasis on levels of formal
rules and the psychological reality of these, a metafunctional description of the
expression stratum of semiosis must account for the ways in which the expression
stratum interfaces with and construes bio-kinernatic phenomena of the human
body in interaction with other bodies on various intersecting scales of space-
time. Thus, it would need to account for phenomena such as the following: (1)
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 87
the spatial displacement along a vector-in-time of the articulators in order to
achieve specific co-ordinate structures or gestures and the phonemes, syllables,
etc. that these articulate; (2) the ways in which modulated rates of change (in
pitch, rhythm, movement, and so on) 'index' feeling states, physical sensations,
and so on of the body; (3) the ways in which sensori-motor activities, respiration,
muscular activity, limb movement, etc. are harnessed and entrained as body work
which is directed towards the making of socially shared signifying acts in con-
textually relevant and coherent ways; (4) the waysin which such bodily events are
recognized as having social semiotic significance by others.
There are a number of distinctive ways in which the expression plane consti-
tutes the interface between body and ecosocial environment. I shall develop this
point in the next section. I shall return to the question of the metafunctional
organization of the expression plane in section 12.
11. The Expression Plane is the Interface between Body and Ecosocial
Environment
The notion of the expression plane ofsemiosis as the interface between the body
and its environment obviates the traditional split between an objective physical
dimension and a subjective sensori-motor dimension. The fact that the
expression plane 'faces both ways' - i.e. towards the body and towards the envi-
ronment - itself provides the solution to this problem. Thus, from the point of
view of both articulation and perception/reception, the expression plane is an
ecological event which links or cross-couples the body-brain complex to its envi-
ronment (Thibault 1997a: 158-60). There is, then, no objective input to the
organism which is proportional to its behavioural output. Instead, information
in the environment of the organism is always relative to the organism. This helps
to break down the antinomy between expression-substance (e.g. phonetics) and
expression form (e.g. phonology) (see Petitot-Cocorda 1985: 97-102). As an
interface between body and environment, the expression plane plays a much
more constructive role than that of mere information transfer between an
organism and its outside. In actual fact, it is a more highly specified (social
semiotic) elaboration of the biological principle that organisms selectively and
actively attend to their environments on the basis of their own internal, bio-
physical organization. As an interface between body-brain and environment, the
expression plane construes a relation of 'correspondence' between the two. It is
a concrete demonstration of the principle that the organism corresponds 'func-
tionally and morphologically' (Prodi 1987: 2; see also Bateson 1973a: 285-91;
Gibson 1986 [1979]: 8) to its surroundings. In the process, the organism
modifies the environment in virtue of its active and dialogic engagement with it.
It also modifies its own internal organization. Rather than a transfer of informa-
tion from organism to environment (articulation) or from environment to
organism (perception), there is a continual process of 'translation'. For
example, a smell or odour in the environment will, when detected by the
receptor cells in the nose, provoke a chemical change in these same receptor
cells of the organism.
88 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
The construal of an expression-substance in and through its correlative
expression form means that an ecological event such as an articulatory act and
its reception is always a translation into symbolic signs of the indices of environ-
mental events. There is no necessary or causal relationship between the physical
stimuli and the internal changes these bring about in the organism. For this
reason, the relationship between the two is one of symbolic transduction rather
than information transfer (Salthe 1993: 17&-7). The environmental information
afforded by the articulatory event function as indexes of that event. However, the
existence of shared models of the world or systems of interpretance which are
stored in the central nervous system of the organism constitutes the resource
whereby interactants use and construe these environmental indices for higher-
order symbolic purposes which are not tied to indexical necessities. These
symbolic resources are stored in the body-brain complex as schemata which not
only interpret information from the environment (perception) but also
functions as the models for predicting future actions and their consequences in
the environment as well as acting in it. In part, they do so on the basis of the
stored memories of the past consequences of such actions. In this sense, the
schemata regulate the sensori-motor activities which project indexical informa-
tion back into the environment where, however, its lack of any necessary
connection to particular external events means it can be interpreted symbolically
by suitably equipped agents. This is so in the case of the speaker's vocal-tract
activity, which, even while providing important indexical information about the
speaker's bodily states, is not interpreted as being uniquely tied to these on
account of its further possibilities for symbolic reconstrual. It is always cross-
coupled with other modalities of perception-action as well as other scales of
ecosocial space-time, along with the meanings that are afforded by these diverse
scalar levels of organization.
The expression plane is, then, an interface which is characterized by the
continual exchange which is activated by bodily processes such as respiration,
bio-kinematic movements of articulators of various kinds, their modulations, on
the one hand, and the environmental information these produce for suitably
equipped perceivers, as well as their possibilities for symbolic reconstrual in ways
relevant to the ecosocial context in which they occur. The articulatory act qua
ecosocial event specifies its informational structure to the perceiver; it does not
have to be enriched or re-elaborated as in the inferential model of perception
(Gibson 1986 [1979]: 251-3). However, this does not fully explain the symbolic
transduction of this physical event into a social semiotic one. For this, it seems to
me that we need some criteria of the values which selectively guide and constrain
behaviour. The perception ofvocal-tract and other forms of gestural activity does
not take place in a value-free vacuum. Rather, criteria of value specify that some
events are more important, more relevant, more interesting, and so on, than
others. Edelman (1989: 98-100) has shown the importance of biologically
in-built criteria of value which selectively channel the organism's activities along
some pathways rather than others in the interests of its survival and further devel-
opment. That is, values enable the organism to make relevant functional
discriminations in its environment and to act accordingly. In such a perspective,
the functional cross-couplings of classes of vocal tract and other articulatory
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 89
events with their social semiotic values is only a further elaboration of this same
basic principle. Values - biological and semiotic - together selectively channel,
entrain, and motivate meaning-making activity in certain preferred directions
rather than others.
In recasting the expression plane as an ecosocial event, it is not difficult to
postulate that articulatory act and perception are functionally complementary.
There is information which is specific to both. This follows from the fact that
such events 'face two ways', viz. to the body of the articulator, as well as to the
environment in which they are perceived, including, of course, the perceiver.
The information specifying the articulator and the information specifying the
perceiver are not opposed. Instead, they are simply two facets of the one overall
phenomenon. In this sense, they are complementary. There is no need to
resort to two separate descriptive languages to talk about the two as would be
the case in the various forms of neo-Cartesian mind-body and subject-object
dualisms.
Carol Fowler (1986) shows in her discussion of phonetic articulation as distal
events that are directly perceived that the perception of such an event entails the
apprehending of the invariant structure of phonetic gestures as the vocal tract
undergoes spatio-temporal change during articulation. The further question
that arises concerns how the spatia-temporal eo-articulation of vocal-tract articu-
lators and the acoustic information that results give rise to specific ecosocial
semiotic effects. What are the me ta-redundancy relations (chapter 1, section 6,
pp. 26--30) among these ecosocial meanings, the sensori-motor action potential
of the body, and their eo-articulation on some particular occasion of interaction?
This last question suggests the need to find a unified conceptual framework for
explaining the relationship between bodily processes and the social semiotic
significance and purpose of these.
AIl forms of gestural articulation have spatio-temporal properties. They
exhibit properties of both temporal succession and spatial adjacency. A gesture,
seen as an ecosocial event, exhibits a change in adjacency structure - viz. the
spatial overlap of articulators - as well as the successive ordering of gestures in
time. How, then, in the face of such spatio-temporal variability, are structurally
stable forms recognized? What about seemingly 'static', object-like sign systems
such as Writing? The predominantly spatial character ofwriting suggests minimal
or no change of adjacency structure in time. However, the bodily activity of
scanning and orienting to the marks on the page or other treated surface
necessarily requires movement as an integrating activity (see also Harris 1995b:
46). In my view, the extra-somatic character of the treated surface on which
written notation is inscribed only conceals the event modulation which takes
place when a reader engages with the written text. Writing is not an exception to
this general point, but, perhaps, a limiting case. I would suggest that bodily
movement in one form or another is the fundamental organizing principle
whereby interacting bodies are integrated into both semiotic action perform-
ances and their textual records and products. The sensori-motor activities of the
articulator are constrained to informational invariants-in-change by the
perceiver's ability to respond to these. Both articulators and perceivers must
learn to distinguish between those forms of event modulation (change) that
90 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
bring about change of meaning and those that do not. In my view, a metafunc-
tional account of the expression plane of such events (section 10) can help us to
solve this problem. I shall now return to this question in section 16 below.
12. The Metafunctional Basis of Vocal-tract Articulatory Activity
In the case of speech sounds, the experiential (or conceptual) dimension refers
to the typological-categorical phonological distinctions made by phonemes and
their combination according to phonotactic principles into larger phonological
units such as the syllable and so on. This dimension of speech sounds digitalizes
the acoustic stream in terms of discrete phoneme categories. Thus, the discrete
or segmental character of these phonological categories shows how this
dimension of the speech sound is concerned with particulate or constituent-like
phonological structures which can be described as a ranked hierarchy of smaller-
and larger-scale constituents. However, the assumption that phonological units
are static and context-free mental entities which are divorced from articulatory
and acoustic properties of eo-articulated speech is rejected here (Thibault
1997b: 4-5).
Alternatively, Browman and Goldstein (1991, 1995) base their gestural theory
of phonetic articulation on the notion of co-ordinative structures, as developed
by Kelso et al. (1986) in movement theory. Browman and Goldstein argue that
articulatory gestures are defined dynamically as 'the formation (and release) of
a constriction within the vocal tract through the movement of (a) a particular set
of articulators, (b) towards a particular constriction location, (c) with a specific
degree of construction, and (d) in a characteristic, dynamically described
manner' (1991: 315). From the experiential perspective, phonological gestures
construe and categorize actual vocal-tract phenomena which take place in the
space-time of articulation. That is, they construe phonetic events which may be
analysed into three main functional components, viz. (1) the dynamical
movement in space-time of the articulators, (2) the particular articulators which
participate in this movement, and (3) the circumstances - cf. the degree and
manner of this movement - which are attendant on this dynamical movement
and its participants. Typically, the speaker and the listener experience this event
as a single organized whole. However, the gestural schema which the speaker
deploys organizes the vocal tract in terms of both the articulatory processes
which go on in space-time and the constituent parts of this process.
Armstrong et al. (1995: 14-15) also show that the manual-brachial gestures
used in sign language realize clause-level semantic structures such as [Agent-
Action-Patient] (cf. [Actor-Process-Goal] in systemic-functional linguistic
theory) directly. That is, the combination of hand-and-arm-movement directly
realizes the semantic structure in question by performing it. Thus, a hand may
perform the semantic function ofagent which moves towards a patient. Likewise,
the hand movement itself realizes the verbal process or the action. Such
semantic functions are, of course, on the content stratum of organization.
However, they further comment in connection with speech that:
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 91
It is impossible to see the same interrelation of phonology, syntax, and
semantics in spoken language, not only because most of the gestures
producing speech are invisible,but also because of the differencebetween the
perceptual and productive modes for speaking and signing. (Armstrong et al
1995: 15)
In my view, the point is, rather, that there are complementary principles of
(metafunctional) organization on the expression plane. In the first instance,
these do not construe the semantic structures referred to by Armstrong etal.
Instead, they construe analogous and parallel structures in the expression-
substance of the speaker's vocal-tract and other articulatory activity. The further
question as to how these relate to the content plane, which is the focus in the
discussion in Armstrong et al., will be taken up later. In the case of the manual-
brachial articulatory gestures discussed by Armstrong et al., the movements are
sequential in space-time, as seen from the lower scale of the expression plane,
whereas the lexicogrammatical and semantic functions that map onto these
are multilayered.This contrasts with the vocal-tractgestures of speech, which are
co-articulated or overlapping, rather than serial, from the point of view of
the expression plane, whereas the morphosyntactic structures realized on the
content plane preserve a fundamentally sequential structure (Studdert-Kennedy
and Lane 1980: 35-6).
Individual gestures may be seen as typologically similar to phonological
segments such as phonemes. However, and unlike segment-based theories of
phonology, 'there are no apriori constraints on intergestural organization within
the gestural framework' (Browman and Goldstein 1991: 319). The notion of
co-articulation refers to the fact that vocal-tract gestures exhibit considerable
spatio-temporal overlap. There are, then, differencesof both kind and degree of
overlap and these differences may be phonologically salient in distinguishing
one gesture from another. To explain the role of gestural overlap in the articu-
lation of vocal-tract gestures, Browman and Goldstein have developed the notion
of a gestural score, which is reproduced in Figure 2.1.
Figure 2.1: Example of gestural scoresfor /pcen/ ('pan') and /been/ ('ban'); borrowed
from Browman and Goldstein (1995: 189)
92 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Gestures, in the view of these researchers, are not necessarily confined to
discrete phonological segments, seen as the natural place of residence of
particular constellations of gestures. Rather, an 'entire constellation of gestures'
may be 'phenologically' salient. The point is that such gestural constellations are
comprised ofvarious parts, all ofwhich function together, in synergy, to produce
the entire gestural constellation. The presence or absence of particular gestures
thus specifies the smallest-scale ways in which the vocal tract is modified in the
production of particular phonological categories. Gestures, it is important to
point out, refer to higher-order semantic construals ofthe actual spatio-temporal
movements of the vocal-tract articulators (Browman and Goldstein 1991: 323).
They are, then, schematic to the actual movements of the articulators. Thus, a
speaker's knowledge of a word also includes 'a specification of its gestures and
their organization' (1991: 324). Thus, much of the gestural plasticity and
variation which is evidenced in casual conversation arises through the
concurrent production of overlapping gestures, rather than the referencing of
discrete phonetic rules (1991: 324). The schematic character of gestures means
that they exhibit structural invariants irrespective of variations which may occur
during any particular instance of their vocal-tract execution. By the same token,
the gestural score emphasizes that gestures also exhibit spatio-temporal
invariants. That is, either the spatial or the temporal dimension of the gestural
score may be modulated in ways that are invariant. In other words, gestural
scores have both structural and transformational properties which are schematic
to specific instances.
The interpersonal dimension of speech sounds is prosodic or field-like. It
is concerned with the ways in which prosodic contours deform the acoustic-
articulatory shape of the utterance as a means of communicating the speaker's
attitudinal or affective stance or relationship to the utterance or to one's
interlocutor. Intonation is the main resource which has been systematically
studied by phonological theory. Intonation is prosodic because its articulatory
and acoustic effects are not localized in any specific (phonological) constituent.
Instead, intonational prosodies have as their articulatory and acoustic scope the
entire breath group or tone group. From the perspective of the expression
plane, articulatory prosodies deform or modulate the phonological shape sensa
strictu of the specific phoneme selections and their combinations. Bolinger
(1985) has written of the 'iconicity' of intonation in this sense. That is,
intonation, in Bolinger's account, directly registers changing feeling states in the
body of the speaker (see section 14, pp. 98-100).
The textual dimension of speech sounds is wave-like or periodic. It has to do
with the nested rhythmic periodicities that delimit the beginning and the end of,
say, the breath group. This periodicity is temporal. Thus, the rhythmic
modulation of respiration in the breath group in terms of a beginning-end cycle
marks the boundaries of the modulation itself. Such punctuations of the
temporal order of succession may provide a means of temporally co-ordinating
'the reentrant cortical areas mediating the phonological, syntactic, and semantic
levels of speech' (Edelman 1989: 179), as well as synchronizing interactants into
the spatio-temporal rhythms of the speech event at the level of the timing and
the synchronization of turn-taking.
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 93
These rhythmic periodicities have their basis in the respiration cycle and are,
for this reason, based on specific rhythmic patterns which are engendered by
bodily processes and functions. Rhythm may also be modulated and the
principal modulating factor would appear to be velocity or change of rate of, say,
breathing in the case ofspeech, acceleration along a movement vector of a hand
or an arm in the case of gesture, and walking, and so on, in the case of
locomotion. Change of rate applies to some dimension of the spatio-temporal
parameters of articulation of the perceptual event in question. Here, I am
assuming that the expression plane of semiosis is always a perceptual event in
some sensori-motor modality. This is so from both the execution and reception
points of view. In other words, it is the expression plane of semiosis which cross-
couples the semiotic act to the perceptual and motor activities of the participants
to the act in question. Semiosis is always embodied in this sense. No act of
semiosis floats free from or transcends this somatic dimension of its execution
and reception because it is the expression plane which serves to integrate
embodied participants into the meaning-making act itself. This is so in the sense
that the expression plane is the interface which cross-couples the sensori-motor
activities of the body (firstness) to the environment or non-self (secondness) in
and through the higher-order systemic resources of some semiotic resource
system (thirdness) (see chapter I, sections 3, 8, pp. ll-18, 34-9).
Finally, the logical metafunction is based on the principle ofinterdependency.
Its structuring principle is that of recursion. This follows from the spatio-
temporal character of articulation. Probably the simplest form of interdepend-
ency is that of succession in time. In speech production, the articulation of
phonetic segments is characterized as 'overlapping sets of coordinated gestures,
where each set of coordinated gestures refers to a phonetic segment' (Fowler
1986: ll). This view obviates the .requirement that a priori planning or control
procedures existing in an ontologically distinct mental realm act as the formal
causes of articulation. Instead, planning occurs as part of the on-line and
context-sensitive production of phonetically structured articulations.
The breath group is an example of an event simplex. However, event
complexes may also be built up from such simplexes through processes of
nesting, addition, co-ordinating, subordinating, repeating, and so on. For
example, rhythmic periodicities of different temporal duration may be nested
the one within the other (Martinec 2000). Again, a movement sequence may be
nested inside a still larger sequence, and so on. The eo-articulation of articula-
tors in the vocal tract in the performance of a given gestural score involves the
co-ordination ofvarious articulators which are independent ofeach other. Other
event complexes may involve the sequencing of one event after another. For
example, one flips the power switch before the computer boots up ready for use.
The question that arises in all cases is how and to what extent the information
which specifies the event is preserved under such conditions of temporal and
causal transformation. Lindblom (1991: 19) emphasizes, with his principle of
'sufficient contrast', the plasticity of phonetic gestures rather than fixed criterial
properties, which are based on the contrary principle of 'maximal contrast'. As
Lindblom points out, the latter notion has dominated in the discussion of the
94 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
perceptual (phonological) salience of phonetic gestures. That is, time-bound
'production contrasts tend to counterbalance demands for perceptual contrast'
(Lindblom 1991: 19). Rather than criterial properties, there is a context-specific
interaction of many different factors - perceptual, articulatory, etc. - which
means that the ecosocial event is an emergent property of the time-bound
ecosocial context. They are not structured by fixed a priori perceptual or other
properties, but constitute what Lindblom calls a 'variable and adaptive means'
(1991: 21) for the purposes of ecosocial interaction.
Vocal-tract activity, as I pointed out above, is a form of bodily movement. It
involves the harnessing and control of specific skeletomuscular and other bodily
systems so that the acoustic information we produce is appropriately and
productively deployed as we act in and upon our Umwelt. This emphasis on
embodied, physical movement highlights the fact that vocal-tract activity is also a
forceful physical-material interaction with our environment, including those
with whom we interact. The metafunctional analysis in this section suggests how
factors such as the dynamical movement of articulators, intonation, rhythm, and
other features are all specific dimensions of the ways in which vocal-tract activity
is a form of forceful acting on environmental friction or secondness. Abstract,
symbolic notions of language too often lose sight of this fundamental insight.
Social agents do not simply engage in abstract symbolic 'thinking' or 'cognition'
whenever they talk. They also deploy their bodies and its extra-somatic projec-
tions as a means of engaging in forceful interactions with the world of the
non-self. They must modulate and control these bodily forces in ways which are
not separable from the lexicogrammatical mediation ofvocal-tract activity. In the
next section, I shall discuss an example in order to illustrate this principle.
13. Subjectivity, Agency, and the Prosodic Realization of Interpersonal
Meaning
The interpersonal metafunction is a resource for intervening in, acting upon,
and interacting in the world. Its mode of expression is not segmental, but
prosodic (Halliday 1979; Matthiessen 1990). Interpersonal prosodies are not
confined to features such as pitch contour on the phonological stratum, but also
occur on the lexicogrammar and discourse semantic strata. There are also visual-
graphological prosodies. Matthiessen (1990: 21), drawing on a distinction first
made by Robins (1957), identifies two types of prosody: (1) prosodies realized
continuously; (2) prosodies realized at boundaries. The first type refers to
features whose domain extends beyond the point of realization of the feature, to
cover the whole or a part of the whole structure. At the rank of syllable on the
phonological rank scale, examples include stress, pitch, and length. The second
type includes features which delimit some structure by marking what goes
before, and what comes after. In so doing, such features prosodically extend over
the structure they delimit.
Prosodies are similar to Pike's 'hyper-unit' or field view of sequence: '... a
"sequence" of two units is treated as a single hyperunit with no essential require-
ment of internal specific segmentation or specific peak identification' (1967:
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 95
553). Criteria of segmentation and peak identification correspond to Halliday's
experiential and textual metafunctions, respectively. Halliday (1979) and
Matthiessen (1990: 22) argue that prosodies, which characterize units such as
the clause as a whole, act like a continuous motif which colours this whole. I fully
agree with this characterization, but I should like to develop here the question
of interpersonal prosodies in specific ways, which are relevant to the central
questions of this chapter. Let us consider the following Italian example, as shown
in Table 2.3. This exchange was part of a larger sequence during which the
mother had repeatedly attempted to convince the six-year-old child to get up in
order to get ready for school.
The clause initial Vocative element selects for tone 1 (falling). The tone group
realizing the pitch contour over the clause in the first part of the exchange
selects for tone 2 (rising), which is the typical tone for interrogatives. The child's
response selects tone 1. The falling-rising tone of the first speaker (the mother)
operates as a single semantic unit, extending over the whole clause; it expresses
the contradictory nature of the interpersonal semantics, i.e. compulsion and a
degree of uncertainty as to the modal investment in the exchange (,should I be
making the child get up, or should the child be acting off her own bat?').
The example cited above also illustrates what Matthiessen (1990: 23) calls a
'3rd order or semantic prosody': Ilaria ti vuoi alzare. The grammatically
segmental elements in bold type realize a semantic prosody on the discourse
stratum. Thus, the proper noun Ilaria, the second-person reflexive pronoun ti,
and the morphemic realization of the semantic agent tu, which is fused with the
verb vuoi in the lexicogrammar, realize a semantic prosody of this participant's
subjective 'presence' in the discourse. In this case, it is a directional vector, whose
energy extends from the speaking agent (the mother) to the 'making present' of
the child as a (reluctantly, on this occasion!) volitional agent in the mother's
discourse. Thus, we see how the first-order (phonological) and third-order
(semantic) prosodies are harnessed in the vectorial movement of energy which
occurs, as the mother seeks to transfer the agency to the child, or enjoins the
child to take up this agency on her own account. In Italian, it should also be noted,
this use of the reflexive, where the verb process concerns the whole of the Agent,
rather than a part of the Agent (e.g. a part of the body), means that the agency is
self-engendered; it originates, semantically speaking, 'from within' the Agent.
The co-referentiality of reflexive pronoun (Goal + Experiencer) and subject
pronoun (Agent) in such cases suggests a self-monitoring of this 'inwardly'
attributed volition, which the English I get up does not realize. In this semantic
environment, the reflexive pronouns in Italian are a systemic reactance of a
semantic cryptotype of such self-monitored and self-engendered processes. In
English, the periphrastic I make myselfget up better glosses the Italian mi alzo. In
Table 2.3, the reflexive pronoun conflates the transitivity roles of Experiencer
and Goal. I have borrowed the first of these terms from Longacre (1983: 155).
Experiencer is similar to Halliday's Medium (Halliday 1994 [1985]: 161-75), and
is the participant which is centrally involved in the experience realized by the
verb process. In the case of the Italian reflexives, I prefer this interpretation
because it better glosses the semantics of the self-reflexive or self-monitoring
relation between the participant as both Agent and Experiencer of its own
96 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Table2.3: Metafunctional analysis ofexchange unit: phonological, lexicogrammatical
and discourse semantic strata; tonic segments in upper case
Tonic 1 Pretonic Tonic 2 Tonic
ILARIA ALZARE
vuoi
ti NO
ILARIA YOU WANT TO GET UP NO
Vocative Comple- Subject + Residue Minor
ment Finite: clause:
Modal: Negative
Volition Polarity
Goal- Agent Process:
Experienccr Material
Action
Theme Rheme
Given New
Starting Target Situation (agency imputed to or
Situation transferred to addressee by addresser)
(agency
not yet
imputed)
Directive/Exhortation to Act Non-
compliance
with
Directive
Speaker.: Mother Boundary Speaker;
marking Six-year-old
change of child
speaking
turn in
exchange
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 97
action. At the same time, the transitivity role of Goal (cf. Longacre's Patient) is
conflated with that of Experiencer in clauses of this type. The Goal (or Patient)
is the participant that undergoes some kind of change as a result of undergoing
the process. It seems necessary to make this three-way distinction in order to
describe the transitivity relations in such clauses.
Matthiessen (1990: 7) also characterizes prosodies in terms of the direction-
ality of, say, the pitch movement. I would go further. This movement is the
dynamic energy which is exchanged, and, in part, experienced as a moving
force, whenever a linguistic act is uttered. The giving form to a linguistic act also
entails a dynamic relationship between this energy and the other strands of
meaning which are configured in the linguistic form (see Cremonini and
Frasnedi 1986: 23). Interpersonal prosodies are just one parameter of linguistic
meaning that shows the scalar heterogeneity of the bodily and semiotic processes
involved. This would not be so if meaning were no more than an abstract form-
content relation. Meaning-making has an undeniable material and sensual
quality, which, I think, can be explained by the relations between the energy that
is released in the production of the linguistic act as well as by its materiality. This
energy, as Cremonini and Frasnedi (1986) point out, has 'directional vectors',
which both extend beyond the utterance and into its environment and feed back
into it, producing thereby a resonating density of significance. These authors
also point out that this energy, in order to be effective, and not merely
redundant and 'empty', must be brought under control so that it be effectively
harnessed and synchronized with the other dimensions of an utterance's
meaning. This is the task of rhetoric; rhetoric has the task of both giving direc-
tionality to and anchoring this energy in the dialectic with the other strands of
the utterance's meaning potential. Lack of such directionality and control would
seem to suggest emotional or other disturbances, pathology, or disorientation in
the communicative ecosystemic environment of agents.
It is this energy which contributes to that 'making present' of an embodied
subjectivity that I mentioned earlier. It is the interface between expression and
content whereby meaning comes into contact with the materiality of the body,
and its neuroanatomical, neurophysiological, and neuropsychological levels of
organization. In so doing, the energy of the utterance gives both presence and
force to an immanent subjectivity/agency through this eo-articulation of the
phenomenal-material and social semiotic domains. It is in and through the
dialectically dual and complementary nature of the relation between the two
domains that body rhythms, physical pain, and so on, exchange energy with the
semiotic, and in so doing they give presence and energy to the social semiotic
voicing of our subjectivity and agency (Bakhtin 1990 [1924]: 292). The energy
and vectorial directionality of interpersonal prosodies endow our meaning-
making with the presence of a temporal event and a spatializing value. This is
one concrete illustration of the principle that the matter-energy which is
harnessed and channelled in meaning-making constitutes a forceful interaction
with the other.
Human meaning-making activity is a hybrid phenomenon: we do not
understand and respond to it solely on the basis of the semiotic relations that we
construe between the different parts of the activity in relation to the systems of
98 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
paradigmatic alternatives that are relevant to the contextualization of the
unfolding text or discourse event. We also understand and respond to it on the
basis of the physical-material relations and processes with which these semiotic
relations cross-couple and whose flows they entrain not only in the local context
of this here-now event, but also in relation to physical-material flows and
processes on other spatia-temporal scales beyond the immediate here-now
context. To verbally abuse another person is more than just a 'choice' of one
paradigmatic option among other possible ways ('praise', 'encourage', 'comfort',
and so on), more than just a component functioning in some culturally recog-
nizable activity-structure (syntagm) such as 'intimidation', 'threat', 'harassment',
and so on, more than just an index of some particular contextually relevant value
or social situation-type (gender relations, employer-employee relations, and so
on) which is invoked as relevant to the meaning of the verbal abuse. It is also to
induce or bring about clusters of physical symptoms (e.g. racing heart, tense
muscles, trembling, upset stomach, and so on) which individuals associate in
complex ways with emotions such as fear, guilt, sadness, and so on, and in ways
which, in turn, index social situations of, say,parent--child or gender domination,
teacher-pupil control, and so on. In other words, our social semiotic practices
also induce bodily sensations - both pleasurable and painful - in others, and in
ways which contextually redound with higher-order emotional states that are
linked to one's positioning within particular social activity-structures or discourse
genres, as well as to the accumulated bodily memories that the self collects along
his or her life trajectory as a result of the various contingencies which constitute
his or her historical emergence as an individual.
The cross-coupling of the material and the semiotic, or, in other words, the
constant cross-scalar intermingling of these two facets of semiosis, shows how the
individual, in using the impersonal meaning-making resources available to him
or her by virtue of his/her belonging to a given ecosocial system, manages to
distinguish him- or herself from his/her surroundings in the specific act of
meaning-making. In using the standardized resources of the system, the
individual is inevitably differentiated from his or her surroundings. He or she
inevitably indexes the specific states of his/her brain-body in a given time and
place at the same time as the behaviour of the individual is cross-linked to
higher-scalar, hence impersonal, levels of organization in the ecosocial
environment.
14. Vocal-tract Gestures and Grammar: Symptom and/or
Supervenience?
Bolinger views intonation as iconic or symptomatic of emotions and their
degrees of intensity. In other words, intonation is directly 'presentative' of
embodied feeling states of the speaker (1985: 98). Bolinger explicitly argues
against the 'grammaticalization' of intonation, claiming as his starting point that
'high pitch symptomizes a condition of high tension in the organism, low pitch
the opposite' (1985: 99). In this account, intonation and its meaning has its
origin and its basis in 'a gestural complex whose primitive and still surviving
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 99
function is - however elaborated and refined - the signalling of emotions and
their degrees of intensity' (1985: 98). I agree with this claim entirely as far as the
relationship between speech sounds and the speaker's embodied feeling states is
concerned. Nevertheless, I do not think that Bolinger provides an entirely satis-
factory account of the ways in which intonation is also integrated with and
mediated by lexicogrammar. Intonation is not simply a 'primitive' gestural
residue of speech which, phylogenetically speaking, preceded language and
then merged with it. That is why the term 'paralinguistic' is, in the final analysis,
misleading: intonation does not simply accompany language, but is integrated
with it.
This would not in itself explain the teleological function of intonation in, say,
the interpersonal dimension of meaning. Intonation is often the crucial distin-
guishing factor in construing what kind of dialogically co-ordinated move the
speaker is uttering (Halliday 1967a: 21-2). The biological differentiation which
Bolinger sees as fundamental to intonation itself undergoes significant reorgan-
ization as the social semiotic dimension of intonation emerges more clearly.
Lukacs most insightfully explains this general process in the following terms:
The division of labour is originally based on the biological differentiation of
the persons who form the human group. The receding of the natural barrier
as a consequence of the social being's becoming ever more strictly and purely
social is revealed, above all, in the fact that this principle of differentiation
which is biological in origin, assumes in itself ever more numerous moments
of sociality and ends up acquiring in itself a first order importance, down-
grading to secondary status the biological moments. (Lukacs 1981: 138; my
translation)
In this quotation, Lukacs addresses the question as to the ways in which a social
system emerges from a biological one. His argument expresses the logic of the
specification hierarchy of integrative levels (chapter 1, section 8, pp. 34-9).
Bolinger's perspective clearly does not deny the emergence of intonation from
biological systems in the individual organism. He argues against those who see
intonation 'as part of the abstract code' (1985: 99) on this very basis. What he
does not explain is the effect on intonation of its integration with the content
stratum of lexicogrammar and semantics in language. If intonation had simply
remained 'symptomatic' of the feeling states of the speaker, then there would be
no significant traces of its reorganization as a consequence of its integration with
the linguistic semiotic. If, on the other hand, the division of social labour entails,
as Lukacs argues, the increasing specialization of action for social purposes, then
this would suggest that with its progressive integration into the linguistic
semiotic, intonation itself becomes more specified as a semiotic resource which
is able to realize teleological acts the aim ofwhich is to bring about in others 'the
will to carry out determinate teleological positions' Lukacs (1981: 139).
Certainly, the crucial role that intonation plays in many languages for distin-
guishing various categories of dialogically co-ordinated move would seem to bear
this out.
As Lukacs further points out, such acts, if they are to prove effective, require
100 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
that other persons in the human group recognize their significance and teleo-
logical intent. That is, there are higher-order boundary conditions of a social
nature which provide the conditions whereby the otherwise purely symptomatic
signals from the individual's body are amplified and adaptively modified as
socially shared resources for making meaning. The social power of a given body
lies in the waysin which others take up and further amplify and modify in socially
entrained ways and on many different scales the effects of the bio-kinematic
energy, rhythms, and movements of 'powerful' individuals.
This does not mean that the prior 'symptomatic' layer of bodily significance
has been superseded or transcended. Rather, intonation both retains important
traces ofits earlier ancestral inheritance and at the same time has undergone sig-
nificant restructuring and modification in the course of its integration into the
more highly specified linguistic semiotic. Only in this way can we explain how
intonation, from the systemic point of view, has itself emerged as a highly
specified system ofvalue-producing, or semiotically salient, differences in a given
language system. How otherwise might we explain the complex distinctions in
meaning that intonation makes in relation to grammatical, facial, kinesic,
musical, and other semiotic modalities?
15. The Intentional Character of Articulatory Activity
There has been considerable discussion in recent years as to whether the object
of perception in speech sounds corresponds to vocal-tract articulatory gestures
or to the acoustic signal which results from this. This discussion hinges on the
further question as to whether vocal-tract activity is merely the surface manifes-
tation of pre-programmed and invariant control structures for phonetic
gestures, as in the motor theory of Liberman and Mattingly (1985), or is itself
linguistically motivated gesture. In the motor theory, the control structures are
abstract invariant properties that control articulatory movements. It is these
control structures, rather than the movements themselves, that correspond to
the speaker's intentions (Liberman and Mattingly 1985: 23). The control
structures, which are said to be encoded as abstract neural structures in the
brain, fail to explain that speakers' intentions cannot be seen as a priori abstrac-
tions of on-line vocal-tract activity. Rather, intentionally directed sensori-motor
activity always takes place in a dynamic and constantly changing context which
itself shapes and modulates the speaker's activity. Intentions are a function of
many interacting contextual factors rather than an abstract cause of these. Motor
acts qua intentional acts are understood, as Merleau-Ponty put it, 'in reference
to the aims oflife' (1983 [1942]: 163).
The structure of the acoustic array is the result of vibratory resonance
propagated from a mechanical source. Thus, the source of the acoustic signal -
the distal event in the environment - is strongly cross-coupled with the energy
which is propagated. It is this which provides the listener with information about
the distal event. The listener samples change in the acoustic array which provide
him or her with information about the distal event. This event is the source of
the disturbance in the ambient acoustic array and of any changes in its dynamics.
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 101
In other words, the acoustic array which the listener samples specifies the envi-
ronmental event - e.g. the speaker's vocal-tract gestures - to the perceiver. In this
way, the listener uses this information to orient to the speaker for the purposes
of dialogic interaction. It is not the physical properties of the acoustic signal per
sewhich are relevant to the listener. Rather, the linguistically motivated character
of the speaker's vocal-tract gestures - Le. the physical properties of the distal
event itself - is itself revealed to the listener in and through the information
which is structured in the acoustic array. This means that the perceiver directly
accesses the gestural properties of the distal event of speaking through the
information structured in the array.
Fowler and Rosenblum (1991: 36) cite evidence on the perception of
intonation (among other factors) to show that the listener's perception of
intonation peak corresponds not to a perception of the 'objective' or 'absolute'
rate of opening and closing of the vocal folds during the production of the
intonational melody, but to those modulations of the rate ofopening and closing
brought about by gestures which the speaker intentionally uses to modify the
intonational melody. The point is that listeners selectively sample the acoustic
variables in the acoustic array as a guide to the linguistically organized and semi-
otically motivated gestures of the speaker. There would also appear to be a value
component in this process (Edelman 1989: 152). The selective nature of this
orientation to the array suggests that the listener's response to these variables is
an adaptive one. In establishing specific links between categories of acoustic
variables and their linguistically motivated gestural values, the activities of
speaker and listener are reciprocally modified and co-ordinated.
For proponents of the motor theory, the abstract control structures which are
hypothesized correspond not to the speaker's articulatory movements but to his
or her intentions (see above). This leads to the 'encoding' view of the relation-
ship between the control structures and the eo-articulation of phonetic segments
in articulation (see Fowler and Rosenblum 1991: 47 for critical discussion). The
view of articulation-as-encoding-of-phonetic-segments assumes that speech
sounds are segmental. On the other hand, the boundaries between discrete
(phonetic) segments are distorted by their encoding into the continuous and
overlapping movements of the articulators in real-time vocal-tract activity. In the
gestural view oflinguistically motivated vocal-tract activity, on the other hand, eo-
articulation is seen as the functional cross-coupling of articulators which are
temporally heterogeneous. Rather than the presumed homogeneity of a serial
ordering of phonetic segments which is then distorted by its encoding in eo-
articulation, there is a complex layering of gestures that sometimes overlap and
sometimes do not in time (Fowler and Rosenblum 1991: 47). The lowest scalar
level of phonetic organization, in this view, is not comprised of abstract phonetic
primitives. Instead, it is comprised of gestural prosodies which are modulated by
higher-scalar levels in the ecosocial semiotic system that speaker and listener
share. This is implicit in the following criticism of the motor theory of phonetic
gestures made by Fowler and Rosenblum:
Do listeners need an innate vocal tract synthesizer to recognize acoustic
reflections of phonetic gestures? Although it might seem to help, it cannot be
102 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
necessary, because there is no analogous way to explain how observers
recognize most distal events from their optical reflections. Somehow the
acoustic and optical reflections of a source must identify the source on their
own. (Fowler and Rosenblum 1991: 48)
Fowler and Rosenblum draw attention to the ways in which the motor theory
black boxes the question of how the vocal-tract gestures identified in the distal
event functions on the higher-scalar level of ecosocial organization (see also
section 4, pp. 72-5). The speaker's intentions can only be recognized as func-
tioning in and through phonetic gestures because these very small-scale
phenomena directly implicate much larger-scale processes on the ecosociallevel
(see Lemke 1997 for critical discussion of this important point). This is what the
notion of an ecological event in Cibson's (1986 [1979]: 93-110) sense in fact
entails. The black boxing that I referred to above occurs, for example, when an
innate vocal-tract synthesizer is postulated, as in the motor theory of phonetic
gestures, as the explanation for the ways in which interactants recognize and
interpret gestural activity in distal events such as the speaker's vocal-tract activity.
Thus, the black boxing of the higher levels in the form of a presumed vocal-tract
synthesizer reduces this interplay of scalar levels to a single level of pre-
programmed central-processing units, seen as hard-wired modules in the human
brain. Consequently, it fails to show how these smaller-scalar events in the vocal
tracts of speakers are directly implicated in larger-scalar dynamics which may
include the individual's own individuating trajectory, the speech practices of the
community, the shared interactional practices of particular speaking dyads, and
so on.
For a theory of vocal-tract gestural activity, this has a number of implications.
First, the question of the speaker's production of phonetic gestures and the
listener's perception of these in the distal event are seen as complementary
dimensions of a single larger-scalar ecological event that obviates the need for
any reductively bottom-up causal explanations from within the individual
organism. The ecosocial character of the event means that both speaker and
listener perspectives are necessarily implicated in it. Secondly, the mediation of
phonetic gestures by their higher-order lexicogrammatical and semantic
meaning relations which construe the larger-scalar phenomena of the world in
which speakers and listeners live means that there is a high degree of direct,
unmediated and fully motivated relations between the smaller-scalar dynamics of
the former and the meanings these transparently have for interactants. That is,
higher-scalar semantic meanings and the large-scalar historical and cultural
realities these index are directly implicated in lower-scalar phonetic gestures for
both speakers and listeners. Indeed, Studdert-Kennedy and Lane (1980: 36-8)
advance arguments to show that both phonetic gestures in speech and manual-
brachial gestures in sign language exhibit serial properties of motor execution
that are directly implicated in the realization of morphemic distinctions. This is
so in spite of the parallel processes of eo-articulation which are also evidenced.
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 103
16. Embodying the Metafunctions: The Example of Vocal-tract
Articulatory Activity
My focus on the metafunctional dimension of the expression stratum highlights
the embodied, physical-material basis of meaning-making. The vocal tract is a
topological-continuous dynamical system which admits of complex attractors, as
discussed by Kauffman (1993: 177). Thus, the metafunctional organization of
the expression plane provides a framework for describing the multiple and
variable ways in which trajectories within the topological substrate of the vocal
tract may converge on a set of states over the space-time span of the articulatory
act. Is it possible to describe the four metafunctions as trajectories which flow
through particular basins of attraction in the limit cycle around which the
movements of the articulators flow during articulation? That is, are the meta-
functions comparable to sets ofvariables which exhibit their distinctive repetitive
oscillations (particulate, wave-like, field-like, recursive) around the limit cycle of
the system?
If the answers to the questions posed in the previous paragraph is 'yes', then
this would mean that the four metafunctions represent basins of attraction to
which different functional couplings of articulators converge in the overall artic-
ulatory act. I am making this suggestion on the basis of evidence provided by
Fowler and Rosenblum (1991: 48-9) that listeners 'are sensitive to the distinct
gestural sources' that affect fundamental frequency in different (metafunction-
ally motivated or entrained) ways.
Consider the following research findings that are discussed by Fowler and
Rosenblum in support of the above cited claim:
What guides the listener's factoring of converging effects of Fa [fundamental
frequency, ~JT]? Presumably, it is the configuration of acoustic products of
the several gestures that have effects, among others, on Fa. Intonational
peaks are local changes in an FO contour that are effected by means that, to
a first approximation, only affect Fa; they are produced, largely, by contrac-
tion and relaxation of muscles that stretch or shorten the vocal folds ... In
contrast, declination is a global change in FO that, excepting the initial peak
in a sentence, tracks the decline in subglottal pressure ... Subglottal pressure
affects not only FO, but amplitude as well, and several researchers have
noticed that amplitude declines in parallel with Fa, and resets when FO resets
at major syntactic boundaries (e.g. Breckenridge, 1977; Maeda, 1976). The
parallel decline in amplitude and Fa constitutes information that pinpoints
the mechanism behind the Fa decline - gradual lung deflation, incompletely
offset by expiratory-muscle activity. That mechanism is distinct from the
mechanism by which intonational peaks are produced. Evidence that listeners
pull apart the two effects of Fa (Pierrehumbert, 1979; Silverman, 1987)
suggests that they are sensitive to the distinct gestural sources of these effects
on Fa. (Fowler and Rosenblum 1991: 48-9)
The 'distinct gestural sources' of these various effects on Fa echoes the distinct
gestural effects of the relatively discrete functional couplings of articulators that
104 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
give rise to vowels and consonants in eo-articulation. Thus, vowels are produced
by slow movements that are finalized towards global configurations of the vocal
tract; consonants are movements on a faster timescale that effect local restric-
tions of the vocal tract. It is the interplay of these two heterogeneous timescales
which allows for the phenomenon of eo-articulation, Rather than a corrupted or
degenerate encoding of static and abstract phonetic features, eo-articulation
shows that the topological state space of the vocal tract is, in eo-articulation,
divided into what Kauffman calls 'disjoint basins of attraction' (1993: 176-7). In
this way, the greater number of degrees of freedom of the vowel-state functional
couplings of articulators need be harnessed only initially such that only a smaller
number of parameters need be harnessed subsequently. The more global,
slower-scale movements required by vowels constitute the initial state of a
trajectory to which the smaller, faster-scale movements of consonants flow.
The distinct gestural sources of intonational peaks and declination of vowels
and consonants suggest that the vocal tract is a topological substrate (c.f.
Hjelmslev's expression purport) which is, in the space-time of articulation,
organized in terms of complex interactions of attractors which lie on different
trajectories. These attractors are the diverse principles of metafunctional organ-
ization to which the distinct gestural sources are attracted in the unfolding
speech event. This would suggest that over the time-span of, say, a single breath
group, different metafunctional parameters are held constant on some
timescale(s) of gestural activity. These parameters are the values which organize,
for example, the various effects on FO into metafunctionally distinct regions of
gestural activity. For example, the local effects of the contraction and relaxation
of muscles in the stretching and shortening of the vocal folds on intonational
peak indexes feeling states of the speaker; the gradual lung deflation which is
associated with decline in both amplitude and FO indexes the rhythmic period-
icity associated with breath-group boundaries; the differing timescales required
for the global versus local restrictions of the vocal tract may be associated with
the categorical distinction between vowels and consonants as the parameter
space is divided or 'analyzed' (Hjelmslev) into discrete regions corresponding to
phoneme categories. These three examples would, on a first approximation,
seem to suggest some of the ways in which listeners may distinguish the distinct
gestural sources of various metafunctional values in the expression plane of
speech. Thus, the first example relates to the expression stratum analogue of
interpersonal meaning; the second to textual meaning; and the third to experi-
ential meaning.
We have here a concrete illustration of the functionally diverse ways in which
meaning interacts with and entrains the biological dynamics of the individual's
relations to its environment. Further, feelings and cognitions are not separate or
autonomous functions. Rather, the metafunctionally diverse-yet-unified nature
ofmeaning-making shows that semiosis - both 'inner' and'outer' - cross-couples
the individual body-brain complex to its environment along a number of distinct
dimensions simultaneously.
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 105
17. The Metafunctional Basis of Space and of Bodily Movement in
Ecosocial Space-time
All gestural activity unfolds in space. The notions of space and of spatial relations
are crucial for our understanding of the ways in which the body relates to,
orients to, and is integrated to its ecosocial environment. I believe that this is so
both of gestural activity which is executed, as well as 'inner' gestural activity, of
which inner speech is but one specific case. All modalities of human social
meaning-making utilize, or in some way depend on, the movement - simulated
or real - of bodily articulators. Thus, the receptors which are implicated in
gestural activity coincide with those which take part in our sense of movement.
These are (1) the visual receptors; (2) the vestibular receptors in the inner ear;
(3) the muscular and the muscular-articulatory receptors, both of which
measure movement of the various parts of the body; and (4) the cutaneous
receptors of the skin which measure changes in pressure or temperature caused
by contact either with the parts of the body or with phenomena in the (extra-
corporeal) external world (see Berthoz 1997: 33).
Space is, then, a fundamental organizing principle which may well underpin
the metafunctional basis of semiosis itself. There are typological-categorical
spatial categories (e.g. in front, behind, up, down, and so on) which enable us
to perceive as invariant certain relations between objects and the parts of our
body. There are also topological-continuous relations such as spatial distance
from the body, which are quantitative and variable rather than invariant and
categorical. Kosslyn et al. (1995) propose that the two kinds of relations are
coded differently in the neural architecture of the brain. But there is no direct
or causal relation between these lower-scalar neural arrangements and higher-
scalar ecosocial semiotic ones. We can see in these two different kinds of
relations a possible lower-level integrative constraint on the ways in which
semiotic modalities are themselves organized. Categories such as 'in front',
'behind', and so on are digitalized units of information which specify the given
object system relative to an observer perspective. In terms of the body's spatial
relations to its environment, it defines the informational co-ordinates of the
system appropriate to the scale of its interactions with its environment. Thus,
the conceptual categorization of these spatial relations takes place on the level
of the sensori-motor samplings the body makes of its surroundings.
On the other hand, topological-continuous factors such as spatial distance
raise two orders of questions. First, spatial distance raises the question as to
which resources are best harnessed in meaning-making activity so as to overcome
the problems - perceptual and physical - that distance poses for human
interaction. Both visual and auditory resources for interaction are subject to
constraints imposed by the material environment on their efficacy (see also
Studdert-Kennedy and Lane 1980: 37). For example, visual gestures require
close face-to-face contact between interactants as well as an optimal level of
ambient light; acoustic signals decay with increasing distance. Secondly, spatial
distance between bodies functions as a lower-level integrative constraint on
social and interpersonal relations (cf. closeness or intimacy versus distance
and remoteness). We may see here an analogue with the metafunctional
106 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
organization of semiotic modalities. Space and its metaphorical transformations
would seem to be a fundamental constraint on human social meaning-making.
What, then, is the relationship with the metafunctions? What relations in the
ecosocial environment and therefore at a higher-scalar level than the individual
body-brain favoured the further channelling and development of bodily
movements and gestural activity as modalities of social meaning-making? It
would seem to me that the neural architecture referred to above constitutes
lower-level initiating conditions on the further transformations referred to above
(see Salthe 1993: 216). With the emergence of higher-level ecosocial constraints,
these possibilities for relating body and environment - self and non-self- incor-
porated more and more information of a social nature from the higher levels of
ecosocial organization. This increasing specification and elaboration of the new
emergent possibilities of the system for interacting with its con-specifics meant
that determinate semiotic modalities with a full-fledged metafunctional basis
arose.
Researchers such as Griisser (1991) and Berthoz (1997: 108-9) have
suggested that the space in which the body moves is articulated into a number of
zones or subspaces in relation to the body. There is, according to these
researchers, a personal space, an extra-personal space, and a distant space, to use
the terminology proposed by Griisser. Furthermore, these distinctions appear to
have a neural basis (Berthoz 1997: 108). Personal space, which is located within
the limits of one's own body and perceived by the internal senses, is the space of
the self. However, we can also perceive our own bodies as an external object as,
for instance, when I look at my own body, or some part of it, as another external
object in the world.
The space of grasping - both oral and manual - means that the perception of
one's body may be extended by means of a tool or implement. Berthoz (1997:
108) points out that in such cases the body is in effect extended such that the
body is integrated with the physical object which it grasps or with which it comes
into contact. An example would be the use ofa pen, crayon, or other writing tool
for the purposes of tracing on a treated surface. In this way, the body is extended
by the tracing implement so that the body's contact with the treated surface -
paper, ete. - is felt at the point of contact - the tip - between pen, say, and
surface. This shows how haptic sensations are fundamental in the integration of
the body and its extra-somatic extensions with physical-material objects and
processes which are external to the body. Importantly, Berthoz (1997: 109) draws
attention to the fact that the tool so used is not perceived at the point of contact
with the body but at the place it occupies in extra-corporeal space. The body-
brain complex thus constructs or projects a spatial extension of itself.
Our perception of space is organized in two main ways. The first - called
egocentric - is in relation to one's own body. That is, one's own body is the
reference point in relation to which objects and their relations in the external
world are observed. The second - called allocentric - uses the relations between
objects or in relation to some reference point which is external to one's own
body. This second way of perceiving space, which appears to be confined to
humans and other primates, means that relations between objects can be con-
structed and perceived without recourse to one's own body as a permanent
RETHINKING THE EXPRESSION PLANE OF SEMIOSIS 107
reference point. In this way, allocentric perception is detached from the
movements of my own body and allows for the internal mental simulation of
spatial displacements which occur independently of my own body. The distinc-
tion between egocentric and allocentric perceptions of space may, in my view,
underpin the elementary indexical distinction between 'here' (cf. egocentric)
and 'there' (cf. allocentric). This may be compared to the distinction Halliday
(1992a: 20-1) makes between the 'two primary modes of experience', viz. 'out
there' and 'in here' in relation to which consciousness itselfis organized. In early
infant semiosis, this elementary semiotic distinction appears to be a precursor of
the textual metafunction and its further elaborations and expansions. In this
case, the basic distinction may be something like that between 'proximate' and
'distal' spatial relations. However, Halliday's distinction is also experientialized as
the first, basic distinction between 'material' processes in the external world and
'conscious' processes that occur within the self. Interpersonally, this same dis-
tinction constitutes the basis for enacting interactions between an emergent
'self and 'non-self.
To date, most of the effort has gone into the study of the signified or content
stratum - e.g. the lexicogrammar and semantics oflanguage - of social meaning-
making. Further, phonology and the much less practised science of graphology
have tended to remain separate subdisciplines which have not been integrated
into a truly ecosocial theory of the body and its role in social meaning-making.
Both phonology and graphology have categorical-typological resources such as
phonemes and graphemes; they also have field-like prosodies which are strongly
interpersonal-orientational, having to do with affective investment, emotional
commitment, ete.; and they also have wave-like or periodic beginning-middle-
end type structures, boundaries between units, and so on. All of these interface
with and construe bodily processes and/or extra-somatic extensions of these.
They also project these into the ecosocial environment of the interaction,
contributing to the construction of discursive space-time and its felt movement
and rhythms.
3 Body Dynamics, Meaning-making, and
Scale Heterogeneity: Expression and
Content as Cross-scalar Semiotic
Processes Embedding the Body-brain
in its Ecosocial Environment
Language, like personality, is a binder of time, of the past and future in 'the
present'.
J. R. Firth, 'The semantics oflinguistic science' (1957a [1948]: 142)
1. The Dynamical Character of Expression and Content and the Cross-
coupling of Diverse Scalar Levels of Semiotic Organization
Action and meaning are emergent properties of the time-dependent cross-
coupling of a number of different systems on diverse space-time scales. Meaning
emerges in and through the interaction of diverse semiotic modalities and the
physical-material world. In the real-time of the unfolding activity, various
semiotic modalities: (l) selectively map salient features of the material world to
their own activity; (2) at the same time, they map selected features of other
semiotic modalities to their own dynamical processes; and (3) they map selected
features of participants' perceptual-motor activities to their own activity. It is the
dynamical cross-coupling in time of a number of these heterogeneous systems
that produces the meaning-making event. These systems include the various
semiotic resources that are deployed; objects, events, and so on, in the material
world; and the perceptual-motor activities of participants. Action emerges in and
through the cross-coupling and interaction of diverse semiotic-discursive and
physical-material systems. Genre-specific meaning-making activities occur
because the cross-coupling dynamics of all these systems create, in time, an
internalized attractor space. It is in this space that participants' experiences prior
to the here-and-now event, the previous stages of the same unfolding event, and
here-and-now responses to perceptual stimuli at any given moment all act in
synergy to produce genre-specific semiotic performances and their resulting
object-texts.
Meaning-making is, then, a dynamic process which is determined by a
number of perspectives, all of which interact together to produce the occasion-
specific activity. First, there is the perspective of what it is possible to mean in
terms of the intrinsic characteristics and dynamics of any given semiotic resource
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 109
system. Secondly, there is the sequential unfolding of events in real-time, the
logogenetic selecting and deployment of semiotic options and their cross-
coupling with specific external events, as well as changes in cross-coupling
strengths in moments of transition from one phase of the activity to another.
Thirdly, there are the sensori-motor reactions of participants to what they see,
hear, feel, touch, grasp, point to, and so on, in their spatio-temporal purview at
any given moment.
With these general considerations in mind, this chapter will focus on the
question of how the organization of language as expression and content
functions to embed the body-brain in its ecosocial and bodily environments. As
we shall see below, this requires us to examine the diverse timescales and their
cross-couplings that are implicated in the intrinsic organization of both
expression and content.
2. The Expression Stratum and the Principle of Alternation
Lernke's (1999) Principle of Alternation is a useful tool for theorizing, in terms
of the three-level scalar hierarchy, both how semiotic functions are mapped onto
dynamical scalar levels, and the reorganization of continuous variation into
discrete variants. In the act of speaking, for instance, continuous quantitative
variation in sound is related to continuous quantitative variation in the sensori-
motor activities which produce speech sounds in the process of articulation.
However, the processes of both producing and comprehending speech sounds
require that speakers and listeners are able to articulate and perceive those
features which are salient or criterial for determining which words are uttered
and/or heard on a given occasion. In other words, the continuous topological
variety of the sounds produced at level L-I of the perceptual-motor activities
involved in the production and perceptual pick-up of speech sounds is reorgan-
ized and interpreted as discrete phonological categories, which are typological
in character, at level L+I. In the case of speech sounds, this level is the phono-
logical system of a given language.
In Table 3.1, I suggest some ways in which the expression stratum of spoken
language can be reconceptualized in terms of the Principle of Alternation.
In accordance with this Principle, the emergence of a ranked scale of phono-
logical units and their structural-functional relations in a given language consti-
tutes a new intermediate level N which functions semiotically to reorganize the
continuous quantitative (topological) variety of units and interactions at the
level (L-I) of sensori-motor activity in articulation as discrete, typological-
categorial phonological units and relations for level (L+I). Level L-I inter-
actions are the material, topological ground of the typological distinctions which
emerge at higher levels. Level L+1 comprises the system of phonologically salient
distinctions which function in a given language to symbolically construe differ-
ences in lexicogrammatical form on the content stratum.
These distinctions develop and are conserved in the long-term memory of
individuals as a system of phonological values or differences on the basis of the
material and semiotic interactions of individuals with their ecosocial environ-
110 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Table 3.1: The expression stratum ofspoken language in relation to the three-level
hierarchy
Scalar level Difference
L+l System of Discrete Symbolic Phonologically
phonological typological- salient
differences categorial distinctions
as SI distinctions; symbolically
difference of construe
type lexicogrammatical
forms on
content stratum
L Phonological Indexical Contrasts in
rank scale rhythm,
comprising prosody, intonation
hierarchy of perform indexical
ranked units: grounding
tone group; functions
foot; which give
syllable; phonological
phoneme categories a point
of reference in the
here-now intra-
and
inter-body
dynamics
of the I-you and
other aspects of
the here-now
speech event
L-l Continuous Topological- Iconic Continuous
quantitative continuous quantitative
variation in variation; variation of
sound difference of body dynamics
mapped onto degree
continuous
quantitative
variation in
sensori-motor
activity in
articulation
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... III
ment along their historical-biographical trajectory. In this way, the phonological
possibilities for meaning-making are developed in individuals at the same time
as they are transmitted to other individuals in and through ontogenetic and
other processes of recruitment to and apprenticeship in the practices of the
social group (Vihman et al. 1985; Vihman and de Boysson-Bardies 1994). The
phonologically salient distinctions made on the expression stratum are not
restricted to the organismic scale of the individual; they also link with other,
larger-scale dimensions well beyond the here-now scale of the organism's
material interactions with its immediate environment. Semiotically salient
distinctions made on the expression stratum interface with kinetic (bodily)
processes on level L-l. In this way, bodily dynamics are strongly cross-coupled to
dynamical processes existing on potentially many different space-time scales.
The phonological system of a given language is a system of interpretance
whereby the sounds we produce and hear are classified in terms of a relatively
small number of discrete and contrasting equivalence class items. These class
items are, for example, the phoneme type-categories of a given phonological
system. In this case, level L is that of the phonological forms, usually described
as a set of hierarchically related units in a phonological rank scale (see below).
The L level has the function of filtering phonologically non-criterial characteris-
tics of speech sounds. Non-criterial characteristics include aspects of the sound
which relate to the subjective state of the speaker, the specific circumstances in
which the sound was uttered and/or heard, the differences between the
speaking voices ofindividuals, and so on. All of these aspects are non-criterial for
the assignment of the sound to a given phonological category. Thus, the phono-
logical contents of symbolic neural space constrain and entrain both vocal-tract
gestural activity and our perception of the resulting sounds in terms of a system
of phonological distinctions (cf. values) on the higher-scalar level of the SI which
is in operation.
Thus, physical-acoustic properties of the sound such as variation in funda-
mental pitch, which is iconically related to the rate of vibration of the vocal
chords at the time of speaking, may not be in any way salient or criterial for the
categorization of a given sound as belonging to this or that phonological equiv-
alence class (see below). Such non-criterial acoustic-physical properties and their
related articulatory processes occur on a much smaller, faster timescale than do
higher-scalar phonological units. The learning, producing, and perceiving of the
latter by the central and peripheral nervous systems take place over a much
longer timescale. Moreover, a system of phonological units and their relations
requires a far greater number of interconnected neuronal networks in order to
maintain it in long-term memory, as well as to activate it in the production and
perception of speech sounds.
Level L can be modelled as a hierarchy of vocal-tract trajectories that entrain
level L-I dynamics so as to give rise to three different kinds of phonological
units. The notion of trajectory serves to remind us that we are not talking about
static structural units and relations, but about time-bound trajectories on
different scalar levels that are identified with the phonological rank scale,
comprising, in the case of English, syllable, foot, and tone group. Importantly,
each of these phonological ranks and the units specific to that rank are seen as
112 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
dynamic, time-bound processes of cyclic or periodic vocal-tract behaviour with
their own specific rates of completion. Thus, smaller-scale trajectories operate on
faster timescales than do higher-scalar ones. Furthermore, the notion of a vocal-
tract trajectory refers to the temporal cohesion of a given kind of phonological
entity (e.g. syllable, foot, tone group) from the perspective of a cogent moment
which spans the entire (temporal) existence of the trajectory. Syllable, foot, and
tone group refer to such cogent moments of different cycles of vocal-tract activity
on their respective scales. Each of these cogent moments specifies the beginning
of the trajectory in lower-scalar neuromuscular activity on level L-I and terminates
with the completion of a cycle of activity which results in the entraining of vocal-
tract activity to a recognizable phonological entity in the given language.
The neuromuscular substrate on level L-l is the dissipative structure which is
the momentary material embodiment of the trajectory (Salthe 1993: 260).
However, it is the vocal-tract trajectory on the phonological level L, rather than
on the material level (L-l) of its embodiment, which semiotically connects us to
the trajectories of others, intertwining and overlapping with them in the
processes of logogenesis. The three phonological ranks of syllable, foot, and
tone group exhibit this property of temporal existence. On the other hand, the
phoneme is a discrete packet of paradigmatic features which serves to specify a
particular point in the unfolding phase space of a trajectory by categorizing that
point as the instantiation of that particular packet of paradigmatic features, i.e.
as an instance of this or that phoneme type-category. The phoneme is, as
Cleirigh (1998: 41) argues, an expression of the probability of the speaker or
listener locating that particular packet of features at that point.
Cleirigh (1998: 38-9) has defined the three phonological ranking units
named above as periodic cycles of vocal-tract activity in ways that fit the above
definition of trajectory. Thus, the first (lowest) scalar cycle is defined as a cycle
of opening and closing the vocal tract 'to dampen phonation in the production
of syllables' (Cleirigh 1998: 38). The syllabic trajectory consists in the temporal
oscillation between the assignment of heavy and light syllabic weight. This gives
rise to a structure consisting of Onset and Rhyme. The units comprising the
Rhyme are potentially moraic, i.e. they have syllabic weight (moraicity) while the
Onset consists of units that do not have syllabic weight. The latter are, therefore,
non-moraic. In the discussion which follows, the clause complex I bought this VJ
and I sailed it will serve as the focus of our illustrative discussion. With reference
to the syllable sail, Figure 3.1 shows the assignment of syllabic weight. Thus, the
constituent comprising the Onset is non-moraic, while the constituent
comprising the Rhyme is potentially moraic and can therefore function as a
timing unit on the next-highest level, viz. the foot. Figure 3.1 shows the alterna-
tion of non-moraic and moraic elements in the unfolding temporal trajectory of
the syllable sail from the word sailed in our example.
The next-highest scalar level is the trajectory of vocal-tract activity that
produces rhythm. The rhythmic trajectory is formed, in stress-timed languages
like English, by the alternation of salient and non-salient (weak) syllables. Salient
syllables are so defined by virtue of the fact that they are assigned stress through
varying topological factors such as loudness and duration. The temporal
trajectory which arises on this level is known as the foot. Thus, a foot is a
Figure 3.1: Syllable structure of'sail', showing morale and non-moraic elements
trajectory of vocal-tract activity which, in English, results from the periodic
(cyclic) assignment of salient and weak stress to syllables such that each cycle -
each foot - consists of one stressed syllable and an unequal number of
unstressed ones.
M / bought this / Vee Jay / A and / sailed it
In the above example, the feet are marked off by slashes; the syllable immedi-
ately following the slash is the salient syllable, or the Ictus. The carat sign 'A>
indicates a silent Ictus. Figure 3.2 shows the wave trajectory of the alternation of
stressed and unstressed syllablesas the syntagm unfolds in time.
The highest scalar trajectory that I shall consider here is that which is
concerned with the creation of tonic prominence or tonicity through changes in
major pitch. This trajectory is concerned with intonation. The intonation
trajectory consists of a cycle which alternates between 'switching tonicity on and
off, as Cleirigh (1998: 39) expresses it. In our example, the intonation cycle is
instantiated as follows:
//i I bought this / Veejay //i and/ sailed it //
The wave trajectory of tonicity in this example is shown in Figure 3.3. In thisway,
we see phonology as consisting of time-bound trajectories on different scalar
levels. Each scale has its own characteristic temporal cycle or rate of completion
and its own characteristic entities. Furthermore, the trajectories on their
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, . . . 113
114 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Figure 3.2: Trajectory of wave of stressed and unstressed syallables in clause complex,
showing alternation of stressed and unstressed syallables as syntagm unfolds in time
Figure 3.3: Trajectory oftonicity wave in clause complex
respective scalar levels are integrated to each other in the production of speech
sounds. This integration of diverse scalar levels leads to the production of an
increasingly complex speech signal in which the higher level of generalitychar-
acteristic of moraicity is reintegrated to the increasingly more specified levelsof
stress and tonicity. This process of integration across scalar levels increases the
amount of information that is stored in the trajectory and hence the agentive
determinability of the trajectory (Salthe 1993: 261). It is not difficult to see here
how the further integration of expression-stratum trajectories to content-stratum
ones amounts to a further increase in the semiotic complexity of the trajectory
and therefore of the amount of information-meaning that is stored along the
duration of the trajectory. It is the content stratum which accesses stored
meaning on the ecosocial scale and which entrains lower-scalar expression-
stratum trajectories to its own higher-scalar dynamics.
The emergence of the phonological rank scale on level L therefore provides
stable parameters such that particular vocal-tract trajectories qua phonological
types and their structures persist on many different space-time scales and across
many different users (speakers and listeners). The cyclic character of each
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 115
trajectory, which Cleirigh has identified, draws attention, in my view, to the self-
organizing properties of the neuromuscular substrate. This is possible because
each scalar level has stored information that is specific to its level as well as a
characteristic cycle of activity which defines its cogent moment. For example, the
syllabic trajectory both stores information about syllable weight and, at the same
time, has a temporal existence definable as states in its overall phase space, viz.
opening --+ closing the vocal tract. Furthermore, we shall see below how a small
number of principles of formal organization are fractally distributed across tra-
jectories of both expression- and content-stratum activity.
The properties of the filtering or buffering system - i.e. the hierarchy of
ranking phonological units at level L - is comprised of units which may have
symbolic and/or indexical properties and functions on the expression stratum
of speech. On level L+1, a given phonological SI filters and, therefore, interprets
the topological-continuous variation of speech sounds as phonologically salient
indexical or symbolic differences. Differences of this kind are typological-
categorial in nature. Indexical functions are signalled by salient contrasts in, for
example, intonation, speech rhythm, and other prosodic dimensions of the
sound stream. These indexical features of the expression stratum are necessarily
grounded in the here-now scale of the speech event. They function to draw the
listener's attention to some salient aspect of that event either by presupposing its
existence in the speech event or by creatively bringing it into existence through
the use of the particular indexical sign. (The distinction between the indexically
presupposing and indexically creative functions of indexical signs in language
can be found in Silverstein 1976.)
In the case of indexicals, sensori-motor activity functions to index some
semiotically salient dimension of the ongoing speech event by virtue of the per-
ceivable relation of co-occurrence between the indexical sign - intonational or
rhythmic contrast - and the indexed object. For example, phonological systems
and structures may index a given lexicogrammatical unit on the content stratum
by means of prosodic resources which extend over a given lexicogrammatical
domain. Alternatively, a phonological syntagm may demarcate a lexicogrammat-
ical unit, for example when syllables indicate morpheme and word boundaries
(Cleirigh 1998: 24-5; Firth 1957b [1948]: 122-3). Furthermore, phonological
units such as the prosodic spread or extension of tone over a given lexicogram-
matical unit may index that unit as having informational salience in the
unfolding discourse. Rhythmic organization on the lower rank of the foot can
also be used to render specific lexical items prominent as well as to demarcate
lexicogrammatical boundaries.
Phonologically indexed aspects of lexicogrammatical and discourse organiza-
tion also include the 'communicative intentions' of speakers. For example,
Gumperz, in Prevignano and Di Luzio (2003: 10-14), argues that communicative
intentions are inferable on the basis of indexical signs or contextualization cues
of this sort. The intentions so inferred do not, in my view, belong to the domain
of internalized cognitive processes per se. I do not assume that the index is the
external sign of an internal reality beneath the skin of the individual. Instead, I
would say that this indexing of communicative intentions is just one dimension
of the ways in which meaning flows into and entrains a particular logogenetic
116 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
trajectory on the here-now scale in which the event is enacted and unfolds for its
participants. Thus, Peirce's understanding of indexical signs is upheld here.
That is, indexical signs are sensori-motor activities that point to the existence of
some 'object' on the here-now scale. Such objects may be grounded by the index
either 'subjectively' or 'objectively' - as existing in the field of the speaker's body,
including the inner domain of thought and feeling; or as existing in the field of
that which is external to the speaker's body, Le. in the external objects and events
which are part of the context of situation. The indexing of lexicogrammatical
domains by phonological units such as rhythm and tone already shows the
principle of scalar heterogeneity at work. This is so in the sense that lower-scalar
phonological systems and structures on the expression stratum integrate with
the higher-scalar lexicogrammatical and discourse levels of organization on the
content stratum.
The use of prosodic resources such as rhythm and syllable stress may serve to
index semantic relationships which are not made explicit in the lexicogrammar.
That is, the particular phonological feature may index a discourse-level semantic
pattern which the listener is required to retrieve from his or her knowledge of
specific intertextual patterns in order to understand the particular semantic
relation. Semantic meaning relations are made in discourse through particular
patterned combinations of lexicogrammatical selections in texts. There is no
one-to-one correspondence between lexicogrammatical forms and the semantic
meanings they are used to make in discourse. Moreover, lexicogrammatical
forms do not always spell out the full semantic pattern in an explicit way.
Prosodic and other phonological cues often provide subtle cues as to how to
construe the relevant semantic pattern in discourse. This shows how expression-
stratum features may index intertextually recoverable semantic patterns which
are necessary and relevant for the interpretation of the particular lexicogram-
matical selections that are made. With this in mind, we can say that speakers'
intentions are often shown to be analysable as an indexical relationship between
prosodic or other cue and an implicit semantic pattern on the discourse level
rather than an internal cognitive state of the speaker per se.
3. Stratification in Relation to Expression and Content
The notion of the expression stratum that I am using here is a further develop-
ment of Hjelmslev's (1961 [1943]: 47-60) theory of the stratal organization of
the linguistic sign, seen as comprising the two strata of content and expression.
Furthermore, both content and expression are internally stratified. Thus, the
expression stratum comprises the two levels of expression form (phonology) and
expression substance (phonetics). Likewise, the content stratum is internally
stratified as content form (lexicogrammar) and content substance (discourse).
The relationship between the strata of content and expression is one of realiza-
tion. That is, content is realized by expression and expression realizes content.
Realization is a two-way relationship between these two strata. It is a symbolic
relationship. That is, expression symbolizes content and content is symbolized by
expression.
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 117
In systemic-functional theory, the content stratum is internally stratified
into discourse and lexicogrammar (Martin 1992a: 14-21). Discourse, which is
linguistically realized social action and text, is realized by co-patternings of
lexicogrammatical selections. Discourse is a higher-level reconstrual of
lexicogrammatical patterns so as to realize thematic patterns, interactive modes,
and cohesive relations in texts. Following Halliday (1978a: 108-9), text is defined
as either spoken or written instances of language-in-use. Discourse and lexi-
cogrammar belong to the content stratum because they are based on various
types of semantic-pragmatic meaning and social (inter)action. I take a view
similar to that originally espoused by Firth (1957c [1951]: 220), viz. meaning
cannot be defined in terms of any single stratum:
Language text must be attributed to participants in some context of situation
in order that its modes of meaning may be stated as a series of levels, which
taken together form a sort of linguistic spectrum. In this 'spectrum' the
meaning of the whole event is dispersed and dealt with by a hierarchy of
linguistic techniques descending from social contextualization to phonology.
(Firth 1957c [1951]: 220)
In some respects, the terms expression and content are unfortunate ones for
they may suggest the idea ofa material means of expressing meaning, seen exclu-
sively in terms of content. In my view, such a conception reflects a fundamental
misunderstanding of Hjelmslev's notions (see chapter 2, section 1, pp. 59-67).
The stratal organization oflanguage into expression and content reflects diverse
principles of semiotic organization on different levels. Meaning is made through
the contribution of all the levels involved in the logogenetic process of
producing text or discourse. In the case oflanguage, this means that the phono-
logical or graphological, lexicogrammatical, and discourse levels of organization
all simultaneously make their distinctive contributions to the overall meaning-
making event.
The expression stratum is based on sensori-motor activity. An example is the
vocal-tract activity whereby speech sounds are articulated. Expression is
internally stratified in terms of phonetics and phonology. I shall use the term
phonetics to designate language-specific classifications of articulatory reper-
toires independently of their linguistic function. Phonology, on the other hand,
refers to the higher-level organization of such repertoires into language-specific
functional systems and structures. As we shall see below, this means that phono-
logical units and relations, in the logogenetic process of creating discourse or
text, are both integrated to and constrained by higher-order discourse and
lexicogrammatical patterns of organization on the content stratum. Moreover,
phonology is not simply a vehicle whereby such content is 'carried' or
'conveyed'. Instead, it is a full-fledged level of linguistic organization whose
functional structures and systems make their own specific contribution to the
meaning and organization of the discourse event. This contribution will be
discussed in the following section in terms of the iconic, indexical and symbolic
functions of phonological forms in the meaning-making process.
The phenomena of experience that are construed on the content stratum are
118 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
not perceived. In listening to speech sounds or visually scanning a sequence of
graphemes on a treated surface, what is acoustically or visually perceived are not
the phenomena of experience that are construed by the content stratum. By the
same token, in listening to or in reading say a sequence of graphemes, we do
experience the phenomena that are construed by the lexicogrammatical- and
discourse-level units and relations. However, such phenomena, unlike
expression-stratum units and relations, are not present in the immediate envi-
ronment as acoustic or light energy which structures the perceiver's point of
observation. The acoustic or light energy which structures the perceiver's point
of observation plays a causal role in acting on the perceptual systems of the
observer. However, the flow of symbolic experience which is also apprehended
in the sense of what the discourse is about does not causally act upon the
perceiver in the way acoustic and light energy does. In the process of articula-
tion, for example, vocal-tract activity physically modifies the acoustic stream in
such a way that the sequence of perceived phonological invariants redounds with
a concomitant flow of experienced phenomena such that, in addition to hearing
the sounds produced by the speaker, symbolically construed phenomena of
experience are also apprehended. The stratification ofianguage into expression
and content means that, when one attends to the acoustic stream of speech
sounds, one attends to two sets of informational-semiotic invariants: (I) a set of
phonological invariants that is specific to the stream of the speech sounds; and
(2) a set of invariants that is specific to the semantic categories (persons, places,
actions, events, and so on) that are construed by the lexicogrammatical and
discourse units and relations. The first involves perceptual pick-up; the second
involves the resonance of what is picked up with symbolic categories of
experience that cannot be perceived. Perceiving the acoustic stream dually
involves a symbolic experience of phenomena as a result of the ways in which the
acoustic flux structures the perceiver's point of observation according to the
principles outlined in section 2 so as to be recategorized as symbolic content.
4. The Integration of Iconic, Indexical, and Symbolic Modes of Meaning in
Phonology
The expression stratum is itself a cross-scalar phenomenon which simultaneously
links multiple space-time scales. These diverse scales can be described in terms
of a nested specification hierarchy which consists of iconic, indexical, and
symbolic modes of meaning-making.
4.1 The Iconic Mode ofPhonological Organization
Following Salthe's (1993) notion of the specification hierarchy (see also Lemke
1995b: 113, 2000a; Thibault 2000a: 301-3, 2003b), the iconic dimension of
speech sounds is the least specified, innermost level of such a nested hierarchy.
Many phonologically non-salient features of the stream ofspeech sounds such
as the quality of the speaker's voice tell us that the speaker is sad, anxious, ill, and
so on. In this case, we are dealing with continuous quantitative variation in the
sound stream which directly - iconically - maps onto continuous quantitative
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 119
variation in the speaker's neurophysiological dynamics. That is, they are iconic
signs ofbody states and feelings. They can be interpreted as signs ofaffective and
other subjective conditions of the speaker. These iconic signs are confined to the
immediate here-now scale. For this reason, they closely relate to the topological
material ground of our being in the world. However, even at this level, scalar
heterogeneity is evident on account of the fact that these iconic signs extend
beyond the organismic level and are able to be interpreted as such by others.
4.2 The Indexical Mode ofPhonological Organization
Phonological units and relations on level L also have indexical functions. This
means that the system of phonological possibilities - its categorial distinctions -
is also grounded in the here-now act of speaking and listening qua sensori-motor
activity. Indexical properties add further levels of complexity and specification,
along with the new semiotic functions of these properties. The innermost iconic
level is integrated to and modified by the newly emergent indexical level. This
does not mean that the iconic level is transcended; rather, the indexical level
entails the emergence of typological differentiation from topological variation
on the basis of the increasing semiotic differentiation of vocal-tract gestural
activity. In this way, vocal-tract activity is used to intentionally 'point to'
contextual values beyond the body-scale. Many 'non-linguistic' contrasts in the
speaking voice such as loudness may have such indexical properties and
functions. Thus, contrasts in rhythm, intonation, and prosody can function
indexically to give phonological categories a point of reference in the act of
speaking by specifying, for example, its interpersonal or textual significance.
For example, in English, the assignment of pitch prominence to a given
syllable in discourse is an independent variable which interacts with, though it
does not define, the phonological type-category which the particular syllable
instantiates. Rather, the speaker's choice of pitch prominence indexically
grounds the syllable in terms of factors such as its interpersonal-interactional or
informational relevance in the here-now of the speaking event. However, it is not
salient for the purposes of distinguishing, say, the phoneme categories /b/ and
/p/ whereby the lexicogrammatical distinction between the words bat and pat is
symbolized. Contrasts in rhythm, tone choice, pitch prominence, and so on, are
potentially indexical because they can point to or indicate contextually relevant
values which are closely tied to the immediate here-now scale of the act of
speaking. That is, they are interpretable as indexes of values which are recover-
able from the perceptual purview shared by the participants in the event.
Phonological patterns also interact with lexicogrammatical patterns on the
content stratum in ways that serve indexical functions of creating texture as well
as linking to aspects of organization on the higher-level lexicogrammatical
stratum. In this regard, Cleirigh (1998: 57) points out that systems of phono-
logical cohesion may function to index 'the syntagmatic extent of lexicogram-
matical units'. Following Firth (1957b [1948]), Cleirigh identifies three such
strategies, demarcation, integration, and concatenation, as follows:
Demarcation is the phonological delimiting of a lexicogrammatical
boundary: initiality or finality. Integration is the phonological consolidation
120 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
of a lexicogrammatical domain as a single unit. Concatenation is the phono-
logical annexation of two or more lexicogrammatical units within a larger
(lexicogrammatical) structure. (Cleirigh 1998: 57)
All three strategies can be seen as having both intra- and extra-phonological
indexical functions. For example, syllable boundary positions can create (1)
endophoric ties that link either backwards or forwards to previous or following
syllable peaks or (2) exophoric links to lexicogrammatical units that lie outside
phonology on the lexicogrammatical stratum. Thus, we can see here how the
creation of 'phonological texture' (Cleirigh 1998) functions to punctuate or
digitalize the topological flow of speech sounds into discrete events separated by
boundaries. Such events have semiotic salience because they are interpretable
according to social conventions which enable their interactional significance to
be recognized. The phonological resources referred to here, in punctuating the
temporal flow, constitute differences that make a difference to that flow. They
are indexical resources which mark out a piece of the temporal flow of articu-
lated sounds as a lexicogrammatical event. In a given discourse context, such
events can be interpreted by the parties to the interaction as having a certain
meaning within the discourse. Indexical functions like these thus contribute to
the perception of the sound stream as an event, or a series of nested and inter-
related events on various scales, rather than mere physical sensations (see
Hande11989: 183).
4.3 The Symbolic Mode ofPhonological Organization
The symbolic dimension of the meaning of phonological forms is not the only
function they have in the temporal unfolding of speech events. The symbolic
possibilities that such phonological distinctions have for construing or symboliz-
ing lexicogrammatical distinctions on the content stratum means that the
sounds produced in the act of speaking can be linked to the meaning-making
possibilities of the lexicogrammatical and discourse levels of organization.
Expression itself is linked to many different space-time scales that go beyond the
here-now scale in which speech sounds are articulated and heard.
The most specified, outermost level adds further layers of symbolic
complexity in the form of a full-fledged system of phonological contrasts which
cross-link to the content stratum of lexicogrammar and its semantics. Once
again, the iconic and indexical levels are not transcended, but are integrated to
and consequently modified by the symbolic level. This is evidenced by the fact
that phonological units and relations have both indexical and symbolic functions
in discourse.
5. Rhythm and the Foot
The creation of a phonogenetic field in the dynamic processes of articulation is
asymmetric in time (Cleirigh 1998: 53). For this reason, it is irreversible. In terms
of biological initiating conditions emanating from level L-l, this is explainable
by the fact that speech 'primarily exploits egressive airstreams' (Cleirigh 1998:
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 121
53). The initiating and terminating boundaries of a syllable on level L cannot be
reversed because the principles which relate the boundary conditions of the
syllable to its internal organization are irreversible. The initiation of a syllable
cannot be reversed to become the terminating position for each has conse-
quences for the instantiation of paradigmatic features in the asymmetric
temporal flow of articulation (Cleirigh 1998: 53). At the same time, the direc-
tionality of the phonogenetic field of articulation is constrained by boundary
conditions operating on level L+1 of some phonological SI. Vocal-tract activity is
integrated to and entrained by this level such that particular phonological units
and relations are recognizable.
Semiotically, the field perspective refers to the phase space, the organized
field, which affords the emergence of the wave and particle perspectives. Waves
and particles are organizations of quantum field processes (Bickard and
Campbell 2000: 331). The vocal tract is a topologically organized continuum in
which vocal-tract gestural activity takes place. It is the material ground in which
this activity takes place. As such, the topological-continuous space of the vocal
tract is a phase space or an organized field in which certain kinds of organized
process perturb this field so as to give rise to various principles of organization.
These diverse principles interact during the temporal unfolding of vocal-tract
articulatory activity.
Meaning-making is a probabilistic system for construing and acting on the
phenomena of experience. Cleirigh (1998: 41) has shown how the Copenhagen
interpretation of quantum mechanics can be applied to phonology, interpreted
as a wave/particle complementarity in terms of probability. The application of
this interpretation to phonology 'means interpreting waves of moraicity, stress
and tonicity as measures of the probability of the observer - speaker or hearer -
finding the respective syllable, foot or tone group particle at that particular
point' (Cleirigh 1998: 41).
For example, the syllables comprising the Ictus and Remiss phases of the foot
are comprised of clusters of vocoids and contoids. Abercrombie (1967: 85)
points out that vocoids and contoids are phonetic segments which occur in
particular articulatory environments. These entail a good deal of phonetic
variation that is not phonologically salient and which is consequently filtered at
the phonological level L+1 where phonetic segments are construed as instantia-
tions of particular phonemes. Such bundles of features correspond to the
phoneme type-categories of a given phonological system. Phonemes specify
phonological type-classes of consonants and vowels which are specific to a given
language system. Phonemes categorize discrete regions of the articulatory flux as
particles. A particle corresponds to a point in the unfolding wave to which a
specific packet of paradigmatic features is assigned such that the region of the
wave movement corresponding to the particle is construed as an instance of a
particular phoneme type-category. Thus, phonemes paradigmatically specify a
given region of the flow of articulation - i.e. the muscular movements involved
- as invariant irrespective of variations in pitch, loudness, and duration (Gibson
1983 [1966]: 93). As Gibson points out, 'the stimulus information for detecting
them [phonemes, P]T] is invariant under transformations of frequency,
intensity, and time' (1966: 93). Phonemes therefore construe articulatory
122 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
processes corresponding to paradigmatic bundles of distinctive features which
are perceived as invariant under change.
An analogous and parallel process occurs on the content stratum. Thus, expe-
riential particles such as processes and participants in the clause, or Thing and
Event in the nominal and verbal groups, respectively, symbolically re-construe
phonological particles on various scalar levels as discrete experiential semantic
categories such as Actor, Material Process, Goal, and so on. These experiential
particles are invariant under topological transformations of the stimulus flux. In
turn, these particles of content construe the continuous flux of the phenomena
of experience as instantiations of paradigmatic categories of content.
In the following section, I shall focus on the metafunctional organization of
the foot in English phonology with a view to investigating how the principles
outlined above can be applied to the metafunctional organization of phonolog-
ical form.
6. The Metafunctional Organization of Phonology as seen from the
Perspective of Rhythm and the Foot
The syntagmatic structure of the foot is comprised of the two elements Ictus and
Remiss. These two elements constitute two phases in the rhythmic element
called the foot in the phonological rank scale. Ictus and Remiss are themselves
comprised of syllables deriving from the next-lower rank in the phonological
rank scale. The foot hierarchically dominates a given number of syllables in a
sequence and imposes varying degrees of stress on these syllables, 'according to
their location in the foot' (Catford 1998: 345). Syllables produced with greatest
intensity and duration are described as [salient]; syllables with less intensity and
duration are described as [weak].
The foot is the locus of rhythmic organization in the phonology of English.
Rhythm can be viewed from four metafunctional perspectives, all of which
constitute simultaneous and overlapping dimensions of the organization and
meaning of the foot. The four different modes of phonological realization
iconically map onto the four different ways in which the expression stratum
entrains and construes vocal-tract dynamics in the act of speaking. The relevant
environment of the expression stratum is the body. The iconic dimension of
phonology is the least specified, innermost level of a nested hierarchy of iconic,
indexical, and symbolic modes of entraining and construing vocal-tract
dynamics.
6.1 The Textual Metafunctiunal
Textual structure is periodic; it is not based on constituent structure. Periodicity
is a dynamic, time-bound process. Rhythm can be viewed as a perturbation in the
form of a wave-front which is propagated through an articulatory field. The
periodic nature of textual meaning shows rhythm as a periodic sequencing of
strong and weaker elements, seen as alternating phases of Ictus and Remiss. Ictus
and Remiss are alternating phases in the dynamic unfolding in time of a
rhythmic field (Cleirigh 1998: 80). English is a language of the kind identified
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, . . . 123
by Abercrombie (1967: 97) as having stress-timed rhythm in contrast to syllable-
timed languages such as Italian. In the latter, periodic rhythmic movement is
produced by the syllable-producing process: 'the chest pulses, and hence the
syllables, occur at regular intervals' (Abercrombie 1967: 97). In languages
having stress-timed rhythm, periodic rhythmic movement is produced by the
assignment of stress. Figure 3.4 shows the organization of the rhythmic field of
the two-syllableword sailed in terms of the Ictus and Remiss phases.
The foot is the parcelling-up of stronger and weaker syllabic elements into a
higher-order unit. The periodic, wave-like perspective allows rhythm to be seen
as a dynamic, undulating movement of a particle from a strongly stressed
element to a more weakly stressed one (Cleirigh 1998: 80). These elements are
the boundaries of the temporal whole which is constituted by the foot. In this
way, rhythm structures the temporal dimension of events. The foot may be seen
as the phonological 'atom' out of which larger-scale rhythmic structures are
assembled on the expression stratum of speaking. From the perspective of the
textual metafunction, as Cleirigh observes, rhythm is 'a process of periodically
switching on stress' (1998: 81). In this sense, rhythm is viewed as a perturbation
of a rhythmic field which gives rise to alternating Ictus and Remiss phases
(Cleirigh 1998: 344).
6.2 The Logical Metafunction
Rhythm, Cleirigh (1998: 345-6) further points out, can be viewed from the point
of view of the logical metafunction as a form of hypotactic interdependency in
which the Remiss is dependent on the Ictus. The Ictus is the dominant or a
phase of the foot; the Remiss is the dependent or (3 phase. Rhythm, as Cleirigh
(1998: 81-2) has pointed out, can therefore be viewed as modification. That is,
rhythm is 'the modification of articulation by initiator power' (Cleirigh 1998:
81). Stronger or weaker stressed syllables impact on articulation in ways which
affect factors such as aspiration, posture and degree of closure (Cleirigh 1998:
81). In this perspective, we are concerned with the ways in which (articulatory)
Figure 3.4: Rhythmic field of the word sailed, showing Ictus and Remiss phases of its
temporal trajectory
124 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
phenomena relate to each other, rather than with how the different parts
constitute some larger whole. For example, we are not concerned with the way
in which Ictus and Remiss together make up a larger whole - the foot - butwith
the relationship of interdependency between these two units. Dependency
relations are relations between units such that a Remiss can be dependent on an
Ictus and hence can be modified by it, as shown below in relation to the word
never in Figure 3.5.
6.3 The Interpersonal Metafunction
Interpersonally, rhythm can be seen as the creation of a charged vibratory field
which becomes operational when a listener is within range of this field and able
to perceptually pick up its effects. Abercrombie (1967: 97) has referred to the
experience of speech rhythm as a 'rhythm of movement' which both speaker and
listener feel and which affords what Abercrombie has called 'phonetic empathy'.
The 'phonetic empathy' referred to by Abercrombie is founded on the joint
perception by speaker and listener of the periodic movement of the muscles of
the breathing apparatus. Thus, rhythm can give rise to a jointly perceived
interpersonal charge which has a range of potential emotional-affectivevalues
depending on articulatory variables such as rate of tempo and degree of
syncopation (Handel 1989: 458). The point I wish to emphasize here is that inter-
actants may physically feel the bodily enactment of interpersonal meanings which
may not necessarily correlate with any specific item on the content stratum (see
Cowley 1998: 565-6 for a similar observation regarding pitch fluctuation).
6.4 The Experiential Metafunction
Experiential structure is particulate. In this perspective, the foot is a particle
interpreted as the peak of a stress wave. As Cleirigh (1998: 42) points out, the
peak of the stress wave represents the most probable location of the foot in the
unfolding rhythmic syntagm. That is, the peak of the stress wave represents an
increase in the probability of the observer's locating the foot at that particular
point in the overall wave. Each stress in the unfolding syntagm is thus inter-
preted as a localized particle to which the listener assigns a discrete foot. The
particle perspective results in a tendency to isolate the syllable on which the
Figure 3.5: Dependency relations between Ictus and Remiss phases in hever'
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 125
strong beat occurs - i.e. the Ictus - as determining the location of the foot. This
makes the foot seem to be more determinate than it actually is because of this
perspective's emphasis on static segments or points, rather than on the dynamic,
temporally unfolding phases of a process and the fuzzy or blurred boundaries
between segments (Pike 1967; 1982: 12-13). Again, the focus is on the proba-
bilistic assignment of the foot in relation to the point where stress is strongest.
Moreover, the particle perspective privileges a model of linguistic structure
which is based on the notion of a constituent hierarchy. That is, larger-size
particles are comprised of smaller-size particles (see section 8, pp. 134-9). On
analogy with part-whole principles of organization in the grammar (e.g. the
experiential structure of the clause as a figure consisting of functionally related
roles [cf. particles] such as participant and process), the foot can be seen as
consisting of lower-level syllabic constituents which function as parts in the larger
whole defined as the foot on the level above that of the syllable. Thus, Ictus and
Remiss are particles of, respectively, strong and weak stress. Experientially, the
foot is defined as the functional relationship between particles of strong and
weak stress which are realized by lower-ranking syllables. These particles of stress
are integrated to the higher-ranking foot in which they function as parts in this
larger whole.
Stress is produced in the vocal tract by varying and modulating factors such as
loudness and duration. Loudness and duration are quantitative values, based on
difference in degree or topological-continuous variation. Degree of stress is
therefore iconic with respect to degree of loudness and/or duration. From the
perspective of articulation, both loudness and duration are iconic with respect to
(1) 'the degree of force with which air is expelled from the lungs by the
pulmonic air-stream mechanism while the vocal cords are in vibration'
(Abercrombie 1967: 95) in the case ofloudness; and (2) the temporal duration
of segments, depending on factors such as the length of time that a particular
vowel posture is maintained (Abercrombie 1967: 82).
At all levels of organization - syllable, foot, tone group - phonology is
structured in terms of waves ofvocal-tract activity. Waves of strong-weak rhythmic
pulses constitute a fundamental organizing principle of the expression stratum.
Furthermore, rhythmic waves at the level of the foot interact with waves at other
levels of phonological organization such as the syllable and the tone group. The
fact that periodic, wave-like behaviour is a fundamental organizing principle of
the expression stratum of speech suggests that it is adapted to the generating of
highly patterned flows of behaviour which cross-couple with the flows of other
systems (other speakers) in ways that synchronize with each other in stable ways
during interaction. Thus, the feeling of 'phonetic empathy' or of being 'in-
phase' or 'out-of-phase' with one's interlocutor for the duration of a conversa-
tional event, or some part of it, is a product of the ways in which interacting wave
variables at many levels of organization are attuned to the many micro-level
fluctuations in the wave-like behaviour of one's interlocutor. These fluctuations
may be amplified so that they have larger-scale effects on the organization of the
flow of meaning-making activity. This further suggests that interaction is an
emergent property of the interaction of the waves produced by the different
interactants (e.g. speakers).
126 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
7. The Integration of Iconic, Indexical and Symbolic Modes of Meaning in
Lexicogrammar
Hjelmslev (1961 [1943]: 54-6) pointed out that the internal organization of the
content stratum parallels many of the principles also found on the expression
stratum, relative to its own scalar level(s) of organization (see chapter 2, section
1, pp. 59-67). Expression and content in language are describable in terms of a
few underlying principles of formal organization which pervade both of these
strata. As we saw in the case of phonology above, these principles correspond to
the periodic, particulate, wave-like, and chain-like modes of organization which
are characteristic of the four metafunctional regions on both strata. Further-
more, the iconic, indexical, and symbolic modes of meaning which are internal
to the content stratum are describable in terms of a nested specification
hierarchy, as outlined above.
According to Deacon, Peirce's typology of icon, index, and symbol designates
a hierarchy of different modes of reference (Deacon 1998 [1997]: 73; see
Thibault 2000a: 298-303 for some further proposals). In my view, Peirce's three-
way distinction is not restricted to the referential hierarchy proposed by Deacon,
but can be used to explain the various ways in which lexicogrammatical form
relates to the plurality of overlapping semantic functions (experiential, inter-
personal, textual, logical) that are expressed by forms. Reference is a discourse-
pragmatic function of language-in-use. It cannot be explained in terms of
any single metafunction; instead, reference depends upon the synergy among
different metafunctional areas in lexicogrammatical and discourse. My interest
here lies in the ways in which iconic, indexical, and symbolic properties can be
used to explain various facets of the realization of the semantic metafunctions in
lexicogrammatical form. Therefore, my focus in this section is on the intrinsic
metafunctional organization of lexicogrammar rather than on extrinsic referen-
tial uses of these intrinsic functions. My interest lies in drawing attention to some
of the ways in which the intrinsic metafunctional organization oflexicogrammar
can be seen as a specification hierarchy which extends from the most general
kinds offunctional relationship between form and function (iconic) to the most
highly specified (symbolic). The logic of the specification hierarchy further
entails that iconic properties of lexicogrammatical form-function relations are
retained when indexical and symbolic properties are progressively added. This
means that symbolic properties implicate indexical ones which implicate iconic
ones.
The relations between levels in the implication hierarchy are transitive
(Salthe 1993: 64). This means that what is logically true at any given moment of
the system is true of the system through all of its moments. For this reason, lexi-
cogrammar has symbolic, indexical, and iconic properties, as reflected in its
intrinsic metafunctional organization. The more general iconic properties
probably also reflect earlier conditions of the system prior to the emergence of
the hierarchy of symbolic, indexical, and iconic properties postulated below.
This does not mean that the iconic characteristics of precursor semiotic systems
to language have necessarily been retained in their original form. Rather, the
addition of indexical and symbolic properties in the further development of the
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 127
system necessarily entails the reorganization of the lower (innermost) integrative
levels as higher (outermost) levels are, in time, added. The emergent system of
levels 'reflects the categorial reach of some observer, extending from the most
general types relevant to some classification to the most highly specific (highly
specified)' (Salthe 1993: 65).
7.1 The Iconic Mode ofLexicogrammatical Organization
The iconic dimension of lexicogrammar and its discourse-level patterning
is revealed in the ways in which the four different modes of meaning - the
metafunctions - proposed by Halliday are predisposed to different forms of
lexicogrammatical realization. Thus, experiential meanings are realized by
particulate or constituent-like modes of lexicogrammatical realization; inter-
personal meanings are realized by field-like prosodic and scopal ones; textual
ones by wave-like or periodic ones based on peaks of prominence and
beginning-end boundary markers; and logical meanings are realized by chain-
like relations of interdependency between items such that one item modifies
another (Halliday 1979; McGregor 1997: 77-80). The four different modes of
lexicogrammatical realization iconically map onto the four different ways in
which the content strata of lexicogrammar and discourse construct and
construe the phenomena of experience - real, imagined, remembered, and so
on - in their ecosocial environment. The iconic dimension oflexicogrammar is
the least specified, innermost level of a nested hierarchy of iconic, indexical,
and symbolic modes.
Each of the four modes of lexicogrammatical realization maps onto the
continuous topological variation of the phenomena of experience. Experience
is transformed as categories belonging to linguistic content along these four
dimensions, which are intrinsic to the organization of lexicogrammar and
discourse. This does not mean that these different modes of meaning - the expe-
riential, interpersonal, textual, and logical metafunctions - simply reflect natural
kinds of categories 'out there' in the real world. Rather, they constitute a first
principle of their semiotic reorganization according to the internal organization
of the content stratum.
In terms of the three-level hierarchy, the iconic dimension of metafunctional
organization can be seen as the mapping of topological-continuous variation in
the phenomena of experience (level L-I) to topological-continuous variation in
the modes of realization of the metafunctions in lexicogrammatical form. The
different modes of formal realization in lexicogrammar iconically resemble
different semantic regions. This is so in the sense that topological variation in
lexicogrammatical form maps onto topological variation in the corresponding
semantic region. The three-level hierarchy can be used to model the relations
across levels described in this paragraph as follows:
Level L+1:
Level L:
Level L-1:
metafunctional semantic regions
diverse modes of realization in lexicogrammatical form
phenomena of experience (topological)
128 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
I shall now consider each of the four metafunctions individually in order to see
how the particular principles of structuration associated with each of the meta-
functions iconically resemble a particular kind of meaning.
7.1.1 The Experiential Metafunction
Experiential meaning focuses on the position of particles and the part-whole
analytical relations that exist between these in configurations of functionally
related process-participant relations. Thus, the constituent-like or particulate
dimension of grammar is iconically related to the way in which experience is
analytically segmented into a number of component parts which together form
a larger whole. For example, a clausally realized situation comprising one or
more participants, a process, and so on, all ofwhich perform different functional
roles in the whole. Consider the following example:
I bought this YJ and I sailed it
This clause complex realizes a sequence in which two clausally realized figures
are related to each other by the paratactic conjunction and. The first clause
experientially construes a figure in which a process bought relates two partici-
pants I and this Vj. The figure which results from this relationship analyses the
given phenomenon as a number of discrete, functionally related particles. The
functional relations among these experiential particles comprise a figure whose
experiential grammar can be schematized as Actor/-Process: Material
Action/-Coal. A particular experiential function is mapped on to each of the
three particles such that the given phenomenon is analysed by the experiential
grammar of the clause as consisting of three discrete components that interact
with each other.
This also means that the users of the language probabilistically recategorize,
on the content stratum, the continuous waves of the acoustic flux as quanta of
discrete lexicogrammatical particles corresponding to experiential categories of
participant, process, and so on. They do so by analytically segmenting the
continuous movement of the wave, or what is more likely, complex patterns of
cycles of overlapping and interacting waves deriving from different parameters
of the vocal-tract articulatory activity operating on diverse temporal cycles, as
peaks to which the assignment of particle position is most probable. The particle
perspective on the clause focuses on the wave peak as a static position or point,
rather than as a wave in constant movement. In so doing, the emergent particu-
late organization of the experiential categorization of the phenomena of
experience maximizes the degree of certainty of interpretation of some
phenomenon.
7.1.2 The Textual Metafunction
Periodicity waves ofTheme-Rheme and Given-New in the textual meaning of the
clause envisage the clause as a dynamic movement in time comprised of various
phases. Periodic phases of clausal activity can be modelled as waves of content.
That is, the clausal wave is interpreted probabilistically in terms of the likelihood
of the language user finding the respective information quantum at a given
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, . . . 129
position in the overall wave. In the clause, this means that waves of 'thematicity'
and 'newness' are interpreted as indicators of the probability of the language
user finding the respective quantum corresponding to Theme, Rheme, Given, or
New at a given point in the clause. It is in this way that the waves of Theme-
Rheme and Given-New flowing through the clause can become quantitized as
localized particles occurring at, say,the beginning and end points of the clausal
wave. For example, the thematicity wave in the English clause consists of two
peaks, corresponding to Theme and Rheme, respectively. These two peaks
represent the most probable points in the clause for the assignment of the
functional elements Theme and Rheme. In the following example, the Themes
are indicated by bold type; the Rhemes are underscored with a double line.
Figure 3.6: Thematicity wave in the English clause complex, showing Theme and
Rheme as two peaks of information quanta
7.1.3 The Interpersonal Metafunction
The prosodic or scopal character of interpersonal meanings can be explained in
terms of the general tenets of field theory. In physics, a field is 'a region under
the influenceof some physicalagency' (Pitt 1977: 149). On the content stratum,
an interpersonal field is the domain surrounding a given interpersonal selection
- e.g. mood or modality in the clause - such that the given selection syntagmat-
ically extends over and in some waymodifiesor deforms (influences) some other
feature within the given syntagmatic domain, which it holds in its scope. The
given interpersonal feature influences and shapes (deforms) the given syntag-
matic domain in order to achieve a particular interactive purpose. In this
perspective, the process of meaning-making can be seen as one of continually
assigning quanta of interpersonal meaning to some syntagmaticdomain so as to
'energize' it for specific interactional purposes and effects. Thus, a given
maybe his fears came out so he opposed it violentlyand . . . but mumsaved
some money up and she lent me some money to buy a boat
Figure 3.6 models the thematicitywave in this syntagm.
130 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
interpersonal quantum, such as a modality or mood choice in the clause, is a
quantum of energy which acts on or extends over and therefore influences a
clausal field. Interpersonal quanta such as mood or modality are energetic
components of an overall interpersonal field.
In the following example, the projecting clause I think and the modal adjunct
probably are modalities which act on and extend over the entire declarative
proposition in double square brackets so as to give the speaker's interactive
perspective on that proposition.
I think [[probably [the first thing that gave me an opportunity of under-
standing what I was going through was my mum saved up she made string
bags]]]
The projecting clause I think holds the projected clause in its scope in the sense
that the modality which is expressed in the projecting clause extends over
the modalized field of the proposition in the projected clause. In so doing, the
speaker provides his subjective (first person) modal assessment concerning
the possibility of the proposition that is expressed by the projected clause. The
semantic extension of the modality can be modelled as the field within which the
modality exerts its influence. Such a field can be seen as a modally charged
semantic field. Figure 3.7 illustrates the full complexity of the choices in
modality and mood which operates in this syntagm on various levels, as well as
showing the field over which each choice's modalizing influence extends.
On the outermost layer, there is the mood choice of the projecting clause.
The mood choice holds the proposition in this clause in its scope and indicates
that it is being asserted as a proposition that can be argued about in the
discourse. On the second layer, the projecting clause is a modality of the kind
Halliday identifies as having the feature 'subjective: explicit'. This kind of
modality reveals the inherent self-reflexivity of human language. That is, human
language has resources for acting on and reflecting upon itself such that the
modality in this case involves meta-linguistic awareness. In this case, the speaker's
use of the projecting clause shows a reflexive self-awareness of his own processes
of modal evaluation. The third layer consists of the comment adjunct probably,
which indicates the speaker's evaluation of the content of the proposition in the
projected clause. Finally, the fourth or innermost layer consists of the mood
choice of the projected clause. Once again, the choice of declarative mood
indicates that the proposition in the projected clause is being asserted by the
speaker as something which can be argued about in the discourse.
7.1.4 TheLogical Metafunction
Logical relations in the lexicogrammar are concerned, for example, with the
ways in which clauses combine with other clauses. The resulting combination of
clauses is called the 'clause complex'. The logical relations between clauses
iconically reflect the ways in which people use language to construe relations of
temporal and causal dependency between the experienced phenomena in
clauses (see chapter 4, section 6, pp. 195-8). In the following sequence, the
speaker's use of the conjunction and iconically reflects the way in which the
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, . . . 131
Figure 3.7: Multiple modalizing fields acting on the syntagmatic domain of a
proposition, showing the scope over which each field's modalized influence extends
experienced phenomena in each clause are related to each other. For example,
the logical relationship of addition between there are some of us who are thin and
some of us who are thick and we all have a little problem iconically reflects the rela-
tionship of extending the information in the first clause by adding further infor-
mation to it in the second clause. In this example, the relationship of'extension'
is signalled by the conjunction and. The logical relationship between I ah I ahwas
going very well actually and until about January the 4th and we started the election
campaign is indicated by when. In this case, the relationship is between a given
situation in the first clause and a temporal circumstance in the second clause.
7.2 The Indexical Mode of Lexicogrammatical Organization
The four iconic modes referred to above are integrated to the indexical
properties of lexicogrammatical signs. The indexical properties of lexicogram-
matical signs include the Finite element in the verbal group, which functions
indexically to ground the clause in relation to a reference point in the
132 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
temporally unfolding discourse event. The Finite element achieves this indexical
function through either primary tense or modality. Primary tense is indexical
insofar as it involves temporal proximity deixis: it situates the process instanti-
ated by the verbal group in time relative to the moment of utterance. Modality
is indexical in the sense that it involves what might be called attitudinal or
evaluative proximity deixis: it situates the process instance in relation to evalua-
tions of its probability, usuality, certainty, and so on, relative to the speaker in
declarative clauses and the addressee in interrogative clauses. Davidse (1997)
further points out that the process instance is also grounded in terms of person
deixis by the grammatical Subject - it is linked to grammatical person (first,
second, third). In this way, both Subject and Finite perform indexical grounding
functions which link the clause to the I-you and here-now of the discourse event.
At group rank, the Thing instance, which is realized by the Head of the
nominal group, may be grounded in terms of spatial proximity by means of the
demonstratives or in terms of person deixis by means of the possessives (Davidse
1997). Whereas the iconic properties of lexicogrammatical signs that I discussed
above reflect general, probably universal design principles that relate specific
modes of meaning to their particular modes of realization in the lexicogrammar
of all languages, the indexical and symbolic properties of lexicogrammatical
signs are concerned with increasingly specified principles that characterize
individual languages. For example, the grounding function of the Subject is an
indexical property of English, though not necessarily of all other languages. In
any case, both indexical and symbolic properties of lexicogrammar are
organized in terms of a rank scale of lexicogrammatical forms on level L which
have the function of filtering non-criterial continuous topological variation in
the phenomena of experience on level L-l for the purposes of its construal by
the semantic categories recognized by a given SI on level L+1.
7.3 The Symbolic Properties ofLexicogrammatical Signs
Lexicogrammar is also a system of symbolic possibilities for making meaning by
virtue of its systems of typological-categorial distinctions between, for instance,
different experiential categories of process (material, mental, verbal, ete.) and
their associated participant roles; between different interpersonal categories of
mood (declarative, interrogative, oblative, imperative) and their associated
possibilities for enacting different interactive positions (addresser, addressee,
giver of information, seeker of information, and so on) in the negotiation and
exchange of meanings in discourse; and between different textual categories of,
for instance, deictics. A symbolic system is not necessarily tied to its environ-
ments in any specific way. This is so because the specifically symbolic properties
of, for instance, language consist of systems of categorial distinctions. Such
distinctions are defined by the value which each distinction is assigned by virtue
of its relations to all the other terms that constitute a given system of relations.
These systems of semiotically salient differences in some community are
organized as language-specific functional systems and structures which symbolize
experiential, interpersonal, deictic, and other categories. This is true for phono-
logical systems and structures as well as lexicogrammatical ones. It is by virtue of
the functionally organized paradigmatic and syntagmatic environments in which
More precisely, the linguistic form a symbolizesa category of determiner which
can be more delicately subcategorized as [DETERMINER: NON-SPECIFIC;
NUMBER: SINGULAR:COUNT]. Thus, a is used in the grammatical environ-
ment of singular count nouns, as in the example above. The properties of a
under discussion here are symbolic properties that derive from (1) the position
of this lexicogrammatical form in a system of paradigmatic contrasts with other
forms such as the; and (2) the possibilities of this form for operating in particular
types of grammatical structure such as the nominal group. The nominal group
is a particular subsystem in the language with grammatical units and structures
which are specific to that level. These units and structures are specific to the
functional tasks of the grammatical subsystem which is the nominal group.
Specifically, the grammatical resources of the nominal group function to ground
by deictic and other means the Thing element as an instance of the type-category
which is symbolized by the Thing. In the nominal group a very good sailor, the
determiner afunctions deicticallyto specify the Thing element as an arbitrary or
non-specific instance of the type-category of Thing in question. If determiners
such as English a and thewere pure indexicals, then they could not be freely
combined with other items such as, for instance, adjectives and nouns by virtue
of the grammatical resources of the nominal group. That is, they would be
necessarily tied to the specific contexts in which their indexed entities occur.
However, it is the symbolic categorial-coding potential of these forms which
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, . . . 133
particular distinctions (cf. Saussure's values) occur that a given lexicogrammati-
cal form can operate in very many different contexts rather than being tied to a
given context.
For example, the Head element in a nominal group, e.g. a very good sailor,
symbolizes an experiential type-category of Thing, viz. [SAILOR] in the present
example. It does not refer to a specific sailor in a particular real-world context.
Similarly, the adjective good symbolizes a type-category of quality just as the
determiner a symbolizesthe deictic category 'non-specific'. Each of these items
derives its symbolic potential from its position in a system of contrasting terms
whereby the value of each and every term is defined. For example, a contrasts
with thein the sense that both are more delicate instantiations of the schematic
category [DETERMINER]. The more delicate (specific) instantiations constitute
a system of contrasting terms in which the meanings quacategorial distinctions
between a and theare defined. Figure 3.8 shows this contrast.
DETERMINER
SPECIFIC the
NON-SPECIFIC a
Figure 3.8: Simplified determiner system, showing the categorial distingtion betwen
the values 'specific' and 'non-specific', as symbolized by English 'the' and 'a'
134 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
enables them to be used in very many different contexts. That is, the categories
of deixis and number that are symbolized by these forms are not tied by
indexical necessity to any specific context, but constitute a systemically defined
meaning potential which can be used and played with across very many lexi-
cogrammatical and discourse contexts.
The observations I have made thus far refer to the semantic functions of items
such as determiner, adjective, and noun in the grammatical subsystem 'nominal
group'. Nominal groups are also integrated to the higher-scalar grammatical
rank of the clause such that the nominal group realizes a particular participant
role within the grammatical structure of this higher ranking system. In the
present case, the clause from which the example is taken is: I wasn't a very good
sailor. In this clause, the nominal group a verygoodsailorfunctions as Attribute in
a relational attributive clause comprising the following functional roles: I
(Carrier) wasn't (Process: relational: attributive) and a verygoodsailor(Attribute).
It is only by virtue of this nominal group's integration to the higher ranking unit
of clause that it becomes possible to see how the symbolic properties of the
nominal group interact with its indexical meaning in the specific discourse
situation.
Thus, the speaker in the situation of utterance of the clause, as indexed
(exophorically pointed to) by the first-person pronoun I, is also indexed, by
virtue of the semantic relationship of attribution that links I to a very goodsailor
in this clause, as a non-specific instance of the type-category of Thing in
question. Thus, we see how, in the particular context, it is in the interaction
between situational and lexicogrammatical (clause and nominal group)
properties and relations that the combined indexical and symbolic properties
and functions of these lexicogrammatical forms are revealed. The non-specific
deixis of the nominal group means that the nominal group cannot in itself have
any referential function of picking out a specific entity for the purposes of
referring to it and subsequently tracking it through the discourse. Instead, it is
the clause-level relation of attribution which creates the link between indexed
speaker and nominal attribute that is assigned to speaker. Table 3.2 summarizes
the relevant properties of the iconic, indexical, and symbolic dimensions of
semiosis, as discussed in this section.
8. Language as Particle, Wave, and Field
The tripartite perspective on language as particle, wave, and field first proposed
by Pike (1967) and subsequently taken up and adapted by Halliday (1979) shows
how both phonological and lexicogrammatical form are organized by a number
of distinct, though complementary, principles which ramify across all levels of
linguistic organization. These diverse though complementary principles of
organization illustrate two fundamental principles concerning the organization
of language form. First, the intrinsic organization of language cannot be
reduced to any single principle of organization. Secondly, the complementary
modes oforganization identified by Pike and Halliday show how the two external
'realities' with which language form interfaces - viz. the body of the articulator
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING,
Table 3.2: Semiotic properties oJicon, index, and symbol
135
Type of Semiosis Properties Scale
topological-continuous
variation in physical-
material dynamics of body
iconic mapping of topological- non-intentional here-
continuous variation to now sensori-motor
topological-continuous dynamics of bodily
variation through cross- states which cross
coupling of variation in boundary between
body dynamics to internal states of system
affective and other and immediate environ-
internal states of ment
organism
index spatial-temporal
extension to and inten-
tional projection into
immediate environ-
ment which can be
sampled and individu-
ally remembered
symbolic space-time scales
beyond here-now
involving history and
cultural memory
typological-eategorical
difference
and the phenomena of experience - are selectively transformed as functionally
diverse areas of meaning, each of which makes its distinctive contribution to the
internal organization of both expression and content. Thirdly, the functionally
diverse regions of meaning and their corresponding principles of structuration
in both expression and content implicate iconic, indexical, and symbolic modes
of meaning. As we have already seen, the iconic mode reflects the most general
principles of categorization and the symbolic the most highly specified.
The tripartite perspective of particle, wave, and field in the clause shows that
meaning construal is not localizable at a single point in the clause. Instead, it
is the time-bound interaction of all three perspectives as they are dynamically
distributed over the global totality of the clause that yields a probabilistic inter-
pretation of a given reality. Thus, the experiential categorization of phenomena,
their grounding in a dynamically charged interpersonal field, and their
136 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
quantitization as bits of information relative to the temporally developing
discourse context are all necessarily present in the semiotic process of interpret-
ing and intervening in the phenomena of experience. It is the language user's
probabilistic relationship to the wave/particle/field complementarity of any
given quantum of meaning in the clause that affords the interpretation ofreality.
Moreover, this complementarity is a contextual one in which the internal
organization of language as expression and content, 'reality' in the form of the
articulatory (e.g. vocal-tract) and ecosocial dynamics modelled by these two
strata, and the observer are all internally connected to each other.
The stratal organization of language as expression and content reflects the
way in which, at their respective scales, there is no ultimate or fundamenta1level
of reality which is supervenient to the rest. Language is not epiphenomenal to
some more basic level of organization. Instead, both expression and content are
describable at all levels as quantum processes which exist as patterns of particle,
wave, and field (Bickard and Campbe1l2000: 331). Complex interacting patterns
ofsemiotic processes involving 'what is observed', 'who observes' and the 'means
of observation' lead to the emergence of both articulatory phenomena and the
phenomena of experience on the body and ecosocial scales, respectively. The
intrinsic metafunctional diversity of both expression and content means that
language and other semiotic modalities are not supervenient to any single
underlying principle. Rather, the complementarity of the particle, wave, and
field dimensions of language form enables the many degrees of topological
variety on level L-1 of, for example, the neuromuscular substrate of vocal-tract
activity to be entrained to the phonological trajectories of a given language.
Moreover, the particle/wave/field perspective means that the principles
governing their emergence can be precisely formulated. On the other hand, the
majority of currently available models of meaning-making, representation, and
information processing are founded on one version or other of conceptual or
representational atoms or primitives, each having its own representational
content (Bickard and Campbell 2000: 325). Such reductionist accounts are
founded on principles of upward causation which seek to explain, usually in
some sort of causal-explanatory framework, how such representational atoms are
assembled to form larger wholes.
The tripartite perspective of language as particle, wave, and field suggests that
language, at all levels ofits organization, cannot be reduced to fundamental rep-
resentational atoms or conceptual-semantic or phonetic primitives. Language at
all levels is organization of quantum field processes (Bickard and Campbell
2000: 334-5). Particles or constituents are no more than local stabilizations on a
given level of principles of organization of underlying field processes. For
example, the segmentation of the continuous flow of vocal-tract activity in the
production of speech sounds into discrete phonemes amounts to specifying
positions in the flow where systems of paradigmatic features are localized as
probably occurring at that point. How do we explain these stabilizations against
a background of endless flux? Typically, linguistic theories have modelled
language in bottom-up terms as comprising constituent particles and the
structural relations among these. The resulting constituent structure is
postulated as a supervenience base on which everything else depends. For
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 137
example, the linguistic entity 'sentence' is seen as being supervenient on certain
classes of lower-level constituents standing in certain kinds of relationships with
each other. Formal models of language, for example, are not concerned with
relations outside those between 'sentence' and its lower syntactic constituents
and the formal rules for their combination. Such a system of relations is closed
to the external environments in which language operates.
On the other hand, if language is seen as a form of dynamic open system, then
it is, by definition, engaged in transactions with its environment over the time in
which the system persists. In this alternative view,constituency (segmental organ-
ization) is seen to be the consequence of a particular and partial way of relating
to the wave. The wave is the organizing principle, rather than constituency as
such. Without such system-environment transactions, the system cannot and
does not exist. It follows from this that the characteristics which language has as
a dynamic open system cannot be derived from closed-system properties and
relations such as those seen as dependent on a supervenience base. Instead, such
properties and relations can only be defined in terms of language qua dynamic,
far from equilibrium system. In the terms of the present study, language, rather
than being supervenient on a causal base of fundamental properties, persists in
time and maintain its dynamical structural integrity and intrinsic properties and
relations in time because of the transactions that occur between its internal
organization and two environments, viz. the body-brain complex and the
ecosocial environment, with which it is cross-coupled. There is no supervenient
substance-base on which language is ultimately founded. The reason for this lies
in the way both of the interfaces referred to above are themselves persistences in
the organization of bodily (neuromuscular) and ecosocial processes. Instead of
being explainable in terms of fundamental constituent particles, such local
stabilities or patterns of organization are explainable in terms of the patterned
nature of the organization of the relevant system - environment transactions
that are constituted by the expression and content strata.
The Principle ofAlternation proposed by Lemke (1999) allows us to view this
question in a different perspective. Quantum field processes relative to the
space-time scales of the body and the phenomena of experience self-organize
into higher-scalar semiotic levels, relative to the observer perspective in some SI,
where they are construed as in some way semiotically salient or meaningful. For
example, the topological-continuous space-time of vocal-tract activity on level
L-l is an organized field (a phase space) of articulatory processes which are
reorganized as complex interacting patterns of phonological particles, waves,
and fields for level L+I by virtue of the filtering or buffering function of the
intermediate level L of phonological units and relations functions. In this way,
emergent principles of phonological organization, themselves no more than a
further reorganization of quantum field processes on their own level, are made
meaningful for higher levels of organization, viz. lexicogrammar and discourse.
Language and other semiotic system-processes are not supervenient. Their
existence is dependent on a number of environmental factors which can be
thought about in terms ofAristotelian causality. First, they depend on biological
initiating conditions - e.g. neuromuscular processes - such as those which
enable vocal-tract gestural activity and their effects to take place (efficient
138 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
causality). Thus, waves of vocal-tract activity may be said to cause (i.e. efficiently)
the compression of sound waves which are propagated from a source. Secondly,
they depend on material environmental affordances such as available physical-
material resources - e.g. the air as a medium for the propagation ofsound waves,
treated surfaces such as paper, the nature of human perceptual systems, its
amplification and diffusion by culturally evolved technologies such as writing,
the Internet, and forms of social organization (material causes). Thirdly, there
are principles of organization internal to language such as its dependence on a
semiotically salient system of differences and combinations of typical patterns of
phonological, grammatical, and discourse systems and structures (formal
causes). Fourthly, final causes are those whereby the system anticipates and is
oriented to its own future along a temporal trajectory, which is the only way in
which the system as such exists. The organization of ecosocial semiotic processes
and the perceived stabilities or regularities in these processes can only take place
in the presence of appropriate forms of organization of all four factors on
various space-time scales.
Language is a transindividual system organized on many different space-time
scales. It cannot be appropriately reduced to units or relations on anyone scale.
Moreover, language is an instance of the general class of dynamic open systems
which maintain their existence and integrity in time. In this way, the causal conse-
quences of a given semiotic system also persist in time, again on a multiplicity of
intersecting space-time scales. For example, the processes that operate on the level
of expression - e.g. vocal-tract activity - are strongly constrained by processes on
the content stratum. This is consistent with the viewexpressed above that meaning
flows from an intentional source and constrains lower-level sensori-motor systems
in the process of putting into effect a particular action. Meaning-making can thus
be seen as the entraining and reorganization across levels of processes of
expression and content by higher-order proximate intentions in symbolic neural
space. Action is the entrainment of such processes along a trajectory which has
causal, though not efficiently causal, consequences. This is consistent with the view
that the brain recategorizes sensori-motor activity as conceptual routines, and so
on (see section 13, pp. 162-8). Thus, the storing and maintaining of a stable - not
static - language system comprising both expression and content on both the
ecosocial and individual (organismic) levels means that the causal consequences
of that system persist on many different levels.
For example, the entraining of meaning along an action trajectory, with its
consequent cross-coupling of both semiotic-discursive and physical-material
relations and flows, makes an asymmetric difference in the world if the emergent
meaning-making trajectory that results is able to flow into a sink of semiotically
mediated activity that corresponds to the proximate intention of, say, the speaker
(Juarrero 1999: 193). Signs may point to (index) and/or symbolically construe a
given contextual value as the purpose or goal of the action trajectory. This means
that the intending agent must construct the indexical or symbolic link between
sign and intended goal or purpose in order for the latter to be the object of a
particular course of action. Thus, intentionally directed action or goal-seeking
activity which is directed to some purpose are made possible by processes of
semiotic mediation that link what is inside the organism to what is outside it.
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 139
Purposes, goals, objects of desire, and so on, are not inherent in the phenomena
of experience perse. They are emergent consequences of the semiotic mediation
between proximate intentions and relevant contextual values.
The neuro-semiotic recategorization of expression as content indicates the
validity of the hypothesis that content is an emergent level of organization
relative to the lower-level expression stratum. In this view, such properties and
dynamical relations as emerge on the higher level are no less real or causally
effective than are properties and dynamical relations on the lower level. It thus
follows that the properties and relations of the higher level will possess causal
properties that the lower level does not possess. Indeed, the scalar heterogene-
ity of language implicates that emergent indexical and symbolic properties of
language ramify across and have effects over potentially very many space-time
scales beyond the immediate organismic one.
The hierarchical organization of both the expression and content strata illus-
trates how the many degrees of freedom on level L-l constitute enabling
conditions in the form of very many degrees of continuous topological variation
that a dynamically emergent system can access through the buffering or filtering
functions of level L. Constraints emanating from level L mean that dynamical
relations and properties on level L-l are entrained to these higher-level con-
straints. For example, articulatory repertoires on the phonetic level of vocal-tract
activity are reorganized and entrained to the patterns of organized behaviour -
vocal-tract trajectories - that are afforded by the phonological systems and
structures on level L. The constraints arising from this level allow vocal-tract
activity to self-organize into more complex forms of activity that would not have
been possible if the many degrees of topological variation existing on level L-I
were not subject to the filtering functions of level L. In this way,level L-l provides
a large repertoire of potential information which the higher level can access and
then reorganize (section 2, pp. 109-16). The entrainment of this variety to newly
emergent patterns of phonological activity on level L increases the organism's
meaning-making potential. This increase occurs by integrating the organism to a
contextual level comprising indexical and symbolic semiotic modes. It is these
modes which give the organism access to scalar levels beyond the immediate
body-scale along with new possibilities of interacting with scales beyond the here-
now scale. In other words, in integrating the organism to higher scalar levels, level
L enables the organism to be functionally part of ecosocial relational dynamics
and structures which the level L-l alone could not bring about.
9. The Brain as Selective Recognition System: Language and Edelman's
Theory of Recategorization
Edelman (1992: chapters 8-9) has proposed that the brain is a selective recog-
nition system equipped with a capacity to memorize what it recognizes. In both
infant protolanguage (ontogenesis) and in the evolution of language in the
human species (phylogenesis), phonetic repertoires gradually become linked to
conceptual repertoires through processes of association. That is, some patterns
ofsensori-motor vocal-tract activity are selectively cross-coupled to some patterns
140 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
of concept recognition, in the process leading to the making of even finer
sensori-motor discriminations or differentiations on account of the reorganizing
effects emanating from the higher, conceptual level.
... to build syntax or the bases of grammar, the brain must have reentrant
structures that allow the semantics to emerge first (prior to syntax) by relating
phonological symbols to concepts. Because of the special memory provided
by Broca's and Wernicke's areas, the phonological, semantic, and syntactical
levels can interact directly and also indirectly via reentrant circuits that are
formed between these speech areas and those brain areas that subserve value-
category memory. When a sufficiently large lexicon is collected, the
conceptual areas of the brain categorize the order of speech elements, an
order that is then stabilized in memory as syntax. In other words, the brain
recursively relates semantic to phonological sequences and then generates
syntactic correspondences, not from preexisting rules, but by treating rules
developing in memory as objects for conceptual manipulation. Memory, com-
prehension, and speech production interact in a great variety of ways by
reentry. This permits the production of higher-order structures (such as
sentences in a grammar) and obviously helps with the elaboration of lower-
order sequences (such as phrases). Of course, once achieved, the sequencing
becomes automatic, as do many other motor acts. (Edelman 1992: 130; italics
in original)
The recategorization of conceptual repertoires as lexicogrammatical systems -
cf. Edelman's 'syntax' - paves the wayfor a massively expanded meaning-making
potential on account of the qualitative differences that the global semiotic
reorganization brought about by the new level entails. The recategorization of
conceptual systems based on sensori-motor routines as lexicogrammatical ones
means that the organism has dynamical properties it would not otherwise have.
In turn, these lexicogrammatical systems which are memorized and elaborated
in the brain in the course of the organism's development and individuation
along its historical-biographical trajectory are integrated to still-higher-scalar
patterns of organization by way of the semantic registers, discourse genres, social
activity structure types, and so on, that are the typical ways of making meaning
in a given community, i.e. its SI on level L+1. This emergent hierarchy of
dynamical neuro-semiotic relations means that progressively higher levels self-
organize. Each newly emergent level gives rise to dynamical relations and
properties specific to its level and, at the same time, the overall system's degrees
of freedom - its possibilities for social meaning-making - is expanded. By the
same token, the higher levels impose their own constraints on the lower ones.
That is one good reason why discourse and lexicogrammar are two distinct levels
of meaning-making within the content stratum in systemic-functional linguistics:
each level makes its own distinctive contribution to the meaning of the whole,
and at the same time is contextually integrated to the other levels.
Nevertheless, I would argue that Edelman tends to privilege a two-level model
comprising sensori-motor routines and conceptual repertoires in order to
explain the emergence of language in the individual. Conceptual repertoires
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 141
obviously depend on the organism's time-bound perceptual samplings of the
environment in the form of the extra-somatic outside world as well as the
individual's internal milieu. I do not think there is a simple linking of sensori-
motor routines to conceptual ones. Both phylogenetically and ontogenetically,
the cross-linking of the two is always mediated by the higher-scalar ecosocial envi-
ronment in which the organism's perceptual sampling of the environment and
consequent elaboration of conceptual structures is embedded. As Lemke
(2000a: 210-11) points out, there is not a simple 'upwards' progression from
simpler to more complex forms of organization. Rather, there is always already a
higher form of organization, or an organized field of possibilities, on higher-
scalar levels which mediates the body-brain's transactions with its environment.
Thus, the emergence of the content stratum of language as a recategorization of
lower-level conceptual structures is the result of the emergent self-organization
ofa more specified intermediate level coming between the conceptual structures
elaborated in the brain and the ecosocial environment.
As I have argued elsewhere (Thibault 2000a), Edelman's focus on the
individual organism tends to downplay the ways in which the emergence of
language, both phylogenetically and ontogenetically, in the individual body-
brain takes place in the context of higher-scalar ecosocial systems which are
themselves continually evolving. Edelman is certainly right to emphasize that the
dynamics of language in the individual does not depend on a genetically
endowed knowledge of language which predicts from the outset the 'growth' of
language in the individual. Instead, the dynamics of language in the individual
is entrained, in and through social interaction, to the dynamics of higher-scalar
ecosocial processes which themselves only have their existence along a time-
bound trajectory. Precisely the same argument also applies to the sensori-motor
routines mentioned above. These, too, only exist along a self-organizing time-
bound trajectory of vocal-tract gestural activity. Such a trajectory is based on
non-linear and irreversible cycles of neural and muscular activity, which are the
micro-eomponents out of which vocal-tract activity is flexibly soft-assembled
along a time-bound trajectory (Kelso et al. 1986; Goldfield 1993: 53). The
assembling in time of such micro-components leads to the emergence of a co-
ordinative structure: many interacting functional variables behave as a single
unit of activity. In this way, very many degrees of freedom - i.e. of continuous
topological variation - on the lower level of the body are transformed into
meaningful information for higher levels of organization. The self-organizing
emergence of phonological systems and structures which recategorize vocal-tract
activity is a more specified intermediate level between these sensori-motor
routines and the higher level of the content stratum. On both levels, lower-level
noise is amplified and transformed into information which is meaningful for
higher levels. The quantal theory of phonology developed by Stevens (1989)
constitutes one of the important pioneering attempts to explain how macro-
scopic categories emerge from the microscopic detail of the articulatory and
acoustic phenomena involved in the production and reception of phonological
categories.
The processes of recategorization discussed above depend on the system's
capacity for discrimination or differentiation. For example, the sensori-motor
142 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
interface between organism and environment relates properties and processes
internal to the individual subsystem to its higher-scalar environments: it provides
the means whereby such properties and relations relate to the contexts in which
such transactions take place. Sensori-motor operations are operations of dis-
crimination or differentiation. The two-way nature of such operations means
that they determine both the structure of the relevant system and the way it
models its environment. Lorenzana (1993: 295) has pointed out that evolution-
ary systems [ESs], in general, 'need to build diversity from their simple set of
gauges ... this construction of diversity from an initial undifferentiated unity is
an essential characteristic of ESs, imposing a condition of gradualism'. In the
light of this observation, we can understand the recategorization of sensori-
motor repertoires as conceptual repertoires to be an instance of the emergent,
self-organizing construction of a new scalar level of organization which allows the
system to interact with increasing environmental diversity on increasingly larger
scales.
The emergence of the content and expression strata of language represents a
further increase in the system's capacity to access its potential environment. The
emergence of these two intermediate levels of organization constitutes an
increase in the system's discriminatory power, thereby allowing the system to
access and interact with increased environmental diversity across potentially
many different scalar levels. Thus, the stratified nature of semiotic systems and
their emergence as intermediate levels of organization between prior, less dis-
criminatory systems is a specific instance of that type of hierarchy known as a
'combinatorial hierarchy' (Lorenzana 1993: 295). In a combinatorial hierarchy,
discriminatory operations construct increased typological-categorial differentia-
tion and diversity from simpler, prior conditions of topological-continuous unity.
Lorenzana points out that the 'chain of levels' in combinatorial hierarchies is
limited due both to specific contextual pressures and to system-environment
relations. For example, the further stratification of language in terms of register
and genre (Martin 1991) is the result of pressure from the ecosocial system. This
means that principles of social organization, the participation of different
categories of social agents in diverse social networks, the division ofsocial labour,
and so on, constitute further principles whereby language is organized in terms
of the diverse semantic registers, discourse genres, and so on, which are
functional in different domains of social life. Figure 3.9 models the basic
principles of the combinatorial hierarchy with respect to the expression-stratum
dynamics of speech.
Each level in the hierarchy is formed out of combinations of elements on the
level below. Level 1 refers to the oral cavity as a three-dimensional physical space,
characterized by undifferentiated topological-continuous variation. Level 2
shows the reorganization of Level-l dynamical processes as a multidimensional
physiological space. At this level, new couplings from different dimensions not
congruent with physical space persebecome possible. Level 3 shows how these
multidimensional physiological couplings give rise to language-specific phonetic
repertoires independent of phonological function. Level 4 shows how these
phonetic repertoires are further reorganized as the phonological systems and
structures of a particular language.
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, . . . 143
Figure 3.9: Expression stratum as combinatorial hierarchy,showing reorganization of
higher levels as recouplings of elements on lower levels thereby allowing for the emergence
of new systemicpossibilities and, hence, new system-environment couplings
An analogous and parallel system of levels can be proposed in relation to the
content stratum and the wayit interfaces with the ecosocial environment. In this
case, Level 1 designates the topological-continuous flux of ambient stimulus
energy in the environment. Level 2 refers to the cross-modal perceptual
sampling and pick-up of this flux as information about events in the organism's
environment. Such information necessarily correlates in the brain information
from a diversity of perceptual modalities. In this way,new couplings occur which
combine inputs from diverse channels not congruent with a single physical
parameter. Level 3 shows how the resulting perceptual categorizations are
further filtered and reorganized by the systems of semioticallysalient differences
- the semiotic values - specific to the particular semiotic resource systemsof
some community. Level 4 shows the further reorganization of these as the lexi-
cogrammatical and discourse systems and structures of a given language. The
emergence of these levelson the content stratum of neuro-semiotic organization
is not without consequences for the expression stratum. Thus, the initial linking
of vocal-tract sensori-motor routines to pre-linguistic conceptual ones and the
consequent finer discriminations made by the former also brings about the
emergence of specifically phonological systems and structures at level L on the
expression stratum.
A language system stored in the individual's brain is a self-organizingand dis-
tributed global neural space comprising both expression and content. These two
levels are interdependent and, at the same time, each has its own internal
Level 4
Level 3
Level 2
Level 1
144 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
principles of organization and integrity. Expression faces 'inwards' to the body
of the articulator and 'outwards' to the content stratum; content faces 'inwards'
to the expression stratum and 'outwards' to the ecosocial environment
comprising the phenomena ofexperience. As the three-level hierarchy principle
has shown us, each stratum is comprised of both initiating conditions and
higher-scalar constraints in the form ofan SI specific to that stratum. By the same
token, the higher-scalar content stratum exerts downwardly causal constraints on
the expression stratum. The principle of the selective recategorization ofsensori-
motor routines by higher-order conceptual ones and the further recategoriza-
tion of these by linguistic ones (phonological and lexicogrammatical) means
that content imposes constraints on expression such that expression is selectively
and functionally adapted and integrated to the requirements of content.
Overall, the number of semiotic differentiations made and their possible com-
binations is far greater on the content stratum with respect to the comparatively
much smaller number of phonological systems and structures in a given
language. Thus, the learning and interpreting of higher-scalar content units and
relations takes place over a much more extended timescale such as an entire
lifespan trajectory at the same time as it requires a far greater number of inter-
connected neural networks in the long-term memory of symbolic neural space
than is the case for units and relations on the expression stratum. Children
develop the phonological structures and systems of a given language over a
relatively much shorter timescale compared to that of their development of
lexicogrammatical and discourse systems and structures. The principle of
realization, which nicely resonates with Edelman's notion of selective recatego-
rization, means that units and relations on the expression stratum are selectively
and mutually contextualized with respect to units and relations on the content
stratum.
Thus, the sensori-motor activity which is entrained and organized according
to the phonological systems and structures of a given language restrict the
degrees offreedom of the body's dynamics. That is, body dynamics are entrained
to the phonological systems and structures of that language. This entrainment is
functional for the purposes of making and negotiating meanings with others in
social contexts on diverse space-time scales. This means that human bodies are
now integrated to the higher-scalar ecosociallevel of organization where sensori-
motor (e.g. vocal-tract) activity is reorganized so as to take on new functional
possibilities on this level. Moreover, the emergence of properties and relations
specific to the content stratum in symbolic neural space is constitutive of our
phenomenology of lived experience in ecosocial space-time. Meaning is not a
mere epiphenomenon of experience. For example, the very fast scale of
processes on the sensori-motor and eNS levels is integrated to and entrained by
the somewhat slower scale afforded by the rhythmic and other patterns of
temporal organization of a given language's phonological systems and
structures. In turn, these are integrated to the still-slower patterns of rhythmic
organization characteristic of socio-discursive patterns of organization evident in
texts and social action (see Togeby 2000: 273-7).
In this way, to take just one example, our experience of time is structured
according to modes of organization that are endogenous to the dynamical
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 145
relations existing on the ecosocial scale rather than being referable to lower-
scalar sensori-motor dynamics perse, seen as their biological initiating conditions.
These higher-scalar phenomenal relations are not exogenous factors with
respect to the body. Instead, in integrating the body to them, they become a part
of the body-brain's internal organization so that scalar heterogeneity is seen as a
fundamental property of the meaning-making body-brain. Thus, we can see how,
at all levels of organization, language is not composed of isolable functional
components assembled 'from below'. Rather, the metafunctional diversity that is
attributed to unfolding acts of meaning-making in logogenesis reflects
organismic and ecosocial constraints that influence the time-bound develop-
ment of the system without recourse to pre-existing causal factors to explain the
system's behaviour. Expression and content eo-evolve and eo-develop in the
sense that the neuromuscular dynamics of the body are entrained in and
through their interaction, both phylogenetically and ontogenetically, with
higher-scalar content-stratum processes and their functionings in a still-larger-
scalar ecosocial environment.
At its particular level of organization, vocal-tract gestural activity can be
described as a vector field having the properties of both direction and
magnitude (Norton 1995: 50; Cleirigh 1998: 52). Relations both within and
between the expression and content strata are non-mechanistic informational
constraints. Final causality operates here because top-down relations between,
say, the content stratum, comprising lexicogrammar and discourse, and vocal-
tract trajectory function both to select and to constrain the lower level at the
same time as they also act to entrain it into its future trajectory (Salthe 1993:
270). This is so because the cogent moment - the temporal cycle - of the higher
level of meaning on the content stratum is greater such that the flow of meaning
along its trajectory continues well after the completion of the much faster
temporal cycle of the articulatory trajectory at the level of the syllable, say,on the
expression stratum (section 2, pp. 109-16). Informational constraints also
operate on the relations between levels within both the content and expression
strata. The relationship between phonology and phonetics that I discussed above
can be seen in this light: phonological systems and structures are macroscopic
relations and dynamics; phonetics refers to microscopic relations and dynamics
at the fine-grained level of articulation (Browman and Goldstein 1995: 180). The
constraints do not operate in just one direction, but instead are reciprocal,
acting in both directions.
On the content stratum, lexicogrammar and discourse similarly operate a
system of reciprocal constraints between the microscopic and the macroscopic
levels of description. Moreover, the self-organizing properties of lower-level
relations and properties such as those evident in articulation on the phonetic
level give rise to emergent patterns of organization at higher levels such as the
phonological level. By the same token, the emergent higher level downwardly
constrains activity on the lower level. The realizatory relationship between
content and expression can now be seen as a system of reciprocal linkages
between dynamical relations and processes on a number of different levels of
organization, ranging from the microscopic level of articulation on the
expression stratum to the macroscopic level ofdiscourse on the content stratum.
146 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
In this way, the (physical) act of speaking - vocal-tract activity - is shown to be a
single complex system of factors interacting in a non-linear fashion across all of
the levels involved.
10. The Integration of Individuals to their Semiotic Trajectories
A social system, in the theoretical perspective of the present study, is less
specified than an ecosocial semiotic system: the former exists at a lower integra-
tive level, A social system is less specified than an ecosocial semiotic system
because the latter can access symbolic, and notjust indexical, modes of semiosis,
The historical emergence of the integration hierarchy of icon, index, and
symbol in human social meaning-making could only come about with the devel-
opment of new forms of social life and therefore new ways in which humans
relate to each other and organize their social relations on different space-time
scales. Thus, semiotic evolution emerged as part of the individuation of
developing social life. See Bogdan (2000: 40-1) for some relevant observations
on the socialized minds of nonhuman primates, based on indexical modes of
social interaction, as an evolutionary prelude to the 'unsituated' (symbolic)
minds of adult humans.
Beginning with Edelman's view that conceptual repertoires are recategoriza-
tions of sensori-motor ones, we can say that these two levels were present in the
brains of our hominoid ancestors well before social semiosis as we know it today
came into existence. Conceptual repertoires and sensori-motor repertoires may
be described as proto-content and proto-expression, respectively. Moreover,
these two levels were functional at the interface between body-brain and envi-
ronment. In turn, forms of social life emerged between these two less specified
levels. This development required the co-ordination of human activities on
scales that went beyond the body-brain's pick-up and sampling of information
from its immediate physical and interpersonal environments. Body-brain and
environment may thus be seen as lower- and higher-scalar levels in a semiotic
differentiation model of the eo-evolution of body-brain and ecosocial semiotic
relations and processes. The fact that recategorization entails more fine-detailed
specification of the sensori-motor level means that the degree of specification
and differentiation of this level is amplified, giving rise to the emergence of the
phonetic and phonological levels. Parallel processes simultaneously operate with
respect to conceptual repertoires. Consequently, lexicogrammatical and
discourse structures and systems emerge in response to an expanding
conceptual repertoire along with the need to pool and access the expanding
pool of conceptual-semantic categorizations in socially co-ordinated ways.
Ecosocial semiotic systems may be viewed in this perspective as dissipative
structures regulated and maintained in a constant me tastable dialectic of
stability and change (Lemke 1995b) by processes of meaning-making along the
logogenetic trajectories of the members of that system.
Individuals are connected to each other in social semiosis through their logo-
genetic trajectories. Logogenetic processes of meaning-making can be seen as
just such a process of trajectory connecting. An example is when two individuals
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 147
jointly construct some conversational event. In this way, individual trajectories
intersect and, at the same time, a new, perhaps transient, higher-scalar trajectory
comes into view in the form of the jointly constructed and enacted meaning-
making event and its entextualized records and/or products. The individuation
of social semiosis along an ontogenetic trajectory means that the individual
trajectory's meaning-making potential expands as it individuates. Thus, the
transition from proto-language (iconic-indexical) to language (iconic-indexical-
symbolic) means that the individual's agentive powers increase: he or she is able
to access and relate to an expanded range of meaning-making possibilities. The
integration of, say, the microfunctions of the indexical phase to the metafunc-
tions of the symbolic phase entails an increase in the amount of stored informa-
tion along the individual's trajectory (Salthe 1993: 262; chapter 4, section 17).
This has clear enough implications for human consciousness, as we shall see in
chapter 5.
Symbolic meaning-making in particular and its associated practices of entex-
tualization mean that core consciousness and extended consciousness pace
Damasio (1999) are extended and integrated by symbolic consciousness. Thus,
individual agents can construct trajectories across many different space-time
scales beyond the here-now one of the body-brain in its immediate physical envi-
ronment. This helps us to think of the emergence of symbolic meaning-making
from indexical meaning-making, along with the integration of the latter by the
former, along an individuating historical-biographical trajectory as an increase in
the individual's agentive powers or semiotic causality. This goes hand-in-hand
with an increase in the system's stored information, as illustrated by Salthe
(1993: 262). As I said earlier, it is this increase along a self-organizing individu-
ating trajectory which enables individual organisms qua dissipative structures to
relate to other dissipative structures, human and otherwise. Now, 'relate to' has
been by and large formulated in conceptual, cognitive or ideational terms - call
it what you will - such that the accessing of systems of symbolic possibilities in
language, depiction, mathematics, and so on, is understood as the capacity of the
system to store and to relate to more and more conceptual categories in the
process of expanding its Umwelt. The transition from an inward-looking dyadic
perspective of interpersonal transaction with the mother to a concern for the
world outside the mother-infant dyad, along with the concomitant emergence
of experiential systems of naming and classification, illustrate this move. In
actual fact, the engagement with phenomena outside this dyad is a qualitative
jump in the notion of 'relate to', entailing new ways of constructing one's being
in the world.
At the same time, Salthe's notion of integrative levels reminds us that later
(outer) levels always integrate earlier (inner) ones. That is, the symbolic
integrates the indexical, which integrates the iconic. Higher-order or symbolic
consciousness integrates primary consciousness, which integrates the topological
material ground of our being in and relating to the world. The latter notion is
akin to Damasio's proto-self, which is immersed in the topological-continuous
flux of our material (not semiotic) interactivity with the material world. This is
essentially how we begin our being in the world. Moreover, it is the basis on
which a person's self-organizing individuating trajectory begins to relate to the
148 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
surrounding world, including the first primordial differentiation of self from
non-self. This initial differentiation is topological, not typological. Nevertheless,
it constitutes the ground for later integrative levels whereby interpersonal
relations are constructed between increasingly differentiated selves and others,
in an expanding diversity of social contexts, including those afforded by the
interpersonal resources of language and other semiotic modalities. Figure 3.10
provides a schematized model of this process.
The topological ground ofour initial material interactivity with the world con-
stitutes the vaguest, least differentiated basis for our understanding of and our
establishing relations with others. It is a very wide and shallow attractor basin of
vague possibilities which was our originary primary being in the world - 'being'
before 'categorizing' and 'relating to', ete. differentiated out. It is the primordial
basis of our capacity to enter into relations of empathy with others on the basis
of feeling states of the body (Damasio 1999: 279-95). This least specified
integrative level of initial at-oneness with the world is, however, integrated to the
expansion of information-meaning at more specified levels. It gives rise to an
increasing 'potential scope of sympathy riding on that same growth of informa-
tion' (Salthe 1993: 263). Thus, the earliest experiences that the infant has of
his/her embodied being in the world and the socio-affective exchanges charac-
teristic of primary intersubjectivity in early mother-infant dyads are the deep
roots of our being and as such are shared by others.
Salthe's 'potential scope of sympathy' refers to the topological-eontinuous or
analogic character of our most primordial forms of communication. Such com-
munication is concerned exclusively with patterns of relationship, e.g. between
organism and environment and/or between organism and others (Bateson
1973c [1972]: 340-4; Wilden 1980 [1972]: 164). Analogic communication may,
therefore, be considered as a kind of Ur-interpersonal function from which all
subsequent functions are logically derived. As the individual's trajectory expands
into more specified levels of meaning-making on the indexical and symbolic
levels, it also integrates the topological material ground of its primordial iconic
being in the world in order to attain an understanding of how to engage in and
maintain more specified (and specific) interpersonal relations with an
increasing diversity of flesh-and-blood others. The increasing tendency in
advanced capitalism to commodify and sell these same properties as 'synthetic
interpersonal relations' in the market economy reveals the extent of the
market's categorial reach - right back to the very topological material ground of
our being in the world.
11. The Intrinsically Time-bound Nature of Semiosis: The Integration of
Temporal Dynamics Across Scales of Expression and Content
The tripartite perspective on language as particle, wave, and field allows us to
clarify the nature of language as a dynamical system. The complementarity of
these three perspectives illustrates the time-bound nature of language. As a
dynamical system, language undergoes a constantly changing series of states
in relation to its ecosocial and bodily environments. The wave/particle/field
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 149
Stage 4: microfunctions
(indexical)
o
Stage 2: feeling states; socio-
affective dyads
o
Stage 5: metafunctions (symbolic)
Stage 3: conceptualizing
categories and relating to
Stage 1: being
Figure 3.10: The integration of initial at-oneness with the world to the expansion of
information-meaning at morespecified levels ofsemiosis along an individuating
trajectory
perspective is a means of modelling the way in which the various dimensions of
the system change in time. In logogenesis, the behaviour of the system as it
unfolds in time is the changes it undergoes as the system changes from one state
to another. At any given moment, the system is in a number of different states,
corresponding to different overlapping metafunctional regions. The overall
number of states in which the system is in at any given moment defines its state
space. This means that the dynamical process of meaning-making can be seen as
150 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
simultaneous configuration of wave/particle/field in its state space. The diverse
metafunctional regions interact with each other such that dynamical changes in
one region affect and depend on the other regions.
Furthermore, the intrinsic metafunctional organization of language has
arisen in order that language may be selectively co-contextualized with
phenomena in its ecosocial and bodily environments. Such phenomena are not
external to the relevant system of relations, but are a part of that same system's
intrinsic organization. It follows that ongoing, time-bound changes in the
contextualizing dynamics that are in operation between unfolding text and its
'external' environment entails changes in the internal configuring of the
relations among the diverse metafunctional components which are at play at any
given moment in some meaning-making event. This holds for dynamical
processes on both the expression and content strata. The evolution of the
meaning-making act in time corresponds to a series of points and periodicities
which define the trajectory of the system in its phase space. Expression and
content are coupled such that dynamical relations and processes on one stratum
mutually influence relations and processes on the other stratum. In turn, each
of these strata is coupled to the body and to the ecosocial environment. The
meaning-making body-brain does not interact with the external world by means
of symbolic inputs and outputs. Rather, expression and content are dynamical
subsystems of a larger whole. The former is based on neuromuscular activity; the
latter on the recategorization of this in the CNS as semantic-conceptual content.
In the computationalist model of cognition, on the other hand, the brain is a
central control unit which is housed in a body, which is, in turn, located in an
external world. The brain interacts with the outside world via the body's direct
contact with the outside world. Thus, sensori-motor transducers 'translate' the
data received from the outside world and the body, as well as the symbolic states
which are the product of the brain's cognitive activity. This means that
perceptual organs convert physical stimulation into symbolic representations of
events in the body and the external world. The motor system converts the brain's
symbolic representations of events into muscular movements. Cognition is a
continuously cyclic and sequential process. First, sense data is received by some
cognitive system; secondly, the given cognitive system algorithmically manipu-
lates symbols so as to produce an output; thirdly, this output causes bodily
movement. The cognitive system is specialized to symbolic representations. As
such, it is seen as separate from the body and the environment. Cognition is
disembodied and de-contextualized.
On the other hand, time is a critical factor in the dynamical approach.
Meaning-making occurs in time. Therefore, time itself must be seen as a central
component in the explanation of meaning-making. This goes hand in hand with
the view that all aspects of the relevant system are simultaneously changing in
time. In logogenesis, it is the overall state of the system of relations which is
changing from one moment to the next. Meaning-making as it unfolds in time
exhibits properties of both continuity and discreteness. Moreover, diverse meta-
functional regions are simultaneously in operation as well as interacting with
each other within the phase space of the system. The distinctive principles of
structuration which characterize the different metafunetions are properties
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 151
which emerge over the time-bound trajectory of the system; they are not static
givens. Moreover, meaning-making processes occur on many different timescales
such that events on different timescales interact at the same time as these are
embedded in a brain-body complex and in an ecosocial environment.
Real-time is a topological-continuous flow. It is possible to plot a potentially
infinite number of points along this flow. Each point corresponds to a state of
the system. The neuromuscular activity that takes place in articulation is a
process which unfolds along a temporal trajectory. Nevertheless, at each of the
points in time from the beginning to the end of the activity there is a position
which the articulators occupy in space. In section 2, pp. 109-16, the phoneme
was shown to be a point in phase space in this sense. The continuous topologi-
cal processes of articulation can be broken down into finer and finer points such
that there is a state of the system at every point. This fact is a consequence of the
bio-physical nature of the processes that take place in the vocal tract.
The timing of events on diverse scalar levels in the unfolding meaning-making
event is, therefore, of central importance in understanding the nature and func-
tioning of such events. For example, the ranked scale of phonological units and
relations, viz. syllable, foot, and tone group, entail different scalar levels of
organization, each with its different rates of completion, its different periodicity
cycles, and the different ways in which one scalar level temporally integrates with
other scalar levels. As I pointed out above, vocal-tract activity occurs along a
temporal trajectory in which the system of relations is required to spend a
certain period of time in the phase space that is relevant to any given scalar level.
Moreover, the timing of events on diverse scales in vocal-tract articulatory activity
is cross-coupled with and integrated to dynamical processes on still larger
timescales such as those implicated in the content stratum, along with still wider
ecosocial processes and relations. The rank scale of both phonology and lexi-
cogrammar should have much to tell us about the temporal nature of meaning-
making on the different scalar levels which constitute such events. Changes in
variables on the content stratum depend on and are cross-eoupled to changes on
the expression stratum. (See for example Martinec (1998) on the ways in which
rhythmic waves of expression correlate with rhythmic waves of content.)
Linguistic semiosis is best seen as being of mixed-mode character (Lemke
2000a; Thibault 2003b). This means that language has both typological and
topological properties and relations. Change of state in the meaning-making
process can be either continuous or discrete. It is essential that the facts of
continuity and discreteness can be accounted for in a unified framework.
Change from one discrete state to another and continuity of state (not time) are
both essential characteristics of linguistic processes. For example, the very fine
neuromuscular activity involved in articulation takes place in complex and
changing environmental conditions with respect to factors such as localization of
interlocutors, distance between them, movement towards or away from each
other, the blending of different sound sources, physical features of the environ-
ment on different scales, and so on. The terrestrial scale on which speech sounds
are produced and received is that of metres rather than kilometres or milli-
metres unless amplified by technological means. This scale is that of the physical
environment which humans typically inhabit.
152 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
In the first instance, the wave train of airborne compression waves produced
by the vocal tract is specific to the source of a mechanical disturbance caused by
the neuromuscular activity of the vocal tract. The resulting wave train 'is specific
to the kind of mechanical event at the source of the field' (Gibson 1983 [1966]:
16). The field of speech-sound waves specifies information about its physical
source, i.e. the articulator. Such information constitutes a perceptual stimulus
which is causally related to the environmental event which produced it. Infor-
mation of this kind is iconic and/or indexical in character. On the other hand,
the symbolic information which is specified in the sound event is not causally
tied to its source in the same way. Instead, it depends on symbolic meaning-
making resources and their associated conventions existing on many different
space-time scales that go beyond the causal linking of a sound event to its
physical source. The neuromuscular substrate of vocal-tract activity must be
flexible and able to adjust to many different environmental conditions. In other
words, its own activity must be capable of flowing into and occupying a richly
varied continuum of changing environmental possibilities on diverse semiotic
and material scales.
Table3.3: The metafunctional organization of bothphonology and lexicogrammar on
theexpression and contentstrata illustratingtheoperation of mixed-mode semiosis,
combiningbothdiscrete typological-categorial distinctions and continuous topological
variation on both strata
Phonology Lexicogrammar
Difference of Difference of type: Difference of Difference
degree: type-X degree: of type:
quantity-X quantity-X type-X
Experiential Degree of Particulate analysis of Degree of Particulate
conformity to consonants and conformity to analysis of
type-category; vowels as correspon- type-category; phenomena
fuzzy sets; ding to discrete fuzzy sets; into parts
phonological phonological type- semantic and wholes
topology; categories (e.g. topology; correspon-
smearing of phonemes) as indeterminacy ding to
probability specific paradigmatic of complemen- discrete
distributions states corresponding tary categories
to discrete articula- transitive and of
tory categories seen ergative per- experience,
as ensemble of dis- spectives e.g.
tinctive features and participant-
part-whole combina- process
tions of these relations
organized as a
ranked hierarchy of
phonological
particles
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 153
Phonology Lexicogrammar
Inter- Field-like Tone system in tone Field-like Mood,
personal prosodic and group comprising a prosodic and modality,
scopal primary system of scopal lexis as
relations; five contrasting relations; categories of
cumulative, simple tones and two cumulative, (inter) action
amplifying compound tones amplifying and orienta-
effects; effects; tion
degree of degree of
deformation, deformation
e.g. pitch shift
textual Wave-like peaks Tonality and tonicity Wave-like peaks Theme,
of prominence in tone group; of prominence rheme;
defining rhythm in foot as defining given-new
boundaries; indexes oflexi- boundaries;
begin-end cogrammar elements begin-end
structures; tran- as units of informa- structures;
sitions; tion; transitions;
culminative; demarcation of word culminative
dynamic peri- boundaries;
odicities of word emphasis;
tonicity, stress, contrast between
and moraicity +stress/-stress;
seen as waves +moraicity/-
of continuously moraicity; +tonicity/-
varying tonicity
amplitude
functioning as
extension
prosodies of
variable length
to integrate or
concatenate
lexicogrammat-
ical domains
Likewise, the experiential resources of the clause, say, must be able to model
the constant flux of the phenomena of experience as instantiations, to varying
degrees, of the categories which are intrinsic to a particular language system.
The tripartite perspective on lexicogrammatical form as particle, wave, and field
emphasizes the dynamical character of the system. Instead of discrete, static
categories, the language system must be able to adapt to the continuous
variation of the flux of human experience. The mixed-mode character of
language shows that language embodies both discrete, categorial distinctions
and continuous topological change and variation. A better understanding of
language and its workings is obtained once it is understood that both continuity
and discreteness are intrinsic to its dynamics. Table 3.3 sets out the properties of
the expression and content strata of language in order to illustrate the mixed-
mode character of language.
154 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
12. Scalar Heterogeneity and the Phonological and Lexicogrammatical
Rank Scales
The existence of a rank scale on both the expression and content strata can be
understood in relation to the diverse timescales which are simultaneously
implicated in the meaning-making process. These timescales range from the
milliseconds of neuronal processes, the fractions of a second in perceptual
processes, the seconds of co-ordinated movement, the minutes or hours of an
unfolding textual performance (e.g. a conversation), the months and years
involved in learning the phonological and grammatical systems of a language,
the entire lifespan trajectory of the individual's movement through a given
ecosocial system, the history of an entire ecosocial system. Diverse timescales are
not sealed off from each other. Instead, they are interrelated and integrated to
each other such that the dynamical processes on one timescale affect those on
other timescales.
For example, the timescale involved in the articulation of syllables creates the
patterns of strong and weak syllables which allow for the emergence of the
timescale of rhythmic patterning in the foot. In turn, the patterning of Ictus and
Remiss in the foot allows for the emergence of a still larger timescale at the rank
of the tone group. Variations in loudness and stress produce rhythmic
patterning. Rhythm has the function, in English, of making content words
prominent; it also creates the potential for tonicity and tone on the level of the
higher-ranking tone group (Halliday 1994 [1985]: 10; Cleirigh 1998: 12). The
tone group is the only phonological unit in the rank scale in English which
realizes a unit on the content stratum, viz. the information unit (Halliday 1994
[1985]: 295). In this way, phonological form is integrated with higher-scalar units
of lexicogrammar and discourse on the content stratum.
12.1 The Lexicogrammatical Rnnk Scale
The lexicogrammar ofEnglish is comprised ofa rank scale ranging from highest-
ranking to lowest-ranking units, according to their constituency potential.
Systemic-functional linguistic theory postulates the following ranks for English:
clause, group/phrase, word, and morpheme. The number of ranks and the ways
in which various systems are distributed across ranks differ from language to
language. However, such details need not concern us here. The clause is the
highest rank. It is not a constituent of some higher-ranking unit. According to
systemic theory, the relations between clauses in discourse are semantic in
nature, rather than lexicogrammatical. This is so because combinations of
clauses constitute semantic relations at the level of text. The clause constitutes
what Halliday has called the 'gateway' to text (see Thibault 1987: 611). On the
other hand, clauses are made up of constituents from lower-ranking systems at
group/phrase level. In turn, groups and phrases are made up of words; words of
morphemes.
The lexicogrammatical rank scale serves to integrate smaller-scalar lexi-
cogrammatical units into larger-scalar ones. For example, the clause functionally
integrates lower-ranking nominal, verbal, and adverbial groups into the
functional structure of the clause. Rather than assuming that lower ranks are
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 155
simply the smaller-scalar building blocks out of which higher-ranking units are
assembled, it is no less relevant to see how higher ranks provide integrative
contexts for units on lower ranks. In this perspective, we see more clearly how
lexicogrammatical units at all levels are integrated to and have their function in
the making of text in its context of situation. For example, nominal groups are
integrated into clauses as various categories of participant roles. By the same
token, the deictic and instantiating functions of the nominal group qua group
rank have grounding functions whereby the Thing which is realized by the Head
noun is instantiated as an instance of that Thing by grammatical systems and
functions operating at nominal group rank.
The lexicogrammatical rank scale serves to integrate lower-ranking units to
higher-ranking ones according to a scale of indexical-symbolic integration, as
follows.
Rank: Morpheme
In English, morphemes specify semantic information in the form of semantic
dictionary entries whereby a given item can be integrated to a particular word-
distribution class at the next-highest rank. For example, consider the two
morphemes in the word buyer. This item comprises the two morphemes [[buy] +
[er]]. The two morphemes may be characterized as follows:
Morpheme: buy> verb tr, [process: material action: disposal: acquisition:
transfer of Medium Thing to Agent on payment of money; non-iterative;
beneficile: potential: +benefactive]
e.g. he boughtJohn a new boat
Medium [Thing: alienable: transferable; material/immaterial]
Morpheme: -er> nominalizing suffix [INSTIGATOR: AGENT;
INSTIGATOR: INSTRUMENT],
subcategorizes Thing in derived verbal noun as Agent responsible for the
instigation of an action [Instigator: Agent] or for the instigation of a process
[Instigator: Instrument]
e.g. teacher, buyer, voter, ruler, lawn mower, bread slicer
Rank: Word
Words specify type-specifications of Things, Processes, Qualities, and so on
according to word-distribution class. In this respect, the semantic information
that is integrated by the two-morpheme combination [[buy] + [er]] tells us that
the resulting word belongs to the word-class noun, symbolizing a semantic type-
specification of Thing, viz. [THING: HUMAN: PERSON/INSTITUTIONAL;
AGENT: ACQUIRER OF GOODS/SERVICES IN ECONOMIC TRANSACTION
ON PAYMENT OF MONEY].
Rank: Group
A type-specification of a Thing (or Process, Quality, and so on) is not tied to
specific instances of the type. The common noun buyer is simply the name of a
semantic class of Thing, as shown above. The resources of the nominal group
156 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
enable the type-specification to be instantiated as a specific instance of the given
type-eategory. Nominal groups, as Langacker (1991: chapter 2) has shown, allow
specific things to be specified in some discourse context according to four
parameters. The four parameters are as follows with respect to the nominal
group those two enthusiastic buyers:
1. type specification, expressed by the Thing element in the nominal group
and non-determining modifiers: enthusiastic buyers;
2. instantiation, expressed by determiners: those two;
3. quantification, expressed by quantifying items: two;
4. grounding, expressed by articles, demonstratives, and possessives: those.
Rank: Clause: Major
At clause rank, nominal and verbal groups form configurations of functionally
related items which experientially construe a given scene or situation in terms of
a number of interrelated transitivity roles. These roles consist of different
categories of processes and participants according to the type of process in the
clause, e.g. participants such as Actor, Agent, Medium, Senser, Sayer, and
processes such as Material: Action, Mental: Perception, Verbal, and so on. For
example, the nominal group those two enthusiastic buyers has the potential to
realize a participant role in a clause, e.g. those two enthusiastic buyers went to the
auction. In this clause, the given situation is experientially construed as a config-
uration of the following transitivity functions: [ActorI\Material: Action/-Circum-
stance: Location].
The clause is the rank where all four metafunctions come together to realize
a semantic unit, called the message unit by Hasan (1996a: 119), which functions
in discourse. In contrast to message units realized by minor clauses such as hello,
good day, damn, and so on, a message unit which is realized by a major clause
brings together in the one structural output the full array of metafunctional
meanings.
Minor clauses, on the other hand, are primarily interpersonal in function in
the sense that they may function as both initiating and responding moves in
discourse as well as realizing attitudinal/affective meanings. However, they do
not exhibit clearly definable transitivity roles whereby an experiential situation,
seen as comprising particular classes of process and participants, is construed.
Moreover, they do not have the feature offiniteness, which is means by which the
clause is assigned a point of reference in the here-and-now of the speech event
through the resources of primary tense and modality. Minor clauses do not fully
participate in all of the systems which operate in the lexicogrammatical rank
scale. For this reason, they are, in some respects, not unlike child protolanguage
in the sense that their status is primarily interpersonal-indexical (see Hasan
1996a: 118-19; Thibault 1992a). Hasan accordingly assigns the feature [punctua-
tive] to minor clauses. On the other hand, Hasan assigns the feature [progressive]
to major clauses because the full range of metafunctional options which these
clauses realize means that they participate fully in the development of discourse
and its entextualized products and records. It is in this sense that Halliday has
referred to the clause as the 'gate-way' to text; it is the means whereby systems and
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 157
structures which operate on different ranks are integrated to and realize a
semantic message unit which can contribute to the development of discourse. As
we shall now see, it is discourse constructed in this way that exhibits to the full
the properties of scalar heterogeneity.
Let us reconsider our earlier example from this point ofview. The morpheme
suffix -er classifies the root morpheme, comprising the de-verbal process noun
buy, as the Agent/Instrument of the process named by the root; the word buyer
symbolically names a type-category of Thing, viz. the agent or instrumentality
which instigates the process buy; the nominal group those two enthusiastic buyers
specifies an instance of the semantic category of Thing with reference to a given
discourse context; in turn, the clause subcategorizes this instance of the Thing
as instantiating the participant role Actor in the transitivity structure of the
experiential scene realized by the clause. In combination with the other meta-
functions at play in the clause, this experientially construed scene has the
potential to participate in and contribute to the development of some discourse
about persons, actions, and locations which exist on some very different space-
time scale with respect to the moment-to-moment unfolding of the discourse
itself. It is the clause which integrates lower-ranking units to discourse.
Morphemes and words do not as such directly realize discourse meanings. Rather,
they are mediated by the systems and structures operating on the higher ranks of
group and clause, which integrate them to the discourse level of organization.
This is no less the case for a clause realized by a single morpheme, e.g. Go!
The preceding discussion shows how, at any given rank, the system changes
state according to the variables in operation at that particular rank. State
changes at a given rank occur in relation to the more stable parameters
operating at the next-highest rank. In the case of the expression stratum, where
phonological systems and structures occur, these variables have to do with the
neuromuscular dynamics ofvocal-tract activity. For example, the foot, in relation
to the lower-ranking syllable, establishes a set ofparameters on a slower timescale
which influence and regulate changes in the state variables on the faster
timescale of the syllable. In this way, slower timescales on higher ranks modulate
the temporal dynamics of faster timescales on lower ranks. By the same token,
the faster dynamics of the lower-ranking unit can also affect the slower dynamics
of the higher unit.
On the content stratum, the lexicogrammatical rank scale is not directly
implicated in body dynamics in the same way, but in ecosocial ones. In this case,
the integration of lower-ranking units to higher-ranking ones means that the
categorial reach of lower-ranking units is extended by their functional integra-
tion to higher units. This was shown above in the discussion of the way in which
the integration of morpheme to word and word to group, and so on, entails an
extension of the contextual reach of a given item. If, for example, language were
limited to lower-ranking morphemes and words perse, its contextual reach would
be much more restricted for the reasons already mentioned above in relation to
minor clauses and protolanguage. The lexicogrammatical rank scale is,
therefore, a resource which extends the contextual reach of language such that
diverse ecosocial space-time scales are integrated by the interplay of indexical
and symbolic factors which the multiple metafunctional development of
158 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
discourse, as afforded by the clause, makes possible. The criterion of stability
mentioned in the previous paragraph applies to the lexicogrammatical rank
scale as well. For example, a morpheme as such symbolizes some semantic unit,
however small, such as the meaning [Agent/Instrument] discussed above in
relation to the nominalizing suffix -er. However, it is the contextual integration
and mediation of this element by higher-ranking units which provide the more
stable semiotic environment enabling its grounding in a specific discourse
context. Table 3.4 presents a three-level hierarchy view of the organization of the
content stratum of language.
Table 3.4: The content stratum oflanguage in relation to the three-levelhierarchy
Scalar level Difference
L+l System of Discrete Symbolic Semantically salient dis-
semantic differ- typological- tinctions symbolically
ences as SI categorial construe experience
distinctions;
difference of
type
L Lexicogrammat- Indexical Grounding of clause by
ical rank scale Finite element in verbal
comprising group in terms of
hierarchy of temporal/modal
ranked units: proximity
(tense/modality) and in
clause; terms of person deixis
group/phrase; (Subject); grounding of
word; nominal group in terms
morpheme of spatial proximity
(demonstratives) or
person deixis (posses-
sives); both give the
process and the partici-
pant(s) in the clause a
point of reference in the
unfolding (con) text by
means of intra- and extra-
textual indexical signs
L-l Continuous Topological- Iconic Particulate, field-like,
quantitative continuous wave-like, and
variation in the variation; recursive modes of
phenomena of difference of lexicogrammatical
experience degree realization iconic to
mapped onto ways in which diverse
continuous metafunctions
quantitative semantically organize
variation in experience
sensori-motor
and CNS activity
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, 159
12.2 The Phonological Rank Scale
Vocal-tract gestural activity has both spatial and temporal organization (see
section 2). The creation of emergent spatia-temporal organization occurs along
a particular trajectory. Vocal-tract activity has its existence only along a temporal
trajectory. Thus, the syllable is a unit of articulation which cannot be defined in
terms of discrete and static segments or positions in the overall flow of articula-
tory events. The dynamics of articulation are extended along a temporal
trajectory and can only be defined as such. This means that the syllable is, on its
particular space-time scale, a dissipative structure which is entrained by its
trajectory (Salthe 1993: 260). Furthermore, the existence of a phonological rank
scale shows that phonological trajectories exist at a number of different spatio-
temporal scalar levels. As a dissipative structure, the reorganization ofmicra-level
phonetic processes as macro-level phonological ones means that the lower-scalar
or microscopic phonetic processes of articulation are entrained into the macro-
scopic organization of phonological relations and processes. This requires an
input of energy along with specific dynamical laws so that the macroscopic order
emerges. An articulatory trajectory entails that external entropy increases as the
second law is maintained. By the same token, the emergence of macroscopic
phonological order means that the entropy production of the structure afforded
by the trajectory is reduced. It is this fact which enables local sinks of low-
dimensional or macroscopic order - i.e. phonological form in the present case -
to appear without violating the second law. Organization emerges when the
properties and dynamics of the oral cavity qua physical entity, whereby vocal-tract
properties are unco-ordinated, to a state in which phonetic properties are coor-
dinated in a stable regime such that the activity of a given feature depends on the
activity of other features with which it is co-ordinated. In this way, each micro-
scopic phonetic feature is entrained to the principles of organization of the
higher-order articulatory trajectory of the syllable.
The neuromuscular activity involved in articulation is thus entrained by tra-
jectories existing at a number of different scales such as those suggested by the
phonological rank scale. I would suggest that the notion of trajectory is the fun-
damental entity in meaning-making. The neuromuscular activity of articulation
is a dissipative structure which functions as a material sign of the existence of our
and other's meaning-making trajectories (Salthe 1993: 260). It is what provides
the basis for their material connectivity. What brings about the emergence of
such trajectories? What enables their form and their dynamics to endure over
extended periods of time? If meaning has properties of organization in both
space and time such that sustained meaningful interaction with others occurs,
then this suggests that the control parameter which organizes the lower-level
neuromuscular activity of the oral cavity as an ordered articulatory trajectory
showing properties of macroscopic phonological organization is meaning
emanating from higher-scalar levels. Thus, lower-level oral-cavity properties
behave differently when entrained to the ecosocial semiotic dynamics of a
higher-order logogenetic trajectory than they would otherwise do. Meaning, as
we have seen, exists in symbolic neural space in the context of the body and the
higher-scalar ecosocial environment. The increasing discrimination or differen-
tiation which is afforded by the reorganization of microscopic phonetic
160 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
properties as macroscopic phonological ones means that the system organizes
itself into a new hierarchy of levels such that new functional components come
into being. The emergence of phonological order as the reorganization of
sensori-motor routines into more finely categorized gestural systems leads to
their further recategorization as conceptual and lexicogrammatical systems.
According to Edelman (1992: 100-1, 120-1), conceptual routines are based
on the interaction between perceptual activity and value systems. This shows that
conceptual categories are mediated by information about the external and
internal environments of the organism. Thus, the self-organization of the macro-
scopic phonological level on the expression stratum means that vocal-tract
activity is now dependent on the synergy among different component parts of
that activity. Furthermore, this activity is itself enslaved to higher-order principles
of organization emanating from the content stratum. Therefore, the expression
stratum is now seen as being a means whereby the organism systematically
extends itself into and is cross-coupled with its ecosocial environment. Thus, the
recategorization of sensori-motor routines as conceptual ones and the further
recategorization of these as semiotic categories of expression and content,
respectively, provides a means of explaining what theorists of dynamical systems
refer to as the 'embeddedness' of the cognitive system in a body and an envi-
ronment. The processes of semiotic reorganization across hierarchical levels that
I have outlined here show how the interaction of organism and environment is
a supersystem in which the exchanges of matter, energy and information-
meaning constrain the lower-level subsystems (e.g. individual organisms). In this
way, both sensori-motor and conceptual routines are reorganized as semiotic
expression and content such that the ecosocial level is imported into the
organism's body-brain dynamics. The entrainment of the organism's intrinsic
dynamics to the ecosocial scalar level amounts to an expansion of the system's
phase space by increasing the meaning-making potential and, hence, the
semiotic freedom of the organism qua individual agent.
The question of the relation of a meaning-making to its environment can be
understood in the light of the notion of trajectory introduced earlier. The flow
of meaning from an intentional source in symbolic neural space along an
unfolding action trajectory is a temporal process. Thus, the flow of meaning,
understood here as semiotic content, produces and entrains bodily changes
along its trajectory. Moreover, such bodily changes are themselves coupled to
contextual ones. Thus, the dynamic temporal unfolding of articulatory gestures
occurs at the same time as dynamical processes of neural activity on lower scales
and dynamical environmental processes on higher scales unfold in time.
As we saw in section 2, the phonological rank scale specifies a hierarchy of
cycles ofvocal-tract activity (Cleirigh 1998: 38-9). The first cycle is the process of
opening and closing the vocal tract by articulation to dampen phonation in the
production of syllables. This can be modelled as a binary oscillation between
+ syllable weight and - syllable weight, i.e. between moraic and non-moraic
syllable constituents (Cleirigh 1998: 38). The second cycle refers to the varying
of properties such as loudness and duration so as to add stress. This process is
termed rhythm and can be seen as 'switching stress on and off' (Cleirigh 1998:
39). The third vocal-tract cycle is the applying of major pitch shifts to create tonic
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 161
prominence or tonicity. This process is intonation and consists in switching
tonicity on or off. Each of these cycles occurs at a given rank in the phonologi-
cal rank scale. Thus, the syllable is defined in terms of its relations to lower-level
segments as well as to the higher-ranking unit, foot. In turn, the syllable is
integrated to the level of the foot in the sense that it receives further levels of
contextualization by being integrated to a higher-order unit. The foot itself is
integrated to the still-higher-ranking unit, the tone unit.
Each rank specifies a scalar level with its own temporal dynamics - faster on
lower scales, slower on higher ones. Each rank in the scale may be seen as a level
of specification integrated by the dissipative structure - the organism - that
materially embodies the trajectory. That is, neuromuscular processes are contin-
ually reintegrated under the increasing specification of phonological structure.
It is this integration to increasingly higher levels of specification that provides
the basis for the trajectory's coherence over time (Salthe 1993: 261). The
emergence of macroscopic phonological organization in the form of a ranking
scale of articulatory, rhythmic, and tonicity cycles of vocal-tract activity from
microscopic phonetic processes illustrates the principle whereby the lower-level
physical embodiment of the trajectory self-organizes. What we have here is an
illustration of the way in which articulatory activity qua bodily movement is
organized on a diversity of timescales. Moreover, this reveals a fundamental
aspect of embodied meaning-making: temporal body dynamics on different
scales face 'two ways', viz. inwards to the faster temporal cycles of neural activity
in the CNS and outwards to the slower temporal cycles of the other systems - the
individuals - with which a given system interacts. Meaning-making unfolds in
time and it is crucial that there are resources for attuning to the temporal
dynamics of those with whom one interacts.
Thus, the physical organism qua dissipative structure is semiotically connected
to other organisms by virtue of their trajectories (Salthe 1993: 262). As we saw
above, the organism is semiotically integrated to a trajectory in the first instance
under the increasing specification of the expression stratum. The integration of
neuromuscular potential to macroscopic phonological organization connects
the organism to others' meaning-making trajectories on the basis of potentially
shareable articulatory, rhythmic, and tonic resources such that it can functionally
relate to other organisms who make and recognize the same phonological dis-
criminations. Compare this to the newborn child whose vocal gestures are, in the
first instance, iconic of immediate body states and feelings in the mother-infant
dyad. The infant can only access the lower integrative levels of topological-
continuous variation in voice dynamics; he or she does not yet have access to the
stored phonological information deriving from higher levels. To be sure, the
infant can both produce and respond to articulatory, rhythmic and pitch dis-
criminations, but he or she can do so only on the basis of the lower integrative
level of their iconic significance. The expansion in proto-language and later
language of vocal activity into higher integrative levels where the indexical and
symbolic distinctions of phonology are made thus entails an expansion of the
child's bodily potential to relate to the semiotic trajectories of others.
A parallel observation can be made with reference to the content stratum.
Before the onset of a lexicogrammar, the child's semiotic content is restricted to
162 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
the perceptual purview of the mother--ehild dyad and its immediate surround-
ings. In a sense, there is discourse without lexicogrammar. It is a discourse level
of semantic content which is integrated to its contextual environment on the
basis of indexical ties for the most part.
13. The Emergence of Linguistic Categories from the Child's Primary
Forceful Interactions with its Environment
Seen as a physiological space, the oral cavity is a neuromuscular potential for
achieving specific goals. In order to perform a given articulatory gesture, the
infant must adjust the parameter values of the oral cavity in order to achieve a
particular articulatory gesture (Browman and Goldstein 1995: 181). For
example, a particular gesture may involve a constriction in the distance between
the upper and lower lips combined with a stiffness setting and damping, which
is determined by the amount of time required for the system to approach the
goal of lip closure. This process requires the deployment of spurts of neural
energy at precisely the right moment and to the right degree in order to activate
the muscles required to perform the gesture. Children learn to do so by experi-
encing the many different values of the oral cavity as produced in their spon-
taneous babbling and other vocalizations produced in early infancy in order to
attain a specific goal (Thelen 1995: 80). The process of developing articulatory
gestures involves exploring the range of parameter values in the state space of
the oral cavity and selecting those values that selectively co-contextualize with
relevant environmental affordances and the goals and needs of the child.
Halliday's description of Nigel's use of very high-pitched squeaks at age 0;
6 months (see also chapter 4, section 10, pp. 202-5) in order to draw attention
to the scattering of the pigeons is an example of how the system learns through
action. The child's vocal gesture - the high-pitched squeak - is an iconic-
indexical act which points to some phenomenon (the pigeons) within the child's
perceptual purview. The vocal gesture is iconic in the sense that it can be inter-
preted as expressing bodily and feeling states of its utterer; it is indexical in the
sense that it both indexes (1) its utterer as the source of the squeak qua acoustic
event in the given environment; and (2) the pigeons as the object of interest or
attention in the situation. The pigeons constitute an environmental affordance
in the sense that the perceptual information which the child picks up about this
environmental event affords a contextual value, as determined by the indexical
act. This micro-semiotic act lasts mere seconds in the local context in which it
occurs. However, the cumulative effect, over time, of many such micro-semiotic
acts cascades into the developmental landscape, as Halliday documents. There is
another sense in which the real-time of the action is implicated in or interwoven
with developmental time. In the time required for the performance of a given
articulatory gesture, values such as stiffness and damping ratio are constant over
the time-span in which the act is performed. On a higher temporal scale, these
values themselves change in the course of development as the neuromuscular
apparatus of the oral cavity itself changes. The anatomy of the articulatory
apparatus changes as muscles become stronger, more efficient, and so on. The
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 163
point is, as Thelen (1995) shows in another context, that diverse timescales are
all simultaneously interwoven in the same developmental dynamic. Therefore,
scalar heterogeneity is already fully evident in the indexical phase characteristic
of children's early protolanguage.
There is a further sense in which Halliday's example involves more than the
biomechanics of articulation. That is, the development of the articulatory
processes whereby the child establishes first-order contextual redundancies
between vocalization and perceived environmental event constitutes in itself a
fundamental fact about the development not only of sensori-motor processes -
e.g. the neuromuscular processes of vocal-tract gestural activity - but also of
higher-order meaning-making.
Vocal-tract gestural activity, as in the example mentioned above, and the
perceiving of the relevant environmental event, are cross-modally correlated on
the timescale on which the act occurs, i.e. seconds and fractions of seconds.
Children vocalize and look at, touch, and listen to perceptual phenomena of
many kinds across a large number of specific occasions. In the process of
engaging with perceptual phenomena in their surroundings, as well as with
other people, infants may engage in a varied repertoire ofvocal gestures ranging
from babbling to crying to cooing, and so on. In so using the neuromuscular
resources of the vocal tract, they therefore learn what it feels like to deliver
different levels of energy to the muscles of the vocal tract as well as what effects
these have on their surroundings, including other human beings. That is, infants
modulate the resources of the vocal tract and in so doing they produce salient
changes in their immediate environment. For example, in the instance cited
from Halliday the child's high-pitched squeak both directs the mother's
attention to the pigeons and elicits a linguistic response from her.
The work of Halliday and others on infant protolanguage has shown that
vocal gestures such as the one referred to here have both expression and
content. The point is that children, through the repeated use of such vocal and
other gestures in potentially very many different situational contexts, are
learning about both their perceptual-motor systems and how these relate to the
world. In other words, their sensori-motor exploration and sampling of the
environment constitutes information for the brain both about their bodies and
about the world beyond their bodies. The infant is experimenting by modulating
the energy to the muscular systems of the vocal tract and seeing what kinds of
vocal gestures result, what kinds of phenomena these correlate with, the kinds of
responses these obtain from others, and so on. In this way, the infant learns that
a given category of vocal gesture such as the high-pitched squeak referred to
above can be correlated with a given phenomenon in the world by virtue of the
process of recategorization of sensori-motor routines as conceptual routines
(Edelman 1992: 89-90, 246-7). This process of recategorization produces a
correlation between the conceptual-semantic discriminations the organism
makes in its environment and the possibilities for acting on and intervening in
the environment. That is, the vocal gesture is a dialogically oriented and co-
ordinated act whereby the infant causally intervenes in the world by, for
example, directing the attention of others to some object of interest. In this
sense, the act is proto-interpersonal in character.
164 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
By the same token, the correlation of such sensori-motor routines with
conceptual discriminations made on the basis of value-laden perceptual activity
is proto-experiential. We see here how early perception-action routines involving
vocal and other gestures constitute active, movement-based intervention in the
environment combined with the perceptual pick-up of relevant environmental
discriminations. These activities take place in the here-now scale of seconds and
minutes. At the same time, they are a constitutive part of a longer timescale in
which language emerges on the basis of these early re categorizations of sensori-
motor routines as conceptual ones. Categories emerge on the basis of general-
izations made from task-specific activities. Thus, the child studied by Halliday
learns that a given category of vocal gesture qua sensori-motor act, involving the
control of the neuromuscular systems of the vocal tract, correlates with some
aspect of the world outside his or her body. Moreover, vocal gestures exhibit
vectorial qualities of direction and magnitude along their trajectory such that
they afford orientation both to the source of the event and to the environmen-
tal affordance qua stimulus information which is the source of interest or
attention. This is so in the sense that the vocal gesture is perceived as being
intentionally directed to a given environmental affordance which it indexes as a
relevant contextual value. Furthermore, the vocal-auditory act cross-modally
mutually correlates with the perception of inputs from vision, movement, and
other information sources.
The process of mutual correlation between the sensori-motor and the
conceptual domains arises on the basis of the brain's functioning as a somatic
recognition system (Ede1man 1992: 89-98). The brain recognizes and
categorizes events through its own activity, rather than through processes of
instruction. Thus, sensori-motor repertoires and conceptual repertoires mutually
recognize each other. For example, the child's high-pitched squeak qua sensori-
motor act correlates with the micro-functional semiotic category 'demand for
explanation'. It is this two-wayprocess ofmutual recognition between the sensori-
motor and conceptual domains that paves the way for the emergence of the two-
way semiotic relation of realization between expression and content in the event
of language. Of course, the example itself shows the limitations of the notion of
'conceptual' category as a covering term for the diversity of categorial distinctions
that are correlated with sensori-motor repertoires. The term 'conceptual' is
ideationally biased. In actual fact, the categories correlated with sensori-motor
routines also and most crucially include interpersonal-interactional ones, as in
the example. In ways that will be explored in chapter 6, it can be seen that the
brain's activity of mutual correlation between sensori-motor and conceptual
routines is a contextualizing activity whereby me ta-redundancy relations are
created between the two domains.
This last point has important consequences for how we understand the
relations between language, context, and brains. As we have seen, the meta-
functional diversity of language form - both expression and content - means
that semantics is intrinsic to the internal organization of language form.
Moreover, language form is characterized by the functional overlap of diverse
semantic regions. Each of these metafunctional regions makes its specific
contribution to the meaning of the whole. The metafunctional organization of
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 165
language shows how language is internally related to the contexts with which it
is integrated in use. Thus, context is not an external happenstance or epiphe-
nomenon which has no systematic functional relationship to the organization of
the content and expression strata of language. This has important implications
for our understanding of how language is learned and embodied in neural
networks. First, the contextual redundancies between language forms and their
contexts of use mean that the learning of language incorporates the contexts of
the meanings and forms learned. Secondly, neural networks embody the
contexts, bodily activities, and social practices in which meanings are learned in
the form of the meta-redundancy relations that connect, say,vocal-tract gestures,
speech sounds, lexicogrammatical forms, discourse structures, and so on, in
larger patterns of contextualizing relations. However, I shall now return to the
far more primordial, pre-linguistic forms of interaction that are the central focus
of this section.
LakoffandJohnson (e.g. 1999) have discussed the relationship between our
forceful sensori-motor interactions with the world and the emergence of
linguistic categories of goal-directed action. The primordial experiences of
kicking, reaching, grasping, pulling, hitting, and so on, in early infancy involve
the use of children's bodies in order to bring some aspect of the world in line
with their needs and desires. In so doing, the children must harness and reduce
the many degrees of freedom of both their bodies and the world so that some
kind of match is created between the two in a given context of action. In this way,
children learn to generalize categories of embodied-action schemata which they
can adapt and use across a very wide variety of different situations. A schematic
category of the body's forceful interactions is abstracted from these diverse
situations and correlated with a conceptual categorization. Moreover, Edelman,
as we saw above, claims that the brain is a selective recognition system that
recognizes events by its own activity, including its own activities of recognition.
This is important because the recognition of a category such as 'forceful inter-
action with the world' as a means of bringing about causal effects in the world
entails, with the emergence of proto-language, a recognition that sensori-motor
acts such as the vocal gesture discussed above can be used intentionally to cause
someone else to act in a causal way,both physically and semiotically. In the above
example, the child's high-pitched squeak is an intentional act which is dialogi-
cally oriented to causing another social agent - the mother - to provide an
explanation of the perceived phenomenon (the pigeons).
We can see here how the correlation of sensori-motor activity with a
conceptual category gives rise to the schematic category [BODY-FORCEFUL
INTERACTION-ENVIRONMENT], as described in Lakoff and Johnson (e.g.
1999: 270-6). This may be seen as a kind of Ur-experiential category which paves
the way for its further recategorization as more delicate linguistic categorizations
in the way described above. The embodied schema described here may be
analysed into its constituent parts, as shown in Table 3.5.
The schema outlined in Table 3.5 shows that bodily activities such as reaching
for, grasping, and hitting objects can function to explore and obtain information
about some object through, for example, haptic exploration. By the same token,
they can be used to cause the given object to behave in a given way such as
166 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Table 3.5: Emergence ofembodied categoryformation and its differentiation into
'learning about' and 'acting on ' through forceful interaction with environment
Body part Vectorial control of force Object in environment
in formation of movement
trajectory towards object
Hand-arm Reaching movement Grasp or touch object for
haptic exploration
Hand-arm Reaching movement Cause object to move in
desired way
Agent Process: action Affected
making it move in the desired way by hitting or kicking it. Of course, this second
possibility also affords perceptual information about particular kinds of envi-
ronmental events, in particular information concerning the relations between
objects and events which are implicated in a causal series. The understanding of
the possibility of harnessing causal relations between one's bodily activities and
the behaviour of objects in the external world through actions such as hitting,
knocking, kicking, and so on, is a forceful interaction between body and world
involving physical (efficient) causality.
However, infants also learn that their bodily actions can be deployed in order
to cause other persons to act in ways which satisfy their needs and desires. In this
case, the causality involved is not physical; instead, it is semiotically mediated by
means of some elementary sign such as a vocal gesture, facial expression, gaze
vector, or other bodily movement. Body-Forceful Interaction-Environment
schemata such as those just described emerge from the very first weeks of the
infant's life when infants begin reaching towards objects in their environment
(Thelen 1995: 83). We can see how the Body-Forceful Interaction-Environment
schema can serve as a means of learning about the environment as well as a
means of acting on and bringing about causal events in the environment. In the
very earliest stages of reaching to touch objects, it is unlikely that the 'learning
about' and 'acting on' aspects are differentiated. In time, new forms and
functions emerge from the dynamics of the earliest possibilities.
Without trying to suggest any kind of precise temporal or developmental
sequence, it can be seen how Halliday's (1975; 1978b; 1993: 109) pragmatic
('doing') and mathetic ('understanding') categories, which are two of the
discrete microfunctions he postulates as occurring in the early stages of
children's protolanguage, can be seen as a further, more specified development
and integration of the 'learning about' and 'acting on' functions deriving from
the increasing topological differentiation of the originary Body-Forceful Inter-
action-Environment schema.
This most abstract schema therefore provides a model for the later
emergence of more specific schemata which are diversified over various
BODY DYNAMICS, MEANING-MAKING, ... 167
domains. For example, we can see how the most schematic experiential category
of [Agent 1\ Process 1\ Affected] in the linguistic domain can be derived from the
still more schematic conceptual categorizations of sensori-motor experience. In
turn, the most schematic linguistic categories relate to the more specific lower-
level experiential categories which operate in specific experiential semantic
domains such as the material, the mental, the relational, the verbal, and so on
(see Davidse 1991: 14, for a detailed development of this principle with respect
to material processes clauses in English; see also Halliday 1967b, 1967c, 1968).
Similarly, the abstract sensori-motor schema also provides a superordinate
model for the emergence of more specific interpersonal action schemata which
are diversified over various semantic domains such as 'giving' and/or
'demanding' linguistically construed information or material goods-and-services.
The recognition of this category entails both a capacity to discriminate the
forceful control of the body or some part of this in relation to desired outcomes
in the world and, at the same time, the embodiment of an understanding of the
possibilities for the self to act on the world of the non-self, including other agents
who can be recruited as eo-agents in the bringing about or satisfying of one's
needs and desires. This means that the category is Ur-interpersonal as well. This
aspect may be schematized as follows:
[[SELF-AS-AGENT] ACTS] --> [OTHER-As-AGENT2 1\ ACTION 1\
DESIRED GOAL]]
[[child utters high-pitched squeak as 'demand for information'] --> [mother
responds: gives information]]
Figure 3.11 illustrates the emergence of embodied category formation from the
body's primary forceful interactions with its immediate environment.
The correlation of the original sensori-motor schema with the conceptual
schema 'forceful interaction' is topological in character. It constitutes a very wide
attractor basin representing a very broad - i.e. schematic - category in the
earliest stages of the infant's engagements with the world. The basis of this
category is iconic in the sense already defined, viz. topological-eontinuous
variation in forceful movement of the body selectively maps onto topological-
continuous variation in the world. There is differentiation, but it is topological
differentiation, based on continuous sensori-motor exploration and adjustment
to continuous variation in the stimulus flux afforded by the events in the child's
environment. The experiential and interpersonal functions in the linguistic
sense are not differentiated. Instead, the broad attractor basin is differentiated
on the basis of more specific bodily engagements with the world such as
touching, grasping, kicking, pulling, and so on.
The onset of protolanguage represents a dynamical shift to a new state space,
itself brought about by the entraining of the child's trajectory to the higher-
scalar trajectory of the ecosocial system in which he or she lives. In this way, the
prior attractor landscape is altered by emerging changes in the relations among
its component parts, along with changes in the boundary conditions of the
system as it moves along its time-bound trajectory. In this context, the prior
168 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
phase of topological-continuous differentiation is reorganized, giving rise to new
patternings and, hence, new possibilities for acting and meaning in the world.
The destabilization of the Ur-category described above as Body-Forceful
Interaction-Environment gives way to a shift into new attractor states such as the
microfunctions in the indexical phase of protolanguage. The appearance of the
protolinguistic microfunctions represents increasing semiotic differentiation
which is now increasingly typological in character, and at the same time the
emergence of indexical probability, which integrates iconic necessity, leads to
extended adaptive capacity over increasingly larger space-time scales.
Figure3.11: Linguistic categorization and its emergencefrom pre-linguisticforceful
interactions between body and environment
BODY - FORCEFUL INTERACTION-ENVIRONMENT
t
BODY PART- VECTORIAL CONTROL OF FORCE IN FORMATION OF
MOVEMENT TRAJECTORY TOWARDS OBJECT - OBJECT IN ENVIRONMENT
'Act on'
t t
M'~~";'
TRANSITIVITY + MOOD
~ ~
Linguistic
metafunctions:
'Learn about'
Protolinguistic
microfunctions:
[Agent/Process/Affected] Proposition/Proposal
Transitive Ergative Indicative Imperative
Actor-Process-Goal Instigator-Process-Medium
Goal- Goal- Event Actiou Declarative Interrogative Oblative Imperative
directed achieveing instigation instigation
+intention -intention +event +action
He cut The car The flood He walked Heeut Did he Shall I Cut
the cake struck the burst the the dog the cake eutthe eutthe the cake!
tree dam cake? cake?
Part III
Thispage intentionally left blank
4 The Semiotic Basis of Consciousness
1. First-person and Third-person Accounts of Consciousness
Psychologists and neuroscientists agree that conscious experience is a function
ofbrain processes. Furthermore, they agree that conscious experience is directly
accessible only to the individual who is undergoing that particular experience.
This general consensus has led to the formulation of two main hypotheses
concerning the nature of conscious experience. According to the first
hypothesis, only the subjective verbal reports of the person who undergoes the
conscious experience can be taken as a reliable indicator of that experience.
This experience may be 'reported' by linguistic means to someone who is
extrinsic to the reported experience; however, the experience itself remains the
unique possession of the person who experiences it. According to the second
hypothesis, consciousness may be explained just like any other observable
physical process. That is, consciousness is, in the final analysis, explainable in
terms of neural activities in the brain. These neural activities are accessible to an
external observer who can observe these independently of the subjective reports
of the person who undergoes the conscious experience. In this second view, con-
sciousness is reducible to and is, therefore, explainable in terms of the physical
(neural) processes that take place in the brain. However, clinical researchers
(e.g. Libet 1996: 101) point out that studies of brain activity using the technology
of positron emission-tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI) can tell us where, in the brain, changes in activity take place. These tech-
nologies cannot, however, describe the specific neuronal activities that may be
involved. Nor can they tell us anything about the relationship between these
activities and our consciousness of our own or others' mental events.
A further set of questions arises at this point. The first concerns the unitary
and integrated nature of conscious experience. The human brain possesses
some 100 billion neurons; each neuron may have thousands of connections with
other neurons. Moreover, many brain functions are localized to specific areas of
the cerebral cortex in the form of 'specialized columns of neurons' (Libet 1996:
114). Yet, whatever neural activity in the brain does reach the threshold of
conscious experience is experienced as both unified and integrated (Libet 1996:
114). The second question has to do with whether mind or conscious mental
activity exerts any causal influence on physical brain processes. It is worth
quoting Libet at length on the two approaches which have predominated in
attempts to answer these two questions:
172 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
On issue A, Eccles (Popper and Eccles, 1977: 362) has proposed, based on a
dualist-interactionist view, that 'the experienced unity comes not from a neu-
rophysiological synthesis but from the proposed integrating character of the
self-conscious mind'. This view had, in principle, been expressed by
Sherrington (1940), and also by Sperry (1952, 1980) and Doty (1984). For
Sperry and Doty, however, the mind doing the integrating was viewed in
monistic terms, as an emergent property of brain processes. On issue B, both
Eccles and Sperry have proposed that the 'mental sphere' could influence
neuronal function but in dualistic vs. monistic terms, respectively. The view
held probably by most neuroscientists (and perhaps modern philosophers) is
a monist-deterministic one, in which conscious mental experience is simply
an 'inner aspect' of brain function (identity theory); it is fully determined by
knowable physicochemical processes in the brain, and its apparent ability to
influence brain function is a subjective illusion with no actual causal powers.
Although each has explanatory power and each can be shown to be
compatible with (not falsified by) the available evidence, none has been
subjected to appropriate or adequate experimental testing in a format that
could potentially falsify it. (Libet 1996: 114)
Libet then discusses the notion of 'binding' as a possible solution to the first of
the two questions discussed above. The notion of binding is based on the
discovery of global patterns of synchronization of neural activity, which some
researchers see as 'the neural coding for a unified mental image in an otherwise
chaotic background' (Libet 1996: 114). However, Libet cautions as to the need
to distinguish between "binding" at a cognitive level (that mayor may not involve
conscious experience) and the binding that refers to unity experienced in
conscious awareness' (1996: 114). Libet hypothesizes the notion of a unified
'conscious mental field' (1996: 115) which would solve the question of both the
unity and the integration of conscious experience. Furthermore, the conscious
mental field, produced by diverse neuronal activities, can causally affect and
change neuronal function (see Thelen and Smith 1994: 189 for an alternative
account based on direct cross-modal communication; chapter 5, section 3, for
further discussion).
Many brain processes are not conscious even though they relate to function-
ally differentiated brain functions which have to do with memory, perception,
learning, and so on. However, the recognition that there are both conscious and
unconscious brain processes has not led to any scientific consensus concerning
the nature of consciousness. The reductionist view that consciousness can be
explained in terms of physical brain processes remains unable to relate these to
personal experience or to explain the link between such experiences and the
physical brain processes to which these are causally related. Bateson (1980
[1979]: 39-40) points out in this regard that we are aware of the products of
perception; however, we are not aware ofthe neurophysiological processes which
make perception possible. Bateson's observations can be extended to conceptual
and semiotic, including linguistic, processes. Thus, we are aware of the thoughts
that we attend to in inner awareness whereas we are not aware of the neuronal
activity which realizes these thoughts. Moreover, many aspects of linguistic
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 173
processing in the brain are not conscious. This fact has long been recognized by
linguistics. Typically, the participants in linguistic interaction are consciously
aware of the speech sounds which they attend to, as well as the sense of a
meaning which they understand and attend to as the interaction proceeds.
However, many aspects of linguistic processing are not normally available to
conscious awareness and would greatly impede the process of conscious
meaning-making if they were.
2. The Representation of Subjective Experience in Consciousness in
Relation to the Higher-scalar Environment of the Individual
Theories of consciousness are concerned with the problem of how we represent
our own subjective experience as well as that of others. Deacon formulates this
problem as follows:
The problem with other minds is that the glimpses we get of them are all
indirect. We have a subjective experience of our own thought processes, but
at best only an imagined representation of what goes on in others' subjective
experience. When we speculate about others' 'inner' states, the only data we
have to go on are what they tell us and what we observe of their physical states.
Like the subject in the Turing text, we are forced to make assessments on
rather limited and indirect data. We can, it seems, have direct knowledge only
of ourselves. In philosophy, this argument is aptly termed solipsism (from the
Latin solus, alone, and ipse, self). (Deacon 1997: 424)
... the problem of representing the subjective experience of another and the
problem of representing one's own subjective experience both entirely
depend on the nature of the representational processes involved. The
problem is not whether some knowledge is representation and some is direct
and unrepresented. The problem is, rather, what sort of representation is
involved, and what knowledge this provides of our minds and the minds of
others. (Deacon 1997: 425)
Deacon argues that both first-person and third-person perspectives on one's own
and other's experiences are both dependent on 'representational processes'.
The notion of representation, in contrast to the notion of 'direct and unrepre-
sented' knowledge (and experience), raises the further question as to how
consciousness can be theorized as a highly specified meaning system on all
integrative levels (iconic, indexical, symbolic) in the inner perspective of the self
who contextualizes and interprets the given experience as meaningful in the per-
spective of the self. Consciousness is based on internalized self-self transactions
that have emerged from and are a further reorganization of self-other trans-
actions that the self has engaged in with others (see Thibault In press. This
suggests that, rather than representation, dialogue and/or its less specified
analogues on the iconic and indexical levels are fundamental here. As we have
seen, Libet, Bateson, and others point out that our consciousness of our
174 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
thoughts, perceptions, and so on, does not amount to consciousness or
perceptual awareness of the neurophysiological processes that underpin and
sustain these. Instead, we are conscious of the 'products' or the phenomenolog-
ical manifestation of the experience itself. This fact suggests that the central
issue here is, once again, that of the interpretation of meaning in the perspec-
tive of the self.
The observations of Libet that I discussed in the previous section suggest that
consciousness entails the global reorganization of neuronal activity in the brain
across many different scalar levels oforganization. Emergent, higher-scalar levels
of neural organization reorganize the information on lower levels as meaning
for the self. The higher-scalar levels constrain the lower-levels of the body-brain
complex to its own dynamics. Moreover, the highest scalar level, which
constrains and interprets the lower levels, is the self. The self is realized by the
most complex, most global (higher-scalar) level of neuronal organization in the
individual's brain. The self can be seen as a system of interpretance that
interprets and enacts meaningful experience at the same time as it constrains
and modulates sensori-motor activity along its trajectory within the perspective
of the self. Consciousness, in my view, just is a highly specified system of
meanings in this sense in the brain of the individual. However, this does not
mean that the selfis reduced to (higher-scalar) neuronal organization perse. The
point is, rather, that very complex global levels of neural organization provide
persons with the neural resources to contextualize and, therefore, to give
meaning to experience. They give meaning to experience in ways that may have
consequences for the signs which the individual outputs into the environment as
specific action trajectories. The self is the embodied person who acts and means
and is recognized by others as acting and meaning in ways that can be related to
the self as the source of these actions and meanings. Selves are integrated to
their contexts in ways that are interpretable as meaningful from their own self-
perspective as well as from that of others.
Deacon (1997: 426) alludes to the notion of 'theory of mind' which has been
developed in cognitive psychology to explain how one learns, though encultura-
tion, to view things from another's perspective. The 'theory of mind' first
emerged in discussion concerning ape language and cognition (Premack and
Woodruff 1978). It then became a dominant theme in developmental studies of
human infants (e.g. Astington, Harris and Olson 1988). It has also been influ-
ential in autism research (e.g. Baron-Cohen 1989a, 1989b). For a critical
reflection on this entire debate, see Battacchi, Battistelli and Celani (1998).
According to Deacon, it is the development of 'symbolic referential abilities'
which enable humans to interpret 'information from another's behavior to be
interpreted as representing another mind' (1997: 426). Species that lack such
symbolic abilities are limited to the representation of indexical associations
between stimuli from both self and others. Deacon explains this symbolic refer-
ential ability as follows:
As novelists and poets amply demonstrate, the range of personas and experi-
ences that can be conveyed through symbolic media is unbounded. In a very
real sense, this gives us the ability to share a virtual common mind. Because
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 175
symbolic representation maintains reference irrespective of indexical
attachment to any particular experiences, when an idea or a narrative or
someone's experience is reconstructed by another, it can be regrounded, so
to speak, by interpreting it in terms of the iconic and indexical representa-
tions that constitute the listener's memory. Symbolic reference is interpreter-
independent, because each interpreter independently supplies the nonsym-
bolic ground for it. (Deacon 1997: 427)
Deacon adds to the standard account of 'theory of mind' the notion that this is
made possible by the development of symbolic referential abilities. The various
steps in Deacon's line of argumentation may be summarized as follows:
1. Each person's mind is separate from and independent of every other
person's mind;
2. Access to another person's subjective experience - i.e. to that person's mind
- is limited and indirect;
3. Minds represent subjective experience;
4. Minds are possessed by self and other;
5. Representation is the means whereby we know about our own mind and the
minds of others;
6. In order to have access to others' minds, we must be in possession ofa theory
of mind which is based on symbolic referential abilities.
Deacon assumes that representation is the key to unlocking the subjective expe-
riences that are housed in someone else's mind. Moreover, the level of first focus
in this account remains that of the individual mind-brain. However, individual
organisms are not separate from other organisms; they are constitutive parts of
higher-scalar systems of interpretance. A system of interpretance is a means of
deciding whether information deriving from either self or nonself is potentially
meaningful to our own observational perspectives, as well as to others who
potentially share these same observational perspectives. Individual body-brains
do not exist as independent entities. They are always integrated with higher-
scalar systems and, at the same time, constitute the interpretative framework for
smaller-scale ones. This is so both biologically and socially. In such a view, the
relevant focus of study is not the individual body-brain per se, but the way it
is embedded in and is a constitutive part of its higher-scalar ecosocial
environments.
The individual body-brain complex is a system of meaning-making potential
relative to its higher-scalar environments. Moreover, other body-brain complexes
with which the individual interacts are integrated to and embedded within the
same overall supersystem. In such a system, the individual subsystems contribute
to the meaning which is stored in a given subsystem through interaction with it.
Individuals learn about other individuals who share the same system of relations
when, on the basis of dialogically co-ordinated interaction between two individ-
uals, the individual system's Innenwelt is changed. The individual subsystems
do not directly interact with each other; the interaction between them is
always mediated by and entrained to the dynamics of higher-scalar systems of
176 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
interpretance and their associated practices. Change in the individual's Innenwelt
is a result of the meta-redundancy relations - the patterns of contextualizing
relations - that are constructed between individual (self) and other individuals
(nonself) on the basis of such transactions. Thus, meaning is stored, not at the
level of the individual perse, but at the level of the contextual configurations -
e.g. the dyads - which integrate individuals to their ecosocial environments and,
therefore, to the systems of interpretance that are embedded in these.
The notion of self-organization (chapter 1, section 2, pp. 8-11) provides a
means of overcoming the tendency of the representational theory of mind to
overemphasize the individual's experience of his or her environment. Self-
organization entails an increase in a system's overall semiotic complexity and
specification as a result of the collection of the products produced by its own
cascading (Salthe 1993: 176). Following Halliday's (1993) notion of the 'inter-
personal gateway' to meaning-making in the process of the young child's
'learning how to mean', we can see how the emergent self is dialogically linked
to its Umwelten in such a way that perceived events in the child's purview impinge
on the child as indexes, in the first instance, of environmental events. These
indexical signs of environmental events are, in turn, built up and elaborated in
the child's Innenwelt in the form of linguistic and other semiotic models as to
how one can act on and construe the world. In this way, there emerges a
developing system of possibilities for action which afford the child a repertoire
of possibilities for acting on, intervening in, and constructing his or her world.
As noted before, these processes always occur in and through the mediating
influence of the dyads which organize the child's interactions with the nonself.
The child responds to events in the world, including the activities of other con-
specifics, with an expanding set of possibilities for action. Dialogically organized
interactions with others lead to the development of models of the world which
mediate the child's subsequent interactions with the world. Such models include
the linguistic system which is elaborated and stored in the individual's Innenwelt
in the course of development and individuation.
3. Locating the Seat of Consciousness
Where is the seat of consciousness? According to both dualists and reductionists,
it is in the brain. But this conflicts with our consideration of self-organization, as
explained above. Higher-order consciousness entails the emergence of a sense of
self (Edelman 1992: 165-72; Edelman and Tononi 2000: chapter 15). This is
dependent upon the emergence from initial proto-serniotic vagueness and inde-
terminateness of ever more specified and determinate symbolic possibilities for
acting and meaning. That is, the individual is defined by the entire life-span
trajectory along which the self unfolds and individuates. (For related notions see
Harre's (1979: 312-34) theory of the individual's social trajectory or moral
career; Sartre (1969 [1943]) on the project; Salthe (1993: 180-5) on the indi-
viduating ontogenetic trajectory; Riegel (1979) on developmental lifespan
psychology.) The projects to which the individual is committed are more highly
specified according to the higher-scalar meaning systems, or systems of interpre-
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 177
tance, which are available to the individual in his or her ecosocial environment.
In the human case, the self ofsense emerges in and through the individual's par-
ticipation in dialogically organized exchanges between self and nonself. In this
way, the self is constructed, elaborated and maintained in the brain in the form
of higher-order, self-referential meta-representations such that the system
constructs meanings about its own internal states and its relations to others
(Flohr 1991; in this volume, chapter 6, section 2, pp. 283-9).
The central argument of this chapter is that consciousness is a structured
system of meanings whereby we organize our experience around a notion of the
self along a trajectory (Harre and Gillett 1994). It is the most global manifesta-
tion of neuronal self-organization. Because of this, it has the capacity both to
constrain and to interpret the activities and experiences of its own lower-scalar
components in its own perspective. The self is, then, a self-organizing system of
meanings in and through which the individual interprets the effects of its own
self-organisation (Salthe 1993: 158). Harre (1983: 146) talks about the self as
constituted 'in a discourse made up of speech acts having the form of self pred-
ications'. I would rather emphasize the building up of meanings along a
trajectory through dialogic exchanges with other selves with whom one's
trajectory intertwines. The point is that consciousness, in the view I am putting
forward here, is necessarily founded on dialogic exchange processes which make
possible the emergence of self-referential perspectives. It is these self-referential
perspectives which enable experience to be sourced at or centred on a determi-
nate 'self'. Consciousness, in particular higher-order consciousness, entails the
self-organization of perspectives which, when viewed globally, are seen as having
relative coherence and order. However, the local manifestations of consciousness
are not necessarily orderly. Consciousness is itself an emergent consequence of
different levels of semiotic organization - both scalar and integrative.
The further question arises at this point as to the eo-evolution oflanguage and
other semiotic modalities and the human brain. Given my premise that con-
sciousness is not reducible to its neuroanatomical enabling conditions, I argue
that the various levels of human consciousness qua system of meanings are
structured according to metafunctional principles of organization or their
vaguer, less specified analogues on lower integrative levels. As we shall see in more
detail in chapter 5 in relation to Damasio's theory of consciousness, the meta-
functional organization of consciousness qua internalized semiosis in the per-
spective of the self is an appropriate means for the structuring of the experiences
which are sourced at a given self. The metafunctional structuring of conscious-
ness is therefore able to account for the necessarily dialogically constituted nature
of the relations between self and nonself, as well as the embodied grounding of
the meanings attributed to a self relative to its surrounding milieu. The notion of
an intentional 'consciousness of' relation which holds between a person and an
intentional object (see Harre 1983: 148) is a meaningful relation. We shall
explore in chapter 5 how this relation takes the form of the metafunctional
semiotic organization postulated here. For such a relation to occur, it follows that
the person concerned has the requisite modes of semiotic organization stored in
his or her central nervous system. Moreover, the objects of conscious awareness
and attention on all levels in the postulated integrative hierarchy of iconic,
178 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
indexical, and symbolic modes of semiosis (see chapter 1, section 8; chapter 3,
section 7) are experienced as either topological-eontinuous variation or typolog-
ical-eategorial distinctions which make a difference to the person who has the
conscious experience, relative to a given system of interpretance. Thus, one does
not have conscious awareness of the brain states and processes - the neural
activity - but of the meanings (iconic, indexical, and symbolic) which are variably
realized by these and which are made available to conscious awareness in the
interpretive perspective of the self (see above). This point applies indifferently to
phenomena ofexperience ofall kinds, whether they exist in perceptual awareness
or are activated by non-perceptual awareness in the processes of imagining,
hypothesizing, pretending, and remembering.
The relational structure of consciousness is therefore shown to have what I
believe to be revealing parallels with the metafunctional organization of
semiosis. This does not mean that all consciousness is able to be 'reported'
by linguistic means. Moreover, the distinction between 'reportable' and 'non-
reportable' experience (Harre 1983: 155) does not mean that that which is non-
reportable by linguistic means is outside the realms of conscious experience and
awareness. This would be to underestimate the importance of perceptual-motor
forms of categorization at the iconic and indexical levels of the integration
hierarchy of semiosis. Furthermore, the assumption of non-reportability would
disallow the importance of topological-continuous variation as a means of
makings differences that make a difference to some individual. Not all con-
sciousness is necessarily 'reportable' in terms of the typological-eategorial
semantic distinctions made by the lexicogrammar of natural language. So called
'non-propositional' awareness and knowing (Harre 1983: 155) is all about this
kind of non-symbolic construal of conscious experience. In any case, the notion
of 'reportability' suggests that there is something empirically prior which
language simply packages up and reports as the more essential experience.
Instead, the metafunctional form of consciousness at all levels in the integrative
hierarchy shows that the act of consciousness constitutes the object of con-
sciousness relative to the categories of the system of interpretance which is used
to contextualize the experience.
The dialogic exchanges between self and nonself are possible because, in the
first instance, the biological organism belongs to that class of physical systems
which are dynamic, open systems (Prigogine and Stengers 1985 [1984]: 143;
Lemke 1984a, 1984d, 1995b; Wilden 1981: 2). Such systems exchange matter,
energy, and information-meaning with their environment and, at the same time,
maintain their specific identity in relation to their environment by virtue of these
same system-environment transactions. However, these exchanges of matter,
energy, and information-meaning do not mean that the organism is simply 'in'
an environment with which it exchanges matter, energy, and information. It is
through these exchanges that the organism participates in the active constitu-
tion of its environment at the same time as it is constituted by these same self-
environment transactions. It is in this way that organisms expand their Umwelten
(Harre 1990: 301). In expanding their Umwelten, they define their own identity
and structural integrity in and through these exchange transactions. In these
exchange processes, human individuals exchange both structure and meaning
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 179
with their environments. The intrinsic organization of these self-environment
transactions and the ways in which they integrate both with the body-brain
complex and with the higher-scalar ecosocial environment can be explained in
terms of the metafunctional shape of consciousness that I first postulated above.
The environment is, in the first instance, perhaps better formulated as the
nonself in relation to the self. The self selectively orients to, engages with,
interacts with, and interprets the nonself. The nonself includes other persons
and objects, events, and so on. In exchange, the structure so exchanged is
implicit; verbal meaning is, in large part, explicit in fully contextualized
occasions of discourse, though non-verbal forms of semiosis such as facial
expression, body movement, and so on, may be much less so. Importantly,
meaning is distinguished from information by that fact that meaning is always
construed in relationship to the observational viewpoints and perspectives of the
participants on the ecosocial scale in question. Information is not dependent on
such viewpoints, but is a statistical measure of the variety in relation to which a
given event occurs (Wilden 1981: 17-18). Again, the importance of meaning and
the interpretation of experience in the self-perspective as meaningful for
conscious experience are suggested by the relevance of viewpoints and,
therefore, interpreters to meaning as distinct from information.
On the human scale which is of concern here, meaning requires human
perspectives and viewpoints which can be shared with others on the basis of the
dialogically co-ordinated exchanges between self and others. Dynamic open
systems, ofwhich human individuals are a specific case, maintain their structural
integrity through the processes of obtaining required matter, energy and infor-
mation with a high order of structure from their environments and returning
low-order matter and energy to the environment in the form of disorder. In the
human case, higher-scalar ecosocial structures and processes integrate and
extend the structures and regulatory principles of the individual. In the early
mother-infant dyads characteristic of primary intersubjectivity (Trevarthen
1987, 1992), dialogic exchange processes integrate the child into the meaning-
making practices and the systems of symbolic possibilities of the group. Thus, the
individual's emergent symbolic or higher-order consciousness entails the
building-up and elaboration of internal structures of meaning and interaction.
This has the dual function of (l) integrating individual consciousness into the
social semiotic system and (2) providing individual consciousness with symbolic
resources which expand and extend the individual's own possibilities beyond the
here-now scale of its material interactivity with its environment. Integration into
the symbolic possibilities of the social group is therefore necessary for the
emergence of higher-order consciousness in the individual (Edelman 1992:
131-6).
By the same token, higher-order consciousness in the individual is also
essential for the social group. This is so for three reasons. First, the symbolic
meaning-making resources of the social group afford the continuing integration
of apprentices (the new-born, new members, etc.) into the group. Secondly, it is
also the means whereby consciousness is made shareable with other conspecifics,
and in ways which ensure the maintenance of a higher-scalar collective con-
sciousness in historical time. Thirdly, these resources make possible the social
180 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
semiotic construction of individual historical-biographical coherence with
reference to the individual's unfolding lifespan trajectory in some community.
These three points illustrate the need to view higher-order consciousness in the
individual as an integral component of a still-higher-scalar system of ecosocial
relations and processes which exist on much greater scales than the individual
biological organism.
The integrated nature of conscious experience, as discussed above in relation
to Libet, can be seen as an instance of the non-linear operations of a complex
system whose closed internalloops ofneural activities and functions on very many
complexly interrelated scalar levels of neuronal organization give rise to
metastable states or fields of consciousness. Consciousness is a metastable state of
very high complexity which enables strong cross-couplings between the individual
body-brains and selected aspects of his or her inner and outer environments.
Such cross-couplings can only occur through semiotically mediated transactions
between individual and environment. Moreover, rather than seeing symbolic con-
sciousness as the mere bottom-up aggregate of many individual body-brain
complexes, it is possible to conceive of the full-fledged emergence of symbolic
consciousness in the human species as the evolutionary consequence of the his-
torically emergent differentiation of symbolic modes of social meaning-making
(language, gesture, depiction, etc.) from the iconic vagueness of prior systems.
The higher degree of specification of symbolic modes of meaning-making can be
seen as the result of the increasing differentiation of the topological-continuous
variation that is characteristic of the prior system as it differentiates into a number
of more specified subsystems. In this way, the prior system constitutes the
immediate environment of the newly emergent system and therefore provides the
initial systemic conditions whereby the increased specification of the symbolic
mode can emerge (see chapter 3, sections 4 and 7). This suggests that the
evolution of symbolic consciousness in the human species arose from the
increasing differentiation of vaguer prototypes of exchange between organism
and environment. The symbolic brain, in this view, is not the unit which
generated language, but is the evolutionary product of the further differentiation
of previously existing semiotic modalities in their contexts of use.
Symbolic modes of meaning-making entail a higher degree of explicitness
and specification than do the iconic and indexical modes from which they
emerged and which they contextually integrate to their own (symbolic) level
(chapter 3, sections 4 and 7). The emergence of the symbolic level in no way
implies that the iconic and the indexical levels have been transcended. Linguis-
tically mediated discourse is fully contextualized language in operation in
relation to other contextual features, including other semiotic modalities which
are relevant to its co-contextualization. It is a context-specific restriction of the
meaning potential which is stored and elaborated in the brains of individuals at
the same time as it is, to varying degrees, shared by them by virtue of their being
embedded within the same system of interpretance in a given ecosocial semiotic
system. This meaning potential is stored in the individual's brain in largely
unconscious ways until is selectively activated according to the requirements of
some context. Thus, explicitly meaningful and consciously enacted discourse
can be seen as a critically important resource for selectively cross-coupling the
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 181
individual to the ecosocial environment. Discourse is a powerful agency both for
recruiting individuals to relevant social practices and for integrating conscious-
ness with its contexts in relevant ways. This is equally true of both 'inner' and
'outer' forms of meaning-making. Linguistically mediated social meaning-
making is always to some extent explicitly meaningful for the participants in the
exchange, whereas the iconic-indexical modes of posture, gesture, facial
expression, and so on are much more implicit and, hence, 'unconscious' to a
greater extent.
Higher-order consciousness is characterized by the use of symbolic modes of
meaning-making such as language. From the perspective of the individual
subsystem, it entails the capacity for the linguistic and other semiotic mediation
and construal ofexperience. I have argued that this process crucially depends on
the integration of the individual organism into higher-scalar ecosocial processes
and trajectories. At the same time, it is clear that some of the semiotically
mediated exchanges that take place within the individual organism in the form
of 'inner speech', linguistically mediated 'thought', internalized visual semiosis,
and so on, are specialized to the 'inner' realm of the individual and set against
transactions that occur in the 'outer' realm such that the former are seen as
private or individual. However, it is important to recognize that even those forms
of meaning-making which have been specialized to the inner realm are definable
by and integrated into the semiotic resource systems of the higher-scalar
ecosocial system. If conscious experience is mediated by and integrated into a
higher-scalar system of interpretance, then it seems legitimate to ask how such
semiotic resource systems, which are stored at the higher-scalar ecosocial level,
give shape to consciousness itself.
The representational view of consciousness focuses on the individual
organism which represents the world as conscious experience. This has resulted
in an overwhelming emphasis on the bottom-up brain-mind mechanisms and
processes which 'cause' conscious experience in individuals. Similarly, those
approaches which focus on the ways in which our sensori-motor activity and
perceptual systems constitute the body images and schemata in and through
which we construct the world continue to emphasize the individual organism as
the focus of theoretical inquiry (e.g. Lakoff and Johnson 1999). Alternatively, I
have argued that consciousness cannot be characterized in terms of individuals
per se. Instead, it requires a shift in focus to a three-level scalar hierarchy view of
the systems relations that are involved (Salthe 1993: 36-46; Lemke 1999;
Thibault 2000a). That is, it requires us to ask how the intrinsic dynamics of
higher-scalar semiotic resource systems such as language and the social practices
in which these are embedded and deployed play their part in the shaping of
consciousness.
In terms of the principles of scalar hierarchy theory and scalar heterogeneity
(chapter 1, sections 3, 9), it is possible to re-think the locus or seat of conscious-
ness in relation to the body-brain complex of the individual organism. Biologists
such as Salthe (1993: 181) have pointed out that the molecules and cells which
make up our bodies are constantly replaced. From the perspective of the
biological organism, we are not the same organism that we were just a few years
earlier or even a year ago. Nevertheless, we construct a sense of continuity over
182 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
time so that our consciousness of our selfhood is maintained and enhanced in
spite of these constant changes to the organism. In the process, we encounter
new historical contingencies, which provide us with new memories and experi-
ences. Salthe poses the question as to the locus of selfhood and agency in this
perspective. This locus is the entire ontogenetic trajectory of the organism,
starting with birth and continuing until death. Any moment-by-moment action
of the organism is no more than a local manifestation of this trajectory (1993:
181). To quote Salthe:
It would be convenient for present purposes to describe our own ontogenetic
trajectories from a scale delivering a cogent moment of about one of our
lifetimes. In that case the entire trajectory is present simultaneously as a single
object. This object can be taken to be the seat of self-organization, agency, and
selfhood because these inhere in its ontogenetic trajectory rather than in the
organism, which is continually changing (besides being at any moment
merely a mechanism, which can't have those properties). (Salthe 1993: 182)
The entire trajectory is a 'cogent moment', as viewed from a still-higher-scalar
perspective, with respect to the very different scale of the moment-by-moment
existence of the individual body-brain complex. The latter is a lower-scalar entity
whose lower-scalar dynamics operate on a much faster timescale than those of
the higher-scalar dynamics of the trajectory as a whole. Each of the two scales has
properties which are ontologically specific to its own scale and the respective
entities and processes on that scale. It is symbolic or higher-order consciousness
which makes the emergence of such a trajectory possible. Moreover, the
organism which sustains the trajectory is a dissipative structure which is charac-
terized by the historical emergence and accumulation of meanings along its
entire trajectory, Increased dissipation to the environment goes hand in hand
with increasing structural complexity such that fluctuation to higher-order states
is increased, thereby allowing the evolution of new metastable states (Lemke
1984c: 29). The trajectory is a self-organizing system. Self-organizing systems are
defined by the fact that they exchange matter, energy, and meaning with their
external environments in wayswhich bring about the spontaneous emergence of
order and pattern in the system (see above). Self-organizing systems have history
and individuality (Prigogine and Stengers 1985 [1984]: 176; Salthe 1993: 142;
Lemke 1995b [1993]: 112-13).
Consciousness is, then, a trajectory-in-time. It is the trajectory which is the seat
of selfhood and agency (Salthe 1993: 184). The trajectory of consciousness is
both meaning-based and regulated by memory. The body-brain complex of the
individual is the moment-by-moment realization of this trajectory. The two - Le.
consciousness and the body-brain - exist on different scalar levels. The link
between them is one of realization, rather than causality. The relationship of
realization specifies (1) that the trajectory of consciousness is realized by the
body-brain complex; (2) that the body-brain complex realizes, or embodies, con-
sciousness, therefore the body-brain complex is a constitutive part of the context
of consciousness on account of the fact that consciousness is always embodied in
the body-brain dynamics of individuals. In other words, the body-brain is part of
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 183
and is embedded in a still-wider system in and through which meaning is made.
The body-brain constitutes and embodies the lower-scalar enabling conditions of
consciousness as well as being the lower-scalar environment of the trajectory of
consciousness. In a sense, the trajectory of consciousness can be thought of as
the meaning - the content stratum - which is realized by the expression stratum
of the body-brain complex.
The self-organizing character of this trajectory depends crucially, as I pointed
out above, on the ongoing exchange of matter, energy, and meaning between
the system and its environment. In the case of symbolic or higher-order con-
sciousness, this is founded on the dialogically organized meaning-making
exchanges that take place between self and others who share the same ecosocial
perspectives and viewpoints. The trajectory of higher-order consciousness is,
therefore, constituted against a background of the dialogically organized
meaning exchanges in which the individual has participated along the course of
his or her trajectory. The temporal organization of the trajectory is thus made
possible by its dialogic synchronization with the trajectories of others with which
it engages (Riegel 1979: 167). The evolution of new metastable states of
consciousness occurs on the basis of conflict or contradiction which must be
resolved for progression to a new state to occur. Dialogue is driven by the
negotiation of such difference or contradiction, which the participants in the
dialogue seek to resolve in some way. Resolution, or what Bakhtin (1986: 76-7)
called 'finalization', can never be achieved in any ultimate way. The dialogic
nature of consciousness means that new questions, new doubts, new differences
will always arise such that the trajectory of consciousness remains open-ended,
therefore constantly engaging in {dialogic} interaction with others.
Physical brain processes and states are inadequate to explain consciousness
precisely because they cannot deal with the principle of final causality, which is
necessarily entailed by the dialogic basis of consciousness. Physical brain
activities are cause-effect relations within just one level of relations in the scalar
hierarchy. Final causality, on the other hand, is a higher-scalar constraint which
operates 'downwards' on lower levels. Such constraints, which emanate from the
higher-scalar levels, are, increasingly, semiotic, rather than physical, in character.
Final causality does not derive from the lower level of physical brain processes,
which would be efficient causes in Aristotle's schema. The latter operate on a
much faster temporal cycle than does the trajectory of individual consciousness,
which spans a lifetime. This means that the much faster rate of the lower-level
brain activities in a given cycle of such activities comes to completion while the
higher-scalar-level trajectory of consciousness unfolds according to its much
slower dynamics, and at the same time continues into the future. Thus, the
higher-scalar level of the trajectory, which is the seat of consciousness, operates
on and selects the lower-level brain activities at the same time as it pulls these
into the future (Salthe 1993: 270).
The individual agent is dialogically oriented to the nonself along the entire
duration of its trajectory. Therefore, the forever open and incomplete character
of this relationship is the means whereby the trajectory of the individual self is
pulled into its future by the need to resolve ('finalize') local contradiction and
difference through dialogic engagement with the nonself. It is in this way that
184 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
the trajectory self-organizes at the same time as it individuates. In terms of
the three-level logic of the scalar hierarchy (see chapter 1, section 3, pp. 14-16),
this means that level L - the level of first focus, or the ecosocial scale on
which individuals interact with each other and their material and semiotic envi-
ronments - is constituted by the dyadic character of self/rionself transactions.
These transactions can be modelled as a hierarchical triplicate of levels, as
follows:
L+1: Historical-biographical trajectory of individual consciousness (historical-
biographicallifespan)
L: Dialogic basis of ecosocial self!other transactions along logogenetic
trajectory of unfolding text-time (moment-by-moment)
L-l: Physical brain activity in individual organism (milliseconds)
4. The Meaning-making Capacity of the Body-brain Complex through the
Discrimination of Difference
The fact that the world is not something 'out there', an object in itself, having its
own reality independent of our ways of making meaning about it, has important
implications for the body-brain. The recognition of this fact requires the aban-
donment of the representational theory of mind and cognition and its replace-
ment with a view in which the world and its meanings are actively produced by
us. Further, the systems ofperceptually, conceptually, and semiotically salient dis-
tinctions constituted by our perceptual systems, the conceptual distinctions
elaborated in primary consciousness, and language and other semiotic resource
systems in higher-order consciousness are inseparable from the architecture of
our body-brains and, hence, the embodied nature of our ways of making
meaning (chapters 2 and 3). Edelman's (1989) notion of an 'unlabelled' world
and Saussure's (1971 [1915]: 156) notion of the 'amorphous flux' (see also
Thibault 1997a: 166-71; 1998a: 25-6) are apt metaphors for expressing the inde-
terminate nature of pre-semiotic vagueness before it is made into something
more determinate in and through our deployment, in context, of the systems of
categorization made available to us by some meaning system. In other words, we
transform indeterminate vagueness into something more determinate and
meaningful for us by actively exploring and intervening in the environment that
we inhabit.
Organisms produce the world, so to speak, through their capacity for
embodied exploration and interpretation of it. In so doing, they make the
properties - perceptual, affective, and motivational - of the given aspect of the
world which is the focus of their attention and interest emerge. In selectively
focusing on and showing interest in some things rather than in others, they
implicitly assign value and, therefore, motivational salience to some things
rather than to others. They do so by means of the various sensori-motor and
semiotic systems which enable them to construe, potentially, very many degrees
of difference in the topological vagueness of the ambient flux which surrounds
them. Thus, the human hand, in comparison with the hands of other animals,
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 185
in conjunction with the system of visual perception, has a greatly enhanced
ability to discriminate very many degrees of difference, and therefore fine detail,
as compared to other animals. Human and non-human primates have a more
developed and therefore more discriminating grip than other animals. This
increased capacity for discrimination affords the kind of detailed exploration
and differentiation referred to above. Human and non-human primates also
have a more highly developed pre-frontal cortex. The combination of these two
capacities of the hand and the pre-frontal cortex means that humans and other
non-human primates have enhanced capacities both for construing more and
more salient and, hence, potentially relevant and meaningful differences - both
topological and typological - in the world.
The pre-frontal cortex is the most recent product of primate, including
human, cortical evolution. It is a further cortical development of the motor
systems responsible for direct motor control. This means that it affords abstract
symbolic exploration and investigation of the environment in the absence of
actual movement. It is this capacity for abstract exploration which, in turn, allows
the organism to place itself in the position of others and, therefore, to view
things as others do, as well as to abstractly look ahead and reflect on possible
courses of action and their consequences before these are put into action as
actual movement and behaviour. The interpretation of another's gaze vector is a
case in point (see section 9, pp. 201-2). Our actions in the world and our expe-
riential construals and perceptual-motor categorizations of the phenomena of
experience through sensori-motor activity and exploration are, then, increas-
ingly abstracted from sensori-motor activity so as to produce symbolic 'thought'.
We see, then, that direct sensori-motor exploration, along with exploration
which is abstracted from this in the form of 'thought', are capable of acting on
and construing and constructing the phenomena of experience in our 'inner'
and 'outer' worlds. The greatly enhanced capacity for such exploration in
humans on account of the resources of symbolic memory and social meaning-
making means that our very being - at once social and biological - is linked to
this capacity.
The question of the embodiment of the brain raises the question of the
structure of the brain and its relationship both to the body and to the ecosocial
environment which lies 'outside' our bodies. The body is represented in the neo-
cortex both in terms of the exploratory motor activity of perceptual systems and
the performatory activity of executive systems (Gibson 1983 [1966]: 46; Edelman
1992: 105). With reference to the latter, it is significant that the face and the
hand are massively and disproportionately represented in the neo-cortex with
respect to other areas of the body (Thelen and Smith 1994: 136-7). The reason
for this lies in the fact that a quite large proportion of the motor cortex is
dedicated to the control ofthese two parts of the body, both ofwhich are capable
of very sophisticated and finely differentiated exploratory (and performatory)
activities in comparison with other parts of the human body. They are thus
capable of discriminating very many more degrees of difference than are other
human body parts. Take, for instance, the crucial case of the human hand with
its opposable thumb. This feature of the human hand affords a vast number of
possibilities for the exploration and manipulation of objects, for tool use, for the
186 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
symbolic construal (imitation, etc.) ofactions and objects which are not present,
for pointing and imitation, and for the articulation of gestures and the realiza-
tion oflinguistic meanings in sign Uohnston 1992; McNeillI992). Similarly, the
human vocal tract and its cross-modal connections to facial movements also
afford greatly expanded possibilities for articulating very finely differentiated
exploratory and performatory activity.
In the case of writing, hand-arm-joint-eye kinaesthesis (Gibson 1986 [1979]:
275) enables the writer to interact with others across very diverse spatial and
temporal scales. The ability of the hand to articulate complex motor acts or
gestures and the resulting graphic traces on a treated surface means that
addressers and addressees can integrate meanings across diverse spatio-temporal
scales and assimilate them to their own Innenwelt. Moreover, the complex motor
activity which is involved in human speech can be seen as a further development
and extension of the human ability to analyse phenomena into their component
parts and to interpret them. It is the interplay between face and hand, on the
one hand, and the brain, on the other, which has enabled human beings to
massively expand their meaning-making potential and, hence, to intervene in,
shape, and expand their Umwelt across diverse space-time scales (Latour 1996a,
1996b; Lemke 1999; in this volume chapter 3, section 1, pp. 108-9).
Symbolic consciousness and the body parts which afford active exploration of
the environment enable humans to orient to the indeterminate and the
unknown (Prodi 1987: 20). The hands and face are able to discriminate very
many degrees of (topological and typological) difference. The delicate muscu-
lature of both the face and vocal tract and the hand-thumb system are able to
make and discriminate complex systems of differences and their combinations
and re-combinations according to the requirements of specific ecosocial
contexts. This is so of both the performatory activity of these bodily systems qua
executive systems, as well as the exploratory activity of them qua perceptual
systems. In this way, social meaning-making becomes possible. From an evolu-
tionary perspective, this discriminatory capacity was further enhanced by the
development of a vertical posture: this development allowed for an enlarged
visual field, and at the same time the upper body was no longer tied to the
requirements of moving around in the environment. Instead, the upper body
could dedicate itself more and more to the selective orientation to and explo-
ration of the environment in collaboration with the various perceptual systems
such as the haptic, olfactory, auditory, and visual systems (Gibson 1983 [1966]:
72-4). The increasingly delicate and discriminating patterns of difference that
could be made in and through these bodily resources enabled emergent
meanings to be expressed. These meanings could, in turn, be addressed to and
shared with others on the basis of higher-scalar boundary conditions which
emerged as a consequence of the interactions between the organism's internal
dynamics and its ecosocial environment. In this way, the same patterns of
difference are constrained by the same attractor such that they could be taken
up and adaptively modified or re-worked by others. The taking up of the same
patterns by others meant that the meaning-making potential of these patterns of
difference was able to link individuals across diverse space-time scales. This
linking of individuals across diverse scales is, in the first instance, possible
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 187
because there always were precursor higher-scalar attractors and boundary
conditions which functioned to entrain human body movement in socially
significant ways. In this way, systems of differences become socially shared and
constrained by virtue of their being entrained to the same higher-scalar attractor
on the ecosociallevel (Salthe 1993: 270, 277-81; Lemke 1995b: 116).
The synergy of hand and eye in hand-arm-joint-eye kinaesthesis meant that
humans could explore, act on, interact with, intervene in, and experiment with
the emergent possibilities of an unlabelled world. Moreover, the cross-modal
synergy ofhand and language in both speaking through the co-contextualization
of vocal-tract and manual-brachial gestural activity and writing through the co-
contextualization of hand and eye in hand-arm-joint-eye kinaesthesis and the
visual-graphological traces on a treated surface vastly extended this capacity. The
emergent and increasingly discriminatory capacities of this kinetic interface in
the physiological processes of articulation in speaking, writing, and gesture are,
as I mentioned above, related to the massive representation of the activities of
hand, face, and vocal tract in the neo-cortex. The connection of such bodily
processes to activity in the neo-cortex, as evidenced by the massive neural activity
associated with the use of these body parts, suggests an intimate connection to
consciousness, and especially to symbolic or higher-order consciousness. Thus,
the ability to intentionally control and modulate the activity of the hand, face
and vocal tract goes hand in hand with higher-scalar cortical activity. This, in
turn, suggests an intimate tie-up between consciousness and those parts of the
body most closely associated with symbolic meaning-making.
The very fine discriminations made by vocal-tract and other (e.g. manual-
brachial) articulatory activity can be co-ordinated with the articulatory activity of
others in both space and time. Furthermore, the integration of these motor
functions and the discriminatory potential that they afford to higher-scalar
semantics in symbolic neural space means that the exploratory activity of
vocal-tract activity, as well as that of the hand, has implications for higher-order
consciousness. The very fine discriminations made by vocal-tract activity, the
face, and the hand are all forms of expression that can be recategorized as
content (linguistic or otherwise) by virtue of the brain's capacity to act as a
somatic recognition system. This is no less true of inner speech, which involves
the categorization of the brain's own activity as imagined motor routines corre-
sponding to the expression stratum of speech, rather than the categorization of
inputs from external sources of auditory and other perceptual information
involved in listening to another's speech (chapter 5, section 9, pp. 271-2). In the
case of inner speech, this means that the brain's own internal activity categorizes
past samplings of speech sounds as specific types of phonological routines that
can be activated by the brain's own internal activity and matched with the appro-
priate structures on the content stratum by virtue of the brain's capacity to
function as a somatic recognition system. This capacity therefore applies both to
the categorization of the perceptual inputs from external sources of speech
sounds and to the phonological routines that occur in different global mappings
in the brain as a result of the brain's internal activity. In all these cases, the fine
differentiations made by the vocal tract, the face, and the hand in the process of
exploring and/or acting in the environment have contextual redundancies with
188 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
categories of content to which they are integrated. In this way, the exploratory
potential of these parts of the body has direct implications for the categories of
consciousness itself.
Thinking, as I pointed out above, is symbolic exploration abstracted from
sensori-motor activity. However, the fact that, in thinking, direct exploration of
the environment through sensori-motor activity does not take place, does not
mean that thinking is not also a form of activity. In my view, thinking is both
action and reflection, to use Malinowski's (1923, 1935) terms, which has been
specialized to the 'inner' domain. It is a kind of action and reflection which can
take place without directly subjecting the body to the hazards and risks entailed
by a given course of material action. Verbal thinking - that is, language activity
specialized to the inner realm of 'mind' - means that reflection on action and
its consequences, the discourse genres of, say, abstract reasoning and argumen-
tation, particular waysof interpreting and understanding, and so on, are not the
sole property of a single individual. Luria describes syllogistic reasoning as a
form of higher-order rational thinking in precisely these terms:
One of the objective devices that arises in the process of the development of
cognitive activity is the syllogism - a set of individual judgments of varying
degrees of generality in certain objectively necessary relationship to one
another. Two sentences, of which the first ('precious metals do not rust') is in
the nature of a general judgment ... while the second ('gold is a precious
metal') is a particular proposition, are not perceived by the developed
consciousness as two isolated phrases in juxtaposition. A human being whose
theoretical thought processes are well developed will perceive these as a
completed logical relation implying the conclusion, 'hence gold does not
rust.' This conclusion does not require any personal experience; it is arrived
at through a syllogism created objectively by historical experience. A consid-
erable proportion of our intellectual operations involve such verbal and
logical systems; they comprise the basic network of codes along which the
connections in discursive human thought are channelled. (Luria 1976: 101)
The 'networks of codes' are the discourse genres which give determinate shape
to 'discursive human thought'. The 'completed logical relation' between the
implied conclusion and the first two parts of the discourse structure is a logico-
semantic one which can be glossed as CONDITIONACONSEQUENCE. Thus,
the rational thinking which is involved in logical reasoning and inference is
mediated by genres structures which become internalized as procedures for
higher-order thought. Furthermore, what may appear, viewed in this way, as the
monological property of individual consciousness is, in actual fact, a dialogical
response to some prior situation or text. The tendency to naturalize these inter-
nalized genres as the monological properties of a single consciousness is
reinforced by the tendency to consider written texts as the unique property of a
single individual. The fact that the first two sentences are put in a particular kind
of logico-semantic relation with the third one also shows the internally dialogic
nature of the text as a whole. Thus, the first two constitute a particular general-
izing stance on a given situation-type while the third sentence is a particular
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 189
dialogical response to this situation from another point of view, i.e. from the
point of view of the specific characteristics of gold as an instantiation of the
schematic category 'precious metal'.
Symbolic thinking, in the form of, for example, 'inner speech', links the
individual to the accumulated ways of thinking built up over many generations
in the course of the constant and adaptive modification of thought on the part
of all of those individuals who have contributed to it. Symbolic thinking, which
is thinking mediated by a semiotic system of linguistic or other potentially
meaningful differences in a given community, affords differentiated thought and
thus extends and enhances our ability for active exploration and expansion of
our Umwelt. In this view, thinking is a specific use of neuronal capacities for
giving pattern and meaning to experience and for organizing one's responses to
events in both our inner and outer environments as specific courses of action.
As Saussure demonstrated in his discussion of the mediating influence of the
value-producing categories of a given language system on 'thought' and 'sound'
(chapter 2, section 1, pp. 59-67), such mediation enables new possibilities of
meaning to emerge from the vague and 'amorphous' flux of pre-semiotic
'thought' and 'sound'. That is, we produce our world in and through our
semiotically mediated interventions in and engagements with this vague and
undifferentiated mass of possibilities, which we can never, in any case, know or
experience directly, but always only mediately. The projection into the world of
the highly delicate differentiations afforded by the sensori-motor activities of the
hand and face-vocal-tract systems also means that we endow the phenomena of
our experience with value, affect and motivational salience. That is, we assign
them with value in terms of what they entail for us as action and interpersonal
interaction (Thibault 1992b).
5. Language Functions and the Cortical Organization of the Brain:
Implications for Higher-order Consciousness
The human brain is organized in terms of two cortical hemispheres. The right
hemisphere regulates our responses to the unknown; the left is more concerned
with actions which are carried out in response to the known and familiar.
Researchers such as Davidson (1984,1992) have shown that the two hemispheres
are differentially specialized as regards value and affect in connection with the
way the individual orients to the world. Positive affect (e.g. attraction) correlates
with increased neural activation in the left frontal cortex. Negative affect (e.g.
repulsion) correlates with increased neural activation in the right frontal cortex.
This suggests that the two hemispheres differentially regulate our affective and
value-laden responses to the world. The right hemisphere regulates our
responses to that which has not yet been assigned a specific value or motivational
salience. The left hemisphere, on the other hand, is concerned with our orien-
tation to that which has already been assigned a specific value and motivational
salience. In the first case, the negative evaluation of the uncertainty and
indeterminateness which the individual encounters constitutes the basis on
which active exploration may occur. In the second case, we are on familiar, safe
190 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
ground and already know what to expect and therefore how to act. In both cases,
value-laden responses are linked to sensori-motor activity and, therefore, to
specific courses of action and their likely consequences.
The lateralization of brain functions has frequently been cited as evidence for
the specialization of language functions to the left hemisphere of the brain. In
this view, the right hemisphere is specifically adapted for the production ofvisual
and auditory images, for global pattern recognition, holistic thinking, and so on.
Table 4.1 presents the lateralization of brain functions in the left and right hemi-
spheres according to Deacon.
The right hemisphere appears to be associated with topological-continuous
variation, with the vagueness of the not-yet-fully specified or determinable, thus
suggesting what Salthe calls 'signifying possibility rather than necessity' (1993:
143) on account of its indeterminate character. The left hemisphere, on the
other hand, is specialized to the typological-categorial analysis of phenomena
into discrete elements - that is, with the specification of that which is deter-
minate. Typically, the left hemisphere has been seen as specialized to language
whereas the right hemisphere is considered to be concerned with holistic
patterns and images. (See for example Corina et al. 1992 for arguments in favour
of the view that left hemisphere specialization of language respects a distinction
between linguistic systems such as American Sign Language (ASL) and non-
linguistic gestures.) However, Deacon (1998 [1997]: 311) argues that the
hypothesis of hemispheric specialization for language is erroneous and that what
is really at stake is a question of the way different linguistic and other brain
functions are differentially distributed between the two hemispheres (see also
jakobson and Santilli 1980; Cowley 2002: 79-80). Deacon sees this as 'another
reflection of the role of competitive processes in determining the ultimate
representation of functions in the cerebral hemispheres during development'
(1998 [1997]: 311).
Table 4.1 summarizes Deacon's observations concerning the typical ways in
which various language functions tend to be distributed across the left and right
hemispheres in the development of perhaps the majority of human beings. A
close examination of the various items in Table 4.1 reveals that all of the
functions that are presented in this table are intrinsic to language form and
function. Moreover, the functions that are prototypically associated with
linguistic processing and assigned to the left hemisphere, in actual fact,
represent a very partial and distorted view of language. It is a view which is based
almost exclusively on formalist criteria, as well as on a narrowly mono-functional
view of language as being about information transmission or the cognitive,
ideational, or representational function of language. My point is that all of the
functions presented in Table 4.1 are relevant to language. It follows from this
that language is globally distributed over both hemispheres of the brain.
Therefore, the whole brain is involved in the functioning of language in the
individual (see also Peng 1994: 110).
Table 4.1 shows that a number of different, though complementary,
functional semantic domains ofianguage are differentially distributed across the
two hemispheres. Given the limitations of the model of language which inspires
Deacon's account, it seems necessary to explore even more deeply the implica-
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS
Table 4.1: Lateralization oflanguage functions in the left and right hemispheres
according to Deacon
191
Left Hemisphere Right Hemisphere
Word and phase-level processing and Large-scale semantic processing of
analysis language of larger symbolic constructions
that words and sentences contribute to:
complex ideas, narratives; and arguments
(Deacon 1997: 312); compositional
complexity
Contextual logic (re jokes, humour)
(Deacon: 1997: 312)
Specific details Implicit organizational logic (Deacon 1997:
313)
Phonological processing Processing of prosodic features of speech
(rhythm, pitch, emotional tone) (Deacon
1997: 313)
Phonemic processing Correlation of changing pitch, volume, and
rate of production with level of arousal;
changes in quality of vocalization as
indication of type of interaction (hostile,
submissive, ete.); overall phrasing with
respect to breath control (Deacon 1997:
314)
Ultra-rapid analyses of sound changes
and control of rapid, precise, skilled
movement sequences
tions of his argument that the human brain eo-evolved with language rather than
determining the nature of human language. From this perspective, it makes
sense to ask how the intrinsic design features of language form and function are
reflected in the human brain. In systemic-functional linguistic terms, Table 4.1
suggests that the different metafunctions are differentially specialized to the two
hemispheres. Following Deacon, this does not mean that the relationship
between linguistic metafunction and brain hemisphere is fixed. Instead, it
depends, as Deacon suggests, on developmental factors rather than on in-built
genetic ones. Moreover, the evidence he cites concerning bi-lingual hemispheric
specialization in trained interpreters also suggests the role of individuation in
the way language functions are distributed across the two hemispheres in the
brain.
Following Deacon's suggestion, we can hypothesize that diverse metafunc-
tional domains are differentially distributed across the left and right hemi-
spheres in the interests of overall processing efficiency in the brain. The right
hemisphere is specialized for the interpersonal and textual metafunctions; the
192 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
left for the ideational (experiential and logical) metafunction. The differential
distribution of the metafunctions across different cortical hemispheres shows
that meaning is a global level of organization of the brain's self-organizing
dynamics. Furthermore, the global cortical distribution of the metafunctions
constitutes a means for integrating language forms both with the body-brain and
with the world in ways which reflect the intrinsic organization of language itself.
If language is intrinsically organized in ways which integrate it to the dynamics
of the body-brain and to the world, then this suggests that the metafunctional
basis of language and other forms of semiosis has important implications for the
self-self transactions on which consciousness is founded. This also raises the
question as to whether different individuals have different personal dispositions
to different metafunctional dimensions of linguistic meaning, along with
different dispositions to integrate language with other non-linguistic semiotic
modalities, or even different dispositions towards a given semiotic (e.g. visual,
linguistic, kinesic) modality with respect to others.
In fact, language is never independent of other semiotic modalities.
Language and other semiotic modalities are always eo-deployed in an integrated
way. Spoken language is combined with manual-brachial gestures, posture, gaze,
body movement, facial expressions, and so on. Each of these semiotic modalities
co-contextualizes the others in the making of some discursive event. Co-
contextualization means that one modality is not simply added to some other.
The assumption that they are simply added to each other rests on the
assumption that the different modalities are separate and independent to start
with. Rather, different semiotic modalities have both eo-evolved with each other
on the phylogenetic timescale and eo-developed and co-individuated on the
ontogenetic scale. They also co-contextualize each other on the timescale of
particular discursive activities and the textual productions that derive from
these. The co-contextualization dynamics of the diverse semiotic modalities is
shown in the ways in which they form typical eo-occurrence patterns which are
recognizable as being typical or regular combinations in some community.
Moreover, the combining of an item from one modality with an item from some
other can alter the meaning that each item has on its own. Drawing on some
observations of Bateson (l973e: 319-20) concerning the combined effects of
multiple changes on somatic flexibility, Lemke (1998) has drawn attention to the
multiplicative character of meaning-making: in multimodal forms of discourse
and/or text different semiotic modalities co-contextualize each other, rather
than being merely added to each other. The combined effect of the various
modalities is multiplicative rather than merely additive.
The multimodal character ofmeaning-making activities is commensurate with
the global organization of meaning in the brain. In this perspective, the global
cortical distribution of the metafunctions provides support for the hypothesis of
a more general metafunctional basis to all modalities of semiosis and their
organization in the brain. In systemic-functional theory, there is a growing body
of evidence that the metafunctions constitute the intrinsic design features of
other modalities such as depiction (O'Toole 1994; Kress and Van Leeuwen 1996;
Lemke 1998; Thibault 2000b, 2001), movement (Martinec 1998), gesture, and
sign language (Johnston 1992). This does not imply that the typological charac-
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 193
tensncs of language can be used to explain the very different topological
principles of organization of, say, depiction. The fact that every discourse event
and every text is multimodal derives from the ecosocial reality that meaning-
making events and texts are always simultaneously material and semiotic
(chapter 1, section 2, pp. 8-11). Material and semiotic processes are always cross-
coupled in meaning-making activity. The distinctions we make in our theories
between language, depiction, sound, gesture, and so on, qua distinct systems of
differences (typological or topological) are abstractions from the materiality of
all meaning-making activity. Abstract systems of differences define and cross-
classify types of relationships on the basis of multiple hierarchies of meta-
redundancy relations (Lemke 1984c: 35-9). Yet, meaning-making is always
grounded in material couplings, the many degrees of topological variation of
which can never be exhausted by any system of typological-categorial distinctions
such as the theoretical abstraction of a language system that is uncoupled from
the material. It is this inexhaustibility of the topological-continuous ground of
semiosis which allows for new meanings to be made. This is because semiosis is
never coupled to the material in entirely predictable ways. Therefore, new eo-
contextualizing relations across modalities can emerge at the same time as new,
previously latent material possibilities can be semioticized. That is, they can
become differences that make a semiotically salient difference to the members
of a given community. The global integration of meaning across the right and
left cortical hemispheres shows that the brain is actively involved in the integra-
tion and contextualization of the material-semiotic couplings referred to here.
The global, 'imagistic' or topological-continuous character of right-hemisphere
processes suggests that this hemisphere is concerned with partly non-
semioticized material couplings whereas the left hemisphere is concerned with
the semiotic categories that are involved in their semioticization. The metafunc-
tions, now generalized as an organizational principle that is common to all
modalities of semiosis, can be seen as a principle of integration whereby diverse
semiotic modalities are integrated and instantiated at the level of situational
context or social activity. There is not, therefore, a one-to-one correlation
between a given metafunctional selection in, say, language and a given
contextual feature. Instead, contexts are semiotic constructs which are defined
by global combinations of resources from different semiotic modalities and their
material couplings. In this way, social activities and contexts, which are global
constructs, are themselves organized according to metafunctional principles.
The brain is thus involved in the process of contextualizing the ways in which the
metafunctional components of different semiotic modalities are eo-deployed in
order to produce a particular action on the basis of specific semiotic and
material couplings. Therefore, the ways in which gesture, pointing, gaze,
posture, and other bodily activities are integrated with language and with each
other in speech can be seen to be a consequence of the ways in which very
general semiotic principles of metafunctional organization in symbolic neural
space constrain and entrain to specific action trajectories the different
components of all the meaning-making and material resources that are eo-
deployed in the enactment of that activity.
Table 4.2 presents four accounts - two recent, two not so recent - of language
194 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Table 4.2: A comparison offour accounts oflanguage form andfunction in context,
showing an emerging consensus concerning the multifunctional nature oflanguage
and its contextual motivation
Malinowski Biihler Halliday Silverstein
language as action symbolic field: in terpersonal interactional
(l) expression/ metafunction coherence
appeal
language as (2) representation experiential/logical de notational
reflection metafunctions coherence
context of situation deictic field textual metafunction entextualization/
contextualization
form and function. The four accounts show a striking convergence, in spite of
many differences in detail, in their overall conception of the relationship
between language form and the meanings realized in its contexts of use. In
emphasizing the convergence on the three general types of meaning in these
four accounts, I am endeavouring to suggest the possibility of a broader
consensus regarding the significance of the four meta functions - experiential,
interpersonal, logical, and textual - for the shape of consciousness.
Language is a multidimensional semantic space in which diverse functional
regions are simultaneously realized in the same lexicogrammatical or textual
form. The fact that there is an emerging consensus on the multifunctional
character of language, if not on all the specific details of how the various
functions are realized in the formal organization of language, has important
implications for a theory of consciousness. If symbolic consciousness is semioti-
cally mediated, then it becomes necessary to theorize consciousness on the basis
of a semantically enriched view of both language and consciousness. Generally
speaking, the models of language which inform the discussion of consciousness,
when language is considered relevant at all, are narrowly focused on 'referen-
tial', 'cognitive' and 'conceptual' theories of meaning. These theories are
founded on the formalism of the sentence and the forms of propositionallogic
that are associated with formal logic. But semiotic mediation is a discursive
process; it is linguistically mediated social activity and/or text which are
integrated to their contexts. Moreover, social activities and the texts that derive
from these are shaped by genre forms and conventions according to the require-
ments of specific social situation-types. This fact requires that the full metafunc-
tional diversity oflanguage form and how this relates to the contexts of both the
body (expression) and of our experience of the world (content) needs to be part
of the explanation of consciousness itself.
In the different, though related ways, and to varying degrees of generality and
abstraction, the functional theories of Malinowski, Buhler, Halliday, and
Silverstein draw attention to the fact that context can never be defined in terms
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 195
of a direct relationship between any given functional component in language
and the activities that language and other semiotic modalities enact. Rather,
social activities and the situational contexts in which action unfolds eo-deploy
resources from diverse semiotic modalities such that a particular experiential
selection in language can be eo-deployed with, say, an interpersonal selection in
gaze that has implications, not for the given linguistic or gaze selection as such,
but for the global meaning of the activity in which these features are combined
and embedded. This is possible because particular experiential and interper-
sonal values from different semiotic modalities cross-classify each other at the
level of the activity structures in which they occur. The ways in which selections
from different semiotic modalities co-contextualize each other in this way
depend on the contextualizing relations that define the activity structures of a
given community. The fact that action is enacted by diverse semiotic resources
and that these semiotic modalities are globally integrated by general metafunc-
tional principles that are found in different semiotic modalities, albeit according
to different principles of formal realization, provides a powerful argument
in favour of the view that the metafunctions are homologous with the global
organization of meaning in the brain.
According to the metafunctional theory of language developed by Halliday
and others, language is a resource for construing human experience, for
enacting interpersonal relations, for giving coherence and texture to our
meaning-making acts and the ways these connect to their contexts, and for
construing logical and temporal relations between events. Table 4.2 compares
four functionally motivated accounts oflanguage form in order to suggest a basis
for such a consensus.
The proposal that consciousness is shaped along metafunctional lines draws
attention to the fact that a number of interrelated factors are all at play, simultane-
ously. First, one is aware of some object of consciousness as an object which is
construable as belonging to such and such a category of experience. The idea of a
category of experience refers to a difference which make a difference - topological
and!or typological - at any given level of the implication hierarchy of icon, index,
and symbol. There is no suggestion that such categories necessarily correspond to
a linguistic term, though they may. The experiential resources of language are a
resource for construing phenomena of experience as semantic 'objects' of con-
sciousness. Secondly, consciousness entails an active and intentional orientation to
the objects so experienced. Thirdly, consciousness is experienced and felt as a
textured whole which relates self to its surroundings in a situated and unified way.
These three aspects of consciousness will be discussed in sections 6, 7, and 8 below
in relation to the metafunctional organization of language.
6. Experiential Meaning and the Assimilation of the Phenomena of
Experience to Knowable Categories
A given object of consciousness is not simply a representation of some
phenomenon. Perceptual, conceptual, and semiotic categories construe specific
instances as being instantiations of this or that category. In the case of language,
196 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
the experiential resources of the clause construe some phenomenon - real
or imaginary - as an instantiation of a given category of process-participant
configuration in the clause. The term 'construal', as distinct from the notion of
representation, therefore refers to the ways in which the phenomena of our
experience, including perceived events as well as imagined, remembered, or
hypothesized ones, are construed as instances, to varying degrees, of the
categories of language or some other meaning system. A process-participant
configuration is a semantic figure, as defined by Halliday and Matthiessen, which
is realized grammatically by the clause. For example, the clause Two hundred
years ago, rococo was all the rage in Europe consists of the Process-Participant-
Circumstance configuration Circumstance: Time-Participant: Carrier-Process:
Attribution-Attribute: Circumstantial. Experiential categories such as the ones in
this example symbolically construe the phenomena of our experience as instan-
tiations of the categories that belong to a particular language system. The notion
of representation may suggest that language represents something which is prior
to it. For this reason, the term 'construe' is to be preferred.
The experiential metafunction in language is concerned with the symbolic
construal of experience as categories and relationships of experiential meaning.
This metafunction interprets the phenomena of both inner and outer
experience in and through the experiential structures and categories of the
clause and clause complex. Halliday and Matthiessen have formulated this
relation as follows:
A phenomenon is the most general experiential category - anything that can
be construed as part of human experience. The phenomena of experience
are of three orders of complexity: elementary (a single element), configura-
tional (configurations of elements, i.e. a figure) and complex (a complex of
figures, i.e. a sequence) ... (Halliday and Matthiessen 1999: 48)
Sequences, figures, and elements are semantic constructs. As Halliday and
Matthiessen point out, their typical realizations in the lexicogrammar are as
follows:
sequence ~ clause complex
figure ~ clause
element ~ element in structure of clause (group/phrase)
Consider the following example:
Sequence:
When travelling to Fassifern by bus, buy a bus ticket to Fassifern.
Figures:
When travelling to Fassifern by bus
buy a bus ticket to Fassifern
Elements:
when, travelling, to Fassifern, by bus, buy, a bus ticket, to Fassifern
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 197
In this example, the two figures are related to each other in a sequence by the
logico-semantic relation of CONDITIONAACTION. The individual figures
comprise the following experiential configurations:
Actorol'rocess: Material: Action-vCircumstance: Location/Circumstance:
Manner (clause 1)
Actor/Process: Material ActionAGoalACircumstance: Location (clause 2)
Both of these figures construe the 'you' (the addressee) as the Actor who
performs a sequence comprising two actions in determinate circumstances of
location and manner. The central construct in the semantics of the experiential
component of the lexicogrammar is the figure. A figure is a symbolic construal
of some phenomenon of experience in the inner or outer domains - real or
imagined - as a configuration consisting of a process, one or more participants,
and associated circumstances. This is not a question of some direct relationship
of representation or correspondence between phenomena (entities,
happenings, events, ete.) in the world and selected aspects of language form.
Rather, the phenomena of experience are symbolically construed by the experi-
ential categories according to a relatively small set of process-participant-
circumstance configurations in a given language system. For example, in the
grammar of English, a very small set of process types - being/having, doing,
sensing, and saying - configure with their respective participants to form a
cluster of related semantic models of human experience. The figure is based on
the following principle: the figure as a whole is comprised of a configuration of
parts which function in the whole to which they belong. The semantic figure is
thus analysed into its constituent parts and the functional relations which
operate both between the parts and the whole and between the various parts.
That is, the configuration is comprised of part-whole and part-part relations.
The notions of sequence and figure, as defined by Halliday and Matthiessen,
show how the constituent elements of, say, a given figure cannot symbolically
construe the phenomena of experience unless they are placed in what Biihler
(1990 [1934]: 206) called the 'symbolic field' of language. The symbolic field of
experiential meaning is constituted by the configurations of figures and
sequences of these such that their constituent elements receive their symbolic
field value on the basis of the larger-scale configurations and sequences they par-
ticipate in. The individual elements alone, independent of the symbolic fields in
which they are placed, do not symbolically construe the phenomena of human
experience. This important fact highlights the misleading nature of the claims as
to the symbolic value of words per se. Thus, the noun 'cat' per se does not
symbolize a particular phenomenon of experience - i.e. a given instance of the
type-category [CAT]; instead, it symbolizes the schematic category [CAT]
whereby all instances are already fully specified to some relevant degree of
generality. Thus, the noun 'cat' does not refer to or instantiate a particular
individual cat in some referent situation. The symbolic construal of the
phenomena of experience depends on further specification of the given sign.
Such specification is, in the first instance, provided by the symbolic field of the
198 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
figure (and sequence) in which the given element is located and in terms of
which it derives its field value. In the case of experiential meaning, the con-
stituent elements of the figure, say, are grounded in their symbolic field values
through the transitivity relations of the type of process-participant configuration
in which they participate, as we saw above. The symbolic construal of
phenomena through the experiential categories of a given language system
implicates the processes of naming, classifying, and taxonomizing. In this way,
the phenomena of experience are selectively attended to and categorized so that
they may be assimilated to the domain of what is known and, hence, in some
sense already familiar.
7. Interpersonal Meaning as Exploratory and Orienting Activity in Relation
to the Ground
However, there can be no symbolic construal of the phenomena of our
experience by means of the experiential resources of language without the given
construal also being given a determinate point of reference in the here-&-now of
the speech event. The here-&-now of the speech event is the ground (Langacker
1991: chapter 6; see also Halliday 1994 [1985]: 75) in relation to which the expe-
riential construal in the clause is given a point of reference. The clausally
realized experiential figure is grounded by the resources of the Finite element
in the verbal group. In English, the Finite grounds the particular process-
participant configuration in terms of either primary tense or modality. Primary
tense is what Davidse (1997) calls 'temporal proximity deixis': it locates the
process-participant configuration as an instance in time relative to the ground -
the here-&-now - of the utterance. Modality, following Davidse, is a form of
modal proximity deixis. It grounds the given process-participant configuration
with reference to the addresser's evaluation, in the case of declarative proposi-
tions, and the addressee's evaluation in the case of interrogatives, as to how
likely, certain, possible, usual, obligatory, necessary, and so on, the process-
participant configuration is. Again, these modalized evaluations are made with
reference to the ground, as defined above. Moreover, both temporal proximity
deixis (primary tense) and modality proximity deixis (modality) ground the
proposition (declarative or interrogative) in the way described here in the
perspective of the selves who are dialogically co-ordinated by the exchange of
meaning which takes place in and through the uttering of the given proposition.
In the clause, 'Two hundred years ago, rococo was all the ragein Europe, the declar-
ative proposition is located as being temporally remote from the ground (past
tense). Davidse, following Langacker (1991: 93), points out that the Finite codes
subjectively. That is, the Finite locates the proposition in terms of the addresser
and/or the addressee's subjective orientation to it along the parameters of
temporal and/or modal proximity. That is, the addresser and/or the addressee
is positioned as being subjectively near to or far from the process-
participant instance. In this sense, the process-participant configuration can be
said to be grounded in the perspective of the SELF. The notion of SELF is being
used as a cover term here to refer to either the addresser or the addressee in the
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 199
exchange. In the above example, it is the writer, in the first instance, who locates
the proposition as being temporally remote from him or her, Le. some two
centuries ago in the past. However, the addressee also orients to the proposition
and re-grounds it in his or her perspective so that you and I qua readers, for
example, also orient to the proposition as being about events which are
temporally removed from the here-now ground of the act ofreading. In this way,
the addressee is able to dialogically co-ordinate his or her self-perspective with
that of the addresser. This means that the resources of temporal and modal
proximity deixis in the Finite enable addresser and addressee to orient to the
proposition in terms of the same temporal or modal frame of reference with
respect to the ground. Thus, even though I may read the above clause, which
occurred in an article in Cathay Pacific's in-flight magazine, in a context which
is different from the original one of its writing, I can re-ground the clause in my
perspective because I can subjectively orient to the temporal proximity deixis
such that the referent situation specified by the process-participant instance is
understood as being temporally remote from me as well. This means that I can
make that referent situation a symbolically construed object of consciousness in
the perspective of my own self at the same time as I dialogically orient to it.
The process-participant configuration is also grounded, Davidse argues, by
virtue of its being tied to the Subject of the clause. In other words, the clause is
grounded with reference to the person deixis of the Subject. It is tied to its
grammatical person, which can be first, second, or third. Person deixis links the
process-participant configuration to the intersubjectively and dialogically co-
ordinated I-you axis in terms of which the exchange of meanings take place in
some determinate context. The I-you axis is, therefore, a further form of ground
in terms of which the proposition is referenced. In the above example, the
Subject rococo is a third-person participant that is located as being outside the
intersubjective I-you relation in terms of which the exchange of meanings is
negotiated between I and you. In other words, it is specified as being remote
from the ground in the sense that it is a third-person other. Once again, we can
see how the grounding function of the Subject takes place within the perspective
of the selves who are implicated in the exchange process. In this case, rococo is
not a first- or second-person participant in the exchange of meanings. Instead, it
is marked as being removed from this, i.e. as belonging to the third-person
domain of the other to which I and you orient. The Subject objectively grounds
and actualizes the proposition by instantiating the entity - rococo in the above
example - in terms of which the proposition is grounded. That entity can be the
addressee (I) or the addressee (you), or it can be objectively removed from the
I-you ground and grounded as a third-person other which addresser and
addressee jointly attend to as the element in which the speaker invests the modal
responsibility of the clause. The Subject is the entity on the basis of which the
speaker expresses a modalized perspective in the proposition and in terms
of which the addresser seeks to influence the addressee's take on the same
proposition.
The interpersonal metafunction is what Halliday (1993: 103) defines as the
'active' principle of language. It is language functioning to enact interpersonal,
dialogically organized interactions between some 'I' and some 'you'. The
200 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
interpersonal metafunction is therefore centrally concerned with language as
action. Closely linked to this is the fact that the resources of the interpersonal
metafunction are fundamentally concerned with systems of social values whereby
interactants orient both to each other in and through their interaction, to the
utterance itself, and to still wider systems of social values that the utterance may
invoke. In other words, interpersonal meaning is concerned with the link
between value and action and the implications which the former has for the
latter when interactants orient to and engage with the world of the nonself
(Thibault 2002). This further implies that the interpersonal metafunction is
concerned with exploratory activity whereby the individual negotiates and
engages with the indeterminate, the not-yet-specified, and the unknown. Thus,
linguistic propositions (declarative, interrogative) and proposals (oblative,
imperative) are a means of enacting this kind of exploratory activity. In the
process, the individual generates value-laden hypotheses about the unknown
while assimilating it to some more determinate experiential framework (see also
Halliday 1993: 102).
Thus, interpersonal exploration of and engagement with the unknown, the
unfamiliar, or the indeterminate also leads to the increasing specification of the
previously vague phenomenon through its construal by the experiential
categories of language. If, hypothetically speaking, language was interpersonal
interaction and action per se, there would be no resources for converting
topological-continuous variation into more determinate and manageable
typological-categorial distinctions of the experiential kind. The existence of
these typological-categorial distinctions means that diverse experiences can all
be categorized as being similar on account of the system of values of the given
language system (Thibault 1997a: chapter 7).
8. The Textual Metafunction as Semiotic Means for Giving Unity and
Wholeness to Meaning-making
The textual metafunction is concerned with the way in which language is
organized as discourse which is operational in some context (Halliday and
Hasan 1976; Hasan 1980). It is dually concerned with (1) the ways in which the
sign-tokens (words, clauses, ete.) which comprise a given text achieve a relational
cohesion with one another through such resources as topic maintenance and
continuity, continuity of referents, and so on; and (2) the subjective orientation
of interactants within what Biihler (1990 [1934]: 117) referred to as the 'deictic
field' of language. The deictic field consists, in the first instance, of the here-
now-I system of subjective orientation to a co-ordinate source (e.g. the speaker
of the pronoun 1) in some context of situation in which the given discourse is
operational. More generally, the textual metafunction is concerned with both
how the various parts of the discourse are related to each other as a textured
whole (a text) such that the resulting whole is perceived as having achieved a
degree of relative coherence as a whole and (2) the ways in which the partici-
pants in the temporally unfolding interaction manage to achieve systematic and
regular links between some emergent context and the unfolding linguistic or
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 201
other text. Moreover, it is important that the participants perceive the patterned
contextualizing relations between the two as (situationally, generically) appro-
priate or effective realizations of text-in-context (Silverstein 1997: 270).
9. Experiential and Interpersonal Meaning in Gaze
When we attend to someone else's gaze vector, we can see how similar meta-
functional principles operate at the lower, less specified integrative level of
perceptual awareness. In attending to and attempting to interpret the target of
someone's gaze vector, perhaps in order to determine his or her interests or
intentions with respect to the target, I implicitly analyse the structure of the
other person's gaze in terms of the person who is the source of the gaze (Gazer),
the directional vector of the person's gaze, and the Target or goal of the gaze
vector, understood as the entity which the Gazer is attending to. In this perspec-
tive, the gaze is analysed as a process-participant configuration on analogy with
experiential meaning in the clause. Table 4.3 provides an analysis of this
proto-experiential dimension of the meaning of gaze.
Table 4.3: Proto-experiential meaning in gaze vector
Participant
Gazer
Process
Directional vector of gaze
Participant
Target
The gaze is also related to the here-now ground relative to the observer (the self)
who interprets the other person's gaze. In this case, the Gazer is the objective
grounder or the actualizer of the gaze. The gaze vector that extends from the
Gazer's eyes to the target, on the other hand, subjectively grounds the gaze in
the here-now of perceptual awareness and perceptual modality (visual); the
Cazer's current interests, as interpreted by the observer; distance from the
Gazer; and the Gazer's possible subjective orientations to the Target. For
example, is the Gazer looking at a member of the opposite sex because of sexual
interest in or attraction towards the Target? The Target, on the other hand, does
not participate in these grounding functions, which are based on the Gazer-Gaze
Vector nexus. Instead, the Target further specifies the overall process-participant
configuration by specifying the specific entity that is the focus of the gaze. The
Gaze-Gaze Vector nexus is, therefore, similar in function, though on a lower
integrative level, to the Subject-Finite structure in the Mood element of the
clause. However, gaze is much more immediately tied to its here-now ground in
ways that language is not on account of the way in which the interpretation of
someone's gaze depends on the interpreter's here-now perception of the other's
gaze. Table 4.4 illustrates the grounding function of gaze, as discussed in this
paragraph.
202 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Table 4.4: Proto-interpersonal meaning in gaze vector, showing groundfunctions
Objective Ground
Gazer as objective
grounder and instantiator
of gaze vector
Subjective Ground
Gaze Vector grounded in
here-now of perceptual
act; indicating subjective
stance on Target (e.g.
sexual attraction)
Target as specification of
entity that is focus of
attention
10. Proto-interpersonal Meaning and the Child's Exploration of Its
Environment
Interpersonal meaning, as we saw in section 7, is implicated in the initial stages
of the exploration of the vague, the unknown, and the indeterminate. It is
concerned with hypothesis formation. Consider the following revealing
discussion by Halliday:
A human infant engages in symbolic acts, which I have referred to as acts of
meaning. Children are predisposed, from birth, (a) to address others, and be
addressed by them (i.e., to interact communicatively); and (b) to construe
their experience (i.e., to interpret experience by organizing it into
meanings). Signs are created at the intersection of these two modes ofactivity.
Signs evolve (a) in mediating - or, better, in enacting - interaction with
others, and (b) in construing experience into meaning; specifically, in
exploring the contradiction between inner and outer experience (between
what is perceived as going on 'out there' and what is perceived as going on 'in
here', within the child's own consciousness (cf. Trevarthen, 19S0).
Thus, typically, at 0; 3 to 0; 5 months (years; months) babies are 'reaching
and grasping', trying to get hold of objects in the exterior domain and to
reconcile this with their awareness of the interior domain (they can see the
objects). Such an effort provokes the use of a sign, which is then interpreted
by the adult caregiver, or an older child, as a demand for explanation; the
other responds in turn with an act of meaning. There has been 'conversation'
before, but this is a different kind of conversation, in which both parties are
acting symbolically. A typical example from my own data would be the
following, with the child atjust under 0; 6 months (Halliday, 19S4a, p. 2):
There is a sudden loud noise from pigeons scattering. Child [lifts head,
looks around, gives high-pitched squeak] Mother: Yes, those are birds.
Pigeons. Aren't they noisy!
(Halliday 1993: 94-5)
In Halliday's example, it is the sudden loud noise made by the pigeons as they
scatter which impacts on the child's perceptual systems. This noise is an index -
information in Gibson's sense - of an environmental event. As such, it stands in
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 203
an iconic-indexical relation of necessity to that event. However, it is not simply a
question of the brain's detecting and processing ofspecific (auditory) sensations
which are, in turn, interpreted as representations of the world, and which then
inform the mind as to what is going on in the world. The point is that once the
information which is carried by the nerve fibres from the peripheral receptors
enters the central nervous system, it is no longer locked only onto the stimulus
(Wall 1996: 176). In other words, it is no longer a question of a purely indexical
relationship between environmental stimulus and the organism's response. As
Wall writes, the information which is received by the brain 'depends on the con-
tingencies of other events in the periphery and on the brain state which orders
and permits and shapes the arriving messages' (1996: 176-7). Thus, the sensory-
motor response which is made is not passively locked into the stimulus, but
depends on an active process of selection in the brain (Wall 1996: 177). This
process of selection means that the transduction of the stimulus information
which is picked up by the receptors results in its translation into various possi-
bilities of sensori-motor response. This can only occur on the basis of a stored
system of signs in the Innenwelt whereby the child uses stimulus information
about environmental events as signs for interpreting the world. The child's
response to an environmental event - his squeak - has potential symbolic value
because there is no necessary relationship between this sensory-motor response
and the way it may be interpreted by his interlocutors. That is, the squeak is
already interpreted as belonging to a system of symbolic possibilities, however
elementary. This means that the squeak derives its value from its position in a
system of elementary possibilities for meaning-making. Furthermore, the child's
vocalization can be seen as a dialogically co-ordinated response to a particular
non-verbal aspect of the context of situation.
The system of symbolic possibilities which are stored in the child's Innenwelt
thus regulates his sensori-motor activity as value-laden possibilities for inter-
acting with and dialogically engaging others. The value-laden character of these
possibilities means that they are endowed with actional and affective signifi-
cance. The squeak qua squeak is in itself an environmental event which
generates stimulus information about its source. Again, such information is both
iconic and indexical. However, the fact that the child's interlocutor construes the
squeak as a 'demand for information', as indicated by her own response, means
that the squeak is also construed as having symbolic value. For this reason, the
squeak is not necessarily (indexically) locked into specific environmental events;
instead, it affords possibilities for symbolic action which can be deployed in
other contexts, in response to other environmental events. This is so because the
meaning 'demand for information' of the squeak is not locked into a particular
here-now context, but derives its symbolic value from its position in a developing
system of other contrasting values and their modes of realization.
The child's high-pitched squeak, which Halliday glosses as a 'demand for
explanation', is a situation-specific instance of adaptive motor behaviour. It is a
means whereby the child explores his immediate environment. It is an
elementary form of hypothesis, which elicits its further modification on the part
of the other (the mother) in the exchange. This modification, of course, comes
in the form of the mother's far more highly specified response. In this way, the
204 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
child learns about the world in these jointly constructed acts of interpersonal
engagement and experiential construal. Moreover, the mother's response is
likely to have affective consequences as well. The assimilation of the unknown
phenomenon which had perturbed the child's perceptual purview to known
experiential categories is potentially laden with affective valence and motiva-
tional significance. Thus, the satisfaction of the child's 'demand for explanation'
and the assimilation of the given phenomenon to the jointly shared and
sustained experiential categories of the dyad boost positive affect and, hence,
motivate the desire for further exploration.
The loud noise caused by the scattering of the pigeons is an environmental
event which is picked up by the child's perceptual systems. The fact that the child
lifts his head and turns around to attend to this event indicates this quite clearly.
The head movement constitutes a response to the event, which is seen as being
in some way interesting, surprising, and so on, and is, for this reason, tracked by
the child's head movement. In this way,the event - the scattering of the pigeons
- gets constituted as something which is worth orienting to and responding to.
The child's high-pitched squeak, therefore, becomes the child's comment on
what he has selected as the focus of his attention. The interesting and revealing
thing about this exchange is the way in which the child's high-pitched squeak is
recognized and construed by the mother as being a comment about the pigeons.
That is, the mother is attuned to the interests and experiences of the child in
three specific ways. First, she recognizes that the child's squeak is a particular
orientational stance. Secondly, she recognizes that this stance is about
something. Thirdly, she provides, in making her response, a link between the
symbolic possibilities of the higher-scalar meaning systems of the culture and the
mother-child dyad. All three aspects are fully revealed by her response, which
shows both that she is tracking and is tuned into the child's stances towards
particular phenomena and that she can co-ordinate the child's stance with her
own (linguistic) construal of the event. The overall structure of this dyadic
exchange may be glossed as follows:
PERCEPTUAL PICK-UP OF STIMULUS INFORMATION ABOUT
ENVIRONMENTAL EVENT
CHILD'S ATTENDING TO EVENT AS A FOCUS OF INTEREST
CHILD'S RESPONDING TO EVENT WITH PROTOLINGUISTIC
SIGN/ENGAGING INTEREST AND ATTENTION OF MOTHER
MOTHER'S RESPONSE INTEGRATES EVENT AND CHILD'S RESPONSE
INTO HIGHER-SCALAR ECOSOCIAL CATEGORIES
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 205
The child's response to the event in the form of his looking around followed by
the high-pitched squeak is a meaningful act which is directly dependent upon
the experienced phenomenon. It lacks the symbolic organization of a lexi-
cogrammar, which enables acts of meaning to be freed from direct dependence
on the phenomenal (Halliday I992a: 23, 25). Nevertheless, his composite
meaning-making act may be seen both as construing experience and, at the same
time, his dialogically engaging the mother in his experience, in the process
enacting an intersubjective framework of interpretation, which the mother
further elaborates. The two-part nature of the child's response - viz. looking
around followed by squeak - can be interpreted as a protolinguistic analogue of
the interpersonal function of mood, which specifies the speaker's interactive
stance on some proposition or proposal in the adult language. Thus, the
scattering of the pigeons is constituted as a kind of proto-Subject about which
some comment is made in the form of the squeak. The squeak may therefore be
seen as a proto-proposition which is made about the designated Subject. Both
Halliday's analysis and the mother's response draw attention to the way in which
the latter is attuned to both the interactional status of the child's sign as well as
to its experiential significance.
11. Bogdan's Theory of Mental Sharing and Topical Predication
Bogdan (2000: 78) argues that the infant's selection of a target of attention is a
topicand that the representation of the target is a comment. This results in what
Bogdan calls 'topic-comment parsing or segmentation and the mental routine
that effects the parsing is topical predication, ...' (2000: 78). Bogdan considers
topical predication to be pre-linguistic and based on mental sharing:
Work in linguistics, psycholinguistics, and philosophy has shown that topical
predication cannot be reduced to logical or grammatical predication (see
Clark and Clark 1977 and Ninio and Snow 1996 for psycholinguistic surveys;
see also Bogdan 1987 and Dretske 1972 about implications for propositional
attitudes). This irreducibility can be grounded in the hypothesis that topical
predication is prelinguistic and rests on mental sharing by sentimental
bonding and physiological regulation. Also supportive is the fact that autistic
people, whose minds are not socialized intersubjectively, can do logical and
grammatical but not topical predication.
To account for these developmental truths and the reasons for them, it helps
to start with the liberal notion that topical predication indicates a mental take
(comment) on something of interest (topic). The topic can be whatever is a
target of attention or interest - a thing, event, property, relation, scene,
sentence, thought, image, picture, sign, or complex structures of such. The
topic can be out there in the world or up here in the mind, whether one's own
or somebody else's. The comment is some mental take on or mental relation
to a topic, expressing an experience, emotion, stance or attitude. Depending
on whether the topic expressing an experience is a worldly or mental item,
the comment can be a representation of something out there in the world or
206 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
a representation of a representation in the mind, respectively. There are many
ways in which topics and comments can be represented - in perception,
memory, thought, mental imagery, bodily posture, action, with or without
language. (Bogdan 2000: 78)
The idea of a pre-linguistic topic-comment structure, with its correlative of the
subject's mental takes on the world, suggests that there already exists an at least
weak classification of self as distinct from the world, including others. Further-
more, it suggests that there exists a prior, pre-linguistic structure on which
linguistic forms of predication are subsequently built. In the dynamics systems
view, on the other hand, the differentiation of self and world depends on more
than the prior existence of a topic-comment structure. Halliday's notion of the
interpersonal gateway to meaning draws attention to the initial primacy of pre-
linguistic proto-interpersonal or dyadic engagement. The infant's earliest expe-
riences of the world are topological and require a gradual and progressive
differentiation from a less differentiated whole. The self is experienced as not yet
sharply differentiated from the world, though in some kind ofvague relationship
with it. That is why I prefer the proto-interpersonal interpretation given above.
If, on the other hand, there exist 'prior topic-predication formats' (Bogdan
2000: 78), then this would amount to saying that the child comes already
equipped with a primitive means for segmenting the self/nonselfrelationship in
terms of some target of selective focus in the world (internal or external) and
one's propositional take or attitude on this in the form of a comment. Self and
world would already be construed as different in this view.
In my view, the construal ofself and world (nonself) as different is not already
given; instead, it is a form of developmental emergence (Salthe 1993: 244).
Thus, the shift from the child's primordial experience of self-in-relation-to-
though-not-yet-differentiated-from-the-world to the experience of se1f-as-
different-from-world involves the forming or coalescing of a higher-scalar entity
- e.g. a dialogically organized proto-proposition - around a number of variables
that now appear as the lower-order components - neural values, environmental
stimulus information, visual tracking by head-turning, protolinguistic gestures
and vocalizations, the presence of others, meanings from other conspecifics -
out of which the new property has emerged. By the same token, there is also a
corresponding shift in the observer/agent's attention to the typological-
categorial distinctions belonging to the higher integrative leveL This means that
the newly emergent proto-propositional resources and attitudes mentioned
above, with their typologizing of self/nonself relations, are now seen as closer to
the observer's scale which is shared by other members of the culture, rather than
to the vaguer state of initial topological non-differentiation. The latter, however,
remains implicit at the lower scalar levels, which are now constrained by the
higher ones. In any case, it is the dialogically organized and therefore socially
shared act of proto-meaning which exists and which is most visible in the super-
system transactions between self and other. Nevertheless, the mental and
individual bias illustrated in Bogdan's description of topic predication indicates
the hankering after inferred objects - mental entities - once the observer's
supersystem categories have been described with reference to their leveL
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 207
The child's protolinguistic engagements with the world make possible further
differentiations of the reentrant loop that maps these engagements onto the
child's inner neural activity. The child thus moves from an initial, primordial
topological state of non-differentiation (vagueness) between experiencing and
meaning, to an experiencing of experiencing, to the progressively more differ-
entiated construal of meanings that are attributed to experience (Lemke p.c.).
Bogdan's focus on pre-linguistic topic predication could suggest a built-in telos
where none may, in fact, be necessary in order to explain what is going on. His
focus on mental sharing, physiological regulation, and sentimental bonding says
rather less about the physical-material processes - e.g. stimulus information
about environmental events - which inform and constrain the self-organizing
properties of the child's neuro-motor system. Such environmental events and the
stimulus information they afford the organism are contingencies with which the
self-organizing properties of the child interact in ways the probabilities of which
are pre-set by biologically in-built criteria of value (section 12 below).
In my view, the prior existence of a topic predication structure would be too
rigid an imposition and would not allow the child to respond to constantly
changing environmental contingencies. As the above discussion of the example
from Halliday begins to show, the key to understanding what is going on
depends on understanding the ways in which individuals adapt to openness and
novelty in complex dynamic systems comprising very many fluctuating variables.
In our example, these include the interactions between an environmental event,
the child's perception of this, his attending to it in looking around, his squeak,
and the mother's response. It is the mother's more specified linguistic response
that provides the link to higher-scalar ecosocial semiotic categories and relations.
In so doing, she provides the child with access to resources - symbolic possibili-
ties - and entrains him into their contextually appropriate use. The further
exploration and entraining of these possibilities brings about the increasing
differentiation of topological vagueness and wholeness and the development of
an expanded repertoire of relations between self and other.
The above analysis serves to show that it is not a question of prior, pre-
linguistic topic-comment structures which permit 'mental sharing'. The analysis
shows that the ability to focus on and form a proto-proposition about some event
is an emergent property of the overall activity structure that takes place. As the
analysis shows, this may be broken down into at least the four components
specified above. The individual is thus regulated by his or her exchange trans-
actions with the ecosocial environment, including other conspecifics. Both the
physical environment and the social environment function as structured sources
of potentially meaningful information. In the example, the physical environ-
ment provides stimulus information about an event - the scattering of the
pigeons - to a potential observer; the child picks up and attends to this infor-
mation, as demonstrated by his tracking the event through head-turning. His
squeak dialogically engages the mother, who responds with a linguistic
utterance. In my view, the mother's contribution to the exchange provides a
structure which functions to complete or further elaborate the child's
developing structures. (See also Cole 1996: 187-90 on the notion of routine
activities as proximal environments for development.) Thus, the much more
208 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
implicit structure and meaning of the child's contribution to the dialogue elicits
the more complete response of the mother. The latter has the function of
extending and modifying the implicit structures of the child by elaborating and
further specifying them.
In this particular example, the mother's utterance, Yes, those are birds. Pigeons,
is a declarative clause whose demonstrative pronoun Subject those indexes the
same phenomenon which the child had initially responded to. That is, the
perceived phenomenon is construed as a linguistic entity about which a propo-
sition is made in the rest of the clause. In this case, the attributive clause
functions to specify the type-category to which the pigeons seen by the child
belong and, therefore, to classify or name them. Thus, the relatively low order
structure created by the child - viz. 'looking around followed by high-pitched
squeak' - is itself a kind of proto-proposition in relation to which the perceived
event (the pigeons) is the proto-Subject about which some proto-proposition is
made. My point is that this proto-proposition is not an internal mental structure
already possessed by the child. Rather, its emergent properties are distributed
across various components of a muItimodaI social activity. The mother's further
elaboration of this structure in the form of an explicit linguistic proposition
therefore entails its further elaboration and completion. Table 4.5 provides a
multimodal analysis of the transaction considered here.
Table 4.5: Multimodal eo-deployment ofperceptual-semiotic resources in the exchange
between the child and his mother in Halliday's example
Perceptual-semiotic Movement Visual Auditory
modality
The dialogically eo-
ordinated
components of the
unfolding event
The scattering of Spontaneous Optical informa- Auditory informa-
the pigeons as envi- movement of the tion about an envi- tion about an envi-
ronment event pigeons as they ronmental event ronmental event
scatter available to a point available to a point
of observation of observation
(e.g. the child and (e.g. the child and
his mother) his mother)
The child's dialogi- Turns head-body to Directs gaze vector Utters high-
cally co-ordinated attend to and to event pitched proto-
response visually track the linguistic squeak
event
The mother's Co-ordinates head- Co-ordinates gaze Utters linguistic
response body movement with child's to response
with the child's to jointly attend to
jointly attend to event
event
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 209
There is no need to insert mental functions between biology and culture in the
way that Bogdan does (2000: 31). Here is how Bogdan distinguishes mental
functions from neural functions:
The contrast need not be between biology and culture, with nothing in
between. Culture cannot be grafted directly on unsensitized neural functions.
Left out are mental functions, however simple. The problem is not that such
simple functions are neural; of course they are, in an implementational sense.
The problem is that mental functions cannot be reduced to biological or
neural functions, insofar as the former (but not the latter) have psychological
or mind-world value. That psychological value concerns the relation between
organism and world, both physical and social, and the impact of that relation
on behavior. This is how psychology (but not biology or neuroscience) looks
at organisms. (Bogdan 2000: 31)
The problem in Bogdan's account lies in his assuming that neural functions are
neutral or value-free. They are not. Moreover, neural functions are concerned
with the relationship between organism and world. There is no need to postulate
mental functions, however primitive, which mediate between biology and
culture from the outset. Biology is neither value-free nor non-social right from
the word go. Value-laden neural functions predispose the child to participate in
self-regulating exchange transactions with their ecosocial environment from the
outset. The child's high-pitched squeak, in our example, is a dialogic act which
is oriented both to an environmental event and to the mother. It shows how the
child's active and dialogic orientation to his environment works to seek infor-
mation and meaning which will affect his further development. The child's
proto-linguistic squeak constitutes an active intervention in, rather than a passive
response to, his environment. The squeak is fully dialogic, if not linguistic,
because it is intended to obtain an appropriate response from the mother or
other primary caregiver. In this way, the child's own agency constitutes an
attractor space in which the context-bound responses of caregivers are organized
and channelled. The attractor space therefore constitutes a domain in which the
social practices of attending to and interacting with infants interface with
biological values and functions. It is the interfacing of the two which enables the
further development of the child's own self-regulating structures. In this way,
mental functions such as topic predication are built up on the basis of the
reentrant mapping of the child's exchange transactions with its environment
onto internal neural activity. They are not part of the mechanism whereby such
structures are acquired. The means of acquisition of such structures is better
handled by Edelman's notion of value, as we shall now see.
12. Interpersonal Meaning, Value, and Action
What is it that impels the infant to ever more differentiated symbolic possibili-
ties? Is it necessary to postulate pre-linguistic topical predication as the key to
'mental sharing'? Pre-linguistic topic predication would point to the existence of
210 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
an already existing in-built initial differentiation between self and other, however
primitive. Recent neurobiological evidence does not favour this view. For
example, Damasio advances the notion of the 'proto-self, which he defines as a
'preconscious biological precedent' (1999: 153) of the self. I shall return to this
notion in chapter 5, section 5. Damasio's neurobiological arguments do not
support the notion that there exists an already prior, initial polarization of self
and world as being categorially distinguished. This seems to suggest some kind
of categorization of this fundamental distinction prior to experience. Edelman
has proposed the notion of some very general biological values which are
intrinsic to the organism from the start. Edelman's values are not based on such
categorial distinctions. Values simply function to provide the initial impetus to
the organism's ongoing, time-bound engagements with the world. They do not
in themselves provide the organism with ready-made categories for distinguish-
ing self from other through experience or for experiencing one's own experi-
encing, let alone for giving meaning to experience. The progressive
differentiation of self and other and the elaboration of the self's experience of
the world is based on epigenetic principles. On the basis of experience, the dif-
ferentiation ofselfand other occurs through the reentrant mapping and gradual
strengthening of neuronal groups whereby the category of self-other relations
and transactions is elaborated. Values function to nudge the developing
organism along certain developmental pathways. For this reason, they may be
seen as kick-starting the interaction between the organism's self-organizing
dynamics and the environmental contingencies it encounters. For example,
Thelen and Smith (1994: 315) cite research undertaken byJohnson and Morton
(1991) which proposed that 'infants' strong attraction to faces begins with an
initial orienting bias in newborns' (1994: 315). Thelen and Smith continue as
follows:
This bias, the behavioral evidence suggests, favors the arrangement of several
high-contrast 'blobs' corresponding to the relative location of eyes and
mouth, likely mediated through subcortical pathways. Given that infants see
such configurations in real faces close up during nursing, changing, and
socializing, even a small initial valence toward that configuration would lead
to rapidly strengthened neuronal groups in the presence of faces. As higher
brain centers become more involved in the second and third months, the
system will already be attuned toward facelike stimuli, insuring that infants
will be positioned to acquire more information about faces. Indeed,
preference for particular faces emerges by 4 months or so.
What is minimally needed to start such a process moving is a sensory system
with some relatively unspecific tuned parameters and a value wash that keeps
the organism preferring certain stimulus configurations over other values.
Such values are not specific tutors. Having a bias in the system that says light
is better than no light or human voices are better than auto horns does not
endow the system with knowledge modules or conceptual primitives or the
understanding of objective properties. Rather, these are valences or trophisms
similar to those exhibited by simple organisms and even by animals without
nervous systems. That such valences might be contained within the architec-
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 211
Perceptual-motor
grounding of body-
brain in Umwelt
Physical-material
Symbol
Entextualization
and contextual-
ization of deictic
field
Vague, unbounded
topological-continuous
Specified, bounded
typological-categorial
ture of the system does not put a ghost in the machine, or if it does, it is the
ghost of life itself, for similar biases are exhibited even in single cells. (Thelen
and Smith 1994: 315-16)
The initial orienting bias to the 'blobs' mentioned in the above citation indicates
the purely iconic and topological-continuous nature of the child's initial
orientation to the other. Thus, the values which favour the active attending to
environmental events through the perceptual systems, the participation in
dyadic exchanges with mothers, and so on, bias the self-organizing dynamics of
the system. The infant participates in activities which pull the infant away from
the initial attractor space of relative topological (iconic) non-differentiation
between self and other towards the increasingly differentiated indexical and
symbolic differentiations afforded by the mother's access to the higher-scalar
categorial (indexical and symbolic) differentiations of the ecosocial system. In
doing this, the child's initial, less differentiated relations between self and other
become progressively more differentiated. The child progresses from proto-
imperative followed by proto-indicative modes which are tied to the phenomena
of experience to the full range of interactional possibilities afforded by the
interpersonal systems of the adult lexicogrammar. Figure 4.1 illustrates this
developmental emergence as a presupposition-cum-implication hierarchy of
icon, index, and symbol with reference to the developmental emergence of
interpersonal semiosis.
This suggests that the interpersonal metafunction is concerned, in the first
instance, with the vague, the unspecified. It deploys prosodic and scopal modes
of realization so as to engage with and resolve, through dialogic negotiation (cf.
Bakhtin's concept of finalization), that which is not yet assimilated to some
determinate classification. In the first instance, the interpersonal metafunction
Figure 4.1: Integration-cum-presupposition hierarchy of iconic, indexical, and symbolic
modes of grounding
Contiguity with selec-
tively attended to
contextual values in
here-now spatio-
temporal purview of
addresser and addressee
Index
Icon
Semiotic-discursive
212 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
is concerned with the assigning of affective valence and motivational relevance
to the not-yet-defined phenomenon. It is concerned, above all, with questions
such as 'what value do I assign to this thing?', 'what should I do with it?', 'how
should I orient to it?', and so on. In other words, interpersonal meaning orients
interactants in terms of the given phenomenon's value-laden salience for action.
It is only through acting in and on the world - i.e. the nonself- that we are also
able to construe it experientially in ways which make it understandable and,
therefore, able to be assimilated to the stock of human social meaning-making.
It is the ability, initially, to formulate hypotheses about the unknown and the
vague or indeterminate which constitutes the first stage in our adaptation to it.
In this way, our modalized orientations to phenomena constitute a structured
response which functions to inhibit and channel our responses to the indeter-
minate at the same time as we elaborate our experiential understanding of it. It
is the experiential metafunction which completes and complements this process
by abstracting from our subjective investments in particular courses of action so
as to create a more explicit experiential framework of knowledge.
13. Procedural Knowledge, Declarative Knowledge and the Semiotic Spiral
towards Symbolic Consciousness
The distinction that psychologists make between procedural and declarative
knowledge is relevant here. Procedural knowledge is concerned with action
oriented to intervening in the world and bringing about desired change. It is
based on the active sensori-motor exploration of the world in order to develop
appropriate and lasting patterns of action for dealing with the world and its con-
tingencies. It is knowledge which is implicit because acted on only in direct inter-
actions with other objects, other people, and so on. The right hemisphere is
responsive to and productive of the global or holistic imagery which provide the
initial topological-continuous variation - the proto-meanings - on which a text's
meaning is built. The left hemisphere re-interprets these values as explicit
structure and increasingly abstract taxonomic hierarchies of experiential
categories. It is significant, then, that the procedural basis of interpersonal
engagement and action emerges before declarative knowledge, both phyla-
genetically and ontogenetically. Declarative knowledge, on the other hand, is
concerned with what is explicit and known; it includes knowledge which is
created in and through the ideational resources of language. As Halliday,
Trevarthen and others have shown, the child first learns, though proto-
interpersonal interaction, the procedural knowledge associated with the
negotiation of the T I'you' relation in, say, the mother-child dyads character-
istic of primary subjectivity. Only later is the infant's attention turned towards the
experiential construal of the world which lies outside 'me' and 'you' in the realm
of the third person. Thus, early interpersonal interaction and the dyads which
give shape to this entail, in the first instance, the entraining and adaptation of
sensori-motor patterns of activity prior to the more abstracted forms of symboli-
cally mediated activity that are characteristic of later stages of development.
Table 4.6 schematizes some of the salient stages in this process.
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS
Table 4.6: Types ofknowledge and stages ofsemiotic development in early infant
semiosis
213
Time in Months Type of Knowledge Semiotic Mode
0.0-0.8; 0.8-0.9 Sensori-motor knowledge; Iconic
practical knowledge;
adaptation of reaching
response to object;
implicit recognition of
self-object distinction
0.9-18.0 Representational Iconic-indexical
knowledge; means-end
and cause-effect relations;
inten tional activity;
memory
18.0-24.0 Emergence of abstract Iconic-indexical-symbolic
meta-representations;
construing remembered,
unshared information;
emergence of I-me dis-
tinction, i.e. child knows
himself not only as a
point of action (I) acting
on others, but as others
see him (me)
Procedural knowledge, which is based on sensori-motor activity and the proto-
interpersonal dimension of meaning, is not essentially representational in
character. Rather, it is concerned with the enacting - initially in interpersonal
contexts - of social activity-structures (cf. genres). However, it is, in its own way,
a form of knowledge which is transferred between individuals in and through
the processes of exchange. Mimicking and imitation, for example, (Piaget 1946;
Battacchi 1999; Perinat and Sadurnf 1999) can occur with reference to other
persons as well as in relation to inanimate objects. In play, children may interact
with the nonself, which may be another person or some object. In the process of
dialogically engaging with the given object, both structure and meaning are
exchanged. Initially, the child projects some qualities onto the object of interest
in his or her purview. The child then imitates his or her own interactions with
these objects; in the process the child ritualizes his or her own activity as he or
she adaptively modifies his or her own actions in and through their exchanges
with the object. In this way, ritualistic activities emerge as the precursor of
symbolic activities (Thibault 1998b; Lorenz 1969 [1963]). That is, genre and
discourse structures, perhaps specific to the precursor world created and
inhabited by children (Harre 1983: 251-2), emerge and function as extensions
of the self.
214 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Interpersonal moral orders are grounded in procedural activity and only later
made more abstract through experiential reflection on action and interaction.
Thus, declarative memory produces experiential construals of the implicit logic
of interpersonal exchange in the procedural system. The elaboration and
storage of such meaning is essential to the formation of interpersonal moral
orders in which one's own and others' actions can be explained and accounted
for within a network of responsibilities and agentive positions and their
assignment to individuals. In this way, interpersonal-procedural knowledge is
abstracted and codified as forms of moral reasoning (see Hasan 1992a; Thibault
1992b). The declarative-ideational system has thus elaborated a meta-discourse
concerning procedural-interpersonal activity through a process of abstraction
from the here-now of interpersonal engagement and exploration. As the work of
Halliday, Trevarthen, and other researchers shows, the earliest dialogic acts of
infants in the form of sensori-motor acts (gestures, vocalizations) and imitation
occur prior to the emergence of any explicit meta-semiotic awareness of the
principles which regulate interpersonal exchange. The declarative-ideational
system allows for reflection on and further elaboration of the meaning-making
processes that occur in early sensori-motor exploration, imitation, and play.
The procedural-interpersonal system constitutes a form of memory for action
and interaction. This memory is built up and elaborated on the basis of very
many individual exchanges which have been integrated into the patterns of
interpersonal engagement which are appropriate or otherwise acceptable in a
given interpersonal moral order. The integrative nature of interpersonal
exchange means that the often competing motivational demands of agents are
resolved with reference to the interpersonal moral orders in which agents
interact with each other. It also means that individual needs and desires are
regulated by social norms and values which the individual internalizes. This
means that the system of sometimes conflicting, sometimes aligned values,
judgements, viewpoints, and so on, in the system of social heteroglossia, are
organized and internalized in terms of hierarchies of values such that the
morality of specific courses of action can be evaluated and re-evaluated. As I
pointed out above, the enactment of such value hierarchies, which are usually
implicit in specific acts of exchange, is developmentally prior to the experiential
construal of the actions in which these values are implicit. In this way, explicit
experiential reflection on action and value becomes possible, and in ways which
can act back on and alter action itself. Explicit experiential reflection means
increased symbolic abstraction. With increased powers of symbolic abstraction
go the capacities of self-monitoring, self-control, and self-awareness that are
defining characteristics of higher-order consciousness.
This shows very clearly how both the interpersonal and experiential
dimensions of meaning-making are implicated in and are indispensable to the
workings of higher-order consciousness. Thus, the emergence of symbolic or
higher-order consciousness (Edelman 1989, 1992) comprises a spiral that begins
with sensori-motor exploration and procedural-interpersonal engagement with
the other before symbolic consciousness emerges. These earlier forms are then
experientially construed as symbolic acts which can be shared with others. These
observations accord with Halliday's (1993: 103) notion ofinterpersonal meaning
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 215
as the 'gateway' to later forms of meaning-making: new meanings are first
enacted interpersonally before being construed ideationally. Symbolic sharing,
in turn, constitutes the basis of the further abstraction of interpersonal inter-
action from the here-now of sensuous and embodied activity. This means that
procedure can be dialogically reflected from the social viewpoint of others - real
and virtual- then enacted in subsequent interpersonal exchanges. The result is
that interpersonal interaction is itself modified, thereby leading to further
changes in its experiential construal. This process can take place in the course
of interpersonal interaction itself, or internally by virtue of its abstraction from
sensori-motor activity and its consequent specialization to the 'inner' realm of
semiotically mediated thought, which is itself a specific form of discursive activity
(section 4, pp. 184-9).
14. Interpersonal Meaning, Goal-seeking Activity, and the Goal Hierarchy
The interpersonal grammar of mood shows that the goal and the means to
attaining this are not constitutively separable elements. Each of the basic mood
choices, along with the speech functions that the various mood choices enact,
entails a present state, a desired future state, and the resources - selective cross-
couplings of the physical-material and the semiotic-discursive - that could be
used to attain the goal-state, viz. to transform the former into the latter. The
grammar and semantics of the interpersonal metafunction shows that what are
often called 'desires', 'wishes', 'needs,' 'wants', and so on, and seen as mental
predicates in the theatre of the individual mind, can be seen as dialogic interacts
(Martin 1992a: chapter 2, 1992b; Bakhtin 1981, 1986; Thibault and Van
Leeuwen 1996). The interpersonal grammatical resources discussed above are
also deployed in the service of larger-scale goals on different space-time scales.
Thus, specific semantic interacts and the clauses and larger units which realize
these interacts or moves are seen as nested in this larger-scale structure in terms
of relationships of the kind Silverstein designates as 'interactional coherence'
(1997). At any given moment in the unfolding interaction, the number of
possible variables that can function as means and end are not totally open-
ended, but are limited in number. A particular choice of speech-function move
in the interaction entails criteria of inclusion and exclusion by virtue of the
dialectical duality of paradigmatic and syntagmatic principles of organization
which operate in discourse.
However, the open and dynamic character of discursive negotiation (Thibault
1999a) means that the range of possible relevant variables is not fixed, but
flexible. The principle of goal-seeking means that we have, to varying degrees, a
relative semiotic freedom (Wilden 1981: 25) to make decisions and to choose
between possible alternatives. The human pre-frontal cortex, which is funda-
mental to goal-seeking activity, makes this relative freedom possible by virtue of
the way it organizes the temporal arrangement and sequencing of our actions as
motor plans. The cortical appendage, the basal ganglia, plays an important role
in this sense (Edelman 1992: 105-6). It does so by taking account of relevant
contextual variables and matching that information with sensori-motor activity.
216 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Thus, selections in the interpersonal grammar are, in the ongoing temporal flow
of discourse, cross-coupled to the physical-material processes whose flows they
entrain and co-ordinate. The basic principle underlying this operation is the way
in which the sought-after goal - the desired future - is modally evaluated in
relation to the undesirable and negatively evaluated present.
The linguistic resources of modalization and modulation play a key role here.
In discursive activity, dialogic interacts are organized in relations of inter-
dependency (one thing follows after another, e.g. Question-Answer, and at the
same time there exists a relation of semantic interdependency between the two
parts of the dialogic interact), as well as hierarchically (some goal-seeking
pathways dominate others). Within this complex network of ecosocial relations
(Lemke 1995b), consciousness may be seen as an integrity (Salthe 1993: 51)
which interrupts the hierarchy of relations in the way I proposed in chapter 2,
section 1, pp. 59-67. The logic of scalar hierarchies tells us that one level- the
ecosocial one - is the one we engage with most naturally. It is in relation to this
level in the overall hierarchy that actions, objects, and so on, are interconnected
with other events, objects, and so on. Further, these interconnections constitute
an entire system of relations potentially extending over many different space-
time scales. They can function both independently of our body-brains as well as
directly in relation to them. Higher-order thinking requires the distinction
between self and nonself.
Lukacs (1980 [1978]: 26) has described how the separation of subject and
object, which emerges in the labour process, entails the 'channelling' of the
resulting reflection of reality into consciousness. Thus, 'being' and its 'reflection
in consciousness' constitute a break with the prior, unitary form of being. The
resulting antithesis leads to the emergence of a qualitatively new level of being,
viz. social being. Similarly, Cole (1996: 118-21) discusses the notion of artefact-
mediated action as first developed by Russian psychologists such as Luria (1976)
and Vygotsky (1986 [1934], 1987 [1934]) in the cultural-historical tradition.
Cole draws a distinction between 'natural' or unmediated functions and
'cultural' or mediated ones as two ways in which the subject and object (envi-
ronment) are related to each other. In my view, there is no such thing as an
unmediated relationship between subject and object. Rather, the question is
concerned, above all, with the different kinds of mediation afforded by the
integration hierarchy of iconic, indexical, and symbolic modes of semiosis. This
shows us that the purely iconic mapping of topological-continuous variation
onto topological-continuous variation of the kind found in perceptual-motor
category formation prior to the emergence of indexicality remains linked to the
immediate here-now scale. On the other hand, indexical and symbolic forms of
mediation progressively free the agent's consciousness from the here-now scale.
The so-called 'direct', 'natural' relation is best seen as the most primordial form
of iconic relationship between self and nonself in which no meta-level experi-
encing of experience is apparent.
The linguistic resources of modalization and modulation function to ground
dialogic interacts in relation to the here-now of the speech event (Finite) and,
therefore, in relation to the ecosocial space-time scale of human social meaning-
making. Modal systems such as 'probability' and 'usuality' in English ground the
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 217
number ofvariables that can be contextually managed in order that the number
of variables does not run away from us. The point is that modality deals with the
contingent and the unknown by allowing participants in discourse to orient to
and evaluate it as if it were predictable, known, or possible, and so on. The
unknown, the uncertain, the doubtful, and so on, constitute sources of friction.
Interpersonal exploration and negotiation is brought into play so as to
determine the most appropriate level of analysis for the evaluation and
resolution of both semiotic and material friction (Thibault 1995). Moreover, the
nesting of discourse moves within dialogic interacts, and the nesting of these in
turn with still-larger-scale interactional episodes, means that specific contingen-
cies are not simultaneously evaluated at all levels of the whole hierarchy of
relations. The interpersonal grammar oflanguage is organized in such a way that
interactants can orient to a goal on a specific level and act as if only that level
were contingently relevant. In this way, the values of things in the world can be
selectively attended and discursively fixed so that action is possible.
15. Consciousness and Semiotic Stratification
I would now like to consider consciousness in relation to the stratified nature of
semiotic systems (chapter 1, section 9). Stratification is the means whereby the
agent is cross-coupled with and integrated with the ecosocial system (chapter 1,
section 9, pp. 39-46; chapter 2, section 1, pp. 59-67). This is so because the
expression and content strata interface with and integrate the agent's Innenwelt
and Umwelt, respectively. This means that the agent has internal, semiotically
mediated, and progressively elaborated and individuated models in his or her
central nervous system for acting in the world. Moreover, individuals can
intervene in and expand their Umwelten through the externalization of these
models in the form of social meaning-making activity. In this way, the social
semiotic system is integrated with the small-scale dynamical processes of the
agent's body at the interface of the body with the expression stratum. The agent
is also integrated with the dynamics of spatial and temporal scales that are
greater than those of the agent's own bodily processes. The integration with
these much larger scales is possible because of the interface between the agent
and the content stratum. It is this second interface, as we have seen, that
connects the agent to the phenomena of experience in his or her Umwelt.
Higher-order consciousness is semiotic through and through. The two
interfaces which are constituted by the expression and content strata are the
means whereby the individual organism and its dynamics is cross-coupled with
the very different dynamics of space-time scales which can extend well beyond
the organism along a semiotic-material trajectory into its ecosocial environment.
In this sense, language and other symbolic modes of meaning-making constitute
a resource for the integration of the here-now activities of the organism with
larger space-time scales. Peng accordingly distinguishes between motor
functions and motor activities. The latter may appear, superficially, to 'make use
of the cortico-bulbar pathways for efferent neuronal connections to innervate
the musculature of the vocal apparatus (including the facial musculature), if
218 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
movements of the muscles are the main objective' (1994: 114-15). The
difference between 'motor functions' and 'motor activities' lies in the fact that
the former are part of language in the individual, whereas the latter are not
related to language activity in the individual organism. Both motor functions
and motor activities, as defined here, are performatory activities of the
organism's executive systems (Gibson 1983 [1966]: 46). In the case of speech
production, the motor functions which are involved in the articulation of speech
sounds during phonation are semantically integrated with other facets of
language in the brain of the speaker in order to produce a linguistic event.
Motor activities are not semantically integrated in this way. Thus, the motor
functions of phonation are integrated with informational invariants concerning
(1) the sound shape of the word to be uttered, (2) their correct sequencing on
the expression stratum; and (3) the lexicogrammatical form and semantics of
the word on the content stratum (chapter 3, section 11). Peng points out that
the motor functions consist of the mapping of these various components onto
each other. To quote Peng:
... when the speaker wants to produce the sequence of sounds, Ip/, lce/, and
I d/, the speaker must have the meaning of the word padin the cerebral cortex
first, for which the sequence of sounds is intended, before it is produced; then,
the sequence of sounds must have the brainstem function, that is, going
through the cortico-bulbar pathways, coupled with the extrapyramidal
function and the cerebellar function, when it is being produced.
In contrast, however, when the lips are to be closed for the purpose of mas-
tication, in order to prevent food from coming out of the mouth, the closing
of the lips is simply a part of the motor activities of the nervous system, distinct
in nature from what I have called motor functions which are a part of the
specific brain functions pertaining to language. (Peng 1994: 114)
The use of the cortico-bulbar pathways in the production of human speech
sounds entails a functional loop which connects the cerebrum or neo-cortex to
the vocal apparatus through the cortico-bulbar pathways (Peng 1994: 117). It is
this loop of functional connections leading from the neo-cortex through the
cortico-bulbar pathways to the vocal apparatus which enables the speaker to
make the very fine segmentations and distinctions necessary for the articulation
of speech sounds. In this way, the speaker produces the invariants of stimulus
information which listeners can discriminate from the topological-continuous
variety of the acoustic signal. Therefore, the listener is able to tune into these
same invariants even when the speaker, the time and place, and so on, of
speaking and listening, are different from one occasion to the next (see Gibson
1983 [1966]: 278; this volume, chapter 3, section 2, pp. 148-53).
The motor functions, as theorized by Peng, thus integrate the expression and
content strata of language within the central and peripheral nervous systems of
the individual. By the same token, the individual organism is semiotically
integrated with space-time scales which extend beyond the material body.
Stratified semiotic systems such as language and depiction face two ways, i.e.
both 'inwards' to the body of the articulator of the sign and 'outwards' to the
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 219
phenomena of experience in the ecosocial environment. It is from the latter that
the articulator picks up stimulus information by means of his or her perceptual
systems (chapter 1, section 3, pp. 11-18). In fact, both the body and the world
are environments with which the expression and content strata, respectively,
interface in the processes of transducing input and output between the body and
the ecosocial environment withwhich the body-brain interacts. These inputs and
outputs can be classified according to the schema presented in Figure 4.2.
Figure 4.2: Classification of input and output impulses involved in the symbolic trans-
duction of stimulus information and sensori-body activity in semiosis (adapted and
modified from Gibson 1983 [1966]: 46)
Inputs: content
(afferent impulses)
Outputs: expression
(efferent impulses)
Exteroceptive (stimulus information actively
obtained from environment by perceptual
systems as proto-meaning)
Proprioceptive (stimulus information
obtained from own body, e.g.inner sensations,
feelings, inner visual and other imagery)
Attending to (listening, looking,etc.)
meaning-making acts of others by means of
active perceptual exploration
Performatory activity of articulators (vocal-
tract, manual-brachial gestures, arm-hand-
joint-eye-tool kinaesthesis in tracing, graphic
act) in the externalized execution of signs
The inputs and outputs which cross the boundary between organism and
external environment are the means whereby matter, energy, and information
are exchanged between the two. These inputs and outputs contain different
orders of information. These orders can be classified according to my re-
interpretation of Deacon's hierarchy of reference in terms of the presupposi-
tion/implication hierarchy discussed in chapter 3, section 7, pp. 126-34. This is
so in relation to both the expression and content strata. Moreover, the informa-
tion-meaning which is afforded by these two strata is both exteroceptive and
egoreceptive. In providing information to the other (exteroception), the
speaker, say,simultaneouslyprovides information to him- or herself about his or
her own meaning-making activity (egoreception). This means, for example, that
speakers hear their own voices while speaking and at the same time, feel the
muscular movements of their face and vocal tract. Gibson (1986 [1979]: 115)
points out that all perceptual systems are both exteroceptive and egoreceptive:
220 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
the body of the perceiver is also a source of information about the perceiver's
body during the perception of some environmental event. Both environment
and self are simultaneously specified by information from the two sources in the
act of perception (Gibson 1986 [1979]: 116). The complementarity of these two
perspectives is based on the fact that the information for specifying the two is the
same. Similarly, the body of the speaker in the process of articulation is both a
source of information about the speaker to observers (e.g. the addressee) in the
external environment and simultaneously also a source of information to the
speaker about his or her own body.
As we shall see in chapter 5, section 4, pp. 246--8, the reentrant mapping of
the information from these two sources - self and nonself - in the act of
perception creates higher-order maps in the brain of these lower-order
self/nonself mappings. The resulting higher-order or global mappings
constitute a basis for the internalization and consequent reorganization of this
perceptual information in ways which are relevant to the structure of (self)con-
sciousness. The local outputs of multiple maps that are connected to the
exteroceptive and proprioceptive sources of multimodal stimulus information
are reentrantly connected to form a global mapping. This global mapping forms
a dynamic loop that correlates the information about the organism (proprio-
ception) to the information about external events (exteroception). In this way,
the selection of neuronal groups in particular local mappings results in the
emergent distinction between an 'in here' perspective on what is 'out there'.
Edelman points out that 'sensorimotor activity over the whole mapping selects
neuronal groups that give the appropriate output or behaviour, resulting in cat-
egorization' (1992: 90). Appropriateness of output or behaviour is determined
by internal criteria of value that constrain the ways in which the organism
interacts with its environment. In this way,categorization emerges on the basis of
exploratory activity that matches, in biologically appropriate ways, the physio-
logical life-supporting systems of the organism (Edelman 1992: 90-1). The
distinction between 'self and 'nonself' is not, as we shall see in more detail in
chapter 5, a given; instead, it emerges as a consequence of the ways in which the
individual's sensori-motor engagements with the nonself, including most
crucially other conspecifics, select neuronal groups that eventually result in the
categorical distinction between self and nonself. The fundamental importance
of the orientation to the other in the infant's very early proto-semiosis suggests,
once again, that this proto-interpersonal orientation is founded on internal
criteria ofvalue which define these engagements with the other - most critically
the mother or other primary caregiver - as an appropriate domain of activity.
That is, as an activity that is essential for the infant's further development. Thus,
the infant's internal value criteria constitute the biological initiating conditions
on level L-l of a semiotic trajectory on focal level L which has its beginnings in
the infant's performing of behavioural routines directed at fulfilling its most
basic needs as a newborn - nourishment, warmth, affection, contact with other
conspecifics as sources of information that is needed for the further develop-
ment of its ontogenetic trajectory.
The perceiver cannot avoid perceiving, and, therefore, being aware of him- or
herself in the act of perceiving something. This means that the perception of
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 221
some environmental event (exteroception) and the perception of our own act of
perceiving (proprioception) are simultaneously implicated in perception.
Moreover, our conscious attention can be focused on one or the other of the two
poles of what is now seen as a single perceptual structure, albeit with different
possible poles of attention (chapter 5, section 4). In other words, awareness of
self and nonself are both implicated in the structure of the perceptual act. This
suggests that consciousness, here seen as a meaning structure at all levels of the
implication hierarchy of icon, index, and symbol, is based upon the reentrant
mapping in the brain of this perceptual distinction between information
pertaining to the self (proprioception) and information pertaining to the
nonself (exteroception). This means that (1) we are conscious of some
phenomenon of experience which we are perceiving, performing, imagining,
thinking about, or remembering and (2) we are conscious of that experience as
ours, i.e., as being indexically referable to our own self, as designated, for
example, by the English pronoun T. That is, we have an experience of
something and an experience of our self as the experiencer of that experience.
Consciousness is the result of the semiotic mediation and re-structuring on
higher levels of organization of this relation. As stated earlier, this semiotic
mediation can take place at all levels of the implication-cum-presupposition
hierarchy of icon, index, and symbol.
Perceptual-motor, conceptual, and symbolic forms of categorization in the
brain (Edelman 1992) therefore constitute an implication hierarchy of different
semiotic levels. The relational structure of consciousness, as described above, can
be integrated to these levels of increasing semiotic specification and consequently
reorganized. The self-organizing character of these processes means that the brain
does not 'represent' experience in terms ofpre-existing, stored categories, images,
symbolic tokens, and so on. Meaning at all integrative levels emerges in and
through the interaction between the categories in the brain and the phenomena
of experience, as mediated by a higher-order system of interpretance.
I shall now discuss this in more detail, starting with the expression stratum.
First, speech sounds are iconically grounded in the physiological processes ofthe
speaker's body (chapter 3, section 4, pp. 118-20). In this way, speech sounds
afford information which specifies the embodied states and feelings of the
speaker. In this perspective, the perceived sounds are necessarily tied to or
grounded in and provide information about the speaker's body, its feeling states,
and so on. Secondly, there is information in speech sounds which indexes the
spatial location of the speaker in the environment relative to the listener (Biihler
1990 [1934]: 125), the personal identity of the speaker, and so on. Thirdly,
speech sounds contain information which enables the listener to perceive the
phonological categories, units, and structures which belong to the sound - i.e.
phonological - system of a given language such as English. This kind of infor-
mation constitutes the symbolic dimension of the expression stratum of spoken
language. Whereas the iconic and indexical information in speech sounds is, to
varying degrees, causally tied to its environmental source (the speaker) as a
perceptual stimulus which it specifies, the symbolic order of speech sounds
specifies, on the other hand, the phonological units and structures of a given
phonological system. Two important implications derive from this. First, the
222 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
phonemes, syllables, and so on, in a given utterance are instantiations of the
phonological categories of a given language system. They are not, therefore, tied
to specific speakers' bodily states or identities, but are potentially shareable by all
speakers of the given language. Secondly, this order of information in speech
sounds symbolically construes or realizes a more abstract level of semiotic organ-
ization, viz. the lexicogrammatical units and structures on the content stratum
(see also chapter 3, section 9, pp. 139-46, on the brain as somatic recognition
system). In Gibson's terms, we might say that this third order of information sym-
bolically specifies the more abstract content stratum of some language system.
I shall now turn my attention to the content stratum, again with a view to ana-
lytically refracting this through the presupposition-cum-implication hierarchy of
icon, index, and symbol that I proposed in chapter 3, section 4, pp. 118-20. First,
the ambient stimulus information is iconically grounded in some environmental
event which is the cause of the variants and invariants in the stimulus informa-
tion picked up by the observer's perceptual systems. This information directly
specifies that event for the observer (Gibson 1986 [1979]). Secondly, stimulus
information in the environment can specify events which are not
necessarily present in the here-now of the stimulus information which is picked
up by the observer. Such events can be reconstructed or inferred on the basis of
the available stimulus information, though not necessarily present to the
observer. In this case, the stimulus information indexes some environmental
value which may be spatially or temporally displaced with respect to the
information picked up by the observer. Thirdly, environmental events which are
specified by ambient stimulus information, as well as those which have been
extracted from the ambient flux of environmental information, can be sym-
bolically construed in and through the semantic categories of a given language
system. In this way, we respond to and orient to the world not directly - Le.
perceptually - but indirectly, through the lexicogrammatical and semantic
resources of a shared system of social meaning-making.
Now, it is important to point out that on both sides of this relationship - viz.
expression and content - all three levels of the implication hierarchy from icon,
index, to symbol are organized on the basis of degrees and kinds of difference.
It would be wrong to equate the iconic level with the 'sensations' which
empiricist theories of perception and consciousness consider to be the basis of
consciousness. Sensations, in this empiricist view, are devoid of categorial or
conceptual value. However, the iconic mode is still founded on topological-
continuous (analogue) differentiation (topological-continuous variation) as a
resource for discriminating degrees of difference rather than type of difference
(Wilden 1981: 20). On the other hand, the symbolic dimension of language is
founded on typological-categorial difference, i.e. discrete digital categories of
different types. This applies equally to both expression and content. This is very
different from the doctrine that consciousness consists of 'thoughts' and
'sensations'. According to this doctrine, 'sensations' are non-conceptual and are
merely 'felt' as subjective experience on account of their impact on our sensory
systems. It is further assumed by this doctrine that organisms perceive
phenomena on the basis of the 'qualities of their nerves and neurons, not with
the properties of the external world', as Gibson (1983 [1966]: 56) has eloquently
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 223
put it. In this view, pure sensations are, in turn, transmitted to the brain by the
nerves and turned into thoughts and ideas. Only the latter are considered to
have conceptual value. Alternatively, the semiotic model of stratification, as
defined here, suggests that value-laden differences - topological and typological
- perfuse all levels of consciousness right down to the iconic level of perceptual
awareness. This is equally true for both our experience of phenomena and our
experience of our own bodies. This observation also ties in with the intentional
character of consciousness, along with the fact that the objects of consciousness
are experienced as being instances of this or that category of phenomenal
experience. Consciousness at all levels is embedded in higher-scalar systems of
interpretance. For this reason, consciousness is not uniquely generated 'from
below' by physical states of the brain.
The presupposition-cum-integration hierarchy of icon, index, and symbol
suggests the need for an internalist perspective on the question ofconsciousness.
In this perspective, we are inextricably inside the system that we are observing.
There is no objective viewpoint whereby we can observe and analyse the object
system from the outside. Nevertheless, theories of consciousness have tended to
relate to the phenomenon of consciousness adaptively, i.e. as something to
predict or explain. For these theorists, organization and pattern in the neuro-
anatomical structures and processes of the brain is the thing to be explained.
These theories continue to view consciousness as if it were a system we can
observe from the outside. They fail to see that the attempt to find and explain
the seat of consciousness as something in the brain is to look in the wrong place.
Both the intrinsic awareness of one's own acts of consciousness and the attribu-
tion of consciousness to others is a question of a joint, dialogic relation between
observer and object system. The emergent order or form of consciousness
necessarily requires us to abandon naturalism and eliminative materialism in
favour of a perspective based on meaning. Consciousness has been isolated from
its contexts on the assumption that those contexts do not impinge on the nature
of consciousness itself in significant ways. Moreover, the' source of order and
coherence has been located solely in the brain; it is as if other aspects of the
world do not have their own order, and in ways which affect the nature of
consciousness in substantial ways. If, on the other hand, the content of
consciousness is defined on the basis of the meaning which is stored in the
system, where meaning here refers to the internal form and structure of
consciousness, it is clear that it is the system's internalized encounters with signs
and the attempt to discover their systems of interpretance, which specifies the
structure of consciousness. The problem for the observer, who inhabits the same
ecosocial scale as the individual observed, is one of having to discover and
interpret the signs which tell him or her something about the content of the
other's consciousness. As we shall see in greater detail in later chapters, con-
sciousness can be theorized as a highly specified meaning system in the
perspective of the self on all integrative levels of the semiotic hierarchy of iconic,
indexical, and symbolic integrative levels.
224 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
16. An Alternative Reading of Descartes in the Internalist Perspective of
Interpretive Activity
The observations I made in the previous paragraph suggest an alternative
reading of Descartes's famous observations concerning the passers-by whom he
observed from his window in the street below. Here is the passage in question
from Descartes's SecondMeditation:
I am taken aback, nevertheless, when I reflect upon the weakness of my mind,
and consider how prone it is to error. For, however I may ponder over all this
in the silence of my thoughts, words themselves hold me up, and I am almost
deceived by the terms ofeveryday speech. For we say that we see the same piece
of wax if it is presented to us, and not that we judge it to be the same because
it has the same colour and the same shape. And from this I would almost
conclude that I know the wax by the sight of my eyes, and not by the scrutiny
of my mind. I chance to look out of the window upon the passers-by in the
street below, I have no hesitation in saying that I see men, although their hats
and cloaks may be no more than a disguise for clockwork figures. Yet I judge
them to be truly men; and so, what I thought I saw with my eyes, I really know
through the sole power ofjudgement which resides in my mind. (Descartes
1960 [1641]: 114-15)
Generally speaking, Descartes's observations have been understood in the light
of the externalist perspective (see Shanker 1998). This perspective assumes that
the observer (Descartes) and observed (the persons in the square) do not exist
within the same system of interpretance. It is assumed that the two perspectives
are not commensurate. In the internalist perspective, on the other hand, we can
see how Descartes attempts to interpret the people he observes in the square
through his own interpretative activities. Moreover, it is possible in this perspec-
tive to see that Descartes is enmeshed in a universe of signs. It is these signs alone
which provide the interpretative frameworks of his (and our) observational per-
spectives and viewpoints. In the externalist perspective, the referents of the signs
are already given. In the internalist perspective, on the other hand, the world is
construed through the systems of interpretance which mediate our encounters
with the world and allow us to endow it with meaning.
The first thing to note about Descartes's discussion is the focus on meaningful
pattern and order in what he observes. Thus, order can be observed in the form
of men crossing the square, rather thanjust automatons wearing hats and cloaks.
Descartes attributes this perception to a faculty ofjudgement whereas I would
prefer to say that it is a case of the operation of what Salthe calls 'the constraint
of informational closure' (1993: 133). This constraint depends on the observer's
choice of categories and the extent of their specification. Salthe draws on
Dretske's definition of information as 'the most highly specified digital content
an analog percept can have' (1993: 134). The scene which Descartes attends to
is an unbounded visual percept. For this reason, it is an analogue percept. As
discussed in section 6 above, the experiential grammar and semantics of
language are one typological-categorial (digital) resource which affords the
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 225
observer a high degree of symbolic specification of the stimulus information he
or she picks up in the ambient energy flux. Given that Descartes clearly possesses
the digital category 'man', the men he sees crossing the town square are
perceived as men, rather than as less specified hats and cloaks which conceal
automatons. The point is that the experiential semantic categories that are used
selectively by Descartes contextualize the given percept as a grounded instantia-
tion of the given category. The fact that Descartes invokes this latter categoriza-
tion demonstrates that very many different possibilities, to varying degrees of
specification, may be implicated in the interaction between observer and object.
This is, of course, the logic of the presupposition-cum-implication hierarchy of
icon, index, and symbol. The most highly specified symbolic categories always
implicate less specified categorizations on many different levels of specification
in the overall hierarchy of relations. This applies equally to the relations among
categories within, say, the symbolic mode, as well as to the relations among the
symbolic, the indexical, and the iconic modes. Thus, the category 'hat and cloak
wearing automatons' could function as the type-categorization of the observer's
perception. However, this category is overridden by the more specified category
'men'. The fact of this overriding suggests that the former categorization is a
lower-level categorization which relates more closely to the observer's perceptual
categories, rather than to the symbolic categories of language.
Descartes's observations have been assimilated to, and have been seen as insti-
gating, the modern cognitive science paradigm. According to this perspective,
the mind is a field of representations which are delivered to consciousness by
perception. Moreover, the radicalism of Descartes's view is upheld to lie in the
notion of perception as judgement, rather than the merely passive receiving of
sensations, as in the empiricist tradition (Seager 1999: 5). Nevertheless, it is
intriguing to consider the fact that Descartes's linguistic construals of both his
own activity as perceiver as well as the phenomena he perceives - the men in the
square - do not refer to the lower-scalar level of the ambient energy flux which
subtends stimulus information, which we do not perceive in any case, or to the
activities of the central and peripheral nervous systems. Both ambient energy
and the activities of the central and peripheral nervous systems exist on a lower-
scalar level with respect to either the 'I', corresponding to Descartes as observer,
or to the phenomena of experience that are perceived by the 'I'. Rather, the
lexicogrammatical choices in Descartes's discourse construe phenomena on the
scalar level of the world which Descartes, along with the writer and readers of
the present text, share. This is the scalar level of the town square, the men who
cross it, and the human observers who would look at these men from the
windows of their apartments. Descartes's own language locates both himself and
the phenomena observed on this same scalar level. The experiential semantic
categories in and through which Descartes construes this observer-object
relation means that the analogue percept which Descartes sees is re-construed as
a series of typological-categorial distinctions by the lexicogrammar of the clauses
in Descartes's text. This corresponds to the symbolic mode in the presupposition-
cum-implication hierarchy oficon, index, and symbol. These symbolic categories
are the most highly specified categories with respect to the topological-
continuous (analogue) character of the visual percept, which is unbounded. The
226 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
latter is less specified, and corresponds to the iconic level. However, this does not
mean that the less-specified iconic level has been replaced by the symbolic one.
What it means is that the symbolic level has integrated and subsumed - i.e. 'con-
textually completed' - the iconic (and indexical) levels. This has the further
implication that, in contextually integrating to its level the iconic and indexical
levels, the symbolic level contains or implies additional levels of meaning on
lower integrative levels which can be accessed by further semiotic (interpreta-
tive) labour. Such interpretative labour entails the possibility of interpreting the
non-symbolic ground of others' conscious experience from our own perspective.
(See the discussion of gaze in section 9 above, pp. 201-2.)
17. The Entropic Character of Meaning
It is once again important to point out that meaning, however defined, is not
inherent in each of these levels. Instead, it is derived by interpreters who have
access to the relevant system of interpretance. In Descartes's case, his interpre-
tation of what he observes from his window is based on linguistic categories
available in his ecosocial environment. In Halliday's discussion, as cited in
section 10 above, pp. 202-5, the child's categories - e.g. the high-pitched squeak
- are considerably less specified, thereby limiting the child's reaction to the noise
of the pigeons to the iconic and indexical levels. The mother's response provides
the more highly specified symbolic category which the child thus far lacks.
Halliday's (1975; 1978b; 1993) research on children's 'learning how to mean'
shows that language development in the child amounts to a constitutive, and not
merely contingent, increase in stored meaning along the individual's ontoge-
netic trajectory (see Salthe 1993: 135). This is very different from Chomsky's
characterization of the 'underdetermined' and 'fragmented' character of the
inputs which the child receives from the outside (1976: 10). The alternative to
the Chomsky-type view rests on the view that the informational, and hence
meaning-bearing, capacity of a system is entropic. This has been formulated by
Salthe as follows:
If information is to be taken as entropic, it must follow the equivalents of the
First and Second Law of Thermodynamics. That is, in a system with informa-
tional closure, (1) what can be converted into information must be found to
be conserved, and (2) information itself must increase or remain constant.
(3) If macroscopic configurations are to be considered information, we must
identify a system in which they so function. These are not insurmountable
problems. We can dispense with the first of these three criteria by noting that
energy is what is converted into information, either in the formation of a con-
figuration or in its discovery and classification by another system. We need
merely show that an object system and an observer exist in the same physical
system to satisfy the First Law as well as it is ever satisfied in thermodynamics.
To show that macroscopic information in an internalist situation follows
the second law, I have proposed the following logical argument (Salthe
1990b): It is sufficient to show that observer and object system(s), Si, are
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 227
together embedded in the same complex supersystem, for the following
reasons: If we were to decompose total system information (macroscopic
information), H, into the potential information capacity of the supersystem,
Cm
a
" and that stored in its contained subsystem(s), H, then the information
in the global system would be
H must continue to increase, or at least cannot decrease, when we explicitly
consider the information, Ho, stored in an observer, 0, as well. Then
H =Cm
a
x+ H', + Ho
describes the total system, in which Hocould also be observed as contributing
to H by another observer in the system coordinate with 0, if there were one.
(Salthe 1993: 118)
Following these important formulations of Salthe in favour of the view that
information, and, hence, meaning, behave entropically, it is now possible to say
that (1) the meaning which is stored along the individual agent's historical-
biographical trajectory increases as the trajectory develops; (2) meaning is
produced on the basis of energy exchanges whereby energy is dissipated along a
trajectory not only as heat energy, for example, but also as information which is
potentially meaningful, relative to the observer's categories; (3) the trajectory of
consciousness emerges, is constructed, and is maintained on the basis of the
individual's exchanges at all integrative levels in the semiotic specification
hierarchy of icon, index, and symbol with its ecosocial environment. The
meanings that are stored in the individual's Innenwelt enable meta-redundancy
relations to be constructed between these and selected aspects of the environ-
ment. The individual is, therefore, able to selectively attend to the phenomena
of experience in his or her inner and outer environments. The observer,
therefore, construes the phenomena of experience according to the degree of
specification of the signs - iconic, indexical, symbolic - to which he or she has
access. Moreover, the notion of meta-redundancy shows that consciousness
always entails a patterned relationship of contextualization between internal
semiotic configurations which are stored and elaborated in the individual agent
and selected environmental features.
18. Consciousness as the Contextualization of Experience in the
Perspective of the Self
Insofar as language and other semiotic modalities constitute an interface
between the central and peripheral nervous systems of the individual organism
and the ecosocial environment, such systems are a means whereby 'inside' and
'outside' can 'communicate' with each other. They are the means whereby the
external world is assimilated to the central nervous system of the organism so as
228 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
to become an integral part of the organism and its trajectory. It is in this way that
higher-scalar environmental constraints impose limits on the degrees offreedom
- the many degrees of difference - of lower levels. The constraints emanating
from the higher level re-set the probabilities of the dynamical processes on lower
levels so as to direct and constrain their behaviour. This re-setting of probabili-
ties applies to all forms of categorization in the organism, viz. perceptual,
conceptual, and symbolic categorization. However, it is not a question of the
categories which the organism has in its central nervous system 'representing' or
'referring to' an already given external world. Instead, it is a question of selec-
tively attending to and orienting to 'objects' through processes of differentia-
tion. Gibson (1983 [1966]: 270) points out that these processes are learned. The
organism learns what to attend to. In the case of the perception of objects, 'it is
the detection of distinctive features and the detection of invariants under
changing stimulation' (Gibson 1983 [1966]: 270-1). Gibson continues as
follows:
The exploratory perceptual systems typically produce transformations so that
the invariants can be isolated . . . And the action of the .nervous system is
conceived as a resonating to the stimulus information, not a storing of images
or a connecting up of nerve cells. (Gibson 1983 [1966]: 271)
Rather than the brain producing representations of the outside world, the
categories in the central nervous system resonate with environmental stimulus
information. This is, I argue, equally true of perceptual and conceptual catego-
rizations, which are elaborated biologically (Edelman 1992: 108-10), and the
symbolic categories of language and other semiotic systems. The symbolic
categories of a given language system are a resource emanating from the higher-
scalar ecosocial system. Symbolic categories allow individual consciousness to
resonate with phenomena of experience which are not necessarily present in the
organism's perceptual purview. In this way, the experiential categories which are
realized in the lexicogrammar of the clause enable the construal of symbolic
objects which individuals can selectively attend to and orient to. The experiential
resources oflanguage are not used to 'represent' or to 'refer to' something which
is already given, and which these categories then slice up in pre-established ways.
Rather, the phenomena of experience - objects of consciousness - are construed
in and through the system of categories - the value-producing
differences - which are internal to a given semiotic system. The resonance
between organism and environmental information of which Gibson speaks is
the process whereby phenomena of experience are made to emerge from proto-
semiotic vagueness. Organisms selectively contextualize the relationship
between themselves and the environment by means of the symbolic and other
categories which are stored in the central nervous system in and through the
epigenetic exchange of information between organism and environment.
Individuals can therefore converge on the phenomena of experience and
selectively incorporate them into their Innenwelten.
In the Western folk-theoretical tradition, consciousness tends to be accorded
the status of an internal, subjective reality which can be 'reported' or 'repre-
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 229
sented' by linguistic tokens. In this respect, it is accorded the status of an 'object'
which can be referred to and predicated ofjust like any other entity in the world.
This is a realist view, which is based on the assumption that there exists a 'really
real' world either 'out there' or 'in here', independently of the ways in which
these entities are contextualized by the systems of meaning of a given ecosocial
semiotic system. However, consciousness, no less than any other entity, is an
entity in the supersystem transactions of some ecosocial system. It emerges and
is contextualized as a phenomenon of experience in and through the systems of
contextualizing relations of the ecosocial system. The meanings it has for the self
(or for others) are meanings which are construable for the self in and through
these same systems of contextualizing relations. Yet, consciousness is usually
accorded a metaphysical status as something which exists independently of the
possible ways it may be construed by a given meaning system. In ecosocial
semiotic theory, the 'reporting of' or 'referring to' conscious experience, or even
internalized reflection on it, is always part of a larger pattern of contextualizing
relations which includes the experience itself. The notion that consciousness can
be linguistically 'reported' implies a referential theory of meaning in which the
objects that are 'referred to' are external to the (linguistic) act of referring. In
this externalist view, consciousness is a content that exists in its own right and is
external to the contexts in which we contextualize it. What is experienced, so to
speak, is always imminent in supersystem processes which are selectively contex-
tualized by the meaning system. In this point ofview, consciousness is, therefore,
a constitutive part of those contexts, rather than being external to them. It thus
may be more appropriate to say that consciousness is, from the point of view of
the insiders in some social situation, indexically invoked as locatable at a given
source - e.g. first-person or third-person. At the same time, it is symbolically
construed in terms of the experiential categories of the lexicogrammar of
language. The point is that, in this view, consciousness is indexically invoked in
the given context from the point of view of the insider-participants in the
situation. The linguistic practices of construing consciousness in self and other
make no such distinction between what is external to speech and lurking
'behind' speech in the mind of each individual. Rather, consciousness is indexi-
cally invoked as being internal to the speech practices themselves in the sense
that any internal phenomenon inside the 'head' only has meaning if it is
contextualized by the categories of some meaning system.
Gibson (1986 [1979]: 255) has formulated a view ofnon-perceptual awareness
which is useful here. Gibson points out how, in the older mentalist psychology,
higher mental processes were opposed to sensations, and seen as the operations
of higher-order faculties in the mind. In this regard, Gibson mentions such
mental operations as remembering, thinking, conceiving, inferring, judging,
expecting, knowing, imagining, dreaming, and rationalizing. According to
Gibson's ecological perspective, these may be explained as follows:
To daydream, dream, or imagine wishfully (or fearfully) is to be aware of
surfaces or events that do not exist or occur and that are outside the limits of
possibility.
These three kinds of nonperceptual awareness are not explained, I think,
230 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
by the traditional hypothesis of mental imagery. They are better explained by
some such hypothesis as this: a perceptual system that has become sensitized
to certain invariants and can extract them from the stimulus flux can also
operate without the constraints of the stimulus flux. Information becomes
further detached from stimulation. The adjustment loops for looking around,
looking at, scanning, and focusing are then inoperative. The visual system
visualizes. But this is still an activity of the system, not an appearance in the
theater of consciousness. (Gibson 1986 [1979]: 255-6)
The symbolic possibilities of language and depiction, to mention two semiotic
systems with fully developed symbolic possibilities, mean that neither of these
two systems is tied by indexical necessity to entities already present in the
environment. The lexicogrammatical and semantic distinctions on the content
stratum of language, for instance, do not refer to the ecosocial environment in
any direct way. In learning the contextual meta-redundancies between linguistic
forms and particular classes of environmental events, linguistic forms enter into
contextualizing relations with invariant stimulus information which is extracted
from different kinds of environmental events (visual, kinesic, auditory, haptic,
and so on). Moreover, the learning of these contextual redundancies cuts across
the stimulus-response dichotomy, 'for they can be vocal-motor or manual-motor'
(Gibson 1986 [1979]: 281). Importantly, the learning and further elaboration of
these redundancies between classes of linguistic and other semiotic forms and
perceptual invariants is a matter of the progressive attunement of the system to
finer and finer differentiations. The attunement to these goes hand in hand with
the elaboration of a sense of consciousness along a time-bound trajectory. This
view suggests that the linguistic and other semiotic resources for invoking
consciousness in one's self and in others function both to indexically invoke and
to symbolically construe informational invariants which have been, as Gibson
puts it, detached from stimulation. In the absence of stimulation from the
ambient energy flux, the activity of exploring the environment for stimulus
information has then been re-directed 'inwards' to invariants and differentia-
tions to which the system has been sensitized through experience.
This last point further suggests that the contextualized uses of these linguistic
forms may 'resonate' with perceptual invariants that have been de-located from
the external environment and re-located in the individual's Innenwelt. In both
cases, it is still a question of the situationally-specific contextual redundancies
between such invariants and the semiotic forms used to index and symbolically
construe them. The presupposition-cum-implication hierarchy of icon, index,
and symbol is relevant here as well. Consciousness is always relative to observer
categories. This is so whether the object system is external or internal
phenomena of experience, or even one's own activities of consciousness (meta-
mentation). If the categories of the nervous system become increasingly
specified as it develops in ontogeny (Salthe 1993: 135), then it seems plausible
to suggest that the development of the organism involves the increasing specifi-
cation of signs from the initial vagueness of the topological-continuous variation
characteristic of the iconic to the highly specified typological-categorial distinc-
tions characteristic of the symbolic (see chapter 1, section 5, pp. 23-6). This does
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 231
not mean that the symbolic mode replaces the other modes as the organism
develops. As we have seen, the symbolic implicates the indexical, which, in turn,
implicates the iconic. What it does mean is that the observer has information
stored in him or her such that an object system can be specified in terms of the
full range of possibilities afforded by the hierarchy of iconic, indexical, and
symbolic modes of semiosis.
Therefore, at all levels of organism-environment information exchanges and
cross-eouplings, from the perceptual and conceptual categorization of primary
consciousness (Edelman 1992) to the symbolic categorization of higher-order
consciousness, the body-brain complex is embedded in higher-scalar systems of
interpretance of varying degrees of specification. It is only through such systems
of interpretance that the organism can determine whether information which is
obtained from the environment is potentially meaningful for the organism. For
example, perception, rather than being the passive receiving of data from the
outside, occurs on the basis of a reciprocal adaptation of both organism and
stimulus information to each other. A given organism is not attuned to all of the
information that is potentially available in the stimulus flux of ambient energy.
Instead, it is selectively attuned and adapted to only some of the total possibili-
ties in its environment. In fact, it would be more appropriate to refer to the
reciprocal eo-adaptation of both organism and environment (self and nonself)
to each other. Thus, the release of energy provides information about an
environmental event relative to a potential observer. This means that stimulus
information in the environment and observer are both reciprocally conditioned
by the existence of a higher-scalar context which links them together.
19. The Embedding of Consciousness in a Higher-scalar System of
Interpretance
The existence of a higher-order context means that the relationship between two
interacting entities, A and B, is not random, but occurs with a certain degree of
probability. That is, the higher-scalar level C functions as a boundary condition
on the transaction and the signs at the A-B dyad level. In the course of their
interaction, A and B reciprocally adapt to each other. This means that they are
transformed by the contact between them. Whereas ambient energy about indef-
initely many other environmental events is not available to the organism,
because it is not evolutionarily designed so as to be selectively attuned to these,
the reciprocal nature of the contact between A and B means that there exists a
relationship of complementarity between them. This necessarily occurs against a
background of other sources of stimulus information which are not selected by
the A-B relationship. The situation described here is a very general one, which
applies to all biological phenomena. This suggests that what we call 'dialogue' in
the specifically human case is a more highly specified subclass of the kind of
reciprocal adaptation ofA and B that is characteristic of all biological organisms.
This general principle can be extended all the way right back to, for example,
the trophic orientation of amoebas to light. We do not normally think of
amoebas as engaging in 'dialogue'. The 'dialogue' between amoeba and light
232 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
source would be, following Salthe (1993: 18), the vaguest and least highly
specified relationship of reciprocal adaptation between some A and B. The
specifically human dialogue would be, at least from our human perspective, the
most highly specified case - the one for which we normally reserve the term
'dialogue'. The point is, as we saw earlier (chapter 1, section 8, pp. 34-9; chapter
3, section 4, pp. 118-20), that the higher, more specified levels integrate the
lower, less specified ways. The latter do not transcend the former, though the
coming into existence of new higher-scalar boundary conditions will re-interpret
the lower levels in new ways.
In the human case, the arguments presented above suggest that both primary
consciousness and higher-order consciousness are embedded in systems of inter-
pretance of varying degrees of specification. A conscious observer is always
conscious of something, whatever this something might be. However, the
observer's consciousness of something can only occur on the basis of stimulus
information, whether perceptual or non-perceptual (see above), which consti-
tutes potential information about some 'inner' or 'outer' phenomenon. This
means that such stimulus information, relative to the observer and his or her
categories, is a potential sign of some phenomenon of experience. It is
important to remember here that observer and stimulus information - i.e.
potential signs - are reciprocally adapted to each other, for what the information
means depends on the observer and the categories stored in his or her central
nervous system. The categories stored in the observer themselves derive from a
higher-scalar system of interpretance in which both observer and what the
observer is conscious of are necessarily embedded. This shows very clearly that
the observer is, in part, a result of the signs he or she can orient to and adapt to.
By the same token, consciousness of something is not reducible to unmediated
contact between the 'mind' and the actualities of the world. In primary con-
sciousness, here-now samplings of the environment and their categorization
entail the adaptation of the organism to the iconic and indexical signs which it
encounters and interprets. These signs mediate between the organism's activities
in the world and those here-now aspects of it that the organism interacts with.
This is a less highly specified form of semiosis with respect to the more highly
specified symbolic forms of higher-order consciousness. Nevertheless, it remains
a form of reciprocal adaptation which is necessarily constrained by higher-order
boundary conditions which act as a system of interpretance of these iconic and
indexical signs. In the human case, the contextual integration and further reor-
ganization of these levels by the symbolic level of higher-order consciousness
vastly expands those aspects of the world with which the organism can interact.
This depends on a system of symbolic possibilities which can connect and
integrate the individual body-brain complex with space-time scales beyond the
here-now one of primary consciousness.
Current theories of consciousness tend to emphasize the individual and
subjective character of conscious experience. This emphasis downplays or leaves
out of the picture the way in which consciousness entails observer perspectives
and viewpoints. Moreover, such perspectives and viewpoints are shareable with
others who belong to the same system ofrelations. It cannot simply be a question
of a physical system - the brain - representing the outside world. The observer
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 233
interacts with the phenomena of experience in and through a given system of
interpretance. Systems of interpretance do not only entail a system of categories
for construing experience and interacting with it; they also entail systems of
social meaning-making practices which determine how these categories are
deployed in contextually relevant ways. Theorists of consciousness have debated
the question of the observer's intrinsic awareness of his or her conscious acts of
experience (see Natsoulas 1998, 2000). In my view, this question closely relates
to the interaction between observer and object observed in and through a system
of interpretance. A number of levels can thus be distinguished:
1. the environmental stimulus information (the object system) relative to
potential points of observation;
2. the object system in interaction with the observer;
3. the observer who observes the interaction between object and observer.
The above schematization once again highlights the fundamental importance of
the stratified nature of semiosis and its role in higher-order consciousness. I
pointed out in chapter 1 that language is a stratified system relative to an agent
who is cross-coupled to the system via the two interfaces of expression and
content. The agent constitutes a break or an interruption in the potentially
infinite recursivity of the levels of relations involved. It is this robustness which
allows agents to construe models of the world, the phenomena of experience, at
the same time that such models are cross-eoupled to the bodily dynamics of the
observer-agent (chapter 1, sections 1, 2, pp. 3-11; chapter 2, section 1, pp.
59-67). By the same token, semiotic stratification also entails the capacity of the
system to be turned back on itself: there is also me ta-semiotic reflection on the
system as an object of observation. Given my earlier argument that this always
entails the cross-coupling of an observing agent to the system of observation (the
system of interpretance), it follows that what is observed in meta-semiosis is not
language per se, but the interaction between language and the observer-agent
who uses it. This corresponds to level 3 above.
The stratified nature of semiosis thus constitutes the permeable interface
between body-brain and ecosocial environment. The bodily dynamics of the
agent are both kept separate from, at the same time as they enter into commu-
nication with, the phenomena of experience through the processes of symbolic
transduction discussed earlier. The agents who inhabit a given ecosocial system,
the phenomena of experience, and higher-scalar systems of interpretance, are
incorporated into a single system of relations on account of the stratification of
semiosis into a number of different levels of organization. It is this fact which
enables the intersection of radically different scalar levels in symbolic or higher-
order consciousness. A stratified semiotic system such as language, gesture, or
depiction faces two ways. As we have seen, semiotic systems interface with both
the body of the agent and the phenomena of experience along the expression
and content strata, respectively.
Take something which is, canonically speaking, seen as cerebral, solitary, and
disembodied such as reading a book. The categories of written expression
(graphemes, ete.) and of spoken expression (phonemes, ete.) emerge as figures
234 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
against a background of topological-continuous variation and vagueness. For
example, graphemes and the larger graphological units, such as orthographic
words, orthographic sentences, ete. which these combine to form, emerge in
relation to the ground of the treated surface onto which someone has traced
these visual invariants. The process of visual scanning of these graphic tracings
on a surface employs the smallest level of the visual system, that of the foveal
field of view of the two eyes. Thus, the hemispherical field of the stationary or
near stationary head during the activity of the sampling of the arrested array of
visual structures on the page of a book is explored by saccadic movements of the
eyes (Gibson 1983 [1966]: 258-9). In this way, the body of the observer is
integrated with the specific principles of organization of the expression stratum
of the written language by means of his or her active perceptual exploration of
the visual invariants which are picked up. However, these visual invariants are
themselves internal to a still-larger system of relations on other scalar levels of
organization in a still more global system of relations.
Furthermore, the visual invariants which are picked up resonate in the
reader's brain with lexicogrammatical and semantic categories on the content
stratum with which they contextually redound. That is, the specific organiza-
tional principles in operation on the expression stratum are symbolically
reconstrued in relation to another set of organizational principles on the
content stratum (see the discussion in chapter 3, section 9, pp. 139-46, on the
brain as somatic recognition system). It is this which permits symbolic transduc-
tion between the organism and his or her outside. Meaning is not, then,
something which is isolable in just one part of the system. Rather, it is a result of
the relationship between the agent-observer and the overall system of relations
on all levels.
There is no problem as to how a sequence of graphemes can be transformed
into a larger unit such as a word, sentence, and so on. As the eyes scan the
tracings on the page, they do not make discrete samples of each element
(grapheme, ete.) in the series. Instead, the entire sequence as a whole consti-
tutes a structured visual array which is unaltered by the reader's moment-by-
moment scanning of it. The central nervous system detects this structure as a
whole as it unfolds in time during the scanning process. It is not a question, as
Gibson points out, of comparing successive visual sensations with graphic or
other images stored in memory:
The invariance of perception with varying samples of overlapping stimulation
may be accounted for by invariant information and by an attunement of the
whole retino-neuro-muscular system to invariant information. The develop-
ment of this attunement, or the education of attention, depends on past
experience but not on the storage of past experiences. (Gibson 1983
[1966]: 262)
The point is that the reader's active scanning in order to obtain visual informa-
tion produces a series of transformations and transitions. Furthermore, the
proprio-sensitive nature of the visual system means that the changes specify the
activity of visual scanning and exploration, rather than visual stimuli which
THE SEMIOTIC BASIS OF CONSCIOUSNESS 235
passively register on the retina. Memory of previously stored graphic and other
images is not required. There is no comparing of present stimuli with such
stored images. Instead, the graphic tracings on the page are assigned their
meaning through a process of integration between past sampling and present
sampling.
5 The Metafunctional Character of
Consciousness: Some Correlations
Between the Neurobiological and
Semiotic Dimensions
1. The Contextual Character of Consciousness
Linguistic and other semiotic systems are not self-contained and autonomous
entities. While they have their own intrinsic principles of organization and func-
tioning, viz. a relative functional closure with respect to their higher-scalar
ecosocial environments, they are also influenced and changed by the ways in
which human beings jointly deploy the meaning-making resources afforded by
systems of social signs. Social semiotic systems exist and are maintained in
relation to higher-scalar ecosocial levels which exercise constraints or boundary
conditions on them. Language and other social semiotic resources are open
both in relation to the social meaning-making practices of social communities
and in relation to the architecture and dynamical processes of the body-brain
complex. Moreover, the notion of embodiment, as distinct from the biological
organism which subtends our embodiment, has been proposed as an alternative
to the current new wave of mechanistic thinking about the body and our rela-
tionship to it, as seen in the pervasive and reductive view of the body as a bottom-
up assemblage of parts (organs, etc.) which can be replaced, exchanged, and
even sold on the black-market thanks to modern medical science and
technology. In the ecosocial semiotic perspective of the present study, I have
emphasized the importance of the expression and content strata as permeable
interfaces which cross-eouple meaning-making processes to both the individual's
ecosocial environment - his or her Umwelt- and the body-brain complex, i.e. the
individual's Innenwelt, or invironment. The early insights of Saussure and
Hjelmslev concerning the stratified nature of the linguistic sign have been
theoretically reconstituted in the ecosocial semiotic perspective to this end.
Moreover, the two dimensions are not constitutively separable and must,
therefore, be seen as components of a single self-organizing system of relations
on diverse levels.
Modern theories of consciousness, on the other hand, have stressed the
autonomy and individuality of consciousness to such an extent that they have
failed to throw off the shackles of their Cartesian solipsistic inheritance.
Consciousness, which can never be autonomous in this sense, always exists in the
context of both the lower-scalar and the higher-scalar dynamical relations and
processes which produce and sustain it. Lukacs (1980 [1978]: 105-6) has
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 237
observed that the human body can exist without consciousness, but that con-
sciousness cannot exist without the lower-scalar biological processes that sustain
consciousness in the body-brain complex. This shows that lower-scalar physical,
chemical, and biological constraints work through consciousness. By the same
token, consciousness constrains these lower-scalar dynamical processes. The
division of labour between body and soul is, thus, an untenable one; it is one
which reflects actual social divisions of labour such as the current one between a
medical science and technology of the body qua organism and a religious one of
the individual soul that is housed in the body. Lukacs's understanding of the
mastery of consciousness over biological processes can now be seen as referring
to the ways in which higher-order or symbolic consciousness constitutes the most
highly specified level in an integrative hierarchy containing progressively less
specified outer levels. Thus, the individual is comprised of a number of different
integrative levels (Salthe 1993: 70), which are constructed from the viewpoints of
different (theoretical) discourses, viz. physical, chemical, biological, ecosocial
semiotic, and psychological. From the perspective of an ontology of social being,
to paraphrase Lukacs, each of these levels constitutes a set of constraints, all of
which operate on the overall system of relations. With reference to the individual
agent, higher-order consciousness is the most highly specified level because it is
symbolic in nature and function. It cannot, therefore, be reduced to or explained
in terms of the constraints operating on the lower physical, chemical or biological
levels. Instead, it contextually integrates these to its own level so as to complete
them in the time-bound process of constructing and construing an individual self.
Lukacs thus draws attention to the ways in which constraints pertaining to the
highest level - viz. the symbolic - operate on the lowest, least specified level of
the physical existence of the body-as-thing obeying the physical laws of nature.
We now come back to the question of how semiosis acts on and shapes con-
sciousness. This is not, in my view,a matter of linguistic and other semiotic forms
causally acting on individual consciousness in a direct, unmediated way. Instead,
the lexicogrammatical resources along with their typical patterns of use mediate
and entrain consciousness to their patterns. This is so in the sense that their forms
and the categorial distinctions these construe have evolved as a result of the
teleological positings of individuals. Consequently, these forms are not reducible
to the biological mechanisms which sustain them in the individual. Human social
semiotic systems have arisen in relation to social practices and orientations, rather
than to purely biological ones. For this reason, the use of particular semiotic
forms requires that social agents appropriately orient to their social contexts in
and through the discursive deployment of these forms, rather than to the forms
perse. Semiotic forms of all kinds are mediated by higher-order meaning-making
practices whereby agents position and orient themselves to each other and to
their contexts by means of specific co-deployments of such forms. (See Lemke
1990; Thibault 1991a for earlier formulations of the relationship between social
semiotic resource systems and social meaning-making practices.)
The question of how individuals are integrated with space-time scales that go
beyond the here-now environmental samplings that are characteristic of primary
consciousness require us to return to the following question: what is the nature
of the higher-scalar level(s) above the individual? In order to answer this
238 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
question, I propose that we need to investigate the social meaning-making
practices in and through which linguistic and other semiotic forms are eo-
deployed in both social interaction and inner semiosis. Consciousness, I
suggested above, entails the recognition of meaning in our experience. Meaning
does not refer uniquely to linguistic meaning, though this is clearly an important
dimension of symbolic or higher-order consciousness. Primary consciousness,
which is based on biologically driven perceptual and conceptual categorization,
is meaningful because it involves the perception of pattern in experience and
the ability to assign form to that pattern by way of conceptual categorization.
Nevertheless, these patterns are not uniquely private or individual experiences
that are locked away in the head of the individual. They are always linked to
larger-scale supersystem transactions between individuals and their environ-
ments. What are often referred to as 'inner' cognitive processes can, therefore,
be seen as forms of meaningful pattern recognition on lower integrative levels in
precisely this sense. Higher-order consciousness does not mean that primary
consciousness and its categorizations are transcended. Instead, the former
integrates the latter so as to contextually complete it. Higher-order conscious-
ness involves a higher level of meaningful activity whereby the recognition of
pattern and meaning in experience is linked to meanings and contexts which
are characteristic of a given culture as a whole. This indicates the need to
represent consciousness contextually, rather than seeing it as simply being
'about' something which it represents. Rather than a simple pairing of conscious
awareness and the object of this awareness, the approach I am developing here
assumes that there is a pattern in this relationship and that this relationship has
structure at logically higher orders of abstraction than either the conscious self
or the observed phenomenon (object of consciousness).
In this chapter, I shall explore the contextual character of consciousness by
refracting the questions raised in this section through the metafunctional theory
of linguistic and other modalities of semiosis that has been developed in
systemic-functional linguistics. In so doing, I shall argue that consciousness at all
levels is intrinsically organized in terms of a diversity of (proto)-metafunctional
parameters. These parameters help to define the various ways in which
consciousness is integrated to both its lower- and higher-scalar environments.
2. The Metafunctions and the Shape of Consciousness
A central assumption of systemic-functional linguistic theory is that lexicogram-
matical form is only describable with reference to semantics. In both formallin-
guistics and the information-processing model of cognition, on the other hand,
syntax and neurophysiological brain processes are describable without reference
to meaning. In both cases, cognition consists in the explicit manipulation of
symbols in the mind according to rules based on formal logic. Edelman's theory
of neural activities in the brain shows, on the other hand, that meaning is
globally organized in the brain in terms of self-organizing topological regions.
Edelman's observations resonate well with the view that meaning is a multi-
dimensional semantic space which is informed by a topological perspective
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 239
(Halliday and Matthiessen 1999: 70-1). Halliday and Matthiessen point out that
the topological perspective allows for indeterminacy in the sense that different
regions of meaning overlap. Lexicogrammar is embodied in dynamical
attractors or constrained pathways through the multidimensional semantic
space. This observation is supported by the emergence of a lexicogrammar in
the transition from protolanguage to adult language (Halliday 1993: 96).
Lexicogrammar acts as a dynamical attractor for both bodily processes and
the phenomena of experience. This is so by virtue of its interface with both the
expression stratum and its interface with the semantics of the content stratum.
Thus, lexicogrammatical neural pathways through the multidimensional
semantic space entrain both meaning and sensori-motor activity as dialogically
organized and oriented meaning-making acts. The higher-order boundary
conditions of these dynamics correspond to the discourse genres and social
activity-types of a given culture. Contextualized acts of meaning-making are
mapped onto a vector space of cooperating neurons which constrains both the
sensori-motor activities and the semantic features which are activated. This
suggests that neural activities involved in meaning and consciousness can exert
downwardly causal effects on bodily processes so as to produce socially
meaningful action. The individual agent's internalized meaning potential can
thus be seen as a set of attractors which refer to the system's self-organized
internal dynamics. However, this internalized meaning potential is neither
pre-given in the form of innate rules nor externally imposed by social norms.
Instead, it is the elaborated product of the individual's transactions both with the
higher-scalar ecosocial system and the specific contexts in which meaning-
making occurs. Meaning is thus embodied in self-organizing neural networks
which constitute a multidimensional semantic space.
The emergence of lexicogrammar in the transition from protolanguage
to language is an epigenetic process based on the child's experience of and
participation in the social meaning-making practices of the social group. The
developmental progression from protolanguage to language entails that the
emergence of language is an additional level of semiotic specification which,
however, holistically integrates the prior protolinguistic stage to its own semiotic
level. Protolanguage is not transcended when language emerges; rather, it is
restructured by the higher integrative level at the same time as it continues to
exert its own effects on the higher level (Salthe 1993: 85). The child's entrain-
ment to the practices of the group likewise entrains his or her dynamic neuro-
logical organization. The move from the child's first symbolic acts, comprising
an expression and a meaning without a lexicogrammar, to the adult language is
a catastrophic reorganization of the multidimensional semantic space and the
reconfiguring of the lexicogrammatical pathways through it such that four
distinct regions of meaning are simultaneously attracted to these pathways.
In the adult language, the four metafunctional domains of meaning are
strongly coupled within the grammar of the clause, along with other levels of
organization below this (see chapter 3, section 12, pp. 154-8). The increased
coupling of the four metafunctions is evidenced in the child's developmental
progression from early protolanguage to the adult language, as demonstrated in
the longitudinal studies undertaken by Halliday (1975, 1978b, 1993), Painter
240 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
(1984), and Oldenburg (1987), as well as the work of Trevarthen. As these
studies show, protolanguage does not exhibit this strong coupling of semantic
functions which are intrinsic to lexicogrammatical form in the adult language.
The coupling of the metafunctions occurs as the child develops a lexicogram-
matical system which reorganizes the prior system, which consisted of vocaliza-
tions which realized situationally specific meanings without the presence of a
lexicogrammar. Language development is not caused by prior, organism-internal
factors, but by epigenetic experiences which foster the child's entrainment into
the practices of the adult system of those who surround him or her. The fact that
these changes are accompanied by development of the frontal cortex during this
crucial early period of language development raises the question as to how the
development of the adult language in the individual, with its strong internal
coupling of metafunctional components in the grammar, contributes to the
shaping of brain activity through the reentrant mapping of external linguistic
activity onto internal neural activity.
If language is intrinsically organized so as to enable individuals as complex
systems to semiotically construe, interact with, and create meaningful ties to
their ecosocial environments, then it should follow that the intrinsic metafunc-
tional organization of language form in some way contributes to the shaping of
consciousness itself. A number of important implications flow from this formu-
lation. First, the notions of construing and constructing, in place of the idea of
representation, indicate that the process of categorization is an active and
contextualized one. It is not a matter of acquiring a set ofinternal symbols which
represent external reality, as in the traditional cognitive science account.
Secondly, the intrinsic metafunctional organization of semiotic forms further
indicates that categorization has frequently been too narrowly defined in terms
of the ideational function of language-as-thought. This tendency has been at the
expense of seeing language both as action and a means of preserving a
wholeness or unity of meaning in context such that individuals and the
meanings theyjointly make in their interactions with others are felt to be part of
a larger organizational whole which links embodied individuals to their
surrounding milieu in textured and coherent ways.
Halliday has often argued that language and, by extension, other semiotic
resources have evolved and are organized as they are on account of the social
uses they have been put to over very many generations of evolutionary time (e.g.
1978a: 187). In other words, our semiotic resources have eo-evolved along with
the social and biological contexts of their deployment. If consciousness emerges
as the higher-order experiencing of one's own embodied experiencing, then
language and other semiotic resources can be seen as having eo-evolved along
with the emergence of consciousness as a way of mediating the experiencing of
experiencing. It follows from this that our semiotic resources and their intrinsic
design features are deeply implicated in the very nature of consciousness. This is
not the same as saying that all of consciousness can be reduced to questions of
language per se. Rather, the implication-cum-presupposition hierarchy of icon,
index, and symbol shows that both primary and higher-order consciousness,
both of which are modes of experiencing of experiencing, are mediated by the
possibilities of iconic, indexical, and symbolic semiosis. Experience itself shows
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 241
multilevel complexity, interactional relationism, and dynamic contingency, and
the task of our semiotic resources is to mediate these characteristics in the
perspective of the self who undergoes the experience in question.
In this chapter, I shall explore the implications of the metafunctions for the
structure and functioning of consciousness on various levels of specification.
I shall begin this discussion in the following section by first considering some
of the vague and very general proto-metafunctional characteristics that
are discernible in the infant's earliest perceptual-motor engagements with the
environment. Aswe shall see, the (proto)-metafunctional shape of consciousness
entails a contextual, rather than a solipsistic, view of consciousness.
3. Vague Contours of the Metafunctions in the Infant's Early Perceptual-
motor Engagements with the Environment
Current accounts of consciousness, in reducing it to a question of physical brain
states and processes, or in failing to account for language other than as a device
for 'reporting' or 'representing' individual, indeed soli psis tic, conscious
experience, fail to account for the fact that consciousness is itself context-bound,
intrinsically dialogic, and meaningful through and through (see also Volosinov
1973 [1930], 1976 [1927]). It is based on the viewpoints which agents can adopt
on account of the semantic phase space of meaningful alternatives that are
available to them in a given ecosocial semiotic system. The question arises as to
how we can connect individual consciousness to the higher-scalar ecosocial system,
and in ways that indicate the complex, open and non-linear dynamics of con-
sciousness. In other words, how can we indicate its temporal and spatial
grounding, the richly patterned connectivity that may implicate networks of
relations across many diverse space-time scales, the sense of being part of and
related to a wider social and perceptual field of relations which includes others? In
order to forge the semiotically mediated link between the intrinsic dynamics of
agents, the systems of meaningful alternatives available to them, and the higher-
scalar ecosocial environment, I shall propose that individual body-brain complexes
and their dynamics are embedded in and entrained by systems of social meaning-
making practices which characterize a given society or some part of this.
Edelmari's theory of neuronal group selection has shown us how the brain, on
the basis of its ongoing sensori-motor exploration of the environment, self-
organizes as a consequence of its context-bound interactions with the ecosocial
and material environments within which it is embedded. In the first instance, the
newborn infant builds up perceptual-motor categories of objects, events, actions,
and so on, through the multimodal reentrant mapping of his or her time-bound
experiences ofseeing, listening, touching, moving, and so on (Thelen and Smith
1994: 187). My re-analysis of Halliday's (1975, 1978b, 1993) account of how
children 'learn how to mean' drew attention to the intrinsically multimodal
character of the dynamics of early language development (Thibault 2000a; and
in this volume chapter 4, section 10, pp. 202-5). Thelen and Smith point out
that such multimodal correspondences 'are the cause of development rather
than a product of development' (1994: 187). Furthermore, Edelman's notion of
242 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
in-built values shows how the newborn is selectively nudged along certain trajec-
tories of multimodal perceptual-motor engagement with the world in order that
he or she is entrained into the patterns that are most salient and useful for his
or her further development. The values that Edelman speaks about are
biological and are part of our evolutionary inheritance. It is the child's spon-
taneous intrinsic dynamics which interact with and engage the ecosocial
environment such that the time-bound activity of the system extends and
changes the values available to the child for further exploration and interpreta-
tion of its environment. Thelen and Smith have expressed the multimodal basis
of the child's earliest experiences as follows:
... infants discover action and object categories through the cross-correlation
of multimodal experiences. The disjunctive, heterogeneous experiences of
hearing and seeing and feeling and moving are all time-locked and change
together as the infants' activity, state and actions change. We proposed that
infants discover the category-relroant properties of objects and events -
invariant cues to shape, color, and texture across changes in lighting, per-
spective, and distance - through their multimodal and activity-dependent
experiences of objects. Likewise, they discover patterns of coordination that
provide functional actions through movement and its perceptual conse-
quences. These ideas turn the usual developmental stories backward:
multimodal correspondences are the cause of development rather than a
productof development. (Thelen and Smith 1994: 187)
The early processes of perceptual-motor category formation are not driven by
pre-coded genetic patterns which predetermine the course of development.
Category formation is a dynamical process of self-organization which occurs as
a consequence of the individual's time-bound interactions with his or her
environment. Halliday's (l992a: 21) claim that meaning arises 'out of the impact
of the conscious and the material, as mutually contradictory forms of
experience' supports the claims of Thelen and Smith. The conscious domain -
i.e. 'in here' - refers to the internal dynamics of the child; the material- i.e. 'out
there' - refers, on the other hand, to the environment of objects, events, actions,
and so on, which the child perceives and engages with through his or her activity-
dependent exploration of it. The child's earliest encounters with the world in
the first four months or so are essentially iconic or topological-continuous in
character. The essential point is that the multimodal stimulus information
concerning features of objects and events such as colour, texture, shape, and so
on, that infants pick up is necessarily correlated - in and through the child's own
active, movement-based exploration - with perceived events in the world.
Thus, typical associations are built up on the basis of a regularity in the
associations which is perceived through successive explorations over a period of
time. Edelman's theory of neuronal group selection explains how such regular
multimodal associations of events in the world are reentrantly mapped as
patterns of connections in the brain. The further point to be made here is that
even in this first, iconic-topological phase of proto-meaning-making, there is a
higher-order system of interpretance of matter, energy and information flows
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 243
which regulate the transactions between the child's internal dynamics and the
stimulus information which is received about events in the world (see chapter I,
section 3, pp. 11-18). The fact that perceptual-motor categories are formed
through the selective strengthening of groups of neurons on the basis of such
multimodal associations of stimulus information indicates that thirdness - i.e.
explicit principles of interpretation and systematicity - is being constructed in
the course of the interactions between the child's internal dynamics and the
environment.
The observations of Thelen and Smith also show, in my view, the existence of
a very vague, imprecise outline or contour of proto-metafunctional organization
in this earliest perceptual-motor phase of categorization. Thus, we have (l)
proto-ideational meanings in the form of the child's multimodal experiences of
the category-relevant properties of objects and events; (2) proto-interpersonal
meanings in the form of the child's active exploration and engagement with the
world, largely on the basis of 'movement and its perceptual consequences', as
well as through the socio-affective exchanges between child and mother; and (3)
proto-textual meanings in the form of patterns of co-ordination between child
and his or her surroundings that provide functional action through movement.
At this early perceptual-motor stage, the child's relationship to the world is a
topological-continuous one. The child's internal dynamics are probably not
strongly differentiated from the external, material world. The one is seen as
being in a relationship of continuous variation or merging with the other. This
does not mean that there is no distinction; rather, the distinction is not a sharply
defined, or typological-categorial, one.
When the child begins to move into protolanguage around the age of three
to five months, the early protolinguistic signs produced by the child - e.g. the
high-pitched squeak in Halliday's example (chapter 4, section 10, pp. 202-5) -
are the child's first conscious attempts to produce signs in order to engage
others interpersonally. This is not to say that interpersonal exchange between
child and mother begins with the onset of these protolinguistic signs. As we have
seen, interpersonal dyads characterize the very earliest stage of infant-mother
interactions. The difference lies in the largely iconic, topological-continuous
character of the socio-affective exchanges that regulate the earliest stages on the
basis of continuous flows of matter, energy, and information between mother
and child. The move into protolanguage is, on the other hand, indexical; these
protolinguistic indexical signs are contiguous with the contextual values they
index, in contrast with the continuous nature of the iconic mode whereby the
intrinsic dynamics of the child and the flux of ambient stimulus information
about the external world are only vaguely differentiated from each other as
continuous variation, rather than categorial (digital) distinction.
Halliday (1975, 1992a, 1993) points out that the simple signs of proto-
language have Just two surfaces, interfaces between the conscious and the two
facets of the material (content purport) and expression purport), such that
meaning consists in making the transduction between them' (l992a: 22). That
is, a simple, situation-specific semantics is directly realized by vocal or other
gestural means without, however, the mediation of a lexicogrammar. At this
stage, the proto-metafunctions are no longer vague, inchoate possibilities, barely
244 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
discernible in the many degrees of topological freedom of the iconic mode.
Rather, their future, fully grammaticalized outlines can now be glimpsed in the
proto-metafunctions of this indexical phase. In Nigel's high-pitched squeak, for
example, there is (l) proto-ideational meaning, 'attending to phenomenon of
experience'; (2) proto-interpersonal meaning, 'dialogically engaging mother/
demanding explanation'; (3) proto-textual meaning, 'linking internal
perception to external event within sharable purview of parent-child dyad
through use of indexical sign to selectively attend to/point to event'.
The movement from the initial iconic stage to the indexical protolinguistic
one arises as a consequence of the child's ongoing, time-bound interactions with
the environment in the course of which higher-order regularities or principles
of interpretation come to be constructed. Thus, we see how the activity of the
dyad progressively resets the values of the emerging system as simple, bi-stratal
protolinguistic signs appear in the system. This resetting ofvalues shows how the
perceptual-motor activity of the child's environmental explorations in the initial
system produces positive feedback. The resulting positive feedback, in turn,
leads the system far from equilibrium. As a consequence, the newly emergent
higher-order constraints of the indexical mode provide new values so that the
system is nudged still further along its trajectory. The new constraints of
protolanguage, again in concert with the child's internal dynamics, mean that
the attractor pattern in which the child is located is re-structured such that the
probabilities of the system as a whole are realigned.
The move into grammar, as Halliday characterizes the transition to truly
symbolic semiosis, involves the emergence of a tri-stratal semiotic system of the
kind first outlined in chapter I, section lO, pp. 46-9. The semantics is now
realized by a lexicogrammar. The increasing dynamism of the meta-redundancy
relations between strata (see chapter 1, section 6, pp. 26-30) means that the
values of the system are constantly being re-set from instance to instance
(Halliday 1992a: 29). This can only happen because of the essentially open,
dynamic character of stratified semiotic systems such as language. Such systems
are involved in constant exchanges with their environments through the
activities of the agents who use the system for their own purposes in particular
contexts. Consequently, the order - the meaning-making potential - of the
system increases. Semiotic systems are open, far-from-equilibrium systems.
Rather than settling into a state of equilibrium, far-from-equilibrium systems
maintain themselves through constant exchanges of matter, energy, and infor-
mation between the internal dynamics of the system and its external environ-
ments. Biological and social semiotic systems are both examples of this kind of
system. Such systems exhibit a number of fundamental characteristics. First, they
have complexity. That is, the components which comprise the system interact in
very many heterogeneous and non-linear ways. Secondly, they are dissipative
structures because they maintain their organizational complexity by obtaining
matter, energy, and information from environmental sources and by exporting
or dissipating some of this energy back into their external environments.
Dissipative structures are systems that exist far from equilibrium.
Dynamic open systems which both have complexity and are dissipative
structures also show another important property: they are self-organizing
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 245
systems. The child's dyadic exchanges with his or her caregivers ensure that his
or her internal dynamics are being supplied with a constant supply of potentially
meaningful information. The emergence of language and other symbolic
modalities out of the prior proto-semiotic modes is a case in point. The system
as a whole shifts from one global principle of organization to another. The
appearance of lexicogrammar in ontogenesis is a form of emergent organization
which has fundamentally different organizational properties from the elements
that constitute the prior system and cannot be predicted on the basis of the prior
state of the system. In proto-semiosis, the various meanings - proto-ideational,
proto-interpersonal, proto-textual - are realized as discrete acts, which Halliday
(1975, 1993) has described as 'microfunctions'. On the other hand, the
emergence of lexicogrammar entails the slaving of the various functional
components to a global principle of organization, which is metafunctional. This
metafunctional principle may be considered, following Haken (1977), to be an
order parameter. This means that the system as a whole is now constrained by a
very few metafunctional parameters on account of the appearance of a lexi-
cogrammar which is 'slotted in' between the phonetic and semantic levels of
organization of the prior protolinguistic system.
This type of self-organization typifies complex systems which are engaged in
constant transactions with their semiotic and material environments. Such a
system is, as Halliday puts it, a multidimensional and highly elastic semantic
space; it has a very large and constantly evolving meaning-making potential, as
well as a large number of potential cooperative modes both with the physical-
material world and with other semiotic modalities (e.g. gesture, movement,
depiction, and so on). In generating local points of instability, particular eo-
patternings of meaning-making selections can function to attract possibilities
from other modalities. Such local asymmetries are amplified the further the
system is from equilibrium. In this way, self-organizing systems are attracted to a
preferred configuration out of many possible ones. When language emerges
from protolanguage, it does so under the enslaving influence of an order
parameter, viz. a metafunctionally organized lexicogrammar. The system is thus
attracted to this preferred mode. In this way, lexicogrammar is an attractor state:
the system prefers the principles of organization of its state space and its semi-
otically salient distinctions (values) over others. Lexicogrammar as state space
refers to the overall system of values within which the degrees of freedom of the
system is embedded in specific contexts of use. Thus, the parameters of this state
space are constantly adjusted and redefined according to the contexts which
bring the system into contact with its environment. The emergence of lexi-
cogrammar moves the system into an n-dimensional semiotic space (Halliday
1992a: 25) such that the state space of the system is defined as an abstraction of
the possible values of the terms in n-dimensional space, where n refers to the
total number of terms - the system of semiotically salient differences, or values
in the Saussurean parlance - that constitute the system.
The iconic, indexical, and symbolic modes may be seen as stable states along
the pathway to the emergence of higher-order or symbolic consciousness. In a
given phase state, the system exists in a particular attractor landscape (Thelen
and Smith 1994: 56), which is defined by the overall system of interacting
246 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
variables that define the system's dynamics and by its initial conditions. In fact,
the system is never really static, but is constantly responding and adapting to
environmental transactions. The shift from one state to another in ontogenesis
- iconic to indexical to symbolic - is a qualitative leap to a new phase state such
that the entire attractor landscape is reorganized. The overall dynamical organ-
ization of the system is transformed. The shift from iconic to indexical and
symbolic modalities of semiosis in ontogenesis progressively means that the
dynamics of the body-brain complex are entrained into the global dynamical
organization of higher-scalar ecosocial relations and processes. In this way, the
neural activity of individuals is entrained to the meaning-making practices and
the semiotically salient differences of the ecosocial level of organization.
Symbolic consciousness emerges out of and constrains, without ever totally tran-
scending, the less specified perceptual-motor and conceptual forms of catego-
rization that are characteristic of primary consciousness (Edelman 1992: chapter
11). The iconic and indexical modes are always nested within and integrated by
the symbolic mode in terms of the logic of the specification hierarchy.
It is important to draw attention here to the fundamentally multimodal
character of all human meaning-making. The multimodal character of symbolic
modalities of semiosis is built upon and does not entirely transcend the
multimodal character of the infant's earliest multimodal sensori-motor explo-
rations of his or her environment in the process of perceptual-motor category
formation. Moreover, the longer phylogenetic history of pre-linguistic ore-facial
and manual-brachial gestures with respect to language does not mean that
language transcends or otherwise stands independent of these phylogenetically
prior forms. Rather, the historical emergence of language led to its multimodal
integration with other semiotic modalities. Rather than impeding the full
flowering of language as the ultimate expression of human rationality, this
process of integration has afforded the possibility of the evolution of new genres
and ways of making meaning including the multimedia and hypertext genres
characteristic of the age of the Internet.
In the next section, Gibson's ecological theory of perceptual awareness will
be examined in order to see what it can contribute to the semiotic theory of
consciousness that I am developing here.
4. The Structure of (Self)Consciousness in Perceptual Awareness
Gibson (1986 [1979]: chapter 7) shows that the information specifying the self
(proprioception) and the information specifying the perceived environment
(exteroception) are not two different kinds of information. Instead, they are two
poles of attention based on the same kind of information. The perceiving of an
environmental event means perceiving that event as occurring 'there', at a
certain distance from the perceiver, and so on. Thus, Gibson shows that the
perceptual awareness of objects and events in one's environment is also and
always self-awareness of one's self as the one who perceives those objects and
events in the perspective of the self (see also Battacchi 1999: 57). Reference to
perceived objects and self-reference are no more than two poles of attention of
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 247
a single overarching operation which necessarily always implicates both poles.
Gibson's observations show that the act of perception is always grounded in the
perspective of the self qua perceiver. Thus, we see how the principle of
grounding, which is of crucial importance in the operation of language, also
operates at the lower integrative levels of perceptual awareness and pre-linguistic
conceptual thinking. Individuals are likewise aware of the fact that the
perceptual and mental states which they experience are experienced as their
own. That is, perceptual and mental states are grounded in the perspective of
the self who has this experience. Battacchi (1998: 6) argues on this basis that
consciousness necessarily entails not only an awareness of one's own mental
states, but also a concomitant awareness that the mental states are one's own. For
this reason, Battacchi proposes the term' (self) consciousness' in order to draw
attention to the fact that 'consciousness is always self-consciousness' (1998: 6; see
also Battacchi 1996).
Gibson's discussion of the two poles of attention implicated in perception is a
useful starting point for exploring the question of how others can access the
self's perceptual awareness and states of consciousness. Let us start with
perception. The first question I shall consider is how and to what extent an
individual act of perception, grounded at a particular self, can be re-grounded
by another individual who is observing the first individual's act of perception and
trying to figure out what the first individual is perceiving. This happens in the
case of gaze-following by primates. Bogdan (2000: 110-13; see also chapter 4,
section 9, pp. 201-2, for further discussion) discusses how primates recognize
the vectorial quality of another's gaze so that they are able to track the direction
of the other's gaze. Furthermore, this involves an act of interpretation on the
part of the observer such that the observer is able to follow the gaze vector's
directionality in order to determine the target of the observed individual's gaze
(Bogdan 2000: Ill). From the point of view of the individual who performs the
act of gazing, we can say that this individual is simultaneously aware of the target
of his or her gaze qua object of attention, along with the fact the individual's
perceptual awareness of this target is grounded in the perspective of the
particular self who has the experience. This grounding of the perceptual
awareness in the perspective of a self is both iconic and indexical in character
and is, therefore, tied to the individual's material interactivity with the
immediate environment in which the act of gazing occurs. Moreover, the self is
aware not only that it is the selfwho has the given experience, but also the nature
of the specific perceptual modality - visual perception, in this case - in which the
perceived object is experienced. The two poles of this relationship may be
schematized as follows:
[[PERCEIVING SELF --> [PERCEIVED OBJECT]]
In my view, the two poles of this experience are precisely what enables the
experience to be reconstructed from the perspective of an observer of the self's
actions. That is, the observer is able to re-ground the experience from his or her
perspective by virtue of the contextualizing relations which the observer
construes (interprets) between the observed selfi's gaze vector and the gazed-at-
248 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
object. In turn, the contextual relationship between these two factors is re-
contextualized on a higher level by the observer, i.e. from the perspective of the
observer quaselfs. This re-contextualization shows that even at the lower integra-
tive level of perceptual awareness, both humans and non-human primates have
the ability to re-ground the perceptual experience of another and to interpret it
from the perspective of their own self. This does not mean that the observer, for
example, is able to stand in the shoes, so to speak, of the observed self and have
the same experience. The distinction between first- and third-person accounts of
consciousness (chapter 4, section 1, pp. 171-3) is something of a red herring.
Instead, the observer's ability to re-ground another's perceptual experience
shows that even at this level, there exists the possibility of interpreting another's
experience from one's own perspective in the way described above. In any case,
both the perceptual experience of the observed self and its re-grounding by an
observer are tied to a particular perceptual purview on the immediate here-now
scale of the body in interaction with its immediate environment.
For example, the observer (self,) in our example must be able to observe and,
therefore, to visually track the observed self.'s gaze vector to its target. What is
important is that self and observer belong to the same higher-scalar system of
interpretance. It is the integration of self and observer to this SI and its
consequent mediation of the information deriving from them which determines
whether this information is meaningful to other selves who share the same SI
and its perspectives. Thus we see that the lower integrative level of perceptual
experience and the forms of consciousness that derive from it are not randomly
different from one individual to another. The perception of environmental
events from the grounded perspective of a self and the interpretation of the
self's perception from the standpoint of an observer are possible because both
environment and the individual conspecifics who act and perceive in that
environment are integrated to and participate in higher-scalar relationships
which define and regulate possible individual-environment transactions. This
means that (1) the individual's sensori-motor interactions with and responses to
the environment, in spite of individual differences and variations from one
individual to another, reflect patterns of interaction that are typical of all those
individuals who participate in the same environment; and (2) the perspectives of
self and observer in our example can be co-ordinated in the way described
because each individual's sensori-motor patterns of interaction share funda-
mental characteristics with those conspecifics who have been entrained to the
same kinds of self-environment transactions.
As we shall see in section 5, Damasio's neurobiological account of conscious-
ness is based on self-object transactions. Damasio's account also begins to reveal
the proto-metafunctional character of consciousness. In sections 5 and 6, I shall
examine Damasio's theory with this perspective in mind.
5. Damasio's Neurobiological Theory of Consciousness
Damasio proposes a neurobiological theory of consciousness which is based on
'two intimately related problems' (1999: 9). Damasio explains these two aspects
of consciousness as follows:
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 249
The first is the problem of understanding how the brain inside the human
organism engenders the mental patterns we call, for lack of a better term, the
images of an object. By object I mean entities as diverse as a person, a place, a
melody, a toothache, a state of bliss; by image I mean a mental pattern in any
of the sensory modalities, e.g. a sound image, a tactile image, the image of a
state of being. Such images convey aspects of the physical characteristics of
the object and they may also convey the reaction of like or dislike one may
have for an object, the plans one may formulate for it, or the web of relation-
ships of that object among other objects. (Damasio 1999: 9)
The second problem is defined as follows:
This is the problem of how, in parallel with engendering mental patterns for
an object, the brain also engenders a sense of self in the act of knowing. To
help me clarify what I mean by selfand knowing, I urge you to check their
presence in your own mind right now.
You are looking at this page, reading the text and constructing the
meaning of my words as you go along. But concern with text and meaning
hardly describes all that goes on in your mind. In parallel with representing
the printed words and displaying the conceptual knowledge required to
understand what I wrote, your mind also displays something else, something
sufficient to indicate, moment by moment, that you rather than anyone else
are doing the reading and the understanding of the text. The sensory images
of what you perceive externally, and the related images you recall, occupy
most of the scope of your mind, but not all of it. Besides those images there
is also this other presence that signifies you, as observer of the things imaged,
owner of the things imaged, potential actor on the things imaged. There is a
presence of you in a particular relationship with some object. (Damasio
1999: 9-10)
Damasio's definition illustrates the principle mentioned earlier that conscious-
ness is an evolved way of mediating the experience of experiencing. Conscious-
ness, Damasio observes, 'from its basic levels to its most complex, is the unified
mental pattern that brings together the object and the self' (1999: 11). The
bringing together of self and object means that the two interact in some way; self
may be generalized as an observer system which interacts with some other system
- the object - and therefore forms some kind of interactive relationship with it.
The mental images which the self forms of the object constitute meaningful
information internal to the self. These images constitute a selective mapping of
information in the environments - both external and bodily - onto the observer
system's internal structure in order that the system can impose order and pattern
on environmental fluctuations. The interactive relation between self and object
may be seen in terms of what Peirce called 'firstness' and 'secondness' (see
chapter 1, section 8, pp. 34-9). While self in Damasio's account would be a first,
the interaction between self and its object is a second. Furthermore, it is clear
that the interaction between self and object is not random, but takes place in an
organized - Damasios term is 'unified' - field of mental images (of the object)
250 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
which mediate between self and object and which enable the two to be placed in
some kind of interactive relationship with one another. Again, we see that we
have self-awareness not of the self per se, but of the self-in-interaction-with-
surround (i.e. the internal milieu and the external environment). That is, we
loop on the whole Batesonian loop, including both efferent and afferent
elements, such that the 'out there' that we construe as being different from the
'in here' is recursively mapped in the brain as an internalization of self-object
transactions.
The system of relations described by Damasio may be seen in terms of the
three-level scalar hierarchy (chapter I, section 3, pp. 11-18). It is important to
point out here that Damasio's description of the self as 'this other presence that
signifies you, as observer of the things imaged, ...' does not refer to the brain
per se, but to a self-referential perspective which is neurologically realized in
specific areas of the brain (Damasio 1999: 25). In terms of the three-level scalar
hierarchy, interactions between selfand object constitute the focal level L. Below
this level, there is the specific neurobiological organization of the individual
organism (not the self) which predisposes the organism to certain kinds of inter-
action with objects in both its inner (bodily) and outer environments and to
form mental images of these. This is the L-Ilevel. Above the focal level, there is
a system of interpretance, which is comprised of the perceptual-motor inter-
actions between the organism and its inner and outer environments and which
forms the basis on which mental images of environmental objects are inter-
preted and understood. This is the L+I level. The vaguely semiotic appeal,
whether intended or not, of Damasio's designation of the self as 'this other
presence that signifies you' (my italics) suggests that the self is realized by
lower-level neurological events, but is not reducible to these.
Overall, Damasios description of the basic components of what he calls core
consciousness shows how levels L-I and L are contextually integrated by the
higher-scalar level, L+I, at the same time as being self-reflexively connected to
the higher-scalar level which provides a theory of the lower levels (Salthe 1993:
49). It is the higher level which interprets - contextually integrates - the lower
levels. This last point is illustrated by Damasio's discussion of the importance of
mental images in the guiding of action (1999: 24). That is, mental images
formed in core consciousness are a means for guiding the self's interactions with
the object. Damasio puts it like this:
Images allow us to choose among repertoires of previously available patterns
of action and optimize the delivery of the chosen action - we can, more or less
deliberately, more or less automatically, review mentally the images which
represent different options of action, different scenarios, different outcomes
of action. We can pick and choose the most appropriate and reject the bad
ones. Images also allow us to invent new actions to be applied to novel
situations and to construct plans for future actions - the ability to transform
and combine images of actions and scenarios is the wellspring of creativity.
(Damasio 1999: 24)
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 251
and
Consciousness generates the knowledge that images exist within the
individual who forms them, it places images in the organism's perspective by
referring those images to an integrated representation of the organism, and,
in so doing, allows the manipulation of the images to the organism's
advantage. Consciousness, when it appears in evolution, announces the dawn
of individual forethought. (Damasio 1999: 24-25)
The mental images formed in the brain on the basis of the organism's inter-
actions with its internal and external environments contextually integrate
organism and object such that the organism may selectively represent the given
object and act in relation to it. Importantly, these image-object relations are
symbolic; they are not indexically connected to particular external environmen-
tal objects and events. Instead, the mental image symbolically interprets its
object. For this reason, the organism is able to exercise choices in action and
response from among a repertoire of symbolic possibilities which are internal-
ized in its Innenwelt. Furthermore, these organism-object transactions are, as I
have argued, integrated into a higher-order system of interpretance. In one
sense, all of the basic components of consciousness occur within the brain of the
individual. However, I have shown that the logic of the three-level scalar
hierarchy applies here as well. In other words, there can be no reduction to
neural events per se. Core consciousness is, in the first instance, a form of proto-
semiosis whereby the higher-scalar level of the organism-environment transac-
tions - i.e. the system of interpretance - is internalized as the organism's
here-now Innenwelt in the form of mental images which are grounded in the
perspective of the self who observes and experiences these images. That is,
models of organism-environment transactions constitute a system of inter-
pretance in the Innenwelt such that particular interactions between self and the
objects of (self)consciousness can be interpreted. The fact that mental images
allow the organism to choose among different potential actions implies that
mental images are potentially meaningful in some way to the organism. This
further implies that a higher-scalar system of interpretance allows the organism
to know and act on the here-now scale by formulating contextually appropriate
interpretants.
Mental images, Damasio claims, are created within the brain in order that the
organism may interact with objects 'actually present or recalled' (1999: 25). This
suggests that the mental images of core consciousness, rather than simply repre-
senting something which is already pre-given, may be said to indexically invoke
or otherwise symbolically constrnct their objects. Thus, mental image a is
redundant with object b in the sense that they are both contexts for each other's
interpretation (see Lemke 1984c: 36 for this formalism; see also chapter 1,
section 6, pp. 26-30). Damasio had remarked (see above) that images convey
'aspects' of their objects. That is, the reciprocal process of contextualization is a
selective one. However, in terms of the logic of the redundancy relations, the
relation between a and b itself minimally requires a further order of contextual-
izing relations, c, in order to be integrated to or interpreted by some higher-
252 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
scalar system ofinterpretance. That is, for a mental image to be recognized as an
image of an object, there must be a further level of contextualization which
specifies how the a/b relation is to be interpreted or recognized by the self
(Lemke 1984c: 36). This would be suggested by the context-sensitive nature of
neurological processes (see chapter 6, section 4, pp. 290-5). In the here-now
environment of core consciousness, objects in the organism's external and
internal environments form redundancy relations with neurological events such
that mental events are realized. These mental events are signs of environmental
objects and events such that an image is grounded within the perspective of the
self. Consciousness, in this case, would be the higher-order context in which the
a/b relationship between environmental events and neurological events is inter-
preted as a mental image which has meaning in the perspective of the self.
Prior to the conscious core self of Damasio's account, there is the non-
conscious proto-self (Damasio 1999: 173). Damasio outlines the distinction
between unconscious proto-self and conscious core self as follows:
Asfar as the brain is concerned, the organism in the hypothesis is represented
by the proto-self. The key aspects of the organism addressed in the account
are those I indicated as provided in the proto-self: the state of the internal
milieu, viscera, vestibular system, and musculoskeletal system. The account
describes the relationship between the changing proto-self and the sensori-
motor maps of the object that causes those changes. In short: As the brain
forms images of an object - such as a face, a melody, a toothache, the memory
of an event - and as the images of the object affect the state of the organism,
yet another level of brain structure creates a swift nonverbal account of the
events that are taking place in the varied brain regions activated as a conse-
quence of the object-organism interaction. The mapping of the object-related
consequences occurs in first-order neural maps representing proto-self and
object; the account of the causal relationship between object and organism can
only be captured in second-order neural maps. Looking back, with the license
of metaphor, one might say that the swift, second-order nonverbal account
narrates a story: that of the organism caught in the act of representing its own
changing state as it goes about representing something else. But the astonishing fact
is that the knowable entity of the catcher has just been created in the narrative
of the catching process. (Damasio 1999: 170; italics in original)
The relationship between proto-self and the sensori-motor maps of the objects
that cause changes in the proto-self occurs in first-order neural maps. At this
level, there is a first, weak differentiation of proto-self and object, but no
awareness of this differentiation, as shown by the fact that the proto-self changes
in response to environmental fluctuations that cause these changes. Damasio
defines the proto-self as 'a coherent collectionofneural patterns which map, moment by
moment, the state ofthe physical structure ofthe organism in its many dimensions' (1999:
154; italics in original). That is, the proto-self experiences, but has no second-
order experience ofits experiencing. Furthermore, the proto-self 'has no powers
of perception and holds no knowledge' (Damasio 1999: 154). The emergence of
core consciousness and its corollary of a conscious core self is based on second-
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 253
order neural maps which realize an 'account of the causal relationship between
object and organism' (1999: 170). This is where the experience ofexperiencing
enters the picture. Damasio explains core self and core consciousness as follows:
You know that you are conscious, you feel that you are in the act of knowing,
because the subtle imaged account that is now flowing in the stream of your
organism's thoughts exhibits the knowledge that your proto-self has been
changed by an object that has just become salient in the mind. You know you
exist because the narrative exhibits you as protagonist in the act of knowing.
You rise above the sea level of knowing, transiently but incessantly, as a felt
core self, renewed again and again, thanks to anything that comes from
outside the brain into its sensory machinery or anything that comes from the
brain's memory store toward sensory, motor, or autonomic recall. You know it
is you seeing because the story depicts a character - you - doing the
seeing. The first basis for the conscious you is a feeling which arises in the re-
presentation of the nonconscious proto-seifin theprocess of beingmodifiedwithin an
account which establishes the cause of the modification. The first trick behind
consciousness is the creation of this account, and its first result is the feeling
of knowing. (Damasio 1999: 171-2)
The second-order neural maps of core consciousness bring in a further differ-
entiation of the first-order reentrant loop linking proto-self to object. Thus, core
consciousness entails a conscious experience of experiencing, as realized by the
second-order neural maps mentioned by Damasio in the above citation. Core
consciousness is transient; it is linked to the here-now and is non-verbal. Its time-
scale is fractions of seconds. Beyond the core self, there is what Damasio refers
to as the autobiographical self (1999: 172-3). The autobiographical self brings
history into the overall picture. It is built on core consciousness, but is distin-
guished from this by the fact that the transient experiences of the self of core
consciousness can now be committed to memory and at the same time concep-
tualized (Darnasio 1999: 173). The autobiographical self has a past, as well as an
anticipated future. Nevertheless, it too consists of nonverbal images. Damasio
notes that this memory can be expanded and refashioned along one's life
trajectory (1999: 173). The formation of an autobiographical self means that
further differentiations of the self and its relationships to objects - past, present,
and future - can be made. The autobiographical self is based on a concept 'in
the form of dispositional, implicit memories contained in certain intercon-
nected brain networks' (Damasio 1999: 174). The making explicit of these
memories at any given moment means that we move from the experience of
experiencing (core consciousness) to the memory-based conceptualization of
experience. This is what Damasio calls 'extended consciousness' (1999:
195-200).
Darnasio's distinction between the unconscious proto-self and the conscious
core self and the autobiographical self demonstrates the logic of the specifica-
tion hierarchy - both synchronically and developmentally. Thus, there is a
progression from the most vague and general qualities of the proto-self, which
has neither perception nor knowledge, to the transient here-now knowledge that
254 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
the core self has of its mental images through to the more conceptually elaborate
and memory-based images of the autobiographical self of extended conscious-
ness. In this specification hierarchy, it is clear that the autobiographical self is
both more elaborate and more determinate than the less specified proto- and
core selves as a consequence of its memory-based conceptual ability to store
information as well as to individuate this information. This specification hierarchy
of consciousness begins with the absence of observer self-consciousness (proto-
self). This is the least specified level. For this reason, it is also the level that is
furthest from our experience.
The increasingly self-referential perspectives of core consciousness and then
autobiographical consciousness, in Damasio's account, are explainable on the
basis of the increasing specification of these levels, which are closer to the per-
spectives familiar to the observer. As we shall see below, the metafunctional
organization of language can be see as a more specified mode of organization of
higher-order or symbolic consciousness in the form of, for example, conscious,
linguistically mediated thinking (sections 9 'and 10, pp. 271-5). However, the
forms of consciousness which occur on lower integrative levels can also be made
intelligible in terms of the metafunctional principle. This is so for two reasons.
First, the principles of organization imposed by more specified levels such as
symbolic (higher-order) consciousness impose constraints on lower (less
specified) integrative levels. Secondly, statements about the organization of
higher-order consciousness can only be made, at least implicitly, because the
forms of consciousness on lower levels came into existence before the higher
levels. This is so both phylogenetically and ontogenetically. This suggests that less
specified principles of organization on the lower levels are integrated to and
reorganized on the higher levels according to more specified principles.
Importantly, selves can be conscious of mental images which are nonverbal in
character. These images are grounded in the perspective of an intentional self
who attends to these images in consciousness. The unconscious proto-self is
based on first-order neural patterns whereas the core self and the autobio-
graphical self have knowledge of nonverbal second-order mental images. In core
consciousness, these images occur in the here-now, whereas in extended con-
sciousness they can be connected to a past and a future. The imagistic character
of both core and extended consciousness corresponds, in my view, to what Peng
(1994) has called proto-meaning. Mental images are proto-semiotic, although
they already begin to exhibit some of the characteristics of semiosis. I believe it
is right to see these mental images as proto-meanings because they are contents
which are realized by neural events in the brain. One difference with a full-
fledged semiotic system like language is that the same mental image can be
realized by different patterns of neural activity within the individual on different
occasions. Mental images, as well as higher-order nonverbal thoughts, are
de-coupled from neural processes such that the content which is realized by
the neural processes becomes the object of conscious awareness and attention
rather than the neural processes themselves (Juarrero 1999: 90). While there is
no conventional coupling of meaningful mental content to their means of
expression in neural processes, there is, nevertheless, a principle of realization
which stratifies mental contents and their neural means of expression. Thus, the
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 255
flow of non-perceptual sensations which are felt by the proto-self may be seen as
a form of pure iconicity; the transient here-now character of the perceptually
caused images of core consciousness is akin to indexically presupposing signs;
the ability to recall past images, to anticipate the future, and to elaborate mental
images in extended consciousness suggests something like Silverstein's (1987a,
1987b) notion of indexically creative or entailing signs. The latter two categories
require a self-referential perspective, which would seem to be required by any
form of proto-indexical mental imagery. This is so in the sense that indexicality
is always related to and grounded at an intentional source which points to
(indexes) the indexed object.
The three components of the specification hierarchy mentioned above also
show how proto-self, core self and autobiographical self are all embedded in an
immediate supersystem which contains both (proto-)self and the object in the
immediate (internal or external) environment of (proto-)self. This shows how
the emergence of consciousness from non-eonsciousness is always guided by
higher-order supersystem transactions. Accounts of consciousness which
privilege a bottom-up view of consciousness in terms of the organism's neuro-
biological dynamics may miss the point that consciousness, by definition, always
implies higher-order supersystem processes and dynamics (see Salthe 1993:
277-81; Lemke 1995b: 115-16). There is always a stable, higher-order regulatory
environment on a slower timescale which regulates the faster-scale neural
dynamics within the individual organism. Consciousness in the individual
organism and the neurobiological processes which subtend this are always
coupled to larger-scale self-object relations and dynamics and in ways which
intentionally direct and guide these dynamics. In the case of consciousness, self-
object transactions, as described by Damasio, are the immediate supersystem.
The social character of our evolutionary ancestors, as well as the human species
itself, means that many different individuals develop under similar environmen-
tal conditions, thereby increasing the likelihood of their undergoing similar
bifurcations (Lemke 1995b: 115). The emergence of consciousness in an
individual has environmental effects that promote the same kind of bifurcation
in other individuals. Organism-environment transactions might lead to the
formation of neural patterns which reentrantly map these supersystem inter-
actions to an internalized perspective. In this way,a relatively stable, higher-order
supersystem of self-object interactions gets internalized in the organism's
Innenwelt. This would be formally equivalent to the idea of mind as an individu-
ated system of interpretance which the self uses to attend to, interpret, and
respond to events (signs) in the self's internal and external environments.
But conscious selves are always cross-coupled to other conscious selves in still-
higher-scalar networks of both physical-material and semiotic-discursive
processes and relations on the ecosocial scale. According to Damasio (1999:
185), language converts or translates the second-order nonverbal narrative of
images of consciousness (core or extended) such that these 'become verbally
present in our minds' in the process of focusing on them (ibid.). I agree fully
with Damasio (e.g. 1999: 108) that self and consciousness exist prior to language
and that language does not construct consciousness as such. Damasio's core
and extended consciousness pre-exist language, as does Edelmari's primary
256 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
consciousness. The neurobiological arguments of Damasio and Edelman are
compelling in this respect. However, the suggestion that language merely has a
translating function with respect to the mental images of consciousness is, in my
view, a seriously misleading notion of the function of language. I shall now turn
to this question. I suggested above that consciousness is an internalization - a
reentrant looping - of self-object supersystem transactions. This means that
consciousness is always the result of higher-order supersystem transactions.
Consciousness came to be in the context of such higher-order environments
which got internally mapped as the organism's Innenwelt. It did not come into
being on the basis ofbottom-up neurological dynamics perse. Core consciousness
and extended consciousness are founded on biological and thermodynamic
processes and transactions between the organism and its material environments.
The space-time scale is the immediate here-now one. That is, individual core
consciousness is tightly coupled to here-now material transactions; on the other
hand, extended consciousness, with its past and future, exhibits the capacity to
incorporate diverse space-time scales to a much greater extent.
However, the cross-eoupling of consciousness to ecosocial semiotic processes
means that the individual's consciousness is now linked to systems of very
different space-time scales (see Lemke 2000a, 2000b; Thibault 2000a). In the
case of language and other social semiotic resources used to make meaning in a
given culture, these form part of a larger-scale ecosocial system which integrates
and regulates the smaller-scale subsystems of individuals to its larger-scale
patterns and dynamics. The cross-coupling of individuals to these higher-scalar
ecosocial relations and dynamics means that individual consciousness, in
particular what Edelman calls higher-order or symbolic consciousness, is
entrained to the social practices in and through which language is deployed to
make meanings in specific contexts. Symbolic consciousness has all the charac-
teristics of core consciousness and extended consciousness, but it is also a more
semiotically specified form of consciousness which enables us to give symbolic
meaning to experience by organizing and entraining consciousness in relation to
the always to-degrees shared social meaning-making practices of a given culture.
Furthermore, the connecting of consciousness to a culture's symbolic resources
for making meaning means that, in symbolic consciousness, maximally diverse
space-time scales may intersect in the individual (Lemke 2000a). Rather than
'translating' nonverbal mental images in consciousness, language, in the process
of construing these in terms of its own intrinsic categorial differentiations, cross-
couples individual consciousness to the social semiotic formations of a
community. On the other hand, to say that language 'translates' nonverbal
images in consciousness is, implicitly, to assume that language in the individual
organism is the focal level. It is to say that we make sense of language in relation
to mental images arising 'from below' in the brain of the individual and which
language encodes ready for decoding by someone else.
But consciousness is a relationship to phenomena on the human-scale that we
share with others. It is a question of the perspectives that the self can adopt on
the phenomena of experience and how these experiences may be meaningfully
exchanged with other selves who are able to share the same perspectives. This
also helps to resolve the dilemma of the third-person and first-person
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 257
approaches to consciousness. Proponents of the first approach seek to reduce
consciousness to neural events per se (chapter 4, sections 1-3, pp. 171-84). This
approach is reductionist precisely because it does not account for the human-
scale observer perspectives of selves. It fails to see that the models of neural
events that are made in this third-person perspective are in fact models of the
observer's relationship to the events on this level. On the other hand, first-
person perspectives, in emphasizing the uniqueness of individual consciousness,
can border on solipsism in failing to account for the fact that consciousness qua
the observational perspective of the self occurs on the human-scale level of other
selves which are embedded in a higher-scalar system of interpretance which con-
textually integrates the perspectives of different selves to its dynamics. In this
way, the perspectives of diverse selves can be dialogically co-ordinated and
negotiated in discourse. This does not mean that individuality is eliminated.
Individual consciousness is robust in its system ofinterpretance precisely because
it leaves signs of its individuality in its interactions with the viewpoints of other
selves who are embedded within the same system of interpretance and in terms
of which individual viewpoints have their meaning (see Salthe 1993: 51 for the
notion of robustness; see also this volume, chapter 2, section 1, pp. 59-68).
6. The Proto-metafunctional Structure of Core and Extended
Consciousness
Damasio's account of core consciousness and extended consciousness suggests
some striking parallels with the internal metafunctional organization of
language, as in Halliday's (1979) account. For reasons I shall discuss below, I do
not think this is in any way accidental. But first I shall re-examine the principal
components of Damasio's theory of core and extended consciousness with a view
to seeing how they can be seen as precursors of the intrinsic metafunctional
organization of language in higher-order or symbolic consciousness in the way
that I suggested above.
6.1 Conceptualizing the Objed ofConsciousness:Mental Images and Proto-experiential
Meaning
Mental images are of some object either in the external environment of the
individual or within the internal milieu of the individual organism's body.
Mental images are neurally constructed images of objects that are constituted as
phenomena of experience for the self. Damasio points out that the brain
constructs mental images of objects in both the external environment of the
individual organism as well as of objects experienced as being within the internal
biological milieu of the organism's body. This distinction shows how the very first
level of consciousness - Le. core consciousness - already constitutes a distinction
between that which is experienced as existing 'out there' in the external world
as distinct from that which is experienced as existing 'in here' in the internal
biological milieu of the individual organism. Furthermore, the mental images of
the objects of experience are not simply re-presentations of already given
phenomena in the inner and outer worlds. Rather, neural processes in the brain
258 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
actively and selectively construct mental images of the phenomena of experience
by attending to specific aspects of these phenomena, the emotional state of the
individual, and so on. To paraphrase Edelman, there is no pre-labelled world
which mental images simply reflect.
Mental images are the experiential contents of consciousness and are realized
by patterns of neural activity though without being reducible to these. Further-
more, mental images are multimodal in character: they can be formed in diverse
sensory-perceptual modalities such as touch, seeing, hearing, inner body
feelings, and so on (Damasio 1999: 9). Mental images are the ways in which con-
sciousness constructs the world as phenomena which are experienced by the self.
They may be described as the experiential contents of consciousness. The self
does not directly experience the object. Instead, its experience is mediated by
the mental images which the brain constructs of the objects of experience, along
with the conceptual categorizations of these.
6.2 The Interactive RelationofSelfto the Object: Proto-interpersonal Meaning
Without repeating the arguments discussed earlier, a second crucial aspect of
Damasio's account consists of the self's interactive relationship with the object of
consciousness. As I shall show here, this aspect of the self-object relationship may
be seen as proto-interpersonal in character. In this perspective, selfand object are
both differentiated from each other at the same time as being placed in an inter-
active relationship with each other (see section 3, pp. 241-6). The phenomeno-
logical experience of core consciousness is an awareness (reentrant loop) of our
doing/being-in-the-world as an undivided, pre-polarized whole. We have self-
awareness not of the self per se, but of the self-in-interaction-with-nonself (e.g.
other people and objects). Furthermore, this relationship may be modulated by
different embodied feelings which the self has towards the object; it may also have
implications for the specific courses of action which the self decides to undertake
in relation to the object. In core consciousness, the distinction between self
and object corresponds to a different kind of differentiation with respect to the
experiential kind discussed in the previous section. In the present case, it is
the interactional distinction between the self and the 'object' (the nonself, the
Other, a second) with which the self interacts and to which the self orients. This
may be explained in relation to mental images as follows.
A mental image is a neural construal of some object or event either in the
world outside the organism's body or within the organism's internal milieu (see
above). With respect to this image, the selfstands in a particular perspectival rela-
tionship to it. The self is not a part of the whole which is construed by the mental
image. Rather, it is distinct from the mental image; it stands in some kind of inter-
active relationship with it. What is important here is the relationship which the
selfhas with the mental image or the object which the image constructs. From this
point ofview, the self can orient to the object in terms of the course of action the
self intends to take with respect to the object. The self can also experience
subjective feelings and bodily sensations in relation to the object. Furthermore,
the self can acquire knowledge of the object and, therefore, incorporate the
object to a framework ofbeliefs and expectations which are stored in memory for
activation on other occasions in extended consciousness.
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 259
Core consciousness yields an experiencing of self-in-world where there is not
yet a typological-categorial separation of self from world. Instead, there is a first
soft polarization (weak classification) whereby self and nonselfare not sharply or
totally distinguished from each other. Instead, there is a relationship between
the two which is based on topological-continuous variation; self and nonself are
continuous with each other. There is topological variation without typological
distinction. This provides a first, most general basis for the subsequent
emergence of the many more differentiated and specified relationships with
increasingly more separate others on higher integrative levels, particularly the
symbolic level. The interactive relationship between self and object in core con-
sciousness can be seen as a less specified interactional-affective relational holism
from which the semiotic resources of linguistically mediated interpersonal-
interactional meaning ultimately derive. The interpersonal semiotic resources of
language symbolically constitute further typological differentiations between,
say, T, 'you', and 'she', 'it', and so on, though in ways which do not totally
transcend their basis in more primitive, more holistic, more iconic forms of
self-object relations in core consciousness. Damasio (1999: 36-7) points out that
consciousness is rooted in and modulated by inwardly directed feeling states of
the body which precede emotion and may not always be conscious. These feeling
states of the body can, however, be displayed as socially recognizable emotions.
This observation can help us to forge a link between the interpersonal-
interactional semiotic resources and the feeling states of the experiencing body
in semiosis. Damasio (1999: 79) argues that emotions are represented by a
system of neural dispositions located in a number of brain regions, notably the
'subcortical nuclei of the brain stem, hypothalamus, basal forebrain, and
amygdala'. The activation of these emotional dispositions, Damasio continues,
leads to a number of consequences.
Following Damasio closely, these may be summarized as follows. First, a given
pattern of neural activation yields a neural representation of a particular
emotion which can then become an object of consciousness awareness.
Secondly, this same pattern of neural activation induces changes in body state as
well as in the state of other brain regions. It is this which creates an emotional
state which is palpable to an observer, who is able to interpret the individual as
being emotionally engaged with some object. Thirdly, the internal state of the
organism is altered inasmuch as it now has an emotion as a neural object of
consciousness and at the same time senses a change in the body's feeling-state
provided that the neural pattern of activation crosses the threshold of con-
sciousness. Damasio further argues that the neural patterns which form the
substrate of feeling-states of the body bring about 'two classes of biological
changes' (1999: 79, viz. 'changes related to body state and changes related to
cognitive state' (1999: 79). Damasio explains changes related to body state as
follows:
The changes related to body state are achieved by one of two mechanisms.
One involves what I call the 'body loop'. It uses both humoral signals
(chemical messages conveyed via the bloodstream) and neural signals (elec-
trochemical messages conveyed via nerve pathways). As a result of both types
260 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
of signal, the body landscape is changed and is subsequently represented in
somatosensory structures of the central nervous system, from the brain stem
up. The change in the representations of the body landscape can be partly
achieved by another mechanism, which I call the 'as if body loop'. In this
alternate mechanism, the representation of body-related is created directly in
sensory body maps, under the control of other neural sites, for instance, the
prefrontal cortices. It is 'as if' the body had really been changed but it was not.
(Damasio 1999: 79-80)
Changes related to cognitive state are summarized by Damasio as follows:
... (1) the induction of specific behaviors such as those aimed at generating
bonding, nurturing, exploration, and playing; (2) a change in the ongoing
processing ofbody states such that the body signals filtered or allowed to pass,
be selectively inhibited or enhanced, and their pleasant or unpleasant quality
modified; and (3) a change in the mode of cognitive processing such that, for
example, the rate of production of auditory or visual images can be changed
(from slow to fast or vice versa) or the focus of visual images can be changed
(from sharply focused to vaguely focused); changes in rate of production or
focus are an integral part of emotions as disparate as those of sadness or
elation. (Damasio 1999: 80)
It is not difficult to see in the above proposals by Damasio that the interactional-
affective holism that I mentioned above constitutes the first level in a specifica-
tion hierarchy whereby embodied feeling-states and affective orientations, along
with their corresponding cognitive states, are integrated in the brain such that
the neural images which form the objects of consciousness are simultaneously
construed as having both experiential-cognitive content and interactional-
affective values and orientations. The patterns of neural activity associated with
these dimensions are tightly cross-coupled as the self interactively relates to
specific objects of consciousness and in ways which modulate this relationship.
The three factors which Damasio singles out in his discussion of changes in
cognitive state (see above citation) suggest that the self can (1) select from a
repertoire of possible actions for relating to an object of consciousness; (2)
modulate its affective orientation and feeling-state towards the object; and (3)
modulate the object itself so as to alter the ways in which the self emotionally
orients to the object. Thus, self, object or the interactional relations between
them can all be modulated and re-shaped in wayswhich channel and direct the
workings of consciousness and the action trajectories which flow into the
environment as a consequence of this.
6.3 The Grounding ofSelfin its Internal Milieu: Proto-textual Meaning
The most fundamental kind of grounding concerns the distinction between
what is 'in' the structure of the organism and what is 'out' in its environment.
The biological maintenance of the self is grounded in the relative structural
invariance - the relative stability - of the body over time so that this invariance
'can dispense continuity of reference across long periods of time' (Damasio
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 261
1999: 135) to the self. At the level of core consciousness, the self may be said to
be grounded in the relative stability afforded by the body, which functions as the
immediate environment of the self's time-bound trajectory. Damasio points out
that representations of the body 'come from the remarkable invariance of the
structures and operations of the body' (1999: 141). Body representations signify
this stability for the neurally realized self in the brain throughout the life of the
organism. It is the somata-sensory system and somatic signalling which functions
to send information to the brain about the state of the various parts of the body.
Some of this signalling occurs via nerve fibres that convey signals from the body
to the central nervous system; other forms of somato-sensory signalling use
chemical substances carried by the bloodstream (Damasio 1999: 149). Damasio
groups somato-sensory signalling into 'three fundamental divisions', viz. the
internal milieu and visceral division; the vestibular and musculo-skeletar
division; and the fine-touch division (1999: 149). Summarizing Damasio (1999:
150-3), the three divisions are as follows:
 The internal milieu and visceral division creates moment-by-moment
multiple maps of the internal milieu by means of introceptive sensing
operations which detect changes in the chemical environment of cells in
different parts of the body. This division is also concerned with the detection
of pain via nerve pathways. It also maps the state of the smooth muscles
throughout the viscera which are under autonomic control;
 The musculoskeletal division 'conveys to the central nervous system the state
of the muscles which join moving parts of the skeleton, that is, bones' (1999:
153). These muscles are under the control of the will and this division of the
somato-sensory is largely concerned with proprioception or kinaesthesis.
Again, this division forms multiple maps which are 'placed at multiple levels
of the central nervous system, all the way from the spinal cord to the cerebral
cortex. The vestibular system, which is responsible for mapping the body's
spatial orientation, is the highest-order mapping of somato-sensory
information;
 The fine-touch division 'describes the alterations which specialized sensors in
the skin go through when we make contact with another object and investi-
gate its texture, form, weight, temperature, and so on' (Damasio 1999: 153).
In contrast to the first two divisions, which are concerned with internal states,
this division is concerned with external objects as specified by the haptic
information which is picked up by the body's surface.
We can see here how at this first level of specification, the self of core con-
sciousness is shown to be a self-referential perspective which collects some of the
effects of its own cascading (Salthe 1993: 158). In so doing, the self comes to
reveal itself through the mapping of somato-sensory information from the bodily
environment in which it is grounded and which constitutes a second with which
the self interacts. Following the principle of self-as-firstness, this process of self-
organization builds up patterned arrangements whereby the self is experienced
as different from, yet grounded within, the milieu which is constituted by the
body. Only in this way can the self come to recognize and interact with other
262 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
selves because self-organization entails consistency of behaviour relative to a
viewpoint, as embedded in a system of interpretance. The stability of the body-
as-environment-for-the-self provides, by means of somato-sensory mappings, a
basis on which the self can model itself. Self-organization thus preserves a
textured wholeness or unity in the core self's experience of its own body and of
the body's experience of the outside world. This grounding of the core self in
the body is founded on a primordial sense of iconic wholeness: self grounded in,
yet experienced as continuously varying from, though not categorically distinct
from, the stable environment afforded by the body.
Interestingly, the three divisions described by Damasio illustrate a progressive
(topological-continuous) differentiation from a less differentiated whole, as seen
in the gradual move from the introception of the first division to the proprio-
ception of the second division and the exteroception of the third division. As we
shall see, this sense of the experiential unity or wholeness of self-in-relation-to-
its-body, experienced as the ground of its stability and continuity in time, is a
necessary forerunner of the semiotic wholeness and unity that is embodied in
the notion of textuality. Again, we see from the proto-textual perspective of the
self's iconic grounding in the body that core consciousness emerges when
the reentrant connectivity of neural groups creates the me ta-loop that closes the
loop on the 'self' pole of awareness. That is, the reentrant connectivity of neural
groups created by mappings of somato-sensory signals leads, in core conscious-
ness, to the closing of the loop on the self's experience of the embodied milieu
in which it is irrevocably grounded. From the perspective of the specification
hierarchy, the textuality of symbolic semiosis is integrated with a hierarchy of
iconic and indexical levels of proto-semiotic grounding, beginning with the core
self's grounding in the body.
6.4 The Recursive Nature ofConsciousness: Proto-logical Meaning
The ability to link 'scenes' comprising objects and events in primary conscious-
ness to each other depends on the animal's ability to connect these objects and
so on through memory to its previous value laden experience (Edelman and
Tononi 2000: 108). Each such remembered scene qua mental image is available
to conceptual categorization, which means that the given scene can be thought
about. In this way, the perceptual experience is available to thinking in the form
of pre-linguistic conceptual categorizations. It is important to remember that we
are not dealing with language at this stage. Carruthers (1996: 194) points out
that perceptual information about some object is held in short-term memory
such that the information so stored is available to further reflexive thinking.
That is, short-term memory is a form of record which enables each thought to
be recursively fed back to the same short-term memory store so that each
thought is available so that it may be consciously thought about in its turn by
further thoughts (Carruthers 1996: 194). To paraphrase Carruthers, conscious-
ness is the reflexive making available to (conscious) thought of thoughts which,
in their turn, are made available to further thought, and so on. The short-term
memory store quarecord of each thought's being fed back to the same memory
store so that it is available to be thought about in turn may be seen as a precursor,
at the lower integrative level in mental life I proposed by Edelman and Tononi
THE METAFUNCTlONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 263
(2000: 203-4), of the semiotic notion of text as the products and records of
symbolic forms of meaning-making, including symbolic thinking, or inner
speech, in the case of language.
In this view, my having a conscious experience of the pen lying on the desk as
I write these words is based on my ability to make this experience of the pen
available to further thinking. So, I can see the pen lying on the desk, then have
the thought, That pen is the wrong colour', then think about that thought with
the further thought, 'I must buy a blue one', and think about that further
thought with the still-further thought, 'I'll go to the stationery shop in the
morning', and so on. According to Carruthers's (1996: 195) account, which I am
following closely here, each of these thoughts is reflexively fed back into short-
term memory so that each thought is, in its turn, made available to further
conscious thinking. The (invented) sequencejust described may be schematized
as follows:
[CURRENT PERCEPTUAL EXPERIENCE OF PEN]/I[THAT PEN IS THE
WRONG COLOUR]/I[I MUST BUY A BLUE ONEJ!I[I'LL GO TO THE
STATIONERY SHOP IN THE MORNING]
What emerges in this re-constructed sequence is the way in which each thought
that is reflexively fed back into short-term memory so that it may, in turn, be
thought about is linked to the preceding thought by principles of causal,
temporal, and other modes of logical (temporal, causal, consequential, and so
on) connectivity such that a series of thoughts are, for example, logically linked
to each other in an overall process of reasoning about some phenomenon. In
this way, short-term memory serves as a kind of proto-entextualization of
conscious thinking in the sense that it (memory) enables thoughts to be linked
to each other in meaningful ways. We can see here a pre-linguistic analogue of
the notion of logico-semantic expansion in natural language. Each thought that
is reflexively fed back into the memory store expands the meaning of the
previous thought(s) in the overall series. Moreover, the fact that the whole series
of thoughts is held in memory suggests the parallel (on a lower integrative level,
as I said before) with the unfolding development of text in natural language.
Memory is the means of ensuring that the whole series can be thought about as
it unfolds in time, rather than each thought disappearing forever as soon as it
is thought. This also means that the reflexive addition of further thoughts to
the previously existing store has the potential to modify the significance of
previously held thoughts as they are consciously thought about by new thoughts
that are fed back into the memory store. What memory does is provide a means
of integrating the temporally unfolding series of thoughts as a larger whole
which itself, within limits, can be reflexively accessed and consciously thought
about. Memory is not just a store against the ravages of time, whatever the
timescale involved. Rather, it is a principle of integration whereby each thought
that is reflexively (recursively) deployed to think about the prior thoughts and
the relations between these becomes part of a larger whole which is consciously
attended to and reflected on.
As we shall see in section 12, the notion of text can be seen as a further
264 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
specification and reorganization of this property on the symbolic level. This
further entails that the possibilities for the integration of diverse space-time
scales are massively enhanced as compared to the small-timescale short-term
memory store discussed by Carruthers.
7. Integrating the Interaction System and the Meaning System
Perspectives on (Self)Consciousness
In my view, Damasio's neurobiological proposals concerning the central role of
bodily feeling-states and emotions in consciousness are on the threshold of a
more encompassing ecosocial discourse which can show how embodied feeling-
states, inner sensations, and primary emotions can be integrated with the social
meaning-making practices of some community. Damasio's neurobiological
theory of consciousness, like Edelman's, is based on neurological and other
processes at the level of the individual biological organism. The self-object inter-
actional relationship that is central to Damasio's theory of consciousness is
concerned with the relations between neural events in the brain, electrochemi-
cal processes linking brain to the internal milieu of the body, and so on. That is,
consciousness is grounded in a complex of physical, chemical, and biological
events and relations within the hyper-complex system of the human body-brain.
From this physical-material perspective, the body-brain participates in exchanges
of matter, energy, and information with its internal and external environments.
It was for this reason that I said earlier that consciousness is always founded on
larger-scale supersystem transactions. Furthermore, these exchanges extend
beyond the skin of the body out into the ecosystem which the organism inhabits.
In Damasio's neurobiological perspective, consciousness is a physical process
linked by physical, chemical and biological relations. This is the view which
Lemke (1984b: 113-21; 1995c: 166-75) describes as the Interaction System view
of a given ecosocial community. That is, the entire complex of physical,
chemical, biological and ecological processes and relations which constitute the
community and which maintain its physical integrity and survival in time. The
individual qua biological organism is a relatively small-scale entity within this
larger-scale complex of ecosocial relations.
From the perspective of the individual biological organism, the neurobiolog-
ical dynamics of consciousness described by Damasio constitute the ground of a
higher-scalar Meaning System (see Lemke 1984b: 113-21; 1995c: 166-75)
whereby the physical-material, chemical, and biological processes of the Inter-
action System have meaning for us. Meanings are immanent in and are con-
structed in and through the physical-material resources and matter-energy flows
of the Interaction System. Thus, we use and entrain patterns of sound, body
movement, information in the ambient optic array, and so on, in accordance
with the recognized patterns of meaning-making in a given community, sub-
community, and so on. As Lemke explains, Interaction System processes and
dynamics are selectively contextualized by the Meaning System, and at the same
time the Meaning System is embodied in and constituted by Interaction System
processes and dynamics. Interaction System processes and dynamics include the
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 265
individual body-brain system and the way this is cross-coupled to other body-
brain systems and to physical-material processes in the environment, including
the larger-scale material ecosystems in which these physical-material processes
are embedded (Lemke 1995b: 118-25; Salthe 1993: 19-20).
I said earlier that current discussion of consciousness often places a lot of
emphasis on the singularity and uniqueness of individual consciousness. From
the Interaction System point of view where the neurobiological processes and
dynamics of the individual body-brain are focal, this is legitimate - up to a point.
Thus, the neurally realized mental images in the individual's brain, the self's
particular perspective on these, the memory-based conceptualizations of these
images and their re-elaboration in terms of past and future memories, the inner
body feelings and sensations that cross-couple with and help to entrain the self's
experiential knowledge and understanding of mental images and so on, are all
grounded in the individual diversity of the self-organizing reentrant neural
mappings whereby a sense of self and individual consciousness is individuated
along a historical-biographical trajectory. Importantly, this lower-scale individual
diversity also constitutes an important source of potential bifurcations at higher-
scalar levels of organization. The brain is constantly self-organizing its own
neural connections as well as generating new neurons (neurogenesis). These
brain processes are part of the Interaction System which grounds all the possible
meanings of a community, where Meaning System processes are differentially
distributed over the diverse body-brains in the Interaction System (see section
12, pp. 277-80).
Both the constant reorganization of the brain's neural connections and the
processes of neurogenesis mean that the enormous diversity of such connections
possible in individual consciousness yields proto-meanings which are not neces-
sarily typed or recognized by the contextualizing relations of the culture's
meaning systems. In other words, not all of the 'experiences of experiencing'
that enter into core and extended consciousness, not all of our subjective
experiences of our internal milieu and our external environments, not all of our
perceptions of our inner feeling-states and bodily sensations are necessarily
recognized as meaningful in our culture's meaning system at any given moment.
Many of these experiences remain as proto-meanings within individual con-
sciousness. But because social meaning systems are themselves constantly
changing, though on a slower timescale than those of the much faster timescale
of individual neurological processes, there also exists the potential for proto-
meanings constructed in individual consciousness to be assimilated to the
higher-scalar meaning system of the ecosocial system on the basis of individual
and social innovations in meaning-making practices.
That is, newly emergent Interactional System processes on the scale of the
individual's neurobiological dynamics may be assimilated into the higher-scalar
system of interpretance on the ecosocial scale. This is possible, I argue, because
consciousness is not concerned with neurological processes perse, but with the
contents of consciousness - the mental images and the memory-based relations
among these - in the perspective of a self. These contents are proto-meanings,
as mentioned earlier. Neurological processes realize the contents of conscious-
ness, but are not themselves accessible to consciousness. Proto-meanings in
266 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
individual consciousness can, therefore, become objects of further elaboration
and reflection, to the point where they can be connected to the symbolic
meaning-making resources of higher-order consciousness and further entrained
to its dynamics. From what we now know about the brain as a self-organizing
producer and elaborator of (proto-)meanings in response to continually
changing contextual factors both within the individual's body-brain and in the
external environment, I would argue that the proto-meanings of individual core
and extended consciousness belong to a specification hierarchy such that there
is a continuum of possibilities from the least specified iconic meanings of core
consciousness to the most specified symbolic meanings of higher-order con-
sciousness. Proto-meanings are not constructed out of nowhere; they, too, are
constructed in response to feedback loops with other systems both within the
brain and the internal milieu of the body as well as in the external environment
(context of situation and context of culture). That is, they, too, are contextually
constrained. Positive feedback from all of these contextual factors may take the
system far from equilibrium so that new forms of meaning and organization
emerge. Each level of consciousness in the specification hierarchy entails
increasing differentiation of the neural dynamics realizing mental images,
higher-order conceptual structures and thoughts, and symbolic meanings. Each
level in the hierarchy imposes its own constraints on the overall hierarchy such
that proto-meanings may be entrained to and reorganized by the neural
attractors which embody lexicogrammar in symbolic consciousness.
It is important to point out here that the non-reducibility of proto-meanings
to neurological processes indicates that proto-meanings are realized by neural
activity in ways which are analogous to the realization of the content stratum of
language (its semantics and lexicogrammar) by the expression stratum
(phonology or graphology). Language is, of course, a full-fledged social semiotic
system (Halliday 1978a); proto-meanings in the brain are not. However, the
principle of realization applies in both cases, though not in exactly the same way.
The difference lies in the fact that the same mental image (content) can be
variably realized by different patterns of neurological processes (expression)
whereas the semantics and lexicogrammar on the content stratum of natural
language are constrained by the phonological or graphological patterns of
organization on the expression stratum, and vice versa. Nevertheless, this does
not amount to an all-or-nothing distinction. Phonemes, syllables, and other
phonological units do not exist as discrete units in the acoustic stream of speech.
There is, in fact, considerable merging of the acoustic energy for a given unit
with the energy of other units (Handel 1989: 159). Moreover, the same
phonemic segment can be realized by different acoustic cues in different
contextsjust as the same acoustic cue can realize different phonemes in different
contexts (HandelI989: 159). So, there is more variation here than what speakers
and listeners are usually aware of, though this variation does not, for the most
part, prevent speakers and listeners from picking up the relevant acoustic infor-
mation from the articulatory gestures.
Doubtless, this is so because the sensori-motor and neural activities involved in
the individual's linguistic activity are entrained to the dynamics of higher-scale
attractors on the ecosocial scale such as the phonological categorizations of a
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 267
particular language system. The study of neurobiological processes in the body-
brain may be able to explain the dynamics of proto-meaning in core and
extended consciousness as emergent properties of neurological processes and
neuroanatomy. However, it will remain unable to explain the emergence of
symbolic consciousness in the individual. Any theory which seriously attempts to
break with in-built language-acquisition devices, bio-programs or language
instincts will also need to show that language and other social meaning-making
resources exist as dynamically structured attractors at the ecosocial semiotic level.
This cannot be explained as a mere bottom-up aggregation of individual body-
brains because it has its own principles of organization on the higher-scalar level.
Whereas the multiple realizability of proto-meanings by neurological
processes in the brain is entrained by lower-level neural dynamics, symbolic con-
sciousness is also entrained by the collective dynamics of entire systems of
meanings and their associated practices at the cultural level. Proto-meanings in
the individual brain have the potential to become meaning in this semiotically
more specified sense. Because meanings are higher-scalar and collective
phenomena, their effects across many diverse space-time scales are much greater
than are the proto-meanings that are confined to an individual's brain. This is so
because symbolic meanings, which are cultural, are potentially accessible and
sharable by large numbers of individuals such that they can affect large-scale
ecosocial processes across very diverse space-time scales (Lemke 2000a: 191-3).
As we shall see in the following section, recent research on mirror neurons
suggests ways in which the individual's dialogically co-ordinated actions are
entrained to the higher-scalar dynamics of the dyad which organizes self-nonself
transactions.
8. Minding the Gap between Minds: Mirror Neurons and Interpersonal
Meaning
The dialogic basis of (proto)-semiosis receives support from neurological
evidence concerning the existence of mirror neurons in both monkeys and
humans (see Rizzolatti and Arbib 1998). Mirror neurons, which are located in
the rostral part of the ventral premotor cortex of monkeys, discharge during
active movement of the hand or mouth. Transcranial magnetic stimulation and
positron emission tomography (PET) experiments also indicate the existence of
mirror neurons in humans, including Broca's area. Rizzolatti and Arbib
discovered that this neuronal discharge correlates with intentional action,
'rather than with the individual movements that form it' (1998: 188). On the
basis of their findings, Rizzolatti and Arbib explain the existence and function-
ing of mirror neurons as follows:
The proposal that we and others have advanced is that their actIVIty
'represents' actions. This representation can be used for imitating actions and
for understanding them. By 'understanding' we mean the capacity that
individuals have to recognize that another individual is performing an action,
and to use this information to act appropriately. According to this view, mirror
268 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
neurons represent the link between sender and receiver that Liberman
postulated in his motor theory of speech perception as the necessary pre-
requisite for any type of communication. (Rizzolatti and Arbib 1998: 189)
and
Our proposal is that the development of the human lateral speech circuit is a
consequence of the fact that the precursor of Broca's area was endowed,
before speech appearance, with a mechanism for recognizing actions made by
others. This mechanism was the neural prerequisite for the development of
interindividual communication and finally of speech. We thus view language
in a more general setting than one that sees speech as its complete basis.
There is obviously an enormous gap between recognizing actions and
sending messages with communicative intent. We offer now a hypothesis ...
on how this gap might have been bridged. Whether an individual is about to
perform an action or observes another individual performing an action,
premotor areas are activated. Normally, a series of mechanisms prevents the
observer from emitting a motor behavior that mimics the observed one, and
the 'actor' from initiating the action prematurely. In the case of action obser-
vation, for example, there is a strong spinal cord inhibition that selectively
blocks the motor neurons involved in the observed action execution (L.
Fadiga, pers. commun.). Sometimes, however, for example when the observed
action is of particular interest, the premotor system will allow a brief orefix of
the movement to be exhibited. This prefix will be recognized by the other
individual. The fact will affect both the actor and the observer. The actor will
recognize an intention in the observer, and the observer will notice that its
involuntary response affects the behavior of the actor. The development of
the capacity of the observer to control his or her mirror system is crucial in
order to emit (voluntarily) a signal. When this occurs, a primitive dialogue
between observer and actor is established. This dialogue forms the core of
language. The capacity to notice that one has emitted a signal and associating
it with changes of the behavior of others might or might not have developed
simultaneously. However, there is no doubt that, once established, this new
association should have yielded enormous benefits of adaptive value for the
group of individuals that started to make use of it, providing the selective
pressure for the extension of communicative capacities to larger groups.
(Rizzolatti and Arbib 1998: 190-1)
The existence of mirror neurons indicates that there is a neurological basis to
the enacting of interpersonal relationships between addresser and addressee.
The findings of Rizzolatti and Arbib show that dialogically co-ordinated inten-
tional activity entrains neuromuscular activity. This also corresponds to the
distinction made by Peng (1994) between motor functions, which are linked to
linguistic processes, and motor activity, which is not. The point is that higher-
scalar semantically organized intentions entrain motor functions to their
dynamics (see also chapter 1, section 1, pp. 3--8). Moreover, this entraining is not
confined to the individual organism; instead, it results from the ways in which
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 269
individuals are integrated to the essentially dyadic supersystem structures which
regulate interpersonal transactions between individuals.
Rizzolatti and Arbib (1998: 192) somewhat confusedly apply Fillmore's case
grammar in order to derive imperative and declarative case structures, which
they qualify as 'action structures', rather than linguistic representations. Given
that case structures in Fillmore's account are concerned with the experiential
domain of (linguistic) meaning, it is more appropriate, from a linguistic point of
view, to relate the imperative and declarative action structures to the mood
system of the interpersonal grammar. In Halliday's account, mood is centrally
concerned with the enacting of dialogic, interpersonal relationships between
addresser and addressee. Mood is one of the interpersonal grammatical systems
which indicate the interactional status of utterances; choice of mood integrates
the clause into an interactive context of speakers' goals and intentions. Declara-
tive and interrogative moods express propositions. These two moods hold the
proposition in their scope and modify it so as to indicate whether the proposi-
tion is being asserted by the speaker or interrogated (McGregor 1997: 214).
Oblative and imperative moods express proposals for action, rather than propo-
sitions. Proposals cannot be argued about, asserted, believed, or denied in the
way propositions can. In proposals, the mood operator holds a proposal in its
scope and modifies it accordingly so as to indicate how the proposal is to be
interpreted or responded to interactively, i.e. as oblatives, in which the addresser
is the intentional source of the proposed action, or imperatives, in which the
addressee is selected (by the addresser) as the one who is required to carry out
the action desired by the addresser.
Different languages may express mood in different ways. English uses the
syntagmatic combination of the functions Subject and Finite (declarative and
interrogative) or their absence (imperative) to indicate the mood of the clause;
other languages may use a morpheme of some kind, or intonation (McGregor
1997: 219). The mood marker, however it is expressed grammatically, acts as an
interpersonal operator which holds the entire clause in its scope and modifies it
according to the interactive meaning the speaker intends it to have. Mood is a
grammatical category which has a specific interpersonal meaning, as discussed
above. The grammatical meaning of the various mood categories in a specific
language does not exhaust the meaning of the mood choices in specific
contexts. In specific contexts of use, the abstract mood categories interact with
other lexicogrammatical categories as well as with features of the context so as to
yield a context-specific semantics.
The neurological evidence provided by research on mirror neurons suggests
that the interpersonal modification of clauses through the making of different
selections from the mood system is the construction in the interpersonally
organized neural space of an attractor which is placed just a little ahead of both
the executed action by the addresser and its recognition by the addressee. In
discourse, the formulating of an intentionally sourced and directed interactive
move according to mood choice thus operates as a top-down control operator
(Juarrero 1999: 192) which entrains the neural and motor activity of both
addresser and addressee in the dyad of the temporally unfolding interpersonal
exchange. Thus, neural, motor, linguistic, and physical-material factors may all
270 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
become entrained to the semantic organization of the intentionally directed
interactive move. Rizzolatti and Arbib's discussion of imperative and declarative
action structures, in spite of their confusion between experiential case grammar
and the interpersonal-interactive nature of mood, shows how both addresser and
addressee are entrained by the intentional character of the act. The intentional
nature of this interpersonal semantic attractor enacts a trajectory through
semantically organized neural space so as to ensure that the resulting actions of
both parties to the interaction are entrained by the dynamic organization that is
embodied in the semantics of the intentionally sourced interactive move.
HaIIiday's research in child language development has clearly demonstrated
that meaning is first enacted in interpersonal contexts before being construed
experientially (1993: 103). In the emerging adult language system, the two kinds
of meaning gradually come together such that interpersonal selections simulta-
neously configure with experiential ones in the grammar of the clause. It is the
configuring of options in meaning from a number of different metafunctional
regions that yields the semantics of a particular clause. This cannot be fully
explained in terms of any single metafunction in isolation from the others.
Intentionally sourced and directed interactive moves in discourse are, then,
top-down boundary conditions which are assembled from self-organizing meta-
functional constraints which act on lower-level neural and motor activity so as to
produce a particular act-token. This semantic space functions as an attractor
which entrains bodily (neural and motor) behaviour as well as selected aspects
of the physical-material world along a particular goal-seeking pathway. It is not
difficult to see at this point how the taking up and negotiating of interpersonal
meaning in discourse by social agents is concerned with the enacting and
construal of a dynamical system's operators whereby participants negotiate a
trajectory from one point in semantic state space to another. The interpersonal
enacting and negotiating of meaning thus embody top-down boundary
conditions that lead participants through specific trajectories within this
semantic space.
The fact that interpersonal and experiential selections are brought together
in lexicogrammatical form thus provides a way of explaining how the intention-
ally sourced dialogic act or move constitutes a strategy for bringing some
selected aspect of the world into line with one's experiential construal of it. In
imperatives, for example, it is the dynamical organization of context-dependent
constraints which seeks to make the actional outcome conditional on the
intentional source of the imperative clause. The uttering (by the addresser),
negotiation (by both addresser and addressee), and consequent execution of the
desired action (by the addressee) is a trajectory, whose finalization, to use
Bakhtiri's expression, embodies the experiential content of the intention from
which it (the trajectory) has its source, and which flows through the entire
system of constraints to ensure the completion or resolution - both semiotic and
material - of the action trajectory.
Rizzolatti and Arbib have pointed out the reciprocally controlling nature of
mirror neurons in the recognition and execution of intentional acts (see above).
The stratified nature of language as a semiotic system means that voluntarily
emitted vocal, gestural, and other motor signals on the expression stratum are
THE METAFUNCTlONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 271
constrained by the metafunctional dynamics of a self-organizing semantic space
on the content stratum. It therefore follows that there is no need to see
intentions as separate from and prior to action. Peng's (1994) important dis-
tinction between motor functions and motor activities (see chapter 4, section 15,
pp. 217-23) means that semiotically significant bodily actions or motor
functions, such as articulation in the act of speaking, as distinct from non-
intentional or involuntary body movements, entail action trajectories that
integrate the motor functions (not activities) to the contextual, semantic, lexi-
cogrammatical, and expression stratum levels of neuronal organization of
language in the brain. In this way, motor functions are entrained into the self-
organizing dynamics of a metafunctionally organized semiotic space which
directs and constrains the always embodied meaning-making trajectories of
social agents and their actions along a specific trajectory (section 2).
In the following two sections, I shall explore some of the ways in which inner
speech is no exception to the considerations made in this and previous sections
of this chapter.
9. Inner Speech as Linguistically Realized Higher-order Thinking
Inner speech is linguistically realized thinking (see also Kinsbourne 2000). This
does not mean that language translates prior, non-linguistic thoughts into
language. Rather, inner speech is linguistically constituted thinking. It is a form
of language deployment which has been specialized to the inner realm.
Moreover, inner speech, as Carruthers (1996: 225) points out, is a form of
conscious thinking through language. Inner speech is language which operates
without the constraints of the external stimulus flux. This means that verbaliza-
tion in the inner realm takes place without activating the motor routines that are
required for the articulation of, for example, speech sounds. However, this does
not mean that inner speech lacks an expression stratum. Both expression and
content are constitutive of inner-speech speech just as they are of speech which
is implemented by vocal-tract articulatory activity as speech sounds.
Langacker is one modern linguist who recognizes the psycho-perceptual
nature of internal language processes (see also Saussure 1971 [1915]: 98). From
the perspectives of both articulation and audition, there are cognitive routines
that direct both the production and the reception of speech sounds. These
cognitive routines are directed by stored acoustic images which serve to
categorize speech sounds as being instances of this or that phonological type.
Langacker points out that the acoustic or auditory image, rather than the
physical sound, is primary (1987: 79). In this way,listeners have two possible ways
of perceiving speech sounds. The listener may actually hear the speech sound as
an acoustic event, or he or she may imagine hearing it by the activation of an
acoustic image of the sound in silent verbal thought (Langacker 1987: 78-9).
Analogously, the speaker may actually implement an articulatory routine and
utter a given speech sound, or the speaker may imagine doing so. In the latter
case, this means that the speaker 'can mentally run through the motor routine
without this mental activity being translated into muscular gestures' (Langacker
272 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
1987: 79). Acoustic images direct and control auditory and articulatory routines
in both inner and outer speech.
Acoustic and auditory images are invariants that have been extracted from the
stimulus flux such that speakers and listeners are sensitized to these invariants
and can operate these without the constraints of sensori-motor activity. Acoustic
and auditory images are, then, phonological invariants which are de-coupled
from the muscular activity involved in articulating and/or listening to speech
sounds. In any case, inner speech, whether imaged in consciousness as spoken
by one's self or heard as the voice of another, is, nevertheless, stratified: it has
both expression and content. In the case of inner speech, it is the expression
plane, comprising acoustic and/or auditory images which enable the motor
routine to be activated mentally without, however, translating it into the
muscular gestures responsible for the production of actual speech sounds. Inner
speech is always heard as an imagined auditory sequence for this reason. This
shows how, in both inner and outer speech, motor routines are governed by
symbolic neural space (Peng 1994: 113-14). It is in this way that higher-order
consciousness instantiates internalized linguistic activity (inner speech) as
objects of consciousness which can be reflected on in the perspective of a self.
Just as in outer speech, the meta-redundancy relations between the expression
and content strata mean that sensori-motor routines and conceptual ones
mutually recognize each other by virtue of the brain's functioning as a somatic
recognition system (chapter 3, section 13, pp. 162-8). The stratified character of
inner speech means that internalized linguistic tokens can be attended to as
objects of (symbolic) consciousness which are both 'heard' and understood in
the inner realm of imagination. Moreover, there is always a self which interacts
with and relates to inner speech as object ofconsciousness. In other words, inner
speech is always grounded in the perspective of the self who relates to inner
speech as one's own linguistically mediated thoughts (section 11).
10. The Metafunctional Character of Inner Speech as Linguistically
Constituted Thought
The metafunctional character of inner speech makes it clear that inner speech,
like outer speech, does not simply translate non-linguistic thoughts and mental
images into the medium of language. Language is simultaneously both 'action'
and 'reflection' in both its inner and outer manifestations (see chapter 4,
section 4, pp. 184-9). The constitutive role oflanguage in symbolic thinking also
means that it is not quite accurate to restrict the definition of thinking to the
'reflection' dimension of linguistic meaning. Typically, thinking is discussed in
terms of its 'ideational', 'conceptual', or 'representational' characteristics. But if
inner speech is a form of semiosis which has been specialized to the inner realm
of the 'mind', then we shall need to reconsider the limited notion of thinking as
ideation which has prevailed. As we shall see in the following paragraph, this
requires us to take into account the full range of meanings that are characteris-
tic of both inner and outer verbal activity. This also requires us to reconsider the
status of less specified forms of thinking that occur on lower integrative levels
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 273
such as the conceptual thinking associated with primary consciousness
(Edelman 1992: chapters 10 and 11). Rather than saying that 'thinking' on
whichever integrative level is something which is private and non- or pre-
semiotic, it is logically more appropriate to say that the symbolic thinking
constituted by language in inner speech is a more specified subclass of internal-
ized semiosis that includes less specified subclasses (of semiosis) on lower
integrative levels. In this view, all forms of thinking are at least proto-semiotic in
character. This means that the conceptual thinking characteristic of primary
consciousness denotes a less specified form of inner semiosis with respect to the
more highly specified forms of symbolic thinking characteristic of inner speech.
The discoursal, rather than sentential, character of inner speech requires that
the definition of semantics be extended to include all the dimensions of
meaning which are present in any linguistically realized discursive event. In the
systemic-functional framework, language is a semantic resource for (1)
construing the phenomena of experience in and through the language's expe-
riential categories; (2) enacting dialogically co-ordinated interpersonal relations
and their associated axiological orientations; (3) construing relations of
causality, temporality, consequence, result, and so on, between the figures which
comprise a textually realized sequence; and (4) creating coherence both within
the text and between the text and its context of situation. Linguistically realized
thinking in inner speech is, then, fully metafunctional in character.
Thus, linguistic utterances that are either heard as the voice of some other or
articulated as one's own voice in the inner realm can play an executive function
in planning and carrying out particular courses of action, in the way originally
described by Vygotsky (1986 [1934], 1987 [1934]). In this view, there is no need
to oppose the view that language serves above all for the 'exchange of informa-
tion and the interpersonal coordination of action' to the view that language 'is
itself the primary medium of ... thought' (see Carruthers 1996: 2). In
Carruthers's view, these two characterizations oflanguage correspond to what he
designates as the 'communicative' and the 'cognitive' conceptions of language,
respectively. According to Carruthers, the two views of language stand opposed
to each other. However, the metafunctional character of language shows that
both experiential reflection and interpersonal enactment are constitutively
inseparable dimensions of linguistically realized thinking. In other words, inner
speech is an internalized semiotic process which simultaneously allows for both
conceptual (experiential) thinking and propositional (interpersonal) thinking.
Insofar as conscious thinking is linguistic in nature, it can therefore be seen to
satisfy both of these requirements: it makes use of conceptual categorizations
and allows for the taking-up of modalized propositional attitudes. Moreover, it
exhibits properties of textual unity and coherence in relation to both its internal
(textual) organization and its contexts of utterance.
Inner speechjust is higher-order or symbolic thought. Moreover, the stratified
nature ofinner speech means that the utterances that occur in consciousness are
heard and/or spoken in the perspective of the self who attends to them as
objects of consciousness. That is, the expression stratum of the phonological
invariants - the motor routines - that operates without the constraints of the
external stimulus flux nevertheless provides an imagined perceptual basis to
274 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
inner-speech events. We imagine them as spoken or heard linguistic tokens. In
both cases, they are grounded in the perspective of the self who attends to them
as objects of conscious awareness which are immediately accessible to the self as
such (see Carruthers 1996: 238). For this reason, tokens of inner speech are
objects which are immediately given to consciousness as objects which can be
reflected upon. The activation of the imaged phonological or other expression
stratum routine in inner speech provides a perceptual basis to inner speech even
though this is a form of inner perception of phonological invariants that have
been detached from the stimulus flux. Nevertheless, the perceptual systems
which detect and filter phonologically salient distinctions provide immediate
access to the content stratum (lexicogrammar and discourse semantics) which is
realized by imagined phonological routines in inner speech.
My use of the term 'imagined' in this context may suggest that there is
something less real or less concrete about the existence of these phonological
routines in inner speech. Nothing could be further from the truth. Inner
speech, like outer speech, is stratified. The notion of stratification is necessary
for explaining the relationship between different orders of abstraction in the
organization of language. Lexicogrammatical and discourse semantic units and
relations on the content stratum are not comprised of phonological units on the
expression stratum. Nor is the expression stratum simply a material means for
conveying content. Rather, content stratum units and relations are realized by
expression stratum ones. The realizational relationship links articulatory
processes of the body to discoursal meanings by virtue of the fact that motor
routines and conceptual ones mutually recognize each other. In other words, the
two strata mutually redound with each other. Inner speech qua object of
conscious reflection must be immediately accessible to SELF. This requires, in
the first instance, a sensible dimension which is accessible to perception. The
brain's functioning as a somatic recognition system thus provides a perceptual
basis for inner speech without the constraints of the stimulus flux. Moreover, the
phonological routines that are 'imagined' in inner speech show how the bodily
basis of internalized semiosis is preserved. The point is that all forms of semiosis
require some kind of expression stratum which is accessible to and/or produced
by sensori-motor activity. There is no content floating free of its expression.
Without an expression stratum, the brain would have no means of recognizing
the content which is realized by the expression stratum. Once again, the
stratified nature of inner verbalization highlights the intimate and internal
connection between sensible bodily processes and meaning-making.
Moreover, it lends further support to the view that inner speech is a special-
ized internalized deployment of the same semiotic resources that are used to
engage in outer discursive activity. We can see the specification hierarchy at work
here as well. We have already seen in chapter 3 (section 9, pp. 139-46) how the
brain's functioning as a somatic recognition system relates sensori-motor
routines to conceptual representations in primary consciousness. Similarly,
perceptual categorization occurs on the basis of the organism's linking
multimodal stimulus information which is picked up in its environment through
sensori-motor activity to perceptual categorizations that are built up through
reentry in the brain. Inner speech, we have seen, occurs on the basis of imaged
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 275
phonological (or other expression-stratum) routines redounding with the
appropriate content-stratum ones. The basic principle is the same at all levels.
What is different is the way in which each stage is more specified and more
explicitly elaborated but, at the same time, with the prior stages not being
transcended. Rather, later stages integrate prior ones.
A symbolic being that routinely deploys inner speech in higher-order
consciousness is still a being which makes use of conceptual and perceptual
representations. Each level refers to the emergence of a level of complexity in
the development and individuation of the organism along its trajectory. Prior
integrative levels (e.g. perceptual and conceptual) refer to proto-semiotic orders
of information and categorization that the organism has elaborated along its
developmental trajectory on the basis of organism-environment transactions. By
the same token, the transition to inner verbal activity means that the individual
is cross-coupled to modes of thinking that can only occur through the semantic
categories of natural language and the discourse genres in and through which
linguistic meanings are organized as recognizable social situations. It makes no
sense, then, to say that language simply 'translates' mental images into a publicly
expressible and communicable form (cf. Damasio 1999: 107-8), for this is
tantamount to saying that language plays no role in the constitution of the
categories of higher-order or symbolic consciousness. Instead, the symbolic
resources of language mean that consciousness is connected to space-time scales
which go far beyond the organismic one.
The further implication is that inner speech qua linguistically constituted
higher-order thinking is most centrally a question of meaning. Furthermore,
inner speech cannot be adequately characterized in terms of sentential forms
which express linguistically constituted thoughts. The point is, rather, that
linguistically mediated thought is a form of contextualized meaning-making that
is specialized to the inner realm. Vygotsky (e.g. 1986 (1934]: 248) first
recognized the semantic character of inner speech. The semantic character of
inner verbal activity requires us to see that inner speech is a form of text or
discourse, though not without its own specific characteristics, as first studied by
Vygotsky. It is not comprised of sentences. Lexicogrammatical units realize their
discourse semantics; they do not simply comprise them. The highly condensed
and elliptical features of inner speech identified by Vygotsky as a high degree of
semantic condensation and semantic opacity (Vygotsky 19S6 (1934]: 243-8;
Thibault 1995c) may be explained by the fact that the meanings expressed in
inner speech are only accessible to the consciousness of the SELF in whose
perspective the given occurrence of inner speech is grounded; there is no
functional requirement that these meanings be interpreted by others in the
public realm. Instead, inner speech is a semiotically mediated means whereby
the SELF is able to gain conscious access to its own thinking, in the process
achieving self-monitoring, self-control, and self-awareness (see also Carruthers
1996: 247).
276 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
n. The Re-grounding of the Perspectives of Self and Other in Symbolic
Consciousness
Symbolic consciousness is freed from the kind of indexical tie to a given
here-now situation that is characteristic of perceptual awareness (section 3).
Linguistically construed objects of symbolic consciousness always entail a SELF
who is aware that the object of consciousness is experienced by the SELF. The
notion of SELF is defined as a self-referential perspective implicating observa-
tional perspectives or viewpoints. As we shall see below, a SELF is implicated in
all occasions of semiosis, whether explicitly specified or not by linguistic or
other means. The two poles of attention that Gibson identified in the act of
perception apply here as well (section 3). Independently of whether the object
of symbolic consciousness is spoken, heard, written, or read by the SELF, the
linguistic object of consciousness is always grounded in the perspective of a
SELF who experiences the object of consciousness. For the same reason, the
SELF can 'hear' the voices (the utterances) of others in his or her inner speech.
In the case of language, the difference with respect to perceptual awareness lies
in the way in which the objects of symbolic consciousness can be re-grounded
in the perspective of other selves who can experience the object of conscious-
ness from their own perspective (Deacon 1997: 427; this volume chapter 4,
section 2, pp. 173-6). The fact of my speaking or writing a particular instance
of language on a given occasion does not mean that the resulting text is
uniquely tied to or is uniquely grounded in perspective of the SELF who uttered
it. Rather, my interlocutor (listener, reader) re-grounds it in the perspective of
his or her self in the process of dialogically orienting to and taking up the
particular instance of language.
In this way, person deixis provides resources whereby first, second, and third
persons and the meanings associated with them can be grounded in the per-
spective of a given SELF. This means that the experience of a given object of
symbolic consciousness is not uniquely indexically tied to the first-person per-
spective of the person who uttered it. Furthermore, the resources of temporal
proximity deixis and modality proximity deixis in the Finite element are not
uniquely tied to the perspective of the self who originally produced the
particular instance of language (see chapter 3, section 7, pp. 131-2). Again,
the addressee re-grounds the temporal or modal orientation that is expressed in
the Finite element in terms of his or her own perspective as the one who
undergoes the particular symbolic experience. These interpersonal grammatico-
semantic resources provide a dialogically co-ordinated frame of reference in
which the temporal and modal (attitudinal, evaluative, and so on) orientations
of diverse selves can be co-ordinated across different space-time scales. Both
temporal and modal proximity deixis do not simply index the addresser's
temporal perspective or modal evaluation of some proposition; they also work to
organize the addressee's orientation as well. The same applies to the spatial
proximity and other forms of deixis that operate in the nominal group. Here,
too, the addressee re-grounds the given object of consciousness in the perspec-
tive of his own self rather than in that of the person who first uttered or
otherwise produced the utterance.
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 277
Person deixis and finiteness ground the symbolic object of consciousness in a
dialogically co-ordinated frame of reference. Person deixis enables meanings
pertaining not only to the first-person perspective of SELF, but also meanings
pertaining to second and third persons to be made relevant to and integrated to
the first-person observational perspectives of SELF. The resources of temporal
proximity deixis and attitudinal proximity deixis in the Finite element dialogi-
cally co-ordinate addresser and addressee in terms of the temporal or modal
grounding of the proposition. This means that addressees can re-ground the
temporal or modal perspective specified by the Finite in terms of their own
perspective. Both of these resources show how, from the point of view of the
interpersonal metafunction, there is a dialogic complementarity between the
perspectives of SELF and NONSELF. This means that the SELF's awareness
that it is the SELF who is consciousness of the given object can be re-grounded
in the perspective of some other SELF. The dialogic complementarity of SELF
and NONSELF in the exchange process refers to the way in which the inter-
personal semantic structure of a given dialogic move, as spoken, written or
signed by some addresser, results in a corresponding change in the addressee.
Thus, the addressee is internally modified in ways which result in the dialogic co-
ordination of deictic perspectives. The information which is supplied by person
deixis and the Finite are principles of order whereby cross-individual dialogic
processes integrate individuals to higher-order dialogically co-ordinated frames
of reference. At the same time, they also provide individuals with resources for
being conscious of being conscious of something in the perspective of a SELF as
a locus of (inter)action and intentionality.
12. Text, Social Meaning-making Practices and Higher-order Consciousness
The artefactual nature of text-as-material-object can be seen as a further devel-
opment and specification of the function of short-term memory that I discussed
in section 6.4 in connection with the work of Carruthers. The kind of reflexive
thinking described by Carruthers as necessary for consciousness is confined to
the organismic scale of short-term memory. On the other hand, linguistically
mediated discursive events, along with their entextualized products and records,
mean that consciousness itself is extended across diverse space-time scales
beyond the organismic one in its immediate environment. We saw earlier that in
Carruthers's account short-term memory enables each thought to be recursively
fed back to the same short-term memory store. In this way, each thought is
available so that it may be consciously thought about in its turn by further
thoughts. The recursive nature of this process is homologous with the logical
metafunction in language. The recursivity described by Carruthers (see section
6.4, pp. 262-4) is a less specified version of the same kinds of logico-semantic
resources that construe relations of causality, temporal sequence, and so on,
between clausally realized figures in a given sequence. The logico-semantic
resources of expansion enable clausally realized figures to be related to each
other as sequences of figures (chapter 4, section 6, pp. 195-8). The relations of
logico-semantic interdependency that are created between figures provide a
278 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
means whereby each figure of the figures in an unfolding sequence or even the
sequence as a whole can be consciously reflected on by further figures as they
emerge.
Unlike the perceptual information referred to by Carruthers, an entextual-
ized sequence oflinguistic figures is not necessarily limited to the small temporal
scale of short-term memory. Carruthers's notion of reflexive thinking shows how
even perceptual information on the immediate here-now scale of the body's
interactions with its material environment can be implicated in space-time scales
that go beyond the here-now. The fact that thoughts can be consciously thought
about by other thoughts means that the thoughts and the sequences of thoughts
so thought about are embedded in larger space-time scales. The artefactual
character of linguistic text represents a massive expansion and elaboration of
this possibility. Text can be viewed as material object or artefact; it can also be
viewed as a semantic process of making or operationalizing meanings in some
context. The dual status of text as material and semiotic entity means that (1)
texts can be used, manipulated, transported, stored, and so on, on the
immediate here-now scale as objects; and (2) their embedding in specific
meaning-making practices in which their semantic potential is activated
connects the here-now object (the letter from a family member that I hold in my
hand) to far larger semiotic scales which are condensed in the lexicogrammati-
cal and discourse patterns of organization of the text as a unit of meaning.
Textually mediated interactions between individuals expand the possibilities
for more and more indirect kinds of interactions with other individuals and
institutions on different space-time scales. The proto-interpersonal relations
characteristic of the early socio-affective dyads between mother and infant are
thus expanded to include an increasingly differentiated array of interactions
between increasingly differentiated first and second persons. Subsequently, this
includes third persons who are made the focus as the dyad expands outwards to
integrate with the perspectives of such persons. It is not difficult to see here how
this increased expansion outwards to include third persons ofvarious kinds is, in
time, extended to include non-human objects of varying degrees of abstraction
as semiotically mediated objects of symbolic consciousness, including those
constituted by purely linguistic means.
We have considered how metafunctional constraints which are intrinsic to the
organization of linguistic and other semiotic forms enable meanings to be
enacted and construed in and through semiotic forms of all kinds. Moreover, I
have considered how the metafunctional basis of linguistic and other semiotic
forms has eo-evolved with human beings and the ecosocial forms of organization
in which human activity is embedded and by which it is both constrained and
enabled. It is this hook-up between individual human agents and the higher-
order boundary conditions constituted by the ecosocial system which enable the
emergence in individuals of complex, individual properties and viewpoints on
the basis of the self-organizing neural networks which are formed along a time-
bound trajectory in the individual brain. Higher-order or symbolic consciousness
is the result of the self-organization of symbolic space whereby human individu-
als qua agents can carry out intentional symbolic activity in their interactions
with others. The systemic possibilities of lexicogrammar and other semiotic
THE METAFUNCTIONAL CHARACTER OF CONSCIOUSNESS 279
modalities constitute, as Halliday (1993) has pointed out, a multidimensional
and highly elastic semantic space which enables human beings to construe
experience, to enact social-interpersonal relations with others, and to construct
often extremely complex acts of internally coherent discourse. The meaning
potential of language, depiction, and so on, constitutes a phase space whereby
individuals are provided with systems of choices - meaningful alternatives - for
making meanings in specific contexts.
The notions of scalar heterogeneity and complex dynamic open systems that
interact with their ecosocial environments under conditions far from equilib-
rium show us how social agents build both history and context into their own
internal dynamics. Our symbolic meaning-making resources allow us to extend
ourselves beyond the here-now scale of our immediate surrounding milieu so as
to selectively interact with diverse, often very different space-time scales, as well
as to internalize these interactions so that they become part of the individual's
Innenwelt. In this way, we interact with not just a series of immediate contexts of
situations, but also the context of culture which the former mediate and in which
they are embedded. Thus, symbolic - not iconic and indexical- semiosis enables
us to interact with and internalize scalar heterogeneity. It is our being situated at
this intersection of maximally diverse scales, mediated by our symbolic resources,
which in turn acts on our internal dynamics and modifies them.
The further question that arises here concerns the constraints on the
particular forms of meaningful action that can be carried out by agents in
particular forms of social organization. If the systemically organized meaning-
making resources of language and other semiotic modalities both enable and
constrain the kinds of meanings that can be made, then we need to investigate
how variation in the relationship between semiotic forms and the social
meaning-making practices in which agents are positioned leads to variation in
the ways in which consciousness is organized. The higher-order systems of
meaning-making practices of a given culture constrain both the agent's
trajectory and his or her internal dynamics to the global probability landscape -
e.g. the coding orientations - of the culture as a whole. Thus, individuals are
entrained to the overall dynamical organization of a particular coding orienta-
tion (Bernstein 1971, 1990) or habitus (Bourdieu (1977 [1972]) such that, in
logogenesis, the probabilities regulating the individual's access to, participation
in, and understanding of specific texts, discourse genres, and ways of making
meaning are pre-set. As Hasan (1992b: 520-1) points out, variability in the ways
in which different categories of social agents are positioned in and orient to the
social structure leads to socially significant differences in the ways in which
different categories of individuals in a given community orient to and deploy in
their daily life the meaning-making resources of the community. This further
suggests that the semiotically mediated nature of consciousness will lead to
variant forms of consciousness according to the variable ways in which individu-
als are positioned by the differential distribution of power and control and,
hence, to the semiotic and material resources of the society.
The slower rate of the higher-scalar attractor space (e.g. the coding orienta-
tion which an individual belonging to a particular social group habitually
accesses) regulates lower-level individual dynamics by entraining its much faster
280 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
dynamics to the slower ones on the higher level. This suggests that the very fast
dynamics of neural activity in the brain are entrained to the higher-scalar
constraints of particular coding orientations through the creation of attractors
that reorganize the patterns of firing of individual neurons such that these are
constrained by the attractor space that the coding orientation constitutes. As
Benjamin Lee Whorf long ago understood, though without the benefit of
modern neural science, higher-order consciousness is shaped and entrained by
what he referred to as 'a whole large order of experience' (1956a: 137). That is,
it is shaped by higher-scalar dynamical processes on the ecosocial level.
Moreover, Whorf also understood that language is a more specified integrative
layer of something far more general, which 'may generalize down not to any
such universal as "Language", but to something better - called "sublinguistic" or
"superlinguistlc" - and not ALTOGETHER unlike, even if much unlike, what we
now call "mental" (Whorf 1956b: 239).
6 Brain, Meaning, and Consciousness
1. Biological and Socio-cultural Factors Form a Single System of Complexly
Related and Interacting Factors: Putting Time and Activity Back into the
Picture
The science of language has existed in both the Western and Eastern traditions
for at least the past two or three millennia. Linguists have been able to make
statements about the phonological, graphological, lexicogrammatical, semantic,
and discourse aspects of language because there exist neurological and sensori-
motor processes that make the level(s) of organization about which linguistic
statements are made possible. The discourses of biology are, of course,
concerned with the former level. It does not follow from this line of reasoning
that statements about language qua semiotic system must necessarily be made
with reference to or reduced to statements about biology. The fact that several
millennia of thinking about and theorizing about language has taken place in
the absence of our modern understanding of biology shows that such a non-
reductive discourse about language is eminently possible. Nevertheless, the
historical order in which various scientific discourses have appeared should not
distract us from the specific logical problem I am addressing here. Much of our
received wisdom about language emerged well before the onset of a credible
biological discourse. This fact has tended to exacerbate the trend towards talking
about language as a metaphysical object that is dissociated from both nature and
our bodies. The evidence for this trend abounds in many of the theoretical
discourses about language that have predominated in the twentieth century. The
resulting dissociation has tended towards fragmented and arbitrary accounts of
language which do not connect with the biological dimension of our being.
In chapters 4 and 5, we saw that the biological and socio-cultural dimensions
of the specificity of the human species need not be dichotomized as two separate
causal domains. In recent years, neurobiology has made considerable progress
in showing that it makes no sense to oppose the human capacity for linguistically
mediated meaning-making and higher-order symbolic 'thought' to our
biological being. This has often led to the tendency to view the latter as
something lofty and 'spiritual' and therefore beyond biology whereas the latter
is seen as belonging to the crassly physical-material realm. In reality, the former
belong to our biological make-up, and at the same time our biology has evolved
so that we are the socio-cultural and symbolic beings that we are. Language in all
282 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
of its facets is intrinsic to our biological make-up. There is continuity with other
species, as the ape-language research of Savage-Rumbaugh et al. (1998) shows,
though this in no way implies that human biological specificity is reducible to
that of other species. The more fundamental point is that all forms of biological
organization are founded on elementary forms ofsemiosis whereby organisms of
all kinds selectively interpret and adjust to their specific version of reality in the
process of constituting their Umwelten. This fact is evident in the infant-caretaker
semiosis characteristic of primary intersubjectivity.
The reciprocal contributions of both caretaker and infant to the dyads
characteristic of primary intersubjectivity (Trevarthen 1987, 1992; Halliday 1975,
1993) are based on forms of matter, energy, and information exchange both
between the two members of the dyad and between the dyad and the higher-
order ecosocial system in which the dyad is embedded. Semiosis, including
linguistically mediated semiosis, emerges as a consequence of these processes of
exchange. The fact that language is emergent from such forms of exchange
means that it is intrinsically dialogical and social. Therefore, the biological
organization of the human species is inherently dialogic from the outset. The
elementary forms of semiosis that characterize the caretaker-infant dyad in
primary intersubjectivity are what make the emergence of language in individu-
als possible. Doubtless, the genetically inherited value wash predisposes the
newborn to participate in the elementary forms of dialogic communication with
caretakers that Trevarthen has identified as primary intersubjectivity. In turn,
this participation makes possible the infant's accessing and selecting of more
complex forms of communication along his or her trajectory.
Phylogenetically, it is the emergence of language from prior forms of
meaning-making which makes possible the genetic predisposition to language.
Rather than an innate linguistic competence which grows into language in the
individual in a pre-programmed way, it is newly emergent socio-cultural forms of
meaning-making which act on and select the biological substrate so as to modify
and entrain it along a specific cultural trajectory so that language and commu-
nicative ecosystem both eo-develop and co-individuate in the individual (Bateson
1980; Deacon 1998 [1997]; Lemke 2000a; Thibault 2000a; 2003b). As Wheeler
(1988: 15) points out, 'a mind with no programming is no mind'. The mind is
programmed by the networks of meaning-making in which it participates. It is
the dialogic engagement of world by organism whereby self interrogates and
receives response from the world in the exchange process that enables meaning
to be exchanged between the two (see also Wertsch 1991). In the process of
interpreting the world through exchange, we also affirm our continuity with
others linked in the same networks of exchange. This is possible because of the
systematic nature of our meaning-making resources. Chomsky's nativist
hypothesis, by contrast, sees the programming as being built into the genetic
inheritance of the individual from the outset in the form of hard-wired formal
rules in the brain.
Chomsky's (1965) theory attempts to make explicit the formal properties that
define the range of human languages. It is in this sense a characterization of the
universal properties of human language. Competence excludes meaning and
the relationships among language users, their language, and context. The latter
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 283
refers to performance. Linguistic competence is seen as an abstract and formal
knowledge which sits above the general cognitive system comprising memory,
attention, real-time perception, and so on. Chomsky claims that competence is
biologically constrained and characterized by knowledge of abstract linguistic
rules which are genetically determined. The brain is thus seen as a store for a
large number of formal linguistic rules that are hard-wired in the brain along
with the means for operating on these according to predetermined logical
criteria. Two problems with this theory are the failure (l) to provide convincing
biological criteria for showing how abstract linguistic rules exist in the brain and
(2) to demonstrate how competence is manifested in real-time discourse activity.
The arguments to be developed below present a very different view.
In chapter 4, section 10, pp. 202-5, I argue for the need to refocus on
language development as an epigenetic process along a developmental
trajectory which is typical of members of a given species. The human organism
- the body-brain complex - is adapted to eo-develop and co-individuate together
with language by virtue of its - the organism's - being embedded in a specific
ecosocial system. Moreover, the body-brain complex is itself constructed and
modified by the matter, energy, and information-meaning exchanges it engages
in along its trajectory. Language, rather than being innate in the child from the
outset, has 'universal' properties and functions on account ofthe species-specific
genotypic commonalities and type-specific developmental pathways such that
some kinds of information and structure rather than others are selected from
the developmental and cultural context as being relevant to the development of
the child in ways which are typical of the species (see also Cowley 2001). The
Pinker-type distinction between 'what an organism learns' and 'what a brain
innately knows' has no place in this conception (Pinker 1994,1997). Moreover,
an individual's language potential is stored in the brain not as hard-wired
abstract rules, divorced from time and context, but as memory-governed
networks of associations which are acquired and adaptively modified along the
individual's time-bound trajectory. There are important developmental and
individuating implications of this claim.
2. Re-interpreting Flohr's Brain-based Theory of Phenomenal Awareness: A
Three-level Hierarchy View of the Emergence of Proto-meaning in the Brain
Hans Flohrs research is dedicated to overcoming the prevailing dualism
between physical versus phenomenal brain states. Flohr (1991: 248-9) outlines
two classes of inputs which are received by the cerebral cortex as follows: (1)
specific afferents from sense organs which are relayed through specific thalamic
nuclei before reaching the primary cortical projection areas; and (2) non-
specific afferents which reach the cortex from the mesencephalic reticular
formation, where the term reticular formation applies to 'a network of neurons
and nerve fibers extending from the caudal medulla to the diencephalon' (1991:
249). Such neurons form 'a widely distributed network of synaptic contacts'
(1991: 249). Moreover, it is now established that this formation 'is organized into
different nuclei with specific afferent and efferent connections' (1991: 249).
284 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Flohr explains the projection of these specific and non-specific afferents within
the cerebral cortex as follows:
Within the cerebral cortex, primary auditory, somatosensory and visual fields
each project to adjacent unimodal association areas which, in turn, project to
contiguous secondary unimodal association fields. It is assumed that these
successive areas are concerned with progressively higher-order abstractions
within a modality. The unimodal association areas project to a number of
polymodal sensory areas lying in the cingulate gyrus, parietal, temporal and
frontal lobes. Their function is vaguely described as crossmodal association
and synthesis. The polymodal association areas project to the inferior parietal
lobe which has been termed a 'supramodal' area. Polymodal and supramodal
regions have connections to the limbic system; these connections provide the
anatomical substrate by which motivational states influence cortical
processing of sensory stimuli. (Flohr 1991: 249)
Flohr points out that previously consciousness had been understood as
depending on the convergence of specific and non-specific afferrent systems,
'both of which contain complex feedback loops and are interconnected at
various levels' (1991: 250). However, Flohr also points out that this understand-
ing remains 'vague' after several decades of research 'into the role of the brain
stem in the generation and maintenance of consciousness' (1991: 250).
Moreover, it remains unable to explain both 'the difference in the subsequent
cortical processing of sensory data distinguishing conscious and unconscious
brains' and 'the specific nature of those brain processes which result from this
convergence and whose occurrence is a precondition for the occurrence of
consciousness' (1991: 250).
The central problem that remains for Flohr is a two-fold one, viz. (1) what
happens beyond this point?; and (2) which specific physiological states and
processes result from this convergence of (specific and non-specific) afferent
signals such that these might be 'constitutive of phenomenal experiences'?
(1991: 250). In order to formulate a hypothesis which may provide a solution to
the problem just outlined, Flohr first distinguishes two categories of possible
neural processes, which are the result of the interaction between specific and
non-specific afferents (1991: 251):
1. 'conventional' synaptic transmission, i.e. signal propagation in neural nets
with rigid structure and given synaptic weights;
2. activity-dependent self-organization of neural nets, i.e. changes in synaptic
connections which are induced by synaptic activation and dependent on the
degree of activation. (Flohr 1991: 251)
According to Flohr's hypothesis, the occurrence of phenomenal states in the
brain is dependent upon processes that pertain to the second group of factors.
On this basis, he proposes that phenomenal states depend on the rate of 'activity-
dependent synaptic changes' and the rate of formation of 'neural assemblies'
(1991: 251).
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 285
The concept of neural cell assemblies, as Flohr (1991: 251) points out, was
first developed by D. O. Hebb (1949). Hebb's conception is also central in the
work of Edelman (1987). Hebb proposed that '... repeated stimulation of
specific receptors will lead slowly to the formation of an 'assembly' of association
area cells which can act briefly as a closed system after stimulation has ceased .. .'
(quoted in Flohr 1991: 251). Hebb had proposed that such an assembly is the
simplest form of 'representative process' of an image or idea. Flohr continues:
The basis of this self-organization of neural nets is the presence of plastic
synapses, now termed Hebb synapses. Hebb assumed that synapses on a
neuron that are active while the neuron discharges will be strengthened,
whereas inactive synapses will be weakened. Synapses from differing inputs
that are active at the same time on the same neuron will be reinforced and
selected over others.
When applied to nets of spatially distributed groups of neurons with non-
specific, random interconnections, these so-called Hebb rules lead to a
relative stabilization and association of neurons firing in a correlated fashion.
An assembly of preferentially connected, coherently active cells is formed. If
coincident activity is induced in some neurons of such a net by a patterned
input, an assembly will be formed because the synchronous activation selec-
tively modulates the pathways connecting these neurons. The assembly
detects and encodes the coherent properties of the stimulus pattern such that
a representation of that pattern is generated. Once the assemblies have been
formed, they would function as detectors of the same or similar input patterns
expressing the detection of coherent features by co-ordinating their activities.
It is easy to envisage that the output of such assemblies could in turn be used
as input to other modifiable nets which then would reorganize their structure
as a function of this input. Iteration of such processes would generate more
and more abstract metarepresentations ...
These nets are able to create topographical representations in which the
relationships between elements of the stimulus pattern become encoded into
spatio-temporal patterns of activities. Moreover, in such nets abstractions from
primary sensory data at increasingly higher levels of generalization are
formed and stored. Synaptic plasticity is the means by which neural nets
detect and represent coincident properties and, hence, the nomological
relations existing between elements of the input pattern. (Flohr 1991: 251-2;
italics in original)
Flohr's proposals can readily be assimilated to the three-level hierarchy, as
follows:
L+1: encoding of the properties of the stimulus pattern such that a representa-
tion of that pattern is generated;
L: application to nets of spatially distributed neurons leads to stabilization
and association of neurons firing in a correlated fashion to form an
assembly of globally coherent cells;
286 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
L-l: strengthening and/or weakening of synapses on different units while
neuron discharges as induced by patterned stimulus pattern information
(inputs) .
This shows how the strengthening of neural discharges on level L-l constitutes
information which is reorganized on level L as a global cortical effect in the form
ofan 'assembly' of 'coherently active cells' which are, in turn, interpreted at level
L+1 as being a representation of a stimulus pattern. The fact that assemblies,
once formed, can function as 'detectors' of the same or similar patterns over
longer periods of time shows that they function as filters or buffers such that only
the salient information from neuronal discharges on level L-l is recognized on
level L. Moreover, the fact that such self-organizing nets create topological rep-
resentations on level L+1 spatio-ternporal patterns of activity shows how the rep-
resentations created on this level constitute a system ofinterpretance comprising
representational categories. For this reason, globally coherent assemblies of cells
on level L are appropriately interpreted as representations of this or that repre-
sentational category.
A critically important component of Flohr's argument is the postulated
existence of rapid synaptic changes as against the previously dominant
assumption that synaptic weights remain constant in the performing of neural
nets. Flohr argues that the NMDA-receptor channel complex acts as the
molecular agent which brings about rapid synaptic changes. I shall quote Flohr
at some length on this rather technical question before venturing some remarks
of my own:
The essence of Hebb's postulate is that a synapse is strengthened if the
presynaptic activation of the synapse is coincident with the firing of the post-
synaptic neuron. This poses two difficulties:
(a) some mechanism of the synapse must respond to coincident pre- and
postsynaptic activate and initiate temporary changes in the weights of the
synapse;
(b) in the case of Malsburg-type synapses this mechanism must be fast enough
to allow rapid changes
[...]
One (but probably not the only one) such mechanism that could fulfil both
conditions has been described. Much recent data indicate that the NMDA
receptor channel complex may serve as the molecular mechanism for Hebb-
type synapses. This channel is voltage-dependent ... , i.e, it opens under two
conditions: (a) presynaptic activity that releases a transmitter that binds to the
receptor, and (b) sufficient postsynaptic depolarization. At membrane
potentials around resting potential, NMDA channels are blocked by
magnesium ions; if the membrane is depolarized, to say -30 to -20 mY, the
block is removed and the channel is switched on. The NMDA reccptor-linked
channel is permeable to Na', K' and Ca". Thus, NMDA receptors provide a
mechanism to (a) amplify synaptic currents, and (b) increase Ca" influx ifa
particular level of postsynaptic depolarization is present. Ca" is hypothesized
to trigger a number of Ca"-dependent molecular changes inside the post-
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 287
synaptic terminal that modify the efficacy of synapses (other than those gated
by NMDA). (Flohr 1991: 253)
Postsynaptic depolarization through the effects of the NMDA-receptor means
that the afferent stimulus patterns which impinge upon the neurons belonging
to a coherent population are indexical signs of inner and outer environmental
events. However, the amplification of synaptic currents, including the firing
properties of the postsynaptic neuron, on detection of correlated signals
converging on a single cell, leads to the formation of positive feedback loops
such that neurons near the threshold level will 'persist as a co-operative,
coherently active subpopulation' (1991: 253). It is this depolarization which
leads to the formation of coherent assemblies. Depolarization of the postsynapse
is the translation via the coherent cell assembly of the indexical signs - the
afferent inputs - related to some environmental event into symbolic signs which
translate the indexical sign from the inner perspective of the coherent cell
assemblies which are formed in the cerebral cortex. In this way, indexical signs
of the Umweltare translated into subpopulations of neurons. The latter, following
Salthe (1993: 176), are symbolic because they do not stand in any necessary
relationship to the afferent inputs relating to environmental events. The fact that
these same assemblies can then function as 'detectors' over longer timescales, as
discussed above, constitutes the basis on which an inner perspective which
constructs models of its Umwelt is built up. By contrast, the afferent input qua
index of environmental event occurs on the shorter timescale of the here-now
occurrence and pick-up of that event. It is on the basis of such models that a
system ofinterpretance emerges. The phenomena of consciousness are attended
to and experienced from the inner perspective of a self.
Flohr (1991: 255) draws attention to the rate of activation of a cell population:
unconscious brain structures exhibit a lower rate; conscious ones a much faster
rate of assembly, which reaches and crosses a critical threshold. This emphasis on
the rate of assembly activation follows an important principle of scalar hierarchy
theory, viz. processes on lower levels in the hierarchy have faster temporal cycles
while those on higher levels have slower ones (Salthe 1993: 46). The faster rate
of assembly of cell populations in the formation of a conscious experience goes
hand in hand with the fact that the conscious experience itself is experienced on
a slower timescale which corresponds to that of the observer perspectives and
categories of the person who undergoes the conscious (phenomenal)
experience. In accordance with the logic of scalar-hierarchy theory (Salthe 1993:
36-52), we could say that a phenomenal experience is a higher-scalar
phenomenon on level L+1 (with respect to the lower-scalar entities and
processes on levels L-l and L) which has a 'cogent moment' that lasts longer
than any of the lower-scalar processes that sustain it. The cogent moments of
conscious experience therefore reflect timescales pertaining to the higher-scalar
entities of the observer's perspective rather than the lower scale of, for example,
the synaptic discharges on level L-l, which are not accessible to consciousness
(section 9, pp. 310-13). Moreover, each level in the three-level hierarchy exhibits
properties which are specific to that level such that relations and processes on
different scalar levels are, to some extent, ontologically isolated from each other
288 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
(Salthe 1993: 46). It is this factor of ontological isolation which enables us to
understand how phenomenal consciousness can emerge from physical brain
states and processes on different scalar levels without being reducible to the
lower-scalar relations and processes.
A further important aspect of Flohr's hypothesis concerns the possibility that
'iteration' of such processes can lead to the formation of increasingly abstract
meta-representations (see above quote). Thus, phenomenal awareness of
stimulus patterns deriving from both the external world, the body's surface, and
the body's internal milieu can be integrated to and, therefore, reorganized as
meaningful information for conceptual and symbolicconsciousness, as outlined
in Figure 6.1. Furthermore, awareness is 'the result of the system's capacity to
actively generate representations and meta-representations' (1991: 255) such
that self-referential and meta-cognitive activities leading to the formation of an
Figure 6.1: Reentrant loop of conscious experience, showing relationship between self
and object of experience
Efferent outputs transduced as action ('attending to')
Pick-up of environmental information transduced as afferent inputs
'In here' =
L+l: EXPERIENCER-IN-HERE
attends to
REPRESENTATION OF
STIMULUSPATTERN
L: GLOBAL CELL
ASSEMBLY
L-l: WEIGHTED
SYNAPTIC
DISCHARGES
'Out there' =
ENVIRONMENTAL
INFORMATION ABOUT
INNER AND OUTER
EVENTS
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 289
inner perspective will emerge (1991: 258). It will be recalled at this point that
phenomenal awareness ultimately derives from the patterned activation and
modulation of receptor cells pertaining to the various perceptual systems. It is
such patterns of stimulus information, derived from inner and outer environ-
mental sources, which induce the strengthening or weakening of synaptic
discharges on level L-l of the proposed three-level hierarchy in terms ofwhich I
interpreted above Flohr's proposals concerning phenomenal awareness. Flohr is
not concerned, in the article I have discussed here, with conceptual and
symbolic forms of consciousness. Phenomenal awareness is always awareness of
an organized field of experience of objects, events, and so on, both within our
bodies and in the world outside our bodies. This draws attention to the fact that
the afferent stimulus inputs derive from sources outside the cerebral cortex. As
I see it, Flohr's notion of phenomenal awareness can be described as 'conscious
experience of our experiencing', i.e. 'before' meaning in the socially conven-
tional sense necessarily enters the picture. Crudely, this can be interpreted as a
reentrant loop whereby the conscious experiencer, in the form of a higher-scalar
me ta-representation of itself as the one who has the phenomenal awareness or
undergoes the conscious experience of the given phenomenon, is linked to the
'object' of this experience roughly along the lines shown in Figure 6.1.
The purpose of Figure 6.1 is to show how conscious awareness of the kind
theorized by Flohr is always embedded in a higher-scalar information-rich
environment which constitutes the boundary conditions of phenomenal
awareness itself.
3. Brain, Meaning, and Symbolic Consciousness
Proto-meanings are made up of neural activities in the form of neurophysiolog-
ical entities called impulses which enable communication to take place between
neurons by means of bio-chemically based neurotransmitters. The proto-
meanings that are stored in the brain combine with brain waves from other brain
regions where phonological systems and structures are stored. The brain waves
corresponding to the latter should not be confused with the actual sounds that
are produced by the vocal-tract activity in phonation. Peng (2000: 194) points
out that some distance has to be travelled, 'because of the cortico-striato-pallido-
thalamo-cortical-loop', before the brain waves corresponding to acoustic images
are transduced into physical sounds. Peng points out that neural impulses
corresponding to proto-meanings are 'catalytically mapped onto, that is, bound
to, an acoustic image' (2000: 195) such that 'in production, the impulse can no
longer be amorphous' (Peng 2000: 195).
It follows, from the way in which neural impulses that are analogous to the
content and expression planes in the CNS are catalytically mapped onto each
other only to be separated prior to articulation, that linguistic content as such is
not transmitted from speaker to hearer. The only thing which is 'transmitted' is
the physical speech sounds produced in vocal-tract gestural activity and
propagated through the air as sound waves. Only the neural impulses correspon-
ding to the expression stratum are transmitted via the loop to the vocal apparatus
290 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
for speech production. The impulses corresponding to the meaning - the
content - remain, as Peng (2000: 195) shows, in the speaker's brain. Meanings do
not travel through the air to the hearer. Instead, the hearer must re-construct in
his or her own brain the relationship between the two strata by (1) recognizing
the speech sounds which are picked up by the auditory system; and (2)
combining Of binding in his or her brain the neural impulses deriving from the
brain regions concerned with proto-meaning (content) and expression. The
hearer performs this process of re-construction on the basis of the fact that he or
she has a language system stored in long-term memory which is sufficiently similar
to that of the speaker that the same kinds of patterned relations between neural
impulses associated with expression and those associated with content are made.
This presumes that the neural and physiological dynamics of the central and
peripheral nervous systems of speaker and hearer have been entrained to the
same higher-scalar ecosocial system and its meanings even if their individual
trajectories through this can never be identical in every respect.
In the previous section, I considered how Flohr's proposals represent an
important statement concerning the way in which afferent stimulus patterns
deriving from multimodal sources either within or outside the body are repre-
sented as conscious experience of phenomena by the brain. The reorganization
across scales of lower-level physical brain processes led to their translation into
higher-scalar representations of input stimulus patterns which have meaning for
the self who is the conscious observer of these from an inner perspective, itself
the result of higher-scalar meta-representations in the brain. The states of
phenomenal awareness which form the basis of Flohr's discussion are largely
perceptual in character, whether these derive from external environmental
events or from within the internal milieu of the body. However, this distinction
does not alter the fact that afferent inputs derive from physical stimulus infor-
mation which is reorganized as conscious experience of phenomena in the way
discussed in the previous section. Furthermore, the individual's experience of
the given phenomenon is always mediated by a system of interpretance in terms
of which the phenomena of which one is aware are experienced as phenomena
corresponding to this or that category of experience. This shows that conscious-
ness is semiotically mediated at all levels. It is about a meaningful relation
between conscious experiencer and phenomenon experienced. In the case of
phenomenal awareness, as discussed by Flohr, it is important to point out that
'meaning' should be taken to refer to something less specified and therefore
more general than the more specified symbolic categories which are found in
ecosocial semiotic systems. The question now arises as to how Flohr's discussion
may help us to understand symbolic or higher-order consciousness and the role
of symbolic modes of semiosis such as language in this.
4. The Embodiment of the Material and the Conscious Modes in
Expression and Content
Flohr's discussion ofphenomenal awareness highlights the way in which stimulus
patterns, derived from acoustic, photic, and other forms of energy, stimulate and
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 291
modulate the receptor cells such that nerves are stimulated to fire and transmit
sensory information to the brain in the form of nerve firings. In this way, the
qualia of phenomenal awareness - i.e., the elementary conscious experiences of
basic sensations such as the colour blue, a sweet taste, or low pitch - are
registered on consciousness. This is sensory perception. But this is not, as Gibson
(1983 [1966], 1986 [1979]) has shown, what perception is normally all about.
Perception is of events which occur in an environmental context which the
organism actively and adaptively explores and orients to. When we listen to
speech sounds, we do not perceive raw acoustic sensations such as low pitch.
Instead, we perceive a speech event. In other words, we perceive the syllables,
rhythmic patterns, and intonation contours characteristic of speech events in a
particular language. To be sure, our perception of this event is supported by
acoustic energy in which many fine-grained distinctions not normally available to
consciousness can be identified by physical measuring devices such as the spec-
trogram. The flow of energy measured by the spectrogram is continuously
varying at the very short timescale of sensory perception. Many of these distinc-
tions are not salient for the perception of the speech event and are filtered out
by the particular phonological system in operation (see chapter 3, section 2, pp.
109-16, for a full discussion). Event perception is oriented to the pick-up of
information about the meaning which the auditory event affords the listener. In
the case of speech events, we perceive information about (1) the processes of
vocal-tract articulation of the speaker who is the source and producer of the
event and (2) the ways in which the phonological units and relations that are
construed in the sound stream qua expression stratum may be cross-coupled with
lexicogrammatical and semantic units and relations on the content stratum. It is
important to remember here that content-stratum systems and structures are
neither contained in nor transmitted by the expression stratum. I shall come
back to this point. What I want to emphasize here is that all forms of semiosis,
e.g. the act of speaking under consideration here, entail the perception of
semiotic events and/or products (object-texts) qua expression stratum. The
perception of the speech event as expression stratum means that listeners orient
to and perceive phonological categories and relations on different scales of
organization in the speech event (see chapter 2, section 9, pp. 83-6). This is not
saying anything at all new. Nevertheless, it is important to reassert this
fundamental point so that we can address the relevance of this to symbolic con-
sciousness. The main point is that the expression stratum is itself a phenomenon
of conscious awareness. Language users do not perceive raw acoustic sensations.
Instead, speech sounds are phenomena of experience which are organized and
perceived as instantiations of the phonological categories of a particular
language system. The perception of a speech event therefore involves the intro-
jection into the domain of the conscious of the vocal-auditory information which
is picked up as the embodied experience of vocal-tract or other gestural activity.
Halliday has discussed the overall semogenic, or meaning-creating, process in
relation to the two strata of expression and content as follows:
In the act of meaning, then, the two modes of experience [viz. the material
and the conscious, ~JT] through the projection of the one by the other,
292 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
become fused and transformed into something that is new and different from
either. We can think of this as creating a 'plane of content' in the Hjelmsle-
vian sense. If we look at this process dynamically, it is meaning-creating, or
semogenic. Ifwe look at it synoptically, as a relation construed by this process,
it is semantic; and it appears as an interface (our original notion of semantics
as 'interlevel' was relevant here), one 'face' being the phenomena of
experience. We often refer to these phenomena collectively as 'the material',
as if the only form ofexperience was what is 'out there'. But this is misleading.
Our experience is at once both material and conscious; and it is the contra-
diction between the material and the conscious that gives these phenomena
their semogenic potential ...
But in order for meaning to be created there has also to be a second
interface, a transformation back into the material, or (again, rather) into the
phenomenal - this time in its manifestation in the meaning subject's own
body: as physiological processes of articulation or gesture. This is the
phonetic/kinetic interface; the 'expression plane', in Hjelmslev's terms. Since
there can be no meaning without expression (meaning is intlnSubjective
activity, not subjective), the act is 'doubly articulated', in Martinet's termin-
ology: it is the transduction of the phenomenal back into the phenomenal
via these two interfaces of content and expression. (Transduction not
transformation, because as Lamb (1964) pointed out many years ago in
transformation the original is lost, ceases to exist. And again I am suggesting
that we should conceive of it as phenomenal rather than material, since both
the 'outer' faces, that of the content substance on the one hand and that of
the expression substance on the other, embody both the material and the
conscious modes of being.) (Halliday 1992a: 21-2; italics in original)
Both content and expression embody the material and the conscious modes.
Many theories of meaning have lost sight of this material-phenomenal
dimension. In doing so, they miss out on the fact that meaning-making requires
an intersubjectively shared form ofbodily expression. Meaning-making is not the
transmission of an abstract content form in the form of coded ideas or thoughts
from one 'mind' to another. Expression is not a mere vehicle or carrier of
content, but is itselfphenomenal. Meaning is not transmitted in this or any other
way.
The embodiment of both the material and the conscious modes may be
explained as follows. Speech sounds qua physical and biological processes are
based on topological-continuous variation. Phonological systems and structures,
on the other hand, operate in terms of discrete typological-eategorial distinc-
tions on various levels of organization. The physical and biological processes
tend to be confined to the organismic scale and its material interactions with its
immediate environment. However, the phonological systems and structures of a
particular language system are ecosocial categories. Bodily processes of the first
kind are epigenetically entrained to and selected by the dynamics of the higher-
scalar ecosocial level by virtue of the individual's participation in the meaning-
making practices of that community. From this point of view, the body qua
phonetic/kinetic interface, to use Halliday's term, is a cultural tool which
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 293
parUClpates in meaning-making practices that can extend across very many
diverse space-time scales. This is the principle of scalar heterogeneity as
developed by Lemke (2000a; see also Thibault 2000a). It is in this way that the
categories of symbolic consciousness and its artefacts ramify across and integrate
with many different scales beyond that of the physical-material processes of the
body in interaction with its immediate environment.
Lexicogrammatical and discourse systems and structures on the content
stratum similarly operate in terms of typological-categorial distinctions for the
most part. Again, the phenomena of experience in the material domain of the
body's inner milieu and the body's environment are topological-continuous
such that the contradiction between the material and the conscious manifests
itself here as well. As I said above, these categories of content are not transmit-
ted from one person's brain to another person's brain (e.g. speaker to listener),
but are reconstructed in the individual's (the listener's) brain. The no-Iess-
embodied brain and its neural dynamics is also a tool which the individual
activates and puts to use for the purposes ofsocial meaning-making. As discussed
in section 7 below, pp. 300-1, this is possible because of the meta-redundancy or
contextualizing relations in operation. The cross-coupling of the two strata in
the brain is possible because of the contextualizing relations that specify which
expressions combine with which contents, and in which contexts. Rather than
the transmission of information or thoughts from one mind to another, I would
explain what happens in the following terms. It is the use in determinate social
meaning-making practices of expression-stratum artefacts in the form of (1)
bodily (gestural) activity which is projected into and/or introjected from the
ecosocial environment or (2) material textual artefacts, that provides an inter-
subjectively shared material basis whereby the two strata can be cross-coupled in
individual brains (see below) such that the transduction of the phenomena of
experience back into the phenomenal can take place. Individuals make
meanings by harnessing and entraining their body-brain dynamics to ecosocial
ones. Intersubjective vectors of expression integrate them both materially and
semiotically to this common purpose.
Figure 6.2 provides a schematic representation of the relations between
expression and content with respect to the central nervous system (CNS) and
the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
Phonological units and relations have both indexical and symbolic properties,
which means that they are more typologically specified than are the topological-
continuous differentiations characteristic of the sensory perception of the
acoustic information in the speech event (see above). Moreover, the expression
stratum is an interface which connects the central nervous system to the external
environment of the individual via the peripheral nervous system (see above).
It is an interface in which sensori-motor routines have been entrained to and
recategorized as the phonological routines of a particular language system.
The more specified nature of phonological expression vis-a-vis less specified
sensori-motor routines on lower integrative levels means that individuals are in
contact with a greatly expanded Umwelt. Speech events which are picked up and
attended to by a listener impinge on the listener as more than just indexes of
necessary features of their correlated environmental events. In this way, the
294 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Figure 6.2: Content and expression and their relations to the central and peripheral
nervous systems; adapted from Peng (1994: 105)
Context of Culture
Context of Situation
CNS Discourse CONTENT STRATUM
Lexicogrammar
Phonology, Graphology
EXPRESSION STRATUM
PNS Phonology, Graphology
speech event indexes features of the articulatory processes which produce it. To
be sure, the logic of the specification hierarchy shows that speech events have
iconic, indexical, and symbolic properties. This aspect is discussed in chapter 3,
section 4, pp. 118-20.
However, the main point to be emphasized for now is that the transduction of
the speech sounds into nerve impulses which are transmitted to the central
nervous system via the bulbo-cortical pathways results in their cross-coupling to
lexicogrammatical and discourse levels of organization on the content stratum
in the listener's brain. This cross-coupling is possible because the stimulus
pattern which enters the cerebral cortex consists of a stable correlation of
articulatory, perceptual, and visual inputs which are reentrantly mapped at pro-
gressively higher levels of abstraction to form a predictable language-specific
phonological category. Coherent assemblies of cells are formed in the brain so
as to represent a given phonological category. It is important to bear in mind
here that expression-stratum categories such as phonological ones are also
stored in the cerebral cortex. They do not belong to the peripheral nervous
systems of sensori-motor activity per se. The presence of stable repertoires of
language-specific phonological categories in the cerebral cortex means that
stable assemblies of neuronal populations are epigenetically selected and
strengthened in both logogenesis and ontogenesis as representations of phono-
logical categories in the CNS.
As we saw in section 2, neuronal nets with a high rate of assembly formation
do not only produce complex, qualitativelydifferent representations; they also
produce progressively higher-level meta-representations. It is in this way, I
suggest, that lower-level phonological repertoires are cross-coupled in the
cerebral cortex with higher-level lexicogrammatical and discourse units and
relations on the content stratum. Expression and content are cross-coupled in
this wayon the basis of the principle of semiotic alternation developed byLemke
(1999; see in the present volume chapter 1, section 4, pp. 18-22). Thus, the cell
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 295
assembly (the neuronal repertoire) which represents a particular phonological
category contains information which enables it to be translated into content-
stratum units and relations by virtue of the cross-coupling dynamics involved.
This is possible because of the brain's capacity to recategorize sensori-motor and
phonological routines as conceptual and lexicogrammatical ones, respectively
(see chapter 3, section 9, pp. 139-46). The term 'cross-coupling' serves to
highlight the dynamic, time-bound nature of the processes involved. Expression
and content are said to be cross-coupled to each other because their respective
processes simultaneously unfold in time and act on and affect each other. (In the
following section, I shall consider the selective and two-way nature of the cross-
coupling dynamics involved in terms of Lernke's theory of meta-redundancy.)
5. Periodicity and the Intrinsic Temporal Organization of the Expression
Stratum of Speech on Diverse Scalar Levels
Speech events are characterized by periodicity patterns at different levels of hier-
archical organization on the expression stratum of phonological organization.
Temporality is, therefore, intrinsic to the structural organization of such events.
This means that time cannot be viewed as an abstract constant which is externally
applied to such events. The timescale on which speech events are perceived as
such is relative rather than absolute. Absolute or clock time only applies to the
energy flows measured by the spectrogram. Relative time simply means that the
duration of a given event is compared to that ofother events rather than to some
absolute external standard. Relative time is context-dependent and intrinsic to
the rhythms of the organism in relation to his or her environment. Phonology is
emergent from vocal-tract gestural activity, which is essentially neuromuscular in
character. These (and other) gestures are comprised of cycles of periodic
processes on various levels of organization.
In systemic-functional phonological theory, for example, three vocal-tract
cycles have been proposed (Halliday 1992b, 2000; Cleirigh 1998: 37-40). The
three cycles correspond to the phonological ranks of syllable, foot, and tone
group in systemic theory. The first cycle involves the processes of opening and
closing the vocal tract through articulators so as dampen phonation in the
production of syllables. This cycle can be modelled as the oscillation between
different energy states of the neuromuscular systems involved (Cleirigh 1998:
38). In the syllable, the constituents of the Rhyme have the potential to be
moraic, i.e. to function as a timing unit, whereas the constituents of the Onset
are non-moraic. On this scale, the articulatory cycle consists of activating and
de-activating syllable weight or moraicity. On the next-higher scale of activity,
vocal-tract activity is associated with variations in loudness and duration so as to
produce stress. This leads to the production of a rhythmic cycle, which is
comprised of activating and de-activating stress. The third cycle is that
concerned with major pitch shifts so as to create tonic prominence or tonicity.
The processes involved on this scalar level produce intonation through a
continual process of activating and de-activating tonicity.
The temporal structure of the speech event is based on periodicities at
296 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
different scales of organization which provide internally predictable principles
of time measurement based on the principle of regularity. Moreover, these
periodicity patterns and their intrinsic temporal organization are inherent in
phonological organization. On their respective scalar levels, both in- and out-of-
phase properties of moraicity, rhythm, and tonicity are semiotically salient
temporal events, Le. they are temporal differences which make a difference. It is
my view that an important function of these events is to entrain the listener to
the perception of the vocal-auditory event as meaningful (see above). It is on the
basis of such entraining that the always time-bound cross-coupling processes
between expression and content takes place. Periodicity patterning in speech
and other semiotic modalities entrains the listener (and the speaker) to semiot-
ically salient temporal structures in the overall temporal flux. This temporal
structure consists ofsmaller units nested within larger units from the syllable, say,
to a whole discourse event, or even to diverse discourse events on different
occasions. Moreover, the fact that time-bound phonological periodicities also
integrate with and demarcate lexicogrammatical and discourse levels of organi-
zation on the content stratum highlights their role in the cross-coupling
dynamics referred to above.
Consistent with Gibson's ecological theory of perception, the periodicities of
semiosis and their pick-up qua semiotically salient environmental events are com-
mensurate with the temporal structures which the human organism is adapted
to perceive on the scale on which meaning-making takes place. In this way,bodily
(neuromuscular) periodicities are entrained to higher-scalar ecosocial
meanings. On the other hand, external clock time has scales from attoseconds
to, say, 10100
years hence of the Dark Era which cosmologists predict as the
ultimate fate of our expanding universe, when little more than waste photons,
neutrinos, electrons, and positrons will remain. This refers to the external and
absolute measurement of time by extrinsic measuring devices that I mentioned
above. But that is not the temporal scale to which the human organism is bio-
logically adapted in its ecosocial environment. The temporal scale of meaning-
making and perception is intrinsic to the organism in its environment; it is also
relative, in that one event is measured through comparison with other such
events rather than against some absolute standard external to these events.
6. The Creation of Symbolic Objects of Consciousness in Semantic Neural
Space
Flohr also draws attention to Hebb's notion that 'plastic neural nets can function
as coincidence detectors, and that the eo-activation of certain neuron popula-
tions by stimulus patterns creates a representation of these patterns' (1991: 258).
In this way,intentional contents can be the cause of physical brain processes, e.g.
representations can activate stimulus patterns. This is coherent with the two-way
and reciprocal nature of the cross-coupling dynamics whereby expression and
content selectively contextualize one another. It is interesting in this regard to
note that inner speech is associated with imagined auditory routines which are
silent and which direct the temporal flow of inner dialogue. These imagined
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 297
routines are cognitive routines realized by the activation of neuronal popula-
tions. They do not depend on the production of audible speech sounds, though
they also direct these in the way discussed above. My reason for bringing this
point up is two-fold.
First, it demonstrates the independent existence of both phonological,
graphological, sign, and other language-specific expression-stratum units and
relations in the central nervous system. This does not change the fact that these
have to be epigenetically selected in ontogenesis and experientially strength-
ened in logogenesis in order to get into the CNS in the first place. Secondly, the
existence of both semiotic strata - expression and content - together with
the reciprocal nature of the contextualizing relations which cross-link them in
the CNS further suggests that the contents of symbolic neural space can 'cause'
physical-brain and sensori-motor processes by entraining these lower-level
relations along a specific action trajectory which loops from the organism out
into its ecosocial environment (see chapter 1, section 1, pp. 3-8). The objects of
conscious attention are capable of eliciting action trajectories with respect to
that 'object', whether this is a material object in the immediate perceptual field
of awareness of the individual or a symbolic object which has been generated by
the cross-coupling of expression and content in symbolic neural space. Flohr
also makes the point that objects selected for conscious attention 'are also
different subjectively' and that 'this occurs in those domains in which the
assembly turnover is enhanced by thalamo-cortical activation' (1991: 257).
But it is time to rein in this discussion and come to some kind of statement as
to what objects of symbolic consciousness are. Whether in the CNS of the
individual in the form of silent inner speech, or in the form of the perceptual
pick-up of stimulus information from speech events along with their transduc-
tion into nerve impulses which are transmitted to the cerebral cortex of the
listener, the creation of objects of symbolic consciousness arises through the
cross-coupling of neuronal populations corresponding to expression- and
content-strata repertoires and routines in the brain of the individual. To take a
simple example, the lexicogrammatical resources of clause grammar experien-
tially construe a semantic figure comprising a configuration of a Process and Par-
ticipant(s). The semantic figure so construed is just such an object of symbolic
consciousness which can be attended to and focused on in symbolic neural space
from the inner perspective of the self who so attends to it. This applies equally
to all modalities of natural language - speech, writing, sign, Braille, and inner
speech - irrespective of the specific means of transmission from peripheral to
central nervous system. The example just given refers to the content stratum,
though expression-stratum entities can also be attended to in the same way.
A clause, say, is never just an experiential construal of some phenomenon of
experience. It is also a way of acting on it and of intersubjectively orienting to it.
This is the interpersonal dimension of meaning. Symbolic consciousness
therefore means attending to its objects in both ways, simultaneously. Now, the
objects so attended to - i.e. experientially construed and interpersonally enacted
- are phenomena of experience which have been categorized by the symbolic
resources of whatever semiotic system is in operation. These phenomena of
experience may be actually perceived material objects, as I said before, or they
298 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
may be purely imaginary or hypothetical ones which can be imagined in
symbolic neural space. They can also be recorded in the textual records and
products whereby such objects can be re-constructed in different brains along
the lines I sketched out above. In both cases, the individual's neural dynamics
must cross-couple expression and content to produce the appropriate symbolic
representation in his or brain. Consider the following example:
(1) look at the mess Paul (2) you're gonna have to clean up in here
(3) it's a pig sty
The three clauses which comprise this speaker's utterance are addressed to her
husband (Paul). In this example, the 'mess' referred to in clause 1 is taken to be
given in the perceptual purview of both of the participants in the exchange,
which occurs in the living room of their home. However, there is an important
difference between the perception of some phenomenon and its linguistic
construal as an object of symbolic consciousness, as this example makes clear. To
illustrate this point, I shall consider in some detail the first clause in the above
passage. The metafunctional analysis of this clause is presented in Table 6.1.
Table6.1: Metafunctional analysis of the imperative clause(you) look at the mess
Metafunction (you) look at the mess Paul
Experiential Behaver Process: Range:
Behavioural affected
Interpersonal Imperative: Vocative
proposal
for action
Textual Theme/Given Rheme/New
The metafunctional analysis of the clause look at the mess reveals different facets
of its functioning in simultaneously construing and enacting a symbolic act of
consciousness. The experiential analysis shows that the speaker of the clause
construes the given phenomenon of experience as a semantic figure. In this
case, it is categorized as a behavioural process of the subtype concerned with
conscious action (Halliday 1994 [1985]: 138-40; Halliday and Matthiessen 1999:
136). The clause analyses the overall semantic figure as comprising three
semantic elements: Participant: Behaver"Process: Behavioural: Conscious Action
11 Participant: Range. The semantic category of behavioural process often refers
to processes that are on the borderline between inner consciousness and outer
actions and events in the material world. This is so in the sense that these
processes do not occur in the external world of material actions and events, but
are exterior actions of the body which, however, manifest or index conscious
intent on the part of the person who carries out the behaviour.
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 299
In this case, the process 'look at' construes a conscious act of visually
attending to something. The Behaver is the participant who performs this
process and the Range is that which is so attended to. In construing her inter-
locutor in this way, the speaker of the clause integrates him into a particular
experiential frame of reference, as supplied by the experiential category which
the clause instantiates. In this way, he is experientially construed as a conscious
participant who is required to visually attend to the designated Range. Now, the
nominal group the mess, which is used to construe a particular referent situation
within the perceptual purview of the two participants, also functions to
categorize some facet of the situation as an instance of the semantic category of
Thing designated as 'mess' by the Thing element in the nominal group. The
point is that 'mess' is a semantic category which belongs to the English language.
It is not inherent in the referent situation as such. In using this particular
selection, the speaker creates a symbolic object of consciousness which in itself
can be attended to as a way of understanding the given referent situation. As I
said before, the mess is Range in its clause such that the particular experiential
frame chosen here integrates the implicit 'you' as the Behaver who attends to
this symbolic object of consciousness in the way discussed above.
The observations made in the preceding paragraph go hand in hand with the
interpersonal semantics of the clause. Thus, the selection of imperative mood
serves to modalize the addressee as the one who is required to carry out the action
specified in the clause. The addressee is the implied grammatical Subject, and as
such is selected as the entity in which the speaker invests a particular interper-
sonal take. In this example, it takes the form of a proposed action which she seeks
to negotiate with her interlocutor (her husband, Paul) as the one who is
designated as being responsible for carrying it out. In this way, the interpersonal
meaning of the clause integrates or attempts to negotiate the integration of the
addressee to the same evaluative stance on the proposed action. The selection of
imperative mood therefore enacts a particular orientational stance towards the
action. Moreover, the noun mess implicates a particular evaluative or attitudinal
stance on the part of the speaker. Once again, this constitutes an attempt to
integrate the addressee to the same stance. That is, she seeks to direct attention
to the phenomenon of concern from a particular interested point of view in
which a negative evaluation is implicit. Both of these interpersonal facets of the
clause's overall meaning also implicate the speaker's ability, in proposing the
course of action in question and in taking up the value stance that she does, to
put herself in the position of the other (the addressee) who is being asked to
adopt the course of action and therefore to accept its associated evaluative stance.
This can only happen through the resources of symbolic meaning-making.
The textual organization of the clause in terms of Theme-Rheme and
Given-New shows (1) that 'you' as Theme is the local point of departure for the
development of a message about the Theme in the Rheme and (2) 'you' is taken
as the Given in relation to which the New is presented. In this particular
example, this reflects the way in which the speaker presumes the 'you' as the
contextually given item in relation to which the new contextual information is
presented. The textual organization of the clause structures the message into
items of consciousness of varying degrees of interest or significance. In the
300 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
present case, the 'you' whose consciousness is being acted on is being asked to
focus on the New information, in particular the mess, which occurs in final
position in this clause.
I have chosen this particular example because it demonstrates a link between
a perceptual purview at the same time as bringing out the radical difference
between symbolic consciousness and consciousness which is tied to the
perceptual awareness of phenomena. Perceptual awareness is tied to the pick-up
of environmental information which impinges on the organism as indexes of
necessary correlations with environmental events. As Gibson has shown,
perception serves to orient and guide the behaviour of the organism in its
ecological environment relative to the environmental events that are perceived.
But the meaning-making resources of symbolic consciousness enable individuals
to select from a symbolic system ofpossibilities which is not inexorably tied to the
here-now perceptual purview by indexical necessities. Thus, speakers of a
particular language can make choices from the resources of a linguistic system,
for instance, such that they can create varying possibilities of experiential cat-
egorization, varying interpersonal and evaluative takes, and varying ways for
presenting and organizing information in discourse such that a given item rather
than some other is presented as, say, theme in the clause. Moreover, the meta-
functional hypothesis which I have assumed here shows that all these diverse
operations occur simultaneously on account of the way in which a diversity of
semantic functions is mapped onto the one lexicogrammatical form.
7. Contextualizing Relations, the Principle of Meta-redundancy, and the
Brain as ContextuaIizing Tool
The cross-coupling of expression and content in the individual's neural
dynamics depends on higher-scalar systems of contextualizing relations which
function as a system of interpretance within the brain. One candidate for
explaining the abstract and general principles which cross-link the two domains
is that of meta-redundancy, developed by Lemke (1984c) on the basis of some
earlier proposals by Bateson (1973b). Bateson developed the theory of
redundancy in order to show how increasingly higher orders of contextualiza-
tion can be modelled and related to each other as a hierarchy of logical types.
All semiotic systems are based on the principle of meta-redundancy. This
principle is, fundamentally, a contextual one. In a given semiotic system, we can
say that the semantic contents (linguistic or non-linguistic, it does not matter for
the principle is the same) a, b, c are realized by the expressions x, y, z. This
means that there is a redundancy relation between the terms on either side of
the content/expression divide. As Lemke (1984c: 35) points out, (meta-)
redundancy relations are two-wayor symmetrical ones in the sense that two parts
of the same message are redundant with each other in the sense that the infor-
mation carried by one makes it possible to predict some or all of the information
carried by the other. Halliday (1992a: 2) has aptly illustrated this by showing the
two-way, or dialectical, nature of realization, i.e. the relationship which is express-
ible by the term 'redounds with' is implicated in the two-way nature of the real-
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 301
izatory relationship between expression and content. For example, expression
'realizes' content and content 'is realized by' expression. Thus, given the
meaning a, we can predict sound, gesture, graphological feature x, and given
feature x, we can predict meaning a. (For further discussion of these principles
see also Thibault 1991a: chapter 4.)
The individual's ability to predict, with a more than even chance of being
correct, the nature of the redundancy relations involved is always a probabilistic,
or stochastic, process. Such first-order redundancy relations are, in turn,
dependent on some still-higher-order contextual, or me ta-redundancy,
relation(s). This can be explained as follows. The expressions x, y, z realize the
meanings a, b, c, while the meanings a, b, c realize the still-higher-order
contextual relations p, q, r. Now this relationship, as expressed by the concept of
redundancy, is not a linear or causal one, as Halliday (1992a: 24) points out.
Thus, it is not the case that 'a realizes p' or that 'p is realized by a' (see chapter
1, section 6, pp. 26-30). Rather, there is a meta-redundancy relation such that p,
q, r does not redound with a, b, c, but with the redundancy of a, b, c with x, y, z.
Following Bateson, the slash formalism, i.e. 'I', is used to indicate the orders of
the redundancy relations involved. The single slash, the double-slash, and so on,
indicate the various orders of contextualizing or meta-redundancy relations, at
increasingly higher orders of abstraction, as in our simplified example. Thus:
x, y, z I a, b, c I I p, q, r.
Given that there is no directionality or causality implied, this may be read
either way, according to the specific analytical or situational requirements and
contingencies. In other words, p, q, r redounds with the redundancy of a, b, c
with x, y, z; or, x, y, z redounds with the redundancy of a, b, c with P: q, r. Each
of the three orders or levels of relations in our example may correspond to the
different levels of organization (strata) in some semiotic system. One such
example would be the tri-stratal system of language, comprising phonologyI
graphology, lexicogrammar, and semantics. There is neither directionality nor
causality because redundancy is a principle which implies no separation of the
levels involved into separate ontological domains. Instead, it expresses how
patterns of relations emerge and are construed in and through the hierarchies
of contextualizing relations involved.
In Flohr's description of 'activity-dependent self-organization of neural nets',
the same general principle of redundancy operates. I have attempted to approx-
imate the meta-redundancy relations as follows:
stimulus pattern I assembly formation I I representation of
spatio-temporal pattern
The generation of increasingly higher orders of abstraction from the 'stimulus
pattern' may have important consequences for theories of human development.
The question then arises as to how such patterns of neural activity in the brain
map onto emergent semiotic activity. This also raises the question as to how such
higher-order social semiotic processes and dynamics act on and shape brain
function and activity. This requires a theory of semiosis and the place of the
brain in such a theory which is truly dialogic in character (see Thibault 2000a).
302 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
8. A Definition of Consciousness in Terms of the Semiosis that Occurs
Within the Brain
Consciousness of phenomenal states, or conscious experience of phenomena,
does not require either mind-brain dualism or physical reductionism for its
explanation. Both conscious experience and self-consciousness awareness or
knowing that one's self is undergoing that experience are emergent properties
of higher-scalar global patterns of neural organization that realize semantic
properties. Furthermore, emergent semantic properties which are realized by
global patterns of neural organization constrain both the possibilities for
conscious experience of phenomena as well as the possibilities for action in
response to these phenomena by entraining lower-scalar sensori-motor dynamics
to their semantics (juarrerc 1999: 172). In this way,our conscious experiences of
phenomena and our responses to them are semantically constrained by the self-
organizing properties of the higher-scalar system of interpretance in the brain.
Consciousness cannot be reduced to or viewed as identical with physical brain
processes. It was Descartes who first understood that consciousness is not
founded on the opposition between raw sensations and thoughts. Descartes's
dualistic solution was to postulate that mind and brain are entirely separate
entities. However, Seager (1999: chapter 1) has cogently argued that, without
accepting Cartesian dualism, which is clearly false, there is a more important and
positive lesson to be learned from Descartes's philosophy of mind. That is, con-
sciousness is linked to 'ideas', which are basically representational. Therefore,
every conscious experience is an experience of a representation ofan idea in the
mind. I shall argue below that this essential insight about the nature of
consciousness can be entirely reconstituted within the ecosocial semiotic
conceptual framework of the present study. In Descartes's view, neural firings, in
modern terminology, realize what Descartes called ideas. Ideas can be about the
outside world as perceived through our perceptual systems, our inner and outer
bodies, as well as imagined ideas elaborated by the mind. Consciousness, in this
view, is consciousness of the conceptual representations - the ideas - elaborated
by the mind. We have conscious experiences of such representations and not the
physical brain processes which realize these. Mind, in this view, is a system of
meanings which are realized by, though not reducible to physical brain
processes. I am using the term 'meaning' here in an extended sense to cover all
semiotic processes that are encompassed by the semiotic hierarchy of iconic,
indexical, and symbolic meanings. In this view, conscious experience encom-
passes meanings based on sensori-motor activity, pre-linguistic conceptual
routines, and the higher-scalar symbolic resources typically associated with
culture (e.g. language, depiction, and so on).
Seager (1999: 188-9) points out the conceptual character of our conscious-
ness of phenomena. That is, our consciousness of the perceived world, for
instance, is always consciousness of bicycles, people, clouds, trees, and so on.
Consciousness is perfused by the perceptual and conceptual categorizations
characteristic of Edelman's primary consciousness. The interaction between
memory and the neuronal groups that constitute the systems of perceptual and
conceptual categorizations within the brain means that the categorizing activity
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 303
of global mappings of neurons constitutes a system of interpretance whereby
conscious experience is always consciousness of something as something. In
Seager's (1999: 184) terms, we are always conscious of something in the sense
that the intentional object of our consciousness is an object which is presented
to our consciousness 'under a certain aspect'. This property of entering con-
sciousness under a certain aspect is further extended, refined, and specified by
the systems of linguistic categorization of a given language system such that we
can, for example, experientially construe a given phenomenon of experience as
an instance of a particular experiential category. These phenomena of
experience do not have to be given to perception, but may be remembered,
imagined, or hypothesized phenomena which are symbolically construed as
intentional objects that can be made available to consciousness.
Consciousness is semiotic interpretation of phenomena. Descartes's 'ideas'
are meanings, however elementary, which cannot be reduced to physical inter-
action between organism and some physical stimulus such as the light waves
which register on the retina of the eye or the sound waves propagated from a
source which register on the auditory nerves. At the lowest-scalar level of
perceptual activity, Gibson (1983 [1966]: 40-1) has identified the receptor cells
which respond, for example, to mechanical, chemical or light energy. The inter-
action between the organism's receptor cells and the energy responded to is
physical interaction. But Gibson identifies a scalar hierarchy, comprising
receptors, organs, and perceptual systems, which is involved in the perception of
some environmental event. Organs, Gibson (1983 [1966]: 41) writes, are
'functional, not anatomical, units' in a hierarchy of units and functions as
summarized in Table 0.2.
Gibson's point is that organs and perceptual systems are higher-scalar levels
which mediate the lower-scalar level of the physical interaction between receptor
cells and the energy which is applied to these. Organs and perceptual systems are
adaptive; they are not passive mechanisms which simply receive a physical
stimulus. Rather, they actively and adaptively respond to and modulate informa-
tion about their environment. In this way, the organism as a whole, rather than
the single receptor cell, responds to environmental information as signs of envi-
ronmental events. That is, the organism is responding on a higher-scalar level
than the physical stimulus which is applied to the receptor cells. Organs,
perceptual systems and the cross-modal information from these which is
reentrantly mapped in the brain function as a higher-scalar system of interpre-
tance. Lower-scalar physical stimuli are reinterpreted at higher levels as (iconic
and indexical) signs of events both in the external world and within our bodies
which are available to conscious experience. Conscious experience is, then,
intrinsically semiotic in nature because it involves interpreting information
which is picked up by our perceptual systems as signs of experienced
phenomena in relation to which the organism can organize a required response
at a higher-scalar level.
The processes involved here are physical processes involving interactions
between receptors, organs, perceptual systems, the CNS, and stimulus energy in
the environment. Yet, consciousness is not reducible to physical processes per se.
After all, we have no conscious awareness or experience of the neural processes
304 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
Table 6.2: Scalar hierarchy ofanatomical structures ofperception and relative
functions; summarized from Gibson (1983 [1966J: 40-3)
Anatomical Unit
Receptors: cells and
units
Organs
Systems (of Organs)
FWlction
Microscopic structures, e.g. the photosensitive rods and
cones of the retina, usually in groups of such cells.
Receptors are connected by afferent neurons to the CNS.
They register the sequence or arrangement of stimulation,
that is, information, not the energy of stimulation.
An organ of sensitivity is a structure containing many
receptors that can adjust so as to modify the input from
cells and units. An organ has muscles and these are
supplied with efferent fibres from the CNS. Organs of sen-
sitivityexist in a hierarchy: lower organs are subordinated
to higher ones.
A system has very many levels of function ranging from
lower-level ones such as the single eye with adjustable lens
for sharpening the retinal image and the pupil for
adjusting intensity; the eye with attached muscles is a still-
higher-order system, stabilized in the head relative to the
environment and with the help of the inner ear, it can
scan the environment; the two eyes together make a dual
system of still-higher-order, such that they converge for
near objects and diverge for far ones; the two-eyes-with-
head-and-body system, in cooperation with postural
equilibrium and locomotion, for moving around in
environment and looking at things.
which support, sustain, and realize conscious experiences in the brain. We
have no conscious experience of the stimulus energy to which the receptor
cells respond. Instead, conscious experience of phenomena involves a re-
interpretation of information across scalar levels (Lemke 1999). Thus, the
microscopic energy fluctuations to which the receptors respond are re-inter-
preted on higher-scalar levels as potentially meaningful information about
(inner or outer) environmental events. Furthermore, such information consti-
tutes the basis for a variety of responses or action repertoires in the sense that
the same information can be variably interpreted and responded to according to
differing contextual factors at higher scales. In the case of symbolic interpreta-
tion, which is mediated by a system of interpretance on the ecosocial scale where
socio-cultural practices enter the picture, information from lower levels is con-
strained by social conventions and practices emanating from the ecosocial scale.
Conscious experience of perceptual and other phenomena involves a semiotic
process of interpretation by integrating contextual factors on different scales.
There is nothing deterministic about the processes involved. Instead, there are
complex inter-level relations among factors on many different scales which
combine to produce emergent higher-order conscious experiences which can be
used by the organism in adaptive ways.
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 305
Descartes's view that nerve actions yield ideas in the mind and that it is these
ideas which enter consciousness can be understood as meanings which are the
emergent result of the inter-level interactions across many different scalar levels.
For instance, firings in neural networks are reorganized (re-interpreted) as more
global cortical effects. These effects are, in their turn, reorganized as higher-
scalar sensori-motor categories such as a perceptual experience of some
phenomenon or the phonological categories of a given language. These
categories - perceptual or phonological - in turn constitute an attractor space
which guides and monitors motor action along a trajectory. The co-ordinated
action produced by vocal-tract and other gestural activity in response to envi-
ronmental events is an example of this. In turn, gestural activity is re-interpreted
at the ecosocial scale as symbolic activity in and through the categories deriving
from the paradigmatic contrast sets of a given system of interpretance.
In Peircean terms, environmental information is a representamen, R.
However, the R does not directly determine its object, X, which is a given envi-
ronmental event. R is a sign of X according to the way it is mediated by a higher-
scalar SI. That is, R is a sign of X - an interpretant sign - according to the way in
which the SI in operation interprets Rs. Is R food, therefore reason for attack, or
a predator, therefore a reason for flight? Such interpretations will depend on the
appropriate higher-scalar system of interpretance - the system of perception-
action categories stored in the organism, though ultimately derived from its
transactions with its higher-scalar ecosocial environment. The ecosocial environ-
ment (semiotically) mediates lower-scalar signs such that signs of environmental
events are appropriately interpreted and responded to. Descartes's 'idea' is then
a representamen, R, about some object, X, i.e. some event in the world or within
the body of the perceiver. The higher-scalar SI assigns an appropriate interpre-
tation to the relationship between Rand X. Conscious experience of
phenomena is experience of grounded instances of categories of phenomena,
rather than of pure sensations or a continuous flux of stimulus energy. When I
look up from my computer while writing this to observe from my window, I see
children cycling in the street below, trees in the garden, apartment buildings, a
park on the other side of the street, the hills of Bologna in the distance, a couple
of cranes towering above a nearby construction site, an aeroplane taking off in
the distance, the planet Venus making its appearance in the early evening sky,
and so on. I do not see an indistinct flux ofvisual sensations. Instead, the objects
of my perceptual experience - the objects of consciousness - are interpreted by
a higher-order system of interpretance as instantiations of categories which
derive from and which are meaningful relative to this higher-scalar SI. In other
words, meaning, though not necessarily symbolic or discursively organized (e.g.
linguistic) meaning, constitutes the perceptual, the conceptual, and also the
symbolic categories in and through which consciousness is itself constituted.
This observation accords, in some ways,with Descartes's claim that perception is
judgement. That is, seeing is judging in the sense that seeing is not a matter of
raw (visual) sensations impacting on the eye. Rather, perception involves inter-
pretative judgements about the perceived phenomena which are construed as
objects of consciousness (Seager 1999: 5; see also this volume, chapter 4, section
16). In our terms, it involves higher-scalar processes of interpretation which
306 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
assign meaning to lower-scalar phenomena according to the categories of the SI
which is in operation.
The system of perceptual categories which is stored in the organism's brain is
a higher-scale SI at level L+1 whereby the stimulus information which is picked
up by the perceptual systems on the lower level L is as Lemke (1999) points out
doubly construed. First, the stimulus information which is picked up and
construed as a representamen is a given pattern of material (matter-energy)
interactions at level L-l. Secondly, this pattern of material interactions is
construed by the SI on level L+1 as having a meaning (an interpretant) which is
an object of consciousness on the scalar level of the SI. That is, on the level
where phenomena are construed as objects of conscious experience and
awareness. The material interactions on level L-l do not in themselves count as
phenomena of experience. To be a phenomenon of conscious experience, it has
to be an interpreted phenomenon - one that is contextually closed by an irre-
versible act of amplification such as is made possible by the categories deriving
from the higher-scalar SI on level L+l (see Wheeler 1988: 10). Only on this level
does the object have relevance as a perceptual or other object of conscious
experience. To be sure, when I look out of my window to view the scene before
me, light energy registers on the receptors in the retina of my eyes. However, I
am not conscious of this light energy or the effect it has on my receptors.
Instead, I have a conscious experience of children riding their bicycles in the
street below, and so on (see above). The light that reaches the receptors in the
retina of my eyes is reinterpreted as environmental information that indexes an
environmental event, viz. children riding their bikes, ete. The stimulus informa-
tion about the environment which is picked up by my perceptual systems is
meaningful for a given SI because it is a sign of some phenomenon of
experience on the scale of the SI. This is the scale, for example, of the species-
specific organism-environment interactions studied by Gibson (1986 [1979]:
8-12).
Lemke (1999: 3) has re-interpreted Peirce's claim that the interpretant in its
turn becomes a representamen that 'determines some still further interpretant',
which in Peirce's work constitutes the basis for the notion ofa chain ofindefinite
semiosis, as the basis for an 'indefinite (open-ended) hierarchy of scale levels of
systems of interpretance' (Lemke 1999: 3). Such an open-ended hierarchy can
be used to conceptualize the relations between conscious experience of
perceptual, conceptual, and symbolic categories of experience, respectively.
Each of these three levels is describable in terms ofthe three-level hierarchy such
that in each case the L+1 scalar level of the SI where the interpretant of
perceptual categories is located becomes, in turn, the representamen of the
next-highest triplicate ofscalar levels. Figure 6.3 provides a schematization of the
ways in which consciousness of perceptual phenomena is integrated to con-
sciousness of conceptual phenomena, which is integrated to consciousness of
symbolic phenomena in accordance with the logic of specification-hierarchy
thinking.
Seager (1999: 6) has pointed out that we are not conscious of the physical
brain states and processes which support and in some sense generate conscious
experience and awareness. Instead, we are conscious of the representations
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 307
Figure 6.3: open-ended hierarchy ofsemiotic triplicates of levels showing the integra-
tion ofperceptual, conceptual, and symbolic phenomena ofconscious experience
Hierarchy of scalar levels,
showing triplicates of levels
comprising systems of
perceptual, conceptual, and
symbolic interpretance
Symbolic-discursive
L+l SI comprising ecosocial semiotic systems of meaning-
making resources and conventions where symbolic
(semantic) interpretants are located as objects of
symbolic consciousness
L Phonology/graphology and lexicogrammar
L-l Conceptual and sensori-motor routines
Conceptual-mental
L+l SI comprising system of conceptual categories where
object of conceptual experience in the form of mental
images elaborated in the brain on the basis of the
recategorization of sensori-motor routines
L Sensori-motor routines
L-l Object of perceptual experience
Perceptual
L+l SI comprising perceptual categories and values where
object of perceptual experience is located
L Stimulus information as sign of environmental event
L-l Light, mechanical, etc. energy modulating nerve
impulses in receptors
which physical brain processes produce. To take an example referred to by
Seager, we are conscious of our experience of the colour red rather than the
neural activity within our brain which generates this experience in our con-
sciousness. In Seager's terms, which are adapted from Descartes's distinction
between formal and objective reality, we are conscious of what is represented
rather than the formal means of its representation. Seager (1999: 175-6)
considers this aspect of consciousness puzzling in comparison with all other rep-
resentational systems in which we are simultaneously aware of both the formal
means of representation and the represented content. In my view, this distinc-
308 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
tion between formal means and represented content is itself unnecessary when
seen in the light of the semiotic triplicates of levels discussed above. Conscious
awareness therefore requires the connection of physical brain processes that are
below the threshold of our awareness to meanings that are recognized and
responded to on a higher-scalar system of interpretance within the overall system
of relations involved. Consciousness means connecting to a meaning, whether
this be iconic, indexical, or symbolic, or even all three simultaneously. Vague
sensations, mental images, perceptual awareness, and language all entail the
bringing into awareness of neural meanings that are themselves brought about
on lower-scalar levels by the activations of neural maps and the communications
that occur between these. The crossing of the threshold into consciousness
awareness - i.e. from a prior state of neural activation below that threshold -
means that lower-scalar neural activities are semiotically reorganized on higher-
scalar levels such that they enter into contextual redundancies with emergent
signs - iconic, indexical, symbolic. It is these signs which enable the lower-scalar
activity to emerge in consciousness as an awareness of something, be this a
sensation (iconic), or an elementary association between two phenomena
(index), a mental image or a clause (symbolic), and so on (see also Beaugrande
1997: 114).
In this view, discrete neural firings are reorganized as globally coherent
phenomena at a higher-scalar level than the individual firings to produce a
particular perceptual, conceptual, or symbolic (e.g. linguistic) categorization of
some event, whether this occurs within the brain, in the body, or in the outside
world. Meaningful patterns are emergent across global neural activity such that
they are co-ordinated on higher scales of globally organized neural activity on
larger timescales to produce the emergent phenomena of conscious experience.
The process is a stochastic or probabilistic one insofar as particular configura-
tions of neuronal groups that subtend a specific categorization are the most
likely ones to be activated for various instances of a particular event.
In terms of Lernke's (1999) Principle ofAlternation, we can say that the trans-
formation from discrete, local neural firings to global configurations on higher
scales and the transformation of such global configurations to objects of
conscious experience within the brain constitutes a semiotic transformation, as
Lemke says, 'of the information content of lower levels as signsfor higher levels'
(1999; italics in original). Consciousness of the objects of experience is the result
of dynamical processes across many different scales of organization within the
brain such that consciousness is an emergent level of organization relative to the
observational scales of the self. The objects of our conscious experience and
awareness are objects which have information value for the higher-scalar system
of interpretance, comprised of value-laden memory in interaction with globally
organized neural groups that function to activate perceptual, conceptual, and
symbolic categorizations. The systems of interpretance within the brain are
themselves built up over time on the basis of the cross-modal sampling and
reentrant mapping of the body-brain's transactions with its inner and outer
environments. Each of these levels of categorization is characterized by its own
systems of types and at the same time the 'lower' levels are integrated to and
reorganized by the higher levels such that perception, for example, may be
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 309
suffused with conceptual and symbolic categorizations. This does not alter the
fact that different selection pressures act on different individuals differently
along their individuating trajectories such that the neuronal configurations of
different individuals exhibit considerable diversity.
By the same token, such diversity is also entrained to the higher-scalar
relations and dynamics of a given ecosocial semiotic system. We are conscious of
the phenomena which the higher-scalar systems of interpretance in our brain
recognize as differences which make a difference, i.e. which have informational-
semiotic value to that system. For this reason, many lower-scalar neural processes
are no more than points in an overall phase space leading into the same higher-
scalar attractor. These lower-scalar processes include, of course, the configura-
tions of neuronal activity which, to use Seager's term, 'represent' the contents of
our conscious experience. It is the attractors and their basins on higher levels
that specify, semiotically, what can be recognized as an object of consciousness at
the same time as our interpretation of a given object of consciousness under a
given aspect - perceptual, conceptual, or symbolic - leaves open the many
degrees of topological freedom of its matter-energy flows. The view presented
here obviates the need for a 'formal reality' which 'represents' the contents of
conscious experience because it is now clear that 'what is represented' is a result
of the semiotic closure that arises from the dynamics of the higher-scalar
system(s) of interpretance within the brain. Lower-scalar neural firings, for
example, do not formally express higher-scalar content; instead, they constitute
it by being entrained to the dynamics of the more global levels of organization
where conscious experience emerges in the perspective of the self.
It is the expression stratum ofsemiosis which provides the means whereby the
systems of categorization within the individual's brain may be communicated to
other brains. This does not occur on the basis of any kind of transfer of coded
thoughts or ideas from one brain to another. The dynamics of the body-brain
complex as a whole is entrained to the dynamics of the higher-scalar ecosocial
system. For this reason, both the systems of conceptual-semantic discriminations
and sensori-motor ones are recategorized as the lexicogrammatical and semantic
and phonological distinctions of the language system which is distributed across
the participants in a particular social network on different space-time scales. In
this way, the cross-eoupling of sensori-motor activity to lexicogrammatical and
discourse patterns of organization in the production of meaning-making
activities and the texts that may be derived from these activities allows for both
embodied sensori-motor repertoires and conceptual repertoires stored in the
brain to be re categorized as phonological and lexicogrammatical and discourse
systems and structures which are semiotically salient in a particular ecosocial
semiotic system or some part of this. These systems of distinctions on the
expression and content levels ofsemiotic organization enter into the hierarchies
of contextualization relations - Lernke's meta-redundancy relations - such that
sensori-motor activity acquires meaning beyond that of mere body movement or
vocalizing per se. The assigning of meaning to such activity occurs because a
particular sensori-motor routine or body movement is construed as having a
regular pattern which redounds with some higher-order cultural or discursive
formation or genre convention.
310 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
The fact that such higher-order meta-redundancy relations are distributed
across and hence recognized as semiotically salient in a given community means
that the participants in the meaning-making and text-creating activities of that
community have access to or participate in meaning-making practices whereby
they define and recognize the regular patterns in meaning-making activity and
textual artefacts. Rather than encoding thoughts for transmission from one
mind to another, these regular patterns are semiotic affordances which allow
participants to re-interpret these patterns according to systems of interpretance
within their brains. Such processes of interpretation conform, to degrees, to the
relatively stable hierarchies of contextualizing relations that are operational
within a given community. Therefore, perceivable patterns of embodied activity
and their entextualizations can be re-contextualized in some other individual's
brain as semantic or other semiotically salient categories which make a
difference in both understanding and action. A semiotically salient difference is
a value-laden difference in the sense that it makes a difference by virtue of its
systematic relations with other differences within the overall meaning system.
This suggests that Edelman's notion of value-category memory can be extended
to the ecosocial scale of organization (Thibault 2000a). This is so in the sense
that the value-categories or semiotically salient differences that operate on space-
time scales considerably greater than either the individuallifespan trajectories or
the much smaller-scale logogenetic or meaning-making trajectories constitute a
transindividual, cross-scalar ecosocial memory to which individuals are
entrained.
9. The Three-level Hierarchy, Neuronal Activity, and the Emergence of the
Self-perspective
The self-perspective is not produced by neuronal activity. Instead, it is the self-
organizing activity of the neuronal circuitry itself. Self-organizing systems are
complex systems which have a history and individuality. This means that the
many degrees of freedom of an individual's neuronal activity permit the con-
struction of a continuity of individuality - a self-perspective - from one change-
of-state in the system to another. Cerebral neurons are massively interconnected
in ways which allow for very many degrees of freedom. It is these degrees of
freedom which build time and individuality into the structure and organization
of the cerebrum. Like all complex systems, an individual's neural networks can
be in states which are different from the states of other individuals. This is
possible because the individual's neural activity has a history of activity and inter-
connections which can never be exactly the same as another individual's. For this
reason, the self-perspective described by Flohr is an emergent property of neural
activity itself. In other words, an individual perspective on one's own neural
activity arises as a consequence of being in a particular brain state. It is in this
sense that we can say that consciousness is a result of the formation of highly
specified neural systems of which an individual's self-organizing neural networks
are a particular case. As Kinsbourne (1988: 246) points out, neurons are charac-
terized by the property that when they interact they produce awareness.
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 311
Consciousness is an emergent property of the interactions among neurons in a
neural network. The same argument applies to the sense of a self who organizes
and interacts with the self's own stream of consciousness.
Patterns of neural activity undergo constant change. A given change in neural
activity may correspond to a particular brain state. A brain state is a change in
the overall neural network in response to a given input (Kinsbourne 1988:
242).The system of neural activity is able to constitute the 'before' and 'after' of
a given brain state in ways which enable a continuity of individuality to be con-
structed. The individual character of self-organizing neural activity is a conse-
quence of neural activity's network characteristics as well as the operation of
excitation-inhibition balances which can either separate the cortical activity of a
particular mental operation from the cortical activity of other mental operations
or integrate it with other cortical activity. The self-organizing activity of the
individual's neural activity has a history of the ways in which neurons are inter-
connected on the basis of their network characteristics. Furthermore, mental
operations and the cortical activity that instantiates these can be separated from
or integrated with other mental operations through the modulation of the
excitation-inhibition balance.
Both the network characteristics of cerebral activity and the excitation-
inhibition balance can be used to explain consciousness in terms of the three-
level hierarchy. This is a minimal assumption; it is not intended to explain the
detailed neural architecture of the brain. Rather, it can help to sort out the
relations between the various levels involved. According to Salthe's three-level
paradigm, the focal level L is an emergent phenomenon which is constituted by
the interactions among variables on some characteristic scale. Units on level L
are constituted by the interactions among lower-scalar units on level L-1. For the
sake of the present argument, let us say that level L-I refers to the interconnec-
tions among cerebral neurons whereby communication occurs between
neurons. Level L units are mental operations which are constituted by the inter-
actions among neurons on level L-l. Communications among neurons on level
L-I take place on the basis of impulses that are carried by the fibre tracts that
reciprocally link grey and white matter. The resulting cortico-cortical connec-
tions give rise to the cortical activity that instantiates a particular material
operation on level L. We have seen that mental operations on level L are
constituted by smaller-scale, faster interactions at level L-l among the cerebral
neurons at that lower level.
Now, mental operations on our putative level L can, as I pointed out above
with reference to the work of Kinsbourne, be insulated from or integrated with
other mental operations by virtue of the excitation-inhibition balances in
operation. Kinsbourne argues that 'to the extent a mental operation is selectively
insulated, it is automatic, and outside awareness, to the extent it is co-ordinated
with other mental operations, it contributes to the "integrative field of
awareness'''. By the same token, not all of the possible communications which
might occur on level L-l do actually occur. The interactions which produce
mental operations on level L are constrained by boundary conditions which are
determined at the higher-scalar level L+1. Mental operations on level L are
instantiated by areas of cortical activation. Moreover, 'each cortical area
312 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
represents input within the constraints of its neural specialization and current
state of interrelations with other areas (including activating and inhibitory
influences). Some representations are available as contributions to the field of
conscious awareness and, if attended, enter it' (Kinsbourne 1988: 240). Level
L+I imposes contextual constraints on level-L interactions. Further, only those
interactions on level L will be meta-stable on the appropriate timescale if they
conform to the constraints imposed by level L+1. In this perspective, the inter-
relations between different areas of neurally specialized cortical activity,
including the modulation of the excitatory influences between areas, leads to
the integration on level L+I of diverse mental operations to the integrative field
of awareness identified by Kinsbourne.
Rather than information processing, which would presuppose a one-to-one
mapping between representations and outputs, the three-level hierarchy model
shows that the realizatory relationship between neuronal activity on level L-I and
mental operations on level L is a many-to-one relation. Representation implies re-
description, which leaves no room for the kind of reorganization across scalar
levels of a neuronal network that is fundamental in the perspective of the three-
level hierarchy. Re-description entails that discrete variants on one level are
mapped to discrete variants on the next-higher level, or, alternatively, that
continuous variation is mapped to continuous variation, again at the next-higher
level. In each case, there is re-description, but not reorganization, across levels.
However, Lemke points out that the significance of emergent new levels of inter-
mediate organization lies in the waysin which each higher level has many possible
realizations at lower levels. That is, there are many more degrees of freedom on
the lower level than are salient on the higher level. In this way, a many-to-one
mapping from level L-I to level L allows for the many degrees of freedom of the
information on level L-I to be filtered or buffered. Neuronal interconnectivity on
level L-I is activated as more global, larger-scale cortical activity realizing mental
operations on level L. Furthermore, as we saw above, a mental operation on level
L can be integrated to and interpreted as a more global neural network which
embodies a conscious experience on level L+1. Level L+I is the higher-scalar,
slower timescale of neuronal activity which integrates the cortical activity of
diverse mental operations on the level below to its dynamics.
Lernke's Principle ofAlternation suggests that discrete neural firings on level
L-I are reorganized as more global, continuous mental operations as one moves
from lower to higher levels in the hierarchy. Information on level L-I is trans-
formed as signs for higher levels such that both many-to-one classifications (level
L-I to level L) and one-to-many context-dependent reinterpretations (level L to
level L+I) are possible. Consciousness is an emergent level of organization
whereby level L entities are re-interpreted on level L+I as signs in the perspec-
tive of the self of microstates of the system at level L-I. When neural activity on
level L-I is a consequence of interaction with the environment at level L-I,
higher levels of the system respond to them as signs at level L of phenomena in
the environment at level L+I. Consciousness of phenomena in the environment
of the self is a higher-scalar attractor state of the global neural network which
may not, as Lemke points out, have any direct material-causal relationship to
level-L-I interactions.
BRAIN, MEANING, AND CONSCIOUSNESS 313
The three-level hierarchy is incompatible with both dualism and reduction-
ism. In the first instance, consciousness and the sense of a self, viewed as
emergent properties of neuronal networks, do not transcend materialism in the
way that mind-body dualism suggests. Instead, consciousness, mind, and self are
higher, larger-scale meaningful patterns of organization of lower, smaller-scale
neurophysiological processes. There is no suggestion that the higher-scale
processes have an existence independent of the lower-scale ones. Moreover, the
higher, larger-scale processes are emergent phenomena whose dynamical
processes and principles of organization cannot be reduced to or causally
explained in terms of the lower, smaller-scale ones. In the second instance, the
three-level hierarchy view does not support the reductionist view that conscious-
ness, mind, and self are reducible to and explainable in terms of lower-scale
neuronal processes per se as being the more fundamental causal level. Reduc-
tionism precludes emergence because it entails that the lower level constitutes
the more fundamental level and that everything else is epiphenomenal to this.
The perspective afforded by the three-level hierarchy view as presented here
does not, of course, resolve all of the problems of consciousness. For example,
the present account does not provide a detailed account of the structure and
organization of the cerebrum and its role in explaining the brain basis of con-
sciousness. However, it does provide a perspective in which the tight linkages
across the different scalar levels are seen as linking our material interactions with
our inner and outer environments to our categories and ways of making
meaning such that the body-brain complex is linked to the larger scales of
ecosocial processes and their dynamics, including the always constructed
trajectory of the self (chapter 4, section 3, pp. 176--84) (see Lemke 2000a: 193).
More generally, it also helps us to see human consciousness as a highly specific
case, at least from our own viewpoint, of more general types of complex self-
organizing systems that exhibit properties of emergent organization, individual-
ity, and developmental and individuating trajectories. Moreover, it shows that
persons are embedded in and participate in ecosocial practices by virtue of the
ways in which they construe meaningful pattern in their material interactions
with their environment across diverse scalar levels. In this way, the distributed
nature of the neural networks of consciousness in the individual's brain can be
linked to its higher-scalar boundary conditions and its lower-scalar initiating
conditions in a conceptually more unified way.
Epilogue
Towards a New Wayof Thinking and Talking about Meaning-making
This book isjust the beginning of an attempt to rethink meaning-making activity
from the perspective of the body-brain system - the signifying body - embedded
in its ecosocial semiotic environment. The key terms in this endeavour include
activity, agency, body-brain system, contextualization, cross-eoupling, differentia-
tion, dynamic open systems, ecosocial environment, embodiment, individuation,
meaning-making, metafunctions, multimodality, process, scalar hierarchy, self-
organization, specification hierarchy, system, timescales, topological, trajectory,
typological, and value.
As a result of the way of thinking that has been partially explored in this book,
many previous habits of thinking in linguistics and semiotics now seem
superseded and are no longer useful tools for thinking. These include
the following dualisms: biology/society, behaviour/cognition, brain/mind,
communication/cognition, form/meaning, mind/body, meaning/matter,
nature/nurture, organism/environment, perception/semiosis, signifier/ sig-
nified, and structure/function.
Some of the fundamental premises that I have presented in this book may be
summarized as follows.
The Semiotic Activity of the Signifying Body Integrates Diverse Space-time
Scales
The notion of the 'signifying body' brings together the idea of a unitary body-
brain system, our socially constructed sense of an embodied identity-in-time, and
the ecosocial semiotic environment. The body-brain system regulates matter,
energy, and information flows between itself and its ecosocial semiotic environ-
ment, and at the same time that the latter reorganizes body-brain dynamics and
functions.
Semiotic activity requires no prior representation of signs within some pre-
existing system. The available resources - semiotic and material - which afford
meaning-making are not all simply stored inside the individual's head. Instead,
they exist in the ecosocial semiotic environment in the form of, for example,
EPILOGUE 315
other persons, artefacts, tools, texts, technologies, and so on, that can be
integrated to and exploited in meaning-making activity. The structure of
semiotic activity self-organizes in relation to its ecosocial environment. There is
no single locus of control in the form of internal programs, competences, or
plans. Rather, control is distributed along the entire trajectory that loops
between organism and its ecosocial environment.
Three-level hierarchy thinking shows that lower-scalar biological initiating
conditions on level L-l, e.g. the many degrees of topological freedom of the
vocal tract, or of hand-arm activity, provide both affordances and their own
material constraints, without entailing a central program that controls the
system's activity. A higher-scalar system of interpretance in the ecosocial envi-
ronment (level Ltl ) imposes boundary conditions on the kinds of organism-
environment transactions that can occur on the intermediate level L.
Meaning-making activity is a result of the dynamical interplay and integration
of processes on many different levels. The structure of the activity is shaped by
the way it interfaces with the body-brain system, on the one hand, and with the
ecosocial semiotic environment, on the other. In this way, the signifying body is
contextually integrated, through the mediating activity of semiosis, with diverse
space-time scales that go far beyond the body's immediate material interactivity
with its here-now environment.
Brain Activity Regulates Body-environment Relations and, at the same time,
Body-environment Relations Organize and Shape Body-brain Systems and
Functions
Neural activity regulates body-environment relations by producing sensori-
motor outputs whereby responses to environmental events are produced and
projected back into the environment. The infant's high-pitched squeak in
Halliday's (1993) example, as discussed in chapter 4, section 10, pp. 202-5, is
a response in this sense. The infant's proto-linguistic squeak is a response to an
event - the scattering of the pigeons - on the here-now scale. However, there
is nothing which necessarily connects it to that event. In this sense, the infant's
vocalization can be said to stand in a proto-symbolic relation to the environ-
mental event to which it responds. It is only the connectedness of the infant's
vocal-tract activity to the stimulus information (the sound) that is produced by
his vocal-tract activity and which can be picked up by others that is, strictly
speaking, indexical.
On the other hand, the relation between the infant's vocalization and the
environmental event - the pigeons - to which it constitutes a response, is proto-
symbolic from the point of view of observers. This is so because the transduction
in an observer system (e.g. the mother) of the infant's sensori-motor activity as
information about an event (the pigeons) that is not necessarily (indexically)
tied to the infant's own body affords both dialogic engagement with - e.g.
responding to and being responded to - the nonself and jointly attending to
some phenomenon of experience. Thus, we see that neural activity regulates
body-environment relations in ways that are not tied to external events in a fixed
316 BRAIN, MIND, AND THE SIGNIFYING BODY
relation of indexical necessity. This allows both for creativity and for the
decreasing dependence of brain-regulated body-environment relations on the
immediate here-now scale.
Body-environment Relations and Body-brain Systems and Functions are
Shaped by Metafunctional Principles of Semiotic Organization
At the same time, body-environment relations contribute to the reorganization
of body-brain functions along progressively metafunctional lines as the infant's
semiotic activity is increasingly hitched to and entrained by the models of
discourse and society that are provided by more senior partners in meaning-
making. The vague outlines of the metafunctions are therefore evident in the
infant's vocalization and can be related, as we saw in chapter 5, to the shape of
consciousness itself.
Brain Activity is Contextually Integrated to and Directly Participates in
Discourse, Rather Than Causing it
Distributed patterns of neural activity within the networks of connections in the
brain are contextually integrated to particular kinds of meanings and events in
the ecosocial environment. A particular pattern of neural activity on its scalar
level is integrated to patterns of activity on other scalar levels in the formation of
stable categories of meaning and experience. In this view, all is activity and
process on many different scalar levels of organization. There is no need for an
inner program or homunculus which programs the activity. Nor is there any
ultimate, lower-level substance on which the higher levels are supervenient
(Bickhard and Campbe1l2000: 329-32).
Alterity is a Primitive Intrinsic Value that Motivates Self-nonself Relations
and Meaning-making Activity
The dialogical orientation of the self to the nonself is intrinsic to our biological
inheritance from the outset. Alterity is therefore a fundamental organizing
principle of the self right from the outset. In this sense, it is a biologically
intrinsic value which selectively nudges the infant along some developmental
pathways rather than others (chapter 1, section 11, pp. 49-54). It is a principle
which is both 'inside' and 'outside' the individual by virtue of the fact that
meaning-making is a distributed activity between body-brain systems and their
ecosocial semiotic environments on diverse scalar levels of spatio-temporal and
semiotic organization.
EPILOGUE
(Self)Consciousness is a Dialogical and Semiotically Mediated Relation
between Self and Nonself
317
(Self-)consciousness is necessarily and irreducibly a dialogical and semiotically
mediated relation between self and nonself. The inner, self-referential perspec-
tive of the self is constructed in and through a complex chain of contextualizing
relations which integrates processes on very many different space-time scales,
e.g. from the assembly formation of nerve nets in the brain to the generating of
meta-perspectives on the dialogical refraction of the self through the perspective
of the other in discourse, as in Volosinov's (1976: 86) definition of 'self-
awareness' or 'self-consciousness'.
The assembling of nerve nets is based on patterns of neural activation. In the
brain, as the theories of Edelman, Flohr and Kinsbourne show, patterns of
neural activation are related to each other in complex hierarchies. To use the
Batesonian parlance, there are patterns of patterns of patterns of patterns ... of
neural activity. These patterns form complex hierarchies of contextualizing
relations both within the brain and with the diverse scalar levels of organization
that link brain, body, and ecosocial semiotic environment.
Flohr (1991: 258) points out that the formation of a self-referential inner
perspective is a consequence of the formation of such hierarchies of patterns of
patterns ... of neural activity to very high orders of complexity. Furthermore, the
resultant self-referential perspective integrates to its own perspective the brain's
representation of the various parts of the body, including its internal milieu,
along with the meaning-making activity of the body, such that the selfjust is this
integration of the body, its meanings, and its experiences, on all levels of the
specification hierarchy, to the self-referential perspective that is realized in
symbolic neural space in the brain.
Towards a Process Ontology of Social Being-in-doing
The 'arrow of time' of irreversible processes refers to concrete, lived historical
time. This is the time of all complex hierarchically organized, dynamic, adaptive
and open goal-seeking systems. This conception now makes it possible, histori-
cally speaking, for the first time, to construct what Lukacs (1990: 111-12) has
designated 'a unitary ontology' of ecosocial semiotic processes and, hence, of
our identities-in-time. The ontological bases of this ontology are the physical-
material and semiotic-discursive cross-couplings and the irreversible time-
dependent processes and activities on many scalar levels of organization which
constitute them. The self-organization of self and nonself and, therefore, of
meaning, embodiment, and consciousness, is an irreversible historical and
ecosocial semiotic process in this most fundamental way.
References
Abercrombie, David 1967. Elements of General Phonetics. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University
Press.
Andersen, Peter Bagh 2000. 'Genres as self-organising systems'. In Peter Bogh Andersen,
Claus Emmeche, Niels Ole Finnemann, and Peder Voetmann Christiansen (eds),
Downward Causation: Minds, Bodies and Matter, 214--60. Aarhus: Aarhus University
Press.
Armstrong, David F., Stokoe, WiIliam C., and Wilcox, Sherman E. 1995. Gesture and the
Nature of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Astington, J. W, Harris, P., and Olson, D. R. 1988 (eds) , Developing Theories of Mind.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bakhtin, Mikhail M. 1981 [1975]. 'Discourse in the novel'. In Michael Holquist (ed.), The
Dialogic Imagination:FourEssays, 259-422. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Bakhtin, Mikhail M. 1986. 'The problem of speech genres'. In Caryl Emerson and Michael
Holquist (eds), Speech Genres & OtherLateEssays, 60-102. Trans. Vern W McGee. Austin:
University of Texas Press.
Bakhtin, Mikhail M. 1990 [1924]. 'The problem of content, material, and form in verbal
art'. In Michael Holquist and Vadim Liapunov (eds), Art and Answerability. EarlyPhilo-
sophical Essays byM. M. Bakhtin, Trans. Vadim Liapunov, 257-325. Austin: University of
Texas Press.
Baron-Cohen, S. 1989a. 'Perceptual role-taking and protodeclarative pointing in autism'.
BritishJournal ofDevelopmental Psychology 7: 113-27.
Baron-Cohen, S. 1989b. 'The autistic child's theory of mind: a case of specific develop-
mental delay'. Journal of ChildPsychology and Psychiatry 30: 285-98.
Bates, Elizabeth 1979 (with the collaboration of Laura Benigni, Inge Bretherton, Luigia
Camaioni, Vicki Carlson, Karlana Carpen, and Marcia Rossner). The Emergence of
Symbols: Cognition and Communication in Infancy.NewYork and London: Academic Press.
Bateson, Gregory 1973a. 'The cybernetics of "self": a theory of alcoholism'. In Gregory
Bateson, Steps to an Ecology of Mind, 280-308. London and New York: Granada.
Bateson, Gregory 1973b. 'Redundancy and coding'. In Gregory Bateson, Steps to an Ecology
ofMind, 387-401. London and New York: Granada.
Bateson, Gregory 1973c. 'Problems in cetacean and other mammalian communication'. In
Gregory Bateson, Steps to an Ecology of Mind, 334-48. London and New York: Granada.
Bateson, Gregory 1973d. 'Style, grace, and information in primitive art'. In Gregory
Bateson, Steps to an Ecology of Mind, 101-25. London and New York: Granada.
Bateson, Gregory 1973e. 'The role of somatic change in evolution'. In Gregory Bateson,
Steps to an Ecology of Mind, 316-33. London and New York: Granada.
Bateson, Gregory 1980 [1979]. Mind and Nature: A Necessary Unity. London: Fontana.
Bateson, Gregory 1987 [1951]. 'Information and codification: a philosophical approach'.
REFERENCES 319
In Jurgen Ruesch and Gregory Bateson, Communication: The Social Matrix ofPsychiatry,
168-211. London: Norton.
Battacchi, Marco W. 1996. 'Conscience de soi et connaissance de soi dans l'ontogenese'.
Enfance 2: 156---64.
Battacchi, Marco W. 1998. 'Self-knowledge and self-consciousness'. Dipartimento di
Psicologia, Universita degli Studi di Bologna: Mimeo.
Battacchi, Marco W. 1999. 'Consciousness, awareness, and experience'. Teorie & Modelli
IV(3): 55-63.
Battacchi, Marco, Battistelli, Piergiorgio, and Celani, Giorgio 1998. Lo Sviluppo del Pensiero
Metarappresentativo e della Coscienza: Milan: Franco Angeli.
Beaugrande, Robert de 1997. New Foundations for a Science of Text and Discourse: Cognition,
Communication and the Freedom of Accessto Knowledge and Society. Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Benson,James, Fries, Peter, Greaves, William, Iwamoto, Kazuyoshi, Savage-Rumbaugh,
Sue, and Taglialatela, Jared. 2002. 'Confrontation and support in bonobo-human
discourse'. Functions ofLanguage 9(1): 1-38.
Benson, James, Fries, Peter, Greaves, William, Iwamoto, Kazuyoshi, Savage-Rumbaugh,
Sue, and Taglialatela,Jared. 2004. 'Language, apes, and meaning-making'. In Geoffrey
Williams and Annabelle Lukin (eds), Language Development: Functional Perspectives on
Species and Individuals, 91-111, London and New York: Continuum.
Bemstein, Basil 1971. Class, Codesand Control, VolumeI: TheoreticalStudies Towards a Sociology
ofLanguage. London and Boston: Routiedge & Kegan Paul.
Bernstein, Basil 1990. Class, Codes and Control, Volume JY.. The Structuring of Pedagogic
Discourse. London and New York: Routiedge.
Bernstein, N. 1967. Coordination and Regulation ofMovements. New York: Pergamon Press.
Berthoz, Alain 1997. Le Sens du Mouvement. Paris: Editions Odile Jacob.
Bhaskar, Roy 1979. The Possibility of Naturalism: A Philosophical Critique of the Contemporary
Human Sciences. Brighton, Sussex: Harvester.
Bickhard, Mark H. and Campbell, Donald T. 2000. 'Emergence'. In Peter B0gh Andersen,
Claus Emrneche, Niels Ole Finnemann, and Peder Voetmann Christiansen (eds),
Downward Causation: Minds, Bodies and Matter, 322--48. Aarhus: Aarhus University
Press.
Bogdan, RaduJ. 1987. 'Mind, content and information'. Synthese70: 205-77.
Bogdan, Radu J. 2000. Minding Minds: Evolving a Reflexive Mind by Interpreting Others.
Cambridge, MA and London: MIT Press.
Bohr, Nielsen 1948. 'On the notions of causality and complementarity'. Dialectica 7(8):
313-14.
Bolinger, Dwight 1985. 'The inherent iconism of intonation'. In John Haiman (ed.),
Iconicity in Syntax, 97-108. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Bouissac, Paul 1998. 'Converging parallels: semiotics and psychology in evolutionary per-
spective'. Theory & Psychology 8(6): 731-53.
Bourdieu, Pierre 1977 [1972]. Outline ofa Theory ofPractice. Trans. Richard Nice. Cambridge
and Melbourne: Cambridge University Press.
Braten, S. 1992. 'The virtual other in infants' minds and social feelings'. In A. Heen Wold
(ed.), The Dialogical Alternative: Towards a Theory of Language and Mind, 77-97. Oslo:
Scandinavian University Press.
Browman, Catherine and Goldstein, Louis 1991. 'Gestural structures: distinctiveness,
phonological processes, and historical change'. In Ignatius G. Mattingly and Michael
Studdert-Kennedy (eds), Modularity and the Motor Theory of Speech Perception, 313-38.
Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Browman, Catherine P. and Goldstein, Louis 1995. 'Dynamics and articulatory phonology'.
In Robert F. Port and Timothy van Gelder (eds), Mind as Motion: Explorations in the
Dynamics ofCognition, 175-93. Cambridge, MA and London: MIT Press.
Buhler, Karl 1990 [1934]. Theory of Language: The Representational Function of Language.
Trans. Donald Fraser Goodwin. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
320 REFERENCES
Carruthers, Peter 1996. Language, Thought and Consciousness: An Essay in Philosophical
Psychology. Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press.
Catford, J. C. 1998. A Practical Introduction toPhonetics. Oxford: Clarendon.
Chomsky, Noam 1965. Aspects of the Theory ofSyntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam 1976. Reflections on Language. London: Fontana
Clark, E. and Clark, H. 1977. Psychology and Language. New York: Harcourt Brace.
Cleirigh, Chris 1998. A Selectionist Modelof The Genesis ofPhonicTexture: Systemic Phonology &
Universal Darwinism. Department of Linguistics, University of Sydney: Unpublished
Ph.D. thesis.
Cole, Michael 1996. Cultural Psychology: A Once and FutureDiscipline. Cambridge, MA and
London: Harvard University Press.
Coleridge, Samuel Taylor 1967. Biographia Literaria. London: Dent.
Corina, David P., Vaid, ]yotsna, and Bellugi, Ursula 1992. 'The linguistic basis of left
hemisphere specialization'. Science 255: 1258-60.
Coulthard, Malcolm 1992. 'The significance of intonation in discourse'. In Malcolm
Coulthard (ed.), Advancesin Spoken Discourse Analysis, 35-49. London and New York:
Routledge.
Cowley, Stephen J. 1998. 'Of timing, turn-taking, and conversations'. Journal of Psycholin-
guisticResearch 27(5): 541-71.
Cowley, Stephen J. 2001. 'The baby, the bathwater, and the "language instinct" debate'.
LanguageSciences 23: 69-91.
Cowley, Stephen J. 2002. 'Why brains matter: an integrational perspective on The Symbolic
Species'. LanguageSciences 24: 73-95.
Cowley, Stephen J., Moodley, S. and Fiori-Cowley, Agnese. In press. 'Grounding signs of
culture: primary intersubjectivity in social semiosis'. Mind, Culture, and Activity11.2.
Cremonini, Giorgio and Frasnedi, Fabrizio 1986. Nell'Universo delSenso. Bologna: Il Mulino.
Damasio, Antonio 1999. TheFeeling of What Happens: Body, Emotion and the Making of Con-
sciousness. London: William Heinemann.
Davidse, Kristin 1991. 'Categories of Experiential Grammar'. Ph.D. thesis. Leuven:
Department of Linguistics, Katholieke Universiteit.
Davidse, Kristin 1992. 'A semiotic approach to relational clauses'. open Papers in Systemic
Linguistics(OPSL) 6: 99-131.
Davidse, Kristin 1997. 'The Subject-Object versus the Agent-Patient asymmetry'. Paper
presented at the congress 'Objects, grammatical relations and semantics', University of
Ghent, 23-24 May 1997.
Davidson, RJ. 1984. 'Hemispheric asymmetry and emotion'. In K. Scherer and P. Ekman
(eds), Approaches toEmotion, 39-57. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Davidson, R J. 1992. 'Anterior cerebral asymmetry and the nature of emotion'. Brain and
Cognition 20: 125-51.
Deacon, Terrence 1998 [1997]. The Symbolic Species: The Co-evolution of Language and the
Human Brain.London and New York: Penguin.
Descartes, Rene 1960 (1641]. 'Meditations'. In Discourse on Method and Other Writings,
101-69. Trans. Arthur Wollaston. Harmondsworth: Penguin.
Doty, R W. 1984. 'Some thoughts and some experiments on memory'. In L. R Squire and
N. Butters (eds), Neuropsychology of Memory. New York: Guilford.
Dretske, F. 1972. 'Contrastive statements'. Philosophical Review 81: 411-37.
Edelman, Gerald M. 1987. Neural Darwinism: The Theory of Neuronal Group Selection. New
York: Basic Books.
Edelman, Gerald M. 1989. The Remembered Present: A Biological Theory of Consciousness. New
York: Basic Books.
Edelman, Gerald M. 1992. BrightAir, Brilliant Fire: On the Matter of theMind. London and
New York: Penguin.
Edelman, Gerald M. and Tononi, Giulio 2000. A Universe of Consciousness: How Matter
Becomes Imagination. New York: Basic Books.
Finnemann, Niels Ole 2000. 'Rule-based and rule-generating systems'. In Peter B0gh
REFERENCES 321
Andersen, Claus Emmeche, Niels Ole Finnemann, and Peder Voetmann Christiansen
(eds), Downward Causation: Minds, Bodies and Matter, 278-302. Aarhus: Aarhus
University Press.
Firth 1957a [1948]. 'The semantics oflinguistic science'. In Papers in Linguistics 1934-1951,
139-47. London and New York: Oxford University Press.
Firth,]. R. 1957b [1948]. 'Sounds and prosodies'. In Papers in Linguistics 1934-1951,
121-38. London and New York: Oxford University Press.
Firth,]. R. 1957c [1951]. 'General linguistics and descriptive grammar'. In Papers in Lin-
guistics 1934-1951, 216-28. London and New York: Oxford University Press.
Flohr, Hans 1991. 'Brain processes and phenomenal consciousness: a new and specific
hypothesis'. Theory & Psychology 1(2): 45-262.
Fowler, Carol A. 1986. 'An event approach to the study ofspeech perception from a direct-
realist perspective'. Journal ofPhonetics 14: 3-28.
Fowler, Carol A. and Rosenblum, Lawrence D. 1991. 'The perception ofphonetic gestures'.
In Ignatius G. Mattingly and Michael Studdert-Kennedy (eds) , Modularity and the Motor
Theory ofSpeechPerception, 33-59. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Gee, James Paul 1992. The Social Mind: Language, Ideology, and Social Practice. New York and
London: Bergin & Garvey.
Gendlin, Eugene 1962. Experiencing and the Creation of Meaning: A Philosophical and Psycho-
logicalApproach to the Subjective. Evanston, IL: Northwestern University Press.
Gibson, James.J. 1983 [1966]. The Senses Considered as Perceptual Systems. Westport, CT:
Greenwood.
Gibson, James]. 1986 [1979]. The Ecological Approach to Visual Perception. Hillsdale, NJ and
London: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Goldfield, Eugene C. 1993. 'Dynamic systems in development: action systems'. In Linda B.
Smith and Esther Thelen (eds), A Dynamic Systems Approach to Development: Applications,
51-70. Cambridge, MA and London: MIT Press.
Goodwin, Charles 1996a. 'Practices of color classification'. Ninchi Kagaku (Cognitive
Studies: Bulletin of the Japanese Cognitive Science Society). 3(2): 62-82. [Also
published as Goodwin, Charles 2000. 'Practices of color classification'. Mind Culture and
Activity 7(1&2): 19-36.]
Goodwin, Charles 1996b. 'Transparent vision'. In Elinor Ochs, Emanuel A. Schegloff, and
Sandra Thompson (eds), Interaction and Grammar, 370-404. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Grene, Marjorie. 1990. 'Perception and human reality'. In Roy Bhaskar (ed.), Hard and His
Critics:Essass in Honour ofRom Harre with his Commentary on Them, 17-22. Oxford: Basil
Blackwell.
Crusser, 0.]. 1991. 'Cortical representation of head movement in space and some psy-
chophysical considerations'. In A. Berthoz, P. P.Vidal, and W. Graf (eds) , The Head-Neck
Sensory-MotorSystem, 497-509. Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press.
Haken, H. 1977. Synergetics: An Introduction. Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1967a. A Course in Spoken English: Intonation. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1967b. 'Notes on transitivity and theme in English 1'.Journal of Linguis-
tics 3(1): 37-81.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1967c. 'Notes on transitivity and theme in English II'.Journal ofLinguis-
tics 3(2): 199-244.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1968. 'Notes on transitivity and theme in English III'. Journal ofLinguis-
tics 4(2): 179-215.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1975. Learning How to Mean: Explorations in the Development ofLanguage.
London: Edward Arnold.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1978a. Language as Social Semiotic: The Social Interpretation ofLanguage and
Meaning. London: Edward Arnold.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1978b. 'Meaning and the construction of reality in early childhood'. In
322 REFERENCES
Herbert L. Pick and Elliot Saltzman (eds), Modes ofPerceiving and ProcessingInformation.
67-96. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1979. 'Modes of meaning and modes of expression: types of grammati-
cal structure and their determination by different semantic functions'. In D.J.Allerton,
Edward Carney, and David Holdcroft (eds), Function and Context in Linguistic Analysis:
A Festschriftfor William Haas, 57-79. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1984. 'Listening to Nigel: Conversations of a very small child'. Unpub-
lished manuscript, University of Sydney, Linguistics Department, Sydney, Australia.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1988. 'On the ineffability of grammatical categories'. InJames D. Benson,
Michael J. Cummings, and William S. Greaves (eds), Linguistics in a SystemicPerspective,
27-51. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1991. 'Towards probabilistic interpretations'. In Eija Ventola (ed.),
Functional and SystemicLinguistics: ApjmJachesand uses, 39-61. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1992a. 'How do you mean?'. In Martin Davies and Louise Ravelli (eds),
Advances in SystemicLinguistics: Recent Theory and Practice,20-35. London and New York:
Pinter.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1992b. 'A systemic interpretation of Peking syllable finals'. In P. Tench
(ed.), Studies in SystemicPhonology, 98-121. London and New York: Pinter.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1993. 'Towards a language-based theory of learning'. Linguistics and
Education 5: 93-116.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1994 [1985]. Introduction to Functional Grammar. 2nd edn. London and
Melbourne: Arnold.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1995. 'On language in relation to the evolution of human consciousness'.
In S. AlIen (ed.), Of Thoughts and Words: Proceedings ofNobel Symposium 92: 'The Relation
Between Language and Mind'. Stockholm, 8-12 August 1994, 45-84. River Edge, NJ:
Imperial College Press.
Halliday, M. A. K. 2000. 'Phonology past and present: a personal retrospect'. Folia Linguis-
tica XXXN(I-2): 101-11.
Halliday, M. A. K. and Hasan, Ruqaiya 1976. Cohesion in English. London: Longman.
Halliday, M. A. K. and Matthiessen, Christian 1999. Construing Experience through Meaning: A
Language-based Approach to Cognition. London and New York: Cassell.
Handel, Stephen 1989. Listening: An Introduction to the Perception of Auditory Events.
Cambridge, MA and London: MIT Press.
Harre, Rom 1979. Social Being: A Theoryfor Social Psychology. Oxford: Blackwell.
Harre, Rom 1983. Personal Being: A Theoryfor Individual Psychology. Oxford: Blackwell.
Harre, Rom 1990. 'Exploring the human Umwelt'. In Roy Bhaskar (ed.), Harre and His
Critics: Essays in Honour of Rom Harre with his Commentary on Them, 297-364. Oxford:
Basil Blackwell.
Harre, Rom and Gillett, Grant 1994. The Discursive Mind. Thousand Oaks, CA and New
Delhi: Sage.
Harris, Roy 1995a. Language, Signs, and Communication. London and New York: Routledge.
Harris, Roy 1995b. Signs of Writing. London and New York: Routledge.
Hasan, Ruqaiya 1980. 'The texture ofa text'. In M. A. K. Halliday and Ruqaiya Hasan, Text
and Context: Aspects ofLanguage in a Social-semiotic Perspective, 43-59. Sophia University,
Tokyo, The Graduate School of Languages and Linguistics, Linguistic Institute for
International Communication: Working Papers in Linguistics, No. 6.
Hasan, Ruqaiya 1992a. 'Rationality in everyday talk: from process to system'. InJan Svartik
(ed.), Directions in Corpus Linguistics: Proceedings of Nobel Symposium 82 Stockholm, 4-8
August 1991, 257-307. Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Hasan, Ruqaiya 1992b. 'Speech genre, semiotic mediation and the development of the
higher mental functions'. Language Sciences14(4): 489-528.
Hasan, Ruqaiya 1996. 'Semantic networks: a tool for the analysis of meaning'. In Carmel
Cloran, David Butt, and GeoffWilliams (eds), Ways ofSaying: Ways of Meaning, 104-31.
London and New York: Cassell.
REFERENCES 323
Hasan, Ruqaiya 1999. 'Speaking with reference to context'. In Mohsen Ghadessy (ed.), Text
and Context in Functional Linguistics, 219-328. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Hauser, Marc D., Chomsky, Noam, and Fitch, W. Tecumseh 2002. 'The faculty of language:
what is it, who has it, and how did it evolve?'. Science Vol. 298, 22 November 2002:
1569-78.
Hebb, D. O. 1949. The Organization of Behavior. New York: Wiley.
Hjelmslev, Louis 1954. 'La stratification du langage'. Word 10(2-3): 163-88.
Hjelmslev, Louis 1961 [1943]. Prolegomena to a Theory of Language. Trans. Francis J.
Whitfield. Rev.English edn. Madison, Milwaukee and London: University of Wisconsin
Press.
1edema, Roderick A. M. 1997. 'Interactional dynamics and social change: planning as mor-
phogenesis'. University of Sydney,Department of Linguistics: Unpublished Ph.D. thesis.
Jakobson, Roman and Santilli, Kathy 1980. Brain and Language: Cerebral Hemispheres and
Linguistic Structures in Mutual Light. Columbus, OH: Slavica.
Johnson, M. H. and Morton,J. 1991. Biology and Cognitive Development: The Case ofFace Recog-
nition. Oxford: Blackwell.
Johnston, Trevor 1992. 'The realization of the linguistic metafunctions in a sign language'.
SocialSemiotics 2(1): 1-43.
Juarrero, Alicia 1999. Dynamicsin Action:Intentional Behavioras a Complex System. Cambridge,
MA and London: M1T Press.
Kauffman, S. 1993. The Originsof Order: Self-organization and Selection in Evolution. New York
and Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Kaye, Kenneth. 1984 [1982]. The Mental and SocialLife of Babies: How ParentsCreate Persons.
London: Methuen.
Kelso,J. A. S., Saltzman, E. L., and Tuller, B. 1986. 'The dynamical perspective on speech
production: data and theory'. Journal of Phonetics 14: 29-59.
Kinsbourne, Marcel 1988. 'Integrated field theory of consciousness'. In A. J. Marcel and
E. Bisiach (eds), Consciousness in Contemporary Science, 239-56. Oxford: Clarendon.
Kinsbourne, Marcel 2000. 'Inner speech and the inner life'. Brain and Language71: 120-3.
Kinsbourne, Marcel 2001. 'Unity and diversity in the human brain: evidence from injury'.
In Gerald M. Edelman and Jean-Pierre Changeux (eds), The Brain, 233-56. New
Brunswick, NJ and London: Transaction Publishers.
Kosslyn, S. M., Chabris, C. F., Marsolek, C. J., Jacobs, R. A., and Koenig, O. 1995. 'On
computational evidence for different types of spatial relations encoding: reply to
Cook'. Journal ofExperimental Psychology 21(2): 423-31.
Kress, Gunther and Van Leeuwen, Theo 1996. ReadingImages: The Grammarof VisualDesign.
London and New York: Routledge.
Lakoff, George andJohnson, Mark 1999. Philosophy in theFlesh: The Embodied Mind and its
Challenge to Western Thought. New York: Basic Books.
Lamb, Sydney M. 1966. 'Epilegomena to a theory of language'. RomancePhilology 19(4):
53]-73.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1987. Foundations of Cognitive Grammar. Vol. I. Theoretical Prerequisites.
Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1991. Foundationsof Cognitive Grammar. Volume Il. Descriptive Applica-
tion. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Latour, Bruno 1986. 'The powers of association'. In John Law (ed.), Power, Action and Beliej,
264-80. London and Boston: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
Latour, Bruno 1996a. 'On interobjectivity'. Mind, Culture, and Activity3(4): 228-45.
Latour, Bruno ]996b. 'Pursuing the discussion of interobjectivity'. Mind, Culture, and
Activity3(4): 266-9.
Lave,Jean 1997. 'The culture of acquisition and the practice of understanding'. In David
Kirshner andJames A. Whitson (eds), Situated Cognition: Social, Semiotic, and Psychologi-
calPerspectives, ] 7-35. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
324 REFERENCES
Laver, John 1970. 'The production of speech'. In John Lyons (ed.), New Horizons in
Linguistics, 53-75. Harmondsworth: Penguin.
Lemke, Jay L. 1983. 'Thematic analysis: systems, structures, and strategies'. Recherches Sbni-
otiques/Semiotic Inquiry (RSSI) 3(2): 159-87.
Lemke, Jay L. 1984a. 'Action, context, and meaning'. In J. L. Lernke, Semiotics and
Education, 63-93. Victoria University, Toronto: Toronto Semiotic Circle Monographs,
Working Papers and Prepublications, No. 2.
Lemke, Jay L. 1984b. 'Making trouble'. In J. L. Lemke, Semiotics and Education, 94-149.
Victoria University, Toronto: Toronto Semiotic Circle Monographs, Working Papers
and Prepublications, No. 2.
Lemke, Jay L. 1984c. 'The formal analysis of instruction'. In J. L. Lemke, Semiotics and
Education, 23-62. Victoria University, Toronto: Toronto Semiotic Circle Monographs,
Working Papers and Prepublications, No. 2.
Lernke, Jay L. 1984d. 'Towards a model of the instructional process'. In J. L. Lemke,
Semiotics and Education, 6-22. Victoria University, Toronto: Toronto Semiotic Circle
Monographs, Working Papers and Prepublications, No. 2.
Lemke, Jay L. 1985. 'Ideology, intertextuality, and the notion of register'. In James D.
Benson and William S. Greaves (eds) , Systemic Perspectives on Discourse, Volume I, 275-94.
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Lemke, Jay L. 1990. TalkingScience: Language, Learning, and Values. Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Lemke, Jay L. 1995a. 'The social construction of the material subject'. In Jay L. Lemke,
TextualPolitics: Discourse and Social Dynamics, 80-99. London and Bristol, PA: Taylor &
Francis.
Lemke, Jay L. 1995b [1993]. 'Discourse, dynamics, and social change'. In Jay L. Lemke,
TextualPolitics: Discourse and Social Dynamics, 100-29. London and Bristol, PA:Taylor &
Francis.
Lemke, Jay L. 1995c. 'Retrospective Postscript'. In Jay L. Lemke, TextualPolitics: Discourse
and Social Dynamics, 154-84. London and Bristol, PA: Taylor & Francis.
Lemke, Jay L. 1997. 'Cognition, context, and learning: a social semiotic perspective'. In
David Kirshner and James A. Whitson (eds), Situated Cognition: Social, Semiotic, and
Psychological Perspectives, 37-55. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Lemke,Jay L. 1998. 'Multiplying meaning: visual and verbal semiotics in scientific texts'. In
J. R. Martin and R. Veel (eds), Reading Science: Critical and FunctionalPerspectives on
Discourses of Science, 87-113. London and New York: Routledge.
Lemke,Jay L. 1999. 'Opening up closure: semiotics across scales'. Paper presented at the
conference, 'Closure: Emergent Organizations and their Dynamics', University of
Ghent, Belgium; May 1999; website: http://academic.brooklyn.cuny.edu/ education/
jlemke/index.htm
Lemke, Jay L. 2000a. 'Material sign processes and emergent ecosocial organization'. In
Peter Bogh Andersen, Claus Emmeche, Niels Ole Finnemann, and Peder Voetmann
Christiansen (eds), Downward Causation: Minds, Bodies and Matter, 181-213. Aarhus:
Aarhus University Press.
Lemke, Jay L. 2000b. Across the scales of time: artefacts, activities, and meanings in
ecosocial systems'. Mind, Culture, and Activity7(4): 273-90.
Liberman, A. and Mattingly, 1. 1985. 'The motor theory of speech perception revised'.
Cognition 21: 1-36.
Libet, Benjamin 1996. 'Neural processes in the production of conscious experience'. In
Max Velmans (ed.), The Science of Consciousness: Psychological, Neuropsychological and
ClinicalReviews, 96-117. London and New York: Routledge.
Lieberman, Philip 1984. The Biology and Evolution of Language. Cambridge, MA and
London: Harvard University Press.
Lindblom, Bjorn 1991. 'The status of phonetic gestures'. In 19natius G. Mattingly and
Michael Studdert-Kennedy (eds), Modularity and the Motor Theory of Speech Perception,
7-24. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
REFERENCES 325
Longacre, Robert E. 1983. The Grammar ofDiscourse. New York and London: Plenum Press.
Lorenz, Konrad. 1969 [1963]. On Aggression. Trans. Marjorie Latzke. London: Methuen.
Lorenzana,Juan Alvarez de 1993. 'The constructive universe and the evolutionary systems
framework'. Appendix in Stanley N. Salthe, Development and Evolution: Complexity and
Change in Biology, 291-308. Cambridge, MA and London: MlT Press.
Lukacs, Gyorgy 1980 [1978]. The Ontology ofSocial Being 3: Labour. Trans. David Fernbach.
London: Merlin.
Lukacs, Gyorgy 1981. Per l'ontologia dell'essere socialeII: i complessiproblematici piu importanti.
Italian trans. Alberto Scarponi. Rome: Editori Riuniti.
Lukacs, Gyorgy 1990. Prolegomeni all'ontologia dell'essere sociali: questioni di principio di un
ontologia oggi divenuta possibile. Italian trans. Alberto Scarponi. Milan: Guerini e
Associati.
Luria, A. R. 1976. Cognitive Development: Its Cultural and Social Foundations. Trans. Martin
Lopez-Moril1as and Lynn Solotaroff, Michael Cole (ed.). Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
Manghi, Sergio 1988. '11 soggetto ecosistemico: Identita e complessitii. biosociale'. In
Ferruccio Andolfi (ed.), Figure d'identita: ricerche sul soggetto moderno, 173-227. Milan:
Franco Angeli.
Malinowski, Bronislaw 1923. 'The problem of meaning in primitive languages'.
Supplement I in C. K. Ogden and I. A. Richards, The Meaning of Meaning. London:
Kegan Paul Trench.
Malinowski, Bronislaw 1935. 'An ethnographic theory of language. Part IV'. In Coral
Gardens and their Magic, Vo\. 2. London: Alien & Unwin.
Marshal1, J. C. 1980. 'Clues from neurological deficits'. In U. Bel1ugi and M. Studdert-
Kennedy (eds), Signed and Spoken Language: Biological Constraints on Linguistic Form,
275-90. Weinheim and Deerfield Beach, Florida: Verlag Chemie.
Martin,James R. 1991. 'Intrinsic functionality: implications for contextual theory'. Social
Semiotics 1(1): 99-162.
Martin, James R. 1992a. English Text: System and structure. Philadelphia/Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Martin, James R. 1992b. 'Macro-proposals: meaning by degree'. In W. C. Mann and S. A.
Thompson (eds), Discourse Description: Diverse Analyses of a Fundraising Text, 359-96.
Amsterdam and Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Martinec, Radan 2000. 'Rhythm in multimodal texts'. Leonardo 4,3: 289-97.
Martinec, Radan 1998. 'Cohesion in action'. Semiotica 120(1/2): 161-80.
Matthiessen, Christian 1990. 'Metafunctional complementarity and resonance in syntag-
matic organization'. Department of Linguistics, University of Sydney: Mimeo.
Matthiessen, Christian 1993. 'The object of study in cognitive science in relation to its
construal and enactment in language'. In M. A. K. Halliday (guest ed.), Language as
Cultural Dynamic. Cultural Dynamics 6 (1) .
Matthiessen, Christian 1995. Lexicogrammatical Cartography: English systems. Tokyo: Inter-
national Language Sciences Publishers.
Maze, John R. 1991. 'Representationism, realism and the redundancy of "mentalese'",
Theory & Psychology 1(2): 163-85.
McGregor, William B. 1997. Semiotic Grammar. Oxford: Clarendon.
McKel1ar, Gordon Bruce 1987. 'The place of socio-semiotics in contemporary thought'. In
Ross Steele and Terry Threadgold (eds), Language Topics: Essays in Honour of Michael
Halliday, Vo\. 11, 523-48. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
McKellar, Gordon Bruce 1990. 'The language of neurolinguistics: principles and per-
spectives in the application of linguistic theory to the neuropsychology of language'.
In M. A. K. Halliday, John Gibbons, and Howard Nicholas (eds), Learning, Keeping
and Using Language, Vol. 1. Selected Papers from the 8th World Congress of Applied
Linguistics, Sydney, 16-21 August 1987, 331-51. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
326 REFERENCES
McNeill, David 1992. Hand and Mind: What Gestures Reveal about Thought. Chicago and
London: University of Chicago Press.
Merleau-Ponty, Maurice 1983 [1942]. The Structure of Behavior. Trans. Alden L Fisher.
Pittsburgh: Duquesne University Press.
Natsoulas, Thomas 1998. 'The case for intrinsic theory: Ill. Intrinsic inner awareness and the
problem of straightforward objectivation'. TheJoumal ofMind and Behavior 19(1): 1-19.
Natsoulas, Thomas 2000. 'On the intrinsic nature of states of consciousness'. Consciousness
& Emotion I (I): 139-66.
Ninio, A. and Snow, C. E. 1996. Pragmatic Development. Boulder: Westview.
Norton, Alec 1995. 'Dynamics: an introduction'. In Robert F.Port and Timothy van Gelder
(eds), Mind as Motion: Explorations in the Dynamics of Cognition, 45-68. Cambridge, MA
and London: MIT Press.
Noth, Winfried 1990. Handbook of Semiotics. Bloomington and Indianapolis: Indiana
University Press.
Oldenburg, Jane 1987. 'From Child Tongue to Mother Tongue: a case study of language
development in the first two and a half years'. Ph.D. thesis. University of Sydney,
Department of Linguistics.
O'Toole, Michaell994. The Language ofDisplayed Art. London: Leicester University Press.
Painter, Clare 1984. Into the Mother Tongue: A CaseStudy in Early Language Development. Open
Linguistics Series. London: Pinter.
Peng, Fred C. C. 1994. 'Language disorders and brain function'. Acta Neurologica Sinica
3(3): 103-30.
Peng, Fred C. C. 2000. 'Review article: "Re-reading Saussure: the dynamics of signs in social
life" by Paul J.Thibault'. Lingua Posnaniensis XLII: 175-98.
Perinat, Adolfo and Sadurni, Marta 1999. 'The ontogenesis of meaning: an interactional
approach'. Mind, Culture, and Activity 6(1): 53-76.
Petitot-Cocorda,Jean 1985. Les catastrophesde la parole:de RnmanJakobson it Rene Thom. Paris:
Maloine.
Piaget,Jean 1946. La formation du symbolechez l'enfant. Neuchatel: Delachaux et Niestlee.
Pike, Kenneth L. 1967. Language in Relation to a Unified Theory of the Structure of Human
Behaviour. 2nd, rev. edn. The Hague and Paris: Mouton.
Pike, Kenneth L. 1982. Linguistic Concepts: An Introduction to Tagmemics. Lincoln: University
of Nebraska Press.
Pinker, Stephen 1994. The Language Instinct: The New Science of Language and Mind. Har-
mondsworth: Penguin.
Pinker, Stephen 1997. How the Mind Works. London: Norton.
Pitt, V. H. (ed.) 1977. The Penguin Dictionary ofPhysics. Harmondsworth: Penguin.
Popper, K. R. and Eccles, J. C. 1977. The Self and its Brain. Heidelberg and New York:
Springer.
Premack, D. and Woodruff, G. 1978. 'Does the chimpanzee have a theory of mind?' Behav-
ioural and Brain Sciences1: 515-26.
Prevignano, Carlo L. and Di Luzio, Aldo 2003. 'A Discussion with John J. Gumperz'.
In Susan L. Eerdmans, Carlo L. Prevignano, and Paul J.Thibault (eds), Language and
Interaction: Discussions with John J Gumperz; 7-29. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Prigogine, lIya and Stengers, Isabelle 1985 [1984]. Order out of Chaos: Man's New Dialogue
with Nature. London: Fontana.
Prodi, Giorgio 1977. Le basi materiali della significazione. Milan: Bompiani.
Prodi, Giorgio 1987. Alia radice del comportamento morale. Genoa: Marietti.
Prodi, Giorgio 1989. L'individuo e la sua firma. Bologna: 11 Mulino.
Riegel, Klaus F. 1979. Foundations ofDialectical Psychology. New York and London: Academic
Press.
Rizzolatti, G. and Arbib, M. A. 1998. 'Language within our grasp'. Trends in Neuroscience
21(5): 188-94.
REFERENCES 327
Robins, RH. 1957. 'Aspects of prosodic analysis'. Proceedings of University ofDurham Philo-
sophical Society, series B, Vo!. 1 (Arts): 1-12.
Salthe, Stanley N. 1990. 'Sketch of a logical demonstration that the global information
capacity of a macroscopic system must behave entropically when viewed internally'.
Journal ofIdeas 1:51-6.
Salthe, Stanley N. 1993. Deoelopment and Evolution: Complexity and Change in Biology.
Cambridge, MA and London: MIT Press.
Sartre,Jean-Paul 1969 [1943]. Being and Nothingness: An Essay on Phenomenological Ontology.
Trans. Hazel E. Barnes. London: Methuen.
Saussure, Ferdinand de 1971 [1915]. Cours de linguistique generate.Paris: Payot.
Saussure, Ferdinand de 1993. Eisuke Komatsu (ed.), Cours de linguistique generate:premier et
troisiemecours d'apreslesnotes deReidlinger et Constantin. Collection Recherches Universite
Gaskushuin no. 24. Tokyo: Universite Gakushuin.
Savage-Rumbaugh, Sue, Shanker, Stuart G., and Taylor, TalbotJ. 1998. Apes, Language and
the Human Mind. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Schank, RC. and Abelson, RP. 1977. Scripts, Plans, Goals, and Understanding. Hillsdale, NJ:
Erlbaum.
Seager, William 1999. Theories of Consciousness:An Introduction and Assessment. London and
New York: Routledge.
Shanker, Stuart G. 1996. 'Autism and the theory of mind'. Department of Philosophy and
Psychology, York University, Toronto: Mimeo.
Shanker, Stuart G. 1998. 'Philosophical preconceptions'. In Savage-Rumbaugh, Sue,
Shanker, Stuart G., and Taylor, Talbot J. 1998. Apes, Language and the Human Mind,
77-138. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Shannon, Claude E. and Weaver, Warren 1949. The Mathematical Theory of Communication.
Urbana, IL: University of Illinois Press.
Shepard, R N. 1984. 'Ecological constraints on internal representation: resonant
kinematics of perceiving, imagining, thinking, and dreaming'. PsychologicalReview 91:
417-47.
Sherrington, C. S. 1940. Man on his Nature. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Silverstein, Michael1976. 'Shifters, linguistic categories, and cultural description'. In K. H.
Basso and H. A. Selby (eds), Meaning in Anthropology, 11-55. Albuquerque: University
of New Mexico Press.
Silverstein, Michael 1985. 'The functional stratification of language and ontogenesis'. In
James V. Wertsch (ed.), Culture, Communication, and Cognition: Vygotskian Perspectives,
205-35. Cambridge and Melbourne: Cambridge University Press.
Silverstein, Michael 1987a. 'Cognitive implications of a referential hierarchy'. In Maya
Hickmann (ed.), Social and functional Approaches to Language and Thought, 125-64. New
York and London: Academic Press.
Silverstein, Michael 1987b. 'The three faces of "function": preliminaries to a psychology of
language'. In Maya Hickmann (ed.), Social and Functional Approaches to Language and
Thought, 17-38. New York and London: Academic Press.
Silverstein, Michael 1997. 'The improvisational performance of culture in realtime
discursive practice'. In R Keith Sawyer (ed.), Creativity in Performance, 265-312.
Greenwich, CT: Ablex.
Sperry, R W. 1952. 'Neurology and the mind-brain problem'. American Scientist 40: 291-312.
Sperry, R W. 1980. 'Mind-brain interaction: mentalism yes; dualism no'. Neuroscience 5:
195-206.
Stevens, K. N. 1989. 'On the quantal nature of speech'. Journal ofPhonetics 17: 3-45.
Studdert-Kennedy, M. and Lane, H. 1980. 'Clues from the differences between signed and
spoken language'. In U. Bellugi and M. Studdert-Kennedy (eds), Signed and Spoken
Language: Biological Constraints on Linguistic Form, 29-39. Weinheim and Deerfield
Beach, Florida: Verlag Chemie.
Thelen, Esther 1995. 'Timescale dynamics and the development of an embodied
328 REFERENCES
cognition'. In Robert F. Port and Timothy van Gelder (eds), Mind as Motion: Explo-
rationsin theDynamics of Cognition, 69-100. Cambridge, MA and London: MIT Press.
Thelen, Esther and Smith, Linda B. 1994. A DynamicSystems Approach to theDevelopment of
Cognition and Action.Cambridge, MA and London: MIT Press.
Thibault, Paul]. 1986a. 'The cognitive hypothesis: a critical comment'. In Text, Discourse,
and Context: A Social Semiotic Perspective, 26-45. Victoria University, Toronto:
Monographs, Working Papers and Prepublications of the Toronto Semiotic Circle,
Vo!' 3.
Thibault, Paul]. 1986b. 'Thematic system analysis and the construction of knowledge and
belief in discourse: the headlines in two Italian newspaper texts'. In Text, Discourse, and
Context: A SocialSemiotic Perspective, 44-91. Victoria University, Toronto: Monographs,
Working Papers and Prepublications of the Toronto Semiotic Circle, Vo!' 3.
Thibault, Paul]. 1987. 'Interview with Michael Halliday'. In Ross Steele and Terry
Threadgold (eds), Language Topics: Essays in Honour of MichaelHalliday, Vol. II,601-27.
Amsterdam and Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Thibault, Paul]. 1989. 'Semantic variation, social heteroglossia and intertextuality:
thematic and axiological meanings in spoken discourse'. Critical Studies1(2): 181-209.
Thibault, Paul J. 1990. 'Questions of genre and intertextuality in some Australian television
advertisements'. In R. Rossini Favretti (ed.), The Televised Text, 89-131. Bologna:
Patron.
Thibault, Paul]. 1991a. SocialSemiotics as Praxis: Text, Social Meaning Making and Nabokov's
'Ada: Theory and History of Literature series, Vo!' 74, Wlad Godzich and Jochen
Schulte-Sasse (eds), Minneapolis and Oxford: University of Minnesota Press.
Thibault, Paul]. 1991b. 'Grammar, technocracy and the noun: technocratic values and
cognitive linguistics'. In Eija Ventola (ed.), Recent Systemic and OtherFunctionalViews on
Language,281-305. Trends in Linguistics Studies and Monographs. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Thibault, Paul]. 1992a. 'Minor clauses and interpersonal meaning'. Dipartimento di
Scienze del Linguaggio, Universita degli Studi di Venezia: Mimeo.
Thibault, Paul J. 1992b. 'Grammar. ethics, and understanding: functionalist reason and
clause as exchange'. SocialSemiotics 2(1): 135-75.
Thibault, Paul]. 1993. 'Using language to think interpersonally: experiential meaning and
the cryptogrammar of subjectivity and agency in English'. In M. A. K. Halliday (guest
ed.), Languageas CulturalDynamic. CulturalDynamics 6(1-2): 131-86.
Thibault, Paul]. 1994. 'Text and/or context?: an open question'. State-of-the-Art article. In
The Semiotic Reviewof Books (Toronto) 5(2), May 1994.
Thibault, Paul]. 1995. 'The interpersonal grammar of Mood and the ecosocial dynamics
of the semiotic exchange process'. In Ruqaiya Hasan and Peter Fries (eds), On Subject
and Theme: From thePerspective ofFunctions in Discourse, 51-89. Amsterdam and Philadel-
phia: Benjamins.
Thibault, Paul]. 1997a. Re-reading Saussure: TheDynamics of Signsin Social Life. London and
New York: Routledge.
Thibault, Paul]. 1997b. 'The sounds of language'. Saussure and Beyond, Lecture No. 4.
Cyber Semiotics Institute (University of Toronto), website: http://www.chass.
utoronto.ca/epc/srb.
Thibault, Paul]. 1998a. 'Embodiment, perception, consciousness, personhood: The
cascading/collecting dialectic of langueand parole in the individual'. Cyber Semiotics
Institute, University of Toronto (Canada); website: http://www.chass.utoronto.ca/
epc/srb.
Thibault, Paul]. 1998b. 'Metasemiosis'. SRB Insights. The Semiotic ReviewofBooks 9(2), May
1998: 8-12.
Thibault, Paul]. 1998c. 'Inner speech'. In Paul Bouissac (ed.), TheEncyclopedia ofSemiotics,
312-14. Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press.
Thibault, Paul]. 1999a. 'Communicating and interpreting relevance through discourse
REFERENCES 329
negotiation: an alternative to relevance theory'. Journal ofPragmatics 31: 557-94.
Thibault, Paul J. 1999b. 'Putting Humpty Dumpty's theory of meaning back together again:
can Saussure help?' Belgian Essays on Language and Literature 9: 7-34. Liege: Belgian
Association of Anglicists in Higher Education.
Thibault, Paul]. 2000a. 'The dialogical integration of the brain in social semiosis: Edelman
and the case for downward causation'. Mind, Culture, and Activity 7(4): 291-311.
Thibault, Paul]. 2000b. 'The multimodal transcription of a television advertisement:
theory and practice'. In Anthony Baldry (ed.), Multimodality and Multimediality in the
Distance Learning Age, 311-85. Campo Basso: Lampo.
Thibault, Paul]. 2001. 'Multimodality and the school science textbook'. In Carol Taylor
TorseIlo, Giuseppe Brunetti, and Nicoletta Penello (eds), Corpora testuali per ricerca,
traduzione e apprendimento linguistico, 293--335. Padua: Unipress.
Thibault, Paul]. 2002. 'Interpersonal meaning and the discursive construction of action,
attitudes and values: the Global Modal Program of one text'. In Peter Fries, Michael
Cummings, David Lockwood, and William Spruiell (eds), Relations and Functions within
and around Language, 56-116. London and New York: Continuum.
Thibault, Paul]. 2003a. 'Body dynamics, social meaning-making, and scale heterogeneity:
reconsidering contextualization cues and language as mixed-mode serniosis'. In Susan
Eerdmans, Carlo Prevignano, and Paul]. Thibault (eds), Discussing John J Gumperz,
127-47. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Thibault, Paul]. 2003b. 'Contextualization and social meaning-making practices'. In Susan
Eerdmans, Carlo Prevignano, and Paul]. Thibault (eds), Discussing John J Gumperz;
41-61. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Thibault, Paul]. 2004. 'Agency, individuation, and meaning-making: reflections on an
episode of bonobo-human interaction'. In Geoffrey Williams and AnnabeIle Lukin
(eds), Language Development: Functional Perspectives on Species and Individuals 112-36.
London and New York: Continuum.
Thibault, Paul.J. In press a [2004]. 'Semiology'. In Jeff Stepnisky and Andrew Wernick
(eds), The Encyclopaedia ofSocial Theory, London and Newbury Park, CA: Sage.
Thibault, Paul.J. In press b. Agency and Consciousness in Discourse: Self-otherDynamics as a
Complex System, London and New York: Continuum.
Thibault, Paul J. and Van Leeuwen, Theo 1996. 'Grammar, society, and the speech act:
renewing the connections'. Journal ofPragmatics 25: 561-85.
Threadgold, Terry 1997. Feminist Poetics. London and New York: Routledge.
Togeby, Ole 2000. 'Anticipated downward causation and the arch structure of texts'. In
Peter Begh Andersen, Claus Emmeche, Niels Ole Finnemann, and Peder Voetmann
Christiansen (eds) , Downward Causation: Minds, Bodies and Matter, 261-77. Aarhus:
Aarhus University Press.
Trager, G. 1.. and Smith, H. 1.. 1951. Outline ofEnglish Structure. Norman, OK: Battenburg.
Trevarthen, Colwyn 1978. 'Modes of perceiving and modes of acting'. In Herbert 1.. Pick
and E!liot Saltzman (eds), Modes of Perceiving and Processing Information, 99-136.
Hillsdale, ~: Erlbaum.
Trevarthen, Colwyn 1980. 'The foundations of intersubjectivity: Development of interper-
sonal and cooperative understanding in infants'. In D. Olsen (ed.), The Social Founda-
tions ofLanguage and Thought, 316-42. New York: Norton.
Trevarthen, Colwyn 1987. 'Sharing makes sense: intersubjectivity and the making of an
infant's meaning'. In Ross Steele and Terry Threadgold (eds), Language Topics: Essays
in Honour ofMichael Halliday, Vo!. I, 177-99. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Trevarthen, Colwyn 1992. 'An infant's motives for speaking and thinking in the culture'. In
Astri Heen Wold (ed.), The Dialogical Alternative: Towardsa Theory ofLanguage and Mind,
99-137. Oslo: Scandinavian University Press.
Van Leeuwen, Theo 1999. Speech, Music, Sound. London: Macmillan.
Varela, F. and Maturana, R. 1980. Autopoiesis and Cognition. Dordrecht: ReideJ.
Vihman, Marilyn May 1991. 'Ontogeny of phonetic gestures: speech production'. In
330 REFERENCES
Ignatius C. Mattingly and Michael Studdert-Kennedy (eds), Modularity and the Motor
Theory of Speech Perception, 69--84. Hillsdale, !'U: Erlbaum.
Vihman, Marilyn and de Boysson-Bardies, Benedicte 1994. 'The nature and origins of
ambient language influence on infant vocal production and early words'. Phonetica 51:
159-69.
Vihman, Marilyn May, Mackek, Marlys A., Miller, Ruth, Simmons, Hazel, and Miller,jim
1985. 'From babbling to speech: a re-assessment of the continuity issue'. Language
61(2): 397-445.
Volosinov, V.N. 1973 [1930]. Marxism and thePhilosophy ofLanguage.Trans. Ladislav Matejka
and I. R. Titunik. New York and London: Seminar Press.
Volosinov, V. N. 1976 [1927]. Freudianism: A Marxist critique. Trans. and ed. I. R. Titunik and
Neal H. Bruss. New York and London: Academic Press.
Volosinov, V. N. 1983. 'The construction of the utterance'. Trans. Noel Owen. In Ann
Shukman (ed.), Bakhtin School Papers: Russian Poetics in Translation, No. 10, 114-37.
Oxford: RPT Publications (in association with Department of Literature, University of
Essex, Colchester).
Vygotsky,Lev 1986 [1934]. Thought and Language.Trans. Alex Kozulin. Cambridge, MA and
London: MIT Press.
Vygotsky, L. S. 1987 [1934]. 'Thinking and speech'. In R. W.Rieber and A. S. Carton (eds) ,
The Collected Works of L. S. Vygotsky, Vot. 1: Problems of General Psychology, 37-285. New
York: Plenum Press.
Walkerdine, Valerie 1997. 'Redefining the subject in situated cognition theory'. In David
Kirshner and j ames A. Whitson (eds) , Situated Cognition: Social, Semiotic, and Psychologi-
calPerspectives, 57-70. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Wall, Patrick D. 1996. The placebo effect'. In Max Velmans (ed.), The Science of Conscious-
ness: Psychological, Neuropsychological and ClinicalReviews, 162-80. London and NewYork:
Rout/edge.
Wells, Cordon 1999. Dialogic Inquiry: Towards a Sociocultural Practice and Theory ofEducation.
Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press.
Wertsch,James V.1991. Voices oftheMind: A Sociocultural Approach toMediated Action.London
and Singapore: Harvester Wheatsheaf.
Wheeler, John Archibald 1988. 'World as system self-synthesized by quantum networking'.
IBMJoumal of Research Development 32(1): 1-12.
Whitson, James A. 1997. 'Cognition as a semiosic process: from situated mediation to
critical reflective transcendence'. In David Kirshner and James A. Whitson (eds),
Situated Cognition: Social, Semiotic, and Psychological Perspectives, 97-149. Mahwah, !'U and
London: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Whorf, Benjamin Lee 1956a [1939]. 'The relation of habitual thought and behaviour to
language'. Injohn B. Carroll (ed.), Language, Thought, & Reality,134-59. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Whorf, Benjamin Lee 1956b [1941]. 'Languages and logic'. In John B. Carroll (ed.),
Language, Thought, & Reality, 233-45. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Wilden, Anthony 1980 [1972]. System and Structure: Essays in Communication and Exchange.
2nd edn. London: Tavistock.
Wilden, Tony 1981. 'Semiotics as praxis: strategy and tactics'. Recherches Semiotiques/Semiotic
Inquiry 1(1): 1-34.
Wilson, Elizabeth A. 1998. Neural Geographies: Feminism and the Microstructure of Cognition.
London and New York: Rout/edge.
Zelazo, Philip D. 1999. 'Language, levels of consciousness, and the development of inten-
tional action'. In Philip D. Zelazo, Janet W. Astington, and David R. Olson (eds) ,
Developing Theories ofIntention: SocialUnderstandingand Self-control, 95-117. Mahwah, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum.
Name Index
Abelson, R P. 7
Abercrombie, David 121, 123, 124, 125
Andersen, Peter B0gh 5
Arbib, M. A. 267,268,269,270
Aristotle 183
Armstrong, David F. 72, 80,90, 91
Astington,j. W. 174
Bakhtin, Mikhail M. 97, 183,211, 215,270
Baron-Cohen, S. 174
Bates, Elizabeth 37
Bateson, Gregory 8, 13, 14, 23, 24, 26, 27,
34,87,148,172,173,192,282,300,301
Battacchi, Marco W. 174,213,246,247
Battistelli, Piergiorgio 174
Beaugrande, Robert de 48, 308
Bellugi, Ursula 190
Benson, James 38
Bernstein, Basil 279
Bernstein, N. 79,82
Berthoz, Alain 74,75,77,79,81,83,105
Bhaskar, Roy 31,32
Bickhard, Mark H. 41,121,136
Bogdan, Radul. 146,205,206,207,209,247
Bohr, Nielsen 33, 35
Bolinger, Dwight 92, 98, 99
Bouissac, Paul 34, 40
Bourdieu, Pierre 279
Boysson-Bardies, Benedicte de 85, III
Braten, Stein 52
Browman, Catherine 90,91,92,145,162
Biihler, Kad 194, 197, 200,221
Campbell, Donald T. 41, 121, 136
Carruthers, Peter 262,263,264,271,273,
274, 275, 277, 278
Catford, j. C. 122
Celani, Giorgio 174
Chabris, C. F. 105
Chomsky, Noam 7, 80, 226, 282, 283
Clark, E. 205
Clark, H. 205
Cleirigh, Chris uz, ll3, ll5, ll9, 120,
121, 122, 123, 124, 145, 154, 160,295
Cole, Michael 207,216
Coleridge, Samuel Taylor 81
Corina, David P. 190
Coulthard, Malcolm 84, 85
Cowley, Stephenj. 40,44,45,124,190,283
Cremonini, Giorgio 97
Damasio, Antonio 55,147,148,177,210,
248, 249, 250, 251, 252, 253, 254, 255,
256, 257, 258, 259, 260,261, 264, 275
Davidse, Kristin 70,132,167,198,199
Davidson, Rj. 189
Deacon, Terrence 16,55, 126, 173, 174,
175,190,191,219,276,282
Descartes, Rene 224, 225, 226, 302,303,
305, 307
Di Luzio, Aldo 115
Dory, R 172
Dre~ke,E 205,224
Eccles, j. C. 172
Edelman, Gerald M. 19,20,51,52,55,62,
71,84,88,92,101,139,140,141,144,
146, 160, 163, 164, 176, 179, 184, 185,
209,210,214,215,220,221,228,231,
238,242,246,255,256,258,262,264,
273,285,302,310,317
Fadiga, L. 268
Fillmore, Charles 269
Finnemann, Niels Ole 20, 24, 29
Firth,j. R 108, ll5, ll7, ll9
Fitch, W. Tecumseh 7
Flohr, Hans 56, 177, 283, 284, 285, 286,
332 NAME INDEX
287,288,289,290,296,297,301,310,
317
Fowle~ Carol 86,89,93,101,102,103
Frasnedi, Fabrizio 97
Fries, Peter 38
Gee,james Paul 3
Gendlin, Eugene 23
Gibson,jamesJ. 8,11,12,13,14,60,86,
87,88,102,121,152,185,186,202,218,
219,220,222,228,229,230,234,246,
247,276,291,296,303,304,306
Gillett, Grant 177
Goldfield, Eugene C. 141
Goldstein, Louis 90,91,92,145,162
Goodwin, Charles 3
Creaves, William 38
Grene, Marjorie 11, 12
Griisser,O.J. 106
Gumperz,johnJ. 115
Haken, H. 245
Halliday, M. A. K 5,23,31, 37,40,42,46,
47,48,50,55,63,84,94,95,99,107,
117, 127, 130, 134, 154, 156, 162, 163,
164,166,167,176,194,195,196,197,
198,199,200,202,203,205,206,207,
212,214,226,239,240,241,242,243,
244,245,257,266,269,270,278,282,
291, 292, 295, 298, 300, 301, 315
Handel, Stephen 120, 124, 266
Harre, Rom 6,12,38,176,177,178,213
Harris, P. 174
Harris, Roy 44, 89
Hasan, Ruqaiya 6,156,200,214,279
Hauser, Marc D. 7
Hebb, D. O. 285, 286, 296
Heisenberg, W. 35
Hjelmslev, Louis 40,54,59,60,61,65,
66,67,69,70,104,116,117,126,236,
292
Iedema, Roderiek A. M. 77
Iwamoto, Kazuyoshi 38
jacobs, R. A. 105
jakobson, Roman 190
jespersen,Otto 66
johnson, Mark 165, 181
johnson, M. H. 52
johnston, Trevor 47,186,192
juarrero, Alicia 4, 13, 16, 17, 19,20,63,
138, 254, 269, 302
Kanzi 38
Kauffman, Stuart A. 103, 104
Kaye, Kenneth 37
Kelso,J. A. S. 84,90,141
Kinsbourne, Mareel 4, 17, 18,21,22,52,
271,310,311,312,317
Koenig, O. 105
Kosslyn, S. M. 105
Kress, Gunther 47, 192
Lakoff, George 165, 181
Lamb, Sydney M. 40, 292
Lane, H. 91, 102, 105
Langaeker, Ronald W. 75,76,156,198,
271, 272
Latour, Bruno 77, 186
Lave,jean 3
Laver,john 84,86
Lernke, jay L. 3,8,9, 16,20,22,23,25,26,
27,30,34,39,40,41,43,44,47,48,54,
65,70,72,82,109,118,137,141,146,
151,178,181,182,186,187,192,193,
207,216,237,251,252,255,256,264,
265,267,282,293,294,295,300,304,
306,308,309,312,313
Liberman, A. 100,268
Libet, Benjamin 171, 172, 173, 174,
180
Lieberman, Philip 84, 85, 86
Lindblom, Bjorn 93, 94
Longaere, Robert E. 95, 97
Lorenz, Konrad 213
Lorenzana, juan Alvarez 142
Lukaes, Gyorgy 99,216,236,237,317
Luria, A. R. 188,216
Malinowski, Bronislaw 188, 194
Manghi, Sergio 3
Marshall,J. C. 73,74
Marsolek, C.J. 105
Martin,jamesR. 40,117,142,215
Martinec, Radan 78,79,93,151,192
Martinet, Andre 292
Matthiessen, Christian 6, 46,94, 95, 97,
196, 197, 239, 298
Mattingly, I. 100
Maze.john R. 11
MeGregor, William B. 127,269
MeKellar, Gordon Bruee 33, 38, 48
MeNeill, David 186
Merleau-Ponty, Mauriee 78, 100
Morton, J. 52
NAME INDEX 333
Natsoulas, Thomas 233
Ninio, A. 205
Norton, AJec 145
Noth, Winfried 34
Oldenburg,jane 240
Olson, D. R. 174
O'Toole, Michael 192
Painter, Clare 239
Panbanisha 38
Peirce, Charles Sanders 34,35, 116, 126,
249, 305
Peng, Fred C. C. 190, 217, 218, 254, 268,
271,272,289,290,294
Perinat, Adolfo 213
Petitot-Cocorda,jean 87
Piaget,jean 213
Pike, Kenneth L. 94, 125, 134
Pinker, Stephen 283
Pitt, V. H. 129
Popper, K. R. 172
Premack, D. 174
Prevignano, Carlo 115
Prigogine, Ilya 10, 178, 182
Prodi, Giorgio 16,35,38,87, 186
Riegel, Klaus F. 176,183
Rizzolatti, G. 267, 268, 269, 270
Robins, R. H. 94
Rosenblum, Lawrence D. 101, 102, 103
Sadumi, Marta 213
Salthe, S. N. 3,4,8, 10, 14, 16,20,25, 39,
40,43,54,55,61,62,63,70,74,75,77,
79,80,82,83,86,88,106,112,114,118,
126,145,147,148,159,161,176,177,
181, 182, 183, 187, 190, 206, 216, 224,
226, 227, 230, 232, 237, 239, 250, 255,
257,261,265,287,288,311
Saltzman, E. L. 84,90, 141
Santilli, Kathy 190
Sartre, jean-Paul 176
Saussure, Ferdinand de 45,47,49,52,59,
60,61,65,66,69, 133, 184, 189, 236,
271
Savage-Rumbaugh, Sue 38, 282
Schank, R. C. 7
Seager, William 225, 302, 303, 305, 306,
307, 309
Shanker, Stuart G. 55, 74, 224, 282
Shannon, Claude E. 34
Shepard, R. N. 81
Silverstein, Michael 42,194,201,215,255
Smith, H. L. 84
Smith,LindaB. 10,19,51,52,55,172,
185,210,211,241,242,243,245
Snow, C. E. 205
Sperry, R.W. 172
Stengers,Isabelle 10, 178, 182
Stevens, K. N. 141
Stokoe, William C. 72, 80, 90, 91
Studdert-Kennedy, M. 91, 102, 105
Tagliatela,jared 38
Talbot, Taylor]. 282
Thelen, Esther 10, 19,51,52,55, 162, 163,
166,172,185,210,211,241,242,243,
245
Thibault, Paul]. 3,6,8,19,29,34,38,39,
40,47,48,49,52,60,62,72,74,87,90,
118126,141,151,154,156,173,181,
184,189,192,200,213,214,215,217,
237,241,256,275,282,293,301,310
Threadgold, Terry 83
Togeby, Ole 17, 144
Tononi, Giulio 176, 262
Trager, G. L. 84
Trevarthen, Colwyn 36,37, 179, 202, 212,
214,240,282
Tuller, B. 84,90,141
Vaid,jyotsna 190
Van Leeuwen, Theo 47, 192,215
Vihman, Marilyn May 85, III
Volosinov, V.N. 74,241,317
Vygotsky, Lev S. 49,216,273,275
Walkerdine, Valerie 3
Wall, Patrick D. 203
Weaver,Warren 34
Wells, Gordon 48
Wertsch,lames V. 282
Wheeler, John Archibald 282, 306
Whitson,james A. 70
Whorf, Benjamin Lee 280
Wilcox, Sherman E. 72, 80, 90, 91
Wilden, Anthony 23, 34, 148, 178, 179,
215, 222
Wilson, Elizabeth A. 48
Woodruff, G. 174
Zelazo, Philip D. 6
Subject Index
ability, symbolic referential 174
abstraction, symbolic 214
abstractness, conceptual 70
account, hypostatic local 31
acoustic cue 266
act
articulatory 88
dialogic 37, 270
indexical 162
intentional 270
action 250, 251
artefact mediated 216
intentional 267
action schema 75, 76
actional semiotic 79, 83
activity 8, 14, 18
biomechanical 45
contextualizing 164
distributed 316
exploratory 12, 200, 220
gestural 105
linguistic
motor dimension of 75
meaning-making 3, 4, 6, 10, 13, 14, 17,
47, 48, 49, 50, 72, 108
motor 185, 217, 218, 268, 271
multimodal social 208
neural (neuronal) 19,76,171,174,246,
260, 315
neuromuscular 14,41,42,43,45,150
perceptual 160,303
performatory 185, 186
reading 81
ritualistic 213
self-organizing 52
semiotically mediated 138
sensori-motor 13, 15, 18,81,82, 100,
144,181,203,294,302,309
internalized 82
symbolic 213
vocal tract (articulatory) 53,65,71,83,
86,88,91,94,100,101,117,125,
136, 137, 146, 157, 159, 187
activity-structure 98, 140
act-token 270
affect 189
affordance 4,11,12,13,14,15,16,19,20,
24,36,41,43,60,86,162,164,310
agency 15,16,32,33,63,95,97,182
agent 4,5,15,45,63,64,65,77,147,183,
217,233,279
alterity 316
alternative, paradigmatic 98
amplification, irreversible act of 306
analysis, metalinguistic 44
ape-language research 282
arrow of time 317
artefact 15,16,44,45,51,53
textual 310
array
ambient optic 264
acoustic 100, 101
visual 234
articulation 40,43,83,89,93,120,121,
123, 159, 163, 218, 271, 289, 291,
292
phonetic
gestural theory of 90
articulator 87,89,92,94,101,103,105
Artificial Intelligence (AI) 72
association 11
attention 204, 283
poles of 246, 276
attraction, basin of 104
attractor 4,19,43,65,103,104,187,209,
239, 245, 266, 269, 270, 279, 280,
305, 312
attractor basin 148, 167
SUBJECT INDEX 335
attractor landscape 167,245
audition 271
awareness 20, 288
integrative field of 311, 312
intrinsic 223, 233
meta-semiotic 214
non-perceptual 178, 229
perceptual 276, 300, 308
phenomenal 56, 289
babbling 162, 163
behaviour, motor 4
bifurcation 255
binding 172
body, social 77
bonding, sentimental 205,207
bonobo 38
boundary condition 14,29,121,167,186,
187,231,232,239,278,289,313,
315
Braille 78, 297
brain, hemispherical organization of 17,
55
brain lesion 22
breath group 84, 85, 86, 92, 93, 104
Broca's area 140, 267, 268
cascading 261
case structure 269
category 5,7
digital 222, 225
experiential 167,197,212,299,300
lexicogrammatical 21
observer's 227, 230
perceptual-motor 243, 306
phonological 221,222, 291, 294, 295
schematic 22, 165, 197
semantic 298
semiotic 82
symbolic 225, 226, 228
value-producing 189
categorization (category formation) 220,
225, 228, 240, 242
conceptual 105, 167, 238, 258, 302
linguistic 168
perceptual-motor 178,216,274,275,
302
phonological 266
sensori-motor 21
symbolic 231
systems of 184, 309
causality
Aristotelian 137
efficient 24,31, 166
final 145, 183
transcategorial 32, 33
cause
efficient 49,61,72, 138, 183
final 138
formal 72, 138
material 61, 138
clause 196, 198, 298
minor 156
closure
dialogic 52
functional 236
informational 224
semiotic 309
eo-adaptation 15
eo-articulation 89,91, 104
codification 44
meta-linguistic 45
coding
analogic 23
digital 23
coding orientation 279, 280
eo-evolution 15, 67, 177
cogent moment 41,112,115,145,182,287
cognition 3,7,8,13,14,49,150
computationalist model of 150
information-processing model of 238
cognitive science paradigm (cognitive
science) 225, 240
coherence, interactional 215
cohesion
lexico-semantic 47
phonological 119
communication, analogic 148
competence, linguistic 282,283,315
complementarity 12,31,33,36,68,82
dialogic 277
wave/particle/field 136,148
complexity, organizational 12,244
concatenation (phonological) 119
condensation, semantic 275
consciousness 55
core 147,250, 253, 262
dialogic basis of 183
extended 147,253,255
object of 55
primary 184
stream of 311
trajectory of 182, 183
condition
boundary 78, 79, 84, 100
enabling 4,5, 16, 177, 183
initial 246
initiating 5,19,83,120,220,313
336 SUBJECT INDEX
neural architecture as 106
constituency, hierarchical 39
constraint 32
context-sensitive 84
contextual 4,14,30,63,312
ecosocial 24
formal 84
informational-semiotic 145
integrative 105
higher-order 16
metafunctional 278
semiotic 6
time-bound 83
construal, symbolic 62
content 60, 61
content form 64, 67, 69
content purport 64
content stratum (plane) 46, 61, 63,80, 107
content substance 64, 66, 67
context 14,165
context of situation 155
contextualization 27,33,81, 251,252
contextualization cue 115
contrast, discrete/typological 25
control, locus of 315
control parameter 159
control structure 100, 101
cortex
cerebral 283,284,289,294,297
frontal 240
pre-frontal 185, 260
crypotype 95
cycle
articulatory 84, 295
respiratory (respiration) 84,93
rhythmic 295
vocal-tract 160
Darwinist view 24
deixis 134
evaluative/modal proximity 132,198,
199, 276,277
person 132,199,276,277
temporal proximity 132,198,199,276,
277
demarcation (phonological) 119
depolarization, postsynaptic 287
development, language 241
developmental dynamic 163
developmentallifespan psychology 176
dialogue 183,231,232
difference 9,20,34,45,51,52,80,132,
185,186,193,195,228
system of 49,193
typological-categorial 135, 222
value-laden 223, 310
differentiation 12,25,46,52,61,142,187,
189, 206, 228
analogue 23
categorial 256
functional 50
of self and other 210
sensori-motor 140
symbolic 211
topological-continuous 168,262
typological-categorial 142
discourse 48, 78, 117, 140, 157, 181, 200
meta-semiotic 45
multimodal 192
discourse semantics 274
discourse voice 50
discrimination
conceptual 164
conceptual-semantic 163
distinction
categorial 237, 243
phonological 53
semiotically salient 184
typological-categorial 51, 52, 178, 193,
225, 292
diversity, metafunctional 86,136,145, 164
dualism 313
between physical vs. phenomenal brain
states 283
Cartesian 74, 302
mind-body 89
mind-brain 302
nco-Cartesian 89
dyad 12,19,37,38,49,102,176,179,231,
244, 270, 278, 282
mother-infant 35, 161
dynamics
ecosocial 9
material-physical 9
neural 16
egoreception 219
emergence 313
developmental 80,206
historical 65, 80, 182
synchronic 32
emotion 98, 99, 259, 260, 264
empathy, phonetic 124, 125
enactment, interpersonal 273
entextualization 147
entrainment 15,53
entropy 10, 159
epigenetic process 283
SUBJECT INDEX 337
event
distal 100, 101, 102
ecological 87,88, 102
environmental 28, 86, 204, 207, 220, 230
mental 222
neural 251
perceptual 93
environment 8, 14
ecosocial 3
physical-material 6
evolution
cortical 185
semiotic 146
exchange 35,37,38,213,228
dialogic 178, 207
dyadic 211,245
energy 227
information 231
interpersonal 214,215,270
of matter, energy and information-
meaning 8, 71
socio-affective 243
experience
contextual nature of 32
epigenetic 240
perceptual 248
value-laden 262
explanation
causal 102
causal-reductive model of 34
exploration
abstract symbolic 185
haptic 165
interpersonal 217
movement based 242
sensori-motor 7,212,241
expression 60,61,63, 71
expression form 64, 69, 87, 88
expression purport 64, 66, 104
expression stratum (plane) 54,63, 70, 80,
87, 89, 234
expression-substance 62, 64, 66, 68, 87, 88,
91
exteroception 219,220,221,246,262
face 185,187,189,210,211
feature
distinctive 122
paradigmatic 120
feedback, positive 244, 266, 287
feedback loop 266,284
feeling-state 259, 260, 264
field
articulatory 122
deictic 200
interpersonal 129, 130, 135
phonogenetic 120
symbolic 197
figure 128, 196, 197, 198,277,278,297,
298
finalization 183, 270
Finite 131,132,198,199,216,269,276,
277
finiteness 156
firstness 34, 35, 93, 249
foot 122, 123, 124, 125, 154, 157, 295
form 71
graphological/phonological 59
frequency, fundamental 103
freedom
degrees of 10,74,75,79,83,84, 139,
141, 165,228,244, 312
semiotic 215
topological 309
friction 74, 75, 77, 85, 94, 217
function
brainstem 218
"etc. '
higher cognitive 74
higher mental 21
indexical 115, 119, 120
mental 209
motor 61,217,218,268,271
neural 209
gaze 37,45,185,192,195,201,202,247,
248
genre 5,44,45,140,142,188,194,213,
239, 279
gesture 26,27, 29, 30, 51, 62, 65, 68, 86,
89,91,92,100,101,102,186,192,
193,246,266
perceptual (phonological) salience of 94
vocal 164
Given 128, 129,299
goal-seeking 215
goal-state 215
grammar 46, 47
formal 46
interpersonal 269
universal 48
grapheme 118, 234
graphology 70
ground 201, 202
non-symbolic 226
grounding 135,156,158,177,199,211,
247, 260, 262, 277
group, neuronal 220
338 SUBJECT INDEX
habitus 5, 74, 279
hand 184, 185, 187, 189
hemisphere
cortical 189
left and right 18,189,190,191,212
heterogeneity, scalar (or scale) 43,54,65,
70,97,116,145,157,181,279,293
heteroglossia, social 50, 214
hierarchy
combinatorial 142,143
constituent 125
integration/implication (of iconic,
indexical, and symbolic modes of
semiosis) 221,223
integrative 177,237
presupposition-cum-implication 211,
219,222,223,225,230,240
referential 126
scalar 181, 184, 216,287
specification (implication) 126, 195
three-level 19, 34, 35, 36, 40, 109, 110,
143,158,181,250,289,311,313
holism
interactional-affective 260
relational 259
homunculus 20,316
homogeneity, scalar (or scale) 43,70
icon 126,135,195,211,222,230,240
iconicity 255
Ictus 113, 121, 122, 124, 125, 154
idea (Descartes) 303, 305
image
acoustic 271, 272
auditory 76,271,272
body 181
mental 249,250,251,257,258,265,266,
275, 308
unified field of 249
neural 260
motor 75,76
imagery
mental 76
proto-indexical mental 255
visual 81
implication, scale of 46
impulse
afferent 219
efferent 219
neural 289, 290
index 126,135,195,202,211,222,230,
240
individuation 16,38,140,146
infodynamics 55
information 6, 11, 12, 13, 22, 36, 42, 87,
89,93,114,115,141,147,152,202,
220,221,226,227,245,246,249,
264,286,289,291
Dretske's definition of 224
environmental 303
haptic 261
indexical 88
macroscopic 226
perceptual 60,61,162,262,278
stimulus 25, 27, 60, 121, 164, 203, 204,
218,219,220,222,225,228,230,
231,233,243,274,306,315
multimodal association of 243
information potential 20
information-processing 8
information theory 34
InnenweU 25,61,69,78,175,176,203,217,
227,230,236,251,255,256,279
instantiation 133, 156
integration
contextual 49, 158, 232
phonological 119
space-time 81
intent, teleological 100
intention 4,17,31,33,36,48,74,100,101,
102
communicative 115
proximate 138, 139
semantically organized 268
intentional content 296
intentionality 68
interact (semantic/dialogic) 38,215,216,
217
interaction
dialogic 36, 68
forceful (between body and world) 165,
166, 168
non-linear 17
Interaction System 9, 264, 265
interdependence, semiotic-material 23
interface, bio-kinematic 83
internal milieu 261,290,293
interpersonal moral order 6, 214
interpretance, system of 15, 16,20,25,28,
35,63,71,83,175,178,180,181,
223, 224, 226, 231, 232, 233, 242,
250,251,255,257,262,287,300,
303,304,305,306,307,308,309,
315
self as 174
interpretant sign 305, 306
interpreter 35
intersubjectivity, primary 19, 36, 179, 282
SUBJECT INDEX 339
intonation 85,92,94,98,99,101,113,119,
161,295
introception 262
invariant
perceptual 230
phonological 272, 274
visual 234
isolation, ontological 43
judgement 305
faculty of 224
kinaesthesis 81,82,186,187,261
kinematics 82
kinesics 24
knowledge
declarative 212
procedural 212,213
representational 213
sensori-motor 213
labour, social division of 99,142,237
language
Cartesian view of 74
formalist models of 7
formal theories (models) of 48, 137
metafunctional organization of 164-165
metafunctional theory of 195
mixed-mode character of 153
multifunctional character of 194
physical manifestation of 78
stratal organization of!stratified nature
of 136, 271
stress-timed 123
syllable-timed 123
language faculty 7, 73, 74
language gene 24
langue 49, 60
langue interieure 61,69,76
lateralization (of brain functions) 190, 191
level
focal 14,15, 16
integrative 39,127,146,147,148,161,
173,177,201,206,221,248,254,
259,262,273,293
lexicogrammar 42, 46, 55, 62, 69, 70, 77,
78,83,99,107,126,127,140,205,
211,225, 274
as state space 245
metafunctional organization of 152, 153
symbolic possibilities of 77
limit cycle 103
linguist, integrational 44
linguistics, systemic-functional 70, 79
logic, propositional 194
logogenesis 145,149,150,294,297
loop (looping)
Batesonian 250
reentrant 207,256,258,288,289
magnetic resonsance imaging (MRI) 171
map
first-order neural 252, 253
sensori-motor 252
mapping
neural 265
reentrant 71,209,210,220,240
somato-sensory 262
materialism 313
eliminative 223
meaning
experiential 47,86,128,196
iconic 266
interpersonal 47,56,86,212
linguistic 47
logical 47, 86
referential theory of 229
symbolic 256
textual 47,86, 128, 129
meaning-making
multimodal 19
multiplicative character of 192
meaning-potential 13,239,244
Meaning System 264, 265
mechanism
causal 10, 73
central 73, 74, 78
internal 72
lower-scalar 72
mediation, semiotic 44, 138, 139, 194,
221
memory 214,234,235,253,258,263, 283
ecosocial 310
long-term 111, 290
short-term 262, 263, 264, 277, 278
value-category 310
value-laden 308
message unit 156, 157
meta-discourse 46
metafunction 46, 103, 107, 126, 127, 149,
150,191,192,193
experiential 124, 125, 196
interpersonal 94,124,199,200
logical 93, 130, 131,277
textual 123, 200, 201
meta-redundancy 25,26,27, 29, 30, 31, 32,
56,89,164,176,193,227,230,244,
272,293,295,300,309
340 SUBJECT INDEX
meta-redundancy hierarchy 28
meta-representation 287, 288, 294
micro-function 42, 147, 166, 168, 245
mind 6, 7, 8, 175, 188, 225, 229, 282, 302,
305, 313
theory of 55, 174, 176, 184
mirror neurons 56,267,268,269,270
modality 129, 130, 198,217
semiotic 49
modalization 216
model
Cartesian-Euclidean-Newtonian 73
cybernetic 72
modulation 216
mood 129, 130, 132, 201, 205, 215, 269
moraicity 114,121,295
morpheme 70, 155, 158
morphosyntax 43
movement, theory of 78
multimodality 46
mutuality, of animal and environment 12
nativist hypothesis 282
naturalism 223
necessity, indexical 61,77,85, 134, 230,
300, 316
negotiation, discursive 215
neo-cortex 185, 187, 218
pre-frontal 215
net, neural/neuronal 294, 296
self-organization of 284, 285, 301
network
neural 22, 305, 312
neuronal 41
neural cell assembly 284, 285, 294
neuron 171
neuronal group selection 241
New 128,129,299,300
nominal group 133, 134, 155, 156, 157,
276
notation, written 89
observer 77,78,105,222,223,232,233,
248, 290
categorial reach of 127
observer system 249
Onset 112
ontogenesis 48, 139, 245, 246, 294
ontogeny 230
organization
cerebral 21
emergent 313
heterarchical 21
hierarchical 21
metafunctional 18, 19,91, 103, 104
phonological 161,295,296
oscillator, nonlinear 84
paradigmatic contrast set 305
paralanguage 24
pathway
cortieo-bulbar 218, 294
developmental 19,316
goal-seeking 270
pattern
afferent stimulus 287
mental 249
paradigmatic 30
syntagmatic 30
thematic 116
percept, analogue 225
perception 7,11,12,29
allocentric 107
ecological theory of 11, 296
event 291
periodicity, rhythmical (rhythmic) 84, 85,
92,93,104,295,296
periodicity wave 128
perspective (view)
field, particle, and wave 121
first-person 173
externalist 224, 229
inner 287,289,297
internalist 224
internalized 255
intra-organism and inter-organism (on
language) 48
observational 175
observer 41, 137, 287
particle 128
self-referential 177, 250,255,261,276,
317
third-person 173, 257
phase space 42, 121, 151
semantic 241
phonation 86,112,160,218,289
phoneme 70,91,119,121,222,266
phonetics 72
phonology 43, 70, 72, 87, 117
metafunctional organization of 152, 153
quantal theory of 141
phylogenesis 48, 139
pick-up
of information 12, 13, 28
perceptual 27, 54, 118
pitch 94,95,97,111,113,119,295
pitch fluctuation 124
polarization, of self and world 210, 259
SUBJECT INDEX 341
positing, teleological 237
positron emission-tomography (PET) 171,
267
possibility, symbolic 77
potential, bio-kinematic 84
power, causal 41
practices, meaning-making 9
precursor world 213
primate 80, 247
principle, contextualizing 37
Principle of Alternation 20,22,54,56, 109,
137, 294, 312
program, central 82
prominence, tonic 113, 295
proprioception 220,221,246,261,262
process
bio-physical
topological-categorial properties of 82
neurological 19,20
context-sensitive nature of 252
neuronal 43
self-organizing 49
project 77
reductionist 39
proposal 269
proposition 130,208,269
prosody 95,97, 107, 115, 116, 119
articulatory 86, 92
field-like nature of 107
gestural 101
interpersonal 94,97, 107
semantic 95
proto-imperative 211
proto-indicative 211
proto-language 38,42,55,139,147,156,
161, 163, 167, 168,239,240,243,
244
proto-meaning 212,254,265,266,267,
289, 290
proto-modalization 38
proto-proposition 205, 206, 208
proto-self 147,252,254,255
proto-semiosis 220,245,251,267
multiple realizability of by neurological
processes 267
proto-Subject 205, 208
quantification 156
quantum mechanics 33,35, 121
rank scale 154, 157, 158
lexicogrammatical 151
phonological 94,114,151,161,295
reactance 95
reading 81
realization 70,116,144,182,254,266,312
reasoning, syllogistic 188
recategorization 141,144,146,163
receptor 105
kinaesthetic 74
peripheral 203
receptor cell 11, 289, 291, 303, 304
receptor organ 25, 61
recursion 7, 93
reduction, downwards 31, 73
reductionism, physical 302, 313
redundancy 26,27,28,29,251,301
contextual 15, 36, 165, 187,308
reentry 275
reference 126
hierarchy of 219
symbolic 175
reference scale 62
reflection
experiential 273
meta-semiotic 233
register 142
regulation, sensori-motor 21
relation
contextualizing 23,30,34, 176,229,247,
265,293,300,310,317
heteroglossic 50
relationship
indexical 61,116
realizatory/realizational 40,78,274,301
Remiss 121,122,124,154
repertoire
conceptual 139, 140, 146
phonetic 139
sensori-motor 146
representamen 305
representation 12, 173, 175,240,307,312,
314
mental 7,8
resource
somatic 77
tactic 40
value-creating 47
retina 235
Rheme 128, 129,299
rhetoric 97
Rhyme 112,295
rhythm 93,94,112,116,119,123,124,
154, 160, 296
robustness 64, 65, 233, 257
routine
articulatory 271
auditory 296
342 SUBJECT INDEX
cogmtive 271,297
conceptual 55,138,143,144,160,163,
295
lexicogrammatical 295
motor 75, 272, 274
imagined 187
phonological 274, 295
sensori-motor 55,140,141,143,144,
163, 293, 295
rule
deterministic 72
innate 239
linguistic 283
salience, motivational 184, 189
scale, space-time 10, 17, 65
schemata (schema)
action 165
Body-Forceful-Interaction-Environment
165, 166
corporeal 82
interpersonal action 167
movement 83
sensori-motor 167
score, gestural 91,92
secondness 34,35,75,77,93,94,249
R~I~~l~l~l~lnl~l~
183,198,206,220,223,229,247,
249,252,254,258,261,265,274,
276,288,312,313,317
autobiographical 253
experiential unity of 262
grounded perspective of 248
neurally realized 261
qua self-organizing system 34
self-awareness 250, 275, 317
selfhood 182
self-organization 38, 55, 56, 141, 176, 177,
242,261,262,317
self-reference 246
sememe 70
semiosis 6, 29, 31, 38, 43
iconic, indexical, and symbolic
modalities of
indefinite 306
infant 42, 213
internalized (inner) 177, 238
linguistic
mixed-mode character of 151
stratified nature of 233
symbolic 262
topological 23
typological 23, 43
semiotic action formation 44
sensation 223,225,229,291,302,305
acoustic 291
bodily 258
empiricist theories of 222
haptic 106
sharing, mental 205, 207
sign 34,39,40,52,67,202,303,314
iconic 119
indexical 115, 116,243,287
indexically creative or entailing 255
indexically presupposing 255
symbolic 287
system of 80, 203
signified 107
signifier 59, 60, 62
simulation, internal 76, 107
solipsism, Cartesian 236,257
sound (Saussure) 60,61
space 105, 106
allocentric 106
attractor 50, 108
distant 106
egocentric 106
extra-corporeal 106
extra-personal 106
interpersonal neural 269
personal 106
n-dimensional semantic/semiotic 50,
245
multidimensional physiological 142
multidimensional semantic 55, 194, 239,
245, 278, 279
self-organizing 271
semantic neural 17
symbolic neural 6, 144, 159, 160, 187,
193,272,278,297,298,317
space-time, Newtonian 38
specialization, hemispheric 191
specification hierarchy 39, 54, 55,99, 254,
255,260,262,266,294,317
specification, levels of 38
speech, inner 10,81, 187, 189,263,271,
272,273,274,275,297
speech function 215
state
emotional 98
mental 5, 19,22,49,247
metastable 182
neurophysiological 32, 33
stimulus
perceptual 152
physical 303
sensory 76
stimulus-response dichotomy 230
SUBJECT INDEX 343
stratification 217,274
linguistic 39,40,63, 70, 118, 142
ontological 33, 34
semiotic 43, 233
structuralism 49
structure
constituent 122
coordinative 141
dissipative 10,25,112,146,147,159,
161, 182, 244
phonological 85, 90
Subject 132,199,269,299
substance, phonetic 59
substrate
neural 18
neuromuscular 115
topological 82, 103, 104
supersystem 160,227,229,238,255,264
supervenience 80
syllable 84,90,94,112,113,119,120,154,
157,159,222,266,295,296
syllable boundary 120
syllable weight 160
symbol 51,126,135,195,211,222,230,
240
internal 240
symbol string 51, 74
symmetry-breaking 78
symesthesia 81
synapse 285,286
syntagm 98, 124
system
abiotic 24
central nervous 13, 15,28,51,227,234,
260,261,290,293,294,297
closed 10
dynamic open 8,10,11,40,48,49,138,
178,179,207,244,279
ecosocial 43
evolutionary 142
far-from-equilibrium 244
goal-seeking 24,216,317
higher-scalar 35
infant 45
language 49,50, 51, 52, 60
multimodal 45
organism-plus-environment 36
perceptual 186
peripheral nervous 227, 290, 293, 294
phonological 63,111,291,292
scalar hierarchical 20, 43
selective recognition (brain as) 55, 139,
165
self-organizing 11, 182, 236, 244, 245,
310, 313
semiotic resource 237
skelotomuscular 75
somatic recognition (brain as) 164, 187,
222,234,272,274
somato-sensory 261
symbolic 300
transitivity 79
three-level 14
three-level hierarchical 15
vestibular 261
text 3,16,72,117,154,263,276,277,278,
279, 309
texture, phonological 120
Theme 128, 129,299
theory
breath-group 84
homeokinetic 84
motor 100, 101, 102
movement 90
systemic-functional 47,48, 117, 154,238,
273
Thermodynamics, First and Second Law of
226
Thing 133, 134, 155, 157
thinking 188
conceptual 7
higher-order 216
linguistically realized 271
reflexive 277, 278
symbolic 189,263
verbal 188
thirdness 71,80,93
thought (Saussure) 60,61
semiotically mediated 215
time
absolute (clock) 295,296
evolutionary 240
historical-biographical 75
real 151
relative 295
timescale(s), non-adjacent 43
tone group (see also breath group) 84,85,
295
tonicity 113, 121, 161,295,296
tool
body as 106
brain as 293
topic-comment parsing 205
topic predication 206, 207, 209
trajectory 3,4,5,6,10, 13, 14, 16, 18,20,
344 SUBJECT INDEX
21,50,83,138,141,147,150,159,
160, 161, 167, 177, 181, 217, 228,
230,242,253,261,270,275,278,
313
action 260, 297
agentive determinability of 114
developmental 275, 283
historical-biographical 4, 44, 50, 55, 111,
140, 227, 265
individuating 102,147,313
lifespan 180
logogenetic 146, 159, 310
ontogenetic 3,54,182,226
rhythmic 112
semiogenetic 4,5,25,51
social (moral) 176
syllabic 115
temporal 151
vocal-tract 111,112,139
transcranial magnetic stimulation 267
transduction 26, 63, 203, 219, 233, 292, 297,
315
symbolic 88, 234
transformation 93
transitivity role 97, 156, 197, 198
type-category 197
type-specification 156
Umwelt 11, 12,37, 60, 69, 71, 79, 83, 85,
176, 178, 189, 211, 217, 236, 282,
287, 293
vagueness 45,46,50,176,180,184,190,
207,230,234
valence,affective 204,212
value 47,49,51,52,71,88,89, 101, 104,
132,133,184,189,207,209,210,
211,212,214,217,220,242,244,
245,282,309,316
conceptual 223
interpersonal 195
social 200
symbolic 203
value bias 51,52,53,54
value stance 299
value system 160
variability 11, 29, 50
variation (variety), topological-eontinuous
23,25,26,42,52,109,118,125,127,
135,161,167,178,190,193, 200,
216,218,222,230,234,243,259,
292
vocalization 6
vocal tract 41,67, 103, 152, 189
vowel 40
wave, rhythmic 151
Wernicke's area 140
