The projection problem is taken up by Andreas Stokke (Chapter 11). Developing
a pragmatic line on this problem originating in the work of Robert Stalnaker,
Philippe Schlenker has recently proposed an account that relies heavily on the sub-
maxim of Brevity in seeing presupposition projection as partly explained by the
assumption that the reasonable speaker who utters a sentence that triggers a presup-
position should refrain from embellishing that sentence with a conjunct that contains
old news. Proponents of such accounts are motivated, in part, by a desire to preserve
classical semantics (e.g., the standard two-valued truth tables) for the logical con-
nectives, and in part by the need, as they see it, to remedy a defect in rival revisionist
approaches, such as the dynamic account of Irene Heim. Stokke argues that the latter
motivation is ill-founded and that we are not (yet) in a position to adjudicate between
revisionism and semantic conservatism.
Although it is common for speakers to presuppose rather than to assert propos-
itions believed to be antecedently shared by partners to a conversation, it is also
common for speakers to impart new information by making use of ‘informative
presuppositions’ that hearers are able to ‘accommodate’. For example, if I am visiting
your institution, you may ask whether to reserve a parking place for me. I reply, ‘I’ll
come by bike’, economically disclosing, but not by asserting, what you did not
previously know, viz, that I own, or have access to, and the ability to ride, a bicycle.
A contributor to this volume writes ‘Pernicious loose speech buttresses Political
Correctness and all other forms of fundamentalism’. He insinuates that Political
Correctness is a form of fundamentalism, a view that is probably not shared by all
readers. In Robert Stalnaker’s celebrated account, speaker presupposition is deﬁned
as: Speaker S presupposes p (relative to a group G of people) if and only if S believes
that it is common belief in G that everybody accepts p. Clearly, informative presup-
position, in which a proposition presupposed is precisely not in the common ground
of the conversationalists, is going to be problematic for an account such as Stalna-
ker’s. Manuel Garcı́a Carpintero criticizes Stalnaker’s attempt to accommodate
these apparent counterexamples and offers a rival, semantic, theory of presuppos-
ition which better explains how new information is insinuated.
Experimenting with Brevity
Very young children with limited vocabularies have little choice but to produce brief
sentences. Yet, as Catherine Snow (1977) has shown, at age one, children are
beginning to be co-operative in their proto-linguistic exchanges with adults. They
are beginning to observe the Gricean maxims. In the case of the sub-maxim of
brevity, they come to make choices about the manner in which their responses are
delivered. Eve Clark and Chigusa Kurumada (Chapter 13) provide evidence that
the transition from inadvertent to deliberate brevity is multi-stage, and that refrain-
ing from oversupplying information in accordance with the maxim of Quantity,
Introduction 15
contributing relevantly and expressing oneself brieﬂy, are processes that are inter-
twined. (This does not mean, of course, that Grice’s taxonomy lacks theoretical
utility.) Joint attention is clearly of critical importance to co-operative communi-
cation between adults and young children, and Clark and Kurumada investigated
collaborative book-reading sessions with adults and children of four age groups,
between two and ﬁve years old. They found that four-year olds were wordier than
necessary but that, by age ﬁve, utterances were becoming more compact as the
children came to recognize the requirement to provide the right amount of infor-
mation and to do that in an economical manner.
By considering particular cases of speaking loosely, Julie Sedivy (Chapter 14)
illustrates that there are two competing explanations of how such utterances are
interpreted, one adverting to calculations in accordance with Gricean conversational
principles, the other to knowledge of meaning conventionally attaching to expres-
sions in a given linguistic community. If, as Grice has suggested, much of understood
meaning comes not from the meanings of linguistic expressions themselves, but from
inferences about a speaker’s likely meaning in using those expressions, an interesting
psycholinguistic question presents itself: Given that the meaning of an utterance is
computed in real time, how are hearers able to efﬁciently fold in complex inferences
about a speaker’s intentions in a particular context?
One possible way in which conversational partners could achieve efﬁciency might be
by drawing on a set of generalized inferences over similar contexts in such a way that an
inference could be computed without having to rely on the particulars of the context or
speaker. However, Sedivy reports recent collaborative work which has shown that
accessing information about a speciﬁc speaker’s potential for adhering to conversational
maxims does not always seem to impede the speed and efﬁciency of conversational
inferences. Sedivy concludes that a hearer’s interpretation depends on knowledge
acquired about the speaker, either beforehand or in the course of the conversation
and that Gricean inferences are, perhaps surprisingly, effected rather rapidly.
This conclusion is supported by a parallel line of research in the developmental
domain, which shows that from a very young age, children are attentive to the
communicative intentions of a speaker. This suggests that an understanding of intended
meanings is an early and foundational aspect of linguistic ability that is within the
computational powers of even young children. Sedivy discusses evidence from experi-
mental studies with young children (three to four years of age) that document their
sensitivity to information about particular speakers, and the extent to which their
expectations about the likely communicative behaviour of these speakers impacts
their linguistic inferences. Experiments on the grasping of novel meanings indicate
that non-autistic toddlers are adept at high-speed Gricean calculation and are readily
able to attune themselves to the reliability, or lack of reliability, of their interlocutors.
Economy in speech can be accomplished if the speaker is able to adopt the
perspective of the audience, to see things as the audience sees them. Daniel Grodner
16 Goldstein
and Rachel Adler (Chapter 15) set up situations in the laboratory where speaker and
audience perspectives differ and are known to differ by both parties. A simple example
would be where there are two vases of contrasting heights, both visible to the speaker,
one of them not visible to the audience. The speaker, sensitive to audience perspective,
will use the description ‘the vase’ rather than ‘the tall vase’. At least, this will be so if the
pair are behaving co-operatively. Grodner and Adler report experiments they ran, in
both a co-operative and in a competitive mode, to investigate the inﬂuence of scenario
on speakers’ descriptions.
Ira Noveck and Nicola Spotorno (Chapter 16) argue, on the basis of experi-
mental evidence, that there is a general purpose cognitive process, which they call
narrowing, that facilitates brevity by disclosing the intended interpretation of an
utterance. It is a general purpose pragmatic process in that it underlies phenomena as
diverse as scalar inference, the comprehension of metaphor and the selection of a ‘best
bet’ interpretation for an infelicitous utterance. Speakers can be brief because narrowing
reduces, in most cases to one, the number of sensible interpretations of an utterance.
Prolixity
Grice does not say much about the sub-maxim of Brevity, save that it relates ‘not
. . . to what is said but, rather, to how what is said is said’ (1989: 27). In a ‘Retrospective
Epilogue’, he asserts that the maxim of Manner ‘seems to formulate one form of
conversational propriety, but its potentialities as a generator of implicature seem to
be somewhat open to question’ (1989: 372). It is hard to see why Grice doubts that one
can exploit the maxim of Manner. We can convey all sorts of messages by being
pointedly prolix. A husband asks his wife: ‘Where’s my toothbrush?’. She replies:
‘Your toothbrush is in the jar’. Had she simply replied, ‘It’s in the jar’ or (without an
abrupt tone) ‘In the jar’, she would not have conveyed the suggestion that he ought to
know where his own toothbrush is (nor conveyed her exasperation at his not
knowing it). If you ask me, ‘Have you seen a man in a dark brown overcoat?’ and,
instead of pointing across the street and announcing ,‘There he is!’, I say, in a steady
voice, ‘There is now a man of that description 10 metres behind you in the direction
2 o’clock’, then I am giving correct information, but also surreptitiously advising you
not to look. Again, I might say, ‘Peter tried to talk James out of his foolish interpret-
ation of the Tractatus, and Hanjo tried to talk him out of it, and Genia tried, and
Danièle tried’, instead of ﬁnishing that sentence simply with ‘ . . . as did Hanjo, Genia,
and Danièle’. By using the much longer form, I convey or conversationally implicate
that the attempt to make James see sense was particularly tiresome and unrewarding. If
brevity in speech is the norm, then departure from this norm will generally trigger
implicature. How to account for prolixity? Friedrich Christoph Doerge (Chap-
ter 17) measures a broadly Gricean account against what he takes would be offered by
Relevance Theory, and ﬁnds the latter less plausible.
Introduction 17
This page intentionally left blank
Part I
Brevity in Language and Thought
This page intentionally left blank
1
Fragment Answers to Questions:
A Case of Inaudible Syntax*
JASON MERCHANT, LYN FRAZIER, CHARLES CLIFTON,
JR, AND THOMAS WESKOTT
The processing of ellipsis has received considerable attention recently (Arregui et al.
2006; Dufﬁeld and Ayumi 2009; Frazier 2009; Frazier and Clifton 1998, 2005;
Garnham and Oakhill 1987; Kertz 2010; Kim and Runner 2009; Kim et al. 2011; Martin
and McElree 2008; Tanenhaus and Carlson 1990; and Kempson et al. 2011c, among
others). We extend the experimental investigation of ellipsis to ellipsis in questions.
One reason for this extension is because the answer to a question often takes the form
of a fragment instead of a complete sentence, as illustrated in (1.1).
(1.1) Speaker A: What did John eat?
Speaker B: Beans.
A second and more telling reason is because elliptical answers to questions have some
very interesting properties that allow us to explore what is actually deleted in an
ellipsis.
We focus on direct answers, as opposed to indirect answers, following the widely
used analysis of questions as denoting the set of their answers (Karttunen 1977, but
see Jacobson 2010 for a recent revision and references to the intervening literature).
Direct answers supply a meaning that is an element of the meaning of the question
and do not require an inference to determine their relation to the question. By
* This work was supported by Grant HD-18708 from NICHD to the University of Massachusetts and by
Grant FA 255/6-1 from DFG to Professor Gisbert Fanselow’s Experimental Syntax group at the University
of Potsdam. The contents of this chapter are solely the responsibility of the authors and do not necessarily
represent the ofﬁcial views of NICHD or NIH. We would like to thank participants at the Leverhulme
Workshop on Context and Communication, San Francisco, September 2009. We are also grateful to Janet
Dean Fodor, Ruth Kempson, and Jeff Runner for comments on the manuscript.
contrast, indirect answers typically do require an inference to determine the relation
to the question (e.g., ‘Who is coming?’, ‘John is sick’), report the speaker’s perspective,
and are easily taken to be partial rather than exhaustive answers (Groenendijk and
Stokhof 1984). While the inference required for an indirect answer may narrow down
the set of possible answers, the inference need not be in the answer set.
As an example of the perspectival differences, compare the reduced direct answer
in (1.2a) and the indirect answer in (1.2b).
(1.2) Speaker A: What did John say about Sue?
Speaker B:
a. That her jerk of a husband abandoned her.
(fragment direct answer; John is probably the source of the description as
‘a jerk’)
b. Her jerk of a husband abandoned her.
(indirect answer; the speaker of the utterance is probably the source of the
description)
A full, unreduced, direct answer to the question in (1.2) would be: ‘He said that her
jerk of a husband abandoned her’; such an answer shares with the fragment direct
answer in (1.2a) the likelihood that John is the source of the descriptive element
‘jerk’, and it fully answers the question. Based on a variety of syntactic arguments,
Merchant (2004) proposed that fragment direct answers are derived by fronting a
constituent of the answer that provides the new information to a clause-peripheral
(focus) position, with the remainder of the sentence being elided (not pronounced);
we will call this analysis the ‘movement + ellipsis’ analysis. On this analysis, in effect,
Speaker B’s response to Speaker A in (1.1) is something like (1.3), but Speaker B does
not pronounce ‘John ate’.
(1.3) Speaker B: Beans, John ate.
This analysis claims that there is unpronounced syntactic structure (inaudible
syntax) in Speaker B’s response in (1.1). The goal of this chapter is to provide
experimental evidence for this part of the analysis from two experiments: one on
English, concerning the distribution of the complementizer that, and a second on
German, concerning the distribution of prepositions in fragment answers.
The movement + ellipsis hypothesis explains a number of linguistic observations.
It is well-recognized that only constituents can move, as illustrated in (1.4a), and
similarly, that fragment answers to questions seem generally to pattern with such
constituents, as illustrated in (1.4b).1
If the derivation of fragment answers involves
1
This presentation of the data is highly simpliﬁed: there are well known cases of elements that appear to
have been moved out of ellipsis sites but which do not obey island constraints. The most well known such
case involves sluicing (Ross 1969; Merchant 2001), though examples with fragments answers are also
attested; for much fuller discussion and for attempts to distinguish the island-sensitive fragments from the
22 Merchant, Frazier, Clifton, and Weskott
movement of the fragment, the fact that the response in (1.4b) is unacceptable is due
to whatever grammatical constraints rule out (1.4a).
(1.4) a. *And souri, John likes the sweet ——i combo.
b. Speaker A: Does John like the sweet and spicy combo?
Speaker B: *No, and sour.
If a phrase cannot move out of an island in cases of overt movement (as illustrated in
(1.5a)), then the phrase cannot move out of the island to a higher (focus) position
either. Consequently, it cannot be a fragment answer, as illustrated in (1.5b).
(1.5) a. *Who does Abby speak the same Balkan language that —— speaks?
b. Speaker A: Does Abby speak the same Balkan language that Ben speaks?
Speaker B: *No, Charlie.
(from Merchant, 2004: example 87).
In languages such as German, objects of prepositions cannot be moved, as
illustrated by the contrast between the pair in (1.6a, 1.6b). If movement is necessary
for the generation of a fragment answer, then we expect that a PP fragment answer
such as in (1.6c) should be fully acceptable, while an NP fragment answer as in (1.6d)
should be degraded.
(1.6) a. Speaker A: Mit wem hat Anna gesprochen?
with who has Anna spoken
‘With whom has Anna spoken?’
b. Speaker A: *Wem hat Anna mit gesprochen?
who has Anna with spoken
(intended: ‘Who has Anna spoken with?’)
c. Speaker B: Mit dem Hans.
with the Hans
‘With Hans’.
d. Speaker B: ?? Dem Hans.
the Hans
(literally: ‘Hans’.)
In the present chapter, we experimentally test two predictions of this approach to
fragment answers. In the ﬁrst study, we test the prediction that, in English, com-
plementizers should be required in clausal fragment answers; and in the second
study, we test the prediction that in German, reduced answers to questions involving
island-insensitive ones, see Merchant 2004, 2013; Culicover and Jackendoff 2005; Stainton 2006a; and
Grifﬁths and Lipták 2013).
Fragment Answers to Questions 23
the object of a preposition that repeat the preposition of the question should be
preferred to those that do not repeat the preposition.
The reason that we expect that complementizers such as that in (1.7a) should be
retained is because in non-elliptical versions of these sentences, as in (1.8), fronting a
clause is possible only with an overt complementizer.
(1.7) Speaker A: What did John deny?
Speaker B: a. That he had lied.
b. *He had lied.
(1.8) a. That he had lied, John denied.
b. *He had lied, John denied.
On Merchant’s (2004) analysis, Speaker B’s responses in (1.7) are structurally
equivalent to the responses in (1.8), but the speaker has not pronounced ‘John
denied’. Thus, the reason why (1.7b) cannot be a fragment answer to Speaker A’s
question is the same reason that (1.8b) is ungrammatical: namely, because clauses
move only when an overt complementizer (that) is present.
It is important to note that Merchant’s analysis applies only to direct answers to
questions, not to indirect replies to questions. The answer in (1.7b) is ungrammatical
only as a direct answer. A listener given the response in (1.7b) could infer an
acceptable answer to the question in (1.7). However, a direct answer is sometimes
preferable in that it provides the information requested by the question without the
need for the inference required by an indirect reply.2
In a written acceptability questionnaire, conducted in English, the question was
whether readers are indeed sensitive to the invisible or unspoken structure posited in
Merchant’s (2004) analysis. The subjects rated question–answer pairs like (1.9) and
(1.10) for acceptability on a 5-point scale where 5 = Perfect (complete list of materials
in Appendix 1.1). If readers are sensitive to the postulated inaudible structure
required by the fragment direct answer, they should prefer the fragment answer
with the complementizer (1.9) over the form without the complementizer (1.10), since
the latter would be ungrammatical as an unreduced direct answer if the struck-
through structure (shown here to illustrate the analysis, but not included in the
materials) were pronounced.
(1.9) Speaker A: What did Kylie concede?
Speaker B: That she took the keys Kylie conceded.
(10) Speaker A: What did Kylie concede?
Speaker B: She took the keys Kylie conceded.
2
An indirect reply does not answer the question posed, but rather supplies whatever information the
speaker has that may be relevant to (partially) answering the question. In this sense it is a response to the
question but not an answer.
24 Merchant, Frazier, Clifton, and Weskott
Sixteen experimental sentence–answer pairs were tested with two forms of each,
without and with the complementizer that, as illustrated in (1.9) and (1.10), respectively.
These sentence–answer pairs were combined with 126 sentences of various forms
(including the ‘control’ items described below, and stimuli from another experiment)
plus 6 ‘catch’ trials included to identify subjects who were not paying attention. Each of
the 16 experimental sentence–answer pairs was followed by a 5-point acceptability
rating scale, which asked, ‘How acceptable was that dialogue?’ and provided ratings:
‘terrible’, ‘pretty bad’, ‘so-so’, ‘not so bad’, and ‘perfect’ associated with numerical
ratings 1 to 5. Two clearly unacceptable ‘catch’ sentences were followed by the same
rating scale, while the other sentences in the questionnaire were followed by a difﬁculty
of comprehension rating scale, or by a question with a two-choice answer.
Forty-one University of Massachusetts undergraduates rated the acceptability of
the sentences, where ‘acceptable’ was deﬁned as referring to ‘a sentence that is an OK
sentence you might expect to say or write yourself or to hear some other skilled
speaker of English say’ with low ratings to be given to sentences or sentence-answer
pairs that were ‘nonsensical or ungrammatical or really clumsy’. The means are
presented in the top panel of Table 1.1.
As may be seen in Table 1.1 the experimental items were rated as more acceptable
when the complementizer was present than when it was not. Analyses of variance
with subjects and items as random effects indicated that the difference was highly
signiﬁcant (F1(1,47) = 41.89, p < .001; F2(1, 15) = 25.61, p < .001).
The absolute rating of the complementizer absent forms (3.73) was numerically
quite high on the 5-point scale. However, it is the relative difference between experi-
mental conditions that can be interpreted in a rating study. More critically, on the
present account the complementizer-absent sentences are, taken by themselves, well-
formed, and in principle they might be saved as replies to a question by assuming
the speaker is offering only an indirect reply, as in, ‘I dont know. What may be
relevant is . . .’. According to Merchant’s theory, the complementizer-absent forms
are unacceptable as direct answers, but they can be acceptable as indirect answers,
content permitting. An indirect reply is not impossible, but only less direct and at
times less cooperative than a direct answer. It is this additional factor that we believe
is responsible for the relatively high scores assigned to the complementizer-absent
experimental items.
Table 1.1. Mean acceptability ratings (and standard deviations) on a
scale from 1 to 5 (5 = perfect).
Complementizer present Complementizer absent
Experimental items: 4.25 (0.28) 3.73 (0.35)
‘Control’ items: 2.58 (0.42) 4.09 (0.28)
Fragment Answers to Questions 25
To address the uninteresting possibility that subjects simply prefer answers with a
complementizer present, regardless of its relation to the question, an additional 16
control sentence–answer pairs involving ﬁrst-person belief reports were tested.
Again, each had two forms as illustrated in (1.11) and (1.12). For these items, the
direct and the indirect answers both provide the same information, since the usual
pragmatics of an utterance requires that the speaker believe the sentence to be true.
Given the felicity of the indirect answer to these control items, we expected the need
for the complementizer (which permits movement of the embedded clause in a
fragment direct answer) to disappear. However, if readers simply prefer forms with
complementizers to forms without, they should prefer the fragment answer in (1.11)
to the full sentence reply in (1.12) to the same extent as they prefer (1.9) to (1.10). But if
they prefer full sentences to elliptical ones as long as they provide information that
answers the question, they might well show the opposite preference.
(1.11) a. Speaker A: What do you think Lena did?
b. Speaker B: That she wrote some letters.
(1.12) a. Speaker A: What do you think Lena did?
b. Speaker B: She wrote some letters.
As can be seen in the lower panel of Table 1.1, these ‘control’ items were rated as
being much more acceptable with the complementizer absent than with the com-
plementizer present (F1(1, 47) = 158.5, p < .001; F2(1,15) = 615.7, p < .001).
The main prediction that the experimental items would be rated as less acceptable
without a complementizer than with one was conﬁrmed. The control items show that
the preference for a complementizer in the experimental items cannot be attributed
to some general preference for sentence–answer pairs to contain a complementizer.
The scores for these control cases can also be understood as reﬂecting the different
nature of the question/answer pairs in these cases: unlike the experimental items, the
wh-word ‘what’ corresponds syntactically to the object of the transitive ‘do’, and
semantically to a predicate (which is why an even more natural answer to the
questions in (1.11) would simply be ‘write some letters’, as two reviewers point out.
Such a fragment answer raises additional questions for the movement analysis, and is
discussed in Merchant (2004); since such a ‘VP’ fragment answer does not form a
minimal pair with our experimental items, its felicity is orthogonal to our concerns
here). This means that the fragment answer in (1.11b) with ‘that’ would have to be
derived from an inferred antecedent such as ‘What do you think?’, yielding ‘That she
wrote some letters, I think’. The fact that such deformations of the antecedent are
possible but costly may account for some of the degradation associated with this kind
of answer. Such costs need not affect answers like those in (1.12b), as the indirect
strategy is available (alternatively, as Jeff Runner suggests, it may be that (1.12b)
represents the minimal expansion of the VP answer to include a subject).
26 Merchant, Frazier, Clifton, and Weskott
We take these results to support a syntactic analysis of elliptical answers where a
constituent ﬁrst fronts to a focus position and the rest of the sentence is then not
pronounced.Thisanalysisprovides anexplanationforthe behaviour oftheexperimental
items, while also accounting for a range of other observations (see Merchant (2004) and
especially Merchant (2013) for discussions of the difﬁculties facing the movement
account raised by Culicover and Jackendoff (2005) and Ginzburg and Sag (2000)).
Given that the complementizer that does not obviously add any lexical semantic
meaning to the answers, it is difﬁcult to see how a syntactic theory without inaudible
syntax or movement for fragment answers could explain these results. Ginzburg and
Sag (2000), Culicover and Jackendoff (2005), and Kempson et al. (2011c) posit
detailed theories that variously account for case-matching and other properties that
fragments have, by proposing constraints that impose a matching requirement on the
correlate (in these cases, the wh-phrase in the question) and the fragment. Such
proposals eschew the movement component of Merchant’s analysis in favour of
more general (and possibly independent) constraints on the kinds of phrases that can
serve as fragments: since movement picks out constituents, these constraints overlap
to a large extent. But it is exactly cases like those presented here that distinguish the
accounts. In our examples, the correlate wh-word is uniformly what, which is a DP
object, not a CP headed by a complementizer. The verbs in question, such as concede,
allow both for ‘that’ CP complements and for that-less complements. Why answers
to questions containing such predicates should require ‘that’ in the short answer does
not follow from these non-movement accounts, but follows directly from the move-
ment + ellipsis account.
A second experiment investigated the effect of retaining vs omitting a preposition
in fragment answers in German. If fragment answers in other languages also involve
fronting of the phrase expressing the new information to a focus position, then we
expect language-particular grammatical constraints on the form of fronted constitu-
ents to be attested in fragment answers. In a language like German, full noun phrase
objects of prepositions may not be fronted without the preposition, as seen in the
contrast between (1.13a), with a licit governing preposition accompanying its object
noun phrase, and (1.13b), a failed attempt to leave the governing preposition in situ.
(1.13) a. Mit der Frau haben sie gesprochen.
with the woman have they spoken
‘With the woman, they spoke.’
b. *Der Frau haben sie mit gesprochen.
the woman have they with spoken
(Intended: ‘The woman, they spoke with’.)
If elliptical structures are subject to the same constraints that non-elliptical
structures are subject to, then we expect the same pattern to emerge in fragment
Fragment Answers to Questions 27
answers to questions involving prepositions. In (1.14), by hypothesis, the prepos-
itional phrase answer ‘with the woman’ is fronted to a focus position, with the
remainder of the sentence elided.
(1.14) Speaker A: Haben sie mit dem MANN gesprochen?
have they with the man spoken
‘Have they spoken with the man?’
Speaker B: Nein mit der FRAU.
no with the woman
‘No, with the woman’.
By contrast, in (1.15), a mere noun phrase has been fronted. The effect of this is that
the preposition has been stranded (left behind) in the unpronounced clause, leading
to the prediction that the acceptability of (1.15) should be lower than the acceptability
of (1.14), tracking the difference between (1.13a) and (1.13b).
(1.15) Speaker A: Haben sie mit dem MANN gesprochen?
have they with the man spoken
‘Have they spoken with the man?’
Speaker B: ??Nein, der FRAU.3
no the woman
‘No, the woman’.
Sixteen pairs of sentence–answer pairs, one with a prepositional phrase answer as
in (1.14) and one with a noun phrase answer as in (1.15) were constructed. They were
combined with 64 other sentence pairs instantiating different kinds of information-
structural manipulations, as well as a set of 24 control items (complete list of
materials in Appendix 1.2). Three types of unacceptable control sentences were
included: sentences containing either a prepositional selectional restriction violation
(e.g., Die Suppe wurde gegen versalzen, ‘the soup was against oversalted’), a verb
selectional restriction violation (e.g., Der Zug wurde gekaut, ‘the train was chewed’),
or a combination of the two (e.g., Der Priester wurde im asphaltiert, ‘the priest was in
the asphalted’).
Sentence–answer pairs were counterbalanced across lists so that a subject never
saw more than one version of a sentence but contributed equally to all conditions.
The sentence–answer pairs were combined with ﬁller sentences to yield a total of 104
3
We indicate the informed judgment of the answer in (1.15) by ‘??’, a lesser deviance than we assign to
the string in (1.13b), consonant with the results we report below. We have not run a direct comparison to
stimuli like (1.13b), though we suspect we would ﬁnd a difference, if for no other reason than that (1.13b) is
unacceptable under any possible parse, while the string in (1.15) is perfectly well-formed in other contexts.
This observation is the same as the one we made above regarding the acceptability of indirect answers in
the ﬁrst experiment.
28 Merchant, Frazier, Clifton, and Weskott
items per list. A seven-point rating scale with labelled endpoints appeared after each
item ranging from 1 (sehr schlecht, ‘very bad’) to 7 (sehr gut, ‘very good’). We do not
attach any importance to the choice of a 7-point rather than a 5-point rating scale.
The scales simply reﬂect the standard practices of the two laboratories where the
studies were conducted.
Forty native German speakers, undergraduates at the University of Potsdam, were
tested. They were asked to interpret words in CAPITALS as receiving a pitch accent
(while pitch accents are not required for all short answers, they are typical both for
the new focus kind of short answer and for the contrastive focus kind: this instruction
to subjects was meant to indicate this, and follows standard orthographic practice in
German for interpreting all capitals). Subjects were instructed to assess the accept-
ability of the answer sentence, as well as the appropriateness of the answer given the
question, and were presented with two sample items, one each for totally unaccept-
able and perfectly acceptable answers.
The results are presented in Table 1.2.4
As predicted by Merchant’s analysis, the PP
fragment answers were rated more acceptable than the NP fragment answers (two
tailed t-tests reached signiﬁcance for participants, t1(1,39) = 6.35, p < .001, and for
items, t2(1,15) = 5.17, p < .001).
The results follow immediately from the hypothesis that the fragment answer
involves a phrase that moves out of a clause which is elided given that, in general,
namely in pronounced clauses, prepositions cannot be stranded in German. The
absolute value of the mean judgments for the NP fragments (4.76) may seem
surprisingly high given that it is located in the ‘acceptable’ half of the 7-point scale.
But as in Experiment 1, we maintain that it is the relation between the means for
the NP and the PP fragments that matters. The inaudible syntax hypothesis predicts
just that judgments for NP fragments to be degraded compared to those for the PP
counterparts, but neither ours nor other theories of ellipsis, to our knowledge, specify
to which degree.
Table 1.2 Mean ratings of acceptability of
German fragment answers on 7-point scale.
(Standard deviations given in parentheses)
PP-fragment answer: 5.99 (1.64)
NP-fragment answer: 4.76 (2.03)
4
The means for the unacceptable sentences were 2.35 for the Preposition Selection Restriction violation
sentences, 2.06 for the Verb Selection Restriction violation sentences, and 1.31 for the Combined violations.
These results are in line with those obtained for the same items in earlier rating studies.
Fragment Answers to Questions 29
Further, the part of the instructions that emphasized the acceptability of the
answer might be taken to account for the high value, since both forms of answers
correspond to acceptable structures in other contexts. The inclusion of highly
unacceptable selectional restriction violation sentences also should have the effect
of raising the absolute value of all other sentence forms in the experiment.
Conclusions
Sentences sometimes have more syntax than is audible. Even in very simple
examples, such as the German fragment answers, it appears that a phrase may
have more syntax than is apparent just from categorizing the words of the sentence
and then joining those words together into a legitimate phrase. Our experimentally
gathered acceptability judgment data show effects predicted by the movement +
ellipsis hypothesis, which posits inaudible syntax. Note, of course, that any general
hypothesis positing inaudible syntax must be ﬂeshed out by detailed postulation of
the attributes of such inaudible syntax, such as Merchant’s hypothesis about the
structure of fragment answers to questions. The fact that experimental data and
linguistic arguments converge is reassuring. It would be disconcerting at best if
conclusions based on syntactic argumentation and conclusions based on the results
of experimental and processing studies conﬂicted with each other. In the present
case, the experimental evidence conﬁrms the intuitions assumed by Merchant and
shows that those intuitions are stable and generalizable across participants and items.
One might wonder whether the inaudible structures in fragment answers might in
some sense just be implicit, not computed by the listener, during ordinary conversa-
tion. For example, perhaps when replying to a question, an answer will be well-
formed only if the actual fragment answer could be expanded to make up a complete
sentence, and only answers that could have been ﬂeshed out grammatically are
permitted. Though this idea is tempting (and indeed was proposed to us in one
form, by John MacFarlane), it does not account for the data presented here (though it
would account for some connectivity effects, such as those requiring the case of a
fragment answer to match the case it would have in the corresponding full sentence).
Note that in English, either the answer with an overt complementizer or the answer
without could be ﬂeshed out to a complete, grammatical English sentence. Likewise,
both the fragment NP and the fragment PP could be ﬂeshed out to a full sentence
response in German. Another possibility, suggested to us by Janet Fodor, is that the
speaker begins to answer a question with a full answer, but simply doesn’t say words
and structure that are repeated. But this too would founder on the German results:
the preposition is already contained in the question and therefore should be omitted.
So although alternative accounts based on ‘ﬂeshing out’ the fragment or on omission
of repeated words and structures might at ﬁrst blush appear attractive, in fact they do
not account for the data presented here. We conclude that the inaudible structure in
30 Merchant, Frazier, Clifton, and Weskott
fragment answers is not an artefact of metalinguistic abilities, such as the ability to
compare sentences across derivations, but rather it is part of the structure computed
during normal language processing.
Finally, competing accounts of fragment answers and related phenomena such as
sluicing, such as those proposed by Ginzburg and Sag (2000); Ginzburg and Cooper
(2004); Culicover and Jackendoff (2005); Fernández et al. (2006); Kempson et al.
(2011c), and others, while successful in accounting for a number of connectivity
effects (matching effects between the form of the correlate and that of the fragment),
do not require that fragments be a subtype of the kind of phrases that can be moved
(or that head unbounded dependencies, on non-movement accounts of these). As
such, and unlike the movement + ellipsis account of Merchant (2004), they fail
to predict that ‘that’ in English and prepositions in German should be retained
preferentially—a retention that is, furthermore, in violation of more general con-
straints preferring the elimination of redundant material, as these elements are. It
appears that the speciﬁc, grammatical mechanisms underlying movement restrictions
in the two languages examined here provide better predictors for the shape of short
answers in these languages.
Appendix 1.1. Materials used in Experiment 1
1. = Merchant’s example (2004: example 94)
A. What are you ashamed of?
That I ignored you.
B. What are you ashamed of?
I ignored you.
2. What did Jane admit to?
A. That she wasted the day.
B. She wasted the day.
3. What is Josh upset about?
A. That he lost his job.
B. He lost his job.
4. What is Mary so happy about?
A. That she won.
B. She won.
5. What is Gore afraid of?
A. That oil prices will go down.
B. Oil prices will go down.
6. What is Tom upset about?
A. That he failed.
B. He failed.
Fragment Answers to Questions 31
7. What is the gardener screaming about?
A. That the rabbit tore up his garden.
B. The rabbit tore up his garden.
8. What is the babysitter sad about?
A. That the children are mean to each other.
B. The children are mean to each other.
9. What did Greg boast?
A. That he ﬁxed the car.
B. He ﬁxed the car.
10. What did Lou conceal?
A. That he asked Ann out.
B. He asked Ann out.
11. What did Susan confess?
A. That she stole from her roommate.
B. She stole from her roommate.
12. What did Kylie concede?
A. That she took the keys.
B. She took the keys.
13. What did Sam predict?
A. That McCain would win.
B. McCain would win.
14. What did Amy ask?
A. That she be allowed to retake the test.
B. She be allowed to retake the test.
15. What did Jeff deny?
A. That he broke his leg.
B. He broke his leg.
16. What does Ron regret?
A. That he joined the navy.
B. He joined the navy.
Controls:
17. What do you think Lena did?
A. That she wrote some letters.
B. She wrote some letters.
18. What do you think Greg did?
A. That he resigned.
B. He resigned.
19. What do you think Pam did?
A. That she lied.
B. She lied.
20. What do you think Kyle did?
A. That he impressed the Dean.
B. He impressed the Dean.
32 Merchant, Frazier, Clifton, and Weskott
21. What do you think Josh did?
A. That he got an award.
B. He got an award.
22. What do you think Chuck did?
A. That he bought a Porsche.
B. He bought a Porsche.
23. What do you think Anna did?
A. That she visited her parents.
B. She visited her parents.
24. What do you think Lottie did?
A. That she fainted at the opera.
B. She fainted at the opera.
25. What do you think Greg did?
A. That he ﬁxed the car.
B. He ﬁxed the car.
26. What do you think Lou did?
A. That he asked Ann out.
B. He asked Ann out.
27. What do you think Kate did?
A. That she went snowboarding.
B. She went snowboarding.
28. What do you think Kira did?
A. That she took a ﬁlm class.
B. She took a ﬁlm class.
29. What do you think Ben did?
A. That he got promoted.
B. He got promoted.
30. What do you think Jessica did?
A. That she memorized an epic poem.
B. She memorized an epic poem.
31. What do you think Jeff did?
A. That he broke his leg.
B. He broke his leg.
32. What do you think Ron did?
A. That he joined the Navy.
B. He joined the Navy.
Appendix 1.2. Materials used in Experiment 2
1 a Haben sie mit dem MANN gesprochen? \\ Nein, mit der FRAU.
have they with the man spoken no with the woman
b Haben sie mit dem MANN gesprochen? \\ Nein, der FRAU.
have they with the man spoken no the woman
Fragment Answers to Questions 33
2 a Sollen wir neben dem FENSTER stehen? \\ Nein, neben der TÜR.
should we next.to the window stand no next.to the door
b Sollen wir neben dem FENSTER stehen? \\ Nein, der TÜR.
should we next.to the window stand no next.to the door
3 a Willst du auf den TORHÜTER verzichten? \\ Nein, auf den STÜRMER.
want you on the goalkeeper do.without no on the forward
b Willst du auf den TORHÜTER verzichten? \\ Nein, den STÜRMER.
want you on the goalkeeper do.without no the forward
4 a Wohnt er in der KANTSTRASSE? \\ Nein, in der GOETHESTRASSE.
lives he in the Kantstreet no in the Goethestreet
b Wohnt er in der KANTSTRASSE? \\ Nein, der GOETHESTRASSE.
lives he in the Kantstreet no the Goethestreet
5 a Erinnert dich das an den BRUDER? \\ Nein, an den VATER.
reminds you that of the brother no of the father
b Erinnert dich das an den BRUDER? \\ Nein, den VATER.
reminds you that of the brother no the father
6 a Seid ihr mit dem AUTO gekommen? \\ Nein, mit dem ZUG.
are you with the car come no with the train
b Seid ihr mit dem AUTO gekommen? \\ Nein, dem ZUG.
are you with the car come no the train
7 a Reden sie über den HÄUPTLING? \\ Nein, über den MEDIZINMANN.
talk they about the chief no about the medicine.man
b Reden sie über den HÄUPTLING? \\ Nein, den MEDIZINMANN.
talk they about the chief no the medicine.man
8 a Demonstriert sie gegen die ATOMKRAFT? \\ Nein, gegen den KRIEG.
protest they against the atomic.energy no against the war
b Demonstriert sie gegen die ATOMKRAFT? \\ Nein, den KRIEG.
protest they against the atomic.energy no the war
9 a Haben sie mit einem MANN gesprochen? \\ Nein, mit einer FRAU.
have the with a man spoken no with a woman
b Haben sie mit einem MANN gesprochen? \\ Nein, einer FRAU.
have the with a man spoken no a woman
10 a Wohnt er neben einem SUPERMARKT? \\ Nein, neben einer BÄCKEREI.
lives he next.to a supermarket no next.to a bakery
b Wohnt er neben einem SUPERMARKT? \\ Nein, einer BÄCKEREI.
lives he next.to a supermarket no a bakery
11 a Wurde er von einem ARZT untersucht? \\ Nein, von einem KRANKENPFLEGER.
was he by a doctor examined no by a nurse
b Wurde er von einem ARZT untersucht? \\ Nein, einem KRANKENPFLEGER.
was he by a doctor examined no a nurse
12 a Hat sie das ohne ein KABEL hinbekommen? \\ Nein, ohne einen STECKER.
has she that without a cable managed no without a plug
b Hat sie das ohne ein KABEL hinbekommen? \\ Nein, einen STECKER.
has she that without a cable managed no a plug
34 Merchant, Frazier, Clifton, and Weskott
13 a Sucht sie nach einem SCHREIBBLOCK? \\ Nein, nach einem BLEISTIFT.
seeks she for a writing.tablet no for a pencil
b Sucht sie nach einem SCHREIBBLOCK? \\ Nein, einem BLEISTIFT.
seeks she for a writing.tablet no a pencil
14 a Arbeiten sie in einer FABRIK? \\ Nein, in einer WÄSCHEREI.
work they in a factory no in a laundromat
b Arbeiten sie in einer FABRIK? \\ Nein, einer WÄSCHEREI.
work they in a factory no a laundromat
15 a Sitzt sie jetzt bei einem POLIZISTEN? \\ Nein, bei einem JOURNALISTEN.
sits she now with a policeman no with a journalist
b Sitzt sie jetzt bei einem POLIZISTEN? \\ Nein, einem JOURNALISTEN.
sits she now with a policeman no a journalist
16 a Waren alle da außer einer LEHRERIN? \\ Nein, außer einer MUTTER.
was everyone there except a teacher no except a mother
b Waren alle da außer einer LEHRERIN? \\ Nein, einer MUTTER.
was everyone there except a teacher no a mother
Fragment Answers to Questions 35
2
Structuring Silence versus the
Structure of Silence
ANNE BEZUIDENHOUT
2.1. Introduction
This chapter argues that, from the point of view of someone trying to comprehend
elliptical speech, the only syntactic structure present is the structure present in the
speaker’s explicitly produced string of linguistic tokens (and that structure is of
course not really in the tokens but is cognitively imposed by the listener, since such
strings have only linear structure, not the type of hierarchical structure posited in
syntax). This overt syntax is one clue that, along with other contextually provided
information, is used by the hearer’s semantic and pragmatic processing systems to
recover the full truth-conditional content that the speaker means to convey. It may be
that, in certain contexts, bits of structure that have been recovered in the course of
interpreting earlier parts of a linguistic string are used as one of the contextual clues
for interpreting later parts of the string. But even here there is a question as to what
exactly the nature of the reused structure is. Is it syntactic structure or conceptual
(semantic) structure? I will argue that there is not (as yet) any decisive evidence
showing that it is syntactic structure.
The view argued for in this chapter is in opposition to psycholinguistic models of
the production and comprehension (ie, performance models) of elliptical speech that
try to read off processing models directly from grammatical theories of elliptical
sentences. Merchant (2001) proposes one such grammatical account. He argues that
elliptical sentences have a silent syntax in addition to their overt syntax. I am
assuming that Merchant is not offering a theory of linguistic performance but of
linguistic competence; that is, he is offering a theoretical account of what a competent
speaker of the language knows about elliptical structures. Merchant’s account
includes a derivational story linking underlying representations of syntax to sur-
face-level structural representations.
However, one cannot assume that these derivations correspond to stages in the
process of producing or comprehending elliptical speech. In fact, it would be rather
surprising if things turned out this way, given that these syntactic derivations are
generally proposed on the basis of abstract and formal considerations rather than on
the basis of empirical investigation of language processing. It is true that this
grammatical theorizing is empirically grounded, in the sense that it is attempting
to account for empirical data, namely the grammaticality judgments (or intuitions) of
competent speakers of whatever language it is that is being studied. And these
grammaticality judgments themselves are undoubtedly the product of psychological
processes. However, syntactic theories are not theories about how native speakers
derive their grammaticality judgments but rather are theories about how the surface
forms that are judged grammatical could be systematically derived from underlying
forms according to stable rules and principles. The formal derivation is not a model
of a psychological process. At best, it is a rational reconstruction of the process.
It is true that it is often assumed that users of the language implicitly know these
derivational rules, since these rules constitute what competent speakers know when
they know a language. However, the attribution of such implicit knowledge is
highly theoretical and evidence in support of this claim would have to come from
psycholinguistic investigations. Offering the derivation by itself does nothing to
establish the truth of the attribution of implicit knowledge of the derivational rules.
These rules are something like a proof of concept. If these rules were in fact being
used, they would explain the patterns of grammaticality judgments that we in fact
observe. But it is always possible that people achieve the same end result by very
different means.
An analogy may help to drive the point home. A logician who studies inferences in
a certain domain (say reasoning with conditionals) may offer formal derivations
(proofs) from premises to conclusions that are governed by certain inference rules. If
all goes well, these formal derivations will yield conclusions that are judged to be
valid by competent reasoners. These validity judgments are undoubtedly the product
of psychological processes of reasoning. But the formal derivations are not models of
these psychological processes. It may very well be that people’s reasoning with
conditionals involves processes that do not correspond to formal proofs via inference
rules at all. Perhaps instead conditional reasoning involves mental simulations of
scenarios, or processes that rely on exemplars or prototypes of argument frames. The
point is that the logical derivation by itself won’t help answer this question. It is at
best a rational reconstruction of people’s reasoning. So, similarly, a formal syntactic
derivation by itself won’t tell you how people produce and understand elliptical
speech. (This is not to deny that practitioners of the art of formal syntax can also be
practitioners of psycholinguistics. In the latter role they may have ideas about the
production and comprehension of elliptical speech and have devised and conducted
experiments to test these ideas. However, the methods and theories of formal syntax
Structuring Silence versus the Structure of Silence 37
are sufﬁciently different from those used by experimental psychologists that there
can be no straightforward transference of ideas from the one domain to the other.)
2.2. Grammatical arguments for a syntax of silence
Before turning to arguments regarding the processing of elliptical speech, I lay out
some of the arguments from formal syntax for the existence of silent syntax. Here
I will focus on so-called fragment or short answers. Merchant (2010) offers a
movement and deletion account of such short answers.
Consider for example the following question–answer (Q-A) pair:
(2.1) A: Who did Mary see?
B: John
The fragment answer ‘John’ is a constituent that has undergone movement from its
base-generated position as direct object of the main verb ‘see’ to a peripheral position
in a Focus Phrase, Spec FP. The head of the focus phrase F hosts a feature E that
licenses the ellipsis of the tensed phrase (TP) ‘Mary saw t1’ that includes the trace of
the direct object that has moved to Spec FP. The tree diagram in Figure 2.1 illustrates
this movement and deletion account:
With fragment answers to WH-questions, there is strong evidence for silent syntax,
because of what have been called connectivity effects. Merchant (2004, 2010) amasses
an impressive amount of data from several languages besides English (in Merchant
2001 he had data from 32 languages besides English) to demonstrate these connectivity
effects. These data (namely, short answers that are judged to be either grammatical or
ungrammatical by native speakers of these languages) indicate that to count as
grammatical, the non-elided material must retain the sorts of grammatical features
(e.g., case markings, voice, presence or absence of prepositions, pronominal forms) that
they would be expected to have if they were parts of a full inﬂectional phrase (IP). Why
would they have such markings unless they are the remnants of a full IP present at
some level of syntax, some of whose parts are subsequently deleted? If the fragment
FP
[DPJohn]1
F[E]
F
TP
Mary saw t1
Figure 2.1. Movement and deletion account of short answers (based on Merchant 2004: 675)
38 Bezuidenhout
answers were base-generated, then they should appear uninﬂected at the level of
surface or phonological form (PF). (I will return later to question this assumption).
Four simple examples of connectivity effects are given below.
2.2.1. Voice effects
A fragment answer must match the voice (active/passive) of the question to which it
is a response, as indicated by the unacceptability of the response in (2.2.B2). This is
despite the fact that one can reply in a different voice if one supplies a full response, as
the acceptability of (2.2.B3) shows. This suggests that the full answer ‘John sent me
these ﬂowers’ must be present at some level prior to spell out:
(2.2) A: Who sent you these ﬂowers?
B1: John
B2:* By John
B3: I was sent these ﬂowers by John.
2.2.2. Dependency on binding principles
A fragment answer containing a pronoun has to obey the binding principles, so that a
reﬂexive pronoun is needed for an interpretation in which the pronoun is bound by
an expression within its local domain. But this suggests that there must a full clause
present at some level of syntax that contains the governing expression—the expression
that does the binding (‘John’ in Example (2.3)):
(2.3) A: Who did Johni shave?
B1:* Himi.
B2: Himselfi.
2.2.3. Complementizer requirements
A short answer has to match the complementizer requirements of the main verb in
the preceding question, as shown by the different patterns of acceptability for the
verbs ‘want’ and ‘help (do)’ in the following examples from Casielles (2007):
(2.4) A: What does John want?
B1: To wash my car
B2:* Wash my car.
A: What did John help you do?1
B1:* To wash my car
B2: Wash my car.
1
The answer with the preposition would yield an interpretation in which John merely facilitated the
speaker’s washing of the car rather than the intended interpretation in which John jointly washed the car
with the speaker. And in any case the question would then need to be: ‘What did John help you to do?’
Structuring Silence versus the Structure of Silence 39
2.2.4. Case markings
In a language such as Modern Greek that marks case on nominal expressions, a
fragment answer containing such an expression must mark it with the correct case.
So when a remnant NP is the underlying subject it must be marked with nominative
case and when it is the underlying object it must be marked with accusative case (as
indicated by the acceptability of the response in Example (2.5.B1) and the acceptabil-
ity of the answer in Example (2.6.B2)—both examples from Merchant 2004: 676):
(2.5) A: Pjos idhe tin Maria?
who.NOM saw the Maria
‘Who saw Maria?’
B1: O Giannis.
the Giannis.NOM
B2:* Ton Gianni.
the Giannis.ACC
(2.6) A: Pjon idhe i Maria?
who.ACC saw the Maria
‘Who did Maria see?’
B1:* O Giannis.
the Giannis.NOM
B2: Ton Gianni.
the Giannis.ACC
In all these examples of connectivity effects, we are supposed to be convinced that the
surface grammatical markings or features would not be present if the fragment were
base-generated and that therefore a full syntactic form must be generated at some
level of syntax in order to explain the surfacing of these features. Merchant writes:
Such connectivity effects form the best argument that there is syntactic ellipsis involved in
fragment answers, and that the unpronounced syntax must be identical in some way to the
syntax in the questions asked. (Merchant 2010: 19)
However, this is by no means obvious. For example, in the case of short answers that
respect the complementizer requirements for verbs, it could be that the lexical entries
for verbs that take sentential complements include information about the syntactic form
of the complementizer phrase (See McDonald et al. 1994: 683–4). This lexical entry for
the verb will already have been accessed in the course of processing the question. Thus
the fragment answer could be generated without the need for ﬁrst generating a full IP,
moving its complement to a peripheral position, and then deleting the IP.
Similar remarks apply to the case of fragment answers that surface with case
markings, as with the examples from Modern Greek ((2.5) and (2.6)). In the context
40 Bezuidenhout
of the questions asked (‘Who saw Maria?’ and ‘Who did Maria see?’), the argument
roles for the act of seeing are already determined. For example, in (2.5), Maria is the
person seen and so the query is about the agent of the seeing. Thus, on the
assumption that syntactic structures are stored in the lexicon along with argument
structures, lexical knowledge of the verb ‘see’ would determine the correct case
marking for the fragment answer, which supplies information about the person
who played the agent role and thus must be marked with nominative case. Again,
see McDonald et al. (1994: 688).
There are some languages where case marking on fragment answers seems rather
idiosyncratic. For example, in German, the verb for ‘to follow’ requires its direct
object to be marked with the dative case as opposed to the accusative case, whereas
this is not so with other verbs, such as the verb for ‘to seek’/ ‘to look for’. Thus, in
German, a fragment answer to the question, ‘Who is John following?’, would require
a nominal marked with the dative case, whereas a fragment answer to the question,
‘Who is John looking for?’, requires a nominal marked with the accusative case. See
Merchant (2004: 677) for examples.
However, it seems to me that the same answer I gave earlier with respect to the
Modern Greek examples would work for the German examples too. On the assump-
tion that the lexicon pairs argument structures with syntactic structures, simply
knowing the argument role for an entity is sufﬁcient for knowing its correct case
marking. It does not matter that for certain verbs the case marking on the object is
rather idiosyncratic. Thus it might be that an entity playing the same argument role
(e.g., the patient role) in two different actions will be referred to by a nominal
expression with different case markings, depending on the case marking properties
of the verbs used to describe the actions (e.g., when the entity is referred to by a
nominal which is the object of the German verb for ‘to follow’ versus the one for ‘to
seek’). This simply means that speakers of these languages have to learn the excep-
tional case marking properties for certain verbs.
There are also cases of short answers that seem to demonstrate anti-connectivity
effects. In support of a non-sentential analysis of short answers, Casielles (2007)
appeals to certain anti-connectivity effects. Two examples of such effects that she
discusses are given in what follows.
2.2.5. Inﬁnitival short answers
These answers seem to be base-generated, as they are not obviously remnants of a full
sentence, where a constituent has been moved to the periphery prior to deletion. For
example, the underlying full form of B’s answer ‘Play baseball’ cannot correspond to
(2.7(1)), as that is ungrammatical.
(2.7) A: What did John do?
B: Play baseball.
Structuring Silence versus the Structure of Silence 41
(1)* John play baseball.
(2) What John did is play baseball.
One response is to suggest that the underlying full form of which the inﬁnitival short
answer is a remnant is a pseudocleft construction, as in (2.7(2)). In other words, the
inﬁnitival short answer encodes a focal element, which is moved to a peripheral
position prior to deletion.
2.2.6. Negative responses
In the Example (2.8), the negative short answer ‘Not to John’ is plausibly base-
generated as there is not a natural full form of which the answer is a remnant. For
instance, the full form could not correspond to (2.8(1)), as that is not grammatical:
(2.8) A: Who did you talk to?
B: Not to John.
(1)* I talked not to John.
(2) It is not to John that I talked.
One suggestion is that the source of the short answer is an it-cleft construction, such as
in Example (2.8(2)). Casielles (2007) notes that it is counterintuitive to think that the
source would be so complex. Also, this would predict that children must ﬁrst acquire
this cleft construction before they can give short answers—a problem since children give
short answers early in language development (e.g., ‘Who gave you that?’ ‘Mommy’).
I agree with Casielles that in both the inﬁnitival short answer case and negative
answer case it is implausible to think that the underlying full form is something as
complicated as a pseudocleft or an it-cleft construction, such as (2.7(2)) or (2.8(2)).
However, I think there is a more serious objection to these proposals than the
complexity one. The whole point of the movement-and-deletion account is that a
phrase can be moved to the periphery, to a focal position, and the remainder of the
material can be elided, because the elided material corresponds to what is presup-
posed by the question to which the fragment is an answer. Hence the elided material
is easily recoverable from context. In other words, informational structural consider-
ations about what is in focus versus what is presupposed play a role in determining
what is explicitly realized and what is elided.
On the other hand, pseudocleft and it-cleft constructions are constructions which
are typically used to mark informational structural properties, such as what is in
focus versus what is presupposed. So if the underlying full forms for the fragment
answers ‘Play baseball’ and ‘Not to John’ were (2.7(2)) and (2.8(2)) respectively, then
the very same information structural considerations would be used twice over—once
to generate the full underlying form and then a second time to decide what can be
expressed and what can be elided. This double use of information structural consid-
erations may seem harmless when we are focused simply on the task of presenting a
42 Bezuidenhout
formal syntactic theory of ellipsis. But for those who wish to use this syntactic theory
as a model for elliptical speech production and comprehension, this duplication is
problematic, as it would represent an unnecessary processing loop. If informational
structural considerations are already salient, they can be used directly by a speaker to
produce a focal phrase without having to ﬁrst form an it-cleft or pseudocleft
construction and then having to engage in a movement and deletion process.
I have focused on short answers, as Merchant (2010) argues that they provide the
best evidence for his silent syntax model of ellipsis. The silent syntax model of ellipsis
is harder to defend when it comes to the sorts of sub-sentences that Rob Stainton
(2006b) has made so much of. In the case of such sub-sentences it is implausible to
claim that there is some syntactic structure that is deleted before spell-out since what
is not articulated frequently does not correspond to a syntactic constituent that could
be subject to deletion. See the debate between Stainton (2006b, 2006a) and Merchant
(2010) on this topic, as well as the essays in Elugardo and Stainton (2005).
However, despite this fact, and despite the fact that I’ve raised objections against
the claim that connectivity effects are decisive evidence for short answers being
remnants of full forms rather than base-generated, for the sake of argument, I will
grant, for the remainder of this chapter, that Merchant’s movement and deletion
account provides us with an adequate formal model of ellipsis. What I intend to do in
the remainder of this chapter is to argue that this gives us no reason to think that
comprehension and production of elliptical speech involves silent syntax. Of course,
if formal models are merely rational reconstructions of underlying processes, then
advocates of these formal models are likely to be unmoved by the idea that their
models are not psychologically real. So my objections are not to the formal models
per se but are directed at those who take these formal models to be or to straightfor-
wardly correspond to psychological models.
2.3. From syntactic theory to psychological processing models
One of the principal aims of this chapter is to argue that it is a mistake to read off a
psychological processing story of the production and comprehension of elliptical
speech directly from a formal syntactic model of ellipsis. Furthermore, the silent
syntax view is especially implausible as an account of ellipsis comprehension, if this is
construed as requiring hearers to recover the silent syntax prior to interpreting the
elliptical utterance. (I hope it is clear that there would be no point to recovering the
silent syntax after the elliptical utterance has been interpreted.)
The idea that elliptical speech involves the deletion of syntactic structure by the
speaker prior to articulation and that the hearer then must (re-)build that structure
during the interpretation process seems to assume a picture of communication that is
sometimes referred to as the Code Model of Communication (CMC). According the
CMC, communication begins with an idea in the mind of the speaker S that S wishes
Structuring Silence versus the Structure of Silence 43
to convey to the hearer H. S then encodes the idea in linguistic form and articulates
this form. This articulation results in a physical signal that can be transmitted
through space-time and be perceptually detected by H. Upon detecting this signal,
H then transforms it into a linguistic form that can be decoded to reveal the idea it
conveys. And thus the idea ends up in H’s mind. We can represent this process by
means of the following ﬂow diagram:
S has idea à S encodes it in linguistic form à Form is articulated à Physical signal
is transmitted à Physical signal is perceptually detected by H à Signal is trans-
formed into linguistic form à Form is decoded à H has idea.
The possibility of elliptical speech requires us to add a few more intervening stages
to this process. We must allow for a stage at which the speaker prunes full forms
before spell-out (ie, before these are articulated). This in turn necessitates a step on
the part of the hearer of rebuilding the full forms before decoding them. So the
modiﬁed ﬂow diagram would look like this:
S has idea à S encodes it in linguistic form à Full form is pruned à Short form is
articulated à Physical signal is transmitted à Physical signal is perceptually
detected by H à Signal is transformed into linguistic form à Short form is
expanded at ellipsis site à Full form is decoded à H has idea.
Of course this diagram simpliﬁes the process greatly. Each of the arrows in the
diagram represents the causal principles and rules that are applied at a particular
stage to move from one event to the next and these may be very complex rules that
rely on many sorts of inputs. Moreover, each of the events represented in the diagram
may be very complex, consisting of nested sub-events that themselves involve sub-
processes that operate according to speciﬁc rules and principles. Nevertheless, the
general idea behind the CMC is that, in order for a speaker to convey an idea to
hearer, the idea must be fully represented by some linguistic structure. Only as much
as is represented in language can be conveyed, since the process depends on decod-
ing, and only what is decoded will be delivered to the hearer. If the fragment was the
only structure present, only a fragmentary idea could be conveyed. Thus a fragment
can convey a complete idea only if there is silent or submerged structure present too
that supports the complete idea.
The ideal situation is one in which speakers produce full forms. The problem is
that there may be pressures to produce short forms, say because of the possibility of
articulatory bottlenecks or because of considerations of efﬁciency. The CMC can only
allow this if full forms are recoverable by the hearer. Thus speakers will prune full
forms prior to articulation only when there are reasons for thinking that the hearer
can recover the silent syntax. For example, it may be that in processing a short answer
to a WH-question, the hearer still has available a representation of relevant syntactic
structure, on the basis of having previously formulated the WH-question to which
44 Bezuidenhout
the short answer is a reply. That syntactic structure can be copied to the ellipsis site,
creating a full form that the hearer can subsequently decode.
The issue to be addressed in the remainder of this chapter is whether this is a
conceptually coherent and/or empirically supported picture of the comprehension of
elliptical speech.
2.4. Conceptual and empirical objections to syntactic copying view
On the conceptual front, one immediate question that is raised by the view of ellipsis
comprehension sketched in the previous section is how hearers recognize when a
previously created representation of syntactic structure is relevant and available for
the copying procedure that is hypothesized to occur. (For my purposes, it is irrelevant
whether copying involves reusing structure already built or building structure from
scratch using already built structure as a model. I will call both alternatives ‘copying’.)
Consider the question–answer (Q-A) pair from Section 2.2:
(2.1) A: Who did Mary see?
B: John
It seems that a hearer must already have recognized that B’s short answer is intended
as a reply to A’s question (and not, say, an exclamation made by B because she has
just seen John walking towards her). Furthermore, to see B’s response as an answer to
A’s question requires the hearer to understand
 that the question presupposes that Mary saw someone
 that the questioner is asking to be supplied with a candidate for this someone
seen
 that John is a potential candidate for being the individual seen
Since this already completes all the tasks needed to understand the conversational
exchange, the utility of recovering silent syntax is not obvious.2
Comprehension
processes that go considerably beyond the syntactic level will already have been
undertaken. Thus we should question the utility of this process—that searches for
syntactic structure, copies it to the ellipsis site, and then interprets this structure—when
the interpretation that results is one that is already available to the hearer and is in any
case needed to identify the structure to be copied. This is a circular and therefore
useless process. It should be especially obvious how useless this interpretive loop would
2
When I say it completes all the tasks necessary for comprehension, I am passing over comprehension
issues that are not particularly germane to my current concerns. Of course, the hearer will also have to
identify a suitable referent for ‘John’ in the context and that will involve tasks such as searching for a
contextually (either cognitively or perceptually) salient human male who goes by that name. Or maybe
John is Mary’s pet dog, or ‘John’ is shared code for a female spy, or ‘John’ is being used in a deferred way
and what Mary actually saw was a movie clip about John.
Structuring Silence versus the Structure of Silence 45
be for a hearer who is the one who formulated the question to which the short answer
is a reply (as opposed to a third party who overhears the conversational exchange).
I turn now to an all too brief discussion of some empirical work that allegedly
establishes that ellipsis comprehension involves copying (or otherwise rebuilding)
syntactic structure at the ellipsis site. A full investigation of this issue would require a
much more thorough survey of the empirical literature than I can give here. Phillips and
Parker (2012) have done an excellent survey of psycholinguistic work on ellipsis. One of
the issues they discuss is whether there is empirical evidence for phonologically null
structure at the ellipsis site and they survey a number of experimental studies addressed
to this question. Their conclusion about these studies is that ‘they have provided much
information on the speed and sophistication of ellipsis resolution, but that they do not,
in general, distinguish evidence on how antecedents are accessed from evidence on how
the ellipsis site is represented’ (2012: 23). I will mention just a couple of such studies and
explain why I am sceptical that they establish the existence of silent syntax.
Shapiro et al. (2003) conducted a cross-modal priming task meant to test whether,
in cases of verb phrase ellipsis (VPE), syntactic structure is present at the site of the
ellipsis (their Experiment 3). Participants listened to sentences such as (2.9) and at
certain points in the auditory presentation of the sentence they saw a visual display
and had to decide whether the display was a word or non-word of English:
(2.9) The mailman bought a tie for Easter, and his brother, who was [1] playing
volleyball, did [2] too, according to the sales clerk.
In the trials of interest, a semantic associate of the ﬁrst clause subject noun (N) (e.g.,
‘stamp’, which is related to ‘mailman’), a semantic associate of the ﬁrst clause object
N (e.g., ‘neck’, which is related to ‘tie’), or an unrelated control word (e.g., ‘steer’ or
‘rose’) was displayed at either at a pre-ellipsis point [1] or at the ellipsis site [2]. (Probe
position was a between-subjects factor and probe type was a within-subjects factor.)
No priming effects were found for semantic associates of ﬁrst clause subject Ns at
either probe position. However, semantic associates of ﬁrst clause object Ns did show
a priming effect at the ellipsis site (Shapiro et al. 2003: 10–11). That is, participants
were quicker at this probe point to judge that these were words, compared to the
semantically unrelated control words, suggesting that in cases of VPE, the verb
phrase antecedent is re-accessed at the ellipsis site.
Shapiro et al.’s prediction for their Experiment 3 was as follows:
However, if—as we have been suggesting—what is copied or reconstructed at the VP-ellipsis
site is only the VP, then we should observe activation only for the argument that is recon-
structed with the VP, that, is, only the object NP (2003: 9).
Thus they take their ﬁnding (that only semantic associates of ﬁrst clause object NPs
show a priming effect) as evidence for their syntactic copying or reconstruction view.
However, at best, their evidence shows that the information represented by the VP
46 Bezuidenhout
antecedent is accessed during VP ellipsis interpretation, not that any sort of syntactic
copying operation is carried out. And it is a truism that such antecedent information
must be accessed for the successful resolution of the ellipsis. Moreover, since the
priming was for a semantic associate of the ﬁrst clause object NP, it cannot be ruled
out that it was merely conceptual information that became re-activated, as opposed
to syntactic structure.
Snider and Runner (2010) conducted two Visual World eye-tracking experiments
meant to test for syntactic structure at the ellipsis site in cases of VPE. In their
Experiment 1, participants heard sentences such as (2.10) in one of four possible
conditions:
(2.10) The security guard opened the lock and the night watchman . . .
. . . did too. (VPE)
. . . did it too. (VP anaphora)
. . . dropped it. (Pronoun)
. . . slept. (Intransitive)
During the auditory presentation of the sentence, participants had their eye move-
ments monitored as they looked at a visual display containing a picture of the entity
referred to by the ﬁrst clause object N (the target), a picture of a semantically related
entity, and two control pictures. For instance, in (2.10), the target and related entities
were a lock and a key respectively. In Snider and Runner’s Experiment 2, the
semantically related control entity was replaced by an entity referred to by a phono-
logical associate of the ﬁrst clause object N. In (2.10), the target and related entities
were a lock and a log respectively. (Experimental sentences had to be modiﬁed so that
the phonological associate was a possible target. Thus, in (2.10), instead of ‘opened
the lock’ the participants heard ‘dropped the lock’.)
Previous studies using this Visual World paradigm have found that nouns activate
semantically and phonologically related words, as evidenced by the fact that in the
search for the entity referred to by a noun, there are correspondingly more looks to
entities referred to by semantic or phonological associates of the noun than to
unrelated control entities. Snider and Runner replicated this ﬁnding for the ﬁrst
clauses in their experimental items. However, the main point of their experiments
was to test what happens in the second, elliptical clauses. They reasoned that only if
there is (silent) syntactic structure present at the ellipsis site in VPE would such
semantic and phonological priming effects occur. Moreover, the point of having
conditions comparing VPE with VP anaphora is that in the latter case silent syntax is
not predicted to occur; rather the prediction for VP anaphora is that semantic/
conceptual structure will be reactivated on encountering the anaphoric expression.
In their Experiment 1 (see (2.10)), with respect to second clauses, Snider and
Runner found a greater proportion of looks to both the target (e.g., lock) and the
semantically related (e.g., key) entities compared to the distractor entities in both the
Structuring Silence versus the Structure of Silence 47
VPE and VP anaphora conditions compared to the intransitive control condition.
They take this as evidence that the target entity and the semantically related entity are
reactivated during VPE and VP anaphor processing. They claim that this is consistent
with syntactic structure being present at the VP ellipsis site and with the claim that
conceptual structure is reactivated in VP anaphora resolution. However, as the effect
of a semantic associate was found in both the VPE and VP anaphora conditions, their
evidence doesn’t distinguish between VPE and VP anaphora and thus (as they
acknowledge), this experiment does not by itself provide positive evidence for the
silent syntax view of VPE.
In their Experiment 2, with respect to the ﬁrst clauses in their experimental items,
they again replicated previous visual world studies, showing an effect of the phono-
logical associate (e.g., log). That is, generally speaking, there were more looks to both
the target and the phonological associate as compared with unrelated controls on
encountering the object N. With respect to second clauses, Snider and Runner found
some evidence that the target entity is reactivated in the VPE and VP anaphora
conditions (as well as in their Pronoun condition) compared with the intransitive
control. However, there was evidence that the phonological associate was reactivated
only in the VPE condition compared to the intransitive control. They take this to
support the claim that there is syntactic structure at the VP ellipsis site and that only
semantic structure is reactivated in VP anaphora.
One question about these ﬁndings is whether it indeed establishes that syntactic
structure is copied to or rebuilt at the ellipsis site. Commenting on this ﬁnding,
Phillips and Parker write: ‘We agree that it is interesting if lexical properties of
VP-ellipsis antecedents are accessed at ellipsis sites, but we do not agree that this
entails that there is explicit structure at the ellipsis site’ (2012: 17). I concur with this
comment. The evidence we have so far is that the phonological form of the object
N in the VP antecedent is reactivated during ellipsis resolution. The lexical entry for a
noun contains information about its phonological form. This phonological infor-
mation would have been activated when the VP antecedent was processed. Hence
this information would be available to be reactivated during ellipsis resolution.
However, even if this information is reactivated, this would not establish that an
entire VP is copied to or rebuilt at the ellipsis site.
Snider and Runner might respond that such phonological information would have
been accessed on encountering the VP antecedent in the VP anaphora condition too,
but in this condition there was no evidence of the phonological information being
reactivated at the anaphora site. The fact that there is a difference between VPE and
VP anaphora of this sort shows that not only semantic information but also syntactic
information is important for VP ellipsis resolution. However, what the data shows is
merely that lexical information associated with an antecedent word is accessed again
at the ellipsis site, not that syntactic structure is copied to or built at the site. There is
no evidence that the phonological effect is the causal result of syntactic structure that
48 Bezuidenhout
is in place at the ellipsis site and which induces the hearer to re-access the lexicon and
activate phonological information associated with constituent words. In any case, as
I argued at the beginning of this section, such a picture of ellipsis resolution is
conceptually problematic. What is the utility of a process that requires the hearer
to rebuild syntactic structure and then to go through the process of interpreting this
structure by accessing the lexicon to get semantic and phonological information that
has already been accessed during the process of interpreting the VP antecedent?
I will mention just one more experimental study, one that reaches the opposite
conclusion from that reached by Shapiro et al. (2003) and Snider and Runner (2010).
Cai et al. (2012) address the issue of whether (silent) syntactic structure is present at the
ellipsis site by testing for structural priming at the ellipsis site. The background here is
that there are a number of experimental studies that have demonstrated a structural
priming effect in both production and comprehension. Structural priming refers to the
phenomenon that people are more likely to use the same syntactic construction that
they or others have just used. For example, Bock (1986) had her participants read
priming sentences with dative verbs that used either the double object (DO) construc-
tion or the prepositional object (PO) construction, such as the following:
(DO) A rock climber sold an undercover agent some cocaine.
(PO) A rock climber sold some cocaine to an undercover agent.
Participants then had to describe a semantically unrelated target picture. Speakers
were more likely to describe the picture in a sentence using the double-object
construction after having been primed with the (DO) sentence than with the (PO)
sentence. One of the main points of Bock’s study was to show that this priming
appears to be pure structural priming, rather than driven by semantic or conceptual
considerations, as the priming sentences and target pictures used in her study were
semantically unrelated.
Cai et al. (2012) argue that structural priming can be a good tool for testing for
silent syntax. Since we know that explicit syntax has priming effects, we can assume
that silent syntax will have similar effects. Thus if we can demonstrate structural
priming effects in the processing of elliptical speech, this would be good evidence for
phonologically null syntactic structure at the ellipsis site. Cai et al. conducted a study
with native speakers of Mandarin, using Mandarin sentences containing VPE. The
antecedent sentences used either the DO or the PO construction. Cai et al. (2011) had
previously shown that the DO/PO alternation in Mandarin has structural priming
effects. The task in their ellipsis experiment was similar to the one used by Bock
(1986). Participants heard pairs of sentences and then had to describe a picture using
the same dative verb used in the priming sentence. The ﬁrst sentence in the pair was
the priming sentence and used a dative verb with either the DO or PO construction.
In the ellipsis condition, the ﬁrst sentence also contained the VP antecedent for the
VP ellipsis. The second sentence began with an adjunct phrase to increase the
Structuring Silence versus the Structure of Silence 49
distance between the prime and the ellipsis site. In control conditions, the second
sentence either contained a full form that used the same DO or PO construction as
the ﬁrst sentence, or it contained a neutral sentence that did not use a dative
construction of any sort. An example of pairs of sentences in the ellipsis condition
is as follows:
DO-ellipsis condition: The waitress would like to lend the sailor the gun. Being afraid
of getting into trouble the chef would not like to.
PO-ellipsis condition: The waitress would like to lend the gun to the sailor. Being
afraid of getting into trouble the chef would not like to.
The logic behind this design is that if there is no more priming in the ellipsis
condition than in the neutral baseline condition (where the second sentence contains
no dative construction of any sort), this is prima facie incompatible with the view that
there is silent syntax present at the ellipsis site. On the other hand, if the priming
effect in the ellipsis condition is similar to the priming in the condition where the
second sentence is a full sentence using the same dative construction as the ﬁrst
sentence, this would support the silent syntax view. What Cai et al. found was that
the ‘magnitude of priming following an elliptical sentence was less than that
following a repeated DP or PO structure, and was equivalent to (and possibly even
less than) that following a neutral sentence that did not repeat the DO or PO
structure’ (2012: 10) They argue that this tells against the idea of a copying mechanism
in the comprehension of VPE, where syntactic structure is copied to the ellipsis site.
There are aspects of this study that might be criticized. For example, the adjunct
phrases that were used were not particularly well controlled. The idea of adding these
phrases was to increase the distance between the prime and the ellipsis site, but
sometimes these consisted of a single word and sometimes of a lengthy phrase.
Moreover, they were of different semantic and syntactic types; some were subordin-
ated clauses (e.g., ‘because the portrait was not yet ﬁnished’), some were participial
phrases used as introductory modiﬁers (e.g., ‘wishing to keep it secret’), and some
were sentential adverbials (eg ‘surprisingly’ or ‘unexpectedly’). However, overall, this
study presents a challenge to the syntactic copying view of VPE comprehension.
As a group, the three empirical studies mentioned in this section do not build a
strong case in support of the syntactic copying view of ellipsis comprehension. At
best, one can say that the jury is still out on this issue. Combined with the conceptual
argument I gave at the beginning of this section (namely, the one that questions the
utility of a processing loop involving a stage of copying and/or rebuilding syntax at
the ellipsis site prior to conceptual resolution of the ellipsis), I believe that there are
strong reasons for being sceptical of the syntactic copying account. For an alternative
perspective on this issue, see Merchant et al. (Chapter 1) and the experimental
evidence that they present.
50 Bezuidenhout
2.5. Conclusions
In this chapter I have tried to give both philosophical and empirical reasons for being
sceptical of the idea that the comprehension of elliptical speech involves copying and/
or re-building phonologically null syntactic structure at the ellipsis site. The formal
syntactic theory of ellipsis that posits silent syntax that Merchant (2001, 2004, 2010,
2008) argues for may be theoretically well motivated and account elegantly for our
grammatical intuitions about elliptical sentences. However, it is a mistake to think that a
psychological processing model can be read off straightforwardly from a formal syntac-
tic model of elliptical sentences. The latter is at best a rational reconstruction of the
actual psychological processes of comprehension and production of elliptical speech.
I have focused just on the comprehension side of elliptical speech. However, I am
as sceptical of the silent syntax model of production as I am of the silent syntax model
of comprehension. Both seem to me to be committed to a problematic theory of
communication, namely the Code Model of Communication (CMC). In Section 2.3
I represented the CMC as applied to elliptical speech by means of the following ﬂow
diagram:
S has idea à S encodes it in linguistic form à Full form is pruned à Short form is
articulated à Physical signal is transmitted à Physical signal is perceptually
detected by H à Signal is transformed into linguistic form à Short form is
expanded at ellipsis site à Full form is decoded à H has idea
If one thinks that the transmission of an idea from a speaker to a hearer involves
simple decoding on the part of the hearer (and not any sort of ampliative inference),
and that only as much content as resides in the decoded message can be retrieved by
the hearer, then inasmuch as we believe that speakers can convey complete thoughts,
we seem obliged to posit a stage at which abbreviated signals are reconstructed as full
syntactic forms prior to decoding/interpreting.
However, the CMC can be challenged. Speakers and hearers can rely on one
another to engage in inferential processes in addition to linguistic encoding and
decoding processes. These inferential processes treat linguistic cues as just one sort of
input alongside input from various other sources (e.g., perception, memory, social
cognition). In such a cognitive environment, speakers can communicate complete
thoughts even by the production of partial forms, and hearers can recover these full
contents even though the only syntactic structure present in the linguistic cues is
their overt syntax. This alternative picture of communication would be represented
by the following ﬂow diagram:
S has complete idea à S infers that idea need not be fully clothed à S partially encodes
the idea à Partial form is articulated à Physical signal is transmitted à Physical
signal is perceptually detected by H à Signal is transformed into partial linguistic form
Structuring Silence versus the Structure of Silence 51
à Decoded partial form is used as one input along with others into an inferential
process à H has complete idea
This is a picture in which there is no silent syntax in elliptical speech. Rather,
speakers and hearers are able to structure the silence by using conceptual and
procedural information available in the context (hence the title of my chapter).
I hope that I have at least succeeded in showing that we should be cautious in
moving from syntactic theories about sentence types to psychological models of
speech processing. I believe that much more work is needed to bridge this gap
between the formal realm and the psychological realm and that until this gap in
addressed we will not be able to devise adequate psychological models for empirical
testing.
52 Bezuidenhout
3
On Coordination in Dialogue:
Sub-sentential Talk and its
Implications
ELENI GREGOROMICHELAKI, RONNIE CANN,
AND RUTH KEMPSON
3.1. Introduction: brevity, communication, and meaning
According to a standard view of linguistic communication, a speaker who has a
certain proposition (thought) in his/her mind manages to express it by forming and
fulﬁlling the intention of getting the hearer to recognize that he/she has that thought.
This transfer of propositions is mediated through the performance of speech acts (e.g.,
assertion) where the speaker selects a sentence in the expectation that, on the basis of
this choice and the circumstances of utterance, the hearer will be able to infer the
intended proposition. Grice’s foundational work on speaker’s meaning (a variety of
so-called meaningNonNatural) and principles for rationality and co-operation in con-
versation brought to the fore that there was a vast gap between what can be taken as
provided by a grammar reﬂecting linguistic competence in the form of sentence-
meanings paired with strings of the language, and the rich diversity of utterance
interpretation, often only very indirectly related to what might be identiﬁed as some
base linguistic meaning.
Over the subsequent years, the gulf between ‘sentence meaning’ and the concept of
‘speaker meaning’ has given rise to two primary paths of pragmatic research.
Linguists either (as they saw it) broadly followed Grice in terms of deﬁning the
utterance content which a speaker intended to convey via normative maxims of co-
operative behaviour (possibly via apparent violations of such maxims) or they
pursued cognitive approaches (see, e.g., Sperber and Wilson 1986). And a few linguists
advocated some mixture of these two (see, e.g., Levinson 2000). What is common to all
such characterizations is their individualistic inferential nature. It is simply presumed
that utterance interpretation involves recognition of some (set of) propositions
intended by the speaker.
This chapter shows the problems that elliptical phenomena, most prevalent in
conversational dialogue, raise for these approaches, and argues for a distinct lan-
guage-as-action perspective that penetrates deeper than usually assumed, that is,
inside the mechanisms of the grammar itself. We assume as our point of departure
a characterization of ellipsis as a form of brevity of expression (see Goldstein,
Introduction to this volume), rather than as involving something being left out of
an utterance that has to be reconstructed. Under standard views, ellipsis might be
seen as required either through the conversational maxim of perspicuousness or via
the various computations to minimize effort employed by the cognitive approaches.
Yet, by retaining the view that utterance understanding invariably involves recover-
ing a proposition, such pragmatic views require that the respective avoidance of
prolixity or articulatory effort has to be compensated for by either encoded syntactic/
semantic principles or application of inferential procedures, or possibly both, in
order to yield the requisite ‘complete’ thought. In line with this, many varieties of
ellipsis are postulated by researchers—syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic—each of
these further subdivided. Embracing this diversity and incommensurability is then
taken to justify the fragmentation of the knowledge involved in using language into
(informationally encapsulated) modular components (see, e.g., Merchant (forthcom-
ing); Martí 2009; Stainton 2006b). This view, which we attribute to a mistaken
conception of the nature of NL grammars, we seek to challenge.
While nevertheless giving recognition to diverse ellipsis types within the grammar,
Stainton (2006b) and Elugardo and Stainton (2001) have questioned the assumption
that use of sentences is an essential precondition for successful communication (with
ensuing debate with Merchant). To the contrary, they show that speakers can
perform genuine speech acts from sub-sentential constituents, using inferential
mechanisms, and without the need to ﬁrst recover complete syntactic sentences or
sentence contents. In this chapter, we show that examination of the extensive use of
elliptical fragments in dialogue suggests a more radical view: the mechanisms of the
grammar can themselves directly serve the same function of performing intelligible
speech acts—which we characterize as grammar-induced speech acts (see Section 3.3)—
without requiring either steps of inference or recovery of propositions. Since, as we
shall argue, these mechanisms are low-level unconscious processes that do not
plausibly involve propositional inference or standard notions of ‘rationality’ and
‘co-operation’, we shall conclude, more contentiously, that there is need to revise
the assumption which others take to be the backdrop for pragmatic debates: that
communication is achieved through manipulation of propositional intentions via
(conscious or unconscious) conceptual reasoning processes. However, even more
contentiously, we will argue that the data are also counterexamples to ‘autonomous
syntax’ types of approaches (see, e.g., Merchant (forthcoming); Martí 2009). We shall
54 Gregoromichelaki, Cann, and Kempson
argue, to the contrary, that the mechanisms which constitute the core syntax are
qualitatively continuous with those that ground the interpersonal practices that
make manifest inferential effects that cannot be characterized strictly at an indi-
vidualistic level of analysis (compare Brandom 1994; see Preston 1994). This conclu-
sion will be reached by taking as our primary basis for modelling ellipsis resolution
the effects of coordination between participants—a fundamental feature of conver-
sational dialogue (see, e.g., Pickering and Garrod 2004). One such effect, brevity in
forms of expression, results from mechanisms for context-dependent growth of
interpretation which the processing system itself makes available without needing
any inferentially—and hence propositionally—mediated co-operation by the dia-
logue partners. This will lead us to question the centrality of intention-recognition
as the basis for utterance interpretation, and, as a corollary, to re-evaluate the
presumed gulf between linguistic competence and language performance.
3.2. Ellipsis and the syntax–semantics–pragmatics interface
In current accounts, the consensus is that ellipsis is not a homogeneous phenom-
enon. Rather, it splits into syntactic types, semantically controlled bases for ellipsis,
and pragmatic types, with only the latter type depending on context for its construal.
The general background for both syntactic and semantic accounts is the method-
ology of conventional grammars which dictate the sentence as the unit of character-
ization: the only forms of ellipsis addressed here have been those where the ellipsis
site can in some sense be reconstructed sententially:
(3.1) A: Have you seen Mary?
(a) B: Mary? [(Are you asking:) Have I seen Mary?] [clariﬁcation]
(b) B: No, I haven’t. [No, I haven’t seen Mary.] [VP-ellipsis]
(c) B: Yes, and Tom too. [I have seen Mary and I have seen Tom.] [Stripping]
Thus (3.1a) can be understood as an echo of the original question, (3.1b) as the negative
answer and so on. Indeed (3.1) illustrates a number of different ellipsis types. Each
such type has been argued to be a separate syntactic phenomenon on the evidence of
apparently different structural constraints governing their reconstruction as full
sentential forms, operational at some level of abstraction at which certain structures
and special null elements are present but are not pronounced (of which there is a long
tradition, see, e.g., Hankamer and Sag 1976). Examples taken to illustrate this include
VP-ellipsis, stripping, gapping, and sluicing (see Ginzburg and Sag 2000; Ginzburg and
Cooper 2004 as representative of HPSG-style accounts; Merchant (forthcoming) as
representative of minimalist (deletion) forms of account).
In other cases, not formally distinct from the above, a semantic explanation has
nevertheless been argued to be required since, for a single antecedent form, ambigu-
ity in interpretation arises:
On Coordination in Dialogue: Sub-sentential Talk and its Implications 55
(3.2) John checked over his mistakes, and so did Bill/Bill did too.
a. ‘Bill checked Bill’s mistakes’ [sloppy]
b. ‘Bill checked John’s mistakes’ [strict]
In such analyses, this is taken to reﬂect a process of abstraction over some content
provided by the antecedent (‘John checked over John’s mistakes’) creating distinct
abstracts to apply to the content of the fragment in the elliptical conjunct. (‘ºx. x
checked x’s mistakes’ / ‘ºx. John checked x’s mistakes’) (see Dalrymple et al. 1991, the
point of departure for semantic analyses since). Hence, the semantic explanation
involves a special-purpose semantic rule for resolving the content of such ellipsis
sites. Under this conception, information from context then needs to be invoked to
disambiguate the multiplicity of predicates generated by the semantic rule.
Beyond the syntax/semantics controversy, there are yet further cases where, it is
claimed, there is no linguistically determined basis for assigning interpretation to the
fragment. These are the cases observed by Elugardo and Stainton (2001) and Stainton
(2006b), who argue that such cases have to be seen as speech acts performed without
recourse to a linguistically determined sentential/propositional structure, it being
non-linguistic aspects of context that determine the fragment’s construal:
(3.3) Sanjay and Silvia are loading up a van. Silvia is looking for a missing table leg.
Sanjay says:
‘On the stoop’
According to Elugardo and Stainton, in such cases, ﬁrst, it is evident that speakers
mean more than what is articulated, that is, a word/phrase of semantic type <e> or
<e,t> etc. In fact, the speaker conveys a proposition. Second, what is conveyed is not
merely conversationally implicated, since it is hard to cancel the intended propos-
ition, and because there are clear commitments to a set of truth-conditions induced
by the sub-sentential form uttered. Thus, in such uses, we have a proposition
asserted, despite a phonologically/syntactically/semantically ‘incomplete’ form.
Elugardo’s and Stainton’s insights aside, division of ellipsis into syntactic/seman-
tic/pragmatic types by no means exhausts the range of competencies involved in
successful manipulation of utterance fragments. Syntacticians/semanticists have until
recently neglected dialogue phenomena, for example the phenomenon of clariﬁca-
tion in Example (3.1), though this omission is gradually being rectiﬁed, with Ginzburg
and colleagues leading this recent movement (e.g., Ginzburg 2012). Extending the
Dalrymple et al. pattern, Ginzburg and Sag (2000), Ginzburg and Cooper (2004),
Fernandez (2006), and Purver (2006) deﬁne multiple types of abstraction mechan-
isms to reﬂect distinct types of ellipsis, unifying characterizations over semantic,
syntactic, and morphological speciﬁcations. But, in retaining the sentence-based
methodology and a separate level of syntactic analysis, this approach is problematic.
With such fragments having to be categorized as full sentences syntactically and
56 Gregoromichelaki, Cann, and Kempson
semantically, various predetermined speech act speciﬁcations are taken to be
encoded (so, e.g., Example (3.1) will have to yield a proposition like ‘Are you asking
me if I’ve seen Mary (of all people)’/ ‘Who are you referring to by Mary’, etc). This
has the immediate consequence of multiplying lexical/phrasal ambiguities for each
expression serving as a fragment since each grammatical constituent will have to be
assigned various distinct encoded interpretations and syntactic structures. Pragmatic
principles or some formal regimentation of contextual effects are then invoked to
resolve these as a disambiguation step. However, this strategy, which seeks to couple
syntactic and semantic/pragmatic effects in a linguistically determined approach to
the phenomena, cannot apply with full generality. Firstly, all the encoded speech act
effects proposed to be hardwired in the grammar by Ginzburg and colleagues can be
achieved without prior linguistic antecedents, a fact which undermines the claim that
the grammar requires the multiplicity of levels assumed:
(3.4) B is handing a brush to A:
A: for painting the wall? [clariﬁcation]
(3.5) B to A who is pointing at Harry: No, his sister [correction]
On the other hand, it is certainly the case that the use of fragments during
interaction follows linguistically determined constraints which indicate their appro-
priate integration in some structured representation. This is more evident in lan-
guages with rich morphology. For example, although Elugardo and Stainton (2001)
have shown that speakers can use fragments like the following in Example (3.6) to
perform speech acts that do not presuppose the recovery of a full sentence, languages
like German and Greek require that the fragment bears appropriate case speciﬁca-
tions, otherwise it is perceived as ungrammatical:
(3.6) Context: A and B enter a room and see a woman lying on the ﬂoor:
A to B: Schnell, den Arzt/*der Arzt [German]
‘Quick, the doctorACC /*the doctorNOM’
In such morphologically rich languages, fragments serving various dialogue func-
tions also have to bear the appropriate case, gender, or other morphological features,
while nevertheless having no linguistic antecedents:
(3.7) A is contemplating the space under the mirror while re-arranging the furni-
ture and B brings her a chair:
A: tin karekla tis mamas?/*i karekla tis mamas? Ise treli? [clariﬁcation]
the chairACC of mum’s/*the chairNOM of mum’s. Are you crazy? [Greek]
In our view, such data do not indicate that the presence of grammatical constraints
justiﬁes a distinct level of representation for linguistically determined structure
On Coordination in Dialogue: Sub-sentential Talk and its Implications 57
(compare Merchant (forthcoming); Martí 2009; Stainton 2006b). Rather, such gram-
matical restrictions indicate that the grammar itself has to be deﬁned appropriately in
order to model constraints on interaction (see also Ginzburg 2012) at a uniﬁed
representation that integrates input from various modalities.
One crucial attribute of this psycholinguistics-inspired syntactic modelling is the
commitment to reﬂecting the incremental nature of processing, again illustrated
most strikingly by dialogue. In conversation, utterances are often collaboratively
constructed, with what is said by individual contributors being highly elliptical as
they rely on the context in which the conversation takes place for their interpretation:
(3.8) Context: Friends of the Earth club meeting
A: So what is that? Is that er . . . booklet or something?
B: It’s a book
C: Book
B: Just . . . talking about al you know alternative
D: On erm . . . renewable yeah
B: energy really I think . . .
A: Yeah (from BNC1
)
Given orthodox assumptions, it is far from obvious how to address this split utterance
phenomenon. Standardly, the output of the grammar is a set of structures inhabited
by complete sentences, as input to some performance theory for further enrichment.
Upon such a view, none of these fragments will be included in the set of well-formed
expressions, so a syntactic explanation has no obvious starting point. There are
problems for semantic accounts also, for interruptions are possible at any point,
and in some cases so early that no intended propositional content is as yet ﬁxable. As
a result, accounts following the Dalrymple et al. (1991) ellipsis resolution algorithm
are not applicable without further assumptions:
(3.9) A. They X-rayed me, and took a urine sample, took a blood sample. Er, the
doctor
B: Chorlton? [clariﬁcation]
A: Chorlton, mhm, he examined me . . . (from BNC)
To undermine further the uniform applicability of the semantic account, such sub-
sentential switches involve speaker/hearer exchange of roles at any point, and across
all syntactic dependencies (Purver et al. 2009), which indicates that a purely semantic
account is not adequate:
1
BNC refers to data found in the British National Corpus, see Purver et al. 2009.
58 Gregoromichelaki, Cann, and Kempson
(3.10) A: I’m afraid I burned the buns.
B: Did you burn?
A: myself ? No, fortunately not.
(3.11) A: D’you know whether every waitress handed in
B: her tax forms?
A: or even any payslips?
(3.12) Gardener: I shall need the mattock.
Home-owner: The . . .
Gardener: mattock. For breaking up clods of earth. (from BNC)
(3.13) Therapist: What kind of work do you do?
Mother: on food service
Therapist: At_
Mother: uh post ofﬁce cafeteria downtown main point ofﬁce on Redwood
Therapist: Okay
(from Jones and Beach 1995, cited in Lerner 2004)
(3.14) A: or we could just haul: a:ll the skis in [the:] dorms
B: [we could] [haul all the skis into the dorm]
C: [hh uh hhuhhuh]
B: which
A: might work
B: might be the best (from Lerner 2004)
Within the syntax-based type of approach, Barton (2006) and Barton and Progo-
vac (2005) claim that the Minimalist Program, unlike other frameworks, allows
analyses in which Stainton types of sub-sentences can be licensed as independent
constructions without sentential reconstruction. However, the split-utterance data,
such as (3.8)–(3.14) above, go beyond what standard minimalist grammars generate
as traditional constituents. In addition, as it has frequently been noted, there are also
fragments that appear to be the result of transformations, hence the involvement of
syntax cannot simply be to license context-free constituents:
(3.15) I simply hold up the letter, saying nothing, and you ask:
Where from? [Wh-movement]
(from Ludlow 2005)
3.3. Intention-based accounts of dialogue ellipsis
The challenge of modelling the full word-by-word incrementality required in dia-
logue has recently been taken up by Poesio and Rieser (2010) (P&R henceforth), who
seek to explain the phenomenon through high-level accounts of coordination in
On Coordination in Dialogue: Sub-sentential Talk and its Implications 59
dialogue, namely, reasoning regarding intention-recognition. P&R set out a dialogue
model for German, deﬁning a thorough, ﬁne-grained account of dialogue interactiv-
ity. Their primary aim is to model collaborative completions, as in (3.10). Crucially,
their data comes from co-operative task-oriented dialogues where take-over by the
hearer relies on the remainder of the utterance taken to be understood or inferable
from mutual knowledge/common ground. Their account is an ambitious one in
that it aims at modelling the generation and realization of ‘joint intentions’ which
accounts for the production and comprehension of co-operative completions.
The P&R model hinges on two main points: the assumption of recognition of
interlocutors’ intentions according to shared joint plans (Bratman 1992), and the
use of incremental grammatical processing based on Lexicalized Tree Adjoining
Grammar (LTAG).
The P&R account marks a signiﬁcant advance in the analysis of such phenomena
in many respects and, signiﬁcantly, in that an incremental model of LTAG is
assumed. Nevertheless, this account still relies on the assumption of a string-based
level of analysis, for it is this which provides the top-down, predictive element
allowing the incremental integration of such continuations. However, exactly this
assumption would seem to impede a more general analysis, since there are cases
where split utterances cannot be seen as an extension by the second contributor of
the proffered string of words/sentence:
(3.16) Eleni: Is this yours or
Yo: Yours. [natural data]
In (3.16), the string of words that the completion yields is not at all what either
participant takes themselves to have constructed, collaboratively or otherwise. Simi-
larly, in (3.10) earlier, even though the grammar is responsible for the dependency
that licenses the reﬂexive anaphor myself, the explanation for A’s continuation in the
third turn of (3.10) cannot be string-based as then myself would not be locally bound
(its antecedent is you). Moreover, in LTAG (P&R’s syntactic framework) parsing
relies on the presence of a head that provides the skeleton of the structure. Yet, as
(3.9) and (3.14) indicate, utterance take-over can take place without the appearance of
the head that determines argument dependencies (see also Purver et al. 2009; Howes
et al. 2011). The data show that take-over can occur even across strict syntactic
dependencies, e.g. in an antecedent-anaphor relation such as (3.10), a quantiﬁer
and its dependent variable as in (3.11), and in (3.17) between a Negative Polarity
Item and its triggering environment, the question:
(3.17) A: Have you mended
B: any of your chairs? Not yet.
Given that such dependencies are deﬁned grammar-internally, the grammar is
needed to license such shared constructions. But string-based grammars cannot
60 Gregoromichelaki, Cann, and Kempson
account straightforwardly for many types of split utterances except by treating each
part as elliptical sentences requiring reconstruction of the missing elements with
case-speciﬁc adjustments to guarantee grammaticality/interpretability (as is needed
in (3.16)–(3.17)). Given that such splits can occur at any point, a syntactic account
would either necessitate processes of deletion of such power as to threaten theoretical
viability, or the multiplication of types of syntactic analyses, hence indeﬁnite struc-
tural homonymy, or both. Moreover, the rhetorical signiﬁcance of one participant’s
taking-over the structure initiated by the other (co-construction) gets lost in such
accounts (see later discussion of (3.13), (3.21), (3.26), and (3.27)).
Besides the problems engendered due to the assumption of an independent syntax,
further considerations threaten the explanatory generality of P&R-style accounts.
Even though the P&R model employs an incremental syntactic component, the
account relies on the generation and recognition of the speaker’s propositional
intentions as the basis for the processing model. Yet ﬁrstly, in free conversation, as
we saw earlier in (3.9), such fragments can occur before the informative intention—
which is standardly deﬁned as requiring a propositional object—has been made
manifest. Secondly, unlike what happens in P&R’s task-oriented dialogues, many
fragments do not involve straightforward participant co-operation or inference as to
the speaker’s intended utterance, hence a Gricean hierarchy of propositional inten-
tions is not applicable (see Gregoromichelaki et al. 2011). For example, in (3.14) and
the following examples, there is no reason to suppose that the continuation neces-
sarily ensues only after B has considered A’s intended utterance. B, who is in the
process of parsing A’s syntactic construction, just takes it over and appends material
serving their own purposes:
(3.18) (A and B arguing:)
A: In fact what this shows is
B: that you are an idiot
(3.19) (A mother, B son)
A: This afternoon ﬁrst you’ll do your homework, then wash the dishes
and then
B: you’ll give me $20?
(3.20) Daughter: Oh here dad, a good way to get those corners out
Dad: is to stick yer ﬁnger inside.
Daughter: well, that’s one way. (from Lerner 1991)
Moreover, such fragments can play multiple roles at the same time without any
basis for characterizing one of them as ‘indirect’ or ‘secondary’ (e.g., the fragments in
(3.10) and (3.16) can be simultaneously taken as question/clariﬁcation/completion/
acknowledgment/answer). As argued in the Conversational Analysis literature, if full
determination is even required, it will be effected by the recipient’s uptake. However,
On Coordination in Dialogue: Sub-sentential Talk and its Implications 61
within the P&R-style accounts, such multi-functionality/indetermination would not be
capturable except as a case of type-ambiguity or by positing some non-monotonic
strategy that is able to apply even within the processing of an individual utterance. But
such solutions, imposed by the need to employ explicit propositional intentions/plans
on the part of the participants, are not desirable. Interlocutors do not have to be seen as
motivated by antecedently present intentions as regards their speech act content. In
fact, in some contexts, the vagueness of the speech act performed can be part of the
pattern that sustains the interaction. For example, in psychotherapy sessions, invited
completions have been argued to exploit the indeterminacy/covertness of the speech
act involved to avoid overt/intrusive elicitation of information (Ferrara 1992):
(3.21) Ralph (therapist): Your sponsor before . . .
Lana (client): was a woman
Ralph: Yeah.
Lana: But I only called her every three months.
Ralph: And your so your sobriety now, in AA ::[(is)]
Lana: [is] at a year
As already illustrated above, contrary to the assumption that performance of speech
acts must be mediated by intentions/plans embedding full propositional contents
under pre-speciﬁed illocutionary force indicators, it seems that perfectly intelligible
moves in dialogue can be achieved through what we characterize as grammar-
induced speech acts. These are dialogue moves that are achieved simply by establishing
syntactic conditional relevances,2
that is, initiating a grammatical dependency which
the interlocutor is invited to fulﬁl, thus providing for the performance of two or more
(possibly incompatible) speech acts within one sentence. For example, completions
might be explicitly invited by the speaker thus forming a question–answer pair:
(3.22) A: And you’re leaving at . . .
B: 3.00 o’clock
(3.23) A: And they ignored the conspirators who were . . .
B: Geoff Hoon and Patricia Hewitt
(from Radio 4, Today programme, 6 January 2010)
(3.24) Jim: The Holy Spirit is one who <pause> gives us?
Unknown: Strength.
Jim: Strength. Yes, indeed. <pause> The Holy Spirit is one who gives us?
<pause>
Unknown: Comfort. (from BNC)
2
We borrow the term conditional relevance from the Conversation Analysis literature where it is used
to indicate the type of sequential coherence that links the parts of adjacency pairs, see, e.g., Schegloff (2007).
62 Gregoromichelaki, Cann, and Kempson
(3.25) George: Cos they <unclear> they used to come in here for water and bunkers
you see.
Anon 1: Water and?
George: Bunkers, coal, they all coal furnace you see . . . (from BNC)
As Lerner (2004) has shown, there are established practices for requesting elabor-
ation exploiting the establishment of syntactic dependencies:
(3.26) Jack3
: I just returned
Kathy: from . . .
Jack: Finland (from Lerner 2004)
Kathy’s continuation has here a clear interpretation as a request for elaboration,
further pinpointing the speciﬁc type of elaboration required. Unlike the standard
completions studied by P&R, this type of response seems to reopen the turn of a prior
speaker after it has apparently been completed by employing the initiation of a
syntactic dependency. The performance of a further speech act (request for elabor-
ation) is then achieved by employing the syntactic mechanisms that generate expect-
ations as to what is to follow up (we call this feature of the processing mechanisms
predictivity, see Section 3.5). The following exchange is characteristic of this dynamic:
here, a doctor asks, How ya doin’ today, to which the patient responds by a conven-
tional ‘small talk’ phrase:
(3.27) Doctor: How ya doin’ today.
Patient: .hh ? A:h pretty good, (0.5)
Doctor: BU:t, . . .
(cited in Lerner 2004)
The doctor’s response then treats the patient’s utterance as incomplete by initiating a
continuation, Bu:t, whose own incompleteness serves as a request for further infor-
mation regarding the health of the patient, hence their reason for their visiting the
doctor. Here the doctor’s response not only prompts for further information by a
backward and forward looking continuation but, in doing so, shifts the type of the
previous speech act from one where a conventionalized response to a greeting is
offered to one where relevant medical information has to be provided.
The signiﬁcance of these data is that such exchanges show the active involvement
of the hearer in shaping the content of the dialogue in a way that does not warrant the
primacy of the speaker’s intention for the recovery of the signiﬁcance of the speech
act.4
However, some such pre-speciﬁed ‘joint’ intention/plan is what drives the P&R
3
In this case, Jack has been asked if he has just returned from a trip by someone who knew he had been
away.
4
For a way of modelling such retrospective construction of speech act content see Purver et al. (2010).
On Coordination in Dialogue: Sub-sentential Talk and its Implications 63
account of completions and many more accounts of coordination in dialogue (see, e.g.,
Grosz and Sidner 1986), despite the fact that such ﬁxed joint intentionality is
decidedly non-normal in free conversation (see, e.g., Mills and Gregoromichelaki
2010). One route for prima-facie5
exclusion/minimization of intention computation
would be to ‘grammaticalize’ such phenomena by encoding pre-speciﬁed speech act
indicators accompanied by full propositional/sentential recovery. But, given the
near-universal commitment to a static performance-independent methodology,
approaches such as Ginzburg and Cooper (2004), Merchant (forthcoming), and
even Elugardo and Stainton (2001), and Stainton (2006b), would require the assign-
ment of explicit propositional contents even to those acts where conversational
participants exploit the grammatical mechanisms to jointly achieve dialogue moves
(grammar-induced speech acts see, e.g., (3.21)–(3.27)). However, it seems to us that
this is neither necessary nor conceptually desirable. Since it is obvious that the
grammar is crucially implicated in the licensing of all such data (see especially
(3.10)–(3.17)), it seems that an appropriate performance-compatible architecture is
what is required to provide a unitary account for all. This would provide an array of
low-level mechanisms which underpin practices, whether ad hoc or conventional,
enabling conversational participants to coordinate efﬁciently at the sub-conceptual,
sub-propositional level, without their needing to explicitly represent the outcome
and goals of their actions.6
Thus our claim is that an appropriately conceived,
psycholinguistics-inspired, grammatical framework provides the necessary means
for modelling coordination in dialogue without necessarily involving the establish-
ment of pre-speciﬁed communicative intentions/plans.
3.4. Use-compatible grammars and dialogue coordination
We have argued that the view emerging from dialogue data is that an appropriately
deﬁned model should be able to provide the basis for direct modelling of dialogue
coordination as an immediate consequence of the grammar architecture. One such
grammar is the Dynamic Syntax (DS) framework (Kempson et al. 2001; Cann et al.
2005). Uncharacteristically for grammars, DS is an action-based model of which
the core notion is goal-directed incremental information growth/linearization
following the time-linear ﬂow of parsing/generation. Utterance contents, repre-
sented as binary tree-structures of predicate-argument form, are built up relative to
a context which evolves in parallel, keeping a record of extra-linguistic information,
5
Prima facie because intention computation has to then be invoked to resolve the resulting ambiguities.
6
Nevertheless, explicit representation is not excluded either, as in many of the Elugardo and Stainton
cases and especially when things go wrong or when there is a need to rationalize participants’ actions. For
the means of achieving this, without burdening the primary mechanisms of coordination see, e.g., Piwek (2011).
64 Gregoromichelaki, Cann, and Kempson
the sequence of unfolding partial tree-structures, and the actions used to build
them. The process of building up such representations in context is what is taken
to constitute NL syntax: syntactic constraints are modelled as procedures that
deﬁne how parts of representations of content can be incrementally introduced
and updated.
The general process is taken to involve building as output a tree whose nodes
reﬂect the content of some utterance—in the simple case of a sentence uttered in
isolation, a complete propositional formula:
The input to this task, in such a simple case, is a tree that does nothing more than
state at the root node the ‘goal’ of the interpretation process to be achieved, namely,
to establish some propositional formula (?Ty(t) in Figure 3.1; goals are represented
with ? in front of annotations). For example, in the parse of the string John upset
Mary, the output tree in Figure 3.1 to the right of the ↦ constitutes some ﬁnal end
result: it is a tree in which the propositional formula itself annotates the root node,
and its various sub-terms appear on the dominated nodes rather like a proof tree in
which all the nodes are labelled with a formula and a semantic type. These DS trees
are invariably binary, and, by convention, the argument always appears on the left
branch, and the functor on the right branch (a pointer, ◊, identiﬁes the node under
development). Each node in a complete tree is annotated not with words but
contents, i.e. terms of a logical language (e.g., Mary0
, lx.Upset’x), these being sub-
terms of the resulting propositional representation (Upset0
(Mary0
)(John0
) holds
at index S). The parsing task is to use both lexical input, computational actions
(e.g., Introduction and Prediction in step 1
□ in Figure 3.2) and information from
context to progressively enrich the input tree satisfying all the sub-goals imposed
(the satisfaction of goals introduced with ? initially is indicated by removal of ? when
satisﬁed):
(Upset(Mary)(John)(S)),
(Upset(Mary))(John), Ty(t)
John,
Ty(e)
S
?Ty(t),
Mary,
Ty(e)
(Upset(Mary)),
Ty(e → t)
Upset,
Ty(e → (e → t))
(a) (b)
Figure 3.1. The outcome of parsing John upset Mary.
On Coordination in Dialogue: Sub-sentential Talk and its Implications 65
These are the only representations constructed during processing, hence no
distinct syntactic level of representation is assumed. Production follows exactly the
same procedures, but with the added requirement of a subsumption relation to some
richer ‘goal’ tree. For example, the tree Tg , the goal tree, shown in Figure 3.2 step 4
□,
will be present from the beginning as the target of processing in case the speaker has
planned a full proposition in advance. However, more partial trees can be assumed as
targets in production, with the only requirement that the goal-tree is always at least
one processing step ahead from the tree currently being processed.
As in DRT and related frameworks (see also Jaszczolt 2005), semantic, truth-
conditional evaluation applies solely to these contextually enriched representations,
Ty(e → (e → t)),
Upsetⴕ
Ty(e → (e → t)),
Upset
Initial Axiom:
Introduction/prediction:
Parsing “John”:
Parsing “upsets”:
Parsing “Mary”:
?Ty(t),
?Ty(t)
?Ty(e → t)
?Ty(e → t),
Ty(e → t),
Upset (Mary)
Ty(t),
Upset (Mary)(John)
?Ty(e → t)
?Ty(t)
?Ty(t)
?Ty(e),
Ty(e), Johnⴕ
Ty(e),
John
Ty(e),
John
Ty(e),
Maryⴕ
?Ty(e),
0
1
2
3
4/Tg
Figure 3.2. Incremental parsing/generation of John upset Mary.
66 Gregoromichelaki, Cann, and Kempson
hence no semantic content is ever assigned to strings of words (sentences). The
distinguishing feature of DS as compared to DRT is that this process of progressive
building of semantically transparent structures is taken as core syntax: there is no
other level of structure interfacing the phonological sequence and some ascribable
content. Furthermore, all syntactic dependencies are seen in procedural terms
including, in particular, the classical evidence for denying the direct correspondence
between NL-structure and semantic content that led to accounts via transformations
(see, e.g., Example (3.15)) (Kempson et al. 2001; Cann et al. 2005; Kempson et al. 2011a;
and others following them). For example, ‘movement’ cases (‘Who did you see’; ‘The
man who you saw’) are analysed in terms of the initial projection of an underspeciﬁed
dominance relation between the input provided by the WH-element and the pre-
dictively induced predicate-argument structure. Later update to a ﬁxed dominance
relation occurs at the point at which, in movement accounts, an associated ‘empty
category’ is posited. Cases of so called ‘syntactic/semantic ellipsis’ may occur when
the linguistic input includes anaphoric elements that have to be obligatorily enriched
from the surrounding context. Anaphoric elements introduce meta-variables, sym-
bolized as U, V, W, along with goals triggering context search for their replacement
with semantic terms. For example, a VP-ellipsis site will induce the introduction of a
meta-variable in the place of the predicate which will have to be subsequently
substituted from context:
The context may consist of structure induced by linguistic means relative to
which the ellipsis site is linguistically determined to trigger the construction of a
propositional content as in (3.1)–(3.2) and in processing the answer in Figure 3.3.
But, given that context records both structure and already performed actions, reuse
of either can yield distinct results: if representations of content are what is
recovered from context, the result will be strict interpretations; if it is the actions
that yielded such content that are retrieved from context, the result will be a sloppy
interpretation, as those very same actions will then be re-applied at the fragment
site to combine with whatever is available there (a new subject in the case of VP
WH
Context Tree under Construction
Upset (Mary)(WH)
Upset (Mary)
Mary Upset
John
U,
Ty(e → t),
?∃x.Fo(x),
?Ty(t)
SUBSTITUTION
Figure 3.3. Q: Who upset Mary? Ans: John did. (strict readings)
On Coordination in Dialogue: Sub-sentential Talk and its Implications 67
ellipsis, see Kempson et al. 2011b for detailed analyses). Moreover, like pronominal
anaphora, sometimes the contents that are being recovered will not have been
provided by linguistic means, as in the Stainton cases, or even in cases of alleged
‘syntactic ellipsis’ where no linguistic antecedent is available (contra the prediction
of Hankamer and Sag 1976):
(3.28) Uttered by a mother to her son as they stand facing the waves of a notori-
ously dangerous surﬁng beach:
‘I wouldn’t if I were you.’
Notwithstanding the emphasis on procedures, the structural properties of the
emergent DS semantic trees are nonetheless crucial for accounts of dialogue
phenomena. For example, it has been shown both by corpus research (Fox and
Jasperson 1995) and experimental results (Eshghi et al. 2010) that repair processes
in dialogue target primarily ‘constituents’. Additionally, as we saw, the use of
fragments during interaction follows syntactic constraints indicating their appro-
priate integration in some structured representation (see, e.g., (3.10)–(3.15) and
(3.17)). As shown earlier in (3.6)–(3.7), this is more evident in languages with rich
morphology. On the DS account, such morpho-syntactic particularities do not
justify distinct levels of explanation, for the morphological information is deﬁned
as introducing constraints for appropriate integration in semantic tree representa-
tions: in particular, case information such as ‘accusative’ is taken to project a
constraint that the content of an expression bearing this feature must occupy the
appropriate argument position of a predicate. Hence such syntactic/morphological
restrictions do not have to be taken as justifying a separate level of syntactic
analysis assigning structure to strings of words (ie, sentences instead of contents).
Modelling NLs as encoding constraints on growth of interpretation relative to
context is exactly the assumption that allows the handling of dialogue phenomena
such as split utterances in a straightforward manner, that is, as continuations
involving genuinely jointly constructed contents. If, instead, a separate level of
syntactic representation is insisted upon, such data can only be treated as frag-
ments requiring propositional reconstruction or mechanisms overriding the mor-
phosyntactic information they bear. This is because, as shown in Example (3.29)
and earlier in (3.16)–(3.17), splicing together the two partial strings gives incorrect
interpretations, since elements like indexicals have to switch form in order to be
interpretable as intended, or for grammaticality:
(3.29) G: when you say it happens for a reason, it’s like, it happened to get you off
D: off my ass
(from Clancy et al. 1996)
Instead of data such as those in (3.16)–(3.17) and (3.29) being indicative of lan-
guage-particular levels of syntax/morphology, with ellipsis seen as ineliminably
68 Gregoromichelaki, Cann, and Kempson
heterogeneous, use of the licensing mechanisms both by a single speaker and
seamlessly across interlocutors, as in a DS-style dynamic account, is what enables
the unitary analysis of ellipsis. The two architectural features of DS that underlie
this dynamicity and its direct licensing of partial sub-sentential constructs are
incrementality and predictivity, features conventionally associated only with parsers
(Sturt et al. 1996, 2005). Incrementality, that is, the licensing of sub-sentential
elements as they become available in a time-linear manner, is an essential charac-
teristic for the modelling of dialogue coordination. Firstly, the appropriate placing
of items like inserts, repairs, hesitation markers, etc, has been shown to interact
with the grammar at a sub-sentential level (Clark and Fox Tree 2002). Further-
more, dialogue phenomena like self-repair, interruptions, corrections (as in (3.5)),
etc, rely on the incremental nature of both understanding and production in order
to be modelled as making a timely contribution. But since, as we saw, the grammar
must license such constructions, the elements it needs to manipulate must be
partial/non-fully-sentential constructs. Because the syntactic licensing deﬁned by
DS is procedural and word-by-word incremental, fragments can be taken as just
that, and not themselves sentential in nature. Accordingly, they may provide
regular update to emerging partial structures irrespective of who has initiated
these structures, as in the fragment interruptions in (3.8)–(3.9), or when the
fragment is interpreted as an extension of a non-propositional structure given in
context, as in (3.16)–(3.27).
Incremental integration of contents is coupled in DS with a general predictivity/
goal-directedness in that the parser/generator is always predicting top–down struc-
tural goals to be achieved in the next steps (see Figure 3.2 earlier). Although,
generally, the motivation for this type of architecture is efﬁciency considerations
in parsing, in fact, coordination phenomena in dialogue can be seen to be exploit-
ing this processing characteristic. For example, the turn-taking system (see, e.g.,
Sacks et al. 1974) seems to rely on the grammar, based on the predictability of
(potential) turn endings. In this respect, recent experimental evidence has shown
that this predictability is grounded on syntactic recognition rather than prosodic
cues etc (De Ruiter et al. 2006); and further evidence shows that people seem to
exploit such predictions to manage the timing of their contributions (Henetz and
Clark 2011). More importantly for our concerns here, incremental planning in
production, in combination with the predictivity of the parsing mechanism, allows
the modelling of how the interlocutors interact sub-sententially to derive joint
meanings, actions, and syntactic constructions taking in multi-modal aspects of
communication and feedback. A DS-style predictive architecture for the grammar
models these licensing mechanisms by means of the generation of goals to be
achieved symmetrically by both the parser and the producer, the hearer/parser
usually awaiting input from the speaker for fulﬁlling these goals. Such goals are
also what activates the search of the lexicon (‘lexical access’) in generation in order
On Coordination in Dialogue: Sub-sentential Talk and its Implications 69
to recover a suitable NL word for the concept to be conveyed. As a result, an initial
hearer/parser who achieves successful lexical retrieval before processing the antici-
pated linguistic input provided by the original speaker can spontaneously become
the generator and take over. As seen in all cases (3.8)–(3.27) above, the original
hearer is, indeed, using such a structural anticipation to take over and offer a
completion that, even though licensed as a grammatical continuation of the initial
fragment, might not necessarily be identical to the one the original speaker would
have accessed had they been allowed to continue their utterance (as in (3.16)–
(3.20)). And since the original speaker is licensed to operate with partial structures
without having a fully formed intention/plan as to how it will develop (as the
psycholinguistic models in any case suggest), they can integrate immediately such
offerings without having to be modelled as necessarily revising their original
intended message. By way of illustration, we take a simpliﬁed variant of (3.10)
(for detailed analyses see Kempson et al. 2009; Purver et al. 2010, 2011; Gregoromi-
chelaki et al. 2009, 2011):
(3.30) Ann: Did you burn
Bob: myself?
Here, the reconstruction of the string as *‘Did you burn myself?’ is unacceptable
(at least with a reﬂexive reading of myself), illustrating the problem for purely
syntactic accounts of split utterances. But under DS assumptions, with represen-
tations only of structured content, not of putative structure over strings of words,
the switch of person is entirely straightforward. Consider the partial tree induced
by parsing Ann’s utterance ‘Did you burn’ which involves a substitution of the
meta-variable (U) projected by you by the constant standing for the addressee/
parser (Bob0
):
At this point, Bob can complete the utterance with the reﬂexive, as what such an
expression does, by lexical deﬁnition, is copy a formula from a local co-argument
node onto the current node, just in case that formula satisﬁes the conditions set by
the person, number, and also here the participant role of the uttered reﬂexive. So, in
this case, the restriction is that the meta-variable stands for a local co-argument that
is currently the speaker:
?Ty(e), Ty(e → (e → t)), Burnⴕ
?Ty(e → t)
?Ty(t), Q
?Ty(e), Ty(e),
U, Bobⴕ
Did you burn
Figure 3.4. Ann utters: Did you burn.
70 Gregoromichelaki, Cann, and Kempson
Hence, the absence of a ‘syntactic’ level of representation distinct from that of
semantic representations allows the successful direct integration of such fragments
through the grammatical mechanisms themselves, rather than necessitating their
analysis as sentential ellipsis (for detailed analyses see Kempson et al. 2011b; Purver
et al. 2010).
Modular approaches to the grammar/pragmatics interface deny that this is an
appropriate strategy. Instead, they propose that the grammar delivers underspeciﬁed
propositional representations as input to pragmatic processes that achieve full
interpretations and discourse integration (see, e.g., Schlangen 2003, following an
SDRT model). However, an essential feature of language use in dialogue is the
observation that on-going interaction and feedback shapes utterances and their
contents (Goodwin 1981), hence it is essential that the grammar does not have to
license whole propositional units before semantic and pragmatic evaluation can take
place. And this is the strategy DS adopts, operating directly with partial constructs
whether induced by speaker or hearer: in either case, such constructs are fully
licensed by the antecedently constructed context and thereupon integrated into the
emergent semantic representation by updating it, without having to consider such
fragments as sentences which happen to be elliptical, or as sentences which are in
some sense not well-formed despite their success as utterances.
3.5. Concluding remarks: language as mechanisms for interaction
Given these results, in our view, the dichotomy between languageS (language struc-
ture) and languageU (language use) (Clark 1996) postulated in standard psycholin-
guistic models does not withstand the test of application in dialogue—the primary
site of language use. Instead, linguistic knowledge has to be re-conceptualized as
encompassing the update dynamics of communication, and has to be formulated in
terms that are neither domain-speciﬁc nor encapsulated (contra Fodor 1983 and
thereafter). It is not domain-speciﬁc because structural growth is deﬁned over
representations of content which integrate information derived from non-linguistic
input. And it is not encapsulated because context-dependency phenomena, for
example the construal of pronouns and ellipsis (see earlier Examples (3.1) and
Ty(e), Bobⴕ
Ty(e → (e → t)), Burnⴕ
?Ty(e → t)
?Ty(t), Q
?Ty(e), Ty(e),
U, Bobⴕ
myself
Figure 3.5. Bob utters: myself.
On Coordination in Dialogue: Sub-sentential Talk and its Implications 71
(3.28) and Figure 3.3), are resolved online whether from contextual representations or
from the construction process itself. Thus the grammar has been transformed into a
speciﬁcation of constraints all abstracted from the crystallization of action patterns
derived from language use and wider cognitive or social considerations.
As a result, grammar-internal explanation of split-utterance data demonstrates that
core dialogue activities can take place without any other-party meta-representation
at all.7
Hence, more generally, on this view, communication is not at base the
intention-recognizing activity presumed by Gricean and post-Gricean accounts.
Rather, speakers can be modelled as able to air ‘incomplete’ thoughts with no more
than the vaguest of planning and commitments as to what they are going to say,
expecting feedback to fully ground the signiﬁcance of their utterance, to fully specify
their intentions (e.g., Wittgenstein 2009: 337). Hearers, similarly, do not have to
reconstruct the intentions of their interlocutor as a ﬁlter on how to interpret the
provided signal; instead, they are expected to provide evidence of how they perceive
the utterance in order to arrive at a joint interpretation. The sequential organization
of conversation makes this a necessary feature: utterances are construed as simultan-
eously both forward- and backward-looking in terms of how they modify the context
of interaction. This view of dialogue, though not uncontentious, is one that has been
extensively argued for, under distinct assumptions, in the Conversational Analysis
literature (e.g., Haugh 2012). According to the proposed DS model of this insight, the
core mechanism is incremental context-dependent processing, implemented by a
grammar architecture that reconstructs ‘syntax’ as a goal-directed activity, whose
mechanisms are able to seamlessly integrate with the joint activities people engage in.
This then opens up a new perspective on the relation between linguistic ability and
the use of language. Linguistic ability is grounded in the control of (sub-personal,
low-level) mechanisms (e.g., Böckler et al. 2010) which enable the progressive con-
struction of structured representations to pair with the overt signals of the language.
The content of these representations is ascribed, negotiated, and accounted for in
context, via the interaction among interlocutors and their environment. As a result,
adopting but extending Stainton’s (2006b) and Elugardo and Stainton’s (2001)
assumptions, the implications for semantics are indeed that independently speciﬁ-
able contents and licensing have to be assigned to sub-sentential constituents. In
addition, along with Elugardo and Stainton, we do not believe that dialogue activities
(e.g., performance of speech acts) necessarily involve sentences or sentential contents.
However, unlike Elugardo and Stainton, we do not think that the data justify the view
that use of fragments necessarily involves mapping onto propositional contents
either. Hence, we do not subscribe to the view that it is reasoning over speaker
7
Though, of course, use of reasoning over mental states is not precluded either; such richer contexts
and consequent derived implications are modeled via the construction of appropriately linked representa-
tions, whose mechanisms for construction are independently available in DS, see Purver et al. (2011).
72 Gregoromichelaki, Cann, and Kempson
intentions with respect to such contents that provides the essential basis for all
utterance interpretation. Utterances can communicate content within the context
in which they occur and give rise to successful interaction without the entertainment
of any hypothesis about the interlocutor’s mental state or intentions. From this
perspective, constructing representations of the other participants’ mental states,
though a possible means of coordination, is by no means necessary.
Thus, from a general philosophical point of view, it seems to us that linguistic
interaction is not essentially grounded in high-level inferential mechanisms or the
discursive practices that underpin rationality (‘sapience’, contra Brandom 1994). Rather,
it is low-level pre-conceptual mechanisms, envisaged by analysts as what they term the
grammar of a language, which drive the coordination of participants in the construction
process itself, hence prior to any possible justiﬁcation on the part of the participating
agents. This allows that the exchange of reasons remains as a signiﬁcant component in
an account of the epistemological signiﬁcance of communication (see, e.g., McDowell
1980) but at a distinct level of description from the most basic account of coordinative
activities. And here, a crucial insight of Brandom’s—his ‘expressivism’ regarding the
logical vocabulary—can be taken as a useful insight, though operating at a rather
different level than he envisaged. Conversational participants also have the ability to
‘make explicit’ the practices afforded to them implicitly by the sub-conscious proced-
ures when communication breaks down or, in general, when they need to verbalize/
conceptualize the signiﬁcance of their actions (for a similar account of practices at other
higher levels of coordination see Piwek 2011). Some authors take these as evidence of the
participants’ explicit awareness of the speech acts, intentions, contents, practices, or
conventions employed, and hence, they postulate such constructs as functionally
relevant representations in modelling the achievement of coordination in dialogue
(see, e.g., Stone 2004). However, in our view, this is the wrong tactic. It is the practices
which are more basic; and explicit representations of any such high-level constructs
result only from meta-reasoning or interpretive, reﬂective acts on the process of
coordination (see also Mills and Gregoromichelaki 2010). It is on this approach to the
linguistic system that, ﬁnally, we can explain the pervasiveness of the ‘brevity’ of
utterances in dialogue—why there should be such extensive use of ellipses, interrup-
tions, continuations, and other such discourse phenomena. If the basic mechanisms of
direct human communicative interaction provide a means by which participants can
jointly construct not just content, but also speech acts, and even intentions, then it is
unsurprising that contributions to a dialogue will tend towards the minimum linguistic-
ally necessary to enable the interlocutors to do this using prior discourse, current parse
states and external factors. Grice’s brevity maxim thus appears to be not so much a
rational demand internalized by participants, but the result of the low-level processing
mechanisms that humans bring to bear in engaging in linguistic acts.
On Coordination in Dialogue: Sub-sentential Talk and its Implications 73
4
Inexplicit Thoughts*
CHRISTOPHER GAUKER
4.1. Explicitism
It is commonly assumed that the vehicles of occurrent, conceptual thought must be,
in some sense, fully explicit. The propositional content of an utterance, everyone
agrees, depends not only on the meaning of the sentence uttered but also on various
features of the situation in which it is uttered. But the propositional content of a
particular conceptual thought, it is supposed, cannot likewise depend on the situation
in which it occurs. Or it can depend on the situation in only a few of the ways in
which the content of an utterance does. Call this view explicitism. I will argue that
explicitism is false. The content of a conceptual thought can depend on the situation
in which it occurs in all of the ways that the content of an utterance of a natural
language sentence can do.
Explicitists generally deny that we think in natural languages. But because I cannot
write sentences of Mentalese on paper, I will here and throughout use English
sentences as if they were sentences of Mentalese. In spoken English, we might say
something like ‘Everyone likes that’. In the situation in which this sentence is uttered,
the proposition the utterance expresses might be: Everyone now at this party enjoys
the taste of that, where that equals the tapenade that the speaker is pointing at. But
according to explicitism, the thought that bears that proposition will never be merely
a token of the Mentalese sentence, ‘Everyone likes that’. The thought will have to be a
token of the Mentalese sentence, ‘Everyone now at this party enjoys the taste of that’.
For some reason, explicitists are willing to allow that thoughts may contain demon-
stratives like ‘now’ and ‘that’. But the set of people now at this party cannot be
expressed in Mentalese with the unadorned quantiﬁer ‘everyone’.1
* I thank Reinaldo Elugardo, Laurence Goldstein, and Jeffry Francis Pelletier for helpful comments on
an earlier draft.
1
The explicitists’ indulgence of demonstratives in thought might lead to an indulgence of inexplicit
quantiﬁers if the explicitist takes on Jason Stanley’s thesis (2007) that quantiﬁers carry a hidden indexical in
Let us say that a representation type expresses a proposition explicitly if and only if
that proposition can be read off the representation type in light of the semantic
properties of the language of representation together with an assignment of referents
to demonstrative expressions; to identify that proposition as the proposition
expressed, it is not necessary to consider features of the situation in which the
token occurs not represented in the representation by virtue of its type, except insofar
as doing so is necessary in order to assign a reference to demonstrative expressions.
(Here I speak of expression as a relation between a representation and its content.)
Setting aside difﬁcult questions about ‘representation type’ and ‘semantic properties’,
we may deﬁne explicitism as follows: The explicitist holds that a thought is always a
token of a representation type that explicitly expresses the proposition that is the
content of the thought. In this sense, thoughts are always explicit.
Elsewhere, I have argued against explicitism by arguing that sometimes there is no
plausible account of the explicit thought underlying a speaker’s words. I will review
that style of argument below. But my main objective in this chapter is to argue in a
different way, by showing, through examples, that explicitness in thought is not
required. Thinkers can solve their problems by means of inexplicit thoughts, and
interlocutors can track their conversations by means of inexplicit thoughts.
If explicitism were true, it would provide a strong argument against the identiﬁca-
tion of occurrent conceptual thoughts with tokens of sentences in natural language.
One could try to combine explicitism with the thesis that spoken language is the very
medium of conceptual thought by arguing that we think in sentences of natural
language that are much more explicit than the sentences we normally speak. But, for
various reasons, that will be a hard argument to make. So to maintain that spoken
language is the very medium of conceptual thought, we are pretty much forced to
abandon explicitism. Thus, in arguing against explicitism, I remove one barrier to
identifying occurrent conceptual thoughts with acts of speech in the very languages
we speak.
Likewise, explicitism undergirds a common model of communication, according
to which linguistic communication is a process by which a speaker encodes his or her
thought into words and the hearer decodes the speaker’s words back into thought
(this ‘thought’ becoming a ‘belief ’ only if the hearer accepts what the speaker says). If
explicitism is true, then, since the thoughts that words express are always explicit,
while the words that express them may be inexplicit, it will be very tempting to
suppose that a hearer can understand a speaker’s words only by writing out in his or
her own thought the explicitly represented content of the speaker’s underlying
thought. Thus, in arguing that explicitism is false, I remove an important motivation
for this model of communication.
their deep structure. I will ignore this, though, since I do not think Stanley’s thesis has won wide
acceptance, and, in any case, I have elsewhere argued that it is wrong (Gauker 2010).
Inexplicit Thoughts 75
Explicitism does not say that the content of a thought about a thing includes all
that the thinker happens to know about that thing. The explicitist expects only that
the propositional content of each thought, limited though it may be, will be explicitly
expressed by its vehicle. If someone thinks, ‘The pilot of this airplane is experienced’,
then, even though the thinker happens to know that the pilot is British, the thought
may be perfectly explicit, because the proposition that the pilot is British may not be
part of the propositional content of this particular thought. Moreover, explicitism, as
I deﬁne it, is exclusively a thesis about occurrent conceptual thoughts. Explicitism
could be extended to cover what we might call stored beliefs, but I will not try to
extend it in that way. Explicitists need not deny that we have beliefs the content of
which is only implicit in our occurrent thoughts and stored beliefs.
Explicitism is a thesis speciﬁcally about conceptual thought. Here I deﬁne concep-
tual thoughts as thoughts of a kind that are either identical to or expressed by tokens
of natural language sentences. (Here I speak of expression as a relation between an
external representation and an internal representation.) For my purposes, it is
important to leave open the possibility that there are other, non-conceptual varieties
of thought, such as imagistic thought, and to allow that these other varieties may
operate independently from conceptual thought. I will grant that conceptual
thoughts may have to be more explicit in some ways than spoken sentences. For
example, thoughts may wear the resolution of anaphoric ambiguities on their sleeves.
But I will draw a distinction between these kinds of explicitness and the kind of
explicitness required by explicitists.
4.2. Two arguments for explicitism
A ﬁrst argument for explicitism goes like this: The meaning of an utterance cannot
always be determined from the semantic meaning of the sentence uttered. Pragmatics
has to come into play as well. But giving pragmatics a role just means identifying
what the speaker intended or had in mind in speaking. If we are to avoid regress, we
cannot suppose that the meaning of the speaker’s thought likewise depends on the
content of some other underlying thought in the speaker. So the meaning of a
thought cannot likewise depend on pragmatics. Its meaning must be entirely deter-
mined by the semantics of the thought type of which the particular thought in
question is a token (and an assignment of referents to demonstratives).2
To clarify this argument, we should distinguish between ‘pragmatics’ considered as
a process that the hearer must engage in in order to understand a speaker’s utterance
2
An argument along these lines can be found in works by Vicente and Martínez-Manrique. See Vicente
(2010: 72), Vicente and Martínez-Manrique (2005: 545), and Vicente and Martínez-Manrique (2008: 386).
However, in their version, the threat of regress arises in the interpretation of the interpreter’s thought, not
in the interpretation of the speaker’s thought.
76 Gauker
and ‘pragmatics’ considered as a discipline that aims at explaining in a general way
the conditions under which a given utterance expresses a given proposition. The
argument presupposes that the process by which a hearer understands a speaker’s
utterance—pragmatics in the ﬁrst sense—consists in identifying the speaker’s under-
lying thought. But proponents of this argument may draw encouragement from a
conception of pragmatics as a discipline, according to which a pragmatic theory
explains in a general way how the proposition that an utterance expresses depends on
the content of the speaker’s underlying thoughts.
A second argument for explicitism goes like this: The cognitive work a thought can
do depends on the structure of its concrete vehicle in the brain. If there are aspects of
the content of a thought that are due not to the concrete structure of the vehicle of
thought, but due only to the context relative to which it is interpreted or evaluated,
then those aspects of content cannot correspond to any efﬁcacious feature of the
thought at all, and there is no reason to speak of them as far as our explanations of
behaviour are concerned. But when we consider the aspects of the content of a
spoken sentence that might be supposed to be due to context, we ﬁnd that those
aspects of the content of thoughts deﬁnitely are important for our explanations of
behaviour. The host makes more tapenade because everyone at the party likes it, not
because everyone in the universe likes it. So those aspects of the content of thought
must be reﬂected in structures of the vehicle that bears them.3
4.3. Some concessions
I do not wish to deny that the sentences we think in may often be more explicit than
the sentences we speak. Of course, we may sometimes deliberately edit down what we
think before speaking, and we do it for various reasons, ranging from economy to
politeness. Moreover, there may be certain questions of meaning that have to be
settled in thought, though the form of words that may be used to express the thought
does not on the surface indicate how those questions are to be settled.
Consider ﬁrst the case of anaphoric cross-reference. In thought, though not in
speech, there may have to be some explicit indication of which pronoun picks up the
reference of a prior noun. Compare:
(4.1) a. John1 took the pizza from the pizza delivery man2. He1 paid him2.
b. The pizza delivery man1 handed John2 the pizza. He2 paid him1.
Of course, there is no reason to think that there are numerical subscripts in the brain.
Nonetheless, there might be in the Mentalese equivalents of these sentences
3
Vicente employs such an argument as well. In his (2010: 75–6), he replies to an objection to an
argument of the ﬁrst sort. The reply takes the form of arguing that ‘relativized truth-conditions’ do not
sufﬁce for explanations of behaviour.
Inexplicit Thoughts 77
something that indicates whether the ﬁrst ‘he’ refers to the same thing as ‘John’ or to
the same thing as ‘the pizza delivery man’. Against this, it might be suggested that
thoughts are structured in such a way that we need only one designator per referent.
But that is unlikely, because sometimes we discover identities; so there has to be some
way the mind can mark in thought the fact that two designators co-refer, for instance,
by thinking explicit identities of the form a = b.
Second, consider the case of syntactic ambiguity, as in the following classic example:
(4.2) Visiting relatives can be boring.
We can parse that in either of two ways, roughly:
[[t1 [visiting relatives]]2 [can [t2 be boring (to) t1]]]
[[[t1 visiting t2] [relatives1]] [can [t1 be boring (to) t2]]]
Here we have not only alternative ways of resolving co-reference but also alternative
ways of parsing the phrase ‘visiting relatives’. When a speaker uses such a sentence,
he or she presumably has one or the other of these two parsings in mind. In other
words, the thought expressed must have one or the other of these two parsings built
into its intrinsic structure, and in that respect will be more explicit than the sentence
spoken.
Third, there is the case of ellipsis. Ellipsis is the fact that a sentence may omit
certain words, otherwise grammatically required, due to the presence of correlated
material elsewhere in the sentence. For example, in the following sentence, the phrase
‘he ﬂattered’ is elided at the end of the sentence.
(4.3) He ﬂattered someone, but I don’t know whom.
In languages with a greater variety of case markings than English, we can ﬁnd
evidence that in some sense the elided material is present in the mind’s representa-
tion of the sentence, because it affects the case of the word corresponding to ‘whom’
(Merchant (forthcoming)).
From the hearer’s point of view, utterances of any of these sorts of sentences
require some interpretation on the basis of the situation in which the utterances take
place. In the case of ‘He paid him’, the hearer has to ﬁgure who was most likely to be
paid—John or the pizza delivery man. In the case of ‘Visiting relatives can be boring’,
the hearer has to ﬁgure out whether the subject of ‘can be boring’ is the relatives or
the act of visiting. In the case of ellipsis, the hearer may have to make some inferences
about what material has been elided. But in none of these cases does the process of
representing the content of the sentence explicitly involve ﬁnding additional lexical
material not already contained somewhere in the sentence on the basis of features of
the situation in which the utterance occurs.
The explicitist expects that thought will be explicit in ways that go beyond these.
A thought cannot lack open class expressions, not found elsewhere in the thought,
78 Gauker
that would be found in any explicit expression of its content. For example, ‘Everyone
likes that’ cannot stand in for ‘Everyone at this party likes that’; ‘Dumbo is small’
cannot stand in for ‘Dumbo is small for an elephant’; and ‘Tipper is ready’ cannot
stand in for ‘Tipper is ready to go to the convention center’. My claim is that
explicitism goes too far in supposing that thought is always explicit in these ways.
Let us say that a sentence S (whether of spoken language or Mentalese) is lexically
inexplicit if and only if it is not explicit in the sense I deﬁned at the start and for each
situation in which an utterance (or tokening) of S would express a proposition p, any
sentence that explicitly expressed p would contain lexical material not in S. My claim
is that thoughts can be lexically inexplicit in all of the ways that sentences of spoken
language can be.
In thus limiting my critique of explicitism I do not wish to maintain that thought
must always be explicit with respect to the resolution of anaphora, syntactic struc-
ture, and ellipsis. Thoughts can be confused in all sorts of ways, including not being
perfectly resolved with respect to anaphora, syntactic structure and ellipsis. My
disagreement with explicitism pertains to thoughts that are at least not confused.
Even perfectly clear thoughts may be lexically inexplicit.
4.4. The prima facie case against explicitism
Many years ago I published a paper (Gauker 1997) in which I attempted to show that
thoughts are not explicit with respect to domains of discourse. In that paper, I told a
story about a Peruvian goatherd who witnesses a bright falling star one evening
during an annual celebration in his village. The next day he is out in the hills tending
his goats and has occasion to say (in his own native language), ‘Everyone saw the
falling star’. The goatherd’s village is so remote that no one living there has ever
encountered an outsider. This particular goatherd is so short on curiosity that it
never occurs to him to wonder whether there might be other people elsewhere in the
world. So when he says, ‘Everyone saw the falling star’, it is not credible that he
modiﬁes the quantiﬁer in thought by adding ‘who lives in the village’ to form the
quantiﬁer ‘Everyone who lives in the village’. Nonetheless, the content of his thought
is clearly that everyone who lives in the village saw the falling star.
In my paper, I considered a reply, according to which what I have translated as
‘everyone’ is an expression of the goatherd’s native language that literally means
‘everyone who lives in the village’. On that interpretation, even the words he speaks
explicitly express the propositional content of his thought. But this interpretation is
not plausible. To see that it is not, suppose that on that same day, a philosophical
friend asks him, ‘Do you think there might be other people beyond those distant
mountains?’ For the ﬁrst time, our goatherd considers the question and concludes
that, yes, probably there are other people somewhere, a conclusion that he expresses
by saying, ‘Not everyone lives in the village’. If ‘everyone’ in his language just means
Inexplicit Thoughts 79
‘everyone who lives in the village’, then his answer would mean, ‘Not everyone who
lives in the village lives in the village’. But it would be unreasonably uncharitable to
interpret the goatherd as expressing such a claim.
In reply, it might be said that for the goatherd, before he takes up the philosopher’s
question, the proposition that everyone saw the falling star just is the proposition that
everyone who lives in the village saw the falling star. So from the goatherd’s point of
view, it might be said, the words ‘Everyone saw the falling star’ are a perfectly explicit
expression of his thought.4
On the contrary, it is no defence of explicitism to say that
the goatherd’s thought counts as explicit so long as we pretend that we are unaware of
the existence of people outside the goatherd’s village. Speaking our own language, not
ignoring what we know, the proposition that the goatherd expresses is precisely this:
Everyone who lives in the village saw the falling star. That is not a proposition that his
sentence or his thought explicitly expresses.
During the time when the goatherd does not add ‘who lives in the village’ to his
thought, he has never contemplated the possibility that there might be other people.
Perhaps the explicitist could allow, without sacriﬁcing much, that in such ways
thought is inexplicit, because what is not explicitly expressed is only a feature of
the content of thought that represents an invariable feature of the environment.5
We can grant that the goatherd thinks of everyone in the village by means of the
quantiﬁed noun phrase ‘everyone’ just because the population of the village is a
constant. The trouble for this answer is that, in fact, the population of the village is
not a constant. People are born and people die. The reason it was implausible that the
goatherd’s thought must contain a qualiﬁer, attached to the quantiﬁed noun, such as
‘who lives in the village’, was not just that he gave no thought to existence of people
elsewhere in the world but that the variability of the population was something he
had no reason to think about in the situation in which he spoke.
Similarly, we can take any of the kinds of context-relativity we ﬁnd in spoken
sentences and tell a story in which a thought may be inexplicit, just by imagining a
situation in which the thinker has no special reason to add in thought the qualiﬁca-
tions that make his or her thought fully explicit. Consider the following scenario from
the modern American economy. Buddy is a chauffeur for Mrs Winkelvoss. His only
job is to take Mrs Winkelvoss shopping. She wants to go shopping every day and is
always ready to go sometime between 10 and 11 a.m. Parking nearby the entrance to
her building, he waits for a telephone call from the doorman. When the doorman
calls, the doorman says, ‘Mrs Winkelvoss is ready’. What Mrs Winkelvoss is ready for
is to go shopping. Buddy hears and understands what the doorman says. But he does
not have to think, ‘Mrs Winkelvoss is ready to go shopping’. He can think simply,
4
Vicente (2010: 83), in the context of a discussion of John Perry’s (1986) somewhat similar story of the
Z-landers, brieﬂy considers such an objection.
5
Vicente (2010: 81) also considers such a response in connection with Perry’s example of the Z-landers.
80 Gauker
‘Mrs Winkelvoss is ready’. He does not have to add ‘to go shopping’ in his thought,
because what she is ready for under these circumstances, at this time of day, is always
the same thing: to go shopping. And yet, the propositional content of his thought on
each occasion is that Mrs Winkelvoss is ready to go shopping. Of course, Buddy
knows in some sense that Mrs. Winkelvoss is going shopping. But going shopping
need not be explicitly represented by the representational components that make up
Buddy’s thought.
4.5. Conversing without explicit thought
I now wish to answer the ﬁrst argument for explicitism by arguing that it is quite
possible for two people to carry on an intelligible, productive conversation by means
of inexplicit sentences, though the underlying thoughts are inexplicit as well. In
discussing this issue, I will play along with the idea that in a conversation each
utterance is underlain in the utterer by a ‘thought’, and I will speak as if this
underlying thought is an event distinct from the utterance that expresses it. In reality,
I do not assume that occurrent conceptual thoughts need be distinct from overt
utterances. On the contrary, in refuting explicitism, I remove one barrier to identify-
ing occurrent conceptual thoughts with acts of speech in the very languages we speak
(either overt or covert).
As others before me have emphasized, the structure of the environment might in
various ways support the use of inexplicit thoughts in cognition.6
One way in which
the environment can obviate the need for explicitness in thought is by, so to speak,
instantiating routines. If a man who catches lobsters for a living comes back home
from a day of checking his traps and reports to his wife, ‘I caught a lot’, she does not,
in order to understand him, have to think to herself, ‘He caught more than 30 lobsters
today’. She understands that he is talking about catching lobsters because lobsters is
what he catches every day. She understands that he is talking about that day’s catch
because what her husband reports when he comes home is always the catch of that
same day. She understands that he caught more than 30 lobsters, because he never
reports catching ‘a lot’ unless he has caught more than 30. The example of Mrs
Winkelvoss’s chauffeur also illustrates the fact that routine can obviate the need for
explicitness.
Another way in which the environment can obviate the need for explicitness is by
revealing the goals of activity and thereby imposing a criterion of relevance. Suppose
6
This is pointed out in Corazza (2011). Corazza thinks that for the supposition that speakers think
explicit thoughts he must substitute the assumption that speakers think thoughts about what he calls
‘reﬂexive truth conditions’, which make reference to the very sentence that bears them. I ﬁnd it implausible
that people, including young children, understand sentences only by explicitly thinking about the truth
conditions of sentences. Moreover, as Elugardo demonstrates (Chapter 5), Corazza is at cross-purposes
with himself in appealing to reﬂexive truth conditions while minimizing free enrichment.
Inexplicit Thoughts 81
we are ﬁlling buckets with oats to feed to horses, one for each horse in the stable. As
I am pouring oats from a bag into the ﬁrst bucket, you tell me, ‘That’s enough’. At
that point, I stop pouring oats into that bucket. But I still take another bucket and
pour oats into it. I understand that you mean that I have poured enough oats into this
bucket and not that I have ﬁlled enough buckets. Because I understand our goals,
I understand that I should stop pouring oats into this bucket but should go on
pouring oats into more buckets. I do not have to think, ‘The amount of oats I have
poured into this bucket is as much as I should pour’.
Yet another way, perhaps, in which the environment can obviate the need for
explicitness is by providing standards for gradable adjectives. Suppose someone says,
‘These tomatoes are really sweet’. I may understand her even though I do not, in
advance, have any conception of what counts as sweetness in a tomato, and would
not be able to distinguish between sweet and non-sweet tomatoes (because, by
comparison with paradigmatically sweet things, such as sugar candy, no tomatoes
are sweet). I understand her, provided I am willing to grant her authority, by
understanding that a ‘really sweet’ tomato is a tomato that has the ﬂavour of the
tomatoes she is referring to. Or if someone tells me, ‘A tall man will meet you at the
airport’, I will understand him perfectly well although I might not know until I get
there what counts as tallness in the land I am traveling to.
One might have expected a different sort of appeal to the environment than the
ones I am making. One might have thought that thoughts can be inexplicit because
the structure that is missing from an inexplicit thought may be found in the environ-
ment instead. For instance, one might have supposed that a thought that reads simply
‘Everyone likes that’ might bear the proposition that everyone at the party likes that
because the part about being at the party is borne by the environment instead of
being borne by the vehicle of thought. But to say that, one would have to make sense
of the idea that the environment can bear conceptual content (conceived as com-
ponents of propositional content). I do not know how to make sense of that, and
so I have not proposed to appeal to the environment in any such way. More generally,
I have not committed myself to any version of what is known as the ‘extended mind
hypothesis’ (Clark and Chalmers 1998).
Against my purported examples of inexplicit thought, it may be objected that there
must be something going on in the thinker’s head that constitutes the understanding
I have been talking about. So if the lobster man’s wife understands that her husband is
speaking of lobsters, there has to be something going on in her head that, in her
environment, constitutes her thinking of lobsters in interpreting her husband’s
words. This is not a denial of externalism—the thesis that the content of a thought
depends on the character of the environment in which the thinker is embedded. We
can agree that whether ‘water’ refers to H2O, or XYZ depends not only on patterns of
use internal to the speaker, but also on what is really out there. (I am alluding, of
course, to the famous thought experiment in Putnam 1975.) And yet we might still
82 Gauker
think that there has to be something in the speaker’s mind, viz the English word
‘water’ or its Mentalese synonym, that carries that content.
This might be a reason to suppose that all thought is explicit if we had to suppose
that language-like representations are the only vehicles of cognition. But, though that
is a common prejudice, there is good reason to deny it. It is a remarkable fact that
philosophers and psychologists have all but ignored the mind’s capacity to use
mental imagery as a means of solving problems. The so-called mental imagery debate
(e.g., between Pylyshyn 2002 and Kosslyn et al. 2006) has focused on the question
whether mental imagery even exists. Once we get past that (the answer being, yes, it
exists), a further question is what the mind can do with it. What has never been
carefully studied is our capacity to solve problems by mentally picturing how things
go. We can picture a ball falling, a hammer striking, a person diving from a cliff into
the ocean, a hook on a string sinking into the water and a ﬁsh biting on it. We can
distinguish between imaginings that represent the way things actually go and those
that represent what would never happen—a man ﬂying, a tree melting. By means of
such mental movies we can plan a course of action and satisfy our needs and desires.
What we should expect of conceptual thought is only that it adds something to this
process. It need not take over and become the sole medium of cognition.
Precisely because what we can require of conceptual thought is only that it add
something to the processes of imagistic cognition and not that it supplant imagistic
cognition, conceptual thoughts may remain inexplicit. The reason to invoke mental
imagery is not that mental images can be added to an inexplicit thought to make it
explicit.7
The lobster man’s wife’s thought does not become a thought about lobsters
by having a picture of a lobster appended to it where the word ‘lobster’ should go.
A picture of a lobster does not as such represent lobster-kind in general, but a
representation of lobster-kind in general is what would be needed to turn her
inexplicit thought into an explicit thought having the propositional content of ‘He
caught more than 30 lobsters today’. Rather, an inexplicit thought can do real
cognitive work in the context of a largely imagistic thought process, because even
an inexplicit thought may sufﬁce to channel imagistic thought in one direction rather
than another.
Mrs Winkelvoss’s chauffeur faces only two choices, to remain parked or to drive to
the entrance, which he may represent imagistically as elaborations on his current
perceptual representation. To initiate his drive to the entrance, a cue from the
doorman in the form of the incomplete sentence, ‘Mrs Winkelvoss is ready’, is all
that he requires. The addition of ‘to go shopping’ would draw no further distinction
that bears on his choice. Similarly, when the chauffeur thinks to himself, ‘Mrs
Winkelvoss is ready’, he does not have to add in thought a speciﬁcation of what
7
This is the only way of supplementing thought with imagery that Vicente and Martínez-Manrique
contemplate (2008: 394).
Inexplicit Thoughts 83
she is ready for. If I am pouring oats into a bucket, then at each moment in time as
the oats ﬂow, I face a choice between two options, both of which I may represent
imagistically as elaborations on my current perceptual representation—continuing to
pour or holding back. A cue in the form of the inexplicit sentence, ‘That’s enough’, is
quite enough to decide me between these two options. Similarly, my thinking to
myself ‘That’s enough’, can have the same effect without my having to add in thought
a speciﬁcation of what I have done enough of (pouring oats into this bucket, as
opposed to ﬁlling buckets).
A more artiﬁcial example might highlight the general principle more clearly.
Imagine a subject in a psychology experiment who is presented with pairs of cards
containing coloured shapes, one per card—a red square, a green triangle, etc. The
subject has to point to one card or the other depending on the utterances of
the experimenter. If the two cards always differ in either colour or shape, then the
experimenter will be able to direct the subject’s choice by naming only a colour or a
shape; the experimenter need not name both colour and shape. In much the same
way, an inexplicit thought may sufﬁce to drive behaviour where the agent faces only a
limited choice between imagistically represented options.
These explanations of how inexplicit thought can drive behaviour rest on the
assumption that inexplicit conceptual thoughts take place in the context of imagistic
representations of a limited array of options. For example, I said that Mrs Winkel-
voss’s chauffeur faces only two choices, to remain parked or to drive to the entrance.
These limits call for some explanation, because there are always other options that
could in principle be considered. There are many things Buddy might consider
(leaving for a cup of coffee) and many more that he might consider if certain
eventualities came to pass (a gun battle in the street). My supposition is not that an
agent vividly imagines several complete courses of action and that his choices are
strictly conﬁned to these. But I do suppose that there will be a range of actions that
the agent is immediately prepared for. The boundary between what is included and
what is not need not be sharply deﬁned. Moreover, this range of alternatives may be
imagistically represented without the agent’s being consciously aware of them all.8
Does the point I am making really depend on the hypothesis that there is non-
conceptual, imagistic thought? Suppose that all of our representations were discur-
sive, sentence-like representations. We could still have a number of representations
that represent our various options; so we could still maintain that inexplicit thoughts
can drive a choice between limited options. The answer is that in that case, explicit-
ism could perhaps be defended by a careful individuation of thoughts. Somewhere in
the chauffeur’s mind there would be a discursive representation of the activity that
Mrs Winkelvoss will engage in as a result of her being driven by Buddy. So the
8
For further exposition of the nature of imagistic cognition, including references to empirical literature,
and discussion of the imagistic representation of potential courses of action, see Gauker (2011: chs 5–7).
84 Gauker
explicitist might argue that, properly individuated, the thought that Buddy thinks in
response to the doorman’s utterance includes that representation of her activity, so
that the word-for-word expression of his thought would be closer to ‘Mrs Winkelvoss
is ready to go shopping’. But if the background sort of cognition is imagistic, then
there can be no guarantee that such a gerrymandering strategy will work.
In Wittgenstein’s Philosophical Investigations, in the course of his musings about
the language games of the primitive builders, he at one point raises the question
whether ‘Slab!’ is a shortened form of ‘Bring me a slab!’ His answer seems to be that,
while we can say that, it only means that ‘Bring me a slab!’ plays the role in our
language game that ‘Slab!’ plays in theirs. It does not mean that ‘Bring me a slab!’
must be what a builder who calls out ‘Slab!’ really has in mind (2009: }} 19–20). But
someone might resist this conclusion by maintaining that the builder really does have
in mind that the assistant should bring him a slab, that ‘Bring me a slab!’ is a correct
expression in our language of the thought that the builder has in mind, because when
we express in our language what a speaker has in mind, we do so by translating into
our language the thought he has in mind, and the translation into our language of the
thought that the builder has in mind is precisely this: ‘Bring me a slab!’
Similarly, one might object to all of my examples of inexplicit thought on the
grounds that the thoughts I report as inexplicit are, properly translated, revealed to be
explicit. They look inexplicit only if translated into English as if they were sentences
of the communal language. Rather, they have to be taken as sentences of local,
special-purpose languages, and, as such, they may be regarded as fully explicit.
When the doorman calls Buddy and says, ‘Mrs Winkelvoss is ready’, he is speaking
a variant of English in which ‘ready’ literally means ‘ready to go shopping’.
If we defend explicitism in this way, then, while we might preserve the letter of the
doctrine, we will destroy its animating spirit. Explicitism will no longer support a
distinction between spoken language and the language of conceptual thought,
because we will no longer have to ﬁnd a difference between the two languages due
to the fact that the sentences in the language of thought have to be explicit in a way
that spoken sentences need not be. If we say that the purportedly inexplicit thoughts
are really explicit, because they belong to a special language, then we can say the same
about the purportedly inexplicit spoken sentences. Accordingly, explicitism will no
longer support the common model of linguistic communication that I mentioned at
the start.
4.6. Explanation in terms of inexplicit thoughts
I have argued that inexplicit thoughts can drive behaviour because they take place in
the context of an imagistic representation of options. But that conclusion does not
quite address the second argument for explicitism, because when we explain a
person’s behaviour, this imagistic situation is not something we typically describe.
Inexplicit Thoughts 85
We do not describe the range of options the agent imagistically represents. Moreover,
the agent’s imagistic representation of a range of options is not something we
typically have any knowledge of. So, though an inexplicit thought might drive
behaviour, our explanations may not be able to cite only the inexplicit thought as
such. Is that not a reason to think that thoughts themselves must be explicit?
We may usefully distinguish three cases. One case is the case in which our
explanation takes place in much the same setting as the action to be explained. In
that case, what we have to explain may be limited in much the same way that the
agent’s choices are limited. If our explanation of Buddy’s action occurs in the same
setting as his action, then it may be clear to us, as it is to him, that his choices are
limited to remaining parked or driving to the entrance. In that case, we may explain
his driving to the entrance perfectly well by saying simply, ‘He thinks that Mrs
Winkelvoss is ready’. A second case is that in which, though we are in a setting
removed from the setting of the action, we can describe the setting in a way that
makes evident the limitations on the agent’s choices. In the case of Buddy, the
explanation may begin with an account of the routine that Buddy, the doorman,
and Mrs Winkelvoss are engaged in. Given that, we may attribute to Buddy the
pertinent thought by saying only ‘Buddy thought that Mrs Winkelvoss was ready’. It
may be clear enough from the prior account of the setting what he thinks she is ready
for. Finally, instead of describing the setting, we may make more of the content of the
thought explicit in the ‘that’-clause by means of which we ascribe the thought. In
explaining Buddy’s actions to the police after the street ﬁght, we might have to say
something like, ‘Buddy thought that Mrs Winkelvoss was ready to go shopping’.
In general, an explanation of behaviour that cites the agent’s thought will refer to
the thought by its content rather than by the structure of the concrete particular
representation (the vehicle) that bears that content. More or less of that content may
usefully be mentioned, depending on how much of the setting is independently clear
to the interlocutors to whom the explanation is provided. If the setting in which the
explanation is offered is removed from the setting in which the action takes place, so
that hearers cannot observe the setting for themselves, then to that extent it may be
useful to provide more of the content of the thought in the sentence that attributes
the thought. In particular, our attributions of thought in explanation of behaviour
may have to make more of the content of the thought explicit in the ‘that’-clause than
is explicitly born by the vehicle of thought itself.
According to the computational theory of mind, all cognition may be modeled as
the rule-governed manipulation of symbolic representations. Perhaps the computa-
tional theory of mind would encourage explicitism. Insofar as it ignores the possibil-
ity of imagistic thought, it might lead to explicitism in the way I described in the
previous section when I considered whether my account of the ways in which
inexplicit thoughts might drive behaviour really depended on the assumption that
there are non-conceptual, imagistic modes of thought. In any case, the computational
86 Gauker
theory of mind now strikes most students of the mind as a much too limited model of
cognition.
According to a certain conception, rational choice is a kind of logically valid
inference from premises to a practical conclusion, which says, in effect, ‘Do that!’.
This conception of rational choice too might lend some support to explicitism. But,
however well this conception of rational choice might fare as a normative account of
what is rationally correct, as a psychological account of actual human decision
making it patently fares quite poorly; so I think we can ignore it.
4.7. The semantics of context-relativity
The explicitist assumes that thoughts must be explicit because there is no place else to
look for what determines the propositional content of a thought other than in what we
ﬁnd in the structure of the thought itself. So if we say, ‘Buddy thinks Mrs Winkelvoss is
ready to go shopping’, then that is true only because Buddy’s thought explicitly
speciﬁes that it is shopping that Mrs Winkelvoss is ready for. If this assumption is to
be rejected, then we will need some other account of what makes it the case that a given
thought has the content it has. What, if not the semantic contents of the elements that
compose an explicit thought, will determine the content of the thinker’s thought?
I will answer this question by explaining what determines the semantic content of
an overt utterance. The answer I give will not be that it is determined by the content
of an underlying thought in the speaker. Consequently, there will be no threat of
regress in assuming that the same account might apply to thoughts. The account will
fall into two major parts. The ﬁrst part will be an account of the form of a semantic
theory for a language exhibiting context-relativity. The second part will be an answer
to a question posed by the ﬁrst part.
We may assume that a semantic theory for a language permitting context relativity
may be speciﬁed by clauses of the following form:
(E) Expression e has value v relative to context c if and only if . . . e . . . c . . .
For example, we might have clauses like these:
(D) The word ‘that’ refers to object o in context c if and only if o is the object that c
assigns to ‘that’.
(Q) A sentence of the form, ‘Every F is G’, is true in context c if and only if, for each
object o in the domain of discourse for c, if o belongs to the extension of F in c,
then o belongs to the extension of G in c.
One thing to notice about these clauses is that they determine the values of
expressions relative to contexts. For example, (D) tells us about the word ‘that’ and
(Q) tells us about sentences of a particular form. They do not assign values to tokens.
Inexplicit Thoughts 87
Also, in each case the right-hand side of the biconditional does not discharge all
reference to the expression or to the context. Furthermore, the truth of a sentence can
depend on the context relative to which it is evaluated in ways that go beyond what
the context assigns to elements of the sentence. As (Q) is formulated, the context-
relative truth of a quantiﬁed sentence depends on a contextually determined domain
of discourse, but that domain need not be assigned to the quantiﬁer.
Contexts, as they are spoken of in a theory of this kind, are formal structures of a
certain kind. A context will assign an object to a demonstrative expression. It will
contain a domain of discourse. It will contain various other constructs. I will assume
that contexts incorporate enough structure that sentence truth may be relativized to
contexts alone (and need not be relativized in addition to such things as possible
worlds and times). Our semantic theory will evaluate every expression of the lan-
guage with respect to every context. Contexts, so deﬁned, have to be distinguished
from situations, considered as an arrangement of concrete events and objects. An
utterance will be a component of a situation, not a context.
As I have documented elsewhere (Gauker 2003, 2012a, 2012b), the inexplicitness of
sentences does not prevent their standing in logical relations to other sentences. For
instance, ‘Buddy is ready’ presumably implies ‘Buddy is ready for something’, but not
conversely. The utility of the kind of semantics I have described here is that it allows
us to deﬁne a property of logical validity for arguments composed of inexplicit
sentences. An argument is logically valid if and only if for every context in which
the premises are true the conclusion is true as well. This virtue provides one of the
reasons to distinguish between contexts and situations. The set of contexts can be
precisely deﬁned and in that way becomes formally tractable. That an argument is
logically valid, or not, will be something we can rigorously prove. Whereas if we said
that logically valid arguments preserve truth in all situations or all possible situations,
then logical validity would not in the same way be subject to demonstration.
This sort of semantic theory will not by itself allow us to assign a truth value to a
particular utterance, a token of a natural language sentence. For that we need to know
in addition which context—which of the formal structures that contexts are—is the
one that, as we may put it, pertains to that particular utterance. Then we may say:
(U) An utterance u of a sentence s is true (simpliciter) if and only if s is true relative
to the context that pertains to u.
In this way, our account of the conditions under which a sentence is true in a context
generates an account of the conditions under which an utterance of a sentence is true
simpliciter. We may then identify the proposition that an utterance expresses with an
explicit statement of the conditions that the world would have to meet in order for
the sentence uttered to be true relative to the context that pertains to the utterance.
In light of principle (U), we face the question: What does it take for a context to
pertain to an utterance? At this point we might get an argument for explicitism. It
88 Gauker
might be said that what determines the context pertinent to an utterance is only the
content of an underlying thought. So, for instance, we might say that an utterance of
‘that’ refers to an object o if and only if o is what is referred to in the thought that
underlies the utterance in some sense of ‘underlie’. If we said that, then we could not,
on pain of inﬁnite regress, suppose that the semantics of mental representations was
context-relative in the same way.
It is not at all obvious that the only possible account of the pertaining relation is
one that treats it as determined by the content of an underlying thought. Some
features of the context pertinent to an utterance may be determined by the shared
goals that the interlocutors share in the conversation in which the utterance occurs
together with the contents of the situation that it is part of. For example, some of the
elements of a context are domains of various kinds. For the evaluation of quantiﬁed
sentences, the context needs to contain a domain of discourse (see Gauker 2003). For
the evaluation of modal and conditional sentences, the context needs to contain (or
be) a set of prospects, or ‘possibilities’ (or other contexts) (see Gauker 2005). These
domains may be determined by what is objectively relevant to the achievement of the
goals of the conversation. The domain of discourse for ordinary quantiﬁers, for
example, may consist of that subset of objects that are actually part of the situation
in which the utterance occurs and that have a bearing on the achievement of the goals
of the conversation. The domain of prospects relative to which we evaluate a
conditional sentence may comprise all and only those that are in some sense live
prospects that interlocutors have to prepare themselves for.
Other elements of the pertinent context may be determined by a variety of
‘accessibility criteria’. These may include such considerations as what is literally
salient in the environment, what the speaker would charitably be interpreted as
saying, and how the speaker has used conventional devices such as pointing. For
example, the referent of a bare demonstrative, ‘that’, may be identiﬁable on the basis
of such criteria. The various criteria may suggest various solutions, and in that case,
we may just have to say that the context is whatever reasonable interpreters would
take it to be on the basis of an all-things-considered judgment. (For a fuller discus-
sion, see Gauker 2008b.)
On such an account of the content of the context that pertains to an utterance, the
utterer is not authoritative over the meaning of his or her words. The speaker may
have one proposition in mind (by virtue of a representation distinct from that which
he or she speaks) and his or her utterance may express some other proposition. I ﬁnd
nothing surprising or objectionable in that result. It means that speakers have to take
care that their words mean what they intend them to mean. Slightly more surprising
is the conclusion that a thinker may misunderstand his or her own thought. The
proposition that it bears, in light of what is objectively relevant and in light of the
accessibility criteria, might not be just what the thinker himself or herself would
have said if asked to elaborate. But I think we can tolerate that conclusion as well.
Inexplicit Thoughts 89
4.8. A note on sub-sentential speech
Sometimes we manage to communicate by speaking phrases that are not complete
sentences. Sanjay and Silvia may be loading up a moving van. They are looking for a
missing table leg. Sanjay says, ‘On the stoop’, and thereby communicates to Silvia the
proposition that the missing table leg is on the stoop. This example comes from
Stainton (2006b) who argues, on the basis of this fact, that natural languages cannot
be the medium of conceptual thought. ‘Sentencesemantic’ is Stainton’s term for
sentences that express a complete proposition explicitly in my sense (2006b: 31).
The core of his argument is this:
If thought really were inner speech, then occurrently grasping any content c would require
tokening, somewhere in the mind, a natural language expression with content c. So as a special
case, occurrently grasping a proposition, say p, would require having a natural language
sentencesemantic with content p running through the mind. (Stainton 2006b: 177–8).
Why? Why could the proposition that p not be the content of a sub-sentential
thought? If, as Stainton maintains, we can make assertions and communicate by
means of sub-sentential expressions, why can we not also think by means of them? As
far as I can see, everything I said in section 4.5 applies here as well.
The case of sub-sentential speech does pose an additional problem for what I have
said, however. That is because what I said about the semantics of inexplicit sentences
does not carry over without modiﬁcation to the case of sub-sentential expressions. We
can suppose that for every kind of context-relativity affecting sentences, there is an
element of the context that provides an appropriate value. That will make complete
contexts very large and complex entities. I do not see any problem in that fact. (A
context may leave most parameters simply unevaluated.) However, we cannot suppose
that contexts also supply completions of some kind to expressions that are less than
complete sentences. That really would make them indeﬁnitely complex.
In reply, one could argue that, although the truth value of a sub-sentential
linguistic utterance is not determined by the semantics of the expression used and
the context, in my sense, that pertains to the utterance, nonetheless, a truth value can
be determined for a sub-sentential expression by the semantic properties of the
expression used together with the features of the situation in which it occurs. What
we would lose in so appealing to situation in place of context in this way is the license
to apply the deﬁnition of logical consequence that I presented in the previous section.
That seems acceptable. While sub-sentential expressions may be used to make
utterances that express propositions that stand in logical relations to other propos-
itions, sub-sentential expressions cannot serve as premises or conclusions in logically
valid arguments.
90 Gauker
5
Sub-sentential Speech Acts, Reﬂexive
Content, and Pragmatic Enrichment*
REINALDO ELUGARDO
Speakers often appear to use ordinary words and phrases to perform various kinds
of speech acts, such as asserting, requesting, commanding, and expressing, among
others. Here are some examples:
(5.1) a. No smoking
b. Slippery when wet
c. Lucerne two-ten low-fat milk
d. The Steelers going for a ﬁeld goal
(from Bach and Harnish 1979: 230)
(5.2) a. Some whiskey
b. Six of the pink ones with sprinkles on top
c. All of you with beards
d. The goblins
e. A beer, please
(from Sadock and Zwicky 1985: 187)
(5.3) a. On the stoop
b. From Spain
c. Barbara Partee
d. The editor of Pragmatics and Cognition
e. Purchased at Walmart
* I would like to thank Barbara Abbott, Lenny Clapp, Robert M. Harnish, Clare Horisk, Tim Kenyon, and
Martin Montminy for their helpful comments on an ancestral version of this chapter. I am especially indebted
to Chris Gauker, Laurence Goldstein, Kepa Korta, Jeff Pelletier, and Rob Stainton, for their many extensive and
detailed comments on a recent draft. Any errors that remain are mine, not theirs. Finally, I dedicate this
chapter to the memory of Robert (‘Mike’) Harnish, a truly great philosopher, linguist, and friend.
f. Quickly!
g. An emergency generator
(from Stainton 2006b: 50)
Each expression listed above can be felicitously used to initiate a conversation
without being dependent on any previous discourse. For instance, I can begin a
conversation by pointing to a new shirt I bought while uttering (5.3e), thereby
informing my friend that I purchased that shirt at Walmart. Following Harnish
(2009), I will call ordinary words and lexically headed phrases that can be used
felicitously in discourse-initial contexts, ‘free fragments’. I will also call a speaker’s
literal utterance of a free fragment, ‘a sub-sentential utterance’, and the illocutionary
speech act involving a sub-sentential utterance, ‘a sub-sentential speech act’.1
For present purposes, I shall assume that appearance is reality.2
That is, I will
assume without argument that, when speakers produce sub-sentential utterances
with illocutionary force, they are not using sentences elliptically that sound like free
fragments.3
Nor are the free fragments they use shorthand for complete natural
language sentences in any semantic sense.4
In this chapter, I will focus on a special case of sub-sentential utterances: a speaker
utters an adverbial phrase or a prepositional phrase and, thereby, makes a statement
about a certain object, one to which she implicitly referred without resorting to any
linguistic designation or demonstration of the object.5
Kepa Korta and John Perry
offer a nice example of this kind:
Consider the case of John and Dikran, who have the habit of smoking a small cigar before
going home after work. It’s usually Dirkan’s job to provide ‘cigarrillos’. It’s 5 p.m., and John
enters Dikran’s ofﬁce.
1
These distinctions are meant to capture some reasonable metaphysical intuitions about linguistic acts.
In particular, not every sub-sentential speech act is reducible to the corresponding sub-sentential utterance.
For instance, if I point to a letter and utter, ‘from Spain’, I asserted of that letter that it is from Spain. The
speech act I performed supervenes on, if not constituted by, the interplay of the two other acts I performed:
my act of pointing to the letter and my act of uttering the prepositional phrase. In this case, my speech act
of asserting that the letter is from Spain is not identical to my act of uttering the prepositional phrase, since
the latter act contributes no proposition or thought that is the content of my assertion. It is for that reason
that I introduced the distinctions I presented in the text.
2
On this point, I side with the following authors: Bach (2004), Barton (2006), Carston (2002), Clapp
(2005), Corazza (2011), Hall (2008, 2009), Harnish (2009), Korta and Perry (2011), Recanati (2002, 2004),
Stainton (2006a, 2006b).
3
See Barton (1990) and Stainton (2006a).
4
See Elugardo and Stainton (2004).
5
I selected this case of sub-sentential speech acts for a special reason. It is reasonable to hold that, in this
particular case, neither the speaker nor the hearer need form (consciously or unconsciously) any explicit
representation of the referent. Nor must either one entertain a de re thought about the referent. And yet,
the speaker can still succeed in making a statement about the referent, and the hearer can come to
understand what the speaker asserted. The question is: what follows from all this? Some philosophers,
most notably, Corazza (2011) and Gauker (Chapter 4), conclude that, in these cases, the hearer can thus
understand what is asserted without having to engage in any kind of pragmatic enrichment. I will argue
that this does not follow. I will also argue that pragmatic enrichment is necessary in these cases.
92 Elugardo
Dikran says:
(5.4) On the top shelf.
John reaches the top shelf and ﬁnds the packet of cigarrillos next to a pile of books.
(from Korta and Perry 2011: 105)6
I will refer to such cases as ‘Type-S cases’.7
In Type-S cases, the utterance content
semantically underdetermines what the speaker asserted or stated since the utterance
content is sub-propositional, whereas the speech act content is fully propositional.
Thus, the hearer has to rely on whatever contextually relevant evidence is available to
arrive at an ‘inference-to-the-best’ interpretation of what the speaker asserted by way
of her sub-sentential utterance. This often involves the hearer’s ‘enriching’ the
semantic content expressed in the sub-sentential utterance with constituents that
are unarticulated in the fragment used. Or, so I will argue.
Some philosophers have argued that enrichment is unnecessary even in Type-S
cases.8
Speech comprehension can be achieved, they claim, if the speaker and her
audience are cognitively ‘attuned’ to and appropriately ‘situated’ in their shared
environment, and also if the audience exploits what Kepa Korta and John Perry
call the utterance’s ‘reﬂexive content(s)’. I will argue that, on the contrary, working
out what the speaker asserted requires, on the audience’s part, enriching the semantic
content of the sub-sentential utterance—a process that helps the hearer make sense
of the speaker’s speech act. I will also argue, in passing, that Korta and Perry’s notion
of reﬂexive content is problematic but still salvageable as a theoretical construct in a
theory of linguistic communication.
The text is divided into ﬁve sections. In Section 5.1 I review Korta and Perry’s
pluralistic notion of utterance content, and then I explain in Section 5.2 how they use
their account to explain Type-S cases. In Section 5.3, I argue that their notion of
reﬂexive truth-conditional content cannot apply in the case of sub-sentential utter-
ances because such utterances lack truth-conditions. What has truth-conditions are
6
I have taken the liberty of re-numbering numbered sentences for stylistic reasons and for consistency
in the text.
7
In view of what I said in the ﬁrst footnote, one might think that, in Type-S cases, the sub-sentential
speech act (token) is identical to the sub-sentential utterance (token) given that there is no separate, non-
linguistic, demonstration. However, they are not identical. A sub-sentential utterance of ‘on the top shelf ’
does not semantically contribute a complete thought or proposition to the assertion made given that the
phrase contains no covert variable, hidden indexical, etc, whose semantic value is the speaker referent.
I leave it open as to what determines some object as being the implicit speaker referent in Type-S cases.
8
Actually, several linguists and philosophers reject the idea that pragmatic enrichment plays an
essential explanatory role in any account of speech comprehension. For instance, it is rejected by those
who think that free fragments are really sentences that have null elements (Hankamer and Sag 1976), or
that have hidden indexicals/covert variables (Stanley 2000, 2002, 2007) or that are ellipses of some kind
(Ludlow 2005; Merchant 2001, 2004, 2006). It is also denied by those who think that pragmatic enrichment
requires the formation of explicit mental representations in thought and who hold that many of our
thoughts are inexplicit in structure and in content, (Corazza 2011; Gauker 2003, Chapter 4, this volume).
Sub-sentential Speech Acts, Reﬂexive Content, and Pragmatic Enrichment 93
the assertions that speakers make by means of a sub-sentential utterance (by ‘asser-
tion’ I mean the proposition that a speaker asserts in her use of linguistic expressions,
whether sentences or fragments). I also contend, in Section 5.4, that we can still retain
a notion of reﬂexive content if it is treated as something that hearers tacitly use in
ﬁguring out what a speaker asserted. Finally, in Section 5.5, I argue that pragmatic
enrichment is necessary in comprehending Type-S cases.9
5.1. Three kinds of utterance content: reﬂexive, reﬁned, and referential
Consider the following example: I walk into my friend’s kitchen and I am startled to
see his cat, Felix, sleeping on the kitchen door mat—I had expected Felix to be in the
backyard since he is an outdoor cat. Because I am surprised to see Felix in the house,
I utter (5.5) to my friend, Martin, who is in the living room but within earshot:
(5.5) Your cat is sleeping on the kitchen mat.
Let C be the context described above and let u be my utterance of (5.5) in C.
On Korta and Perry’s view, u has at least three different propositional contents:
‘reﬂexive content’, ‘raw semantic content’, or ‘utterance-bound truth-conditions’;
‘reﬁned semantic content’ or ‘speaker-bound truth-conditions’; ‘referential content’,
‘ofﬁcial content’, or ‘locutionary content’ (Korta and Perry 2011: passim; see also
Perry 2001). They mention the ﬁrst two in the following passage:
We provide two accounts of ‘semantic content’, the boundary between semantics and pragmat-
ics. We call the utterance-bound or reﬂexive content, given only the meanings of the words
involved, without resolution of ambiguity or reference, . . . ‘raw semantic content’. Given reso-
lution of ambiguity, we have what we call ‘reﬁned semantic content’. (Korta and Perry 2011: 142)
Thus, on their view, the meanings of the words that make up (5.5) wholly determine
u’s ‘raw semantic’ reﬂexive content, prior to any assignment of any semantic values
to ‘your cat’ or to ‘the kitchen mat’. And so, u’s reﬂexive content is ﬁxed independ-
ently of any contextual facts about u, such as who the speaker of u is, where u was
produced, or when u was produced. On Korta and Perry’s view, (5.6) expresses the
reﬂexive content of u:
(5.6) u is true if and only if the speaker of u referred to her addressee’s cat c by
her use of ‘your cat’ and also referred to a certain kitchen mat m by her use of
9
Nothing that I will say here will resolve any of the important empirical questions concerning the
nature of the psychological processes involved in pragmatic enrichment. Most who defend the reality of
sub-sentential speech acts accept a general relevance-theoretic framework for the psychology of speech
comprehension, see Carston (2002); Hall (2009); Sperber and Wilson (1986); and Stainton (1994, 2006a,
2006b). But the details of the framework still need to be ﬁlled in, and the jury is still out on the empirical
issues pertaining to sub-sentential speech.
94 Elugardo
‘the kitchen mat’, and c is sleeping on m (at the time when the speaker
produced u).
The right-hand side (RHS) of (5.6) represents u’s reﬂexive conditions, which are
completely determined by the standing conventional meaning of (5.5) in English and
the fact that u was produced. As Korta and Perry put it:
Within a theory of utterances, the clauses of semantic theory assign reﬂexive conditions of
reference and truth on the basis of syntactic form. Facts about the intentions of the speaker in
uttering the expression, and contextual facts, yield the referential level of content, which in the
case of declarative sentences will be the locutionary content of the utterance. So pragmatics,
semantics, and other relevant facts about an utterance come together at locutionary content.
While everything, in a sense, comes together at locutionary content, the picture is rather
different from the classic one. Locutionary is not the output of the semantic part of the theory,
but a joint determination of the semantic part, the pragmatic part, and other facts about the
utterance. (Korta and Perry 2011: 140)
The ‘semantic part’ of a theory of utterances (in English) yields (5.6) as the ‘utterance-
bound’ truth-conditions of any utterance of (5.5). Example (5.6) represents what any
competent English speaker knows in knowing the literal meaning of any literal
utterance of (5.5) in abstraction from the context of utterance.
With respect to u, ‘the pragmatic part’ of a theory of utterances (in English) would
yield, in conjunction with the semantic part and certain contextual facts about u,
what Korta and Perry call its ‘referential’ or ‘locutionary’ content. What follows next
are the incremental steps that take us from the reﬂexive content of u to its locutionary
content (relative to context C).
To begin, here are some contextual facts about u. The ﬁrst is that I am the speaker
of u in C:
(5.7) The speaker of u (in C)=RE.
Another is that Martin is the addressee in C:
(5.8) The addressee of u (in C)= Martin
Given (5.7), (5.8), and (5.9), plus the fact that I referred to Martin’s cat with my
utterance of ‘your cat’, and the fact that Felix is Martin’s cat, we get (5.10):
(5.9) The cat that RE referred to (in C) by his use of ‘your cat’=Felix
(5.10) The cat that the speaker of u referred to (in C) by his use of ‘your cat’=Felix
Similarly, given (5.7), (5.8), and (5.9), the fact that I referred to Martin’s kitchen mat
with my utterance of ‘the kitchen mat’, we can derive (5.11):
(11) The kitchen mat to which the speaker of u referred (in C) by his use of ‘the
kitchen mat’= Martin’s kitchen mat
Sub-sentential Speech Acts, Reﬂexive Content, and Pragmatic Enrichment 95
Finally, given (5.6), (5.10), and (5.11), we get (5.12):
(5.12) u is true if and only if Felix is sleeping on Martin’s kitchen mat (at the time
when the speaker of u, namely, RE, produced u).
Now, the RHS of (5.12) is what Korta and Perry identify as the referential or
locutionary content of u. (The ‘reﬁned semantic’ content of u, or its speaker-bound
truth-conditions, would be the proposition that the cat that RE referred to by his use
of ‘your cat’ is sleeping on the kitchen mat that RE referred to by his use of ‘the
kitchen mat’ (at the time when RE produced u)).
In the present example, Martin understood me as asserting that Felix is sleeping on
his (Martin’s) kitchen mat or as asserting that his cat is sleeping on his (Martin’s)
kitchen mat. He understood what I asserted because he knows what (5.5) means, has a
grasp of the reﬂexive content of my utterance (ie, (5.6)), and because he knows the
relevant contextual facts about my utterance, which are represented by propositions
(5.7)–(5.11).
Here is the important take-away lesson: according to Korta and Perry’s view, a
competent speaker or hearer can grasp the reﬂexive content of u, without having to
mentally represent the utterer, the place, or the time of utterance. Of course, in order
for Martin to know what I asserted in uttering (5.5), he would have to know that Felix
is the referent of my use of ‘your cat’ (in the context in question) and that his kitchen
mat is the referent of my use of ‘the kitchen mat’ (relative to the same context). Still,
Martin does not have to consciously represent his cat or his kitchen mat in order to
understand my assertion.10
Nor does he have to form a mental representation of
himself to know that he is the secondary referent of my use of the pronominal
possessive, ‘your cat’, in my utterance of (5.5). He merely took it for granted that I was
talking about his cat, which is enough for him to know that I was indirectly referring
to him by my use of ‘your cat’. Similarly, Martin does not need to articulate, in
thought, any representation of Felix to know that Felix is the cat about which I am
making a statement. In short, to know any of these things, neither Martin nor I have
to mentally represent Felix or Martin’s kitchen explicitly—our being mutually
situated in and attuned to an environment in which these contextual facts are
obvious to both of us sufﬁces.
To sum up: according to Korta and Perry, a linguistic utterance can have several
different truth-conditional contents. One of them—the reﬂexive content—is ﬁxed
solely by the type-meaning of the expression uttered. Unless the expression is an
indexical or a demonstrative, slot-ﬁlling (‘saturation’) does not ﬁgure in determining
the reﬂexive content of the utterance. The other two—the speaker-bound content
and the locutionary (referential) content—are more context-sensitive in that the
10
See Perry (1986) and Gauker, Chapter 4.
96 Elugardo
utterance’s semantic values are assigned relative to the context in which it is pro-
duced given its reﬂexive content. The other important idea that Korta and Perry have
proposed is that explicitly representing an utterance’s semantic constituents is
unnecessary for grasping the utterance’s locutionary content. I now turn to Korta
and Perry’s application of their ideas to sub-sentential utterances.
5.2. Sub-sentential speech acts and reﬂexive contents
According to Korta and Perry, the lessons that apply to sentential utterances involv-
ing indexicals, demonstratives, deﬁnite descriptions, and the like, also apply to sub-
sentential utterances: they too are said to have reﬂexive contents that speakers and
hearers mutually exploit when they communicate with each other. Here is what
Korta and Perry say about their Dikran–John example:
We can imagine that John gasps immediately the referential truth-conditions of (5.1): namely,
that the cigarrillos are on the top of Dikran’s bookshelves, but, of course, he might not. Perhaps
John forgot about their smoking habit, and simply intended to invite Dikran to try a coffee
from his new expresso machine. He grasped only what we call the speaker-bound truth-
conditions of the utterance, something like:
Given that Dikran is the speaker of (5.4) [=Dikran’s utterance of ‘on the top shelf ’], (5.4)
consists of the English predicate ‘on the top shelf,’ and he refers with ‘the top shelf ’’ to the shelf
of the bookshelves in this room, (5.4) is true if and only if the object Dikran is referring to is
on the top shelf . . . Understanding the speaker-bound truth-conditions is enough to prompt
John to look for what Dikran is referring to and ﬁnd the packet of cigarillos, and be reminded
of their pleasurable, if unhealthy, habit. (Korta and Perry 2011: 105; bracketed material
inserted.)
Eros Corazza, who adopts the Korta-Perry line, makes a similar point:
If, as I suggested, we consider utterances to be situated, important information may rest on the
relevant situation without being consciously processed by the speaker and/or the audience.
When one hears ‘Hidden on the top of the shelf ’, by the very meaning associated with the verb
phrase, one is likely to automatically grasp that something of a determinate dimensions is
hidden on the top of the shelf. For example, one is unlikely to think that an object the
dimension of an elephant can be hidden on top of the shelf. (Corazza 2011: 576–7)11
11
Although I agree with Corazza’s main point, I do not think it is a matter of linguistic meaning of the
adverbial phrase, ‘hidden on top of the shelf ’, that explains why, upon hearing an utterance of that phrase, we
usually don’t associate objects as big as adult elephants being hidden on the top of the shelf question. Rather,
it’s because we have never encountered such cases in the real world. The sentence, ‘Dumbo the elephant is
hidden on top of the shelf ’, is not semantically anomalous—we know what the world would have to be like
for it to be true: it would be one in which there is a shelf that is big enough and strong enough to support an
elephant. There just aren’t bookshelves that big, at least none that most of us have seen.
Sub-sentential Speech Acts, Reﬂexive Content, and Pragmatic Enrichment 97
In the example, Dikran intends John to get the cigarillos rather than, say, the pile of
books that are also on the top shelf next to the cigars. If Korta and Perry are right,
Dikran can form this intention without having to explicitly represent, in thought, the
cigarillos. For example, in forming his intention, Dikran does not have to include a
complex mental demonstrative (‘those cigarillos’) that, in context, would refer to the
cigarillos on his top shelf.12
Corazza uses Korta and Perry’s idea of joint actions to explain how speakers and
hears can successfully communicate in sub-sentential speech without either of them
consciously forming explicit representations of the contents they are conveying:
a communicative act can be said to be successful inasmuch as the speaker and her audience are
co-situated and the action-related output of the speaker and her audience is positive. Usually,
the speaker and her audience are automatically attuned to the situation they ﬁnd themselves in,
so that during their linguistic exchange the speaker and her audience need not consciously
process all the information stored in the situation. . . . (Corazza 2011: 578)13
In the present example, John has to ﬁgure out that Dikran is talking about the
cigarillos rather than the pile of books, without John having to form any explicit
representation. John will likely succeed, according to Korta and Perry and Corazza, if
he remembers that he and Dikram habitually smoke cigarillos before going home
12
On the other hand, intentions are type-individuated, in part, by their targets. If forming an intention
requires that one represent the target of one’s intention as the target, and if the cigarillos on the top shelf are
the target of Dikran’s communicative intention, then he must represent them as such in thought. Perhaps,
he can mentally represent them inexplicitly, e.g., ‘those up on the top shelf ’; in which case, we would need a
story as to how the cigarillos in question, rather than the books piled next to the cigarillos, get to be the
referent of the mental token ‘those’ without having to evoke the notion of an explicit representation. For
more on this topic, see Gauker, Chapter 4.
13
This raises a legitimate worry about sub-sentential speech acts: being ‘situated’ and ‘attuned’ to the
same external environment may be insufﬁcient for successful communication to be a case of linguistic
communication. In Type-S cases, the speaker does not explicitly articulate the intended referent, but utters
instead a bare phrase. The hearer may just happen to hone in on the speaker’s intended referent, not
because of anything that the speaker said explicitly, but because of certain ‘situated’ features of the
environment that the speaker and the hearer share—in this case, Dikran’s cigarillos being on the top
shelf. The hearer responds in the way that the speaker intended and expected. This may be a case of
successful communication, but it does not appear to be a case of successful linguistic communication.
(Couldn’t have Dikran succeeded in achieving the same perlocutionary effect by whistling while pointing to
the cigarillos on his top shelf?) The worry, then, is that communicatively successful sub-sentential speech
acts may be cases of ‘magical’ or ‘lucky’ acts of communication, and therefore are not really linguistic. (My
thanks to Jeff Pelletier for raising this issue.)
Although I cannot answer this concern fully here, I can make two quick comments. First, we can use
Grice’s account of self-reﬂexive communicative intentions: Dikran reﬂexively intends John to see that he
means to be asserting, by his utterance of ‘on the top shelf ’, that the cigarillos are on the top shelf of his
bookcase, and intends that John understand him as saying that solely by virtue of recognizing this very
intention. Whether uptake is achieved depends on how John ﬁgures out the illocutionary point of Dikran’s
sub-sentential utterance in that context. Second, the semantic properties of the phrase uttered will play
some causal role in John’s subsequent behavior, as he ﬁgures out the point of Dikran’s utterance. Both
comments, if correct, should make the idea of sub-sentential speech acts as being linguistic communicative
acts more palatable.
98 Elugardo
after work, that it is 5 pm, and that they have ﬁnished work and are about to go home.
He also has to believe that there could be a pack of cigarillos on top of the shelf in
question, but he does not have to mentally represent them in order to comply with
Dikran’s remark.
Given that John grasps the reﬂexive content of Dikran’s utterance, Dikran in effect
directs him to visually attend to the objects that are on the top shelf of his bookcase.14
Once John sees what is on the shelf, and given what he remembers and knows about
the context, he is able to ﬁgure out that Dikran asserted, by his sub-sentential
utterance, that the cigarillos are on the top shelf. Again, John does not have to
cognitively represent the cigarillos he sees as cigarillos in order to understand what
Dikran asserted.
I take the Dikran–John example to be an example of a hearer who pragmatically
enriches the semantic content of the speaker’s sub-sentential utterance without
having to explicitly represent the referential content of the speaker’s assertion. For
Korta and Perry, pragmatic enrichment is the process by which a hearer extrapolates
the reﬂexive content of an utterance and then works out its referential content (if it
has one) by using whatever contextual information is available. I will argue, though,
that their account is problematic but salvageable—the key is to give up their claim
that reﬂexive content is a truth-conditional content of sub-sentential utterances.
5.3. Sub-sentential utterances lack reﬂexive content
On Korta and Perry’s view, the primary bearer of truth-value is a linguistic utterance,
which they say can have distinct truth-conditional contents.15
In this section,
I will argue that sub-sentential utterances lack truth-conditions altogether, and
thus, lack reﬂexive contents given that the latter are said to be (meta-linguistic)
truth-conditions. Korta and Perry’s claim that Type-S cases involve sub-sentential
utterances that have ‘speaker-bound truth-conditions’ is therefore mistaken. We
should, then, reject their notion of reﬂexive content altogether or modify it in some
14
One might raise the following point. If, by uttering ‘on the top shelf ’, Dikran is issuing a directive to
John, then that would seem to be a code for, say, ‘Look at what is on the top shelf ’. In which case, the phrase
that Dirkran uttered is really shorthand for a sentence that is not fully pronounced. But, then, that would
mean that we don’t really have here a genuine case of sub-sentential utterance.
My reply is that Dikran’s use of the phrase may be shorthand for a sentence in a pragmatic sense: one can
use the prepositional phrase in certain contexts to achieve the same intended perlocutionary effects that
one can achieve using a sentence. I don’t deny that that is true. It does not follow, however, that what
Dikran uttered is shorthand for some sentence in either the semantic sense or in the syntactic sense. For a
detailed defence of this reply, see Elugardo and Stainton (2004). Again, my thanks to Jeff Pelletier for
raising this point.
15
Kent Bach takes Perry to task on the idea that utterances have semantic content in some non-
parasitic way (see Bach 2007). Perry replies to Bach’s criticisms in Perry (2007).
Sub-sentential Speech Acts, Reﬂexive Content, and Pragmatic Enrichment 99
way—I suggest we do the latter. But, ﬁrst, let us see why their claim about sub-
sentential utterances having reﬂexive contents is mistaken.
Let u be Dikram’s utterance of (5.4) (‘on the top shelf ’) in the context that Korta
and Perry presented. Then, we can state u’s (alleged) reﬂexive truth-conditions thus:
(5.13) u is true if and only if the speaker of u referred to some object x such that x is
on the top shelf.
Proposition (5.13) is false, however. The right-hand side (RHS) of (5.13) is true given
the following contextual facts about u: Dikram is the speaker of u, he referred
implicitly to the cigarillos in question when he produced u, and those cigarillos are
on the top shelf he referred to relative to the context in which he produced u.
Before we attend to the left-hand side (LHS) of (5.13), we should note Korta and
Perry’s remark that, ‘within a theory of utterances, the clauses of semantic theory
assign reﬂexive conditions of reference and truth on the basis of syntactic form’. So,
according to them, utterances have syntactic forms. The syntactic form of Dikran’s
utterance of ‘on the top shelf ’ is simply the syntactic form of the expression uttered,
which is a prepositional phrase. The LHS of (5.13) is therefore false because u’s
syntactic form is that of a prepositional phrase, and nothing that is of that form is
of the semantic type <t>; in which case, u is not of that type either and is therefore
neither true nor false. If the LHS of (5.13) is false but its RHS is true, then (5.13) is false.
There is no set of meta-linguistic conditions the obtaining of which is necessary and
sufﬁcient for u to be true (or false)—u lacks truth-conditions. Hence, u lacks reﬂexive
content. (The same line of argument can be given for any word or lexically headed
phrase that a speaker uses in a sub-sentential speech act.)
Notice that, if Dikran actually asserted something by his sub-sentential utter-
ance—a point that Korta and Perry conceded—then Dikran said something true,
something that he did not implicate by his utterance of (5.4), namely, that a pack
of cigarillos is on the top shelf of his ofﬁce bookcase. (Dikran also implicated that
John may have one of his cigarillos.) Thus, something that is truth-apt is involved
in Dikran’s sub-sentential speech act, but it is not his sub-sentential utterance. What
he stated or asserted by his sub-sentential utterance is truth-apt, namely, a
proposition.16
16
Eros Corazza (2011) asks whether an utterance of a free fragment ‘express a fully truth-evaluable
proposition?’ My answer is no, for the reason presented in the text. Verb phrases, for example, do not
semantically express propositions but instead express functions from objects to truth-values (or to
propositions). Whatever semantic properties Dikran’s utterance of (5.4) has, it has in virtue of inheriting
the semantic properties of the prepositional phrase he uttered and, possibly, from any disambiguation at
the level of speaker reference: Dikran referred to a speciﬁc bookshelf when he uttered the incomplete
deﬁnite description, ‘the top shelf ’. Thus, the semantic content of Dikran’s sub-sentential utterance
content is not a complete proposition but it is what Kent Bach calls ‘a propositional radical’, see Bach
(2004). On my view, it is the speaker, John, who asserts a proposition that can be adequately described by
the sentence, ‘The cigarillos are on top shelf of the ofﬁce bookcase’, relative to the context that pertains to
100 Elugardo
To sum up: I argued that, strictly speaking, sub-sentential utterances lack
reﬂexive content, in the sense that Korta and Perry have in mind. Another account
must be given of how speakers can assert things that do have truth-conditions,
namely, propositions, by uttering a word or a phrase with illocutionary force if the
word or phrase uttered lacks truth-conditions. Still, one can think of reﬂexive
contents as having an explanatory role to play in pragmatic enrichment: namely
as premises that ﬁgure in the hearer’s pragmatic reasoning concerning what a
speaker asserts in a sub-sentential speech act. Korta and Perry undoubtedly think
of the role of reﬂexive contents in linguistic communication in that way. I propose,
then, that we simply drop the idea that reﬂexive contents are also truth-conditional
contents of sub-sentential utterances. Saying that they are is not only false but it
also adds nothing to an account of how hearers determine what is asserted in a sub-
sentential speech act.
Is reﬂexive content the sort of thing that one can simply extrapolate from the
language in which one is semantically competent? Korta and Perry think it is, which
is why they regard reﬂexive content as being on the semantic side of the ‘semantic/
pragmatic’ divide. In the next section, I will offer a few reasons for thinking that
reﬂexive contents belong on the pragmatic side of the boundary.
5.4. Reﬂexive contents as pragmatic determinants of what is asserted
I want to distinguish two different ideas:
 The information that a sophisticated hearer can glean from a linguistic type on
the basis of general intelligence and from a perception of the occurrence of a
token of that type
 What the linguistic type means
In the Korta and Perry’s example, John knows what the expression-type, ‘on the top
shelf ’, means in English. Knowing what it means in the language will not yield,
though, any insight as to whether a particular speaker who uses the phrase on a given
occasion refers to some object by ‘the top shelf ’ on that occasion. The hearer’s
semantic competence would not output anything like (5.13) from a formal character-
ization of the type-meaning of ‘on the top shelf ’ (in English).17
More than just
his utterance (see Gauker, Chapter 4). In another context, a semantically different sentence may adequately
describe what Dikran asserted by a sub-sentential utterance of the same phrase (holding ﬁxed the speaker
reference for ‘the top shelf ’). The semantic utterance content would still be the same in both cases, but the
assertion content (or the locutionary content) would not.
17
Very young English-speaking children do not have difﬁculty understanding utterances of ‘on the top
shelf ’, but it is unlikely that they possess the requisite meta-linguistic concepts needed for understanding
utterances of (5.13). So, just on empirical grounds alone, it is doubtful that the language faculty generates
anything like complex reﬂexive contents as outputs.
Sub-sentential Speech Acts, Reﬂexive Content, and Pragmatic Enrichment 101
semantic competence is required if one is to grasp the (alleged) reﬂexive content of a
sub-sentential utterance (if it had one).
In the present example, John is said to have heard Dikran utter a phrase. Perhaps
then the perceptual input, in concert with John’s semantic competence, will sufﬁce in
assigning (5.13) as a content of Dikran’s sub-sentential utterance. The two together,
however, are not enough. In addition, John would have to know that Dikran referred
to some object to which Dikran ascribed the property of being on the top shelf. John
can acquire that knowledge only if he knew Dikran’s referential intentions and the
contextually relevant, possible objects of reference.
We have now shifted from semantics to pragmatics in trying to arrive at an
utterance’s reﬂexive content. In our attempt to answer the question, ‘When do you
have knowledge of reﬂexive content?’, we moved from the language faculty to the
speaker’s communicative intentions, the speaker’s use of an expression, shared
contextual assumptions, as well as any feature of the external environment that the
hearer can make use of in ﬁguring out the speaker’s intentions. These considerations
support the conclusion that, at best, reﬂexive content is on the pragmatics side of the
‘semantics/pragmatics’ divide (pace Korta and Perry).
I propose that we regard reﬂexive contents as premises that hearers tacitly use in
ﬁguring out what a speaker asserted. Here is what I mean. In the Dikran–John story,
John displayed his general intelligence and background knowledge of how speakers
generally use phrases in conversations. He presumes that speakers are not likely to
use ‘on the top shelf ’ unless they intend to express the belief, or convey a piece of
information, to the effect that a certain object or (a group of objects) is on top of a
certain shelf. From a Gricean point of view, Dikran’s conveying that piece of infor-
mation is relevant for John’s consideration. Otherwise, Dikran’s use of the phrase in
that context would violate or ﬂout some conversational maxim. John takes Dikran to
be co-operative and to have said something that is worthy of his consideration.
Furthermore, Dikran gave John no reason to think that he meant anything different
by his utterance.
For his part, John takes Dikran to have said something about the top shelf of
Dikran’s ofﬁce bookcase—that piece of information was left implicit, but it is one that
Dikran reasonably expected John to ﬁgure out given that they are in Dikran’s ofﬁce.
When John sees the cigarillos on the shelf in question, and remembers their after-
work routine, he interprets Dikran as having asserted that the cigarillos are on the top
shelf of his ofﬁce bookcase, which is what Dikran expected him to understand him as
saying by his utterance of (5.4). If this picture is roughly correct, then John has in
effect enriched the sub-propositional semantic content of Dikran’s sub-sentential
utterance with additional constituents, namely, Dikran’s cigarillos. After all, asser-
tions are fully propositional in content whereas sub-sentential utterances are not.
Thus, in this case, John had to bridge the gap from the sub-propositional to the
propositional in interpreting Dikran’s speech act, and he can only do that by
102 Elugardo
enriching the sub-propositional with the constituents that Dikran referred to impli-
citly.18
To be sure, nothing in the linguistic form or semantic meaning of the phrase
Dikran used grammatically requires additional linguistic material for communicative
purposes. The Dikran–John example appears, then, to be a clear case of pragmatic
enrichment.
In the ﬁnal section, I will try to show why enrichment is necessary in Type-S cases,
although not grammatically required, if the co-participants are to be successful in
their talk-exchange. Reﬂexive contents will not ﬁgure in the argument that I am
about to give.
5.5. An argument to show that pragmatic enrichment is necessary
in Type-S cases
On the view that Korta, Perry, and I oppose, a linguistically competent, intelligent,
hearer should be able to ﬁgure out what the speaker asserted in a Type-S case solely
by decoding the linguistic meaning of the fragment used, and then doing some
contextual slot-ﬁlling and disambiguation where necessary. I will argue that free
pragmatic enrichment must ﬁgure in the hearer’s interpretation of the speaker’s
speech act.
Consider the following three scenarios. Scenario [1]: In context C, I begin a
conversation with an acquaintance, H, who is looking for a cigar to smoke and
knows that I have some but he does not know where. I know these facts about H in
advance of his entering my ofﬁce. Before he says a word, I utter (5.4):
(5.4) On the top shelf
H correctly understood me as having stated that my cigars are on the top shelf of my
bookcase and helps himself to a cigar.
Scenario [2]: In C*, H enters my ofﬁce with some of my cigars (the same ones).
Judging by his quizzical look, I conclude that he does not know where to put them.
Before he says a word, I utter (5.4) to request that he put them (the same cigars) on the
(same) top shelf of my ofﬁce bookcase (the same bookcase). H understood what I said
and complies with my request.
Scenario [3]: in C**, H is worried that a certain person who wants to take my cigars
away is on his way to my ofﬁce to do just that. I know that H is about to warn me.
Before he says a word, I utter (5.4) to assure him that my cigars (the same ones) are
hidden on the (same) top shelf of my ofﬁce bookcase (the same bookcase). H
understood what I asserted and breathes a sigh of relief.
18
I take it as an open empirical question as what sorts of psychological processes constitute free
pragmatic enrichment. My argument in this section does not depend on any settled view on the matter.
Sub-sentential Speech Acts, Reﬂexive Content, and Pragmatic Enrichment 103
Let u, u*, and u** be my utterances of (4) in C, C*, and C**, respectively. I made a
statement or a request in each instance, and I used the same phrase in isolation. My
references are the same in all three situations, namely, my particular pack of cigars and
the top shelf of my ofﬁce bookcase. H understands what (5.4) means in English, and he
understood what I said in each context. By hypothesis, H did not enrich the semantic
content of my utterances of (5.4) to mean what he correctly took me to mean, but
rather he ﬁgured all this out on the basis of his semantic knowledge and his knowledge
of the contextually relevant referential facts about u, u*, and u**, respectively.
Now imagine an entirely different situation in which H asks question (5.14a), and
I respond by uttering (5.14b) referring to the same bookshelf—H correctly under-
stood what I said in my response:
(5.14) a. H: Where are your cigars?
b. RE: On the top shelf
c. [My cigars are] on the top shelf
d. My cigars are on the top shelf
Given the discourse link between (5.14a) and (5.14b), the content of my utterance of
(5.14b) is the proposition I would have asserted if I had answered H’s question with
(5.14d) instead. Similar comments are applicable with respect to the following exchanges:
(5.15) a. H: where do you want me to put your cigars?
b. RE: On the top shelf.
c. [Put my cigars] on the top shelf
d. Put my cigars on the top shelf
(5.16) a. H: Where did you hide your cigars?
b. RE: On the top shelf.
c. [I hid] my cigars on the top shelf
d. I hid my cigars on the top shelf
Examples (5.14b)/(5.15b)/(5.16b) are linked fragments: what I asserted or requested in
using the fragment involves, in part, the contents of the corresponding antecedent
questions asked, which are displayed in (5.14c)/(5.15c)/(5.16c), respectively. Since the
antecedent questions differ in content, my responses also differ in content, as
represented in (5.14d)/(5.15d)/(5.16d), even though I uttered the same prepositional
phrase in each case and referred to the same things. Not much in the way of
pragmatic processing is going on in H’s part—for him, it is pretty much a matter
of processing certain pieces of grammatical and semantic information in compre-
hending my responses to his questions.
Here is how my two examples connect. Suppose that H correctly understood what
I said by my sub-sentential utterances u, u*, and u**, respectively. Assume also that
he understood what I said in each case without freely enriching my utterances with
104 Elugardo
more semantic content. Then, H can only have done so solely by grasping the fully
saturated expression meaning of the phrase I used, namely, (5.4), relative to C, C*,
and C**, respectively—the same (saturated) meaning he would have grasped in each
of my responses to his questions (5.14a)/(5.15a)/(5.16a), respectively. In which case, u
would have to be semantically type-identical with my utterance of (5.14b) to H’s
question (5.14a); u* would have to be semantically type-identical with my utterance
of (5.15b) to H’s question (5.15a); u** would have to be semantically type-identical
with my utterance of (5.16b) to H’s question (5.16a). Hence, u means, relative to C, what
my utterance of (5.14b) in response to H’s question (5.14a) would have meant, namely,
(5.14d). Similar remarks apply to u* and u**.
Given that last result, plus the fact that my response to each question differs in
content, it follows that the prepositional phrase, ‘on the top shelf ’, is semantically
ambiguous, which would account for the difference in propositional contents, given
that the references are the same in the two examples and given the observance of the
‘no pragmatic enrichment’ constraint. The same argument can be made with regard
to indeﬁnitely many sentences containing the phrase as a constituent; in which case,
the phrase is radically ambiguous, which it is not. It would also follow that my
utterance of (5.14b) in response to H’s question (5.14a) is semantically redundant,
which it is not. We should give up, then, the ‘no pragmatic enrichment’ constraint in
these cases if we are to avoid the claim that virtually all phrases are radically
semantically ambiguous.19
Lexically headed phrases do not vary in their type-meaning when used as a free
fragment or as a linked fragment, but understanding what a speaker said in using
them in discourse-initial position is different from understanding what the same
speaker said in using them as a linked fragment. The former involves both semantic
and pragmatic processes and the latter, grammatical and semantic processes. Not a
surprising conclusion, I admit, but keep in mind that the view under consideration
denies that free pragmatic enrichment of any sort (on the hearer’s part) ever occurs in
Type-S cases. If that view were correct, then there should be no difference in the kind
of cognitive processes involved in comprehending speech involving free and linked
fragments. But there is a major difference: in the case of free fragments, the hearer
must use all kinds of evidence (much of it non-linguistic), form some solid all-things-
considered judgments, and do some pragmatic reasoning in order to arrive at what
19
The uttered expression, ‘on the top shelf ’, that I used in responding to H’s question, is a syntactic
ellipsis since it has an explicit linguistic antecedent. Consequently, my utterance-responses in the second
example have truth-conditional content. But, if my argument in Section 5.3 is cogent, utterance u in
Scenarios [1]–[3] lacks truth-conditional content altogether even though I managed to assert something
that has it. We have, then, another reason for denying that u is semantically type-identical to any of the
utterance-ellipses I produced in responding to H’s questions. That means that, in Scenarios [1]–[3], H has
to engage in some form of pragmatic enrichment in order to arrive at the content of my assertion—
semantic competence is not enough.
Sub-sentential Speech Acts, Reﬂexive Content, and Pragmatic Enrichment 105
the speaker said. That will not be so in the case of linked fragments, since the hearer
can rely on discourse dependencies to ﬁgure out what the speaker said.
Notice, by the way, that in my ﬁrst example, H does not have to explicitly represent
my cigars in order to understand what I stated or requested. But H does have to go
beyond what the words I used (‘on the top shelf ’) mean in English in order to
correctly understand what I stated or requested in contexts C, C*, and C**. H
interpreted my utterance by expanding or enriching its semantic content with further
content, given what he already knows or presumes about the context. Thus, although
a competent hearer can come to understand what a speaker asserted in a Type-S case
without having to explicitly represent all the unarticulated constituents of the
speaker’s assertion, the hearer will have pragmatically enriched the semantic content
of the speaker’s sub-sentential utterance in the process.20
5.6. Conclusion
In this chapter, I argued that Type-S cases of sub-sentential speech involve pragmatic
enrichment, contrary to what some philosophers hold. This view is compatible with the
reasonable claim that the hearer’s thoughts, in these cases, are inexplicit with respect to
the enriched content of the speaker’s assertion. I also argued that Korta and Perry’s
notion of reﬂexive content is problematic insofar as it meant to be a meta-linguistic,
truth-conditional, content of sub-sentential utterances. Sub-sentential utterances
lack truth-conditions, although what a speaker asserts by means of them does have
truth-conditions; and so, the utterances lack reﬂexive contents. Finally, I suggested that
we would do better to view reﬂexive content, not as truth-conditional content, but
merely as a premise that the hearer uses in ﬁguring out what the speaker asserted in a
sub-sentential speech act.
20
This last point captures my disagreement with Corazza on the matter of sub-sententials and free
pragmatic enrichment. He thinks that, because the hearer need not consciously represent, in thought, the
unarticulated constituents of a sub-sentential assertion in any explicit way in some cases, it follows that no
free pragmatic enrichment is unnecesary in those cases (or in any case of sub-sentential speech, for that
matter). I don’t think that follows. If my argument in the present section succeeds, then free enrichment
does and must occur in the Type-S cases. Our disagreement may be verbal, however. Corazza takes the
objects of pragmatic enrichment to be the representational vehicles of thought, either in the speaker’s mind
or in the hearer’s mind (or both). I take the objects to be the contents semantically expressed in the
speaker’s utterances, whether the utterances are literal or non-literal. The speaker and the hearer need not
have those contents in their respective minds, and they need not represent those contents explicitly in
thought, either. I’d like to thank Chris Gauker and Rob Stainton for their discussions on this topic.
106 Elugardo
6
A New Puzzle about Discourse-initial
Contexts*
MICHAEL GLANZBERG
In this chapter, I shall present a puzzle that arises from thinking about the ways
certain constructions behave in discourse-initial contexts. It has long been observed
that a range of constructions in natural language tend to be infelicitous when
appearing discourse-initially. Varieties of ellipsis provide the examples I shall focus
on here. For instance, we see (e.g., Merchant 2004):1
(6.1) a. #I don’t know what.
b. Jack bought something, but I don’t know what.
With no linguistic antecedent, the ellipsis is unacceptable, but a linguistic antecedent
renders it acceptable.
Though ellipsis and some other phenomena often fail in discourse-initial contexts,
it has often been observed that they can be acceptable, if the context is just right. Here
is an example from Roberts (2010: example 6):
(6.2) Context: A guy is standing in front of a make-shift monument on the sidewalk
in front of a house where two neighbourhood kids carried out a suicide pact
earlier that week. Another neighbour comes up to stand beside him, also
silently gazing at the monument. After a while, one of them says:
a. I just cannot fathom why.
* Thanks to Chris Gauker and Jason Merchant for helpful discussions of some of the early ideas that
eventually became this paper, and to Ezra Cook for comments and suggestions. Discussions with Craige
Roberts, especially about some unpublished work of hers, have also been very helpful. Finally, thanks to
Laurence Goldstein for organizing the workshops that stimulated this chapter, and for encouragement and
patience while it was being written.
1
Following standard practice, I shall mark sentences that are unacceptable in their contexts with a ‘#’,
and describe them as ‘infelicitous’. As ellipsis is broadly part of syntax, there may be cases where one might
prefer a gloss of ‘ungrammatical’, but I shall not explore that question here.
In some contexts, ellipsis is possible without prior discourse.
In recent years, there has been an explosion of work on the nature of these sorts of
discourse-initial cases, thanks in large part to Stainton (1995, 2005, 2006b) and
Stanley (2000). This work has focused on what happens in the discourse-initial
cases: what sorts of syntactic structures really appear in those cases, and what enables
them to succeed semantically and pragmatically. These issues have become important
for understanding how syntax, semantics, and pragmatics relate. I shall here attempt to
raise a different question. Discourse-initial cases are hard. They are somewhat unusual,
and make heavy demands on context. In contrast, non-discourse-initial ones are
easy. They occur readily, and make no special demands on context. The new puzzle
I shall raise is why the non-discourse-initial ones are so easy. To put the point a bit
melodramatically, why should so much noise from speech easily do what otherwise
is very hard? I shall argue that this is a genuine puzzle, and point towards some
directions we might explore to address it. I shall not attempt to solve the puzzle
here. I do not think the puzzle is intractable, but I shall suggest that thinking about
it may help us to better understand how the mechanisms of context and grammar
interact.
The plan of this chapter is as follows. In the ﬁrst Section 6.1, I shall brieﬂy present
some background from the current discussion of ellipsis in discourse-initial contexts,
and review some of the questions that discussion has raised. In Section 6.2, I shall
present the new puzzle. Finally, in Section 6.3, I shall gesture towards some possibil-
ities for responding to the puzzle. This will help to illustrate why the puzzle is really a
puzzle, and what we might learn from solving it.
6.1. Background
Before getting to the new puzzle, I shall review some background on ellipsis in
discourse-initial contexts, and some of the questions it has raised. But ﬁrst, we should
pause to note just what discourse-initial contexts are.
Linguistic contexts come richer or poorer in how much information they
provide, and in informationally impoverished contexts, communication can be
difﬁcult. Most contexts are quite rich, providing a range of salient objects, shared
presuppositions across speakers, previous discourse, and so on. Some are very
impoverished. Imagine, or recall, being woken up in the middle of the night by a
phone call. It is likely that extremely little information will be available to help you
understand what is said over the phone, and you might at that moment be rather
slow to make use of what information is available. If a panicked and garbled voice
says to you, He did it, you might fail to understand what is being said to you, even
if in the cold light of day that sentence said by that person could be readily
understood.
108 Glanzberg
Though this sort of context is informationally very impoverished, it is not null,
that is, devoid of all information. It is doubtful that any context is genuinely null.2
But
even if there are no fully null contexts, there are discourse-initial contexts: contexts
that contain no prior discourse. The night-time phone call scenario is one. Discourse-
initial contexts are generally impoverished, as discourse is one of the ways we
regularly add information to contexts. And, needless to say, they lack one very
speciﬁc feature: prior discourse itself, which is one important source of information
in contexts, and comprises a kind of information.3
Discourse-initial contexts have been important to some recent in work on the
interface between semantics, pragmatics, and syntax. One reason is that there appear
to be speciﬁc constructions in natural language that (to some degree) require prior
discourse in a context. Most of these constructions are loosely characterizable as
‘anaphoric’, which indicates that they require prior linguistic material in the context
to which they somehow link back. Without that material, their use can be infelicitous,
or even ungrammatical.
The main example of this sort of phenomenon I shall focus on here is ellipsis. It is part
of the common wisdom that ellipsis cannot occur without linguistic antecedents. For
instance, in the classic discussion of Hankamer and Sag (1976: 392), they identify a class
of what they call ‘surface anaphora’ which includes VP ellipsis, and argue that it requires
‘a coherent antecedent in surface structure’. This has become sufﬁciently enshrined in
the common wisdom that the survey article by Johnson (2001: 439) starts with ‘VP
ellipsis is the name given to instances of anaphora in which a missing predicate . . . is able
to ﬁnd an antecedent in the surrounding discourse . . . ’. The common wisdom is
supported by such examples as this one from Hankamer and Sag (1976: example 3):
(6.3) Context: Hankamer attempts to stuff a 9-inch ball through a 6-inch hoop.
a. #It’s not clear you’ll be able to.
b. It’s not clear you’ll be able to do it.
(The judgment markings here are those Hankamer and Sag report.) We saw similar
examples with sluicing (eliding the clausal complement of a wh-phrase) in (6.1). To
ﬁll in the context more, we might add:
2
See Bach (1999) and Bach and Harnish (1982). They are replying to Katz (1977) and Katz and Fodor
(1963), who appeal to a notion of null context to try to isolate aspects of meaning that fall within the scope
of linguistic competence. The phone call scenario is suggested by Merchant (2004).
3
We can ﬁnd clear enough examples of discourse-initial contexts, and that is what I shall rely on here.
But it is not easy to articulate just what makes a context not contain prior discourse. After all, the
participants are likely to have engaged in plenty of speech in the past. At a minimum, we expect that
speech to be in some way informationally isolated from a discourse-initial context. From a more theoretical
perspective, most theories of discourse see each discourse as a highly structured entity, which will have an
initial point. Overviews of such theories can be found in Asher and Lascarides (2003) or Kehler (2004),
among places.
A New Puzzle about Discourse-Initial Contexts 109
(6.4) Context: Jack is walking into the room, carrying a bag.
a. #I don’t know what.
b. I don’t know what that is.
c. Jack bought something but I don’t know what.
Indeed, the common wisdom can seem inevitable, if you think of ellipsis as some sort
of deletion process, where there must be some material to be deleted. In discourse-
initial contexts, there is no such material.4
Like most common wisdom, this one looks doubtful. It is fairly well established
that there are at least some cases where ellipsis is acceptable in discourse-initial
positions. We saw a sluicing example in (6.2). Here is a VP ellipsis example (see
Stanley 2000):
(6.5) Context: Looking at someone about to jump off a bridge. One bystander says
to another:
a. She won’t.
These examples show that in spite of the common wisdom, ellipsis can sometimes
occur in discourse-initial contexts.
Actually, as is so often the case, the common wisdom was not really so universally
accepted, and might never have been offered without noting exceptions. Examples
like these were already presented by Schachter (1977), followed by Stanley (2000), and
then Merchant (2004). In fact, Hankamer and Sag (1976) mention a few potential
exceptions in their original paper.
Since Hankamer and Sag’s paper, the debate has moved on in several directions.
There has been some discussion of how great the range of exceptions to the common
wisdom might be, and if they might be given special treatment, as Hankamer (1978)
argues in his response to Schachter, followed by Chung et al. (1995) and Pullum
(2001). Implicitly Stanley (2000), and explicitly Merchant (2004), reject some of
Hankamer and Sag’s judgments, including those I reported in (6.3). There has also
been a lively discussion of whether the discourse-initial occurrences of VP ellipsis or
sluicing really have the same structure and rely on the same mechanisms as the non-
discourse-initial cases; that is, whether they are genuine ellipsis. Notable is the recent
exchange between Merchant (2004) and Stainton (2006a), as well as some sugges-
tions from Ginzburg and Sag (2000). This debate has taken place within a wider one
about the nature of a larger class of fragments, that is, seemingly sub-sentential
4
As much as possible, I shall avoid any commitments about the nature of ellipsis, though I shall appeal
to a few ideas about it in Section 6.3 for argument’s sake. For a review of the theoretical options, and
references, see Merchant (2013). A more philosophically oriented overview is given in Stainton (2006b). For
an in-depth exploration of sluicing see Merchant (2001). The name ‘sluicing’, as do so many of the
evocative names in syntax, comes from Ross (1969).
110 Glanzberg
constructions that appear to function as sentences in some environments (e.g., Barton
1990; Ginzburg and Sag 2000; Ludlow 2005; Morgan 1973, 1989; Progovac et al. 2006;
Stainton 2006b; Yanofsky 1978). A rich philosophical debate has also developed, about
what these sorts of fragments might show us about the semantics–pragmatics interface
(e.g., Elugardo and Stainton 2005; Stainton 2006b; Stanley 2000).5
6.2. The new puzzle
Our discussion of the background on discourse-initial ellipsis in Section 6.1 shows
that there are some cases of discourse-initial ellipsis (or at least, cases that share the
same surface form as ellipsis), but they are somewhat rare. As we observed, there are
some puzzles about these cases, which have received signiﬁcant attention: what
makes these cases possible, how widespread are they, and what mechanisms are at
work in them? One common thread in the discussion of these issues is that the
discourse-initial cases are hard. They place great demands on context, which can only
be met in special circumstances. Hence, they appear to be rare, and it is a point of
debate what mechanisms, in context or in grammar, are involved in them.
This set of issues constitutes the ‘old puzzle’. The new puzzle I shall propose looks
at things from the opposite direction. If discourse-initial ellipsis is hard, then what,
I shall ask, makes non-discourse-initial ellipsis so easy? Why, to put it melodramatic-
ally, should just having so much more noise from speech make things any easier?
In this section, I shall present the new puzzle, and argue that is there really is a
puzzle here. But, I hasten to say, it is not the sort of puzzle that leaves us with no idea
where a solution might be found. As I shall very brieﬂy discuss in Section 6.3, there
are some natural avenues for exploration that might address it. But nonetheless, it is
an interesting question that deserves an answer. To show this, we will ﬁrst need to
examine a little more closely what makes the discourse-initial cases hard, to ﬁll in the
contrast with the non-discourse-initial cases. This will require a very brief foray into
pragmatics. The issues involved are complex and have been extensively investigated,
and I shall delve into them only as deeply as is required to illustrate the ways in which
discourse-initial ellipsis is hard.
As I mentioned in Section 6.1, ellipsis can be classiﬁed as broadly ‘anaphoric’, in
that we typically need a link from the ellipsis site to an antecedent. It is a common-
place observation that with any such anaphoric phenomenon, context must provide a
suitable salient antecedent. In discourse-initial situations, this would mean having a
suitable salient non-linguistic target: a property or action or event type for VP ellipsis,
or a proposition for sluicing. One reason that discourse-initial ellipsis is hard is that it
is not so easy for a context to render a property or proposition suitably salient. There
5
Other constructions have also been thought to resist use in discourse-initial contexts, such as the
iterative too (Gauker 2008a; Heim 1992; Kripke 2009; Roberts 2010).
A New Puzzle about Discourse-Initial Contexts 111
are several reasons for this. Contexts, as I already mentioned, are almost always
informationally very rich, and so even discourse-initial contexts can contain a huge
array of properties or propositions to choose from. If pushing is available in a context,
then likely so too will be moving or touching. Also, the ways contexts can single out or
make salient actions or properties tend to be somewhat more indirect than the ways
they can make objects salient. Salient actions are often not being carried out in the
contexts where we talk about them, so we often have no recourse to deixis-like
mechanisms to render actions salient. Likewise, there is often no simple feature of an
utterance environment which all by itself makes a property salient the way an object
can be salient in the environment.6
In spite of these difﬁculties, we are sometimes able to make the right properties or
actions salient, as the examples we already discussed show. Here is another case:
(6.6) Context: A vial containing a dangerous virus has been broken in the lab. We
might have been exposed if the virus aerosolizes. We quickly put a sample in
the machine that will tell us if it does.7
We are staring at the machine waiting
for its results. One of us says:
a. Does it?
The property expressed by aerosolize is obviously highly salient here, by any way of
spelling out salience. Our shared interests in the context, together with the machine
and our focus of attention on it, combine to make that property sufﬁciently salient to
support ellipsis.
With most anaphoric phenomena, if there are too many targets, the anaphora
fails.8
The fact that many contexts provide multiple properties or actions makes this
all too easy to ﬁnd for ellipsis, as in:
(6.7) Context: Same as in (6.6), but we are looking at two different machines
waiting for results. One will tells us if the virus will infect humans, the other
if it aerosolizes. One of us says:
a. #Does it?
Both the properties of aerosolizing and infecting humans are highly salient, but that is
not sufﬁcient to support ellipsis. One moral then is that for discourse-initial ellipsis a
very high degree of salience is required, and that this is hard for contexts to provide.
Though what is observable in utterances environments does not readily single out
properties or actions, there are other features of context which help us to narrow
down the space of potential targets for anaphora. I shall mention two that apply to
6
These points are much-discussed in the acquisition literature (e.g., Gleitman 1990).
7
Unfortunately, as far as I know such a machine has not yet been invented.
8
Different anaphors are more or less sensitive to this. As is well know, in some cases pronoun
resolution can occur when there are multiple possible antecedents for the pronoun.
112 Glanzberg
ellipsis. First, setting a discourse topic can help. Following a well-established tradition
(e.g., Ginzburg 2012; Roberts 1996), we can think of a discourse topic as like a
question under discussion, which can be set by overtly asking a question. The right
topic can render an otherwise infelicitous ellipsis acceptable:
(6.8) Context: Same as (6.7).
a. Speaker A: How does the virus spread?
b. Speaker B: Does it?
In this context, the ellipsis is acceptable.9
The discourse topic, or more likely an
immediate sub-topic, is set by Speaker A’s question. That leaves both aerosolizing and
infecting humans salient, but narrows the relevant choice down to aerosolizing.
One of the easiest ways to set a discourse topic is by overtly asking a question, but
that is unavailable in discourse-initial contexts. This is not to say discourse-initial
contexts cannot contain discourse topics, set implicitly by the context. They can, but
it is hard. Especially, it is hard for a context implicitly to set the kind of speciﬁc topic
that a question can set, and is often needed for ellipsis. For instance:
(6.9) Context: A huge display above the wall in the lab is showing the distribution
of a virus in bird populations globally, updated in real time as it spreads. At
the same time, we are running both machines as above, and looking for the
results. One of us says:
a. ??Does it?
The display could well set a top-level discourse topic, much like a question does. But,
it appears to be non-speciﬁc; more like What does the virus do? than How does it
spread? or Who might it spread to next?. That leaves the utterance in (6.9) infelicitous
(though at least to my ear the added information makes it somewhat better than in
(6.7), and hence the ‘??’ marking).
So far, we have observed that for discourse-initial ellipsis to succeed, we need the
target to be extremely high in salience, which places a heavy burden on context.
Though often discourse topics can help narrow the range of options, it is hard to set
sufﬁciently speciﬁc topics discourse-initially. I shall mention one other factor rele-
vant to discourse-initial ellipsis. Sometimes the range of options for anaphora can be
restricted by the structure of the interaction in which an utterance takes place. For
instance, standing background knowledge about a type of interaction can be
involved, such as what happens when you go to a restaurant. (The AI literature
discusses representations of this sort of knowledge in terms of ‘frames’ or ‘scripts’.)
More local shared plans, like how to prepare some particular dish for dinner, can also
9
It might remain slightly degraded, but to my ear, it is much better than in (6.7).
A New Puzzle about Discourse-Initial Contexts 113
play a role.10
So, for instance, the following context supports a quite speciﬁc dis-
course-initial ellipsis:
(6.10) Context: You see someone repairing a car. She is reaching into the engine
with one hand, and stretching towards a wrench with the other. She says:
a. Can you?
We understand the utterance as expressing, Can you give me that wrench?. This
works in part because of background knowledge about how people work on cars, but
also presumably because there is a salient wrench. The various features of context
work together to support ellipsis.
As before, the success of ellipsis hinges on very particular features of the context.
Obviously, in (6.10), if there were a wrench and a hammer next to each other, the
utterance would be much worse. But also, many scripts or plans are not speciﬁc
enough to support discourse-initial ellipsis. For instance:
(6.11) Context: We are starting to cook dinner, as we normally do. I open the
refrigerator, and say to you:
a. #I didn’t.
Most situations of starting to cook would not make this speciﬁc enough. The
context does not determine if my utterance was intended to mean I did not go
shopping, or I did not marinate the meat, etc. Of course, if we have extremely
speciﬁc habits about cooking, it might be clear which of these is the antecedent, but
even a fairly robust plan like cooking a familiar recipe does not by itself make the
context sufﬁciently rich. Of course, in many real conversations, we make features of
the plan more explicit as the conversation evolves, but that is of no help for
discourse-initial cases.
We have now seen a few features of context that can help support discourse-initial
ellipsis. Salience, topic, and background knowledge (perhaps in the form of scripts or
plans) can all help make discourse-initial ellipsis possible. As with any anaphoric
process, we need the context to provide an antecedent. If there is a very highly salient
property or proposition, that would sufﬁce, but it is rare for a discourse-initial
context to be so rich as to provide that. Topic or background knowledge can narrow
the range of options down, so that a sufﬁciently salient target can be identiﬁed. But, as
I have stressed, discourse-initial ellipsis is unstable in that even small changes in these
features of context can destroy the conditions needed for it. Discourse-initial ellipsis
is hard, in part because it is hard to exploit these features of context adequately in
10
These have been discussed at great length in the AI literature on frames, scripts, and plans, etc. Classic
references include Carberry (1990) and Schank and Abelson (1977).
114 Glanzberg
discourse-initial circumstances. It can be done, but it takes just the right combination
of non-linguistic information to do it.11
Having seen some of the factors that allow some contexts to support discourse-
initial ellipsis, we now have some idea what makes it hard. This, ﬁnally, brings us to
my new puzzle. If discourse-initial ellipsis is so hard, and requires just the right
combinations of contextual information to succeed, why is speech able to make
ellipsis so easy? For the remainder of this section, I shall clarify the role of speech
in the puzzle, which will help explain why it is a puzzle.
We have already seen that discourse can be a very efﬁcient way to enrich a context.
Setting a topic, laying out a plan, or singling something out as salient can all be done
easily in discourse, and we have seen that doing so can render an otherwise infelici-
tous ellipsis felicitous. But what is striking about ordinary, non-discourse-initial
ellipsis, and what makes the puzzle a puzzle, is that the speech involved in no way
needs to do any of this. Ordinary ellipsis bypasses heavy demands on context, and the
speech that creates the antecedents for ellipsis need not enrich the context in any of
the ways we have considered.
To make this vivid, suppose we are in the presence of a device that generates random
speech sounds, perhaps those speciﬁc to the language we are speaking. The machine
has been running in the background for some time, and mostly spits out sounds which,
but for being recognizably speech sounds, are just so much random noise.
Suppose we are back in the lab context used in some of the previous examples,
where we are focused on some virus and its effects. Suppose that the speech machine
has been running in the background. (Perhaps we found its random noises calming
in a stressful environment.) Consider:
(6.12) Context: As before. We are focused on the machines telling us about a virus.
The display board shows the spread of the virus.
a. Machine: I had a great day.
b. Me: Um . . . I didn’t.
My utterance in (6.12) appears ﬁne, and the ellipsis is unproblematic. (Some might
ﬁnd it unnatural as it is presumably off-topic. I inserted some material to try to mark
topic-discontinuity.) Here is one more example:
(6.13) Context: We are arguing about where to go to dinner. We are considering three
speciﬁc options (cooking, ordering in, going to the local place). The speech
machine is running the background and we are mostly ignoring its babble.
11
I should stress that I am by no means claiming that these factors are independent. Each is a
theoretically complex notion, and depending on how we spell them out, they may relate, or some may
even reduce to others. For instance, notions of plan and structures of discourse topics come together, e.g., in
work of Büring (2003).
A New Puzzle about Discourse-Initial Contexts 115
a. Machine: Toshiro Mifune talked to someone in Guadalajara.
b. Me: Hmm . . . I don’t know who.
Again, the ellipsis appears ﬁne.
The speech machine really does just produce ‘so much noise’, but the same effect
can be produced in more mundane ways:12
(6.14) Context: We are waiting in line at the grocery store. The people behind us are
having a conversation, of which we hear only a few words, and those words
in no way ﬁt with what we are talking about.
a. Overheard from conversation behind us: Toshiro Mifune talked to some-
one in Guadalajara.
b. Me: Hmm . . . I don’t know who.
This is acceptable, just as (6.13) is.
What is striking about these cases is that by many measures, the speech machine
and the overheard part of a conversation do not do what normal discourse does. They
do not plausibly incorporate any new topic into a context. They do not enrich our
understanding of any plan we were following. It is unclear why they should have
helped raise anything to salience. The way we described the speech machine scen-
arios, the machine is running the background generating random noises, and those
do not affect what is salient in the context at all. It is just some random background
noise. It is thus unclear why the noises from the machine that support ellipsis should
make anything highly salient. Likewise, it is unclear why a few overheard words in a
conversation unconnected to ours should make anything salient in our context. The
speech machine produces random noises that are unrelated to the important features
of the context, and do not have the kinds of effects on context that real assertions do.
The same goes for the overheard fragment of a separate conversation.
The new puzzle, then, is why this sufﬁces for ellipsis; especially, as it is not clear
why random noises would affect the context in ways that facilitate anaphora reso-
lution, why do they so easily support ellipsis? Why does mere speech sound, uncon-
nected from other aspects of context, sufﬁce to do what in discourse-initial settings
placed such heavy demands on context?
6.3. Lines of response
My main purpose in this chapter has been to pose the new puzzle. In this concluding
section, I shall discuss a few strategies for responding to it. I shall not develop them in
any detail here. My goal here is not to solve the puzzle, but rather to use potential
12
I owe this example and example (6.15) to Ezra Cook.
116 Glanzberg
responses to it to assess how hard the puzzle is, and explore brieﬂy what it might
show us.
First, let us consider one natural response: perhaps the puzzle simply shows that
a different mechanism, not based on context, is at work in cases of ordinary
non-discourse-initial ellipsis. (This is in keeping with the position of Stainton, that
the discourse-initial cases are not genuine ‘syntactic ellipsis’.) I shall not take a stand
on the complex issues of what the structure of the discourse-initial cases is. Because
the main issue for the new puzzle is the non-discourse-initial ones, I fortunately do
not have to. Rather, I shall point out how this response does not really make the
puzzle go away.
To show this, I shall need to make a few assumptions about how ellipsis works in the
ordinary cases. Any such assumptions are controversial, but where I need some details,
I shall follow Merchant (2001, 2004). Where possible, I shall keep the assumptions as
general as I can, so they will be compatible with other theories as well.13
Merchant’s theory is an example of one that treats ellipsis as a form of deletion,
which is a grammatical process that starts with linguistic material, and somehow
deletes it. Merchant’s particular version has the deleted material simply not pro-
nounced; deletion takes place entirely in the phonology, but there is syntactic
material there anyway.
Theories of ellipsis must specify when this sort of deletion can take place. The
tradition has long been to look for the right kind of parallelism between the deleted
material and an antecedent. (Hence, the common wisdom that ellipsis requires an
overt linguistic antecedent.) Some theories posit forms of syntactic identity between
the antecedent and the deleted material, but many recent theories, Merchant’s
included, have made the condition more semantic. For sluicing, Merchant suggests,
to put it roughly, that we need to be able to ﬁnd an antecedent proposition in the
discourse which stands in mutual entailment relations to the proposition expressed
by the deleted material. We need suitable type adjustments for VP ellipsis, but the
main idea is that there is an antecedent in the context which stands in a close
semantic relation to the deleted content.
Most theories, including Merchant’s, write into the condition for deletion that the
deleted material stand in some relation to prior linguistic material. Thus, some form
of grammatical parallelism is maintained. So, in specifying his deletion condition,
Merchant requires entailments with something expressed by a linguistic antecedent.
This is, again very roughly, his notion of e-givenness.14
13
It would be useful to also consider a theory which posits no syntax in the ellipsis site, like that of
Ginzburg and Sag (2000). Space precludes me from doing so here. As I am inclined to side with Merchant
in his debate with Stainton, I shall opt for Merchant’s theory as my sample.
14
This notion is derived from the account of givenness in Schwarzschild (1999). He puts the point very
clearly, saying (Schwarzschild 1999: 147), ‘An utterance is given if it is entailed by prior discourse’.
A New Puzzle about Discourse-Initial Contexts 117
Put aside for now the question of how this theory gets applied to the discourse-
initial cases. (Merchant 2004 explores this question in depth.) Our question is why
speech sufﬁces for ordinary non-discourse-initial cases. It might appear that we have
an answer: because ordinary ellipsis builds in a condition like e-givenness (or
something along those lines), that makes speciﬁc reference to prior discourse. Speech
provides prior discourse. But, I suggest, this is not much of an answer. We can restate
the new puzzle in terms of e-givenness. The notion of e-giveness is supposed to be a
form of salience—something that renders content available for anaphora-like pro-
cesses. Why is it important, or required, that it be provided by overt linguistic
material? Perhaps more importantly for our purposes, the speech machine cases
show that speech that otherwise has nothing to do with salience or other important
aspects of context can make ellipsis easy. It is thus puzzling how e-givenness
produces a form of salience able to support anaphora-like processes. This is just
the new puzzle again. A notion like e-givenness may well be required, and perhaps
examples like (6.1) provide evidence that it is required. Assuming it is (and I have no
reason to doubt it), the new puzzle simply raises the question of why it is able to do
the job the theory asks of it. We may have a good description of when ellipsis is easy,
but we still lack a good explanation of why.
I hope this foray into deletion theories of ellipsis has served to illustrate why the
new puzzle is robust, and interesting. Assuming theories like Merchant’s are right
about the way ellipsis works, we still have a puzzle. To conclude, I shall mention two
ideas that might be relevant to solving the puzzle. As I promised, I shall be very brief
about them, and only say enough to show that there are plausible open lines of
response to the puzzle.
Both ideas I shall mention revolve around the issue of what I glossed above as ‘so
much noise from speech’. That may not be a fully accurate description of the speech
machine cases. In the cases we considered, we did not merely have a speech machine
randomly producing speech sounds that turn out to be well-formed sentences. We
also supposed that the participants in the conversation processed those sentences.
Whether or not the sentences were smoothly integrated into the discourse, or had
any normal effect on the context, the participants parsed them, and comprehended
them at least to some degree. I shall suggest that parsing and other aspects of sentence
comprehension might be important to how prior discourse plays its role in ellipsis.
Here is one way that parsing might indicate a role for speech in ellipsis that sheds
some light on our new puzzle. Especially when we consider deletion views of ellipsis,
the grammatical mechanism at work does not merely require salience, but also
linguistic material to delete. The conditions for deletion require that the to-be-
deleted material be appropriately salient or e-given, and Merchant’s particular
version puts this in terms of the semantic content expressed by the to-be-deleted
material. But this means that not only must appropriately salient semantic content be
found in the context, but that content must be mapped to particular syntactic forms
118 Glanzberg
(a VP for VP ellipsis, or a TP for sluicing). We can think of this as a very speciﬁc sort
of salience, linked to syntactic forms. Apparently, if theories of the sort we are
considering are right, this speciﬁc sort of salience is required for ellipsis. This is
where parsing might enter, as parsing builds syntactic structures. One effect of ‘so
much noise’, when it is parsed by participants in a conversation, is to enter syntactic
structures into the context. Presumably having such structures available should help
create the speciﬁc sort of salience we might need.
This, obviously, is no more than a vague suggestion, but it is a suggestion for a
strategy that might explain the distinctive role of speech in ellipsis, and perhaps
provide motivation for requirements like e-givenness.15
However, it does not by itself
solve the new puzzle. Simply entering syntactic structure into a context does not yet
connect it to the sorts of features of context that seemed to be relevant in Section 6.2.
We have indeed moved from so much noise to so much syntax, but it is still not clear
how that creates the extremely high degree of salience that seems to be involved in
ellipsis.
My second suggestion is for a line of inquiry that might address this remaining
question. Parsing does not merely create syntactic structures; it does so by having
speakers engage in the activities of sentence processing. And moreover, speakers do
not merely parse the sentences in question syntactically; they also understand them,
at least to some minimal degree. One feature of these activities is that they make
speciﬁc demands on the cognitive resources of speakers. It is a common idea that
processing a sentence relies on the resources of working memory. It is controversial
just what aspects of working memory are involved, and how they are engaged (see
Caplan and Waters 1999; Gathercole 2007; van Gompel and Pickering 2007; Just and
Carpenter 1992). I shall not review this controversy here; rather, I shall consider the
possibility that in some way syntactic structures linked to some sort of semantic
representations are entered into some appropriate working memory system. If this is
right, we should further consider the possibility that doing so has the effect of raising
elements to a very high degree of salience. Entering something into working memory
(or whatever the right component of our memory system turns out to be) could well
make it very highly salient. It becomes, so to speak, something we are cognitively
currently working on, and that is indeed a form of salience. If what is made salient in
this way is a syntactic form linked to a meaning, then what is made highly salient is
just the sort of thing that ellipsis requires.
If this suggestion is right, and I stress that it is far too rough a suggestion even to
assess, it could shed some light on our new puzzle. Ordinary, non-discourse initial
ellipsis is easy, according to the suggestion, because it uses our abilities to process
speech. Those abilities allow us to do easily what is otherwise very difﬁcult for a
15
Of course, there has been psycholinguistic work on the processing of ellipsis that is relevant, e.g.,
Clifton and Frazier (2010), Frazier and Clifton (2005), and Tanenhaus and Carlson (1990).
A New Puzzle about Discourse-Initial Contexts 119
context to do. Conditions like e-givenness are appropriate because they reﬂect in the
grammar what those abilities provide. Our abilities to process speech are substantial,
and so it should not be surprising that they can make what seemed to be a hard task,
such as supporting ellipsis, turn out to be easy.
One small piece of evidence that processing might be important is that when we
take processing out of examples like (6.12), the ellipsis seems to become infelicitous.
Suppose we had some task we could give to speakers which would prevent them from
parsing or comprehending the sentence generated by the speech machine in (6.12).
To illustrate this, suppose in the lab setting of (6.12), that there is some very hard
calculation that needs to be done, and suppose furthermore that its results are so vital
to global health that the people in the lab focus on it with utmost intensity. Call this
the distracting task. We could well imagine that, when doing the distracting task,
people might not notice that the speech machine is producing a genuine sentence of
English, and may well not parse it. I believe we see:
(6.15) Context: Same as (6.12), except that we are all carrying out the distracting
task.
a. Machine: I had a great day.
b. Me: #I didn’t.
The distracting task makes the utterance turn infelicitous. If we somehow make
speech unprocessed by participants in a conversation, it seems to have no effect on
the context, and is not sufﬁcient for ellipsis. It really is then ‘so much noise’.
Processed speech is different, which might help explain why it is important for
ellipsis.
The distracting task is a very crude way to imagine that some speech gets ignored
in a context, and it is not all that surprising that such speech fails to support ellipsis.
Thus, as I said, the evidence provided by (6.15) is small. The more substantial claim
that I am considering is that it is the activity of sentence processing that makes the
difference between (6.12) and (6.15). The way the speech machine’s workings are
described makes this an inviting claim, but obviously, more evidence is needed. For
instance, psycholinguists have many ways to place loads on working memory and
other systems implicated in sentence processing, and it would be interesting to see
how such loads might affect the acceptability of ellipsis in cases like (6.12).
My goal in this section has been only to indicate some lines of response to the new
puzzle; to illustrate how substantial the puzzle is, and, I hope, to illustrate how we
might learn something from it. For instance, if my suggestion about processing and
memory is on the right track, it indicates that a speciﬁc sort of salience, linked to
processing, is at issue for ellipsis. This is unlike the sort of salience we tend to think
about when we think of objects that are prominent in the environment, as it focuses
on the on-line processing of information, rather than the source of the information.
120 Glanzberg
This sort of salience is in other ways unlike many of the notions that are used in
pragmatics in the more formal vein. Notions like discourse topic, as I have been
discussing them, are fairly abstract, enabling links to grammar (through phenomena
like focus), and to ways of representing the structure and dynamics of context in
terms of information.16
They tend not to be tied to processing, and indeed, they are
basically not psychological notions. It is interesting that consideration of a grammatical
phenomenon like ellipsis can, perhaps, make a role for aspects of language processing
in our formal thinking about context.
16
The notion of salience at issue is closely related to some that have been discussed extensively in other
strands of the pragmatics literature. It is close to the notion of givenness in Chafe (1976), the notion of
givennesss or salience in Prince (1981), and the notion of activation in Gundel et al. (1993). Relations of
anaphora, and speciﬁcally ellipsis, to processing are also discussed in Sag and Hankamer (1984).
A New Puzzle about Discourse-Initial Contexts 121
7
Transitive Meanings for
Intransitive Verbs*
ANOUCH BOURMAYAN AND FRANÇOIS RECANATI
This chapter is about certain properties of verbs like ‘eat’ which have both transitive
uses (‘John eats pasta’) and intransitive uses (‘John eats’). There are two standard
views regarding such verbs. According to the ﬁrst one, the verb always denotes a
relation between an agent x (in the case of ‘eat’, the eater argument) and some
object y (the food argument), but on the ‘intransitive’ uses of the verb the object
remains covert—it is not articulated in surface syntax, though it shows up at
LF. The logical form of ‘John eats’ is therefore something like ‘John eats [some-
thing]’, where the material within square brackets corresponds to a covert syntactic
element with indeﬁnite value.1
We will refer to this view as the covert indeﬁnite view
(CIV). The other view, which we call the genuine-intransitive view (GIV), assigns
two distinct (though related) lexical entries to transitive and intransitive ‘eat’.
Transitive ‘eat’ denotes a relation between the eater argument and the food
argument:
½½eattr ¼ ly lx eatsðx, yÞ
* We thank our commentators, Lyn Frazier, Manuel Garcia-Carpintero, and Andreas Stokke, as well as
Benjamin Spector, Luisa Martí, and the participants in the meetings in which we presented our work,
especially the members of the Leverhulme network of excellence ‘Context and Communication’. (We are
particularly indebted to Laurence Goldstein, without whom this paper would never have been written).
Our research on this topic has been supported by the European Community’s Seventh Framework
Programme FP7/2007-2013 under ERC grant agreement no 229441–CCC.
1
In this paper we are concerned with intransitive verbs whose implicit object is indeﬁnite. Verbs which
take a deﬁnite implicit object will be brieﬂy discussed in Section 7.5.
Intransitive ‘eat’ does not denote a relation, but a property, namely the property one
can generate by applying Quine’s DER operator to the two-place predicate which
transitive ‘eat’ contributes to logical form: the property x has whenever there is a y
such that x eats y (Quine 1960: 229–31). The lexical entry for intransitive ‘eat’ is:
½½eatintr ¼ lx 9y eats ðx, yÞ
On this view, intransitive ‘eat’ takes no syntactic object, not even covertly at LF. It
contributes a monadic property, namely ºx ∃y eats (x, y).
We take it that the GIV has a prima facie advantage over the CIV. The CIV has an
extra burden: it must account for the fact that the indeﬁnite object of intransitive ‘eat’
can only take narrow scope with respect to operators like negation. On the GIV, this
follows from the fact that the object in question is part of the lexical entry of
intransitive ‘eat’ rather than being syntactically articulated at LF. So, following
Recanati (2002), we assume the genuine-intransitive view; but nothing, we take it,
hinges on this choice, and what we have to say about the speciﬁc topic of this chapter,
namely the ‘deﬁnite’ interpretations sometimes carried by the verb on its intransitive
uses, could presumably be rephrased in the CIV framework.2
According to both the CIV and the GIV, there is an understood food object
whenever intransitive ‘eat’ is used. That object features either (through existential
quantiﬁcation) as part of the lexical entry of intransitive ‘eat’ (GIV), or it features as
part of the logical form of the sentence in which the verb occurs (CIV). Both the GIV
and the CIV acknowledge the fact that the understood object has to be indeﬁnite.
This is in contrast to other verbs, like ‘notice’, which can also be used intransitively, as
in ‘John noticed’, but whose implicit object, on such uses, has to be deﬁnite (Fillmore
1986).
Still, there are readings on which intransitive ‘eat’ seems to take a speciﬁc food
argument in context. Those readings, which are the topic of this chapter, are
mentioned in Recanati (2002):
(7.1) We can imagine a context in which ‘Look! He’s eating!’ would be understood
as stating not merely that the individual denoted by ‘he’ is eating something or
other, but that he is eating a certain salient piece of food, e.g. a dangerous
mushroom which has been the focus of attention for some time. (from
Recanati 2002: 315–16)
The speciﬁc argument may be determined by anaphoric means, as in this example
from Wilson (1998):
(7.2) They gave Socrates the hemlock, and he drank.
2
For recent criticism of the GIV, see Gillon 2012.
Transitive Meanings for Intransitive Verbs 123
Finally, as Recanati (2002) pointed out, there are also examples in which the food
argument, albeit speciﬁc, varies with the values introduced by a quantiﬁer, as in:
(7.3) John is anorexic, but whenever his father cooks mushrooms, he eats.
On the intended interpretation, it is understood that, whenever the occasion presents
itself, John eats the mushrooms his father has cooked.
Where do these speciﬁc objects come from? To accommodate them, one might
revise the semantics by letting the intransitive verb take either an indeﬁnite or a
deﬁnite implicit object (see Recanati 2010: 80 for the suggestion that some lexical
items take an implicit argument that can be understood either way). Alternatively,
one may try to account for the ‘deﬁnite’ interpretations in the pragmatics while
maintaining that, semantically, intransitive ‘eat’ only means eat something. That is
what Recanati (2002) did: he adopted a pragmatic explanation. Critics, Martí and
Stanley, agree that this is the right thing to do. But they disagree about the nature and
status of the appropriate pragmatic explanation.
According to Recanati (2002, 2004), the deﬁnite implicit objects in Examples (7.1)–
(7.3) result from a pragmatic process of ‘free enrichment’ of the meaning of ‘eat’. Free
enrichment can affect truth-conditions even though it is a purely pragmatic process.
The existence of such processes (purely pragmatic processes that nevertheless affect
truth-conditions) is controversial, and that is one of the key issues in the debate
between Recanati (2002) and Stanley (2000) over the semantics/pragmatics interface.
In Section 7.1 we will present Recanati’s analysis, and his use of examples like (7.3) in
arguing against Stanley (2000).
In Section 7.2, we will present Martí’s and Stanley’s responses, based on a re-
analysis of all the examples (Martí 2006; Stanley 2005, 2007). According to these
authors, the speciﬁc food argument does not reach into the level of truth-conditional
content, so it can be ignored (it is only a matter of implicature or background
assumption). Martí and Stanley base their claims on a new class of examples involv-
ing negation, and we agree that their examples cast doubt on Recanati’s analysis in
terms of free enrichment.
In Section 7.3, we will offer a new analysis of the phenomenon, couched in a
situation-theoretic framework. The new analysis attempts to steer a middle course
between Recanati’s earlier analysis and the view put forward by Martí and Stanley. To
a large extent, it preserves the two main claims of Recanati’s earlier analysis: (i) the
speciﬁc food argument at stake is contributed as a result of some kind of pragmatic
inference—it is a ‘pragmatic object’, as we shall say from now on—yet (ii) the
pragmatic object in question nonetheless affects truth-conditional content (at some
level—though not the same as on Recanati’s earlier analysis). We will then argue that
the Martí–Stanley examples involving negation can be accounted for within our
framework (Section 7.4), and we will draw general conclusions regarding the seman-
tics/pragmatics interface and the Recanati/Stanley debate (Sections 7.5 and 7.6).
124 Bourmayan and Recanati
7.1. The free enrichment account
Through free enrichment, a lexical item (or, for that matter, a complex phrase) can be
understood in a more speciﬁc sense than the sense it literally has. For example,
intransitive ‘drink’ is often understood in the speciﬁc sense drink alcohol—so
often that this sense has been lexicalized, making intransitive ‘drink’ polysemous. In
the same way, ‘smoke’ can mean smoke tobacco, smoke pot, or (less convention-
ally) smoke cocaine or what-not; and ‘eat’ similarly can be used to mean eat
dinner, as in the following dialogue inspired by Wilson and Sperber (2002: 607):
– Have you eaten?
– No. I’ve had a few peanuts, that’s all.
If ‘eat’ were not understood in the speciﬁc sense eat dinner, it would be self-
contradictory to assert in the same breath that one has not eaten and that one has
eaten a few peanuts.
Free enrichment can be represented as mapping the property denoted by ‘eat’ or
‘drink’, viz ºx. ∃y eats (x, y), onto a more speciﬁc property, namely ºx. ∃y eats (x, y)
& Fy, where ‘F’ is a contextually salient property of the thing eaten or drunk, viz the
property of being alcoholic, or of being dinner. Underlining means that the property
in question is contributed on pragmatic grounds (following the convention set up in
Recanati 2010).
Note that the same semantic effect—the transition from ºx. ∃y eats (x, y) to ºx. ∃y
eats (x, y) & Fy—can be achieved by morphosyntactic means. In languages such as
West Greenlandic, some verbs can undergo a process of ‘incorporation’ of their direct
objects which yields noun-verb combinations behaving like single, verbal, morpho-
logical items (van Geenhoven 1998; Martí ms.). The extent and the exact deﬁnition of
noun incorporation is still a matter of debate, but the phenomenon overall corres-
ponds to constructions where the verb and one of its argument build a very tight,
cohesive unit. Indeed, as shown in (7.4), incorporated objects in West Greenlandic,
unlike their non-incorporated counterparts, are not marked for case; the verb itself is
marked by the intransitive morpheme, and there is no longer any object agreement
inﬂection on the verb:
(7.4) West Greenlandic
Arnajaraq eqalut -tur -p -u -q
A.ABS salmon -eat -IND -INTRAN -3SG
‘Arnajaraq ate salmon’ (literally, ‘Arnajaraq salmon-ate’)
According to van Geenhoven (1998), the incorporated object of the verb does not
correspond to a genuine argument: it does not denote an individual of type e, but
rather a property of type <e,t>. What the incorporated object contributes, we submit,
Transitive Meanings for Intransitive Verbs 125
is the property Fy which characterizes the output of the mapping from ºx.∃y eats (x,
y) to ºx. ∃y eats (x, y) & Fy. The verb-cum-incorporated-object then does not denote
a relation between two individuals, as transitive verbs do, but rather behaves like an
intransitive verb, denoting a monadic property. (Indeed, as we already said, verbs
with incorporated objects are marked with the morpheme of intransitivity in West
Greenlandic.)
The semantic features that are common to incorporated objects and the ‘pragmat-
ically enriched’ readings of verbs like intransitive ‘eat’ can be accounted for in several
ways. On one account, the parallelism shows that the notion of ‘free enrichment’
misclassiﬁes a phenomenon which is, at bottom, syntactic rather than pragmatic
(Martí ms.). Alternatively, one can argue that the same semantic effect can be
achieved by morphosyntactic means or by pragmatic means (Bourmayan, ms.).
This is the view we favour.
Now, as Neale (2004: 171–3) pointed out, a property F that is contextually provided
through free enrichment can also be a singular property, viz the property of being
identical to a given object a. In the case of ‘eat’, this type of singular enrichment yields
interpretations along the following lines:
(7.5) ºx. ∃y eats (x, y) & y = a
This is how one can analyse Recanati’s ‘mushroom’ example, or Wilson’s ‘hemlock’
example, within the free enrichment framework. The enrichment of drink into
drink the hemlock is similar to the enrichment of drink into drink alcohol,
with the only difference that the contextually salient property of the thing drunk is a
singular property (the property of being identical to the hemlock mentioned in the
ﬁrst conjunct) rather than a general property like the property of being alcoholic.
Let us now turn to examples like (7.3), where the implicit food argument of the
verb is bound. This example was ﬁrst mentioned by Recanati (2002) in his debate
with Stanley (2000) over the possible effects of context on semantic content. That
debate is relevant since Stanley denies the existence of free pragmatic processes of
enrichment and therefore needs to account for the examples in a different way (see
Section 7.2).
According to Stanley (2000), context contributes to semantic content only by
providing values for indexicals or free variables in logical form. This corresponds
to what Recanati calls the contextual process of ‘saturation’. Saturation (the assign-
ment of values to context-sensitive items) is a linguistically controlled pragmatic
process. But, according to Recanati, there are also pragmatic processes of ‘modula-
tion’ that are not mandated by the linguistic material but take place in order to make
sense of the speech act. Modulation consists in contextually assigning to a linguistic
expression some occasional meaning distinct from its standing meaning. According
to Recanati, modulation affects the intuitive truth-conditions of an utterance. Thus in
‘There is a lion in the middle of the piazza’, ‘lion’ may be understood (through
126 Bourmayan and Recanati
modulation) as meaning a statue of a lion. Free enrichment is a special case of
modulation, whereby the meaning of a linguistic expression is mapped to a more
speciﬁc (richer) meaning. Now, as we said already, Stanley denies that such cases
exist, and acknowledges only ‘weak’ pragmatic effects on semantic content, that is,
pragmatic effects traceable to logical form (King and Stanley 2005: 118–19). To show
that, in a particular case, a contextual effect on content is a weak pragmatic effect
(resulting from saturation) rather than a strong pragmatic effect (resulting from
modulation), Stanley appeals to the ‘Binding Criterion’. If what the context contrib-
utes in the case at issue (e.g. the location of rain in ‘It is raining’) can be made to vary
with the values introduced by a quantiﬁer (as in ‘Everywhere I go, it rains’), this
shows that there is a variable in logical form, since only variables can be bound. The
presence of an underlying variable means that the role of the context in ‘It is raining’
is merely that of assigning a particular value to the location variable in logical form (a
variable that can either be contextually assigned a value, as in ‘It is raining’, or bound
by an operator, as in ‘Everywhere I go it rains’). This is saturation, not modulation,
contrary to what Recanati claims.
Recanati’s response is that the Binding Criterion ‘works too well’ (2002: 324): it
over-generates. Thus, in the case of intransitive ‘eat’, there is no free variable for the
food argument in logical form. Even if one opts for the CIV (rather than the GIV)
and posits a variable for the food argument at LF, that variable will be bound by
an existential quantiﬁer, rather than free. Still, the food argument can be made
to vary as a result of quantiﬁcation. This is what Example (7.3) was meant to show.
Recanati concludes that there is something wrong with the Binding Criterion
and the idea that there is no quantiﬁcation without a (pre-existing) free variable
available to be bound.
In his 2002 paper, Recanati did not provide an analysis of the utterance on the bound
reading. He merely used it to cast doubt on Stanley’s Binding Criterion. However, if
one tries to implement the free enrichment analysis for that sort of case, one will
presumably have to substitute a variable ‘z’ for the constant ‘a’ in formula (7.5) and let
the variable ‘z’ be bound by a higher quantiﬁer. Intuitively, one says that whenever
there is a z such that Mushrooms (z) and Cooked-by-John’s-father (z), then there
is a y such that John eats y, and y = z. The clause ‘and y = z’, provided through free
enrichment, does the same work here as the singular clause ‘y = a’ in the deictic case.
7.2. Do pragmatic objects affect truth-conditional content?
Martí and Stanley think the examples in which the verb allegedly takes a pragmatic
object should all be re-analysed. Martí discusses the following version of Recanati’s
mushroom example:
Transitive Meanings for Intransitive Verbs 127
(7.6) Klaus, Luisa, and Andrew are in the kitchen. They have been discussing the
dangers of the poisonous mushrooms they have just gathered in the forest.
Luisa to Klaus: Look! He’s eating! (Martí, 2006: 137)
According to Martí, Luisa’s utterance in (7.6) expresses the proposition that Andrew
is eating something, NOT the more speciﬁc proposition that he is eating the
mushrooms. Yet it is easy to be misled into thinking that the utterance is true iff
John eats the mushrooms: that is so because (i) the proposition that John is eating
something is true in a situation in which John eats the dangerous mushrooms, and
(ii) in the context of (7.6) this is the sort of situation the conversational protagonists
have in mind. Martí concludes:
What is offered by Recanati as a paraphrase of a reading is merely a description of one of the
situations that make the sentence true under the existential interpretation (its only reading,
I claim). (2006: 157)
Likewise, Martí argues against the analysis of examples like (7.7), inspired by Wil-
son’s example (7.2), as involving a pragmatic object anaphorically inherited from the
ﬁrst conjunct.
(7.7) John bought pizza and then he ate.
One is of course tempted to interpret the second conjunct of (7.7) as meaning that
John ate pizza, but this, according to Martí, is an illusion: the utterance is actually
true if and only if John bought pizza and then ate something.
According to (7.7), did John eat the pizza? Yes, that is compatible with what (7.7) says, as is any
situation in which John eats anything at all. . . . John bought pizza and then he ate something has
the same range of interpretations as (7.7). In other words, since pizza counts as something, and
since pizza is highly salient and relevant in (7.7), there might be cases in which it looks as
though the silent object of ‘eat’ is establishing an anaphoric relation with a previously
introduced entity, but one need to look at the whole set of facts. (Martí, ms.)
The same considerations apply to the example in which the pragmatic object of
intransitive ‘eat’ appears to be bound, viz (7.3) above. According to Martí, the second
conjunct of (7.3) is true if and only if, whenever his father cooks mushrooms, John
eats something or other, no matter what. So she denies the existence of the reading
invoked by Recanati in his critical discussion of Stanley’s Binding Criterion. To be
more precise, what she denies is that the interpretation described by Recanati
achieves the status of a reading and corresponds to the utterance’s truth-conditions:
if pragmatic object there is, she claims, it does not reach into the truth-conditional
content of the utterance but comes into play through some form of Gricean
reasoning. Stanley similarly contends that the pragmatic object in (7.3) does not
affect truth-conditional content:
128 Bourmayan and Recanati
Of course, when we hear an utterance of Recanati’s (7.3), we are liable to assume that John ate the
mushrooms his father cooked. . . . We would also assume he was not from Mars, and that he was
not the product of in-vitro fertilization. . . . Such information has nothing to do with intuitive
truth-conditions of an utterance. (Stanley 2005: 250–1)
To drive their point home, Martí, and following her, Stanley, resort to what Martí calls
the ‘negation test’ (Martí 2006: 156). For each of Recanati’s examples, Martí constructs a
negative variant, on the plausible assumption that what is negated in the variant is the
same proposition as what is asserted in the original example. In Martí’s scenario below,
Sally utters the positive variant and Tobias, in response, the negative one:
(7.8) Tobias and Sally have spent the afternoon in the forest gathering poisonous
mushrooms, which are now lying around on their kitchen table. Tobias and
Sally are in the living room discussing information from their ﬁeld guide
about poisonous mushrooms. Their three-year-old son David comes into the
living room from the kitchen chewing something.
Sally: Look! He’s eating!
Tobias: Don’t worry. I can see from here what he was doing in the kitchen and
he isn’t eating.
According to Martí (2006: 155), Tobias’ answer in (7.8) does not mean that David is
not eating dangerous mushrooms. Tobias’s answer would be considered as true only
in a situation where ‘David is not eating anything but is moving his jaws for some
other reason (e.g., he could be chewing gum)’. Since Tobias’ retort in (7.8) is
supposed to be the mere negation of Sally’s assertion—equivalent to Luisa’s assertion
in (7.6)—this invalidates Recanati’s analysis of (7.6) as involving a pragmatic object,
namely the poisonous mushrooms.
Martí applies the negation test to the example in which the pragmatic object of
intransitive ‘eat’ appears to be bound. The negative variant she provides is the ﬁrst
sentence of (7.9):
(7.9) When John cooks mushrooms, Sally never eats. # Instead, she eats pasta with
tomato sauce. (from Martí 2006: 154)
As emphasized by Martí, the second sentence in (7.9) cannot be added felicitously,
which argues against the presence of a pragmatic object in the content expressed by
the ﬁrst sentence. Indeed, if ‘eat’ in the ﬁrst sentence of (7.9) could be understood as
meaning eat the mushrooms cooked by john, there would be no issue in stating
that Sally ate something else, for example pasta with tomato sauce. But this does not
seem to be possible: the second part of the utterance is clearly at odds with the ﬁrst
part. Hence Martí’s conclusion that intransitive ‘eat’ in (7.3) is not assigned a
pragmatic object at the semantic, truth-conditional level. She concludes by dismiss-
ing the whole set of examples as semantically irrelevant:
Transitive Meanings for Intransitive Verbs 129
The right empirical generalization about intransitive ‘eat’ seems to be, as has been noted in the
literature before (see, e.g., Partee 1989), that there is no free-variable kind or bound-variable-
kind interpretation for its ‘object’; rather, it only gives rise to the existential interpretation.
(Martí 2006: 136)
To sum up, Martí and Stanley argue that intransitive verbs like ‘eat’ cannot take
pragmatic objects, or at least, that such objects cannot affect truth-conditions. To make
their point, they rely on the negation test. As we shall see in Section 7.4, the intuitions
about the negative examples are not as clear-cut as they claim. Thus we agree with what
Martí says about the interpretation of the last sentence in Example (7.8) but ﬁnd it
possible to devise other examples in which the allegedly inexistent reading is exempli-
ﬁed. Still, we agree with Martí and Stanley that examples like (7.9) are no good, a fact
that needs to be explained. But we’re not satisﬁed with their own account, for they deny
what we take to be obvious: that there is an interpretation of examples like (7.2) or (7.3)
in which ‘eat’ intuitively takes a pragmatic object, in such a way that the utterance counts
as true only if, in the relevant circumstances, John eats the mushrooms.3
That interpret-
ation stands in sharp contrast to another interpretation, which we call the ‘literal’
interpretation, in which ‘eat’ means eat some—unspeciﬁed—food. This interpret-
ation, less obvious and natural, can be made salient by manipulating the context.4
Far
from casting doubt on the readings involving pragmatic objects, the existence of ‘literal’
interpretations shows that there is a genuine contrast which should be taken on board.
To account for these various interpretations, as well as for the negation facts uncovered
by Martí and Stanley, is the task we set for ourselves in this chapter.
7.3. A situation-theoretic approach to pragmatic objects
In what follows, we use the framework of situation semantics (Barwise and Perry
1983; Barwise 1989; Kratzer 1989) to capture the truth-conditions of ‘eat’-sentences
3
García-Carpintero (personal communication) objects that this is too strong. Martí and Stanley, he
claims, do not deny that there is such an interpretation, but take it to be something like a conversational
implicature, that is, a purely pragmatic component of meaning.—The debate, however, bears on the issue
of truth-conditional content. A pragmatic component of meaning may or may not affect the intuitive
truth-conditions of the utterance. Standard particularized conversational implicatures do not. (If, in
answer to the question ‘can you cook?’, François answers ‘I am French’, he thereby implies that he can
cook, but the answer does not strike anybody as false if it turns out that François can’t cook). In all cases in
which a pragmatic process does impact truth-conditions at some intuitive level, it cannot be ignored, we
take it, but must be taken on board. So what we are after is a satisfactory (semantic-cum-pragmatic)
analysis that accounts for our intuitions regarding truth-conditional content. Such an analysis can’t start by
ignoring the data it is supposed to account for.
4
For example, we can imagine a context where the very fact of his father’s cooking mushrooms makes
John feel much better—because he enjoys the smell of the mushrooms cooked by his father, or because a
nice memory is attached to this image—and this leads him to eat not only the mushrooms cooked by his
father but virtually anything he is offered. In such a context (7.3) might be given the literal interpretation:
whenever his father cooks mushrooms, John eats something.
130 Bourmayan and Recanati
when they do and when they do not involve pragmatic objects. In situation seman-
tics, a proposition is modelled as a set of situations (rather than a set of possible
worlds). An utterance which expresses the proposition that p counts as true iff
the topic situation (the situation the speaker talks about) is a member of the set of
p-situations.
Situations consist of particulars having properties and standing in relations.
Situations are ordered via a sui-generis part-of relation. A situation is part of
another one, which extends it, just in case whatever holds in the former holds in
the latter. For a situation s' to count as an extension of s, all the particulars featuring
in s must also occur in s', and they must instantiate all the properties and relations
that they do in s. For example, s might be a situation in which Anouch is talking to
François, and s' a situation in which Anouch is talking to François and François is
listening. The bigger situation s' contains s as a proper part: it extends s. Both s and
s' in this example are situations in which Anouch is talking to François, but only s is
a minimal situation in which Anouch is talking to François. A minimal situation
such that p (for short, a minimal p-situation) is a situation which contains just
enough individuals, relations and properties to make it the case that p, that is, a
situation which does not itself contain as a proper part any smaller situation which
(already) makes it the case that p. The situation s' in which Anouch is talking to
François and François is listening is not a minimal situation in which Anouch is
talking to François because it contains as a proper part the smaller situation s, in
which Anouch is (already) talking to François.
In this framework, a possible world is a maximal situation, that is, a situation
which cannot be further extended. In contrast to Kratzer, who adopts Lewis’s
counterpart theory (Lewis 1968, 1973, 1986), we do not take individuals and situations
to be ‘world-bound’, that is, to belong to only one possible world. For us, a given
situation—say, the actual situation in which we presently ﬁnd ourselves—exists in all
the possible worlds which maximally extend it.
In the situation-theoretic framework, the semantics of a verb like intransitive ‘eat’
is given by the following formula:
½½eatintr ¼ lx ls: 9y eats ðs, x, yÞ
Intransitive ‘eat’ thus denotes the relation that holds between an individual and a
situation iff there is something that the individual eats in that situation. Now there
are two possible cases. Depending on the discourse and the context, the situation s in
which the eater is said to eat something may be left unconstrained with respect to the
food argument, or it may be restricted: the relevant situation s may be one in which
only a certain type of food is available. Restricting the situation in this way will have
the same effect as restricting the existential quantiﬁer ‘∃y’ in the lexical entry of
Transitive Meanings for Intransitive Verbs 131
intransitive ‘eat’: to say that John eats, in a situation in which the only edible things
are the mushrooms cooked by John’s father, amounts to saying that John eats the
mushrooms cooked by his father. (This is very much like contextual domain restric-
tion. If I say ‘Everybody came’, and the situation I am talking about is a situation with
only three individuals a, b, and c, my assertion amounts to the claim that a, b, and
c all came.)
In this way, we can account for the ‘intrusion’ of pragmatic objects into truth-
conditional content. Once the variable ‘x’ in the lexical entry of intransitive ‘eat’ is
saturated through composition with the subject term, the sentence (‘he eats’)
expresses a proposition, that is, a set of situations, and is true if and only if the
topic situation belongs to the set. We account for the (deictic and anaphoric)
readings by suitably restricting the topic situation. On both the deictic and the
anaphoric readings, attention is focused on a particular food object, and the predicate
eat is evaluated with respect to a restricted situation in which that object is the only
food available. On the anaphoric reading, the focusing of attention is done through
linguistic means; on the deictic reading attention is focused through extra-linguistic
means.
Let us now turn to the cases in which a pragmatic object is bound, as in Recanati’s
example, which we repeat here:
(7.3) John is anorexic, but whenever his father cooks mushrooms, he eats.
The most salient reading of (7.3) involves a speciﬁc object whose value co-varies with
the values introduced by the temporal clause. Yet, as we emphasized, this reading is
not the only possible one, and needs to be distinguished from that where ‘eat’ keeps
its literal value of eat something. How can we account for these two readings?
We may suppose that a sentence like (7.3), composed of a main clause and a
subordinate clause starting with ‘whenever’, has the underlying semantic and syntac-
tic structure of a conditional preﬁxed with a universal adverb of quantiﬁcation:
(C) [[always [if p]] q]
In the situation-theoretic literature that kind of structure is usually assigned the
following truth-conditions:
ºp.ºq.ºs. in s, for every minimal p-situation s', there is a q-situation s" which extends it
Here s is the topic situation—the situation we are talking about—and it is character-
ized by saying that for every sub-situation in it with certain features, there is an
extension of that situation with some further features.
If we apply this to (7.3), we get the following truth-conditions:
(7.10) ls. in s, for every minimal situation s1 such that John’s father cooks mush-
rooms, there is an extension s2 of s1 such that John eats
132 Bourmayan and Recanati
This is the ‘literal’ interpretation of (7.3), involving no pragmatic object. The
extended situation s2 contains John eating in addition to John’s father cooking
mushrooms, but it may involve any additional ingredient, and in particular any
other kind of food than the mushrooms cooked by the father. This in turn implies
that there is no particular constraint on what John eats in the extended situation.
He may eat the mushrooms cooked by his father or a pastrami sandwich or
whatever.
To capture the other reading of (7.3), we need to deﬁne a new notion of extension,
namely that of a minimal extension:
For any situation s and s', s' is a minimal extension of s such that p (or, for short, a
minimal p-extension of s) iff s' contains s plus anything that has to be added to s to
make it the case that p, but nothing more.
If we take s2 to be a minimal extension of s1 such that John eats we get the following
truth-conditions for (7.3):
(7.11) ºs. in s, for every minimal situation s1 such that John's father cooks mush-
rooms, there is a minimal extension s2 of s1 such that John eats
Here, the only difference from the truth-conditions given in (7.10) for the literal
reading of the sentence consists in characterizing s2 not as an extension of s1 such
that John eats, but as a minimal extension of s1 such that John eats. The situation s2
now contains everything s1 contains, namely John’s father cooking mushrooms,
plus what is necessary to make the consequent true, namely John eating, but
nothing more. In particular, no new food is introduced into s2, besides the food
already present in s1, viz the mushrooms cooked by John’s father. This straightfor-
wardly gives us the reading we are after. To say that John eats in such a situation is
to say that he eats the mushrooms (since that is the only edible thing in that
situation).
Elbourne (2005) resorts to the notion of minimal extension—without naming it
that way—to account for the truth-conditions of quantiﬁcational structures such as
(C) in general. If Elbourne is right and the notion of minimal extension belongs to the
semantic interpretation of that structure from the start, we cannot use it as a
discriminating tool for capturing the contrast between the two interpretations
which we analysed in terms of minimal extension versus standard extension. How-
ever, the main reason why Elbourne wants to generalize the idea of minimal
extension and make it part of the literal semantic content of structures like (C) is
to account for donkey anaphora, by letting the donkey pronoun be evaluated with
respect to a situation which, being a minimal extension of a minimal situation with a
donkey, can contain no more than one donkey and is therefore bound to satisfy the
uniqueness presupposition of the deﬁnite. But instead of appealing to minimal
Transitive Meanings for Intransitive Verbs 133
extensions we can solve the uniqueness problem by appealing to resource situations,
as Heim (1990b) did. So we see no reason to follow Elbourne here.5
As should be clear, we are not claiming that the sentence ‘whenever his father
cooks mushrooms, he eats’ is ambiguous between the two readings (7.10) and (7.11).
We take (7.11), corresponding to the ‘bound’ reading of (7.3), to result from pragmatic
modulation of the basic meaning of (7.3). The basic meaning of (7.3), given in (7.10),
involves the notion that one situation (the situation in which John eats) is an
extension of another (the situation in which his father cooks mushrooms), and
‘extension’ here can be understood more speciﬁcally as ‘minimal extension’, just as
‘drink’ can be understood as ‘alcoholic drink’ through pragmatic modulation.
7.4. Accounting for the negation data
Stanley (2005: 249) provides a ‘deictic’ version of Martí’s example (7.9):
Suppose Bill has cooked a mushroom dinner. Pointing at a dirty plate on the table, and
intending to communicate that John has eaten the mushrooms Bill cooked, I utter:
– John ate.
Suppose one knew that John had just eaten, but he did not eat the mushrooms Bill cooked. It is
still clearly not permissible to follow my assertion with:
– No he didn’t; he ate broccoli instead.
We share Stanley’s intuition that ‘no, he didn’t; he ate broccoli instead’ is infelicitous
in that context and want to account for that fact. (Martí’s quantiﬁed example will be
dealt with below.)
Stanley argues that ‘no he didn’t’ cannot mean that John did not eat the mush-
rooms, for if it did, adding ‘he ate broccoli instead’ would raise no difﬁculty. On the
assumption that what is negated by ‘no he didn’t’ is the same thing as what is
asserted by ‘John ate’, Stanley concludes that ‘John ate’ does not mean that John
ate the mushrooms, but only that he ate something or other. Likewise, what ‘he
5
Not only is the appeal to minimal extension not necessary to deal with donkey anaphora: it is not
sufﬁcient either. Heim (personal communication cited in Elbourne 2005: 58–9) emphasizes that we cannot,
in this way, account for some donkey sentences, like:
If a donkey is lonely, it talks to another donkey.
Heim’s alternative analysis consists in evaluating the donkey pronoun it with respect to the situation s1 in
which the antecedent holds—a minimal situation in which a donkey is lonely. (That situation counts as an
auxiliary, or ‘resource’, situation as far as the interpretation of the consequent clause is concerned since the
consequent clause as a whole is to be evaluated with respect to an extension s2 distinct from s1.) That
analysis makes the right predictions here, since s1, qua minimal situation, does contain a single donkey. In
contrast, Elbourne evaluates the pronoun with respect to the situation s2 which is a minimal extension of s1
such that the consequent holds. But in s2, precisely because the consequent holds, there are two donkeys, so
‘minimizing’ the extension does not sufﬁce to solve the uniqueness problem along the lines of Elbourne’s
analysis.
134 Bourmayan and Recanati
didn’t’ means is that John did not eat anything; so when one adds ‘he ate broccoli
instead’, a contradiction ensues, and this accounts for the intuitive infelicity of the
example.
Stanley’s reasoning is valid, but it relies on a premise which we deny: we deny that,
if ‘no he didn’t’ means that John did not eat the mushrooms, then it is unproblematic
to add ‘he ate broccoli instead’. Adding ‘he ate broccoli instead’ may well be
problematic if, as we claim, the reason why ‘no he didn’t’ intuitively means that
John did not eat the mushrooms is that it is evaluated with respect to a situation
containing only the mushrooms as food. That is what we said in section 7.3 about the
positive example: we claimed that the reason why ‘John ate’ can mean that John ate
the mushrooms cooked by Bill is that the words are evaluated with respect to a topic
situation which involves only the mushrooms as potential food argument. If so, then
exactly the same thing should happen with ‘no he didn't’: to claim that, in the very
same topic situation, John did not eat, amounts to saying that he did not eat the
mushrooms cooked by Bill. Still, a difﬁculty arises if we add ‘he ate broccoli instead’.
It is due to the fact that the new clause is, by default, evaluated with respect to the
same topic situation as before. This default tendency can be overridden, as we shall
see below, but in the present example it is reinforced by the presence of ‘instead’. In
‘not P, instead Q’, the use of ‘instead’ forces the clause Q it introduces to be evaluated
with respect to the same situation as the alternative clause P (and its negation). Thus,
the speaker is claiming that in the very same situation (a situation that contains only
the mushrooms as food), John did not eat and ate broccoli. That is doubly contradict-
ory. In the ﬁrst place, the topic situation has been characterized as containing only
the mushrooms as food, so no broccoli can be eaten in that situation.6
Next, there is
inconsistency in both claiming that John did not eat and that he ate broccoli. That
inconsistency persists even if, to avoid the ﬁrst contradiction, we lift the restriction on
the topic situation. So the infelicity of ‘No he didn’t, he ate broccoli instead’ is
straightforwardly explained within our situation-theoretic framework, in a way
6
García-Carpintero (personal communication) objects that, ‘if this were correct, it would be wrong to
utter, in reply to “John ate”, this: “yes, indeed, he ate a big dish of broccoli”.’ But, he adds, ‘I do not see why
this should be wrong. If it feels pragmatically odd, it can be followed with “He did not eat any mushrooms,
if that is what you were implying”.’ But on our view, the reply ‘yes, indeed, he ate a big dish of broccoli’ is
acceptable, provided one lifts the implicit restriction on the topic situation (to avoid contradiction). That
restriction is effective in the interpretation of the ﬁrst sentence (‘he ate’), but cannot operate in the
interpretation of the interlocutor’s response (‘yes indeed he ate a big dish of broccoli’) on pains of
contradiction. That means that the sentence ‘he ate’ (in the speaker’s mouth) and the response ‘yes indeed
he ate a big dish of broccoli’ (in his interlocutor’s mouth) do not talk about the same situation: one talks
about, and is evaluated in, a restricted situation in which the mushrooms are the only food available, and
the other not. (That shift in the situation of evaluation entails that the interlocutors are not really in
agreement, for agreement and disagreement presuppose that the parties are talking about the same
situation (Recanati 2007a: ch 11). The lack of genuine agreement accounts for the ironical ﬂavor of the
‘yes, indeed’ in García-Carpintero’s example.)
Transitive Meanings for Intransitive Verbs 135
which is consistent with the intrusion of a pragmatic object into the truth-conditions
of the utterance.
Let us now focus on the negation test applied to pragmatic objects that are
intuitively bound by a quantiﬁer, as in Martí’s example (7.9):
(7.9) Whenever John cooks mushrooms, Sally doesn't eat. # Instead, she eats pasta
with tomato sauce.
The point is to explain why the second part of (7.9) is not acceptable.
The ﬁrst thing to do is to analyse the sentence schema ‘whenever p, not-q’ in the
situation-theoretic framework. There are two options, depending on the scope we
give to negation:
 for every minimal situation s such that p, it is not the case that there is an
extension s' of s such that q
 for every minimal situation s such that p, there is an extension s' of s such that it
is not the case that q
We choose the second option and give narrow scope to the negation. Following
Cooper, we deﬁne a situation such that not q (a not-q situation for short) as a
situation s in which it is expected that q but which is prevented from being a
q-situation because it is an r-situation and no situation can be both an r-situation
and a q-situation.7
An example of a situation in which John does not eat might be, for
instance, a situation in which he refrains from eating, or a situation in which he is
prevented from eating.
On our analysis, the ﬁrst sentence of (7.9) says that for every minimal situation s1 in
which John cooks mushrooms, there is a minimal extension s2 in which Sally doesn’t
eat (ie, she refrains from eating, or something like that). When the second sentence,
‘she eats pasta with tomato sauce’, is interpreted with respect to the same situation, we
get a contradiction. The key idea, then, is that in (7.9) ‘Sally does not eat’ and ‘she eats
pasta with tomato sauce’ are interpreted with respect to the same situation s2. We have
so far analysed s2 as a minimal extension of s1 such that Sally doesn’t eat; if the same
situation s2 serves to evaluate the next chunk ‘she eats pasta with tomato sauce’, we get
a contradiction. An alternative analysis takes the instead-clause to be part of the overall
quantiﬁcational structure, in such a way that s2 should be re-analysed as a minimal
extension of s1 such that Sally doesn’t eat and she eats pasta with tomato sauce. But this
is, of course, no less contradictory. The same kind of contradiction arises if s2 is
analysed as a standard extension of s1 (rather than a minimal extension). The problem
arises whenever the two chunks ‘Sally does not eat’ and ‘she eats pasta with tomato
sauce’ are evaluated with respect to the same situation.
7
See Cooper (1997) and Recanati (2010: 105–6).
136 Bourmayan and Recanati
Now one may wonder why the chunk involving negated intransitive ‘eat’ and the
immediately following chunk involving transitive ‘eat’ should necessarily be analysed
with respect to the same situation. The situational framework should be ﬂexible
enough to allow the second chunk to be evaluated with respect to a different
situation, to avoid the contradiction. This would enable pragmatic objects to pass
the negation test, for there would no longer be any contradiction in claiming that a
given individual doesn’t eat in a certain situation which only contains mushrooms as
food, but eats pasta in a broader situation.
This turns out to be right. In the Martí–Stanley pattern of examples, the situation
with respect to which we evaluate the chunk involving transitive ‘eat’ (e.g., ‘she eats
pasta with tomato sauce’) tends to be assimilated to the situation with respect to
which the preceding chunk involving negated intransitive ‘eat’ is evaluated. That
default tendency, as we said, is reinforced by the presence of ‘instead’. Still, this
default pattern may be overcome, as in the following example from Collins (ms):
Imagine that we are looking at where the mushrooms are kept and ﬁnd the spot bare. We both
know that Sam loves mushrooms and has no qualms about leaving the rest of the household
with none. So, you say, ‘Sam ate’; I, who am in the know, respond with ‘No he didn’t; Sam ate
broccoli’.8
Here the situation with respect to which ‘Sam ate’ and ‘he didn’t’ are both evaluated is
a past situation s2 that is causally responsible for the observed lack of mushroom in
the current situation s1. The key feature of situation s2 is that it involves a transition
from a mushroom-involving state to a mushroomless state. That situation s2 is
described by the ﬁrst speaker as a situation in which John ate (the mushrooms),
while the second speaker rejects that description of the situation and claims that there
is no eating (of the mushrooms) by John in that situation. Let us assume that
something like that is on the right track and that the situation the interlocutors are
talking and disagreeing about is indeed the situation which witnessed the disappear-
ance of the mushrooms. On that assumption, it is pretty clear that the second
speaker’s next utterance, ‘he ate broccoli’, is not evaluated with respect to the same
situation s2. John’s eating broccoli is evidently not an aspect of the situation which is
causally responsible for the observed lack of mushroom. What the second speaker is
arguing is roughly that there is no eating (of the mushrooms) by John in the situation
s2 which the interlocutors are talking about, so something else in s2 must be respon-
sible for the disappearance of the mushrooms.9
The evidence the second speaker
provides in favour of John’s not having eaten the mushrooms in s2 is that there is
8
Laurence Goldstein ﬁnds this example infelicitous: ‘On seeing that there are no mushrooms in their
usual place, I can easily imagine B saying “Sam!” or “Sam ate them”, but nobody would say “Sam ate”.’ But
it seems to us that B could say ‘Sam had (his) dinner’, which is more or less equivalent to ‘Sam ate’.
9
The ‘something else’ can be made explicit: ‘No he didn’t—Sarah did’. Here s2 is described as a situation
in which Sarah ate (the mushrooms) rather than a situation in which John ate (the mushrooms).
Transitive Meanings for Intransitive Verbs 137
another, contemporaneous situation s3 in which John eats something else (the
broccoli).
Examples (7.12) and (7.13), in French, also reveal the ability of pragmatic objects to
pass the negation test when distinct situations s2 and s3 come into play:
(7.12) Quand son père cuisine des champignons, Jean ne mange pas; mais il se
rattrape sur le dessert.
‘When his father cooks mushrooms, John doesn’t eat. But he makes up for it
with dessert.’
(7.13) Quand son père cuisine des champignons en entrée, Jean ne mange pas; mais il
se rattrape sur le plat et le dessert.
‘When his father cooks mushrooms for starters, John doesn’t eat. But he
makes up for it with main course and dessert.’
In contrast to Martí’s and Stanley’s examples, (7.12) and (7.13), though a little
strained, do not sound contradictory. That means that, in interpreting these two
conjunctive sentences, one brings into play two distinct situations, one for each of the
conjuncts. Why is that so? Several factors seem to be relevant. First, ‘instead’ has been
replaced by ‘but’. Second, the use of ‘make up for’ suggests that one situation
compensates for the other (so they must be distinct). Finally, the scenario of the
meal and its different courses (starters/main dish/dessert) helps represent one situ-
ation as a—temporal—extension of the other.10
7.5. Two levels of truth-conditions
In situation semantics, there are two levels of truth-conditions for a given utterance.
Sentences express contents (pieces of information or ‘infons’) that are evaluated at
situations. The infon expressed by a sentence in context we call the lekton, after
Recanati (2007a). The lekton determines a set of situations, and is true at an arbitrary
situation just in case the situation in question is a member of that set. So the lekton
has truth-conditions. But there is another level of truth-conditions for the utterance:
the ‘Austinian proposition’. The Austinian proposition, which consists of the lekton
together with a designated situation of evaluation, is true just in case the lekton is true
10
In (7.12) and (7.13), the situation of evaluation progressively widens: the ﬁrst conjunct talks about the
‘starters’ situation while the second conjunct shifts to the ‘whole meal’ situation. This widening of the
situation of evaluation as discourse proceeds contrasts with Kuroda’s (1982) example, ‘Since it was so stuffy in
the house, Mary went up to the attic and opened the window’, which displays the opposite pattern. In
Kuroda’s example, the situations at issue become narrower and narrower: ‘the house’ is interpreted with
respect to a given situation s1 involving the house plus extra things; ‘the attic’ is then interpreted with respect
to a narrower situation s2 corresponding to the house (it is the attic of the house); and ‘the window’ is
ultimately assessed with respect to a situation s3 corresponding only to the attic (it is the window of the attic).
138 Bourmayan and Recanati
at the situation in question. Features of the situation can therefore impact the truth-
conditions, at the Austinian proposition level.
We agree with Martí and Stanley that when a verb like intransitive ‘eat’ takes a
pragmatic object, that object does not affect the truth-conditions of the lekton. Just as
‘It is raining’ only says that there is a raining event (Recanati 2007b, 2010), ‘John is
eating’ only says that there is an eating event whose agent is John. The location of
rain, or the food argument, is not speciﬁed at the lekton level. Yet, if we take the
situation of evaluation into account, it may be restricted in such a way that a speciﬁc
location argument, or a speciﬁc food argument, becomes salient and affects the
truth-conditions at the Austinian proposition level.
The contextual process which maps a given lekton to a full Austinian proposition
(circumstance-determination, as we may call it) is neither saturation nor modulation.
Both saturation and modulation are contextual processes which affect the lekton, but
circumstance-determination directly affects the Austinian proposition (hence, ultim-
ately, the truth-value), without touching the lekton.
The difference between pragmatic processes which (like saturation and modula-
tion) directly affect the lekton, and pragmatic processes like circumstance-determin-
ation which only affect the Austinian proposition, enables us to dispose of a potential
counter-example to our analysis from Lyn Frazier. Frazier provides variants of our
examples, where ‘eat’ has been replaced with a verb whose intransitive status is less
controversial (‘indulge’):11
(7.3) John is anorexic, but whenever his father cooks mushrooms, he eats.
(7.3*) John is anorexic, but whenever his father cooks mushrooms, he indulges.
On the face of it, (7.3) and (7.3*) seem to behave alike: both give rise to a ‘bound’
reading. This is expected, given our analysis. As Frazier puts it:
Pragmatic inferences should relate the indulgence to the mushrooms, just like they relate the
theme of ‘eat’ to mushrooms, i.e., in both cases the lexical entry of the verb entails the existence
of the indulgence or the object eaten, and the pragmatics relates the indulgence/food to
context. (personal communication)
The potential problem for our analysis comes from the fact that (7.9*) is ﬁne, while
(7.9) is no good:
(7.9) When John cooks mushrooms, Sally never eats. # Instead, she eats pasta with
tomato sauce (from Martí 2006: 154)
(7.9*) Whenever John cooks mushrooms, Sally never indulges. Instead, she eats
pasta with tomato sauce.
11
‘Indulge’ admittedly has transitive uses, but it ‘does not typically take a direct object (and when it
does, it is some form of appetite, not the thing indulged in)’ (Frazier, personal communication).
Transitive Meanings for Intransitive Verbs 139
The reason why (7.9) is no good, we said, is that the ‘instead’-clause is evaluated with
respect to the same situation as the previous sentence’s main clause. But if that were
the case, then the same thing would presumably happen in (7.9*), which ought to be
no good.12
But it isn’t. This suggests there is something wrong with our analysis.
However, we think there are signiﬁcant differences between ‘indulge’ and ‘eat’,
which account for the noted difference between (7.9) and (7.9*). One obvious (but,
pace Frazier,13
irrelevant) difference is that ‘eat’ can take a direct object (‘John eats
salmon’) while ‘indulge’ can only take an oblique object: ‘John indulges in such and
such’. The other difference—the relevant one—is this: typically, when the object of
‘indulge’ remains implicit, it must be deﬁnite, like the implicit object of ‘notice’ or
‘enjoy’. ‘Notice’ and ‘enjoy’ are DNI verbs, in Fillmore’s classiﬁcation (Fillmore
1986; Fillmore and Kay, ms.). They take deﬁnite implicit objects, in contrast to INI
verbs like ‘eat’ or ‘read’ which take indeﬁnite implicit objects.14
‘Indulge’ shares
with DNI verbs the property that its object, when implicit, must be deﬁnite, at least
in a central class of cases (illustrated by (7.9*)). Semantically, it is like ‘notice’ in
that it denotes a two-place relation. The difference between ‘indulge’, on the one
hand, and ‘notice’ and ‘enjoy’ on the other, is syntactic and corresponds to the way
the second relatum is articulated when made explicit (as a direct versus oblique
object).
Now, with DNI verbs and their cognates, the contextual provision of a speciﬁc
object is a matter of saturation. The utterance is infelicitous if the context does not
provide an appropriate object, namely some particular thing which the subject is said
to have noticed or indulged in. This is important because saturation affects the lekton.
So, in (7.9*), the proposition expressed by the ﬁrst sentence is the proposition that
when John cooks mushrooms, Sally never indulges in mushroom-eating. This is
perfectly consistent with what the second sentence says, namely that (in those
situations) Sally eats pasta with tomato sauce. In contrast, the deﬁnite object of
intransitive ‘eat’ in our examples is not directly provided as a constituent of the
lekton, but indirectly, through manipulation of the situation in which the lekton is
evaluated. In (7.9), the main clause of the ﬁrst sentence and the ‘instead’-clause are
evaluated with respect to the same situation, so a contradiction arises: the situation is
said to be such that Sally does not eat and (at the same time) eats pasta with tomato
sauce. No such contradiction can arise when the implicit object is directly provided—
before the encounter with the circumstance of evaluation, as Kaplan might put it—
12
It ought to be no good if there is a contradiction between not-indulging and eating pasta with tomato
sauce (just as there is a contradiction between not-eating and eating pasta with tomato sauce). If there is no
contradiction, our theory predicts that the sentence ought to be acceptable (as it actually is). We do not
press this point, because we believe Frazier’s example could be reformulated so as to make (7.9*) more
similar to (7.9) in this respect.
13
Frazier thinks the contrast between (7.9) and (7.9*) objects to the analysis we dubbed ‘GIV’.
14
‘DNI’ means ‘deﬁnite null instantiation’, and ‘INI’ ‘indeﬁnite null instantiation’.
140 Bourmayan and Recanati
through saturation of the argument place in the lexical semantics of the verb, as in
(7.9*). (Examples similar to (7.9*) could easily be constructed using DNI verbs like
‘notice’ or ‘enjoy’.)
7.6. Conclusion
In this chapter, we have attempted to steer a middle course between, on the one hand,
Recanati’s earlier analysis of pragmatic objects in terms of free enrichment (a variety
of modulation), and, on the other hand, the view put forward by Martí and Stanley,
according to which pragmatic objects are irrelevant to truth-conditional content and
should be ignored. An intermediate position turns out to be available because, thanks
to the situation-theoretic framework, we end up with a ﬁner-grained classiﬁcation of
pragmatic processes in their relation to truth-conditional content.
First, there are the pragmatic processes that affect conveyed meaning but can be
ignored by the semanticist because they do not affect the truth-conditions of the
utterance. Particularized conversational implicatures are a case in point. Martí and
Stanley take the pragmatic objects of intransitive verbs like ‘eat’ to fall into that
category, and that, we believe, is a mistake. Next, there is the process of circumstance-
determination which affects the Austinian proposition, but not the lekton. In contrast
to Recanati’s earlier analysis in terms of modulation, which we take to be refuted by
Martí’s ‘negation test’, we argue that the pragmatic object of ‘eat’ should be handled
at that level. Modulation belongs to the next level: that of ‘primary’ pragmatic
processes, that is, pragmatic processes which directly affect the lekton.
It is almost universally accepted that saturation affects what is said in the narrow
sense (the proposition expressed).15
Contextualists like ourselves hold that free
processes of modulation—processes which are not linguistically mandated, contrary
to saturation, and therefore do not contribute to ‘literal meaning’—can also affect the
lekton. Such processes are ‘primary’ and contribute to propositional content, even
though they are not regulated by linguistic conventions, but are pragmatic through
and through (Recanati 2004, 2010). So modulation is a ‘strong pragmatic process’ by
Stanley’s lights: that is, a pragmatic process which affects truth-conditions but does
not involve saturating a variable or pronominal element in logical form. Stanley
denies that there are such processes: among pragmatic processes, he claims, only
saturation (of an indexical or a free variable in logical form) has the power to affect
truth-conditions. Saturation is a ‘weak’ pragmatic process, because it is linguistically
regulated.
What about circumstance-determination, the process we take to be responsible for
the generation of pragmatic objects? Is it a strong pragmatic process? Arguably, yes.
15
We say ‘almost’ because some philosophers deny this (see Stojanovic 2006, 2009).
Transitive Meanings for Intransitive Verbs 141
Even though it does not affect the lekton, it does affect truth-conditions at the
Austinian proposition level. So it is a pragmatic process that affects truth-conditions
(at some level), and, arguably, it does not involve saturating a variable or pronominal
element in logical form. This makes it a strong pragmatic process (though admittedly
not as strong as modulation, which affects truth-conditions at the lekton level).
Stanley can respond that circumstance-determination is regulated by linguistic
rules and therefore should not count as a ‘free’ pragmatic process unconstrained by
semantic conventions. For example, in complex sentences such as (7.3), the situation
of evaluation for the main clause is directly provided by the semantics, through, for
example, the lexical entry for ‘always’ (or other adverbs of quantiﬁcation).
We agree with that observation. Circumstance-shifters, or their extensional surro-
gates, determine the situation(s) of evaluation for the content of the sentences in
their scope, and do so in virtue of the semantic conventions of the language.16
But
the point we make concerns autonomous sentences rather than sentences embedded
under a circumstance-shifting operator. We claim that the situation of evaluation in
their case is the topic situation,17
a situation that is determined on purely contextual
grounds and is not articulated linguistically. Features of the topic situation, thus
understood, are what accounts for the simple examples of pragmatic objects we
started from, as well as, arguably, for the understood location of the raining event
in the much discussed case of ‘it’s raining’.
Admittedly, this is not the end of the debate. Many linguists treat the ‘free’
situations (resource situations and topic situations) as syntactically articulated by
means of free situational variables at LF. We deny that such a treatment is inevitable,
and think there are philosophical arguments against it. On the view put forward in
Recanati (2007a), only constituents of the lekton are articulated. This, however, is a
highly controversial issue, both in linguistics and philosophy. Some authors defend a
thesis of full articulation which is diametrically opposed to Recanati’s view (Schaffer,
ms., 2012). So it would be consistent and reasonable for Stanley to accept the
situation-theoretic analysis of pragmatic objects presented here, while treating cir-
cumstance-determination as a special kind of saturation, namely the assignment of
contextual values to free situational variables. This is not the view we favour, but
nothing we said in this chapter directly argues against it.
16
Even in that case, however, free contextual processes may come into play. Thus when the quantiﬁca-
tional structure ‘Always (If (p, q))’ is given the enriched interpretation in terms of minimal extension
(rather than standard extension) this is an instance of modulation, we take it, rather than a form of
semantic ambiguity. See Gardent (2005) for a pragmatic approach to minimization phenomena in the spirit
of this paper.
17
In addition to the topic situation a given utterance is globally about, there are ‘resource situations’
involved in the evaluation of speciﬁc constituents in the sentence, as in some of the cases we have just
discussed.
142 Bourmayan and Recanati
8
Economy in Embodied Utterances*
MATTHEW STONE
In natural language generation (NLG)—the branch of computational linguistics
concerned with constructing utterances to communicate speciﬁed information to
users—brevity has always been a central concern. Naive designs for NLG systems
often yield output utterances that are distractingly verbose; we’ll see examples in
Section 8.1. Doing better requires surprisingly sophisticated models of planning and
coordination in conversation. In developing this computational perspective on
pragmatics, NLG research suggests ways to account more generally for the efﬁciency
of natural utterances in conversation.
In this chapter, I draw on the perspective of NLG to explore one kind of brevity, textual
economy, or, more generally, communicative economy, which I introduce in Section 8.1.
In communicative economy, speakers organize their actions to contribute to multiple
communicative goals simultaneously, rather than pursuing each communicative goal
separately. This makes their utterances more efﬁcient and more concise than they would
be otherwise. The project of this chapter is to present a computational sketch of the
reasoning required to achieve successful communicative economy in conversation, and
to use this account to better understand the possibilities and limits of this kind of brevity.
I begin in Section 8.2 by invoking general accounts of how agents plan efﬁcient
strategies for action in the world—the theory of planning in artiﬁcial intelligence
(AI). The key reasoning problem here is to recognize opportunities for efﬁcient
action as you ﬂesh out what to do; the solution is maintaining a rich network of
intentions to guide your deliberation. Rich communicative intentions, in particular,
allow agents to recognize opportunities to communicate efﬁciently.
However, brief utterances aren’t just a matter of speakers’ plans; in communi-
cation, hearers must also recognize efﬁciencies. Otherwise their understanding is
* Preparation of this chapter was supported in part by NSF IIS-1017811 and in part by the Leverhulme
Network on Context and Communication. Thanks to Laurence Goldstein, Alex Lascarides, Luisa Marti,
Jeff Pelletier, and audiences at Leverhulme Workshops 3 and 4.
incomplete. I explain this in Section 8.3 in terms of the special requirements of
coherence that follow from the collaborative organization of conversation. Coherence
limits efﬁciency. In many cases, it seems, we have to keep our thoughts separate in
utterances, and work to express them overtly and distinctly, in order to ensure that
we coordinate successfully on the process and content of communication. I close in
Section 8.4 by exploring cases where interlocutors can achieve coherence only by
elaborating compact, bare-bones utterances with explicit signals of the relationships
among their ideas.
8.1. Communicative economy and overloaded intentions
The challenge of brevity arises as soon as we consider the problem of generating ﬂuid
and natural instructions for physical action. Imagine hearing (8.1) in a situation like
the one depicted in Figure 8.1, for example.
(8.1) Take the rabbit out of the hat.
In this case, you immediately identify which rabbit you have to grab: it’s the one in
the hat. And you immediately identify which hat is at issue: it’s the one with the
rabbit.
The success of this brief instruction depends on interactions between the descrip-
tions it contains. To see this, suppose we operationalize a theory of communicative
actions and communicative intentions, along the lines explored by Grice (1975, 1957)
Figure 8.1. A situation for action, in which (8.1) would be appropriate.
144 Stone
and Searle (1969, 1975). The speaker needs to accomplish a series of speech acts. In
(8.1), the speaker must refer to the rabbit that needs to be moved. The speaker must
refer to the location from which the rabbit needs to be extracted. And the speaker
must specify an action that the hearer is supposed to carry out on these two
arguments.
You would naturally expect that you could plan each of these speech acts separ-
ately, and then assemble the results into a larger utterance that achieves all of them
together.1
Indeed, since the referents are drawn directly from the speech situation,
you might naturally abstract away from the intra-sentential dynamics of context
change, and formulate each noun phrase so that it directly speciﬁes its referent in the
visual context. But if you do this, you get (8.2) rather than (8.1).
(8.2) Take the rabbit that’s in a hat out of the hat that holds a rabbit.
When you plan a speech act to refer to that hat, you can’t just call it the hat. You have
to distinguish it from the other hat by what makes it different: it has a rabbit in it.
Conversely, there are lots of rabbits, so if you’re planning a speech act to refer to that
rabbit, you have to describe it as the rabbit in a hat.
You can improve things by adding a treatment of the evolving context, by planning
each reference in turn, and exploiting the effects of earlier ones to bring entities to
salience. Now you might get (8.3).
(8.3) Take the rabbit that’s in a hat out of it.
Even still, (8.3) strikes me as somewhat awkward, in comparison to (8.1). In any case,
we want our system to be able to learn the best choice between (8.3) and (8.1). Something
is wrong if our approach cannot even entertain (8.1) as a possible utterance in this
situation.
The real problem here is that communicative goals are not independent. Utterance
planning has to recognize when material that is provided in the service of one
communicative goal helps indirectly to achieve others. Such indirect relationships
have been called overloading (Pollack 1991). Overloading an intention means using an
intended action not just for its contribution to the goal for which you originally
committed to it, but also for its contribution to other goals that you hope to achieve.
So (8.1) exhibits pragmatic overloading (Di Eugenio and Webber 1996) in that infor-
mation provided across its different constituents makes it possible to achieve mul-
tiple goals in an efﬁcient way. This chapter explores pragmatic overloading as one
explanation for cases of brevity.
1
There is a tradition of doing just this, going back to the work of Allen, Cohen, and Perrault (Cohen
and Perrault 1979; Allen and Perrault 1980; Perrault and Allen 1980). In particular, Appelt (1985) used
Kripke’s (1977) distinction between semantic reference and speaker reference to extend this to the
pragmatics of individual constituents within sentences.
Economy in Embodied Utterances 145
Overloading is a general feature of human action—one which often makes our
everyday actions more efﬁcient. For example, we often combine errands together
into efﬁcient routines by opportunistically planning efﬁcient routes (Hayes-Roth
and Hayes-Roth 1979). Suppose you have to go to the pharmacy to pick up some
medication and go to the dry cleaner to pick up some laundry. Suppose further that
the pharmacy is close to the dry cleaner. Then you might start by forming an
intention to go the pharmacy, and then overload that intention. You can take
advantage of the fact that the pharmacy is most of the way to the dry cleaner, and
plan to go to the dry cleaner immediately afterwards.
Such decisions are sometimes conscious choices. But overloading is just as evident
in patterns of behaviour that are, or may be, routine or automatic. In such cases, in
talking of an agent’s choices, commitments, or intentions, we are giving a rational
reconstruction the phenomena. That is, we are developing intuitions and metaphors
to make sense of the underlying cognitive mechanisms that determine behaviour—
whether people have introspective access to their operation or not (see Agre (1997)
for more on this way of reading computational models of efﬁcient, opportunistic
action). This methodological perspective is natural in computational approaches to
cognitive science, but is common in philosophy as well. Grice (1957) himself took talk
of communicative intentions to involve this kind of rational reconstruction.
Overloading is evident not just in patterns of practical action but in discourse as
well. Consider example (8.4) from a children’s craft book, as analysed by Di Eugenio
and Webber (1996).
(8.4) Cut the square in half to create two triangles.
In this setting—where you’re really going to carry out the author’s instructions and
build a craft ﬁgure according to this recipe—you need to recover a detailed speciﬁca-
tion of each step of action. Here, you need to know that you should use scissors, cut
along the diagonal, and make two pieces, that the two pieces will be the same size and
shape, and so forth. The author is getting some of this information across explicitly.
But the author is also relying indirectly on your ability to draw inference and the
implicit connections between different parts of the instruction. When you ﬁnd you
are cutting the paper square, you naturally expect to use scissors. The inference to
cutting on the diagonal is more complicated. But if you know you’re starting from a
square, and you know that the purpose or result of the action is to create triangles,
you know you can’t cut parallel to the sides of the square. Di Eugenio and Webber
argue that it is useful to think of these inferences as cases of pragmatic overloading.
The speaker decides to describe one aspect of the situation, say that the goal of the
action is to create triangles. But this information (and the audience’s inferential
interpretation) also contributes towards the other goals the speaker needs to achieve
in order to give a complete instruction. Exploiting this connection gives the ﬁnal
utterance its economical expression.
146 Stone
It is crucial that overloading a practical intention, as in efﬁciently running errands,
is really the same thing as overloading a communicative intention, as in (8.4). Our
joint activities mix linguistic utterances with other kinds of signals and with ongoing
practical activities. The interactions among these diverse actions often exhibit prag-
matic overloading, which can be accounted for only through a common model of
intentions and deliberation.
Consider ﬁrst the coordination between speech and co-verbal gesture. Lascarides
and Stone (2009: 168) discuss an embodied explanation of the solution of a physics
problem, excerpted in (8.5) below.
(5) If you see this larger ball as ten small balls like that . . .
The speaker gets down off his chair to match his interlocutor, who sits across from him on
the ﬂoor. His right arm now extends out in front of him at shoulder height, with his ﬁngers
curled and his index ﬁnger touching his thumb, as though holding a pen. During the gesture,
the hand sweeps along a horizontal line further to the right.
The extended discourse from which (8.5) is extracted evokes a hypothetical
Galilean experiment to explain why Newton’s law of gravity—which says that
the gravitational force between two objects is proportional to the product of their
masses—actually predicts that all objects fall to Earth at the same speed. The
interlocutors have agreed to frame their explanation in terms of a particular
puzzle: a ten-unit mass experiences ten times the force of a one-unit mass, yet
the two fall identically. In (8.5), the speaker’s words introduce a perspective that
encodes the key insight in the explanation: Newton’s law describes quantities of
mass, rather than common-sense objects. Meanwhile, the speaker uses his gestures
to act out the setup of a hypothetical experiment in which a series of masses are
laid out at a level height and dropped simultaneously to measure gravity’s effect.
See Lascarides and Stone (2009) for an extensive discussion of form and meaning
in this example.
In (8.5), much as in (8.4), we ﬁnd evidence of the overloading of intentions for
efﬁcient action. The speaker’s words include the deictic expression like that, which
indicates that an accompanying communicative action demonstrates the spatial
relationship among the balls. Since this link is so fundamental to the organization
of his communicative action, we might naturally expect that it arises early on in the
process of planning. However, this link requires only that there be a gesture that
indicates the location of the balls. A simple gesture might be sufﬁcient for this, such
as an unmarked pointing gesture with index ﬁnger extended. The gesture here,
however, not only indicates the location of the balls, but embodies the action of a
scientist placing the balls in an experiment. This extra depiction enriches the message
that the speaker is able to convey with the utterance. This suggests that we should
think of the speaker’s gesture as a case of pragmatic overloading.
Economy in Embodied Utterances 147
Language use in everyday joint activity also showcases connections between
practical intentions and communicative ones. Consider (8.6), from (H. Clark and
Krych 2004: 72, based on Figure 6).
(8.6) a. Sam: ’kay now get . . . a-uh [eight piece green]
b. Ted: [reaches for block] exhibits block
c. Sam: and join the two . . . so it’s all sym[metric]
d. Ted: [poises block]
e. Sam: yeah, right [in the center]
f. Ted: [attaches block]
Example (8.6) gives a nine-second transcript of an interaction from a human-
subjects experiment in which Sam guides Ted in the step-by-step assembly of a Lego
model. H. Clark and Krych (2004) principally aim to document the closely timed
interaction they discover in such dialogues. For example, when Ted poises the block in
its intended place at (8.6d), Sam can conﬁdently wrap up his description of the target
location and immediately proceeds to acknowledge Ted’s correct placement.
Such ﬂuid interactions seem to depend on integrated representations of practical
and communicative intentions, and integrated processes of deliberation towards
practical and communicative goals. In (8.6b), Ted intends to use a speciﬁc block to
comply with Sam’s instruction; but ﬁrst, he must get the block. Eventually, he must
also conﬁrm that the block is correct. As it turns out, getting the block—to do what’s
required in the world—naturally affords a streamlined opportunity to check the
identity of the block with Sam. Ted can move the block into a prominent position
and direct his attention to the block and then to Sam. Clark and Krych call this
exhibiting the block. If this is right, Ted’s action of exhibiting the block—a communi-
cative action—overloads his intention to get the block in the ﬁrst place—the practical
action that the task calls for. More generally, it shows the importance of a general
theory of intentions in deliberation as an account of efﬁcient action, both communi-
cative and practical alike.
8.2. Intentions, deliberation, and efﬁcient action
A general theory of intentions in deliberation must conceptualize intentions as
complex mental attitudes, following Bratman (1987) and Pollack (1990). A good
way to see this is by considering the famous blocks world domain from AI research.
The problem is to control a robot arm and move blocks around on a table-top. When
a block has nothing on top of it—when the block is clear in the argot of the blocks
world—the robot can pick the block up and put it on another clear block. There’s also
a table-top that can accommodate any number of blocks. The task of the robot is to
build towers.
148 Stone
The blocks world turns out to enable a simple demonstration of the necessity of
overloading in planning. One way to realize multiple goals is to sequence together
programs of action that achieve them one after another. When realized straightfor-
wardly, however, this strategy turns out not to lead to efﬁcient programs of action in
the blocks world. Instead, planners need to track the relationships among actions and
their contributions to multiple goals.
The key case is the so-called Sussman Anomaly illustrated in Figure 8.2. The robot
starts with block C on top of block A, and block B on the table. The robot needs to
build a tower with A on top of B and B on top of C. To a human observer, it is obvious
what the robot needs to do in this case. First it moves C to the table, then it puts B on
top of C, and ﬁnally it puts A on top of B. The problem is to synthesize this plan by
algorithmic reasoning.
One general framework for such reasoning is the intuitive idea of means–end
analysis (Newell and Simon 1961). At each step of planning, you identify something
that needs to change, ﬁnd an action that will accomplish the change, and then adopt
the goals necessary to use the action in this way. Here the robot’s problem requires
achieving two goals simultaneously. You might have expected that the robot could
meet these goals by ﬁrst achieving one goal efﬁciently, then moving on to accomplish
the other goal. But this divide-and-conquer strategy turns out not to work here. If
you try to achieve either of the goals on its own in an efﬁcient way, you wind up
having to undo your work as soon as you turn to accomplish the other goal. If your
goal is to have B on top of C, you can move B there right away. But your next step will
require you to move A, which you’ve just buried. If your goal is to have A on top of B,
you can put A there as soon as you get C out of the way. But again, you then discover
that B is in the wrong place, and you’ve just buried it.
The correct plan actually interleaves the actions involved in achieving the two
goals. When you move C onto the table, you’re working towards clearing A so that
you can put it at the top of the tower. You then switch gears to put B on C, achieving
the other goal. Only then do you return to the goal of putting A on B that you were
working towards with your ﬁrst action.
Initial State Goal State
C
B
B
A
C
A
Figure 8.2. A blocks-world challenge: efﬁciently starting from the situation on the left and
building the tower shown on the right.
Economy in Embodied Utterances 149
This reasoning involves recognizing an opportunity for efﬁcient action. Suppose
the planner starts with the goal of having A on B and works backwards. The planner
infers that it must put C on the table then put A on B. Now the planner considers the
goal of getting B on C. Given the plan so far, we can’t move B after we put A on B.
That’s one of the goals we’ve committed to. We can’t put B on C before we put C on
the table either. We’re committed to keeping C clear till we move it away. However, if
we move B to C in the middle while A, B, and C are all clear, we can achieve our new
goal while maintaining all the effects we’ve already planned for. In effect, the
interleaved plan overloads the intention of moving C to the table. The action gets
A clear and also moves C into position to put B there.
This deliberative strategy requires rich models and representations of intentions.
A simple idea is that an intention is just a special kind of goal—perhaps, a goal that
an agent is committed to. As Cohen and Levesque (1990) show, this idea leads to
a useful theory of intentions for modelling agents’ mental states. However, we need a
stronger theory of intentions to explain how agents overload their intentions to act
efﬁciently. In particular, all the commitments that an agent makes in the course of its
means–end analysis must become part of its intentions. Only then can the agent
assess whether new actions respect decisions already made.
If communicative intentions exhibit the same kinds of overloading, they are going
to need the same rich structure. Communicative intentions have to commit to words
and their meanings. But they also have to track changes to the evolving context of the
conversation. They must also show how the speaker is committed to the aspects of
that evolving context that their interpretation depends on, and track how those
contextual requirements are met through aspects of the non-linguistic environment,
or through the contextual contributions of previous communicative action.
Programmatically, this insight about intention allows us to reﬁne our intuitive
understanding of Examples (8.1), (8.4), (8.5), or (8.6). As a simple case study, let’s
consider how the account applies to (8.1).2
An instruction like this actually requires
the addressee to perform a speciﬁc action involving speciﬁc objects. So we can start
from the assumption that the instruction involves speaker reference to these objects,
2
Space precludes a complete presentation of the formal details. In fact, there are substantial technical
challenges involved—particularly the problem of representing the compositional structure and meaning of
utterances in an action formalism, and the problem of reasoning about interlocutors’ changing information
as the conversation unfolds. Stone et al. (2003) describe an implemented model of linguistic grammar,
utterance meaning, and interpretation in context, and show how the formalism accounts for a wide range
of efﬁcient and natural utterances. Stone (2000) shows how to reason about the evolving context in this
framework, focusing on the hypothetical reasoning that may be required to assess whether a provisional
utterance contributes enough information to satisfy the system’s communicative goals. Stone (2004)
justiﬁes the philosophical understanding of these formal structures as representing the communicative
intentions of conversational agents. Koller and Stone (2007) formalize the close relationship between these
models of sentence planning and other AI models of planning. Cassell et al. (2000) sketch a model that
extends the approach to simple cases of embodied communicative actions. Developing formal details to
handle cases like (8.5) and (8.6) remains a project for future work.
150 Stone
in the sense of Kripke (1977). Moreover, the situation makes certain entities salient,
and we naturally prefer to resolve speaker reference to these entities rather than any
others. Here the noun phrases show where the sentence potentially refers to things.
So understanding the utterance will involve identifying some object as the speaker
reference R of the direct object noun phrase, and some object for the speaker
reference H of the source noun phrase.
To plan an utterance involves anticipating how linguistic action contributes to
such communicative goals. Here, the job is to track the evidence uses of words gives
about the properties of the corresponding referents. Saying ‘the rabbit’ gives evidence
that R is a rabbit. Saying ‘the hat’ gives evidence that H is a hat. Crucially, here, we
also get constraints on these referents from our common-sense knowledge, which
allows us to recognize certain additional commitments that the speaker must be
making in using the instruction—the speaker presuppositions in the sense of Stalna-
ker (1973). In particular, when we say that we’re ‘taking R out of H’, we discover that
R must be in H. It is generally true, when you take one thing out of another, that the
thing that you take out starts off inside the thing that you take it out of. These
additional relationships establish interconnections among communicative actions
and make it possible to overload them.
Concretely, if you’re picking this rabbit and this hat, then the constraints that R is a
rabbit, that H is a hat and that R is in H are all simultaneously satisﬁed. Indeed, there
is no other comparable tuple of salient individuals that satisfy these constraints—so
there is nothing else one could take as an alternative interpretation of this utterance
in this context. That is enough to explain how it is that the utterance take the rabbit
out of the hat manages to achieve all three of the speaker’s communicative goals.
Now imagine planning the instruction using a process of intention-based deliber-
ation on par with what we described for the blocks-world domain. We model the
process within a framework that takes into account the referential requirements of
practical instructions. The process starts from the goals of identifying R, identifying
H, and characterizing the action that the addressee must carry out on them. The
variables initially have an unconstrained interpretation but the speaker is already
committed to resolve them to their intended referents.
Planning proceeds by adding content step by step to a provisional communicative
intention, corresponding to the partially constructed utterance. Each step commits to
an open-class item—perhaps a noun or a verb or a longer, multiword expression with
an idiomatic meaning—together with any functional elements (determiners, prepos-
itions and the like) which may be syntactically required to ﬁt that item into the
incomplete utterance. To start with, there is an empty description, so that R and H
could be anything. The ﬁrst step might add the rabbit and factor in its effects on
interpretation: it lets you zero in on particular values for R. The second step might
add the hat, and factor in its effects on interpretation: it lets you zero in on particular
values for H. A ﬁnal step might characterize the action with take out of. This has the
Economy in Embodied Utterances 151
interpretive effect of allowing the hearer to see that R must be in H, solving the overall
problem for communication.
This process is guided by the communicative intention at each step. The repre-
sentation tracks the intended interpretation of each unit, the requirements that this
interpretation places on the context, and the effects that the unit has on the address-
ee’s interpretation of the instruction. These varied representations of the effects of
utterances make it possible to recognize, and to exploit, their potential to contribute
to multiple communicative goals: to plan brief utterances.
8.3. Intentions and the principles of collaboration
While this account of intentions suggests how speakers might convey information
more economically by recognizing opportunities to overload their communicative
intentions, the account offers important insights into the limits of brevity as well.
Communicative intentions are prototypically collaborative. In communication,
interlocutors use utterances to contribute propositions to conversation, and thereby
to address and resolve open questions, as part of a joint process of inquiry. This
section argues that collaborative intentions generally, and communicative intentions
in particular, are subject to constraints of coherence that limit how tightly overloaded
they can be.
Researchers such as Cohen and Levesque (1991) have argued that intentions have
a distinctive role to play in the deliberations of agents that work together, because
teamwork requires agents to coordinate with one another (Lewis 1969). A prototyp-
ical coordination problem arises when two people, A and B, want to meet together
face-to-face for a discussion. They might choose to meet in A’s ofﬁce, or in B’s ofﬁce,
or in a favourite café. They might be indifferent about the venue for the meeting, as
there might be no particular advantage to any of the places they are considering.
Nevertheless, the meeting will only happen if A and B actually wind up in the same
place.
In coordination problems, agents can’t just reason about the effects of their own
actions. They also have to align their decisions to each other, and keep their decisions
aligned with one another throughout the execution of the plan. This requires special
work if the world is unpredictable, if communication is difﬁcult, or if agents have
partial information (Cohen and Levesque 1991). For example, people normally
schedule meetings by having a brief conversation, perhaps by phone or email, in
which they settle the arrangements that will govern their joint action together.
To achieve coordination, people arrive collaboratively at appropriate shared com-
mitments that describe what they will do as a group. These commitments guide
deliberation like ordinary intentions. But they also cement the teamwork agents do to
understand each other, to meet their obligations to the group, and to track the
contributions they themselves make, as they deal with the vicissitudes of carrying
152 Stone
out their agreements. I will follow standard practice in AI and refer to these
commitments as collaborative intentions.
A key strategy that people use to identify progress towards their goals and deal
with opportunities or obstacles that motivate changes in the plan is to manifest and
track collaborative intentions. We can point to pervasive analogies between team-
work as it applies in a cooperative conversation, and teamwork in pursuit of shared
practical goals.
Let’s start with understanding. To understand your teammates’ actions, you have
to recognize the intentions with which they act. These intentions involve commit-
ments not only to action, but also to relevant facts about the circumstances in
which the action is being carried out and about the contributions which the action
is going to make. Recognizing an intention is a process of explanatory inference
that can start from background information about the agent’s action, knowledge,
preferences and goals, but that can also make assumptions to ﬁll in new information
about the agent as well. Reasoning about preferences is particularly important when
agents maintain an open-ended collaborative relationship with one another (Cadilhac
et al. 2011).
Imagine, for example, you are part of a team which is catering for a party. You see
one of your colleagues carrying a full tray of drinks towards a closed door. You
probably conclude that your colleague intends to distribute the drinks to party-goers
in the next room. You have used what you already know about your colleague’s
beliefs: you see your colleague moving, you see the full drinks, and it is obvious that
your colleague is moving purposefully and is aware of the surroundings. You have
also used what you already know about your shared goals: drinks must be distributed
if the party is to be a success. At the same time, you’ve made additional assumptions.
Perhaps you were previously unaware that the next room was open to guests, or that
it even existed. But given the intentions you’ve recognized, your colleague must know
about these guests and have the particular goal of serving them.
It’s crucial that intention recognition gives you this new understanding of your
colleague and the ongoing activity. You’ll need it to track the state of the collabor-
ation and to plan your own contributions to it. Your engagement with each other
means that your colleague’s continued action, like their carrying the drinks here,
provides the shared evidence you need to keep coordinating, and relieves you of the
need to explicitly discuss each step of progress in the task. Thomason et al. (2006)
explore this reasoning in more detail. They argue that collaborative reasoning always
involves a shared presumption that team members act cooperatively and are engaged
in tracking each other’s contributions. This recalls the famous Cooperative Principle
and Maxims of Grice (1975), of course.
To use language collaboratively, agents need to recognize the intentions behind
utterances in much the same way. Suppose you’re doing some shopping on the way
home. Your spouse messages you with (8.7).
Economy in Embodied Utterances 153
(8.7) Can you get me some goat cheese for the frittata I’m making tonight?
Part of understanding this utterance is recognizing the background goals and beliefs
that make this utterance a useful request for your ongoing collaboration. This again
involves appeal to relevant background knowledge. You may know, for example, that
your spouse prefers ﬁrm but creamy, slightly aged goat cheeses for frittatas; and so,
you will assume that you are expected to get one of those, rather than a soft fresh
cheese or something exotic like a Norwegian brunost. You may also be led to new
assumptions about your spouse, just as in the practical case. In this case, you may
have been previously unaware that your spouse planned to make this frittata. It is
nevertheless unproblematic to identify this aspect of the plan from what your spouse
says.
In teamwork, deliberation depends on the network of intentions that you and your
collaborators have already committed to. Two cases are worth noting. You can
choose to accommodate your collaborators (Thomason 1990), and act in support of
their intentions, by taking steps to assist their activities or defuse obstacles they may
face. For example, when you see your colleague headed for the closed door with a tray
of drinks, you can choose to accommodate them by opening the door. That way, they
don’t have to orchestrate the problematic manoeuver by themselves.
Another case, which Cohen and Levesque (1991) emphasize, is that you can warn
your collaborators about obstacles in their plans that cannot be corrected. Such ﬂaws
suggest that you and your collaborators will have to reconsider the activities that are
underway. For example, you may know that your catering colleague with the drinks
is lost. That door leads to the closet, not to a room with party-goers. In this case,
cooperative rationality dictates that you should say something to re-orient your
colleague. More generally, any mismatch you detect between an agent’s actions,
preferences, and circumstances may require your intervention.
Exactly the same kinds of options suggest themselves in language use. In the case
of a request like (8.7), the obvious way to accommodate your spouse is to comply
with the request. Your spouse has a plan that requires goat cheese; you can get the
cheese, and thereby help make sure that the plan is carried off. You may also be in a
position to recognize and correct other potential obstacles to this plan as well. You
might follow up with (8.8), for example, if you suspect that your spouse is unaware
of the cooking you’ve been doing yourself lately and hasn’t looked in the egg
carton.
(8.8) Do you need me to get eggs as well? I used a couple in the naan dough earlier
this week.
And, of course, you may need to point out obstacles that cannot be so easily corrected.
(8.9) Wait a minute—Kim still has our frittata pan.
154 Stone
All of these count as cooperative responses, and meet the obligations required of
collaborators, because all engage with and further the process of joint activity that’s
underway.
Finally, consider the requirements on intentions in your own collaborative actions.
It is not enough for you just to do something that helps the team. You have to do it in
a way that allows your collaborators to identify the assumptions and goals that you
have, and the contribution that you expect to make to the team. After all, your
collaborators will be working to recognize and respond to your intentions, just as you
have been working to recognize and respond to theirs.
Suppose, for example, that you have decided to assist your colleague at the party by
opening the door for them. You should probably attract their attention as you do it,
perhaps by calling out ‘I’ve got that for you’, or perhaps just with a ceremonial
ﬂourish of your arm as you reach for the handle and push. That way, your colleague
can see that the door will be open and can coordinate with you to go through the
door. It’s easy to imagine other ways of opening a door that wouldn’t make things so
easy. Your colleague might be in the course of turning around, expecting to back into
the door to push it open, and keep holding the tray clear. You could then slip past and
open the door undetected. Your colleague, of course, will keep backing up slowly,
waiting in vain for the resistance of the door. At some point, there will be a crisis:
your colleague may manage to re-adjust to an environment that doesn’t match the
plan, but may instead come off balance and fall.
Language generation also requires us to be explicit, and to make the plans behind
our utterances recognizable. Let us return to (8.8). We can contrast the full explan-
ation with other, briefer possible reminders, as in (8.10), (8.11), or (8.12).
(8.10) What about eggs?
(8.11) Do you need me to get eggs as well?
(8.12) I used a couple of eggs in the naan dough last week.
All are grammatical utterances that might, with luck, prompt your spouse to recon-
sider whether there are enough eggs at home and ask for more if necessary. However,
in some sense, they all require your spouse to already be alert to the possibility of the
obstacle that you aim to point out. Your spouse has just asked you to get cheese but not
eggs, and so presumably thinks there are enough. Because the reminders in (8.10) and
(8.11) leave out your speciﬁc reasons why your spouse should reconsider, they might
not work. On the other hand, with (8.12), you give those reasons, but you don’t suggest
a course of action. You force your spouse to work out the possibility that you could get
the eggs, and to ask you to do so. Perhaps your spouse will instead decide to get the eggs
some different and less efﬁcient way—without even telling you about it. It seems that
(8.8) may be the briefest possible way to reliably point out this obstacle to your spouse’s
plan. Brevity is at odds with the coordination required for effective teamwork.
Economy in Embodied Utterances 155
The constraints of collaboration thus place real limits on how economical our
interactions with one another can be. One way to get a handle on these limits is
through H. Clark and Schaefer’s (1989) Principle of Joint Closure. Closure is
Norman’s (1988) term for an agent’s judgment about whether a course of action
has been completed and whether it has achieved its goals. We have seen that
collaborators have to achieve joint closure by agreeing to their satisfaction about
the outcome of everything they do. Their coordination depends on it. Clark and
Schaefer argue that human collaborators regiment their joint activities to make it
easier to achieve joint closure. In particular, people organize their activities into a
hierarchy of tasks and subtasks. Their joint work involves an orderly navigation
through this hierarchy. They proceed through subtasks one at a time, and make
sure that they have achieved all the goals associated with each subtask before they
move on to the next one. For Clark and Schaefer, the Principle of Joint Closure
refers to this special discipline for agreeing about progress in collaboration. The
Principle of Joint Closure is, in a sense, a balancing force against overloading.
According to the Principle of Joint Closure, once collaborators organize a task into
a sequence of sub-goals, they proceed with a sequence of more ﬁne-grained
interactions that bring about each of these sub-goals in turn. On the face of it,
this discipline does not allow for overloaded actions that are chosen to make
contributions to multiple sub-goals. The group is planning for and monitoring its
progress on one sub-goal at a time. Of course, the organization of tasks into parts,
and the selection of sub-goals to achieve at each stage, is a matter of coordination
among the group. So it is more accurate to say that overloading actions requires
collaborators to adopt a distinctive conceptualization of their joint activity—one
that speciﬁcally anticipates the kinds of efﬁciencies they hope to achieve together.
Consider, for example, carrying out a series of errands as a group. We have seen
that overloading intentions is quite natural in this setting. You go to the pharmacy,
then to the dry cleaners, then to the grocery store, in that order, partly because you
have a set of tasks including picking up medication, laundry, and goat cheese, but
partly because that ordering makes for a particularly short tour of the places you need
to visit. If you think of the activity simply as carrying out your errands, one after the
other, you haven’t left room to coordinate the efﬁciencies you can get by considering
your goal of having a short tour as you choose each step of travel. Imagine you arrive
at the pharmacy and it turns out to be closed unexpectedly. If you’re really just
working on getting your medications, it will be natural for you to proceed to the
nearest pharmacy and worry later about how to proceed with the rest of your tour.
This is the sense in which the organization of joint activity and the Principle of Joint
Closure provides a new constraint on the possibilities for overloading.
Overloading may be important enough and frequent enough in these tasks that
you make room for it: this means conceptualizing the activity in a different way. At
each step, your sub-goal is choosing and carrying out an errand that you need to do
156 Stone
and that makes progress on a short tour. As you coordinate steps in this new activity,
you naturally track and assess the possibilities for overloading.
Suppose, to start, that the trip to the pharmacy is successful. You’ve organized the
activity to track your progress running errands: you have the medication. But you’ve
also organized the activity to explicitly address the progress you’ve made provisionally
towards future errands. You are in a position to move on efﬁciently from here to the dry
cleaners. Suppose by contrast that the trip to the pharmacy is a bust: the pharmacy is
unexpectedly closed. Your new, overloaded task invites you to coordinate an overloaded
response. You now need to ﬁnd and carry out your next errand—given where you are
and where you have to go—in a way that makes progress on a short tour. You might, for
example, decide to go to the dry cleaners next now anyway, because you know of
another pharmacy past the grocery store that you can visit more easily later in your tour.
In short, overloading in collaboration is subject to a constraint of Coherence. As our
example shows, applying the Principle of Joint Closure for overloaded actions requires
special acknowledgment of the possibility of efﬁcient action in the organization of the
task itself. Collaborators must conceptualize the multiple effects of overloaded actions
as a recognizable and repeated pattern that establishes a new pattern of sub-goals
for the overall task. This conceptualization is needed to support the use of overloaded
actions in collaboration. It primes interlocutors to recognize the multiple contribu-
tions of an overloaded action to their joint activity; it gives them the conceptual
vocabulary to track the effects of an overloaded action; and it prompts them to
consider possible overloading when they re-plan and accommodate one another’s
actions.
Coherence constraints are particularly signiﬁcant for communicative intentions
because we do not normally explain our communicative strategies explicitly. Doing
so can easily cancel out any savings we get from efﬁcient communication itself.
Anyway, there is no guarantee that explaining things in full will actually work. We
face the danger of a regress, where we might have to disambiguate the language we
have already used with the hope that it would sufﬁce to disambiguate. Since we can
only hint at the principles that organize our communicative intentions, we must
work harder to make them comprehensible to start with. Thus, the need for coher-
ence imposes strong constraints on communicative intentions. Any overloading we
do has to be predictable and recognizable.
8.4. Overloading and the limits of economy
The requirement of coherence helps make sense of the way we naturally organize
discourse that seems to combine multiple goals. When we have multiple points that
go together, and they can naturally be seen as making a single overarching argument,
then it is quite easy to create brief utterances that merge that information together.
Take (8.13):
Economy in Embodied Utterances 157
(8.13) The book was long and boring.
This is an unproblematic case of overloading. The speaker here has a number of
related ideas about the book to get across. An initial formulation—‘the book was
long’, let’s say—conveys key bits of this information. But it also affords the oppor-
tunity to fold in additional material—‘and boring’—which exploits the existing
syntactic structure and conveys a related idea. We readily recognize this material as
developing a coherent picture in two parts. The length of a book is often an indicator
of the excessive detail or repetitive style that leads to boredom.
On the other hand, when we have information that goes together, syntactically and
perhaps conceptually, but the connections are unexpected or difﬁcult for interlocu-
tors to recognize, we prefer to ﬂag those connections explicitly. We see this, for
example, in the preference for (8.15) over (8.14).
(8.14) The book was short and boring.
(8.15) The book was short but boring nonetheless.
A speaker might well be interested in saying of a short, boring book that it had those
properties. But it seems there is no coherent subtask that presents just these two
ideas. The reader wonders what the point is of the attempted overloading of (8.14). Is
there some unexpected reason to expect short books to be boring?
We recognize a different organization to the speaker’s argument in (8.15). The
speaker chooses to draw a contrast, and signals it explicitly with but and nonetheless.
Given contrast as an organizing principle, we can see how the different ingredients
of the speaker’s utterance contribute to the speaker’s overall plan. But because the
speaker has chosen to mark the organization by an explicit signal, the utterance can
be only so economical.
We ﬁnd similar constraints when we combine speech with gesture or with
practical embodied action. For example, as we developed the analysis of gesture in
Lascarides and Stone (2009), we observed the contrast between cases like (8.16) and
(8.17).
(8.16) The cable is elastic.
The speaker repeatedly brings two ﬁsts together and separates them apart
horizontally.
(8.17) The cable runs horizontally.
The speaker repeatedly brings two ﬁsts together and separates them apart
horizontally.
The gesture in (8.16) seems to depict the potential of the cable to stretch, while the
same gesture in (8.17) seems to depict the layout of the cable in space. A speaker
might hope to overload a description of an elastic cable in a horizontal conﬁguration
158 Stone
by combining bare-bones fragments of speech and gesture, but it won’t work. These
messages don’t have a coherent organization, and the audience naturally appeals to
coherence in understanding what the gesture contributes.
In retrospect, then, we can interpret the examples with which we opened this
chapter in light of the constraints of coherence. In (8.1), repeated as (8.18) below,
there is a natural way in which all the information ﬁts together.
(8.18) Take the rabbit out of the hat.
The utterance offers a description of the next action that completely identiﬁes its
parameters. Identifying the action itself provides a natural conceptual framework to
recognize the different contributions of the different components of the speaker’s
overloaded communicative intention. In the description of the Galilean experiment
in (8.5), the speech and gesture together introduce a hypothetical condition where a
scientist drops ten identical balls from a level height. In the Lego assembly of (8.6),
speech and actions combine in the natural subtask of getting and checking a piece
that matches the director’s instructions. These natural summaries speak to the
coherence that supports the economy of these examples, and reinforce the overall
message of this chapter. Communicative economy depends on imposing a coherent
organization on a set of contributions to conversation, and ﬁnding opportunities
within this organization to deploy communicative actions efﬁciently in pursuit of
multiple goals.
Economy in Embodied Utterances 159
This page intentionally left blank
Part II
The Philosophy of Brevity
This page intentionally left blank
9
Some Consequences of ‘Speaking
Loosely’*
LAURENCE GOLDSTEIN
9.1. Introduction
George Burns said: ‘Sex at age 90 is like trying to shoot pool with a rope’. What he
meant was that it was like trying to shoot pool with a rope as a cue, but, since we all
know what he meant, it was unnecessary (and would have been a crime against
humour) to add those extra three words. George was able to get away with what
Kent Bach, in an eponymous paper (2001) called ‘speaking loosely’. We speak loosely
all the time; it is a completely commonplace way of being brief. I wish to show that
paying due attention to the phenomenon is important in that doing so enables us to
dissolve a number of philosophical problems in ﬁelds as diverse as attitude-ascription,
vagueness, set theory, law, and morality.
In Donald Davidson’s view, ‘understanding a metaphor is as much a creative
endeavor as making a metaphor, and as little guided by rules’ (1978: 31). Many
theories of metaphor have been proposed, but none quite ﬁt the data. It is usually
not difﬁcult to ﬁnd counterexamples to a proposed set of rules for interpreting
metaphors (e.g., a theory that appears to offer a good explanation of ‘He’s foxy’
fails to explain ‘She’s foxy’). Likewise, when it comes to speaking loosely, anarchy
reigns, or, at least, only loose rules constrain (‘Drive with care’ versus ‘Drive on the
right’). This is not a defect but a recognition of messy linguistic reality. The sort of
brevity that speaking loosely makes possible is just not governed by strict rules
possessing the crystalline purity and generality that theoreticians tend to crave
(Wittgenstein 2009: }} 102–8, 1969: 17; Stenlund 2002).
* For helpful comments on earlier versions of this chapter, I am grateful to Kent Bach, Jeff Pelletier, and
Andreas Stokke, and for discussion of certain topics, I also thank Edward Kanterian, Julien Murzi, and
Sergeiy Sandler.
It is uncontroversial that we frequently convey or suggest more than we mean, but
it is true too that we often mean more than we mouth; our speaker-meaning outstrips
the literal meaning (if there is such) that is a composite of the meanings of the words
uttered. The speaker-meaning of a declarative sentence is the information that the
speaker intends the audience to grasp, and that the speaker could spell out were the
audience to seek clariﬁcation. My friend Albert, like me, watches a lot of television,
and it so happens that recently there has been a whole series of TV adverts, featuring
a young actress advertising an ointment for the treatment of haemorrhoids. Strolling
one day with Albert in Los Angeles, I spot that very woman walking on the opposite
side of the street and, pointing excitedly at the celebrity, I say to Albert ‘Hey, isn’t that
the haemorrhoids woman?’. Albert, of course, understands my speaker-meaning and
grasps what I intended to ask without my needing to spell it out, but a passer-by,
hearing what I say, may have little idea what I mean, or may take me to be implying
that the woman in question has haemorrhoids, or looks like haemorrhoids, or evinces
a neurotic fascination with them, or who heals haemorrhoids, etc.1
Does my sen-
tence, or the sentence ‘Bert is a knee man’, which will mean different things if we’re
talking about surgeons, fetishists, kick boxers, etc, each have a literal meaning, a
meaning that could be ascribed to them independent of their use on particular
occasions and that could be translated into other languages? It seems that some
sentences, for example ‘Bees don’t like me’ (they sting me whenever they get the
chance) have a literal meaning. That same sentence can be used metonymously to
mean that bees don’t like my odour (hence back off, and never sting me).2
But it is a
hotly disputed question, and one that I shall not here pursue, whether all of the
sentences that are used with speaker-meaning also have literal meaning or express a
‘minimal’ proposition.3
Metonymy supplies but one illustration of how what a speaker means can be
expressed concisely to a suitably knowledgeable hearer, but may need spelling out to
an audience less favourably situated. Thus, formal dialogue theories in computational
linguistics employ the notion of a coupled information state, since a metonym will
‘work’ only if participants in a dialogue have a shared understanding of the topic.
One point to note is that, just as there are dead metaphors, so there are formulaic or
standard metonymic abbreviations, but equally, just as there is much scope for newly
1
As Stephen Yablo points out, in his 2012 John Locke lectures ‘Truth and Content’, truth is intimately
related to subject matter: ‘A sentence is true because of how matters stand where its subject matter is
concerned.’ (I take it that by ‘sentence’, Yablo is referring, metonymously, to the use of a sentence to make a
statement.) ‘The Hemroid Girl’ is the title of an episode of the sitcom Just Shoot Me. For a haemorrhoids
woman in action, see <http://calmovil.com/k/hemorrhoids_girls_pics.aspx> (last accessed 24 January
2013).
2
The example is anthropomorphic in assuming that bee-liking is like human-liking of humans, and
stinging like punching a disliked human. But at least it is taken from real life.
3
Wittgenstein (1982: } 488) is insistent that they do not. Proponents of minimalism include Emma Borg
(2004) and Herman Cappelen and Ernie Lepore (2005).
164 Goldstein
minted metaphor, so there is considerable freedom for metonymic creativity, limited
only by the desideratum of making oneself intelligible to one’s audience.
In general, we try to observe the sub-maxim of Brevity. Where conversational
circumstances make it possible, a long phrase, such as ‘woman who appears on TV
adverts for a product that treats haemorrhoids’, will be dispensed with in favour of a
couple of words. If a speaker is too brief, however, then a gap may open between what
the speaker means and what the conversational partner or larger audience takes the
speaker to mean.
(9.1) A man, reading about different positions for engaging in sexual congress, was
particularly struck by one called ‘the wheelbarrow’. So he says to his wife ‘Shall
we try this out: you lie naked on your front, resting on your elbows; I stand
between your legs and lift them up, tucking one under each arm, and I insert
myself and then just kinda push you around?’ After a bit of thought, she replies
‘Oh, OK, just so long as we don't go past my mother’s house’.
This is, perhaps, the kind of situation that Horace (Ars Poetica, ca 18 BC, line 25) had in
mind when he wrote ‘Brevis esse laboro, obscurus ﬁo’. By ‘I push you around’, the
speaker meant ‘ . . . around the room’, not the neighbourhood. The hearer got that
wrong. The husband, by speaking brieﬂy, was speaking loosely. He could have avoided
obscurity and said exactly what he meant by speaking at slightly greater length. Such a
case must be distinguished from Humpty Dumpty examples where, rather than
misjudging the conversational situation, the speaker breaches any reasonable limits
on abbreviation. For example, a speaker could not reasonably use the concise ‘Aris-
totle could not have existed without being a philosopher’ to mean that Aristotle could
not have existed and written such-and-such works without being a philosopher.4
Bach writes: ‘we commonly speak loosely by omitting words that could have made
what we meant more explicit, and we let our audience ﬁll in the gaps. Language works
far more efﬁciently when we do that.’ (2001: 249).5
In order to verify the pervasiveness
of speaking loosely, Bach invites us to look at any newspaper or magazine, or
eavesdrop on any conversation. He notes that ‘in most conversation . . . spelling
things out is not only unnecessary, it just slows things down’. It can also be confusing
because, as Bach says, ‘it guards against something that doesn’t need to be guarded
against’, and we get to wondering whether the speaker, by being needlessly prolix, is
covertly trying to tell us something.
The wheelbarrow man in (9.1) simply left some words out; he did not specify
‘around the room’ because he assumed (falsely, as it turned out) that his wife
would compute the intended qualiﬁcation. ‘Rather than insert extra words into our
4
I owe this example to Cian Dorr.
5
This ﬁlling in or ‘expansion’ of semantically complete sentences must be distinguished from the
‘completing’ of semantically incomplete sentences. See Bach (1994).
Some Consequences of ‘Speaking Loosely’ 165
utterances in order to make fully explicit what we mean, we allow our listeners to
read things into what we say’ (Bach 2001: 250). The speaker could have, but did not,
make the qualiﬁcation explicit; his was, in Bach’s neologism a conversational im-
pliciture (Bach 1994). His speaker meaning is a pragmatic enrichment of whatever, if
anything, his sentence considered in isolation, decontextualized, means. How
speakers, exploiting the conversational situation, are able to create, and hearers to
compute, implicitures, is a deep problem for future cognitive neuroscience.
Two speakers in different conversational settings may utter tokens of the same
short sentence, both of them speaking loosely, and mean entirely different things.
(As we have seen, even in the same conversational setting, the speaker’s meaning may
be different from what his audience takes it to be.) The insensitivity of philosophers
to impliciture may be due to their neurotic literal-mindedness or a professional
disdain for speaking loosely. In the remainder of this chapter, I wish to show that a
surprising diversity of philosophical problems become immediately more tractable
once we become sensitive to lurking implicitures.
9.2. Reporting attitudes
Here is what, at ﬁrst sight, is an extremely simple form of valid inference:
Fa
a = b
Therefore Fb
Yet, as is well known, when the predicate substituting for ‘F’ creates a so-called
‘opaque context’, the inference may apparently fail. Some have argued that failure of
this sort is not conﬁned to opaque contexts, but also besets some ‘simple’ contexts;
for example, although St Petersburg and Leningrad are identical,
(9.2) Shostakovich always signalled his connections to the classical traditions of St
Petersburg, even if he was forced to live in Leningrad.
might be thought true, whereas
(9.3) Shostakovich always signalled his connections to the classical traditions of
Leningrad, even if he was forced to live in Leningrad.
would not.6
For those who think that the only contribution that a singular term
makes to the meaning of a sentence is that of picking out or labelling a referent, the
failure of singular terms to be substitutable salva veritate in contexts such as the
opaque and simple ones mentioned above produces a major headache.
6
Jennifer Saul (2002: 19) got this sentence from The NewYork Review of Books.
166 Goldstein
Perhaps the earliest manifestation of an awareness of this problem is the ancient
paradox of the Hooded Man, in which, on being shown a man with a hood over his
head, his son replies in the negative to the question, ‘Do you know this man?’ An
interlocutor, a practical joker, perhaps, says, ‘But this man is your father, so you don’t
know your own father!’ The interlocutor, simply taking the son at his word and
relying on the true premise that the hooded man is the son’s father, draws a
conclusion that is patently false. Hence the paradox.
Some would say that the son’s response is correct and that the interlocutor is not
entitled to draw his facetious conclusion because the verb ‘know’ creates an opaque
context. But that’s to label the problem, not to solve it. Yet what I take to be the correct
solution does seem trivially simple.7
The son, responding in kind to the question asked
of him, made the mistake of answering too brieﬂy, neglecting a needed qualiﬁcation,
and thereby exposed himself, like the wheelbarrow man, to being misunderstood.
When confronted with the stark question ‘Do you know this man?’, when the man in
question is hooded, the son is perfectly entitled to reply: ‘You are speaking loosely: do
you mean “do I recognize him when he has a hood over his head?”, or “do I recognize
him with the hood removed?”’8
What he should have said in reply to the interlocutor
is what he meant, namely that he didn’t know the man when the latter had a hood on.
This would have denied the interlocutor his sarcastic riposte.9
Saul Kripke’s well known ‘Puzzle about Belief ’ (1979) lends itself to similar
treatment. Pierre, in Paris, says ‘Londres est jolie’. You ask him to spell out what
he really means.10
He mentions the pictures of various lovely parts of London that he
has seen in some magazines, and it quickly becomes apparent that what he means is
not inconsistent with what he meant when, while living in a shoddy area of London
(and not knowing that London and Londres are identical), he said ‘London is not
beautiful’. Kripke presses the question: ‘Does Pierre or does he not believe that
London is beautiful?’ (like a lawyer demanding ‘Just answer, “Yes” or “No”.’). But,
in the aforementioned circumstances, we should refuse to answer the question. If
I say, sincerely, that I enjoy swimming in a pool but really do not enjoy swimming in
the sea, then there is no unqualiﬁed answer to the question ‘Do you enjoy swimming,
yes or no?’
7
It has not seemed so to many, and has spawned an interesting literature, including some develop-
ments in intensional logic, e.g., Priest (2002).
8
The Fallacy of the Simple question (Goldstein 1993) is the mistake of raising or answering a question
without admitting the needed qualiﬁcations. See also Fodor (2008: 76 n47).
9
For discussion of a similar case involving the attitude of belief, a wig, a Luxemburg brothel and the
King of Belgium, see Bach (1987: 197–8). A tragically real incident was reported in the news of 28 September
2012: ‘A Connecticut man shot dead a masked man he believed was trying to break into his sister’s home,
only to learn that it was his own 15-year-old son.’
10
Bach (1997) argues that the that-clauses in belief reports underspecify the contents of the beliefs being
ascribed. This is true too of speakers reporting their own beliefs, ie, putting their beliefs into words, and that
is often because we are often too lazy to fully express what we are really thinking.
Some Consequences of ‘Speaking Loosely’ 167
I have supposed that, on being questioned, Pierre would reveal that, when giving
an opinion about London, he was not talking of the whole town. But suppose that this
were not the case and Pierre, when questioned, said that he really was referring to the
whole of London (à l’ensemble de Londres). Then he really does hold contradictory
beliefs. But then, so do we all, occasionally. The mind is compartmentalized, and it is
not uncommon for people to hold contradictory beliefs (not beliefs in contradic-
tions). Rational debate consists, to a signiﬁcant extent, in showing your opponent
that he or she holds an inconsistent set of beliefs, and therefore ought to question at
least one of them. It is an (all too) human failing that we acquire beliefs rather too
readily and relinquish them rather too reluctantly—an evolutionary explanation for
this springs to mind. In the scenario we have just been canvassing, Pierre arrived at
his pair of contradictory beliefs through careless, over-hasty inductive reasoning.
There is a real-life lesson to be learned here.11
Kripke worries that, in reporting Pierre’s contradictory beliefs, we reporters are
ourselves in danger of enunciating contradictions. We are forced to say, it seems, that
Pierre believes that London is pretty and that it is not the case that Pierre believes that
London is pretty. Again, attention to the phenomenon of speaking loosely shows this
worry to be misplaced. When we report someone as believing that p, we are ipso facto
denying that that person does not believe that p, so Kripke’s concern can arise only if
we are under some misconception about what reporting a belief amounts to. With
some caveats, we might say that if X believes that p, then X has the settled disposition
to utter sentences that express the proposition that p. And we have no problem about
saying that Pierre has the settled disposition both to utter sentences of the type
‘Londres est jolie’ and of the type ‘London is not pretty’. This could be because, for
instance, Pierre’s ‘mental ﬁle’ for ‘Londres’ is separated from his ‘London’ ﬁle or
(following Fodor (2008)) that his physical mental sentence tokens containing (the
Mentalese counterpart of) ‘Londres’ have different causal, hence inferential connec-
tions from his mental sentence tokens containing (the Mentalese counterpart of)
‘London’. In reporting Pierre’s beliefs, we are certainly not contradicting ourselves,
and the reason seems clear: We are reporting that Pierre is sometimes inclined to say
‘Londres est jolie’, and is sometimes inclined to say ‘London is not pretty’. So we must
11
Philosophers are not exempt, according to Frank Ciofﬁ:
To my great astonishment, among the most vociferous of Freud’s advocates were philosophers in the
analytic tradition. The result of my exposure to Oxford philosophy was that I became convinced that no
one who familiarised himself with the problem of induction, the naturalistic fallacy, the distinction between
analytic and synthetic truths, etc., could fail to become permanently immunised against fraudulent claims
to knowledge. When I realised how many analytic philosophers were incapable of taking up a genuinely
critical attitude towards Freud’s pretension, I had to rethink my position concerning its educational value.
Ironically, I drew a quasi-Freudian moral: the sources of conviction were not predominantly intellectual
but affective, and so the logical astuteness of analytic philosophers was of little help to them.
See Dufresne (2007: ch 6).
168 Goldstein
distinguish believing something in a way that does not preclude the believer’s also
believing the opposite, and believing something in a way that does. For reports of
belief of the ﬁrst kind, the reporter might be inclined to use ‘know’ instead of ‘believe’,
but that would be unsatisfactory since it would involve importing extra information
to the effect that p is true and that the reporter knows it to be such. In reporting the
belief that Pierre gained from perusing his magazines, we should say ‘Pierre believes,
in a way that does not preclude his believing the opposite, that London is pretty’. We
would hardly ever bother to spell things out in this fashion because, for any particular
belief, it is trivially always possible, but rarely actual, for a person to hold both it and
its contradictory. But to simply report, ‘Pierre believes that London is pretty’, without
the qualiﬁcation, is to speak loosely and, under the ambient circumstances, mislead-
ingly, because it appears to rule out the opposite belief that Pierre in fact has, namely
that London is not pretty.
Kripke has pinpointed one kind of unusual circumstance in which an individual
can come to acquire a contradictory pair of beliefs. Here is another:12
Kim is a
mathematician, and her ten-year-old daughter Iris is already showing an aptitude
for the subject. Iris notices that the square of any integer, positive or negative, is
positive, and asks her mother whether there is any number that has a negative
square. Kim explains that there are what mathematicians call ‘imaginary numbers’,
that i is an imaginary number equal to the square root of –1, and that any number
that cannot be expressed without the use of ‘i’ is imaginary. So Iris’ beliefs about
imaginary numbers are quite limited; she does not know, for example, that ei
= –1.
Iris, who has already met e and , believes that ei
is an imaginary number because
it’s a function of i, but she will, of course, believe that –1 is not an imaginary
number, so her beliefs are contradictory. Kim, boasting to fellow mathematicians of
her daughter’s prowess, says ‘Iris believes that ei
is –1’. Her statement is both false
and misleading. It is among the conventions for belief-reporting that, ceteribus
paribus, the reporter use words similar to those that the reportee would use when
expressing his or her beliefs (or a translation thereof into the language in which
reporter and audience are using). What Kim should say, speaking non-loosely, is
‘Iris believes, as I, but not she, would put it, that ei
is –1’, a claim that would not
impress anyone.13
Just to reinforce a point made above, we should also note that
Iris was too hasty in forming the belief that ei
is imaginary. True, it’s a function of i
but so, she should have reﬂected, is i2
.
Stephen Schiffer’s story of Shorty will provide our ﬁnal example. I use the version
in Dorr (2014).
12
An objection from Alex Grzankowski and Katherine A. Piatti provoked this example.
13
Bach (2001: 260) has a similar example: ‘Dr. Atkins is not [what I would describe as] a physician but a
quack’, where the bracketed addition makes explicit what would otherwise have been implicit.
Some Consequences of ‘Speaking Loosely’ 169
A purse-snatcher, Shorty, snatches Thelma’s purse; she sees him limping away. Later,
she is at a line-up at which the purse-snatcher is present, but fails to pick him out.
Talking to one of his associates before the line-up, Shorty utters:
(9.4) She knows that I limp.
He follows up this utterance by saying: ‘So I will make sure to show up early to the
line-up, so she doesn’t see me walking in.’ Whispering to another associate during the
line-up, Shorty utters:
(9.5) She doesn’t know that I limp.
He goes on: ‘I made sure of that by showing up early to the line-up, so that she
wouldn’t be able to ﬁgure out that I am the one who stole her purse.’
This, it seems to me, is a variant of the Hooded Man paradox. That Shorty was
speaking loosely can be brought out in a little dialogue:
(9.10) Associate: Does she know that you limp?
Shorty: Yes.
Associate: But when you’re standing still in a line-up she doesn’t know that
you limp, right?
Shorty: Yes.
In the original story, Shorty’s utterance (9.4) needs to be qualiﬁed with ‘when I walk’
and (9.5) with ‘when I don’t walk’. Dorr (2012) takes an alternative view: that when a
rational speaker speaks literally and sincerely, has no relevant false beliefs but appears
to contradict himself, he must be using some word or words non-uniformly on at
least one occasion of use. This seems an ad hoc manoeuver, and would compel us to
posit ambiguities ad nauseam. Dorr notes that there are limits (beyond which
Humpty Dumpty tries to go) to the range of propositions that a given sentence can
be used to express. He sees the project of formal semantics as delineating the
operative constraints and, to this end, proposes associating each word with a range
of admissible semantic contributions. This approach, to my mind, does not respect
the considerable anarchic creative brevity in language use illustrated by some of the
examples cited, and in almost any lively conversation. The more parsimonious
explanation of Schiffer’s case is that it is not any of Shorty’s individual words that
are being used non-uniformly; it’s that Shorty is not using enough words to forestall
possible misunderstanding. In short, he was too brief.
Short is the default for Shorty, as for most of us. The process of producing an
utterance in the course of a conversation does not require our ﬁrst thinking up a
sentence so guarded and qualiﬁed as to be immune to misinterpretation by the most
perverse of interpreters. The reverse is the case: we add in qualiﬁcations only when
we realise that the particular conversational situation requires our doing so. When
setting examination questions or preparing possible answers for a multiple choice
170 Goldstein
test, we typically are not intimately familiar with all examinees, and reﬁning the ﬁrst
draft so as to eliminate all possible unwanted interpretations (and hence avoid
accusations of unfairness) is often a painful, time-consuming business. And the
end result is typically sentences more convoluted and less elegant than the originals.
9.3. Vagueness
If it is noon, and you approach someone whom you see is wearing a watch and ask
her the time, she will probably answer ‘It’s noon’. Only in most unusual circum-
stances would she say ‘It’s noon where we are now standing’. One could say that her
response is incomplete, leaving one argument place unﬁlled, but, against this, in the
situation described, she would be in breach of the maxim of Quantity were she to
supply redundant information; and she would, unco-operatively, be sending her
audience on a wild goose chase, wondering what relevance that information was
supposed to have. It would therefore be wrong to claim that, strictly speaking, her
response ‘It’s noon’ is incorrect or untrue. To the contrary, she is correctly observing
the convention of ignoring a parameter (in this case, the parameter of location) when
the communicative purpose is best served by so doing.
With rainbows, it’s a little different. One rainy-sunny day, Sally suggests that we
walk to the end of the rainbow, and it becomes clear that she means that we walk
until the multi-coloured light is playing over our feet. I need to disabuse her, explain
the relevant laws of physics, and so make clear that, while it may be harmless and
poetic to speak of the position of the rainbow in the sky, correct rainbow grammar
requires a 3-place relation—the rainbow looks to S to be at position P when viewed
from location L. Unlike in the ‘noon’ example, where most of us are aware of time
zones but happily ignore them when they are irrelevant, loose speak about rainbows
may perniciously entrench ignorance. The rainbow may seem to have a geographical
location independent of the observer, but things are often not as they seem.
How is it with colour? Since our conversations are rarely with non-humans, when
talking about the colour of something, we normally, and reasonably, do not bother
with the qualiﬁcation ‘to us humans’. And, under good conditions of viewing, we
normally avoid qualiﬁcations such as ‘from this angle’ and ‘under these lighting
conditions’. But, as in the case of the rainbow, the loose locutions we learn as children
and with which we persist in adulthood may blind us to the possibility that we have a
quite false picture of colour. Locke thought so. He wrote: ‘sensible qualities . . . are in
truth nothing in the objects themselves, but powers to produce various sensations in
us; and depend on those primary qualities, viz. bulk, ﬁgure, texture and motion of
parts as I have said’. (John Locke Essay II, viii)
A recent author defends a modiﬁed version of this view: ‘A tomato’s being, say,
red, in a scientiﬁc sense is being such as to cause in normal observers under normal
circumstances the response as of seeing phenomenal-red, experienced intentionally as a
Some Consequences of ‘Speaking Loosely’ 171
simple property of the surface of the tomato.’ (Miscevic 2011, emphasis in original).
Then what is it to say that something is red in the ordinary, non-scientiﬁc sense? Its
having a colour is the dispositional property (Locke’s ‘power’) of an object to cause
observers to see it as coloured—so it’s a response-dependent property. I may see a
certain object as red; a bird with tetrachromatic vision may see it as some other
colour; a ﬁsh as some other.14
But our naïve (human) concept of red is the concept of
a mind-independent objective non-dispositional property, so, on a Lockean view,
naïve observers are mistaken about what, metaphysically, they are seeing. Yet, if a
certain ripe tomato looks red to me and to all, or nearly all, other competent
observers, then it would be perverse to deny that the tomato is red. It is correct to
call it red just because it looks red to all, or nearly all, competent human observers,
and they call it red.
What then, of a shade of colour such that, if competent observers get to choose
whether to say it is orange or red (or whether it is more orange than red or more red
than orange) there is massive disagreement between them? Here we enter the
territory of the Sorites paradox. Imagine taking a large bunch of subjects on several
‘forced marches’ through a Sorites series of 1000 colour cards, the ﬁrst card clearly
red, the last clearly orange but such that each card is imperceptibly different, in
respect of colour, from its neighbour. A given subject, on one run of the experiment,
will, at at least one point, switch from a ‘red’ verdict on one card to an ‘orange’ on its
neighbour, even though, to the unaided eye, there is no perceptible difference
between the colours of the two cards when they are presented side-by-side. Subjects
are typically not consistent in their ‘cut-off ’ points from one experimental run to
another (Raffman 2013). This behaviour is scientiﬁcally interesting, but not philo-
sophically puzzling. What it amounts to is that we are causally inﬂuenced by
differences of which we are not conscious, and this is a well-known phenomenon.
Now, if two equally competent subjects cut off at different points along the series (or
one subject cuts off at different points on different runs of the experiment) with no
objective means of adjudicating, then, in this absence of inter-subjective agreement, it
is incorrect to say of shades of colour in the vicinity that they are red or that they are
orange, or that there is a sharp dividing line between the red and the orange shades.
The conditions that licensed us to say, albeit loosely, of some object ‘That is red’,
namely, almost complete community-wide agreement in judgment, do not prevail
here.
Let us consider a particularly simple version of the Sorites. We have one million
strips of paper, each ½ cm wide, the ﬁrst 1 cm long, and with each strip 1/1000 mm
14
This is the sort of consideration that inspires colour-relationism (Cohen 2009). Little is known of the
colour qualia of ﬁsh and birds. They may see colours that humans do not see. Beginning with Crane and
Piantanida (1983) there has arisen an interesting literature on the use of eye trackers to enable humans to
see novel or ‘forbidden’ colours.
172 Goldstein
longer than its predecessor, so the last strip is 11 cm long. The strips are made of the
same material, are of the same colour etc; they differ from each other only in length.
This is the whole of the ‘comparison class’ and a subject is asked to visually inspect
each strip in turn and to say whether it looks short or long for that class. (Note that
the subject is not being asked to guess, for each strip, whether it is shorter or longer
than average; the predicate ‘is shorter than 6 cm.’ does not generate a Sorites series.)
It is obvious not only that competent subjects will tend to differ in their ‘cut-off ’
points, but also that any given subject is likely to be inconsistent from one trial to the
next. And this is because human subjects are not biologically equipped to visually
discriminate a 1/1000 mm difference in the lengths of the dry goods they typically
encounter. Now, suppose the strips are laid, in order of length, one underneath the
other, resulting in an isosceles trapezoid 1 cm at the top, 11 cm at the bottom, 3 miles
long, with sides that appear to be straight. What cross-section correctly marks the
boundary between the short and the long strips?
The question is absurd. It presupposes that there is such a boundary. Yet suppose
that we ask the question of 1000 competent observers. Suppose all agree that the
boundary does not occur before the 480,000th strip down from the top. One observer
says that it occurs at the 480,001st strip. No observers say that it occurs at the
480,002nd, 480,003rd or 480,004th; 7 say that it occurs at the 480,006th, none that
it occurs at the 480,007th or 480,0008th, 7 that it occurs at the 480,009th . . . Are we to
say that the real boundary is at the earliest point? Hardly—only one observer says it is
there, the rest disagree. Are we to say that it is at strip number 480,006? No, because
an equal number of equally competent observers say that it is at strip number
480,009. As Haim Gaifman (2010: 7) has pointed out, there is a ‘recognition, shared
by competent speakers, that a certain divergence in usage is legitimate and to be
expected’ (emphasis in original). So when competent speakers differ as to whether a
particular strip is truly called ‘long’, a particular patch of colour truly called ‘red’, etc,
then the use of the term is irremediably inconsistent, hence the meaning is indeter-
minate, and hence there is no fact of the matter as to whether the object in question is
really long, really red, etc.
Each observer may have his or her own favoured boundary line, but it does not
follow that there is a boundary—the boundary—between the short and the long
strips. There is a transition between the strips up to #480,000, that everyone is calling
short, and the strips after (let’s suppose) #495,764, that everyone is calling long (even
though we’re not yet half way down the trapezoid!), but it is a boundaryless transition
(Sainsbury 1990). Consider two adjacent strips, numbered 487,638 and 487,639, that
roughly 46 per cent of the observer population call long, while 54 per cent call them
short. With such massive non-agreement among competent observers and no pos-
sible objective means of adjudicating, the statement ‘Strip #487,638 looks short to me’
may be true when made by a particular observer, but ‘Strip #487,638 is short
(simpliciter)’ is untenable loose speak; it is inapposite. (A particular metal has a
Some Consequences of ‘Speaking Loosely’ 173
certain atomic weight, but there is no such thing as the atomic weight of metal.) And
so the Soritical conditional, ‘If Strip #487,638 is short, then Strip #487,639 is short’ is
not false, but is inapposite. The Sorites reasoning—a long string of modus ponens
arguments—strays into the inapposite, but crosses no boundaries in doing so, just as
one might stray into a swamp without there being a sharp boundary between the ﬁrm
ground and the soggy.15
The Sorites is a fallacious argument because it contains some inapposite (not false)
premises. It is true that Strip #450,000 is short, for that is what we would express,
speaking non-loosely, as ‘Strip #450,000 is generally agreed by competent human
observers to be short’. But there is no general agreement about Strip #487,638, hence
it is not true that that strip is short; nor is it false because, for a vague predicate ‘V’, its
being false that some object is V is nothing more than there being general (perhaps
not universal) agreement among competent observers that the object in question is
not V. This is what Wittgenstein called ‘agreement in judgment’ (Wittgenstein 2009:
}} 241–2). Absent such general agreement and the conditions for the ascription of
truth or falsity do not prevail. These considerations, applied to the colour patch
version of the Sorites, provide independent evidence in favour of the neo-Lockean
theory of colour sketched at the beginning of this section. Its colour is not an
objective, mind-independent property of an object, but it is true to say that a certain
object has a particular colour C if there is general agreement in judging that object to
look C.
9.4. Sets, Laws, and Morality
The particular abstraction principle that makes naïve set theory naïve is an unre-
stricted axiom schema stating that, for every formula Fx in one free variable, there is a
set containing exactly each element j that makes ‘Fj’ true, that is,
ð∃yÞðxÞðx ∈ y $ FxÞ
where the variable y ranges over sets and ‘F’ holds the place for any one-place
predicate. The principle is intuitively plausible. The passenger on the Clapham
Omnibus would accuse you of nothing much worse than pedantry if you rephrased
‘Bradley Wiggins is rapid’ as ‘Bradley Wiggins is a member of the class of rapid
entities’. Yet, as Russell famously showed, there must be something wrong with the
principle, for if we substitute ‘is not a member of x’ for ‘F’, contradiction ensues. We
should like, therefore, to tamper as much as is necessary, but as little as possible, with
the axiom, in such a way that the Abstraction Intuition, as illustrated in examples
such as the Bradley Wiggins one, is still respected.
15
The swamp analogy for vague predicates is pursued by Wittgenstein (1975: 211).
174 Goldstein
Suppose we wish to deﬁne a set ˆ of Primes that are Greater than 17 and Less than
53. We can write this as {x: Px & Gx & Lx}, so (x)(x Îˆ $ Px & Gx & Lx). Thanks
to the Abstraction Axiom, this can be rephrased as (x)(x Îˆ $ x Î{Ps} & x Î{Gs} &
x Î{Ls}), where ‘Ps’ is ‘entities that are P’, etc. This is an entirely acceptable way of
deﬁning the set ˆ, and any set can be deﬁned along similar lines in every case where
the Abstraction Intuition can be relied on to deliver satisfactory re-phrasings, in
terms of set membership, on the right hand side of the major biconditional.
We have just deﬁned a set in terms of other sets. What we cannot do, on pain of
vicious circularity, is to deﬁne a set in terms of itself. For example, there is no set
of Ks deﬁned by (x)(x Î{Ks} $ x Î{Ks}) for this biconditional supplies no recipe for
determining, for any entity, whether or not it is a member. Thus, what is funda-
mentally wrong with the unrestricted Axiom of Abstraction schema is not that it is
leads to a contradiction but that it purports to be a recipe for deﬁning sets, for
translating property talk into set theoretic talk, yet certain instantiations are illicit
because circular. Of course, some instantiations are both circular and contradictory.
There is no set M such that (x)(x ÎM $ ~(x ÎM)). The restriction required is a ban
on any scope of the universal quantiﬁer in the axiom schema that is tautological or
contradictory in form. Think of the deﬁnition of a set as a function that takes all
possible values as input, and maps these to 1 or to 0 depending on whether an input
is or is not a member of the set. Then the ‘deﬁnitions’ of K and M are empty
functions, the ‘deﬁnition’ of the Russell set is a partial function, and ˆ is fully and
properly deﬁned.
In lieu of a consistent set of axioms for set theory, we are proposing a simple,
principled restriction on the naïve abstraction principle (∃y)(x)(x Î y $ Fx) so that
the recipe for determining whether any given object belongs in the set is non-
vacuous. In other words, in order to avoid tautological or contradictory conditions
on the formation of a set (which are not really conditions at all), we must forbid
substituends for x, y, and F in (xÎy$Fx) such that the result of any such substitution
is a tautology or a contradiction. This restriction does not appear to rule out anything
we wish to rule in. For example, we can deﬁne the empty set by
ð∃yÞðxÞðx ∈ y $ 0 ¼ 1Þ
No substitution instances of this are contradictory or tautological.
Algebraic proofs often start with a stipulation such as ‘Let x be . . . ’, and the proof
establishes the value(s) of x. But letting is not unrestricted. We cannot begin a proof
by ‘letting’ P be the largest prime number, or by ‘letting’ x and y be solutions to a pair
of simultaneous equations that have no solutions. And we cannot ‘let’ M be the set
such that (x)(x ÎM $ ~(x Î M)). Speaking loosely (and, in this case, incautiously)
we ‘let’ R be the set such that (x)(x ÎR $ ~(x Î x)). The proper course, of course, is
to speak non-loosely and insert a conditional clause: ‘Let R be the set, if there is one,
Some Consequences of ‘Speaking Loosely’ 175
such that (x)(x Î R $ ~(x Î x))’. It is an easy matter to prove that the italicized
antecedent is false. Similarly, in setting up the Liar Paradox, we should let ‘S’ be the
name of the statement, if there is indeed such a statement, yielded by the sentence ‘S is
not true’. This highlights the question, frequently neglected even in technically
elegant discussions of the Liar such as (Heck 2007), of the circumstances under
which a sentence, though grammatically and sortally in order, may fail to yield a
statement.16
The preceding discussion has sought to establish that many stipulations are
imperatives that are categorical in form when we are speaking loosely, but are
properly re-formulated as hypotheticals. Kant thought that there was a single
categorical imperative to which we are logically, or by natural law, bound to accede,
namely to ‘act only in accordance with that maxim through which you can at the
same time will that it become a universal law’ (Kant 2005: 81). He held that all
imperatives of duty can be deduced from this one, and gave some examples of
putative principles that failed the universalizability test. In disregard, or ignorance,
of Kant, many moral principles and divine commandments are framed as catego-
ricals, when a little reﬂection would reveal that, if they are to serve as serious guides
to correct moral behaviour, they need to be qualiﬁed and expressed as hypothe-
ticals. Consider, for example, the imperative ‘Thou shalt not kill’. What if your
opponent is trying to kill you? What if he’s a thoroughly bad person who has killed
many people or who will kill many unless he himself is killed? What if he’s on the
enemy side in a just war that you are ﬁghting? The imperative required is some-
thing like: ‘If your opponent is a decent and innocent individual, then thou shalt
not kill him or her’.
If the foregoing is correct, then a morality conceived as a catalogue of our
obligations to others in the actual, imperfect, world will be inadequate if it consists
only of simple, unqualiﬁed, categoricals. This might explain what makes many people
uneasy about ‘Political Correctness’. PC enjoins the observing of categorical prin-
ciples and refuses to countenance the hedging and nuancing that the antecedents
of hypotheticals make available. Wittgenstein was fond of the line from King Lear
‘I’ll teach you differences’, and what in legal practice is called ‘distinguishing’ is just
the practice of identifying differences, some extremely subtle, that seem morally to
require us to treat one case differently from another. Simple categoricals are too blunt
an instrument for a legal system that is sensitive and fair, which is why the laws of
England run to several volumes. Categorical commandments may seem to be
impressively clear guides to conduct, but their appealing simplicity and clarity are
bought at the cost of sensitivity and sophistication, and they can become tools of
16
For further discussion of illicit stipulation, see Goldstein (2013).
176 Goldstein
oppression, especially when the belief is put about that their divine author is
displeased by non-compliance; it can be even more dangerous when the speaker is
a skilful orator and the audience is poorly educated, uncritical and gullible, suscep-
tible to crude slogans, and not amenable to subtle distinctions, caveats, or carefully
crafted argument. Pernicious loose speech buttresses PC and all other forms of
fundamentalism.
Some Consequences of ‘Speaking Loosely’ 177
10
Context, Compositionality,
and Brevity*
FRANCIS JEFFRY PELLETIER
10.1. Brevity—why bother?
Intuitively, the title of this section offers two rather different questions: one is to
query why we should be brief in our speech and the other is to question whether it is
worthwhile (or even possible) to try to give an account of the fact that people exhibit
brevity in speech. The title, in fact, exhibits a kind of brevity in posing these two
different questions in just a few words. To answer the ﬁrst of the two questions about
this example of brevity, we might say such things as: we wanted to highlight the two
aspects but they wouldn’t both ﬁt as a section title, or that we wished to engage those
who are only interested in one aspect into a discussion of both questions, and so on.
In fact, perhaps we didn’t ourselves even notice, as we were composing the title, that
it had these two aspects. And so on.
The second question is the focus of the present book as a whole: it is presumed that
there are a number of different ways that brevity occurs in speech—for example, by
ellipsis, by appeal to common ground or social practice, by recognition of others’
communicative intentions, by forming joint communicative intentions, by accom-
modation, by uttering sub-sentential phrases, and by various other methods—and
the goal is both to characterize these methods clearly and to give a theoretical account
of how, despite the appearance that important information has been ‘left out’,
communication nonetheless can succeed.
Often when theorists are answering the second question, they implicitly (or
sometimes explicitly) also give an answer to the ﬁrst question. For example, it
might be said that fully to articulate all (or even some) of the common ground
* Thanks to Kent Bach, Laurence Goldstein, and Luisa Martí for comments on earlier versions of this
chapter.
would be immensely inefﬁcient—and indeed, might convey further information
which was not at all desired to be communicated by the very act of trying to explicitly
exhibit it. So, never to engage in any form of ellipsis or brevity would make speech
intolerably tedious. Never to engage in any form of ‘mind reading’ would be to place
oneself outside the social society of one’s interlocutors.
These sorts of reasons were parodied by Jonathan Swift:1
We next went to the School of Languages, where three Professors sat in Consultation upon
improving that of their own country.
The ﬁrst Project was to shorten Discourse by cutting Polysyllables into one, and leaving out Verbs
and Participles, because in reality all things imaginable are but Nouns.
The other, was a Scheme for entirely abolishing all Words whatsoever; and this was urged
as a great Advantage in Point of Health as well as Brevity. For it is plain, that every Word
we speak is in some Degree a Diminution of our Lungs by Corrosion, and consequently
contributes to the shortening of our Lives. An Expedient was therefore offered, that
since Words are only Names for Things, it would be more convenient for all Men to
carry about them, such Things as were necessary to express the particular Business they are
to discourse on . . .
Another great Advantage proposed by this Invention, was that it would serve as a Universal
Language to be understood in all civilized Nations, whose Goods and Utensils are generally of
the same kind, or nearly resembling, so that their Uses might easily be comprehended. And
thus Ambassadors would be qualiﬁed to treat with foreign Princes or Ministers of State to
whose Tongues they were utter Strangers.
On the opposite hand, considerations of compositionality have led some to ﬁnd
that brevity has its own shortcomings. If one intends to convey a message—say, the
message jimmy has just fallen into the well—one needs to produce enough
language so that the hearer understands. One cannot reasonably omit that part of the
language that corresponds with into the well, nor that with fallen, nor that with
Jimmy. One cannot even omit something corresponding to into, without the danger
that the hearer simply will reject the utterance as ungrammatical. (Of course, none of
this is to say that the linguistic representation of that message must contain a lexical
item for each part of that message: rather, it is that the message as a whole must be
conveyed. Some linguistic methods of expression—English, for example—may do it
with a word that corresponds to each part of the message.2
But other languages might
do it with a case marking, or with a position in a sentence, or with prosody, clitics,
particles, or with a variety of other linguistic methods.)
1
Gulliver’s Travels, Book III, Chapter V ‘The Author Permitted to See the Grand Academy of Lagado’,
midway through the chapter.
2
Not surprising, since this article is written in English, and so I have expressed the message in (small-
caps) English. But even if messages were written in neural-speak, then there might still be some language
that maps that onto a word-for-word transcription.
Context, Compositionality, and Brevity 179
So, it is obvious that the medium in which the desired message is going to be
encoded must contain sufﬁcient structure and content that the hearer can determine
the message. And the most straightforward way to do that is to encode the message in
a compositional manner. This claim—that the most straightforward way to linguis-
tically encode a message is to employ a compositional semantics—is an instance of
the so-called ‘Argument from Productivity’, which is one of the three considerations
that are used to support semantic compositionality.
The Argument from Productivity/Creativity: People can produce a sentence that they have
never heard, and know that it is not only a part of their language but also what it means, and
that it expresses what they are trying to communicate. The only explanation that has ever been
offered for this is that language is semantically compositional.
The Argument from Understandability: People can hear a sentence that is entirely new to them,
and as long as it contains words and syntactic structures that they are familiar with, they will
understand the message that the sentence conveys. The only explanation that has been offered
for this is that language is semantically compositional.
The Argument from Learnability: Children learn the meanings of an unbounded number of
sentences in a ﬁnite time. The only explanation that has been offered for this is that language is
semantically compositional.
Together these arguments might be called Arguments from the Inﬁnity of Language
(and the ﬁniteness of humans). They pose a challenge to show how an ‘unbounded’
ability can arise from ‘ﬁnite’ creatures. All make the claim that semantic composition-
ality provides a way; and that there is no other way known. Of course, this is an
argument to the best explanation, not a deductive argument; and so the conclusion
may be false. But the Arguments from the Inﬁnity of Language have been thought to be
quite persuasive, especially in the absence of any credible alternative mechanism.
10.2. Context and compositionality3
Context can, however, ease the restriction that the message must contain ‘full infor-
mation’. If, for example, participants in a conversation have become aware, for whatever
reason and in whatever way, that the topic of the conversation has been the old well in
the south 40, then saying ‘Jimmy has just fallen into it’ would do the trick. Similarly—
mutatis mutandis—were the topic of the context to be Jimmy, then saying, ‘Just fell into
3
I take for granted here—what is a dubious assumption—that we are all on the same page when it
comes to the notions of ‘context’ and ‘compositionality’. I will be a bit more deﬁnite later about the notions,
but one should consult some standard works to see the range of interpretations these notions have given
rise to. One can consult many of the articles in Werning et al. (2012), such as Recanati (2012); Pelletier
(2012); Westerståhl (2012) for discussions of context and compositionally. On the topic of context in
particular, see Recanati (2004). One can also ﬁnd an annotated bibliography of 150 works on composition-
ality in Pelletier (2011).
180 Pelletier
the well’ would carry the desired information. And a variety of other contextual features
could allow the message to be made briefer in a number of other ways. I intend to
discuss a certain class of these contextual features to see whether, and if so, how, they
can be compatible with compositionality. For after all, communication takes place in a
context, and we have already indicated that there is no known mechanism other than
compositionality that allows for successful communication that obeys the dictates of the
Arguments from the Inﬁnity of Language. So it seems that there must be a way to make
contextual features compatible with compositionality.
10.2.1. There are contexts, and then there are contexts
The literature makes a major divide between two different types of context to be
considered in evaluating some piece of communication: the ‘linguistic context’ and
the ‘situational context’. As the names suggest, the difference depends on whether the
context is given by means of words/sentences (in the preceding or nearby vicinity) or
if it is the non-linguistic setting of the communication. The difference is clear in
paradigmatic cases, but cases can blend into one another.
While admitting that the distinction between the two types of context can be
blurry, we might still focus on clear examples of linguistic vs. situational cases. On the
linguistic side, we see cases where certain types of ‘expectations’ are developed by (for
example) explicit assertions to the effect that utterances in the immediate future of
the conversation should be interpreted in a certain way. For example,
(10.1) Ok, we’re done talking about non-poisonous snakes; we now move on to the
poisonous snakes. The Australian ones are particularly notable.
In this discourse, the interpretation of ones is determined by the preceding sentence,
and must mean poisonous snakes.4
Generally speaking, this way of looking at context
as being set linguistically suggests that a discourse starts out with some presumed-by-
the-conversational-participants background ‘model’ and then updates the model
with new information in a sentence-by-sentence manner. Each new sentence is
evaluated for truth in terms of the model as thus far developed, and in turn, the
sentence also updates the model further. Even though the details of how this
evaluation-and-update model works are rather mysterious, I shall employ it in an
impressionistic way, so as to show how I see the way compositionality and context
can interact. The details are important, but I also believe their ﬁnal analysis will not
change the general thrust of what I say. (The interested reader might consult Eijck
and Visser (2010), as well as the works inspired by Robert Stalnaker’s publications, as
4
And before one starts thinking, ‘No, no: we don’t need any fancy interpretation-in-a-model, all we
need is to expand the notion of anaphora so that it can cross sentence boundaries’, note that the same
principle holds were the ﬁnal sentence ‘The Australians are particularly notable’. In such a continuation we
still need to interpret ‘Australians’ as Australian snakes.
Context, Compositionality, and Brevity 181
reprinted in Stalnaker (1999) and also Isard (1974), Lewis (1979), Stucky (1989), and
many of the contributors to Akman et al. (2001)).5
Yet a different aspect of the effect of context on interpretation occurs when the
non-linguistic context ﬁxes or alters the meaning of terms and larger pieces of
discourse. Of course, the presence of salient entities (and perhaps their gender) in a
physical situation where a sentence with a pronoun is being uttered can (help to) ﬁx
the referent of the pronoun. Similar considerations work also for (‘incomplete’)
deﬁnite descriptions, such as ‘The man’, whose identity in a context may be deter-
mined by there being only one salient adult male.
Slightly further away from this sort of assignment-by-salience are such very
ordinary cases as (from Rumelhart 1979: 78):
(10.2) The policeman stopped the car.
which, depending on a variety of features of a context, might mean that the
policeman ordered the driver to stop the car and succeeded, or might mean that
the policeman was the driver and he pushed on the brake pedal, or might mean
that the policeman set up a physical roadblock that forced the car to crash, or might
mean that the policeman was in fact Superman and stopped the car by lifting it off the
ground, etc. According to some, these are in fact different ‘occasion’ meanings of (10.2).
Yet further away are examples of the sort favoured by Charles Travis (1996; 1997),
where the occupations and interests of the speakers play an important role in
determining the truth-value of sentences such as:
(10.3) These leaves are green.
which, when said of painted leaves might be thought true by painters or crime-scene
investigators, but false by botanists, for example. In general, it is thought, the physical
aspects of a context-of-utterance, the identities/occupations/etc of the conversational
participants, and numerous other factors, can and do play roles in determining the
meanings of words/phrases/sentences that are uttered in those contexts.
10.2.2. Speaker meaning and cccasion meaning
‘Speaker meaning’ centrally includes the idea that the speaker intends that the hearer
will come to have a belief (or other response), and will do so on the basis of the
hearer’s recognition that the speaker wanted him to respond in that way. Put this
5
One special case of linguistic context occurs when some part of the sentence currently being evaluated
by means of some already-established model itself updates the model in such a way as to affect the further
evaluation of the rest of the sentence. While many such cases can be naturally handled by the general
method suggested above, there are a number of recalcitrant instances that have been seen as challenges to
the compositionality methodology. (Some of these are outlined in Pelletier (1994); a particularly nice
example derives from Higginbotham (1986)). As interesting as these are, we will not pause over them in this
chapter.
182 Pelletier
way, a speaker can employ aspects of the situation in which he is making his
utterance in order to get the hearer to have the right response (for the right reasons).
In the current discussion, this means that there are two rather different concep-
tions of ‘meaning in context’, both of which could be (and have been) called ‘occasion
meaning’. One conception—the one that I have implicitly been suggesting—is where
the situational features themselves induce an alteration from the literal meaning. But
the other conception is equally plausible: that the speaker is employing these situ-
ational features in constructing his speaker meaning. (See Bach 2012, 2013, for a
defence of this as the ‘real’ notion of occasion meaning). We might call these two
senses the ‘objective’ sense of occasion meaning versus the ‘intentional sense’ of
occasion meaning, respectively.
I am going to indifferently call both of these notions ‘occasion meaning’, even
though in both the metaphysics of the two theories and in their views about where to
look for meanings, the two are really quite different. I justify my indifference between
the two conceptions by thinking of occasion meaning in the objective sense as what is
common to all, or most, or the typical, or the ordinary occasions in which a speaker
is employing features of the context in the intentional sense of occasion meaning.
That is, the objective sense is what a reasonable speaker should expect a reasonable
hearer to be able to ﬁgure out was the speaker’s meaning in that situation.
10.2.3. Semantic compositionality
Semantic compositionality is the principle that the meaning of a whole depends on
the meanings of its parts and the way the parts are combined. This is a pretty vapid
statement unless one sharpens various concepts used in this statement of the
principle. By ‘whole’ is normally meant some syntactically complex item of language;
by ‘its parts’ is meant the syntactic parts of this whole; and by ‘way combined’ is meant
the syntactic manners of combination.6
A crucial notion in the principle is ‘depends
on’. This has been given many interpretations but we will understand it as implying ‘is
a function of’ (in the mathematical sense). Thus the principle becomes:
The meaning of a syntactically complex item is a function (in the mathematical sense) of the
meanings of its syntactic parts and the semantic effect of the syntactic manner in which these
parts are combined.
It should be noted that employing the concept of a function here entails that the
meanings of complexes may contain ‘items’ and ‘information’ that are not found in
their syntactic parts; for a function can introduce ‘new material’ into the meaning of
6
The ‘and the way they are combined’ condition is what allows us to distinguish the meanings of
Democrats distrust Republicans and Republicans distrust Democrats, for example, even though they are
both ‘made up of the same parts’.
Context, Compositionality, and Brevity 183
the complex, so long as it does this uniformly whenever the sub-expressions are of
the same syntactic types.
Of course, this has not explained what is intended by ‘meaning’ in the statement of
the principle, and because of the goals to be described below, I will not further deﬁne
the notion at this time. Eventually, I want to include some of the more common
notions of meaning in the literature, and show how they can be given a compositional
treatment. In doing this we will describe two more-or-less standard areas where
‘meaning’ is used, showing their relevant differences that transcend whatever notion
of meaning is being employed.
These two more-or-less standard areas are generated by a distinction between
what are called ‘literal meaning’ and ‘occasion meaning’.7
The intuitive idea is that
literal meaning encodes what words and syntactic constructions contribute merely as
their role in the language, whereas occasion meaning reﬂects what the words and
constructions have evolved to contribute in the course of a conversation that takes
place in a certain situation. In the framework cited earlier, where a discourse is
envisaged as a series of updates to a starting context, the literal/occasion distinction
can be seen as the difference between a starting context and any of the further
contexts. Of course, in the usual case the starting context does contain special infor-
mation: the participants can detect their physical surroundings, they know at least
visual information about their interlocutors, and so on. Thus there is no truly ‘neutral
context’. But as an idealization, if the initial context contains no special information
we might say that the language used employs the literal meaning. Or, one may try to
deﬁne the ‘neutral context’ as what is common to the initial contexts of all conversa-
tional situations. We will not pause over the exact account of such a notion, since the
distinction as we will employ it will always be clear.
The general question under consideration is whether compositionality can be
maintained even in the face of occasion meaning. But there are a number of different
types of objections to this claim, and it is worthwhile to ﬁrst discuss some of the more
general sorts before moving on to what I think has often been ignored about literal
and occasion meanings.
10.2.4. Some anti-compositionality-of-context claims (and what’s wrong with them)
10.2.4.1. Generality One very general objection to semantic compositionality occurs
when a context can ‘change the meaning’ of a term. For example, ‘red’ is said to change
its meaning depending on whether the context is about hair, wine, fruit (and even
species of fruit), automobiles, blood, etc. Thus the colour being described in ‘red apple’,
‘red wine’, ‘red hair’, ‘red watermelon’, ‘red skin’, ‘red blood’, etc, differs. And if
one thinks of the meaning of ‘red’ in terms of its ‘recognition features’ then the
7
Recall that I use this term in my ‘indifferent’ way.
184 Pelletier
meaning of ‘red’ has changed between different contexts and is thus a violation of
compositionality.8
John Searle (1980: 223) says much the same about ‘cut’ (cut the lawn versus cut the
cake), saying ‘that word [‘cut’] is interpreted differently in each sentence.’ Recanati
(2012: 177) remarks that the same is true of ‘likes’:
He likes my sister. He likes roasted pork. . . . The ﬁrst sentence talks about ‘affective’ liking and
the second about ‘culinary’ liking. There is as much difference between the two kinds of state as
there is between the processes of cutting involving grass and cakes.
And L. Jonathan Cohen (1986: 228) says:
Most students here drop geography in their ﬁnal year. Most students here drop geography
lectures in their ﬁnal year. Most students here drop geography lectures reading assignments in
their ﬁnal year. Most students here drop geography lectures reading assignments library-fees in
their ﬁnal year . . . [T]here seems no predictable end to the variety of expressions that we can
put meaningfully after ‘drop’, so as to impose a series of different meanings on the latter word.
Taking this line of thought seriously, Renate Bartsch (1994) denies that there is any
literal meaning at all, matched by similar argumentation and conclusions in Charles
Travis (1996, 1997).
It often seems to me that such critics of literal meaning are off the mark. For one
thing, it has yet to be shown that a meaning of a word or phrase or sentence (whether
literal or occasion meaning) is not best represented as a set of more speciﬁc or
particular meanings. If anti-compositionality-of-context is just the claim that differ-
ent contexts yield different meanings to the same syntactic item, then why not just
make the literal meaning be the set of all these speciﬁc-to-the-context meanings?
Furthermore, if ‘cut’ really changed its meaning between a context where we were
discussing grass mowing and one where we were discussing dessert serving etiquette,
then it ought to be impossible to order someone, in the former context, to cut the
lawn with a knife. But this is quite obviously possible; and according to classic movies
concerning US Marines boot camps, one can clean bathroom ﬂoors with a tooth-
brush. The fact that a method is not standard in a given context does in no way
curtail its being permissible in that context; and as a corollary, does in no way prevent
it from being an aspect of the literal meaning of the word/phrase/sentence.
One is in fact quite tempted to claim that these critics simply don’t understand
what generality is. If I say, ‘John is meeting somebody on Wednesday’, I have not
meant anything about the gender of the referent of ‘somebody’. And that remains
true even if I knew that it was a woman he is meeting; for, information about this is
8
One can also make this be a case of an intra-sentential context shift, since the truth-conditions of the
colour attribution ‘obviously’ depend on the noun being modiﬁed. And since the noun is not a syntactic
subpart of the adjective, this becomes a violation of compositionality even within one sentence. But I said
earlier that I would not consider these sorts of intra-sentential contexts.
Context, Compositionality, and Brevity 185
not at all anything I meant by uttering the sentence. The word ‘somebody’ is simply
general about (or, if you prefer, unspeciﬁed for) gender. It would be totally silly and
absurd to insist that the context must somehow generate the meaning woman out of
the utterance of ‘somebody’, regardless of whether or not I have that information
myself.
Of course, sometimes the speaker does want the hearer to infer that the ‘someone’
is a woman. And there can sometimes be situational features that make it possible for
any ordinary speaker to believe that an ordinary hearer will be able to infer that he
(the speaker) is trying to convey this information. But it is important to note that the
mere desire on the part of the speaker that this should happen is not sufﬁcient for it
to be part of the speaker meaning (and hence not a part of the occasion meaning in
either the objective or the intentional sense). Not all desires that a hearer should
come to believe something are intentions of the relevant type. For, there just are
certain intentions that a speaker just can’t have: it is not possible to have an intention
that you know cannot be fulﬁlled. Nor even one for which you ﬁrmly believe that
there is no reason whatsoever to think that it will be fulﬁlled. Nor is it coherent for
you to have an intention that someone else should do something that you know to be
impossible for them to do.
If these are not possible intentions for you to have, then you can not have the
intention that your hearer should believe that the person being met was female by
virtue of the listener recognizing your intention, if all the evidence your hearer has is
that you say, ‘John is meeting somebody . . . ’. And from hearing that alone, it is not
possible for your hearer to recognize your so-called intention that they come to
believe that the person being met is female (just on the basis of hearing those words).
But surely you know this. And therefore your alleged ‘intention’ in fact was not really
an intention at all. And hence is not your speaker meaning either. So it can’t be the
occasion meaning—unless the situation already had other features, such as that
perhaps the conversation was already about the various women in John’s life.
Perhaps then it is possible that you could intend the hearer to infer that the
‘somebody’ was female. But then, that doesn’t challenge compositionality. So none
of that is germane to the meaning, on that occasion, by that utterance. Nor of course
is it relevant to the literal meaning of the sentence and the word ‘somebody’.
As I said above, it seems that some people just don’t know what generality is!
And now: is there any reason whatsoever to think that the case with ‘cut’ or ‘like’ or
‘red’ is different in any way at all from the case of gender? I think not. None of these is
a challenge for compositionality. They only gain any traction by insisting that
meaning is totally speciﬁc and never general.9
9
The consideration of generality discussed in this section does not, of course, touch on the Travis
examples in which it is the occupation of the conversationalists that affects the truth value of the utterance.
Under the heading of ‘pragmatic groundedness’ I later intend to deal with such cases.
186 Pelletier
10.2.4.2. ‘Good’, ‘large’, ‘small’, and the like Another set of anti-compositionality
considerations comes from the existence of ‘relative adjectives’ whose scale appar-
ently depends on the noun being modiﬁed. The classic examples involve ‘large’ and
‘small’, although as long ago as Aristotle philosophers discussed ‘good’ and ‘healthy’
in much the same way.
(10.4) Mickey is a big mouse; All mice are animals; but Mickey is not a big animal.
(10.5) Sarah is a bad violinist; All violinists are people; but Sarah is not a bad person.
A tradition in formal semantics, probably starting with Terence Parsons (1968, 1970)
and Romane Clark (1970), and gaining wide acceptance by way of Kamp (1975)
together with some of the suggestions in Montague (1970), is to treat these kinds of
adjectives as somehow ‘dependent upon the noun being modiﬁed’. For example, the
adjective ‘big’ might have a variable in its meaning that takes the noun being
modiﬁed and produces a complex meaning:
(10.6) big ) ºX ºx[X(x) ∧ (big for an X)(x)]10
One could apply the suggestion to other terms, for instance to verbs like ‘cut’ that
depend for a meaning given by the direct object:
(10.7) cut ) ºX ºxºy[X(y) ∧ (cut in the manner of X)(x, y)]
In these cases the Xs get ﬁlled in by the (meanings of the) relevant nouns (e.g.,
‘mouse’, ‘elephant’, for ‘big’; and ‘grass’, ‘cake’ for ‘cut’). Once one sees how to do this
in the simple cases, it becomes tempting to do it for every adjective—saying in effect
that no adjective corresponds to an independent set of objects to which it ‘applies in
the abstract’, but rather it is always dependent for a noun to pick out some set of
things and then for the adjective to narrow down that set in the appropriate way. You
ﬁrst pick out the set of mice, then you ﬁnd the big ones of them; you ﬁrst pick out the
set of animals, then you ﬁnd the big ones of them. You ﬁrst pick out the set of
violinists, then you ﬁnd the bad ones of them. Even with colour terms: You ﬁrst pick
out the set of apples, then you ﬁnd the red ones of them; you ﬁrst pick out the set of
(human) hairs, then you ﬁnd the red ones of them.
In the case of transitive verbs, you ﬁrst pick out the object-kind under consider-
ation: perhaps Grass. Then you look at the activities of cutting it. Or, you pick out
the object-kind, Cake, and then you look at the activity of cutting it. Just as with
the adjectives, where there is no presumption that the large mice will be cases of
large animals, with verbs there is no presumption that the cuttings-of-grass will be
cases of cuttings-of-cake. (And even if all grass is foliage, it doesn’t follow that all
10
Put this way for illustration only. A term like ‘big’ cannot be deﬁned by ‘big for an X’, on pain of
circularity. Rather, the interpretation is to pick out a subset of the Xs that are independently given as the
relevant ones. Thanks to Kent Bach for insisting on this point.
Context, Compositionality, and Brevity 187
cuttings of grass are cuttings of foliage.) Just as there is nothing that corresponds to
the adjective ‘large’ without the intervention of some noun being modiﬁed,11
so too
there is nothing that corresponds to the verb ‘cut’ without the intervention of some
object.
Once one sees the meaning of adjectives and verbs in this manner, the anti-
compositional force of these types of examples loses its strength. The ‘generality’
considerations of the preceding subsection and the ‘complex modiﬁcation’ consid-
erations of the present discussion are each aimed at the same targets, and it might
seem that we need not have both sets of considerations in order to defend
compositionality in the face of these examples. My own view is that the generality
considerations work best in defending against some of the examples (eg, the Searle
‘cut’-style cases) whereas the modiﬁcation considerations work best in defending
against the adjectival examples like ‘red’. But my goal here is only to show that the
case against compositionality that is brought up by such examples is not so clear-
cut as some scholars have thought. We will consider the role of context more in the
next few sections.
I should also remark here that, as noted already by Recanati (2012), the idea of
allowing the context to develop the appropriate occasion meaning for the relevant
nouns ﬁrst, and then to apply the big, good, short, etc, adjectives to the occasion
meaning of the right noun, neatly avoids an objection raised by Irene Heim and
Angelika Kratzer (1998) and also an earlier one of Searle’s (1980).
Imagine we had ﬁrst introduced a scenario populated with an army of monsters like King
Kong. We might then have said something like ‘Jumbo doesn’t have a chance; he’s only a small
elephant’, and this could have been true even if Jumbo were as large or even larger than most
other elephants (Heim and Kratzer 1998: 71).
It is easy to imagine circumstances in which ‘cut’ in ‘cut the grass’ would have the same
interpretation it has in ‘cut the cake’, even though none of the semantic contents of the words
has changed. Suppose you and I run a sod farm where we sell strips of grass turf to people who
want a lawn in a hurry. . . . Suppose I say to you, ‘Cut half an acre of grass for this customer’;
I might mean not that you should mow it, but that you should slice it into strips as you could
cut a cake or a loaf of bread (Searle 1980: 224–5).
The idea here is that a small elephant is not necessarily an elephant that is small for
an elephant. In this example, it is supposed to be small-for-a-monster, as given by the
context. And ‘cut the grass’ does not mean cut in the manner of grass-cutting but
rather some other manner given by the context.
11
Well, maybe the union of all of the large Xs, for every noun X? But then things would fall into both the
extension of ‘large’ and of ‘small’. Probably also into ‘not-large’, under plausible assumptions concerning
the relation of ‘small’ and ‘not-large’.
188 Pelletier
10.3. Pro-compositionality-and-context suggestions
Some contextualist objections to compositionality seem to operate by deliberately
confusing the standard and occasion meanings. Consider, for example, the claim that
the meaning of:
(10.8) That new prospect is very big
can’t be compositionally derived from that of its parts because we ﬁrst need to know
what ‘category’ the new prospect is in. Is the prospect a basketball draftee? Or may be
a business opportunity? Or some other thing? . . . Without that information, we
cannot compute the meaning of (10.8).
And it is not just the individual words which get their meaning assigned by
context, but even the semantic effect of certain syntactic constructions gets assigned
by context. Consider, for example, non-restrictive relative clauses:
(10.9) Sandy, whose paper was rejected by Linguistics and Philosophy, began to rant.
In some contexts—perhaps the most normal ones—the semantic effect of this
non-restrictive relative clause is because. But other times—again, depending on
context—it can have the semantic effect of despite or and or although, among
yet further things.
Note, however, that these various meanings—the basketball player or vs.
business deal; the because or vs. despite, etc—are all involved with describing the
occasion meanings of the sentence. But: if you consider the occasion meaning of
the entire sentence, then compositionality merely says that it can be described by the
occasion meanings of its parts and the occasion semantic effect of the ways those parts
were syntactically combined . . . and these meanings arguably do have the relevant
information about what ‘category’ the new prospect is in. On the other hand, if you
consider the literal meaning of the entire sentence, then compositionality claims merely
that it can be described by the literal meanings of its parts and the literal semantic effect
of the way those parts were syntactically combined—but naturally, you won’t know
what ‘category’ the new prospect is in, since that’s not a part of the literal meaning, but
only of the occasion meanings. The only difﬁculty for compositionality comes when
one tries to generate occasion meanings of wholes out of the literal meanings of parts.
(Or vice versa, but nobody tries to do that [do they??]). Certainly no one ought to
expect a semantic theory to compute this without even a statement of what the context
is. And if we are supplied with a statement of what the context is, so that we have a way
to characterize how it affects the literal meanings of words and the literal semantic
effect of syntactic operations so as to produce the occasion meanings of these words
and operations, then we might indeed ﬁnd ourselves in a position to give a compos-
itional semantic account of occasion meaning from the literal meaning. It is that
possibility which we will now explore.
Context, Compositionality, and Brevity 189
As it affects the examples of this section, the idea is this: the theory of context takes
as input the literal meanings of the atoms of the language (for practical purposes, let
us just say the words and not worry about morphosyntax) and the literal semantic
effects of the various syntactic constructions, and for each speciﬁc context (that is,
each updated model that is generated in the sentence-by-sentence processing of a
discourse, in the picture developed earlier) yields as output what is the occasion
meaning of that word or construction in that model. (It is certainly possible that an
update to a model will not effect a change to some or most words/constructions, and
they will retain their occasion meaning from preceding models; and this may extend
all the way to the ﬁrst, so-called neutral model, which comprises just the literal
meanings of the words/constructions.) The compositional machinery uses the occa-
sion meanings thus supplied to compute the occasion meaning of the sentence under
consideration. In the case of (10.8) we have:
(10.10) A previous model has identiﬁed the referent of that as bd, and has settled
that the meaning of prospect is business-deal. The computational machin-
ery then computes: new-for-a-business-deal (bd) ∧ big-for-a-busi-
ness-deal (bd)
This is the strategy pursued in (Recanati 2012: 188–90), and to some extent in this
present chapter.12
(Differences will emerge later). Recanati postulates that there is a
function which will take a context and return a modulation function, mod, that in
turn will use an interpretation function to generate the occasion meanings of each
term in the sentence as spoken in that context. And since a complex expression might
itself be a part of a more encompassing complex expression, both of which need to
have this mechanism operate on them, Recanati wants to employ some recursive
mechanism that uses the modulations and interpretations of sub-expressions to
generate them for the encompassing ones. He refers approvingly to the method of
Pagin and Pelletier (2007: esp 46–50) for this generalization. Further discussion of
Recanati’s notions of context and compositionality follows below in the next Section.
10.4. More on contexts
10.4.1. Recanati on contextual compositionality
Recanati (2004) distinguished two types of contextual processes: Saturation and
Modulation. Saturation is the process by which indexicals and any ‘free variables in
logical form’ are assigned a contextual value; Modulation is the set of processes
whereby the meaning of an expression is changed into some other meaning by a
‘pragmatic function’. There are sub-types of modulation, of which Recanati talks
12
Recanati refers to Sag (1981) as initiating the formalization of this sort of approach.
190 Pelletier
especially about metaphoric interpretation, metonymic interpretation, and free enrich-
ment. (Metaphor and metonymy are fairly standard operations in the rhetoric
literature; by ‘free enrichment’ Recanati means methods which map the meaning
of an expression onto some more speciﬁc meaning.)
While ‘everyone’ is happy to allow for Saturation by context (to give content to
indexicals), Recanati wants to allow Modulation also to work freely to give occasion
meaning to any expression at all. And in his (2012), Recanati raises the question of
whether this can be done in a compositional manner.
Of course, it is no longer the standing meaning that we are interested in, and which
compositionality was initially developed to describe. It is instead the occasion
meaning. Recanati’s (2012) view is that we can allow semantic compositionality
into pragmatics by this ploy: ‘ . . . the contextualist [holds that] we should do our
best to account for the intuitive truth- and satisfaction-conditions of utterances, and
to that effect we may have to liberalize the notion of meaning/content to the point of
blurring the semantics/pragmatics distinction.’ (2012: 188).13
In Recanati’s view, the occasion meaning of a whole is a function of the modulated
meanings of its parts and the manner in which they are combined, much as I had
suggested above where I had ‘occasion’ in place of ‘modulated’. To compute occasion
meaning, Recanati introduces ‘a function mod, taking as argument an expression e
and the context c in which it occurs: the value of mod is the particular modulation
function g that is contextually salient/relevant/appropriate for the interpretation of
that expression in that context.’ (2012: 188)
This is added to the ‘standing interpretation function’, [[ç]]c that yields ç’s
standing meaning in context c (the content of ç after saturation of the indexical
elements of ç). So: the relevant occasion-meaning-in-context-c of a lexical item e is
described as:
(10.11) mod(e, c)([[e]]c)
That is, the mod-function associated with e in c applied to the content of e in c (which
in turn is the saturation of e by c).
For the syntactic complexity rules we get:
(10.12) [
[ç * c]
]c = f(mod(ç, c1
)([[ç]
]c1), mod(c, c2
)([[c]
]c2))
where c1
and c2
are ‘the relevant sub-contexts’ of context c. If we specify that mod(ç,
c1
) is g1 and mod(c, c2
) is g2, then this becomes:
(10.13) f(g1([[ç]
]c1), g2([[c]]c2))
13
This seems to follow the various positions that identify meaning with use, such as (Quine 1987: 211):
‘The separation between semantics and pragmatics is a pernicious error.’
Context, Compositionality, and Brevity 191
(Recanati (2012: 183 n 4) allows that some syntactic rules might also be modulated,
but as I said before, he doesn’t follow this up.) Literal/standing meaning—which
occurs in a ‘neutral’ context—is the identity mod-function.
Note that Recanati thinks that mod is itself functional: the mod of larger syntactic
units within an utterance is a function of the mods of the simplest parts, the words.
So, the occasion meaning of The big prospect is some function of the occasion
meanings of The, big, and prospect. There is no new information added by context
that would further inﬂuence the occasion meaning of the entire NP.
10.4.2. What should we say about Recanati’s picture?
One thing is: mod is pretty magical!!
It takes any word (also, at least in theory, it takes any syntactic operation) in any
context and returns a function that tells you how to alter the standing meaning of that
word (or operation) in that context to give the occasion meaning (in that context). Not
only is it super powerful that way, but also: it’s a function—Any time you give it the
same word in the same context, it will feed back the very same function.
To do this involves individuating contexts very ﬁnely however, since anything that
might ever be relevant to altering the standing meaning of some context would have
to be used to individuate all contexts. Winks of the eye, for example. Smiles rather
than frowns. Being a habitual jokester. Kicks under the table. Being from Canada.
So, I think we cannot really maintain Recanati’s picture. It’s tempting to say that
the ‘magical nature’ of mod detracts from, or maybe even eliminates, the entire
reason that one wants to maintain compositionality in the ﬁrst place – the Argu-
ments from the Inﬁnity of Language. Recanati’s domain of contexts (which is the
basis of mod) simply is not ﬁnite in the way that the lexicon and syntactic-semantic
rules are ﬁnite in number.14, 15
10.4.3. A slightly different picture
In the past (e.g., Pelletier 1994) I have argued that compositionality is false in the
classic form in which it is stated. But I’m not going to rehearse that now. Instead,
I merely want to present the different picture (which I call semantic groundedness)
that I prefer to semantic compositionality, and argue that some version of it ought to
replace Renanati’s attempt to use compositionality for pragmatic or occasion
meaning.
14
Recanati (2012: 190–1) claims that the domain of contexts is ‘always ﬁnite’. Perhaps this is true for any
speciﬁc context, but his general mechanism would seem to require that the entire realm of all domains should
be ﬁnite. And this seems questionable to me. More discussion about this point is further in footnote 16.
15
In discussing this issue in his review of (Recanati 2010)—where the same claims are made—Bach
(2011: 7) judges that Recanati’s pragmatic modulation ‘does not suggest anything in the way of a procedure
for determining what these functions are in any particular case. . . . It is hard to see how this isn’t
tantamount to giving up even a weak form of compositionality.’
192 Pelletier
As a starting point, let us note that compositionality is closely related to recursive
deﬁnitions:
çðnÞ ¼df a; b; c : : : ; if n ¼ 0; 1; 2; : : : ½basis clause
¼df cðçðn  1ÞÞ otherwise ½inductive clause
For example, the usual deﬁnition of the factorial function follows this
characterization:
n! ¼df 1; if n ¼ 0
¼df n*ðn  1Þ! otherwise
Similarly with the case of ‘complete induction’, where we have:
çðnÞ ¼df a; b; c : : : ; if n ¼ 0; 1; 2; : : : ½basis clause
¼ cðçðxÞ; çðyÞ; : : : Þ; otherwise; ðx; y; : : : <nÞ ½inductiveclause
For example, the usual deﬁnition of a formula follows this characterization (I use the
inductive clause only for !):
ç is a formula, if ç is atomic
(ç ! c) is a formula, if ç and c are formulae
When people think of compositionality they tend to think of a complicated version of
inductive recursion, in either its composition mode or its decomposition mode.
Inductive recursion:
[composition mode] Start with some base case and continue to apply the rule/
function to newly-created values.
[decomposition mode] Start with some complex item and continuously decompose
it until you reach the basis case.
Note that in applying this recursive function in decomposition mode to any
complex item, determining its value involves determining values of items strictly
smaller. And that is the fundamental intuition behind semantic compositionality.
10.4.4. Semantic groundedness
But what’s wrong with doing it like this instead?
Call a function General Recursive (as opposed to inductively recursive) if every
evaluation of an argument that the function is applied to eventually or ultimately
reaches a basis case. Note that in this characterization it is not the case that each
argument of the function is evaluated by applying the function to ‘smaller’ values of
the argument. The value of some function f need not apply to the immediately
smaller value, nor indeed to any smaller value. For example, f (n) might require the
evaluation of f (m), where m =2n, and in turn, this itself requires the evaluation of f (j),
Context, Compositionality, and Brevity 193
where j = m/8, and so on. The only requirement is that the evaluation always
terminate in some basis case.
For example, consider two ways of deﬁning a truth assignment, f *, to sentences of
propositional logic. In both ways we are given an assignment of truth values to the
atomic sentences, f, and we extend this. Extending it in an inductive recursive
(‘compositional’) way goes as follows:
f *ðpÞ ¼ f ðpÞ if p is atomic
f *ð
¥
çÞ ¼ 1 if f *ðçÞ ¼ 0
¼ 0 if f *ðçÞ ¼ 1
f *ððç ! cÞÞ ¼ 1 if f *ðçÞ ¼ 0 or f *ðcÞ ¼ 1
¼ 0 if both f *ðçÞ ¼ 1 and f *ðcÞ ¼ 0
f *ððç∧cÞÞ ¼ 1 if f *ðçÞ ¼ 1 and f *ðcÞ ¼ 1
¼ 0 if either f *ðçÞ ¼ 0 or f *ðcÞ ¼ 0
f *ððç $ cÞÞ ¼ 1 if f *ðçÞ ¼ f *ðcÞ
¼ 0 if f *ðçÞ 6¼ f *ðcÞ
But this is not the only way to deﬁne f ∗
. Here’s a general recursive (‘non-compos-
itional’) way:
f *ðpÞ ¼ f ðpÞ if p is atomic
f *ð
¥
çÞ ¼ 1 if f *ðçÞ ¼ 0
¼ 0 if f *ðçÞ ¼ 1
f *ððç ! cÞÞ ¼ 1 if f *ðçÞ ¼ 0 or f *ðcÞ ¼ 1
¼ 0 if both f *ðçÞ ¼ 1 and f *ðcÞ ¼ 0
f *ððç∧cÞÞ ¼ 1 if f *ðçÞ ¼ 1 and f *ðcÞ ¼ 1
¼ 0 if either f *ðçÞ ¼ 0 or f *ðcÞ ¼ 0
f *ððç $ cÞÞ ¼ f *ððç ! cÞ∧ðc ! fÞÞ
Even though the way f * is deﬁned for the (f $ c) case does not appeal to the
subparts of that formula, we know that it will always terminate. So, as deﬁned here, f *
is a general recursive function.
Note that the inductively recursive functions are a subset of the general recursive
ones. Note also that the general recursive functions that are not inductively recursive
are also not compositional in any straightforward sense.
A slightly different group of functions are the ones I call semantically grounded.
These functions are like the general recursive ones in that they allow function
evaluation to use values that are not strictly smaller (or ‘part of ’) the argument
being evaluated. However, they are not general recursive in the literal sense because
they might not always terminate in a basis case for every possible argument
that the function can be applied to. Being a semantically grounded function is
more of an empirical or practical notion, where the function always terminates in a
194 Pelletier
basis case in all the cases we have encountered or in all the cases of practical
interest.16
The non-compositional f * is semantically grounded: we know that it
will always terminate (for whatever reason we know this), and so it does terminate
in all the cases of interest. Other semantically grounded functions perhaps don’t
always terminate; but in all the cases we are aware of, or in all the cases we are
interested in, they do terminate.
Looking just at language (even though I think the point also holds of other areas,
such as metaphysics), recall that ‘atomistic theories’ eventually ﬁnd some ‘grounding
instances’, as opposed to those contextualist theories that appeal to a context that is
itself a ‘whole’ in which atomic parts cannot be discerned. (As the holists would say,
‘Every part of the context depends on all the other parts in order to have the force on
meaning that it has’.) The semantic groundedness theory falls into the atomistic camp:
although one might need to look to things other than a (syntactic) object’s parts,
eventually these each lead to a basis case—a fundamental grounding point. In the case
of evaluating ‘ç $ c’ we looked to a conjunctive formula, which involved looking at
conditionals. But these conditionals were directly ‘grounded’. So this was a case of an
atomistic, but non-compositional theory. It is a case of semantic groundedness.
10.4.5. Semantic groundedness and the inﬁnity of language
Semantic compositionality presents the picture that there are a ﬁnite number
of atomic items of a language (and their meanings) and there are a ﬁnite number of
syntactic ways to put items together (each with its meaning-effect). If the syntax
allows an unbounded number of things to be constructed from the atomic items it is
because the syntactic rules allow recursive re-application. But then we could learn
this, since all we need learn are the ﬁnite number of atomic items and syntactic rules;
and we can compute the meanings of any of these inﬁnite number of things (answering
the understandability criterion).
But surely semantic groundedness gives much the same picture: it is an atomistic
theory, and so it claims to eventually ﬁnd some ‘grounding instances’, as opposed to
contextualist theories. Although one might need to look to things other than a
(syntactic) object’s parts to compute or construct meanings of a complex item,
eventually these each lead to a base case—a fundamental grounding point. Or at
least, it does lead there in all the cases of interest, or all the cases we’ve encountered.
16
Recanati (2012) seems also to like this ‘empirical’ or ‘practical’ interpretation of how context and
compositionality can interact. He says:
Contextual modulation provides for potentially unending meaning variation, but never gives rise to any
actual unending meaning variation. Meaning eventually stabilizes, making compositionality possible,
because the (linguistic as well as extralinguistic) context, however big, is always ﬁnite. (190–1) (Emphasis
in original)
And while his picture of ‘modulation plus compositionality’ is somewhat different from my semantic
groundedness, on this more general point we seem in agreement.
Context, Compositionality, and Brevity 195
The picture I have for semantic groundedness allows that a semantic evaluation
could bring into play all kinds of facts, information, context, inferences, world
knowledge, etc, even when they are not ‘meanings of the parts or of their modes of
combination’ (so long as it is always grounded—or maybe, grounded in cases where
actually employed). If an evaluation is grounded, then this provides as good an
explanation of the learnability/understandability facts as compositionality does;
indeed, it’s essentially the same explanation. But given that the application is to
features of context, including the long list of related factors that I just mentioned,
perhaps it should be called pragmatic groundedness.
The idea is that there is a bunch of independent factors that tap many different
information sources, and not just one speciﬁc source—as Recanati’s use of a function
on contexts that then generates speciﬁc mod-functions is. Some sources are relevant
in some contexts but not in others, and there may be no way to tell in advance which
ones will be relevant in any particular context. In the picture proposed by pragmatic
groundedness, all that is required is that any of these sources be ultimately grounded
in some sort of base. In my view, as in Recanati’s, these results then feed into the
compositional framework, more or less along the lines that Recanati advocates. But:
they are not the result of applying some inductively recursive mechanism to a
ﬁnitely-based domain, as Recanati claims, and are thus not compositional overall.
So as a consequence, I am recommending that Recanati not think of his mod as a
function. Instead, he should view it as an information source. The requirement on the
source is that it be grounded, or grounded in the cases that are currently under
consideration in any speciﬁc speech situation—that is, that it not make use of
information sources that in turn somehow involve the output of that original source.
This is not a very big difference so far as the technical development goes. But it is a
big alteration in the overall viewpoint. Although the theory remains atomistic—as
I think is Recanati’s main goal—it is not compositional.
10.5. What does this say about brevity?
Although one could write a long disquisition on the topic of this section, I limit
myself to pointing to just one example where the outlook suggested above has
important consequences for a theoretical account of why we can be brief-in-context.
I think the considerations mentioned can easily be applied to other cases, and thus
supports the general conclusion at the end of this section.
The main thrust of this chapter, ignoring certain ancillary issues that were
discussed, has been the following: (a) it is clear that features present in context can
somehow allow for brevity of conversation, and we would like a theoretical account
of that; (b) however, this must be tempered by the fact that any such theoretical
account must honour the facts concerning the Inﬁnity of Language (which rules out a
variety of accounts that go under the title of ‘holistic’) in their explanation of how to
196 Pelletier
describe the contextual meaning of any piece of language; (c) in turn, composition-
ality—the most straightforward way to honour the Inﬁnity of Language—places
restrictions on just how brief one can be even in a very rich context, and it is also
difﬁcult to integrate compositionality with the richness of the possible features of
context that can give rise to brevity. So, (d) I described an atomistic alternative to
compositionality called pragmatic grounding. This alternative inherits composition-
ality’s explanation of the Inﬁnity of Language, at least for the most notable or relevant
cases, and furthermore opens up for exploitation many more features of a context
that can be used in generating briefer remarks than compositionality would allow.
To see how this plays out, consider the well-worn example (inspired by Nunberg
(1979)), ‘The ham sandwich did an eat-and-dash’, perhaps followed by ‘No, no—that
was the deep-fried pickle’, said in a restaurant among members of the staff who have
previously experienced conversations that are similar in one way or another to the
present scene. (Maybe once some customer was burned when touching an extremely
hot plate and the manager demanded ‘Who served the plaid jacket a too-hot plate!?’;
perhaps the waitperson replied ‘No, it wasn’t me: the plaid jacket was the margarita
pizza, and had no problems’; or they discussed how ‘The police no longer respond to
gas-and-dash incidents’, etc.)
As I pointed out in Section 10.2.3, to make it plausible that the interlocutors can
generate such utterances with knowledge that they correctly describe what they want to
assert (and that the audience will understand them), we somehow need to pass from the
literal or standing meaning of the terms to the occasion meaning, or conversely. The
occasion meaning of ‘the ham sandwich’ in this context is (something like) the literal
meaning of ‘the person in this restaurant who ordered and ate a ham sandwich’, and the
occasion meaning of ‘did an eat-and-dash’ is (something like) the literal meaning of ‘ran
out of the restaurant without paying for his food’. If all the speakers involved could
know that the occasion and literal meanings of the terms were as just stated, then they
could either: (a) generate the literal meaning of the sentences from the occasion
meanings of the various terms (which we are hypothesizing that they know) and (b)
apply compositionality on the literal meanings to generate an understanding; or else
they could (c) stick with the occasion meanings of the terms and apply compositionality
on the occasion meanings to generate the relevant occasion meaning understanding.
The problem is to ﬁnd a mechanism that would allow us either to correlate the literal
and occasion meanings (so as to do (a) and (b)) or else to generate the occasion
meanings from the literal meanings plus contextual features (so as to do (c)).
The strategy in both Recanati’s (2012) proposal and mine is to generate the
occasion meanings from the literal meanings plus context so as to do (c). The
differences are embedded in how we propose to carry this out. But if either proposal
can be successfully developed, then there would be a genuine theoretical account of
how brevity-in-context is possible. Without some such account we would be open to
the sorts of objections that Swift raised to the Professors of Language in the Grand
Academy of Lagado.
Context, Compositionality, and Brevity 197
11
And and And**
ANDREAS STOKKE
11.1. Introduction
Here is a familiar dialectic. Attention is drawn to a phenomenon in natural language
that apparently deﬁes treatment from within classical semantics. Two choices
emerge: either abandon classicism to predict the data directly by semantic means,
or keep the classical semantics and account for the data pragmatically. Grice’s ‘Logic
and Conversation’ (1975) both clearly delineated this type of dialectics for the ﬁrst
time and provided a paradigmatic instance of the pragmatic route. This chapter
examines a more recent instance of this broadly Gricean dialectic. The opposition
here is between two theories of presupposition projection—the phenomenon by
which the presuppositions of compound sentences are determined by those of their
parts. Semantic revisionism is represented by the inﬂuential dynamic semantic
account developed by Heim (1982/1988, 1983/2002); semantic conservatism—by
Schlenker’s (2008a) Transparency Theory, which is built on two Gricean maxims
of manner: Be Articulate and Be Brief.
A central part of the motivation for the Transparency Theory comes from a
particular kind of objection to the dynamic view originally put forward by Rooth
(1987) and Soames (1989). The objection notes that dynamic semantics is consistent
with the existence of sets of connectives that have the same truth-conditions but
different projection behaviours. Two conclusions have been drawn from this, namely
* I would like to thank the following for valuable discussion: Nicholas Allott, Derek Ball, Anne
Bezuidenhout, Anouch Bourmayan, Herman Cappelen, Josh Dever, Manuel García-Carpintero, Michael
Glanzberg, Laurence Goldstein, Torﬁnn Huvenes, Salvador Mascarenhas, Michael Morreau, Dilip Ninan,
Jeff Pelletier, Philippe Schlenker, Anders Schoubye, Matthew Stone, and Kjell Johan Sæb. This research is
in part supported by the research project Contextualism, Relativism and Practical Conﬂicts and Disagree-
ments, EuroUnders/0001/2010, funded by FCT/Portugal, within the EUROCORES EuroUnderstanding
programme.
that the dynamic view is lacking in predictive adequacy and that it is lacking in
explanatory adequacy.
My purpose in this chapter is to argue that the fact that the system is compatible
with deviant connectives does not show that the dynamic view suffers from either of
these problems. My conclusion will be that although there may be other ways in
which Gricean theories have advantages over the dynamic theory of presupposition
projection, there is no initial advantage, that is, there is no inherent ﬂaw in the
dynamic conception.
Section 11.2 provides a sketch of the dynamic system we are concerned with.
I call this the Context Change Theory. Section 11.3 turns to the Rooth–Soames
objection, and to the notions of prediction and explanation that are involved in this
debate. Sections 11.4 and 11.5 defend the Context Change Theory against the
charges, and comment on the setting of the debate within the Gricean dialectic
sketched earlier.
11.2. The Context Change Theory
Reacting to the earlier views of Karttunen and Peters (1979), Gazdar (1979), and
Soames (1982), Heim (1983/2002) followed Karttunen (1974) in seeing presuppos-
itions as admittance conditions on contexts, the idea being that ‘a sentence can be
felicitously uttered only in contexts that entail all of its presuppositions’ (Karttunen
1974: 182). A context is here thought of in the familiar Stalnakerian way as a common
ground, that is, a set of propositions mutually taken for granted among the partici-
pants.1
The common ground in turn delineates a set of possible worlds, called the
context set, deﬁned as the set of worlds w such that all the propositions in the
common ground are true in w.2
Heim’s innovation was to encode admittance conditions directly into the semantic
values of sentences. According to the Context Change Theory, the meaning of a
sentence is a procedure or instruction for updating the common ground of a
conversation. This kind of dynamic meaning is called a context change potential
(CCP).
The idea that sentence-meanings are CCPs is meant to be taken literally. Heim
(1983/2002) proposed that:
1
See Stalnaker (1970, 1974, 1978, 1998, 2002).
2
To deal with phenomena involving variables (chieﬂy, anaphora and quantiﬁcation), Heim (1982/1988,
1983/2002) proposed to view contexts as more ﬁne-grained than sets of worlds. But the simpler conception
is sufﬁcient to handle generalized quantiﬁers (see for example Schlenker (2008a: } 1. 2) for a brief statement,
and Beaver (2001: } 7.5.3 for a detailed account), and we may safely conﬁne ourselves to this representation
of contexts for the purposes of the general discussion we are interested in here.
And and And* 199
a compositional assignment of CCPs to the sentences of a language can fully replace a
compositional assignment of truth conditions of the sort normally envisaged by semanticists,
without any loss of empirical coverage. (253)
This means that both projection facts and truth-conditional facts are derived from
CCPs. Speciﬁcally, the system consists of two components: an assignment of CCPs
and a set of general principles linking presuppositionality and truth-conditions
with context change. From these, results are derived by means of basic logic. The
theory, then, has the overall architecture represented here (where ‘)’ denotes
derivability):
Context Change Architecture
CCPs + General Principles ) Projection facts + Truth-conditions
I here provide a fragment of the theory to serve as the basis of the subsequent
discussion. Examples of CCPs are given in C1.
C1 CCPs:3
C1a c[p] = {w 2 c: [[p]]w
= 1}.
C1b c[AB] = # iff ∃w 2 c [[B]]w
= 0. Otherwise, c[AB] = {w 2 c: [[A]]w
= 1}.
C1c c[A and B] = c[A][B].
C1a illustrates the fundamental idea that the CCP of an atomic sentence p is a
function that takes a context and discards from it the worlds that do not satisfy the
information carried by p. In turn, as seen from C1b, the CCP of a presuppositional
sentence AB is a partial function, which is deﬁned for a particular context c if and only
if c entails its presupposition B, that is, all the worlds in c are B-worlds. When deﬁned,
the CCP of AB proceeds as usual by discarding all the worlds that do not satisfy its
assertive component A. Finally C1c states that the CCP of a conjunction proceeds by
ﬁrst applying the CCP of the left hand conjunct and then applying the CCP of the
right hand conjunct to the resulting local context.
It is important to be clear about a potential confusion at this point. As seen from
C1a, the system relies on a prior assignment of satisfaction conditions to atomic
sentences, that is, an assignment of 1 or 0 relative to worlds. Accordingly, the
meanings of sub-sentential expressions are contributions to these. Hence, it is only
sentences and sentence-forming operators that have CCPs as their meanings, that is,
lexical entries. In what follows, therefore, claims about CCPs being lexical entries are
to be understood as concerning sentences and operators.
Within this system results are derived from CCPs via two general principles
stated in C2:
3
Notation: I use p, q, . . . for atomic, non-presuppositional sentences. And I use A, B, . . . for sentences of
arbitrary complexity. And I use AB for a sentence that asserts A and presupposes B.
200 Stokke
C2 General Principles:
C2a Deﬁnition of truth:4
If w 2 c and c[A] 6¼ #, then:
A is true w.r.t. w and c iff w 2 c[A].
A is false w.r.t w and c iff w =
2 c[A].
C2b Deﬁnition of presuppositionality:
A context c admits AB iff c[AB] 6¼ #.
A presupposes B iff for all c, if c admits A, then c ⊧ B.
C2a embodies the Heimian idea that ‘To be a true sentence is to keep the context true’
(1983/2002: 253). Given C2a, the truth-conditions of a particular sentence are recov-
erable from the way it constrains the context set, as deﬁned by its CCP. Note that this
means that truth, in this type of semantics, is not deﬁned in terms of the assignment
of satisfaction conditions that CCPs rely on, but is instead deﬁned directly in terms of
context change. This is what we mean by saying that the truth-conditions of a
sentence are derived from its CCP.
In turn, C2b captures Karttunen’s (1974) original proposal that presuppositions are
admittance conditions in the sense that, according to C2b, the presuppositions of a
sentence consist of the information that must be entailed by a context in order for its
CCP to be deﬁned for the context in question.
A few simple examples of how the system works will be useful. First, consider the
presuppositional sentence in (11.1):
(11.1) The King is bald.
Given C1b, (11.1) is deﬁned if and only if it is common ground that there is a king.
Formally, that is if c entails that there is a king (all the worlds are king-worlds.) Given
C2b, we therefore derive that (11.1) presupposes that there is a king.
Next, to see how the system derives projection facts, consider the notorious
projection properties associated with conjunction in (11.2):
(11.2) a. B and AB presupposes nothing.
b. AB and C presupposes B.
Here is an instance of (11.2a):
(11.3) There is a king and the King has a son.
Given C1c, (11.3) ﬁrst updates c with ‘There is a king’. In the resulting local context c0
all worlds are king-worlds. We now update c0
with ‘The King has a son’. The
4
There are problems with this, but there are other options. It turns out to be difﬁcult to get things right
for a large range of expressions and constructions. See Stokke (2012) for discussion.
And and And* 201
presupposition of this conjunct is trivially satisﬁed for c0
. Hence, (11.3) places no
requirements on c. So, given C2b, we derive that (11.3) presupposes nothing.
Finally, here is an instance of (11.2b):
(11.4) The King has a son and everyone’s celebrating.
We ﬁrst update c with ‘The King has a son’. Given C1b, doing so is successful if and
only if c entails that there is a king. If so, we get c0
where all the worlds are such that
there is a king and the king has a son. We then update c0
with ‘Everyone’s celebrat-
ing’. So given C2b, we derive that (11.4) presupposes that there is a king.
In sum, then, the Context Change Theory allows us to derive results concerning
presupposition projection in a straightforward way. The goal of the rest of this
chapter is to argue that, despite the Rooth–Soames objection, these results are
perfectly predictive and explanatory.
11.3. Prediction and explanation
The Rooth–Soames objection is based on an undeniable observation. The observa-
tion is that the framework in which the Context Change Theory is stated is consistent
with the existence of sets of connectives with the same truth-conditional properties
but different projection behaviours. To repeat the typical example, discussed by
Soames (1989), suppose we deﬁne the CCP of a binary connective and* as follows:
C1 c* c½A and* B ¼ c½B½A
Both and and and* output the intersection of the A-worlds and the B-worlds. Thus
according to C2a, a complex sentence formed by either connective is true at a world w
if and only if each of its constituents is true at w. As regards projection behaviour,
consider for example (11.3). Whereas, as we have seen, the CCP for and predicts that
(11.3) presupposes nothing, the CCP for and* predicts that (11.3) projects the presup-
position of its second conjunct, that is, that there is a king. So the pair of and and
and* is an example of connectives with the same truth-conditional behaviour but
different projection behaviours.
The conclusion drawn from this is that the Context Change Theory is lacking in
predictive and explanatory adequacy. Yet, although many have endorsed this con-
clusion, it has not been made clear what is meant by prediction and explanation in
this context. In fact, the general issue of what constitutes prediction and explanation
in the realm of semantic theorizing is vastly underexplored. It is crucial, therefore, to
be explicit about these notions in order to evaluate the charge against the Context
Change Theory.
I will assume that a prediction of a semantic theory is a logical consequence of the
theory. Further, I will assume that the understanding of explanation relevant to the
202 Stokke
realm of semantic theorizing is roughly that of the so-called Deductive-Nomological
model of scientiﬁc explanation.5
Salmon sums up this paradigm as follows:
[A] D-N explanation of a particular event is a valid deductive argument whose conclusion
states that the event to be explained did occur. The conclusion is known as the explanandum-
statement. Its premises—known collectively as the explanans—must include a statement of at
least one general law that is essential to the validity of the argument. . . . If, in addition, the
statements constituting the explanans are true, the argument qualiﬁes as a true explanation or
simply an explanation (of the D-N type). (1989: 8)
Although notoriously problematic as a general account of the nature of scientiﬁc
explanation, this conception is congenial to the case of semantic theories due to the
deductive-logical nature of the latter. Semantic theories (in the tradition we are
presupposing here) are essentially sets of empirically motivated axioms from which
one deduces predictions by using logic in the way we demonstrated with the Context
Change Theory earlier.
As this suggests, two kinds of criteria for adequacy are particularly salient in this
connection. The lexical entries of the system must be sufﬁciently motivated, and the
general principles generating the predictions of the theory must be sufﬁciently law-
like. For reasons of space I will not argue for the claim that the latter criterion is met
in this chapter. For the record, I believe that it can be argued successfully that the
general principles in C2 have the relevant characteristics.6
The overall question at this point, then, is: Why should one think that conjunction
has the CCP of and and not that of and*? In a nutshell, my answer is: Because the
CCP of and is motivated by the data, while the CCP of and* is not.
In the next two sections, I expand on this line of argument and respond to the
objections adduced against the Context Change Theory based on the observation that
it is consistent with deviant connectives.
11.4. The charge of predictive inadequacy
Heim conceded the objection to the Context Change Theory in the following words:
In my 1983 paper, I was less cautious than Karttunen or even Stalnaker and claimed that if one
only spelled out the precise connection between truth-conditional meaning and rules of
context change [ie, CCPs], one would be able to use evidence about truth-conditions to
determine the rules of context change, and in this way motivate those rules independently of
5
See Salmon (1989) and Rosenberg (2000) for introductions.
6
For example, the principles support counterfactuals. Let k be a context that does not admit ‘The King
is bald’, ie, k does not entail that there is a king. The fact that the counterfactual ‘If it had been common
ground in k that there is a king, then k would have admitted “The King is bald”’ is true is evidence that C2b
is not merely a true generalization. See Rosenberg (2000: 31–2).
And and And* 203
the presupposition projection data that they are supposed to account for. I was rightly taken to
task for this. . . . (1990a: 32)
We can discern two different ways of looking at the problem in this passage. One of
them objects that the Context Change Theory does not allow one to derive CCPs
from truth-conditions. The other, that the theory is guilty of a particular kind of
circularity. The ﬁrst of these is a charge concerning predictive adequacy, the second is
one concerning explanatory adequacy. Both of these concerns have been expressed
more clearly by others. I respond to each of them, beginning with the ﬁrst below.
Behind the challenge of predictive inadequacy exhibited by the quotation from
Heim (1990a) there is an insistence on a certain kind of tight connection between
CCPs and truth-conditional content. In particular, the objector here claims that
CCPs should be derivable from truth-conditional behaviour, and that if this cannot
be achieved, the theory must be seen as lacking in predictive capability.
This allegation is championed by Schlenker:
although truth conditions can be recovered from Context Change Potentials, the converse is
not true. As was noted early on, there are a variety of dynamic connectives that are compatible
with the truth conditions of and. . . . Heim’s account fails to be predictive in the following sense:
if we are given the syntax and classical truth-conditional behavior of an operator, we cannot
thereby predict how it will transmit presuppositions. . . . (2009: 5–6); and Schlenker (2008a:
166–7)
Initially, this complaint appears puzzling in that, quite obviously, the Context
Change Theory never aimed at deriving the CCPs of operators from their truth-
conditions. We already quoted Heim (1983/2002) as explicitly stating that the goal of
the theory was the opposite: to derive both truth-conditions and projection behav-
iour from CCPs.
The question is, though, whether CCPs can be derived from truth-conditions, and if
not, whether there is anything problematic about that. As we will see later on, although
CCPs cannot in fact be derived from either projection behaviour or from truth-
conditions, it does not follow that the Context Change Theory fails to be predictive.
Here are the facts that everyone should agree on:
F1 a Projection facts are not derivable from truth-conditional facts alone.
b Truth-conditional facts are not derivable from projection facts alone.
F2 a Truth-conditional facts are derivable from CCPs.
b Projection facts are derivable from CCPs.
F3 a CCPs are not derivable from truth-conditional facts.
b CCPs are not derivable from projection facts.
F1 states that projection facts and truth-conditional facts are not inter-derivable. An
intuitive way of appreciating F1a is the following. Let (A,B) be the result of applying
204 Stokke
the binary connective  to A and B. Suppose I tell you that the truth-conditional
behaviour of  is such that (A,B) outputs the intersection of the A-worlds and the
B-worlds. Will you be able to tell me how  projects presuppositions? No.  could
project either in the manner of and or that of and* for all you know.
F1b is justiﬁed by pairs like and and if. Heim’s original entry for the conditional is
given in C1d.7
C1d c[if A, then B] = c – ((c[A]) – (c[A][B]))
Now suppose I tell you that  is such that (A,B) projects the presuppositions of its
left and right constituents except those of the latter that are entailed by the assertive
component of the former. That is, suppose I tell you that (AC,BD) presupposes C ∧
(A ! D). Will you be able to tell me what context set it outputs? No.  could be
either and or if for all you know.
F2 states that one can derive both truth-conditional facts and projection facts from
CCPs. This we have already seen earlier. A CCP tells us both how the connective in
question constrains the context set and how the presuppositions of the complex
sentences it forms depend systematically on those of their parts.
F3 is a consequence of F1. One cannot predict the CCP of a connective from
knowing just how it constrains the context set, nor from knowing just how it projects
presuppositions.
The problem Schlenker infers from F3a is that the theory fails to be predictive. On
the natural way of understanding this claim, it is clearly false, as witnessed by F2.
CCPs predict both truth-conditional behaviour and projection behaviour in the
familiar way, that is, one can derive these facts from CCPs.
A perhaps more charitable way of understanding Schlenker’s claim that F3a
renders the theory unpredictive is by complaining that CCPs are not predicted by
anything else in the system. This is correct. But there is no problem here. As we said,
the lexical entries of the system need to be empirically motivated, and it is clear that
the CCPs of the Context Change Theory are.
To be slightly more speciﬁc, we can take theory-building to proceed roughly in the
way suggested by the inﬂuential account in Bogen and Woodward (1988). For
instance, we might test speakers’ judgments about conjunctions like (11.3). We will
get a distribution of judgments, which presumably will converge toward taking the
sentence to presuppose that there is a king (and nothing else.) On the basis of this
data, and more of the same kind, we posit the existence of a phenomenon: the
7
This CCP predicts that if in natural languages behaves truth-conditionally as the material implication.
(The context returned is the original context minus the worlds in which the antecedent is true and the
consequent is false.) As Heim (1983/2002: 259 n 1) says, ‘I don’t believe that, but it doesn’t matter here.’ See
Heim (1990) for examples of deviant CCPs that have the same truth-conditional but different projection
behaviours as C1d.
And and And* 205
familiar projection behaviour of and, that is, that ‘the presuppositions of a conjunc-
tion are the presuppositions required by either of the conjuncts, minus any required
by the second conjunct which are entailed by the ﬁrst’ (Stalnaker 1974: 59, emphasis in
original). We believe this phenomenon exists because of the data we have gathered.
In close interplay with this process, we embark on the project of building a theory
to explain and predict this phenomenon (and others). Our proposal is the Context
Change Theory. This theory includes lexical entries, some of which are CCPs. The
reason for choosing a particular CCP is the goal of the project, that is, to predict (and
hopefully to explain) projection facts. We therefore choose to deﬁne the CCP for and
in the way of C1c, and not in any other way, for example, that of and*.
As further illustration, it is instructive to consider the case of disjunction because,
as opposed to that of conjunction, there is a genuine dispute over what the right CCP
should be in this case. For instance, Beaver (2001) proposes the entry in C1e, whereas
Geurts (1999) argues for C1f, both of which have merits.
C1e c[A or B] = c[A] [ c[not-A][B]
C1f c[A or B] = c[A] [ c[B]
Commenting on this opposition, Schlenker takes it to be one of the problems for the
Context Change Theory that:
No general principles could be appealed to in order to settle this debate, which is a symptom of
exactly the problem that motivated the Transparency theory (2008b: 289).
So the claim seems to be that in the absence of a general principle that can decide
between the different options for disjunction and rule out deviant connectives like
and*, the Context Change Theory must be seen as unmotivated. But why think so?
Just as the choice of and over and* is empirically motivated, the question of the right
CCP for disjunction should be settled empirically by studying the data. No doubt this
will not be an easy matter. But few things are.
The Context Change Theory takes CCPs as primitive and uses them in combin-
ation with general principles to predict truth conditions and projection facts. Such a
theory cannot be blamed for not deriving CCPs from anything else in the system.
11.5. The charge of explanatory inadequacy
We have seen that the fact that CCPs cannot be derived from truth-conditions does
not justify the conclusion that the Context Change Theory is not predictive. The
remaining charge that the theory is not explanatory is, I think, more substantial, and
I therefore dedicate more space to it. I begin by considering the circularity worry
expressed by Heim (1990a).
206 Stokke
11.5.1. A Worry about circularity
The concern about circularity is found in the way Soames originally formulated the
problem raised by deviant connectives such as his example of and*:
[I]t cannot be that the reason that conjunctions inherit presuppositions in the way that they do,
rather than in accordance with [C1c*], is because the semantics of conjunction are given by
[C1c]; and, moreover, that the reason that [C1c], rather than [C1c*], gives the semantics of
conjunction is that conjunctions inherit presuppositions in the way that they do (1989: 598).
Soames’s objection, then, is that the Context Change Theory simultaneously
endorses the following two incompatible claims:
S1 The fact that a connective or operator exhibits a particular projection behaviour is
explained by the fact that it has a particular CCP.
S2 The fact that a connective or operator has a particular CCP is explained by the
fact that it exhibits a particular projection behaviour.
S1 and S2 are clearly not tenable together. But what is wrong with this objection is
that the Context Change Theory does not endorse S2. It only endorses S1.
First, recall that according to the Context Change Theory, the meanings of
connectives are CCPs. As we saw, the predictions of the theory—in turn aspiring
to the status of explanations—are derived from CCPs. So the Context Change Theory
is clearly committed to S1. And, given that CCPs are meanings, S1 is clearly the more
palatable of the two: the reason and projects the way it does is that it means what it
does, not the other way around.
Second, as I suggested earlier, arriving at the right CCPs is an empirical project of
the kind described by Bogen and Woodward (1988). There are two phenomena to be
accounted for: truth-conditional behaviour and projection behaviour. But the fact
that observations motivate hypothesizing C1c as the lexical entry for and does not
mean that the theory must accept S2. The Context Change Theory is not committed
to the claim that the fact that and has the lexical entry it has is explained by these
observations. The direction of explanation is uniquely in the other direction. The fact
that and has the truth-conditional behaviour and the projection behaviour it does is
explained by the fact that it has the CCP in C1c. And the reason the theory postulates
that CCP for and, and not one of the deviant ones, is motivated by the desire to
explain the phenomena that have been inferred from the data.
Finally, we should avoid confusing this issue with another, which concerns the
question of what explains why conjunction has the CCP it does. The Context Change
Theory does not offer an answer to this question. Is that a problem? No. To think that
it is a problem is to conﬂate a widely familiar and thoroughly uncontroversial
distinction between what Stalnaker has termed descriptive versus foundational
semantics. He writes:
And and And* 207
A descriptive-semantic theory is a theory that says what the semantics for the language is,
without saying what it is about the practice of using that language that explains why that
semantics is the right one. . . . Second, there are questions, which I will call questions of
‘foundational semantics’, about what the facts are that give expressions their semantic values,
or more generally, about what makes it the case that the language spoken by a particular
individual or community has a particular descriptive semantics (Stalnaker 1997: 535).8
Clearly, the Context Change Theory is a descriptive theory in this sense. It sets itself
the goal of stating what the semantic values of expressions and constructions are. But
it makes no claim to explaining why expressions have those particular semantic
values and not others. For example, the theory states the meaning (ie, the CCP) of
and, but it makes no claim to explaining why and has this meaning.
Since the Context Change Theory endorses S1 but does not endorse S2, there is no
basis for the charge of explanatory circularity. Nor does the theory endorse a claim
like S2 albeit with a different explanans. And it cannot be blamed for not doing so. To
be sure, one can have the view that what we ultimately want is some conglomerate of
theories encompassing answers to both the descriptive and the foundational ques-
tions. But one cannot refute a descriptive theory by complaining that it is not, or is
not also, a foundational theory.9
11.5.2. Gricean architecture
Schlenker’s challenge of predictive inadequacy rested on the assumption that CCPs
should be derived from truth-conditional content. We noted that this assumption is
unmotivated in the presence of the Context Change Theory. A slightly different, but
related, perspective is found in the way Schlenker formulates what he takes to be the
explanatory challenge raised by deviant connectives:
Explanatory challenge (Schlenker)
Find an algorithm that predicts how any operator transmits presuppositions once
its syntax and its classical semantics have been speciﬁed. (from Schlenker 2008b: 8,
2009: 287)
It is an artefact of Schlenker’s own conception of the issue that this challenge is
speciﬁed as pertaining to the classical semantics of the connectives. So, more
8
This distinction is roughly the same as the one between semantics and metasemantics found in Kaplan
(1989).
9
Another concern, of course, is whether the Context Change Theory is ultimately capable of being
associated with a suitable foundational-semantic theory. One might think that the kind of Stalnakerian
motivation for the CCP for and—we process conjunctive sentences from left to right—is not obviously
available for the other CCPs postulated by the theory. (Thanks to Michael Glanzberg and Matthew Stone
for pressing this.) This I take to be a more serious concern. However, this problem is not a version of the
Rooth–Soames objection, ie, it is not a problem concerning the existence of deviant connectives like and*.
Although this may be a concern that will ultimately count against the Context Change Theory, it is not one
that we are concerned with here.
208 Stokke
generally, the Gricean idea can be summarized as the claim that what we want is a
theory with the following schematic structure:
Gricean architecture
Semantics + x ) Projection facts
An example of an approach instantiating this schema is Stalnaker’s (1974) recom-
mendation of a Gricean, pragmatic account of presuppositions and of projection.
Stalnaker held that:
The pragmatic account makes it possible to explain some particular facts about presuppos-
itions in terms of general maxims of rational communication rather than in terms of compli-
cated and ad hoc hypotheses about the semantics of particular words and particular kinds of
constructions (1974: 48).
Famously, Stalnaker gave an account of conjunction that provided the inspiration for
Heim’s dynamic account, and which turned on the following assumption:
[W]hen a speaker says something of the form A and B, he may take it for granted that A (or at
least that his audience recognizes that he accepts that A) after he has said it. The proposition
that A will be added to the background of common assumptions before the speaker asserts that
B (Stalnaker 1974: 60).
Let us call this Incremental Assertion. Then Stalnaker’s account of presupposition
projection in conjunctions has the following structure:10
Semantics + Incremental Assertion ) Projection facts
The claim is that, given Incremental Assertion, when a speaker utters A and B, and all
goes well, A is already part of the common ground once B gets uttered, and this
explains why any presuppositions of B that are entailed by A disappear, that is, they
do not project out and become separate requirements on the common ground.
11.5.3. The Transparency Theory
Generalizing from the discussion earlier, a Gricean theory in this area is a theory with
the architecture just illustrated, that is, a theory that derives projection facts from
semantic clauses plus some (independently motivated) pragmatic principles. Schlen-
ker’s Transparency Theory is explicitly a return to this theoretical strategy.
10
Stalnaker (1974) never indicates whether he is taking the semantics to be classical, ie, bivalent, or not.
The account in Stalnaker (1978) turns on explicitly accepting a semantics in which presupposition failure
results in semantic undeﬁnedness, which is interpreted as being neither true nor false. Compare Fox (2008:
246–7). Also note that Incremental Assertion is not the relevant principle that a Stalnakerian account will
appeal to in order to explain other types of projection facts. See, e.g., Stalnaker’s 1974 account of the
projection behaviour of factive verbs.
And and And* 209
In terms of the general schema above, the Transparency Theory has the following
structure:
Transparency Theory Architecture
Classical semantics + Incremental Transparency ) Projection facts
Incremental Transparency is a pragmatic principle which in Schlenker’s theory is
derived from the conjunction of two Gricean maxims of manner, Be Articulate and
Be Brief:11
Be Articulate
In any syntactic environment, express the meaning of an expression AB as B and AB
( . . . unless independent pragmatic principles rule out the full conjunction.)
Be Brief
Avoid unnecessary prolixity.
For example, Be Articulate tells you that, if possible, you should say, ‘There is a king
and the King has a son’ (B and AB) rather than ‘The King has a son’ (AB). Be Brief
tells you not to say more than you have to in order to get your point across in the
given conversational context. If something is ruled out by Be Brief, we say that it is
transparent. Thus, ‘There is a king’ might be transparent because it is already
accepted by the participants. Be Brief always trumps Be Articulate. And furthermore,
the full version of Be Brief is stated in an incremental fashion taking into account the
linear order of the syntactic string in which the presupposition trigger occurs.12
This allows one to derive the principle of Incremental Transparency.13
Incremental transparency (Schlenker)
Given a context set c, a predicative or propositional occurrence of ab is acceptable in a
sentence that begins with Æab if the ‘articulated’ competitor Æ(b and a) is ruled out
because b is transparent,
if for any expression ª of the same type as b and for any good ﬁnal , c |= Æ(b and ª)
 , Æª.
In other words, ‘The King has a son’ is acceptable only if the context already entails
that there is a king. And in general, as Schlenker (2008a: } 2.4) shows, this theory
derives all the results regarding presupposition projection of the Context Change
Theory.
11
See Schlenker (2008a: 170–2). Be Brief is inherited directly from Grice (1975: 27). Be Articulate is taken
as primitive but, as Schlenker (2008a: 171) says: ‘Be Articulate should ultimately be derived from Grice’s
“Maxim of Manner”, and speciﬁcally from the requirement that one be “orderly”.’
12
Note that in order to handle particular types of examples, the theory alternatively appeals to a
symmetric version of the Transparency principle. See Schlenker (2008a: } 3).
13
See Schlenker (2008a: 172–5).
210 Stokke
11.5.4. Explanation versus Stipulation
Given this, we can bring out a version of the explanatory challenge that rests on
architectural considerations. This version of the problem starts from a general
assumption. The assumption is that if some phenomenon to be accounted for y
can be derived from x via general principles, then a theory that does so is to be
preferred to a theory that stipulates y. Fox (2008) gives voice to this point of view:
It is, in principle, possible that facts about presupposition projection need to be stipulated . . . ,
and if this turns out to be the case, it would be a rather sad state of affairs. We will, of course,
want to claim that this is not the case the moment we are able to eliminate the stipulations in
favor of a general statement (2008: 242 n 4).
We can see this assumption as a general claim about the superiority of explanatory
theories. Broadly speaking, given a Deductive-Nomological conception of explan-
ation, deriving y from x via suitable general principles P1 . . . Pn amounts to explaining
y in terms of x and P1 . . . Pn. A theory that explains y in this way is to be preferred to a
theory that stipulates y.
One might think that there is an asymmetry between the two architectures along
these lines. For instance, it might be claimed that, whereas the Context Change
Theory merely stipulates projection facts, the Transparency Theory explains projec-
tion facts because it derives them. Yet we already have the resources to answer this
potential objection. The Context Change Theory does not stipulate projection facts.
Rather, it derives projection facts from CCPs via the general deﬁnition of presuppo-
sitionality in terms of admittance. In fact, as we have seen, the Context Change
Theory derives both truth-conditional facts and projection facts from CCPs via
general principles.
The Context Change Theory, then, is not in bad standing in terms of this worry
about stipulation. The theory explains presupposition projection and truth-conditional
content in terms of the basic idea that the meaning of a sentence is an instruction for
altering contextual information. By abandoning the classical claim that meaning is
representational—and hence that utterances trafﬁc in information about the world—
in favour of the dynamic conception that meaning is procedural in the sense that
utterances manipulate discourse information, it is able to explain the problematic
phenomena by semantic means.14
11.5.5. Gricean foundations and some problematic predictions It would be too quick,
however, to conclude that the Context Change Architecture has an advantage
over the Gricean Architecture because it explains both projection facts and truth-
conditional facts in terms of more basic facts, whereas Gricean theories only explain
projection facts in terms of basic facts. The reason is that the principle of Incremental
14
For relevant discussion of the dynamic versus traditional conceptions of meaning, see Stokke (2012).
And and And* 211
Transparency is not a primitive within the Transparency Theory: rather, it is derived
from the maxims Be Brief and Be Articulate, both of which are ultimately taken to be
derivable from the super-maxim of manner:
Maxim of manner
Be perspicuous.15
In this way, the Transparency Theory aspires, to repeat Stalnaker’s words, to the
Gricean aim ‘[to] explain some particular facts about presuppositions in terms of
general maxims of rational communication . . . ’ (Stalnaker 1974: 48). Such explan-
ation be seen as an instance of abiding by the general methodological principle that
Grice (1978) called Modiﬁed Occam’s Razor:
Modiﬁed Occam’s razor
Senses are not to be multiplied beyond necessity.
As we noted at the outset, the dialectic between the Context Change Architecture and
the Gricean Architecture is an instance of the general kind of situation identiﬁed by
Grice. We have a simple semantic theory T (classical semantics) of a particular class of
expressions E (connectives and operators.) Then certain facts U (presupposition
projection) involving E are observed, which seem to present counterexamples to T.
As a consequence, a more complex alternative T0
(dynamic semantics) to T is
proposed. However, the proponent of T may salvage her original theory, if she can
demonstrate that U is in fact explained by T together with other principles p, which her
objector already accepts, or should accept, and which are independently motivated.
The independent principles that the Gricean appeals to are the maxims (as well as
Grice’s general Cooperative Principle). Ultimately, these principles are taken to be, in
a rough sense, constitutive of rational cooperative behaviour, although there is no
worked out theory of whether, and how, these principles can be grounded in facts
about rationality. As Grice says,
I would like to be able to show that observance of the Cooperative Principle and maxims is
reasonable (rational) along the following lines: that anyone who cares about the goals that are
central to conversation/communication (such as giving and receiving information, inﬂuencing
and being inﬂuenced by others) must be expected to have an interest, given suitable circum-
stances, in participation in talk exchanges that will be proﬁtable only on the assumption that
they are conducted in general accordance with the Cooperative Principle and the maxims.
Whether any such conclusion can be reached, I am uncertain. . . . (1975: 29–30)
Ultimately, then, a Gricean theory of presupposition projection is a theory that
proposes to explain projection facts in terms of classical semantics plus general
principles governing rational, cooperative behaviour.
15
See Grice (1975: 27).
212 Stokke
If this turns out to be feasible, it will certainly be a stupendous theoretical
achievement. Indeed, if it a theory turns out to be available, which both makes the
right predictions and which can be situated within a successful Gricean programme,
then such a theory will have a high claim to being preferable to a semantic theory of
presupposition projection.
The debate over the general Gricean programme has been extensive, and neither is
under evalution in this chapter.16
I will refrain, therefore, from any conclusions
concerning the merits of the Transparency Theory based on the ultimate feasibility
of the project of explaining projection facts in terms of independent principles
governing rational behaviour.
We can note, however, that independently of these broader motivations, a theory
will be preferable only if it makes the right predictions, that is, derives the right
results. As has been pointed out by Beaver (2008), the Transparency Theory, as it
stands, generates some incorrect predictions. As Beaver shows, the theory predicts
that all of the examples in (11.5) presuppose nothing.
(11.5) a. If Barack is pleased that he won and Hillary is upset that Barack won, that
should not surprise anyone.
b. Maybe it’s a Californian who’s paying for a space ﬂight and the person
paying for a space ﬂight is a tech millionaire.
c. It’s not the case that the King of France is bald and the King of France is rich.
And yet, intuitively, (11.5a) presupposes that Barack won, (11.5b) that someone is
paying for a space ﬂight, and (11.5c) that there is a King of France.
It is too early to tell, then, whether a Gricean theory of presupposition projection is
both feasible and preferable to the dynamic alternative. So while what I have said
does not justify conclusions about the explanatory superiority of either type of
theoretical architecture, it may be concluded that there is nothing inherently wrong
with the Context Change Architecture in terms of explanatory power.
11.6. Conclusion
I have argued that no valid complaint can be inferred from the possibility of deﬁning
deviant connectives within the framework of the Context Change Theory. A Gricean
theory of presupposition projection, therefore, cannot be seen as motivated by a ﬂaw
in the Heimian paradigm. Instead, such a theory must be seen as an independently
motivated, alternative account, which should be evaluated alongside the Context
Change Theory against the host of parameters that in general serve as the basis of
theory-choice in this area.
16
For a small sample, see Sperber and Wilson (1986), Davis (1998), Levinson (2000), Carston (2002), and
Allott (2007). See also García-Carpintero (Chapter 12) for relevant discussion of the Transparency Theory.
And and And* 213
12
Insinuating Information and
Accommodating Presupposition*
MANUEL GARCÍA-CARPINTERO
12.1. Introduction
In the several decades since Peter Strawson appealed to the notion of presupposition
in his debate with Russell on how deﬁnite descriptions work, there has been an
explosion of scholarship on the topic. To a considerable extent, this scholarship
focused on descriptive issues, with semanticists helpfully incorporating the notion
into dynamic approaches that have shed light on issues such as presupposition-
projection, cancellation, accommodation, catastrophic and non-catastrophic presup-
position-failure, etc, and on how different expressions (‘presupposition-triggers’)
affect them. However, and as perhaps is to be expected, regarding fundamental
questions, it would be rash to claim that much illumination has been achieved.
This chapter focuses on Stalnaker’s well-known accounts of assertion and presuppos-
ition. I propose a normativist counterpart to both Stalnakerian accounts, and I deploy
it in order better to understand a feature of presuppositions closely related to how we
achieve brevity in our ordinary conversational practices. Lewis (1979) referred to that
process when he characterized the ‘rule of accommodation for presuppositions’, that
is, a process whereby, typically, presuppositions which are not part of the ‘context set’
(the set of mutually accepted propositions relative to which discourse takes place) are
* Financial support for my work was provided by the DGI, Spanish Government, research project
FFI2010-16049 and Consolider-Ingenio project CSD2009-00056; through the ICREA Academia award for
excellence in research, 2008, funded by the Generalitat de Catalunya; by the AGAUR of the Generalitat de
Catalunya (2009SGR-1077), and by the European Community’s Seventh Framework Programme FP7/2007-
2013 under grant agreement no. 238128. Versions of the paper were presented at a LOGOS seminar, and at
conferences in Prague, Leuven, Lisbon, and Barcelona; I thank the audiences there for comments and
suggestions. Thanks to Anne Bezuidenhout, Ambròs Domingo, Chris Gauker, Laurence Goldstein, Max
Kölbel, Josep Macià, Teresa Marques, François Recanati, Sven Rosenkranz, Philipp Schlenker, and Andreas
Stokke for helpful discussion, and Michael Maudsley for his grammatical revision.
‘included’ in it without further ado, giving rise to the so-called ‘informative presuppos-
itions’, as for example when I say, ‘I cannot go to the meeting, because I have to pick up
my sister at the airport’, without assuming that my audience knows that I have a sister.
On the view advanced here, brevity is achieved in such cases by indirectly
conveying information rather than by asserting it outright. This phenomenon con-
stitutes an important prima facie objection to Stalnaker’s (1973, 1974) pragmatic
characterization of the phenomenon of presupposition, in particular of the triggering
of presuppositions, to which he (2002) has replied that it is important to take into
account the time at which presupposition-requirements are to be computed. In
recent work in the Stalnakerian framework, Philippe Schlenker (2012) has endorsed
Stalnaker’s proposal. In defence of a different, (in a sense) ‘semantic’, account of the
phenomenon of presupposition, my goal is to object to that proposal and to portray
Lewisian ‘accommodation’ (Lewis 1979) as one way in which speakers adjust to one
another in the course of conversation.
Some natural language expressions are conventional indicators of illocutionary
types: thus, the interrogative mood conventionally indicates a question, and embed-
ding under a performative construction—‘I promise to S’—is a conventional indica-
tor of a promise. According to Searle (1969), referential expressions such as proper
names, indexicals, and demonstratives (and perhaps deﬁnite and even indeﬁnite
descriptions, in some uses) share an expressive feature that is a conventional indica-
tor of an ancillary speech act of referring—‘ancillary’ in that it is auxiliary to the
performance of another speech act. In this chapter, I will defend an assumption many
researchers make, while others dispute: that some expressions traditionally regarded
as presupposition-triggers, such as clefts or deﬁnite descriptions, are conventional
indicators of another ancillary speech act: presupposing. In the next section, I will
provide an initial characterization of presuppositions, which, against sceptical claims
to the contrary, suggests that this is a robust kind, in need of elucidation. In
Section 12.3, I will present the Stalnakerian account. In Section 12.4, I will argue
that the well-known practice of informative presupposition puts a heavy strain on
that account, supporting instead a conventionalist (semanticist) solution to what is
known as the Triggering Problem for presuppositions. In the ﬁnal section I show how
a semantic account deals with that problem.
12.2. Presupposition
Our semantic competence underwrites the validity of inferences such as the
following, for both (12.1) and (12.2):
(12.1) John infected the PC.
(12.2) It was John who infected the PC.
∴ Someone infected the PC.
Insinuating Information and Accommodating Presupposition 215
However, there is a difference between the syntactic constructions in (12.1) and (12.2).
Unlike the less marked way of expressing what we perceive as the same content in
(12.1), the cleft construction in (12.2) also validates (at least, in default contexts) the
same inference when placed under different embeddings, such as negation (12.3),
conditionals (12.4), modals (12.5), etc. Presuppositions are thus said to be ‘projected’,
that is, inherited by the embedding constructions:1
(12.3) It was not John who infected the PC.
(12.4) If it was John who infected the PC, the Mac is also infected.
(12.5) It may have been John who infected the PC.
∴ Someone infected the PC.
Other presuppositional constructions exhibit this behaviour. Consider the case of
deﬁnite descriptions:
(12.6) The Sants station newsstand sells The Guardian.
(12.7) The Sants station newsstand does not sell The Guardian.
(12.8) If the Sants station newsstand sells The Guardian, we will buy it there.
(12.9) The Sants station newsstand may sell The Guardian.
∴ There is exactly one Sants station newsstand.
This projection behaviour invites the traditional characterization of presuppositions
as conditions for the truth or the falsity of the sentences/propositions in which they
are included. However, the debates of the past few decades suggest that this cannot be
right. In the ﬁrst place, Strawson (1971) pointed out cases of what Yablo (2006) calls
‘non-catastrophic presupposition failure’. For example, if there are in fact two news-
stands at the Sants station and both of them sell The Guardian, many people feel that
(12.6) is nonetheless true; on the other hand, if there is no newsstand there, many
people feel that (12.10) is false, not just neither true nor false:
(12.10) I waited for you for two hours at the Sants station newsstand.
Secondly, presuppositions are not projected in some cases; hence, they are not there
‘globally’, but they are still there, somehow, ‘locally’. They cannot be in those cases
conditions for the truth or falsity of the whole claim, and thus the intuitive test we are
considering does not witness their nonetheless ‘local’ presence:
1
Throughout this paper I will be using clefts and deﬁnite descriptions as good candidates for conven-
tional presuppositional triggers. Levinson (1983: 220–2) summarizes joint work with Jay Atlas allegedly
providing an account of clefts that (in terms explained in the next section) counts as ‘eliminativist’ in that it
is not supposed to assume conventional triggers. With other writers (Beaver 2001: 29–30; Simons 2006:
367), I doubt that such an account (putting aside its plausibility) is truly eliminativist, because it relies on
‘Gricean’ inferences sensitive to a speciﬁc logical form they ascribe to clefts. On the constitutive account of
the semantic/pragmatic divide explained later, this is just an alternative semantic account.
216 García-Carpintero
(12.11) If someone infected the PC, it was John who did it.
(12.12) Someone infected the PC, and it was John who did it.
Finally, conventional implicatures, which intuitively differ from presuppositions,
share their projection behaviour with the presuppositions in the embeddings we
have considered earlier. Following Potts (2007), I use non-restrictive wh-clauses as
illustrative examples:
(12.13) John, who infected the PC, teaches in Oxford.
(12.14) It is not the case that John, who infected the PC, teaches in Oxford.
(12.15) If John, who infected the PC, teaches in Oxford, he will attend the
conference.
(12.16) It may be the case that John, who infected the PC, teaches in Oxford.
∴John infected the PC.
Geurts (1999: 6–8) uses the projection behaviour illustrated by (12.3)–(12.5) and
(12.11)–(12.12) as an intuitive test to characterize presuppositions. Even though he
acknowledges that the test is defeasible, I think that the fact that conventional
implicatures also pass it shows that it is not even a good intuitive characterization.2
Von Fintel (2004: 271) proposes an alternative hey, wait a minute test to distinguish
presupposition and assertion, which, even if also far from perfect, I take to be better.
Consider the following dialogues, with ‘#’ being an indication of conversational
impropriety or infelicity:
(12.17) It was not John who infected the PC.
(12.18) # Hey, wait a minute, I had no idea that John did not infect the PC.
(12.19) Hey, wait a minute, I had no idea that someone infected the PC.
(12.20) It is not the case that John, who infected the PC, teaches in Oxford.
(12.21) # Hey, wait a minute, I had no idea that John does not teach in Oxford.
(12.22) # Hey, wait a minute, I had no idea that John infected the PC.3
2
Beaver (2001: 19–20), Chierchia and McConnell-Ginet (1990: 283), and Kadmon (2001: 13) make a
similar point. Perhaps more details on projection behaviour would after all make it possible to distinguish
presuppositions and conventional implicatures, as Andreas Stokke suggested to me, mentioning embed-
dings under attitude ascriptions. The resulting test would in any case be complex, which would give us
reasons to prefer von Fintel’s simpler test.
3
When this material was presented at conferences, some members of the audience questioned the
intuitive judgment reported here. This matter (as other aspects of the debate examined here) should be
investigated empirically. Note that the test deploys the ‘wait a minute’ objection followed by something like
‘I had no idea that . . . ’, which will be important later when we try to accommodate it in our theoretical
proposal to account for presuppositions. We can also object to the assertion, ‘John infected the PC’, with
something like ‘Wait a minute! John couldn’t have done it, he doesn’t know anything about computers!’
Insinuating Information and Accommodating Presupposition 217
Intuitively, this is why von Fintel’s test provides a better initial characterization of
presuppositions. As opposed to both asserted contents and conventional implica-
tures, presuppositions are presented as information already in the possession of the
conversational participants. The asserted content is presented as information new to
the audience. The same applies to conventionally implicated contents, even if the
latter are somehow backgrounded relative to the main assertion. This is why
targeting the asserted or conventionally implicated content with the ‘Hey, wait a
minute’ objection does not feel right, whereas objecting in that way to the presup-
posed content does. In other words, presuppositions are presented as part of the
‘common ground’, while asserted and conventionally implicated contents are pre-
sented as new information.
Von Fintel’s test, whether or not it is ultimately acceptable, provides us with a
useful, if rather blunt, instrument for isolating the phenomenon in which we are
interested. It shows that the scepticism expressed by writers such as Böer and Lycan
(1976) and Levinson (1983)—who argue for a form of the eliminativist view about
presuppositions that I will describe later, in part on the basis of the alleged miscel-
laneous character of the phenomenon—is prima facie unreasonable. The intuitions
unveiled by the ‘Hey, wait a minute’ test are quite robust, and robustly related to
grammatical constructions like those we have used for illustration, which the reader
may supplement by considering variations on them, or others in the list given by
Levinson (1983: 181–5). The robustness of the intuitions suggests at least prima facie
that we are confronted with a sufﬁciently ‘natural’ kind, amenable to a precise
characterization. What we are after is a philosophically adequate deﬁnition, which,
if it is solid, should elaborate on the preceding intuitive explanation as to why von
Fintel’s characterization succeeds where those previously considered fail. This is what
we will try to accomplish in the next pages; we will start by presenting Stalnaker’s
inﬂuential proposal.
12.3. The Stalnakerian picture
In a series of papers, Stalnaker (1973, 1974, 2002) provided an inﬂuential account of
the phenomenon of presupposition. The account has been slightly modiﬁed along the
way; here I will just present what I take to be its core aspects.4
Stalnaker’s proposal is
in the spirit of Grice’s account of phenomena such as conversational implicature, in
particular, and meaning in general: it purports to explain those phenomena as a
speciﬁc form of rational behaviour involving communicative intentions, avoiding
irreducibly social notions such as conventions or (socially construed) norms.
4
Simons (2003) provides a helpful sympathetic discussion of the evolving details.
218 García-Carpintero
Stalnaker bases his analysis on the notion of speaker presupposition, which he then
reluctantly (for reasons to be indicated presently) uses to provide the notion of
sentence presupposition. The notion of speaker presupposition is explained in terms
of common beliefs about what is accepted by the conversational partners; and
common belief follows the pattern of Schiffer’s (1972) and Lewis’ (1969) proposals
about it and about common knowledge: p is common belief in a given group G just in
case (almost) everybody in G believes p, believes that (almost) everybody in
G believes p, and so on. Acceptance is in turn deﬁned by Stalnaker (2002: 716) as a
category of mental states ‘which includes belief, but also some attitudes (presump-
tion, assumption, acceptance for the purposes of an argument or an inquiry) that
contrast with belief and with each other. To accept a proposition is to treat it as true
for some reason.’ The need to invoke acceptance in the deﬁnition derives from many
cases in which, intuitively and according to our initial characterization above, p is
presupposed while not commonly believed. Thus, consider Donnellan’s (1966)
example: the secret conspirator asks the usurper’s minions, ‘Is the king in his
countinghouse?’ Here the speaker does not believe that the intended referent is
king, nor perhaps that there is a king, and hence does not believe that these
propositions are commonly believed in the context; nonetheless, it is presupposed
that the referent is king and that there is exactly one king.5
Acceptance, however,
cannot be invoked all the way down; the account is given in terms of common belief
about what is commonly accepted, because only the more speciﬁc category of belief
has the required explanatory links with behaviour.
Thus, this is the ﬁnal account. We ﬁrst deﬁne a proposition p to be in the common
ground in a group G—CGG(p)—and then we deﬁne speaker presupposition:
(CGG) CGG(p) if and only if it is common belief in G that everybody accepts p.
(SpP) Speaker S presupposes p (relative to G) if and only if S believes that CGG(p).
Stalnaker (1973: 451; 1974: 50) then deﬁnes the notion of sentence presupposition in the
following terms:
(SnP) Sentence S presupposes p if and only if the use of S would for some reason be
inappropriate unless the speaker presupposed p.
Stalnaker (1978) complements this analysis of presuppositions with an equally inﬂu-
ential analysis of assertion, in which an assertion is a proposal to update the common
ground which, if accepted, is ‘added’ to it (ie, it then becomes common belief that
every participant accepts the assertion). Stalnaker further combined the two accounts
to suggest intuitively plausible explanations of some aspects of the projecting
5
I believe this is an intuitively correct characterization of what is presupposed in this case, which I take
to be a referential use of the description; in general, as I argue in García-Carpintero (2000), all cases of
reference involve ‘identiﬁcation’ presuppositions.
Insinuating Information and Accommodating Presupposition 219
behaviour we presented in the previous section. Stalnaker’s contribution (together
with the related independent work of Lauri Karttunen (1974)) was the origin of the
new important tradition of Dynamic Semantics (DS), developed for example in Heim
(1983/2002), Beaver (2001), and von Fintel (2004). This tradition has the resources to
provide the account we were after at the end of section 12.2. Unlike the traditional
account of presuppositions as conditions of the truth or falsity of statements, it can
explain the selective projection behaviour we have seen to be characteristic of
presuppositions, and it can distinguish them from conventional implicatures,
accounting also for the adequacy of von Fintel’s test. Last but not least, when properly
elaborated, the account provided in the DS tradition also has the resources to explain
the phenomenon of non-catastrophic presupposition failure (see von Fintel 2004).
Geurts (1999: 17) is, however, correct in pointing out the important conceptual
differences between the DS tradition and Stalnaker’s viewpoint, which in fact go to
the heart of the main issues I want to discuss here. Renouncing Stalnaker’s Gricean
reductive aims, in this tradition, presuppositions are taken to be, both with respect to
their triggering and projecting behaviour, a constitutive feature of the semantics of
natural language expressions.6
Let us be a bit more clear and explicit about the differences between Stalnaker’s
‘pragmatic’ view and the ‘semantic’ one I want to defend here. As Stalnaker (1974: 61)
notes, there are two contrasting ways of understanding the semantic/pragmatics
divide. In the truth-conditional account, semantics deals with the truth-conditions
of sentences, and the truth-conditional import of expressions. It is in this sense that
presuppositions understood as conditions for the truth or falsity of sentences are said
to be a semantic phenomenon. An important strand of Stalnaker’s early defence of a
pragmatic account was to oppose such a ‘semantic’ conception; for reasons men-
tioned in the previous section (non-catastrophic failure, projection behaviour),
I think that this opposition was well aimed. However, as I have argued in detail
elsewhere,7
the truth-conditional way of tracing the semantic/pragmatic divide is not
theoretically useful, because it displaces from the purview of semantics facts that
should be studied alongside those that are kept there: among others, semantically
driven context-dependence, semantics for conventional indicators of speech acts
such as the interrogative and imperative mood, and, indeed (if the view promoted
later is correct), certain presuppositional facts.
6
Geurts (1999: 14) distances himself from Dynamic Semantics on account of its betrayal of Stalnaker’s
truly pragmatic stance, and, like Stalnaker, he helps himself to the notion of expression-presupposition,
deﬁned in normative terms on the basis of the pragmatic notion of speaker presupposition. Unlike
Stalnaker, Geurts also appeals to unexplained normative notions in characterizing speaker presupposition:
‘a speaker who presupposes something incurs a commitment . . . regardless whether he really believes what
he presupposes’ (Geurts 1999: 11). Consequently, I think that his understanding of the pragmatic stance is
closer to the one to be adopted here, than to Stalnaker’s own.
7
See García-Carpintero (2001, 2004, 2006).
220 García-Carpintero
On a different constitutive understanding of the divide, linguistics in general
purports to theoretically characterize the constitutive facts about natural languages
(to put it indirectly, the linguistic competence of speakers), and semantics is a part of
linguistics dealing with meaning facts constitutive of natural languages. This is,
I think, the conception of the divide that Grice (1975) had in mind when he tried
to account for the apparent asymmetric, non-truth-conditional behaviour of con-
junction or referential uses of descriptions as generalized conversational implica-
tures, that is, as ‘pragmatic’ features. Although his views here are complex,8
I take this
also to be Grice’s (1981) own view on the presuppositional phenomena we are
discussing here. Having noted the two different interpretations of the divide, Stalna-
ker (1974: 61) points out that he is mainly arguing for a pragmatic account of
presuppositions only on the ﬁrst understanding, but also notes that his arguments
have repercussions for the issue taken in the second interpretation: while he is open
to the possibility that in some cases ‘one may just have to write presupposition
constraints into the dictionary entry for a particular word’ (61), he conjectures ‘that
one can explain many presupposition constraints in terms of general conversational
rules without building anything about presuppositions into the meanings of particu-
lar words or constructions’ (61).
In fact, although, as we have seen, Stalnaker introduced (reluctantly) the notion of
sentence presupposition (SnP) in his early writings, and still assumes it in recent
writing, he has repeatedly expresses qualms about it: both due to the unexplained
appeal to the normative notion of inappropriateness and because it suggests the
existence of a ‘mysterious relation X’ between sentences and propositions worthy
of analysis, whereas ‘we don’t need the mysterious relation X to describe the
phenomena, and it does not make any contribution to explaining them’ (Stalnaker
2002: 712–13).9
We may say that Gricean generalized conversational implicature
accounts of referential uses of descriptions or manifest non-truth-conditional asym-
metries in conjunctions are not simply reductionist, but in fact eliminativist vis-à-vis
semantic accounts of those phenomena, on the second understanding of the divide:
although it is acknowledged that deﬁnite descriptions and conjunctions are in fact
commonly used in those ways, it is claimed that a semantic theory should not
encompass them. This is the way I understand in this chapter the label ‘(Gricean)
eliminativist view’ of the phenomenon of presupposition, and I apply it to writers
such as Böer and Lycan (1976), Levinson (1983), and, indeed, Grice (1981). The
proposal is not to deny the phenomenon altogether, but only the need for a semantic
8
Bezuidenhout (2010) provides a good discussion of Grice’s views on this matter.
9
We ﬁnd claims along these lines already in his earlier writings: ‘the facts can be stated and explained
directly in terms of the underlying notion of speaker presupposition, and without introducing an
intermediate notion of presupposition as a relation holding between sentences (or statements) and
propositions’ (Stalnaker 1974: 50).
Insinuating Information and Accommodating Presupposition 221
account for it. Presuppositions do exist, but they can be accounted for without
including them in our theoretical constitutive characterization of natural languages.
The Stalnakerian view of presuppositions, in contrast to the DS view, is ultimately
eliminativist in this sense.10
This stance was present from the beginning, but the
emphasis is stronger in more recent work:
[O]ne might deﬁne a notion of sentence presupposition in terms of speaker presupposition,
but . . . the attempt to do so would be a distraction, and would not yield any theoretically useful
notion (Stalnaker 2010: 150).
In the next section I will critically examine these contentions. While I will essentially
agree with Stalnaker that presupposition is a pragmatic, not semantic, phenomenon in
the truth-conditional sense, ultimately having to do with the propositional attitudes of
speakers, I will ﬁnd reasons to question his Gricean eliminativist stance, and hence to
reject that it is a pragmatic phenomenon also on the constitutive account.
12.4. The problem of accommodating accommodation
As Stalnaker (1973: 449; 1974: 51–2) noted in his early writings, it is common for
speakers to communicate a piece of information by uttering a sentence that presup-
poses it. These are real life examples from Abbott (2008):
(12.23) The leaders of the militant homophile movement in America generally have
been young people. It was they who fought back during a violent police raid
on a Greenwich Village bar in 1969, an incident from which many gays date
the birth of the modern crusade for homosexual rights.
(12.24) If you’re going into the bedroom, would you mind bringing back the big bag
of potato chips that I left on the bed?
Speakers who utter sentences (12.23) and (12.24) do not typically assume their
presuppositions—that some people fought back during a violent police raid on a
Greenwich Village bar in 1969, and that there is exactly one big bag of potato chips
that the speaker left on the bed, respectively—to be in the common ground. To utter
10
In recent work, Philippe Schlenker (2008a, 2009) has advanced several new theoretical proposals,
which he advertises as Stalnakerian alternatives to DS: with regard to both the Projection and the
Triggering issues, Schlenker contends that his proposals are pragmatic, not semantic. Schlenker is not
clear whether he has in mind the truth-conditional or the constitutive view of the semantic/pragmatic
divide, but I assume it must be the ﬁrst one. His ‘Local Contexts’ proposal (Schlenker 2009)—which offers
interesting solutions to well-known problems of DS theories with quantiﬁed or disjunctive sentences—
assumes a bivalent, non-dynamic semantics for connectives and quantiﬁers, and thus counts as ‘non-
semantic’ on the truth-conditional view. However, exactly as in DS, the account straightforwardly assumes
that presuppositions are calculated in a compositional way ‘locally’, that is, with respect to phrases that are
proper parts of the whole sentence. This is why, I take it, Stalnaker (2010: 149–51) distances himself from
Schlenker’s proposals.
222 García-Carpintero
sentences with those presuppositions is just an expedient resource for them to inform
their audiences of such contents, plus the assertion, woven together in a terse
package. That the contents are nonetheless presupposed is shown by the ‘Hey, wait
a minute!’ test—even though a ‘Hey, wait a minute!’ objection in these cases might
feel, even if literally adequate, pedantic, smug, or otherwise unco-operative—just like
it feels to fail to grasp a manifest implicature.11
The examples above help us to appreciate the ordinariness of the phenomenon,
but it is better to have a simpler case for discussion.12
We assume that the speaker
utters (12.25) in the knowledge that his audience knows nothing about his family:
(12.25) I cannot come to the meeting—I have to pick up my sister at the airport.
The ‘Hey, wait a minute!’ test shows again the presence of the presupposition that
the speaker has a sister (in addition to others, such that there is a salient airport, and
so on, but we will focus on this), even if, as before, precisely to the extent that
speakers are entitled to assume that the presupposition will be accommodated
without further ado by ordinary audiences, it would feel awkward if somebody
objected to it with the ‘Hey, wait a minute . . . ’ complaint. (It would feel much better
if the speaker had made the utterance with ‘my lover’ replacing ‘my sister’.) These are
cases where speakers exploit what Lewis (1979) called the ‘Rule of Accommodation
for Presuppositions’, which he characterized as follows:
(RA) If at time t something is said that requires presupposition p to be acceptable,
and if p is not presupposed just before t, then—ceteris paribus and within
certain limits—presupposition p comes into existence at t.
Cases in which a ‘Hey, wait a minute . . . ’ complaint is actually made, which the ‘my
lover’ variant illustrates, explain the need for the hedge: the hearer is not always
prepared to accommodate. Now, the initial problem for Stalnaker’s account that
cases of informative presupposition pose is as follows: (i) as he acknowledges (1973:
449; 1974: 51–2), a presupposition is present;13
however, (at ﬁrst sight at least) (ii) the
speaker does not presuppose it, on Stalnaker’s characterization, because he does not
believe that his audience accepts it; while (iii) the fact that cases like these are
11
On the view that I will defend later, an informative presupposition is similar to an implicature: the
speaker uses a device that conventionally presupposes something without himself presupposing it, but
rather volunteering it as a piece of (background) information; there is a semantic presupposition without a
corresponding speaker presupposition. Tests like von Fintel’s directly tract our linguistic intuitions, which
by themselves do not distinguish semantic from pragmatic matters. Hence, I do not give much weight to
the suggestion that the test could nonetheless be deployed to manifest the presence of the presupposition
even in these cases among the sufﬁciently enlightened. (Thanks to Chris Gauker here.)
12
Stalnaker (1974: 52 n 2) attributes the following example to Jerry Sadock.
13
Kadmon (2001: 219–21) describes these, instead, as cases of presupposition ‘disappearance’, on the
basis of her characterization of presuppositions as propositions ‘intuitively felt to be taken for granted’. But
I think this is a bad choice, based on a bad, manifestly over-generating characterization.
Insinuating Information and Accommodating Presupposition 223
commonplace suggests that there is nothing inappropriate in their use, and certainly
nothing feels inappropriate about them.
Although he has been aware of the issue all along, only in recent work has
Stalnaker confronted it squarely, arguing that in fact these cases are not at odds
with his account, because only at ﬁrst sight is (ii) correct: when the proper time at
which the presupposition is to be accepted is considered, it turns out that the speaker
is presupposing the relevant content. In what follows, I will critically discuss the
adequacy of his arguments endorsed by writers sympathetic to Stalnaker’s pragmatic
account such as Simons (2003: 267–8) and Schlenker (2012, 397-8).14, 15
Stalnaker (2002: 708–9) points out that utterances themselves are manifest events,
which become part of the common ground. Given that speakers take advantage of
this, speakers’ presuppositions should only be satisﬁed at a ‘(perhaps somewhat
idealized) point after the utterance event has taken place, but before it has been
accepted or rejected’. Stalnaker (1998: 101) motivates this with a convincing example:
The point of a speech act . . . is to change the context, and since the way the speech act is
supposed to change the context depends on its content, interpretation must be done in the
prior context—the context as it is before the assertion is accepted, and its content added to
what is presupposed. But the prior context cannot be the context as it was before the speaker
began to speak. Suppose Phoebe says ‘I saw an interesting movie last night’. To determine the
content of her remark, one needs to know who is speaking, and so Phoebe, if she is speaking
appropriately, must be presuming that the information that she is speaking is available to her
audience—that is shared information. But she need not presume that this information was
available before she began to speak. The prior context that is relevant to the interpretation of a
speech act is the context as it is changed by the fact that the speech act was made, but prior to
the acceptance or rejection of the speech act.16
Stalnaker thus rejects (ii) in the characterization of the problem given earlier: the
attitudes constitutive of speaker presupposition on his account were there after all—not
14
Simons (2003: 267–9), who shares Stalnaker’s eliminativist leanings, shows that more complex
sentences may pose difﬁculties for Stalnaker’s ‘idealized time’ strategy that is described below. In more
recent work (Simons, ms.), in which she deepens her eliminativist viewpoint, she doubts that the strategy
might sufﬁce to account for informative presuppositions, on the basis of considerations related to the ones
developed below.
15
In his insightful discussion of accommodation (to which I am much indebted), von Fintel (2008)
makes heavy use of Stalnaker’s point about the proper time at which presuppositions should be satisﬁed by
the common ground. However, his view of presuppositions differs from Stalnaker’s precisely on the matter
we are discussing: he accepts semantically triggered presuppositions (2008: 138). There is no problem at all
in accepting that speakers do make the relevant presuppositions, acknowledging Stalnaker’s claim about
the time when they should be accepted, if in the cases under discussion they were semantically triggered.
The problem originates in Stalnaker’s claim that the same applies even if there is no linguistic trigger in the
sentences. My account of accommodation in the next section is very close to von Fintel’s.
16
The point was in fact made earlier by Stalnaker (1978: 86): ‘the context on which assertion has its
essential effect is not deﬁned by what is presupposed before the speaker begins to speak, but will include
any information which the speaker assumes his audience can infer from the performance of the speech act’.
224 García-Carpintero
relative to the time before the speaker made his utterance, which is not after all when
they should be present, but to the ‘somewhat idealized time’ at which they are required.
Now, although Stalnaker’s contention about the time when the speakers’ attitudes
he takes to be constitutive of presuppositions should (ideally) be present is undoubt-
edly correct—as the Phoebe example clearly shows—this, by itself, does not sufﬁce to
account for informative presuppositions in an eliminativist setting; in assuming that
it does, Stalnaker begs the main question at stake. For our present purposes, the two
times in idealized interpretation—one after the utterance ends, when the presuppos-
itions are checked, before the second one at which acceptance or rejection of the
assertion is decided—exist insofar as the presuppositions do: presuppositions are just
those contents considered at the ﬁrst moment in ideal interpretation.17
What is at
stake in this debate, however, is whether there are cases in which they are semantic-
ally triggered. They are not in all cases: there clearly are ‘pragmatically’ triggered
presuppositions, for which the two ideal moments nonetheless also exist (as when the
husband tells his wife out of the blue at breakfast, ‘they should have left earlier’,
assuming information about their guests last night to ﬁx the referent of ‘they’). What
is here in question is whether their presence can be accounted for ‘pragmatically’ in
all cases, including those that at ﬁrst sight require a semantic trigger, such as the ‘my
sister’ case. Stalnaker assumes the presence of the two moments in all cases, including
those without a semantic trigger (a ‘mysterious relation X’), and in so doing he begs
the question as to whether, in the cases under dispute, the existence of the two
separate moments in idealized interpretation can be duly justiﬁed.18
What is at stake is whether informative presuppositions are compatible with the
Gricean eliminativist stance that Stalnaker ultimately professes. Even if he declares
himself open to the existence of conventional triggers, Stalnaker (2002: 713–14)
presses for the eliminativist stance:
Suppose we assume that the semantics tells us exactly this about the sentence ‘I have to pick up
my sister at the airport’: it is true if and only if the speaker has a sister whom he or she has to
pick up at the airport, and false otherwise. So we are supposing that the semantics tells us
nothing either about relation X, or about what speakers must take to be common ground. Are
there facts about the use of the sentence that cannot be explained by this semantic hypothesis,
together with general conversational rules?
This is a rhetorical question. But the facts of informative presupposition suggest that
the answer is ‘yes’, disappointing the rhetorically conveyed expectations.
The Phoebe example does support Stalnaker’s claim about the time when speakers
should believe that their presuppositions are accepted; but, in the context of our
17
Information in addition to presuppositions, such as ‘that Phoebe is speaking’, is also added at the ﬁrst
moment, and this is not a presupposition. (Thanks to Andreas Stokke here.)
18
Gauker (2008a: 185) makes a similar point.
Insinuating Information and Accommodating Presupposition 225
dialectics, the his problem is that the presupposition in the example (that x is the
unique utterer of ‘I’) might well be as much conventionally (semantically) triggered,
as the one in (12.25) we are discussing. It rings true that, at a ‘somewhat idealized
time’ after the utterance, before acceptance or rejection of the main assertoric claim—
that x saw an interesting movie last night—the presupposition that x is the unique
utterer of ‘I’ must be accepted. But this might well be induced by the semantics of the
sentence, and this is certainly what partisans of Stalnaker’s rival account of presup-
positions would want to say.19
In the context of the present dialectics, Stalnaker
should rather have considered an utterance of, say, ‘there is exactly one agent of this
very utterance, and s/he saw an interesting movie last night’ (which articulates for
this case the semantically given truth-conditions he considers for (12.25) in the
quotation two paragraphs back). Would an ideal interpretation of that utterance
require two different interpretative ‘moments’: an earlier one at which a speaker
presupposition identifying an individual as the agent of the speech is checked, and a
later one at which acceptance or rejection of the claim that that individual saw an
interesting movie is decided? I do not see why: in this case, those two propositions are
part of a single assertoric content, the one to be considered in the second moment. By
parity of reasoning, the same applies to the case in dispute of (12.25) on Stalnaker’s
assumptions about what the semantics tells us. Simply taking for granted that the ideal
moment in question exists even on eliminativist assumptions begs the question at
issue: for it simply assumes, without independent justiﬁcation, that the presupposi-
tional requirement is somehow triggered even without conventional indicators.
12.5. Accommodation in a semantic account of presupposing
As I have already mentioned, although accounts of presupposition such as Heim’s
(1983/2002), Beaver’s (2001) and perhaps even Geurts’s (1999) are in the spirit of
Stalnaker’s, they outright abandon his eliminativist leanings. Presupposing is a
pragmatic notion in the truth-conditional sense, but not in the constitutive one,
involving attitudes of speakers. Presuppositions can be triggered in different ways,
even when standardly associated with sentence-types—allowing for conventional
triggering in such cases, but not requiring it. These accounts explicitly assume that
there are conventional indicators of presuppositions (such as the cleft construction or
deﬁnite descriptions), which a semantic theory should properly take into consider-
ation, perhaps in its lexical semantics component.
To give an account of what happens in the case of informative presuppositions on
the basis of such assumptions is relatively straightforward. Conventionally (and
semantically, on the constitutive view of the semantics/pragmatics divide), whoever
19
García-Carpintero (2000) promotes such a view about the semantics of indexicals, demonstratives,
and proper names.
226 García-Carpintero
utters ‘Who the heck would want to see that ﬁlm?’ is asking a question, but the
speaker is in fact asserting something. Conventionally, and semantically, an utterance
of ‘Paul is a good friend’ is an assertion that Paul is a good friend; in some contexts, it
might be perfectly clear that the speaker is not making such an assertion, but in fact
one with a contrary content. Conventionally, and semantically, ‘Thanks for not
browsing our magazines’ is an expression of gratitude, but when we ﬁnd an utterance
of it in a train station kiosk, we know that its author was doing no such thing, but in
fact making a request. Conventionally, and semantically, the sentence with which
George Eliot opens Middlemarch, ‘Miss Brooke had that kind of beauty which seems
to be thrown into relief by poor dress’, presupposes the existence of a speciﬁc ‘Miss
Brooke’ naming practice, on which she relies for the purpose of identifying a person
about whose beauty she makes a claim; but Eliot is neither presupposing nor
asserting, she is just putting her audience in the position to imagine something.
Something similar happens in cases of informative presuppositions. Speakers who
utter ‘I cannot come to the meeting—I have to pick up my sister at the airport’ or
‘I am sorry I am late—my car broke down’, use sentences that conventionally and
semantically presuppose that they have a sister and a car, respectively, and they
themselves as speakers might be presupposing it: for instance (if this is what
presupposing ultimately is, which I have not discussed here), they might be assuming
that they are performing an act—ancillary to their main speech act—which is correct
if, and only if, it is mutually known to all involved that he has a sister, or a car. But in
the cases of informative presuppositions we have been discussing, they are doing no
such thing, because they know fully well that such a requirement is not met. They are
rather relying on their audiences’ awareness of the presuppositional requirement
conventionally attached to the form of words they are using, and their awareness that
in their context the requirement is not met, the speaker knows that it is not, knows
that the audience knows that it is not, and so on and so forth, in order indirectly to
provide them with those pieces of non-controversial background information in a
conveniently brief and non-verbose way.20, 21
This is thus my diagnosis of the case of informative presuppositions, vis-à-vis the
triad I used in the previous section to describe Stalnaker’s difﬁculty: (i) semantically,
a presupposition is present; (ii) the speaker is not presupposing, for he knows very
well that the relevant proposition is not common knowledge, but he is not doing
20
I take it that these are all examples of indirect speech acts, which is the way I propose to understand
informative presuppositions (remember that I take presupposition and reference to be ancillary speech
acts). Some of those cases are described in the literature as non-literal uses—a category I would rather
reserve for metaphors and loose talk. Whatever the best classiﬁcation of the preceding examples is, I would
suggest to include in it informative presuppositions.
21
The proposal thus provides an elaboration or explanation of Lewis’ RA, the Rule of Accommodation
for presuppositions. The way ‘presupposition p comes into existence at t’ is by its being added to the
common ground as an indirect assertion, perhaps of background or uncontroversial material. (Thanks to
Anne Bezuidenhout for pointing this out.)
Insinuating Information and Accommodating Presupposition 227
anything incorrect; (iii) there is nothing inappropriate in it, exactly in the way that
there is nothing such in all those analogous examples of indirection we have just
mentioned.22
As Karttunen (1974: 412) puts it, ‘[t]his is one way in which we
communicate indirectly, convey matters without discussing them.’ Stalnaker (1974:
51–2; compare 1973: 451) also accounts for these cases essentially in this way: ‘In such a
case, a speaker tells his auditor something in part by pretending that his auditor
already knows it.’ But I have argued that there are serious objections to his claim that
such a ‘pretending’ can be accounted for if there is no ‘mysterious relation X’, that is,
that Stalnaker cannot stick to his quoted diagnosis consistently with his reductionist
leanings.
In the foregoing sketch of an account, I have been assuming that Grice’s model for
conversational implicatures can be extended to account for indirect speech acts in
general. To do that, we should make two revisions. Firstly, the derivation of the
indirect act starts with the conventional semantic meaning of the utterance. This
includes not just what is traditionally regarded as semantic content (or perhaps
merely constraints on content, to be contextually elaborated), but also information
about the type of speech act indicated by the mood, and semantic presuppositions.
The speaker may or may not make a speech act with a force and a content ﬁtting this
semantically conveyed information; in a rhetorical question or an ironical remark, he
will not. Secondly, Grice’s maxims, particularly those of quality, were formulated
aiming to account for discourses consisting of utterances in the declarative mood and
conveying assertions. Consider, instead, the case of a rhetorical question, such as an
ordinary utterance, ‘Who on Earth wants to read this book?’. Here, no adequate
derivation can depart from the premise that (say) the speaker said something untrue
or for which he did not have sufﬁcient evidence, because the speaker was using a
conventional expression for asking, as opposed to saying anything properly evaluable
as true or otherwise. Consider alternatively a case in which, by placing a token of
‘Thanks for not browsing our journals’ at a newsstand, the speaker conveys the
request not to browse the journals. Here, for analogous reasons, the derivation
cannot conclude by ﬁnding a proposition to the truth of which the speaker can be
understood to be committing himself.23
Simons (ms.) has recently provided an eliminativist account alternative to Stalna-
ker’s. On her account, the basic concept is utterance presupposition; it is used to
deﬁne both speaker presupposition and an etiolated notion of sentence presupposition
along the lines of Stalnaker’s. Simons deﬁnes utterance U presupposes p as follows:
22
This is, I take it, the picture presented by von Fintel (2008: 151).
23
A full account of those cases should proceed from a theory of the nature of the speech acts involved
(the question/expression of gratitude, in the previous examples), and develop from it alternative maxims
corresponding to Grice’s. For the case of implicatures conveying questions, or conveyed with sentences
semantically expressing questions, Braun (2011) develops an interesting proposal.
228 García-Carpintero
(i) it is not part of the speaker’s primary communicative intention to convey p, and
(ii) the interpreter of U must take the speaker of U to accept p in order to make sense
of U. Now, prima facie informative presuppositions—especially those in which the
intuitively primary point of the speaker is to convey the presupposition, as in the
notorious exchange: ‘The new boss is attractive—yes, his wife thinks so too’24
—
constitute a counterexample to this proposal. Simons deals with this by explaining
that she does not mean ‘primary’ in any intuitive sense, but in a technical one: on her
view, in such cases ‘the speaker is being intentionally indirect, and is exploiting the
presuppositional requirements of the utterance . . . when a speaker produces an
utterance with the speciﬁc intention of communicating what is presupposed, this
intention must be viewed as a secondary intention. This is why the deﬁnition above
refers to the speaker’s primary communicative intention’ (Simons, ms.: 20–1).
Now, on the sort of semantic proposal I have been making, Simons’ primary
intention is not at all difﬁcult to cash out: it is just the intention of conveying the
conventional/semantic content of the utterance, and the previous Gricean account
elaborates in which ways the speaker is being indirect in conveying, as a secondary
intention, the informative presupposition.25
In other words, such a semantically
based account has the resources for non-circularly explaining the crucial notion
that Simons appeals to, that of exploiting the presuppositional requirements of the
utterance. But she does not explain how the same result can be obtained given her
eliminativist stance. The problem is how to establish, without the semantic assump-
tion, that conveying that the new boss has a wife is not part of the ‘speaker’s primary
communicative intention’, in her technical sense. It is not, she says, because it is part
of the ‘presupposition requirements’ of the utterance; but where do such require-
ments come from, if they are supposed to consist merely of psychological attitudes of
the speakers and their interpreters? Once again, we are confronted with an elimina-
tivist proposal that appears to beg the main question at stake.
24
Alan Ryan’s review of John Stuart Mill: Victorian Firebrand (‘The Passionate Hero, Then and Now’,
New York Review of Books, 2011: 19, 60) contains the following quotation from the book with a nice real life
example; it refers to Mill’s ﬁrst encounter with Harriet Taylor, who would become his very special friend
for twenty years until the death of her husband, and then his wife: ‘In many ways, it was not a surprising
match. Harriet Taylor was intelligent, pretty, vivacious, progressive, open-minded and poetic. But his
admiration was shared by others—not least by her two children, and her husband’. I assume that this is the
ﬁrst indication in the book that Harriet was married and had two children.
25
From the point of view of the present account, Simons’ use of ‘primary’ and ‘secondary’ may be a little
confusing; on Searle’s (1975) well-known account of indirect speech acts, the act conventionally indicated
(the means) is the secondary one, and the one indirectly made (the ultimate goal) the primary one. (Thanks
to Anna Bezuidenhout here.)
Insinuating Information and Accommodating Presupposition 229
This page intentionally left blank
Part III
Experimenting with Brevity
This page intentionally left blank
13
‘Be brief’: From Necessity to Choice*
EVE V. CLARK AND CHIGUSA KURUMADA
13.1. Introduction
Adults introduce infants very early to co-operative exchanges. They impose ‘turns’
on infants, waiting for a smile, gurgle, or burp, for instance, to count as the infant’s
contribution (Snow 1977). By the time children produce their ﬁrst words, around
age one, adults have upped the ante and will wait for a babble or even a word
before counting any child action as a contribution. It is in these interactional
exchanges that children start using language. Their contributions are interpreted
and recast by adult interlocutors as something relevant to what is going on. This
suggests that infants are exposed very early to basic Gricean co-operation, and that
they grasp certain properties of turn taking before they even begin to talk. The next
step is for them to come to understand how co-operation applies in everyday
conversation, and what kinds of linguistic and non-linguistic information count in
an exchange.
The Co-operative Principle is made up of four main maxims that govern conver-
sational exchanges (Grice 1989). One of these is the maxim of manner, which includes
brevity as a sub-maxim, in Grice’s words, ‘Be brief (avoid unnecessary prolixity)’.
This maxim has two faces: brevity pertains both to the form of the utterance
produced and to what information the words chosen actually convey. So each
utterance should be designed to be as brief as possible consistent with the amount
of information to be conveyed. Speakers therefore need to assess what would count as
an appropriate, relevant contribution while avoiding redundancy in what they
convey. For example, in answering a question like ‘Where’re your shoes?’, the
addressee could simply point at them, or could point and say ‘There’, or, in a
somewhat fuller version, say ‘My shoes are under that chair against the wall’. This
* We would like to thank Laurence Goldstein, Ira Noveck, Julie Sedivy, and Matthew Stone for their
helpful comments on an earlier version of this chapter.
last option is much more detailed than the ﬁrst two, and appears to contain a lot of
information that would not necessarily be needed unless, for instance, the addressee
was in the next room and so unable to see what the speaker was talking about.
The ability to make a brief, and maximally informative, contribution is a skill
that one has to acquire in becoming a full-ﬂedged speaker of a language. Even
advanced second-language speakers often fail to achieve this: they will use lexical
noun phrases instead of pronouns for second mentions, or fail to drop a verb
argument mentioned earlier (in a pro-drop language). While many studies have
focused on children’s acquisition of constructions, we know much less about
how children calibrate their utterances to minimize redundancy in what they say.
There is extensive research on children’s omission of subjects, but this has been
variously attributed to (i) misrepresentations of the target grammar (e.g., Hyams
1986), (ii) a bottleneck in processing (Bloom et al. 1975; Pinker 1984; Bloom 1990;
Valian 1991), or (iii) a constraint on learning (Freudenthal et al. 2002). Little is
known about how or when children begin to choose concise forms in production.
A few recent studies suggest that communicative efﬁciency is present quite early
on, so this too may play a role in the process of acquisition (Valian et al. 2006). In
this chapter, we consider how children develop the ability as speakers to make their
contributions both short and informative.
In the earlier stages of language acquisition, young children produce only one-word
utterances, so it should actually be easy for them to observe the maxim ‘Be brief’. But
such brief contributions are not necessarily the most comprehensible, nor the most
relevant in context. And single words may not be speciﬁc enough for the adult to grasp
the child’s intended meaning. Only several months after beginning to produce recog-
nizable words do children produce sequences of two or more words (e.g., Veneziano
et al. 1990). With longer utterances, they can offer more information, but their meaning
may still be hard to understand, especially out of context. Children take longer still
before they consistently add grammatical morphemes and master speciﬁc syntactic
constructions, both of which help addressees understand better what young children
intend to say (Clark 2009). As they get older, of course, the average length of their
utterances goes up. How does this affect the brevity of their contributions?
We propose in this chapter that children have to learn how to observe the maxim
‘Be brief ’ in making relevant contributions to an exchange. Their initial brevity, of
course, is inadvertent and stems primarily from lack of linguistic skill. In learning to
be brief by choice, we suggest that children go through several stages, starting from
their production of one word at a time until they reach a point when they may
contribute more than they need to (spill out whatever you know about X). Only after
this do they begin to select the information actually needed in context, and so come
to observe the maxim ‘Be brief ’ in a more appropriate way, by providing just enough
information to offer an effective contribution.
234 Clark and Kurumada
13.2. The Co-operative Principle and its maxims
Speakers usually try to be informative in conversations. One way to characterize this
cooperative stance is to propose that they adhere to what Grice named the Co-
operative Principle: ‘Make your conversational contribution such as is required, at
the stage at which it occurs, by the accepted purpose or direction of the talk exchange
in which you are engaged’ (Grice 1989). That is, speakers keep track of where each
exchange is going, at each step along the way, and of the apparent purpose or goal
driving the exchange. And they tailor their contributions to ﬁt these goals.
In deciding how to tailor their utterances, speakers also keep in mind how readily
their addressees can compute their intended meaning at each point in the exchange.
Grice proposed several more speciﬁc maxims that capture parts of the Co-operative
Principle. We have listed these in Table 13.1. While our concern here is with ‘Be brief’,
part of the Maxim of Manner, brevity itself is not independent of the other aspects of
Manner. It is also intrinsically related to the other maxims that help make up the Co-
operative Principle, in particular, to Relation (be relevant) and Quantity (be as
informative as needed). So in focusing on how children learn to ‘be brief ’, we will
also take up, as needed, the notions of being relevant and being informative, since
both contribute in a fundamental fashion to some of the changes observable in how
the Maxim of Manner changes during development.
13.3. ‘Be brief’ in conversation
Consider how speakers who endeavour to be brief rely on two basic principles as they
contribute turns to an exchange:
TABLE 13.1. The Maxims that constitute the Co-operative Principle
Maxim of Quantity
1. Make your contribution as informative as required (for the current purposes of the
exchange).
2. Do not make your contribution more informative than is required.
Maxim of Quality
1. Do not say what you believe to be false.
2. Do not say that for which you lack adequate evidence.
Maxim of Relation
1. Be relevant.
Maxim of Manner
1. Avoid obscurity of expression
2. Avoid ambiguity
3. Be brief
4. Be orderly
‘Be brief’: From Necessity to Choice 235
(a) Content: Minimize redundancy in what you say.
In other words, don’t repeat too much of what someone else has already said. This
implies that one should answer questions with the relevant information only, and
contribute new information that adds to what is already in common ground. (This is
where ‘Be brief’ will always interact with the maxim of Relation.)
(b) Form: Communicate efﬁciently in what you say.
That is, one must attend to the context and to the needs of the other participants in
any exchange. This requires that one make sure they understand what one is saying,
that one keep to the point while remaining clear. In essence, observe ‘Be brief ’ while
also observing the Maxim of Quantity.
In attending to (a) and (b), as in every exchange, adults depend on common
ground (Clark 1996). They draw on or establish common ground at the start of an
exchange, and then accumulate further common ground throughout the course of
the exchange. In doing this, speakers ideally keep track of what the other participants
know at each point, and of what the current speaker is adding that is new. Most
adults can observe (a) and (b) quite effectively much of the time (although we have all
encountered exceptions).
Brevity plays a role in the decisions adult speakers make in conversation: they can
choose to be co-operative in conversation, in answering questions, for example, or in
giving clear, well-organized directions. In both these cases, brevity should contribute
to better understanding by the addressee, because, as Grice pointed out, pragmatic
inferences are derived based on the assumption that the speaker should offer only the
key information needed, and not lots of extras (Frank and Goodman 2012). But there
can be trade-offs: some redundancy is often helpful, for example, when information
is repeated by way of a reminder. When the information is complicated, terseness
throughout may lead to obscurity and greater difﬁculty in comprehension. In
essence, the speaker must keep track of what is already given (and therefore in
common ground), what can be inferred or implicated, and what is therefore expected
in the next move. There’s a balance in providing the information needed, in a manner
designed to be easily understood and assimilated to what the addressee already
knows, that poses a challenge for children to acquire (and for adults to use). Children
must learn how to package information, on each occasion, so as to best serve their
addressee(s) in providing what is needed at that point in the exchange.
How do children observe ‘Be brief ’ as they plan and produce their contributions in
conversational exchanges? To make effective use of ‘Be brief ’, they must entertain
some notion that they are communicating information by using language, and
so supply what is needed (to the extent possible) at each step in an exchange. In
this, the observance of ‘Be brief ’ is not always easily distinguished from Quantity and
Relation.
236 Clark and Kurumada
13.4. One-word utterances
What does adult–child interaction look like when children can produce only one
word at a time? Adults typically attend closely to the physical and linguistic contexts,
and offer interpretations that appear to make sense on that occasion. For example,
adult reformulations of one-word utterances typically take account of what is
happening in the physical context and the timing of the child’s utterance in relation
to the target event (see Clark and de Marneffe 2012). And while adults often appear
to be correct in their interpretations of their children’s intentions at the one-word
stage, they can misunderstand or be wrong on occasion too. Compare the exchanges
in (13.1) and (13.2) (adapted from Scollon 1976: 54, 109):
(13.1) Brenda (1;7), held up Mother’s shoe and looked at it:
mama. mama. mama. mam.
sh. shi. sh. shiss. shoe. shoe. shoesh.
Adult: Shoes!
This exchange became successful only after the child had repeated the word ‘shoe’
with a variety of self-repairs to the form of the word in her attempts to make the word
itself recognizable—a necessary ﬁrst step in a successful exchange (see Golinkoff 1986
for some successful non-verbal repairs).
The exchange in (13.2) illustrates a failure to communicate—the adult doesn’t
recognize any of the words offered by the child, not even when she offers successive
alternatives as a way to get the adult ‘on topic’:
(13.2) Brenda (1;8): ca’. ca’. ca’. ca’.
Adult: What?
Brenda: go. go.
Adult: xxx [words not interpretable]
Brenda: be’sh. b’esh, be’sh. be’sh. be’sh. be’sh. be’sh. be’sh. be’sh.
Adult: What? Oh, bicycle? Is that what you said?
Brenda: na.
Adult: No?
Brenda: na.
Adult: No—I got it wrong.
Brenda’s repetitions of car (repeated four times), then go (repeated twice), then bus
(nine times), while apparently redundant in nature, were none of them recognizable
enough on that occasion for her addressee. (When transcribing the tape of this
exchange later on, Scollon noted that he could hear a bus outside and only then
identiﬁed the probable topic.) So the brevity induced by the limitation to single
words—words hard to identify and so nearly impossible to respond to—may result in
a failure of communication (see also Dromi 1987). Indeed, knowing what the context
‘Be brief’: From Necessity to Choice 237
is appears essential to both identifying and interpreting children’s single-word
utterances (Bloom 1973; Veneziano et al. 1990).
In general, joint attention and the physical setting where child and adult are co-
present, together sufﬁce for the child to introduce new topics by simply pointing, by
producing a single word, or both (Kelly 2011). Getting the adult’s attention on an
object or action is the precursor in many exchanges initiated by young children. This
is facilitated by the adult propensity to attend to whatever the child is already attending
to (e.g., Howe 1981; Tomasello 1995), but when the adult takes the initiative, getting one-
year-olds to attend can take both time and effort (Estigarribia and Clark 2007).
What do children choose to say when they are at the one-word stage? Researchers
have tried to classify one-word utterances in terms of the participant-roles words
pick out in context (e.g., Bloom 1973; Greenﬁeld and Smith 1976; Bates and Mac-
Whinney 1979). For example, one-year-olds may name the agent or actor in a
particular setting, as in (13.3) (Greenﬁeld and Smith 1976: 111):
(13.3) Matthew (1;7.21)—someone is making sounds outside;
and he labels the ‘agent’, his sister: Lara.
They also pick out other roles: patient, location, recipient. But the problem is that the
roles are identiﬁed in context from the adult’s point of view, and there is little
evidence for whether children conceive of roles in events in the same way (Schle-
singer 1974). Adults nonetheless follow up such child utterances and interpret them
as relevant contributions (e.g., Balog and Roberts 2004).
How do very young children generally manage in an exchange? They use their own
turns to ratify what the adult has just said, as in (13.4) (Veneziano 1997: 115) where
Camille ratiﬁes the information in her mother’s utterance by repeating papa:
(13.4) Camille (1;5.23, looking at a picture of a man’s face in a texture-book):
pik = pique ‘pricks’
Mother: oui ça pique comme la barbe de papa.
‘yes that pricks like papa’s beard’
Camille: papa.
That is, even when children initiate an exchange, which they do as often as two-thirds
of the time (Bloom et al. 1996), after their initial contribution, they typically follow up
the adult’s intervening turn by ratifying (part of) what the adult added. But they then
fail to add anything further themselves.
Initially, young children depend heavily on getting appropriate scaffolding from adults
to support their contributions to an exchange, as shown in (13.5) (Clark, diary data):
(13.5) Mother: Did you see Philip’s bird? Can you tell Herb?
Child (1;6.11, touching his head): head, head, head.
Mother: What landed on your head?
Child: bird.
238 Clark and Kurumada
This is illustrated particularly clearly in (13.6a) where a visitor, talking to Meredith
(1;6), lacked the common ground needed to supply the relevant scaffolding. Compare
this to what happened a few minutes later, in (13.6b), when Meredith’s mother
entered and immediately provided that common ground for scaffolding her daugh-
ter’s topic, band-aid (Snow 1977: 254–5):
(13.6) a. Meredith (1;6): band-aid.
Adult: Where’s your band-aid?
Meredith: band-aid.
Adult: Do you have a band-aid?
Meredith: band-aid.
Adult: Did you fall down and hurt yourself?
b. Meredith: band-aid.
Mother: Who gave you the band-aid?
Meredith: nurse.
Mother: Where did she put it?
Meredith: arm.
In conversations with young two-year-olds, the general pattern of ratifying what was
new in the adult’s prior utterance is very prevalent (see Veneziano et al. 1990; Clark
and Bernicot 2008). At the same time, since young children often fail to add new
information themselves, the main burden of moving the exchange on is typically
borne by the adult speaker. This is particularly clear early on, with adult scaffolding,
as in (13.5) and (13.6) above, as well as in many exchanges with two-year-olds (Clark
and Bernicot 2008). How, then, do children come to make competent and efﬁcient
contributions in conversation? This is what we turn to next.
13.5. Common ground and communicative intention
To keep track of what is relevant on each occasion, children must track what is in
common ground in each exchange. As they get older, they can also start to rely on
common ground shared more generally with particular people—family members and
day-care providers, other relatives, and neighbours. But it takes time for children to
accumulate the kinds of common ground shared with sub-communities—such as
dinosaur enthusiasts, bicyclists, skiers, stamp collectors. So we’ll focus here just on
the common ground established as an exchange begins, and then accumulated with
each turn through the course of that exchange.
To make use of common ground, the speaker and addressee must ﬁrst establish
joint attention and only then begin the exchange. For example, the adult speaker
might offer a label for an unfamiliar object. The successful uptake of the term by the
child depends not only on joint attention but also on the physical co-presence of
‘Be brief’: From Necessity to Choice 239
the referent, so that the speaker can present it for inclusion in their common
ground—through gaze, gesture, and also talk (see Clark 2001; Estigarribia and
Clark 2007; Childers et al. 2007; Mastin and Vogt 2011). In fact, adults consistently
wait until they have achieved joint attention before offering young children labels for
unfamiliar objects (Estigarribia and Clark 2007). The child addressee can then add to
common ground by ratifying the offer of the label for a new category. This is most
readily done by repeating the label itself (as Camille did in (13.4)). And in doing this,
the child acknowledges the new information just offered by the adult speaker and
thereby adds it to their common ground (Clark 2007, 2010).
As speakers take turns in adding to a communicative exchange, they accumulate
common ground with each new contribution. But to be placed in common ground,
the contribution has to be acknowledged by the other participant(s). In adult–adult
exchanges, this can be done in several ways—with an acknowledgement like okay or
mm-hm, with a continuation that assumes the preceding turn, with a question that
pursues information from the preceding turn, or with a repeat of some or all of the
preceding turn (e.g., Brown-Schmidt 2012; see also Djalali et al. 2011). Children com-
monly use acknowledgements, continuations, and repeats when dealing with new
information (Chouinard and Clark 2003; Clark and Bernicot 2008).
When offered new words, children make use of pragmatic inferences to link these
to words they already know, and rely on added information relevant to the meanings
of new words to ‘place’ them in the appropriate domain (e.g., Clark and Wong 2002;
Clark and Estiagrribia 2011; Luce and Callanan 2010). Adults sometimes evince
uncertainty or ignorance about the label for something, search for the right label,
or qualify what they say with phrases like ‘I think’ or ‘I believe’. When this happens,
children appear sensitive to adult ignorance about conventional terms from a young
age (e.g., Koenig and Echols 2003; Koenig and Harris 2005; Sabbagh and Baldwin
2001; see also Kidd et al. 2011). And some seemingly redundant uses of language by
young children, for example their next-turn repetitions of adult words and phrases,
actually serve to ratify adult offers of labels and information. Adult speakers, in fact,
make very similar uses of immediate repetition (e.g., Walker 1996).
Assessing the relevance of an utterance also depends in large part on being able to
make appropriate inferences about what other people know or believe. That is,
children need to assess the speaker’s intentions and make inferences relevant for
that occasion. Children, it turns out, learn early on to make inferences about other
people’s communicative intentions (see Csibra 2010, Carpenter, Nagell, & Tomasello
1998), and they distinguish intentional uses of an action (including use of a word)
from incidental ones. For example, 12-month-olds can distinguish between actors
who deliberately choose to touch a knob with their foreheads (ie, when their hands
are free) and actors who do so because their hands are occupied (e.g., by holding a
shawl on). In an imitation task, the infants hit the knob with their hands after seeing
the adult who was at the same time holding a shawl round her shoulders, but in the
240 Clark and Kurumada
other condition (hands free but unused) they were much more likely to copy the
adult and use their foreheads (e.g., Gergely et al. 2002). Like adults, children normally
expect the agent to use the most obvious means (here, hands), and when they don’t
do so but could have, they infer that there is some reason for not doing things the
obvious way. That is, from as young as 12 months, children take a rational stance in
assessing another’s intentions.
Children recognize early on that communications addressed to them display the
speaker’s intentions—assertions about some state of affairs that call for attention (The
cat’s up in the tree) as well as other speech acts such as directives (Can you ﬁnd your
shoes?), admonitions (Say ‘thank you’), and so on. Many of these may initially be
embedded in everyday routines (Ferrier 1978). But as children get older and acquire
more language, they become more skilled at discerning speaker intentions, and then
dealing with the relevant information offered in an appropriate way. Their inferences
about intentions from the words used are supported by such pragmatic principles as
conventionality and contrast (Clark 2007b). They can use their knowledge about
familiar terms and how they differ in meaning as the basis for working out, on each
occasion, what the speaker is saying and what the speaker therefore requires by way of
response. In addition, recent research shows that children, like adults, expect linguistic
contributions to be timed appropriately (e.g., Casillas and Frank, 2013; Clark and Krych
2004). Contingency—measured in terms of a relevant response offered on time—
provides one baseline for assessing children’s reliance on Grice’s Co-operative Principle.
In summary, even in the earliest stages of language development, children seem to
have a rudimentary understanding of relevance in communication. So when offered a
new term for something, they often repeat it right away to indicate that they recognize
it as referring to whatever is currently in joint attention. Even when they don’t repeat,
they often acknowledge (with mm mh, okay, yeah, etc) and/or continue on the same
topic. And they thereby place new terms in common ground, now known to both
adult and child for the duration of the exchange. In all of this, however, the notion of
brevity bears on how informative an utterance is, over and above how long that
utterance is. As we will illustrate in our case study in Section 13.7, children take time to
learn how to balance length (form) and information (content) in their utterances.
13.6. Brief but not efﬁcient
When children begin to talk, brevity of form is not a matter of choice: it is the only
option. With one-word utterances, they can label things and make requests; they can
accept or reject offers; and they can make use of the here-and-now, to help make their
intentions clearer. But it is hard to talk about entities and events that are not present,
and impossible to make any kind of extended contribution to an exchange. Their
comprehension is also limited (although children, like adults, typically understand
far more than they produce: see Goldin-Meadow et al. 1976; Clark and Hecht 1983). In
‘Be brief’: From Necessity to Choice 241
general, it is more challenging to produce a word correctly pronounced in an
appropriate context, than to perceive and understand that same word said by
another. And communicative breakdowns are hard to repair even when children
are very persistent.
Between age one and age four, though, children’s language changes in all sorts of
ways. Their utterances include more and more of the obligatory linguistic elements
from the language they are acquiring—gender marking and agreement, number,
aspect, tense, and deﬁniteness. They add plural morphemes on nouns, and person,
number, aspect and tense morphemes on verbs; they add articles, demonstratives,
and quantiﬁers; they start to use some adjectives; they add prepositions (or postpos-
itions); they add pronouns; and they start to observe the conventional word orders of
the language. As they do all of this, they are also becoming more skilled at using the
language they are learning—to make requests, to assert some state of affairs, to tell a
story, to use language to coordinate actions in games and other activities. By age four,
they are on their way to becoming quite skilled users of their ﬁrst language.
One might ask how important it is to encode meanings in language, since language
is often highly selective, and limited, in how much is actually captured in words. As
Slobin (1979: 6) argued:
Language evokes ideas; it does not represent them. Linguistic expression is thus not a
straightforward map of consciousness or thought. It is a highly selective and conventionally
schematic map. At the heart of language use is the tacit assumption that most of the message
can be left unsaid, because of mutual understanding (and probably also mutual impatience).
This general view has also been endorsed by Levinson (2000) who argued that we
need to be able to make use of all sorts of information, in addition to the speaker’s
words, because of the bottle-neck imposed by the relatively slow rate of speech
transmission (only about 18 segments per second). To communicate effectively and
efﬁciently, addressees must rely on: the context of the speaker’s utterance, including
any nonverbal information available and the inferences that affords; on what has
been contributed so far by each participant in the exchange (accumulated common
ground); and on all that can be inferred pragmatically from the words the speaker
actually used (Grice 1989; Levinson 2000).
So how should we assess brevity in deciding whether an utterance is optimal or
not? As Grice pointed out, ‘If you are assisting me to mend a car, I expect your
contribution to be neither more nor less than is required. If, for example, at a
particular stage I need four screws, I expect you to hand me four, rather than two
or six.’ (1989: 28). With a one-word utterance, an adult speaker can indicate that she
has judged it adequate for the contribution required at that point. Providing optimal
information is analogous to handing over the right number of screws at the point
when they are needed. Young children, though, offer only one word at a time because
of their limited knowledge and ability to cope with the task. As we have seen, adult
242 Clark and Kurumada
partners have to help them out, either by providing scaffolding, or by simply treating
a one-word utterance as making sense.
In effect, speaker and addressee must collaborate to make sense of each contribu-
tion in an exchange. The speaker tends to minimize his effort by using the shortest,
most appropriate conventional expression he can, and the addressee must compute
from that the most informative interpretation available (Blutner 1998; Clark and
Clark 1979). This requires some optimization in that both parties may need to
compromise in order to reach a common understanding (see also Horn 1984).
Children, then, have to acquire the means to convey just what is needed on each
occasion. They need the relevant vocabulary, and they need the syntactic construc-
tions that make use of that vocabulary. These two reduce children’s dependence on
the immediate physical context to relying on pragmatic inferences about their
intentions given the sparse content of their utterances. At the same time, they also
need to prune their contributions of any unnecessary redundancy. How do these two
factors play out in the course of language acquisition?
13.7. Brevity in child and adult
How do young children and adults talk to each other? Take occasions when adults
offer young children new words. First, adults tend to use ﬁxed frames (e.g., ‘Look at
the X’ ‘This is called an X’) combined with sentence-ﬁnal stress for offers of new
nouns, and also for other parts of speech (Clark 2007, 2010). And, having offered a
new word, they typically follow it up with additional information about the referent-
type of that word (see Clark and Wong 2002; Clark and Estigarribia 2011). What do
children contribute in such exchanges, beyond their repeats of the new words
offered? Can we see evidence that children move, as they get older, from being
brief of necessity to being brief out of choice?
To answer this question, we looked at a corpus of 48 adult and child conversations
within book-reading sessions in order to look at the extent to which children’s
contributions were brief and informative at each of several ages. Our analyses are
based on data collected for Clark’s (2010) study of offers of different parts of speech
embedded in a book-reading task with 48 parents with a two-, three-, four-, or ﬁve-
year-old child, and the ensuing exchanges within each parent–child dyad. (There
were 12 parent–child dyads at each age level.) All the dyads talked about the same
wordless picture book, which depicted objects, properties, relations, and events of
varying familiarity to children at these ages. Parents could introduce 16 new words
(four each of nouns, adjectives, prepositions, and verbs) and they were asked to do so
as they normally would when offering any new linguistic expression (see Clark 2010).
Parents produced slightly longer utterances as their children got older, and
the content of what they said differed with the children’s ages. The parents of two-
year-olds did not expect their children to understand the new words, while the
‘Be brief’: From Necessity to Choice 243
parents of ﬁve-year-olds expected them to already know a few of the new words
offered. (The ﬁve-year-olds typically knew one or two of the 16 offered.) One outcome,
on the parents’ side, is that they offered words multiple times to two- and also three-
year-olds, introducing them explicitly as new words (Clark and Wong 2002), and
adding Sense (meaning) information designed to distinguish each of the words from
any neighbours already known. They also tried to elicit repeats of these words from
their children. With the two older groups, parents tended to ask questions about what
was happening or what things were, with the assumption that the children already
knew (see also Kurumada 2009) before offering new words when it turned out that the
children did not know. And the children in the two older groups contributed a lot more
to each exchange than those in the two younger groups. Consider ﬁrst the two typical
exchanges in (13.7) and (13.8), between parents and their two-year-olds:
(13.7) Parent: Okay, stony. Can you say stony?
Child (2;8.16): Stony.
(13.8) Parent: Kay, how ‘bout this?
Child (2;7.9): Daddy, I don’t know what it is.
Parent: I know you don’t know this. It’s called a cactus.
This is a cactus plant.
Beyond ratifying what the parents said, by repeating the target word, as they looked
through the book together, two-year-olds otherwise made only minimal contribu-
tions to the exchange. Three-year-olds said more during the book-reading sessions,
but what they said was not always entirely relevant to the topic at hand, as in (13.9):
(13.9) Parent: What’s that?
Child (3;0.9): [squeals] (trying to make bird sounds?)
Parent: What sound does he make?
Child: Um, parrot.
Parent: It’s a parrot? Oh. [Name] what?
Child: [squealing] (bird sound)
Parent (mimicking): Haw, haw, like that?
Child: Yeah.
Parent: This bird is chirping. Chirp! Chirp! Chirp!
Child: That’s (a) bird?
Parent: Yeah.
Child: Why is (a) bird?
Parent: That’s the sound a bird makes, chirp! Chirp!
Child: I can take this off. (sweater)
Four-year-olds were more direct in answering parental questions, and also elaborated
considerably, as in the exchange in (13.10):
244 Clark and Kurumada
(13.10) Parent: Do you see, how it looks like it’s gonna be a hard hike for him,
because ‘steep’, it means it’s really steep, it (will) go up, up, up.
You hike up steep things really well, don’t you?
Child (4;8.1): Yeah, ’cause I use my hands. And I can’t do it only when we go
down to that um, that xxx little stream, that can’t go on me–
Parent: Mm-hm.
Child: Remember when I go up, I’m a good mountain-climber?
Parent: Mm-hm, you are a good mountain-climber.
Child: See, he’s not very good ’cause he only uses–
Parent: He only uses his feet?
Child: Yeah.
Five-year-olds, though, turned out to be more concise in their turns, as shown in the
typical exchange in (13.11):
(13.11) Parent (laughing): You know, what is the– what is the owl doing? Can you tell
with nee– with needles like that? Like this?
Child (5;4.16): Mm, sewing?
Parent: Well, yeah, or sometimes you just you kni– knit?
Child: Knit.
Parent. I don’t think you know anybody who knows how to knit.
(child starts to get out of chair)
Uh-uh, sit down, [Name].
Child: Except Grandma.
When we examined the average utterance length for the children at each age-level, we
found that two- and three-year-olds averaged just over 2.5 words per utterance (2.69
and 2.82 words, respectively) in exchanges with their parents, while four-year-olds
were wordier, producing 3.3 words on average per utterance, as shown in Figure 13.1.a.1
But for ﬁve-year-olds, the mean utterance-length dropped again, to just on 2.73
words per utterance. This was somewhat surprising given that there is broad consen-
sus in acquisition research that mean length of utterance generally increases with age
(Brown 1973). But when pragmatic contexts and the topic of interaction are con-
trolled, as was done in the current dataset, we see that children’s utterances become
more compact between age four and ﬁve. This, we suggest, reﬂects the increasing
ability of ﬁve-year-olds to attend to both brevity and relevance in their contributions.
(The adults’ mean length of utterance-length varied very little across the four age
1
One potential issue here is whether the three- and four-year-olds simply wandered ‘off-topic’ more
than the four-year-olds did. However, inspection of all the relevant exchanges suggests that the ﬁve-year-
olds were simply eager to say all they knew about X, rather than attending just to the information that was
relevant then-and-there. What counts as off-topic, of course, is itself debatable.
‘Be brief’: From Necessity to Choice 245
groups: 5.04, 5.55, 5.85, and 5.81 words, to two-, three-, four-, and ﬁve-year-olds,
respectively.)
Figure 13.1.b plots the type/token ratio for the words children produced. This
measure offers an approximation of the complexity of their utterances in terms of
density of vocabulary. When children’s production vocabulary is small, they repeat
the same words more often, so the ratio is smaller. As their vocabulary size increases,
the ratio gets closer to 1. (The hypothetical ratio would be 1 when there is no overlap
in the words used across all of an individual’s utterances.)2
Figure 13.1.b shows that
three-year-olds, for example, used fewer different words than either the four- or ﬁve-
year-olds. Overall, the changes in children’s utterance length with age suggest that
they do not fully achieve an appropriate degree of brevity until around age ﬁve, when
they become more able both to identify information as relevant and to present it
concisely.
In producing an utterance, speakers need to weigh the maxim of quantity (‘Be
brief ’) along with the Maxim of Relevance as they decide what to say at each step in
an exchange. As we have noted, adults scaffold younger children’s contributions,
framing them so they are more appropriate (and also interpretable). In fact, in the
present book-reading exchanges, approximately 40 per cent of the adults’ utterances
4.5
(a) (b)
Utterance Length Word Type/Token Ratio
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
2 3 4
Child’s age
Average
length
of
utterance
in
words
5
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
2 3 4
Child’s age
Type/Token
5
Figure 13.1. Changes with age in children’s utterance length and vocabulary density.
Panel-a: Average utterance length (in words) by age, and Panel-b: Type/token ratios by age.
The open squares and horizontal lines in each box represent mean and median values, respectively; black
dots are outliers (2/3 times or more beyond upper or lower quartile).
2
The type/token ratio is a ﬁrst approximation of utterance complexity. For interpreting the effects of
the overall number of utterances or function/content word ratio, see Richards (1987).
246 Clark and Kurumada
were questions. These provide scaffolding for children who need only ﬁnd possible
answers as a way to contribute to the exchange. Reliance on scaffolding also showed
up in the relative proportions of adult and child utterances within the exchanges.
Adults produced more utterances proportionately, in talking to the two- and espe-
cially the three-year-olds, than they did to four- and ﬁve-year-olds. With the two
older groups, the adults and children were much closer in how much each contrib-
uted to the exchanges they had as they talked about the picture book.
The changes in children’s turn-length as they talked with their parents about the
pictures in a book suggest that children do not take full account of the maxim of
quantity, and hence brevity, until around age ﬁve. At that age, they appear able to
identify information as relevant in context, and present it concisely. Four-year-olds
often offered relevant information, but they also offered information that was less
relevant, and this led them to be wordier than necessary. These observations suggest
that, when considering development, we have to take into account more than one
maxim at a time, as we assess whether children are observing speciﬁc elements of the
Co-operative Principle.
13.8. In conclusion
How does the understanding of pragmatic principles support children’s language
learning? Young children can make some pragmatic inferences, based on the context
and their general knowledge so far, from as young as age one. By age two, they can
base their inferences on their existing linguistic knowledge, however sparse, in
combination with the current physical and conversational contexts (e.g., Golinkoff
1986; Grifﬁths and Atkinson 1978), and these guide their contributions in both early
and later conversational exchanges (e.g., McTear 1985; Keenan and Klein 1975;
Scollon 1976; Veneziano et al. 1990). But computing the appropriate size of a contri-
bution to an exchange takes more. It requires that children learn, for example, to
weigh the contributions from others in order to drop any information annulled by a
repair (‘Oops, it’s not a whisk, it’s a special spoon’) (Clark and Grossman 1998;
Tomasello and Barton 1994), to attend to the speciﬁc implicatures of lexical items like
some and all (e.g., Donaldson and Lloyd 1974; Papafragou and Tantalou 2004; Katsos
and Bishop 2011), and to take note of prosodic variants that change the interpretation
intended—compare ‘It looks like a donkey’ (a hint about the appropriate categoriza-
tion) and ‘It loooks like a donkey . . . ’, with an intonational peak and lengthening of
the vowel in the verb (an alert to ﬁnd another categorization) (see Kurumada 2013).
Children must learn to factor in all these elements in choosing and planning their
own contributions to an exchange.
Designing contributions in a communicative exchange takes work: one must (a)
take into account whatever has gone on so far in the exchange, and hence what is now
in common ground; (b) take account of anything else relevant that the addressee
‘Be brief’: From Necessity to Choice 247
already knows; and (c) then choose words and constructions for the next turn. But
choosing words and constructions presupposes knowledge of one’s language, some-
thing that is still developing as late as age 12. For very young children, there are few
choices available. They can manage ‘be brief ’ but brevity is not always consistent with
relevance. Without the appropriate words, one- and two-year-olds are often hard to
understand. As children get older, they master more of the resources in their ﬁrst
language, and have access to a growing store of words in a variety of domains: this
allows them many more options, and four-year-olds, for example, may take these
options without much regard to the immediate relevance of every element in their
contributions. By age ﬁve, children seem to have become more aware of how to be
brief and relevant. But age ﬁve is not the end of the story: children continue to
develop many of their linguistic skills, and only slowly master the intricacies of
presupposition and implicature, for example, as they become more skilled as speakers
and listeners, as narrators and persuaders; in short, as users of their language.
Lastly, like adults, children do not strive to make their utterances ‘brief ’, so much
as they try to make them appropriate for the current contribution they need to make
in the conversational exchange. That is, their contribution should supply the infor-
mation needed, in enough detail to be comprehensible, but also without unnecessary
wordiness. This is what offers the most effective way for them to convey their
intentions in conversation. To do this, children need to make their utterances in
each contribution brief and well-formed with respect to structure, word choice, and
relevance in relation to the preceding context.
248 Clark and Kurumada
14
Sizing up the Speaker: Using
Speaker-speciﬁc Information to
Detect the Nature of Children’s
Inferences about Meaning
JULIE SEDIVY
14.1. Introduction
I recently took a ﬂight from Calgary, Canada to Houston. The man sitting next to me,
I learned, was returning home to Florida from a family vacation in the nearby Rocky
Mountains, where they’d had a lovely time ‘snow skiing’. The phrase sounded
distinctly odd to my Canadian ears. Naturally, skiing involves snow! To make this
explicit seemed a bit like telling someone that you’d eaten a ‘bread sandwich’ for
lunch. I asked my airplane companion if he would ever use the simpler expression
‘skiing’ rather than ‘snow skiing’. ‘Well, yes’, he explained patiently, ‘but then that
would be on the water’.
This brief conversation highlights two interesting facts: (i) For both of us, the
unadorned expression ‘skiing’ was licensed by the fact that one variety of skiing was
clearly presumed to be the usual activity that one undertakes on skis, though which
variety this was differed according to our respective geographic locations; and (ii)
that what I perceived as the unnecessary modiﬁcation of ‘skiing’ with ‘snow’ was
jarring and seemed to require some sort of explanation, much as it would be jarring
to hear someone talk about a ‘bread sandwich’ or a ‘metal car’.
In other words, this verbal exchange seems perfectly to illustrate Grice’s (1975)
observations that communicative partners tacitly agree that speakers will provide as
much information as necessary in context, but no more. When all goes well, this
mutually held assumption of brevity should allow speakers to plan their utterances
appropriately, knowing that they will be able to convey information that is not
present in the semantic content of their sentences (e.g., ‘I went skiing’ would convey
the richer meaning that I went skiing on snow or that I went skiing on water,
depending on what I expect my hearer to be able to infer). And naturally, the
presumption that the speaker is adhering to co-operative principles of conversation
would normally allow the hearer to draw the correct inferences.
Grice’s observations are intuitively appealing, but the reason they continue to be
discussed and debated to this day has to do with the ambitious reach of his program.
Grice didn’t merely suggest that presumptions of co-operative communication are at
play in human communication—this on its own would seem fairly uncontroversial.
Rather, he argued that a great variety of puzzles about meaning should be re-analysed
and re-explained as the consequence of these general principles of communication.
Decades later, discussions continue over precisely which phenomena should be
explained by appealing to conversational principles, and which ones should rely on
conventionally shared knowledge of the speciﬁc linguistic expressions in question. In
other words, when should a broad psycho-social explanation prevail over a more
speciﬁc linguistic explanation?
In many cases, explanations deriving from conversational principles sit cheek-to-
jowl with perfectly plausible alternative accounts that are grounded in more conven-
tional aspects of linguistic knowledge. Let’s consider, for example, our little airplane
conversation about skiing. Grice’s explanation of the exchange might go like this:
I found it odd that my fellow passenger should talk about ‘snow skiing’ in the
Canadian Rockies, because he should have known that I could easily work out
what the less informative term ‘skiing’ referred to in the context of our conversation.
His use of the more informative form sent me searching for some additional
inference (for example, he must be intending to highlight skiing on snow versus
some other substance—were they, perhaps, expecting to ski in icy conditions? On
slush?). Finding no salient reason for the surprisingly informative expression,
I brought the conversation to a halt to ask for some explicit justiﬁcation of his
word choice.
But an alternative explanation might look like this: Our respective linguistic
communities have evolved somewhat different conventional labels for the various
activities that are performed while attached to skis. In Calgary, the conventional label
for zooming down snowy slopes on skis is ‘skiing’, whereas standing up on skis
behind a motorboat is called ‘water skiing’. In whatever Floridian community my
companion was from, the conventional labels for these activities would be ‘snow
skiing’ and ‘skiing’ respectively. There might be non-arbitrary reasons behind this—
more common linguistic expressions do become abbreviated more readily than
uncommon ones, and there would certainly be a difference in the frequency with
which one speaks of skiing on water versus snow in these two communities. But
when my companion chose the lengthier expression ‘snow skiing’, he wasn’t engaged
in predicting how much information I might need in order to differentiate between
250 Sedivy
different varieties of skiing. Rather, he simply reached for whichever conventional
label had become linked in his mind with that particular activity. And my own
surprise was simply due to having encountered what was to me an unconventional
label for a familiar activity.
The key difference between these two accounts lies in whether the speaker works
out from scratch which expression to use on the basis of the information that he
believes the hearer requires—and whether the hearer believes the speaker is working
this out from scratch. But while Grice’s approach may offer theoretical elegance and a
broad reach, it runs into questions about psychological parsimony. In the eyes of
many psycholinguists, calculating meaning from general conversational principles is
unlikely to be computationally trivial. Is it realistic to expect that, in the temporal
pressure-cooker of ordinary conversation, speakers and hearers will exert themselves
and run through the full set of calculations that are required to generate and interpret
inferences on the basis of general communicative principles? Or do they bypass such
calculations by relying on more conventional information about the meaning and use
of certain linguistic expressions?
The psychological concerns become even thornier when viewed from a develop-
mental perspective: Given that children’s computational resources are even more
constrained than those of adults, are children able to augment conventional linguistic
meaning with meaning that derives from communicative principles? Do they often
arrive at meanings that are appreciably different from adults due to processing
limitations or a greater difﬁculty in ‘getting inside the head’ of the speaker? Do
children move from an earlier stage in which they are more dependent on conven-
tional linguistic knowledge to a later stage in which inferences are more ﬂexible and
sensitive to a speaker’s goals? As of now, we have little in the way of conclusive
answers to such questions.
In the theoretical literature too, there is much debate over whether certain
pragmatic inferences (e.g., the use of ‘some’ implying ‘not all’) do in fact hinge on
such calculations, or whether they are triggered more directly by particular expres-
sions. Among the arguments against a classical Gricean approach is the concern that
general conversational principles are too broad, that something more needs to be said
about the speciﬁc expressions in order to avoid predicting inferences that never
actually seem to occur. Indeed, several contemporary pragmatic approaches have
suggested that a sizeable subset of inferences are computed by default upon encoun-
tering certain expressions. (For alternative approaches, see Chierchia 2004; Davis
1998; Levinson 2000). On the other hand, other theorists continue to assert a highly
general role for the calculation of meaning on the basis of general communicative
principles (e.g., Russell 2006; Sperber and Wilson 1995, 2005).
In this chapter, my goal is to highlight a general empirical approach that may shed
some light on these questions. I will limit myself to approaching the psychological
concerns entirely from the perspective of the hearer. The crux of the matter is this:
Sizing up the Speaker 251
How can we know that, in considering various meanings, the hearer assumes that the
speaker’s choice of linguistic expression is guided by an adherence to conversational
principles? As evidence, we might look to see whether an interpretation changes
depending on what the hearer knows about the speaker’s motives or ability to abide
by conversational norms.
I will start by giving a very brief account from psycholinguistic experiments with
adults of ways in which interpretation has been shown to depend on information
about speciﬁc speakers. The purpose here will not be to provide a comprehensive
overview, but rather, to offer some background against which to consider the extent
to which young children’s interpretation of meanings may hinge on the presumption
that the speaker is abiding by communicative norms.
14.2. Speaker-speciﬁc effects in adults’ comprehension
While speakers may sometimes intentionally violate conversational principles for
their own perverse (or deceptive) private reasons, most of the time, they do so
because they do not have the capacity to conform to them. When the latter is
obviously the case, the conversation proceeds best if the hearer adjusts expectations
accordingly. For instance, Clark and Kurumada (Chapter 13) discuss how very young
children initially produce extremely brief utterances not out of any pragmatic
solicitude for their hearers, but simply because they lack the capacity to form more
complete utterances. Adults are aware of this, and consequently, take on a great deal
of the burden for ‘ﬁlling in the blanks’ and provisionally interpret the child’s
utterance in a much richer way than they might with an older child or an adult, all
while checking back with the young child about her communicative intentions. Clark
and Kurumada suggest that this early under-informative phase is followed by a later
phase in which children can produce lengthy sentences, but are not yet able to bring
their utterances in line with expectations that their linguistic contributions be
relevant and no more informative than necessary. As a result, the conversation is
best served if the adult is able to ﬁlter out irrelevant or excessive information without
imbuing it with great pragmatic import.
The fact that hearers can adjust for the speaker’s abilities obviously makes for
smoother communication. But for our purposes, it also provides us with a handy
methodological tool with which to examine the nature of interpretive processes in
real time. Here’s a case study of how this logic has been applied:
Adjectives are often used as a way of signalling a contrast between entities that fall
into the same noun category. For example, if I were to say ‘I talked with my intelligent
sister this morning’, it would be natural to understand ‘intelligent’ as singling out one
of my sisters as more intelligent than the other(s). A Gricean explanation suggests
itself, much as it does for the earlier ‘snow skiing’ example. Of course, in some
contexts, it might be clear that I am alluding to my sister’s intelligence for reasons
252 Sedivy
other than uniquely referring to a particular person. For instance, having one single
sister, I might easily say ‘I needed some good advice on running my business, so
I talked with my intelligent sister this morning’. In that case, no contrast would be
implied.
But, as is often the case, a full-blown inferential account of the contrastive use of
adjectives co-exists with other possible explanations which place more of the inter-
pretive burden on speciﬁc linguistic knowledge about adjectives. For example, their
contrastive function might also be explained as presuppositions associated with
deﬁnite modiﬁed phrases (Steedman and Altmann 1989; Syrett et al. 2010), as arising
from the contextual requirements of gradable adjectives (Syrett et al. 2010), or as the
result of ‘default’ pragmatic inferences (e.g., Levinson 2000). Moreover, one might
appeal to a different, non-grammatical kind of knowledge of adjectives, namely,
statistically based knowledge that adjectives tend to be used in contexts in which
they signal a contrast between entities of the same kind. (See Grodner and Sedivy
2011, for a detailed discussion of alternative accounts.)
Parsimony might suggest that we prefer the general inferential account of con-
trastive inference, since it appeals to expectations of brevity, which presumably need
to be invoked anyway. On the other hand, locating the inference within lexical
requirements for certain adjectives, or attaching it to knowledge of certain syntactic
conﬁgurations might allow a contrastive interpretation to be reached without costly
pragmatic calculations. How do these alternative views square with evidence from
real-time language processing?
As it happens, numerous experiments report that hearers attribute contrastiveness
to adjectives extremely quickly in terms of processing time (Sedivy et al. 1999; Sedivy
2003). These studies have used eye-tracking methods to observe how experimental
participants resolve the reference of adjectives such as ‘tall’ in a visual display that
contains more than one object that could be construed as tall (e.g., a tall glass and a
pitcher during the unfolding of a sentence such as ‘Pick up the tall glass’.) When the
visual display contains a contrasting object of the same category as the target (e.g., a
contrasting short glass), participants quickly locate the target, often beginning to
settle on the correct object even before the onset of the following noun. On the other
hand, when faced with visual displays that contain no contrasting objects, partici-
pants are slower to settle on the target object, with eye movements split between the
target and competing tall objects. In other words, participants are able to seize upon
the contrastive function of the adjective rapidly enough to resolve reference within
several hundred milliseconds of the onset of the adjective itself.
More recent evidence, though, suggests that this very rapid contrastive inference
only arises when the speaker is presumed to be competent. Grodner and Sedivy (2011)
found that hearers did not show evidence of a contrastive interpretation when they
were told that the speaker had an ‘impairment that causes language and social
problems’, and when the speaker described objects erroneously and consistently
Sizing up the Speaker 253
used over-informative expressions. Interestingly, while hearers’ exposure to the
unreliable speaker led them to suspend the contrastive inference, it did not make
the hearers generally slower or more cautious in their interpretation of the speaker’s
instructions overall. That is, upon hearing an adjective such as ‘tall’, hearers were just
as quick to look at one of the tall objects in the display, but they didn’t assume that
‘tall’ referred to the object that contrasted with a shorter one of the same kind.
This result informs us about the nature of the contrast effect in referential
understanding, but it also tells us something about the speed at which adults can
integrate this kind of pragmatic inferencing in conversation. While some inferences
may take considerably more time to compute, the sorts of calculations that Grice
envisioned are likely to have some meaningful role, even under the extreme time
pressures of routine language-processing.
Indeed, a number of other studies have found that adult hearers can be extremely
good at integrating an assortment of information about the speaker’s knowledge,
goals, or capacities while making on-the-ﬂy referential decisions.
For instance, Heller et al. (2008) created an experimental scenario in which
speakers’ visual access to objects in a display was limited to a subset of the objects
that hearers could see, and found that hearers interpreted adjectives as contrastive
only with respect to the objects that the speakers could see. Again, this is to be
expected if hearers are deriving such interpretations on the basis of the speaker’s
communicative aims, but not if the contrastive interpretation is triggered more
directly by particular expressions.
When it comes to informativity, considerations other than speaker capacity also
seem to come into play. For instance, Brennan and Clark (1996) noted that, over the
course of a conversation, speakers and hearers tend to converge on a particular
referential expression that they then recycle across a variety of contexts. For instance,
if a context involving two salient dogs initially forced the use of a modiﬁed expression
such as red dog, the speaker would be likely to re-use the same expression in a
subsequent context, even when no longer required for unique reference. Hence,
speakers appear to balance the need for sufﬁcient but streamlined information
against mutual expectations that previously-used expressions will ground future
reference. In recent years, there has been a great deal of evidence that hearers
interpret reference by taking into account conversational histories between partners
(e.g., Brown-Schmidt 2009; Metzing and Brennan 2003); however, not all researchers
agree that this is at heart a co-operative process rather than one that involves simple
memory cues that associatively tag speciﬁc expressions to speciﬁc speakers (Barr and
Keysar 2002; Horton 2007; Horton and Gerrig 2005; Shintel and Keysar 2009).
We are still in the early stages of understanding how interpretation might be
modulated by the evaluation of a particular speaker’s abilities, proclivities, or goals.
However, there is now enough evidence to suggest that taking all of these into account
is something that we attempt to do routinely during language comprehension, and at
254 Sedivy
times with considerable success and speed. Naturally, this does not mean that all
interpretations that might be attributed to Gricean calculation do in fact involve
such calculations, nor does it mean that all conversational implicatures will be
achieved extremely rapidly (for instance, for a discussion of the computational load
associated with classical scalar inferences, see Bott and Noveck 2004; Bott et al.
2012; Breheny et al. 2006). But it does heighten the plausibility that a broad variety
of interpretations may indeed rely on full-blown pragmatic calculation during real-
time language comprehension.
14.3. Children’s sensitivity to speaker characteristics in word-learning
When it comes to the interpretations of young children, prospective explanations
that are heavy on pragmatics face even stiffer competition from leaner language-
based accounts. This is so because there is reason to believe that at a young age,
children (a) lack the necessary capacity to fully appreciate the internal mental states
of others (e.g., Wimmer and Perner 1983), and (b) often fail to compute common
pragmatic inferences, perhaps due to computational limitations (Noveck 2001; but
see Guasti et al. 2005).
At the same time, there is a growing body of research with very young children
which suggests that even toddlers are quite attuned to the particular characteristics
and goals of speakers, and adapt their responses to these speakers accordingly. Much
of this work has been done in the domain of novel word learning. For some time now,
it has been known that children’s learning of new words is facilitated by positive
evidence that the speaker intended to refer to a particular object. For instance,
normally developing children are likely to check to see where the speaker’s attention
is directed while uttering a word, and will assign reference to that object rather than
one that the child himself had been attending to while hearing the word (Baldwin
1993). Children with autism, on the other hand, assign reference to the object in their
own sphere of attention (Baron-Cohen et al. 1997). Hence, evidence of referential
intent normally trumps co-synchrony of the spoken word and the child’s visual
perception of a possible referent, suggesting that even early word-learning involves
social mechanisms rather than merely associative ones.
In more recent years, however, researchers have also become interested in whether
word learning can be selectively disrupted when the child has evidence that a speaker
is behaving with intent, but shows signs of incompetence. For instance, Koenig et al.
(2004) showed three- and four-year-olds videos in which an actor interacted with
two informants: one of these informants systematically labelled objects correctly by
their conventional names, while the other consistently chose incorrect names for
objects (e.g., calling a ball a ‘shoe’.) Each informant then labelled a new, unfamiliar
object with a different name (e.g., one informant called it a ‘mido’ while the other
called it a ‘toma’). When asked to produce the name for the object, children tended to
Sizing up the Speaker 255
give the name that had been provided by the more reliable speaker. Extending these
results, Birch et al. (2008) showed that children of the same age were able to
spontaneously keep track of a speaker’s prior accuracy of naming, and used this
information to guide their subsequent learning of new words from these speakers.
There is evidence that children begin to pay attention to the competence of a
speaker from a very young age. Koenig and Echols (2003) showed that 16-month-olds
looked longer at a person who produced inaccurate labels than at one who labelled
accurately. However, they did not look longer when a person produced an incorrect
label while facing away from the referent, nor when an audio-speaker emitted the
incorrect label for an object.
The picture that is emerging from these studies is one in which children, from a
very early age, are highly sensitive to the fact that communicative behaviour is
purposeful, and have expectations that speakers will behave competently and co-
operatively when referring; if speakers violate these expectations, children will
evaluate situation-speciﬁc reasons for doing so, and in the event that they ﬁnd
none, may make global assessments of speakers as unreliable or unco-operative.
Such results buttress Grice’s general view that expectations about communicative
norms are a fundamental aspect of how human beings interact with each other, and
that these expectations likely reach into many corners of language use. They also
verify the usefulness of experiments with children in which a speaker anomaly is
introduced. Now what remains is for us to see how such methods might be applied in
targeted ways to distinguish between competing accounts of speciﬁc phenomena in
child language. We will consider two such cases below.
14.4. Case study 1: What is the nature of children’s avoidance
of lexical overlap?
When young children hear a noun that they haven’t encountered before, they
generally assume it refers to something whose name they don’t already know. In
experimental terms: if they are shown an object whose name is familiar to them
alongside a novel object (it might be an obscure kitchen implement or some object
assembled for the purpose of the experiment), and are asked ‘Which one is the dax?’
they are very likely to pick out the novel object. This extremely robust phenomenon
has been documented in children as young as 16 months of age (Markman et al. 2003).
There have been two competing explanations for this: Markman and Wachtel
(1988; see also Markman 1989) have proposed that there are particular mapping
constraints on word learning that act as a default; one of these is a general bias that
category terms are mutually exclusive. This is conceived of as a constraint that shapes
the child’s own organization of how words and meanings map onto each other.
However, it is also possible to appeal to general communicative expectations by way
256 Sedivy
of explanation, and other researchers have suggested that responses gleaned from this
task stem from children’s expectations about the behaviour of a co-operative speaker:
If the speaker wanted the familiar object, she would have used a more familiar label—
given that she did not, the novel label must be intended to refer to the novel object
(e.g., Baldwin and Moses 1996; Bloom 2000; Tomasello 1999). This latter view relies
heavily on Clark’s (1988) Principle of Contrast: the meaning of individual words
contrasts with one another, and speakers choose words that maximize effective
communication, consistent with Grice’s principle of informativity. (It also predicts
that there should be some ﬂexibility in children’s aversion to mapping two labels to a
single referent, as seems to be the case. For instance, Clark and Grossman (1998)
found that when very young children were given information about hierarchical
inclusions (‘an X is a kind of Y’), they readily accepted both labels.)
Which explanation to prefer? Appealing to general pragmatic mechanisms allows
us to account for the phenomenon without positing any additional speciﬁc learning
biases; but positing a robust learning constraint involves more streamlined compu-
tation, since the child does not need to generate inferences about a speaker’s intent or
likely behaviour. Fortunately, the two explanations make different predictions with
respect to how sensitive the effect should be to evidence that something is amiss with
the speaker.
In support of a pragmatic account, Diesendruck et al. (2010) demonstrated that
pre-schoolers take into account a speaker’s past history of reliability when resolving
their use of novel labels. They introduced pre-schoolers to a puppet who ﬁrst labelled
familiar objects accurately or inaccurately. After this interaction, children saw pairs
of familiar and novel objects, and the puppet requested one of the objects by labelling
it with a novel word. Children were more likely to choose the novel object when the
puppet was a reliable speaker than an unreliable one.
In a recent paper (Sobel et al. 2012), we have corroborated and extended these
results, with a view to determining not just whether speaker reliability affects
children’s choice of the referent for a novel noun as a function of speaker reliability,
but also (a) how quickly speaker-speciﬁc information exerts an inﬂuence in the
children’s real-time processing of the ambiguous nouns; and (b) whether speaker
reliability plays a role in children’s retention of labels assigned to referents.
To address these questions, we used a slight variant on the usual disambiguation
task in which both a novel object and a familiar object are visible to the child. Using
the standard task, Diesendruck et al. found that pre-schoolers accepted the novel
object more often as the referent for a novel label when the speaker was reliable.
However, we felt that a stronger test of reliability would be to look for evidence that
children reject the familiar object as a referent for the novel label even when they
don’t know the identity of the alternative candidate. That is, when the speaker is
reliable, pragmatic expectations should speciﬁcally preclude the child from inferring
that the familiar object is a potential referent for a novel name, whereas no such
Sizing up the Speaker 257
preclusion should apply to an unreliable speaker who is not adhering to referential
norms. On the other hand, there is nothing to prevent the mapping of a novel label to
a novel object for either the reliable or the unreliable speaker. If any additional biases
exist alongside any pragmatic or mapping constraints (for instance, a general attrac-
tion to novel objects), such biases might serve to mask an effect of speaker reliability.
Children interacted with both a reliable speaker and an unreliable one; the latter
mislabelled familiar objects with nonsense words (e.g., calling a shoe a ‘dax’). After
each set of preliminary interactions with the speaker, children then responded to a set
of experimental trials. On each trial, two objects were visible to both the child and the
speaker, and an additional object was hidden behind a curtain so that only the adult
speaker could see the object, while the child was only aware that the curtain hid a
‘secret object’. Two objects on each trial were always familiar, while one was novel;
the hidden object was either the novel object or one of the two familiar objects. When
a novel object was visible, it presented a good candidate for reference for a novel label,
so children should be unlikely to search the secret location for the referent. However,
when the novel object was hidden, and both of the visible objects were familiar,
the rejection of familiar objects as potential referents should trigger a search in the
hidden object location. The likelihood of initiating such a search depended on the
reliability of the speaker, with children showing greater acceptance of a familiar
object referent for the unreliable speaker.
When interacting with a reliable speaker, children almost always chose a novel
object as the referent for the novel word, whether it was in plain sight or not (at a rate
of 88 per cent and 84 per cent respectively). However, when interacting with the
unreliable speaker, children were signiﬁcantly more willing to accept the familiar
object as a referent for the novel word, choosing the novel object only 69 per cent of
the time when it was visible, and 47 per cent of the time when it was hidden behind
the secret curtain (p < .01). Furthermore, on both the novel visible and novel hidden
trials, children chose a familiar object signiﬁcantly more often in response to the
unreliable than the reliable speaker (p < .05 and p < .001 respectively).
By documenting where children looked immediately upon hearing the novel noun,
we were able to glean some insight about the time-course of their referential
commitments. When the novel object was visible, regardless of the speaker, children
almost always looked at this object ﬁrst, gazing in the direction of the hidden object
only 6 per cent of time in the reliable speaker condition, and 9 per cent of the time in
the unreliable speaker condition (even though they were signiﬁcantly less likely to
ultimately choose the novel object when the speaker was unreliable). But when the
novel object was hidden, leaving only the familiar objects in plain view, there were
striking differences in eye movement patterns across the speaker conditions. When
the speaker was reliable, children were apt to immediately reject either of the visible
familiar objects as candidate referents, looking ﬁrst in the direction of the hidden
object 91 per cent of the time; however, when the speaker was unreliable, and hence,
258 Sedivy
possibly suspected of being more likely to use a novel word for a familiar object,
children’s ﬁrst looks were directed at the hidden novel object only 47 per cent of the
time, yielding a signiﬁcant difference (p < .001).
Finally, we considered the longer-term learning consequences of these referential
commitments. Recall that when the novel object was visible, children in both speaker
conditions tended to choose this object as the referent the majority of the time.
Nevertheless, the referential link seemed to become more ﬁrmly entrenched when the
source was the reliable speaker, as shown by a subsequent retention test in which
children were asked by a neutral experimenter to identify the referent for the
previously uttered novel word. Children responded non-randomly (Binomial test,
p < .05) only when that word had previously been spoken by the reliable speaker.
It would appear then, that at least for typically developing three- and four-year
olds, knowing about a speaker’s communicative habits modulates the tendency to
interpret novel nouns as referring to objects whose names are not yet known.
However, it’s possible that a pragmatic story may not, in the end, extend to all
cases in which the bias is observed. Note that children as young as 16 months of age
prefer to avoid lexical overlap (Markman et al. 2003). In our own experiment, none of
our analyses showed any signiﬁcant differences as a function of age; three-year-olds
appeared every bit as pragmatically driven as four-year-olds on all measures. Never-
theless, one can’t rule out the possibility that more than one explanation might
underlie this particular bias, or that its nature might shift with age. We currently lack
evidence of pragmatic ﬂuidity among the very youngest children who avoid lexical
overlap. Furthermore, data from studies of children with autism show that the bias
exists even in the absence of the most basic behaviours that demonstrate sensitivity to
referential intent by the speaker (Preissler and Carey 2005; de Marchena et al. 2011).
(Note that the speaker-based manipulation could be used to probe whether the word-
leaning bias exhibited by children with autism is different in nature from the bias as
found in typically developing populations; we would expect speaker-based manipu-
lations to have no impact with the former population.)
14.5. Case study 2: Does children’s contrastive interpretation
of adjectives rely on general communicative principles?
As we’ve seen, adults’ interpretation of the contrastive function of adjectives shows
the hallmark sign of being derived from broad communicative expectations: the
inference is suspended when the speaker is perceived as being deﬁcient in communi-
cative competence. Children also show a tendency to interpret adjectives as signalling
a contrastive function. This has been observed both in situations of novel word
learning (Gelman and Markman 1985; Prasada 1992; Prasada and Cummins 2001;
Nadig et al. 2003) and in the real-time processing of referential phrases containing
Sizing up the Speaker 259
familiar words (Huang and Snedeker 2013; but see Nadig et al. 2003). It’s tempting to
view these data as further evidence that children, like adults, are guided by expect-
ations of optimal informativity in their interpretation of referring expressions. But
once again, we need to take seriously the possibility of competing accounts, and of a
developmental discontinuity in the underlying explanations for similar behavioural
effects in adults and young children.
Indeed, researchers who ﬁrst discovered children’s contrastive interpretation of
adjectives proposed that what children were doing was making a generalization about
form classes of words. It’s been shown that, from quite an early age, children’s
hypotheses about the meanings of new words tend to be constrained by their
syntactic category. For instance, by 14-months of age, they begin to expect that
nouns (‘These are blickets’) but not adjectives (‘These are blickish’) are used to
refer to object categories (Booth and Waxman 2009). By two years of age, they can
differentiate between common nouns (‘This is a zav’) and proper names (‘This is
Zav’) based on their syntax alone, knowing that proper names refer to speciﬁc
individuals, while common nouns refer to kinds of objects or individuals (Gelman
and Taylor 1984; Katz et al. 1974). Around the same age, when seeing a substance
piled up on the table, children assume that if a speaker uses a mass noun to describe it
(‘This is some fep’) she’s referring to the substance, but if she uses a count noun
(‘This is a fep’), she’s talking about the pile itself (Soja 1992). By three or four years of
age, children infer that novel adjectives (e.g., ‘This is a daxy one’) are used to
communicate properties of objects, especially those that highlight some sort of
contrast between objects—for example, to distinguish a large object from a smaller
one of the same kind (Gelman and Markman 1985). Under this view, children’s
earliest inferences of contrast come from such broad, structurally based generaliza-
tions about meaning—another way to think about this is that children of a certain age
map prenominal adjectives as a class onto a restrictive modiﬁer meaning (Prasada
1992). Over time, structurally based generalizations may become more reﬁned (e.g.,
distinctions between common and proper nouns evolve) and perhaps, more prag-
matically ﬂexible.
This narrative suggests that young children’s interpretations of adjectives should
be contrastive regardless of whether a speaker who utters the adjective is behaving in
a normal communicative fashion. But my colleagues and I (Berman et al. 2013) have
recently reported some preliminary data from an eye-tracking study indicating that
children’s contrastive inferences do not survive when a speaker communicates oddly.
In our experiment, young participants (18 three-year-olds and 22 four-year-olds)
saw visual displays containing photographs of four objects, two small and two large,
and responded to instructions such as ‘Look at the big one’. In half of the displays
(‘contrast displays’), two of the objects were identical in all respects except size—for
instance, the display might contain a small bowl, a large bowl, a large oven mitt and a
small toy). In the other half (‘no contrast displays’), all four objects were of different
260 Sedivy
categories. As in experiments with adults, a contrastive interpretation can be inferred
from the data if the presence of a contrast pair allows participants to settle faster on a
target referent for the adjective—that is, if children are faster to locate a target
referent in the contrast displays than the no contrast displays, and if the preferred
target in the contrast displays is one of the objects within the contrast set.
The key question, naturally, was whether any such contrastive interpretation
would be modulated by a speaker’s anomalous behaviour. To answer this question,
half of the children interacted with a speaker who behaved normally, while the other
half were introduced to a speaker who was described in the following way: ‘This is my
friend Monica and sometimes she says things in a very strange way. She says things in
a different way than you or I would. Sometimes it is hard to understand her. She is
very silly.’ In addition, the speaker proposed long and outlandish descriptions of
common objects during ﬁller trials, referring to a banana, for example, as ‘a long
yellow fruit that you peel that monkeys like to eat’.
When interacting with a conventional speaker, children showed evidence of a
contrastive interpretation, as seen in eye movement patterns over a one-second
interval immediately following the adjective’s onset. We measured this by comparing
the difference in scores between each of the objects that was consistent with the
adjective (e.g., the difference between the mean proportion of looks to the two large
objects) for the contrast versus no contrast conditions. This score was signiﬁcantly
different across the two conditions (p < .05). That is, when children saw displays with
a contrast set, they had a tendency to interpret ‘big’ as referring to a member of this
set, whereas looks were evenly divided between the two large objects in the no
contrast display. No differences were found as a function of age (three- versus
four-year-olds).
However, the situation looked quite different when the speaker had been behaving
unconventionally throughout the experiment. Now, children showed no such pref-
erence for interpreting ‘big’ as referring to a member of the contrast set. In other
words, the difference scores across contrast and no contrast conditions were not
statistically distinct from each other.
It should also be noted that we tested the interpretation of both the adjectives ‘big’
and ‘little’. Only the unmarked adjective ‘big’ showed evidence of a contrastive
interpretation, whereas ‘little’ elicited no differences across either the contrast versus
no contrast displays, or across the two speaker conditions. It may be that marked
adjectives denoting the negative end of a polarity scale are more complex (see, e.g.,
Klatzky et al. 1973), requiring more processing time; as a result, there may not be
sufﬁcient processing resources with which to compute contrastive inferences.
This study provides an interesting complement to the earlier manipulation of
speaker characteristics in the experiment on novel object bias. Both of these cases
involved phenomena which could in principle be explained by appealing to general
communicative expectations, but which also permitted alternative explanations. And
Sizing up the Speaker 261
in both cases, three- and four-year old children showed an impressive attunement to
the communicative behaviour of the speakers with whom they interacted. The studies
lend support for the pragmatic accounts and bolster the broader conclusion that by
this age, children can tap into expectations of normal communicative behaviour to
generate at least some basic inferences about meaning, all while negotiating the time
pressures of spoken language comprehension.
14.6. Further questions
In this chapter, I’ve tried to describe a useful experimental approach for probing the
nature of the knowledge of meaning, reporting some initial results on children’s early
pragmatic abilities. Obviously, many more phenomena remain to be explored more
deeply, including the nature of referential precedents between conversational part-
ners, or the degree to which classical scalar inferences truly reﬂect calculations about
a speaker’s goals and intentions. (One recent study suggests that for adults, at least,
scalar inferences are dependent upon knowledge of a speaker’s knowledge state:
Bergen and Grodner 2012). Beyond these useful applications, though, the studies
raise a slew of intriguing new questions.
For example: what kinds of cues are sufﬁcient to cast the shadow of doubt on a
speaker’s communicative competence? In the experiments I’ve reported here, par-
ticipants received an explicit warning of the speaker’s anomalous behaviour while
witnessing some corroborating examples of strange linguistic behaviour. Is an expli-
cit warning by a presumed authority ﬁgure (the adult experimenter) necessary? Or
can children suspend the presumption of co-operative behaviour merely through
implicit exposure to violated communicative norms? If implicit exposure is sufﬁcient,
what kinds of violations of norms serve as a trigger? Do they need to be grossly
inaccurate or unusual uses of language? Or are children sceptical of any speaker who
does not adhere to any one of a variety of social expectations, such as expectations of
appropriate appearance or dress, of purposeful behaviour, or even expectations about
a particular accent?
We might also wonder about the connection between the triggering odd behaviour
and the communicative expectations that are withheld as a result. In the two case
studies reported here, this link was very direct. In the experiment on lexical overlap
avoidance, children heard a speaker who produced nonsense words for familiar
objects, and consequently suspended the usual expectation that speakers avoid
using novel names for familiar objects with common labels. In the contrastive
adjective study, children heard a speaker produce convoluted descriptions of
common objects, and suspended the expectation that speakers be no more informa-
tive than necessary. We have no way of knowing from these studies whether upon
meeting anomalous speakers, children tar them with a very broad brush and suspend
many communicative expectations, or only highly speciﬁc ones. But other work
262 Sedivy
suggests that the scope of suspended expectations may be at least somewhat con-
strained: Jaswal et al. (2008) found that children were no less likely to learn past tense
morphology from speakers who labelled objects inaccurately than from speakers who
showed impeccable naming skills. And as noted earlier, Grodner and Sedivy (2011)
found that the anomalous behaviour of speakers had a selective effect on the
contrastive inference associated with adjectives, but not on their denotational
meanings.
Addressing such questions will be important for further pinning down exactly how
an understanding of a speaker’s mental state contributes to a hearer’s understanding
of meaning. If hearers rely only on very coarse models of speaker capabilities, with
anomalous behaviour on the part of the speaker having a broadly disruptive effect on
the hearer’s interpretation, then speaker-based experimental manipulations may
allow us to make only quite limited conclusions about the nature of interpretation,
beyond asserting that speaker-based information is crucial for ﬁxing interpretation.
On the other hand, if speaker-based effects turn out to be quite precisely aligned with
interpretation, the method could turn out to be especially useful for distinguishing
among various theoretical proposals all of which invoke speaker-based information
in some way.
In his seminal work, Grice placed an enormous burden of linguistic meaning onto
the shoulders of our inherently co-operative natures. Four decades on, we’ve
developed an array of empirical tools which have shown us that co-operative
expectations develop early, and that they can be extremely computationally efﬁcient.
But we still have many things to learn about exactly how it is that we humans size
each other up in the course of a conversation, and how this shapes our understanding
of meaning.
Sizing up the Speaker 263
15
The Inﬂuence of Perspective and
Communicative Goals on How
Speakers Choose to Refer
DANIEL J. GRODNER AND RACHEL M. ADLER
15.1. Introduction
Speakers make frequent choices about the form and content of their referential
descriptions. For instance, a particular apple might be labelled concisely with a
simple pronoun such as it, or with a more longwinded form such as the golden
delicious apple that my Uncle Frank bought at the Tanenhaus grocery. These choices
are shaped by both communicative and cognitive forces.
Communicative pressures arise because speakers must design utterances so their
intentions are intelligible to their audience. Accordingly, referential descriptions are
typically constructed so that addressees can efﬁciently map them to intended refer-
ents with minimal ambiguity. To accomplish this, co-operative speakers adhere to
the Gricean maxims (1975). The maxim of Quantity, which enjoins the speaker to
provide an appropriate level of information for the addressee, is particularly relevant
for determining how concise a description will be. On the one hand, speakers must
provide enough information. If there are multiple entities of one type, and the
speaker wants to refer to a subset of them, then she must include sufﬁcient infor-
mation to distinguish them. In a situation with two mutually salient vases, asking for
the vase would lead to communicative failure. On the other hand, too much infor-
mation can also pose an impediment to understanding. Superﬂuous information is
potentially inefﬁcient, but more importantly, it can be misleading. Suppose a speaker
asks an addressee to fetch the large vase. This typically implicates that there are
multiple vases that differ in size.1
This is because an unmodiﬁed label (the vase)
1
Analogously, a politician referring to himself as a compassionate conservative conveys that some
conservatives are not compassionate.
would have been sufﬁcient to identify a lone vase. A co-operative speaker should only
produce the modiﬁed form if the additional information serves some purpose.
A common function for a modiﬁer is to distinguish a referent from entities of the
same type. Hence the addressee infers the existence of contrasting entities (a small
vase) (Crain and Steedman 1985; Grodner and Sedivy 2011; Sedivy et al. 1999). If there
is only a single vase, this contrastive inference could result in a fruitless search for a
larger one. Consistent with this, over-informative descriptions are rated as less
felicitous by perceivers (Davies and Katsos 2009) and evoke neural responses associ-
ated with processing difﬁculty (Englehardt et al. 2011).
Cognitive inﬂuences also play a role in shaping referential descriptions. The
processes involved in planning and producing utterances impose demands on limited
attention and memory resources (Arnold 2008; Ferreira 2010). As a consequence,
descriptions are more likely to incorporate easily accessed words and syntax. This can
put cognitive pressures in conﬂict with communicative needs because the most
readily available forms for the speaker are not always ideal for conveying a desired
message to the addressee. For instance, words and syntactic constructions that have
recently been encountered are frequently re-used even when this leads to prolix
forms (e.g., the square that is red rather than the red square; Cleland and Pickering
2003) or more information than necessary to identify a referent (Brennan and Clark
1996). Additionally, features that are perceptually or situationally salient are often
explicitly labelled by incorporating modiﬁers in descriptions of objects without a
contextual contrast (Belke and Meyer 2002; Carbary and Tanenhaus 2008; Davies
and Katsos 2009; Sedivy 2003; Wardlow Lane and Ferreira 2008). In these cases, the
extra information does not serve a distinguishing function and seems to be driven by
factors internal to the speaker. To illustrate, colour properties are often encoded
when describing objects in isolation (Pechman 1989; Sedivy 2003). How frequently
this occurs is a function of both perceptual availability and linguistic codability (Belke
and Meyer 2002; Viethen et al. 2012).
Understanding the interplay between external communicative pressures and
internal cognitive pressures is key to predicting the brevity of a speaker’s description.
The present study investigates this issue by exploring how the goals of the communi-
cative act affect the speaker’s ability to take the addressee’s perspective.
Participants were asked to play a language game where it was either in the speaker’s
interest to co-operate with the addressee or to compete with the addressee. Manipu-
lating communicative goals in this way affected both communicative and cognitive
pressures. Communicative pressures were shifted because the Gricean maxims only
apply to co-operative speakers. In the competitive situation, it was in the speaker’s
communicative interest to withhold valuable information from the addressee. At the
same time, competition may have made valuable information more salient. Thus
cognitive pressures may have favoured leaking this information to the addressee
(Wardlow Lane et al. 2006).
The Inﬂuence of Perspective and Communicative Goals 265
The results below indicate that referential descriptions are extremely sensitive to
the addressee’s communicative needs but are also systematically constrained by the
cognitive limits of the speaker.
15.1.1. Taking the perspective of one’s audience
Because different addressees have different needs, an optimally informative speaker
should tailor her descriptions to her particular audience. This requires that speakers
distinguish their own privileged knowledge from the mutual knowledge, or common
ground, shared by the interlocutors (Clark 1996; Clark and Marshall 1981; Clark and
Murphy 1983). To illustrate, consider a situation where the speaker wants to refer to
one of two size-contrasting objects that are visible to her (e.g., a large vase in the
presence of a smaller one), but only the intended referent is visible to the addressee
(and the interlocutors are mutually aware of the addressee’s viewpoint). From the
speaker’s egocentric knowledge perspective, a modiﬁed description is necessary
because she can see two referents. This would be over-informative from the address-
ee’s perspective.
Speakers do accommodate aspects of the addressee’s knowledge at least some of
the time. For instance, they hyper-articulate and simplify descriptions for addressees
who might have comprehension difﬁculty such as non-native speakers (Bradlow
2002) and individuals with cognitive impairments (DePaulo and Coleman 1986).
They also use names for referents in domains in which the addressee has expertise,
but full descriptions when the addressee is a novice (Isaacs and Clark 1987). Despite
such examples, the extent to which speakers adapt to the perspective of their
particular audience and the mechanisms underlying the process are controversial.
15.1.2. Models of perspective taking
Theories vary with respect to when and how effectively perspective information is
computed and integrated in real-time conversation. One view is that the early stages
of production are egocentric and referring expressions are initially constructed using
the speaker’s perspective (Horton and Keysar 1996; Keysar and Barr 2002). The
addressee’s perspective can be strategically incorporated at a second stage, when
the speaker monitors the output of the initial stage for potential misunderstanding
and adjusts the expression if confusion is indicated. The theoretical motivation for
this ordering is that while the speaker presumably has direct access to her own
knowledge, shared information depends on diverse sources of contextual informa-
tion. These include linguistic mention, physical co-presence, or other general infor-
mation that indicates the addressee is a member of a community with characteristic
knowledge (Clark and Marshall 1981). Coordinating these different types of infor-
mation may be computationally burdensome, hence effortful and prone to failure.
Proponents of this view claim that egocentricity is generally unproblematic because
266 Grodner and Adler
referents salient to the speaker tend to be also salient to the addressee. Even in cases
where this isn’t true, egocentric errors might be readily diagnosed and corrected by
feedback from the addressee (Keysar et al. 2000; see also Clark and Krych 2004).
A contrasting view holds that perspective information immediately constrains
reference production and that the inﬂuence of shared perspective is weighted
according to how reliable it is in a given context and how relevant it is to the
speaker’s communicative goals (Brennan and Hanna 2009; Hanna et al. 2003; Heller
et al. 2008; Yoon et al. 2012). Proponents of this view note that all interpersonal
communication can be characterized as converting privileged information into
shared information. In fact, there is no reason to communicate if the information
being conveyed is already in common ground. Hence the distinction between shared
and privileged knowledge is fundamental to the formulation of any utterance, and
egocentricity would cause a signiﬁcant disruption to communication. On this view,
identifying shared information need not be difﬁcult because speakers would be highly
practised at using it, and it involves the kind of social pragmatic reasoning at which
humans excel (Tomasello 2008). For instance, even young infants can identify
the attentional states and intentions of other humans that are distinct from their
own (e.g., Csibra 2010; Liszkowski et al. 2008).
15.1.3. How sensitive are speakers to the needs of their audience?
Existing evidence for partner-speciﬁc accommodation yields a mixed picture. On the
one hand, studies consistently show that referential descriptions respect shared
information the majority of the time. Speakers are highly sensitive to the recent
linguistic context. Brennan and Clark (1996; see also Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs 1986)
had pairs of participants play several rounds of a communication game where they
were required to put stacks of pictures in a particular order. They found that speakers
would faithfully re-use recently established labels with a familiar partner even when
this led to modiﬁed descriptions for objects that had no contextual contrast. In
contrast, they used basic level descriptions with new partners. Heller et al. (2012)
found that speakers reliably used names rather than descriptions to identify novel
objects that they learned alongside the addressee, but provided descriptions for
referents whose names they learned in isolation.2
Galati and Brennan (2010) had
speakers narrate a Road Runner cartoon story multiple times. Descriptions were
shortened and simpliﬁed when speakers retold the story to the same addressee, but
not when they retold the story to a new addressee.
Speakers also typically take the addressee’s visual perspective into account when
planning descriptions. For instance, Lockridge and Brennan (2002) had speakers
describe actions depicted in pictures to addressees who could either see the pictures
2
Though speakers sometimes redundantly included names for purposes unrelated to identiﬁcation.
The Inﬂuence of Perspective and Communicative Goals 267
or not. Speakers only included information that the addressee could not infer on their
own. Speciﬁcally, speakers were more likely to include indeﬁnite references to
unpredictable instruments (e.g., an ice-pick for a stabbing) when the addressee
could not see the event, but used deﬁnite references, or omitted a reference entirely,
when the addressee could see the event or if the instrument was predictable from the
action. Another example comes from Nadig and Sedivy (2002). They compared
adults and four- to ﬁve-year-old children, who are thought to be more egocentric
than adults, in their ability to weight the visual perspective of an addressee. Partici-
pants asked an addressee to pick up one of several mutually visible objects in the
presence of an additional object that was privileged to the speaker. Both children and
adults were more likely to produce descriptions with size adjectives when there was a
mutually visible size contrast in addition to the target referent (e.g., a large vase target
in the presence of a smaller vase contrast) than when a size contrast was only visible
to the speaker.
On the other hand, evidence indicates that the speaker’s egocentric perspective
often intrudes on their descriptions. Arnold and Grifﬁn (2007) had speakers com-
plete a story told in a series of two pictures. The second picture required reference to
a character that had already been named previously (e.g., Mickey) in one of two
conditions: when that character was alone, or in the presence of a second, differently
gendered character. Speakers were more than twice as likely to repeat the name of the
character instead of using a more concise pronoun even though either expression
would have yielded an unambiguous reference. Similar results have been obtained for
full deﬁnite noun phrases (the cowboy) versus pronouns (Fukumura et al. 2011). This
effect suggests that the choice of a referring expression is sometimes driven by
how many referents currently occupy the speaker’s attention, independent of the
audience’s needs. Another example comes from Horton and Keysar (1996). They
instructed participants to describe a moving target object on a screen before them
so that an addressee could decide whether an identical object was moving on a
separate screen. They manipulated whether there was a contrast for the target in the
speaker’s display and whether or not this was shared or privileged knowledge. Like
Nadig and Sedivy, they found that speakers used modiﬁcation more frequently when
there was a shared contextual contrast than when a contextual contrast was privil-
eged. However, when speakers were forced to give speeded judgments under time
pressure, this difference disappeared. This supports the view that speakers might
initially formulate descriptions from their egocentric perspective. The time pressure
may have prevented them from entering the second stage of processing where they
could make addressee-speciﬁc adjustments. Wardlow Lane and Ferreira (2008) also
report evidence that cognitive pressures can cause descriptions to be increasingly
egocentric. They manipulated the salience of a privileged contrast to the speaker. In
one experiment, the privileged object was the target referent on some ﬁller trials
(2008: 1469, experiment 1). This made it more difﬁcult for the speaker to ignore the
268 Grodner and Adler
privileged objects. When privileged objects were made salient to the speaker in this
way, participants were more likely to modify descriptions of targets that had privil-
eged contrasts. This was true even though on rare occasions (roughly 9 per cent of
trials) it caused addressees to mistakenly assume the speaker was referring to the
privileged item.
15.1.4. The inﬂuence of communicative goals on perspective use
One frequently overlooked factor in this literature is the nature and urgency of the
speaker’s communicative goals. This is potentially critical to how perspective infor-
mation will be used. Different illocutionary goals, for instance, place emphasis on
either privileged or shared information: Assertions place content from the speaker’s
privileged knowledge in focus, requests must refer to shared information, and
questions inquire about the addressee’s privileged knowledge. In comprehension,
individuals rapidly attend to the information appropriate to the speech act (Brown-
Schmidt et al. 2008). Yoon et al. (2012) observed that the tasks in studies where
perspective use seems most limited tend to involve different speech acts than those
that ﬁnd perspective sensitivity. For instance, Horton and Keysar (1996) had partici-
pants describe a referent so that the addressee could verify whether or not he saw the
same object, and Arnold and Grifﬁn (2007) had participants narrate a scene for a
potential addressee. Both tasks involve assertions and thereby emphasize the
speaker’s privileged knowledge. Wardlow Lane and Ferreira (2008) asked speakers
to provide descriptions so an addressee could identify the target object. This is
potentially different from having speakers formulate requests that the addressee act
on a physical referent (e.g., Pick up the tall vase, Move the large block to the left)
(Nadig and Sedivy 2002). Attempting to effect more complex actions may heighten
sensitivity to the needs of the addressee. To examine this hypothesis, Yoon et al.
(2012) directly manipulated whether the speaker described or requested an antici-
pated action. They found that speakers were indeed less likely to include modiﬁers
for targets with privileged contrasts when requesting than when describing.
The clarity and importance of the speaker’s goals are also potentially important to
perspective sensitivity. Speakers should be more sensitive to the addressee’s needs
when there are clear and meaningful reasons for doing so. For example, in the studies
reviewed above, instances of over-informing are somewhat common, whereas under-
informing is rare. Indeed, eye-tracking evidence suggests that under-informing
occurs primarily when the speaker has not noticed the contextual contrast prior to
uttering the referring expression (Brown-Schmidt and Tanenhaus 2006). In these
cases, the presence of a contrast is not part of the speaker’s privileged knowledge, and
thus under-informing is not a consequence of egocentricity. The relative rarity of
under-informing is likely because the communicative costs are much higher than for
over-informing. Under-informing can easily cause the addressee to select the wrong
The Inﬂuence of Perspective and Communicative Goals 269
referent. Though it can result in comprehension difﬁculty, over-informing rarely
causes referential failure, and might even be helpful in some circumstances (Davies
and Katsos 2009). For this reason, it may be inappropriate to interpret rates of over-
informing as diagnostic of perspective taking abilities.
One solution is to strengthen the incentives related to over-informing. Wardlow
Lane et al. (2006) adopted this strategy by making a referential task competitive
rather than co-operative. Speakers described a mutually visible target object for an
addressee to pick out of an array. The speaker had access to a privileged object that
was either a size contrast for the target, or a completely unrelated object. To
manipulate communicative goals, the speaker was either speciﬁcally instructed not
to provide the addressee with information about the privileged ground object
(competitive condition) or was not (control condition). For the competitive condi-
tion, if the addressee identiﬁed the correct target, he was given the option to guess the
identity of the privileged object. If he got it right, then he received a point. If he got it
wrong, a point was subtracted. Speakers were told to limit the addressee’s point total.
As outlined above, the use of a modiﬁer implicates that the privileged object is a size
contrast for the target. By this reasoning, it would have been in the speaker’s interest
to withhold the modiﬁer when the privileged item was a contrasting object. In the
control condition, speakers used size modiﬁers 5.4 per cent of the time. When
speciﬁcally told to conceal the identity of the privileged object speakers included a
size modiﬁer signiﬁcantly more often: 14.4 per cent of the time. The authors argue
that the directive to conceal the privileged object’s identity made this information
more salient, and hence made it harder for speakers to suppress their egocentric
perspective (Wardlow Lane et al. 2006).
There are some potential concerns with this conclusion. First, the point system was
abstract and there were no clear consequences for winning or losing. Additionally,
each speaker shifted between the competitive and control conditions. Hence it is
possible that incentives to conceal the hidden object were confusing, or did not
motivate speakers sufﬁciently. Second, the vast majority of linguistic interaction is
collaborative and governed by expectations of co-operation (Grice 1975).3
As a result,
people may be relatively unskilled at taking perspective in competitive communi-
cation. To this end, it is important to establish whether speakers show similar limits
in adapting to their audience’s needs during co-operative communication.
3
Though interlocutors frequently have different social goals, they usually communicate co-operatively.
We can only think of two counterexamples. This ﬁrst is regulations (e.g., laws and rules) and contracts.
Because the speaker in these cases cannot assume their utterances will be interpreted co-operatively, they
must be exceptionally explicit and verbose. The second is misleading language such as deception or
withholding. This type of situation is much more common. However, the speaker can only mislead the
addressee by convincing them that they are acting co-operatively. In this way, misleading requires
modelling how a co-operative speaker would behave.
270 Grodner and Adler
15.2. Study: How is perspective sensitivity affected by co-operative
and competitive communicative goals?
15.2.1. Objectives, overview, and predictions
The present study examines the extent to which speakers’ descriptions are inﬂuenced
by the knowledge of their interlocutor in interactions with clear competitive and co-
operative incentives. Participants were asked to play a communication game in which
a speaker directed an addressee to manipulate objects in an array. Their perspectives
were intentionally misaligned so that one of the objects was concealed from the
addressee and only visible to the speaker. The speaker's task was to provide a single
instruction directing the addressee to pick up a mutually visible target object
(e.g., Move the pink sponge). If the addressee picked up the correct object, he and
the speaker received a point. The addressee then had to guess the identity of the
concealed object from among three choices. In the co-operative version of the game,
the speaker and addressee got a point if he guessed the correct object. The pair had to
surpass a combined score threshold to win a prize. In the competitive version, the
speaker received a point when the addressee guessed incorrectly. If the addressee
guessed correctly, he gained a point and the speaker lost a point. Only one of the
players could win the prize.4
The nature of the other items in the display was also
manipulated. There was either a size contrast for the target (e.g., a smaller pink
sponge) among the mutually visible objects, a size contrast as the privileged object, or
no size contrast for the target.
The co-operative game provides clear incentives for producing different referential
forms. The speaker should provide a size adjective (e.g., Pick up the small sponge)
whenever a size contrast is present, regardless of whether it is mutually visible or
privileged. In the mutually visible case, this is necessary to successfully refer to the
target object. In the privileged case, the modiﬁer is needed to implicate the identity of
the hidden object. In contrast, when the hidden object is not a size contrast (e.g., a
pink eraser), there is a disincentive to provide a size modiﬁer as this may mislead the
addressee about the hidden object. In this case, a co-operative speaker might provide
a non-size adjective that denotes properties the concealed object shares with the
target (e.g., Pick up the pink sponge) to provide some information about the hidden
object.
4
Wardlow Lane and Liersch (2012) looked at the effects of offering monetary incentives on perspective
use. However, the addressee and speaker were not competing against one another. Among all participants
in their study, the addressee with the highest score got a prize, and so did the speaker with the highest score.
Further, in their point system, the speaker gained points when the addressee guessed correctly and the
addressee gained points for incorrect guesses rather than not guessing. Thus the incentives for revealing
privileged information were complex and somewhat contradictory.
The Inﬂuence of Perspective and Communicative Goals 271
The competitive game creates a dramatically different set of incentives. Speakers
should still provide a size modiﬁer when a size contrast is mutually visible in order to
identify the target. However, they should not provide a size adjective when a size
contrast is privileged as this would implicate the identity of the concealed object. In
fact, competitive speakers have an incentive to occasionally include a size modiﬁer
when no size contrast is present in order to mislead the addressee. Deception
demands more than merely representing the addressee’s current knowledge. One
has to simultaneously represent a belief state that is at odds with reality, and to ﬁgure
out what information needs to be provided to manoeuver the addressee from his
current knowledge state to the counterfactual one. It is not surprising that the ability
to deceive is one of the more advanced milestones in theory of mind development
(Baron-Cohen 2007). Evidence for deception would thus indicate that speakers are
extremely good at recognizing (and frustrating) their addressee’s communicative
goals.
The outcome of the present study depends on how the balance of cognitive and
communicative pressures shifts under different incentive structures. One possibility
is that speakers are better able to determine the addressee’s communicative needs
when given sufﬁciently strong communicative incentives. For the competitive condi-
tion, this would mean that speakers rarely or never include a modiﬁer when naming
the target in the presence of a privileged contrast. For the co-operative condition, the
speaker should be just as likely to provide a modiﬁer when there is a privileged
contrast as when there is a shared contrast.
A second possibility is that enhanced competitive and co-operative incentives will
heighten the salience of the privileged object. This would increase cognitive pressure
for target descriptions to include reference to it (Wardlow Lane et al. 2006). This
predicts disparate effects in competitive and co-operative situations. In competitive
situations, this would work against communicative incentives and cause an increase
in size modiﬁcation for the privileged contrast condition. In co-operative situations,
this pressure would be aligned with communicative incentives to include a size
modiﬁer in the privileged contrast condition. This should cause the rate of modiﬁed
forms in the privileged contrast condition to be similar to, or greater than, the rate for
the shared contrast condition.
A third possibility is that, because communication is typically co-operative, it is
easier to adjust to a partner’s communicative goals in a co-operative situation
compared to a competitive one. This predicts that speakers will ﬁnd it hard to
avoid size modiﬁers with a privileged contrast present in the competitive game. In
contrast, this hypothesis predicts that it should be relatively easy to include size
modiﬁers with a privileged contrast present in the co-operative game.
A ﬁnal possibility makes the opposite predictions. Namely competition might
actually increase sensitivity to the addressee’s communicative needs compared to
co-operation. In co-operative communication, a speaker can count on corrective
272 Grodner and Adler
feedback from the addressee if her utterance fails to meet his needs (Clark and Krych
2004). Thus, she need not be as careful in tailoring her descriptions to achieve her
goals as in competitive communication. Indirect support for this hypothesis comes
from Savitsky et al. (2011). They found that speakers were more likely to assume an
ambiguous utterance was correctly interpreted when delivered to a friend rather than
a stranger. They argued that people are willing to rely on friends to provide co-
operative feedback, but may not be willing to do so with strangers. According to this
view, when naming a target with a privileged size contrast, speakers would be more
likely to omit size modiﬁers in the competitive game than to include size modiﬁers in
the co-operative game.
15.2.2. Methods
15.2.2.1. Participants A total of 90 Swarthmore College undergraduates (45 pairs)
completed the study for partial course credit; half served as speakers, half as address-
ees. All participants were native English speakers.
15.2.2.2. Materials Forty-ﬁve stimulus displays were prepared for each pair of
participants. Displays consisted of three mutually visible objects (shared), and one
object visible only to the speaker (privileged). One of the shared objects was desig-
nated the target. Critical display types are depicted in Figures 15.1 and 15.2. Twenty
displays were constructed so that the target could either be unique (unique target
condition) or have a privileged object that was identical to the target, but was a
different size (privileged contrast condition). The unique target condition was
created from the privileged contrast condition by replacing the size contrast with
an object of a different type but of similar size and visual complexity. These displays
were assigned to two counterbalanced presentation lists so that each participant pair
saw each of these displays exactly once, and each condition ten times. Five additional
(A) (B) (C)
Figure 15.1. Illustration of the critical display types from the speaker’s viewpoint in (A) the
privileged contrast condition, (B) the unique target condition, and (C) the shared contrast
control. The circle indicates the target item (the small cup) and the grey background indicates
the location of the privileged item.
The Inﬂuence of Perspective and Communicative Goals 273
critical displays were designed to assess the rate of modiﬁcation for targets that had a
size contrast among the mutually visible objects (shared contrast condition). The
remaining 20 displays were ﬁllers and divided among four types: (a) two pairs of size
contrasted objects where the size contrast for the target was privileged; (b) two pairs
of size contrasted objects where the size contrast for the target was shared; (c) the
target was unique, but a size contrasting pair of objects was among the shared objects;
(d) the target was unique, but the privileged object was a size contrast for one of the
shared objects. The ﬁller displays prevented the participants from being able to
identify the target and privileged objects in advance, and highlighted the presence
of size contrasts. Two of the ﬁller displays were designated practice trials. The
remaining 18 were pseudo-randomly mixed with the 25 critical displays in a single
presentation order.
15.2.2.3. Procedure Each participant pair was assigned to either the co-operative
condition (33 pairs) or the competitive condition (12 pairs). The roles of speaker and
addressee were randomly assigned based on a coin toss. Participants sat across from
each other at a table with a 3 x 3 grid of square cubbies between them. The centre
column of the cubbies was occluded so that the addressee could not see the speaker’s
head- and eye-movements. At the beginning of each trial, the four corner cubbies
were concealed from the addressee by black felt squares afﬁxed with Velcro. The
speaker was given a bag of four objects and asked to arrange the objects in the corner
cubbies according to a photograph while the addressee closed his eyes and covered
his ears. Once the objects were placed, the addressee was directed to unveil three of
the four corner cubbies according to a separate diagram. At this point, the speaker
saw four objects of which the addressee could only see three. The speaker then
requested that the addressee pick up the target object, which was indicated by a green
circle superimposed on her photograph. The locations of the target and hidden
(A) (B) (C)
Figure 15.2. Illustrations of the critical display types from the addressee’s viewpoint with (A) a
privileged contrast, (B) a unique target, and (C) a shared contrast. The target item is the small
cup and the grey square indicates the location of the privileged item.
274 Grodner and Adler
objects were pseudo-randomly determined. The addressee picked up the object and
the experimenter recorded his selection. After the addressee selected the target, he
had to guess the identity of the concealed object from a separate photograph
containing three candidates. A contextual contrast was among the candidates on 50
per cent of the trials.
For the competitive game, each participant received a separate score. The speaker
and addressee each gained a point if the addressee picked up the correct target, and
the speaker lost a point if the addressee picked up the wrong target. This forced
speakers to describe the correct target rather than one of the other shared objects. If
the addressee guessed the hidden object correctly, he gained two points. If he guessed
incorrectly, the addressee lost a point. This allocation was designed to correct for
random guesses. If the addressee selected at random among the three choices, the two
participants would (on average) have ended up with equivalent scores. In order to
win the game, participants had to both outscore their partner and receive more than 42
points (1 point per trial). The latter condition was intended to motivate participants to
try hard until the end of the game, even if they were far ahead of their partner. For the
co-operative game, the participants received a single shared score. If the addressee
picked up the correct target, the pair earned a point. If the addresses guessed the hidden
object correctly another point was earned. If he guessed incorrectly, a point was
subtracted. In order to win the game, the pair had to earn more than .86 points per
trial. Thus the addressee had to guess correctly at a rate signiﬁcantly better than chance
(.67 points per trial). The experimenter updated the score(s) on a mutually visible
whiteboard after each trial. Winners received a king size candy bar as a prize.
In post-experimental questionnaires, participants in both games universally indi-
cated that they were highly motivated to win, and most respondents reported that the
candy was a potent motivator. Each participant pair completed two practice trials
followed by 43 test trials. The speaker and addressee switched roles for one practice
trial to better understand their partner’s role, and to ensure that both understood the
felt veils truly obscured the hidden objects.
15.2.2.4. Data Coding The speakers’ requests were recorded using an Audio-Technica
ATR20C microphone and video recordings of the addressees’ responses were
collected using a SONY Handycam DCR-HC62. Data were stored on SONY MiniDV
tapes, and imported onto an external hard drive via iMovie 8.0.4. Two research
assistants (blind to the conditions and hypotheses) and the experimenter (blind to
the conditions) transcribed the requests. Descriptions were coded for whether they
contained size modiﬁers, non-size modiﬁers, and disﬂuencies. The latter was
recorded because disﬂuent speech is a sign of cognitive production effort (Clark
and Wilkes-Gibbs 1986). Requests that contained ﬁlled pause markers (uh, um, thee),
repairs, or repetitions were marked as disﬂuent. For space reasons, we do not report
the disﬂuency data below.
The Inﬂuence of Perspective and Communicative Goals 275
15.3. Results
15.3.1. Size modiﬁers
We examined the use of size modiﬁers to pick out the target. The proportion of
descriptions that included size and non-size modiﬁers across the three conditions
and game types are provided in Table 15.1. These data were entered into a 3 x 2
ANOVA crossing display condition with game type.5
This yielded a reliable inter-
action (F1(2,86)=42.2, P < .001), as well as main effects of display type (F1(2,86)=216,
P < .001) and game type (F1(1,43)=20.3, P < .001). Speakers were more likely to produce
size modiﬁers in the co-operative game and game type had different inﬂuences across
display types. Thus the incentive manipulation altered speaker behaviour.
In the co-operative game, the rate of size modiﬁcation was reliably different for
each display (Fs > 7, Ps < .05). Most importantly, the shared contrast elicited reliably
more size modiﬁcation than the privileged contrast (F1(1,32)=7.4, P < .05; F2(1,23)
=52.8, P < .001). Thus speakers did not optimally adjust their descriptions to help
addressees guess the privileged contrast.
In the competitive game, the shared contrast condition elicited reliably more size
modiﬁers than either of the other conditions (Fs > 126, Ps < .001). The unique target
condition did not differ from the privileged condition, however (Fs < 2). To see
whether competitive speakers over-informed in these two conditions, each was
compared to the unique target condition for the co-operative speakers. Competitive
speakers produced reliably more size modiﬁers in the unique target condition than
co-operative speakers (F1(1,43)=18.7, P < .001; F2(1,19)=11.6, P < .01). This suggests
that speakers over-informed in order to plant the false belief that the privileged object
was a size contrast for the target. Competitive speakers also over-informed in the
privileged contrast condition (F1(1,43)=4.4, P < .05; F2(1,19)=5.8, P < .05). This
TABLE 15.1. The mean percentage of target descriptions containing size and non-
size modiﬁers for the critical conditions in the present study. Standard errors are
given in parentheses.
Size Modiﬁers Non-Size Modiﬁers
Co-operative Competitive Co-operative Competitive
Unique Target 4.6% (1.3%) 17.5% (3.3%) 63.3% (6.1%) 29.2% (7.4%)
Privileged Contrast 78.8% (5.9%) 12.5% (4.5%) 40.5% (5.4%) 34.2% (7.7%)
Shared Contrast 95.4% (1.6%) 93.3% (2.8%) 51.5% (5.2%) 33.3% (4.5%)
5
Proportional data are not normally distributed, which is a prerequisite of ANOVA. To correct for this,
participant and item means were log odds transformed (Agresti 2002). Ones and zeroes were replaced
according to the procedure outlined by Macmillan and Creelman (2004).
276 Grodner and Adler
replicates the pattern observed by Wardlow Lane et al. (2006). Thus, even with
stronger incentives, competitive speakers disclosed information about the identity
of the privileged contrast at a rate greater than baseline.
To establish whether competition or co-operation elicited less optimal perspective
taking behaviour, we compared the difference between the actual modiﬁcation rate
observed in the privileged contrast condition and the theoretical modiﬁcation rate for
optimal behaviour (100 per cent for co-operative speakers, 0 per cent for competitive
speakers). There was a trend toward more optimal behaviour in the competitive
condition. This was reliable in the items analysis (F2(1,19)=11.8; P < .01), but not in
the participants analysis (F < 1). This suggests that competitive incentives elicited
more sensitivity to the addressee’s needs than co-operative ones.
15.3.2. Non-size modiﬁers
Non-size modiﬁer rates were reliably affected by display type (F1(2,86)=5.6, p< .01),
game type (F1(1,43)=5.5, P < .05), and the interaction of these factors (F1(2,86)=4,
P < .05). Non-size modiﬁers were reliably more common in the co-operative game.
This suggests that they were used to convey helpful information about the hidden
object. In addition, for co-operative speakers, there were signiﬁcantly more non-size
modiﬁers elicited by unique target than privileged contrast displays (F1(1,32)=19.1,
P < .001; F2(1,19)=65, P < .001) and a trend towards more in shared contrast compared
to privileged contrast displays (F1(1,32)=3.98, P < .05; F2(1,23)=1.4, P = .12). Thus more
non-size modiﬁers were uttered in those conditions where it would have been the most
helpful, but not in the privileged contrast displays where a size modiﬁer could
efﬁciently identify the privileged object on its own. For competitive speakers, there
were no effects of display type (Fs < 2).
15.4. Discussion
Altogether, the evidence indicates that speakers systematically modulate their
descriptions in accordance with the perspectives and needs of their interlocutors,
as well as their own communicative goals. However, they do not do so perfectly.
Co-operative speakers typically used size modiﬁers when describing a target to impli-
cate that the privileged object was a size contrast, and they used non-size modiﬁers to
hint at the features of a non-contrastive privileged object. Conversely, competitive
speakers rarely used size modiﬁers that would have leaked valuable information and
did not modulate their non-size modiﬁer usage for different types of privileged objects.
However, none of these strategies was adopted in all relevant situations.
The co-operative results cannot be explained by positing that speakers are inher-
ently or frequently egocentric (Keysar and Barr 2002). While under-informing in the
privileged contrast condition is a failure to meet the addressee’s needs, it is not
The Inﬂuence of Perspective and Communicative Goals 277
egocentric behaviour. From the speaker’s perspective, the target has a size contrast so
distinguishing the target would demand a modiﬁer. Furthermore, the co-operative
results cannot be explained by the hypothesis that enhanced incentives made the
privileged object more salient. This would have led to increased modiﬁer use
compared to the shared contrast condition, not less. Thus the claim that highlighting
a privileged contrast leads to more modiﬁed target descriptions (Wardlow Lane et al.
2006; Wardlow Lane and Ferreira 2008) cannot be applied here.
It is tempting to ﬁnd a uniﬁed explanation for why both competitive and co-
operative speakers behaved non-optimally. There are at least two possibilities. First,
speakers may have been focused on assisting with the addressee’s primary task of
identifying the target, which could have detracted from their ability to manage the
addressee’s secondary task of identifying the hidden object. This explanation cannot
capture Wardlow Lane and Ferreira’s (2008) ﬁndings. They omitted the guessing
task, but found more size modiﬁcation for targets with privileged contrasts when the
privileged object was the target on some ﬁller trials. Thus, even when it interfered
with the sole task of identifying the target, participants over-informed. A second
possibility is that speakers have trouble using requests to implicate information to the
addressee about the speaker’s privileged ground. Ordinarily, privileged ground infor-
mation is conveyed directly via assertion. Requests refer to information in the
common ground. The unconventional means of conveying information may be
challenging.
Two aspects of the ﬁndings above suggest that speakers may be more sensitive to
addressees’ needs in competitive rather than co-operative settings. First, there was a
trend toward more optimal behaviour in the competitive condition: It was easier for
participants to omit a revealing size modiﬁer in the competitive game than to
helpfully include one in the co-operative game. Second, there was evidence that
competitive speakers will over-inform in an attempt to implant a false belief about
the identity of a hidden object. This indicates that reference production processes are
exquisitely sensitive to the addressee’s communicative needs. This ﬁnding is also
relevant to models of how speakers maintain shared information separate from
privileged information in memory. For instance, Clark and colleagues have proposed
that speakers use specialized memory structures called reference diaries to keep
detailed records of what is shared with different addressees (Clark and Marshall
1981; Clark and Murphy 1983). In principle, these diaries could support deception if
they were extended to model hypothetical knowledge states. This would enable the
speaker to represent the actual knowledge state and the intended counterfactual
knowledge state in parallel. An alternative view is given by Horton and Gerrig
(2005). They argue that general-purpose memory mechanisms are sufﬁcient. In
their model, the addressee, the referent, and the details of the communicative
situation are represented as concepts in an associative network. When a referent is
encountered in a given situation in the presence of an addressee, associative links are
278 Grodner and Adler
formed between the referent and addressee. A speaker can determine that a given
referent is shared if the addressee concept is activated by the referent concept and
vice versa. The network thus allows the speaker to perform a commonality assess-
ment for referents and addressees without explicitly modelling the knowledge of
particular addressees. However, the associationist architecture enables this by having
the same conceptual nodes simultaneously represent a referent and shared know-
ledge of that referent. As a result, it does not provide a natural means of separately
representing actual and hypothetical knowledge states. Additional mechanisms
would be necessary to explain deception.
The work summarized here investigates properties that can be encoded with
prenominal modiﬁers. It is unclear whether the same degree of perspective sensitivity
would arise with features that can only be conveyed with postnominal modiﬁers (e.g.,
the square with a light bulb, the book my uncle gave me). Postnominal modiﬁers
exhibit similar referential properties to prenominal ones: They are used to distinguish
amongst contrasting entities, and they implicate a contrast when they are used in a
null discourse (Crain and Steedman 1985; Grodner et al. 2005). Thus the same
communicative pressures apply to the production of both modiﬁer types. On the
other hand, postnominal modiﬁers usually contain more words and more compli-
cated syntactic constructions (e.g., relative clauses and prepositional phrases). This
could increase the cognitive costs of producing these features. If so, then we would
anticipate decreased modiﬁer use under both incentive structures. This would result
in competitive speakers being better at withholding privileged information and co-
operative speakers being worse at providing it. An important goal of future research
is to explore a diverse range of feature types, incentive structures, and tasks in order
to better understand how cognitive pressures and communicative goals are balanced
in reference production.
The Inﬂuence of Perspective and Communicative Goals 279
16
Narrowing*
IRA NOVECK AND NICOLA SPOTORNO
16.1. Introduction
It is uncontroversial among pragmatists to assume that an utterance can provide a
meaning that is more precise than what is conveyed by the linguistic content of its
words. So when Mary says (16.1a), a more informative interpretation of it is (16.1b).
Similarly, when a speaker uses a sentence metaphorically, as in (16.2a), it can have
many potential meanings, but it ultimately provides the addressee with a more
precise interpretation (16.2b):
(16.1) a. Some of the guests are hungry.
b. Some but not all of the guests are hungry.
(16.2) a. Nobody wanted to run against John at school. John was a cheetah.
b. John was fast.
Controversy arises once theorists describe how this process is carried out. Grice
(1975) assumed that there are standards in conversation and that the source of
reﬁnements comes from violations of these standards. Levinson (2000) argues that
there are inferential heuristics (or default inferences) that make utterances informative
(e.g., the Q-heuristic What isn’t said, isn’t is applied to the utterance), transforming the
linguistically encoded meaning in (16.1a) to (16.1b)) while Relevance Theory (RT)
describes how intended meanings are the result of the interplay between cognitive
effects and effort in a particularized way for each utterance (Sperber and Wilson 1986,
1995). Others argue that grammar plays a determinative role in interpretations
(Chierchia 2004); for example, (16.1a) is understood as similar to its linguistically
encoded reading when in a downward entailing context and as (16.1b) otherwise.
* The authors wish to thank Anouch Bourmayan, Eve Clark, Laurence Goldstein, Luisa Marti, and Julie
Sedivy for some very useful comments.
One way to adjudicate between these accounts is to test them experimentally.
However, this endeavour is complicated by the fact that it is not obvious how to
transform theoretical positions into cognitive implementations of them. One can see
how difﬁcult this is when one considers Grice’s seminal theory. Grice proposed a
theory that was a normative account for human communication and his approach
was entirely theoretical. His co-operative principle and his maxims were designed to
provide a rational reconstruction of what should happen during a conversation
between two rational agents. Since then, scholars have aimed to transform the
Gricean account into a psycholinguistic model of language processing (often referred
to as the Standard Pragmatic Model, SPM). At its simplest, it is a three-step process
that involves: (1) the computation of the semantic / literal meaning; (2) the recogni-
tion of a violation of a maxim; and (3) the computation of an intended meaning
through implicature. However, it has been difﬁcult to establish that these three steps
actually occur (let alone in such an order) and, more fatally, such a three-step process
seems too long and slow for explaining the rapid on-line pragmatic processing of an
utterance (e.g., see Sedivy, Chapter 14). This has made it easy for critics to rail against
the SPM and, in so doing, the entire Gricean approach. However, Grice never
intended his model to be used as a model of actual language processing and this
holds for many theoretical accounts of pragmatics.
Fortunately, much progress has been made in the cognitive sciences since David
Marr (1982) pointed out how one can advance theoretically at three levels—often
referred to as the computational, algorithmic, and implementational levels of analy-
sis—and how one can make progress by keeping the three separate and comple-
mentary. We summarize the three quickly. The computational level makes explicit
the input and output of the process, as well as the constraints that would allow a
speciﬁed problem to be solved. The algorithmic level describes how to get from input
to output, and speciﬁcally determines which representations have to be used and
which processes have to be employed in order to build and manipulate the repre-
sentations. The implementational level provides a description of the physical system
that should realize the process at, say, the neuronal level.1
It should be clear then that Grice’s theory was designed at the computational level;
the SPM was invented to practically mimic it at the algorithmic level. However, as Marr
argued, it is neither necessary nor recommended to assume that the two resemble each
other. One can do theoretical work at the computational level without recourse to the
algorithmic level and so on with any level with respect to the other two.
1
To make the three levels more concrete, consider the process of addition. First, one would deﬁne what
addition is, namely what is its input and output and what is its aim. This step corresponds to Marr’s
computational level. One also has to deﬁne what kind of algorithm can compute addition. This means that
one has to ﬁgure out a process that can manipulate the provided input and produce the desired output.
Finally, one would need the machinery that can implement the algorithm in order to compute the addition;
this is the level of implementation.
Narrowing 281
While we make this historical digression to underline the dangers that arise when
one translates a theory of pragmatics into a cognitive model of communication, it is
also our way to introduce our modest aim, which is to describe our approach to
pragmatic processing at the algorithmic level. In this chapter, we propose that behind
different pragmatic phenomena and different pragmatic theories is a single cognitive
process that guides the selection of an intended interpretation of an utterance. We
will call this process narrowing. Our proposal derives from experimental observa-
tions across several different areas of study—scalar implicatures, metaphor process-
ing, contrastive inferences, and inferential processes related to reasoning. Narrowing
is part and parcel of a comprehension mechanism that allows interlocutors to take
full advantage of the content of utterances. Narrowing on the part of listeners allows
speakers to be briefer than they would absolutely need to be in order to fully express
their thoughts. In other words, narrowing is a general pragmatic process that makes
brevity possible.
16.2. A descriptive example of narrowing
Consider this statement from Sam Stein, an American political reporter from the
Hufﬁngton Post who was speaking on television about Ann Coulter, a conservative
commentator who was just shown (on a video clip) to be rather upset about a
statement made by a spokeswoman for the conservative Romney-for-President
campaign:
(16.3) Sam Stein: Ann Coulter is talking out of her mind.
His remark has several interpretations. One is close to a literal description. This can
be viewed as Ann Coulter is speaking through parts of her mind/brain. Without any
other context, this might seem plausible though hardly informative. Another possible
interpretation is that perhaps he misspoke and meant to say ‘talking out of line’, since
both she and the spokeswoman are from the same end of the political spectrum and it
is highly unusual to see one conservative publicly angry with another. This is not
likely, especially because he didn’t correct himself, but given the formulation there is
a chance that this is possible. The third is that ‘out of her mind’—an idiomatic
expression meaning something along the lines of excitedly and implausibly (as in
insanely)—is being used awkwardly here to describe the outlandish and demonstra-
tive way Coulter was expressing herself in the video clip. It would be fair to say that
the third interpretation was the intended one, but given the options, and especially if
it were removed from context, the others would be possible.
We present this example because it is typical of cases of utterance interpretation
and for the following three reasons. First, these sorts of utterances are ubiquitous
(this speciﬁc real-life occurrence made itself known immediately while the authors
were mulling over a reviewer’s suggestion that we present an example here). Second,
282 Noveck and Spotorno
it comes with numerous interpretations. Third, and importantly, one can see how
elements from a literal interpretation emerge and could readily represent one of the
three we described. These are also the features that one can appreciate in the
academic cases described in the opening paragraph. For example, while the literal
reading of (16.1a) is a possible construal, there are many circumstances where (16.1b)
is made readily apparent by context. Likewise for the utterance and its interpretation
in (16.2); (16.2a) can have a literal reading, but it is more likely to be understood as
(16.2b). Importantly, we propose that the same narrowing process is responsible for
all three of the cases in (16.1) through (16.3).
We bring up the two cases represented in (16.1) and (16.2) in order to distinguish
between two sorts of narrowing—one that we call voluntary and the other imposed.
These labels characterize the way an addressee ends up with the more informative
outcome, the one that discussions usually consider to be closest to the intended
reading. In the voluntary sort, the linguistically encoded reading could be considered
good enough while the more informative version can be viewed as entailing it. It gets
its name from the ubiquitous ﬁnding showing that the more informative interpret-
ation appears to require more effort than the former. Consider the case of scalars.
The enriched ‘Some but not all’ outcome in (16.1b) entails the linguistically encoded
one, ‘Some and perhaps all’, which can provide a minimal reading. However, coming
up with the more-informative reading typically requires further effort on the part of
the addressee when compared to coming up with the linguistically encoded one (see
Noveck and Reboul 2008).
Imposed narrowing gets its name from the fact that, while both a linguistically
encoded reading and an intended go-to reading involve some form of narrowing,
some feature (of either the context or the linguistic code) forces the addressee to look
for a sensible interpretation that is quite different from one that comes closest to the
linguistically encoded sort. In fact, it is hard to see any direct relationship between a
linguistically encoded reading and a more informative reading among the phenom-
ena in this category. Metaphor serves as our main example of imposed narrowing, so
consider ‘John was a cheetah’. The relationship between a linguistically encoded
reading (for the present purposes, consider it something akin to ‘A named object
John was a large feline called a cheetah’) and the more informative, go-to metaphoric
reading (e.g., ‘John was fast’) is not obvious when one compares the two. One can
even argue, as we will do later, that the narrowing in the more informative case has
little overlap with (and can even inadvertently lead to a rejection of) the linguistically
encoded sort. Thus, if one does take the verbal stimulus to gather that John was fast,
the more informative metaphoric reading dispenses with possible alternatives,
including the one that can be considered closest to the literally encoded meaning.
The rest of the chapter will unfold in the following way. First, we motivate the
general need for a narrowing process by underlining how it provides for gains in
information in utterance comprehension. This is followed by describing in greater
Narrowing 283
detail a small set of phenomena that fall under either voluntary or imposed
narrowing, with scalars serving as the ﬂagship example of the former and metaphor
of the latter. Critically, and as has been pointed out in previous work (Noveck and
Sperber 2007), we do not think that semantic and pragmatic intuitions can sufﬁce for
building up accounts of pragmatic processes, so we point out that our analyses rely
almost exclusively on data drawn from experiments. We conclude by considering
issues related to our proposal. By the end of the chapter, we hope that the reader will
have the wherewithal to categorize the utterance in (16.3).
16.3. Narrowing as a means to gain information
Why is narrowing necessary? The short answer is that it provides informational
value. While a linguistic stimulus is a means for gaining information, narrowing
operates by reducing the interpretational possibilities that the stimulus itself pro-
vides. To bring this notion into focus, consider a quote from Levinson (2000: 31), in
which he describes a way to view information-gain semantically while assuming
some basic background information:
Recollect the idea, independently developed in slightly different ways by Popper (1959) and
Bar-Hillel and Carnap (1952), that semantic information content of a message can be measured
in proportion to the number of states of affairs that the message effectively rules out, given a
domain of discourse. For example, in a domain consisting of Bill and Ben, and considering just
the states of affairs characterized by two predicates, say ‘married’ and ‘middle aged’, the
assertion ‘Bill is married’ will rule out just 8 out of 16 possible states of affairs (e.g., a state
where Ben is married and middle-aged and where Bill is not middle-aged and not-married).
Based on our understanding of Levinson’s scenario, the 16 states of affairs refer to
conjunctions of Bill’s marriage status and age along with Ben’s marriage status and
age (e.g., one state would be ‘Bill is married and is middle aged and Ben is not-
married and is not middle aged’). Once these 16 states are declared, asserting that ‘Bill
is married’ removes eight cases, that is, those in which Bill is unmarried (e.g., ‘Bill
is unmarried and is not middle aged and Ben is married and is middle aged’). Further
asserting that Bill is middle-aged removes another four states of affair in which he is
not middle-aged.2
That would leave four cases where Bill is both married and middle-
aged (corresponding to the four remaining combinations of marriage-status and age
2
In the rest of the quote, Levinson writes:
But the assertion ‘Bill is married and middle-aged’ will rule out twice as many states of affairs and, by this
measure, will be twice as informative.
The only way we can make sense of this quote is if we assume that (a) the 16 states of affairs are
conjunctions of Bill’s status and Ben’s status; and (b) the gain is 50 per cent (from 8 eliminated states to
12) and not ‘twice as much’.
284 Noveck and Spotorno
for Ben). So, there are gains as one moves along the sentence. This portrays the way
semantics can be quantiﬁed to capture information gains and, as Levinson writes, this
is a useful ﬁrst approximation.
Even without knowing the precise features of the background information of an
utterance, there remain ways one can appreciate gains in information in a similarly
useful (though sometimes more trivial) way. That would be by ruling out some of the
multiple interpretations the linguistic code itself generates through one’s background
knowledge and knowledge of language. For example, in Levinson’s example above,
one’s knowledge of English helps us understand that Bill without an article is a
person (and not an invoice) and that married is antonymic to unmarried. Our
general knowledge would inform us that Bill is probably the ﬁrst name of a man
and that he is probably married to a woman and that the two are married to two
different women. All of this leads to the assumption that the two are probably not
married to each other. Moreover, one would probably assume that middle-aged is
based on contemporary standards and not prehistoric or biblical ones. As can be seen
with this banal example, one does not need to formally declare the domain’s
background in order to measure information gains, especially in the sort of out-of-
the-blue sentences that are usually employed in psychological experiments; back-
ground knowledge and linguistic know-how allow one to do quite a bit.
In order to consider narrowing a general algorithmic process, it ought to be
sufﬁciently ubiquitous. Given the host of pragmatic phenomena in which an utter-
ance can be reﬁned (e.g., quantiﬁed spaces, lexical interpretations, anticipated infor-
mation, and potential reference assignments, to name a few) one should be able to
ﬁnd evidence of it across the pragmatic spectrum. That is why we now turn to our
ﬂagship examples—scalar inferences and metaphor—in which one can identify
narrowing.
Our method is to ﬁnd, for each case, a minimally functional linguistically encoded
meaning (often referred to in the literature as logical, literal, or semantic) that is
related to the utterance of each example. This ultimately involves ﬁnding a critical
term that is thought to be responsible for either a literal or extra-literal reading. This
is the weak quantiﬁer in (16.1) and the metaphor vehicle in (16.2). We focus on literal
meanings, not only because the literature does but, because the fate of the linguistic-
ally encoded reading in each case is revealing of the distinction between the two sorts
of narrowing. In the voluntary case, there is a relationship to detect between the
linguistically encoded meaning and the more informative one. Thus, pragmatic dis-
cussions of Some usually aim to distinguish the semantic meaning of Some, which is
compatible with All, from the pragmatic reading of Some, which is not compatible with
All (though see Degen and Tanenhaus 2010 and Grodner et al. 2010), who distinguish
Some from the quantities 2 and 3). For the imposed kind, the relationship between
literal and pragmatic readings can be best described as incompatible.
Narrowing 285
16.4. Narrowing that is voluntary: The case of scalars
Here we turn to what has become the drosophila of the experimental pragmatics
literature—scalar inferences. Consider an out-of-the-blue utterance such as ‘Some of
the guests are hungry’. This utterance can lead to two sorts of output, the one in
(16.1a) or the stronger interpretation in (16.1b), even if there is some disagreement
about the underlying cause for the latter. From the classic Gricean perspective, the
explanation for (16.1b) goes as follows: The more informative proposition ‘All the
guests are hungry’ would make a greater contribution to the common purpose of
the conversation and the speaker would be expected to express it if she could. Given
that it was not expressed, the negation of ‘All the guests are hungry’ becomes part of a
generated meaning.
To see how there is greater information gain with the more reﬁned interpretation,
consider Leibniz’s line diagrams (see Politzer et al. 2006), which are analogous to
Venn Diagrams, as one processes Some of the guests are hungry. The minimally
acceptable linguistically encoded meaning in (16.1a) is compatible with the four
following possibilities:
(16.4) (a) G ---------------
H ------------------
(b) G --------------------
H ----------
(c) G ----------
H ----------
(d) G ----------
H --------------------
These representations essentially show the four different ways ‘Some G are H’ can be
represented. In every case, there is an overlap between G and H. What distinguishes
the four is what occurs at the peripheries. In (16.4a), there are G that are not H and
H that are not G (ie, ‘guests who are not hungry and non-guests who are’). In (16.4b),
G includes H so that there are simply G that are not H (ie, ‘guests who are not
hungry’). In (16.4c), the two groups are perfectly overlapping and in (16.4d), there are
only H that are not G (ie, ‘non-guests who are hungry’).
The reading of (16.1a) is compatible with all four readings of (16.4). The narrowing
represented in (16.1b) eliminates (16.4c) and (16.4d) from consideration, leaving only
(16.4a) and (16.4b) as possibilities. There is thus a relative gain in information when
one compares the two readings of (16.1), four possibilities in one case (16.1a) and two
in the other (16.1b). Keep in mind that pragmatic processing works on arriving at even
the linguistically encoded meaning (e.g., perhaps it could help determine the way
to deﬁne the degree of hungry, which could refer to a minimal hunger for snacks or to
286 Noveck and Spotorno
the need to eat an entire meal). The approximations that we present concerning
narrowing here are designed to sketch out the relationship between a minimal
reading, and the other acceptable (and more informative) reading, while focusing
on one (usually critical) feature of the utterance. Here, in the case of scalars, one can
see that the pragmatic reading entails the literal one.3
Evidence from the developmental, sentence processing, and neurological literature
show how the linguistically encoded reading very often sufﬁces for out-of-the-blue
sentences and how extra processing is associated with the narrowing of the more
reﬁned interpretations. As has been reported and summarized elsewhere (Noveck
and Sperber 2007; Noveck and Reboul 2008), linguistically encoded readings are
often sufﬁcient for making on-line interpretations with utterances containing scalars
and it is the more reﬁned readings that come with extra costs, even if they may be
relatively light (e.g., see Bott et al. 2012; Bott and Noveck 2004; Breheny et al. 2006; De
Neys and Schaeken 2007; Huang and Snedeker 2009). There is also little evidence that
situations exist wherein utterances containing scalar expressions are always
narrowed (though see Grodner et al. 2010). In the interest of space, we focus on
neurological features of sentence-processing and developmental data.
A recent EEG study on sentence processing with scalar terms reveals how readily
participants use semantic readings (Nieuwland et al. 2010). While exploiting individ-
ual differences ﬁrst reported in Noveck (2001) and in an EEG study from Noveck and
Posada (2003), Nieuwland et al. showed that the moment at which under-informa-
tiveness becomes apparent is generally not noticeable to most participants. In
sentence (16.5), taken from Experiment 2 of their study, the word ‘lungs’ which is
arguably under-informative at the point at which it is expressed (since all people have
lungs) apparently prompts an EEG proﬁle that is indistinguishable from the word
‘pets’ in (16.6) when it is expressed, even though the latter does not have the potential
to appear under-informative:
(16.5) Some people have lungs that require good care.
(16.6) Some people have pets that require good care.
However, Experiment 1 of the same paper—with the same paradigm—shows that
EEG proﬁles appear more reactive when (a) participants are broken down into two
groups based on their ‘Communication Score’ in Baron-Cohen’s Autism Quotient
(Baron-Cohen et al. 2001), where a higher score indicates that an individual is higher
on the Autism Spectrum, plus when; (b) a comma is inserted prompting a sort of
‘clausal wrap-up’. For example, (16.5) and (16.6) were presented as (16.50
) and (16.60
):
3
Using entailments to distinguish between enrichments has been used before but to distinguish
between explicit and implicit readings in what was once referred to as Functional Independence (Carston
2002).
Narrowing 287
(16.50
) Some people have lungs, which require good care.
(16.60
) Some people have pets, which require good care.
With these sentences, those participants who are considered more ‘pragmatically
skilled’ (with low AQ scores) had EEG proﬁles with an N400 of greater magnitude to
the under-informative item in a sentence such as (16.50
) when compared to (16.60
);
this indicates that some sort of expectation was violated on line among this half of
participants. Those who scored higher on the scale had N400’s that were less
remarkable. The upshot here is that it can be demonstrated that a subgroup of
participants who appear to be more pragmatically skilled go further in narrowing
the meaning of a sentence on-line. The rest do not.
Developmentally speaking, more reﬁned readings occur more frequently with age,
indicating that younger participants are more likely than older ones to rely on
minimal (semantic) readings. This is supported by ﬁndings showing that children
are less likely than adults to reject as false under-informative sentences such as ‘Some
boxes contain a token’ when presented with four boxes each containing a token. The
developmental trajectory (with linguistically encoded readings more prevalent
among younger participants) is present consistently and across multiple languages
(French, Greek, Italian, English and German, to name a few) and even as types of
under-informative sentences vary (Noveck 2001; Papafragou and Musolino 2003;
Guasti et al. 2005; Pouscoulous et al. 2007). For example, Noveck (2001) showed that
10-year-olds are more likely than adults to accept under-informative sentences such
as ‘Some elephants have trunks’, indicating that they are less likely than adults to
narrow their interpretations (with meanings that can be glossed) as ‘Some but not all
elephants have trunks’. While largely replicating Noveck (2001), Guasti et al. (2005)
showed that explicit training among seven-year-olds improves their ability to draw
more reﬁned interpretations but that they never achieve adult levels of performance
for most scalar terms and that the effects of instruction do not last beyond the
training session itself for most children.
Taking both the EEG and developmental data together, it is safe to assume that the
narrowing that distinguishes the linguistically encoded reading from the more
informative one is an activity that is linked to further inferencing. Addressees who
are more socially skilled make more narrowed readings of Some on-line as do older
participants on sentence veriﬁcation tasks. With data like these (and in abundance) it
is difﬁcult to claim that narrowed readings occur routinely without effort.
16.4.1. Other cases of voluntary narrowing: Adjectival modiﬁcations
As we indicated earlier, we are interested in describing a general process that can be
seen to work across several phenomena. This is why we turn to another well-studied
case that, according to our breakdown, falls under the voluntary narrowing label.
288 Noveck and Spotorno
These are contrastive inferences that arise in sentences that are modiﬁed with an
adjective. For example, the word ‘tall’ in (16.7) can help participants distinguish one
relatively tall glass from, say, a smaller glass.
(16.7) Pick up the tall glass.
One view on this inference is that knowledge of the semantics of the adjective triggers a
search for a pertinent comparison class (Sedivy 2003). According to this view, the word
‘tall’ is the basis for a presupposition rather than something akin to voluntary narrowing
as in (16.8). This claim is based on a result showing that listeners’ eye-movements reveal
that they make referential assignments (measured by looks to the tall glass when it was
one of two differently sized glasses) as soon as the adjective was uttered and even before
hearing the noun ‘glass’ (Sedivy et al. 1999). Arguably, the adjective ‘tall’ ought to have
attracted one’s attention to another tall object in the scenario, a pitcher, which was
present in the referential domain as well, and yet it did not appear to.
(16.8) Pick up the tall glass and not the shorter one.
From our view, a test sentence such as (16.7) has a linguistically encoded reading that
does not necessarily include one particular contrastive inference (which according to
the above description, looks like (16.8)). It could, depending on the context, have
other interpretations through narrowing.
To appreciate our point, consider a hypothetical case where there are numerous tall
things (a tall cup, a tall paper clip, a tall telephone, a tall screwdriver, a tall ruler) as well
as small things, some of which can be viewed as paired with the tall ones (a normal-
sized paper clip, a standard-sized telephone, etc). Among these objects, there is a single
glass that is the same height as the other tall objects. In this case, the critical sentence
can arguably lead to the experiment’s intended glass without considering other glasses.
Moreover, it can be viewed as implicitly eliminating other tall things without referring
to other glasses. This implies that narrowing can exclude other objects and that it is
context that determines which information is implicitly eliminated. In Sedivy et al.
(1999) it would be (16.8) and in our hypothetical case it would be (16.9).4
(16.9) Pick up the tall glass and no other singular, tall things.
It can be seen that, with either interpretation, the modifying adjective provides the
means for narrowing. Context determines which features are excluded as a result of
4
As Anouch Bourmayan pointed out, it is the presupposition of uniqueness—semantically conveyed by
the deﬁnite article—that forces the subject to look at the size of other glasses. The listener needs to check
whether there are no taller glasses to be sure that the uniqueness presupposition is obeyed. There are those
who defend a presuppositional account in the literature, which assumes that (i) there is an entity
identiﬁable with the noun phrase, ie, a tall glass exists; and (ii) there is a set of referents that can also be
identiﬁed by the noun alone; that is, there is at least one other glass (see Ferreira and Clifton 1986; Sedivy
2003, for a review).
Narrowing 289
narrowing. One would be justiﬁed to ask: ‘But how does that explain the speed at
which the interpretation in (16.8) is carried out?’ We would argue that the impressive
results arise due to particular features of the experimental scenario that (a) always
include four objects; (b) consist of repeated trials that focus on ﬁnding a unique
object; and (c) include control cases in the same session that use sentences like (16.7)
without a contrasting object. It is possible that the adjective in the control utterances,
which are arguably superﬂuous there, makes these items infelicitous. That is, the
same person who voluntarily narrows down her choice due to an adjective when
there is a contrast presented, based on size, say, would arguably be primed to do so
even when there is none presented in the visual world. It would follow that at least
part of the reported effect is due to the control conditions that slow addressees down.
We consider the pragmatic reading of (16.7)—for example the one in (16.8)—
voluntary because the listener could have accessed a more literal interpretation
(without rejecting other glasses or other tall objects). A reading coming closer to
the linguistically encoded one would indicate that a word such as ‘tall’ in (16.7) is
simply a further identifying feature. Our main point is that a contrastive inference,
when it is made (and even if it is made routinely by adults), can be seen as an
interpretation that goes beyond the linguistic one. The contrastive inference is not
necessarily automatic nor is it quasi-grammatical.
One can ﬁnd some support for our view from comprehension tasks with children.
These are studies that are designed around children’s sensitivity to informativity
constraints and the detection of infelicity. For example, participants are asked to
point to a speciﬁc object when there are two potential entities to choose from; the
research question essentially becomes, at what age or in what sort of tasks do children
detect that this is an unfair question to ask (Ackerman et al. 1990; Ironsmith and
Whitehurst 1978; for a review see Flavell et al. 1981). For example, Ironsmith
and Whitehurst (1978) show that ﬁve- to eight-year-old children rarely ask for
clariﬁcation when an utterance instructs them to select one referent that could in
fact refer to two (the Experimenter would say ‘I am thinking of the person with
antennae’ when there were two representations of people with antennae). They
choose one at random. On the other hand, nine- to twelve-year-olds ask for clariﬁ-
cation (‘which one?’) reliably more often in such situations. These are not ideal data,
since they rely largely on metalinguistic judgments, but they do seem to show that
older children are attempting narrowing—with respect to what they see in context—
more than younger ones. The younger ones, in the meantime, use the very literal
meaning of the sentence to ﬁnd one element that satisﬁes the description corres-
ponding to the deﬁnite Noun Phrase.
To sum up this section, it is our view that the adjectival modiﬁcation patterns with
the narrowing process described for scalar cases. Just as with scalars, there are
linguistically encoded readings that provide enough information to make a choice
in an experiment and there are further-narrowed readings that can be viewed as
290 Noveck and Spotorno
nested. For the moment, it is difﬁcult to determine that the more informative
interpretations are more effortful than the linguistically encoded readings; however,
we believe this is hard to see because current investigations do not provide paradigms
that allow for a felicitous comparison between the two (though see Kronmuller et al.
in press).
16.5. Imposed narrowing: the case of metaphor
Here, we describe imposed narrowing in greater detail. As we indicated, in imposed
narrowing, there is no obvious relationship between an (even imaginary) linguistically
encoded reading and the more informative end-product. It is called imposed because
one needs to carry out narrowing in order to arrive at a sensible, relatively informative
go-to reading. As we indicated, we consider metaphor to be a ﬂagship case.
We generally follow the RT account of the metaphor comprehension process,
which means that we do not consider metaphor a departure from a norm of
literalness nor a natural kind, but one based on an inferential process that integrates
the linguistic input with the contextual information from the ﬁrst steps of the
comprehension (Sperber and Wilson 2008). One of the critical steps during the
comprehension process of an utterance concerns the construction of ad hoc concepts.
Consider the metaphor in (16.2a), ‘John was a cheetah’. In order to understand the
utterance, the addressee extracts the relevant features of the vehicle cheetah that ﬁt
with those of the topic ‘John,’ such as ‘wild animal’, ‘fast’, or perhaps ‘predatory’. By
taking into consideration the ad hoc concept cheetah* as the product of the compre-
hension process, it can then be considered as a broader concept than the lexical concept
cheetah because now the category of cheetah also includes a human being.
When the addressee has to extract the relevant features of the vehicle cheetah
that ﬁt with the features of the topic ‘John’, one can detect narrowing. We argue that
the narrowing process boils down to determining which features of the lexical
concept cheetah are to be retained and which abandoned. One can consider these
features as being part of a set of propositions (‘John is a wild animal’, ‘John is
predatory’, etc) and narrowing involves ﬁnding the one that best ﬁts with the
available information and thus discarding those propositions that do not. In other
words, the addressee narrows down his options from a wider set of possibilities.
We cite two kinds of evidence that support such a narrowing account for meta-
phor. One comes from a priming study (Rubio Fernández 2007), which presented
vignettes aurally and concluded with a metaphor. At the end of a vignette, a prime
appeared on a screen immediately or either 400 or 1000 msec later. These primes
required participants to determine whether they were spelled correctly (with the idea
being that a relatively quick lexical decision—a ‘yes, it is spelled correctly’—reveals
that the prime was active at the time of decision). For example, participants would
read (16.2a), which is presented again here as (16.10):
Narrowing 291
(16.10) Nobody wanted to run against John at school. John was a cheetah.
This could be followed with what was referred to as a superordinate prime such as cat
or an unrelated one, e.g., ‘plant’ (a superordinate from another trial). The decision
latencies for those who got the prime at 400 msec showed a preference for processing
the former over the latter (644 versus 698 msec, respectively), which disappeared
when measured against those who got the prime at 1000 msec (791 versus 799 msec,
respectively). One can see that the categorical information no longer had much
impact on the listener’s processing a full second after ﬁnishing the sentence. In
contrast, when the primes presented were akin to ‘fast’ (which is the relevant feature
of being a cheetah in the example) and it was compared to an unrelated one, for
example, ‘tall’ (a feature from a metaphor in another vignette), the decision latencies
for those who got the prime at 400 msec showed a slight preference for the former
over the latter (658 versus 710 msec, respectively) and it remained disparate at 1000
msec (598 versus 651 msec, respectively). Both of these remained faster than all the so-
called superordinate cases. As Rubio Fernández wrote, her results support the notion
that ‘metaphor interpretation involves enhancing relevant properties of the meta-
phor vehicle while suppressing irrelevant ones’. In our terms, narrowing not only
helps determine a good ﬁt for the metaphor; in doing so, it incidentally eliminates
other candidate propositions that are generated by the utterance.
One also ﬁnds some support for narrowing in metaphor in developmental data.
While children are quite competent at detecting and accounting for a metaphoric
reference, their developmental progress shows how interpretations that are compat-
ible with literal readings give way to the intended meaning. For example, Winner
et al. (1976) showed that while six- and seven-year-old children failed to correctly
paraphrase a metaphorical expression, they also avoided a simple literal interpret-
ation of the sentence. For example, given a sentence like (16.11):
(16.11) After many years of working at the jail, the prison guard had become a hard
rock that could not be moved.
While most of the children failed to understand the intended meaning of (16.11),
which is that the prison guard has become harsh and insensitive, their protocols
reveal that they do not adopt an interpretation in which the prison guard simply
becomes a rock either. For instance, the authors describe how children transform the
scenario so that, for example, an unmentioned king turns the guard into a rock.
Literal readings in some form persist until addressees can appreciate a more informa-
tive meaning through the task’s metaphor (also see Noveck et al. 2001).
16.5.1. Other candidates for imposed narrowing
Another place where we identify imposed narrowing concerns illicit minor premises
in the wake of conditional statements. When a conditional such as if p then q is
292 Noveck and Spotorno
presented, there is an expectation that the minor premise p is imminent (Bonnefond
and Van der Henst 2008; Bonnefond et al. 2012b). Many participants, however,
incorporate presented minor premises such as q, which is genuinely an imposition;
this ultimately generates what appears to be pragmatically justiﬁable inferences. For
example, consider the Afﬁrmation of the Consequent (AC) argument in (16.12):
(16.12) If Jean goes to the cinema, then he travels by bicycle. If P then Q
Jean travels by bicycle. Q
Therefore, he goes to the cinema. ∴P
Although most of the literature points to a nested reading between the conditional
and what can be read as a biconditional, which makes this case seem like voluntary
narrowing (see van der Auwera 1997), there are several reasons for not applying the
voluntary narrowing label. For one thing, the actual stimulus in (16.12) has no
obvious linguistically encoded reading that corresponds with, say, an AC argument.
Those who accept AC arguments as pragmatically valid have reacted to the unex-
pected q, which is inconsistent with what is expected with the linguistically encoded
reading of if (see Bonnefond et al. 2012a; Noveck et al. 2011).
We propose that one sees narrowing with respect to the conditional only indirectly
because if–then itself generates a pragmatic process that raises expectations and
speciﬁcally about the antecedent; these expectations are optionally and effortfully
maintained and those who succeed typically reject AC arguments. Those who do not
maintain narrowed expectations about the conditional’s antecedent are more likely
to allow illicit conclusions to impose themselves through post-hoc justiﬁcations. One
can see that narrowing need not be viewed as a means to arrive at true responses or
false ones because it is not in the service of logical inference. Rather, narrowing can be
viewed as a general pragmatic process that works from the linguistic code in
opportunistic ways.
16.6. Comparing voluntary and imposed narrowing
We began this chapter by showing how different pragmatic phenomena use
narrowing. To ﬁnd what is common between them, we articulated some form of a
linguistically encoded reading in each case and followed its fate in order to determine
how narrowing works and how to classify it. By considering a potential linguistically
encoded meaning of an utterance and comparing it to another more informative one,
one can see how voluntary and imposed readings diverge from one another.5
5
Carston (2002) makes a distinction between narrowing and broadening that is similar to our distinc-
tion between voluntary and imposed, respectively. Moreover, as we argue here, she proposes that there are
‘not really two distinct processes at work. Rather, there are two possible outcomes (a narrower concept or a
broader one) of what is essentially a single process’ (2002: 334).
Narrowing 293
Those we call voluntary have linguistically encoded readings that are often good
enough but can also lead to a more informative reading with extra effort. In these
cases, the enriched reading entails the linguistically encoded one. There is a great deal
of evidence showing that, at least in tasks that make the two sorts of interpretations
feasible, the more informative readings very often reveal themselves as requiring
greater effort. Those we call imposed are generally forced upon the addressee, but we
still assume that they require the addressee to consider possibilities before settling on
one intended reading (or a restricted set of intended readings). Critically, there is no
entailment relation between a linguistically encoded meaning and its more informa-
tive one. If anything, the linguistically encoded meaning is ultimately rejected by the
more informative one.
16.7. Further issues and conclusions
Although we think that this outline goes far in classifying a range of data under one
label, work still remains. One question we ask is, to what extent does an individual
pragmatic phenomenon remain in a single classiﬁcation? For example, can a scalar
inference, which is an example of voluntary narrowing here, be rendered imposed
(see Grodner et al. 2010)? Similarly, how would one classify pragmatic processing
behaviour when participants are asked to determine whether a metaphor (such as
‘Some jobs are jails’) is literally false, as was investigated in Glucksberg et al. (1982)
and whose results show that participants slow down in providing false responses
when compared to simpler false statements such as ‘Some cats are ﬁsh’. These data
indicate that there is extra effort involved in deﬂecting metaphoric interpretations
and this would mean that arriving at a linguistically encoded reading (in order to
justify a false response) in the imposed cases requires voluntary processing; this
seems paradoxical. It could also imply that linguistically encoded readings can come
into conﬂict with more informative readings drawn from imposed narrowing; this
does not seem paradoxical.
Another issue concerns the frequency of narrowing occurrences in any given
exchange. Is it necessary to carry out narrowing each and every time it is called for
in a prolonged conversation (or experimental session)? This is relevant for those
situations where participants receive repeated trials that potentially call on the same
sort of narrowing throughout (whether it involve scalar, metaphoric or any other sort
of process). We think that narrowing need not repeat itself and this may even be one
of its central features. Once a listener adopts a reading for a particular sort of
linguistic input that calls for narrowing, it will remain so over the course of the
exchange (or experimental session). One can even see this at work in the conceptual
pacts literature where two separated interlocutors exchange descriptions and infor-
mation in order to organize their (identical) sets of 12 pictures into a particular order
(see Brennan and Clark 1996). When the 12 pictures represent basic objects (dog, toy,
294 Noveck and Spotorno
car, etc), participants refer to these with their common names, but when a second set
of 12 pictures is introduced which includes 4 objects of the same category (e.g., 4 dogs
or 4 cars), they are likely to use more speciﬁc references (e.g., ‘red Labrador’ instead
of ‘dog’), indicating that the speciﬁcity of reference prompts narrowing. Interestingly,
when given one of the speciﬁcally described (more informative) items from the
second set as part of a third phase—which returns to using 12 common basic
objects—participants continue to use the more speciﬁc reference they established
in the second round. This persistence is said to exploit lexical entrainment, which is
the idea that once interlocutors hit upon a common expression to refer to a speciﬁc
object, they continue to do so even if it appears over-informative. This indicates that
a conceptual pact between interlocutors takes precedence over being just informative
enough on each occasion. In this case, the narrowed meaning remains even when it is
no longer necessary. According to our proposal, lexical entrainment is an expression
of narrowing; once it occurs (and most forcibly, one would think, when it is among
the same set of interlocutors) it is no longer necessary to carry it out each time, as
long as it is part of the same conversation or task. This sort of initiation in the context
of a conversation or task can well explain many results in the experimental pragmatic
literature more generally, including the scalar literature’s individual differences (ﬁrst
reported by Noveck and Posada 2003).
One potential misconception is to consider the utterance comprehension process
as a simpliﬁed collection of information that comes from several sources (e.g.,
linguistic stimulus and extra-linguistic context) and that it all coalesces into a
coherent interpretation. Contextual information is not spread around the hearer as
single units waiting to be integrated; a good deal of information is already incorpor-
ated into the hearer’s representation of a state of affairs. Therefore, when a new
stimulus arises it has to be integrated into a pre-existing picture and the comprehen-
sion process need only cut off those features that do not ﬁt with the picture.
Considering language processing from this perspective, the comprehension process
may be better deﬁned as a process of veriﬁcation or selection rather than as a process
of construction.
To summarize, all narrowing takes features of the linguistic stimulus and implicitly
reﬁnes the list of propositions that it can produce. The kind of narrowing we call
voluntary can be seen as having (at least) two sorts of output that are compatible with
another (with the weaker linguistically encoded reading appearing as entailed by the
more informative reading). In this category, the more informative reading also
requires further effort when compared to the linguistically encoded one. Imposed
narrowing can also be seen as having a linguistically encoded reading and a more
informative one. In this case, however, there are no direct relations to construe
between the two and it can even be argued that the more informative one rejects
the linguistically encoded one.
Narrowing 295
This proposal for narrowing in the comprehension process—across a range of
pragmatic phenomena—was developed in order to follow a principle of cognitive
economy. While we are aware that the Occam razor is an elegant, theoretical tool and
not a law of nature, it would make sense for cognitive systems to use a limited
number of processes to be applied to a broad range of phenomena. It also reduces the
explanatory gap that separates theoretical proposals from accounts of processing of
individual pragmatic phenomena.
296 Noveck and Spotorno
Part IV
Prolixity
This page intentionally left blank
17
Relevance Theory and Prolixity*
FRIEDRICH CHRISTOPH DOERGE
17.1. Introduction of the issue
The present chapter is concerned with prolixity—the opposite of brevity. ‘Prolixity’ is
taken to be a property either of utterances or of speakers; speakers are prolix when
their utterances are, and utterances are prolix when the speaker, in making the
utterance, is being prolix. It is assumed that there are at least two varieties of prolixity.
The ﬁrst consists in the use of considerably more words than is appropriate; in the
present chapter, this will be called ‘wordiness’. The second variety consists in the
provision of considerably more information than is appropriate, given the purpose of
the exchange; this type will be called ‘over-informativeness’.
In many contexts, the avoidance of prolixity—brevity—is highly appreciated. The
more urgently you need a certain piece of information from a communicator, for
example, the more annoying her prolixity will be to you. However, although there is
an uncontestable preference for brevity in many contexts, in some connections,
prolixity is tolerated, and in some, it (or at least something very similar to it) is
even welcome. For example, the information the audience is given during the
celebration of the holy mass is roughly the same each time—furthermore, it is usually
provided very slowly and solemnly—but nothing is wrong with this; to the contrary,
this is exactly how the holy mass is supposed to be celebrated. Also, when a professor
in a seminar starts speaking about issues which are either old hat or irrelevant to the
topic, or when she provides long-winded elaborations out of thin air, this is accepted.
For, as the most distinguished person in the group, she is allowed to be a bit prolix.
The present chapter deals with the question of how two of the leading theories which
address the interpretation of verbal utterances cope with certain facts concerning
* I should like to thank Anne Bezuidenhout, Anouch Bourmayan, Manuel García-Carpintero, Laurence
Goldstein, Ela Kotkowska, Dan Sperber, Deirdre Wilson, and an anonymous reviewer for valuable
comments on an earlier version of this chapter.
prolixity. Before turning to a more precise description of the issue, let me introduce the
framework in which it is situated. According to a widespread view, ‘an essential feature
of most human communication is the expression and recognition of intentions’ (Sper-
ber and Wilson 2004: 607). The communicator ‘provides evidence of her intention to
convey a certain meaning, which is inferred by the audience on the basis of the evidence
provided’ (607). The typical form such a ‘piece of evidence’ takes is that of a verbal
utterance, and in the present chapter our view will be restricted to verbal utterances.
In very simple cases of linguistic communication, a communicator (speaker,
writer) utters (says, writes) something, and in uttering it means something; she
thereby explicitly says what she means, and literally means what she says. Being an
audience (hearer, reader) in such a simple case is not very challenging; if the audience
understands what the uttered words mean, then the answer to the question what is
meant is already at hand.
Often, however, the matter is more complex. For, communication is frequently
inexplicit in certain ways and involves different kinds of non-literalness. The interpret-
ation of non-explicit and non-literal utterances can present the audience with a number
of more or less difﬁcult challenges, and as a result, the interpretation of non-explicit and
non-literal utterances is sometimes incorrect. This does not mean that in each such case
the audience ends up with the mistaken interpretation. The audience may quickly
recognize that the initial interpretation is incorrect, and replace it with another.
For example, suppose I hear Peter say, ‘Albi is a really honest girl’, and let us
assume that, at ﬁrst, I interpret the utterance literally. Let us additionally assume that,
to my knowledge, Peter was one of the victims of Albi’s intrigues. In that case, it
seems reasonable to expect that I abandon my literal interpretation because of its
inconsistency with certain assumptions of mine, and arrive at an interpretation of the
utterance as ironic.
Because the audience’s interpretation of the utterance can be mistaken, we may call
it an ‘interpretive hypothesis’. When such an ‘interpretive hypothesis’ is challenged
or abandoned, I will say that it is ‘blocked’, and speak of the ‘block of the interpretive
hypothesis’. (Note that challenging the interpretation is sufﬁcient for the utterance to
be ‘blocked’; it is not necessary that the interpretation be ﬁnally abandoned.)
The focus of the present chapter is delimited by the question: What are the
conditions under which an interpretive hypothesis is blocked? I shall deal with the
answers offered by two competing accounts: a ‘broadly Gricean account’ (BGA), on
the one hand, and the so-called ‘Relevance Theory’ (RT) on the other. (By the
‘broadly Gricean account’ I mean something very similar to the account of H. Paul
Grice, but with some small amendments to the detail, which seem to me advisable.)
Both BGA and RT can accept the framework of the debate outlined thus far—at least,
cum grano salis. Moreover, they also agree on another basic assumption. As Sperber and
Wilson (2004: 607) put it, explicitly tracing the view back to Grice, ‘utterances automat-
ically create expectations which guide the hearer towards the speaker’s meaning’. These
300 Doerge
expectations play a vital role in both accounts. For both parties agree that a central, if not
the only kind of reason for which an interpretive hypothesis can be blocked, is its
inconsistency with one or another of these expectations.
The disagreement between BGA and RT starts when it comes to determining what
these expectations are. According to BGA, many different kinds of expectations can
trigger a block of the interpretive hypothesis—including assumptions about how
informative the utterance is, how credible it is, or how relevant it is. According to RT,
in contrast, there is just one expectation that can trigger such a block, namely, the
expectation that the utterance is ‘optimally relevant’—where ‘optimally relevant’ is a
technical term in need of explication; we turn to this in the next section.
So this is the framework in which the issue of the present chapter is located. The
analysis will concentrate on cases where prolixity, the opposite of brevity, is under
consideration. As we shall see, there are certain special relations between RT and
prolixity. The thesis I pursue in this chapter is that RT’s account of the block of
interpretive hypotheses is less plausible than that of BGA when applied to cases
where prolixity, or the appearance of prolixity, is concerned.
In Section 17.2, I introduce some relevant features of the two competing accounts.
In Section 17.3, I demonstrate two problems RT has with prolixity which BGA does
not. In Section 17.4, I introduce two special ways in which speakers, according to RT,
systematically are prolix, and argue that neither of them is real. Despite the fact that
BGA performs much better than RT, I argue in Section 17.5 that it, too, is in need of a
certain revision. (A ﬁnal preliminary: In the present chapter we shall mainly deal
with cases where the interpretation adopted by the audience is a literal interpretation
of the utterance.)
17.2. BGA and RT and their accounts of the block
of interpretive hypotheses
Let us turn to the different accounts offered by BGA and RT of how interpretive
hypotheses are blocked.
BGA starts from the (supposed) observation that, standardly, audiences expect
communicators to cooperate with them in the creation and sustainment of so-called
‘accepted purposes’, aims which both the communicator and the audience accept
as a purpose of their communicative exchange (see Grice 1967/89: 26). The role
which these ‘accepted purposes’ play is determined with reference to the so-called
Co-operative Principle which, according to BGA, speakers are supposed to follow.
The Co-operative Principle tells the communicator to act in accordance with the
accepted purpose of the conversation.1
1
‘Make your conversational contribution such as is required, at the stage at which it occurs, by the
accepted purpose or direction of the talk exchange in which you are engaged.’ (Grice 1975/89: 26).
Relevance Theory and Prolixity 301
In the account Grice himself develops, the expectation that the communicator acts
in accordance with the accepted purpose is embedded within a special framework,
which can be outlined as follows.
The expectation of co-operation (in the pursuit of a certain accepted purpose) can
be divided into different aspects. For example, an utterance may be irrelevant, given
the present purpose of the conversation, or it may fail to offer enough information, or
it may be put in an inappropriate or impolite way. Apparently intending to capture
the entirety of possible aspects, Grice applies Kant’s four basic categories: ‘quality’,
‘quantity’, ‘relation’, and ‘modality’ (see Grice 1975/89: 26). Thus, in Gricean terms,
there are four aspects to the communicator’s acting in accordance with an accepted
purpose: it can be co-operation with respect to ‘quality’, ‘quantity’, ‘relation’, or
‘manner’ (‘modality’, using Kant’s term).
Furthermore, on Grice’s account, the audience’s expectation of co-operation
justiﬁes the assumption of four so-called ‘conversational maxims’ which the com-
municator is expected to follow: the maxims of ‘quality’, ‘quantity’, ‘relation’, and
‘manner’ (see Grice 1975/89: 26). The rationale behind the extraction of the maxims
from the categories is as follows. Each of the four maxims requires the speaker to
pursue the present accepted purpose with respect to one of the four aspects repre-
sented by these categories. Let us consider, for example, the maxim of relevance. It
says, ‘Be relevant’ (Grice 1975/89: 26). It reﬂects the expectation of the audience that
the communicator make her utterance as relevant2
as appropriate, given the present
accepted purpose.3
Another example is the maxim of quality. It is twofold and says,
‘1. Do not say what you believe to be false’ and ‘2. Do not say that for which you lack
adequate evidence’ (Grice 1975/89: 26).4
Now let us turn to the central question of this chapter: what are the conditions
under which interpretive hypotheses are blocked? According to BGA, an interpretive
hypothesis is blocked when it appears inconsistent with the audience’s expectations
concerning the present accepted purpose, provided that the audience expects the
communicator to act in accordance with that purpose. If the communicator violates a
maxim, she contravenes the accepted purpose; thus if with a certain interpretive
hypothesis a maxim appears to be violated, then this hypothesis is supposed to be
blocked.
Let us turn to RT. While, according to BGA, four different kinds of aspect of an
utterance can be responsible for blocking an interpretive hypothesis, RT suggests that
2
‘Relevant’, to be sure, as distinguished from ‘relevantRT
’; see further.
3
In his own statement, Grice does not explicitly mention the maxim’s reference to the present accepted
purpose, but it is suggested by the construal of his account.
4
As Grice (1975/89: 28) himself notices, in the present form the maxims are (and thus the maxim of
quality is) suited to a certain particular purpose of conversation, namely, to the efﬁcient exchange of
information between a sincere and competent speaker and her audience. We shall return to this issue in
Section 17.5 ).
302 Doerge
most aspects of an utterance play no such role. Indeed, RT claims that there is just
one expectation which plays any role, namely, the expectation that the utterance
possesses what relevance theorists call ‘optimal relevance’.5
It is vital to note here that
the notion of ‘relevance’ employed in relevance theory is different from the common
notion.6
In order to avoid constant confusion with the normal conception of
relevance, I shall use the term ‘relevanceRT
’ for the special notion used by relevance
theorists.
According to the common conception of relevance, a piece of information is
relevant to a given issue insofar as it is a useful, pertinent contribution to this
issue. The notion of relevanceRT
is different. The bearers of relevanceRT
are ‘inputs’
into cognitive processes. An input is relevantRT
just in case ‘its processing in a context
of available assumptions yields a [so-called] positive cognitive effect’ (Sperber
and Wilson 2004: 608).7
A ‘cognitive effect’ is a ‘difference in the individual’s representation of the world’,
such as the ‘strengthening, revision, or abandonment of . . . assumptions’ (Sperber
and Wilson 2004: 608). For a ‘cognitive effect’ to be a ‘positive cognitive effect’ means
for it to be ‘worthwhile’; and an effect’s being ‘worthwhile’ in the sense under
consideration entails that the assumption installed or strengthened is true (‘a true
conclusion, for example’): ‘False conclusions are not worth having’, declare Sperber
and Wilson; although false conclusions ‘are cognitive effects’, they are ‘not positive
ones’ (2004: 608).8
Thus, cum grano salis, to cause a positive cognitive effect in
someone, and thereby to make one’s utterance relevantRT
,9
is to give the audience
some true information.
RelevanceRT
is gradable. A stimulus is relevantRT
to the extent that the amount of
true information given is high. Furthermore, there is a second determinant which
works antagonistically to the amount of true information given: a stimulus is less
relevantRT
to the extent that the effort required to process it is high. Thus, a stimulus
is relevantRT
(a) to the extent that the amount of true information given is high, and
(b) to the extent that the processing effort is low (see Sperber and Wilson 2004: 609).
Since the term ‘relevanceRT
’ means something different from the common word
5
The original idea was that the four kinds of aspect can be reduced to the single requirement of
‘relevance’, and that the remaining aspects of the maxims are to be abandoned. See Sperber and Wilson
(1981).
6
For a conﬁrmation of this fact by relevance theorists see, e.g., Sperber and Wilson (2002: 601):
‘“Relevance” is used in a technical sense which is not meant to capture any of the ordinary senses of the
word.’
7
All caps in the original.
8
This is no doubt a particular use of the term ‘worthwhile’: when using the everyday notion of ‘normal’
it may be felt that the information given, for example, in writing a novel is ‘worthwhile’ in the normal sense
of the term, too, without being, or claiming to be, true. Evidently ‘worthwhile’, as used in the present
connection, is a technical term.
9
RelevantRT
to some degree; see the next paragraph.
Relevance Theory and Prolixity 303
‘relevance’, it may be asked whether there is an apt paraphrase of ‘relevanceRT
’ in
common terms: the expression ‘informational efﬁciency’ seems to me to reﬂect the
meaning of ‘relevanceRT
’ rather faithfully.
Now let us turn to RT’s account of interpretation. ‘The central claim of relevance
theory’, Sperber and Wilson explain, ‘is that the expectations of [relevanceRT
] raised
by an utterance are precise and predictable enough to guide the [audience] toward
the [communicator’s] meaning’ (2004: 608). According to RT, a basic truth about
communication is the so-called ‘Communicative Principle of Relevance’, which
(literally) says that ‘each [utterance] conveys a presumption of its own relevance’
(Sperber and Wilson 2004: 611). More exactly, the ‘presumption of optimal relevance’
is an expectation of what relevance theorists call ‘optimal relevance’. Its content is
that (a) ‘The [utterance] is [relevantRT
] enough to be worth processing’; and that (b)
‘It is the most [relevantRT
] one compatible with [the] communicator’s abilities and
preferences’ (Sperber and Wilson 2004: 612).
It is worth highlighting that since, according to RT, the presumption of optimal
relevance suggests that the audience expects ‘optimal relevance’, then, evidently, the
audience is meant to expect at least ‘optimal relevance’. This means that, if a given
utterance appears to be more than ‘optimally relevant’ then this does not counter the
expectation. Thus according to RT, the ‘presumption of optimal relevance’ sets a
lower limit to the relevanceRT
of an utterance, but no upper limit. I shall call this the
‘lower limit restriction’.
According to RT, the ‘presumption of optimal relevance’ has several implications,
to which we now turn. In the condition (a) the audience is said to expect that the
ostensive stimulus (e.g., the utterance) is relevantRT
enough ‘to be worth the audi-
ence’s processing effort’—which has one obvious consequence, (i), and, according to
Sperber and Wilson is supposed to have an additional implication, (ii):
(a.i) The value of the information provided by the ostensive stimulus (e.g., utter-
ance) outweighs the amount of disvalue of the effort required to process the
stimulus.
(a.ii) The ostensive stimulus (e.g., utterance) is more relevantRT
than any alterna-
tive input available at the time.
(see Sperber and Wilson 2004: 609, 612)
In the condition (b), the audience is said to expect that the ostensive stimulus (e.g.,
utterance) ‘is the most [relevantRT
] one compatible with [the] communicator’s
abilities and preferences’—which, according to RT, is supposed to have two implica-
tions, (i) and (ii):
(b.i) The utterance is as easy to process as is compatible with the communicator’s
abilities and preferences.
304 Doerge
(b.ii) The utterance not merely provides evidence for the content the communi-
cator actually aims to convey, but offers additional information (information
which goes beyond what the communicator actually aims at, that means)
(see Sperber and Wilson 2004: 612).
Let us apply RT’s account to our issue: the blocking of interpretive hypotheses.
Following RT, there is one and only one reason for the block of an interpretive
hypothesis; an audience will either doubt or abandon an interpretation in case it
appears to him to be not (at least) ‘optimally relevant’.
As we have seen, RT claims that ‘the expectations of [relevanceRT
] are precise and
predictable enough to guide the [audience] toward the [communicator’s] meaning’.
Indeed, as Sperber and Wilson say elsewhere (1995: 161), according to RT, ‘the
principle of relevance is enough on its own to explain how linguistic structure and
background knowledge interact to determine verbal comprehension’. Thus,
according to RT, there is no other cause for the block of an interpretive hypothesis
than the apparent violation of the ‘presumption of optimal relevance’.
In particular, as Sperber and Wilson emphasize, according to RT, there is no role
to play for the audience’s expectation of co-operation in pursuit of an accepted
purpose; nor is there any room for the expectations of ‘quantity’, ‘quality’, or
‘manner’—except, of course, in the determination of the relevanceRT
of an
utterance.10
Let me brieﬂy summarize the differences in the approaches of RT and
BGA. According to BGA, the block of an interpretive hypothesis can be triggered
by the audience’s expectations concerning the communicator’s co-operation in
pursuit of (any aspect of) the accepted purpose. On RT’s account, blocks of inter-
pretive hypotheses are always triggered by expectations concerning the level of
relevanceRT
of the utterance; no other expectations (e.g., of ‘quantity’, ‘quality’,
‘politeness’, or ‘relevance’11
) are involved—the only role which these notions may
possibly play, according to RT, is in determining the relevanceRT
of the utterance.
Furthermore, according to RT, the expectation sets a lower limit, but no upper
limit: the utterance is supposed to be at least ‘optimally relevant’, but not at most
‘optimally relevant’. BGA entails no such restriction; according to that theory, the
block of an interpretive hypothesis can be triggered, among other things, either by
unexpectedly high relevanceRT
or by unexpectedly low relevanceRT
.
Considerations of accepted purposes play a key role in the interpretation of
utterances, according to BGA. RT does not assign any such role to accepted
10
As Sperber and Wilson put it (apparently confusing relevance with relevanceRT
): ‘We share Grice’s
intuition that utterances raise expectations of relevance, but question several other aspects of his account,
including the need for a Cooperative Principle and maxims . . . ’ (Sperber and Wilson 2004: 607).
11
Nota bene: relevance, rather than relevanceRT
.
Relevance Theory and Prolixity 305
purposes—the only role the idea of ‘accepted purposes’ may possibly play is in the
determination of the relevanceRT
of the utterance.
Finally, RT claims that its contribution to the analysis of communication is all that
is needed: according to RT, the only factor at work in the interpretation of utterances
is the ‘presumption of relevance’. Unlike RT, BGA does not insist that what it offers is
the whole story—it simply claims that the reference to co-operation and accepted
purposes, as outlined earlier, plays a role in the interpretation of utterances.
17.3. Prolixity creates problems for RT
17.3.1. RT’s problem with very wordy utterances
I shall now turn to several prolixity-related problems which RT has, and BGA has
not. I start with two kinds of cases involving prolixity. The ﬁrst problem concerns
(extreme) wordiness. At least prima facie, wordiness burdens the audience with some
unnecessary processing effort; and unnecessary processing effort diminishes the
relevanceRT
of the utterance: in short, wordiness apparently diminishes the relevan-
ceRT
of an utterance. In this section, we shall deal with cases of utterances so wordy
that they lack ‘optimal relevance’. In such cases, RT consistently predicts that the
correct interpretive hypothesis will be blocked. It does not appear to be true, however,
that very wordy utterances consistently trigger a block of the correct interpretive
hypothesis.
A pertinent and clear example is the case of ﬁlibusterism, which Sperber and
Wilson (1995: 159) themselves introduce as a case countering the audience’s expect-
ation of ‘optimal relevance’. It seems to me rather apparent that, in the case of
ﬁlibusterism, the audience’s expectation of ‘optimal relevance’ is permanently can-
celled (assuming that it was there in the ﬁrst place) as soon as the audience recognizes
the ﬁlibusterer as such. RT, however, cannot accommodate such ﬂexibility of the
audience’s expectations. It simply predicts that the audience expects ‘optimal rele-
vance’; a case where the audience of an utterance would expect less than ‘optimal
relevance’ cannot occur, according to RT.
This inﬂexibility of RT’s account leads to the assumption of a rather peculiar
tendency towards misunderstanding in cases of ﬁlibusterism. According to RT, when
the audience of a ﬁlibusterous utterance arrives at the correct interpretation, he gets
the (quite correct) impression that the utterance is less than ‘optimally relevant’. The
result is a block of the present interpretive hypothesis—even though it is the correct
one. In short, according to RT, the audience of ﬁlibusterism can be expected
consistently to block the correct interpretation of each and every utterance. In my
view, this account is very implausible.
It is apparent that RT faces this problem in all cases where the expectation of
‘optimal relevance’ is blatantly unjustiﬁed. Possible examples are the lectures of
306 Doerge
famous old scholars, or solemn speeches. In contrast to RT, BGA has no problem
with cases like these. For, BGA sees no obstacle to the audience’s adjusting his
expectations of relevanceRT
to the facts, when there are indications that the utterance
is less than ‘optimally’ relevantRT
.
Additionally, BGA can, while RT cannot, account for another apparent fact.
Sometimes, whether a very wordy utterance will in fact be blocked will depend on
the accepted purpose of the conversation. Consider a long-winded utterance such as,
‘You cannot imagine, dear ladies and dear gentlemen, how happy I am, and I am not
exaggerating in any way, far be it from me to pretend, my real and sincere pleasure at
your highly appreciated presence [blah-blah-blah . . . ]’. These words may be an
instance of ﬁlibusterism; if so, then the wordiness, however extreme, is no reason
for an interpretive hypothesis to be blocked. But if the same words are uttered in a
different context, in view of a more efﬁciency-directed accepted purpose, the literal
interpretation may be blocked—the audience may then, for example, take the
utterance as ironic.
In general, the audience’s view of the present accepted purpose can have vital reper-
cussions on his or her interpretation of utterances, and thus it can have such reper-
cussions in those cases where the relevanceRT
appears to be very low. To the extent that
RT downplays, or even denies, the role of accepted purposes, it cannot explain the
variable reactions of the audience in these cases. Moreover, because RT does not
accommodate expectations of below-‘optimal’ relevanceRT
, it just cannot account for
cases where extreme wordiness is acceptable on account of the accepted purpose.
17.3.2. RT’s problem with over-informative utterances
Let us turn to the second prolixity-related problem faced by RT. The phenomenon
under consideration is now apparent ‘over-informativeness’, that is, what happens in
cases where the communicator apparently provides considerably more information
than is appropriate, given the purpose of the exchange. (For the present purpose, we
can exclude those special cases where the effort required to process the unwarranted/
superﬂuous information is so high as to diminish the overall relevanceRT
of the
utterance.)12
For example, Mary asks Peter what time it is. Peter answers by saying
that he has no watch. Later the same day, Mary, who is a bit forgetful, asks Peter again
what time it is, and Peter answers, ‘It is eleven minutes and 34 seconds past ten’.
Initially, Mary interprets Peter as claiming that it is 10:11:34; but then, puzzled by the
strangely high amount of information, this interpretive hypothesis is blocked. Mary
remembers Peter’s earlier answer, and reinterprets the present utterance as a sarcastic
reminder of it. In this case, Mary’s initial interpretive hypothesis is blocked by the
12
For a tentative hint by Grice concerning ‘over-informativeness’ and its possible relation to rele-
vance—relevance, not relevanceRT
—see Grice (1989: 26–7.)
Relevance Theory and Prolixity 307
means of apparent over-informativeness. Since this case does not seem to be unreal-
istic, there seem to be cases where a block of interpretive hypothesis is triggered by
apparent over-informativeness. RT, however, cannot account for such cases. For,
although the ‘presumption of optimal relevance’ sets lower limit for the expected
level of relevanceRT
, it sets no upper limit—because of the ‘lower limit restriction’. It
is thus impossible, on RT’s account, that an apparent abundance of relevanceRT
triggers a block of an interpretive hypothesis.
Once more, there is no such problem for BGA. Furthermore, it is again apparent
that the consideration of the relevant accepted purpose can play a vital role, for which
BGA can account while RT cannot. Imagine that one day Mary and Peter are running
for a train scheduled to depart at 10:12, and the same exchange takes place. In such a
situation, Mary is likely to interpret Peter’s utterance literally, and the fact that she
does so is related to the relevant accepted purpose (which will be something like
‘checking whether they can catch the train or not’, and/or, ‘ﬁnding out how much
they need to hurry to catch the train’).
17.4. Two special prolixity-related problems for RT
17.4.1. Problems with implication (b.ii)
Over and above these general problems with prolixity, RT additionally runs into
trouble in connection with two prolixity-related phenomena which, according to RT,
regularly play a key role in the interpretation of utterances—I shall doubt that they
really do.
The ﬁrst phenomenon is entailed by one of the (putative) implications of the
presumption of relevance, namely, (b.ii). According to (b.ii), communicators are
expected to mean not just what they actually aim at, but, in addition, an enriched
cognate thereof.13
Communicators are thus supposed to have the tendency to
communicate two things: (a) what they originally aim at, and (b) an enriched cognate
of what they originally aim at. For the purpose of this chapter, I will call this the
‘double-meaning tendency’.
The ‘double-meaning tendency’ is supposed to be limited by the abilities and
preferences of the communicator. I assume that this is not meant to imply that the
communicator aims only at what she is willing and able to communicate, but that
there are cases where the communicator really aims at more. I shall concentrate on
those putative cases, where the communicator does aim at more content, for the
reasons suggested by Sperber and Wilson (2004: 612). As an illustration of the ‘double
13
The communicator is expected to ‘provide evidence not just for the cognitive effects she aims to
achieve but for further cognitive effects’, as Sperber and Wilson (2004: 612) literally put it.
308 Doerge
meaning tendency’, let us consider an example provided by Sperber and Wilson
themselves:
For instance, the communicator’s goal might be to inform her audience that she has
started writing her paper. The most effective way of achieving this goal might be to
offer more speciﬁc information and say, ‘I’ve already written a third of the paper’.
(2004: 612)
Now let us turn to some problems with the ‘double-meaning tendency’. To start
with, it appears that the tendency does not, as Sperber and Wilson suggest, follow
from the condition (b) of the ‘presumption of optimal relevance’—the requirement
that the utterance be the most relevantRT
stimulus available. Consider, for example,
the rather unexceptional case where an utterance is the only stimulus available, or the
case where all other stimuli apparently are not relevantRT
: in such cases, the utterance
will be the most relevantRT
stimulus even in the absence of a ‘double meaning’. Thus,
even given the condition (b), the ‘double meaning’ tendency seems to be unwar-
ranted. But if the ‘double meaning’ tendency does not follow from the condition (b),
then we may ask ourselves why, actually, we should believe that there is such a thing.
Now, secondly, the reason we are given for believing that there is a ‘double
meaning’ tendency does not appear to be very plausible. The account raises questions
such as, ‘Why do I not normally14
experience myself as meaning more than I actually
mean, and experience others as meaning more than they mean?’, or ‘If, in one of the
cases under consideration (where I do mean more), the audience understands me as
meaning what I initially meant, has he then misunderstood me, or exactly under-
stood me, and why must I raise this question, when I am an experienced communi-
cator?’ Trying to convince us of the ‘double meaning’ tendency, Sperber and Wilson
argue as follows (2004: 612).
(1) The audience’s attention is more likely to be captured and kept by the communi-
cator the more content her utterance provides.
(2) The communicator intends with her utterance to capture and keep the audience’s
attention.
(3) Hence, the communicator intends, and is expected by the audience to intend, to
make her utterance more informative than she actually intends to.
This reasoning raises at least two problems. First, the argument rests on the
implicit assumptions that capturing and keeping the audience’s attention is a central
problem for communicators, and that making one’s utterance more relevantRT
is a
good way of coping with this problem. It may be argued, however, that in the
majority of communicative situations, even if I am a terrible bore, the audience
14
A possible exception is profound or insinuative remarks—it is apparently not the case, however, that
Sperber and Wilson have these particular kinds of utterance in mind.
Relevance Theory and Prolixity 309
will listen to my words, process them automatically, and understand correctly much
if not all of what I mean, be it out of politeness, out of pity, or just because it is hard
not to process utterances one perceives (try to read this sentence without processing
it). Whatever the reason, it actually seems that in most cases it is unnecessary to do
anything special to capture and keep the audience’s attention. But if that is the case,
why should communicators assume otherwise?
To illustrate this, let us use Sperber and Wilson’s own example. The communi-
cator actually intends to inform her audience that she has started writing her paper,
and, according to Sperber and Wilson, will tend to end up saying that she has
already written a third of the paper. Imagine, however, the communicator would
stick to her original intention and try to achieve it by saying, ‘Guess what: I have
already started writing my paper’: how reasonable would it be to expect that the
audience fails to process the utterance? To see the second problem, let us assume,
for the sake of the argument, that the audience really is about to stop listening to the
communicator. The problem is that even then, saying ‘I’ve already written a third of
the paper’ does not seem to be an all-too-promising means of getting the audience’s
attention back; and if it is not, why should the audience expect the communicator
to resort to it?
Furthermore, even if resorting to it were a promising option, it is evidently not the
only one, and hardly the best. Speaking louder, invoking one’s authority, speaking
more vividly, or begging for attention, for example, would be alternatives, and some
of them seem much more promising than the tacit enrichment of the content. Now
Sperber and Wilson apparently do not assume that audiences expect communicators
to speak louder than they actually would; why, then, should we assume that they
expect them to provide more information than they actually would?
17.4.2. Non-alethic utterances
Let us turn to the second putative prolixity-related phenomenon postulated by
RT. Communication often serves the purpose of conveying information which is
supposed, intended, or purported to be true. But communication is not restricted to
this task. There are also cases where communication does not serve the purpose of
conveying true information—cases where the information conveyed is neither sup-
posed nor intended nor purported to be true, or where the truth or falsity of the
information is insigniﬁcant. Thus, for example, (inferential) communication is also at
work when someone is telling a joke or reading a poem. In these cases, the question of
whether the content is true or false standardly does not matter. I shall call utterances of
this variety, where truth and falsity do not matter, ‘non-alethic’ utterances.
As we have seen, according to RT, false information is ‘not worth having’ (cf. S&W
2004: 608), it does not contribute to an utterance’s relevanceRT
, and thus not to its
310 Doerge
being ‘worth processing’. Now, the information conveyed in non-alethic utterances
standardly is neither true nor so intended or expected. Thus, according to RT, the
information conveyed by a non-alethic utterance is usually ‘worthless’ in that its
contribution to the relevanceRT
of the utterance is zero.15
On the other hand, non-
alethic utterances do require the audience to invest some processing effort—which in
RT is supposed to detract from the utterance’s relevanceRT
. As a consequence,
following RT, the relevanceRT
of non-alethic utterances will usually be not only
very low but, indeed, negative.
Let us consider cases of ﬁction where the information conveyed is (intended and
expected to be) false and the relevanceRT
negative. Given the negative relevanceRT
of
these non-alethic utterances, RT predicts that the correct interpretation is blocked.
Thus, in general, following RT, we are to expect a systematic tendency towards the
occurrence of misunderstanding (or non-understanding) of non-alethic utterances,
induced by the negative value of the utterances’ relevanceRT
. Now, evidently, this
implication is pure ﬁction: it is obviously not true that there is such a systematic
tendency.
17.5. A problem with the BGA and its (dis)solution
This problem with non-alethic utterances, raised by their independence of consider-
ations of truth and falsity, does not infect RT alone. There are good reasons to think
that Gricean accounts of interpretation can encounter a very similar problem.
In Grice’s account, the problem is located within the so-called maxim of quality,
which requires the communicator to speak the truth, or at least to have adequate
evidence for what she means. Grice puts it as follows:
Under the category of Quality falls a supermaxim—‘Try to make your contribution one that is
true’—and two more speciﬁc maxims:
1. Do not say what you believe to be false.
2. Do not say that for which you lack adequate evidence. (1975/89: 27)
If BGA contained this maxim as it stands, and if this maxim applied to all utterances,
including non-alethic ones, then BGA would, like RT, be unable to account for non-
alethic utterances realistically. For when a speaker makes a non-alethic utterance, she
15
Trying to escape the present problem, Sperber and Wilson associate ﬁctional texts with such truth-
related aims as ‘gain[ing] insight, through some form of analogical thinking into yourself, your life, and the
world as they are’ (1995: 265). I do not deny that there are some authors and works of ﬁction where
the audience are intended to learn something in reading the story rather than to enjoy the story or to
be entertained—where, as one may say, docere rather than delectare is at issue. However, evidently, ﬁction
cannot be reduced to those docere cases: in the present connection, what I aim at are the delectare cases
(those which remain when all docere cases are sorted out).
Relevance Theory and Prolixity 311
does not appear to make a contribution that is true, or to have good evidence for the
truth of the content.16
On closer inspection, however, the failure can be avoided—or rather, it does not at
all occur, on a certain reading of Grice’s account. The key to the solution is the
rationale underlying the formulation of the conversational maxims. For this is not
quite properly respected in Grice’s own statement of the maxim of quality.
According to the underlying rationale, the maxims are meant to mirror the
different aspects of the accepted purpose in which the utterance is embedded. How-
ever, when the accepted purpose is not the exchange of true or veridically reliable
information, then the maxim of quality should not require truth or veridical reliabil-
ity. Instead, non-alethic utterances are supposed to have other ‘qualities’. Thus, for
example, the accepted purpose of a joke is to be funny, rather than true or plausible,
and the accepted purpose of a criminal story is to be entertaining and thrilling, rather
than true or plausible. So there is an easy and, indeed, independent (thus non-ad-hoc)
justiﬁcation for revising Grice’s maxim of quality in such a way as not to require truth
when the accepted purpose is non-alethic.
17.6. Summary
Let me summarize the results of this chapter. RT’s explanation of very wordy
utterances fails, because it suggests that correct interpretations of wordy utterances
are consistently blocked, whereas this seems not to be the case. The theory fails, too,
with over-informative cases, for it cannot explain the block of an interpretive
hypothesis due to unexpectedly high (rather than unexpectedly low) relevanceRT
.
In addition, RT fails to account for the role which expectations about accepted
purposes can play in such cases.
Furthermore, RT claims that communicators are, in a way, systematically prolix, in
that they tend to communicate more content than they actually aim at. The existence
of such a tendency, however, is actually implausible, and the reasons given for its
existence are unconvincing. In all these respects, BGA is better off, for it is not subject
to any of these problems.
RT also suggests that non-alethic utterances are intrinsically prolix and tend to be
systematically misunderstood, while in fact there seems to be no such tendency. Now,
as far as non-alethic utterances are concerned, BGA encounters a similar problem,
going back to Grice’s formulation of the maxim of quality. This problem, however,
can be avoided in a non-ad-hoc manner by deriving the maxim of quality more
accurately from the underlying rationale.
16
Grice himself recognizes the restriction of his account to the ‘purpose’ of a ‘maximally effective
exchange of information’ quite clearly and emphasises that the account is in need of generalization. See
Grice (1989: 28).
312 Doerge
References
Abbott, Barbara (2008). ‘Presuppositions and Common Ground’, Linguistics and Philosophy 21:
523–38.
Ackerman, Brian P.; Szymanski, Joanne; and Silver, Dara (1990). ‘Children’s Use of Common
Ground in Interpreting Ambiguous Referential Utterances’, Developmental Psychology 26: 234–45.
Agre, Philip E. (1997). Computation and Human Experience. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Agresti, Alan (2002). Categorical Data Analysis. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons.
Akman, Varol; Bouquet, Paolo; Thomason, Richmond H.; and Young, R. A. (eds) (2001).
Modeling and Using Context: Third International and Interdisciplinary Conference, Context
2001. Berlin: Springer-Verlag.
Allen, James F. and Perrault, C. Raymond. (1980). ‘Analyzing Intention in Utterances’, Artiﬁ-
cial Intelligence 15: 143–78.
Allott, Nicholas (2007). Pragmatics and Rationality. PhD dissertation, University College
London.
Appelt, Douglas (1985). Planning English Sentences. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Arnold, Jennifer E. (2008). ‘Reference Production: Production-Internal and Addressee-
Oriented Processes’, Language and Cognitive Processes 23: 495–527.
——and Grifﬁn, Zenzi M. (2007). ‘The Effect of Additional Characters on Choice of Referring
Expression: Everyone Counts’, Journal of Memory and Language 56: 521–36.
Arregui, Ana; Clifton, Charles Jr; Frazier, Lyn; and Moulton, Keir (2006). ‘Processing Elided
VP s with Flawed Antecedents’, Journal of Memory and Language 55: 232–46.
Asher, Nicholas and Lascarides, Alex (2003). Logics of Conversation. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Bach, Kent (1987). Thought and Reference. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
——(1994). ‘Conversational Impliciture’, Mind and Language 9: 124–62.
——(1997). ‘Do Belief Reports Report Beliefs?’, Paciﬁc Philosophical Quarterly 78: 215–41.
——(1999). ‘The Semantics-Pragmatics Distinction: What it is and Why it Matters’,
in K. Turner (ed.), The Semantics/Pragmatics Interface from Different Points of View.
North-Holland: Elsevier, 65–84.
——(2001). ‘Speaking Loosely: Sentence Nonliterality’, in P. French and H. Wettstein (ed.),
Midwest Studies in Philosophy Vol. 25: Figurative Language. Oxford: Blackwell, 249–63.
——(2004). ‘Pragmatics and the Philosophy of Language’, in L. Horn and Ward (eds), The
Handbook of Pragmatics, Oxford: Blackwell, 463–87.
——(2007). ‘Reﬂections on Reference and Reﬂexivity’, in M. O’Rourke and C. Washington
(eds), Situating Semantics: Essays on the Philosophy of John Perry. Cambridge, MA: The MIT
Press/Bradford Books, 395–424.
——(2011). Review of François Recanati, Truth-Conditional Pragmatics. Notre Dame Philo-
sophical Reviews. <http://ndpr.nd.edu>.
——(2012). ‘Context Dependence (Such As It Is)’, in M. García-Carpintero and M. Kölbel
(eds), The Continuum Companion to the Philosophy of Language. London: Continuum
Press, 153–84.
——(2013). ‘The Lure of Linguistiﬁcation’, in C. Penco (ed.), What is Said and What is not.
Stanford: CSLI Publications, 87–98.
Bach, Kent, and Harnish, Robert M. (1982). Linguistics Communication and Speech Acts.
Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
——(1982). ‘Katz as Katz Can’, Journal of Philosophy 79: 168–71.
Baldwin, Dare A. (1993). ‘Infants’ Ability to Consult the Speaker for Clues to Word Reference’,
Journal of Child Language 20: 395–418.
——and Moses, Louis J. (1996). ‘The Ontogeny of Social Information Gathering’, Child
Development 67: 1915–39.
Balog, Heather and Roberts, Felicia. (2004). ‘Perception of Utterance Relatedness during the
First-Word Period’, Journal of Child Language 31: 837–54.
Bar-Hillel, Yehoshua and Carnap, Rudolph (1952). An Outline of a Theory of Semantic Infor-
mation. Research Laboratory of Electronics Technical Report 247. Cambridge, MA: Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology.
Baron-Cohen, Simon; Baldwin, Dare A., and Crowson, Mary (1997). ‘Do Children with Autism
Use the Speaker’s Direction of Gaze Strategy to Crack the Code of Language?’, Child
Development 68: 48–57.
——Wheelwright, Sally; Skinner, R.; Martin, J., and Clubley, E. (2001). ‘The Autism Spectrum
Quotient (AQ): Evidence from Asperger Syndrome/High Functioning Autism, Males and
Females, Scientists and Mathematicians’, Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders 31:
5–17.
——(2007). ‘I Cannot Tell a Lie: What People with Autism Can Tell Us about Honesty’, in
Character: A journal of everyday virtues. <http://incharacter.org/archives/honesty/>.
Barr, Dale J. and Keysar, Boaz (2002). ‘Anchoring Comprehension in Linguistic Precedents’,
Journal of Memory and Language 46: 391–418.
Barton, Ellen L. (1990). Nonsentential Constituents. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
——(2006). ‘Towards a Nonsentential Analysis in Generative Grammar’, in Ljiljana Progovac,
Kate Paesani, Eugenia Casielles, and Ellen Barton (eds), The Syntax of Nonsententials.
Amsterdam: Benjamins, 11–31.
——and Progovac, Ljiljana (2005). ‘Non-Sententials in Minimalism’, in Reinaldo Elugardo and
Robert J. Stainton (ed.), Ellipsis and Nonsentential Speech. Dordrecht: Springer, 71–93.
Bartsch, Renate (1994). ‘The Myth of Literal Meaning’, in Conference on Lexicology and Lexical
Semantics. Tübingen: Niemeyer Verlag.
Barwise, Jon (1989). The Situation in Logic. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
——and Perry, John (1983). Situations and Attitudes. Cambridge, MA: MIT-Bradford.
Bates, Elizabeth, and MacWhinney, Brian. (1979). ‘A Functionalist Approach to the Acquisition
of Grammar’, in E. Ochs and B. B. Schieffelin (ed.), Developmental Pragmatics. New York:
Academic Press, 167–211.
Beaver, David (2001). Presupposition and Assertion in Dynamic Semantics. Stanford, CA: CSLI
Publications.
——(2008). ‘As Brief as Possible (But no Briefer)’. Theoretical Linguistics 34: 213–28.
314 References
Belke, Eva, and Meyer, Antje S. (2002). ‘Tracking the Time Course of Multidimensional
Stimulus Discrimination: Analyses of Viewing Patterns and Processing Times during
“Same”–“Different” decisions’, European Journal of Cognitive Psychology 14: 237–66.
Bergen, Leon and Grodner, Daniel J. (2012). ‘Speaker Knowledge Inﬂuences the Comprehen-
sion of Pragmatic Inferences’, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and
Cognition 38(5): 1450–60.
Berman, Jared; Sedivy, Julie; Hernandez, Monica, and Graham, Susan A. (2013). ‘Speaker-Speciﬁc
Effects in Preschoolers’ Contrastive Inferences of Adjectives’. Cognition. (Forthcoming).
Bezuidenhout, Anne (2010). ‘Grice on Presupposition’, in K. Petrus (ed.), Meaning and
Analysis: New Analyses on Grice. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Birch, Susan A. J.; Vauthier, Sophie A. and Bloom, Paul (2008). ‘Three- and Four-Year-Olds
Spontaneously Use Others’ Past Performance to Guide their Learning’, Cognition 107:
1018–34.
Bloom, Lois. (1973). One Word at a Time. The Hague: Mouton.
——Miller, Patsy; and Hood, Lois. (1975). ‘Variation and Reduction as Aspects of Competence
in Language Development’, in A. Pick (ed.), Minnesota Symposium on Child Psychology
vol. 9. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 3–55.
——Margulis, Cheryl; Tinker, Erin, and Fujita, Naomi. (1996). ‘Early Conversations and Word
Learning: Contributions from Child and Adult’, Child Development 67: 3154–75.
Bloom, Paul. (1990). ‘Subjectless Sentences in Child Language’, Linguistic Inquiry 21: 491–504.
——(2000). How Children Learn the Meaning of Words. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Blutner, Reinhard (1998). ‘Lexical Pragmatics’, Journal of Semantics 15: 115–62.
Bock, J. K. (1986). ‘Syntactic persistence in language production’, Cognitive Psychology 18:
355–87.
Böckler, Anne; Knoblich, Günther; and Sebanz, Natalie (2010). ‘Socializing Cognition’, in
B. Glatzeder, V. Goel, and A. Müller (eds), Towards a Theory of Thinking. Dordrecht:
Springer, 233–50.
Boër, Stephen and Lycan, William (1976). The Myth of Semantic Presupposition. Bloomington,
Indiana: Indiana Linguistics Club.
Bogen, James and Woodward, James (1988). ‘Saving the Phenomena’, Philosophical Review 97:
303–52.
Bonnefond, Mathilde and Van der Henst, Jean-Baptiste (2009). ‘What’s behind an inference?
An EEG study with conditional arguments’, Neuropsychologia 47(14): 3125–33.
——Noveck, I. A.; Baillet, S.; Cheylus, A.; Delpuech, C.; Bertrand, O.; and Van der
Henst, J.-B. (2012a). ‘What MEG can Reveal about Reasoning: The Case of If . . . Then
Sentences’, Human Brain Mapping.
——Van der Henst, J.-B.; Gougain, M.; Robic, S.; Olsen, M.; Weiss, O.; and Noveck, I. A. (2012b).
‘How Pragmatic Interpretations Arise from Conditionals: Proﬁling the Afﬁrmation of the
Consequent Argument with Reaction Time and EEG Measures’, Journal of Memory and
Language 67: 468–5.
Booth, Amy E. and Waxman, Sandra R. (2009). ‘A Horse of a Different Color: Specifying
with Precision Infants’ Mappings of Novel Nouns and Adjectives’, Child Development 80:
15–22.
Borg, Emma (2004). Minimal Semantics. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
References 315
Borge, Steffen (2012). ‘In Defense of the Received View’, Philosophical Psychology. (Forthcoming).
Bott, Lewis and Noveck, Ira A. (2004). ‘Some Utterances are Underinformative: The Onset and
Time Course of Scalar Inferences’, Journal of Memory and Language 51: 437–57.
——Bailey, Todd M.; and Grodner, Daniel J. (2012). ‘Distinguishing Speed from Accuracy in
Scalar Implicatures’, Journal of Memory and Language 66: 123–42.
Bourmayan, Anouch (ms.). ‘Implicit indeﬁnite objects, semantic incorporation and free prag-
matic enrichment: a reply to Martí’.
Bradlow, Ann. R. (2002). ‘Conﬂuent Talker and Listener-Related Forces in Clear Speech
Production’, in C. Gussenhoven and N. Warner (eds), Laboratory Phonology 7. Berlin and
New York: Mouton de Gruyter, 241–73.
Brandom, Robert B. (1994). Making It Explicit: Reasoning, Representing, and Discursive
Commitment. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Bratman, Michael E. (1987). Intention, Plans, and Practical Reason. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
——(1992). ‘Shared Cooperative Activity’, Philosophical Review 101: 327–41.
Braun, David (2011). ‘Implicating Questions’, Mind and Language 26: 574–95.
Breheny, Richard; Katsos, Napoleon; and Williams, James (2006). ‘Are Generalized Scalar
Implicatures Generated by Default? An On-line Investigation into the Role of Context in
Generating Pragmatic Inferences’, Cognition 100: 434–63.
Brennan, Susan E. and Clark, Herbert H. (1996). ‘Conceptual Pacts and Lexical Choice in
Conversation’, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition 22:
1482–93.
——and Hanna, Joy E. (2009). ‘Partner-Speciﬁc Adaptation in Dialogue’, Topics in Cognitive
Science (Special Issue on Joint Action) 1: 274–91.
Brown, Roger (1973). A First Language. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Brown, Paula M. and Dell, Gary S. (1987). ‘Adapting Production to Comprehension: The
Explicit Mention of Instruments’, Cognitive Psychology 19: 441–72.
Brown-Schmidt, Sarah and Tanenhaus, Michael K. (2006). ‘Watching the Eyes when Talking
about Size: An Investigation of Message Formulation and Utterance Planning’, Journal of
Memory and Language 54: 592–609.
——Gunlogson, Christine; and Tanenhaus, Michael K. (2008). ‘Addressees Distinguish
Shared from Private Information when Interpreting Questions During Interactive Conver-
sation’, Cognition 107: 1122–34.
——(2009). ‘Partner-Speciﬁc Interpretation of Maintained Referential Precedents during
Interactive Dialogue’, Journal of Memory and Language 61: 171–90.
——(2012). ‘Beyond Common and Privileged: Gradient Representations of Common Ground
in Real-Time Language Use’, Language and Cognitive Processes 27: 62–89.
Büring, Daniel (2003). ‘On D-Trees, Beans, and B-Accents’, Linguistics and Philosophy 26: 511–45.
Cadilhac, Anaïs; Asher, Nicholas; Benamara Farah; and Lascarides, Alex (2011). ‘Commitments
to Preferences in Dialogue’, in Proceedings of the Sigdial 2011 Conference. Association for
Computational Linguistics, 204–15.
Cai, Zhenguang; Pickering, Martin, and Sturt, Patrick (2012). ‘Processing verb-phrase ellipsis in
Mandarin Chinese: Evidence against the syntactic account’, Language and Cognitive Pro-
cesses 28: 810–28.
316 References
Cai, Zhenguang; Pickering, Martin; Yan, Hao, and Branigan, Holly (2011). ‘Lexical and
syntactic representations between closely related languages: Evidence from Cantonese–
Mandarin bilinguals’, Journal of Memory and Language 65: 431–45.
Cann, Ronnie; Kempson, Ruth; and Marten, Lutz (2005). The Dynamics of Language. Oxford:
Elsevier.
—— ——and Gregoromichelaki, Eleni (2009). Semantics: An Introduction to Meaning in
Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Cappelen, H. and Lepore, E. (2005). Insensitive Semantics: A Defense of Semantic Minimalism
and Speech Act Pluralism. Oxford: Blackwell.
Caplan, D. and Waters, G. S. (1999). ‘Verbal Working Memory and Sentence Comprehension’,
Behavioral and Brain Sciences 22: 77–126.
Carbary, Kathleen M. and Tanenhaus, Michael K. (2008). ‘Syntactic Priming and Message
Encoding in Unscripted Dialogue’, Talk presented at the Conference on Architectures and
Mechanisms for Language Processing (AMLaP). University of Cambridge.
Carberry, Sandra (1990).Plan Recognition in Natural Language Dialogue. Cambridge, MA:MIT Press.
Carpenter, Mallnda; Nagell, Katherine, and Tomasello, Michael. (1998). Social cognition, joint
attention, and communicative competence from 9 to 15 months of age. Monographs of the
Society for Research in Child Development, 63 (Serial No. 255).
Carston, Robyn (1999). ‘The Semantics/Pragmatics Distinction: A View from Relevance Theory’,
in K. Turner (ed.), The Semantics/Pragmatics Interface from Different Points of View, 85–125.
Carston, Robyn (2002). Thoughts and Utterances. Oxford: Blackwell.
——(2004). ‘Truth-Conditional Content and Conversational Implicature’, in C. Bianchi (ed.),
The Semantics/Pragmatics Distinction. Stanford: CSLI Publications, 65–100.
Casielles, Eugenia (2007). ‘Big questions, small answers’, in Ljiljana Progovac, Kate Paesani,
Eugenia Casielles & Ellen Barton (eds.), The Syntax of Nonsententials. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, 117–45.
Cassell, Justine; Stone, Matthew; and Yan, Hao (2000). ‘Coordination and Context-Depend-
ence in the Generation of Embodied Conversation’, in Proceedings of the First International
Conference on Natural Language Generation (INLG), 171–8.
Casillas, Marisa, and Frank, Michael C. (2013). The development of predictive processes in
children’s discourse understanding. Proceedings of the 35th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive
Science Society.
Chafe, Wallace L. (1976). ‘Givenness, Contrastiveness, Deﬁniteness, Subjects, Topics, and Point
of View’, in N. Li (ed.), Subject and Topic. New York: Academic Press, 26–55.
Chierchia, Gennaro (2004). ‘Scalar Implicatures, Polarity Phenomena, and the Syntax/Prag-
matics Interface’, in A. Belleti (ed.) Structures and beyond. New York and Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 39–103.
——and McConnell-Ginet, S. (1990). Meaning and Grammar, Cambridge MA: MIT Press.
Childers, Jane B.; Vaughan, Julie; and Burquest, Donald A. (2007). ‘Joint Attention and Word
Learning in Ngas-speaking Toddlers in Nigeria’, Journal of Child Language 33: 199–225.
Chin, David (2000). ‘Strategies for Expressing Concise, Helpful Answers’, Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Review 14: 333–50.
Chouinard, Michelle M. and Clark, Eve V. (2003). ‘Adult Reformulations of Child Errors as
Negative Evidence’, Journal of Child Language 30: 637–69.
References 317
Chung, Sandra Ladusaw, William A., and McCloskey, J. (1995). ‘Sluicing and Logical Form’,
Natural Language Semantics 3: 239–82.
Clancy, Patricia M.; Thompson, Sandra A.; Suzukia, Ryoko; and Tao, Hongyin (1996). ‘The
Conversational Use of Reactive Tokens in English, Japanese, and Mandarin’, Journal of
Pragmatics 26: 355–87.
Clapp, Lenny (2005). ‘On the Interpretation and Performance of Non-Sentential Assertion’,
in Reinaldo Elugardo and Robert J. Stainton (eds), Ellipsis and Non-Sentential Speech.
New York: Springer, 109–30.
Clark, Andy and Chalmers, David (1998). ‘The Extended Mind’, Analysis 58: 7–19.
Clark, Eve V. (1988). ‘On the Logic of Contrast’, Journal of Child Language 15: 317–35.
——and Grossman, James B. (1998). ‘Pragmatic Directions and Children’s Word Learning’,
Journal of Child Language 25: 1–18.
——(2001). ‘Grounding and Attention in Language Acquisition’, in M. Andronis, C. Ball,
H. Elston, and S. Neuvel (eds), Papers from the 37th meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society
1. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society: 96–116.
——(2007). ‘Young Children’s Uptake of New Words in Conversation’, Language in Society
36: 157–82.
——2007b. Conventionality and contrast in language acquisition. In M. Sabbagh & C. Kalish
(Eds.), Conventionality in cognitive development: How children acquire shared representa-
tions in language, thought, and action (New Directions in Child & Adolescent Development,
vol. 115, pages 11–23). San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.
——(2009). First language acquisition (2nd edn). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
——(2010). ‘Adult Offer, Word-Class, and Child Uptake in Early Lexical Acquisition’, First
Language 30: 25–69.
——and Bernicot, Josie. (2008). ‘Repetition As Ratiﬁcation: How Parents and Children Place
Information in Common Ground’, Journal of Child Language 35: 349–71.
——and Clark, Herbert H. (1979). ‘When Nouns Surface As Verbs’, Language 55: 767–811.
——and de Marneffe, Marie-Catherine (2012). ‘Constructing Verb Paradigms in French:
Adult Construals and Emerging Grammatical Contrasts’, Morphology 22: 89–120.
——and Estigarribia, Bruno (2011). ‘Using Speech and Gesture to Inform Young Children
About Unfamiliar Word Meanings’, Gesture 11: 1–23.
——and Grossman, James B. (1998). ‘Pragmatic Directions and Children’s Word Learning’,
Journal of Child Language 25: 1–18.
——and Hecht, Barbara F. (1983). ‘Comprehension, Production, and Language Acquisition’,
Annual Review of Psychology 34: 325–49.
——and Wong, Andrew D.-W. (2002). ‘Pragmatic Directions about Language Use: Words
and Word Meanings’, Language in Society 31: 181–212.
Clark, Herbert H. (1996). Using Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
——and Schaefer, Edward F. (1989). ‘Contributing to Discourse’, Cognitive Science 13: 259–94.
——and Fox Tree, Jean E. (2002). ‘Using Uh and Um in Spontaneous Speech’, Cognition 84:
73–111.
——and Krych, Meredyth A. (2004). ‘Speaking While Monitoring Addressees for Under-
standing’, Journal of Memory and Language 50: 62–81.
318 References
——and Marshall, Catherine R. (1981). ‘Deﬁnite Reference and Mutual Knowledge’, in
A. K. Joshi, B. Webber, and I. Sag (eds), Elements of Discourse Understanding. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 10–63.
——and Murphy, Gregory L. (1983). ‘Audience Design in Meaning and Reference’, in
J. F. LeNy and W. Kintsch (ed.), Language and Comprehension. Amsterdam: North-Holland
Publishing Co., 287–99.
——and Wilkes-Gibbs, Deanna (1986). ‘Referring as a Collaborative Process’, Cognition 22: 1–39.
Clark, Romane (1970). ‘Concerning the Logic of Predicate Modiﬁers’, Noûs 4: 311–35.
Cleland, Alexandra A. and Pickering, Martin J. (2003). ‘The Use of Lexical and Syntactic
Information in Language Production: Evidence from the Priming of Noun-Phrase Structure’,
Journal of Memory and Language 49: 214–30.
Clifton, Charles Jr and Frazier, Lyn (2010). ‘Imperfect Ellipsis: Antecedents beyond Syntax’,
Syntax 13: 279–97.
L. Jonathan Cohen (1986). ‘How is Conceptual Innovation Possible?’, Erkenntnis 25: 221–38.
——(2009). The Red and the Real: An Essay on Color Ontology. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Cohen, Philip R. and Levesque Hector J. (1990). ‘Intention is Choice with Commitment’,
Artiﬁcial Intelligence 42: 213–61.
—— ——(1991). ‘Teamwork’, Noûs 24: 487–512.
——and Perrault, C. Raymond (1979). ‘Elements of a Plan-Based Theory of Speech Acts’,
Cognitive Science 3: 177–212.
Collins, John (ms.). ‘On Saturation in Weather Reports: A Syntactic Defence of Truth-
Conditional Pragmatics’.
Cooper, Robin (1997). ‘Austinian Propositions, Davidsonian Events and Perception Comple-
ments’, in J. Ginzburg, Z. Khasidashvili, J. J. Levy, and E. Vallduví (eds), The Tbilisi Symposium
on Language, Logic and Computation: Selected Papers. Stanford: CSLI Publications, 19–34.
Corazza, Eros (2011). ‘Unenriched Subsentential Expression’, Philosophy and Phenomeno-
logical Research 83: 560–82.
Crain, Stephen and Steedman, Mark (1985). ‘On Not Being Led Up the Garden Path: The Use
of Context by the Psychological Parser’, in D. Dowty, L. Karttunnen, and A. Zwicky (eds),
Natural Language Parsing. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Crane, H. and Piantanida, T. (1983). ‘On Seeing Reddish Green and Yellowish Blue’, Science 221
(4615): 1078–80.
Csibra, Gergely (2010). ‘Recognizing Communicative Intentions in Infancy’, Mind and
Language 25: 141–68.
Culicover, Peter and Jackendoff, Ray (2005). Simpler Syntax. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Dalrymple, Mary; Shieber, Stuart M.; and Pereira, Fernando C. N. (1991). ‘Ellipsis and Higher-
Order Uniﬁcation’, Linguistics and Philosophy 14: 399–452.
Davidson, Donald (1978). ‘What Metaphors Mean’, Critical Inquiry 5: 31–47.
Davies, Catherine (2011). Over-Informativeness in Referential Communication. PhD Dissertation,
Magdalene College, University of Cambridge, Cambridge.
——and Katsos, Napoleon (2009). ‘Are Interlocutors as Sensitive to Over-Informativeness as
they are to Under-Informativeness?’, Proceedings of the Workshop on Production of
Referring Expressions: Bridging Computational and Psycholinguistic Approaches (PRE-
CogSci-09, Amsterdam).
References 319
Davis, Wayne (1998). Implicature: Intention, Convention, and Principle in the Failure of
Gricean Theory. Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press.
Degen, J. and Tanenhaus, M. K. (2010). ‘When Contrast is Salient, Pragmatic Some Precedes
Logical Some’, Poster presented at the 23rd Annual Sentence Processing Conference,
New York, NY.
de Marchena, Ashley; Eigsti, Inge Marie; Worek, Amanda; Ono, Kim Emiko; and Snedeker,
Jesse (2011). ‘Mutual Exclusivity in Autism Spectrum Disorders: Testing the Pragmatic
Hypothesis’, Cognition 119: 96–113.
De Neys, W. and Schaeken, W. (2007). ‘When People are More Logical Under Cognitive Load:
Dual Task Impact on Scalar Implicature’, Experimental Psychology 54: 128–33.
DePaulo, Bella M. and Coleman, Lerita M. (1986). ‘Talking to Children, Foreigners, and
Retarded Adults’, Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 51: 945–59.
De Ruiter, Jan-Peter; Mitterer, Holger; and Enﬁeld, Nicholas J. (2006). ‘Projecting the End of a
Speakers Turn: A Cognitive Cornerstone of Conversation. Language 82(3): 515–35.
Di Eugenio, Barbara and Webber, Bonnie (1996). ‘Pragmatic overloading in natural language
instructions’, International Journal of Expert Systems 9: 53–84.
Diesendruck, Gil; Carmel, Nurit; and Markson, Lori (2010). ‘Children’s Sensitivity to the
Conventionality of Sources’, Child Development 81: 652–8.
Djalali, Alex; Clausen, David; Lauer, Sven; Schultz, Karl; and Potts, Christopher (2011). ‘Modeling
Expert Effects and Common Ground Using Questions under Discussion’, Proceedings of the
AAAI Workshop on Building Representations of Common Ground with Intelligent Agents.
Washington, DC: Association for the Advancement of Artiﬁcial Intelligence.
Donaldson, Margaret, and Lloyd, Peter (1974). ‘Sentences and Situations: Children’s Judge-
ments of Match and Mismatch’, Problèmes actuels en psycholinguistique/Current problems in
psycholinguistics. Paris: CNRS, 73–86.
Donnellan, Keith (1966). ‘Reference and Deﬁnite Descriptions’, Philosophical Review 75: 281–304.
Dorr, C. (2014). ‘Transparency and the Context-Sensitivity of Attitude Reports’, in M. García-
Carpintero and G. Martí (eds) Thinking and Talking About Nothing. Oxford: Oxford
University Press. (Forthcoming).
Dromi, Esther. (1987). Early Lexical Development. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Dufﬁeld, Nigel and Matsuo, Ayumi (2009). ‘Native-Speakers’ vs. L2-learners’ Sensitivity to
Parallelism in VP-Ellipsis’, Studies in Second Language Acquisition 31: 1-31.
Dufresne, T. (2007). ‘Freud and Interpretation: Frank Ciofﬁ and Allen Esterson Discuss Freud’s
Legacy’, in T. Dufresne, Against Freud: Critics Talk Back. Stanford: Stanford University Press,
88–112.
Dunn, Judy and Shatz, Marilyn. (1989). ‘Becoming a Conversationalist Despite (or because of)
Having an Older Sibling’, Child Development 60: 399–410.
Eijck, J. van and Visser, A. (2010). ‘Dynamic Semantics’, Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
<http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/dynamic-semantics>.
Elbourne, Paul (2005). Situations and Individuals. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
——(2011). Meaning: A Slim Guide to Semantics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Elugardo, Reinaldo and Stainton, Robert J. (2001). ‘Logical Form and the Vernacular’, Mind
and Language 164: 393–424.
320 References
—— ——(2004). ‘Shorthand, Syntactic Ellipsis, and the Pragmatic Determinants of What Is
Said’, Mind and Language 19: 442–71.
—— ——(eds) (2005). Ellipsis and Nonsentential Speech. Dordrecht: Springer.
Engelhardt, Paul E.; Demiral, S. Barış; and Ferreira, Fernanda (2011). ‘Over-Speciﬁed Referring
Expressions Impair Comprehension: An ERP Study’, Brain and Cognition 77: 304–14.
Erickson, Thomas D. and Mattson, Mark E. (1981). ‘From Words to Meaning: A Semantic
Illusion’, Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior 20: 540–52.
Eshghi, Arash; Healey, Patrick G. T.; Purver, Matthew; Howes, Christine; Gregoromichelaki, Eleni;
and Kempson, Ruth (2010). ‘Incremental Turn Processing in Dialogue’, in Proceedings of the 16th
Annual Conference on Architectures and Mechanisms for Language Processing (AmLAP), York.
Estigarribia, Bruno and Clark, Eve V. (2007). ‘Getting and Maintaining Attention in Talk to
Young Children’, Journal of Child Language 34: 799–814.
Fernández, Raquel (2006). Non-Sentential Utterances in Dialogue: Classiﬁcation, Resolution
and Use. PhD Dissertation, King’s College London, University of London.
——Ginzburg, Jonathan; Gregory, Howard; and Lappin, Shalom (2006). ‘SHARDS: Fragment
Resolution in Dialogue’, in H. Bunt and R. Muyskens (eds), Computing Meaning Vol. 3.
Kluwer: Dordrecht.
Ferrara, Kathleen (1992). ‘The Interactive Achievement of a Sentence: Joint Productions in
Therapeutic Discourse’, Discourse Processes 15: 207–28.
Ferreira F. and Clifton, C. (1986). ‘The Independence of Syntactic Processing’, Journal of
Memory and Language 25: 348–68.
Ferreira, Victor S. (2010). ‘Language Production’, Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Cognitive
Science 1: 834–44.
Ferrier, Linda J. (1978). ‘Some Observations of Error in Context’, in N. Waterson and C. Snow
(eds), The development of communication. New York: John Wiley, 301–9.
Fillmore, Charles (1986). ‘Pragmatically Controlled Zero Anaphora’, in Proceedings of the
Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society 12: 95–107.
——and Paul Kay (ms.). Construction Grammar Coursebook.
Flavell, J. H.; Speer, J. R.; Green, F. L.; August, D. L.; and Whitehurst, G. J. (1981). ‘The
Development of Comprehension Monitoring and Knowledge about Communication’,
Monographs of the Society for Research in Chile Development 46: 1–65.
Fodor, Jerry (1983). Modularity of Mind. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
——(2008). LOT2. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fox, Danny (2008). ‘Two Short Notes on Schlenker’s Theory of Presupposition Projection’,
Theoretical Linguistics 34: 237–52.
Fox, Barbara A. and Robert Jasperson (1995). ‘A Syntactic Exploration of Repair in English
Conversation’, in Philip W. Davis (ed.), Descriptive and Theoretical Modes in the Alternative
Linguistics. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 77–134.
Frank, Michael C. and Goodman, Noah D. (2012). ‘Predicting Pragmatic Reasoning in Lan-
guage Games’, Science 336: 998.
Frazier, Lyn (2009). ‘Explorations in Ellipsis: the Grammar and Processing of Silence’, in
Susanne Winkler and Sam Featherston (eds), The Fruits of Empirical Linguistics Vol. 2:
Product. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
——and Clifton, Charles Jr (1998). ‘Comprehension of Sluiced Sentences’, Language and
Cognitive Processes 13: 499–520.
References 321
—— ——(2005). ‘The Syntax–Discourse Divide: Processing Ellipsis’, Syntax 8: 121–74.
—— ——(2006). ‘Ellipsis and Discourse Coherence’, Linguistics and Philosophy 29: 315–46.
Freudenthal, Daniel; Pine, Julian; and Gobet, Fernand (2002). ‘Subject Omission in Children’s
Language: The Case for Performance Limitations in Learning’, Proceedings of the 24th
Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum, 334–9.
Fukumura, Kumiko; van Gompel, Roger P. G.; Harley, Trevor; Pickering, Martin J. (2011).
‘How Does Similarity-Based Interference Affect the Choice of Referring Expression?’,
Journal of Memory and Language 65: 331–44.
Gaifman, Haim (2010). ‘Vagueness, Tolerance and Contextual Logic’, Synthese 174: 5–46.
Galati, Alexia and Brennan, Susan E. (2010). ‘Attenuating Information in Spoken Communi-
cation: For the Speaker, or for the Addressee?’, Journal of Memory and Language 62: 35–51.
García-Carpintero, Manuel (2000). ‘A Presuppositional Account of Reference-Fixing’, Journal
of Philosophy97: 109–47.
——(2001). ‘Gricean Rational Reconstructions and the Semantics/Pragmatics Distinction’,
Synthese 128: 93–131.
——(2004). ‘Assertion and the Semantics of Force-Markers’, in C. Bianchi (ed.), The Seman-
tics/Pragmatics Distinction, CSLI Lecture Notes. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press,
133–66.
——(2006). ‘Recanati on the Semantics/Pragmatics Distinction’, Crítica 38: 35–68.
Gardent, Claire (2005). ‘Interprétations minimales et interprétations maximales’, in F. Corblin
and C. Gardent (ed.), Interpréter en Contexte. London: Hermes science publications,
278–303.
Garnham, Alan and Oakhill, Jane (1987). ‘Interpreting elliptical VPs’, Quarterly Journal of
Experimental Psychology 39(a): 611–27.
Gathercole, Susan E. (2007). ‘Working Memory and Language’, in M. G. Gaskell (ed.), The
Oxford Handbook of Psycholinguistics. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 757–69.
Gauker, Christopher (1997). ‘Domain of Discourse’, Mind 106: 1–32.
——(2003). Words without Meaning. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
——(2005). Conditionals in Context. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
——(2008a). ‘Against Accommodation’, in J. Hawthorne (ed.), Philosophical Perspectives 22:
The Philosophy of Language. Oxford: Blackwell, 171–205.
——(2008b). ‘Zero Tolerance for Pragmatics’, Synthese 165: 359–71.
——(2010). ‘Global Domains versus Hidden Indexicals’, Journal of Semantics 27: 243–70.
——(2011). Words and Images: An Essay on the Origin of Ideas. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
——(2012a). ‘What Tipper is Ready for: A Semantics for Incomplete Predicates’, Noûs 46:
61–85.
——(2012b). ‘Semantics and Pragmatics’, in Delia Graff Fara and Gillian Russell (eds),
Routledge Companion to the Philosophy of Language. New York: Routledge, 18–28.
Gazdar, Gerald (1979). Pragmatics: Implicature, Presupposition and Logical Form. New York:
Academic Press.
van Geenhoven, Veerle (1998). Semantic Incorporation and Indeﬁnite Descriptions. Semantic
and Syntactic Aspects of Noun Incorporation in West Greenlandic. Stanford: CSLI
Publications.
322 References
Gelman, Susan A. and Markman, Ellen M. (1985). ‘Implicit Contrast in Adjectives vs. Nouns:
Implications for Word Learning in Preschoolers’, Journal of Child Language 12: 125–43.
——and Taylor, Marjorie (1984). ‘How Two-Year-Old Children Interpret Common and
Proper Names for Unfamiliar Objects’, Child Development 55: 1535–40.
Geurts, Bart (1999). Presuppositions and Pronouns. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Gergely, György; Bekkering, Harold, and Király, Ildikó (2002). ‘Rational Imitation in Preverbal
Infants’, Nature 415: 755.
Gillon, Brendan (2012). ‘Implicit complements: a dilemma for model-theoretic semantics’.
Linguistics and Philosophy 35: 313–59.
Ginzburg, Jonathan (2012). The Interactive Stance: Meaning for Conversation. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
——and Cooper, Robin (2004). ‘Clariﬁcation, Ellipsis, and the Nature of Contextual Updates
in Dialogue’, Linguistics and Philosophy 27: 297–365.
——and Sag, Ivan A. (2000). Interrogative Investigations. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Gleitman, Lila R. (1990). ‘The Structural Sources of Verb Meanings’, Language Acquisition 1: 3–55.
Glucksberg, S.; Gildea, P.; and Bookin, H. B. (1982). ‘On Understanding Nonliteral Speech: Can
People Ignore Metaphors?’, Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior 21: 85–98.
Goldin-Meadow, Susan; Seligman, Martin E. P.; and Gelman, Rochel (1976). ‘Language in the
Two-Year-Old’, Cognition 4: 189–202.
Goldstein, L. (1993). ‘The Fallacy of the Simple Question’, Analysis 53: 178–81.
——(2013). ‘To Let: Unsuccessful Stipulation, Bad Proof and Paradox’, American Philosophical
Quarterly 50: 93–9.
Golinkoff, Roberta M. (1986). ‘“I Beg Your Pardon?”: The Preverbal Negotiation of Failed
Messages’, Journal of Child Language 13: 455–76.
Goodwin, Charles (1981). Conversational Organization: Interaction between Speakers and
Hearers. New York: Academic Press.
Green, M (2000). ‘Illocutionary Force and Semantic Content’, Linguistics and Philosophy 23:
435–73.
Greenﬁeld, Patricia M. and Smith, Joshua H. (1976). The Structure of Communication in Early
Language Development. New York: Academic Press.
Gregoromichelaki, Eleni; Sato, Yo; Kempson, Ruth; Gargett, Andrew; and Howes, Christine
(2009). ‘Dialogue Modelling and the Remit of Core Grammar’, in Proceedings of IWCS 2009.
——Kempson, Ruth; Purver, Matthew; Mills, Gregory J.; Cann, Ronnie; Meyer-Viol, Wilfried;
and Healey Patrick G. T. (2011). ‘Incrementality and Intention-Recognition in Utterance
Processing’, Dialogue and Discourse (Special Issue: Incremental Processing in Dialogue) 2:
199–233.
Grice, H. Paul (1957). ‘Meaning’, The Philosophical Review 66: 377–88.
——(1975/89). ‘Logic and Conversation’, in P. Cole and J. Morgan (eds), Syntax and Semantics
Vol. 3: Speech Acts, 41–58. New York: Academic Press. Also in Grice, H. P., Studies in the
Ways of Words, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 22–40; and in S. Davis (ed.),
Pragmatics: A Reader. New York: Oxford University Press, 305–15.
——(1978). ‘Further Notes on Logic and Conversation’, in Studies in the Way of Words.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 41–57.
References 323
——(1981). ‘Presupposition and Conversational Implicature’, in P. Cole (ed.), Radical Prag-
matics. New York: Academic Press, 183–98. Also in Grice, H. P., Studies in The Ways of
Words. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 269–82.
——(1989). Studies in the Ways of Words. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Grifﬁths, James and Lipták, Ánikó (2011). ‘Contrast and Island Sensitivity in Fragments’. Ms.
University of Groningen and University of Leiden.
—— ——(2013). ‘Contrast and island sensitivity in clausal ellipsis’. Syntax. (Forthcoming).
Grifﬁths, Patrick D. and Atkinson, Martin (1978). ‘A “Door to Verbs”’, in N. Waterson and
C. E. Snow (eds), The Development of Communication. London: Wiley, 311–19.
Grodner, Daniel; Gibson, Edward; and Watson, Duane (2005). ‘The Inﬂuence of Contextual
Contrast on Syntactic Processing: Evidence for Strong-Interaction in Sentence Comprehen-
sion’, Cognition 95(3): 275–96.
Grodner, Daniel J.; Klein, Natalie. M.; Carbary, Kathleen M.; and Tanenhaus, Michael K. (2010).
‘“Some”, and Possibly All, Scalar Inferences are Not Delayed: Evidence for Immediate
Pragmatic Enrichment’, Cognition 11: 42–55.
——and Sedivy, Julie (2011). ‘The Effect of Speaker-Speciﬁc Information on Pragmatic Infer-
ences’, in E. Gibson and N. Pearlmutter (eds), The Processing and Acquisition of Reference.
Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 239–72.
Groenendijk, Jerome and Stokhof, Martin (1984). Studies on the Semantics of Questions and the
Pragmatics of Answers. PhD Dissertation, Universiteit van Amsterdam.
Grosz, Barbara and Sidner, Candy (1986). ‘Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of
Discourse’, Computational Linguistics 12: 175–204.
Guasti, Maria Theresa; Chierchia, Gennaro; Crain, Stephen; Foppolo, Francesca; Gualmini,
Andrea; and Meroni, Luisa (2005). ‘Why Children and Adults Sometimes (but not Always)
Compute Implicatures’, Language and Cognitive Processes 20: 667–96.
Gundel, Jeannette K.; Hedberg, Nancy, and Zacharski, Ron (1993). ‘Cognitive Status and the
Form of Referring Expressions in Discourse’, Language 69: 274–307.
Hall, Alison (2008). ‘Free Enrichment or Hidden Indexicals?’, Mind and Language 23: 426–56.
——(2009). ‘Subsentential Utterances, Ellipsis, and Pragmatic Enrichment’, Pragmatics and
Cognition 17: 222–50.
Hankamer, Jorge (1978). ‘On the Nontransformational Derivation of Some Null VP Anaphors’,
Linguistic Inquiry 9: 66–74.
——and Sag, Ivan A. (1976). ‘Deep and Surface Anaphora’, Linguistic Inquiry 7: 391–426.
Hanna, Joy E.; Tanenhaus, Michael, K.; and Trueswell, John C. (2003). ‘The Effects of Common
Ground and Perspective on Domains of Referential Interpretation’, Journal of Memory and
Language 49: 43–61.
Haugh, Michael (2012). ‘Conversational Interaction’, in Kasia M. Jaszczolt and Keith Allan
(eds), Cambridge Handbook of Pragmatics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Harnish, Robert M. (2009). ‘The Problem of Fragments’, Pragmatics and Cognition 17: 251–82.
Hayes-Roth, Barbara and Hayes-Roth, Frederick (1979). ‘A Cognitive Model of Planning’,
Cognitive Science 3: 275–310.
Heck, R. (2007). ‘Self-Reference and the Languages of Arithmetic’, Philosophia Mathematica
(III) 15: 1–29.
324 References
Heim, Irene (1982/1988). The Semantics of Deﬁnite and Indeﬁnite Noun Phrases in English.
New York: Garland Press.
——(1983/2002). ‘On the Projection Problem for Presuppositions’, in P. Portner and B. Partee
(eds), Formal Semantics—The Essential Readings. Oxford: Blackwell, 249–60.
——(1990a). ‘Presupposition Projection’, in R. van der Sandt (ed.), Presupposition, Lexical
Meaning and Discourse Processes: Workshop Reader, Nijmegen: University of Nijmegen
Press.
——(1990b). ‘E-Type Pronouns and Donkey Anaphora’. Linguistics and Philosophy 13:
137–77.
——(1992). ‘Presupposition Projection and the Semantics of Attitude Verbs’, Journal of
Semantics 9: 183–221.
——and Kratzer, Angelika. (1998). Semantics in Generative Grammar. Oxford: Blackwell.
Heller, Daphna; Gorman, Kristen S., and Tanenhaus, Michael K. (2012). ‘To Name or to
Describe: Shared Knowledge Affects Referential Form’, Topics in Cognitive Science 4:
290–305.
——Grodner, Daniel; and Tanenhaus, Michael K. (2008). ‘The Role of Perspective in Identi-
fying Domains of References’, Cognition 108: 811–36.
Henetz, Tania and Clark Herbert H. (2011). ‘Managing Delays in Speaking’, Paper presented at
the IPrA meeting, Manchester, July.
Higginbotham, James (1986). ‘Linguistic Theory and Davidson’s Program in Semantics’, in
E. Lepore (ed.), The Philosophy of Donald Davidson: Perspectives on Truth and Interpret-
ation. Oxford: Blackwell, 29–48.
Huang, Y. and Snedeker, J. (2009). ‘Semantic Meaning and Pragmatic Interpretation in 5-Year-
Olds: Evidence From Real-Time Spoken Language Comprehension’, Developmental Psychology
45(6): 1723–39.
Huang, Yi-Ting and Snedeker, Jesse (2013). ‘The Use of Referential Context in Children’s
Online Interpretation of Adjectives’. (Forthcoming).
Horn, Laurence (1984). ‘Toward a New Taxonomy for Pragmatic Inference: Q-based and
R-Based Implicature’, in D. Schiffrin (ed.), Meaning, form, and Use in Context: Linguistic
Applications. Washington: Georgetown University Press, 11–42.
Horton, William S. (2007). ‘The Inﬂuence of Partner-Speciﬁc Memory Associations on
Language Production: Evidence from Picture-Naming’, Language and Cognitive Processes
22: 1114–39.
——and Gerrig, Richard J. (2005). ‘The Impact of Memory Demands on Audience Design
During Language Production’, Cognition 96: 127–42.
——and Keysar, Boaz (1996). ‘When Do Speakers Take Into Account Common Ground?’,
Cognition 59: 91–117.
Howe, Christine. (1981). Acquiring Language in a Conversational Context. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Howes, Christine; Purver, Matthew; Healey, Patrick G. T.; and Mills, Gregory J. (2011).
‘On Incrementality in Dialogue: Evidence from Compound’, Contributions Dialogue and
Discourse (Special Issue: Incremental Processing in Dialogue) 2(1): 279–311.
Huang, Yi-Ting and Snedeker, Jesse (2013). ‘The Use of Referential Context in Children’s
Online Interpretation of Adjectives’. Developmental Psychology (Forthcoming).
References 325
Hyams, Nina (1986). Language Acquisition and the Theory of Parameters. Dordrecht: Reidel.
Isard, S. (1974). ‘Changing the Context’, in E. Keenan (ed.), Formal Semantics of Natural
Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 287–96.
Isaacs, Ellen A. and Clark, Herbert H. (1987). ‘References in Conversations Between Experts
and Novices’, Journal of Experimental Psychology: General 116: 26–37.
Ironsmith, Marsha and Whitehurst, Grover, J. (1978). ‘The Development of Listeners Abilities
in Communication: How Children Deal with Ambiguous Information’, Child Development
49: 348–52.
Jacobson, Pauline (2010). ‘The Short Answer: Implications for Direct Compositionality’. Talk
given at New York University, 23 April.
Jaswal, Virkam A.; McKercher, David A.; and VanderBorght, Mieke (2008). ‘Limitations on
Reliability: Regularity Rules in the English Plural and Past Tense’, Child Development 79:
750–60.
Jaszczolt, Katarzyna M. (2005). Default Semantics: Foundations of a Compositional Theory of
Acts of Communication. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Johnson, Kyle (2001). ‘What VP Ellipsis Can Do, and What it Can’t, but not Why’, in M. Baltin
and C. Collins (eds), The Handbook of Contemporary Syntactic Theory. Malden: Blackwell,
439–79.
Jones, Charlotte M. and Beach, Wayne A. (1995). ‘Therapists’ Techniques for Responding to
Unsolicited Contributions by Family Members’, in George H. Morris and Ronald J. Chenail
(eds), The Talk of the Clinic: Explorations in the Analysis of Medical and Therapeutic
Discourse. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence-Erlbaum Associates, 49–70.
Just, M. A. and Carpenter, P. A. (1992). ‘A Capacity Theory of Comprehension: Individual
Differences in Working Memory’, Psychological Review 99: 122–49.
Kadmon, N. (2001). Formal Pragmatics. Oxford: Blackwell.
Kamp, H. (1975). ‘Two Theories About Adjectives’, in E. Keenan (ed.), Formal Semantics of
Natural Language, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 123–55.
Kant, Immanuel (2005). Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals. L. Denis (ed.). Ontario:
Broadview Press. Originally published in 1785.
Kaplan, David (1989). ‘Afterthoughts’, in J. Almog, J. Perry, and H. Wettstein (eds), Themes
from Kaplan. Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press, 565–614.
Karttunen, Lauri (1974). ‘Presuppositions and Linguistic Contexts’, Theoretical Linguistics 1:
181–94. Also in S. Davis (ed.), Pragmatics, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 406–16.
——(1977). ‘Syntax and Semantics of Questions’, Linguistics and Philosophy 1: 3–44.
——and Peters, Stanley (1979). ‘Conventional Implicature’. Syntax and Semantics 11: 1–56.
Katsos, Napoleon and Bishop, Dorothy V. M. (2011). ‘Pragmatic Tolerance: Implications for
the Acquisition of Informativeness and Implicature’, Cognition 120: 67–81.
Katz, Jerold (1977). Propositional Structure and Illocutionary Force. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
——and Fodor, Jerry A. (1963). ‘The Structure of a Semantic Theory’, Language 39: 170–210.
Katz, Nancy; Baker, Erica; and Macnamara, John (1974). ‘What’s in a Name? A Study of How
Children Learn Common and Proper Names’, Child Development 45: 469–73.
Keenan, Elinor Ochs and Klein, Ewan (1975). ‘Coherency in Children’s Discourse’, Journal of
Psycholinguistic Research 4: 365–80.
326 References
Kehler, Andrew (2004). ‘Discourse Coherence’, in L. R. Horn and G. Ward (eds), The
Handbook of Pragmatics. Malden: Blackwell, 241–65.
Kelly, Barbara F. (2011). ‘A New Look at Redundancy in Children’s Gesture and Word
Combinations’, in I. Arnon and E. V. Clark (eds), Experience, Variation, and Generalization:
Learning a First Language. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 75–89.
Kempson, Ruth; Meyer-Viol, Wilfried; and Gabbay, Dov (2001). Dynamic Syntax: The Flow of
Language Understanding. Oxford: Blackwell.
Kempson, Ruth; Gregoromichelaki, Eleni; and Sato, Yo. (2009). ‘Incrementality, Speaker/Hearer
Switching and the Disambiguation Challenge’, in Proceedings of European Association of
Computational Linguistics. Athens: EACL.
—— ——Meyer-Viol, Wilfried; Purver, Matthew; White, Graham; and Cann, Ronnie (2011b).
‘Natural-language Syntax as Procedures for Interpretation: the Dynamics of Ellipsis Con-
strual’, in Games, Dialogues and Interaction. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Springer.
—— ——and Howes, Christine. (2011a). The Dynamics of Lexical Interfaces. Stanford: CSLI
Publications.
—— ——Purver, Matthew; Meyer-Viol, Wilfried; Howes, Christine; Healey, Patrick; Eshghi,
Arash; Hough, Julian; White, Graham; and Cann, Ronnie (2011c). ‘On the Processing of
Elliptical Fragments: A Preliminary Report’. Lecture, King’s College, London.
Kertz, Laura (2010). Ellipsis Reconsidered. PhD Dissertation, University of California, San
Diego.
Keysar, Boaz and Barr, Dale J. (2002). ‘Self Anchoring in Conversation: Why Language Users do
not do what they “Should”’, in T. Gilovich, D. W. Grifﬁn, and D. Kahneman (eds), Heuristics
and Biases: The Psychology of Intuitive Judgment. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
150–66.
—— ——Balin, Jennifer A.; and Brauner, Jason S. (2000). ‘Taking Perspective in Conversa-
tion: The Role of Mutual Knowledge in Comprehension’, Psychological Science 11: 32–8.
Kidd, Celeste; White, Katherine S.; and Aslin, Richard N. (2011). ‘Toddlers Use Speech
Disﬂuencies to Predict Speakers’ Referential Intentions’, Developmental Science 14:
925–34.
Kim, Christina and Runner, Jeff (2009). ‘Discourse Structure and Parallelism in VP Ellipsis’ in
Ed Cormany, Satoshi Ito, and David Lutz (eds), Proceedings of the 19th Semantics and
Linguistic Theory conference, Ohio State University.
Kim, Christina S.; Kobele, Gregory M.; Runner, Jeff T.; and John T. Hale (2011). ‘The
Acceptability Cline in VP Ellipsis’, Syntax 14: 318–54.
King, Jeffrey and Stanley, Jason (2005). ‘Semantics, Pragmatics, and the Role of Semantic Content’,
in Z. Szabo (ed.), Semantics versus Pragmatics. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 111–64.
Klatzky, Roberta L.; Clark, Eve, V.; and Macken, Marlys (1973). ‘Asymmetries in the Acquisi-
tion of Polar Adjectives’, Journal of Experimental Child Psychology 16: 32–46.
Koenig, Melissa A.; Clement, Fabrice; and Harris, Paul L. (2004). ‘Trust in Testimony:
Children's Use of True and False Statements’, Psychological Science 15: 694–8.
——and Echols, Catharine (2003). ‘Infants’ Understanding of False Labeling Events: The
Referential Roles of Words and the Speakers who use them’, Cognition 87: 179–208.
——and Harris, Paul L. (2005). ‘Preschoolers Mistrust Ignorant and Inaccurate Speakers’,
Child Development 76: 1261–77.
References 327
Koller, Alexander and Stone, Matthew (2007). ‘Sentence Generation as a Planning Problem’, in
Proceedings of the 45th annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics, 336–43.
Korta, Kepa and Perry, John (2011). Critical Pragmatics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kosslyn, Stephen M.; Thompson, William L.; and Ganis, Giorgio (2006). The Case for Mental
Imagery. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Kratzer, Angelika (1989). ‘An Investigation of the Lumps of Thought’, Linguistics and Philosophy
12: 607–53.
Kripke, Saul (1977). ‘Speaker’s Reference and Semantic Reference’, in Peter A. French, Thomas
Uehling, Jr, and Howard K. Wettstein (eds), Midwest Studies in Philosophy, Vol. 2: Studies in
Semantics. Minneapolis, MN: University of Minnesota Press, 255–76.
——(1979). ‘A Puzzle about Belief ’, in A. Margalit (ed.), Meaning and Use. Dordrecht: Reidel.
——(2009). ‘Presupposition and Anaphora: Remarks on the Formulation of the Projection
Problem’, Linguistic Inquiry 40: 367–89. Also in Saul Kripke (2011). Philosophical Troubles.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 351–72.
——(2011). Philosophical Troubles. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Kronmüller, Edmundo; Morisseau, Tiffany, and Noveck, Ira. A. Show me the pragmatic
contribution: A developmental investigation of referential communication. Journal of Child
Language (in press).
Kuroda, S. Y. (1982). ‘Indexed Predicate Calculus’, Journal of Semantics 1: 43–59.
Kurumada, Chigusa. (2009). ‘The Acquisition and Development of the Topic Marker wa in L1
Japanese: the Role of “NP-wa?” in Child-Mother Interaction’, in B. Corrigan, E. Moravcsik,
H. Ouali, and K. Wheatly (eds), Formulaic language. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 347–74.
——Brown, Meredith; and Tanenhaus, Michael K. (2012). ‘Pragmatic Interpretations of
Contrastive Prosody: It Looks Like Speech Adaptation’. Paper presented at the 34th Meeting
of the Cognitive Science Society, Sapporo, Japan.
——(2013). Contextual inferences over speakers’ pragmatic intentions: Preschoolers’ compre-
hension of prosody. Proceedings of the 35th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society.
Lascarides, Alex and Stone, Matthew (2009). ‘Discourse Coherence and Gesture Interpret-
ation’, Gesture 9: 147–80.
Lerner, Gene (2004). ‘On the Place of Linguistic Resources in the Organization of Talk-in-
Interaction’, Research on Language and Social Interaction 36: 151–84.
Levinson, Stephen C. (1983). Pragmatics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
——(2000). Presumptive meanings: The theory of generalized conversational implicature.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Lewis, David K. (1968). ‘Counterpart Theory and Quantiﬁed Modal Logic’, Journal of Philosophy
65: 113–26.
——(1969). Convention: A Philosophical Study. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
——(1973). Counterfactuals. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
——(1979). ‘Scorekeeping in a Language Game’, Journal of Philosophical Logic 8: 339–59.
Also in David K. Lewis (1983). Philosophical Papers Vol. 1, Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 233–49.
——(1986). On the Plurality of Worlds. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Liszkowski, Ulf; Carpenter, Malinda; and Tomasello, Michael (2008). ‘Twelve-Month-Olds
Communicate Helpfully and Appropriately for Knowledgeable and Ignorant Partners’,
Cognition 108: 732–9.
328 References
Lockridge, Calion B. and Brennan, Susan E. (2002). ‘Addressees’ Needs Inﬂuence Speakers’
Early Syntactic Choices’, Psychonomic Bulletin and Review 9: 550–7.
Luce, Megan R. and Callanan, Maureen A. (2010). ‘Parents’ Object Labeling: Possible Links to
Conventionality of Word Meaning?’, First Language 30: 270–86.
Ludlow, Peter (2005). ‘A Note on Alleged Cases of Nonsentential Assertion’, in Reinaldo
Elugardo and Robert J. Stainton (eds) Ellipsis and Nonsentential Speech. Dordrecht:
Springer, 95–108.
MacDonald, Maryellen; Pearlmutter, Neal, and Seidenberg, Mark (1994). ‘Lexical nature of
syntactic ambiguity resolution’, Psychological Review 101: 676–703.
Macmillan, Neil A. and Creelman, C. Douglas (2004). Detection Theory: A User’s Guide.
New York: Cambridge University Press.
Maes, A.; Arts, A.; and Noordman, L. (2004). ‘Reference Management in Instructive
Discourse’, Discourse Processes 37: 117–44.
Markman, Ellen M. (1989). Categorization and Naming in Children. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
——and Wachtel, Gwyn F. (1988). ‘Children’s Use of Mutual Exclusivity to Constrain the
Meaning of Words’, Cognitive Psychology 20: 121–57.
——Wasow, Judith L.; and Hansen, Mikkel B. (2003). ‘Use of the Mutual Exclusivity Assump-
tion by Young Word Learners’, Cognitive Psychology 47: 241–75.
Marr, David (1982). Vision: A Computational Investigation into the Human Representation and
Processing of Visual Information. New York: W. H. Freeman.
Martí, Luisa (2006). ‘Unarticulated Constituents Revisited’, Linguistics and Philosophy 29: 135–66.
——(2009, ms.). ‘Grammar vs. Pragmatics: Carving Nature at the Joints’, University of Tromsø.
——(ms.). ‘Implicit Indeﬁnite Objects: the Barest of the Bare’.
Martin, Andrea and McElree, Brian (2008). ‘A Content-Addressable Pointer Mechanism
Underlies Comprehension of Verb Phrase Ellipsis’, Journal of Memory and Language 58:
879–906.
Mastin, J. Douglas and Vogt, Paul (2011). ‘Joint Attention and Vocabulary Development: An
Observational Study of Mozambican Infants’, Poster Presented at the XIIth Meeting of the
International Association for the Study of Child Language, Montréal, Canada.
McDowell, John (1980). ‘Meaning, Communication, and Knowledge’, in Z. van Straaten (ed.),
Philosophical Subjects: Essays Presented to PF Strawson. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
McTear, Michael (1985). Children’s Conversation. Oxford: Blackwell.
Merchant, Jason (2001). The Syntax of Silence: Sluicing, Islands and the Theory of Ellipsis.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
——(2004). ‘Fragments and Ellipsis’, Linguistics and Philosophy 27: 661–738.
——(2006). ‘Small Structures: A Sententialist Perspective’, in L. Progovac, K. Paesani,
E. Casielles, and E. Barton (eds), The Syntax of Nonsententials. Amsterdam: Benjamins, 73–91.
—— (2008). ‘An Asymmetry in Voice Mismatches in VP-ellipsis and Pseudogapping’, Linguistic
Inquiry 39: 169–79.
—— (2010). ‘Three kinds of ellipsis’, in François Recanati, Isidora Stojanovic, Neftalí Villa-
nueva (eds.), Context-Dependence, Perspective, and Relativity, pp. 141–192. Walter de
Gruyter: Berlin.
References 329
—— (2013). ‘Ellipsis’, in Artemis Alexiadou and Tibor Kiss (eds), Syntax: An International
Handbook, 2nd. edition. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter. (Forthcoming).
Metzing, Charles and Brennan, Susan E. (2003). ‘When Conceptual Pacts are Broken: Partner-
Speciﬁc Effects on the Comprehension of Referring Expressions’, Journal of Memory and
Language 49: 201–13.
Mills, Gregory J. and Gregoromichelaki, Eleni (2010). ‘Establishing Coherence in Dialogue:
Sequentiality, Intentions and Negotiation’, in Proceedings of the 14th SemDial, PozDial.
Miscevic, Nenad (2011). ‘No More Tears in Heaven: Two Views of Response-Dependence’,
Acta Analytica 26: 75–93.
Montague, Richard (1970). ‘English as a Formal Language’, in B. Visentini (ed.), Linguaggi nella
Società e nella Tecnica. Milan: Edizioni di Comunità. Reprinted in R. Thomason (ed.) (1974)
pp. 188–221.
Morgan, Jerry (1973). ‘Sentence Fragments and the Notion “Sentence”’, in Braj Kachru, Robert
Lees, Yakov Malkiel, Angelina Pietrangeli, and Sol Saporta (eds), Issues in Linguistics.
Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 719–51.
——(1989). ‘Sentence Fragments Revisited’, in B. Music, R. Graczyk, and Wiltshire, C. (eds),
CLS 25, Parasessions on Language in Context. Chicago: Chicago Linguistics Society, 228–41.
Nadig, Aparna S., and Sedivy, Julie C. (2002). ‘Evidence of Perspective-Taking Constraints in
Children’s On-line Reference Resolution’, Psychological Science 13: 329–36.
—— ——Joshi, Anjula, and Bortfeld, Heather (2003). ‘The Development of Discourse Con-
straints on the Interpretation of Adjectives’, in B. Beachley, B. Brown, and F. Conlin (eds),
Proceedings of the 27th Annual Boston University Conference on Language Development.
Somerville: Cascadilla Press, 568–79.
Neale, Stephen (2004). ‘This, That and the Other’, in M. Reimer and A. Bezuidenhout (eds),
Descriptions and Beyond. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 68–182.
Newell, Allen and Simon, Herbert A. (1961). GPS, a program that simulates human thought.
Santa Monica, CA: Rand Corporation.
Nieuwland, M. S.; Ditman, T.; and Kuperberg, G. R. (2010). ‘On the Incrementality of
Pragmatic Processing: An ERP Investigation of Informativeness and Pragmatic Abilities’,
Journal of Memory and Language 63: 324–46.
Norman, Donald (1988). The Psychology of Everyday Things. New York: Basic Books.
Noveck, Ira A. (2001). ‘When Children are More Logical than Adults: Investigations of Scalar
Implicatures’, Cognition 78: 165–88.
——Bianco, M.; and Castry, A. (2001). ‘The Costs and Beneﬁts of Metaphor’, Metaphor and
Symbol 16: 109–21.
——and Posada, A. (2003). ‘Characterizing the Time Course of an Implicature: An Evoked
Potentials Study’, Brain and Language 85: 203–10.
——and Sperber, D. (2007). ‘The Why and How of Experimental Pragmatics: The Case of
“Scalar Inferences”’, in N. Burton-Roberts (ed.), Advances in Pragmatics. Basingstoke:
Palgrave.
——and Reboul, Anne. (2008). ‘Experimental Pragmatics: A Gricean Turn in the Study of
Language’, Trends in Cognitive Sciences 12: 425–31.
——Bonnefond, M.; and Van der Henst, J.-B. (2011). ‘A Deﬂationary Account of Invited
Inferences’, Belgian Journal of Linguistics 25: 195–208.
330 References
Nunberg, G. (1979). ‘The Non-Uniqueness of Semantic Solutions: Polysemy’. Linguistics and
Philosophy 3: 142–84.
Oliver, Alex and Smiley, Timothy (2013). Plural Logic. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Pagin, P. and Pelletier, F. J. (2007). ‘Content, context and composition’, in G. Peter and
G. Preyer (ed.), Content and Context. Essays on Semantics and Pragmatics. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 25–62.
Papafragou, Anna and Musolino, J. (2003). ‘Scalar Implicatures: Experiments at the Semantics-
Pragmatics Interface’, Cognition 86: 253–82.
——and Tantalou, Niki (2004). ‘Children’s Computation of Implicatures’, Language Acquisi-
tion 12: 71–82.
Parsons, T. (1968, ms.). A Semantics for English.
——(1970). ‘Some Problems Concerning the Logic of Grammatical Modiﬁers’, Synthèse, 21:
320–34.
Partee, Barbara H. (1989). ‘Binding Implicit Variables in Quantiﬁed Contexts’, in C. Wiltshire,
B. Music, and R. Graczyk (eds), Papers from CLS 25, Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society,
342–65.
Pechmann, Thomas (1989). ‘Incremental Speech Production and Referential Overspeciﬁca-
tion’, Linguistics 27: 89–110.
Pelletier, F. J. (1994). ‘The Principle of Semantic Compositionality’, Topoi, 13: 11–24. Reprinted,
with additions, in S. Davis and B. Gillon (2004). Semantics: A Reader. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 133–56.
——(2011). Compositionality. New York: Oxford University Press (Oxford Bibliographies
Online [Linguistics section]. Mark Aronoﬀ (ed.) http://www.oxfordbibliographies.com/
browse?module_0=obo-9780199772810>).
——(2012). ‘Holism and Compositionality’, in M. Werning, W. Hinzen, and E. Machery (eds),
The Oxford Handbook of Compositionality. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 149–74.
Perry, John (1986). ‘Thought Without Representation’, Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society,
Supplementary Volume 60: 137–51.
——(2001). Reference and Reﬂexivity. Stanford: CSLI Publications. (Revised 2nd edn 2012).
——(2007). ‘Response’, in M. O’Rourke and C. Washington (ed.), Situating Semantics: Essays
on the Philosophy of John Perry. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press/Bradford Books, 507–75.
Perrault, C. Raymond and Allen, James F. (1980). ‘A Plan-Based Analysis of Indirect Speech
Acts’, American Journal of Computational Linguistics 6: 167–82.
Phillips, Colin and Parker, Dan (2012). ‘The Psycholinguistics of Ellipsis’, Ms. University of
Maryland.
Pickering, Martin J. and Garrod, Simon (2004). ‘Toward a Mechanistic Psychology of
Dialogue’, Behavioral and Brain Sciences 27: 169–226.
Pinker, Steven (1984). Language Learnability and Language Development, Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
Piwek, Paul (2011). ‘Dialogue Structure and Logical Expressivism’, Synthese 183: 33–58.
Poesio, Massimo and Rieser, Hannes (2010). ‘Completions, Coordination, and Alignment in
Dialogue’, Dialogue and Discourse 1: 1–89.
References 331
Politzer, G.; van der Henst, J.-B.; Delle Luche, C.; and Noveck, Ira A. (2006). ‘The Interpret-
ation of Classical Quantiﬁed Sentences’, Cognitive Science 30: 691–723.
Pollack, Martha E. (1990). ‘Plans as Complex Mental Attitudes’, in Philip Cohen, Jerry Morgan,
and Martha Pollack (eds), Intentions in Communication. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press,
77–103.
——(1991). ‘Overloading Intentions for Efﬁcient Practical Reasoning’, Noûs 25: 513–36.
Popper, K. (1959). The Logic of Scientiﬁc Discovery. London: Hutchinson.
Potts, C (2007). ‘Conventional Implicature: A Distinguished Class of Meanings’, in
G Ramchand and Ch. Reiss (eds), The Oxford Handbook of Linguistic Interfaces, Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 475–501.
Pouscoulous, N.; Noveck, Ira A.; Politzer, G.; and Bastide, A. (2007). ‘A Developmental
Investigation of Processing Costs in Implicature Production’, Language Acquisition 14:
347–75.
Prasada, Sandeep (1992). Acquisition of Adjective Meanings: A Lexical Semantic Approach. PhD
Dissertation, Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, MIT.
——and Cummins, M. (2001). ‘Structural Constraints on the Interpretation of Novel Count
Nouns’, in A. H.-J. Do, L. Dominguez, and A. Johansen (eds), Proceedings of the 25th Annual
Boston University Conference on Language Development. Somerville: Cascadilla Press,
623–32.
Preissler, Melissa Allen and Carey, Susan (2005). ‘The Role of Inferences About Referential
Intent in Word Learning: Evidence from Autism’, Cognition 97: 13–23.
Preston, Beth (1994). ‘Behaviorism and Mentalism: Is there a Third Alternative?’, Synthese 100:
167–96.
Priest, Graham (2002). ‘The Hooded Man’, Journal of Philosophical Logic 31: 445–67.
Prince, Ellen F. (1981). ‘Toward a Taxonomy of Given-New Information’, in P. Cole (ed.),
Radical Pragmatics. New York: Academic Press, 223–55.
Progovac, Ljiljiana; Paesani, Kate; Casielles, Eugenia, and Barton, Ellen (eds) (2006). The
Syntax of Nonsententials. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Prüst, Hub; Scha, Renko; and van den Berg, Martin (1994). ‘Discourse Grammar and Verb
Phrase Anaphora’, Linguistics and Philosophy 17: 261–327.
Pullum, Geoffrey K. (2001). ‘Hankamer Was!’, in S. Chung, J. McCloskey, and N. Sanders (eds),
The Jorge Hankamer Webfest. University of California, Santa Cruz. <http://babel.ucsc.edu/
Jorge/pullum.html>.
Purver, Matthew (2006). The Theory and Use of Clariﬁcation Requests in Dialogue. PhD
Dissertation, University of London.
——Howes, Christine; Gregoromichelaki, Eleni; and Healey, Patrick G. T. (2009). ‘Split
Utterances in Dialogue: a Corpus Study’, in Proceedings of SigDial London, September.
——Gregoromichelaki, Eleni; Meyer-Viol, Wilfried; and Cann, Ronnie (2010). ‘Splitting the I’s
and Crossing the You’s: Context, Speech Acts and Grammar’, in SemDial 2010 (PozDial),
Poznan, Poland, June.
——Eshghi, Arash; and Hough, Julian (2011). ‘Incremental Semantic Construction in a
Dialogue System’, in 9th International Conference on Computational Semantics (IWCS),
Oxford, January.
332 References
Putnam, Hilary (1975). ‘The Meaning of “Meaning”’, in Keith Gunderson (ed.), Language,
Mind and Knowledge. Minnesota Studies in the Philosophy of Science Vol. 7. Minneapolis:
University of Minnesota Press, 131–93.
Pylyshyn, Zenon W. (2002). ‘Mental Imagery: In Search of a Theory’, Behavioral and Brain
Sciences 25: 157–237.
Quine, W. V. O. (1987). Quiddities: An Intermittently Philosophical Dictionary. Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press.
——(1995). ‘Variables Explained Away’, in W. V. O. Quine, Selected Logic Papers. Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press, 227–35.
Raffman, D. (2013). Unruly Words: A Study of Vague Language. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Recanati, François (2002). ‘Unarticulated Constituents’, Linguistics and Philosophy 25: 299–345.
——(2004). Literal Meaning. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
——(2007a). Perspectival Thought: A Plea for (Moderate) Relativism, Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
——(2007b). ‘It is Raining (Somewhere)’, Linguistics and Philosophy 30: 123–46.
——(2010). Truth-Conditional Pragmatics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
——(2012). ‘Compositionality, Fexibility, and Context Dependence’, in M. Werning,
W. Hinzen, and E. Machery (eds), The Oxford Handbook of Compositionality. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 175–91.
Richards, Brian (1987). ‘Type-Token Ratios: What do they Really Tell us?’, Journal of Child
Language 14: 201–9.
Roberts, Craige (1996). ‘Information Structure in Discourse: Towards an Integrated Formal Theory
of Pragmatics’, in J.-H. Yoon and A. Kathol (eds), The Ohio State University Working Papers in
Linguistics, Vol. 49. Columbus: The Ohio State University Department of Linguistics, 91–136.
——(2010). Retrievability and Incomplete Descriptions. Manuscript, The Ohio State
University.
Rooth, Mats (1987). Letter to Irene Heim. (Unpublished personal communication cited in Heim
1990).
Rosenberg, Alex (2000). Philosophy of Science: A Contemporary Introduction. London and
New York: Routledge.
Ross, J. R. (1969). ‘Guess Who?’, in R. Binnick, A. Davidson, G. Green, and J. Morgan (eds),
Papers from the 5th Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistics Society. Chicago: Chicago
Linguistics Society, 252–86.
Rubio Fernández, P. (2007). ‘Suppression in Metaphor Interpretation: Differences Between
Meaning Selection and Meaning Construction’, Journal of Semantics (Special Issue on
Processing Meaning) 24: 345–71.
——(2011). ‘Colours and Colores’, 4th Biennial Conference of Experimental Pragmatics,
Barcelona.
Rummelhart, David. (1979). ‘Some problems with the notion of literal meanings’, in A. Ortony
(ed.), Metaphor and Thought. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 71–82.
Russell, Benjamin (2006). ‘Against Grammatical Computation of Scalar Implicatures’, Journal
of Semantics 23: 361–82.
References 333
Sabbagh, Mark A. and Baldwin, Dare A. (2001). ‘Learning Words from Knowledgeable Versus
Ignorant Speakers: Links Between Preschoolers’ Theory of Mind and Semantic Development’,
Child Development 72: 1054–70.
Sacks, Harvey, Emanuel A. Schegloff, and Gail Jefferson (1974). ‘A simplest systematics for the
organization of turn-taking for conversation’, Language 50: 696–735.
Sadock, Jerrold and Zwicky, Arnold (1985). ‘Speech Act Distinctions in Syntax’, in T. Shopen
(ed.), Language Typology and Syntactic Description. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 155–96.
Sag, Ivan A. (1981). ‘Formal Semantics and Extra linguistic Context’, in P. Cole (ed.), Radical
Pragmatics. New York: Academic Press, 273–94.
——and Hankamer, Jorge (1984). ‘Toward a Theory of Anaphoric Processing’, Linguistics and
Philosophy 7: 325–45.
Sainsbury, R. M. (1990). ‘Concepts without Boundaries’, Inaugural Lecture, Department of
Philosophy, King’s College, London. Reprinted in R. Keefe and P. Smith (eds) (1996).
Vagueness. A Reader, Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 251–64.
Salmon, Wesley C. (1989). Four Decades of Scientiﬁc Explanation. Minneapolis: University of
Minnesota Press.
Saul, J. (2002). Simple Sentences, Substitution and Intuitions. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Savitsky, Kenneth; Keysar, Boaz; Epley, Nicholas; Carter, Travis; and Swanson, Ashley (2011).
‘The Closeness-Communication Bias: Increased Egocentrism among Friends versus
Strangers’, Journal of Experimental Social Psychology 47: 269–73.
Schachter, P. (1977). ‘Does She or Doesn’t She?’, Linguistic Inquiry 8: 763–7.
Schaffer, Jonathan (ms.). ‘Confessions of a Schmentencite: Towards an Index-Free Semantics’.
——(2012). ‘Necessitarian propositions’. Synthese 189: 119–62.
Schank, R. C. and Abelson, R. P. (1977). Scripts, Plans, Goals and Understanding. Hinsdale:
Erlbaum.
Schegloff, Emanuel A. (2007). Sequence Organization in Interaction: A Primer in Conversation
Analysis. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Schiffer, Stephen (1972). Meaning, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Schlangen, David (2003). A Coherence-Based Approach to the Interpretation of Non-Sentential
Utterances in Dialogue. PhD Dissertation, University of Edinburgh.
Schlenker, Philippe (2008a). ‘Be Articulate! A Pragmatic Theory of Presupposition Projection’,
Theoretical Linguistics 34: 157–212.
——(2008b). ‘Presupposition Projection: Explanatory Strategies’, Theoretical Linguistics 34:
287–316.
——(2009). ‘Local Contexts’, Semantics and Pragmatics 2: 1–78.
——(2010). ‘Local Contexts and Local Meanings’, Philosophical Studies 151: 115–42.
——(2012). ‘Maximize Presupposition and Gricean Reasoning’. Natural Language Semantics
20(4): 391–429.
Schlesinger, Itzhak M. (1974). ‘Relational Concepts Underlying Language’, in
R. L. Schiefelbusch and L. L. Lloyd (eds), Language Perspectives: Acquisition, Retardation,
and Intervention. Baltimore: University Park Press, 129–51.
Schwarzschild, Roger (1999). ‘GIVENness, AvoidF, and Other Constraints on the Placement of
Accent’, Natural Language Semantics 7: 141–77.
334 References
Scollon, Ronald (1976). Conversations with a One Year Old: A Case Study of the Developmental
Foundation of Syntax. Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press.
Searle, John R. (1969). Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
——(1975). ‘Indirect Speech Acts’, in P. Cole and J. Morgan (eds), Syntax and Semantics Vol. 3.
New York: Academic Press, 59–82.
——(1980). ‘The Background of Meaning’, in J. Searle, F. Kiefer, and M. Bierwisch (eds),
Speech Act Theory and Pragmatics. New York: Free Press, 221–32.
Sedivy, Julie; Chambers, Craig; Tanenhaus, Michael K.; and Carlson, Gregory N. (1999).
Achieving Incremental Semantic Interpretation through Contextual Representation’,
Cognition 71: 109–47.
——(2003). ‘Pragmatic Versus Form-Based Accounts of Referential Contrast: Evidence for
Effects of Informativity Expectations’, Journal of Psycholinguistic Research 32: 3–23.
Shapiro, Lewis; Hestvik, Arild; Lesan, Lesli, and Garcia, A. Rachel (2003). ‘Charting the time
course of VP-ellipsis sentence comprehension: Evidence for an initial and independent
structural analysis’, Journal of Memory and Language 49: 1–19.
Shintel, Hadas and Keysar, Boaz (2009). ‘Less is More: A Minimalist Account of Joint Action in
Communication’, Topics in Cognitive Science 1: 260–73.
Simons, Mandy (2001). ‘On the conversational basis of some presuppositions’, in R. Hasting,
B. Jackson, and Z. Zvolensky (eds), Proceedings of Semantics and Linguistic Theory 11. Ithaca,
NY: CLC Publications, 431–48.
——(2003). ‘Presupposition and Accommodation: Understanding the Stalnakerian Picture’,
Philosophical Studies 112: 251–78.
——(2006). ‘Foundational Issues in Presuppositions’, Philosophy Compass 1(4), 357–72.
——(ms.). ‘Presupposition without Common Ground’. <http://www.hss.cmu.edu/ philosophy/
faculty-simons.php>.
Slobin, Dan I. (1979). ‘The Role of Language in Language Acquisition’, Invited Address, 50th
Annual Meeting of the Eastern Psychological Association, Philadelphia.
Snider, Neal and Runner, Jeffrey (2010). ‘Structural parallelism aids ellipsis and anaphor
resolution: Evidence from eye movements to semantic and phonological neighbors’, Paper
presented at 16th Annual Conference on Architectures and Mechanisms for Language
Processing, York, United Kingdom.
Snow, Catherine (1977). ‘The Development of Conversation between Mothers and Babies’,
Journal of Child Language 4: 1–22.
Soames, Scott (1982). ‘How Presuppositions are Inherited: A Solution to the Projection
Problem’, Linguistic Inquiry 13: 483–545.
——(1989). ‘Presupposition’, in D. Gabbay and F. Guenthner (eds), Handbook of Philosophical
Logic Vol. 4. Dordrecht: Reidel, 553–616.
Sobel, David M; Sedivy, Julie; Buchanan, David W.; and Hennessy, Rachel (2012). ‘Speaker
Reliability in Preschoolers’ Inferences About the Meanings of Novel Words’, Journal of
Child Language 39: 90–104.
Soja, Nancy N. (1992). ‘Inferences About the Meanings of Nouns: The Relationship between
Perception and Syntax’, Cognitive Development 7: 29–45.
References 335
Sperber, Dan and Wilson, Deirdre (1981). ‘On Grice’s Theory of Conversation’, in Paul Werth
(ed.), Conversation and Discourse. London: Croom Helm, 155–78.
Sperber, Dan and Wilson, Deirdre (1986). Relevance: Communication and Cognition. Oxford:
Blackwell.
—— —— (1995). Relevance: Communication and Cognition. (2nd edn, revised). Oxford:
Blackwell.
—— ——(2002). ‘Truthfulness and Relevance’, Mind 111: 583–632.
—— ——(2004). ‘Relevance Theory’, in L. Horn and G. Ward (eds), The Handbook of
Pragmatics. Oxford: Blackwell, 607–32.
—— ——(2005). ‘Pragmatics’, in F. Jackson and M. Smith (eds), The Oxford Handbook of
Contemporary Philosophy. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 468–501.
—— ——(2008). ‘A Deﬂationary Account of Metaphor’, in R. Gibbs (ed.) Handbook of
Metaphor and Thought. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 84–105.
Stainton, Robert J. (1994). ‘Using Non-Sentences: An Application of Relevance Theory’,
Pragmatics and Cognition 2: 269–84.
——(1995). ‘Non-Sentential Assertions and Semantic Ellipsis’, Linguistics and Philosophy 18:
281–96.
——(2000). ‘The Meaning of “Sentences”’, Noûs 34: 441–54.
——(2005). ‘In Defense of Non-Sentential Assertion’, in Z. G. Szabó (ed.), Semantics Versus
Pragmatics. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 383–457.
——(2006a). ‘Neither Fragments nor Ellipsis’, in L. Progovac, K. Paesani, E. Casielles, and
E. Barton (eds), The Syntax of Nonsententials. Amsterdam: Benjamins, 93–116.
——(2006b). Words and Thoughts: Subsentences, Ellipsis, and the Philosophy of Language.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Stalnaker, Robert (1970). ‘Pragmatics’, in Robert Stalnaker, Context and Content. Oxford and
New York: Oxford University Press, 1999, 31–46.
——(1973). ‘Presuppositions’, Journal of Philosophical Logic 2: 447–57.
——(1974). ‘Pragmatic Presuppositions’, in M.K. Munitz and P.K. Unger (eds), Semantics and
Philosophy. New York: New York Universioty Press. Also in Robert Stalnaker (1999).
Context and Content. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 47–62.
——(1978). ‘Assertion’, in P. Cole (ed.), Syntax and Semantics 9. New York: Academic Press,
315–32. Also in Robert Stalnaker (1998). Context and Content, Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 78–95.
——(1997). ‘Reference and Necessity’, in Robert Stalnaker (1997). Ways a World Might Be—
Metaphysical and Anti-Metaphysical Essays, Oxford: Blackwell, 165–87.
——(1998). ‘On the Representation of Context’, Journal of Logic, Language and Information
7: 3–19. Also in Robert Stalnaker (1999). Context and Content. Oxford and New York: Oxford
University Press, 96–114.
Stalnaker, R. (1999). Context and Content: Essays on Intensionality Speech and Thought.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Stalnaker, Robert (2002). ‘Common Ground’, Linguistics and Philosophy 25: 701–21.
——(2008). ‘A Response to Abbott on Presupposition and Common Ground’, Linguistics and
Philosophy 21: 539–44.
——(2010). ‘Responses to Stanley and Schlenker’, Philosophical Studies 151: 143–57.
336 References
Stanley, Jason (2000). ‘Context and Logical Form’, Linguistics and Philosophy 23: 391–434.
——(2002). ‘Making It Articulated’, Mind and Language 17: 149–68.
——(2005). ‘Semantics in Context’, in G. Preyer and G. Peter (eds), Contextualism in
Philosophy: Knowledge, Meaning, and Truth. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 221–54.
——(2007). Language in Context: Selected Essays. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Steedman, Mark J. and Altmann, Gerry T. M. (1989). ‘Ambiguity in Context: A Reply’,
Language and Cognitive Processes 4: 105–22.
Stenlund, S. (2002). ‘The Craving for Generality’, Revista Portuguesa de Filosoﬁa 58: 569–80.
Stojanovic, Isidora (2006). ‘What is Said, Linguistic Meaning, and Directly Referential Expres-
sions’, Philosophy Compass 1: 373–97.
——(2009). ‘Semantic Content’. Manuscrito 32: 123–52.
Stokke, Andreas (2012). ‘Truth and context change’, Journal of Philosophical Logic. <http://link.
springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs10992-012-9250-6>.
Stone, Matthew (2000). ‘Towards a Computational Account of Knowledge, Action and
Inference in Instructions’, Journal of Language and Computation 1: 231–46.
——(2004). ‘Communicative Intentions and Conversational Processes in Human-Human and
Human-Computer Dialogue’, in John C. Trueswell and Michael K. Tanenhaus (eds),
Approaches to Studying World-Situated Language Use. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 39–70.
——Doran, Christine; Webber, Bonnie; Bleam, Tonia; and Palmer, Martha (2003). ‘Micro-
planning with Communicative Intentions: The SPUD System’, Computational Intelligence
19: 311–81.
Strawson, Peter F. (1950). ‘On Referring’, Mind 59: 320–44.
——(1971). ‘Identifying Reference and Truth-Values’, in Logico-Linguistic Papers, London:
Methuen, 75–95.
Stucky, S. (1989). ‘The Situated Processing of Situated Language’, Linguistics and Philosophy 12:
347–57.
Sturt, Patrick and Matthew W. Crocker (1996). ‘Monotonic syntactic processing: a cross-
linguistic study of attachment and reanalysis’, Language and Cognitive Processes, 11: 448–94.
——and Vincenzo Lombardo (2005). ‘Processing Coordinate Structures: Incrementality and
Connectedness’, Cognitive Science, 29: 291–305.
Syrett, Kristen; Kennedy, Christopher; and Lidz, Jeffrey (2010). ‘Meaning and Context in
Children’s Understanding of Gradable Adjectives’, Journal of Semantics 27: 1–35.
Tanenhaus, Michael K. and Carlson, Gregory N. (1990). ‘Comprehension of Deep and Surface
Verb Phrase Anaphors’, Language and Cognitive Processes 5: 257–80.
Thomason, Richmond H. (ed.) (1974). Formal Philosophy: Selected Papers of Richard Monta-
gue. New Haven: Yale University Press.
——(1990). ‘Accommodation, Meaning and Implicature: Interdisciplinary Foundations for
Pragmatics’, in Philip R. Cohen, Jerry Morgan, and Martha E. Pollack (eds), Intentions in
Communication. Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 325–63.
——Stone, Matthew; and DeVault, David (2006). ‘Enlightened Update: A Computational
Architecture for Presupposition and Other Pragmatic Phenomena’. Target Manuscript for
Workshop on Presupposition Accommodation, The Ohio State University.
References 337
Tice, Marisa C. and Henetz, Tania (2011). ‘Eye Gaze of 3rd Party Observers Reﬂects Turn-End
Boundary Projection’, Poster presented at the Workshop on the Semantics and Pragmatics of
Dialogue, Los Angeles, CA.
Tomasello, Michael (1995). ‘Joint Attention as Social Cognition’, in C. Moore and P. J. Dunham
(eds), Joint Attention: Its Origins and Role in Development. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum, 103–30.
——and Barton, Michelle E. (1994). ‘Learning Words in Non-ostensive Contexts’, Develop-
mental Psychology 30: 639–50.
——(1999). The Cultural Origins of Human Cognition. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press.
——(2008). Origins of Human Communication. Cambridge MA: MIT Press.
Travis, Charles (1996). ‘Meaning’s Role in Truth’, Mind, 100: 451–6.
——(1997). ‘Pragmatics’, in B. Hale and C. Wright (eds), A Companion to the Philosophy of
Language. Oxford: Blackwell, 87–107.
Valian, Virginia (1991). ‘Syntactic Subjects in the Early Speech of American and Italian
Children’, Cognition 40: 21–81.
——Prasada, Sandeep; and Scarpa, Jodi (2006). ‘Direct Object Predictability: Effects on Young
Children’s Imitation of Sentences’, Journal of Child Language 33: 247–69.
Van der Auwera, J. (1997). ‘Pragmatics in the Last Quarter Century: The Case of Conditional
Perfection’, Journal of Pragmatics 27: 261–74.
van Gompel, Roger P. G., and Martin J. Pickering (2007). ‘Syntactic Parsing’ in M. G. Gaskell
(ed.), The Oxford Handbook of Psycholinguistics. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 289–307.
Veneziano, Edy (1997). ‘Echanges conversationnels et acquisition première du langage’, in
J. Bernicot, A. Trognon, and J. Caron-Parge (eds), Conversation, interaction et fonctionne-
ment cognitive. Nancy: Presses Universitaires de Nancy, 91–123.
——Sinclair, Hermine; and Berthoud, Ioanna (1990). ‘From One Word to Two Words:
Repetition Patterns on the Way to Structured Speech’, Journal of Child Language 17: 633–50.
Vicente, Augustín (2010). ‘Context Dependency in Thought’, in François Recanati, Isidora
Stojanovic, and Neftali Villanueva (eds), Context-Dependence, Perspective and Relativity.
Berlin: Walter de Gruyter Mouton, 69–89.
——and Fernando Martínez-Manrique (2005). ‘Semantic Underdetermination and the Cog-
nitive Use of Language’, Mind and Language 20: 537–58.
—— ——(2008). ‘Thought, Language and the Argument from Explicitness’, Metaphilosophy
39: 381–401.
Viethen, Jette; Goudbeek, Martijn; and Krahmer, Emiel (2012). ‘The Impact of Colour Differ-
ence and Colour Codability on Reference Production’, Proceedings of the 34th annual
meeting of the Cognitive Science Society (CogSci 2012), Sapporo, Japan: 1084–9.
Voloshinov, Valentin (1983). ‘Discourse in Life and Discourse in Poetry: Questions of Socio-
logical Poetics’, in A. Shukman (ed.), Bakhtin School Papers. Oxford: RPT Publications.
von Fintel, Kai (2004). ‘Would You Believe It? The King of France is Back! (Presuppositions
and Truth-Value Intuitions)’, in M. Reimer and A. Bezuidenhout (eds), Descriptions and
Beyond. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 269–96.
——(2008). ‘What Is Presupposition Accommodation, Again?’, Philosophical Perspectives 22:
137–70.
338 References
Walker, Marilyn A. (1996). ‘Inferring Acceptance and Rejection in Dialog by Default Rules of
Inference’, Language and Speech 39: 265–304.
Wardlow Lane, Liane; Groisman, M.; and Ferreira, V. S. (2006). ‘Don’t Talk about Pink
Elephants! Speakers’ Control over Leaking Private Information during Language Production’,
Psychological Science 17: 273–7.
——and Ferreira, Victor S. (2008). ‘Speaker-External Versus Speaker-Internal Forces on
Utterance Form: Do Cognitive Demands Override Threats to Referential Success?’, Journal
of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition 34: 1466–81.
——and Liersch, Michael J. (2012). ‘Can You Keep a Secret? Increasing Speakers’ Motivation
to Keep Information Conﬁdential Yields Poorer Outcomes’, Language and Cognitive Pro-
cesses 27: 462–73.
Werning, M.; Hinzen, W.; and Machery, E. (eds) (2012). The Oxford Handbook of Composi-
tionality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Westerståhl, D. (2012). ‘Compositionality in Kaplan-style Semantics’, in M. Werning,
W. Hinzen, and E. Machery (eds), The Oxford Handbook of Compositionality. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 192–219.
Wilson, Deirdre (1998). ‘Linguistic Structure and Inferential Communication’, Proceedings of
the 16th International Congress of Linguists. Oxford: Elsevier.
——and Sperber, Dan (2002). ‘Truthfulness and Relevance’, Mind 111: 583–632.
Wimmer, Heinz and Perner, Joseph (1983). ‘Beliefs about Beliefs: Representation and Constraining
Function of Wrong Beliefs in Young Children’s Understanding of Deception’, Cognition
13: 103–28.
Winner, E.; Rosenstiel, A. K.; and Gardner, H. (1976). ‘The Development of Metaphoric
Understanding’, Developmental Psychology 12: 289–97.
Wittgenstein, Ludwig (1969). The Blue and Brown Books. Oxford: Blackwell.
——(1975). Philosophical Remarks. Oxford: Blackwell.
——(1982). Remarks on the Philosophy of Psychology Vol.1. Oxford: Blackwell.
——(2009). Philosophical Investigations. (4th edn). Oxford: Blackwell.
Yablo, Stephen (2006). ‘Non-Catastrophic Presupposition Failure’, in J. Thomson and
A. Byrne (eds), Content and Modality: Themes from the Philosophy of Robert Stalnaker.
Oxford: Clarendon Press, 164–90.
Yakubinsky, Lev Petrovich (1997). ‘On Dialogic Speech’, Proceedings of the Modern Language
Association 112: 243–56.
Yanofsky, N. (1978). ‘NP Utterances’, in D. Farkas, W. Jacobsen, and K. Todrys (eds), Papers
from the 14th Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistics Society. Chicago: Chicago Linguistics
Society, 491–502.
Yoon, Si On; Koh, Sungryong; and Brown-Schmidt, Sarah (2012). ‘Inﬂuence of Perspective
and Goals on Reference Production in Conversation’, Psychonomic Bulletin and Review 19:
699–707.
References 339
This page intentionally left blank
Index
abilities, speaker’s, 234, 242, 252, 254, 304, 308
acceptance (of a speech act), 219, 224–6
accepted purposes, 3, 235, 301–2, 305–7, 312
accessibility, see salience
accessibility criteria, 89
accommodation, 154–7, 178, 214–15, 222–4,
226–7, 267
action, 1–2, 8–9, 12, 41, 54, 64–5, 67, 69, 72–3,
83–4, 86, 98, 111–12, 143–59, 164, 233,
238, 240, 242, 267–9
efﬁcient, 143, 147–8, 150, 157
embodied communicative, 150 n.2
joint, 69, 72, 98, 147–8, 152, 155–7
overloaded, 156–7
ad hoc concepts, 209, 291
adjacency pairs, 62 n.2
adjectives, 185, 187–8, 242–3, 252–5, 259–61,
263, 289–90
contrastive function of, 253, 259–60
gradable, 82, 253
Adler, Rachel, 17, 264–79
adult-child interaction, 33, 233–48, see also
scaffolding
adverbial, 92, 97 n.10, 132, 142
Afﬁrmation of the Consequent (AC), 293
AI, see Artiﬁcial Intelligence
ambiguity, 55, 64 n.5, 94, 105, 134, 142, 170, 235,
257, 264, 268, 273
anaphora, 2, 8, 14, 47–8, 60, 67–8, 76–7, 79,
109, 111–14, 116, 118, 121, 123, 128, 132–4,
181, 199 n.2
anomalous behaviour, 261–3
answer, indirect, 21–2, 25–6, 28
antecedent, 2, 7, 11, 14–15, 26, 46–9, 55–7, 60,
62, 68, 71, 104–5, 107, 109, 111–12,
114–15, 117, 134, 176, 205, 293
anti-connectivity effects, 41
Appelt, Douglas, 145
Arguments from the Inﬁnity of Language, 13,
180–1, 192, 195–7
Arnold, Jennifer E., 269
artiﬁcial intelligence (AI), 3, 143, 148–50,
150 n.2, 153
blocks-world challenge, 148–50
asserted content, 218
assertion, 10, 53, 90, 92–4, 96, 102, 105, 134, 214,
217, 219, 223–5, 227, 241, 269, 278, 284
incremental assertion, 209
Atlas, Jay, 216 n.1
atomistic theory of meaning, 190, 193–7
attention, 2, 13, 21, 111, 148, 155, 241, 255,
268, 289
attitude, 148, 167, 217, 219, 222, 224–6, 229
Austin, John Langshaw
Austinian proposition, 138–9, 141–2
Autism, 255, 259, 287
Autism Quotient (AQ), 287
autonomy of syntax, 54 61
Axiom of Abstraction, 175
Bach, Kent, 91–2, 99 n.15, 100 n.16, 109, 165–7,
169, 183, 192
Bakhtin, Mikhael, 2
Baron-Cohen, Simon, 255, 272, 287
Barton, Ellen, 59
Bartsch, Renate, 185
Beaver, David, 199, 206, 213, 216–17, 220, 226
belief, 5, 11, 15, 76, 102, 154, 167–9, 177, 182,
219, 272
false, 170, 276, 278
belief reports, 26, 167 n.10
belief puzzle, 167–8
Bergen, Leon, 262
Berman, Jared, 260–1
Bezuidenhout, Anne, 7, 36–52, 221
BGA (broadly Gricean account), 17, 299–312
binding, 39, 59–60, 134
Blaise Pascal, 1
blocks-world challenge, see artiﬁcial
intelligence
Bloom, Lois, 238
Bock, Kathryn J., 49
Böer, Stephen, 218, 221
Bogen, James, 205, 207
Bourmayan, Anouch, 11–12, 124–42, 289 n.4
Brandom, Robert B., 55, 73
Brennan, Susan E., 254, 265, 267, 294
brevity, 1–3, 6, 9, 12–17, 19, 46, 53–5, 73, 80, 108,
111, 117–18, 122, 143–5, 152, 155, 157, 161,
163, 165, 167, 170, 178–9, 181, 183, 185,
187, 189, 191, 193, 195–9, 210, 212,
214–15, 227, 231, 233–7, 239, 241–3,
245–9, 252–3, 265, 282, 299,
301–2 305
Brown, Roger, 245
Brown-Schmidt, Sarah, 240, 254, 269
Cai, Zhiqiang, 49
Cann, Ronnie, 8, 54, 56, 58, 60, 62, 64, 66–8,
70, 72
Carey, Susan, 259
Carston, Robyn, 92, 94, 213, 287, 293
Case features, 27, 38, 40–1, 57, 78
Casielles, Eugenia, 39, 41–2
Cassell, Justine, 150 n.2
categoricals, 176
cautious optimism, see speaker reliability
Chalmers, David, 82
Chierchia, Gennaro, 217, 280
child language development, see language
acquisition, children’s
choice, rational, 87
Ciofﬁ, Frank, 168
circumstance shifting operator, 142
CIV (covert indeﬁnite view), 122–3, 127
Clapp, Lenny, 105
clariﬁcation, 55–8
Clark, Andy, 82
Clark, Eve V., 16, 233–48, 252, 257
Clark, Herbert H., 69, 71, 148, 155, 254, 265–7,
273, 275, 278, 294
Clark, Romane, 187
clefting, 1, 42, 215–16
Clifton, Charles Jr., 6, 21–35, 119, 289
Code Model of Communication (CMC),
43–4, 51
cognition, 81, 83, 85–7
cognitive
effects, 280, 303, 308 n.13
positive, 303, see also optimal relevance
effort, see processing costs
pressures, 265, 268, 272, 279
processes, 17, 105, 303
science, 2, 146, 281
signiﬁcance, 13
Cohen, Jonathan, 152
Coherence constraint, 144, 152–7, 159
collaboration, 59–60, 152–4, 156
collaborative completions, 59–60
colour-relationism, 172 n.14
Commandments (Biblical), 176
common ground, 14–15, 60, 178, 199, 201, 203,
209, 218–19, 222, 224–5, 227, 236,
239–42, 247, 266–7, 278
communicative efﬁciency, 12, 16, 44, 69,
143–4, 234, 304, 307
communicative goals, 143, 145, 148, 150–1,
155, 254–5, 264–5, 267, 269–73, 275,
277, 279
communicative intentions, 16, 64, 98, 102,
143–4, 146–8, 150–2, 157, 159, 178, 218,
229, 239–40, 252
in infancy, see contingent responsivity
joint, 178
primary, 229
recognizing, 45, 53–5, 60, 72, 98, 145, 150–5,
157–9, 186, 209, 241, 272, 300
self-reﬂexive, 98 n.13
communicative pressures, 264–5, 269
communicative principles, general, 251, 259
Communicative Principle of Relevance, 304
competence, linguistic, 36, 53, 55, 109, 221
342 Index
competition between speakers, 270–3, 275–8
complementizer, 6, 22–7, 30, 39, 40
complete thought, 6, 8, 51, 54, 93 n.7
compositionality, 13–14, 150, 178–93, 195–7,
212, see also reﬂexive content
computational linguistics, 12, 143–59, 164
computational resources, see processing cost
computational theory of mind, 86
conceptual thoughts, 72, 74–6, 81, 83,
85, 90
conceptual pacts, 294–5
conditionals, 216, 292–3
conditional relevance, syntactic, 62 n.2
Conjunction, 95, 198–213, 221, 284
connective, logical, 15, 198–9, 202–8,
212–13, 222
connectivity effects, 30–1, 38–40, 43
context, 8, 11, 14, 16, 21, 55–8, 64–5, 67–9, 72–3,
77, 83–5, 87–90, 94–104, 106–21, 123,
126–8, 130–1, 138–40, 150–2, 178–93,
195–7, 199–203, 224–7, 234, 236–8,
247–50, 252–4, 282–3, 289–90, 299
discourse-initial, 11, 92, 105, 107–21
linguistic, 108, 181–2, 237
neutral, 184, 192
non-linguistic, 182
non-discourse-initial, 108, 110–11, 115,
117–18
opaque, 166–7
visual, 145
Context Change Architecture, 200, 211–13
context change potential (CCP), 199–208, 211
Context Change Theory, 199–200, 202–8,
210–13
context-relativity, 80, 87, 90
context set, 199, 201, 205, 210, 214
contextual contrast, 268–9, 275
contextual information, 36, 99, 115, 211, 266,
291, 295
contextualism, 2, 141, 191, 195
radical, 2
contingent responsivity, 241
contrastive Focus, 29
contrastive inferences, 253–4, 260–1, 263, 265,
282, 289–90
conversation
histories, 5, 254, 257
conversational
principles, 16, 250, 252
situation, 7, 11, 13, 165–6, 184
Conversational Analysis (CA), 62 n.2
convey, 1, 12, 17, 36, 44, 51, 53, 56, 70, 98,
102, 141, 147, 152, 158, 164, 179–80, 186,
215, 225, 228–9, 233, 243, 248–50,
264–5, 267, 277–80, 289, 304–5, 310–11
Cooper, Robin, 31, 55–6, 64, 136
co-operation, 53–4, 233, 265, 270–3, 275–8,
302, 306
Co-operative Principle, 3, 153, 212, 233, 235,
241, 247, 250, 281, 301, 305, see also
maxims, conversational
coordination, 53–5, 57–9, 61, 63–5, 67, 71–3,
143, 147, 152, 155–6
copying, syntactic, 45–6, 50–1
Corazza, Eros, 81, 92–3, 97–8, 100 n.16, 106
counterfactual, 203 n.6, 272, 278
Counterpart Theory, 131
Csibra, Gergely, 240, 267
Culicover, Peter, 27
Dalrymple, Mary, 56, 58
Davidson, Donald, 163
De Marchena, Ashely, 259
De Ruiter, Jan Peter, 69
declarative mood, 228
decoding, 44–5, 51–2, 75, 103
Deductive-Nominological (model of
scientiﬁc explaination), 203
deﬁnite, 11–12, 97, 100, 268, 289–90
description, see descriptions, deﬁnite
implicit object, see implicit objects, deﬁnite
null instantiation (DNI), 140–1
deixis, 112, 127, 132, 134, 147
deliberation, 143, 147–8, 152
demonstratives, 74–6, 88–9, 96–8, 215, 226,
242, 282
descriptions
deﬁnite, 97, 182, 214–16, 221, 226, 268
indeﬁnite, 215, 268
Di Eugenio, Barbara, 145–6
Index 343
dialogue coordination, see Coordination
in Dialogue
dialogue ellipsis
dialogue phenomena, 55–8, 68–9, 164, 290
Diesendruck, Gil, 257
direct answers, 6, 21–2, 24–6
disambiguation, 11, 55–7, 64, 76, 78, 94, 100,
103, 105, 142, 157, 170
discourse, 1–2, 7, 79, 87–9, 92, 108–9, 115,
117–18, 131, 138, 146, 157, 179, 181–2, 184,
190, 214, 228, 284
-initial contexts, 11, 92, 105, 107–19, 121
-initial ellipsis, see discourse-initial
contexts
discourse topic, 113, 115, 121, see also
information structure
disﬂuency, 275
DO (double object constructions), 49–50
DO ellipsis, 50
Doerge, Friedrich Christoph, 17, 299–312
domain of discourse, 79, 87–9
donkey anaphora, 133–4
Dorr, Cian, 170
double meaning tendency, 309
DRT (discourse representation theory), 66–7
DS, see Dynamic Syntax; or Dynamic
Semantics
double-meaning tendency, 308–9
Dynamic Semantics (DS), 198–9, 204, 209–14,
220, 222
Dynamic Syntax (DS), 8–9, 64, 67–9, 71–2
Echols, Catherine, 240, 256
economy, 16, 77, 143–59
communicative, 143–59
textual, 143
EEG (Electroencephalogram)
N400 ERP, 287–8
effort, 1, 4, 8, 13, 54, 238, 243, 266, 275,
280, 283, 288, 291, 293–5, 303–4,
306–7, 311
cognitive, see processing costs
joint, 4
e-givenness, 117–20
egocentric perspective taking, 266, 268, 277
Elbourne, Paul, 2, 133–4
eliminativism, 216, 228
eliminativist account of presupposition, 228
ellipsis, 4, 6–11, 21–2, 27, 29, 38, 43, 46–8, 50,
54–6, 68–9, 71, 73, 78–9, 93, 107–21,
178–9
ellipsis resolution, 46, 48–9
elliptical speech, 36–7, 43–5, 51–2
Elugardo, Reinaldo, 7, 10–11, 43, 56, 64 n.6, 72,
81, 91–106
embodied communicative actions, 150 n.2
emergent properties, 68, 71
encoding, 8, 42, 44, 51, 54, 57, 64, 68, 75, 147,
180, 184, 199, 242, 265, 279–80, 283,
285–91, 293–5
enrichment, 8, 10–12, 58, 65–7, 81 n.6, 93 n.8,
91–106, 122–41, 166, 287, 287 294
obligatory, 67
see also variable, free; pragmatic
enrichment
entailment, 48, 117, 135, 139, 183, 199–203,
205–6, 209–10, 280, 283, 287, 287 n.3,
294–5, 303, 305, 308
Estigarribia, Bruno, 238, 240
exhibiting, 148
expectations, communicative 9, 16, 53, 63, 181,
241, 252–4, 256, 260, 262, 270, 288, 293,
300–7, 312
mutual, 254, see also accepted purposes;
Co-operative Principle; optimal
relevance, presumption of
experimental studies, 6–7, 15–17, 21–33, 37–8,
46–50, 68–9, 148, 231, 240–2, 253–63,
265–9, 271, 273–8, 281–95
explicit/implicit distinction, 10–11, 287 n.3
explicit thought, 9, 11, 74–90
explicitism, 10, 74–90
expressivism, 73
Extended Mind Hypothesis, 82
extension, 2, 13, 60, 69, 87, 131–4, 136, 138,
142 n.16, 188; extensional context, 13
externalism, 82
eye-tracking, 47–8, 172, 253
344 Index
The Fallacy of the Simple question, 167
felicity, 26, 92, 115, 129, 199, 265, 291
Ferrara, Kathleen, 62
Ferreira, Victor, S., 268–9, 278
ﬁlibusterism, 306–7
Focus, 22–3, 27–9, 38, 42
contrastive, 29
Fodor, Janet, 30
Fodor, Jerry, 71, 109 n.2, 167
see also modularity
fragments, 4, 9–10, 21–35, 38, 40, 42, 44, 56–9, 61,
68–9, 71–2, 93–4, 103–4, 110–11, 200
answers, 6–7, 21–35, 38–42
free, 92–3, 100, 105
linked, 104–6
fragment interruptions, 5, 8, 58, 69, 73,
see also movement + ellipsis
Frank, Michael C., 236
Frazier, Lynn, 6, 21–35, 119, 139–40
free variables, see variable, free
Freud, Sigmund, 168
Frege, Gottlob, 13
fronting, 22, 24, 27–8
Functional Independence, 287 n.3
Galati, Alexia, 267
Galileo
see Galilean experiment, 159
gapping, 55
García-Carpintero, Manuel, 15, 130 n.3,
135 n.6, 213 n.16, 214–29
Gardent, 142
Gauker, Christopher, 10–11, 74–90, 92 n.5,
93 n.8, 96, 98, 101, 111, 225 n.18
Gelman, Susan. 259–60
gender features, 57, 242
generalized conversational implicature, 221
generalized quantiﬁers, 199 n.2
Gergely, György, 241
Gerrig, Richard, J, 278
Geurts, Bart, 206, 217, 220
Ginzburg, Jonathan, 31, 55–8, 64, 113
GIV (genuine-intransitive view), 122–3, 127, 140
givenness, 117, 121
Glanzberg, Michael, 11, 107–21, 198, 208
Gleitman, Leila, 112 n.6
goal directedness, 64, 69, 72
goal, 12, 64–6, 69, 81–2, 89, 145–6, 149–51, 153,
155–6, 212, 235, 254–5, 265, 273, 309,
speaker’s, 251, 262, 269
multiple goals, 145, 149, 157, 159
goal tree
Goldstein, Laurence, 1–17, 54, 163–77
Goodman, Noah D., 236
Goodwin, Charles, 71
Grand Academy of Lagado, 179, 197
Gregoromichelaki, Eleni, 9, 11, 53–73
Grice, Paul, 3, 7–8, 15–17, 53, 61, 72–3, 98,
102, 128, 144, 146, 153, 198–9, 208–13,
216, 218, 220–2, 225, 228–9, 233, 235–6,
241–2, 249–52, 254–7,
263–5, 270, 280–1, 300–2, 307,
311–12
Gricean
eliminativist stance, 222, 225
maxims, see maxims, conversational,
see also BGA (broadly Gricean account),
Modiﬁed Ockam’s Razor,
Co-operative Principle
Grifﬁn, Zenzi, 269
Grodner, Daniel J., 17, 253, 262–79, 285,
287, 294
groundedness, 14, 186, 192–6
Guasti, Maria Theresa, 288
Gulliver’s Travels, 179, 197
Hall, Alison, 106, 108
Hankamer, Jorge, 107
Harnish, Robert M., 91–2, 109 n.2
Heim, Irene, 111, 134, 188, 198–9, 201, 203–6,
209, 220, 226
Heller, Daphna, 254, 267
Henetz, Tania, 69
Hooded Man paradox, 167, 170
holistic theory of meaning, 195–6
Horton, William S., 268–9, 278
HPSG (head-driven phrase structure
grammar), 55
Humpty Dumpty, 165, 170
hypotheticals, 176
Index 345
identity puzzle, 13
identity, syntactic, 117
illocutionary force, see speech act,
illocutionary
imagistic thought, 76, 83–6
imperative, 176, 220
implicated content, 218
implicature, 124, 223, 228, 247–8, 281
conventional, 217–18, 220
conversational, 130 n.3, 141, 221, 228, 255
particularized conversational, 130 n.3, 141
implicit objects, 122–3, 140
deﬁnite, 122
indeﬁnite, 122–3, 125, 127, 129, 131, 133, 135,
137, 139, 141
impliciture, 166
imposed narrowing, 294
incremental assertion, 209
Incremental Transparency, 210–11
indeﬁnite
null instantiation (INI), 140
indeterminacy, 62, 173
indexicals, 68, 74, 93, 96, 97, 126, 141, 190–1,
215, 226
hidden, see variables, covert
inexplicit thoughts, 10, 74–90
infelicity, 135, 290, 217
inference, 6, 8–9, 12, 16–17, 21–2, 24, 37,
51–5, 61, 73, 78, 87, 93, 124, 139,
146, 153, 166, 168, 196, 215–16, 236,
240–3, 247, 249–51, 253–5, 257, 259–63,
265, 280, 282, 285–6,
288–91, 293–4, 310
contrastive, see contrastive inferences
default (inferential heuristics), 280
Inﬁnity of Language, 181, 192, 195–7
infon, 138
information encapsulation, 9, 54, 71
information gains, 284–5, see also new
information
information structure, 42–3, see also
discourse topic
informative presuppositions, 14–15, 215,
223–7, 229
insinuation, 1, 15, 214–15, 217, 219, 221, 223, 225,
227, 229, 309
intentions, 10, 12, 16, 53–5, 60, 72–3, 95, 98, 102,
145–8, 150, 152–5, 186, 229, 240–1, 243,
248, 255, 262, 264, 267, 300
collaborative, 60, 152–3, 178
communicative, see communicative
intentions
joint, 60, 63–4
recognition of, 45, 53–5, 60, 72, 98, 145,
150–5, 157–9, 186, 209, 241, 272, 300
referential, 102 , 255, 259
interfaces
semantics/pragmatics, 111, 124
syntax-semanctics-discourse, 55–9
interpretation
contrastive, 253–4, 261
joint, 72
literal, 130, 133, 283, 292, 300
interpretive hypothesis, 300–2, 305, 307–8, 312
intransitive, 11, 47–8, 122–42
ironic, 300, 307
Ironsmith, M., 290
IP (inﬂectional phrase), 38, 40, 148
island sensitivity, 22–3
it-cleft, 42–3
iterative too, 111 n.5
Jackendoff, Ray, 27
Kamp, Hans, 187
Kant, Emmanuel, 176, 302
Karttunen, Lauri, 21, 199, 201, 203, 220, 228
Katz, Bernard, 109 n.2
Kempson, Ruth, 8, 21, 27, 31, 54, 56, 58, 60, 62,
64, 66–8, 70–2
Keysar, Boaz, 268–9
knowledge, privileged, see privileged ground
knowledge state, 262, 272, 278–9
Koenig, Melissa A., 240, 255–6
Koller, Alexander, 150 n.2
Korta, Kepa, 3, 91–101, 103
Kratzer, Angelika, 130–1, 188
Kripke, Saul,14, 111, 145, 151, 167–9
346 Index
Krych, Meredyth A, 148, 241, 267, 273
Kurumada, Chigusa, 15–16, 233–48
Language
acquisition,
children’s, 11–12, 15–16, 32, 42, 81 n.6, 101
n.17, 112, 171, 180, 229, 233–63, 268,
287–8, 290, 292, see also, adult-child
interaction; word learning; one-word
stage; scaffolding
second-, 234
faculty, 101 n.17, 102
game, 2, 85, 265
natural, see NL (natural language)
pro-drop, 234
performance, 55
processing, 37–8, 121, 281, 295
languageS (language structure), 71
languageU (language use), 2, 9, 71–2, 148,
154, 170, 184, 242, 256
Languages
English, 22–2, 30–1, 38, 46, 78, 95, 101 n.17,
273, 288
French, 138, 288
German, 6, 22–3, 27, 29–31, 41, 57, 60, 288
Greek, 40, 57, 288
Mandarin, 49
Lascarides, Alex, 147, 158
law, 163, 174, 176, 270, 296
natural, 176
universal, 176
learnability, argument from, 180, 196
left-periphery, 22, 38, 40–2, 286
Leibniz’s line diagrams, 286
lekton, 138–42
Lerner, Gene, 59, 61, 63
Levesque, Hector J., 152
Levinson, Stephen C., 3, 53, 213, 216, 218, 221,
242, 251, 253, 280, 284–5
Lewis, David K., 131, 152, 182, 214–15, 219, 223
lexical entrainment, 254, 294–5
as narrowing 295
lexical overlap, avoidance of 256, 259
lexicon, 41, 49, 69, 192
LF (logical form), 122–3, 126–7, 141–2, 216
Liar Paradox, 176
linearization, 64
linguistically encoded meaning 280–96
Local Contexts proposal, 222
Locke, John, 164, 171–2, 174
Lockridge, Calion B., 267
locutionary content, 94–7, 101
logic, intensional, 167
logic, dynamic modal, 89
loose speech, see speaking loosely
lower limit restriction, 304, 308
LTAG (Lexicalized Tree Adjoining
Grammar), 60
Ludlow, Peter, 107
Lycan, William, 218, 221
Manner, Category of, 3, see also, maxims,
conversational
mapping, 9, 72, 118, 125–7, 256–8
mapping constraints on word learning, see
word-learning
Markman, Ellen, 256, 259–60
Marr, David, 281
Martí, Luisa, 12, 54, 58, 122, 124, 126–30, 134,
136, 138–9
Martínez-Manrique, Fernando, 76 n.2,
83 n.7
Marx, Groucho, 4–5
Maxims, Conversational, 3, 17, 53–4, 102, 153,
176, 212, 228, 233–6, 247, 281, 302–3,
305, 311–12
of Manner, 3, 17, 198, 210, 212, 233, 235–6,
302, 305
Be brief (sub-maxim of Manner), 1, 3, 17,
122, 178, 196, 198, 210, 212, 233–7, 239,
241, 243, 245–8, 282
Be Perspicuous, 3, 212
of Quality, 235, 302, 311–12
Be Articulate, 198, 210, 212
of Quantity, 15, 171, 235–6, 246–7, 264,
302, 305
Index 347
Maxims, Conversational (cont.)
of Relation, 235–7, 302
Be Relevant, 24, 118–19, 235, 302, see also
relevance
meaning
conventional, 16, 63–4, 95, 125, 250–1
joint, 69
literal, 95, 106, 133, 141, 164, 183–6, 189–90,
197, 281, 285, 290
speaker’s, 53, 166, 183, 300
sentence, 53, 199
standing, 126, 191–2, 197, see also, meaning,
literal
meaningNN (NonNatural), 53
mean length of utterance (MLU), 245–6
memory, 51, 119–20, 254, 278
working, 119–20
mental imagery debate, 83
mentalese, 74, 79, 168
mental representations, 10, 89, 93, 96
explicit, 10, 93
mental states, representing others’, 72–3, 150,
219, 255, 263
Merchant, Jason, 6–7, 10, 21–35, 36, 38, 40– 3,
50–1, 54–5, 58, 64, 78, 93, 107, 109–10,
117–18
metaphor, 17, 146, 163, 191, 227, 283–5,
291–2, 294
metonymy, 1, 164, 192
Mill, John Stuart, 229 n.24
mind, computational theory of, 86
minimal extension, 133–4, 136, 142 n.16
Minimalist Programme, 39, 43–4, 55, 59
MLU (mean length of utterance)
children’s, 234, 245–6
adult’s, 245
mod (modulation function), 14, 190–2, 196
modals, 89, 216
model of communication, computational, 143
models, psychological, 43, 52
Modiﬁed Occam’s Razor, 212
modiﬁers, 50, 185, 187–8, 253–4, 260, 265–79,
288–90, see also; contrastive
inferences
modularity, 9, 54, 71, see also information
encapsulation
modulation, 14, 126–7, 134, 139, 141–2, 190–2,
195, 254, 259, 261, 277
function, see mod
plus compositionality, 195 n.16
pragmatic, 134, 192
Montague, Richard, 187
morality, 163, 174, 176
morphology, 56–7, 68, 125–6, 190, 263
morpho-syntax, 68
movement, 21–35, 38, 43, 67
overt, 23
restriction, 31
wh-, 59
movement + ellipsis (and deletion) account
of fragment answers, 22–35, 38, 42–3
multi-modality, 46, 58, 69
mutual knowledge, see common ground
N400, see EEG
Nadig, Aparna S., 259–60, 268–9
narrow scope, 133, 187
narrowing, 17, 112–14, 280–96
imposed, 283, 294
voluntary, 288–9, 293–4
natural language generation, see NLG
Neale, Stephen, 126
negation, 123–4, 129, 135–6, 216, 286
the negation test, 129–30, 136–8, 141
Negative Polarity Item (NPI), 60–1, 261
negative responses, see anti-connectivity
effects
neutral model, 190
new information, 15, 22, 27, 153, 181, 192, 218,
236, 239–40
Newton’s Law of Gravity, 147
Nieuwland, Mante S., 287–8
NL (natural language), 9, 12, 54, 65, 67–8, 70,
74–6, 88, 90, 92, 107, 109, 143, 198,
215, 220
NLG (natural language generation), 12, 143–59
non-conceptual thought, 76, 86, see also
imagistic thought
348 Index
Norman, Donald, 156
nouns, ambiguous, 257
Noveck, Ira A., 7, 17, 255, 280–96
novel object bias, 256–9, 261
novel word learning, 16, 253–61
null instantiation, 140
Nunberg, Geoffrey, 197
Occam razor, 296, see also Modiﬁed Occam’s
razor
occasion meanings, 14, 182–6, 188–92, 197
Oliver, Alex, 4
omission of subjects, 234
one-word stage, 234, 237–8, 241–3
on-line processing, 120, 257–9, 281, 287–8
operator, 123, 127, 142, 200, 204, 207–8, 212
optimal behaviour, 277–8
optimal relevance, presumption of, 301,
303–6, 309
over-inform, 254, 265–6, 269–70, 276,
278, 295, 299, 307–8, 312
overloaded actions, 156–7
overloading, 12, 144–51, 156–8
communicative intentions, 151–2
pragmatic, 12, 145–7
Pagin, Peter, 190
paradox, see Hooded Man Paradox; Liar
Paradox
Parker, Dan, 48
parsing, 28 n.3, 60–1, 64–6, 69–70, 78,
118–20
Parsons, Terence, 187
Pelletier, Francis Jeffry, 13–14, 98–9, 178–97
Perry, John, 3, 80, 92–103, 130
perspective, 16, 22, 147, 249–79
Phillips, Colin, 48
phonological form (PF), 39, 48
phonologically null, 51
phonology, 39, 46–9, 56, 67, 117
Piwek, Paul, 64 n.6, 73
plural, 2, 242
PO (prepositional object) construction,
49–50
PO-ellipsis, 50
Poesio, Massimo, 59–63
politeness, 3, 77, 305, 310
Political Correctness (PC), 15, 176–7
Pollack, Martha E., 12, 145, 148
possible worlds, 88, 97 n.11, 131, 199–202,
205, 211
pragmatics, 26, 55, 71, 76–7, 91, 94–5, 102,
108–9, 111, 121, 124, 139, 143, 145, 191,
220, 226, 255, 281–2, 286
pragmatic effects
strong, 127, 141–2
weak, 127, 141
pragmatic enrichment, 8, 10–12, 58, 91–106, 166
free, 12, 81 n.6, 122–41
no pragmatic enrichment constraint, 105
pragmatic groundedness, 186, 196
pragmatic inferences, 236, 240, 243, 247, 251
pragmatic processes, 11, 17, 71, 105, 124, 126,
130, 139, 141–2, 284, 293
Prasada, Sandeep, 219
pre-conceptual mechanisms, 73
preferences, communicator’s, 153–4, 304, 308
preposition, 22, 24, 27–31, 38, 39 n.1, 151, 242–3
phrase (PP), 28, 92, 99–100, 104–5, 279
stranding, 27–9
transfer, 53
Presissler, Mellissa Allen, 259
presumption, 187, 219, 250, 252, 262, 304, 308
presupposition, 1, 4, 14–15, 198–202, 205–10,
212, 214–27, 229, 248, 253, 289
failure, 209, 216, 220
non-catastrophic, 216, 220
pragmatic account of, 209, 221
projection, 15, 198–9, 202, 205,
209–13, 216
requirements, 226–7, 229
triggers, 214–16
priming, 46–50, 291–2
cross-modal, 47–8
Principle of Joint Closure, 156–7
privileged ground, 266–79
pro-drop, 234
procedural information, 52, 67, 69
Index 349
processing, 9–11, 37–8, 40, 44, 58, 62, 66–7,
70, 104, 119–21, 234, 268, 275, 292, 296,
303–4, 310
bottleneck, 234
cost, 176, 251, 253–5, 266, 269, 279, 287,
303–4, 306, 311
limitations, 251
loop, 43, 50
productivity/creativity, argument from, 13, 180
Progovac, Ljiljana, 59
projection, 14–15, 67–8, 70, 198–202, 204–7,
209–14, 216–17, 219–20, 222
behaviour, 198, 202, 204–5, 207, 209, 216–17,
220
facts, 200–1, 204–6, 209–13
presupposition projection, 15, 198–9, 202,
204–5, 209–13, 216
problem, 14–15, 222 n.10
prolixity, 3, 8, 10, 17, 165, 210, 233, 265, 299–312
pronouns, 2, 39, 47, 71, 77, 112, 134, 182, 234,
242, 264, 268
proposition, 4–5, 14–15, 53–4, 56–7, 74–7,
79–80, 82, 88–90, 92–4, 96, 100–1, 104,
111–12, 114, 117, 128–9, 131–2, 140–1, 152,
168, 170, 199, 209, 219, 221, 223, 226,
228, 291, 295
complete, 90, 100
recovery of, 7, 9, 53–4
propositional content, 67, 72, 74, 76, 79, 81–3,
87, 94, 105, 141
propositional formula, 65
propositional intentions, 54, 61
propositional radical, 100 n.16
prosodic cues, 69, 179, 247
Prüst, Hub, 7
pseudocleft, 42–3
psychotherapy, 62
Purver, Matthew, 63 n.4
Puzzle about Belief, 167–9
quality, see maxims, conversational
quantiﬁer, 1, 74, 79, 88, 124, 127, 131, 136,
222, 242
existential, 123, 127, 131
weak, 285
domain restriction, 132, 175, see also scope
quantity, see maxims, conversational
rationality, 53–4, 73, 154, 212
real-time processing, 257, 259, see also
on-line processing
Recanati, François, 11, 12, 14, 92 n.2,
122–42, 180 n.3, 185, 188, 190–2,
195 n.16, 196–7
reconstruction, 9, 46, 51, 54–55, 59, 61, 68, 70,
72, 281
recursive function
general, 193–4
inductive, 193, 194, 196
redundancy, 234, 236, 243
reference, 4, 10, 13, 75, 77, 81, 88, 94–5, 100–2,
145, 151, 219, 227, 253–5, 258, 267–8,
278–9, 285, 292, 295
production processes, 267, 278–9
semantic, 145 n.1
speaker, 100–1, 145 n.1, 150
referential content, 14, 94–7, 99
referential expressions, 260, 264, 266,
268–9
referential failure, 270
referential intent, see intentions, referential
reﬂexive truth conditions, 81 n.6
reﬂexive utterance content, 91–106
relation, 24, 118–19, 235, 302
dominance, 66–7
Relevance Theory (RT), 8, 17, 94 n.9, 280,
299–312
relevanceRT
, 81, 171, 240–1, 245–6, 248, 302–9,
311–12
repair, 8, 68–9, 237, 242, 247, 275
representation of the world, 303
representation types, 75
restriction on relevance, see lower limit
restriction
retrospective construction (of speech a act),
63 n.4
Rieser, Hannes, 59–63
Rooth–Soames objection, 208, 199
350 Index
Rule of Accommodation for Presuppositions,
223
Runner, Jeffrey T., 21, 47–8
Ryan, Alan, 229 n.24
Sadock, Jerrold, 105
Sag, Ivan, 121, 190
salience, 89, 112–21, 145, 182, 268, 272
salient, 4, 7, 14, 45, 89, 111–21, 128, 130, 139, 145,
182, 203, 265, 267–70, 278
sapience, 73
saturation, 96, 126–7, 139–42, 190–1
scaffolding, 239, 243, 247
scalar implicatures, 17, 251, 283–4, 286–8,
290, 294
Schaefer, Edward F., 156
Schiffer, Steven, 170, 219
Schlangen, David, 71
Schlenker, Phillip, 198–9, 204–6, 208, 210,
222, 224
Scollon, Ronald, 237
scope, 133, 136, 142, 175, 187, 245
SDRT model, 71
Searle, John, 145, 188, 215, 229 n.25
second-language, 234
Sedivy, Julie, 16, 249–63, 265, 268–9, 281, 289
selectional restriction, 28–30
semantic
compositionality, 180, 183–4, 191–3, 195
conservatism, 15, 198
semantic content, 8, 67, 87, 93–4, 99–100,
104–6, 118, 126–7, 188, 228, 250
raw, 94
reﬁned, 94, 96
semantic effect, 125–6, 183, 189
Semantic Groundedness, 14, 192–6
semantic incorporation, 122–42
semantic/pragmatic divide, 101–2, 216, 220, 222
semantic presuppositions, 223, 228
semantic theory, 87–8, 189, 202–3, 212–13,
221, 226
classical semantics, 15, 198, 208, 210, 212
semantics, 8, 15, 36, 46–50, 54, 56, 66, 71–2,
76, 87–90, 94–5, 102, 105, 108–9,
117, 124, 129, 131, 142, 191, 198, 201–3,
208–12, 215, 220–3, 225–6, 281,
284–5, 288–9
semantic values, 93–9, 199, 208
sense, 13, 125
sentence–answer pairs, 25–6, 28
sentence-meaning, 53, 199
sentence presupposition, 219, 221–2, 228
sentences
elliptical, 9, 36, 50–1, 61
incomplete, 4, 6, 83, 165
Sentencesemantic, 90
sequential coherence, 62 n.2
set, 21–2, 54, 56, 58, 74, 88–9, 100, 131–2,
138, 174–5, 185, 187, 198–9, 202, 214,
261, 289, 291
context, see context set
contrast, 261
of possible worlds, 88, 97 n.11, 131, 199–202,
205, 211
set theory, 163, 174–5
naïve, 174
Shakespeare, William, 1
Shapiro, Lewis P., 46
short answers, 7, 27, 29, 31, 38–46, 284
inﬁnitival, see anti-connectivity effects
silent syntax, 9, 21–52
Simons, Mandy, 216, 218, 224, 228–9
situation, 74–5, 78–80, 88–90, 98, 128–9, 131–8,
140, 142, 144–6, 151, 183
minimal, 131–6
situation-theoretic framework, 124, 131,
135–6, 141
situation of evaluation, 135, 138–9, 142
situation semantics, 12, 130–1, 138, 142
Slobin, Dan, 2, 242
sluicing, 22 n.1, 31, 55, 109–11, 117, 119
Smiley, Timothy, 4
Snider, Neal, 47–8
Snow, Catherine, 233, 239
Sobel, David M., 257
Sorites, 172–4
speakers
competent, 36–7, 96, 173, 302
Index 351
speakers (cont.)
competitive, 272, 276–8
co-operative, 257, 264–5, 270–1, 276–7
native, 37–8, 49
reliability, 16, 253–9, 267, 312
speaker characteristics, 255
speaker meaning, 13, 53, 164, 166, 182–3, 186
speaker presupposition, 15, 151, 219–24,
226, 228
speaker reference, 100–1, 145, 150
speaking loosely, 12–13, 16, 163–77
speech, sub-sentential, 91–106
speech act, 7, 9–10, 53–4, 56–7, 62–3, 72–3, 75,
81, 91–105, 126, 145, 215, 220, 224,
227–8, 241, 269
ancillary, 215, 227
illocutionary, 62, 92, 98 n.17, 101, 215,
242, 269
grammar-induced, 54, 62, 64
indirect, 227–9
locutionary, 94–7, 101 n.16
perlocutionary, 98 n.13, 99 n.14
sub-sentential, see sub-sentential speech acts
spell-out, 39, 43–4
Sperber, Dan, 53, 94, 125, 213, 251, 280, 284,
287, 291, 300, 303–6, 308–11
split-utterances, 7, 9, 55, 58–61, 68, 70, 72, 253
SPM (standard pragmatic model), 281
Spotorno, Nicola, 7, 17, 280–96
Stainton, Robert J., 23, 43, 54, 56, 58, 64 n.6, 68,
72, 90, 92, 94, 108, 110–11, 117
Stalnaker, Robert, 15, 151, 181–2, 199, 206–9,
212, 214–15, 218–28
Stanley, Jason, 12, 74–5, 93, 108, 110–11, 124,
126–9, 130 n.3, 134, 139, 141–2
Stanley’s Binding Criterion, 127–8
stipulation, 175–6, 211
Stokke, Andreas, 15, 198–213
Stone, Matthew, 12, 73, 143–59
strategic egocentrism, see privileged ground
Strawson, Peter F., 14, 214, 216
stripping, 55
sub-events, 44
subordinate clause, 50
sub-propositional, 64, 93, 102–3
sub-sentential, 6–7, 9–11, 43, 53–73, 90–106,
110, 178, 200
sub-sentential speech acts, 7, 10, 91–106
sub-sentential talk, 53–73
sub-sentential utterance, 7, 9–11, 92–4,
97–102, 104, 106, 200
syntactic dependencies, 58, 63, 67
syntactic structure, 6, 36, 41, 43, 45–51, 57, 79,
108, 119, 132, 158, 180
syntax
Dynamic (DS), see Dynamic Syntax
silent, 7, 9, 36–52
Swift, Jonathan, 179, 197
Tanenhaus, Michael K., 21, 119, 265, 269, 285
Taylor, Harriet, 229 n.24
tense, 38, 119, 242, 263
Tensed Phrase (TP), 38, 119
‘that’ complement, 22, 24–7, 31
Theory of Mind (ToM), 272
Thomason, Richmond H., 153–4
thought, 9, 10, 51, 53–4, 72, 74–90, 92 n.1,
92 n.5, 98, 106, 106 n.20, 144, 242, 282
conceptual, 72, 74–6, 81, 83, 85, 90
de dicto, see Puzzle about Belief
de re, 95 n.5
explicit, 9, 11, 74–90
imagistic, 76, 83–6
inexplicit, 10, 74–90
non-conceptual, 76, 86
thought experiment, see Twin Earth
Tolstoy, Lev, 2
Tomasello, Michael, 267
topic, see discourse topic
topic situation, 132, 135
topicalization, see fronting
transitive, 11, 26, 122–41, 187
Transparency Theory, 198, 206, 209–13
tree structures, 38, 60, 64–8, 70
partial, 65, 70
triggering, 15, 60, 67, 215, 220, 222, 225–6, 262
Triggering Problem, 215, 222
triggers, conventional, 215, 225–6
352 Index
truth, 13, 88, 95, 97 n.11, 100, 164, 174, 181, 201,
216, 220, 228, 303, 310–11
truth-conditions, 8, 11, 36, 56, 66, 77, 81,
93–7, 99–101, 105–6, 124, 126–30, 132–3,
136, 138–9, 141–2, 185, 198, 200–8, 211,
220–2, 226
speaker-bound, 94, 96–7, 99
utterance-bound, 94–5
turn-taking, 9, 69, 213, 233, 235, 238, 240, 245
turn-length, children’s, 247
Twin Earth, 83–4
Type-S cases, 93–4, 98–9, 103, 105–6
underdetermination, semantic, 93
under-informativeness, 252, 269, 277, 287–8
understandability, argument from, 180, 195–6
uniqueness presupposition, 133, 289 n.4
universalizability, 176
updating, 8–9, 67, 71, 181–2, 184, 190, 199,
201–2, 219
semantic representations, see Dynamic
Syntax (DS)
common ground, 199–202, 219, see also
Context-Change Theory
use-compatible grammar, see Dynamic
Syntax (DS)
utterance-bound content, see reﬂexive
utterance content
utterance presupposition, 228
utterance
brief, 13, 143, 152, 157, 252
given, 77, 138, 142, 304
non-alethic, 310–12
non-literal, 300
one-word, see one-word stage
split, see split utterances
sub-sentential, see sub-sentential utterances
Valian, Virginia, 234
vagueness, 171–4
validity, logical, 88
variable
covert, 93 n.8
free, 126–7, 141, 142, 174
letter, 67
Vicente, Augustín, 76 n.2, 77 n.3, 80 n.4–5,
83 n.7
visual-world paradigm, 47–8, 290
violation
of compositionality, 185
of selectional restricitons, 28–31
of maxims, 53, 102, 252, 256, 262, 280–1, 288,
302, 305
vocabulary
children’s, 243
conceptual, 157
density, children’s, 246
logical, 73
voice effects, 39
voluntary narrowing, see narrowing
Von Fintel, Kai, 217, 220, 223–4, 228
VP anaphora, 47–8
VP ellipsis, 4, 6, 46–50, 55, 109–11, 117, 119
Wachtel, Gwyn F., 256
Wardlow Lane, Liane, 265, 268–72, 277–8
Webber, Bonnie, 145–6
Weskott, Thomas, 6, 21–35
wh-, 44, 59, 109, 217 26–7
wh-questions, 7, 38, 44, see also sluicing
Whitehurst, Grover J., 290
Wilson, Deirdre, 53, 94, 123, 125–6, 128, 213,
251, 280, 291, 300, 303–6, 308–11
Winner, Ellen, 275
Wittgenstein, Ludwig, 2, 72, 163–4, 174, 176
Woodward, James, 205, 207
world-learning, 255–61
mapping constraints on, 257–8
word-learning bias, 256–9, 261
‘world-bound’, 131
world-knowledge, 3, 5, 7, 12, 79, 196, 211
worlds, possible, see possible, worlds
Yablo, Stephen, 164, 216
Yakubinsky, Lev Petrovich, 2
Yoon, 267, 269
Zwicky, Arnold, 105
Index 353
