methodology for defining the starting point in CT: the base for linguistic negation is
defined, and eighteen criteria for canonical negation are established. This allows the
author to generate a full description of the canonical instance of linguistic negation
without necessarily observing it in reality. The base for linguistic negation defines
the domain as maximally inclusive, so that all syntactic levels are involved: constitu-
ent, clausal, and bi-clausal. Derivational negation is also part of the domain. Another
important distinction made in this chapter concerns the fact that linguistic negation
appears in expressions that are not treatable in terms of truth-values (such as
imperatives) and therefore cannot be defined in the same way as negation in logic.
‘Canonical morphosyntactic features’ by Greville G. Corbett tackles the very
general problem of features. Criteria for canonical morphosyntactic features are
based on two overarching principles: ‘a feature (I) has robust formal marking and
(II) is constrained by simple rules of syntax’. Ten criteria have been proposed, falling
under these general principles. However, if we had fully canonical features, meeting
all these criteria, these features would be indistinguishable one from another (and an
appeal to semantics does not solve our problem). The chapter therefore examines
the interaction of canonical morphosyntactic features with canonical parts of
speech. The latter are defined as those where semantic, syntactic, and morphological
behaviours line up perfectly. Four criteria are proposed for the interaction with
morphosyntactic features: exclusiveness, exhaustiveness, open/closed class, and
compositionality. Investigation of possible deviations from the canon (understood
as a logical endpoint where all criteria converge), has an important result of ordering
the features according to decreasing canonicity, where number comes as the most
canonical, followed by gender, person, (respect), case and (definiteness), where
brackets indicate less clear instances of features.
The chapter on the typology of quotations by Nick Evans argues that postulation
of the canonical point should further our understanding of observable or recogniz-
able phenomena. Canonical points which represent something not instantiated in
any language are allowed, but only as long as they serve as points of reference for
meaningful typological comparison. Evans applies the canonical approach to the
grammatical means used by languages to mark reported speech. He gives definitions
of canonical direct and canonical indirect speech, conforming to the ‘canonical base’
as defined by Bond, in that they are semantic, maximally inclusive, and not lan-
guage-specific. The chapter discusses various deviations from these criteria. First, it
investigates languages where all quotations are basically direct, but there are devi-
ations from this in terms of stylistic effects and ‘second person magnetism’ (usage of
the second person for the primary hearer irrespective of what had actually been said
in the speech reported). Next, the deviations from canonical indirect speech are
presented, in the same order: first stylistic devices (such as expletives), then the
grammatical means: the absence of expected tense shift, the retention in the im-
peratives and vocatives, spatial deixis, etc. One can call all these ‘semi-direct’ or
An introduction to Canonical Typology 15
‘semi-indirect’ speech. The canonical approach is advantageous in that it describes
the deviations along different dimensions (style, person, tense, mood, politeness,
etc.). The chapter also suggests that there is another canonical point: biperspectival
speech, with dedicated grammatical means to express the perspective of the original
and reported speakers simultaneously. There are no canonical instances that we
know of, yet logophors represent one point in this theoretical space. In this respect,
the chapter presents a clearly described canonical space for something that has not
been attested, yet is possible and worth looking for.
The chapter ‘Unpacking finiteness’ by Irina Nikolaeva establishes criteria which
define the canonical point of finiteness. Finiteness has been viewed by typologists as
a ‘scalar “meta”-notion’ characterized by interdependent and hierarchically organ-
ized properties. Nikolaeva argues that the implications and notion of scale should be
abandoned, since no implicational relations suggested for finiteness parameters so
far have been without exceptions. She claims finiteness to be a clausal notion which
can be characterized by independent criteria belonging to different linguistic com-
ponents: morphology, syntax, and semantics. The suggested criteria are of the form
‘tense marking > no tense marking’, which reads as ‘overt tense marking of finite
clauses is more canonical than no tense marking’. Seven morphological criteria are
suggested, involving agreement, marking of tense, mood, politeness and evidenti-
ality, switch-reference, and nominative subjects. The syntactic criteria deal with
dependency of the clause, subject licensing, and morphosyntactic expression of
information structure. The semantic criteria concern assertion, independent tem-
poral anchoring, and information structuring. Each criterion is illustrated with
examples from typologically diverse languages representing more and less finite
clauses.
All the chapters discussed so far use the canonical approach to clarify the notions
used in typology or to state the usefulness of a notion like finiteness for cross-
linguistic comparison. The chapter on clitics by Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís uses
the canonical approach to demonstrate that it can be used to define a linguistic
phenomenon which has been claimed to fall between affixes and function words.
Clitics, as the Chapter claims are affixes in form and function words in distribution
properties. The authors formulate criteria for canonical words and canonical affixes.
The criteria are divided into three groups: those dealing with forms (phonology and
broadly understood morphology), those dealing with distribution (syntax), and
those dealing with content.
Anna Siewerska and Dik Bakker tackle another methodological issue of Canon-
ical Typology: how to define whether a particular characteristic belongs to the
canonical core. They investigate passive constructions in 279 languages to find out
whether the expressability of an agent is canonical for passives, taking the definitions
of a prototypical passive as their departure point. The question of the overt agent is
the only point where frequency-based and exemplar-based approaches to prototypes
16 Dunstan Brown and Marina Chumakina
disagree. The authors’ answer within the canonical approach is twofold: a certain
property is taken to be more canonical than another if that property ‘distinguishes
the given construction from canonical realizations of other constructions’, and since
the overt agent distinguishes passive from impersonal, inverse, stative, anticausative
and such like, its presence is taken to be part of a passive canon. The chapter
explores the relationship between the expressability of agents and other canonical
features of passive (both formal and semantic). The frequency of the overt agent in
the passive is taken to be defining: languages which allow (though not necessarily
require) overt agents are more frequent (contrary to what the prototype approach
states), and therefore passive constructions with implicit agents claimed to be more
canonical. The form of the subject is also important: personal passives are more
canonical than the impersonal ones, and, as they more often allow the overt agent, it
is also a reason to consider passives with overt agents more canonical. Other factors
influencing the canonicity of the overt agent include the obligatoriness of its
expression, semantic transitivity of the construction, animacy of the agent, its
semantic role, and formal realization. The chapter concludes that an expressable
non-obligatory semantically agentive lexical agent realized as an oblique argument is
canonical.
Martin Everaert suggests the canonical criteria for reflexivization. The languages
of the world employ different strategies to encode the identity between two argu-
ments of a clause (a binder and a bindee); the suggested criteria rank them along
four dimensions: the expression of the binder, the expression of the bindee, the
morphosyntactic encoding, and the domain. The chapter states that reflexivization is
‘morphosyntactically distinct from a pronominal coreference relation’ and it is
‘important to distinguish the notion “anaphor”, or “anaphoric dependency” from
reflexive and reflexivization’, and the criteria help to make the necessary distinctions.
The second issue that the criteria resolve concerns the multiplicity of strategies: in
general, languages have more than one means to encode reflexivization (nominal
reflexives, inalienable possession anaphors, null-reflexives, and locally bound pro-
nouns), and it is important to be able to recognize the canonical core. The canonical
reflexive relation is between two arguments rather than non-arguments; the binder is
canonically a definite third person noun phrase. The bindee is canonically an object
and the reflexivity is marked on it (rather than on the predicate). The morphosyn-
tactic encoding of the reflexive construction is canonically different from the en-
coding of the identity between non-arguments. The domain of the relation is
canonically a predicate rather than a sentence, and a simple sentence rather than a
complex one.
In their chapter on the possession-modification scale Irina Nikolaeva and
Andrew Spencer employ the Canonical Typology approach to explain the hierarchy
established by themselves previously: the strategies for encoding dependants of the
An introduction to Canonical Typology 17
noun respect the monotonicity of the following scale: attributive modifier < modi-
fication-by-noun < alienable possession < inalienable possession. Defining the
criteria for the canonical ideal of the construction described by this scale, the authors
seek to get to the origins of the scale (which was just a result of empirical observa-
tion). In this respect, the chapter exemplifies a retrospective canonical typology as
defined by Bond (this volume). The link between modification and possession is
easily spotted: many languages encode constructions like tall girl and Mary’s daugh-
ter in the same or very similar way. The authors establish semantic, formal, and
syntactic criteria for canonical modification and possession, based on which canon-
ical modification construction is defined as a construction headed by a noun and
containing an adjective which denotes some gradable property, and the canonical
possession construction is the one denoting inalienable possession and expressed by
two nouns. Modification by noun and alienable possession constructions are viewed
as deviations from the canon. The chapter shows that languages respect this division
into canonical and non-canonical constructions and never use the same strategies to
encode, say, two opposite canonical points in the same way without encoding the
deviations from the canon in exactly the same way. But that would be predicted by
the hierarchy above anyway. The interesting result is the uncovering of a very
frequent strategy where two canonical points are encoded differently, but in the
same way as the deviations close to them: one strategy for the modifier and
modification-by-noun and another, different strategy for alienable and inalienable
possession, so establishing a canonical space deepens our understanding of the
hierarchy.
The chapter concluding the volume, by Scott Farrar, applies the canonical
approach to linguistic ontologies. Linguistics has collected so much data by now
that (inter)operability and formalization are of increasing importance. To get to this
point we need the data to be in a standard format, and the terminology used for data
annotation to be universal. The ultimate goal is to operate on the level of e-linguistics
where computers are used as ‘primary means to publish, search, and visualize the
descriptive data’. Ill-defined data types and the absence of an infrastructure are a
barrier to e-linguistics. The chapter suggests that the implementation of the General
Ontology for Linguistic Description (GOLD) together with Communities of Practice
Extensions (COPEs) will resolve these issues. The chapter explains how GOLD is
structured, what type of entities it contains and what type of predicates to express
relations between these entities. GOLD is supposed to contain only expressions of
the highest level of abstraction, which should be applicable to any language and are
not possible to change once the ontology is built. Examples of such expression are
given: (1) ‘a verb is a part of speech’; (2) ‘a verb can assign case’, etc. COPEs are of a
lower level of abstraction; they contain the examples where the level of detail can go
right down to one language. For example, if there is a very unusual grammatical
18 Dunstan Brown and Marina Chumakina
feature that is only attested in two languages, and even in these languages it is
slightly different, then the labels of the feature will contain the name of the language.
In this respect, ontologies are very close to the canonical approach. The chapter
presents an example of GOLD implementation and concludes by summarizing the
parallels between Canonical Typology and principles of building an ontology.
An introduction to Canonical Typology 19
2
A base for canonical negation1
OLIVER BOND
2.1 Introduction
Before determining which criteria are relevant for constructing the theoretical space
of possibilities in which to calibrate a particular phenomenon in Canonical Typology
(henceforth CT), there must first exist a notional starting point (henceforth base)
from which to anchor the investigation of a domain. Bases are an essential part of
CT methodology since a CT research domain is underspecified without one; if there
is no base with which to associate criteria indicating canonical behaviour, a ‘canon-
ical space’ is created in which any linguistic input could be calibrated meaninglessly.
In existing applications of CT, such as Corbett (2006, 2007a) the stripped-back
‘definitions’ identified for the study of agreement (Steele 1978: 610 in Corbett 2006: 4)
and suppletion (Mel’čuk 1994: 358 in Corbett 2007a: 11) have been selected from a range
of possibilities detailed in a substantial body of literature. However, what characterizes
these bases as ‘good ones’ or the most appropriate to use as a starting point from which
to define linguistic constructs remains inexplicit. From a methodological standpoint,
this is a non-trivial question because the quality of the outcomes in CT relate directly to
the quality of criteria delimiting the canon and the base with which the criteria are
associated. While criteria used in CT can be established through empirical observation,
the principles underlying the selection of suitable bases are less clear.2
In this Chapter,
I consider the significance of establishing an appropriate base in CT and how this
may affect the outcomes of typological research using the CT method.
1
I am grateful to participants at the Conference on Creating Infrastructure for Canonical Typology at
the University of Surrey, Guildford and the Eighth Biennial Conference of the Association for Linguistic
Typology at the University of California, Berkeley, for their comments and suggestions concerning the
ideas presented there. In particular, I would like to thank Peter Austin, Bill Croft, Nick Evans, Martin
Everaert, Andrew Koontz-Garboden, Lutz Marten, Stuart McGill, Irina Nikolaeva, Ljuba Veselinova, and
the editors of this volume for helpful discussion and suggestions.
2
The question of which property is canonical and which is not also remains unclear to a large extent,
but criteria can only be proposed where cross-linguistic or language internal variation provides evidence
for differences across a single parameter.
To exemplify the principles underlying formulation of an appropriate base,
I consider the basic properties of linguistic negation, a highly complex gram-
matical property of language, pragmatically rooted in communicative efficiency and
semantically in the contrast between set-membership. While negation has been the
subject of a considerable amount of attention in the philosophical, typological,
and theoretical literature, simple and elegant structure-independent definitions of
the negation domain are absent in typological accounts.3
This is partly because of
the variability and interactional complexity of the category, but also because of the
fundamental make-up of comparative concepts and the way they are employed
in typological and descriptive research. CT offers an opportunity to carry out
comparative work on complex phenomena such as negation by stripping all cross-
linguistic variables out of the ‘restrictive’ or ‘working’ definition into criteria associated
with a base. The base characterizes only those aspects of the phenomenon that are
general enough to be considered necessary properties for establishing the first broad
approximation (i.e. the base) of a phenomenon. The base will also be sufficiently
informative to enable the identification of a broad domain of investigation (which may
well overlap with other domains). However, in establishing canonical negation (as
opposed to the base for negation) we are dealing with notions of proximity to the ideal,
rather than necessary and sufficient conditions. Canonical negation will therefore be
characterized by those properties that help identify a linguistic construction as most
clearly satisfying the base properties.
2.2 The base: a notional starting point
All typological studies involve the identification of some form of constant and the
subsequent investigation of variation in the properties and/or formal expression of
this constant, cross-linguistically and/or language internally. In the standard strategy
for typological research, as identified by Croft (2003: 14), the first stage of research
design involves determining the particular structure or situation to be explored.4
The
methodological starting point employed in the CT framework does not differ
significantly from the standard methodology in this respect, yet there are several
methodology-specific considerations that inform the selection of the base around
which phenomena-specific criteria can be established.
A sufficient base definition in CT must include the ‘indisputable’ instances of the
phenomenon and thus what Corbett (2007a: 9) refers to as the canonical core.
While canonical instances of a phenomenon under investigation need not exist, either
3
Sophisticated discussions of negation of course exist (e.g. Givón (1978), Horn (1978, 2001) and
references therein) but none provides the elusive definition required by CT.
4
Croft (2003: 14) indicates that this is a semantico-pragmatic structure or situation, but it need not be
(e.g. phonological typology).
A base for canonical negation 21
within an individual language or indeed in any language, all examples of a particular
phenomenon—canonical or otherwise—must satisfy the base for that phenomenon.
The base sets out all those conditions that are minimally necessary for a construction
or strategy to be considered relevant to the domain of investigation, but does not
distinguish canonical instances of a phenomenon from non-canonical instances. For
instance, linguistic data that satisfy the base used in investigating negation will have
the same minimal properties, whether canonical or otherwise. With this in mind,
bases with a broad meaning, and thus specific but minimal constraints, provide the
best opportunities to meaningfully calibrate data within the multidimensional space
set up by the associated criteria. This is because the characteristics required for a
construction to be considered an instance of this phenomenon (i.e. the ‘sufficient’
properties) will be few. Instead of restricting the domain through the base itself,
calibration along different criteria provides the opportunity to delimit the scope of
typological investigation based along a large number of individual parameters or
combinations/permutations of those parameters. The power of CT methodology is
exploited when the base with which the criteria are associated is broad enough in
scope to also include peripheral instances of a phenomenon. Empirically observable
subtypes (i.e. cross-linguistically salient clusterings of properties) can be established
by highlighting which properties are shared within particular semantic/functional
domains once the canonical space has been set up.5
The bases used in CT applications so far define general domains of investigation.
In his approach to agreement, Corbett (2006) employs Steele’s (1978) characteriza-
tion of agreement as a useful starting point for further investigation:
agreement:
The term agreement commonly refers to some systematic covariance between a semantic
property of one element and a formal property of another.
(Steele 1978: 610, cited in Corbett 2006: 4)
Similarly, in his explication of suppletion, Corbett (2007a) first identifies a base for
the investigation before calibrating data in the space established by the related
criteria:
suppletion:
For the signs X and Y to be suppletive their semantic correlation should be maximally regular,
while their formal correlation is maximally irregular . . .
(Mel’čuk 1994: 358, cited in Corbett 2007a: 11)
While dealing with different phenomena, and originally defined by different
scholars, these bases share certain properties in common. The first is that they are
‘stripped back’ and minimal in content. A good base in CT will therefore elegantly
5
See sections 2.4 and 2.5 for discussion of how these claims relate to subtypes of linguistic negation
(LN).
22 Oliver Bond
define a phenomenon, but not attempt to explain why it is that way. In model
applications of CT, parameters of variation should be incorporated into the criteria
associated with the base, and not the base itself.
For ‘difficult phenomena’ (e.g. agreement, suppletion, negation, etc.), which do
not readily lend themselves to analysis using more traditional typological methods, it
may be useful to define the base around a relationship of contrast or variation
between two or more possibilities. This is evident in the bases used by Corbett given
above in which contrasts between the semantic and formal characteristics of items in
a suppletion relationship or agreement relationship are explained in terms of
systematic behaviour, covariance, (ir)regularity, and the logical extreme (i.e. max-
imality) to which these properties may apply. With this in mind, a base should be
stateable in words (common in typological accounts of phenomena dealt with in
primarily semantico-pragmatic terms, e.g. Timberlake 2007; Mauri 2008) and rely on
interpretable concepts. This eradicates certain problems with cross-linguistic com-
parability that would arise in the use of semantic formulae. A purely verbal charac-
terization of bases is similar to the position taken by Haspelmath (2007, 2010b) in
proposing ‘comparative concepts’, yet bases differ from comparative concepts in that
they are not defined based on the (minimum) range of functions that a particular
grammatical category ‘typically’ or conventionally has (cf. Haspelmath’s character-
ization of the dative in these terms) but the formal manifestation of a relationship
that can be entirely modelled in the abstract, even though the concepts embodied in
the base must be attested in language in order for the research to be worthwhile. This
raises a query about the suitability of the bases used by Corbett for the agreement
and suppletion spaces since neither Steele’s nor Mel’čuk’s definition presupposes the
necessity of the existence of the phenomena. For instance, Mel’čuk’s definition
identifies what it means to be maximally suppletive, but in CT, we are interested
in calibrating variation—from canonical suppletion to peripheral types. A leap of
faith from an existing definition of a logical extreme to the criteria for the canon is
required if it is not recognized that the base definition must set up a domain in
which variation can occur. Domains can be either constrained by identifying two
poles (and investigating the domain between those two poles) or through establish-
ing a minimal amount of defining characteristics of exemplars to be considered part
of a domain.
In formalizing the domain for suppletion, one must therefore establish a domain,
in which the conditions for inclusion in that domain are explicit:
suppletion domain:
For the signs X and Y to be maximally suppletive their semantic correlation should
be maximally regular, while their formal correlation is maximally irregular. For the
signs X and Y to be maximally non-suppletive their semantic and formal correlation
is maximally regular. The suppletion domain exists between these two logical
extremes.
A base for canonical negation 23
From this domain, one could investigate canonical suppletion or canonical mor-
phological regularity, depending on the viewpoint taken.
Similarly, it is possible to propose an agreement domain based on the starting
point used in Corbett (2006). For agreement, the domain set up by the base can be
thought of as an empirically motivated theoretical domain or conceptual space,
whereas the space of possibilities defined by criteria, and the clustering of properties
within that domain, represents some form of linguistic reality, which may or may
not coincide with the canon:
agreement domain:
For the elements X and Y to be in an agreement relation, there must be a systematic
covariance between a semantic property of one element and a formal property
of another. The agreement domain contains any relationships that exhibit these
properties.
If a language does not have exemplars that meet the defining characteristics of a
domain (e.g. a language without agreement) it would simply be irrelevant to the
investigation.
There appear to be two main types of uses of CT methodology currently executed
by typologists. One is exploratory canonical typology, in which a base is used
to define the domain of investigation and criteria are established and associated with
that base as a result of observed cross-linguistic variation within that domain. In this
execution of the methodology, the canonical core (which has properties independent
of the base) falls out from the establishment of criteria on empirical grounds.
Examples of exploratory CT include Corbett’s work on suppletion and agreement,
but also Everaert’s work on relativization (this volume), and my position on neg-
ation (first adopted in Bond 2007). The quality of the results of this type of work is
highly dependent on the quality of the base definition. Fortunately, the typologist
using the CT methodology does not necessarily need to construct a novel base; we
may already know something about the adequacy of existing definitions of the
phenomena under consideration exactly because CT is guided by existing typological
studies or experience (cf. the bases used by Corbett 2006, 2007a). However, some
caution should be exercised here since existing definitions of phenomena that have
not been widely studied (or even those that have) are often Eurocentric and therefore
randomly selected in terms of their cross-linguistic significance. Bases in CT should
be sympathetic to existing work, but should not always rely heavily upon it, since
sometimes taking a novel perspective is rewarding or necessary.
CT may also be used retrospectively to examine existing typologies. In such
instances, which I refer to as retrospective canonical typology, the results of
an established typology are reviewed. In work of this kind, the canonical core is
established before the criteria and base. Examples of this include Siewierska’s perspec-
tive of the passive in CT (this volume), and Nikolaeva and Spencer’s examination of
24 Oliver Bond
the possession-modification scale (this volume). Somewhere between these two
applications lies a third way. For instance, in Nikolaeva’s treatment of finiteness in
CT (this volume), the base to which the criteria apply is effectively whatever meets
the criteria of clausehood, yet the criteria point to establishing finiteness (a property
of the clause) rather than clausehood itself (which would have a number of other
canonical properties). In such cases, the base may be conceived of as being like an
‘input’ in a multidimensional space; here, a clausal input in the finiteness space. As with
Spencer and Luís’ approach to clitics (this volume), the concern is with theoretical
constructs in linguistics and the assessment of their applicability; the base is a secondary
concern.
In Exploratory CT, the validity of a base should ideally be supported empirically,
by independent evidence from sub-disciplines of linguistics and the language sci-
ences such as L1 and L2 acquisition, psycholinguistics, physiology, etc. This may of
course be an idealistic viewpoint, but in some cases—especially in examining
grammatical categories—this may be possible. In this sense, the concept of the
base contrasts with the concept of the canon, because the canon is an idealized
point of convergence resulting from the instantiation of empirically motivated
criteria. The canon itself may be rare or non-existent.
In summarizing the necessary properties of bases in CT, I propose that:
(i) For exploratory uses of the CT methodology, a base definition is obligatory
because the criteria that establish the multidimensional space in CT are neces-
sarily associated with a notional starting point and do not exist in isolation.
(ii) Bases should be broad in scope and thus maximally inclusive.
(iii) Bases should be minimal in content and thus only contain the combination
of properties deemed necessary to establish a phenomenological domain.
(iv) A base should provide enough information about the phenomenon to deter-
mine whether it exists in the languages sampled.
(v) Bases should be supported by empirical evidence from other sub-disciplines
of linguistics or the language sciences.
In the following section I relate these properties of bases directly to negation and
discuss which considerations must be made in selecting an appropriate base.
2.3 Existing definitions of negation
Linguistic negation (henceforth LN) is a category manifested grammatically to some
extent in every language.6
Despite the significance of this phenomenon in linguistics,
6
Authors who make claims of various strength in relation to this issue include: Dahl (1979: 79),
Horn (2001: xiii), Forest (1993: 59–65), Bybee et al. (1994: 39), de Haan (1997: 3), Aikhenvald and
Dixon (1998: 57), Horn and Kato (2000: 1), and Miestamo (2005: 5), amongst others. Furthermore, in
A base for canonical negation 25
the semantic components required for a basic definition or comparative concept of
LN remain unclear. This is in part due to the complexity of the phenomenon and the
fact that negation can be manifested in various ways within the same language and
across languages. Despite these intuitions and the apparent universality of negative
constructions in human language, the necessary and sufficient formal or functional
properties of negation are seldom explicitly defined in language descriptions, even in
typological or theoretical studies dealing specifically with the subject. Where lin-
guistic definitions for negation are provided, they are frequently vague, simplistic, or
rigidly reliant on logic. For instance, textbook definitions of negation aim to present
negation as a simple and accessible notion, but in doing so are fairly inexplicit—for
instance, the use of the term typically in Crystal’s (2003: 310) dictionary entry on
negation indicates that the realm of negation extends beyond the contradiction of
sentence meaning:
A process or construction in grammatical and semantic analysis which typically expresses the
contradiction of some or all of a sentence meaning.
Whaley (1997: 226) provides a simple definition of negation which, rather than
referring to contradiction employs the notions of denial and actuality, highlighting
the importance of reality, contrast and that negatives relate to some salient alterna-
tive possibility:
The negative is a grammatical category employed to deny the actuality of an event or some
portion thereof.
While these definitions are short and stated in words (a property of good bases in
CT), they are less specific than those adopted in typological studies. In typological
approaches to negation based on stratified or convenience samples, the definitions
tend to be restrictive because they have a very limited domain of application without
an independent motivation. To date, this issue has been largely addressed in the
typological literature by defining a loose concept known as standard negation.
For instance, in his survey of the variety of forms negation can take, Payne (1985: 189)
defines the concept of ‘standard’ negation as a helpful starting point from which to
compare other, more complex structures:
By ‘standard’ negation we understand that type of negation that can apply to the most minimal
and basic sentences. Such sentences are characteristically main clauses, and consist of a single
predicate with as few noun phrases and adverbial modifiers as possible.
attempting to establish semantic primitives,—the building blocks of language to which all semantic
concepts can be reduced—Wierzbicka (1972) proposes that all negatives can be explained in terms of
the primitive DISWANT. In later treatments of the topic (e.g. Wierzbicka 1996), she also includes NOT as
a semantic primitive, indicating that negation is a difficult concept to manage without in expressing the
core features of language.
26 Oliver Bond
While restricting the domain of investigation, Payne’s perspective on negation,
following discussion of Klima (1964), doesn’t provide a cross-linguistically applicable
definition; he identifies a morphosyntactic domain (through language-specific diag-
nostics), not a semantic or functional one.
Similarly, Dahl’s (1979: 79) typology of sentence negation is restricted to ‘simple,
indicative sentences with a verbal predicate’ in order to delimit his survey. He
comments that ‘insufficient coverage’ in existing descriptions, of other areas of
grammar related to negation, such as the interaction of negation and focus, or
negation and indefinite pronouns, make it difficult to include these additional
aspects of negation comprehensively in a linguistic survey:
We thus formulate as a necessary condition for something to be called Neg that it be a means for
converting a sentence S1 into another sentence S2 such that S2 is true whenever S1 is false.
In Dahl’s definition, negatives are clearly derived from affirmatives semantically and
to the extent that an element called Neg is identifiable, perhaps also morphosyntac-
tically.
Dryer (1989) is much more vague about which negative constructions should be
considered for a successful comparison across languages. In his study into the
position of negative morphemes in relation to other clause level constituents,
Dryer (1989: 93) only examines morphemes that express ‘simple clausal negation’.
He defines this concept negatively by listing what it does not include, such as
negative quantifiers and derivational affixes:
The negative morphemes examined in this paper are those that express simple clausal negation,
like ‘not’ in the English sentence . . . John does not see Mary. Morphemes expressing semantically
more complex negative meanings, such as the English words never and nobody and derivational
affixes like the English prefix un-, are not examined.
Here, the terms ‘simple clausal negation’ and ‘semantically more complex’ them-
selves need further explicit explanation for his study to be repeatable.
It is clear from the variability in the content of these definitions that in order to
draw substantive conclusions regarding the morphosyntactic, semantic, and prag-
matic behaviour of negative constructions cross-linguistically, a systematic approach
to which constructions should be included within the domain of negation is favour-
able. Recently, a resolution to this issue has been attempted by Miestamo (2005: 42),
who proposes the following definition of standard negation as a cross-linguistic
domain:
A SN [standard negation] construction is a construction whose function is to modify a verbal
declarative main clause expressing a proposition p in such a way that the modified clause
expresses the proposition with the opposite truth value to p, i.e.  p, or the proposition used as
the closest equivalent to  p in case the clause expressing  p cannot be formed in the language,
and that is (one of) the productive and general means the language has for performing this
function.
A base for canonical negation 27
Miestamo’s definition takes into account a number of issues that are relevant to the
typological comparison of languages. First, it delimits the properties of a particular
domain which may be compared cross-linguistically: negation of propositions. More
specifically, the domain of investigation is restricted to main clauses, thus ruling out
subordinate clauses, which often exhibit different morphosyntactic properties to
main clauses within the same language. Some more contentious issues concerning
this definition are highlighted by Miestamo (2005: 42–5) himself. For instance, the
proposed domain of standard negation is restricted to clauses that are both declara-
tive and verbal. In doing so, standard negation is restricted primarily to unmarked
clause types (cf. Dahl’s (1979) field of comparison). Second, Miestamo’s definition
characterizes standard negation as being productive and general, criteria which rule
out negative constructions that are idiosyncratic of individual or small classes of
verbs (i.e. a negation strategy that is not productive across the language in question)
or those strategies that are ‘productive’ yet still secondary to, or less frequently
occurring than a more general strategy available to negate the same positive prop-
osition. Since these are not characteristics of LN in a broad sense, such properties are
more suited to criteria in the CT approach.
One of the least explicit qualities of Miestamo’s definition of SN lies in his
characterization of the ‘opposite of p’ which he delimits as ‘p, or the proposition
used as the closest equivalent of p’. From this description alone it is not clear how
these constructions might be identified. What Miestamo aims to capture here are
asymmetries between the grammatical distinctions made in affirmative and negative
constructions.
Undoubtedly, a well-delimited domain of investigation is desirable for a manage-
able and comprehensive typological survey that aims to make consistent and valid
comparisons across languages. However, the same restrictions that allow consistent
comparison of structures across languages may also serve to exclude other interest-
ing facets of negation marking which do not meet predefined criteria for inclusion.
For example, non-productive negative constructions (eschewed in Miestamo’s typo-
logical study) may contribute information about an earlier stage in the language in
question and thereby contribute to our understanding of diachronic processes in the
negation domain.
The definitions outlined above demonstrate that in typological work to date there
is no clear choice for a CT base for the study of LN, since most attempts to constrain
negation to a ‘subtype’. One principle in establishing a base in CT identified here is
that the starting point should be broad and maximally inclusive. The working
definitions used in previous typological studies have been constrained to be exactly
the opposite, i.e. they delimit the domain to a manageable size. Since CT has
different mechanisms for restraining domains from conventional typology it permits
this seemingly radical broad-based approach. As a ‘difficult phenomenon’, LN is
thus a prime target for the canonical typological methodology because CT permits
28 Oliver Bond
an approach in which specific formal characteristics associated with a language
function can be dealt with independently of the definitional characteristics of the
phenomenon.
The empirical reasons for adopting a broad base for negation are clear. There is a
great deal of variation in terms of what types of distinction are made within
languages in terms of how many negative strategies are employed. Yet despite the
wealth of descriptive and theoretical work on negation, there is no explicitly agreed
concept of the properties of negation from a typological perspective.
2.4 A base for linguistic negation
Based on the characterization of LN provided in Bond (2007, 2008, 2009), I propose
the following definition of LN as one that is suitable for use as a base in a CT
approach:
Negation constructions model a binary contrast between a state of affairs in a grammatically
framed alternate reality in relation to the state of affairs in the communicated reality such that
some or all of the properties of the alternate reality are excluded from the set of possible
properties of the communicated reality.
In this definition, the communicated reality is the version of the world that is
described by a speaker through the use of a sentence. A communicated reality need
not be a faithful representation of the world. It may be deliberately misrepresented, it
may be based on (direct or false) perception (and thus considered factual), or it may
be based on an (erroneous, unquestioned, or evidence-based) belief. It is simply a
version of reality being communicated at a particular time, by a particular person.
Both affirmative and negative constructions can provide a characterization of
reality, but they do so in different ways. Each communicated reality can be thought
of as an abstract set of properties, which contains members (i.e. elements of
meaning) that characterize it. Members can be added to the set through the use of
affirmative declaratives; they indicate that their informational component belongs to
the set of elements that characterize the communicated reality. Negative declaratives,
on the other hand, indicate which elements are excluded from a set of possible
characterizations of the communicated reality. The core semantic property of
negation is to exclude elements from the membership of a particular set. The
elements of information excluded from the set comprise the semantic locus of
negation (i.e. that which falls within the scope of negation).
In order for a negative construction to be uttered or interpreted, a mental
conception of an alternate reality must be available, in order to determine
which components of information are excluded from the set that characterizes
the communicated reality. This is not necessary for the interpretation of an affirma-
tive construction. The mental representation of an alternate reality deployed in the
A base for canonical negation 29
interpretation of negative constructions is sometimes called the counterfactual
(cf. Fauconnier 1994), or affirmative counterpart. The semantic properties of
this counterfactual reality are often consistent with the presuppositions of an
interlocutor (Ducrot 1973; Givón 1978, 1979). Because a mental representation of
a specific alternate reality is required in order that a negative construction
be interpretable, and its presence may have grammatical consequences (e.g. in
reference resolution), this alternate reality is described here as gramatically
framed. Evidence to support the view that negative sentences involve mental
representations of an alternate ‘counterfactual’ reality is discussed by Fauconnier
(1994) and Verhagen (2005).
In the view presented here, negation involves a contrast between the properties of
two different versions of reality. This contrast is binary in that elements of meaning
are judged to either belong to the set of elements that characterize a particular
communicated reality, or be excluded from that set. However, set-membership itself
is determined by the individual interlocutors, often based on subjective judgements,
rather than objective ‘truth’, making set-membership potentially variable across
speakers and situations.
A ‘strong’ approach to the characterization of LN states that a construction is
only a manifestation of negation if the possibility of a ‘third way’ is excluded;
every reality must be exhaustively characterized by the negative or its counterfactual.
In conventional accounts of negation in language, this is captured by the law of
the excluded middle or LEM using truth-values (see Horn 2001: 18–21 for
discussion). This law of logic, which dates back to Aristotle, is used to distinguish
between contradictory opposites and contrary opposites. Given the broad approach
taken here, and the controversy surrounding the relationship between logic and
linguistic negation (cf. Ladusaw 1996; Krifka 2007) it does not seem necessary to
stipulate this explicitly as a defining characteristic of linguistic negation, making it a
potential source for a criterion associated with the base, rather than part of the base
itself.7
Negatives remain informative by triggering inferential processes. For instance, the
interpretation of a negative imperative like Don’t leave the fridge door open! indicates
that an alternate reality in which the necessary and sufficient properties associated
with the addressee leaving the fridge door open are met, is excluded from the set of
possible situations that the speaker wishes to be realised. This is likely to trigger the
inference that the addressee should close the fridge door, because ‘open’ and ‘closed’
are conventionally used as mutually exclusive concepts.
7
I am grateful to Bill Croft for drawing my attention to the significance of the LEM to the position
taken here. In the Aristotelian approach to contradictory and contrary oppositions, the contrast embody-
ing mutual inconsistency is referred to as the law of non-contradiction (LNC) or as the law of contradic-
tion. See Horn (1978, 2001).
30 Oliver Bond
One necessary property of LN is its formal manifestation; negative constructions
must be unequivocally indicated by their structural and/or prosodic characteristics.
It is only when a binary contrast is productively and overtly modelled that we speak
of negative constructions. However, the base used here makes no reference to the
exact manner in which negation is manifested or at what level of grammar. It
therefore includes (some instances of) ‘derivational’ morphology, constituent neg-
ation, clausal negation and, at the bi-clausal level, conjunctions and counterfactual
constructions providing they meet the properties of the base.
Cross-linguistic evidence points to the fact that LN must be constructional
(cf. Crystal’s definition of negation) and not just associated with individual mor-
phemes. While certain forms are favoured cross-linguistically for expressing ‘sub-
types’ of negation (see for instance Dahl 1979; Payne 1985), LN, as defined in the base
proposed above, is not always marked by segmental material. The motivation for a
constructional, and not segmental, approach can be seen in examples from Old
Tamil and other Southern Dravidian languages in which negation of some predicates
may be expressed by the use of a construction that differs from affirmatives only by
the absence of tense morphemes. For instance, the affirmative clauses in (1) are
inflected for tense with the past suffix -in
. and differ segmentally from the negatives
only on this basis (see Master 1946, Pederson 1993, and Pilot-Raichoor 1998 for
discussion and further examples).8
(1) Old Tamil (Southern Dravidian, Dravidian; India)
a. kān
.-in
.-ān
. b. kān
.-ān
.
see-pst-3sg see-3sg
‘He saw.’ ‘He does/did/will not see.’
(Pederson 1993: 233)
Similarly, in some constructions, in certain languages, the contrast between affirma-
tive and negative is indicated by tone alone, with no structural asymmetry between
the affirmative and negative. For instance, in Mbembe, person prefixes with high
tone are employed to signal future (2a), while the same segmental form with a low
tone signals negation (2b).
(2) Mbembe (Cross-River, Niger-Congo; Nigeria)
a. mó-cí b. mò-cí
3.fut-eat 3.neg-eat
‘He will eat.’ ‘He won’t eat.’
(Barnwell 1969: 80)
8
Throughout the chapter, all languages used to exemplify points are listed with their genus, family
(where different from their genus), and principal location spoken.
A base for canonical negation 31
Although rare in general, negation marked by a tonal contrast is found in West
Africa, including Mano, a Mande language of Ivory Coast (Becker-Donner 1965,
cited in Dahl 1979: 72), an Igbo, an Igboid language of Nigeria (Green and Igwe 1963,
discussed in Miestamo 2005: 119–20). Data of this kind provide support for the claim
that any cross-linguistically useful definition of negation must have a semantico-
pragmatic basis; the underlying ‘negativity’ of LN must be identifiable from a
construction independently of its formal manifestation—whether segmental or
prosodic. This is acutely clear in (2), where the negative construction is no more
segmentally marked than the affirmative. Thus an independent semantic explan-
ation of negation, of the type provided above, must exist for proposing the first to be
affirmative and the second negative (and not vice versa).
Unlike other definitions of negation, the base suggested here does not make
explicit reference to the form, scope, or logical entailments of negation, as is the
norm in theoretical, philosophical, and typological work on the subject to date (e.g.
Klima 1964; Horn 2001; Miestamo 2005). While undoubtedly controversial for the
study of negation in general, this is the most appropriate methodological stance to
take within CT. Using a broad definition of LN and confining structural, applicabil-
ity, and semantico-pragmatic properties of negation to criteria does not obliterate or
downplay the observations of others who hold a more conservative, Eurocentric, or
Latinate view of negation; it simply casts their findings in a different light—as
properties specific to certain subtypes of negation. For instance Klima (1964)
noted the differences between ‘standard negation’ and ‘constituent negation’ in
English and proposed diagnostics for distinguishing the two. While the empirical
observations he made still hold, they must be considered language-specific diagnos-
tics for distinguishing subtypes of LN.9
2.5 Canonical negation
The relationship between the base and criteria used in CT to instantiate the canon
should be empirically motivated and point to the ‘best’ and ‘clearest’ instances of a
phenomenon (Corbett 2006: 9). Here, I propose that identification of canonical
properties can be motivated by functional-typological principles that preserve opti-
mum regularity and analytical transparency across a negation system, whilst limiting
complexity. In the following three sections, a non-finite set of criteria roughly
concerning structural, applicability, and semantico-pragmatic properties of canon-
ical negation are proposed, based on empirically observed variation within and
across negation systems. The criteria are then summarized in section 2.5.4.
9
These diagnostics are not widely adaptable to other languages (although see Frawley (1992: 392–5) or
de Haan (1997: 28–41) for a different view), principally because they rely on the existence of negative
conjunctions and certain clausal structures not found in every language.
32 Oliver Bond
2.5.1 Structural properties of canonical negation
Criteria C-1 to C-6 identify those structures that provide the clearest evidence for the
structural identification of LN in language. Variation along these parameters is
supported by the observations of studies by Dahl (1979), Payne (1985), Dryer
(1989), and Miestamo (2005) amongst others:
Structural criteria
C-1: structurally symmetric > structurally asymmetric
C-2: free negator > dependent negator
C-3: segmentable negator > non-segmentable negator
C-4: few negative morphs per strategy > multiple negative morphs per strategy
C-5: negative marker close to locus > negative marker distant from locus
C-6: negative marker before locus > negative marker after locus
The first criterion (C-1) concerns structural similarity between the negative con-
struction in question and the formal realization of its affirmative counterpart (often
its discourse presupposition). Symmetric negation occurs when there is an analo-
gous relationship between the presence of negation semantics and an associated
structural index, usually a negative particle, affix, or auxiliary. For instance, Mies-
tamo (2005: 52) proposes that the following examples from Ket are in a symmetric
relationship, since the only morphosyntactic difference between (3a) and (3b) is the
presence of the negative particle b@nj
(Miestamo 2005: 52):
(3) Ket (Yeniseian; Russia)
a. at bu (t)-lj
uveruGavet
1sg 3sg 1sg-love
‘I love her.’
b. at bu b@nj
(t)-lj
uveruGavet
1sg 3sg neg 1sg-love
‘I don’t love her.’
(Werner 1997: 181)
Conversely, Maasai indicative verbal main clauses exhibit instances of asymmetric
negation (Miestamo 2005: 86). In (4) the negative construction differs from the
affirmative not only by the presence of the negative auxiliary eitu, but also in the
absence of the past tense suffix -a.
(4) Maasai (Nilotic, Nilo-Saharan; Kenya, Tanzania)
a. a-inos-a b. eitu a-inos
1sg-eat-pst neg 1sg-eat
‘I ate.’ ‘I did not eat.’
(Mol 1995: 60, 70)
A base for canonical negation 33
All negative constructions are necessarily asymmetric in some sense. For this reason,
only structural asymmetries other than the presence of a negative formative are
relevant here. For practical reasons, the contribution of non-segmental material to
the instantiation of negation is dealt with in C-13. Affirmatives and negatives that
differ only in terms of their prosodic features are therefore classified as structurally
symmetric.
Symmetric negation is more canonical than asymmetric negation since it pre-
serves an analogous, and thus iconic one-to-one relationship between meaning and
form (c.f. Miestamo 2005).
Typological studies into the form of negative morphemes consistently report that
invariant particles are the most common indication of negation in declarative verbal
main clauses (Dahl 1979; Payne 1985; Dryer 1989; Miestamo 2005). Negative particles
are the paramount example of free negators because of the syntagmatic isomorphism
they exhibit. Free negators are taken to be canonical because they are closer to
maintaining this iconic ideal than dependent negators (C-2).
Several examples of lexically free negators have been given above, namely in the
examples from Ket (3) and Maasai (4). A further example of a (segmentable) free
negator is provided in (5) from Semelai. While the negator da? exhibits a fixed
position, it is not lexically dependent on any item in the construction.
(5) Semelai (Aslian, Austro-Asiatic; Malaysia)
da? ?yot k@hn ke
neg return 3s that
‘He didn’t return.’
(Kruspe 2004: 316)
Negators that are dependent on (and necessarily bound to) some other lexical
element are taken to be less canonical than free ones, which may also be dependent
in some sense but at a higher level of syntax or phonology. For the purposes of this
study, dependency is judged to include stem level processes such as reduplication
and affixation and indeed suppletion, but not phrase or clause level phenomena. For
this reason, invariant particles, phrase and sentence level clitics, and auxiliaries
(inflecting or otherwise) are judged to be lexically free. Morphological dependency
is a property of a negative morpheme, not a whole negative strategy, since a strategy
may be characterized by the presence of multiple negative formatives of different
lexical dependency.
Negative formatives may be clearly segmentable, as is the case with agglutinating
morphology, or non-segmentable, in which case they are part of a portmanteau
formative or some other constructional property. Examples of both segmentable and
non-segmentable dependent negators are provided in (6) from Yamphu. In both
examples the segmentable negator mæn is prefixed to a lexical verb (its exact shape
34 Oliver Bond
subject to general phonological processes), with person, number, aspect, and factitive
markers occurring as suffixes.
(6) Yamphu (Bodic, Sino-Tibetan; Nepal)
a. mo.ba hago khim.bet.tu.ran.so ima‰.so
that.ela now house.loc.upw.med.too what.too
mæy.ya‰.?u?.itt.i‰.m.æ
neg.carry.bring_down.prf.exps.12nsg.fct
‘We hadn’t brought down anything from home.’
b. das mæ‰.ga.di?.ye læ. iskul
das<ten> neg.cry.negprf.fct newa school
lag.ba mæl.lu.di?.ye
lāgnu.nom<be.the.case> neg.be.negprf.fct
‘It hadn’t yet struck ten. School hadn’t started yet.’
(Rutgers 1998: 223–4)
(Note that items glossed in angle brackets are Nepali words.)
In (6a) the verb stem is marked with the Simple Perfect suffix -?itta  -?itt  -?it,
with the surface form –itt, while in (6b) the verb stem is marked by the Negative
Perfect tense marker -titt  -tit -with the surface form -di?. The use of the Simple
Perfect suffix in a negative construction like (6a) indicates that an event has not
taken place. The only structural indication of negation here is the segmentable
negator mæn. In (6b), the two negative clauses are characterized by both the
segmentable negator mæn and the non-segmentable Negative Perfect morpheme.
This strategy is used to indicate an event that has not taken place but that is still
expected to take place in the future. Segmentable negators are more canonical than
non-segmentable negators in that they respect an isomorphic ideal (C-3). The
segmentable negator mæn is thus more canonical than the non-segmentable negator
-titt  -tit in that it can form part of a symmetric strategy (Rutgers 1998: 110).
Given that symmetric negation with a free negator is taken to be canonical, it is
possible to further restrict the clearest examples of negation to strategies that only
include a single negative morph(eme), and not multiple morph(eme)s marking
negation, thus making such constructions less asymmetrical than those with mul-
tiple exponents of negation (C-4). This canonical property is motivated by syntag-
matic iconicity. One could further argue that this position falls out from canonical
morphology, in that we would expect concatenation and a single exponent for the
inflectional ideal (cf. Corbett 2005). The symmetrical Ket example in (3b) exhibits
this canonical property.
Negation strategies involving more than one negative formative are widely
attested across the world’s languages. Negation with multiple morphological expo-
nence is sometimes referred to as either double negation (or even triple negation,
A base for canonical negation 35
depending on the number of morphological exponents) or bipartite (and tripartite
etc.) negation. In this study, I avoid the term ‘double negation’ (and its corollaries)
because it is often used to describe a situation in which the use of two negative forms
within the same negative construction results in the logical reversal of the truth value
of the negator with the highest scope negation (neutralizing the negative interpret-
ation of the lower scoped item).
Bipartite negation, where two separate exponents characterize the negative strat-
egy is fairly common and in some regions of the world (e.g. South America) it seems
to be quite normal to encounter a language with split inflection marking negation.
For instance, in Wayampi, negation is expressed using an obligatory nasal prefix n-
and a suffix -i attached to an inflected verb (7).
(7) Wayampi (Tupi-Guarani, Tupian; Brazil)
a. N-a-’u-i b. N-o-juka-i
neg-1sg.a-eat-neg neg-3a-kill-neg
‘I didn’t eat it.’ ‘He didn’t kill it.’
(Jensen 1994: 344–5)
A similar situation holds in certain negative constructions in Maricopa, in which the
verb has a negative proclitic aly¼ and a negative suffix -ma, which lies closer to the
stem than the realis suffix -k.
(8) Maricopa (Yuman, Hokan; USA)
chii-sh ha han-ly aly¼dik-ma-k
fish-sbj river-in neg¼lie-neg-r
‘There aren’t any fish in the river.’
(lit. ‘The fish aren’t lying in the river.’)
(Gordon 1986: 72)
(Note that the free forms ha han translate as ‘river’.)
In other languages with indices of negation distributed throughout the clause, such
as Dhaasanac, special verb forms employed only in negative constructions may
accompany a more segmentable marker of negation. For instance, in B’s response
to A’s question in (9), the negative particle ma precedes ?árgiJ, the negative form of
the verb ‘see’. This contrasts with the form of the verb in A’s question, namely
?argiyyu, which occurs in the verb-form Tosco labels as dep.b.
(9) Dhaasanac (Eastern Cushitic, Afro-Asiatic; Ethiopia)
A: kúo kíð ?argiyyu
2sg.sbj enemy see.dep.b
‘Do you see the enemy?’
36 Oliver Bond
B: yáa kíð ma ?árgiJ h
a yú maali
1sg.sbj enemy neg see.neg foc io hear.ipfv.a
‘I didn’t see the enemy, I (just) heard (him).’
(Tosco 2001: 268)
Clearly there is something different about the multiple exponence of negation in
Dhaasanac, Maricopa, and Wayampi, yet in each example, negation is formally
manifested twice. Much like counting asymmetries between negative constructions
and their semantic affirmative counterparts (if they exist), counting the number of
morphemes that contribute to the expression of negation in a single clause is
problematic for a number of methodological and theoretical reasons. Furthermore,
if exact quantification of negative formatives per strategy is taken to be important, it
remains unclear if different manifestations of negation should each be attributed the
same import.
In establishing the number of exponents of negation in a strategy, it seems
reasonable to claim that those items that are obligatory in a particular construction
yet never occur outside negative contexts are negators. For instance, negative
polarity items such as yet in English, which is required in certain negative contexts
such as (10a), is not considered to be a negator by this criterion given that it is also
permissible outside negative constructions (Haspelmath 1997), such as in questions
(10b).
(10) a. I haven’t finished writing the book yet.
b. Have you finished writing your book yet?
C-5 and C-6 are concerned with placement of negative morphemes in relation to
structural elements within the clause, as studied by Dryer (1989). In the clearest
examples of negation, the scope of negation is associated with the clause in which the
formal manifestation of the strategy is located; it is structurally close to the con-
stituent within the scope of negation. This has been called direct negation by
Haspelmath (1997). However, there are several possibilities concerning the location
of the negator. One well known instance of this occurs when negation of a subor-
dinate clause is indicated through the negation of a matrix clause containing a psych
verb. This is commonly known as neg-raising (Horn 1978, 2001) or attraction
of the negative (Jespersen 1917; Moscati 2006) on the basis that the negative of the
subordinate clause, as in (11a) is ‘attracted’, i.e. ‘raised’ to a position in the matrix
clause as in (11b).
(11) a. I think he hasn’t come.
b. I don’t think he has come.
This is referred to as superordinate negation by Haspelmath (1997: 32) because
the negation in the superordinate clause (i.e. matrix clause), as in (11) logically
A base for canonical negation 37
belongs to the subordinate (i.e. embedded clause). The proximity of a negator or
negators to whatever falls within the scope of negation is included within the criteria
because there is a cross-linguistic preference (at least in indicative verbal main
clauses) for formatives marking negation to occur close to the semantic locus of
negation (C-5). This criterion assumes an analogy between conceptual distance and
structural distance.
Another important property of negative strategies is the linear order of the
negation and semantic locus of negation, with a pre-locus position taken to be
canonical (C-6), because the early communicative intent of negation would (at
least theoretically) aid the efficiency of information exchange. The term locus is
used here to ensure that a distinction is made between the position of the negator in
relation to the clause, predicate, and elements within the predicate, in particular the
head of the predicate and dependents. The following sentences from Hungarian
clearly exemplify a negator occurring before and close to the semantic locus (indi-
cated in square brackets). If the verbal predicate falls within the scope of negation,
the negative particle nem occurs immediately before the verb stem of the VP as in
(12a). Yet when only a subpart of the predicate is in the scope of negation, nem
occurs in front of the element to be negated, which itself occurs in a position
preceding the verb, as in (12b–c).
(12) Hungarian (Ugric, Uralic; Hungary)
a. Nem [kap-t-am a pénz-t]
neg receive-pst-1sg the money-acc
‘I did not get the money.’
b. Gábor nem [úsz-ni] akar
Gábor neg swim-inf want
‘It is not swimming that Gábor wants.’
c. Nem [Ildikó-val] találkoz-t-am
neg Ildikó-com meet-pst-1sg
‘It was not Ildikó whom I met.’
(Groot 1994: 146, 150)
Proximity of the negator to the content within the scope of negation has also been
shown to be the typologically most common configuration for negation of declara-
tive verbal main clauses, where the negators of predicates have a strong preference to
be structurally close to the verb (Dryer 1989). In less canonical instances of negation,
the negator is not in structural proximity to the content within its scope. This is the
case when negation is marked by an (optional) clause initial particle and an
obligatory clause final particle, as in (13).
38 Oliver Bond
(13) Mupun (West Chadic, Afro-Asiatic; Nigeria)
(ba) kˆ n-se lua nyer kas
neg pfv 1sg-eat meat bird neg
‘I did not eat the bird meat.’
(Frajzyngier 1993: 353)
In this example, the obligatory clause final particle is separated from the head of
the predicate by a nominal object, and is thus neither structurally close to the verb,
nor before the semantic locus of negation. Mupun constructions in which the
‘optional’ clause initial particle is absent are thus non-canonical in relation to both
C-5 and C-6.10
2.5.2 Applicability constraints on canonical negation
When identifying negation strategies within a system of negation, the clearest
instances of negation are those in which the manifestation of negation is obligatory
(C-7), generally applicable (C-8), and productive in that they may be used easily in
contemporary, non-formulaic speech and with new lexical items (C-9):
Applicability criteria
C-7: obligatory > optional
C-8: general > restricted
C-9: productive > non-productive
C-10: multiple negative functions > restricted negative functions
In the most canonical negation strategies, the negative formatives that contribute to
the negative sense of the strategy are all always obligatory. This is most clearly seen
in a symmetric system in which negation is marked by a single particle, as in the Ket
example in (3), since if the negative particle were not obligatory, then this could not
be the only indicator of negator in the clause. Negators that are ‘optional’ never have
the complete functional load of negation and therefore always occur in strategies
where one or more other elements contribute to the negative meaning. Such is the
case in (13) from Mupun, where the clause initial negator is ‘optional’ and the clause
final negator obligatory. Similarly, Kresh has an ‘optional’ clause initial negator bãá,
as in (14). Brown (1994: 165) proposes that this negator can be used to presage
negation in contexts where a negative utterance might not be expected, suggesting
10
Following Dryer’s (1989) observations regarding the position of negative formatives in relation to
basic word order, one may wish to consider a further constraint, positing that in canonical negation,
negative formatives do not interrupt the constituent formed by the verb and object. However, this is
presumably not an important property of negation itself, but rather one of constituent structure and
therefore, it does not help identify the examples that best represent the base definition. Nor can it be easily
justified using functional-typological motivations. As such it does not have a sustainable place in the set of
canonical constraints included here.
A base for canonical negation 39
that the clause initial particle might actually be used to flag the informational status
of the utterance.
(14) Kresh (Kresh, Nilo-Saharan; Sudan)
(Bãá) Kôkó ãmbá Gõkó 
dĩ
neg Koko he.hit Goko neg
‘Koko didn’t hit Goko.’
(Brown 1994: 165)
Since canonical properties are idealized, and the base definition of negation concerns
the formal manifestation of LN, it follows that (in negative constructions) obliga-
toriness is a canonical property of a negative morph(eme).
Generality (C-8) and productivity (C-9) of a negative formative are often linked
together in that the productivity of a strategy or formative (i.e. its availability for a
speaker to use with new lexical items or morphosyntactic domains) is a precursor for
(morphosyntactic) generality (i.e. the extent to which a strategy or formative can be
used in a variety of morphosyntactic and lexical domains).11
The best examples of
non-productive negatives are fossilized negative forms. The best examples of non-
general forms are lexical (i.e. suppletive) negatives. Languages in which certain
negative verbs lexicalize high frequency negative concepts are fairly common. This
is arguably the case with English dunno (a contraction of ‘do not know’). Similar
candidates for non-general lexical negators include Mam (Mayan; Guatemala) ky’e
‘not want’ (Collins 1994: 379) and Tuyuca (Tucanoan; Colombia, Brazil) mõõ ‘not
have’ (Barnes 1994: 337). As strategies that are low in generality increase their
domain of use, they become more general. This is the case with non-standard
English ain’t, most convincingly argued to originate from either a contraction of
‘am not’ or ‘are not’ but now used much more pervasively as a negative copula in
some varieties and genres of British and American English (Stevens 1954).
The clearest instances of negation also have multiple functions, since the more
functions a negative strategy has, the broader domain of negation it covers (C-10).
For instance, in Khwe, the clause final negative particle vé may be used to convey
a number of different negative functions including to indicate the non-occurrence
of an event (15a), non-equation between entities (15b), and the non-possession of
an entity (15c). It is also reported to be possible (although not the only possibility)
as the negator in prohibitions and expressions of non-existence (Kilian-Hatz 2008:
127–8, 253).
(15) Khwe (Central Khoisan, Khoisan; Namibia)
a. Xà-ná cácà à kx’áà-à-kò vé
dem-3pl.c alcohol obj drink-npst-hab neg
‘They are not used to drinking alcohol.’
11
While a strategy may be very general, in that it occurs with many different items, this does not
necessarily mean it is productive as new items may conceivably automatically be negated by a restricted
but productive strategy.
40 Oliver Bond
b. Xà-má Góává-mà vé
dem-3sg.m Mbukushu-3sg.m neg
‘He is not a Mbukushu (man).’
c. Tí ki t
ĩĩ vé j’áò à
1sg loc stand neg money foc
‘I have no money/I don’t have money.’
(Kilian-Hatz 2008: 256, 253, 264)
In contrast, the post-verbal particle tí has much more restricted contexts of use: tí
cannot be used beyond prohibitive functions (i.e. it is restricted to negative impera-
tive and negative hortative/jussive constructions). Multifunctional vé can be used in
all prohibitive functions in addition to those exemplified in (15), making it less
restricted in function than tí. Functionality is different from generality in that
generality involves language-specific morphosyntactic environments, while func-
tionality involves empirically motivated distinctions between functions that receive
different formal manifestations cross-linguistically.
2.5.3 Semantico-pragmatic properties of canonical negation
The exact scope of negation may vary greatly, with differences in scope discernable
either from the position or form of the negators used or in some cases, only through
the discourse context:
Semantico-pragmatic criteria
C-11: wide scope > narrow scope
C-12: scope structurally unambiguous > scope structurally ambiguous
C-13: suprasegmental features contributive > suprasegmental features not con-
tributive
C-14: informative > elaborated
C-15: focus on binary contrast > focus on additional parameter
C-16: unmediated > mediated
C-17: given referent, new predicate > given predicate, new referent
C-18: presuppositions do not condition form of negator > presuppositions con-
dition form of negator
In line with the observations of Whaley (1997) and Crystal (2003) in their broad
definitions of negation discussed in section 2.3, an adequate base must allow for either
the entire predicate or a portion thereof to fall within the scope of negation. Wide
scope of negation is taken to be canonical (C-11). Differences between wide and
narrow scope of negation can be seen in the form of the English negative elements
in (16), where the narrow scope negator no takes the NP constituent reason to wake
her within its scope, while the wide scope negator n’t takes the whole predicate within
A base for canonical negation 41
its scope. Examples of this kind also demonstrate how CT is sensitive to typologizing
different constructions within languages, and not just languages themselves.
(16) a. I didn’t see a reason to wake the patient. [wide scope]
b. I saw no reason to wake the patient. [narrow scope]
Both examples contrast the communicated reality with an alternate reality in
which a reason to wake the patient is perceived by the subject referent yet the
conventions of their use are different. The wide scope example communicates a
reality in which a reason to wake the patient was not perceived, while the narrow
scope reading communicates a reality in which reasons to wake her were judged
not to exist. In the clearest instances of negation the scope is structurally unam-
biguous (C-12) and also identifiable on the basis of suprasegmental information
(C-13). These properties are considered to be canonical because they help to
identify the status of an utterance as negative, and the exact type of meaning it
expresses.
However, not all languages use the position of the negator(s) to indicate the
scope of negation. In Arizona Tewa, the position or form of the negator does
not determine what is in the scope of negation and neither do prosodic
properties of the sentence, making this strategy non-canonical in terms of
both C-12 and C-13:
Arizona Tewa possesses no segmental means of constituent negation and no suprasegmental
devices, such as stress placement, to permit greater semantic precision. The scope of an Arizona
Tewa negative, unlike that of Isletan Tiwa, is thus structurally indeterminate. In vacuo, one
cannot distinguish in the case of a negated transitive verb, whether the agent, the patient or the
predicate itself is being negated. All three semantic possibilities are realized in identical
morphosyntactic form. (Kroskrity 1984: 100)
Where the preceding discourse fails to disambiguate the scope of negation, negative
constructions are habitually embedded as subordinate clauses, within an affirmative
matrix clause. In other words, the negative construction is elaborated by add-
itional material clarifying the scope. In (17) the negative clause (indicated by square
brackets) is embedded within a matrix clause with the same verb ku:p’e ‘sell’,
indicating that it is the object of the verb that falls within the scope of negation,
not the whole predicate.
(17) Arizona Tewa (Kiowa-Tanoan; USA)
[se’éwe we-dó-ku:p’e-wan-dí-dí] t’ummele dó-ku:p’e-wan
pottery neg-1/3:actv-sell-compl-neg-sub plaque 1/3:actv-sell-compl
‘I didn’t sell pottery, I sold a (wicker) plaque.’
(Kroskrity 1984: 100)
42 Oliver Bond
Elaborated negative strategies are considered to be non-canonical because the
context-independent negative clause lacks explicit unambiguous formal encoding
of the exact meaning it conveys (C-14).
The semantic focus of a negative construction may be more than the binary contrast
between mutually exclusive versions of reality (C-15). For instance, in Kayardild, one
of the negators, -nangarra, has an additional semantic focus in that it indicates that an
event almost happened: ‘-nangarra . . . is used with actions that almost happened at
some point in the past. These are usually undesirable . . . the essential thing is that the
event was expected to happen, but didn’t.’ (Evans 1995: 261):
(18) Kayardild (Tangkic; Australian; Australia)
bulkurdudu ngijin-jina baa-nangarra kurthurr-ina
crocodile.nom 1sg.poss-mabl bite-almost shin-mabl
‘A crocodile almost bit me on the leg.’
(Evans 1995: 261)
Such negatives are non-canonical on the grounds that they make reference to
additional temporal/aspectual focal points/periods. Consequently a strictly binary
characterization of negation in terms of mutually exclusive sets is no longer
sufficient as an explanation of a construction’s meaning, and the syntagmatic
isomorphism of negation is lost. Alternative strategies are used when the semantic
focus of the negation concerns a binary contrast between the occurrence and non-
occurrence of an event, as illustrated by the Kayardild Negative Actual construc-
tion in (20a). Selection of a negation strategy may be further influenced by the way
in which information is presented. Canonical negation is unmediated in the
sense that the commitment of the speaker to an evaluation presented as a negative
construction is not a necessary part of its semantics (C-16). Unmediated negatives
occur when there is a lack of a more specific modality opposing alternate realities;
they essentially correspond to what Timberlake (2007: 328) characterizes as
indicatives. Mediated negatives, on the other hand, have modal characteristics
in that they involve mediation between alternate realities before negation applies.
Thus, mediated negatives are non-canonical on the grounds of their greater
semantic complexity (i.e. their reference to additional alternate realities). In
some languages, such as Evenki, inherently negative modal verbs are employed
when a negative is mediated. The verb alba ‘not want, not be able, cannot’ implies
that the action denoted by the converb was (unsuccessfully) attempted, as in (19a).
Negative modals in Evenki require a second conditional temporal converb marked
with the suffix -mi, here ichet ‘watch’. In contrast, recent past situations that are
unmediated are encoded with the non-future affix -si and negated with the
inflected negative auxiliary e as in (19b).
A base for canonical negation 43
(19) Evenki (Tungusic, Altaic; Russia)
a. Bi alba-m ichet-che-mi
i mod.nfut-1sg watch-ipfv-cond.cvb
‘I could not watch it (because my eyes ached).’
b. Si e
-va:da e-si-nni duku-ra
you anything-acc:encl neg-nfut-2sg write-ffnlv
‘You have not written anything (just now).’
(Nedyalkov 1994: 33, 17)
Whether information is discourse old or new is also relevant to the encoding of
negation (C-17). For instance, in Kayardild, the verbal suffix -THarri is used to
signal negation when (i) the speaker knows the action in the predicate is not taking
place or has not taken place and (ii) the negated predicate is about a given referent,
as in (20a). However, a construction involving the privative suffix -warri on a
nominalized verb may be employed where the predicate is (discourse) given and
the subject is offered as a new entity of which the negative predicate is true, as in
(20b):
(20) Kayardild (Tangkic, Australian; Australia)
a. ngada raa-jarri banga-y maarra
1sg.nom spear-neg.act turtle-mloc all
bijarrba-ya raa-j
dugong-mloc spear-act
‘I didn’t spear any turtle, I only speared dugong.’
b. ngada raa-n-marri banga-y ngijin-da thabuju raa-j
1sg.nom spear-nmlz-priv turtle-mloc my-nom eb(nom) spear-act
‘I didn’t spear the turtle, my brother speared (it).’
(Evans 1995: 374)
For canonical negation, I assume that the best instances of negation will satisfy the
general principles of information structure (Lambrecht 1994; Erteschik-Shir 2007),
with new information typically occurring in the predicate.
In some languages, the choice of a particular negation strategy hinges not on
information structure in discourse, but on whether any expectations exist about the
occurrence of a particular state of affairs (C-18). For instance, Samoan has two
prenuclear negative particles le
 and le'i (Mosel and Hovdhaugen 1992: 142) which
are distinguished semantically and pragmatically by functions sensitive to presup-
positions. While the primary function of le
is indicated as the non-occurrence of a
state of affairs (21a), le'i is employed in cases where an event or state has not been
actualized at the reference time, but is expected to be so (21b), and in similar cases
44 Oliver Bond
where it is made known that an event that was expected to happen, or that was
thought to have happened, did not occur (21c).
(21) Samoan (Oceanic, Austronesian; Samoa)
a. Sa na le
 iloa foliga o le alii
pst 3sg neg know feature(sp.pl) poss art ali'i
Amerika ua la nonofo
America prf 3.du stay(pl)
‘She did not know the face [because she was blind] of the American man
she was married to.’
b. O le tasi po, na ou faalogo ai i
pres art one night pst 1sg listen anaph locd
le tala a l¼o¼'u tama e uiga i
art story poss art¼poss¼1sg father genr concern locd
pagota e toa¼tolu ua lima tausaga
prisoner(sp.pl) genr hum¼three prf five year(sp.pl)
o sue e leoleo e lei maua.
prog search erg police(sp.pl) genr not.yet find
‘One night I listened to a story by my father about three prisoners
for whom the police had been searching for five years but (they) had not
yet found them.’
c. Ta te lei manatu e oo mai i inei.
1sg(em) genr not.yet think genr reach drct locd here
Ou te lei manatu lava tou te
1sg genr not.yet think emph 2pl genr
malaga mai i nei aso
travel drct locd these day(sp.pl)
‘I didn’t think that [you] would come here today. Really. I didn’t think
you would visit me these days.’
(Mosel and Hovdhaugen 1992: 477, 479, 480)
These examples demonstrate that the importance of expectations or presuppositions
to the interpretation of a negative construction can be explicitly encoded in the form
of the negator. What remains unclear in cases like these is whether the expectations
that are not met are those of the speaker, the hearer, both, or neither.
2.5.4 Finding a canonical instance of negation
The criteria proposed here can be summarized in the following description:
The canonical negation strategy is structurally symmetric with its counterpart possi-
bility, and indicated by suprasegmental information and a single obligatory, general
A base for canonical negation 45
and productive, invariant, mono-morphemic, negative particle, that immediately
precedes the locus of negation. The negative strategy has unambiguous wide scope,
and focuses on a binary contrast. The canonical negation strategy has a wide range of
negative functions. The canonical negative clause is unmediated and informative.
Presuppositions do not condition the form of the negation strategy.
In CT, the criteria devised indicate the properties of a canon that (in theory) could
exist. A more incidental concern resulting from this enterprise is whether a real life
example of CN is attested. Of the fifty or so languages examined for the purposes of
this study, no clear candidate for an example of CN appeared. This is presumably
because as the generality of a negator increases, frequency effects combined with the
morphosyntactic and prosodic properties of the new environments of use motivate
changes in the form and dependency of negative formatives.
2.6 Conclusion
Base definitions or bases in Canonical Typology are minimal: they do not contain
more detail than to establish the necessary conditions for a construction to be
considered relevant to a domain of study. They do not make specific reference to
form, only variation in form. They must not rely on semantic formulae that cannot
be easily applied cross-linguistically. If possible, restrictions on the extent of a base
should be supported by some sort of additional independent evidence from acqui-
sition or psycholinguistics.
Rather than adopting an approach to cross-linguistic variation in which the
definition of a phenomenon is randomly delimited at the outset, CT allows a
broad approach. The base proposed here for LN takes into account how powerful
criteria and the notion of the canon are at establishing methodological infrastructure
for cross-linguistic comparison. By placing problematic aspects of defining negation
into the criteria surrounding a base, those ‘subtypes’ of negation that are problematic
or excluded in typological accounts of negation to date can be recognized as non-
canonical along a principled set of parameters. I have shown that for LN, the base
used does not make reference to formal characteristics of expression, nor does it
make reference to logic—two core properties of previous studies. Rather, it concen-
trates on the semantic contrast that must exist for negation to be manifested and
how this expression can exist independently of assessments.
A canonical approach to typology allows for the integration of different aspects of
language use (e.g. pragmatics/information structure, morphosyntax, semantics, fre-
quency, etc.) into a single approach and does not advocate the primacy of one over
another in accounting for the properties of linguistic phenomena.
Although distinguishing subtypes of negation will be ultimately important, what
seems more fundamental initially is distinguishing between negation and other types
46 Oliver Bond
of linguistic mechanism for comparing possible realities, namely modality. This is
what the base for LN in canonical typology attempts to establish.
Once a base has been established and a canon instantiated by criteria, the base is
no longer so important to the calibration of variation. This is because deviation from
the canon—and why this occurs or is not permitted—becomes the primary goal of
the methodology.
Appendix: Criteria for Canonical Negation
Structural criteria
C-1: structurally symmetric > structurally asymmetric
C-2: free negator > dependent negator
C-3: segmentable negator > non-segmentable negator
C-4: few negative morphs per strategy > multiple negative morphs per strategy
C-5: negative marker close to locus > negative marker distant from locus
C-6: negative marker before locus > negative marker after locus
Applicability criteria
C-7: obligatory > optional
C-8: general > restricted
C-9: productive > non-productive
C-10: multiple negative functions > restricted negative functions
Semantico-pragmatic criteria
C-11: wide scope > narrow scope
C-12: scope structurally unambiguous > scope structurally ambiguous
C-13: suprasegmental features contributive > suprasegmental features not contributive
C-14: informative > elaborated
C-15: focus on binary contrast > focus on additional parameter
C-16: unmediated > mediated
C-17: given referent, new predicate > given predicate, new referent
C-18: presuppositions do not condition form of negator > presuppositions condition form
of negator
A base for canonical negation 47
3
Canonical morphosyntactic features1
GREVILLE G. CORBETT
3.1 Introduction
Features like case, person, and number are often taken for granted. They may be
included in analyses without justification, as being too simple and uniform to require
argumentation. In this they contrast with lexical items, which can have highly
idiosyncratic behaviour, and this contrast is part of the intuitive justification for
features. And yet we should recognize that feature systems are more complex than
that. Features vary: (a) according to how well founded they are, and (b) in how they
are distributed across the lexicon. To analyse this difficult area, I start from an
idealized view, and then plot the deviations from that ideal. In other words, I take a
canonical approach.
Adopting a canonical approach means that we take definitions to their logical end
point, and this enables us to build theoretical spaces of possibilities. Only then do we
investigate how this space is populated with real instances. The canonical instances
are simply those that match the canon: they are the best, the clearest, the indisput-
able ones. Given that they have to match up to a logically determined standard, they
are unlikely to be frequent. They are likely to be rare, and may even be non-existent.
This is not an issue. The convergence of criteria fixes a canonical point from which
the phenomena actually found can be calibrated. We may then go on to an
investigation of the distribution of canonical and less canonical phenomena in
terms of their frequency. The canonical approach has been applied to a variety of
1
Versions of this paper were read at: the University of Brighton, October 2007; the Australian Linguistic
Institute, Sydney, July 2008; the workshop ‘Creating Infrastructure for Canonical Typology’, University of
Surrey, January 2009; the Department of Linguistics, SUNY Stony Brook, March 2009; the Workshop on
Canonical Typology, Eighth Biennial Conference of the Association for Linguistic Typology, Berkeley, July
2009; and the DGfS-CNRS Summer School on Linguistic Typology, Leipzig, August 2010. I am grateful to all
who made comments and suggestions, and especially to Matthew Baerman, Dunstan Brown, Marina
Chumakina, Richard Larson, Leon Poladian, and two anonymous referees.
phenomena in syntax, notably agreement (see the introduction to this volume, and
the working bibliography of this growing body of research, which can be found at
the Canonical Typology page: <http://www.surrey.ac.uk/LIS/SMG/CanonicalTypol-
ogy/index.htm>). Within this approach, I have proposed a specific set of converging
criteria for canonical features and values, concentrating on the genuine morpho-
syntactic features. Various non-canonical behaviours have been identified. To take
one example, we find that a lack of robust formal marking underlies non-autono-
mous case values (those which have no unique morphological form, but are recog-
nized by the patterning across different number values, discussed in section 3.2
below). Rather than being restricted to one feature, like case, parallel behaviour
recurs in different features; see Corbett (2011) for illustration and discussion.
This line of research proves fruitful, but there appears to be a challenging flaw:
fully canonical morphosyntactic features, as described in Corbett (2011) are ideal-
izations, and these idealized features seem indistinguishable one from another. In
other words, the criteria which exclude specific, apparently irrelevant, differences
between features leave us with canonical features which could equally be, say,
number or person. To solve this problem, that is to differentiate canonical morpho-
syntactic features, we examine their interaction with parts of speech. In the canonical
situation, the interaction follows four criteria: exclusiveness, exhaustiveness, closed
class membership, and compositionality, each of which we discuss. The weakenings
of these criteria define a space in which we can locate many problematic phenomena
of morphosyntax. They also differentiate canonical gender from canonical number,
and so on.
3.2 The issue
Canonical morphosyntactic features can be described in terms of two overarching
principles (covering ten converging criteria). According to Corbett (2008c: 6, 10) a
canonical morphosyntactic feature follows these two principles:
Principle I (morphological):
Features and their values are clearly distinguished by formal means (and the clearer the
formal means by which a feature or value is distinguished, the more canonical that feature or
value).
Principle II (syntactic):
The use of canonical morphosyntactic features and their values is determined by simple
syntactic rules.
Various non-canonical behaviours have been identified. One type of deviation from
Principle I is that a lack of robust formal marking can give rise to non-autonomous
case values (Zaliznjak 1973). For instance, the Classical Armenian accusative has no
unique form; rather it is recognized by a pattern of syncretism, being the same as the
Canonical morphosyntactic features 49
nominative in the singular and the locative in the plural (Baerman 2002). This is not
something that we find only with case. We find parallel deviations with other
morphosyntactic features, though sometimes there are different terms which conceal
the parallelism. Thus Romanian has a non-autonomous gender value (the neuter)
and Old Nubian has a non-autonomous person value (the second person). Details
and references are given in Corbett (2011).
This was encouraging, but there appeared to be a logical flaw. If morphosyntactic
features were fully canonical, it would be impossible to tell them apart. They would
be elegant theoretical objects, but indistinguishable one from another.
A natural response to this problem is to appeal to semantics: after all, gender,
person, and number mean different things. Normally they do, and that gives us the
basis for naming the features (just as we name particular values according to their
common functions). But this is not a good strategy for the problem of identical
canonical features. First, because there are tricky instances where semantics would
be misleading: there are examples in English dialects (Siemund 2007) where ‘count’
is a factor in gender assignment, while it ‘ought’ to be concerned with number.
Similarly ‘respect’ in languages like French is a condition on the use of plural
number. Second, this approach can lead to the illegitimate mixing of features,
which we wish to avoid (discussed under Criterion 1, in section 3.4 below). And
third, the whole spirit of the enterprise has been to look for logical criteria, and we
should therefore attempt to do so here as well. Otherwise we could simply relabel
any inconvenient examples of features or values.
One potential logical criterion is this: controller/governor and target/governee
both carry the particular feature (or do not both carry the feature). This distin-
guishes the features as follows:
True for: gender, number, person, respect
False for: case
The point is that a target (say the verb) may be plural because the subject is plural; in
this respect their feature specifications match. But if an object stands in the genitive
because the verb governs the genitive, the verb is not itself genitive. Thus this
potential criterion distinguishes agreement features from governed features (com-
pare Corbett 2006: 7–8). Clearly we need to go further to separate out the features,
and the approach we take will eventually encompass the distinction we have just
noted. The strategy which proves successful is to examine the interaction with
canonical parts of speech.
3.3 Canonical parts of speech
A word on terminology may be helpful. The term ‘part of speech’ is widely used,
including in Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar. The term ‘word class’ is also
50 Greville G. Corbett
found. Lexical Functional Grammar uses ‘lexical category’; we shall avoid this term,
and similarly ‘lexical class’, because of the ambiguity of ‘lexical’. While for some
linguists ‘lexical category’ is a category of lexemes, hence equivalent to ‘part of
speech’, for others the term ‘category’ may be found as equivalent to ‘part of speech’,
with a distinction drawn between ‘lexical category’ (part of speech with lexical
meaning, for instance, noun, verb, and adjective) and ‘functional category’ (part of
speech without lexical meaning, such as auxiliary); this latter use of ‘lexical category’
is found particularly within Minimalism and its precursors. The literature on parts
of speech is extensive; Schachter (1985) was an important reference, more recently,
Trask (1999), Anward (2000, 2001), and Schachter and Shopen (2007) are helpful,
and Baker (2003: 21) gives an account of the treatment in Chomskyan generative
grammar.2
It is occasionally suggested that categorization into parts of speech is not
feasible: see Evans (2006) for a rebuttal of this position.
The key point for our purposes is summarized in Spencer (2005a: 102); Table 3.1,
distilled from different sources including Stump (1998) and Croft (2000), is based on
Spencer’s account:
These are lists of likely characteristics, and there are default links between these
characterizations. In the canonical situation, what Spencer calls the ‘morpholexically
2
For a review of part of speech tagging, with the practical goal of aiding second language acquisition,
see Díaz-Negrillo et al. (2010).
3
The effect of Spencer’s including ‘agreement’ here is to reflect the fact that verbs and adjectives may
show not only inherent inflection (for tense-aspect-mood, voice, or comparison) but also contextual
inflection, by agreement.
Table 3.1 Canonical parts of speech
Canonical semantic functions
Noun denotes referential entities (‘things’)
Verb denotes eventualities (process, telic or otherwise, and also states)
Adjective denotes properties
Canonical syntactic functions
Noun argument (especially Subject) of a Verb; names an entity
Verb relation between arguments; lexical head of a (temporarily situated)
predication
Adjective intransitive predicate; attributive modifier
Canonical inflection
Noun number, person, case, possession, gender, . . .
Verb tense-mood-aspect, voice, agreement,3
. . .
Adjective agreement, comparison, . . .
Canonical morphosyntactic features 51
coherent lexicon’, the members of the classes defined by these three specifications
align perfectly (Spencer 2005a: 102):
all syntactic classes correspond to uniquely characterized morphological classes and
vice versa;
all semantic classes correspond to uniquely characterized morphological classes and
vice versa;
all syntactic classes correspond to uniquely characterized semantic classes and vice
versa.
All that is necessary for our purposes is the notion of a canonical part of speech,
which we define as one in which the semantic, syntactic, and morphological
behaviours line up perfectly.
3.4 Canonical parts of speech and canonical morphosyntactic features
We now return to the question of morphosyntactic features. Work on characterizing
canonical morphosyntactic features seemed to offer considerable progress, since the
possible non-canonical behaviours were interestingly similar across the different
features. But then this problem was noted: fully canonical morphosyntactic features
are idealizations which appear indistinguishable one from another, since the struc-
tural properties that distinguish the features would all be non-canonical. We now
tackle that issue. We noted in section 3.2 that there are difficulties with an appeal to
the semantics of the features. Recall too that a canonical part of speech has a perfect
alignment of semantics, syntax, and morphology. For instance, a canonical noun
would denote an entity, head a nominal phrase, and take the inflectional morph-
ology appropriate in the given language. Given such canonical parts of speech,
the proposed canonical interaction with morphosyntactic features is diagrammed
in Fig. 3.1 (page 53).
For simplicity we consider a minimal system, with two parts of speech, and just
two lexemes included for each; then two features each with two values. This schema
rests on some important idealizations (canonical criteria), which need to be made
explicit. It is the deviations from these criteria which give us the means to differen-
tiate the features. We shall discuss general weakenings as we go through the criteria,
since these are of interest in themselves, then return in section 3.5 to consider how
we can differentiate the features.
Criterion 1: exclusiveness:
A lexical item belongs to just one part of speech;
a value belongs to just one feature.
This criterion is relatively straightforward. Let us consider what happens if either
part of it is weakened. If we allow a lexical item (abbreviated ‘l1’, ‘l2’ . . . in Fig. 3.1)
52 Greville G. Corbett
to belong to more than one part of speech, we find the well-known mixed categories
such as participles. Participles may be analysed as belonging to the parts of speech
‘verb’ and ‘adjective’ (for discussion of a range of such mixed categories see Spencer
2005a). Weakening of the second part of the criterion would allow, for example,
‘dual’ to be a value of number and of person. This weakening would be more
serious; if we allowed values to belong to more than one feature, an inventory of
possible features and their values would become an elusive goal. While our sug-
gested example may seem unlikely, there are published analyses which treat par-
ticular values as belonging to an unexpected feature, thus allowing them to belong
to two features. Given the implications of this move, we should not allow this type
of weakening if at all possible. I believe that the suggested analyses of this type are
not optimal: there are better analyses for the data and these follow the requirement
that a value should belong to just one feature (Corbett forthcoming: Ch. 8). Here
concern for the best analysis of the specific language data and typological interests
come together. For instance, in the Cushitic language Bayso, ‘plural’ had been
treated as a value of gender, so that the feature gender had the values masculine,
feminine, and plural. The system is reanalysed, preserving orthogonal features, in
Corbett and Hayward (1987), an analysis consonant with Criterion 1. Thus we wish
to maintain the requirement of Criterion 1 for morphosyntactic feature values.
Feature: F1 F2
Value: v1 v2 v11 v12
Lexicon: l1 l2 l11 l12
Part of Speech: PoS1 PoS2
Fig. 3.1 Canonical parts of speech and canonical morphosyntactic features
Canonical morphosyntactic features 53
Criterion 2: exhaustiveness:
Every lexical item of every part of speech has available to it all values of all features.
(alternatively: every feature value applies to all lexical items)
In the clearest (canonical) instance, it is evident why we postulate a morphosyntactic
feature, since it generalizes across a large number of items. The point needs making,
since part of speech categories and features can in principle be ‘traded’ in a
description: see Pullum and Tiede (2010). If we did not postulate the feature, in
a situation which was canonical according to Criterion 2, we would have to double
the number of lexical items for each two-valued feature, and would miss evident
generalizations. For instance, if a language has a fully regular number system, in
which each noun and each adjective had singular and plural, we could of course
avoid postulating a number feature by having additional lexical items; we would miss
evident generalizations, and would require additional syntactic rules to give the
effects normally attributed to agreement. Taking this to the logical extreme, if
there is a number feature with the values singular and plural, then in the canonical
situation every lexeme would have singular and plural available to it. The same
notion of exhaustiveness would apply across the board to all features (and their
values) and to all parts of speech (and the lexemes belonging to them).
The weakenings of this criterion are of some interest. The first weakening is that
particular features may not be available to all parts of speech. This is a fairly ‘clean’
weakening, since it applies to the higher-level elements involved (complete features and
complete parts of speech).4
Thus, for instance, in Russian the feature number (both
values) is not available to the part of speech preposition (all lexical items belonging
to that part of speech). We might be tempted to think that semantic considerations
should be invoked here. However, the fact that number is available to the verb, but
not to the preposition, in Russian is not justifiable on semantic grounds: if a verb is
plural, it does not denote more than one event, it shows agreement with a plural
noun phrase. Hence in a particular language we need to specify which parts of
speech have access to which features, and this is a weakening of the canonical
situation. (We return shortly to the limiting instance for this criterion.)
A second, less neat weakening is that in which, within a part of speech, not all
lexical items have access to all values of all features. The simplest instance is that in
which some lexical items have access to a particular feature and some do not: the
latter lie outside the choice (and may take a default value). Consider a language with
three number values, singular, dual, and plural: there may be nominals which are not
number-differentiable. They have no number choice available (and may for instance
appear in a default form equivalent to the singular). The distinction between
4
The lists of likely characteristics in Table 3.1 are of this type, giving typical features for particular parts
of speech (and hence typical weakenings from the fully canonical situation).
54 Greville G. Corbett
number-differentiable nouns and those which are not number-differentiable is likely
to be a principled one, constrained by the Animacy Hierarchy (see Corbett 2000:
54–75).
The weakenings may go further in two directions. Instead of an ‘all-or-none’ type
of access to feature values, some lexical items may have access to some but not all
values. For instances of this in the number systems of Arapesh, Maori, Yimas, and
Manam see Corbett (2000: 90–3). And second, the lexical items with restricted access
may be idiosyncratically labelled rather than being part of a principled division of
the part of speech: we find unexpected gaps in the availability of feature values to
particular lexical items, right through to defectiveness (where there is no acceptable
form for a given context, see Baerman and Corbett 2010).
There are further weakenings of this criterion which will prove important when
we come to the issue of differentiating the features in section 3.5. At this point we
should consider further the first weakening we discussed, in particular the limiting
case where a feature applies to one part of speech only (see Fig. 3.2).
As indicated in our figure, a possible interpretation of this configuration is an
aspect feature for verbs. In the simple situation where there are just two values of
aspect, and each verb has access to both, this state of affairs could equally be
represented as in Fig. 3.3 (page 56).
In this alternative representation, we have two sub-categories of verb, and the
members of each have access to only one value of the feature aspect. In the simplest
situation, there is no obvious way to choose between the two representations. (Of
course, as soon as the picture is less balanced, classical arguments such as regularity
of formation and regularity of meaning will come into play.) For the present
argument, the point is that a feature accessed by a single part of speech has special
properties, and is to be treated separately. For instance, a feature available for one
part of speech only may well show interactions with the lexical semantics of the
V
l1 l2
…
l11 l12
v1 v2
ASPECT
Fig. 3.2 A feature available to just one part of speech
Canonical morphosyntactic features 55
individual lexical items, giving both idiosyncratic instances of lexical meaning and
idiosyncratic gaps in the lexicon. It is this configuration with the attendant special
properties which has led us to separate off such features as ‘morphosemantic’.
Having used our canonical scheme to locate morphosemantic features like
aspect,5
we return to the possible weakenings, which will allow us eventually to
situate the different morphosyntactic features.
Criterion 3: open and closed classes:
All classes are closed, except the class of lexical items.
This is the idealization which makes sense of the distinction between part of speech
and morphosyntactic feature, in the regular correspondences between an open set of
lexical items and closed sets of features and values. The canonical parts of speech
have open membership (sometimes the term ‘lexical category’ is restricted to these).
Their members (lexical items) are called ‘full words’ or ‘content words’.
There are important weakenings here. First, some parts of speech (or often
subcategories of parts of speech) can have closed membership. Besides the usual
suspects (pronouns, conjunctions, and adpositions) we find languages with a closed
class of adjectives, for example. Conversely, features may have large inventories of
values, with a membership that is hard to define. Note, however, that the values
which cause the uncertainty (for example, spatial cases in large case systems) are
typically morphosemantic in nature.
Criterion 4: compositionality:
Given the lexical semantics of a lexical item and a specification of its feature values,
the meaning of the whole is fully predictable.
V
l1 l2 l3 l4 l11 l12 l13 l14
v1 v2
Va Vb
ASPECT
Fig. 3.3 Alternative representation of aspect
5
We are concerned with differentiating the morphosyntactic features. Our approach separates off the
morphosemantic features, but does not differentiate between them.
56 Greville G. Corbett
This criterion makes intuitive sense. A key motivation for separating out features
and their values is the regularity involved. If we had to specify the lexical semantics
of tables quite separately from table, and with no relation to pairings like chairs
and chair, the attraction of the feature-based analysis would be considerably
reduced. However, we certainly find weakenings of this criterion. Staying with
number, we find principled weakenings: the items at the very top of the Animacy
Hierarchy regularly show associative effects (we is typically ‘I plus associate(s)’),
while items at the bottom of the Animacy Hierarchy often allow plurals only when
recategorized (Corbett 2000: 83–7). We do also find quite idiosyncratic inter-
actions; these are more usual, however, with morphosemantic features, as discussed
above.
The weakenings of the four criteria define a space in which we can locate many
problematic phenomena of morphosyntax. Here we concentrate on the key issue of
differentiating features according to this typology.
3.5 Canonicity and common morphosyntactic features
We have defined a theoretical space, giving a canonical morphosyntactic feature in
its canonical relations with a canonical part of speech. We have looked at the
possible weakenings of this set of idealizations. We can now ask which is the
canonical morphosyntactic feature. Let us return to our canonical schema in
Fig. 3.1 (page 53), where each lexical item has access to every feature value. The
morphosyntactic feature that comes closest to this idealization is number. We find
instances where two (or more) parts of speech have all the number values, and
indeed that all of their members do. True, it is common for the nouns involved to
be constrained by the Animacy Hierarchy (Corbett 2000: 54–75) but equally there
are languages where all, or almost all, of the members of different parts of speech
(pronouns, nouns, and verbs) have all the available numbers. Three examples, from
typologically very different families, are: Central Alaskan Yup’ik (Eskimo-Aleut),
Ojibwa (Algonquian), and Miya (Chadic). These are discussed in Corbett (2000:
87); see that source for references. From our perspective, such languages are of
particular interest.
There has been considerable debate on the relative status of features, including,
among others, Greenberg (1963), Bybee (1985), Noyer (1997), Brown (1998), Baerman
et al. (2005: 115–24). Particularly relevant for our discussion is the place of number in
the work of the Set-theoretical School; there number is treated as first in the
deductive order for noun features (see van Helden 1993: 949–55).
If we continue looking at deviations from the canonical schema in Fig. 3.1 (where a
deviation is a weakening of one of the criteria or a combination of such weakenings),
we can locate the other morphosyntactic features.
Canonical morphosyntactic features 57
3.5.1 Deviation 1
The exhaustiveness criterion (Criterion 2) states that in the canonical situation every
lexical item of every part of speech should have available all values of all features.
What if, however, the part of speech as a whole, rather than each lexical item, has
access to all values of a feature? This deviation from the canonical is represented
in Fig. 3.4.
We are concerned with the sole feature included here. It is relevant to two parts of
speech, and so appears to qualify as a morphosyntactic feature. The deviation from
canonicity involves its relation to the first part of speech (PoS1 in Fig. 3.4). While
both of its values are available to that part of speech, as a whole, we do not find
exhaustiveness. Rather we find that lexical entries in that part of speech select for just
one of the values. This gives a clear asymmetry between the parts of speech involved.
Let us assume that there are no further deviations; for example, there are plenty of
lexical items in the part of speech involved. We can see this as a representation of a
gender system: a typical situation would be that the first part of speech (PoS1 in Fig.
3.4) is noun, and the second part of speech (PoS2 in Fig. 3.4) is adjective.
3.5.2 Deviation 2
Let us maintain the schema recorded for Deviation 1, and add a second deviation,
namely that the number of lexical items in the first part of speech is severely
Feature: F1
Value: v1 v2
Lexicon: l1 l2 … l11
l12
Part of Speech: PoS1 PoS2
Fig. 3.4 Canonical schema: Deviation 1
58 Greville G. Corbett
restricted. Do we find such instances in real languages? Certainly, if we think of the
limited part of speech being the pronouns: we have few members of the class, and
each has a fixed value for person. (The fit is particularly strong for those who treat
the third person as a default, found with items which are not first or second
person.) The fact that there are so few lexical items involved, with a straight
matching to the person feature, is of course what leads to the ready availability
of pronoun dropping (though note that we do not imply a processual account:
‘unirepresentation’ would be a better term, though tradition dictates ‘dropping’,
Corbett 2006: 106).
A much less common feature, which is similar at this level of generality, is respect.
Repect is frequently a condition on the use of another feature, such as number, as it
is in languages like French and Russian. However, there are just a few instances
where respect is a genuine morphosyntactic feature, orthogonal to number (Corbett
2006: 137–8; forthcoming). Here again the pronoun is the part of speech which has
the restricted number of lexical items with access to the feature, and these require a
particular value of the respect feature.
3.5.3 Deviation 3
Let us return to our first type of deviation, and consider different parts of speech
(Figure 3.5).
Feature: F1
Value: v1 v2
Lexicon: l1 l2 … l11 l12
Part of Speech: Noun
Verb
Fig. 3.5 Canonical schema: Deviation 3 (based on Deviation 1)
Canonical morphosyntactic features 59
With this labelling we have a representation of case. From one perspective, it is
a mirror-image of gender, which seems right, up to a point. Gender is a classification
of nouns, which determines the form of targets (such as verbs), while case requires
a classification of governors (like verbs), which determines the form of their
governees.
This parallelism is illuminating, but does not tell the full story. There is typically a
patchier relation between the part of speech and the case requirement than we find
with gender; different items require different numbers of governees, including no
governees. This reflects deeper syntactic differences, which may be modelled in
terms of subcategorization.
More fundamentally, though, we need to examine the use of the notion ‘available’
in the exhaustiveness criterion. It could be argued that a verb having a case value
available is not the same as a noun having a gender value available. Current syntactic
frameworks, however, tend to treat such requirements and their satisfaction in
comparable ways. If we believe there is a distinction to be maintained, it goes back
to that raised at the beginning of the chapter, namely that when we say a noun is
feminine, we mean that it is in some sense feminine itself (it carries the relevant
feature specification), and it controls feminine agreement; when we say that a verb
takes the dative, we mean that it governs the dative but it is not itself dative (it carries
a requirement for the dative). This distinction separates the two notions of ‘avail-
able’; we return to this point in section 3.6 below.
Thus our canonical approach shows how the morphosyntactic features are related,
and how they differ in some common manifestations. According to the type of
deviation, we may order them according to decreasing canonicity:
number – gender – person – (respect) – case – (definiteness)
Number is closest to canonical, gender has one deviation, person has the same
deviation plus a further one. The rare feature of respect fits next, being a less
canonical version of person. Case is next, because of various non-canonical charac-
teristics we have just discussed. Finally, if we need to recognize a morphosyntactic
feature of definiteness (for those few instances where there is a plausible argument
for it being a genuine morphosyntactic feature, see Corbett 2006: 135–7 for some
discussion), we should treat it as somewhat like case. In addition to the deviations of
case, it has the additional deviation of having few controllers (and so fails to meet
Criterion 3).
3.6 Revisiting the criteria
We should now look back to our four criteria, as in section 3.4, and check on what
each is contributing. As Dunstan Brown points out (personal communication), if we
take them at face value and consider the simplest situation where each can be
60 Greville G. Corbett
satisfied or not, the four criteria would allow us to model sixteen different situations.
This is considerably more than the deviations we have discussed, and so it might
appear that we have appealed to an excessive amount of theoretical machinery. As
we shall see, this is not in fact the case; the criteria come close to giving us just the
right inventory.
Criterion 1: exclusiveness:
A lexical item belongs to just one part of speech;
a value belongs to just one feature.
We allow for lexical items to belong to more than one part of speech (weakening the
first part of Criterion 1), and this gives rise to mixed categories like gerunds and
participles, which are not our concern here. We suggested that weakening of the
second part would be more serious, and decided not to allow values to belong to
more than one feature. If we can maintain this limitation, then the number of types
of feature we could describe with our criteria is reduced by half, to eight.
Criterion 2: exhaustiveness:
Every lexical item of every part of speech has available to it all values of all features.
(alternatively: every feature value applies to all lexical items)
This criterion is key. As we saw, the only feature that approximates to it is number.
This criterion therefore splits the possibilities into number on the one hand, and the
rest on the other—the possibilities permitted by our two remaining criteria. This
means that the possibilities are reduced to five. Gender is the feature that fails the
exhaustiveness criterion but can, in principle, meet the remaining two.
Criterion 3: open and closed classes:
All classes are closed, except the class of lexical items.
This is the criterion which person cannot meet. Furthermore, if respect is to be
included, it similarly fits here, possibly as a part of person.
Criterion 4: compositionality:
Given the lexical semantics of a lexical item and a specification of its feature values,
the meaning of the whole is fully predictable.
The logic of the way in which the criteria fit to the features we find leads us to think
more closely about Criterion 4. We noted earlier that morphosyntactic number, for
instance, involves a matching between controller and target, and its relation to both
controller and target is in principle compositional. This is not so for case. We may say
of a noun phrase that the lexical meaning of the elements and the grammatical
meaning of the case yield a predictable outcome. But this is not so for a verb and its
requirement for governing a particular case. Thus Criterion 4, which is unlikely to be
Canonical morphosyntactic features 61
fully met by any feature in practice, is in principle not one that case could meet. It is
thus Criterion 4 which covers the issue raised earlier, about the different nature of case.
We should ask, finally, if there is anything corresponding to the situation in which
none of the criteria is met (except for the first, which is a requirement of features).
One answer would be that such an object is simply too far from canonical to be a
feature. An alternative would be that such an object is like case, but with the
additional non-canonical behaviour of being lexically restricted (failing Criterion 3).
If there is such a morphosyntactic feature it would be definiteness (we noted earlier
that the status of definiteness needs further work).
A summary of this discussion is given in Table 3.2.
Recall that Criterion 1 must be met; this was a working assumption, which
defines the ‘base’ for the investigation (Bond, this volume). Given that, and bearing
in mind the remaining discussion above, we observe that the criteria proposed reflect
closely the morphosyntactic features that we actually find.
3.7 Further non-canonical feature values
We now move from features to their values. We shall see that the means of
representation worked out above is helpful for getting to grips with some other
non-canonical systems. Consider again the gender system in Fig. 3.4 (page 58). Let us
go on to the limiting case, termed a ‘non-lexical value’, in which we have a gender
value with no nouns in it.
Here in turn there are two types. The first, the ‘neutral’ gender, is a target gender
form which cannot normally have a canonical noun phrase headed by a noun
or personal pronoun as its controller. When analysing the Surselvan dialect of
Romansh (Haiman 1974: 130–4), we would postulate two genders: the masculine
marked –s on agreeing targets, sometimes with a change of root vowel, and the
feminine in -a. However, there is a third form of gender agreement: this is found
with controllers which are not specified for gender and number: sentential subjects,
the demonstrative pronoun quei ‘that’ and the impersonal pronoun igl. For example:
Table 3.2 The contribution of the criteria in determining possible morphosyntactic
features
Criterion 1 Criterion 2 Criterion 3 Criterion 4
exclusiveness exhaustiveness open class compositionality
þ þ þ þ number
þ  þ þ gender
þ   þ person
þ  þ  case
þ    ?definiteness
62 Greville G. Corbett
(1) Surselvan Romansh: (Haiman 1974: 130–132, Corbett 1991: 215)
Igl ei sesalzau in urezi
there is arisen[neutral] a storm
‘a storm arose’
The form which is found in (1) cannot occur with a noun phrase headed by a noun
as controller; we term this target gender the ‘neutral’ gender. We represent that as in
Fig. 3.6:
Here we see that the adjective has access to all three values of the gender feature
(v1, v2, and v3), while the noun has access to two only (v1 and v2).
A more complex example is found in Walman, a Torricelli language of Papua
New Guinea; thanks to Lea Brown and Matthew Dryer for the data (now in Brown
and Dryer Ms.) and for discussion of their significance (note that they do not agree
that the diminutive is a gender):
Walman (Brown and Dryer Ms.)
(2) Pelen n-aykiri.
dog m.sg-bark
‘The male dog is barking.’
(3) Pelen w-aykiri.
dog f.sg-bark
‘The female dog is barking.’
Feature:
Value:
Lexicon:
Part of Speech: Adj
N
11
F
v1 v2 v3
12... 111 112...
Fig. 3.6 A non-lexical gender (Surselvan Romansh)
Canonical morphosyntactic features 63
(4) Pelen l-aykiri.
dog dim.sg-bark
‘The puppy is barking.’
While pelen ‘dog’ can be masculine and feminine, there are numerous nouns that
belong to the masculine or feminine gender. However, there are no nouns
that belong uniquely to the diminutive gender. We represent the interesting
situation of those nouns that can belong to one gender (masculine or feminine)
and to the diminutive (v3 in Fig. 3.7) as follows:
There are various types of non-canonical behaviour (see Corbett (forthcoming)
for details). These two examples serve just to illustrate the point that the investiga-
tion of how we differentiate canonical features also clarifies some further aspects of
morphosyntactic features.
3.8 Conclusion
We started from the problem of canonical morphosyntactic features. Earlier research
had shown that there were various types of non-canonical behaviour, and that these
were parallel, in a surprisingly regular fashion, across the different morphosyntactic
features. But this left a puzzle: the morphosyntactic features that avoided these
characteristics and so were fully canonical would then be indistinguishable. The
Feature:
Value:
Lexicon:
Part of Speech: V
N
I1
F
v1 v2 v3
I2... I11 I12...
Fig. 3.7 Minor target gender (Walman)
64 Greville G. Corbett
way to distinguish them is through their interaction with canonical parts of speech.
The canonical interaction was defined through four criteria, which proved interest-
ing since the deviations from them helped to characterize several problems involved
with feature systems. The main result, however, is that number can in certain
languages come very close to being canonical. Gender, person, and case were defined
in turn as showing deviations from the fully canonical situation. The approach also
provided the means to discuss more deviant featural behaviour, illustrated with two
further examples.
Morphosyntactic features are a difficult challenge for the typologist. The progress
made is valuable for our understanding of features, and illustrates the usefulness of
the canonical approach.
Canonical morphosyntactic features 65
4
Some problems in the typology of
quotation: a canonical approach
NICHOLAS EVANS
‘The idea that languages make a clear distinction between direct and indirect speech
is for the most part a grammatical Wction’
(Ebert 1986: 156)
4.1 Canonicity and points of typological reference1
Meaningful typological comparison of languages cannot occur without determinate
points of reference—what typologists have traditionally called tertia comparationis.
However, there are widely diVering conceptions of what the status of these points is,
and how they should be discovered and formulated.
A crucial assumption of the canonical approach to typology is that it is sometimes
useful to postulate canonical points which represent ideals never instantiated in any
language. Obviously this should never be done lightly, since it risks proliferating
unnecessary entities on the one hand and risks lessening the analyst’s empirical
responsibility to stay close to the data on the other. However, there are cases where
taking this approach allows a clearer formulation of the design space2
within which
systems attested in actual languages can be placed. (And in any case, since the
1
I would like to thank Dunstan Brown, Marina Chumakina, and Grev Corbett for organizing the
Guildford workshop on Canonical Typology (and subsequently a workshop on the same topic at the 2009
ALT meeting in Berkeley), thereby giving me the opportunity to present these ideas. I also thank the
participants in those workshops for helpful discussion, and the following individuals for discussion or data
pertaining to this paper: Amy Rose Deal, Robyn Loughnane, Ger Reesink, Alan Rumsey, Stef Spronck, and
Hein van der Voort. I am also grateful to Marina Chumakina, Grev Corbett, Misha Daniel, Alan Jones,
Timur Maisak, Stef Spronck, and two anonymous referees for comments on an earlier draft of this paper.
I would also like to acknowledge the Australian Research Council for its support of research reported on
here, through grant DP0878126, ‘Social Cognition and language—the design resources of grammatical
diversity’.
2
I use this term in a way synonymous with ‘typological space’; on the more general use of ‘design
space’ in evolutionary theory see Dennett (1995).
dimensions are based on observable or recognizable phenomena, it’s not the case
that the researcher can think up just anything without constraint.) The payoV is that,
even if a particular canonical phenomenon is nowhere exempliWed perfectly, postu-
lating them allows us to map actual cross-linguistic reality in a more satisfying and
exhaustive way, and to put a Wnger on exactly what the ingredients are that are being
mixed together in less canonical cases.
In this paper I use this approach to set up a revised typology of the grammar of
quotation. The typology of quoted speech has long been a disorderly and unsatisfy-
ing area because of the huge number of ways that languages can deviate from the
traditional ideals of ‘direct’ and ‘indirect’ speech. This has generated a profusion of
terms for non-canonical types—semi-direct, semi-indirect, quasi-direct and so on—
which do not correlate well with the many intermediate categories. Perhaps worse is
the fact that typological research on quoted speech has generally been rather unclear
about what ‘true’ indirect speech would look like. The result has been to obscure
what canonical indirect speech would look like, by deWning it through language-
particular examples which frequently deviate from the essence of the deWnition.
The third and perhaps most serious problem with traditional classiWcations is that
they overlook a third ideal type that I will call ‘biperspectival’ speech, where
particular signs simultaneously reXect the viewpoint of both original and reporting
speaker. The likely reason for this omission is that no language reported so far comes
at all close to this type on all possible deWnitional dimensions—in other words it is a
canonical ideal that is approached even less closely than indirect speech. But there
are enough manifestations of it across a range of semantic dimensions—complex
tenses in Western European languages being the most familiar—that the outlines of
such an ideal are clear.
I construct the argument as follows. In section 4.2 I review key aspects of the
traditional typological opposition between direct and indirect speech. In section 4.3
I examine a number of cases that have basically been categorized as direct speech,
though with deviant elements, while in section 4.4 I move to deviations from the
other pole, i.e. cases of indirect speech that fail to undergo the expected deictic re-
evaluations on one or more dimensions. I will progress from cases where the
behavioural split runs right through one semantic dimension (e.g. deictic shift in
person, but not tense) to those where the split occurs on some subset within a single
semantic dimension (e.g. deictic shift for the person of objects but not of subjects).
In section 4.5 I pass to the new concept of ‘biperspectival speech’, exemplifying it
with the dimensions of person (i.e. logophoric pronouns that simultaneously char-
acterize their referent to speech-act roles in both primary and reported speech
events) and tense (composite tenses that locate events in time with respect to both
reported and primary speech events). Finally, in section 4.6 I review the implications
of this new typology for a range of diYcult cases and raise some outstanding
problems.
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 67
4.2 The traditional typology of quotation: direct, indirect, other
There is a long-standing tradition of distinguishing direct from indirect speech,
which we can exemplify with the following pair of sentences:
(1a) Grev said: ‘I’m clearing up these typological conundrums.’
(1b) Grev said that he was clearing up these typological conundrums.
This opposition is generally characterized along the following lines, here distilled
into canonical statements. This represents my distillation of the existing literature,
some representative quotes from which will be given later in this section.
(2a) Canonical direct speech:
C1. Canonical direct speech reproduces the original speaker’s words, or at least
words that are presented as if they were original speech.
C2. Canonical direct speech includes all linguistic particularities of the original (e.g.
language or dialect choice).
C3. Canonical direct speech presents all deictically sensitive expressions from the
perspective of the original speaker.
(2b) Canonical indirect speech:
C1. Canonical indirect speech assimilates the material presented by the original
speaker to the reporting speaker’s perspective.
C2. Canonical indirect speech abstracts away from all linguistic particularities of
the original and replaces them with a stylistic representation consistent with
the rest of the reporting speaker’s stylistic choices.
C3. In canonical indirect speech, all deictically sensitive expressions are presented
from the perspective of the reporting speaker.
Applying these deWnitions to our initial examples, (1a) presents the quotation in a
form in which Grev could have originally made it (whether he actually said this or
not), including the use of the Wrst person pronoun to refer to himself, and of present
auxiliary am whose tense is calculated with respect to the moment of the original
speech act. In (1b), on the other hand, person is calculated from the perspective of
the reporting speaker (thus placing Grev in the third person) and so is tense (placing
the auxiliary in the past tense).
In addition, a full account of the direct vs. indirect speech contrast will note
prosodic diVerences, represented graphically by quotation marks in English,3
and
3
Though of course it is an oversimpliWcation to assume there is total isomorphism between the
graphical device of quotation marks and the boundaries of actual prosodic contours: see Nunberg
(1990) for a nuanced and interesting account of the complex relation that punctuation mediates between
spoken and written form.
68 Nicholas Evans
also syntactic diVerences such as the (optional) use of the complementizer ‘that’ in
the indirect version. The degree of syntactic diVerence between direct and indirect
speech, while rather minor in English, is far more signiWcant in some languages,
such as in Latin, (3) where in indirect discourse the verb of the quoted passage is
placed in the inWnitive and its subject in the accusative:
(3) Dic-o Ciceron-em ed-ere ole-as.
say-1sg.prs Cicero-m.sg.acc eat-inf olive-pl.acc
‘I say that Cicero is eating olives.’ (Coulmas 1986a: 19)
Returning to the existing literature on quoted speech, and pulling out just two
representative general statements from this vast literature, that succinctly capture
the diVerence between direct and indirect speech, consider the following:
The fundamental diVerence between the two lies in the speaker perspective or point of view of
the reporter: In direct speech the reporter lends his voice to the original speaker and says (or
writes) what he said, thus adopting his point of view, as it were . . . In indirect speech, on the
other hand, the reporter comes to the fore. He relates a speech event as he would relate any
other event: from his own point of view (Coulmas 1986a: 2).
with direct speech reports (DSRs) the perspective of the original speaker is maintained; with
indirect speech reports (ISRs) on the other hand, the perspective shifts towards that of the
reporting speaker and his speech situation (De Roeck 1994: 332).
In what follows, it will be useful to adopt the following terminology and abbrevi-
ations4
:
(4) PSE: primary speech event (i.e. the speech act generating the overall utterance)
[Primary speaker / addressee etc.: the speaker/addressee etc. in the primary
speech event]
RSE: reported speech event (i.e. the speech act being reported on in the
utterance)
[Reported speaker/addressee: the speaker/addressee etc. in the reported speech
event]
4
Terminology varies widely in this Weld: e.g. Coulmas (1986a) uses the terms ‘original speaker’ and
‘reporter’ for what I am calling ‘reported speaker’ and ‘primary speaker’, and Jakobson (1957/1971) uses the
term ‘narrated speech event’ for my ‘reported speech event’. My main reason to adopt the terminology
given here is that recursive embedding allows there to be more than one level of ‘reported speaker’, as in a
sentence like ‘She said that Wnally, as far as John was concerned, if he really wanted to know, frankly,
surely he might have left, since his car was gone’ (De Roeck 1994: 333), so that the ‘original speaker’ can
shift downward through a complex structure. Ultimately a full typology of reported speech needs to
include structures of this level of complexity, though I do not tackle them here, and suspect that they can
ultimately be accounted for in terms of a two-level typology plus general recursive capacities.
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 69
Note also that often it is thoughts, perceptions, intentions, desires and so on that are
being represented as reported rather than speech, though for brevity’s sake I will not
generally make this explicit.5
With this terminology established, it should follow from the above characteriza-
tions that in direct speech all features of the quotation retain the deictic and other
relevant values they would have in the RSE, while in indirect speech they are all
recast with the values they would have if calculated from the PSE. We shall see in
later sections, however, that this is far from being the case.
The above statement focuses on semantic features, particularly those of deictic
inXectional categories, that distinguish direct from indirect speech. But there are also
syntactic and prosodic features, summarized in Table 4.1 though they are not the
5
Commenting on an earlier version of this paper, Alan Jones (personal communication) points out that
verbs that‘report’ thoughts, perceptions, intentions, desires, etc., are never to be followed by true ‘direct speech’
(at least unless the speaker of the primary speech event is also the cognizer of the reported speech event). In
other cases the speaker can’t in fact ever know anything for certain about the thing that they are reporting.
However, what is primarily at issue here is how the language represents the quoted passage—just as in much
quoted speech (made up to look like direct speech, and often taking liberties with content and form), many
languages present thought, emotional reactions and so on as if they were direct speech.
6
And there are interesting intermediate cases here that I won’t go into, where there is a clause fragment
giving the speaker but no quotative verb (of the type And he’s ‘Look at that’ and she’s ‘Oh my God!’); something
like this has been grammaticalized as the primary quotative construction in Kwaza (see section 4.3.2).
7
This issue has been particularly discussed within the literature on Spanish, perhaps because of the
clearer punctuational marking of intonational onsets in Spanish orthography, e.g. Verdín (1970: 65, cited
in Kvavik 1986: 337): Tanto la frase introductora come la frase reproducida aparecen casi en el mismo plano
respecto a la entonación, sin olvidar, por supuesto, que son grupos distintos y que están caracterizados
respectivamente por sus terminaciones ascendente y descendente. ‘Both the introducer phrase and repro-
duced phrase appear almost on the same plane with respect to intonation, without forgetting, of course,
that they are distinct groups and are characterized respectively by their ascending and descending
terminations.’ [translation mine] However, empirical testing of this claim, using acoustic data from actual
speech, shows that the diVerence between these types is far more gradient than had been originally
thought (Kvavik 1986).
Table 4.1 Common syntactic and prosodic differences between direct and indirect
speech
Direct Indirect
Overt quotational clause optional6
Overt quotational clause obligatory
Normal main clause morphosyntax Various deviations from main clause syntax possible
Arguments remain in quoted clause Arguments may be raised into quotational clause
Quote can be interrupted by
quotational clause
Quote not interrupted by quotational clause
‘John’ she said ‘has left.’ 
John she said that had left.
Independent, ‘vivid’ intonational
contour in quoted material7
Integrated intonation contour
70 Nicholas Evans
primary focus of this article,8
since most characterizations of the direct vs. indirect
speech dichotomy employ exclusively semantic criteria, such as perspective and point
of view (examples will follow).
Many authors have pointed out the idealized nature of the above dichotomy, a
topic I return to in the next sections. In one of the most systematic cross-linguistic
studies of the phenomenon, De Roeck (1994: 30) concludes that:
the . . . question, whether DSRs [¼Direct Speech Reports] and ISRs [¼Indirect Speech
Reports] form a dichotomy deWnitely calls for a negative answer.
Similarly, Haberland (1986: 248), after a thorough study of quotation in Danish,
writes:
This makes us ask if the clear-cut division between direct and indirect speech, mainly
developed on the model of Latin and Classical Greek, and in diVerent ways applied to a
handful (but not even all) of the European literary languages (of which Danish is one), ever
really was as clear as it appeared from the point of view of the study of the literature of those
languages in certain historical periods.
Likewise, Coulmas (1986a: 6) states that:
a simple dichotomy of direct versus indirect cannot do justice to the complexities of reported
speech.
De Roeck and Haberland represent a large number of authors who point to the
existence of less-than-canonical quotation types.
There is also a long tradition, in literary stylistics, of investigating the type of
genre known variously as ‘free indirect discourse’ or ‘represented speech’ (Jespersen
1917), as style indirect libre in French (Bally 1912), and in German as verschleierte
Rede ‘veiled speech’ (Kalepky 1899), erlebte Rede ‘lived/experienced speech’ (Lorck
1921), or uneigentliche direkte Rede ‘quasi-direct speech’ (Lerch 1919). This can
be exempliWed by (5), and is characterized by the combination of direct-speech
syntax (such as word order characteristic of direct-speech questions, i.e. when would
he . . . rather than when he would) with person and tense values characteristic of
indirect speech.
(5) Dunstan lay awake thinking about the database. When would he ever be able
to Wnish it?
Among the authors quoted above, some have seen free indirect discourse as a
balanced mingling of two primary types (Tobler 1894), some as a third primary type
(Kalepky 1899), some as a deviant form of indirect speech (Bally, Jespersen), and
8
See Steever (2002) for a detailed treatment of the constructional diVerences between direct and
indirect speech in Tamil, where the structural diVerence between direct and indirect speech is particularly
striking.
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 71
others as a deviant form of quasi-direct speech (Lerch). The concerns of these
authors diVer from those of this chapter in being based on a primarily literary
device, and moreover on one which generally omits a direct and integrated
representation of the quoting clause. But it is clear that they form part of a long
and distinguished tradition of assembling a corpus of intermediate cases lying
between canonical direct and canonical indirect speech. The long and interesting
tradition of narratological analysis of this phenomenon (see BanWeld 1978; Tammi
and Tommola 2003 for summaries) has been interested both in the transmission of
others words in what Bakhtin (1981) characterized as double-voicedness, and in the
way it can be used by a narrator to model the mind of another person in action
(Mildorf 2008).
On the other hand, a question that has not been asked, as far as I know, but which
we are led to by a canonical approach, is: what should canonical indirect speech look
like if the deWnition given in (2b) above is pushed to its logical extreme? Which
language—if any—exempliWes it? I will delay answering this question until we have
looked at less canonical quotation types in more detail, something we do in the next
two sections.
4.3 Some deviations from canonical direct speech
I have already mentioned the fact that direct speech does not generally represent
what was actually said. Tannen (1986) has made this point particularly clearly,
arguing that ‘the term “reported speech” is a misnomer’ (p. 311), that most ‘of the
lines of dialogue represented in storytelling or conversation . . . were probably not
actually spoken’, (p. 311) and that therefore ‘[i]t cannot be the case that dialogue
represented in oral storytelling is being reported exactly as it was spoken, unless the
report is based on the deliberate memorization of a transcript which was based on a
tape-recording of the talk’ (p. 313).
4.3.1 Construction through style and translation
In recognition of these problems, direct speech is normally characterized as repre-
senting what could have been said, rather than what was said. This move already
introduces a role for the reporting speaker, since they are actually constructing rather
than reporting speech: witness the telltale wording ‘lending his voice to the original
speaker’ in Coulmas’ characterization of direct speech cited above. This makes it
almost inevitable that aspects of the reporting speaker’s creative latitude will seep in
to direct speech. In Dalabon, for example, the interjection ngale! ‘hey!’ is certainly
possible in ordinary speech, but occurs at the beginning of quoted passages far more
frequently than we would expect if it truly represented what was said (or thought).
Without being standardized to the point where it is grammaticalized, it is nonethe-
less being deployed in a stereotyped, dramatizing way to make the narrative more
72 Nicholas Evans
vivid, but at the same time it serves the useful function of indicating the start of a
quoted passage (6).
(6) ka-h-lng-bo-ng bûka-h-na-ng yulu-kah yulu-djerrng . . .
3sg.s-r-seq-go-pp 3sg/3sg.hum-r-see-pp ground-loc earth-new
yulu-djerrngû ka-h-na-ng
earth-new 3sg.s-r-see-pp
“ngale! Nga-h-yo-ngiyan djarra,
hey 1sg.s-r-sleep-fut here
kunborrk nga-h-m-iyan-kûn” ka-h-yin
corroboree 1sg>3sg-r-get-fut-purp 3sg.s-r-say.prs
‘He went along, and saw the ground, he saw newly-dug earth (of a fresh grave).
“Hey! I’ll sleep here, so as to get the corroboree song”, he said.’9
Another contribution of the speaker to the construction of ‘direct speech’ that we
tend to take for granted in the English-speaking world, and in many speech
communities more generally,10
is the translation of quotes into the language cur-
rently being used by the narrator. However, this is far from a universal practice. In
many Aboriginal speech communities, for example, a good narrator will reproduce
the language choice of the characters as accurately as possible, even where the hearer
may not understand the quoted language (see Evans 2011).
A nice example is the following text recorded by Allan Marett from Alan
Maralung in 1986, about two ancestral beings who had composed the songs Mar-
alung had just been singing. The primary narration is in Kriol, but the speech of the
beings is primarily in Dalabon (aka Ngalkbon), the language they are said to have
spoken (7). Narrative conventions that stipulate quotation in the original language
thus bring the quoted speech closer to the ‘direct’ canonical ideal than is the norm
with typical English narrative in which translation into the narrator’s language
occurs even in ‘direct’ speech.
(7) wal dij bungkurdijbungkurdij imin sei langa korrdjdjork
well this olden.times 3sg.pst say loc barn.owl
imin sei “what’s your name? marrûh ngey-ngu?”
3sg.pst say where name-2sg.poss
kidna “marrûh mah ngey-ngu?” imin lagijad
echidna where what.about name-2sg.poss 3sg.pst like.that
ask-im neim burrum lenggwij, burrum Ngalkbon
ask-tr name from language from Ngalkbon
9
Dalabon text, ‘How Djorli got Bongolinj-bongolinj’, recorded from Jimmy Weson by Nicholas
Evans, 2 June 2007, Beswick.
10
See Lichtenberk (2008: 1223–4) for an explicit example of this point, where an original quotation in
English is presented in the narrator’s language, Toqabaqita of the Solomon Islands.
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 73
“marrûh ngey-ngu?” imin lagijad
where name-2sg.poss 3sg.pst like.that
‘Well, in the olden days, he said to the barn owl, he said “What’s your name?
Marrûh ngeyngu?”, Echidna said “Marrûh-mah ngeyngu?” like that, he asked
his name in language, in Ngalkbon, “Marrûh-mah ngeyngu?” he said.’
Deviations like translating into the language of narration, or using stereotyped
expressions to make the narrative more vivid, are departures from canonical direct
speech that are stylistic rather than grammatical. In canonical direct speech the
original stylistic features (dialect, language) are maintained; in canonical indirect
speech they are assimilated or translated to the style, dialect, and language of the
framing utterance.
We now pass from these stylistic and lectal features to a more grammatical
phenomenon in which constructions characterized as direct speech nonetheless
make grammatical choices within the quotation that reXect some features of the
primary speech event.
4.3.2 Second person magnetism
A number of languages exhibit a phenomenon whereby, in constructions where
direct speech is structurally expected, second person values calculated from the
primary speech event dominate over the values that would be expected from
the reported speech event. I exemplify here with one example each from South
and North America.
In Kwaza, an unclassiWed language of Rondônia state, Brazil, all quotation is
basically direct. Person is calculated as in the Reported Speech Event: ‘In Kwaza,
no distinction is made between direct and indirect reports. Maybe it is even better to
say that there is no indirect speech at all. Speech is quoted by literally repeating what
has been said.’ (van der Voort 2004: 402). Note that quotations are followed by a
person/number marker identifying the subject of the notional quotational clause but
with no overt quotative verb. This means that two independently valued subject
suYxes are then stacked up (van der Voort 2002, 2004), like a grammaticalized
version of the increasingly common English ‘And then she’s “Oh my God!” ’.11
An
example is (8); note that in this case the outer subject is third person singular and
hence not overtly realized.
(8) ‘marju kukui’hy
~-da-ki-da’my
~-tse
Mario ill-1s-decl-want-decl
‘Mario is going to say he is ill.’ (lit. ‘Mario is going to say “I am ill” ’)
(Van der Voort 2004: 403)
11
As exempliWed by the following: ‘And then she’s, “Oh, my God, I’m saved,” you know? ’Cause all she
needed to know was that her baby was normal’. <http://www.abc.net.au/gnt/people/Transcripts/s1143559.
htm>, accessed 21 April 2009.
74 Nicholas Evans
Van der Voort’s analysis and examples make it clear that in just about every respect
Kwaza quotations display all features of canonical direct speech. However, just where
the subject of the quoted utterance is second person (with regard to the Primary
Speech Event) ‘the interpretation is one of indirect speech and the identity of the
second person equals the hearer in the actual speech context instead of the (logically
expected) speaker. So the quoted second person represents an exception’ [to the
previously discussed direct speech analysis of the quotation construction] (van der
Voort 2004: 411). An example is (9). The original, uttered by Margarida, who is absent
from the primary speech event, about the hearer in the primary speech event who was
absent from the reported speech event, would have been the equivalent of ‘he is ill’.
(9) maga’riDa kukui’hy
~-xa-‘ki-tse
Margarida ill-2s-decl-decl
‘Margarida says you’re ill.’
As a result, quotations with second person subjects are ambiguous:12
they allow a
direct-speech interpretation (10a), where the subject was the addressee in the
reported speech event, and an indirect-speech interpretation (10b), where the subject
is the addressee in the primary speech event (and would have been third person in
the reported speech event):
(10) tokoiri-xa-‘ki-tse
tired-2s-decl-decl
(a) ‘She said that I am tired.’
(original speech was ‘you’re tired’, addressed to a person X who was
addressee in the reported speech event and is now the speaker)13
(b) ‘She said that you are tired.’ (original speech was ‘he/she is tired’, about
a person X who is now the addressee in the primary speech event)
A very similar phenomenon is found in Slave (Rice 1989: 1274), an Athabaskan
language of Canada. Slave has the typologically unusual feature that verbs taking
quotations or other complements divide into two types:
. ‘direct discourse-determining verbs’, whose complements are direct quoted
discourse; person in their complements is calculated with respect to the
reported speech event
12
I am grateful to Hein van der Voort for supplying me with these additional examples, which are not
in his 2004 grammar, and which are based on additional information he obtained from Mário Kwazá in
January 2009.
13
A more explicit way to express this would be:
tokoiri-xa-‘ki tja’ta-ta-’ki
tired-2sg-decl say-1sg.obj-decl
‘She said to me: “You’re tired.”.’
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 75
. ‘indirect discourse-determining verbs’, which take indirect quoted discourse;
person in their complements is calculated with respect to the primary speech
event.
The existence of a lexical contrast of this type gives us a valuable diagnostic in
determining whether direct or indirect discourse is involved, which generally aligns
with a consistent set of criteria. However, Rice’s grammar discusses an interesting
case where particular grammatical choices depart from those one would expect from
the governing verb. The lexeme ndi / ?adi / hadi ‘say’ is a direct discourse-deter-
mining verb. However, just in the case where one of the participants in the reported
event is the hearer in the primary speech event, this argument gets coded as second
person in the quoted complement, rather than in the third person as expected. Thus
‘Simon said that you hit him’  ‘Simon said: he hit me’ is coded as Simon ‘you hit
me’ he said and ‘William said that he loves you’  ‘William said: I love her’ as
William ‘I have love for you’ he said. Rice’s way of describing this is:
second person marking in the complement [of ndi / ?adi / hadi ‘say’] is not interpreted as
direct discourse. Second persons are interpreted from the point of view of the speaker, rather
than from the point of view of the subject of the direct discourse verb, that is, they have
indirect discourse interpretation (Rice 1989: 1279).
In terms of the overall grammatical descriptions of Kwaza and Slave, it appears that
these are primarily direct speech constructions, but with exceptional behaviour in
the case where a referent of the reported speech event happens to be the addressee of
the PSE.
Note the level at which this phenomenon operates: it is neither a whole reported-
speech style (i.e. direct vs. indirect), nor a whole dimension (e.g. person), nor a
coding site for a dimension (e.g. person of subject), but is conWned to a particular
value on one dimension (person: second person).
Other languages appear to extend such exceptional behaviour to arguments that
are the speaker in the PSE. Deal (2009) gives similar examples from the Penutian
language Nez Perce (Deal 2009). There, as in Kwaza, the basic construction method
for representing quotation appears to be direct discourse, to the point where
some analysts have claimed that ‘there is no indirect discourse in Nez Perce’ (Aoki
1979: 10). However, in cases where an argument in the quoted clause is either
the speaker or the addressee in the primary speech event, person is calculated
from the point of view of the primary speech event. Deal gives examples of the
type ‘I was telling her you are a preacher’ (original speech: ‘he is a preacher’) and
‘Will you tell the teacher I am sick today?’ (original speech: ‘she is sick today’).
Taken together with the Kwaza and Slave examples, this Nez Perce data suggests
that what is basically direct speech can undergo ‘speech act participant attraction’
which leads any arguments in the quoted passage referring to the addressee (Kwaza,
76 Nicholas Evans
Slave, Nez Perce) or the speaker (Nez Perce) to trump the person value that they
would have as calculated from the perspective of the reported speech event. This
leads the construction to depart from canonical direct-speech status those values of
its person features that are susceptible to second person attraction, even though in all
other respects the construction is direct speech.
The phenomenon of speech-act participant attraction in these languages raises
interesting questions for future typological research. Based just on this data one
might propose a hypothesis that if it only targets one participant, it will be
the addressee in the primary speech act; if it extends to a second participant, it
will be the speaker in the primary speech act; and also that attraction also reaches
from the primary speech act outwards to the reported speech act rather than the
other way around. Though I am not aware of languages that falsify this implicational
formulation, it would be interesting to test this against a wide range of languages.
4.4 Some deviations from canonical indirect speech
We now turn to the other pole of the traditional opposition, namely indirect speech.
First we look at cases where deviations from canonical indirect speech are merely
stylistic (section 4.4.1), though cross-linguistic comparison shows us that what is
generally regarded as style in some languages (e.g. English) has important gram-
matical consequences in others (e.g. Tamil). We then pass to a range of grammatical
deviations, that show how varied are the dimensions in which languages can resist
total assimilation to the reporting speaker’s point of view despite using constructions
which satisfy the deWnitional requirements for indirect speech in some regards:
person shift but no tense shift in Russian (section 4.4.2), person shift but no shift
away from modal or vocative values in Jamsay (section 4.4.3), honoriWc shift but no
tense shift in Japanese (section 4.4.4). In each of these cases the behaviour splits right
along an indexical dimension. But there are also cases where a single dimension is
itself split between the two poles: spatial deictics may split by coding site (directional
preWx vs. adverb), as we will see in section 4.4.5, and person can behave diVerently
according to grammatical relation in a number of languages (section 4.4.6).
4.4.1 Emotional colouration—style or grammar?
One language’s style is another’s grammar, and it is revealing to see how choices
which appear merely stylistic in one language reappear as grammatical constraints in
another.
To begin with the stylistic, consider the following example from the novel The
Believers. This is set in New York but with one character (Audrey) who is signally
British and whose speech is consistently depicted using rather stereotypical British
lexical choices not employed by any of the American characters, such as ‘I rather
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 77
think that . . . ’ In the following example, which in fact involves reported thought
rather than reported speech, this particular stylistic marker is used by the narrator,
who otherwise lacks such British markers, even though all other markers (person,
tense) have been assimilated to the narrator’s standpoint as in canonical indirect
speech. (Naturally, in order to process the sentence in this way, we need to know that
this use of rather is not normally characteristic of the authorial voice.)
(11) Audrey, who rather thought her mother-in-law had a point, remained silent.
(Heller 2008: 87)
A common and less literary manifestation of a similar stylistic leakage concerns the
reporting of swearing: in (12) the emotive word bloody is used in direct speech, but in
(13) it survives into otherwise canonical indirect speech (again with person and tense
shift).
(12) John said: ‘Of course I’ll bloody come.’
(13) John said that of course he’d bloody come.
The retention of bloody here might be regarded, on one reading of (13), simply as a
stylistic carryover from the original speech.14
But there are languages like Tamil (Steever 2002), in which ‘attitude’ transcends
stylistics to become a grammatical category, marked by a subset of the auxiliary
verbs. Interestingly, in Tamil there is a general grammatical constraint against
employing attitudinal auxiliaries in indirect speech.15
Attitudinal auxiliaries that
are not available in indirect discourse constructions include: tolaiya ‘lose [main
verb use]; damn it! (auxiliary use)’, oZintān ‘purge [main verb use]; go and . . .
(auxiliary use)’ and pō- ‘go [main verb use]; get (uncontrolled bad outcome)
(auxiliary use)’:
(14) pō-y tolai
go-cf lose(imp)
‘Go away, damn it!’
(15) [pō-y tolai] en-ru con-n-ān
go-cf lose(imp) say-cf tell-pst-3sgm
‘He said, “Go away, damn it!” ’
14
For me and several other speakers of Australian and British English who I have checked it with, (13)
allows two interpretations—the bloody could express the primary speaker’s exasperation with John’s
decision (i.e. the emotional evaluation is reckoned from the reporting speaker’s standpoint, as expected
in indirect speech), or the reported speaker’s words—in which case it carries over the original speaker’s
emotional colouration into indirect reported speech.
15
And note that this constraint does not block the use of other, non-attitudinal auxiliaries such as
vaikka ‘place; do for future use’.
78 Nicholas Evans
(16) 
[pō-y tolai-ya-c16
] con-n-ān
go-cf lose-inf-lkr tell-pst-3sg.m
‘He said to go damn it.’
This Tamil data ups the ante in our deWnition of canonical indirect speech. Cross-
linguistically, the deWnition of indirect speech now needs to be elaborated so as to
exclude attitudes of the reported speaker, since it presents the event from the viewpoint
of someone else. If we add this element to our cross-linguistic deWnition of canonical
indirect speech, English sentences like (13), though canonical if only person and tense
are considered, become less so once the word bloody is taken into account.
A further example of a language where RSE-attitudinal elements—this time in the
form of diminutives in -in-, shown here in bold—intrude into what would otherwise
be regarded as indirect speech comes from Italian. Consider the following example
from a novel by Carlo Fruttero (my translation):
(17) La badante è gentile, è lei che mi porta su e giù di peso per la scaletta, una russa
robustissima, anche se mi ruba i pistacchi, la vache, io la vedo, ma la tengo un
po’ alla larga, parla solo per diminutivi, le mie manine, i miei piedini, il mio
bastoncino, che invece, toc toc toc, è un bastone da pastore, papà l’aveva preso a
un mercato a Grasse o a Manosque (Fruttero 2006: 172–3).
‘The carer is kind, she’s the one who carries me up and down the stairs, a big solid
Russian lady, even if she steals my pistachios sometimes, the cow, I see her, but I
keep her at a bit of a distance, she only talks in diminutives, my handies, my
footsies, my walking stickie, whereas really, thump thump thump, it’s a great big
stick Wt for a shepherd, that dad got for me at a market in Grasse or Manosque.’
In neither Italian nor English would these cited examples be regarded as pure
indirect speech. On the other hand, the fact that the intrusions from the RSE
aren’t aspects of the core grammatical system mean that traditional characterizations
of indirect speech in Italian or English make no stipulation about how these values
should be speciWed. But if our goal is to provide a cross-linguistic canon for indirect
speech, we need to add the speciWcation that canonical indirect speech lacks any
lexical emotional colouration or diminutives and other evaluatives attributable to the
original speaker.
4.4.2 Person shift but no tense shift: Russian
Russian is a well-known example of a language where person is assimilated to the
Primary Speech Event in indirect speech, but where the behaviour of tense is more
problematic.
16
The c here is a form of phonological sandhi produced by tight linkage of some constituents to the
following verb.
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 79
In Russian, tense generally remains that of the Reported Speech Event (Borras and
Christian 1971: 144–5):17
(18) On skaza-l, čto pojd-ët
he say.pfv-pst.m.sg that go.pfv-fut.3sg
‘He said that he would go.’ (Literally: ‘He said that he will go.’)
(19) Ja sprosi-l ego,
I ask.pfv-pst.m.sg him
čita-et li on Vojn-u i Mir
read.ipfv-prs.3sg whether he war-acc and peace.acc
‘I asked him if he was reading War and Peace.’
(Lit. ‘I asked him, whether he is reading War and Peace.’)
In Russian, then, indirect speech is canonical as long as one considers only person,
but not once one considers tense.18
The term ‘semi-indirect’ has been used by
authors describing other languages with comparable phenomena, e.g. Avar, where
the tense of the embedded speech remains unchanged but there is adjustment of
person values (Hewitt and Crisp 1986), though this term has also been used for
rather diVerent phenomena (see section 4.4.6).
4.4.3 Person and tense shift, but retention of imperative mood and vocatives
Jamsay, a Dogon language (Niger-Congo) spoken in Mali (Heath 2008), illustrates
two other dimensions on which languages can deviate from canonical indirect
speech: mood and vocatives. Quoted speech in Jamsay has a number of traits typical
of indirect discourse, most importantly person shifts in free pronouns and subject-
agreeing verb forms. It uses logophorics—see below—for arguments which are Wrst
person in the reported speech event but third in the primary speech event. However,
it retains two important features of the reported speech event: modal categories
(especially imperatives19
and hortatives) and also vocatives—these latter have the
unusual characteristic that
17
There are just a few constructions in Russian (e.g. predicative constructions) where tense is
calculated from the vantage point of the primary speech event:
Ona čuvstvova-l-a, kak on by-l vzvolnovan
she feel.ipfv-pst-f.sg. how he be- pst.m.sg agitated.m.sg
‘She felt how agitated he was.’ (Borras and Christian 1971: 145)
18
Further problems with the choice between second person pronouns and other ways of referring to
persons will be discussed in Footnote 21.
19
The appearance of imperatives in indirect discourse has been reported for other languages as well:
Old Icelandic and Swedish (Platzack 2007), Slovenian (Rus 2005), and Manambu (Aikhenvald 2008a: 395,
2008b: 487).
80 Nicholas Evans
in indirect discourse, the vocative takes the form of a third person human independent
pronoun, usually 3SG wó. Therefore even ‘indirect’ quotations may begin with what is literally
‘well, he/she!, . . . ’ intended to suggest an original utterance like ‘well, Seydou, . . . ’ or ‘well,
Mother, . . . .’ (Heath 2008: 589).
An example is (20) (Heath 2008: 589). Person shift is shown in both quoted stretches
by the use of the logophoric pronoun (substituted for an original Wrst person20
) and
a third person pronoun (substituted for an original second person), as well as in the
third person vocative wó in the second line. On the other hand, the second verb
(‘kill’) remains in the imperative, as in the original quoted speech, and the special
vocative form mentioned above is used.
(20) [ὲnέ ámà jέ wò-rú jàŋà-ø] wà"21
log God for 3sg-dat request.pfv.l-3sg.s say
[wó ὲnέ tá:n
wɔ̀:-ý] wá
3sg.s log shoot kill-imp.neg say
‘He said, “I (hereby) beg you in the name of God, don’t shoot and kill me!’
(lit. ‘L begged him for (¼in the name of) God (L) said, don’t he shoot L ! (L)
said.’, where L stands for the subject of the logophoric pronoun. Note that the
logophoric pronoun is used here because this passage, in its turn, is embed-
ded in the middle of a lengthy dialogue treated as quoted speech.)
For this reason, Heath characterizes such quotative complements as having ‘a mix of
“direct” and “indirect” discourse features’ (Heath 2008: 587), though he notes that it
is still possible to distinguish between direct discourse and the (non-canonical)
indirect discourse exempliWed above on the basis of whether pronouns undergo
person shift.
4.4.4 HonoriWc shift but no tense shift: Japanese
In Japanese, indirect speech is so non-canonical that some authors have claimed the
language lacks indirect speech altogether.22
Pronouns are used so sparingly in
20
In Jamsay, verbs take third person forms in agreement with logophoric subjects, suggesting that for
the purposes of verb agreement person has shifted from Wrst to third in indirect speech.
21
The upward arrow denotes intonational pitch-raising.
22
See e.g. Lewin (1975: 213): ‘Das Japanische kennt keine Sätze mit indirekter Rede und auch keine
abhängigen Fragesätze. Jeder Ausspruch wird in der Form der direkten Rede als Zitatsatz gegeben und
unterscheidet sich syntaktisch nicht von den üblichen Satzformen.’ (italics mine; translatable as ‘Japanese
has no clauses with indirect speech and also no dependent question-clauses. Every utterance is given in the
form of direct speech, as a quoted clause, and is not syntactically distinct from a regular clause form.’). As
Coulmas (1986b: 176) points out, ‘Lewin’s statement is correct inasmuch as indirect speech is not marked
by a subjunctive mood, a special word order, or any other overt syntactic feature’. However, consideration
of other factors, such as the honoriWc behaviour discussed below, and the diVerential availability of the
complementizers to and koto (Maynard 1986) can be invoked to show that there is nonetheless a contrast
between direct and indirect speech, albeit of a very non-canonical type.
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 81
Japanese that they rarely provide evidence relevant to person shift. Tense values are
those of the RSE, and quoted material can take an independent topic marker wa in
the quoted clause, something not normally found in subordinate clauses (Nariyama
2003). But there is nonetheless a shift to the standpoint of the PSE, on a semantic
dimension that is not familiar from European languages:23
honoriWcity. Essentially,
all sites at which honoriWcity can be coded are reassessed from the viewpoint of the
reporting speaker rather than the original speaker, and this can produce far-reaching
changes to the form of the quoted material because of the large number of honor-
iWcity-sensitive coding sites. Maximally, the rejigging of honoriWcity can involve:
(a) removal of addressee honoriWcs from quoted speech
(b) addition of subject honoriWcs on the verb, reXecting viewpoint of reporting
speaker
(c) addition of honoriWc preWx on subject, again reXecting viewpoint of reporting
speaker.
This can be illustrated by the following pair of sentences:24
(21a) is direct speech,
and (21b) indirect, with aVected sites marked bold. In (21a) ryooshin ‘parents’ doesn’t
take an honoriWc preWx, nor is the verb in subject honoriWc form, because the subject
is in the speaker’s in-group/family; on the other hand the verb takes the addressee
honoriWc suYx -mas, which the original speaker (Yasukawa) uses to express polite-
ness to his interlocutor. In (21b), on the other hand, the verb in the reported clause is
in the plain form (with no -mas suYx). In contrast, the word ryooshin ‘parent’ takes
the honoriWc preWx go- to express the primary speaker’s deference to the referent,
and this respect is also shown by the choice of the subject-honoriWc verb irassharu
‘be, come (of honoured subject)’.
23
Grev Corbett and Marina Chumakina, in commenting on a draft of this paper, suggested that this
phenomenon is far from being limited to Japanese, and indeed would be found in Russian. Consider a
situation where an adult, Kolya, visits the house of his friend Sasha; in the house are Sasha’s parents, to
whom Kolya uses the polite vy, and Sasha’s two children. Sasha leaves, saying to his father something like
‘Dad, you (ty [intimate] read to the older one, and Kolya can play with the younger one.’ Once Sasha has
gone, his father asks Kolya ‘What did he say?’. The appropriate response from Kolya would be On skazal,
čtoby vy čitali so staršim, ‘He said that you [vy] should read with the older one’, adjusting the second
person pronoun to the vy appropriate in the current speech act away from the ty used in the original.
Another example suggested by Marina Chumakina involves the choice between titles. Again say I am on
close terms with Alexandr Evgenevič Kibrik and refer to him with the diminutive Sasha as an index of my
close acquaintanceship, I then say to a third person something like Saša ne poedet ‘Sasha isn’t going (to the
conference).’ If that third person is on more formal terms with A.E.K., they would normally render this
into indirect speech using a title appropriate to their relationship: Nik skazal, čto Aleksandr Evgenevič ne
poedet using a Wrst name þ patronymic formula instead of the diminutive.
These facts are interestingly parallel to the Japanese situation. Russian honoriWcity, that is—whether
manifested in second person pronominal choice or in titles—is adjusted to the standpoint of the PSE in
indirect discourse, though the diVerence is that in Japanese honoriWc adjustment is the primary dimension
on which adjustment is made, whereas in Russian it is normally taken to be person (and to my knowledge the
adjustment of honoriWcity in Russian indirect speech has not received signiWcant discussion in the literature).
24
Examples from Hasegawa 2005: 133
82 Nicholas Evans
(21a) Yasukawa-san wa “nigatsu ni ryooshin ga ki-mas-u”
Yasukawa-san top February dat parent sbj come-addr.hon-npst
to i-imash-ita.
comp say-addr.hon-pst
‘Yasukawa-san said “(my) parents are coming/will come in February”.’
(21b) Yasukawa-san wa nigatsu ni go-ryooshin ga
Yasukawa-san top February dat hon-parent sbj
irassha-ru to i-imash-ita.
come.sbj.hon-npst comp say-addr.hon-pst
‘Yasukawa-san said her parents would come in February/are coming in
February.’
In Japanese indirect speech, then, deictic shifts do not manifest themselves in tense
or the person of pronouns, but there is a shift in another indexical category, namely
honoriWcity.
4.4.5 Mixed spatial deixis in Nez Perce
Nez Perce, as already mentioned, is a language for which some analysts (e.g. Aoki
1979) have claimed that all speech is direct. However, there is some assimilation of
person deixis, in the case where referents are the speaker or the addressee of the
primary speech event (section 4.3.2 above). Primarily on this basis, Deal (2009)
argues that it does indeed have some form of indirect discourse.
In addition to the calculation of some person values in reported speech from the
primary speech event, there is an interesting phenomenon involving spatial deixis.
Locational adverbs like koná ‘there’ (22) and kine ‘here’ (23) are anchored with
respect to the PSE, whereas the cislocative verbal suYx -m ‘towards’ is anchored with
regard to the RSE (examples from Deal 2009):
(22) Context: we are not at the café; I am reporting on the activities of my friend
who is there
hi-hí-ne óykalo-na ke koná hi-w-s-íix-ø
3S-say-prf everyone-obj rel there 3s-be-ipfv-s.pl-prs
‘iwéepne ‘e-nee-sepesúk-se-ø
wife 1s>3obj-obj.pl-introduce-ipfv-prs
‘He said he’s introducing his wife to everyone who’s there.’
[Original utterance: ‘I’m introducing my wife to everyone who’s here’, so
person is not adjusted to the PSE, but the locational adverb is.]
(23) [We are in Lapwai. A policeman is stationed 3 miles to the north in Spalding.
A speeding car from the direction of Lapwai comes towards him.]
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 83
‘inpewéet hi-hi-ne
policeman 3s-say-prf
naqc ’aatamoc kin-ix hamti’c-nix hi-ku-sa-m-qa
one car here-from fast-emph 3s-go-ipfv-cis-rec.pst
‘The policeman said that a car had been coming towards him from here
very quickly.’ [Original utterance: ‘a car was coming towards me from
there very quickly: the locational adverb kine is adjusted to the RSE, but the
cislocative suYx -m- is not. The car was speeding away from Lapwai, the point
where the RSE takes place]
Thus in Nez Perce, two semantic dimensions exhibit only partial assimilation to the
RSE—within person, referents who are speaker or addressee in the RSE are assimi-
lated, but not others, and within the dimension of space, locational adverbs are
assimilated but not directional suYxes.
4.4.6 Person deixis mixed across arguments
Another intriguing manifestation of partial assimilation to the RSE’s standpoint
comes from languages in which some argument positions undergo person assimila-
tion and others don’t. (This phenomenon has been called ‘semi-indirect speech’ by
Loughnane (2003, 2005) in her work on Golin, and ‘semi-direct speech’ by Aikhen-
vald (2008a) in her cross-linguistic survey on similar phenomena in Manambu and
other languages.) This phenomenon has been reported in Classical Egyptian (Kam-
merzell and Peust 2002), Tamil (Lehmann 1989), and a number of Papuan languages,
including Usan (Reesink 1993), Golin (Loughnane 2003, 2005), Dom (Tida 2006),
and Manambu (Aikhenvald 2008a, b). Aikhenvald (2008a: 393) characterizes this
phenomenon in the following way:
in semi-direct speech, the reference for some participants is shifted, while for others it is not
(Aikhenvald 2008a: 393).
However, this is a problematic formulation, since it is not the reference that shifts,
but the person values, so that a better formulation would be: the person deixis of
reported-clause participants is shifted in some syntactic positions, but not in others.
We can exemplify this phenomenon with the following example with Golin (24).
Here the subject of the subordinate clause (encoded by pronominal aYx) acts like
direct speech, calculating person from the RSE, while other arguments, such as
the object in (24) act like indirect speech, calculating their person from the PSE.25
25
In fact, the Golin situation becomes more complicated once we look at other person values. For
example, where the subordinate clause subject is Wrst person in the PSE and speaker in the RSE, there is a
mismatch between aYxal and free pronominal representation: ‘He said [of me] “he will go” ’ is rendered
(very roughly) as ‘he [I do go-he] said-he’. See Loughnane (2003, 2005) for a thorough exploration of the
full set of interaction possibilities.
84 Nicholas Evans
A result is that there may be two separate arguments in the same clause which each
bear a Wrst person value, even though their referents are diVerent, since one is the
primary speaker and the other the reported speaker—this is the case with the object
pronoun and the verbal suYx in the reported clause in (24).
(24a) Ix [nay si-øx-w-a] di-nx-g-e
you 1sg hit-1sg.s26
-rprt-dist say-2s-ass-prox
‘Youx said youx hit mey.’ [Lit. ‘youx “Ix hit mey” youx-said’]
(Loughnane 2005: 146)
What is characteristic of Golin, then, is that within a single clause person values are
calculated for some syntactic positions from the standpoint of the original speech
event, and for others from the standpoint of the reporting event. This is illustrated
schematically in (24b), which represents the way the primary and speech events are
mapped onto the Golin sentence in (24a).
(24b)
Primary speech event: Speakery Hearer Otherx
x <2nd> [x <1st> hit y <1st>] said x <2nd>
I si-ø-wa din-g-e
Reported speech event: Speakerx Hearery Other
na
Golin is reminiscent of the problems we encountered with second person attraction
in Kwaza and Slave (and second and Wrst person attraction in Nez Perce). But in
those examples the determinant was one role in the primary speech act, whereas
here the mixing of strategies is determined by syntactic position (e.g. subject vs.
object in Golin). Moreover, there are other grammatical features which systematic-
ally co-occur with the mixing of person values, such as the distal and reportive verbal
suYxes in Golin:
the main features of semi-indirect reported speech and thought [in Golin—N.E.] are the distal
marker -a, the reported marker -w (for semi-indirect reported speech only), absolute spatial
deixis, and mixed relative-absolute person encoding via pronouns and pronominal suYxation
(Loughnane 2005:139).
26
Golin is typologically unusual in that it is the Wrst person rather than the third person which has a
zero realization in the subject agreement paradigm—see Lee (2005).
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 85
A related but interestingly diVerent phenomenon is found in Egyptian, for various
phases of its history:
In Late Egyptian reported speech, one of the grammatical person roles within the utterance
may be chosen with respect to the deictic setting of the embedding context, but never more
than one (Kammerzell and Peust 2002: 308).
In Egyptian, that is, the constraint is not based on argument position, but on a ration
of one argument per quoted clause, though in some cases there is vacillation between
PSE- and RSE-based person assignments even within a single passage. I lack the
space to work through all the attested combinations here—see Kammerzell and
Peust (2002) for the details—but will illustrate their proposition with two examples
from their article, representing diVerent historical phases of Egyptian. In (25),
written around 1200 BCE, the quotation actually vacillates between a direct-speech
Wrst-person-plural verb Wrst time around (preceded by an imperative), then followed
by a verb in the third-person-plural, calculated from the PSE.
(25) jw-s-dd n-f mj jr-y-n
comp-3f.sg-say.inf for-3m.sg come.imp make-s-1pl
n-n wnw-t sdr-w
for-1pl hour-f sleep.stat-3pl
‘ . . . and she said to him: “Come and let us spend some time making love.” ’
(lit. ‘and she said to him, “Come and let us spend some time they making
love” ’)
In (26), from the later Coptic phase of Egyptian, the Emperor is addressing a monk
who had been given the assignment of curing his sick daughter. The monk had
resorted to rather unusual methods, as revealed by the account given to the Emperor
by his healed daughter: the monk is referred to using the second person (calculated
from the PSE), while the daughter is referred to using the Wrst person (calculated
from the RSE).
(26) a-s-´jO:-s gar na-j nkj
i ta-´Sɛ:rə
pst-3f.sg-say.inf-3f.sg ptcl for-1sg ptcl poss-1sg-daughter
Jə ´hah n-´sOp Sa-k-as´padzə
comp many of-occasion hab-2msg-kiss.inf
n-ta-tap´rə awo jə Sa-k-ən´kOtk
prep-poss.1sg-mouth cnj comp hab-2m.sg-sleep.inf
hijn-u-´pOj n-´wot nmna-j n-tə-w´Si ´tir-s
on-indf-bed attr-single with-1sg in-art.f-night all-3f.s
‘My daughter has told me that you frequently kissed her on the [my] mouth
and that you used to sleep with her [me] in a single bed all night.’ (Drescher
1947:11, lines 16–18, cited in Kammerzell and Peust 2002).
86 Nicholas Evans
Languages like Golin and Egyptian appear to have grammaticalized, in somewhat
diVerent ways, the tendencies reported on in section 4.3.2 above for Wrst and second
person participants in the PSE to exert their inXuence on the person values assigned
to the quoted clause. This turns person-based attractions into systems based on
which argument is involved, as in Golin, or on the selection of a single argument to
shift, as in Egyptian. Languages can yield to these forces in many ways—they can
grammaticalize person-based attractions (Kwaza, Slave), or argument-based assign-
ments (Golin), or stipulate that one referent can shift (Egyptian). In each case they
end up with a grammatically systematic set of rules that is neither canonically direct
or canonically indirect.27
But even in languages that have not grammaticalized a resolution of these
competing tendencies, ‘performance errors’ that exhibit similar tendencies can be
found in actual discourse, as in the following English example:
(27) X had become confused about which house his daughter-in-law Y lives in,
knocked on the neighbour’s door, and had been directed to the daughter-in-
law Y’s house.
Later he tells his daughter-in-law what had happened.
‘They told me: “Oh, you’ve got the wrong house, you live next door.” ’
X Y
[Example overheard by N.E. in Canberra, June 2009]
Cases like this, of course, raise the issue of how easy it is to make an analytic
distinction between person attraction as a grammatical phenomenon and person
attraction as a performance error, particularly in corpus-based studies.
4.4.7 Summary
The cases discussed in this section all involve structures that depart from canonical
indirect speech. Some select certain semantic dimensions to shift to the primary
speaker’s viewpoint (person of pronouns in Russian and of vocatives in Jamsay,
honoriWcs in Japanese), while leaving other dimensions with their regular values—
tense in Russian and Japanese and imperatives in Jamsay. Others make the split
within a single semantic dimension, conditioned in various ways—by grammatical
27
It appears that, in general, such mixed patterns always result from the pull of the speech
act participants in the primary speech event. Nonetheless, one occasionally Wnds examples like the
following—which would normally be considered incorrect—in which the mismatched person shifts
must be accounted for either by attraction to the Wrst person in the reported speech act (if regarded as
basically indirect speech), or by re-evaluation of a RSE Wrst person to third person in the light of its role in
the primary speech act (if regarded as basically direct speech):
In two games on Wednesday, Japanese pitcher Yukiko Ueno threw a total of 21 innings, but she showed
no ill eVects as she played seven innings and got the gold medal for Japan. ‘My strong belief to win, was
what carried her through the fatigue,’ Ueno said. Canberra Times, 23 August 2008, C6.
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 87
relation in Golin, by the choice of a single argument to shift in Egyptian, or by
whether the spatial information is in a spatial adverb or a directional preWx in Nez
Perce. Whatever the system, the language employs a principled mix of shifted and
unshifted values when the ensemble of deictically sensitive dimensions is considered.
It should be emphasized that this by no means exhausts the ways dimensions can be
mixed and matched—for example it is also possible to assess space with respect to
the reported speech event, but tense with respect to the primary speech event, as
Heath (1980) reports for Nunggubuyu. A full survey of all the ways of splitting
dimensions, as well as a search for any implicational statements that hold between
them, is a challenging task for future research.
Systems of the type described above can, evidently, be treated neither as straight-
forward direct nor as straightforward indirect speech.28
Of course it would be
possible to adopt a compromise term like ‘semi-direct speech’ or ‘semi-indirect
speech’, but the problem with this is that it can denote so many types of mixture:
‘semi-indirect speech’ has been used, for example, for systems that shift person but
not tense, as in Avar, but also for systems that shift person in some grammatical
persons but not others, as in Golin or Manambu. What is clearer is that these
systems all depart from both canonical direct and canonical indirect speech, but that
there are many ways of doing this.
Complex as these systems are, they do not exhaust the ways in which languages
can deal with the interwoven perspectives of reporting and original speaker. After all,
in all of the cases discussed above, the chosen value is either that of the primary
speech event or of the reported speech event. In the next section we turn to another
option: to choose a value that is a function of both speech events.
4.5 Another reason the typology of quoted speech needs revision:
biperspectival speech
Traditional dichotomies, as we have seen, contrast direct and indirect speech as
representing the viewpoint of the original speaker (in direct speech) or of the
reporter (in indirect speech). However, there is a third possibility which needs to
be made explicit: that of ‘biperspectival speech’ in which constructions simultan-
eously represent two distinct viewpoints (cf. Evans 2007).29
Before seeing how this
28
This applies to the use of the terms in cross-linguistic comparison, where Wxed reference points for
the terminology are important. In emic descriptions of particular languages, on the other hand, it may be
useful to use the terms for whatever construction type is used to encode the opposition in the clearest way:
person (and honoriWc) shift in Russian, honoriWc shift in Japanese, and so forth.
29
As several colleagues who read this chapter pointed out, this term is not perfect: the contrast between
direct and indirect speech is not only about perspectives or viewpoints, but also about how far the original
form is maintained (cf section 4.2.1), which is not a matter of perspective but is better characterized along
the traditional lines of form vs. content, de dicto vs. de re and so on. Nonetheless, once it comes to the
88 Nicholas Evans
might apply to quoted speech, let us consider an example from quite another part of
the grammar: that of ‘trirelational kin terms’, which simultaneously calculate kin
relationships from two points at once. These are widespread in Australian languages
(see e.g. Merlan 1989) and also attested in the Amazon (Lea 2004). An example from
Bininj Gun-wok (Evans 2003) is the following pair of terms, each of which relates the
referent by two diVerent kin relationships—one with respect to the speaker, and one
with respect to the hearer.
(28a) al-garrng ‘the one who is your mother and my daughter, given that I am your
mother’s mother’
(28b) al-doingu ‘the one who is your daughter and my mother, given that I am
your daughter’s child’
Alternatively, kin terms in some Australian languages build in a calculation of two
diVerent kin relationships to the same person (the speaker) at two diVerent points in
time, as with the following Iwaidja term:
(29) rangaldalk (converse buluwarr): someone who I (a male) used to call ‘sister’s
child’ and who, following the death of his or her father, I now call ‘child’
(ngawiny)30
Such constructions establish the need—independently of quoted speech—to allow
the encoding of two perspectives at once. Could it not be the case that there are types
of quoted speech that also do this? I will call this ‘biperspectival speech’, as a third
term in the typology ‘direct’ vs. ‘indirect’. As with direct and indirect speech, it is
more helpful to examine each coding dimension one at a time, rather than assuming
there is a single choice which then plays out in all dimensions.
4.5.1 Logophoricity
One phenomenon involving a double deictic perspective on reported speech and
thought in some languages, especially in West Africa, involves ‘logophoric’ pro-
nouns, as exempliWed by the following examples from Ewe (Clements 1979):31
semantic, deictically sensitive dimensions we have been focussing on in this paper—tense, person,
location, mood, honoriWcity, emotional evaluation—perspective becomes the dominant factor, and
I have been unable to come up with a better term. For the reasons outlined in the body of the paper,
I do not think semi-direct or semi-indirect is an eVective alternative, since these cover so many diVerent
kinds of phenomena and, more importantly, are simply a way of alternating between the two perspectives
rather than triangulating from both at once.
30
There is a second meaning for this term, also reXecting a calculation of a kin relation between a
single pair of people from two points in time: it can be used for someone who used to call me yaja
(mother’s brother) and who, following the death of his/her father, now calls me bunyi (father).
31
See Ameka (2004) for an interesting account of cultural practices in West Africa involving logo-
phoric pronouns, which includes a number of examples of unembedded logophoric uses, rather similar to
free indirect speech, where mediating speakers repeat messages emanating from a third party.
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 89
(30) KoW be e dzo
KoW say 3sg leave
KoWx said (s)hey left. [Orig. utterance: e dzo ‘(s)he left’]
(31) KoW be yè-dzo
KoW say log-leave
KoWx said hex left. [Orig. utterance: nye dzo ‘I left’]
The logophoric pronoun yè- in this example is best analysed as representing
reference to a person who was the speaker in the reported speech event, but is
third person in the primary speech event. To use it correctly thus involves the
simultaneous calculation of person values for both the reported and primary speech
events—a clear example of biperspectival speech on the person dimension.
4.5.2 Complex tenses in Western Indo-European languages
The concept of biperspectival quoted speech can also be applied to tense. It is well
known that Western Indo-European languages employ complex tenses in indirect
speech, and it has long been established that the representation of the semantics of
these tenses requires reference to two temporal reference points, one derived from
the RSE and one from the PSE.32
Consider the following pair:
(32a) John said: ‘I will be at work.’
(32b) John said he would be at work.
The semantics of would be in this sentence is generally represented along the lines
shown in (33): note that the narrated event is after the Report frame, which is before
the Speech event.
(33)
Secondary (report) frame Narrated event Speech event
RSE PSE
(Reference point) Situation Present33
In (34a) and (34b), on the other hand, the narrated event is before the Report frame,
which is before the Speech event (35):
(34a) John said: ‘I have been at work.’
32
See Bull (1963) for the original discussion; also Comrie (1985).
33
The second line gives the terminology employed by Comrie (1985: 54 V.).
90 Nicholas Evans
(34b) John said he had been at work.
(35)
RSE PSE
Narrated event Secondary (report) frame Speech event
Though there are a range of approaches to this phenomenon, all agree that complex
tenses simultaneously locate the action with respect to both the PSE and the RSE.
Thus for Comrie (1985), the reported event is located with respect to the RSE,
which is in turn located with regard to the PSE (36):
(36) present
reference point34
situation (35) situation (33)
had been at work would be at work
On the other hand, for Reichenbach (1947) and Hornstein (1977), the reported event
is located with respect to both the RSE and the PSE:
present
reference point35
situation (33)
would be at work
34
Diagram adapted from Comrie (1985: 70).
35
Diagram in the spirit of Reichenbach (1947: 290), Hornstein (1977: 522, 526, 528–9), though both these
authors use a diVerent visualization with all three points (using the terms S for ‘point of speech’, E for
‘point of the event’ and R for ‘point of reference’) placed on a single line. See also Jespersen (1917: 256).
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 91
On either analysis, selection of an appropriate verbal syntagm (i.e. verb plus auxil-
iaries) depends on integrating information from both the primary and the reported
speech events. In that sense it is inaccurate to characterize the construction in terms
of either direct or indirect speech, each of which implies a single perspective
(original or reporting speaker’s). Postulating a third, biperspectival type of speech
allows a much more accurate representation of the semantics.
4.5.3 Other possible complex dimensions
I lack the space to exhaustively survey all the semantic dimensions in which
biperspectival speech is found in quoted speech and thought. Many well-known
cases invite analysis in this way. Should German subjunctives in quoted speech, for
example, be treated as a biperspectival value, e.g. ‘primary speaker passes on modal
evaluation to someone else; reported speaker asserts the truth of the proposition’? Or
can it be assimilated to indirect speech, assessing the modality simply from the point
of view of the primary speaker (‘primary speaker passes on modal evaluation to
someone else’). Rather similar is the situation with the future and perfective inWni-
tives in classical Greek, which occur almost exclusively in reported speech (Goodwin
1892, Noonan 2007). These are traditionally regarded as occurring in ‘indirect’
speech. But would it be better to regard them as a biperspectival modality, with
diVerent values for the primary and reported speaker? Or can they be assimilated
entirely to a value given by the primary speaker (e.g. ‘event commanded by someone
to be the case’). Both the German and Greek examples seem to be prima facie cases
of biperspectival modality, but more detailed analyses than I can give here would be
needed to settle the argument.
One can likewise ask whether biperspectival values exist on other dimensions. Do
any languages have biperspectival spatial systems comparable to complex tenses or
logophoric pronouns—with meanings like ‘far from where the primary speaker is
now, but close to where the reported speaker was at the moment of speech’? Complex
honoriWc systems are also imaginable.36
A far-reaching cross-linguistic investigation
may turn up other examples on other dimensions, e.g. evaluation (believed to be true
by the reported speaker, but known to be false to the primary speaker).
In canonical biperspectival speech, then, morphemes on every deictically sensitive
dimension would exhibit values that require simultaneous reference to both the RSE
36
Something that comes close is the Korean copular form ila, which is a special plain form used in
quoted speech, diVering from the normal plain form ita. Korean, like Japanese, removes addressee-
honoriWcity in non-direct speech, but unlike Japanese it does not simply use the plain form of the copula.
Thus the plain form ita for ‘be’, as in Cip ita ‘it is a house’, is converted to ila in quoted speech, as in Cip ila
ko hayssta ‘He said it is/was a house’ (Martin 1992: 331). Ila thus signals the neutralized addressee-
honoriWcity found in quoted speech, rather than what we are looking for here, which would be a form
with a meaning like ‘showing honour to the original addressee, but neutral with respect to the current
addressee’.
92 Nicholas Evans
and the PSE: person would encode values like ‘neither speaker nor hearer in this
speech act, but speaker in the reported speech act’ (like logophoric pronouns), tense
would encode values like ‘before the current speech event but after the reported
speech event’, location would encode values like ‘far from where I am now but close
to where the speaker in the RSE was then’, modality would encode values like ‘I
believe this proposition is false though the speaker in the RSE claimed it, to be true’,
honoriWcity would encode values like ‘person who I exhibit respect to but with
whom the speaker in the RSE was on intimate and informal terms’, and emotional
valuation would encode values like ‘what the speaker in the RSE considered a good
thing but which I consider a disaster’.
That is what the biperspectival canon would look like. An immediate objection
would be: no language has a system anything like it, so why postulate it? There are
two good reasons: Wrst, as argued above, there are examples of phenomena in at least
some dimensions—logophorics in the dimension of person, and complex tense in
the case of tense—so that it is not simply a hypothetical way of doing things.
Postulating this third canonical type, even if it is currently unattested, is a useful
heuristic in helping us look for other instantiations as we extend our interest to the
many poorly described languages of the world. The second reason is that it crystal-
lizes the diVerence between this logically clear but empirically rare strategy and what
is an empirically commoner but logically much more variegated strategy, that of
alternating between perspectives in ways that generate the immense variety of so-
called ‘semi-direct’ or ‘semi-indirect’ types which are constructed by mixing together
some morphemes encoding the perspective of the PSE and some encoding the
perspective of the RSE, a phenomenon we revisit in the next section.
4.5.4 Biperspectival values vs. mixed values on a single dimension vs. distribution
across dimensions
Throughout this chapter we have been exploring various ways in which quoted
speech mixes semantic values from the original speaker’s perspective, the reported
speaker’s perspective, and a biperspectival perspective. It is worth recapping these
here in a more principled way:
(a) dimensional split. Values (direct, indirect, biperspectival) may be mixed across
semantic dimensions. Thus Russian assesses tense from the reported speaker’s
perspective, but person from the primary speaker’s perspective; Japanese
assesses tense from the reported speaker’s perspective, but honoriWcity from
the primary speaker’s perspective. English ‘indirect speech’ arguably assesses
person from the primary speaker’s perspective, but tense from the perspective
of both primary and reported speakers.
(b) site split. Values on a single semantic dimension may be mixed by being
realized in diVerent ways at diVerent coding sites. Golin does this for the
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 93
dimension of person: it selects subject values from the reported speaker’s
perspective, but object values from the primary speaker’s perspective.
(c) value split. Even while holding dimension and site constant, languages may
vary their choices of perspective according to particular values on a dimen-
sion. A clear example of this is ‘second person attraction’ in languages like
Slave and Kwaza. Here quoted speech is normally assessed from the reported
speaker’s perspective on all dimensions, but within the dimension of person it
adopts the primary speaker’s perspective for referents who are addressees in
the primary speech act.
Though useful, this conception of the typology faces a boundary-deWnition problem,
hinging on what level of sign we are examining. If we are just looking at the
morpheme, the sites are easy to identify but we face the standard problems of
analysis that confront complex signs, as gestalt-like constructions. Consider an
English string like would have been—if we just look at individual words we might
say that the have (or been), by coding perfectivity, is taking the primary speaker’s
perspective, while the would is taking the reported speaker’s perspective—this would
then be a case of site split. On the other hand, we could take would have been as a
single complex sign—this is implicit in the way that the semantics of English
complex tense is usually analysed. Then we have a dimension split, in which tense
is straightforwardly biperspectival (as argued above), but that this biperspectival
value is realized on a complex sign.
Similar arguments apply, mutatis mutandis, to the analysis of person in a language
like Golin. We could identify a complex argument-coding construction mapped out
on various sites, in which case Golin would exhibit a dimensional split (with person
coded in a biperspectival way across the complex syntagm comprising the various
argument slots). Or we could go for simpler signs (object slot, subject slot, etc.), in
which case we would have a case of site split, which is the preferred analysis I have
adopted for Golin in this paper. The reasons for preferring one analysis over another
are not straightforward, but a key factor will obviously be the degree to which, on
independent grounds, the individual signs concerned can be shown to form a
composite sign.
These two cases show that the concept of dual perspective itself has a clear canon:
that the morpheme realizing it should be a simple sign. Logophoric pronouns like
Ewe yè, being monomorphemic, clearly conform to this canon. Complex tenses in
English and other Western European languages depart from it by involving multi-
word syntagms, and as far as I know a monomorphemic complex tense marker has
yet to be reported in the typological literature.
These considerations lead us back very naturally to the broader typology of
quoted speech. The traditional dichotomy of direct vs. indirect speech rested on
an assumption that a large number of semantic dimensions would pattern to-
gether—that recalculation of person and of tense values, for example, would go
94 Nicholas Evans
together. More precisely, it assumed that this happened at each of the three levels
outlined above—of semantic dimension, of coding site, and of individual feature
values. The classical conception of direct speech, in other words, is that all values, at
all coding sites, in all dimensions, would be calculated from the reported speaker’s
perspective, while indirect speech would take the primary speaker’s perspective for
all values, coding sites and dimensions. Each of these deWnes a canonical type of
reported speech at the level of the whole quoted-speech construction. In our third
canonical type, biperspectival speech, all morphemes would take both perspectives,
as indicated in the last section. And, between these three points, lie an immense
number of mixed types where individual dimensions, sites, or values split in which of
the three canons they draw their strategy from.
The cases discussed in this paper have shown that splits of one type or another are
widespread, perhaps even the norm cross-linguistically. In the next section I con-
clude the chapter by sketching how a canonical approach can best develop a
typology of this exuberant Weld of cross-linguistic variation.
4.6 Conclusion: towards a canonical approach to the typology
of reported speech
‘Analysis is the heart and soul of indirect discourse.’ (Voloshinov 1973: 129)
It should now be clear how useful a canonical approach is for dealing with a
phenomenon that exhibits so many ways of deviating from the idealized norms
still encountered in the literature. In the course of the chapter I have proposed
deWnitions for three canonical types (direct, indirect, and biperspectival) that draw
attention to a number of levels of speciWty from the construction down through the
dimension and the coding site to the value.
These canonical types were reached by deductive extrapolation from attested
examples. Though drawn from fourteen languages across all continents, they only
exemplify a tiny fraction of the possibility space. A substantial task for the typology
of reported speech is to chart the actual behaviour of a much wider sample of
languages, for the whole set of relevant semantic values, against this possibility space.
In the meantime, it seems clear that the three canonical types sketched above have
widely diVering patterns of empirical instantiation against the data generally
reported in the quoted-speech literature.
(a) canonical direct speech is widely attested, and is hence easy to exemplify from
many languages where all dimensions behave in a canonical way
(b) canonical indirect speech turns out to be quite rare. In most languages said to
possess indirect speech, only some dimensions are involved (say, person in
Russian but not tense). In other widely quoted cases—so-called indirect
speech in English, French, or Italian are good examples—we are dealing
Some problems in the typology of quotation: a canonical approach 95
with biperspectival rather than indirect speech on some dimensions, particu-
larly tense, since the temporal perspective of both primary and reported
speaker are represented in the complex tense system.
(c) canonical biperspectival speech is so far unattested at the level of the overall
construction—it is only attested in some deictic dimensions, such as person
(logophorics) and tense (complex tenses). Adding this third reference point to
the typology is useful, however, because it allows a better characterization of
some phenomena previously considered ‘indirect’ (complex tenses) or fre-
quently ignored in the typology (logophorics). Perhaps even more import-
antly, it helps us distinguish particular ingredients in more mixed types (such
as logophorics and complex tenses) which it is misleading to portray as
deriving from either direct or indirect canons. It may well turn out that no
language deploys biperspectival speech in more than one or two dimensions,
perhaps because of the cognitive costs involved in reckoning from two dimen-
sions simultaneously, which would make canonical biperspectival speech even
more idealized than canonical indirect speech. On the other hand, postulating
a so-far unattested canon, as done here, increases the chance we will discover
relevant phenomena as we extend our descriptive coverage of the world’s
6,000 languages.
The status of biperspectival and indirect speech in this typology clearly illustrate the
characteristics of a canonical approach: the motivation for postulating canons is to
give deWnitions that lead to a maximally clear and exhaustive characterization of the
whole design space, at diVerent levels of organization. In some cases canonical types
are well attested—this is the case with direct speech. In others they are unattested or
rare, but setting them up gives a more realistic set of parameters for characterizing
the full range of cross-linguistic variation.
The framework advocated in this paper allows us to distinguish a much richer set
of possibilities within the large and confusingly labelled set of ‘semi-direct’ and
‘semi-indirect’ phenomena. Some of these represent slight departures from canon-
ical direct or indirect speech—e.g. constructions that stray from being direct speech,
or being indirect speech, by behaving like the opposite on one dimension, at one
coding site, or for one value. These are not considered biperspectival, on this
analysis, as long as none of the relevant coding points code both perspectives.
Instead, they are located in the space between direct and indirect speech. On the
other hand, one can also Wnd mixed types which exhibit biperspectival elements
alongside direct and indirect ones: Jamsay, discussed in section 4.3, can mix elements
of direct speech (vocative uses, imperatives), of indirect speech (second person
attraction to the primary speech event), and of biperspectival speech (logophoric
pronouns). DiVerent parts of the Jamsay system, then, are oriented to each of the
three canonical possibilities argued for in this paper, but the construction as a whole
mixes them together in a particular way.
96 Nicholas Evans
Table 4.2 Matrix illustrating some of the ways the three canonical types can be combined
Dimension 1 2.1 2.2 3 4 5
PSE value {a, b..} {c, d..} {c, d..} {e, f..} {g, h..} {j, k..}
RSE value {,  ..} {, ..} {, ..} {, ’..} {, ..} {	, 
..}
Canonical direct speech, e.g. (1a) {,  ..} {, ..} {, ..} {, ’..} {, ..} {	, 
..}
Canonical indirect speech (no
attested case)
{a, b..} {c, d..} {c, d..} {e, f..} {g, h..} {j, k..}
Canonical biperspectival speech
(no attested case)
F({, ..}, {a, b..}) F({, ..}, {c,d..}) F({, ..}, {c,d..}) F(, ’..}, {e,f..}) F({, ..}, {g,h..}) F({	, 
..}, {j, k..)
Speech with one ‘direct’
dimension but others
‘indirect’, e.g. Russian (tense
direct, others indirect),
Japanese (tense direct,
honorificity indirect)
{a, b..} {c, d..} {c, d..} {e, f..} {, ..} {j, k..}
Speech with one biperspectival
dimension, one direct
dimension, and the others
indirect (no exact example)
F({, ..}, {a, b..}) {c, d..} {c, d..} {e, f..} {, ..} {j, k..}
Speech with one dimension split
by coding site (Golin, with
person split between subject
(direct) and object (indirect) )
{a, b..} {c, d..} {, ..} {e, f..} {, ..} {j, k..}
Speech with one dimension split
by value (e.g. Kwaza, Slave)
{a, ..} {c, d..} {c, d..} {e, f..} {, ..} {j, k..}
Table 4.2 summarizes the range of phenomena considered above, indicating
schematically how the behaviour of various canonical and mixed types can now
be placed in the typology we have been elaborating. Relevant semantic dimensions
are simply numbered, followed by a further number when they have more than one
coding site (e.g. subject and object for person, as 4.2.1 and 4.2.2). Roman letters
are used for value sets calculated from the perspective of the primary, Greek
letters for value sets calculated from the perspective of the Reported speech act,
while a function from both value sets is used where the calculation is biperspectival.
It will readily be appreciated what a huge number of ways languages can have of
realizing quoted speech. The three canonical types are the situations when all
dimensions, all coding sites, and all values behave the same way—i.e. all being
calculated from either the PSE, the RSE, or from both perspectives at once. Once
things get more mixed the number of possibilities is astronomical: the full possibility
space (impossible to show here) would be the product of all dimensions (person,
tense, mood, honoriWcity, space, evaluation, etc.), times all coding sites (e.g. subject,
object, possessor, etc.), times all values (e.g. Wrst vs. second vs. third person). Each of
these is able to choose between direct, indirect, or biperspectival behaviour. This is
the reason for the immense number of possible mixed types. With a design-space
matrix of this type, we can go on to see which particular mixtures are actually
attested, which are not, and what the implicational statements may be (e.g. that if
there is a person magnetism of the type outlined in section 4.3.2 it will target speech
act participants over non-participants).
The complexity of representing the words and thoughts of others and relating them
to the perspective of ourselves and our interlocutors lies at the heart of our ability to
coordinate, distinguish, and calibrate the jostling versions of a partly shared social
world. In the evolution of language, as in biological evolution more generally,37
the
more factors are at work in shaping structure the more complex and varied are the
grammatical solutions that emerge. This makes the need for a supple yet compre-
hensive typology especially acute in the realm of quoted speech. A canonical
approach, I have argued, is signally helpful in moving us towards that goal.38
37
See e.g. Niklas (1994, 2004) for simulations of the evolution of plant morphology under diVerent
numbers of selective factors.
38
An anonymous referee, while accepting the value of multifactorial typologies in characterizing the
full design space, suggests we can do this without needing a canonical approach. I am sure that, for some
imaginatively gifted individuals, this is true. But by the same token my own experience both as a typologist
and as a descriptive linguist is that it can be diYcult to imagine just what hypothetical linguistic types look
like as long as they are simply viewed as abstract dimensions: by putting the typological cards on the table,
so to speak, I believe that canonical typology can help us conceptualize what is going on much more
clearly, all the more so when we are dealing with phenomena for which we don’t have ready, existing
reference points.
98 Nicholas Evans
5
Unpacking finiteness
IRINA NIKOLAEVA
5.1 Introduction
Typology is usually thought of as the study of grammatical patterns that systemat-
ically occur across languages and the search for possible explanations for them. The
standard procedure in typological research can be described as follows (simplified
here after Croft 2003: 14): (i) determine the particular semantico-pragmatic structure
or situation type that you want to explore, (ii) examine the morphosyntactic
constructions or strategies used to encode that situation type, and (iii) search for
dependencies between them and other linguistic factors, such as other structural
features, external functions expressed by the construction in question or both. This
procedure implies a strong relationship between form and function. The assumption
is that there is a set of cross-linguistic semantico-pragmatic entities instantiated in
languages by various grammatical means. Grammatical patterns are identified and
classified based on these universal semantic concepts (Stassen 1985: 14; Croft 1990:
11–12, 1995: 88; Song 2001: 10–12, and others).
Finiteness has no obvious semantico-pragmatic corollary and therefore cannot be
easily equated across languages using this traditional procedure. In typology it is
usually understood either as a fuzzy cross-linguistic meta-category with no universal
content or a kind of functional tendency, but in this chapter I suggest that canonical
typology (Corbett 2005, 2006, 2007a) offers more rigorous comparative tools. The
idea is to identify canonical ideals, i.e. the best uncontroversial instances of a
linguistic category (rather than semantico-pragmatic situation), to construct a set
of relevant parameters and to investigate languages and constructions against them.
This provides a clear analytical tool for measuring the actual phenomena of indi-
vidual languages against well-established criteria.
In some sense canons are not unlike ‘comparative concepts’ (Haspelmath 2007;
see also Dryer 1997; Croft 2001; and Gil 2001), which are claimed to be convenient
abstractions ensuring comparability across grammars. They are not part of the actual
language structure and do not have psychological reality for the speakers. Like
comparative concepts, canons are linguists’ constructs and arguably do not belong to
speakers’ grammar. Linguists need them for stating cross-linguistic generalizations
and identifying comparable grammatical phenomena across languages. However,
linguists use different comparative concepts for the same phenomenon. They are
free to choose one of the existing characterizations or define their own, so compara-
tive concepts are ‘linguist-specific’. Haspelmath (2007) admits that this can lead to
somewhat different results in cross-linguistic comparison, but does not see it as a
problem as long as the usage is consistent. In contrast, the canonical approach
breaks down complex concepts in a way that clarifies where disagreements may lie
between different linguists and theoretical frameworks.
Section 5.2 presents a brief overview of the current typological approaches to
finiteness. In section 5.3 I will propose the criteria for finiteness which belong to the
domains of morphology, syntax, and semantics. Canonical instances of (non)finite-
ness are defined by converging parameters (this is what is presumably covered by the
notion of ‘comparative concept’), but section 5.4 illustrates non-canonical instances
where the criteria diverge. Section 5.5 concludes the chapter.
5.2 Finiteness in typology
Finiteness in typology is often understood as a non-binary scalar phenomenon
(Comrie 1976; Noonan 1985; Palmer 1986; Koptjevskaja-Tamm 1993; Hengeveld
1998; and Croft 1991, among others). Givón (1990: Ch. 19, 2001: Ch. 18, and other
work) suggests that it has to do with the semantics of subordination. Subordination
is a situation whereby the dependent event is construed not in its own perspective,
but in the perspective of the main event. Semantic integration into a higher clause is
reflected at the morphosyntactic level by the downgrading of the dependent clause
with respect to the ‘prototypical transitive main clause’. Syntactic downgrading is
expressed by the loss of some prototypical verbal properties (such as tense, aspect,
mood, or person/number marking) and the acquisition of some nominal properties
(such as case marking, co-occurrence with determiners, omission of verbal argu-
ments or their encoding as possessors or obliques) on the part of the verb describing
the dependent event. The relationship between syntax and semantics is essentially
iconic: ‘[t]he stronger is the semantic bond between the two events, the more
extensive will be the syntactic integration of the two clauses into a single though
complex clause’ (Givón 2001: 40). The grammatical notion of finiteness refers to the
degree of this syntactic integration. As such, finiteness is a gradual category: a clause
is not finite or non-finite but can be ‘more’ or ‘less’ finite, depending on how many
features it displays that deviate from the prototypical main clause pattern. What
properties are relevant for finiteness is a language-particular matter.
However, it is often difficult to see how the degree of morphosyntactic ‘down-
grading’ correlates with the degree of semantic integration, as predicted by the
100 Irina Nikolaeva
iconicity principle. To cite just two examples, in the Tungusic language Udihe
present conditional clauses express agreement, while the periphrastic irrealis condi-
tional consists of an uninflected present or past participle and a copula with no
agreement (Nikolaeva and Tolskaya 2001).
(1) a. wakca-lisi-ni b. wakca-i bisi c. wakca: bisi
hunt-cond-3sg hunt-prs.ptcp cop hunt-pst.ptcp cop
‘if he/
I/
you etc. hunts’ ‘if I/you/he etc. hunted’ ‘if I/you/he etc. had hunted’
Since the irrealis conditional in (1b) and (1c) lacks subject agreement present in
independent clauses, it displays fewer finite features than (1a). Givón’s approach
implies that it must be more semantically integrated into the main clause than (1a),
for which no independent evidence exists. There is no apparent reason to view the
irrealis condition as more conceptually bound than the realis condition, or at least
this claim requires a great deal of additional argumentation. They do not differ in
their syntax, either.
In Icari Dargwa (Nakh-Daghestanian) same-subject complements of volitional
verbs are agreeing subjunctives (Kalinina and Sumbatova 2007).
(2) dam ukw-daj b-ikkul-da
1sg.dat m.eat.ipfv-sbjv.1 n-want-1
‘I want to eat.’
But the same complements may be expressed by unchangeable converbs. No known
semantic difference exists between these two types.
(3) dam uk-un-ni b-ikkul-da
1sg.dat m.eat.ipfv-pret-cvb n-want-1
‘I want to eat.’
There are other, apparently free, variations in the expression of dependent events in
this language. So even if the iconicity principle as formulated above reflects a certain
cross-linguistic bias, the finiteness cline may lead to counter-intuitive results within
one individual language.
The second problem is that typologically relevant scales are normally based on
interdependent, hierarchically organized properties that are measured against each
other, which suggests the implicational relations of the form ‘if A then B’. One
example of this approach is the work of Cristofaro (2003, 2007), who studied in
detail the cross-linguistic distribution of ‘desentencialization’ effects observed in
earlier literature and argued that they follow predictable patterns and are linked by
a number of implicational correlations. For instance, the absence of person agree-
ment on the dependent verb entails the absence of TAM (tense, aspect, mood)
distinctions or their encoding by means of special forms. This generalization is
expressed in the following format: ‘Person agreement not expressed ! TAM not
Unpacking finiteness 101
expressed Ú special TAM forms’. Such cross-linguistic patterns appear to obey a
number of principles, which have been independently suggested in the functionally
orientated literature. They pertain to the cognitive status of the state of affairs
expressed by the relevant clause and the type of the semantic relationship between
the main and dependent clauses.
If finiteness is defined in terms of conformance to the independent clause pattern,
different criteria must be used for different languages and there is no reason to
assume that they instantiate the same category. This led Cristofaro (2007) to suggest
that finiteness is essentially an epiphenomenon. It cannot be regarded as a valid
grammatical category in its own right and is not part of speakers’ linguistic know-
ledge. Instead, it should be viewed as the realization of a cross-linguistic tendency for
certain parameters to correlate with each other, motivated in terms of functional
principles. This conclusion stands in accordance with the popular idea that gram-
matical categories are construction- and language-specific, whereas the universals of
grammar are manifested in a number of correspondence principles between form
and function (e.g. Croft 2001).
But correlations do have numerous ‘exceptions’ because various features do not
always come together as predicted by the theory. In many languages, sharing a
subject participant does not imply the lack of agreement on dependent verb. We just
saw that in Icari Dargwa agreeing subjunctives function as the complements of
volitional verbs. This is also the feature of the so-called Balkan infinitives, i.e. control
and raising structures where the dependent verb takes a subjunctive form and
expresses subject agreement (Roussou 2001, and others). In Turkish the same matrix
verbs that take fully finite embeddings allow for complements which lack agreement
and whose subjects stand in the accusative, but there is no difference in terms of
tense (Kornfilt 2007). This is a violation of the implication cited above.
(4) a. [Sen-i sınav-ı geç-ecek] san-ıyor-um
2sg-acc test-acc pass-fut believe-prs.prog-1sg
‘I believe you will pass the test.’
b. [Sen sınav-ı geç-ecek-sin] san-ıyor-um
2sg.nom test-acc pass-fut-2sg believe-prs.prog-1sg
‘I believe you will pass the test.’
In a similar vein, Vincent (1998) suggests that tense/mood/agreement morphology,
dependent/independent status and compatibility with an overt (non-oblique) subject
are logically independent parameters, but there appears to be an implicational
interaction between them. In particular, for all languages, if person and/or number
and/or tense are marked on the dependent forms, then they are also marked on the
independent forms (Vincent 1998: 147, 151). One possible counter-example to this
generalization is Nivkh (a Palaeosiberian isolate) where (some) forms occurring
102 Irina Nikolaeva
exclusively or mostly in dependent contexts express more agreement than inde-
pendent forms. According to Gruzdeva (2001), the indicative shows subject agree-
ment in number but not in person, while independent modal forms (interrogative,
realis, and irrealis) have no agreement at all.
(5) a. vi-d b. vi-d-gun c. vi-itlo
go-ind go-ind-pl go-r
‘I/you(SG)/he went’ ‘we/you(PL)/they went’ ‘I/you/he/we/
they certainly went’
On the other hand, converbs employed in dependent temporal clauses show agree-
ment in both number and person.
(6) a. xu-tot b. xu-roř
kill-cvb.1sg kill-cvb.3sg
‘after I killed’ ‘after he killed’
A further counter-example is Icari Dargwa where all dependent moods (subjunctive,
conditional, and concessive) differentiate person, while independent past indicatives
do not (Kalinina and Sumbatova 2007: 203). This also violates Givón’s hierarchy
(1990: 853), which predicts that dependent non-indicative forms should not be
marked for more verbal categories than forms used exclusively in independent
clauses.
In sum, functional pressures only work as very general tendencies, whereas the
parameters crucially implicated in the definition of finiteness appear not to stand in
exceptionless implicational relations and are better viewed as a set of discrete
unrelated properties.
5.3 Criteria for finiteness
A number of studies have argued that finiteness can be decomposed and derived
from more basic notions (Vincent 1998; Ledgeway 1998; Pires 2002; Ledgeway 2007;
and others). Anderson discusses two aspects of finiteness: finiteness as a morpho-
syntactic feature and finiteness as a clausal property related to independent senten-
cehood (Anderson 1997, 2001, 2007). Lasser (1997) and Klein (1998) argue for a
separation of morphological and semantic finiteness (M-finiteness vs. S-finiteness, in
their terminology). The former has to do with the verbal form and its features, while
the latter involves referential anchoring and ‘making a claim’ (see section 5.3.3).
Language acquisition research shows that these two aspects of finiteness are acquired
independently (Gretsch and Perdue 2007). In the recent versions of transformational
syntax finiteness is an abstract clausal property with interpretative foundation which
is only secondarily reflected on the verb. There is no requirement that it must be
morphologically manifested in an identical way in all languages or that morphology
Unpacking finiteness 103
should directly correlate with syntactic opacity effects (Adger 2007, and references
therein). Sells (2007) explains three ways in which the term ‘finite’ can be used:
(i) finiteness as a property of a verbal form, (ii) finiteness as a clausal attribute, and
(iii) semantic finiteness related to assertion or some such property of an utterance.
Following this line of thought, I maintain that finiteness-related criteria belong to
one of the three relevant domains: morphology, syntax, and semantics. However in
all these cases finiteness pertains to a clause. In fact I believe a canonical clause to be
finite, but leave open the question of how exactly the notions of finiteness and
‘clausality’ may interact. In what follows canonical criteria (abbreviated as C) are
numbered throughout. The sign ‘>’ means ‘canonically more finite’. Criteria are
understood as constraints on observable linguistic behaviour (no underlying struc-
ture, no empty categories), each of which is fairly uncontroversial independently of
one’s theoretical orientation. Moreover, all criteria I discuss below have been ad-
dressed in one way or another in the existing literature and result from a long history
of descriptive and theoretical work.
5.3.1 Morphology
Morphological criteria refer to the overt expression of featural content on the verb as a
clausal head and on its core argument(s). Non-finiteness in this sense is a matter of
reduced expression, when some elements are omitted and some contrasts are not
available. The reduction of inflectional marking is commonly observed in dependent
clauses. As argued in various places (Cristofaro 2007 and others), this can be under-
stood as a cross-linguistic tendency motivated by the functional pressure for economic
expression in the situation when the value of the missing features may be provided by
the main clause. The same applies to independent clauses with a sequential function
which stand in the medial position in narratives. Carlson (1994) shows that in a number
of African languages such clauses employ non-finite forms and explains this in terms of
thematic continuity and the high degree of coherence with the previous discourse.
Nikolaeva (2007b) suggests that the reduction of morphological finiteness is also
observed in certain (non-assertive) independent clauses, because the relevant infor-
mation is contributed by the semantico-pragmatic content of the construction. The
question then is what categories define finite morphology.
Bisang (2007) discusses inflectional asymmetries between dependent and inde-
pendent clauses and lists the categories that can be morphologically expressed on the
verb from the perspective of obligatoriness. The concept of finiteness he argues for is
crucially based on the idea that the finite/non-finite distinction depends on the
obligatory linguistic expression of certain cognitive domains such as tense, illocu-
tionary force, person, and politeness. If a cognitive domain that is obligatorily
expressed in an independent clause cannot occur at all or can only occur with a
reduced set of subcategories in a dependent clause, the language has a finite/non-
finite opposition.
104 Irina Nikolaeva
While I do not consider non-finiteness to be intrinsically related to the dependent
status of the clause, I do agree with Bisang that the morphological expression of the
categories he mentions is canonical for finite clauses, which make more featural
distinctions than canonical non-finite clauses. This suggests several morphological
criteria.
C-1 tense marking > no tense marking
C-2 subject agreement > no subject agreement
C-1 and C-2 are fairly uncontroversial and have been much discussed. Both trad-
itional grammars and early transformational theories associate finiteness with verbal
tense and agreement (see Nikolaeva 2007a for an overview). To see how the
canonical approach works, we can look at one simple example. In Russian control
constructions the dependent clause is headed by an uninflected infinitive (7a), while
in Udihe it is headed by an action nominal which expresses tense and subject
agreement (7b). The past tense on the dependent verb indicates temporal precedence
with respect to the time of speech.
(7) a. Ivan pomogaet Petru [Ø stroit’ dom]
John help.prs.3sg Peter.dat to.build house.acc
‘John is helping Peter to build a house.’
b. b’ata abuga-i belesi-e-ni [Ø zugdi-we wo:-mo-ni]
boy father-refl help-pst-3sg house-acc make.an.pst-acc-3sg
‘The boy helped his father to build a house.’
Both C-1 and C-2 indicate that the Russian control clause is a canonical non-finite
construction, whereas in Udihe it shows canonical morphological properties of a
finite clause.
It is further known that dependent clauses, which are usually considered to be ‘less
finite’ than independent clauses tend to express fewer modal distinctions.
C-3 mood and/or illocutionary force marking > no mood and/or illocutionary
force marking
For example, Tundra Nenets exhibits sixteen inflectionally expressed and paradig-
matically opposed moods on independent verbs (imperative, subjunctive, optative,
hortative, jussive, obligative, and the like), but has no modal distinctions on the
verbal forms used in dependent contexts (Salminen 1997). Dependent clauses are
headed by converbs, action nominals, and participles, which may sometimes express
tense and subject agreement but never mood. Therefore they have fewer canonical
properties of finiteness than independent clauses.
The expression of politeness tends to occur in canonical finite clauses, too.
C-4 politeness marking > no politeness marking
Unpacking finiteness 105
The category of politeness has many aspects and may be encoded in many different
ways, but here I will only cite examples of politeness markers that indicate the respectful
attitude towards the addressee. Bisang (2007) argues that the Japanese addressee
honorifics in -mas-u (present) and -masi-ta (past) are instances of finite marking.
They occur in independent clauses, as well as some types of complement clause.
(8) a. ringo o tabe(-masi)-ta
apple acc eat-pol-pst
‘He ate an apple.’
b. Hanako ga ki(-masi)-ta to
Hanako nom come-pol-pst that
‘that Hanako came’
However, politeness markers are impossible in relative clauses, and this indicates
that Japanese relative clauses are less canonically finite than complement and
independent clauses.
(9) tabe-(
masi)-ta ringo
eat-pol-pst apple
‘the apple he ate’
Bisang (2007) does not address evidentiality (he may well be assuming that evidenti-
ality is a modal subcategory). But in languages with morphological evidentials there
often are considerable restrictions on their usage in dependent clauses.
C-5 evidential marking > no evidential marking
In Tundra Nenets evidential forms are only available in root contexts. In Kolyma
Yukaghir inferential and hearsay evidentials are rendered by the suffix -l’әl-. Evi-
dentials occur on independent indicatives, but are also compatible with converbs
used in different-subject adverbial clauses and clause-chaining. On the other hand,
same-subject converbs cannot host evidentials.
(10) a. [tet leŋdo:-l’әl-gәnә] tetul lubogәš-tә-mә
you be.hungry-ev-ds you.acc feed-fut-1sg
‘If you are hungry (apparently), I will feed you.’
b. [Ø ningo: leg-(
l’әl)-ut] ta: kude-tә-jәk
much eat-ev-ss so become-fut-2sg
‘If you eat a lot (apparently), you will become like that.’
The comparison between (10a) and (10b) indicates that in Kolyma Yukaghir differ-
ent-subject converbial clauses are more canonically finite than same-subject clauses.
This merges with the fact that the former can take an overt referentially independent
subject, while the latter cannot: as we will see in the next section, subject licensing is
another canon.
106 Irina Nikolaeva
I further suggest that the presence of a switch-reference marker, which indicates
(non)-coreferentiality with a core argument of another clause, makes a clause less
finite.
C-6 no switch-reference marking > switch-reference marking
Unlike final clauses in clause chaining, coordinated clauses, and finite subordinate
clauses, the medial clauses in Amele (Trans-New Guinea) are marked for switch-
reference and so have fewer canonical finiteness properties (Roberts 1988).
(11) a. Ho busale-ce-b dana age qo-ig-a
pig run.out-ds(seq)-3sg man pl hit-3pl-rec.pst
‘The pig ran out and the men killed it (today).’
b. Ija [dana age ija na ho qo-ig-a] d-ugi-na
1sg man pl 1sg poss pig hit-3pl-rec.pst know-1sg-prs
‘I know that the men killed my pig.’
Note that (11a) does express the relative (sequential) tense and there is no difference
in terms of agreement, therefore C-1 and C-2 are not applicable here.
The last morphological criterion has to do with the form of the subject (the
highest argument of the verb).
C-7 nominative subject > non-nominative subject
C-7 often works in parallel with C-1: many European languages demonstrate a
strong correlation between the tensed verb and the nominative. In some theories
this connection plays an important role: tense was taken to license the nominative
case in Chomsky (1981) and subsequent work in the Government and Binding and
Principles and Parameters frameworks. The basic idea behind this association is
that both the nominative and the strong tense make the embedded clause syntac-
tically opaque and propositionally independent of the main clause (cf. Bianchi
2003).
According to C-7, in languages with rich case systems non-nominative subjects
are less canonical for finite clauses than nominative subjects. Compare the two
Turkish sentences cited above in (4). Kornfilt (2007) argues that in both (4a) and
(4b) the subject structurally belongs to the embedded clause. However, there is
difference in case and, ultimately, finiteness—if the latter is taken to define an
opaque syntactic domain. Unlike (4b), (4a) is syntactically transparent: the subject
participates in syntactic phenomena that belong to the matrix clause. In particular,
for the purpose of binding principles the relevant domain is the matrix clause rather
than the embedded clause. Note that the verbal form is also different: in (4b) the
embedded predicate bears subject agreement and in (4a) agreement is absent.
Unpacking finiteness 107
Kornfilt concludes that the factor that creates finiteness in Turkish is agreement
rather than tense, but for us this simply means that (4b) is canonically more finite
than (4a) both with respect to agreement and case (C-2 and C-7).
As formulated, C-7 implies that non-nominative (‘quirky’) subjects are less
canonically finite in independent clauses. We do indeed find evidence that in such
cases C-7 may combine with other morphological criteria, such as C-2. For instance,
the Russian independent clauses with dative subjects typically involve either non-
agreeing infinitives or default third person agreement. Cf. the ‘finite’ clause with the
nominative subject and agreeing verb in (12a), the dative subject which does not
agree with the impersonal third person verb in (12b) and the independent infinitival
construction with the dative subject in (12c).
(12) a. Ja xoč-u gruš-u
1sg.nom want-prs.1sg pear-acc
‘I want a pear.’
b. Mne xoč-et-sja gruš-u
1sg.dat want-prs.3sg-refl pear-acc
‘I want a pear.’
c. Mne èt-ogo ne s”est’
1sg.dat this-gen neg to.eat
‘I am not able to eat this.’
Languages with more complicated systems of alignment will probably require a
more elaborate formulation of C-7, but I will not discuss this issue here.
5.3.2 Syntax
Syntactic criteria refer to the notion of a clause being finite in the sense of ‘syntac-
tically independent’. That non-finiteness correlates with the dependent status (syn-
tactic embeddings and non-final clauses in clause-chaining constructions) is well
known. For Givón and Cristofaro all non-subordinated clauses are necessarily finite,
because finiteness by definition has to do with subordination. Huddleston (1976)
analyses the English imperative as uninflected but still finite, due to its independent
function. Holmberg and Platzack (1995: 23), too, explicitly say that imperatives are
finite, although they are not based on a tensed verb. There are other explicit claims
that a main/independent clause must be finite and/or that the major function of
non-finiteness is signalling syntactic and semantic embedding (Hornstein 1990;
Anderson 1997, 2001, 2007; Bianchi 2000, 2003; Bisang 2007). This gives us the
following criterion:
C-8 independent clause > dependent clause
108 Irina Nikolaeva
Non-finite forms, which have less featural content than finite ones, canonically occur
in dependent clauses, as we saw in the previous section. This is presumably due to
predictability of certain values and therefore structural reduction. However, the
dependent status does not imply non-finiteness and, conversely, in section 4 we
will see many examples of the finite/non-finite distinction in independent clauses.
The next criterion has to do with the presence of the overt clausal subject.
C-9 subject licensing > no subject
Canonically finite clauses take a referentially independent subject, while in canonical
non-finite clauses the subject is not licensed, which gives rise to subject-related
transparency/opacity effects such as reflexive binding, control, and raising. Various
theory-internal implementations of this idea can be found in Holmberg and Platzack
(1995), Bianchi (2000), and many others.
We saw in Yukaghir examples (10) that same-subject clauses with no overt subject
show some canonical morphological properties of non-finiteness. In languages that
make a distinction between indicative and subjunctive moods, dependent subjunct-
ives are, in a number of ways, less finite than indicatives (Palmer 1986: 162; Givón
1990: 854; Vincent 1998; and others). Unlike indicatives, they allow/require the
omission of the subject and are more opaque with respect to the processes that
take place in the higher domain. For instance, in Modern Greek (Felix 1989;
Anderson 1997: 286 ff.; Roussou 2001) and Maltese (Vincent 1993: 151) inflected
subjunctives are syntactically transparent.
I further suggest that it is canonical for a finite clause to express information
structuring by morphosyntactic means such as dedicated syntactic constructions
(e.g. clefting or left-dislocation), linear order, or morphological markers indicating
informational roles.
C-10 morphosyntactic expression of information structure > no morphosyn-
tactic expression of information structure
As we will see in the next section, canonically finite clauses are informationally
structured (C-13). C-10 can be viewed as the result of grammaticalization of this
tendency. In some languages finite clauses possess morphosyntactic means to
express information structure, while non-finite clauses do not. I will only cite two
examples here. In Japanese the (non-contrastive) topic marker wa is essentially a
root phenomenon: it is restricted to independent and main clauses and does not
normally appear in subordinate clauses with one exception: it can be present in
complements of verbs such as say and know (Heycock 2008: 56).
(13) a. John wa [Mori san wa Toyota no syain de
John wa Mori san wa Toyota gen employee be
Unpacking finiteness 109
aru] koto o sitteiru
exist.prs fact acc know.prs
‘John knows that Mori is an employee of Toyota.’
b. John wa [Mori san wa Toyota no hira-syain
John wa mori san wa toyota gen flat-employee
de aru] koto o zanneni omotteiru
be exist.prs fact acc regret.prs
‘John regrets that Mori is a mere employee of Toyota.’
In (13a) wa does not necessarily get a contrastive interpretation, while in (13b) it
must be contrastive. The generalization suggested in the literature is that wa is
possible in ‘statement-making’ contexts, although there is no obvious list of these
contexts. On the present account (13a) is canonically more finite than (13b).
As most other languages of Daghestan, Icari Dargwa exhibits focus clitics
(or predicative particles) which express person, tense, and polarity (Kalinina and
Sumbatova 2007). The position of the particle marks focus: it is cliticized to the right
edge of the focus phrase. In most cases this is the main predicate (14a). However, in
argument-focus structures predicative particles follow the focused NP and the verb
takes an attributive form (14b). The neuter agreement here is with the absolutive
argument.
(14) a. murad-il qu b-ax-un-ca-b
Murad-erg field.abs n-sow-pret-prs.3-n
‘Murad has sown the field.’
b. murad-il-ca¼b qu b-ax-un-ci
Murad-erg-prs.3-n field.abs n-sow-pret-attr
‘It was Murad who has sown the field.’
Importantly, predicative particles do not appear in embeddings and most non-indi-
cative main clauses. Given other criteria discussed here, indicatives are canonically
finite. On the one hand, they tend to have more featural content than non-indicative
moods as predicted by our morphological criteria; on the other hand, they are
specialized on expressing assertions and in the next section we will see that canonically
finite clauses are assertive. And it is main clause indicatives that tend to have clearest
morphosyntactic expression of information structuring.
5.3.3 Semantics
Semantic criteria are conditions on the independent interpretation of a clause. The
idea that finiteness is somehow related to assertion has emerged in several places. It
is present in many studies on Germanic, where the placing of the finite verb in the
V2 position appears to be a strategy to encode the assertive force (Platzack and
110 Irina Nikolaeva
Holmberg 1989; Wechsler 1991; Brandner 2004; among others). Klein (1994, 1998)
argues that finiteness is a primitive grammatical category with the status of a clausal
operator which takes scope over the whole utterance or some of its parts. Its major
function is relating the descriptive propositional content of the utterance to its topic
part. As such, finiteness comprises at least two meaningful components: the assertive
component (AST) and the tense component. The former indicates that the assertion
is made, while the latter restricts it to a particular time span (topic time).
Klein’s main argument comes from English examples where the verb is empha-
sized.
(15) The book WAS on the table.
The prosodically prominent auxiliary in (15) has two readings: it carries a positive
assertion (in contrast to The book was not on the table) and also a temporal meaning
(in contrast to The book is on the table). What is highlighted (focused) in the first
reading is the claim that the situation described by the utterance indeed obtains
(polarity focus). In the second reading the contrast relates to the time about which
the claim is made. For non-auxiliary verbs, focusing either of these two readings
results in different structures.
(16) a. John LOVED Mary, but he doesn’t love her any longer.
b. John DID love Mary.
In (16) tense is emphasized by highlighting the lexical verb, but if assertion is to be
emphasized the finite component (auxiliary) has to be extracted from the verb. So
the morphosyntactic expression of both assertion and tense is associated with the
verb. However, finiteness is an abstract category which, on Klein’s account, may
license various syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic phenomena, for instance, basic
word order rules, the presence of the grammatical subject and expletives, the
semantic interpretation of indefinite NPs, and so on.
Unfortunately it is not always clear what Klein means by assertion. He under-
stands it in at least three different ways and the relationship between them is not
spelled out clearly. On the one hand, the function of finiteness and therefore
assertion is to provide a link between the propositional base and topic. So assertion
is opposed to topic, which suggests that it has to do with information structuring and
‘pragmatic assertion’ in the sense of Lambrecht (1994). Indeed, Klein (1998: 234–235)
claims that finiteness can be realized in topic-focus articulation and that the finite-
ness operator takes scope over the focus part of the utterance. Surprisingly, the finite
operator is referred to as ‘the minimal topic’ (Klein 1994: 181) and I find it hard to see
how this is compatible with its definition as a linker between the topic and the
sentence base and a carrier of assertion.
On the other hand, finiteness indicates that the situation is true at topic time.
This yields a definition of assertion as a speech act that conveys a truth-bearing
Unpacking finiteness 111
proposition. However, AST is said to be present in non-declarative utterances,
e.g. imperatives, which cannot be taken to be true or false. To avoid this contra-
diction Klein suggests the notion of ‘validity’, understood roughly as referential
anchoring. The event denoted by imperatives is placed somewhere on the tem-
poral axis and is therefore valid for a particular time licensed by AST. The claim is
made about the time span when a modal situation (obligation) is put into force
(Klein 1994: 58, 215–218). This third understanding of assertion differs both from
pragmatic assertion and from assertion as a speech act. It extends over declarative
and non-declarative clauses, as well as all dependent clauses. In fact, AST is
essentially present in every verbal structure. Klein (1998: 237) explicitly says that
all phrasal constructions containing a verb are [þfinite], although the verb itself is
not necessarily finite. For example, German participial modificational construc-
tions contain AST.
This indicates that Klein ultimately understands finiteness as some kind of
‘predicativity’, somewhat in line with Anderson (1997), who defines it as a ‘sentence-
hood-conferring’ property which makes it possible to evaluate a sentence’s truth
value. Lexical verbs in the finite position carry both the predicative and the notional
feature, while auxiliaries have the predicative feature alone. Although based on very
different syntactic assumptions, a fundamentally similar view is found in Holmberg
and Platzack (1995) who take finiteness to indicate the existence of a predication and
to relate this predication to some period of time. This includes non-assertive
utterances, apparently because they express a situation which can in principle be
temporally anchored.
From a functional perspective this idea is not unlike the concept of finiteness
developed by Langacker (1987: 126–9, 1991: 441) within the Cognitive Grammar
framework. In his theory a finite clause represents a ‘grounded’ instance of predi-
cation. Grounding in its turn is understood as a semantic function that anchors the
event with respect to the speech circumstances (the speech event, its participants,
and the scene) and corresponds structurally to the outermost layer in the represen-
tation of the clause. The crucial difference is that for Langacker grounding is
established through morphologically expressed tense and modality. Infinitival
clauses in English are ungrounded in this sense. In contrast, Klein’s approach is
consciously based on separating finiteness from morphology. He argues that clausal
finiteness is independent of its morphological manifestation and the two interact on
a language-particular basis. For example, in Chinese finiteness is interpreted from
independent lexical elements or aspectual markers (Klein et al. 2000).
But this does not explain why non-finite verbal forms tend to occur in some types
of clause but not in others. In other words, the cross-linguistic relationship between
AST and tense/agreement marking on the verb is not addressed (in fact, agreement
is not analysed as an attribute of finiteness). Since the broad understanding of
finiteness as some kind of predicativity does not correlate with the morphological
112 Irina Nikolaeva
phenomena on a cross-linguistic basis, it has little explanatory power as far as finite
morphology is concerned. On the other hand, there is abundant cross-linguistic
evidence for the relation between morphological finiteness and the assertive speech act.
First, non-finite (uninflected) forms are more likely to be present in dependent
clauses, which lack independent assertion, than in independent clauses, cf. Vincent’s
implication. Second, imperatives and subjunctives/optatives are sometimes analysed as
‘less’ finite than declaratives or lacking finiteness altogether. They systematically
demonstrate properties that are commonly thought of as diagnostics of non-finiteness:
they tend to be based on morphologically meagre verbs and rarely allow overt
subjects in a canonical form, although the latter are not totally excluded (for a
recent survey see Nikolaeva 2007b). Various studies have suggested that in im-
peratives the category responsible for finiteness may be absent or not associated
with tense, similar to infinitives. For instance, Akmajian (1984) argues that im-
peratives lack INFL and Platzack and Rosengren (1998), assuming split CP à la
Rizzi (1997), show that Germanic imperatives lack a FinP projection and conse-
quently TenseP and MoodP. The same is true for exclamatives (Potsdam, n.d;
Merin and Nikolaeva, Ms.). What is more, non-assertive speech acts (imperatives,
hortatives, optatives, deliberative questions, exclamations, etc.) are often expressed
by independently used non-finite forms (see section 4). This suggests that the
notion of assertion relevant for canonical finiteness should refer to the assertive
speech act and suggests the following criterion:
C-11 assertion > no assertion
An assertive utterance makes a statement about a certain time span by identifying
a point on the time line in which the respective proposition is true. Canonically finite
clauses are temporally independent and assert a proposition located in the past,
present, or future with respect to the moment of speech. In some works finiteness is
directly associated with the event being situated in a particular temporal interval.
Tsoulas (1995) argues that finite clauses are temporally ‘definite’ and non-finite
clauses are not in the sense that they do not refer to a specified point in time. For
Hoekstra and Hyams (1998a,b) and Hoekstra et al. (1999) temporal reference is fixed
through a temporal operator. The notion of finiteness refers to this fixation and
makes a chain between the operator and the verb, or more specifically, the tense
position, visible. Languages vary in how the notion of finiteness is expressed
morphologically. It may be expressed not only through tense morphology, but also
person and number. For example, in Dutch a present tense verb is overtly marked
for number but not for person or tense, so number morphology makes a tense chain
visible. Bianchi (2000, 2003) suggests that finiteness relates to the way the tense and
logophoric centre (the relation between the speaker and the subject of the clause) are
identified. In non-finite clauses the temporal and logophoric centres must be
Unpacking finiteness 113
determined anaphorically (i.e. via another clause), whereas in finite clauses they
must be independently (deicticly) specified. For Roussou (2001) finiteness relates to
existential/universal quantification over time intervals or possible worlds; see Adger
(2007) for a similar view. The respective canon is as follows:
C-12 independent temporal anchoring > no independent temporal anchoring
It is important to emphasize that C-11 and C-12 refer to independent parameters.
Most non-assertive independent clauses denote an event which may be temporally
located with respect to the time of speech, but they have no truth value at this time.
This applies to imperatives, hortatives, optatives, and the like. They are less finite
than declaratives according to C-11 and, as mentioned above, are not canonical in
terms of their morphology and syntax. However, temporal anchoring does not
reduce to assertion. Interrogatives are not assertive, although they are tensed. This
is because they share with declaratives their relation to reality. Interrogatives and
declaratives are the only two speech acts where the direction of fit is word-to-world,
i.e. words are ‘adapted’ to the relevant part of the world at the moment of
the utterance (Brandt et al. 1992: 51). All other speech acts represent either a
world-to-word direction or a combination of both, or have no direction at all.
This implies that interrogatives are associated, although indirectly, with an asserted
proposition. Under normal circumstances they presuppose an assertive answer and
therefore fix independent time for which the assertion will be made (cf. Klein 1994:
216). According to Platzack and Rosengren (1998: 188), in yes/no questions the
interrogative operator takes scope over the proposition and signals that the existence
of the event to which the clause refers is undetermined. In wh-questions it is
undefined which individual would participate in the event. But in both cases the
event is existentially bound and located in some point on the temporal axis. In this
sense interrogatives are temporally anchored. In sum, there is no one-to-one cor-
respondence between assertion and temporal anchoring. Assertion implies inde-
pendent temporal anchoring, but non-assertion does not imply the absence of
temporal anchoring.
Another important point is that C-12 is in principle independent of any surface
encodings, in particular, C-1. Various studies have shown that temporal anchoring
(‘deep tense’ in McCawley’s terminology) is to be distinguished from the gramma-
ticalized tense (Comrie 1985: 50–3; McCawley 1988; Lyons 1995: 314; Haase 1995). For
instance, languages like Burmese or Dyirbal have no tense morphology; the present
and past time reference in the realis mood is expressed by means of temporal
adverbials or other contextual clues (Comrie 1985: 50–2). These clauses are tempor-
ally anchored but there is no grammatical specification of tense. On the other hand,
according to McCawley (1988), the combination ‘deep-tenseless surface-tensed’
occurs in Japanese where subordinate clauses equivalent to the English
114 Irina Nikolaeva
John can play the piano require a tensed form of the verb; see also Sells (2007) and
example (23) below.
C-12 makes certain predictions about the nature of sentential complements.
Finiteness properties of dependent clauses are partially determined by the meaning
of the selecting predicate. Some types of dependent clause do express independent
tense. Complements of cognitive predicates (know, believe) and verbs of saying
introduces an independent world (existential anchoring), whereas complements of
volitional (want) and some other predicates introduces a set of worlds (intensional
anchoring) (Roussou 2001). This implies that one would not expect to find a major
difference in finiteness between the same semantic types of complements in different
languages. Indeed, the cross-linguistic picture is more or less consistent: the former
tend to be finite, while the latter do not.
For instance, Welsh infinitives take subject agreement if the subject is pronom-
inal (Tallerman 1998). When embedded under epistemic/declarative verbs they
have a tense feature, while embedded under the verbs of volition and emotions
they are tenseless. These two types differ in their ability to coordinate with finite
clauses, negation, binding and ultimately, finiteness. Khmer, which lacks tense and
agreement, is said to demonstrate the finite/non-finite distinction in the syntactic
sense. According to Fisher (1988), clauses embedded under the verb tell and the
like can take an overt subject, while clauses embedded under volitional verbs
cannot. In Udihe (Nikolaeva and Tolskaya 2001) the complements of volitional
verbs correspond to uninflected infinitives and do not take a subject, while
complements of epistemic and cognitive verbs express temporal distinctions,
have an overt subject which triggers agreement, and seem to form full-fledged
clausal structures in terms of syntactic opacity. Modern standard Chinese is also
said to demonstrate the finite/non-finite distinction: there is a systematic syntactic
difference between persuade-type clauses and tell-type clauses. C. T. J. Huang
(1984), Li (1990), and Tang (2000) show that they behave differently in terms of
the realization of aspect, licensing of negative polarity items, co-occurrence with
certain time adverbials and aspect markers, and some other features (although this
view has been criticized in Hu et al. 2001). Taking Turkish again, indicative
embeddings have independent temporal reference expressed by future or non-
future factive nominalizations (Kornfilt 2007).
(17) a. [Sen-in sınav-ı geç-eceğ-in]-i
2sg-gen test-acc pass-fut.fn-2sg-acc
bil-iyor-um / bil-iyor-du-m
know-prs.prog-1sg / know-prog-pst-1sg
‘I know/knew that you will pass the exam.’
Unpacking finiteness 115
b. [Sen-in sınav-ı geç-tiğ-in]-i
2sg-gen test-acc pass-fn-2sg-acc
bil-iyor-um / bi-iyor-du-m
know-prs.prog-1sg / know-prog-pst-1sg
‘I know/knew that you passed the exam.’
In contrast, subjunctive embeddings are temporally dependent on the matrix; they
are expressed by so-called non-factive nominalizations neutral for tense:
(18) [Sen-in sınav-ı geç-me-n]-i
you-gen test-acc pass-nfn-2sg-acc
isti-yor-um/iste-di-m/isti-yeceğ-im
want-prs.prog-1sg/want-pst-1sg/want-fut-1sg
‘I want/wanted/will want that you should pass the exam.’
In both types, the subject is in the genitive and the verb takes the agreeing
nominalized form marked for case. Kornfilt takes temporal independence to be
part of what defines finiteness and analyses (17) as finite and (18) as non-finite.
Another semantic constraint on a canonically finite clause is that it must be
pragmatically structured, i.e. contain the asserted and the presupposed part.
C-13 information structuring > no information structuring
This canon is broader than C-10, which only deals with the morphosyntactic
realization of information structure, because it concerns a level of sentence repre-
sentation where propositions, as conceptual states of affairs, are structured in
accordance with the interlocutors’ assessment of the informational value of sentence
elements and the contextual factors. This in principle can be expressed by non-
syntactic means, for example, prosodically. The point is that clauses that cannot be
neatly divided into presupposed topic and asserted focus are canonically less finite.
This presumably applies to many types of embeddings. Main clause thetics are
informationally unstructured too, and there is grammatical evidence suggesting
that in some languages they exhibit fewer features of canonical finiteness.
Thetic use of nominalizations is very typical of Austronesian and found elsewhere.
Tagalog and Tongan examples in (19) are cited here after Sasse (1987). Both
sentences are construed as answers to the question What happened? and provide
all-new information. The verb is some kind of a verbal noun and in (19b) it is
compatible with the definite article. The subject takes the possessive form, as
opposed to regular clausal subject.
(19) a. kama-matay lang ng lola
redup-die just of grandma
‘GRANDMA just died.’
116 Irina Nikolaeva
b. ko e ui ’ae tangata
EXIST the call of.the man
‘The MAN is calling.’
In Tsakhur (Kalinina and Sumbatova 2007) thetics are expressed by participles and,
unlike non-thetics, are not compatible with focus particles bearing agreement, cf.:
(20) a. aʕ
li a-r-y wo-r
ali.abs m-come-pfv foc-m
(‘What did Ali do?’) ‘Ali came.’
b. i-ni zaʕ
?f-e
 t’ufli-by qa-d-
im-my
this-obl woman-erg shoe-pl nhum.pl-bring.pfv-attr-pl
(
wo-d)
foc-nhum.pl
(‘What happened?’) ‘This woman brought the shoes!’
Note that although thetics express new and unexpected information and are often
indistinguishable from exclamatives (Merin and Nikolaeva, Ms.), they are usually
taken to be assertive and have independent temporal reference. In other words, C-13
and C-11 refer to independent parameters.
5.4 Where the criteria diverge
The previous section introduced the criteria for finiteness and provided examples
where they work in parallel for the most part. That is, the construction is canonically
finite/non-finite according to several parameters. For instance, the Russian sentence
in (7a) seems to exemplify canonical finiteness in all relevant domains: it is an
independent assertive informationally structured clause based on a fully inflected
verb and containing the nominative subject. In this section I will cite examples of
mismatches where evaluation by different scales leads to contradictory results. In
other words, the construction appears to be canonical in some respect and non-
canonical in other. This is precisely the kind of situation that presents difficulties for
establishing a cross-linguistically applicable definition of finiteness.
The cases where morphological criteria conflict are well known. The conflict of
C-1 and C-2 is observed in Tamil nominalizations, which express tense but not
agreement (Asher 1982), and Cuzco Quechua nominalizations with roughly similar
function, which express agreement but not tense (Lefebvre and Muysken 1988).
Ledgeway (1998) shows that within Romance alone one can find all possible com-
binations of tense and agreement features on dependent verbs, including agreement-
inflected Portuguese infinitives and Old Neapolitan gerunds and participles, and
Unpacking finiteness 117
Latin and Southern Italian infinitives inflected for tense (cf. Vincent 1998). His
conclusion is that the infinitive cannot occur only if both TENSE and AGR are
positively specified: 
Romance infinitive iff [þTense/þAGR] (Ledgeway 1998: 19).
Less known are instances where syntactic criteria conflict. However, in Imbabura
Quechua the dependent subject appears to be obligatory unlike the main subject
(Cole 1982).
(21) Juan-ka 
(ñuka) Marya-ta juya-j-taJ ya-n
Juan-top 1sg Maria-acc love-an-acc think-3
‘Juan thinks that I love Maria.’
According to Cole (1982), pro-drop is possible in main clauses, but in nominalized
complement clauses even the pronominal subject must be overtly expressed, so the
status of the clause appears to conflict with the subject parameter (C-8 vs. C-9).
We have already seen above that there may be mismatches between various
semantic criteria. In particular, interrogatives are non-assertive but express inde-
pendent temporal anchoring (C-11 vs. C-12), whereas thetics are assertive and
temporally anchored, but lack information structuring (C-11 and C-12 vs. C-13).
Since finiteness is evaluated according to several parameters, ‘losing’ on one of the
scales makes a construction overall less canonical. This means that thetics and
interrogatives are less canonically finite than categorical declaratives, but we are yet
to find additional evidence for reduced finiteness effects in them. At present I do not
know of any grammatical facts which would suggest that interrogatives tend to be
morphologically or syntactically less finite than declaratives. Normally, if a language
has tense and agreement in the indicative, it has tense and agreement in the
interrogative (although the interrogative paradigm shows more syncretism in some
languages), and there are no constraints on the occurrence or form of the subject.
There are other more complicated patterns. Martineau and Motapanyane (1996)
show that Canadian French uninflected hypothetical infinitives require an overt subject.
(22) Pierre y aller seul, ce serait vraiment courageux
Peter there to.go alone this be.cond.3sg really brave
‘If Peter went there alone, that would really be brave.’
Sells (2007 and previous work) argues that in Japanese some dependent construc-
tions are true IPs and license an overt subject, while others lack the subject and are
better analysed as VPs. This is not reflected in morphology, though, as both types are
based on verbs inflected for tense but not agreement. In fact, virtually every
dependent complement construction in Japanese must contain a tensed verb. For
example, just like Russian and Udihe control constructions in (7), Japanese control
constructions do not show any semantic effects associated with finiteness; still they
allow regular subjects and tense.
118 Irina Nikolaeva
(23) Taroo-wa [(zibun-ga) tookyoo-ni ik-u] koto-ni sita
Taroo-top self-nom Tokyo-dat go-prs fact-dat do.pst
‘Taroo decided (for himself) to go to Tokyo.’
In these cases we have a conflict between morphology (tense and/or agreement) and
syntax (subject licensing), that is, C-1 and/or C-2 vs. C-9.
Another class of constructions involves independently used non-finite forms. As
mentioned above, many European (and not only) languages contain the so-called
root infinitives. Nikolaeva (2007b) gives an overview of imperative and hortative
infinitives, but they are also possible in other non-assertive functions, e.g. delibera-
tive (24) and exclamative (25) in English, French, and German; see Lasser (1997) for
an extensive discussion.
(24) a. Why speak of those times?
b. Comment dire ‘non’?
how to.say no
‘How can one say ‘no’?’
c. Wen noch fragen?
whom else to.ask
‘Whom else can one ask?’
(25) a. Me, marry you?!
b. Moi, faire le premier pas! Jamais!
me to.make the first step never
‘Me, make the first step? Never!’
c. Der (und) Soldat werden!
he and soldier to.become
‘Him, to become a soldier!’
These infinitives are morphologically non-finite and do not allow subjects. Grohmann
(1999, 2000) and Etxepare and Grohmann (2000, 2002) analyse the first NP in (25) as
syntactic subjects in English and German, but Lambrecht (1990) convincingly argues
that it does not hold a clause-internal position and is a likely candidate for an
ungoverned extra-clausal topic. As (24) and (25) are syntactically independent
structures, C-8 is in conflict with the morphological constraints C-1 and C-2.
Note that Latin does allow a subject in exclamative infinitives, although it takes
the accusative form:
(26) adeon ingenio esse duro te!
so spirit.dat.sg to.be cruel.dat.sg 2sg.acc
‘That you can be so cruel in spirit!’ (Terence, Phormio 497)
Unpacking finiteness 119
There is no evidence that the last NP in (26) is anything other than subject, so Latin
exclamative infinitives appear to be more canonically finite than exclamative infini-
tives in modern European languages in that they take overt subjects even though
they stand in a non-canonical form (C-1 and C-2 and C-7 vs. C-8 and C-9).
Another root infinitive construction observed in a number of Romance and Slavic
languages is clearly assertive and allows overt referentially independent subject. It is
usually referred to as ‘narrative’ or ‘historical’ infinitive and is fully productive,
although its usage is restricted to written registers. Narrative infinitives serve to
report an event in narrative contexts and are associated with a truth value. Whether
or not they have independent temporal reference in languages like French or Russian
is controversial (see Nikolaeva (to appear) ), but at least in Latin they unambiguously
refer to the past. Narrative infinitives behave like a preterital tense with respect to the
sequence of tenses, i.e. they require secondary tenses in embedded clauses (Menge
2000: 189, 639; Rosén 1995: 540). For example, in (27) the embedded clause takes
the imperfect to render simultaneity with the main clause event.
(27) Graucus primo distinguere et dividere, quemadmodum
Graucus.nom first to.distinguish and to.divide as
illa dicerentur.
3pl.nom say.sbjv.ipfv.pass.3pl
‘First Graucus distinguished and divided (them) in the way they were told.’
Latin narrative infinitives do not make temporal reference to another event and are
compatible with adverbial expressions denoting definite time in the past (in contrast
to Russian and French).
(28) igitur circiter Kalendas unias L. Caesare
thus about calends.acc.pl june.acc.pl L.C.abl
consulibus primo ingulos appellare . . .
consul.abl.pl at.the.beginning anyone.acc to.talk.to
et C. Figulo
and C.F.abl
‘It was about the first of June in the year when L. Caesar and C. Figulus were
consuls that he began making overtures to single individuals . . . ’ (Sall. Cat. 17, 1)
(cited after Contino 1977: 52)
They may open a new chapter or start a text and so do not necessarily denote an
event perceived as a result of the preceding situation (cf. Rosén 1995: 543). As I argue
elsewhere (Nikolaeva 2007b), their main function does not lie in the expression of
temporal or aspectual meaning, but seems to be associated with information struc-
turing. Namely, they instantiate an event-reporting topicless construction. Various
authors have noticed that the Latin narrative infinitives typically indicate an abrupt
change of the narrated situation and present a new state of affairs with an almost
120 Irina Nikolaeva
obligatory shift of subject (Cavallin 1936: 59; Blatt 1952: 198; Viljamaa 1983; Rosén
1995: 554). Other authors state that the construction conveys the speaker’s attitude:
surprise or absence of control over the situation (impotentia, in the words of
Schlicher 1914: 290). This cluster of properties is typical of topicless all-new utter-
ances, whose main communicative function is to report a new unexpected event.
So even though narrative infinitives have no inflectional morphology, they take
referentially independent subjects in the nominative (that is, in a more canonical
form than the accusative subject in (26) ), express assertions and have independent
temporal reference: C-1 and C-2 vs. C-8 and C-9 and C-11 and C-12. In this they are
similar to Nivkh non-agreeing forms in (2). They may be ‘losing’ finiteness on C-13,
though, since they appear to be informationally unstructured.
The opposite case can be illustrated by fully inflected insubordinated exclam-
ations, such as the German and Russian examples (29).
(29) a. Dass du nicht zu spät kommst!
comp 2sg neg too late come.prs.2sg
‘May you not come late!’
b. Čtob ty sdox!
comp 2sg die.pst.sg.m
‘Would that you (male) die!’
Such independently used utterances have a regular subject and finite morphology,
but crucially lack semantic finiteness: they are not deeply tensed because they are
intended as expressions of wish rather than the reporting of an event. Although the
event is conceived as following in time the moment of speech, there is no claim that
it will or will not occur in the future and no assertion that the proposition is true at a
certain time. In fact, the verbal tense is not deictic here and does not express the
actual temporal meaning: German uses the present, while in Russian the same
meaning is expressed by the past. The tense is determined by the complementizer
and other tenses are impossible. In this sense the tense in (29) is ‘fake’, just like in
tensed subjunctives in Balkan languages. What we have here is a conflict between
finite morphology and syntax, on the one hand, and non-finite semantics, on the
other: C-12 and C-11 vs. C-1 and C-2 and C-8 and C-9.
Another example of fake tense in a dependent clause is the so-called pseudo-
relative construction in Italian. As argued in Barron (2000), pseudo-relatives have
the appearance of a straightforward relative clause, but differ from regular relatives
in a number of properties. The verb in the pseudo-relative appears to be tensed, but
has no temporal reference on its own. The perceived event must be simultaneous
with the act of perception. If the main perception verb is in the present, then the verb
of the pseudo-relative is in the present, too; if the main clause is in the past, then the
verb of the pseudo-relative is in the imperfective tense.
Unpacking finiteness 121
(30) Leo ha visto [Clio che mangiava la pizza]
leo have-prs.3sg see.pst.ptcp clio that eat.pst.ipfv.3sg the pizza
‘Leo saw Clio eating the pizza.’
So pseudo-relatives are dependent structures that have no independent temporal
interpretation but are morphologically tensed, have subjects, and express subject
agreement: C-11 and C-12 vs. C-1 and C-2 and C-9. This provides additional evidence
against the view that finiteness simply has to do with a positive specification for
tense and agreement.
5.5 Concluding remarks
The list of criteria presented here is by no means exhaustive and neither is the
collection of facts. However, I believe the chapter shows that the canonical approach
to finiteness has a number of advantages over the previous typological treatments of
this category because it provides a very clear picture. The whole area of finiteness-
related phenomena is presented in a structured and principled way, where different
aspects of form and meaning are integrated into a single space of possibilities. Not all
criteria are universal in the sense that they are relevant for all languages, but all are
cross-linguistically applicable in the sense that all languages and constructions can
be evaluated against them. So this approach provides a typologically informed tool
for cross-linguistic comparison, but it crucially allows us to handle fuzzy categories
without appealing to (functionally motivated) hierarchies or scales, which are
notoriously vague.
Importantly, canonical typology does not rely on a unitary core meaning of a
category. That is, it does not require strict definitions of the form ‘X is Y’, which
would be very difficult to come up with for finiteness and can make category-
assignment very controversial. As I hope has become clear from the chapter, I do
not have a uniform dimension called ‘finiteness’. Instead, the relevant category (if it
is a category) is sensitive to different kinds of cross-cutting information and each of
them can vary independently.
This is a welcome result for linguistic theory. If the purpose of typology is a
description of cross-linguistic patterns which exist independently of suggested
explanations (Newmeyer 2005), typological work is a necessary prerequisite for
providing a descriptively adequate tool for further theory construction. Canonical
typology is compatible with various frameworks because it makes no claim about the
best analysis and does not advocate the primacy of one aspect of finiteness over
another: they are of similar importance and no priority is given to any of them.
Canonical cases can presumably be accounted for by any theory, although some
theories might be better than others at capturing certain constraints. Non-canonical
instances can be specified based on how far out from the canonical point they are,
but how exactly these deviations are handled is a theory-internal concern.
122 Irina Nikolaeva
6
The canonical clitic
ANDREW SPENCER and ANA LUÍS
6.1 Introduction
Ever since Zwicky’s (1977) ground-breaking discussion, the notion ‘clitic’ has been
central to generative grammar and it has also played a major role in descriptive
studies.1
A clitic is an element whose behaviour is not-quite-canonical with respect
to phonology, morphology, and syntax. It is often characterized as a ‘small’, proso-
dically weak, or non-prominent word which fails to respect normal principles of
syntactic distribution because it requires a host to which it can attach phonologically.
However, a clitic cannot necessarily be thought of as just an affix, so it is claimed,
because affixes select their hosts and clitics are typically placed with respect to
syntactically defined units, i.e. phrases. As a result the host of a clitic will often be
undetermined by the clitic itself. In other words, the typical clitic will cliticize
‘promiscuously’ to a word of any old category, including uninflectable words which
otherwise fail to take any affixes whatever. A clitic  affix distinction cast in roughly
these terms often proves extremely useful in descriptive studies, especially those in
which the precise morphophonological and morphosyntactic properties of borderline
cases are carefully enumerated. However, there remains the question of whether this
distinction can be elevated to the status of some kind of universal category, with the
kind of cross-linguistic generality required for typological research.
For typologists, the utility of the clitic notion depends on how easy it is to
individuate clitics within a language and across languages, in particular, distinguish-
ing clitics from affixes on the one hand, and from unaccented function words on the
other hand. In this respect the rules of thumb provided in Zwicky and Pullum’s
(1983) classic checklist have proved invaluable. Nonetheless, linguists have not found
it easy to pin down the clitic category, for example, by presenting a universal set of
1
We are grateful to three anonymous referees, one of whom in particular provided extremely detailed
and thorough criticism of an earlier draft.
necessary and sufficient conditions for clitichood. But this is not surprising: there is
no such universal set for any grammatical category (including, notoriously, the
category of ‘word’). What is perhaps rather more disturbing is that in much
theoretical discussion the term ‘clitic’ tends to be applied to a great variety of
phenomena which are not necessarily of a piece. A particularly clear example of
this is found in the literature on weak pronominal elements. In some languages (e.g.
Czech, Serbian/Croatian) these appear in Wackernagel (second position) clusters
and it makes sense to refer to them as clitics and not affixes. But in the Romance
languages so-called pronominal clitics are much more problematical and it’s far
from clear that they are closer to the corresponding elements of, say, Czech, than to
incorporated agreement markers in polysynthetic languages. A variety of authors
working in different theoretical frameworks have argued that the clitics of languages
such as French (Miller and Sag 1997), Spanish (Suñer 1988), and Italian (Monachesi,
1999) are best regarded as affixes of some kind, and Klavans (1985) in her survey of
clitic types concedes that Romance pronominal clitics fail to fit comfortably into her
classification because they seem to select exclusively verb hosts, making them much
more like affixes. Similarly, Everett (1996) argues that the notion ‘pronominal clitic’
is misguided in Romance and a variety of other language types. More recently,
Bermúdez-Otero and Payne (2011) have mounted a host of arguments against the
view that Romance clitics are distinct from affixes. On the other hand, where
descriptive typology is concerned, a casual survey of descriptive grammars will
quickly reveal that there is little agreement between authors as to what kind of
linguistic objects can legitimately be called clitics. Certainly, it would be reckless for
any student of typology to survey the typology of clitics by trawling through the
indexes of extant descriptive grammars and looking up the entry for ‘clitic’.
The reason for this indeterminacy is not the incompetence or laziness of descrip-
tive linguists or lack of imagination on the part of theoreticians. It lies in the
complexity of the problem. Clitics lie on the nexus between phonology, morphology,
syntax, and the lexicon and don’t properly belong to any of these domains. Given
this situation, it is natural to ask whether Canonical Typology can throw any light on
the clitic question.
We will therefore examine the various criteria that might pick out a notion of
‘canonical clitic’. In doing this we face a problem which is not found in, say,
Corbett’s Canonical Typology treatment of agreement or suppletion (Corbett
2006; Corbett 2007a). In those studies, Corbett takes a phenomenon that can be
given a relatively straightforward initial characterization and then enumerates vari-
ous ways in which concrete instances might deviate from that ‘ideal’. The more
canonical agreement/suppletion properties a construction/lexeme manifests the
more canonical the agreement/suppletion, so that the canonical criteria converge.
The case of the clitic is somewhat different: a clitic is, by universal consensus, an
element which shares some of the features of an independent function word
124 Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís
and some of the features of an affix. It therefore varies along a single dimension
word . . . clitic . . . affix. Suppose (counterfactually, as it happens) that we could find a
single property that uniquely identified the clitic notion and distinguished clitics
from both words and affixes. If we try to distance our canonical clitic further from
the canonical function word, then we will find that the clitic will start to converge on
the canonical affix. Equally, if we try to distance the clitic from the affix we will find
that it converges on the canonical function word. In other words, we don’t expect to
find convergence for elements which lie at the midpoint of a single dimension.
Our approach will therefore be somewhat different; we will divide affix and word
properties into two types: those which relate to the form of the element and those
which relate to its placement or distribution. This will effectively allow us to define
two orthogonal dimensions. The canonical clitic, we claim, lies on the intersection of
those two dimensions: its formal properties are those of the canonical affix, but its
distributional properties are those of the canonical function word. Given this, we can
observe convergence of canonical properties: as a clitic acquires more affixal form
properties and more function word distributional properties, so it becomes more
canonical as a clitic. But the convergence of properties has to be measured along
both dimensions simultaneously. If a clitic were to acquire more affixal form
properties without acquiring more function word distributional properties it
would simply start looking more like a (non-canonical) affix, and conversely, if it
acquired more function word distributional properties without acquiring the form
properties of an affix it would start looking more like a (non-canonical) function
word.
In section 6.2 we outline a number of canonical criteria for linguistic expressions
generally which we will take for granted in our discussion of affixes, function words,
and clitics, and we provide a pre-theoretical characterization of canonical exemplars
of these notions. In section 6.3 we develop and motivate a set of criteria for function
words and for affixes. In section 6.4 we turn to the clitics themselves. We look at a
number of characterizations of clitics from the literature, focusing particularly on the
problems of deciding what counts as ‘phonological adjunction to a host’. We also
discuss the relation between clitic forms and corresponding full forms which has
been the subject of a certain amount of discussion in the literature and which is a
feature of the approach of Sadock (1991), for instance. In sections 6.5 and 6.6 we
present the core of our analysis. In section 6.5 we compare clitics with affixes and
with function words and conclude that canonically, clitics share the form properties
of affixes and the distribution properties of function words. This observation is the
basis of the analysis of clitic properties in section 6.6. We briefly consider and reject
the possibility of finding a single set of properties unique to clitics and then present
the basic analysis in summary form.
In section 6.7 we compare our canonical properties with the (non-canonical)
criteria developed by Zwicky and Pullum (1983) in their seminal paper. The discussion
The canonical clitic 125
up to this point is largely concerned with clitics whose distribution with respect to
phrases is the same as comparable syntactically represented function words. These are
what are generally called ‘simple clitics’ in the literature (as opposed to ‘special clitics’,
which have a different syntactic distribution from comparable function words). In
section 6.8 we turn to the ‘special clitics’, namely, those clitics which have their own
distributional properties (an iconic example being the second position or Wackerna-
gel clitic). In section 6.9 we discuss a number of function word/clitic/affix systems that
have caused problems for descriptive linguistics. We argue that the reason these
systems are problematical is because of the ways in which they deviate from the
canon, making it very difficult to decide whether we are dealing with deviant affix-like
clitics or with deviant clitic-like affixes or with deviant clitic-like function words or
whatever. We finish with summary conclusions.
6.2 General canonical criteria—for all linguistic expressions
We begin by outlining a set of criteria which will be valid for canonical function
words, clitics, and affixes alike.
consistent expression: there is a one:one correspondence between form and
function/meaning
economy of expression: a canonical linguistic expression isn’t obligatorily repeated
on each conjunct of a conjoined expression
consistent form: the form of an expression is constant in all environments
Economy of expression will effectively make it canonical for an affix to show
‘suspended affixation’. Therefore, for affixes (that is, in our case, for head-marking
inflection) we need to say that it is canonical to violate the economy of expression
principle.
Consistency of form with respect to function words means that they have exactly
the same phonology irrespective of their syntactic position. Consistency of form with
respect to affixes simply bans allomorphy.
Consistency of form with respect to clitics can be thought of in two ways. We may
wish to say that a canonical clitic has a prominent function word correspondent, in
which case we will have to say that the clitic  full-form pair has exactly the same
form apart from prominence. This would mean that it would be canonical for the
clitic to exhibit a mild deviation from canonicity with respect to phonological form.
However, we will adopt the simpler view that consistency of form applies in the same
way as for all other linguistic expressions, namely, by banning clitic allomorphy.
We will assume the following general characterizations of the form and distribu-
tion of function words, affixes, and clitics:
126 Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís
Function word: a (bimoraic) phonological word
Affix: a monomoraic CV suffix lacking prosodic prominence/properties
in construction with a word root
Clitic: a monomoraic CV element lacking prosodic prominence/proper-
ties in construction with a syntactic phrase
We will assume that all the function words, affixes, and clitics under discussion are
‘inflectional’, in the sense of realizing the kinds of grammatical properties normally
associated with inflectional systems. This is warranted by the fact that the majority of
clitic systems seem to have just this property. Admittedly, there are also many clitics
which realize ‘discourse-level’ properties such as emphasis or evidentiality. For
simplicity’s sake, however, we regard these as essentially types of inflectional prop-
erty (perhaps non-canonically inflectional). In the next section we cash out these
general characterizations in terms of sets of criterial properties.
6.3 Criteria for function words, affixes, and clitics
6.3.1 Criteria for function words
We assume without comment the following canonical properties of function words.
We will find it helpful to distinguish canonical properties relating to form (F,
broadly speaking, morphology), and distribution (D, broadly speaking, syntax and
morphotactics). We are assuming that canonical properties relating to content
remain constant across all three types of element.
We begin by enumerating a number of criteria for canonical wordhood, relativ-
ized where appropriate to function words. We treat all words, whether function
words or lexical words, as phonologically independent expressions which can bear
accent or other prominence-related properties.2
Canonical form properties for function words
FwdSize: Prosodic size:
1. A word is coextensive with the minimal prosodic word
2. A word is minimally bimoraic
3. A word respects the phonotactic constraints of the prosodic word
These form criteria are intended to characterize the notion ‘free form’. An element with
these form properties is prosodically independent and does not need a ‘host’ to lean on.
For instance, a word of this sort could serve as a one-word answer to a question.3
2
For expositional convenience, we state all our criteria as putative ‘absolute’ properties of a canonical
word rather than as criteria of the form ‘X is more canonical than Y’ used in Corbett (2006)
3
At this point it is worth mentioning that we are able to sidestep a tricky conceptual issue that has
plagued structural linguistics from its inception. Because of the difficulty of finding a universal notion of
‘word’, and because of the apparent success of the morphemic approach to language description, many
The canonical clitic 127
Canonical distribution properties for function words include the following:
Canonical distribution properties for function words
DwdPhrasal: A function word is placed with respect to the edge of the syntactic
phrase bearing the functional property expressed by the function
word (its morphosyntactic domain)
DwdInd: A function word is not phonologically dependent on another word
DwdWScope: A function word canonically takes wide scope over a coordinated
phrase with which it is in construction
Criterion DwdPhrasal defines the phrase as the domain for function word syntax, in
contrast to affixes which are in construction with the lexical head of the phrase.4
Criterion DwdInd is self-explanatory. It implies that a canonical function word is
prosodically independent, for example, it can be stressed. From this we would expect
it to follow that the canonical function word behaves like a canonical word, in that it
can be coordinated with another function word, it can be the sole answer to a
question, and so on. Criterion DwdWScope guarantees that a function word, such as
a preposition, an article, an auxiliary verb, doesn’t necessarily have to be repeated on
each conjunct when it is combined with a coordinated phrase.
6.3.2 Criteria for affixes
We next turn to criteria for affixes.
Canonical form property for affixes
FaffCV: An affix consists of a monomoraic CV syllable.
Canonical distribution properties for affixes
DaffSuff: An affix is placed to the right of a word (‘suffixing preference’)
DaffHdMrk: An affix is placed with respect to the word whose functional/
lexical relatedness features it realizes
DaffNarrScope: The domain of an affix is the (canonical) word5
linguists, especially in the American tradition, have taken the morpheme as their principal unit of analysis.
Some would even deny the ‘word’ notion any status in linguistic theory (for example, the heirs to the
Harris/Hockett inspired post-Bloomfieldian school, such as proponents of Distributed Morphology,
(Halle and Marantz 1993). There are very serious and complex issues at stake here. For the purposes of
Canonical Typology, however, these issues are irrelevant: all words are single morphemes canonically and
all morphemes are canonically coextensive with single words.
4
For the sake of clarity, when we define canonical placement/distribution for function words, this is to
be taken as referring to the general case. It may happen, in individual constructions or sentence types, that
an element, for instance, a Wackernagel clitic auxiliary verb, appears in a canonical position ‘by accident’
so to speak. For instance, it may appear immediately after the subject NP, and this may happen to be the
canonical position for non-clitic auxiliaries in that language. However, this would not, of course, constitute
an instance of canonical distribution.
5
Note that this criterion is ‘nested’ in the sense that it is defined in terms of another property subject to
deviation from canonical properties. This type of interaction between canonical systems raises the
question of how to compute orthogonal deviations from canonicity.
128 Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís
DaffInteg: An affix is integrated morphophonologically into the structure of
the word form of which it is a part (the morphophonology of a
stemþaffix construction is indistinguishable from that of a sim-
plex word)
The syntactic criterion DaffHdMrk is the converse of the clitic ‘promiscuous
attachment’ criterion, DwdPhrasal. The attachment of an affix is defined with
respect to that word whose properties it realizes. This entails that the word category
will canonically determine the placement of the affix. In other words placement is
not promiscuous (we are tempted to call it ‘faithful’ but that metaphor has been
taken up by others). In this way, criterion DaffHdMrk will distinguish word-level
affixation as standardly understood from a phrase headed by a function word.
The syntactic criterion DaffNarrScope entails that a canonical affix be repeated
on conjuncts, i.e. that the canonical affix doesn’t take wide scope. This is hence the
converse of DwdWScope.
Criterion DaffInteg is neither a form criterion proper, nor a distributional criterion
in the strict sense. We have put it with the distributional criteria because we want to be
able to distinguish clitics and affixes in terms of this criterion. The criterion states that a
canonical affix is placed within the domain of the (canonical) phonological word. As a
result, a canonically affixed word is phonologically indistinguishable from a simplex
word. In this respect, for instance, the -er of driver is a canonical affix, while the -ed of
lagged isn’t and nor are the -th or -s of sixths. In languages with regular, phonologically
defined stress an affix will be in the stress domain, while a clitic will be outside the stress
domain. The idea is that affixes are not formally ‘visible’ while clitics, being elements
that are added to already formed inflected words, can violate normal phonological
word phonotactics. Interestingly, this means that English Word level (‘Class II’) affixes
such as -ness or un-, which are ‘stress-neutral’, that is, which have no effect on the
lexical stress of the base, are less canonical than they would be if they were integrated
somehow into a standard stress pattern. Indeed, it is for this reason that Class II affixes
are described as ‘clitics’ by Aronoff and Sridhar (1983).
6.4 Criteria for clitics
In our search for the canonical clitic we will want to find precisely that combination
of word-oriented and affix-oriented canonical properties, along with any unique
clitic properties, which together pick out a class of objects everyone would agree on
calling a clitic. In this section, therefore, we propose what seem to us to be a plausible
set of putative properties for the canonical clitic. These properties are culled from the
standard accounts of clitics found in the literature and most of them are identical to,
or derived from, standard attempts at defining clitics found in the literature, starting
with Zwicky (1977), and proceeding through Zwicky and Pullum (1983), Klavans
The canonical clitic 129
(1985) and including Aikhenvald (2002), Anderson (1992, 2005), Halpern (1995,
1998), and Nevis (2000). The criteria are meant to be uncontroversial (like all the
best canonical criteria). As before, we delineate canonical properties of form, distribu-
tion, and content.
We begin with those criteria that represent deviations from canonical function
words or canonical affixes. Given that clitics clearly lie between canonical full-
form function words and canonical affixes there are two strategies we might
adopt for determining which properties are canonical for clitics. First, we could
identify a number of clitic properties which render function words and affixes
non-canonical and fix those properties as criterial for canonical clitichood.
Second, we could identify contrasting sets of canonical properties for words
and affixes and determine which such sets might define a canonical clitic. The
latter strategy has been applied to the problem of defining canonical periphrasis
by Brown et al. (forthcoming). They argue that a canonical periphrasis is a
canonical syntactic construction which fills a cell in a canonical inflectional
(morphological) paradigm.
We can assume the following form properties to be common to any kind of clitic:
Canonical form properties for clitics
FclCV: A clitic consists of a monomoraic CV syllable
FclProsDep: A clitic is prosodically unspecified and hence is prosodically depen-
dent on some other adjacent element
The criterion FclProsDep establishes the principle that a clitic is prosodically
deficient and cannot ‘stand alone’.6
Given FclProsDep a clitic requires a host, will
not normally be stressed/accented or receive lexical tone, and will also be unable to
attract focus.
The rationale behind criterion FclCV is FclProsDep: being smaller than the
minimal size for a canonical word form is part of the reason why a clitic is non-
prominent. Note that when a compound is formed from two independent lexical
words it is often possible to put focal accent on either element of that compound.
The idea behind FclCV and FclProsDep is that canonically it is not possible for a
clitic to be focused in this way.
One of the corollaries of FclProsDep is that a clitic will require a host. We might
wish to go further and say that the canonical clitic is an enclitic. It seems to be the
case that clitics follow affixes in showing a ‘suffixing preference’ (see Cutler, Haw-
kins, and Gilligan 1985). Certainly, the literature on clitics devotes far more attention
to enclitics than proclitics; for example, Anderson (2005) devotes no more than a few
paragraphs to proclitics. Moreover, if we were to try to distinguish clitics and affixes
6
Our characterization is more or less the same as the definition of ‘Phonological Clitic’ or ‘simple clitic’
in Anderson (2005: 23): ‘A linguistic element whose phonological form is deficient in that it lacks prosodic
structure at the level of the (Prosodic) Word.’
130 Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís
on the basis of direction of phonological attachment we would end up with the
implausible claim either that canonical affixes are prefixes and canonical clitics are
enclitics, or worse, that canonical affixes are suffixes while canonical clitics are
proclitics. Thus, we might want to insist that the canonical clitic is an enclitic.
It should be borne in mind, however, that adherence to such an encliticizing
criterion can give rise to violations of other canonical properties. In particular, consider
a simple clitic which normal principles of syntax place at the left periphery of its
domain (for instance, it might be a clitic preposition or determiner, or a clitic preverbal
auxiliary). If such a clitic is forced to attach to a host to its left then it will be
phonologically attached to an element with which it is not associated morphosyntacti-
cally, as in [She’ll] [do it] or [a pinta] [milk] (¼ a pint [of milk]). But we are assuming
general principles of well-formedness under which all linguistic elements are phono-
logically associated with those elements with which they are in syntactic construction.
In other words, examples like [She’ll] or [pinta] represent morphosyntactic mis-
matches (‘bracketing paradoxes’) and are ipso facto non-canonical types of expression.
In fact, the encliticizing preference will only give rise to canonical structures if the clitic
element is syntactically in construction with an element to its left. To remain entirely
canonical the phonological attachment criteria (‘Liaison’ in Klavans’ terms) should be
defined with respect to syntactic structure, therefore. In order to meet such standards
of canonicity we would therefore need a ‘metacriterion’ along the lines ‘it is canonical
for a clitic to attach phonologically to an element to its immediate right/left depending
on whether it is in syntactic construction with a phrase to its right/left’. Since the effect
of such a criterion is already given to us under our general criteria for constructional
canonical well-formedness we would not actually need to state such a criterion
explicitly. We therefore reject the proposal to make the canonical clitic enclitic and
refrain from stipulating any canonical direction of attachment.
When we consider the canonical affix we conclude that it is morphophonologi-
cally integrated into its host, in the sense that the stemþaffix combination is
indistinguishable from a possible simplex word. A canonical function word, on the
other hand, is not phonologically integrated into any other word: a phrase consisting
of two words may well violate word-internal phonotactics and have a phonological
form distinct from that of a simplex word (for instance, in allowing two main
stresses). The question arises, therefore, whether a canonical clitic is integrated
into its host like an affix or remains non-integrated, like a function word. Here,
perhaps more than in any other respect, we encounter difficulties in establishing
what our intuitions as linguists tell us is the ‘obvious’ answer. This is potentially a
problem for Canonical Typology, since in the ideal case the canonical properties
themselves should be beyond serious question. It is their interaction that gives rise to
interesting typological effects.
Before we can address this question we will need to be clearer about what we mean
by ‘morphophonological integration’. How do we characterize in canonical terms the
The canonical clitic 131
phonological domain created by the hostþclitic combination? The simplest and
most obvious step is to adopt the notion of ‘Clitic Group’ (see Nespor and Vogel
1986); for counter-arguments see Anderson 2005: 42–8, Bermúdez-Otero and Luís
2009). An alternative might be to adopt the kind of analysis of clitic prosodic
structure argued for in Peperkamp (1997) to account for the pronominal clitic
systems in three varieties of Italian. She claims that in Standard Italian, where the
clitics can violate word-stress patterns, we see adjunction of the clitic to a phono-
logical phrase (w-phrase), as opposed to adjunction to a phonological word
(v-phrase) as in the Neapolitan dialect or incorporation of the clitic into the
phonological word, as in the Lucanian dialect. These possibilities are illustrated
in (1) below:
(1) Three types of clitic incorporation in Italian varieties
a.
f-adjunction w-adjunction
Neapolitan
b.
Standard Italian
f
w
w
‘tell you it’
=tı́=lle
cónta
host cl
f
w
pòrta =me=lo
‘bring it to me’
host cl
Lucanian
w -incorporation
c.
vinnә =mı́=lle
‘sell me it’
host cl
f
w
132 Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís
Of course, it would also be open to us to argue that neither the pattern of Standard
Italian, in which the clitic resembles any other unaccented function word, nor the
pattern of Lucanian, in which the clitic resembles a canonical affix, represent the
canonical clitic pattern, and that instead we should opt for the Neapolitan example,
which departs from canonical representations of both affixes and independent
function words. This illustrates the fact that even an apparently innocuous notion
such as ‘prosodically dependent’ is difficult to define in terms of canonical criteria.
Now suppose we adopt the alternative solution and say that clitics should be
phonologically integrated into their hosts. Under the revised scheme we would be
proposing that the pronominal clitics of the Lucanian variety of Italian are more
canonical than those of Neapolitan or Standard Italian because they respect the
stress patterns of monomorphemic word forms.
Where pronominal clitics are concerned this seems to give counter-intuitive
results. The closer such clitics become to affixes the less likely we are to regard
them as clitics. On the other hand, there are other situations in which morphopho-
nological integration seems to provide the right result. A case in point is provided by
Finnish.
Finnish has a set of discourse second-position clitics, including the interrogative
clitic ko. This clitic forms a prosodic (and promiscuous) attachment to the right edge
of the first phrase of the sentence. However, since word stress falls on the first syllable
in Finnish, it would be difficult to say whether we really have a clitic or merely a non-
prominent function word which the syntax places in second position in the clause.
The reason these elements are uniformly taken to be clitics is because they participate
in vowel harmony, harmonizing with their phonological host. Thus, with the front
vowel word menet ‘you go’ we have menet¼kö ‘Are you going?’, while with the back
vowel word olet ‘you are’ we have olet¼ko ‘Are you . . . ?’ (Karlsson 1987: 68).
The behaviour of these Wackernagel particle clitics can be contrasted with the
behaviour of compounds in Finnish. These are abundant and they differ from
clitics in that they readily create words which violate vowel harmony. Thus, the
front vowel word pää ‘head’ combines with the back vowel word kaupunki ‘city’ to
give pääkaupunki ‘capital (city)’ in blatant violation of vowel harmony. The cliti-
cized forms, however, are indistinguishable from truly suffixed words or even from
monomorphemic words with respect to harmony. Thus, an interrogative clause
beginning with the (not-quite-Finnish) name ‘Hana’ under interrogative focus
(as in ‘Is it Hana that’s reading?’) would be Hana¼ko lukee while a clause with
the (Japanese) name ‘Hanako’ (e.g. Hanako lukee ‘Hanako is reading’) would be
more or less homophonous (Finnish questions have essentially the same intonation
pattern as statements).7
7
For discussion of the intonational differences between declaratives and interrogatives see Anttila (2008).
The canonical clitic 133
We thus arrive at the conclusion that the criterion of morphophonological
integration gives different results with different types of clitic. Where the clitic has
properties aligning it with an affix it seems more canonical for it to lack the
morphophonological integration characteristic of affixes, so that we will be less
inclined to mistake the clitic for an affix. But where the clitic has properties aligning
it with a function word it seems more canonical for it to exhibit the morphopho-
nological properties of an affix. We seem to be faced with the need to define a
complex ‘metacriterion’ along the lines: ‘It is canonical for a clitic to exhibit whatever
morphophonological behaviour will best distinguish it from some other canonical
element that it might be mistaken for’. But this is not the way that Canonical
Typology works.
It is possible that a satisfactory solution to this problem might be found in a more
detailed study of the morphophonological alternations typically observed in clitic/
affix systems. For instance, we might wish to argue that the notion of ‘prosodic word’
which typically (or even canonically) governs stress placement in stress languages is
slightly different from that which defines vowel harmony domains. However, it
seems unlikely that such a solution will be viable. Vowel harmony domains can be
very varied and the more regular and free of exceptions a vowel harmony process is
the wider its domain (Archangeli and Pulleyblank 2007: 354 speak of ‘canonical’
harmony systems, in scare-quotes, but there is no reason to believe that a notion of
canonical vowel harmony is in any way incoherent within the terms of Canonical
Typology). A proper analysis of the canonical properties of clitics/affixes with
respect to processes such as harmony ought therefore to be set against canonical
phonological phenomena and it is beyond the scope of this paper to do that. We will
therefore just flag some of the problems that arise. For the present we will remain
neutral, therefore, about whether the canonical clitic is or is not morphophonologi-
cally integrated into its host.
We turn now to other distributional properties.
Canonical distributional properties for clitics
DclPhrasal: A clitic is placed with respect to the syntactic phrase bearing the
functional property expressed by the clitic (its morphosyntactic do-
main) (we will refer to this as the ‘phrasal placement’ criterion)
DclWScope: A clitic canonically takes wide scope over a coordinated phrase with
which it is in construction (wide scope criterion)
Criterion DclPhrasal defines the phrase as the domain for cliticization, in contrast to
affixes which select the lexical head of the phrase. The rationale behind criterion
DclWScope is to help distinguish clitics from affixes. The idea is that if an element
takes wide scope over conjuncts it is less affix-like (and conversely, more word-like).
The wide scope criterion can be seen as a corollary of the phrasal placement
criterion.
134 Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís
Criterion DclPhrasal is an important criterion. One of its implications is promis-
cuous attachment: if a clitic is placed with respect to a phrase, then it may be
physically attached to a word which is not actually related to the features the clitic
itself realizes.
There is one further distributional criterion that we might propose for the
canonical clitic. It is typically the case that a simple clitic is a prosodically reduced
or deficient form of a synonymous full-form function word (Zwicky 1977). Other
things being equal, then, we would expect the linear position of such a clitic to
correspond to that of the function word synonym. For instance, the reduced
auxiliaries of English occupy exactly the same position that they would occupy if
they were stress auxiliaries: She’ll do it  She WILL do it. We could elevate this to
the status of a canonical property.
There are, in fact, proposals in the literature which amount to such a criterion.
Sadock (1991) has argued for a model of grammar (‘Autolexical Syntax’) governed by
two overarching well-formedness principles (‘homomorphisms’). Sadock is con-
cerned with various types of morphosyntactic and morphosemantic mismatch, in
which the structures implied by the phonological form of an expression are at
variance with the structures implied by the syntax or the semantics. For instance,
in the sentence She’ll do it the reduced auxiliary ’ll is phonologically attached to the
subject pronoun, but syntactically and semantically it is associated with the verb
phrase do it.
Sadock’s well-formedness principles are the Constructional Integrity Constraint
and the Linearity Constraint, and they are stated in two forms: one weak, one strong.
For clitics, the crucial principle is the Linearity Constraint. We offer a paraphrase
here for easier comparison with our own sets of criteria. The weak constraint is
clearly a non-canonical deviation from the strong constraint, so we give only the
latter. We assume that any given formative (word, clitic, affix) can be thought of as a
pair consisting of its phonological representation, F, and its syntactic representation
S, <F, S>. The (strong) Linearity Constraint (LC) states the following:
Strong Linearity Constraint (LC) (Sadock 1991: 163)
Given two elements, <F1, S1>and <F2, S2>, then F1, F2 must occur in the same
order as S1, S2.
Sadock proposes a general principle of well-formedness under which one of the weak
constraints can be violated by a given expression only if the other strong constraint is
respected. For clitics this means we have the Cliticization Principle:
Cliticization Principle (Sadock 1991: 105)
If a lexeme combines with an inflected word in the morphology and with a phrase
in the syntax, its morphosyntactic association will conform to at least the weak LC.
The canonical clitic 135
In terms of Canonical Typology we could reinterpret Sadock’s constraints as canon-
ical properties, with the weak constraints being (perhaps prototypical) deviations.
This would mean that a canonical clitic must respect the strong Linearity Constraint.
This effectively requires the canonical clitic to be a simple clitic whose syntactic
position corresponds to that of the related full-form function word.
One problem with the assumption that simple clitics must have a full-form
congener is that there are many clitics which we might want to think of as simple
clitics which have no full-form counterparts, what Zwicky originally referred to as
‘bound words’ (see Anderson 2005: 10–30 for detailed discussion of examples). The
reason we might consider such a clitic ‘simple’ is that it might occupy precisely the
syntactic position we would expect it to occupy if it were a full form. Anderson
points out that the determiner clitics of the Northern Wakashan language Kwak-
w’ala have this property: syntactically (if not phonologically) they appear at the left
edge of the noun phrase to which they relate. The question for Canonical Typology,
therefore, is ‘Does the canonical clitic have to be the reduced form of anything?’
We could, of course, try to sidestep the problem by postulating a criterion along
the lines ‘If a clitic has a corresponding full form then it occupies the same position
as that full form would, and if it has no corresponding full form then it occupies the
same position as a full form word of that category or type’. Aside from making
canonicity difficult to compute it seems to us that such criteria miss the spirit of
Canonical Typology. Moreover, it is difficult to see why the existence of a full form
should be criterial for clitichood. We will therefore assume no such criterion.
6.5 Characterizing the canonical clitic
From the discussion of the previous section it should be readily apparent that the
form criteria for clitics are identical to the form criteria for affixes. Similarly, the
distributional criteria for clitics are essentially the distributional criteria for function
words. In this section we motivate these comparisons in more detail.
6.5.1 Clitics and affixes compared
We mention in section 6.1 that we are tacitly assuming that there is a canonical
characterization of the notion of affix. In other words we are assuming that we can
define a canonical morphology.8
The alternative is to regard all affixes as highly non-
canonical words. This is not an absurd position: indeed, it is essentially the position
adopted by American Structuralists, who regarded words and phrases as just a string of
8
For preliminary work in this direction see Corbett (2007a), Corbett (2007b) and references cited there,
as well as the webpage of the Surrey Morphology Group: <http://www.surrey.ac.uk/LIS/SMG/Canoni-
calTypology/index.htm>.
136 Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís
morphemes (see Matthews 1993 for extended discussion of this point), and their heirs,
the proponents of Transformational Grammar (e.g. Minimalism), who regard mor-
phemes as words (and words as phrases).9
It is therefore possible that our enterprise
will be undermined by the non-canonicity of morphology: if morphology is in some
deep sense, simply a ‘disease’ that some languages contract (Aronoff 1998) then it is
possible that there can be no notion of canonical morphological structure. However, if
there is a useful notion of canonical morphological system then we will only find it by
looking for it, that is, by assuming its existence and exploring its properties until such
time as we reach impassible contradictions. In any event, without some notion of affix
there can be no question of trying to individuate any notion of clitic.
Even granted some canonical notion of affix, an interesting problem arises when
we try to compare canonical clitics with canonical affixes. Because we are trying to
compare abstract canonical types rather than actual attested classes of exemplars we
are inevitably going to compare rather similar things. Now, the literature which has
discussed the clitic  affix distinction has always been concerned with salient
properties which might distinguish clitics and affixes. The highly influential
Zwicky-Pullum criteria (see section 6.7 and Appendix below), for instance, treat
clitics as essentially regular and transparent formatives, while affixes are seen as
prone to all manner of irregularity. This is true, of course, as a matter of general
tendency, but in practice it tells us little about the canonical clitic  affix relation-
ship. What it really tells us about is the general properties of ‘things-commonly-
described-as-clitics’ as opposed to ‘things-commonly-described-as-affixes’, and even
then only in polarized discussions which seek to heighten the difference between the
two types.
One property we might wish to use to distinguish clitics and affixes is that affixes
are able to attach to a bound stem whose form may well be unique to that affix.
A special case of this situation arises when an affix triggers idiosyncratic allomorphy
on the stem to which it attaches. Whenever we encounter such idiosyncratic stem
allomorphy we will be very strongly inclined to call the formative that triggers it an
affix and not a clitic. Unfortunately, triggering stem allomorphy is not a canonical
property of any linguistic object. Moreover, even if we were to subvert our own
procedures and reinterpret such behaviour as canonical we would be faced with
serious definitional and conceptual problems. For instance, we would probably want
to say that the English regular plural /z/ suffix doesn’t trigger allomorphy. That’s one
of the reasons why it’s the default suffix. However, in a handful of cases we find that
the suffix attaches to a special plural allostem: house  houses /haus  hauzəz/,
knife  knives /naif  naivz/ and so on. If we were to revise our criteria for
9
See Embick and Noyer (2007); Julien (2007); and for an extended defence of this view, Julien (2002).
For interesting discussion of these questions see Williams (2007).
The canonical clitic 137
affixhood so as to characterize such behaviour as canonical it would mean that the
English plural suffix is more canonical as an affix when it triggers allomorphy. But
this would entail that the token of the suffix in houses, knives and so on is more
canonical than that in slices, fifes, and so on. However, this conclusion would go
entirely against the spirit of Canonical Typology.
We have therefore formulated our criteria in such a way as to get as close as
possible to drawing the required distinction without resorting to the desperate
measures of claiming that blatant irregularity is canonical. A canonical affix is
integrated into the phonology of the word and so there ought to be no way of telling
that a word is affixed simply by examining its phonotactics, its prosody, or other
aspects of its phonology. However, it should be borne in mind that this is not in itself
necessarily a very canonical type of property. What it means is that the segmentation
of a complex word into wordformþaffix is obscured. One might want to argue that
this violates a criterion governing transparency of form.10
(Note that the canonical
affix has to attach to a form which itself could be an independent word form: bound
stems are always non-canonical.) A consequence of treating affixes as canonically
segmentable from their stems would be that English so-called ‘Class II’ or ‘word-
level’ affixes such as regular inflections, -ness, -er would be rated as more canonical
than the so-called ‘Class I’ or ‘root-level’ affixes, such as the -t past tense, the -en past
participle, -ity (in sincerity), -ant (in applicant), and so on. This conclusion is
intuitively plausible, though notice that it flatly contradicts the conclusion we arrived
at earlier when we pointed out that affixes which fail to be integrated into the
prosodic structure of their bases will to that extent resemble clitics rather than
canonical affixes (Aronoff and Sridhar 1983). Again, the problem of whether clitics
and affixes should be integrated into their host/base gives rise to conflicting results.
On the basis of these considerations we feel safe in claiming that there are no
canonical form criteria that should distinguish clitics from affixes. On the other
hand, clitics and affixes are distinguished in terms of two pairs of distributional
criteria: DclPhrasal/DaffHdMrk and DclWScope/DaffNarrScope. We now turn to
those criteria.
6.5.2 Clitics and function words compared
We now ask how clitics and function words differ from each other. According to our
criteria, clitics differ from words in a number of form criteria. We are assuming that
the canonical clitic need not respect minimal prosodic word requirements, and in
fact will be canonically monomoraic rather than bimoraic.11
On the other hand we
10
This conclusion comports nicely with the arguments of Hay (2000, 2002) regarding the relationship
between transparency/productivity and affix order on the one hand and psycholinguistic segmentability.
11
A reviewer observes that function words are a closed class and not open to derivation, so that they
will not be minimally bimoraic. Now, it may be that function words are canonical words in form and
hence have to be canonically bimoraic, even if prototypical function words violate that principle (cf. the
138 Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís
would expect a clitic to respect the phonotactic constraints on well-formed words
(and, indeed, in practice would normally respect stricter constraints). A clear
difference between non-clitic function words and clitics is that clitics respect the
FclProsDep constraint, do not show prosodic prominence, and require a host.
Function words, however, respect the converse criterion, DwdInd.
In other respects, however, clitics and function words behave in the same way.
Thus, criteria DwdPhrasal and DclPhrasal are identical criteria, as are DwdWScope
and DclWScope. The comparison between clitics and function words thus reveals
the canonical clitic to be a prosodically non-prominent element which requires a
prosodic host.
6.6 Canonical properties for clitics
We now tie together the preceding discussion and provide a characterization of
the notion ‘canonical clitic’. As we pointed out in the introduction, there are
two strategies which we can adopt in seeking such a characterization. The first
strategy is to find at least one property which a canonical clitic possesses maximally
compared to other linguistic objects, and such that this property is non-canonical
for both of the clitic’s nearest neighbours, the function word and the affix. We briefly
consider this strategy in section 6.6.1 and reject it. The second strategy is to take
orthogonal sets of canonical properties of the two closest categories, affix and
function word, and to combine a subset of each of the canonical criteria for
those two categories from those orthogonal sets of properties. The result is a
compromise category which is not itself canonical, because it represents an object
which is neither canonical as an affix nor canonical as a function word. We present
such an analysis in section 6.6.2 and argue that this is the correct way of thinking of
the canonical clitic.
6.6.1 Unique criteria for clitics
In this section we look for a single, unique, defining property for the canonical clitic.
However, a cursory comparison of our criteria reveals that there is no such single
property.
Of the form properties FclCV is identical to FaffCV. Criterion FclProsDep is
designed to distinguish clitics from function words. Since affixes are canonically
integrated morphophonologically into words they automatically respect FclPros-
Dep. On the other hand, affixes respect criterion FaffInteg, which is the converse of
‘Venus effect’). But if it turned out that function words are canonically less than minimal prosodic words
this wouldn’t affect our arguments, because we are claiming that clitics have the distributional properties
of words. Word size would then simply become an irrelevant criterion.
The canonical clitic 139
the word criterion, FwdNonInteg. It is not clear whether clitics respect integration
or non-integration, but whichever choice is made it will not distinguish clitics either
from affixes or from function words. Thus, there are no form properties which are
unique to clitics.
When we turn to distributional criteria we see that DclPhrasal and DclWScope
have exact counterparts for function words (DwdPhrasal, DwdWScope). Hence,
there are no unique distributional criteria for clitics either. This effectively means
that the canonical clitic has the same syntactic distribution as a corresponding type
of canonical function word, in other words, the canonical clitic will be a so-called
‘simple clitic’.
6.6.2 Clitics as canonical affixes and canonical function words
Our discussion so far leads us to conclude that the canonical clitic is an element
which has the form of a canonical affix and the distribution of a canonical function
word, and hence a simple clitic. This will mean that the canonical clitic is effectively
a kind of ‘ideal’ combination of affixal and phrasal properties. To achieve this result
we have combined distinct categories of canonical properties in order to define a
new canonical object. This strategy can be compared to the strategy adopted for
providing a characterization of canonical periphrasis (Corbett et al. 2008; Brown
et al. forthcoming). For periphrasis the claim is that there is a canonical type which is
different from purely morphological (synthetic) expression, but which is also differ-
ent from ‘ordinary’ syntax. The claim of Brown et al. is that canonical periphrasis is a
structurally canonical syntactic construction that has a non-canonical function,
namely, that of realizing a cell in a morphological paradigm. The point here is
that the two defining characteristics, syntactic construction vs. (inflectional) mor-
phological paradigm are not end-points of the same dimension but are rather
orthogonal. It is therefore perfectly possible for a construction to be both near-
canonical as syntax and near-canonical as morphology and the result is some
construction type, periphrasis, which is clearly neither normal morphology nor
normal syntax.
No exactly comparable situation holds with respect to clitics: the only other
elements we can compare clitics with are function words and inflectional affixes
and these, ex hypothesi, have the same range of functions. In effect, the affix-function
word distinction which defines the clitic notion is a single dimension and not two
orthogonal dimensions.
For this reason, we have defined the canonical clitic in terms of a combination of
canonical affix form criteria and canonical function word distribution criteria. This
is summarized in Table 6.1, where we combine the affixal form criteria and the
function word distribution criteria.
140 Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís
Each of the affixal properties contradicts a canonical property for a function word
and each of the function word properties contradicts a canonical property for an
affix. However, taken in tandem these canonical properties define an object with the
principal distributional properties of a function word but the morphophonological
shape and attachment properties of an affix (specifically, of a suffix). The canonical
clitic, therefore, will be an object that simultaneously satisfies all the properties in
Table 6.1. It shows the word-like properties of not being phonologically integrated
into its host and being distributed with respect to syntactic phrase structure. It shows
the affixal properties of being smaller than a canonical word, and lacking prosodic
structure of its own, and hence being immune to focusing and being obligatorily
attached to a host.12
6.7 Canonical properties and the Zwicky-Pullum criteria
In this section we compare our sets of canonical criteria with the criterial properties
based on a prototypical characterization of clitics and affixes provided by Zwicky
and Pullum (1983). When we compare the criteria with the typical lists of clitic
properties provided in the literature it is obvious that we have neglected a number of
prototypical clitic properties. Referring to the Zwicky-Pullum criteria (see Appen-
dix), for instance, which were designed principally to distinguish clitics from affixes,
we observe the following:
. Criteria ZPC1 and ZPA1 have been written into our criteria.
. Criteria ZPC6 and ZPA6 are implicit in the characterization of clitics as being
elements attached with respect to phrases and affixes as being elements attached
with respect to morphological objects (stems).
Table 6.1 Canonical clitic properties
Affix-like properties: Word-like properties:
FaffCV DwdPhrasal
FaffProsDep DwdWScope
12
It is worth remarking on an aspect of our analysis that brings it closer in its motivation (though not
in implementation) to Sadock’s Autolexical Syntax model. We have chosen to view the clitic as an object
which has the canonical form properties of a morphologically bound element (affix) but the canonical
distributional properties of a (function) word. But suppose we were to take the opposite tack and postulate
the existence of an intermediate object with the canonical distributional properties of a morphologically
bound element and the form properties of a word. A morphologically bound word form is a character-
ization of a compounded word. What this hypothetical canonical object would correspond to, therefore, is
an incorporated lexeme, for instance, a noun incorporated by a verb root. Anderson (2005: Ch. 9) also
discusses noun incorporation but he doesn’t specifically trace any parallels with cliticization in the way
that Sadock does.
The canonical clitic 141
. The contrasting pair of criteria ZPC6  ZPA6 also follow from the phrase- vs.
stem-level distributional criteria.
However, we have ignored the following criteria:
ZPC2. Clitics do not exhibit arbitrary gaps
ZPC5. Clitics do not have the syntactic distribution of words
ZPC6. Clitics can attach to material already containing clitics
ZPA2. Affix systems exhibit arbitrary gaps
ZPA3. Affixes exhibit morphophonological idiosyncrasies
ZPA4. Affixes exhibit semantic idiosyncrasies
ZPA5. Affixes do not have the syntactic distribution of words
ZPA6. Affixes cannot attach to material already containing clitics
Some of these criteria relate to prototypical or rather, to perceptually prominent
instances of affixes and clitics. For instance, it is certainly true that affixal inflectional
systems will often exhibit arbitrary gaps (ZPA2) and that these are less expected in
systems which we think of as involving clitics, but arbitrary gaps are not canonical
for anything and so cannot figure in the canonical typology of either clitics or affixes.
The same is true of ZPA4. Similarly, ZPA3, while typical of affixes, is not canonical.
Interestingly, the affix properties ZPA2–4 are sometimes appealed to when identi-
fying clitic systems: if we wish to distinguish between a genuine clitic cluster and a
mere string of function words we might cite various idiosyncratic types of behaviour
as evidence that we are dealing with special clitics and not genuine words.
According to ZPC5, clitics have a different syntactic distribution from (function)
words. This is true of prototypical clitics, of course, but we would argue that it’s very
difficult to maintain this as a canonical property for clitics (or anything else). In this
regard we should note that we have not discussed one very salient fact about typical
clitic systems, namely, the notion of ‘clitic cluster’ (see Simpson and Withgott 1986,
and Spencer 1991: 208–14 for discussion of the affinities between clitic clusters and
affix sequences). One of the main reasons for distinguishing a notion of clitic is that
clitics tend to appear in a fixed linear order within a cluster, sometimes at variance
with normal syntax, and often showing a rigidity which is not found with content
words or even function words. However, it’s difficult to see how to make such
behaviour canonical. The best we would be able to do is to say that canonically the
ordering of clitics is defined by principles specific to that type of object. But this is
equally true of affixes. We could, therefore, add a criterion DclLinCl ‘A sequence of
clitics is ordered linearly by clitic-specific principles, not by syntax’, and then below
add the affix criterion DaffLinAff ‘A sequence of affixes is ordered linearly by affix-
specific principles, not by syntax’. But such a manoeuvre just begs the crucial
question: what principles or canonical criteria distinguish the sequencing of clitics
from the sequencing of (inflectional) affixes? The best criterion we can think of is
142 Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís
that clitics are external in the word form to inflectional affixes (cf. ZPC6, ZPA6).
However, there seems no need to set this up as a canonical property since it would
fall out automatically from the fact that a canonical affix is attached with respect to a
word while a canonical clitic is attached with respect to a phrase edge.
Finally, one morphosyntactic property that may distinguish clitics from affixes is
that clitics sometimes look like inflected function words. In a number of languages,
for instance, pronominal clitics have recognizable case/number forms and auxiliary
verb clitics may have identifiable person/number/gender or agreement inflections
(e.g. Czech, the implications of which for realizational morphology are discussed in
Spencer 2005b). This is a property that we expect of function words. However, it isn’t
a common property of clitics, indeed, there has been very little discussion of the
property in that literature which treats clitics as distinct from ordinary words. We
will therefore assume that such behaviour is non-canonical. Note that, strictly
speaking, any kind of inflectional morphology on any element, whether lexical
word, function word, or clitic, will be a deviation from canonicity if we assume
that each word bears just a single meaning or grammatical property (in other words
if we treat cumulation as non-canonical).
We have enumerated what we regard as all the crucial properties of clitics as they
are presented in the literature. Where necessary we have erred on the side of
including properties that may turn out to be prototypical for clitics, words, or affixes,
rather than canonical, in order to increase the chances of differentiating clitics from
other expression types. It is worth noting at this point that all the relevant criteria
that are commonly discussed in connection with clitics relate to the way they may or
may not differ from affixes on the one hand and from function words on the other
hand. This is built in to the nature of clitics and it means that willy-nilly we are
dealing with elements on a one-dimensional scale, with clitics occupying a midway
position.13
For the present we will take these properties to be common to any of the possible
candidates for canonical clitichood.
6.8 Clitics with syntactically unexpected distribution
All the criteria we have discussed so far have been criteria which define a clitic by
contrast to the canonical affix or the canonical function word. However, it is often
noted in the literature that a salient property of some types of clitics is the fact that
13
In view of the comments of one reviewer, we stress that this is not an artefact of our analysis, nor
does it represent any kind of ‘prejudgement’ on our part about the nature of clitics, it’s just the way the
world is. Readers can easily convince themselves that clitics lie on a word–clitic–affix scale by trying to
think up some other possibly canonical property of clitics that doesn’t involve distinguishing clitics from
words on the one hand and affixes on the other.
The canonical clitic 143
they obey very specific principles of distribution which are not found with ordinary
(function) words proper. To avoid possible terminological confusion, and to be as
explicit as possible about our criteria, we will refer to such clitics as ‘clitics with
syntactically unexpected distribution’ in order to stress that we are dealing with
clitics that appear where ordinary function words are not generally found (though
for convenience we will refer to such clitics as ‘special clitics’ on occasions).
Klavans (1982, 1985) argues that there are eight different types of placement for
clitics, depending on the settings of three binary parameters. The Initial/Final
parameter specifies left or right edge of a syntactic domain (such as NP or VP).
The Before/After parameter specifies whether the clitic is placed with respect to the
left/right edge of the peripheral constituent of that domain. The Liaison parameter
specifies whether the clitic is enclitic to the previous word or proclitic to the next
word.
Two of these clitic types are fairly commonly encountered, namely, those which
are Initial/Before in their domain and those which are Final/After. Typical exem-
plars of the Initial/Before type would be clause-initial clitic complementizers or
tense/mood/aspect markers for the clausal domain, and clitic prepositions, deter-
miners, and so on for the nominal domain. Typical exemplars of the Final/After type
would be clause-final clitic complementizers or tense/mood/aspect markers, as often
found, for instance, in verb-final languages. In the nominal domain we often find not
only clitic determiners but especially clitic postpositions/case markers with the Final/
After property. The only other common type of clitic with syntactically unexpected
distribution seems to be the Wackernagel clitic. These are clitics (usually enclitics)
which are placed in Initial position, but After the first word/constituent of their
domain. This characterization therefore defines ‘second position’.
The existence of clitics with the property of syntactically unexpected placement
raises the question of whether we might not deploy such properties to define
canonicity for clitics. After all, this is a property which by definition distinguishes
clitics from both bona fide affixes and from function words which obey normal
principles of syntax (in the given language). Indeed, in many languages lexical words
and phrases enjoy great freedom of linear order while the clitics (almost by defin-
ition) appear in a fixed cluster in a fixed part of the phrase (say, in 2P position).
In order to incorporate such an observation into our analysis we would have to
say that such a clitic obeys principles of linearization distinct from the normal
principles of syntax for the given language (see the definition of ‘Morphosyntactic
clitic’ given by Anderson 2005: 31). However, here we encounter a problem. In many
cases we will find that the Initial/Before or Final/After parameter settings will give
results which coincide with the output of normal syntax. For instance, many
languages have clause-initial complementizers or noun phrase-initial determiners
and many head-final languages have clause- or noun phrase-final markers of the
same kind. This means that a function word of such a category which becomes a
144 Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís
simple clitic by prosodic attrition will be less canonical than one of the same
category, but whose placement is not governed by normal syntax. And in some
cases it will not even do to propose a vaguely worded criterion along the lines of
Anderson (2005), ‘clitics are placed by principles distinct from those of normal
syntax’, because it is far from clear in some languages just what the canonical
syntactic structures are.
It is therefore tempting to focus on the Wackernagel type, since this is very
widespread and yet the second position which defines it is not in general a position
identified by normal rules of syntax.14
Suppose we postulate two further canonical
properties which will define the Wackernagel clitic as the canonical ‘special clitic’:
DclInitial: A (special) clitic is placed at the left edge of its domain
DclAfter: A (special) clitic is placed at the right edge of the peripheral (leftmost)
word/phrase of the domain
These criteria define the Wackernagel clitic as the canonical clitic with syntactically
unexpected distribution (‘special clitic’). Domain-initial or domain-final clitics
would be non-canonical special (Wackernagel) clitics such that the domain-initial
type respects DclInitial but not DclAfter, while the domain-final clitic respects
DclAfter but not DclInitial.15
Recall that the only rationale behind singling out the Wackernagel type as the
canonical special clitic is the desire to identify some unique property of a class of
clitics which can’t be reduced to a (canonical) property of normal syntax. However,
it seems to us that this results in a somewhat artificial distinction. Yet it’s difficult to
see how the Canonical Typology approach can do any better in identifying a notion
of ‘canonical special clitic’.
We therefore conclude that it isn’t possible to find canonical criteria for clitics
with syntactically unexpected distribution. To the extent that we can identify a
canonical clitic, clitics whose distribution cannot be defined in terms of normal
syntax must therefore be regarded as a non-canonical type (see Table 6.2). As a
corollary, the ‘clitic cluster’ phenomenon, in which the ordering of clitics is idiosyn-
cratic and displays other properties typical of affixal, ‘template’ morphology (Simpson
and Withgott 1986), is always to be treated as a deviation from the distribution-based
canonical properties.
14
Anderson (1993, 2005), of course, has argued that there are close connections between second
position clitics and the ‘verb second’ phenomenon of a number of languages including various Germanic
languages, Kashmiri, and Surmiran Rumantsch. However, in the cases he discusses either there are no
clitics with syntactically unexpected distribution or those clitics are not Wackernagel clitics. If anything,
Wackernagel clitics tend to be found in those languages for which second position is definitely not a
syntactically privileged position.
15
The headmarking clitics such as Romance pronominal clitics could therefore be viewed either as
aberrant verbal affixes or as extremely aberrant special clitics, whose only clitic properties are that they are
phonologically more like clitics than like (canonical) affixes. See section 6.9 below.
The canonical clitic 145
We are therefore left with our original set of criteria, based on the contrast
between function words and clitics on the one hand, and affixes and clitics on the
other hand, with the canonical clitic having the distribution of a canonical function
word and the morphophonological form of a canonical affix.
6.9 Non-canonical clitics
We have proposed an analysis under which we can define a canonical clitic as a unit
which exhibits contradictory properties with respect to form and distribution.
Elements with essentially these properties are extremely common in the world’s
languages yet the clitic concept has remained somewhat controversial and a number
of authors have even denied that a sensible distinction can be drawn, at least between
clitic and affix (see section 6.5 and footnote 9). In fact, we share these doubts about
the clitic  affix distinction. The reason is that it remains very easy to find elements
that diverge from our canonical properties in varying degrees. When this happens it
can become very difficult to decide whether an element is more properly analysed as
an aberrant function word, an aberrant affix, or as some kind of non-canonical clitic.
In this final section we review some of the ways that a clitic can deviate from
canonicity.
If an element retains the affix properties (FaffCV, FaffProsDep) but loses either
or both of the word-like properties it will become less canonical as a clitic and more
like an affix. Consider an element that didn’t exhibit wide scope. A case in point is
the definite article in Romance languages such as French or Portuguese. An element
of that sort might well become a candidate for analysis as edge-inflection (Lapointe
1990, Halpern 1995). This refers to the situation in which the edgemost word in a
phrase is marked for a property but the marking is not ‘agglutinative’ in the way we
expect from a clitic. Rather, we find idiosyncratic morphophonology of the kind
associated with typical head-affixation. Those words that appear at phrase edges of
that kind (whatever their category) therefore seem to be being inflected for a
property that is foreign to their own category. Edge inflection as a phenomenon
has been controversial. Anderson (2005: 89) explicitly denies that it is possible.
However, the three cases discussed in Anderson et al. (2006) establish very clearly
that edge inflection has to be acknowledged.
Now consider the distributional criteria, DclPhrasal and DclWScope. Suppose
that we find an element that respects the criterion DclWScope but not phrasal
placement, that is, a head-marking element that displays wide scope. Cases of this
sort are well established in the literature, for example, the case of Turkish as
described by Lewis (1967) (who coined the term ‘suspended affixation’). Other
more complex examples are discussed in Wälchli (2005).
The pronominal clitics of most Romance languages and of Macedonian represent
examples of clitics which obey neither DclPhrasal nor DclWScope. In fact, they are
146 Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís
better thought of as head-marking elements, because they cluster around a verb
form. However, their morphophonology is often rather different from that of true
affixes in those languages and so they are traditionally referred to as clitics. In
addition, they fail to function as canonical agreement markers in (most) Romance
varieties and so they are taken to be reflexes of pronouns rather than verbal
inflections. In terms of canonical properties they are rather closer to affixes than
clitics, especially in the case of Macedonian, where they obligatorily cross-reference
definite direct objects and all indirect objects, and so are all but agreement inflec-
tions (Lyons 1991). From the point of view of Canonical Typology, however, they are
better regarded as elements which are neither canonical affixes nor canonical clitics,
but as elements whose properties have to be itemized on a language-by-language and
to some extent a construction-by-construction basis. These scenarios are schema-
tized in Table 6.2.
Finally, there is one non-canonical type of clitic that fails to fit neatly into the
typology sketched in this section, the ‘floating/mobile inflections’ of Polish. These
are verbal subject-agreement elements that can attach promiscuously to a word of
any category (Booij and Rubach 1987) and which show optional wide scope (Franks
and King 2000, 144f.):
(2) Ale¼m poszła i zobaczyła
but¼1sg [went and saw]
‘But I went and saw it.’
cf. poszła¼m i zobzczyła¼m
(3) W kawiarni¼śmy jedli lody, albo pili kawę
in cafe¼1pl [ate ice-cream or drank coffee]
‘In the cafe we ate ice-cream or drank coffee.’
cf. jedli¼śmy lody, albo pili¼śmy kawę
However, these elements also trigger idiosyncratic allomorphy on their hosts, and
can sometimes be integrated into the host’s stress domain, in other words they show
Table 6.2 Types of non-canonical clitic/affix
Canonical formal Canonical distributional
FaffProsDep FaffCV DwdPhrasal DwdWScope
canonical function word û û ü ü
canonical affix ü ü û û
canonical clitic ü ü ü ü
Wackernagel clitic ü ü û ü
French definite article ü ü ü û
Turkish inflection ü ü û ü
The canonical clitic 147
the type of morphophonological integration which is typical of (though not canon-
ical for!) affixes.
In (4) we see the 1sg clitic -m attached to the past tense participle form mugł. The
basic phonological form of this participle is generally taken to be mogł with a mid
back vowel which gets raised by a lexical (non-automatic) phonological process to
/u/ when in the final syllable. That raising is blocked by suffixes, but not by clitics or
particles such as the conditional marker by. However, the -m marker does block
raising, just as though it were a suffix, not a clitic. In (5) we see the marker attached
to the adverb/complementizer jak ‘how’. This then triggers another lexical process
(which we can think of as e-epenthesis) to give jakiem.
(4) jak mogł-e¼m
how could-e¼1sg
‘How I(male) could.’
(5) jak-ie¼m mugł
how-e-1sg could[m.sg]
‘How I(male) could.’
There are two reasons why the Polish ‘mobile inflections’ are difficult to accommo-
date into our typology of non-canonical clitics. First, it’s not clear whether we should
regard these clitics as instantiating ‘unexpected syntactic distribution’: word order is
rather free in Polish so the freedom of linearization of the clitics is an expected
syntactic fact. On the other hand, there are restrictions on clitic positioning, in that
they cannot appear after the main verb (Sussex 1980). The main difficulty, however,
is the fact that the mobile inflections behave like prototypical suffixes in triggering
idiosyncratic allomorphy. A canonical affix, under our assumptions, does not trigger
such allomorphy. Thus, the Polish mobile inflections are too affix-like to fit our
scheme. It should come as no surprise that the analysis of the mobile inflections is
rather controversial (Spencer 1991: 369–74).
Behaviour such as this is interesting from the point of view of Canonical Typ-
ology. Recall that we are defining canonicity in terms of two orthogonal dimensions,
form properties and distribution properties: the canonical clitic has the canonical
form of an affix and the canonical distribution of a function word. The problem with
the mobile inflections is that they are too affix-like in their formal properties. Ideally,
we should be able to say that this makes the mobile inflections less canonical as
function words, too, but it’s unclear how to say this given current assumptions. We
leave this conceptual conundrum for future research.
6.10 Conclusions
Our analysis of clitics takes as its point of departure the observation that clitics are
typically elements which share some of the properties of ordinary function words
148 Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís
and some of the properties of affixes. We do not believe that it is possible to find any
single unique property or properties that would characterize clitics and exclude
neighbouring types of elements, specifically affixes and function words. We have
therefore adopted the premise that it is possible to provide a canonical character-
ization of affixes and function words. We have then distinguished canonical form
properties for affixes and for words from canonical distributional properties. Our
claim is that a canonical clitic has the canonical form properties of an affix and the
canonical distributional properties of a function word. In other words, the canonical
clitic lies at the ‘intersection’ of the space defined by the dimensions ‘affix form’ and
‘function word distribution’.
There remain a number of unclear points. Specifically, we have discussed the
question of how well a canonical affix or clitic should be seen as morphophonolo-
gically integrated into its base/host. Is it canonical for an affix to be seamlessly
integrated into the word form, so that a baseþaffix combination is indistinguishable
from a simplex morpheme? Or is it canonical for an affix to be easily segmentable
from its base morphophonologically? It is not entirely clear what answer Canonical
Typology should provide to this question. But this means that it is not clear whether
the canonical clitic should be morphophonologically integrated or whether it should
be segmentable. It is even possible that different types of canonical clitic behave
differently in this respect. We leave that question open. It is interesting that this
question, which has not been raised before in the literature as far as we can tell,
comes into such sharp relief in the context of the canonical approach.
The sense in which our canonical clitic is canonical differs from the sense in which
a canonical suppletive word is canonical, say. Our definition of the canonical clitic
adopts essentially the same strategy as the definition of canonical periphrasis
adopted in Brown et al. (forthcoming) (see also Corbett et al. 2008). The canonical
phenomenon lies at the intersection, so to speak, of two orthogonal sets of criteria
(canonical function word syntax and canonical inflectional morphology in the case
of periphrasis). A good many contentious linguistic phenomena lie between two
other sets of phenomena in this way (compounds lie between words and phrases,
reduplication lies between processual and affixal morphology, transpositions, such
as deverbal participles or action nominalizations, lie between inflection and deriv-
ation, and so on). Hence, the strategy of defining intersecting orthogonal dimensions
may well prove a very fruitful way of applying Canonical Typology to a wider
empirical base.
The canonical clitic 149
Appendix: The Zwicky-Pullum criteria
For comparison we present here the Zwicky-Pullum criteria expressed as separate
properties (not necessarily canonical!) for clitics and affixes. Most of these properties
relate to the clitic–affix distinction (the focus of Zwicky and Pullum 1983, of course),
though criteria ZPC5, ZPA5 relate to the clitic/affix vs. word distinction.
ZPC1. Clitics do not select their hosts
ZPC2. Clitics do not exhibit arbitrary gaps
ZPC3. Clitics do not exhibit morphophonological idiosyncrasies
ZPC4. Clitics do not exhibit semantic idiosyncrasies
ZPC5. Clitics do not have the syntactic distribution of words
ZPC6. Clitics can attach to material already containing clitics.
ZPA1. Affixes select their hosts
ZPA2. Affix systems exhibit arbitrary gaps
ZPA3. Affixes exhibit morphophonological idiosyncrasies
ZPA4. Affixes exhibit semantic idiosyncrasies
ZPA5. Affixes do not have the syntactic distribution of words
ZPA6. Affixes cannot attach to material already containing clitics.
150 Andrew Spencer and Ana Luís
7
Passive agents: prototypical vs.
canonical passives
ANNA SIEWIERSKA and DIK BAKKER
7.1 Introduction
A prototype in the sense of Rosch (1978) is a cognitive construct which may vary
depending on culture and even individuals. Prototype analyses of linguistic categor-
ies are therefore necessarily language or even speaker specific unless the linguistic
categories in question are taken to be universal, i.e. present in the minds of all
speakers. This has not always been fully appreciated by researchers who have posited
general prototypes of morphosyntactic categories which are clearly not universal.
The passive is a case in point.
Passive constructions, however broadly conceived, are not universal, occurring at
most in around 45 per cent of the world’s languages (Siewierska 2005). Nonetheless,
the notion of there being a unified passive prototype seems rather well established.
In fact the only point of contention in regard to what constitutes a prototypical
passive relates to the presence of an overt agent,1
which is absent from Shibatani’s
(1985: 837) passive prototype, presented in (1), but features prominently in the
passive prototype of, for example, Dixon and Aikhenvald (2000: 4), the chief
characteristics of which are presented in (2).
(1) (i) Primary pragmatic function: agent defocusing
(ii) Semantic properties:
(a) Semantic valence: predicate (agent, patient)
(b) Subject is affected
(iii) Syntactic properties
1
We use the term ‘agent’ as this is the conventional term. However, what we actually mean is actor, i.e.
the (demoted) highest ranking semantic argument of the verb.
(c) Encoding: agent ! Ø (not encoded)
patient ! subject
(d) Valence of predicate:2
Active ¼ P/n
Passive ¼ P/n  1
(iv) Morphological properties
Active ¼ P
Passive ¼ P [þpassive]
(2) (i) applies to an underlying transitive and derives intransitive
(ii) underlying O becomes S
(iii) underlying A goes into peripheral function being marked by a non-core
case, adposition, etc., the argument can be omitted but there is always the
option of including it
(iv) there is some explicit formal marking generally by verbal affix or
periphrastic verbal construction
Shibatani’s version of the passive prototype tends to be shared by scholars who adopt
a frequency-based as opposed to an exemplar-based approach to prototypes (see e.g.
Croft and Cruse 2003), under the assumption that agentless passives are cross-
linguistically, and also typically language internally, more frequent than agentive
ones. The alternative version of the passive prototype with an overt agent is in turn
typically viewed as more compatible with the exemplar-based approach to proto-
types, which is more reliant on perceptions of saliency than just outright frequency.
However, strictly speaking in both instances the term ‘prototype’ is better under-
stood non-technically, in the sense of a general characterization rather than corre-
sponding to an evident cognitive category.
No comparable controversy in relation to the presence of the agent underlies what
has traditionally been taken to be a canonical, as opposed to prototypical, passive
construction; a canonical passive is seen to display the set of properties captured in
the characterizations of the prototype in (1) and (2) but is uniformly considered to be
a construction with an overt agent (see e.g. Kuryłowicz 1964; Givón 1979; Siewierska
1984, 2005; Haspelmath 1990; Comrie 2007; Kulikov 2009). In this chapter we will
seek to establish whether passives with, as opposed to without, agents also emerge as
more canonical under the canonical approach to typology currently being developed
by Corbett (2005) and his associates. The traditional application of the term ‘canon-
ical’, as used in the linguistics literature, denotes what is perceived to be a norm or
standard, be it often only an implicit one. The use of the term within the canonical
approach to language typology is somewhat different. A canonical instance of a
2
The abbreviation P in (1iiid) and (1iv) stands for predicate and the abbreviation n for valency. Thus
(1iiid) states that the valency of the passive predicate, P/n-1, is always reduced by one relative to that of the
active predicate. (1iv) in turn states that the passive predicate carries some marker of its passive nature.
152 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
phenomenon is not necessarily associated with what is usual, normal, frequent, or
unmarked. In fact it might be quite rare or potentially even unattested. By canonical
is meant a convergence of properties, an ideal or theoretical point from which actual
manifestations of a given phenomenon can be calibrated. The putative properties
comprising the canon are taken to interact with each other in principled ways and to
be expressible by a series of generalizations defining what is more as opposed to what
is less canonical, and which take the form X > Y, where > is to be read as ‘is more
canonical than’.
Under our understanding of Corbett’s canonical approach to typology there are
two primary reasons for taking a given property or feature of a construction to be
more canonical than another. The first is that the property in question distinguishes
the given construction from canonical realizations of all or most other constructions.
By this criterion the passive agent qualifies as part of the canon. As has been widely
discussed, it is the presence and nature of the agent phrase which allows us to
distinguish the passive from an unspecified human impersonal, inverse, stative,
anticausative, or other constructions which comprise the multidimensional space
of the voice continuum (see e.g. Croft 2001; Langacker 2004; Shibatani 2006). Thus,
for example, whereas Bulgarian (3a) is ambiguous between an anticausative and a
passive interpretation, upon the addition of an overt agent, as in (3b), only the
passive reading remains.
(3) Bulgarian
a. Sčupia se očila-ta
broke:pl refl glasses-def
‘The glasses broke/were broken.’
b. Sčupia se očila-ta od dete
broke:pl refl glasses-def from child
‘The glasses were broken by a child.’
Even if there is no overt agent in the passive, the nature of the potential agent may be
seen as performing a distinguishing role. For example, the agent of the Polish active
impersonal in (4a) must be human while that of the passive (4b) may denote a
human being, an animal, or a natural cause.
(4) Polish
a. Zmoczono go
wet:n.ptcp he:acc
‘He was made wet.’
b. Został zmoczony (przez mamę, słonia, deszcz)
became:3sg:m wet:pass.ptcp by mother, elephant, rain
‘He was made wet (by his mother, an elephant, the rain).’
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 153
The second reason for considering a property as more canonical than another is that
the property in question tends to coincide both across and within languages with yet
other properties which may be seen to be more canonical of a given construction.
Whether this can be said of passive agents, i.e. whether passives with agents can be
considered as more canonical than passives without agents is what this chapter will
seek to determine. Drawing on data from a sample of 279 languages with passive
constructions, we will explore the relationship between the expressibility of passive
agents and the presence and nature of passive subjects and passive verbal morph-
ology, on the one hand, and the semantics of passive agents relative to their formal
realization on the other hand.
The paper is structured as follows. In section 7.2 we will take a closer look at how
criteria are established within the canonical approach to language typology, and
introduce the criteria for the passive which we will be assuming, some quite
tentatively, in our discussion of the status of passive agents. In section 7.3 we will
begin our discussion of the more canonical nature of passives with overt agents, as
compared to those without such agents, by considering the distribution of agentive
and agentless passives relative to the canonicity of passive subjects and the type of
passive verbal marking used. In section 7.4 we will home in on agentive passive
constructions with the aim of distinguishing potential correlates of obligatory vs.
facultative agent expression. Section 7.5 will focus on the semantic and referential
properties of passive agents and section 7.6 on the formal means used to express
them. The discussion will close in section 7.7 with a re-evaluation of the canonical
features of the passive construction tentatively posited in section 7.2 in the light of
the data presented in sections 7.3–7.6.
7.2 Establishing the criteria for the passive
From the combined set of properties of prototypical passive constructions listed in
(1) and (2) we can extrapolate (5) as being likely criteria for the passive.
(5) (a) Subject
(i) overt subject > no overt subject
(ii) patient subject > non-patient subject
(b) Agent
(iii) expressible > not expressible
(iv) expressible but not obligatorily overt > obligatorily overt
(v) semantically agentive > not necessarily semantically agentive
(vi) marked as non-core > marked as core
(c) Verb
(vii) formal verbal marking > no formal verbal marking
(viii) basic transitive verb > basic intransitive verb
154 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
We have used the modifier ‘likely’ deliberately, since a canonical construction is not
necessarily the same as a prototypical one. Therefore while prototypical features
constitute a good point of departure for canonical ones, it is possible that some of
the former may not qualify as part of the canon. Conversely, and perhaps even more
likely, there may well be canonical features which fall outside the prototype.
The canonical approach to typology does not set any a priori restrictions on how
fine tuned the criteria relating to a given construction or phenomenon should be.
This needs to be established empirically.
By way of illustration let us take a closer look at the issue of passive verbal
marking. In the characterization of the passive in (2) reference is made to different
types of verbal marking in the passive, i.e. periphrastic and affixal. While no
distinction between these forms of marking is made, it is not difficult to conceive
of criteria such as those in (6).
(6) a. synthetic verbal marking > periphrastic verbal marking
b. affixal marking > stem modification
On the face of it (6b) looks more promising as being part of the canon than (6a). As
documented in Haspelmath (1990), affixal passive marking is a clearer and more
salient form of marking than stem modification involving sound change, reduplica-
tion, or tonal distinctions, and is unequivocally more common cross-linguistically
than the other types of marking. Stem modification as a marker of the passive is
quite rare outside of Semitic. The only other instance we are aware of is in
Chiquitano, a language of Bolivia formerly used as a lingua franca by the Jesuits
(Adelaar 2004: 485), and in which the passive is indicated by the weakening of the
initial consonant of the stem (cf. i-tomoĕ-ka ‘to tie’ vs. i-čomoĕ-ka ‘to be tied’).
Reduplication as a passive marker is to the best of our knowledge attested only in
Older Egyptian (Reintges 1997: 143) and Hannis Coos (Frachtenberg 1922: 343–5,
378). In the former it marks only one of the three passives of the language and in the
latter it is used not exclusively but in conjunction with a passive suffix: -u in
the present, -ayu in the past, or iyeqem for continuous actions. Tonal marking
of the verb is in turn found in various Nilotic languages, but only in Pari (Andersen
1988) may it function as the sole means of signalling the passive, and even then just
with simplex stems in the completive aspect as in (7b).
(7) Pari (Andersen 1988: 299)
a. dhìeN á-kwál
-e
cow compl-steal-3sg
‘He stole the cow.’
b. dhìeN á-kwál
cow compl-steal\pass
‘The cow was stolen.’
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 155
In passives built on complex stems in the completive aspect, a final passive suffix -i is
used and in the non-completive aspect the preverbal particle ki is employed. Thus
even in the languages which employ non-affixal verbal marking of the passive this
type of marking is rarely used without the accompaniment of some affixal marking.
This exceptional nature of passive verbal marking involving stem modification as
opposed to affixal marking is not, however, exclusive to the passive but holds for
most verbal, if not all grammatical categories. Since affixal marking is preferred
overall, it would be completely superfluous and in fact misleading to include affixal
marking as opposed to stem modification as a canonical feature of synthetic passive
verbal marking. It is less obvious that the same applies to the distinction between
synthetic as opposed to periphrastic verbal marking of passives.
One’s expectations with respect to the type of verbal marking that the verb in a
canonical passive should have depend on the view of the passive adhered to.
Synthetic rather than periphrastic marking is compatible with an approach which
sees the passive as a morphological and essentially verbal phenomenon. A phenom-
enon canonically marked by morphology may be expected to involve canonical
morphology, which is obviously synthetic as opposed to periphrastic. Under a
syntactic view of the passive, on the other hand, where the passive is seen as
operating on syntactic units, subjects, and objects rather than on the verb’s valency,
the canonical construction may well be expected to be periphrastic rather than
synthetic. And if considered as basically a pragmatic phenomenon, a canonical
passive may not carry any expectations with respect to type of verbal marking at
all. Needless to say, there are other factors that may need to be considered as well,
such as uniqueness of the marking, cross-linguistic and language internal distribu-
tion. Synthetic marking is a more grammaticalized form of marking than periphras-
tic marking and as such there is a greater likelihood of the former being uniquely
associated with the passive than the latter. By way of illustration, the periphrastic
marking in the English get-passive is ambiguous between a passive reading as shown
in The car got started on the tenth try and a causative one as in I got the car started
and also an inchoative one as in I couldn’t get started till 10 o’clock this morning. By
contrast the synthetic marking of the passive in, for example, the Bantu language
Shona by means of the affix –wa/iwa, illustrated in (8) is unique to the passive in this
language.3
(8) Shona: Manyika dialect (Fortune 1955: 398)
Iyi tsamba ya-ka-nyor-w-a Nge hama yaNgu
this letter 3sg-pst-write-pass-ind by relative my
‘This letter was written by my relative.’
3
This is not to say that synthetic markers are necessarily unique. Synthetic markers of the passive
which originate from middle markers are well known for their polysemy. See Kemmer (1993) for a detailed
discussion.
156 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
Synthetic verbal marking of passives is also more common cross-linguistically and
less areally and genetically restricted than periphrastic marking (see e.g. Haspelmath
1990) though the differences in the distribution of the two are incomparably smaller
than those involving affixal marking vs. stem modification as discussed above.
Periphrastic marking of passives is found widely throughout Eurasia and is also
attested outside that area in, for example, Coptic (Reintges 2008; Stauder 2010),
Fongbe (Lefebvre and Brousseau 2002), Kunama (Bender 1996), and Zande (Gore
1931) in Africa; Buru (Grimes 1991) and Malay (Chung 2005) in Oceania; and Bororo
(Crowell 1979), Cubeo (Morse and Maxwell 1999), Imbabura Quechua (Cole 1982),
Matses (Fleck 2009), Nez Perce (Rude 1986), Paumari (Chapman and Derbyshire
1991), Tariana (Aikhenvald 2000), and Warihio (Armendáriz 2008) in the Americas.
Furthermore, unlike passive verbal marking via stem modification, periphrastic
marking is not necessarily a minority strategy accompanied by additional or alter-
native synthetic marking. In quite a few languages, including English, periphrastic
passives are the only passive constructions available. Crucially, though we simply do
not know how all of the above compares to the synthetic vs. periphrastic forms of
marking of other categories associated with the verb, categories belonging to the
voice continuum (e.g. reflexives, anticausatives, middles, causatives, inverses, etc.),
but also those pertaining to tense, aspect and modality, evidentiality, etc. Unfortu-
nately, the relevant data are not available. In other words we simply do not know
whether the distribution of synthetic vs. periphrastic marking in passives is signifi-
cantly or evenly interestingly distinct from that found in other categories. Therefore
in the absence of the relevant data, we cannot simply dismiss the whole dimension of
type of verbal marking as not belonging to the canon.
Should therefore (6a), or potentially its converse,4
be posited as a criterion for the
passive? If canonicity is viewed as a convergence of properties or features, in order to
answer this question we must rely on evidence internal to passive constructions, i.e.
on the extent to which synthetic marking tends to coincide with other canonical
features of the passive. This in turn is again an empirical matter, one which has not
yet been investigated. If it emerges that synthetic passive verbal marking rather than
periphrastic systematically coincides with some other set of features for which
canonicity has been established independently, this will constitute grounds for
positing the synthetic marking as a canonical feature as well. If no such correlations
are found or if the established correlations go in different directions, sometimes with
a more canonical property, say with an overt subject, as captured in (5i) and other
4
If one adopts Haspelmath’s (1990) position that the primary function of the passive is deactivization
rather than topicalization, impersonalization, and detransitivization, as argued by Givón (1979, 1981,
1994a), Comrie (2007), and others, one could make a good case for positing periphrastic marking as
more canonical than synthetic due to the well known associations between the passive and the perfect,
which in turn are arguably best reflected in periphrastic constructions involving a non-finite form of the
lexical verb.
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 157
times with a less canonical property, say a non-patient subject, as captured in (5ii),
there will be no justification for including a specification of type of verbal passive
marking within the canon.
Since under the canonical approach to typology there are no a priori constraints on
the degree of granularity of the properties or features constituting the canon, in our
investigation of the canonical status of passives with overt agents we have opted to
include not only criteria involving features which are explicitly mentioned in the
passive prototypes in (1) and (2) but also some that are only there by implication.
There are quite a few such implied properties. Some stem from the nature of agents
and patients and high semantic transitivity, for instance, humanness, specificity,
individuation, volitionality, telicity, punctuality, and assertion. Others may be derived
from the passive being conceived of as a departure from the norm constituted by the
active and thus, on the one hand, providing a viable alternative to the active (e.g. close
similarity of meaning) and, on the other, being pragmatically marked relative to the
active (restricted textual distribution and low frequency). We cannot include in our
considerations tentative criteria relating to all of the above properties as it is simply
not feasible to do so. Therefore keeping all of the above in mind, we will focus on the
properties of passive agents which have been most frequently invoked in distinguish-
ing the passive from other voice constructions, namely humanness, specificity, and
non-pronominal status. And to throw some light on the role, if any, played by the
distinction between synthetic and periphrastic verbal marking in the passive we will
also include (6a) in our considerations as a tentative criterion.
In sum, in the following discussion we will seek to determine how the features
involving passive subjects and verbal marking in (9) relate to those involving passive
agents in (10) and how the latter interact with each other with respect to the
expressibility of agents (10i, ii), their semantics (10iii, iv, v), and their encoding
(10vi, vii).
(9) (a) Subject
(i) overt subject > no overt subject
(ii) patient subject > non-patient subject
(iii) patient not responsible > patient partially responsible
(b) Verb
(iv) formal verbal marking > no formal verbal marking
(v) synthetic verbal marking > periphrastic verbal marking
(vi) basic transitive verb > basic intransitive verb
(vii) dynamic verb > non-dynamic verb
(10) Agent
(i) expressible > not expressible
(ii) expressible but not obligatorily > obligatorily overt
158 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
(iii) semantically agentive > not necessarily semantically agentive
(iv) human > non-human
(v) specific > non-specific
(vi) lexical > pronominal
(vii) non-core-marking > core marking
7.3 The overt expressibility of passive agents
In order to avoid any misunderstanding with respect to terminology we will refer to
passive constructions which allow for the expression of an overt agent as agentive
passives and ones which do not as agentless ones. Agentive passives which feature
actual overt agents will be called explicit agentives, and those lacking overt agents,
implicit agentives.
As mentioned in the introduction, it is typically assumed that agentless passives
are cross-linguistically considerably more common than agentive ones. Moreover, in
languages which have agentive passives the implicit ones are taken to be always more
common than the explicit ones. Although canonicity, as understood here, is not a
function of cross-linguistic or language internal frequency, this is not to say that
considerations of frequency should not inform the determination of canonicity. On
the contrary, we may expect various of the features comprising the canon to be
highly frequent even if the combination of all the canonical features is rare or non-
existent. Therefore before we proceed to present other arguments for passives with
agents as being more canonical than those without agents, let us first take a quick
look at the cross-linguistic and language internal distributions of the two.
The cross-linguistic distribution of passive constructions is heavily skewed both
areally and genetically (see e.g. Siewierska 2005). Passive constructions are charac-
teristic of the so-called Old World (Africa, Eurasia, and South East Asia) as opposed
to the New World (the Americas) and the Pacific (Australia, New Guinea, and
Oceania). Among the languages of the Old World passives are found frequently in
Bantu, Cushitic, Semitic, Nilotic, all branches of Indo-European, Ugric, Turkic,
Mongolic, Dravidian but not so much in West Atlantic, Kordofanian, Chadic,
Kartvelian, Nakh-Daghhestanian, Northwest Caucasian, or Tibetan. Our (conveni-
ence) sample of languages with passive constructions reflects these areal and genetic
biases. The sample numbers 279 languages with passive constructions. Data relating
to the expressibility of the agent were available for 264 of the sample languages.
Among these 264 languages there are 171 agentive passives (65 per cent) and 93
agentless ones (35 per cent).5
Our data do not therefore corroborate any cross-
linguistic preference for agentless over agentive passives. In terms of areal distribution
5
These figures refer to languages with agentive passives and those with only agentless ones. As many
languages have more than one passive, this is obviously a simplification.
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 159
the agentive dominate in Eurasia, South East Asia & Oceania and Australia & New
Guinea, the agentless in North America, with Africa and South America displaying
more or less equal distributions of the two. This is depicted in Fig. 7.1.
As for the language internal distribution of agentive implicit and explicit passives,
there is enormous variation in this regard across languages and within languages,
relative to register and genre. Some idea of the cross-linguistic variation in the
occurrence of passives with agents is provided in Table 7.1, which presents the
frequencies of explicit passives in nine languages, as found in the corpora used in
the references specified.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
A
f
r
i
c
a
E
u
r
a
s
i
a
S
E
A
&
O
c
A
u
s
&
N
G
N
A
m
e
r
S
A
m
e
r
Agentive
Agentless
Fig. 7.1 The distribution of agentive and agentless passives relative to area
Table 7.1 Frequency of passives with explicit agents
Language Passive Explicit agent Reference
Polish be/become-passive 2704 8.5% Górski (2008)
English be-passive 1073 11% Xiao et al. (2006)
Swedish s-passive 63 13% Laanemets (2004)
Old Italian be-passive 240 24% Sansò (2011)
Vogul Synthetic passive 1030 27% Kulonen (1989)
Mandarin bei-passive 511 39% Xiao et al. (2006)
Ostyak synthetic passive 1316 43% Kulonen (1989)
Spanish be-passive 9 56% Hidalgo (1994)
Irish periph-passive 34 81% Noonan (1994)
Manggarai no-Vmarking passive 26 81% Arka and Kosmas (2002)
Carib be-passive 9 82% Gildea6
(1994)
6
Gildea (1994) argues that the passive in Carib is in fact an inverse be it not so strongly in structural
terms, as discussed in section 7.4.1, but in functional terms as defined by Givón (1994a), where the inverse
differs from the passive mainly with respect to the degree of topicality of the agent; in the passive it is seen
to be untopical, in the inverse just not very topical.
160 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
These figures suggest that, unlike in the case of the distribution of agentive vs.
agentless passives, the majority of the languages do indeed favour implicit over
explicit passives. The actual figures, however, are only very crude approximations of
the variation in the use of explicit agents in actual texts and as such must be viewed
with considerable caution. This can be better appreciated on the basis of the data
presented in Table 7.2 taken from Granger (1983: 275), and relating to the use of
explicit agents in different text types of spoken English.
We see that even in spoken texts the occurrence of passives with explicit agents
varies between a low 6 per cent in conversation and high 35 per cent in commen-
taries. The discrepancies in the occurrence of passive agents between spoken and
certain written genres such as academic prose can even be higher.
The fact that agentive passives are more frequent cross-linguistically than agent-
less ones does away with one reason for considering the latter to be more canonical
than the former. The same does not hold for the frequency data relating to the
language internal distribution of agentive explicit and implicit passives. Whichever
way one looks at the language internal frequencies of agentive explicit and implicit
passives, the implicit are in the majority of languages more frequent. Thus the only
conclusion that can be drawn from the above frequency data with respect to
canonicity is that we must look at how agentive and/or explicit passives as compared
to agentless and/or implicit ones fare in relation to independently established more
and less canonical properties of passives. We will begin with the potential correl-
ations between the expressibility of passive agents and the nature of passive subjects
and then briefly consider verbal marking as well as some semantic aspects of the
construction.
7.3.1 Overt agents and the passive subject
The first set of correlations to be discussed involving the expressibility of agents and
passive subjects is with respect to the actual presence of a subject in the passive
clause, i.e. with respect to criterion (9i). The presence of a subject distinguishes
between so-called personal passives, which have a subject, and impersonal ones,
Table 7.2 Frequency of the passive with an explicit agent in
spoken English
Text type Explicit agent Implicit agent
Conversation 8 6% 121 94%
Discussion 30 16% 158 84%
Oration 63 20% 248 80%
Interview 9 25% 27 75%
Commentary 26 35% 48 65%
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 161
which do not (other than potentially an expletive one). The previously cited ex-
amples of passives in (3b), (4b), (7), and (8) as well as the respective English
translations are all personal passives. An example of an impersonal passive with
no overt subject is given in (11) from the Nilotic language Nuer, and one with an
expletive subject in (12) from Swedish.
(11) Nuer (Crazzolara 1933: 147–8)
cOOal-ke gä e kwaa
call-pass I:acc by chief
‘I am called for by the chief.’
(12) Swedish (Engdahl 2006: 33)
Det sjöng-s i ladorna (
av ungdomarna)
it sang-pass in barns by young.people
‘There was singing (by young people) in the barns.’
It is often stated that personal passives more readily accommodate overt agents than
impersonal ones (see e.g. Givón 1981: 169; Siewierska 1984: 100). And this indeed
appears to be so. In languages which have both personal and impersonal passives, if
the two differ in relation to the overt expressibility of the agent, it is always the
impersonal construction which is the agentless one, and the personal the agentive.
This is the case, for example, in the Scandinavian languages Danish (Laanemets
2009), Icelandic (Maling and Sigurjónsdóttir 2002), and Swedish (Engdahl 2006),
(note the ungrammaticality of an overt agent in (12)), in most of the Romance
languages, for example, French (Legendre 1990), Portuguese (Martins 2005), Roma-
nian (Manoliu-Manea 1988), and Spanish (Tolchinsky and Rosado 2005), and also in
Buru (Grimes 1991), Evenki (Nedjalkov 1997), Haya (Hyman 1977), Kannada (Srid-
har 1990), Tariana (Aikhenvald 2000), and Turkish (Kornfilt 1997). The susceptibil-
ity of impersonal passives to agentlessness is also reflected by the fact that in the
languages which evince only impersonal passives to the exclusion of personal ones,
which in itself is rather uncommon, agentless passives are clearly dominant. Of the
sixteen languages in our sample which have only impersonal passives—Coptic
(Stauder 2010), Creek (Martin 2000), Eyak (Rice 2000), Finnish (Sulkala and Karja-
lainen 1992), Itelmen (Georg and Volodin 1999), Konso (Mous 2007), Luo (Tucker
1993), Maa (Payne 2008), Mojave (Munro 1976), Nuer (Crazzolara 1933), Slave (Rice
1989), Seminola (Nathan 1977), Takelma (Sapir 1922), Tanacross (Holton 2000),
Tukang-Besi (Donohue 1999), and Ute (Givón 1979, 2001)—in just four, namely
Coptic, Itelmen, Nuer, and Tanacross, are the passives agentive. In the case of
personal passives, on the other hand, agentlessness is essentially a feature of passives
which are lexically restricted and not very productive. Among the languages of
Europe that have a productive dynamic passive only the Latvian tikt ‘become/get’
passive is agentless and even it does occasionally occur with an agent in the genitive
or dative or with the preposition no ‘of/from’ (Nau 1998: 38).
162 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
Another indication of the greater propensity of personal passives than impersonal
ones for agentivity is that in languages in which both personal and impersonal
passives are agentive constructions, explicit agents are seen to be considerably more
common in personal passives than in impersonal passives. This is claimed to be the
case, for example, in German (Zifonun et al. 1997: 1805), Norwegian (Faarlund et al.
1997: 840), Polish7
(Słoń 2003: 192), and Udihe (Nikolaeva and Tolskaya 2001: 572–7).
The restrictions displayed in regard to the type of passive agents that may be overtly
expressed in impersonal as opposed to personal passives will be discussed in section
7.5.
The second property of passive subjects which needs to be correlated with the
possibility of overt agent expression involves semantic role. As is well known (e.g.
Siewierska 1984: 28–92; Dik 1989: 223–8; Givón 1995: 46) the ease of passivization of
arguments decreases as we progress from left to right along the semantic role
hierarchy in (13).
(13) patient > recipient/benefactive > locative > instrumental/associative >
manner > temporal
Thus whereas all languages that have personal passives allow patients as passive
subjects, considerably fewer permit the subjectivization of recipients, even fewer still
that of locatives, etc. There is thus every reason for assuming that passives with
patient subjects should be considered as more canonical than those with other types
of subjects, as reflected in criterion (9ii). However, is it the case that in those
languages which do allow for a wider variety of passive subjects than just patients,
are passives with patient subjects more likely to feature overt agents than passives
with subjects bearing other semantic roles? It is not impossible to imagine that
atypical subjectivization, presumably requiring strong semantic or pragmatic mo-
tivation, may considerably detract from the importance of the agent and thus
decrease the likelihood of it being expressed.
To the best of our knowledge the occurrence of agents in passives with subjects
bearing different semantic roles is an issue which has never been discussed. We
cannot therefore refer to any relevant literature which could throw some light on the
matter. Nor do we have any detailed data of our own to offer. However, our tentative
investigation of the distribution of overt agents in passives with patient vs. recipient
subjects in English suggests that there may be interesting differences in the expres-
sibility of agents in passive with patient subjects as compared to non-patient
subjects. We looked at the presence of overt agents in passive clauses with give
7
In the case of Polish we are not contrasting the personal passive with the impersonal no/to
construction, which we take to be active, but rather with the much less frequently discussed periphrastic
impersonal passive built on ‘be’ and the passive participle, e.g Tu dzisiaj nie bylo sprzatane. Słoń (2003:
190–6) notes that the impersonal passive can occur with an overt agent be it only a non-specific one.
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 163
which may occur in the passive with a recipient subject, as in (14a) or a theme subject
as in (14b) or (14c). Note that in (14c) there is no overt recipient.
(14) a. She was given a decent welcome by the crowd at the Ann Mo Kio town
centre.
b. A great welcome was given to all the visitors by the Rotary Club.
c. For the first time a mathematical definition of overcrowding was given
by the National Government in their Act of 1935.
Using the search queries was/were þ-p. participle, have/has been þ p. participle and
will be þ p. participle we extracted from the web version of the British National
Corpus (BNC) 500 instances of likely passives with give, 491 of which proved to be of
the relevant type. Among the 346 passive clauses with recipient subjects, only 29, i.e.
8.3 per cent had overt agents. For the 145 clauses with patient subjects the corre-
sponding number of clauses with overt agents was the same, i.e. 29, but this
constitutes 20 per cent of all of the relevant passive clauses. Thus the construction
with the more canonical patient subject has twice as many overt agents as the one
with the less canonical recipient subject. Whether the same results would emerge
from the consideration of more extensive data and apply to other languages we do
not know. For the time being the point whether or not the semantic role of the
passive subject has a bearing on the expressibility of the passive agent must remain
unresolved. (But see section 7.6.2 in which another feature of passive agents found in
passives with non-patient subjects is mentioned.)
The third property of passive subjects which needs to be considered in relation to
the expressibility of passive agents is whether or not the subject can be construed as
somehow responsible for the state of affairs represented in the clause. This is one of
the properties not directly mentioned in the passive prototypes in (1) or (2) but
which may be seen to follow from the semantic transitivity requirements and the
characteristics of a typical agent and patient. Typical patients bear the consequences
of actions imposed on them by volitional agents and thus are not responsible for
what befalls them. A patient which is seen as having somehow induced the situation
that they are affected by is therefore an atypical one. Such patients do not normally
feature as subjects of passives. There are, however, passive constructions which do
favour them. In English this is the interpretation associated with a subtype of the get-
passive, as in (15a) as opposed to the be-passive, as in (15b).
(15) a. She got fired.
b. She was fired.
The fact that the passive subject in (15a) has some degree of responsibility for the
situation expressed in the clause is suggested by the interpretation of adverbs
expressing volitionality such as deliberately, willingly, on purpose, etc. in this type
164 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
of passive. We see in (16a) that the adverb relates to the subject, while in the be-
passive (16b) it can only be interpreted as relating to the implied agent.
(16) a. She got fired deliberately.
b. She was fired deliberately.
Significantly, as noted by Leech and Svartvik (1994: 330), Vanrespaille (1991: 99),
Rühlemann (2007: 117), and Toyota (2007: 153–4) among others, the presence of
overt agents in get-passives is very rare. For instance in Toyota’s data drawn from
the Lancaster-Oslo/Bergen corpus (LOB) and London Lund corpus (LL) only 1.4 per
cent of the 309 get-passives featured an overt agent. Unfortunately, Toyota does not
supply the corresponding figure for agentive be-passives in the two corpora. Recall,
however, the data for explicit be-passives in spoken English from Granger (1983)
presented earlier in Table 7.2. Even the lowest figure for explicit be-passives that she
gives i.e. in conversation is 6 per cent, and thus four times higher than that of explicit
get-passives in Toyota’s data.8
The reduced possibility of agent expression in passives in which the patient
subject maintains some control over the action depicted in the passive clause is
not a phenomenon exclusive to the English get-passive. It may also be observed in
the Estonian saama-passive (Torn 2002: 81), the Irish faigh-passive (Nolan 2006: 154-
159), Indonesian kena-passive and Buru, a Central Moluccan language, dapa-passive,
for example. In the case of the Buru construction, illustrated in (17a), an agent
cannot be expressed at all although overt agents do occur, be it rarely, in the
synthetic passive with the prefix ek- ‘cause to be’, as shown in (17b).
(17) Buru (Grimes 1991: 365, 358)
a. Sira dapa-k9
eflali
they get-acp beat
‘They got beaten up.’ (as a result of something they did or said)
b. Subu di ek-fuka-k ringe
door dist pass-open-acp 3sg
‘The door was opened by him.’
Unlike the three features of passive subjects just discussed, humanness, while often
remarked upon in relation to passive subjects, has never been posited as a canonical
feature of the passive, even under the traditional understanding of the term. And
interestingly enough, this feature does not pattern consistently across languages or
within languages in regard to agent expressibility. For example, the previously
8
The only other statistical comparison of explicit be-and get-passives that we know of is that of Xiao
et al. (2006) based on the BNC sample. The figures they cite are 5.1 per cent for be-passives and 2.6 per cent
for get-passives. However, the number of get-passives in their sample was very small, only 34 as compared
to 256 be-passives.
9
Grimes (1991: 357) states that the –k marks the verb (redundantly) as an accomplishment.
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 165
mentioned English get-passive strongly favours human subjects. In Toyota’s (2007:
153) corpus, 85 per cent of the get-passives have human subjects. Yet, as we have seen,
the construction is much more often agentless than the be-passive which occurs
equally happily with human and non-human subjects. By contrast, in the Colombian
language Cubeo, absence of an overt agent is a characteristic of passives with
inanimate rather than animate subjects; the former are necessarily agentless as
shown in (18a) while those with animate subjects may take an overt agent in the
instrumental, as shown in (18b). The passive is formed with a nominalized form of
‘be’ which agrees with the subject in animacy and number.
(18) Cubeo (Morse and Maxwell 1999: 55, 56)
a. Aipe te-I-Rõ ‘bA-RI-ka dõ
how do-stv-in.sg:nmlz be-intrr-dub that
‘How in the world can that be done?’
b. ( . . . .) xarawi-RE boa-I-b-bE 
day-obj kill-stv-pass:m.sg:nmlz-be:3sg 3msg
jawibı
~
-ke
dog-ins
‘During the day he is killed by a dog.’
7.3.2 Overt agents and the passive verb
Given our speculations in section 7.2 on the potential canonical status of synthetic as
opposed to periphrastic verbal marking in passive clauses, it behoves us to consider
whether there is any connection between this distinction and the expressibility of
passive agents. As mentioned earlier, synthetic verbal marking of passives is consider-
ably more common and more widely distributed than periphrastic. Among the lan-
guages in our sample the proportion of synthetic to periphrastic passive constructions is
194 vs. 59, or about 3:1. As for distribution, the only area where the number of
periphrastic passives approximates that of the synthetic is Eurasia with 36 periphrastic
as compared to 43 synthetic passives. Recall from Figure 7.1 that Eurasia is also the area
which has the highest incidence of agentive as opposed to agentless passives. This
suggests that periphrastic passives may well emerge as being more agentive than the
synthetic. And this is indeed so. Of the periphrastic passives in the sample, 80 per cent
are agentive as compared to 61 per cent of the synthetic passives. However, the higher
incidence of agentive as opposed to agentless constructions among the periphrastic as
compared to the synthetic passives is a function mainly of the situation in South
America, as in all the other areas there is no or little difference or there are hardly any
(NAmerica) or no (Aus&NG) periphrastic passives. This is shown in Figure 7.2.
The somewhat higher incidence of agentive as compared to agentless passives
among periphrastic passives than synthetic ones does not really speak in favour of
166 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
there being a convergence between type of passive verbal marking and the expres-
sibility of the agent. Nor is there a consistent association between type of verbal
marking and the expressibility of the agent in languages which have both synthetic
and periphrastic passives. For example, recall that in Buru, the synthetic passive may
occur with an overt agent, as illustrated earlier in (17b) while the periphrastic dapa-
passive cannot (17a). The same applies to Udihe (Nikolaeva and Tolskaya 2001: 574–6),
though the periphrastic passive in this language is also an impersonal construction.
And in the previously mentioned Cubeo while both of the passives illustrated in (18)
are built on the copula, in the necessarily agentless passive (18a) the copula is a
separate word, and in the agentive construction it is encliticized to the lexical verb
(18b). The more analytical construction is thus the agentless one. By contrast in
Punjabi it is the periphrastic come/go-passive shown in (19a) rather than the synthetic
passive in (19b), that can occur with an overt agent.
(19) Punjabi (Khokhlova 2003: 152)
a. Ih jagiir mahAAraajaa rAjiit singh valO šaam singh
this jagir maharaja Ranjit Singh by Sham Singh
nUU ditii gaii sii
from give:pst.ptcp:f.sg go:pst.ptcp:f.sg be:pst:sg
‘This jagir was given to Maharaja Ranjit Singh by Sham Singh.’
b. Ih sthaaii jihii bhaavnaa h¼ai bhaave
this constant like feeling be:pres:3sg let
is¼nUU azlii jAA rabbi kah¼ii¼d¼aa
it¼acc divine or mortal call:pass:prs:ptcp:m.sg
hai
be:prs:3sg
‘This is a constant feeling, let it be called mortal or divine.’
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
A
f
r
i
c
a
E
u
r
a
s
i
a
S
E
A
&
O
c
A
u
s
&
N
G
N
A
m
e
r
S
A
m
e
r
periphrastic
synthetic
Fig. 7.2 The distribution of agentive periphrastic vs. agentive synthetic passives proportion-
ally to all passives
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 167
There is virtually no data available on the frequency of agent expression in synthetic
vs. periphrastic passives in languages in which both are agentive. In Danish, Nor-
wegian, and Swedish, the agent in the periphrastic bli-passive and synthetic s-passive
occurs with about the same frequency. For Swedish Engdahl (2006: 32) gives the
figures of 13 per cent in the s-passive and 11 per cent in the bli-passive. In Russian too
the distribution of the agent in the sja-passive and periphrastic byt’-passive are more
or less equal (Murphy 2005). In the Romance languages, on the other hand, the se/si-
passive, which may be considered to be synthetic, occurs much more frequently
without an agent than the periphrastic passive. In the case of Italian, this has been
documented by Sansò (2006) not only for the modern language but also for its
earlier stages. However, in Italian, as also in Russian and various other languages
(though no longer in Scandinavian languages), synthetic vs. periphrastic marking of
the passive verb coincides with aspectual and tense distinctions which also exhibit
different predilections with respect to overt agents. Therefore the relationship
between the type of verbal marking used and agent expressibility cannot be viewed
in isolation from the tense/aspect distinctions.
It is often remarked upon that passives in the imperfective and present tenses tend
to be more generic, whereas those in the perfective and/or past are more event and
participant oriented. The former often develop various modal meanings, possibility,
prohibition, capability, habituality, necessity, and are rarely agentive. The latter, by
virtue of their participant orientation, are much more likely to occur with an overt
agent.10
In languages where this distinction coincides with synthetic vs. periphrastic
marking of the passive, whichever passive is associated with the imperfective aspec-
tuality is likely to emerge as less agentive than the construction used in the perfective
aspectuality. Thus in Italian and Spanish it is the more synthetic se/si-passive that
tends to lack overt agents while in Cubeo it is the periphrastic construction. It is of
interest to note in this context that in Rajasthani, unlike in Punjabi, the old Indo-
Aryan synthetic passive originally confined to the non-past and imperfective is
nowadays also used in the perfective. And significantly, this construction does
allow for the overt expression of the agent, unlike in Punjabi.
In all, none of the data relating to the expressibility of agents in synthetic vs.
periphrastic passives is suggestive of there being any relationship between the two. By
the same token there is little reason for considering the type of verbal marking used in
the passive as belonging to the canonical characterization of this construction.
7.4 Optionality vs. obligatoriness of agent expression
Passive constructions are not the only constructions which allow for the defocusing
of a lexically expressed agent. This may also be achieved via an inverse construction
such as (20b) from Plains Cree.
10
The association between the passive and the perfect in Indo-European but also other languages, such
as Older Egyptian and Aleut-Eskimo, is well known. See, for example, Beedham (1982).
168 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
(20) Plains Cree (Wolfart 1973: 25)
a. sekih-ew napew antim-wa
scare-3 man:prox dog-obv
‘The man scares the dog.’
b. sekih-ikw-w 
(napew-a) antim
scare-inv-3 man-obv dog:prox
‘The man scares the dog.’
Morphosyntactically inverse constructions differ from passives in being bivalent and
transitive, just like their active counterparts. While, as in the passive, the agent is
demoted from its typical subject status, indicated in (20b) by the obviative marking,
unlike in the passive, it continues to function as a syntactic argument. The agent thus
cannot be omitted as indicated by the ungrammaticality of such omission in (20b)
and displays encoding characteristics of core arguments rather than adjuncts. (That
the obviative marking of the agent in (20b) is not adjunct marking follows from the
fact that the patient in the active also displays obviative marking.) The verb in the
inverse may take special marking such as the suffix –ikw in Plains Cree. However,
unlike in the case of the passive verb, it quite often occurs unmarked.11
(See (22b),
(23), and (23c)).
Given the formal and functional similarities between the passive and inverse, it
should come as no surprise that the properties of the two may blur as passives
develop into inverse constructions or inverse constructions into passives. Often the
only way of distinguishing between the two is in terms of the omissibility of the
agent. Therefore while the first of the criteria relating to the passive agent associates
canonicity with agent expression (10i), the second requires such expression to be
non-obligatory (10ii). The correctness of (10ii) rests on whether the passive con-
structions that do not permit the omission of the agent can be shown to be also less
canonical in other respects. Highly promising in this regard is verbal marking.
7.4.1 Obligatory agents and verbal marking
While there may be doubts as to what type of passive verbal marking should be
posited as canonical, if any, that a canonical passive should have passive verbal
marking is indisputable. By the same token, absence of passive verbal marking may
be expected to go hand in hand with some other non-canonical feature, in particular
the obligatory presence of the agent.
11
For instance, among the languages with an inverse in the small sample of Fadden (2000: 66) there
were five with special verbal morphology, namely Papudungun, Sahaptin, Kutenai, Tzotzil, and Chepang,
and four in which the inverse is indicated solely by the form of the agreement marking on the verb namely
Navajo, Carib, Chukchi, and interestingly Cree. (Fadden analyses the ikw in (20b) as a person form rather
than as a verbal marker.)
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 169
Why an agent may be required when the verb in a passive clause bears no special
morphological marking, synthetic or periphrastic, is not difficult to imagine. In a
language with no verbal agreement or one in which the agreement marking does not
necessarily discriminate between third person participants, a clause with just a NP
and a verb, as in (21a), is likely to be open to an active reading (or potentially two
active readings, one with the NP as the subject and one with it as the object) and to a
passive interpretation.
(21) a. NP V-(agr)
b. NP Ag adp V-(agr)
c. NP V-(agr) Ag adp
An overt obliquely marked agent, as in (21b) or (21c) dissolves any ambiguity. Since a
single predicate cannot take two separate agents, the other clausal participant must
bear some other semantic role and thus the clause must be passive rather than active.
In the light of the brief discussion of inverse constructions presented above, it
should come as no surprise that most passives with obligatory agents have also been
analysed as inverse. Arguably the most celebrated case is that of the pronominal
agent construction in Bahasa Indonesia (see e.g. Chung 1976, 1978; Verhaar 1978;
Vamarasi 1999; Arka 2002; and especially Himmelmann 2002) illustrated in (22b) in
which in contrast to the regular passive in (22c) the agent is necessarily pronominal
and must be located in immediate preverbal position.
(22) Bahasa Indonesian (Vamarasi 1999: 52)
a. Dia/Engkau mem-buka pintu itu
he/you tr-opened door the
‘He/You opened the door.’
b. Pintu itu engkau Ø-buka
door the you inv-open
‘The door was opened by you.’
c. Pintu itu di-buka oleh-nya
door the pass-open by-him
‘The door was opened by him.’
The construction in (22b) is both an atypical passive and an atypical inverse. First of
all, both passives and inverse constructions normally exhibit overt verbal marking
while the verb in (22b) is zero marked. Second, neither passives nor inverses are
normally restricted to pronominal agents. Third, the agents of passives are not
obligatory. And finally the subjects of passive constructions are normally confined
to patients, as are also often those of inverse constructions while the pronominal
agent construction may occur with a range of subjects, for instance, a locative as in
(23a), a goal as in (23b), and an instrument as in (23c).
170 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
(23) Bahasa Indonesian (Arka 2002: 3)
a. Kursi itu dia Ø-duduk-i
chair the 3sg inv-sit-appl
‘The chair, (s)he sat on it.’
b. Rumah itu mereka Ø-lempar-i dengan batu
house the 3pl inv- throw-appl with stone
‘The house, they threw stones to it.’
c. Batu itu mereka Ø-lempar-kan ke rumah itu
stone the 3pl inv- throw-appl to house the
‘The stones, they threw them to the house.’
Constructions with obligatory agents similar to the one in Bahasa Indonesia are also
found in other Austronesian languages of Nusantara (encompassing Indonesia, East
Timor, and the non-Indonesian part of Borneo) some of which are more conducive
to an inverse analysis, others to a passive one. Significantly all the relevant construc-
tions either lack verbal marking, as in Indonesian or display verbal marking which is
not distinctive from the active. A language which evinces both types is Maanyan, a
Dayak language of Borneo. Maanyan, like Indonesian, has a prefixal passive marked
by na- illustrated in (24b) and a passive/inverse with zero-marking shown in (24c).
(24) Maanyan (Gudai 1985: 214)
a. Ambah m12
-idi sapidaq
father tr-bought bicycle
‘Father bought a bicycle.’
b. Sapidaq yeruq na-widi (daya ambah)
bicycle the pass-buy ag father
‘The bicycle was bought by father.’
c. Punsi yeruq Ø-alap wawey yeruq
banana the pass-take girl the
‘The bananas were taken away by the girl.’
d. 
Punsi yeruq Ø-alap
banana the pass-take
‘The bananas were taken away.’
As (24d) documents, the agent in the zero-marked construction cannot be omitted,
unlike in the na-passive (24b).13
This parallels the situation in Indonesian. In
contrast to this language though, the agent in the zero marked construction is not
12
The normal marker of transitive action verbs in Maanyan is ng-. The verb ‘to buy’ is somewhat
exceptional.
13
Interestingly in the related language Mualang, according to Tija (2007: 156/158) the agent can be
omitted in the zero-marked inverse if it is generic.
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 171
necessarily pronominal. This makes the construction both a more convincing
inverse and a more convincing passive than its Indonesian counterpart. Interest-
ingly, there is yet another construction in Maanyan, referred to by Gudai (1985: 225)
as the accidental passive, which also disallows agent omission. In this construction,
illustrated in (25b), the agent takes the same marking as the agent in the na-passive,
namely the agent marker daya.
(25) Maanyan (Gudai 1985: 226)
a. Ijat ta-qalap sapidaq¼ku
Ijat pass-take bicycle¼1sg.poss
‘Ijat has taken my bicycle by mistake.’
b. Sapidaq¼ku ta-qalap daya Ilja
bicycle¼1sg.poss pass-take ag Ijat
‘My bicycle has been taken by Ijat by mistake.’
What is quite curious about the opposition in (25) is that the prefix ta- appears both
on the active and the would-be passive verb and is therefore not a passive marker.
Gudai glosses it as an accidental marker.14
Thus if (25b) is a passive construction it is
one lacking passive verbal marking.
An even clearer instance of the impossibility of omitting a passive agent in the
absence of passive verbal marking comes from Manggarai, another language of
Nusantara spoken on the island of Flores. Unlike Maanyan or Indonesian, Man-
ggarai is an isolating language and has no morphologically marked active, passive, or
inverse. Arka and Kosmas (2002) argue that it does, however, have a structural
passive shown in (26b) in which the patient is placed in preverbal subject position
and governs agreement marking while the agent occupies postverbal location and is
marked by the preposition l(e).15
(26) Manggarai (Arka and Kosmas 2002: 9)
a. Aku cero latung¼k
I fry corn¼1sg
‘I fry/am frying corn.’
b. Latung hitu cero l-aku¼i
corn that fry by-1sg¼3sg
‘The corn is being fried by me.’
14
The ta- prefix in Maanyan is reminiscent of the te- prefix in the related language Mualang (Tija 2007:
1–69) mentioned in note 13 which Tija analyses as an unvolitional resultative middle voice marker.
However the agent in the relevant Mualang construction is not obligatory. There are also other differences
between the two constructions in the respective languages which put into question whether the same
constructions are actually involved.
15
Arka and Kosmas (2002) are very well aware of Durie’s (1988) analysis of Acehnese, which displays a
similar construction to what they call a passive in Manggarai but is not considered to be a passive by Durie
due to the fact that Acehnese does not have the grammatical relation of subject. According to Arka and
Kosmas, unlike Acehnese, Manggarrai does have grammatical relations as they convincingly show.
172 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
That the le-marked agent is indeed not a syntactic argument of the verb is indicated
by the fact that it has a different distribution from that of an active agent (it can
occur between the patient and the verb, while an active agent cannot) and unlike a
subject, an agent in the active, or patient in the passive, it cannot be controlled in
purposive clauses, participial clauses, or relative clauses. Further the le-marked
agent, unlike its active counterpart or a patient subject of the passive, cannot bind
a reflexive (Arka and Kosmas 2002: 13).
A passive with no verbal morphology and an obligatory agent is also claimed to
exist by Gerner (2003: 52) in Liangshan Nuosu, a SOV Tibeto-Burman language
spoken in South West China. The agent in the passive clause is placed in between the
subjectivized patient and verb and is followed by the postposition kɯ21 giving a
OAkɯ21 V structure. The Liangshan Nuosu passive is very reminiscent of the
passive construction in Chinese and various other South East Asian languages in
many of which the agent is also obligatory. This is the case, for example, in virtually
all the varieties of Chinese with the exception of the Standard Mandarin bei-passive
(Chappell 2001: 350). In the relevant passive constructions, in the absence of a
specific agent a form corresponding to person or ‘someone’ is used, as we see in
(27b) from Cantonese.
(27) Cantonese (Man 2003: 54)
a. John bei2 baa4-baal nauu6
John pass father scold
‘John was scolded by his father.’
b. John bei2 
(jann4) nauu6
John pass someone scold
‘John was scolded 
(by someone).’
However, whereas the marker of the passive preceding the agent bei2 in Cantonese is
verbal in origin, Gerner argues that the Liangshan Nuosu postposition kɯ21 is neither
synchronically nor diachronically a verb. Thus the passive in Liangshan Nuosu, just
like the Manggarai passive, is one entirely lacking in special verbal marking.
7.4.2 Obligatory agents and semantic transitivity
We have argued that lack of verbal passive marking, an unequivocally non-canonical
property of passives, tends to go hand in hand with the obligatory expression of
passive agents. Nonetheless two caveats are in order.
The first concerns languages exhibiting the Philippine-type multi-way voice
system, often referred to as a focus system. In these languages the verb indicates
via a series of morphological markers the semantic role of the core participant that
constitutes the syntactic subject, or pivot. For example, in the Tagalog clauses in (28)
the verbal prefix mag- in (28a) indicates an agent pivot, the suffix –in in (28b) a
patient/goal pivot, and the suffix -an in (28c) a locative pivot.
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 173
(28) Tagalog (Schachter 1977)
a. Mag-salis ang babe ng bigas sa sako
actv-will:take pv woman art rice art sack
‘The woman will take rice out of a/the sack.’
b. aalis-in ng babe ang bigas sa sako
will:take-pat art woman pv rice art sack
‘A/The woman will take the rice out of a/the sack.’
c. aalis-an ng babe ng bigas ang sako
will:take-loc art woman art rice pv sack
‘A/The woman will take rice out of the sack.’
Participants which are pivots are marked in the clause by ang; non-pivot participants
take ng marking and non-core participants occur with a variety of prepositions. In
the non-agent pivot constructions, the agent, as in the inverse and unlike in a
canonical passive, cannot (or can only extremely rarely) be omitted. Therefore, the
non-agent pivot constructions if viewed as passive, constitute a potential counter-
example to our findings as to the connection between the absence of verbal marking
and the non-omissibility of the agent. There has been a long-standing controversy
on whether the Philippine system of clausal oppositions should be treated as a voice
system and if so of what type: active vs. passive, ergative vs. antipassive, active vs.
inverse, active vs. inverse vs. antipassive vs. passive, or none of the above (see e.g.
Schachter 1977; Foley and Van Valin 1984; Himmelmann 2002). The issue is a
complex one and cannot be done justice to here. Suffice it to say that nowadays
few scholars would consider the Tagalog non-actor pivot constructions in (28b,c) to
be passives. Not only do the agents in the non-actor pivot constructions display
properties of core arguments, as in the inverse, but the constructions themselves do
not exhibit the textual distribution and discourse uses of passives. For example, the
would-be passive clauses tend to be more frequent in texts than the active. By way of
illustration, according to Woollams (1996: 212) the ratio of active to passive transitive
clauses in Karo Batak narrative texts is 1 : 3 (29 per cent vs. 71 per cent). Further the
would-be passives are highly semantically transitive in the sense of Hopper and
Thompson (1980). Thus in all, despite the fact that the Philippine non-agent pivot
constructions couple overt verbal marking with non-omissible agents, they do not
invalidate the correlation between the lack of distinctive verbal marking in the
passive and non-agent omissibility since they represent a type of voice organization
distinct from the active vs. passive.16
16
It is important to note that under the four-way analysis of the Philippine voice system, i.e. active vs.
inverse vs. antipassive vs. passive, advocated most strongly in Givón (1994b) and his followers, in many
languages the construction that is termed passive does not have an obligatory agent. In fact an overt agent
is quite rare. For example, for the relevant construction in Karo, Brainard (1994: 394) gives the figure 8 per
cent; for Chamorro, Cooreman (1987) cites the figure of 10 per cent, etc.
174 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
The second caveat relates to obligatory agents in unquestionable passive con-
structions which display clear verbal marking. As reflected in criterion (10iii)
extrapolated from Shibatani’s passive prototype in (1), passives typically involve
semantically highly transitive verbs with a volitional agent and a patient affected
by the action expressed in the clause. In many languages only such passives are
found. For example, passives of experiential verbs such as ‘see’, ‘please,’ and ‘love’
are impossible in Russian (Murphy 2005), Icelandic (Svenonius (to appear)), and
Central Kurdish (Fattah 1997). English, by contrast, is very liberal in allowing
passivization of a range of lower semantically transitive states of affairs. However,
when there is no real action involved, and the participants are neither in control or
affected by the situation depicted in the clause, passivization may be possible only
when the actant corresponding to what would be the subject of the active is overtly
expressed. This is the case, for example, in (29).
(29) a. The coffee was followed/preceded 
(by a culinary surprise).
b. I was possessed 
(by an irresistible urge to slap his face).
c. On her death she was succeeded 
(by the Duke of York).
The same situation may be observed in Swedish in passives involving verbs denoting
properties, temporal, spatial, or causal relations as well as possession, as shown in (30).
(30) Swedish (Engdahl 2006: 33)
Marken agde-s fortfarande 
(av Danviks hospital)
ground owned-pass still by Danvik hospital
‘The ground was still owned by the Danvik hospital.’
The obligatoriness of the agent in passives such as those in (29) and (30) is
attributable to the fact that without one it is not entirely clear what is being
predicated of the subjects. Since the agent is required for purely semantic reasons,
these cases cannot be viewed as counter-evidence to the discussed relationship
between the lack of verbal marking and the obligatoriness of the agent.
They can, however, be regarded as supporting criterion (10iii) which defines
passives with true semantic agents as being more canonical than those featuring
agents which are semantically experiencers, cognizers, causes, etc. As argued above,
low semantic transitivity typically precludes the use of the passive rather than
affecting the expressibility of the passive agent. Nonetheless, it is significant that
when it does have an effect on the agent, it is to make it obligatory and thus render
the passive even less canonical.
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 175
7.5 More canonical vs. less canonical agents
Having presented the evidence for viewing passives which can optionally express an
overt agent as more canonical than those which have no possibility of agent
expression or which require agents to be obligatorily expressed, it is now time to
consider whether some types of overt agents can be seen as being more canonical
than others. We will address the issue first in relation to the semantics of passive
agents and then in section 7.6 with respect to their formal realization.
The first criterion relating to the semantics of passive agents is the one just
mentioned (10iii) which defines passive agents which are true semantic agents, i.e.
individuals performing actions as more canonical than those bearing other actor
roles. There does not appear to be any data currently available pertaining to the
possibility of agent expression with action as opposed to other types of verbs. We
have not come across any languages in which a relatively wide range of transitive
verbs can be passivized that allow only agents bearing one type of semantic role to be
expressed but not other types of agents.17
Nor are we aware of any investigations in
such languages suggestive of a greater likelihood of agent expression in passives
formed from action verbs as opposed to experiencer or other type of verbs. The
justification for (10iii) thus rests primarily on the absence in many languages of
passive equivalents of active clauses low in transitivity such as those illustrated
earlier in (29) and (30).
Intimately related to agentivity is humanness. Many passive constructions allow
only for human agents. This is the case, for example, in the Romance and Slavic
reflexive passives,18
the Icelandic periphrastic passive (Maling and Sigurjónsdóttir
2002), the Central Kurdish passive (Fattah 1997), the 3pl-based passives in the Bantu
languages, Kimbundu, Luvale, and Luba (Fleisch 2005), and the Nevome ha-passive
(Shaul 1982). Should humanness therefore be considered as canonical of passive
agents as reflected in the criterion in (10iv)? We think not. Although agents are
typically human and under some analyses necessarily so, the converse does not hold.
Therefore our taking of semantic agentivity as being canonical of passive agents
(10iii) does not automatically entail treating humanness in the same way. More
importantly, however, humanness is a defining property of a range of active imper-
sonal constructions, both with overt pronominalized subjects (e.g. man-construc-
tions or impersonal we/you/they-clauses) and with covert ones (e.g. Polish no/to-
constructions, Estonian -(C)akse/-Ci clauses). These active impersonals do not tend
17
According to Zifonun et al. (1997: 1805) German impersonal passives formed from unaccusative
verbs, which are occasionally permitted, cannot occur with an overt agent while those formed with
unergative verbs may do so.
18
We are referring here to the Romance and Slavic personal reflexive passive which is attested in only
some of the relevant languages and not the impersonal active constructions.
176 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
to evince agentivity restrictions, only ‘humanness’ ones. Provided that the implied
agent is human it can bear all types of roles, even the one of undergoer as shown in
the Polish no/to impersonal in (31) where the implied agent is semantically a patient.
(31) Polish
Spadano z tych schodow nie raz
fall:n.ptcp from these stairs not once
‘People have fallen from these stairs quite a few times.’
The active impersonals can even be formed from copular sentences, as exemplified
in (32) on the basis of Irish.
(32) Irish (Noonan 1994: 288)
Táthar cairdiúil aneso
is:imps friendly here
‘People are friendly here.’
Given the above, what often distinguishes the passive from the active impersonal is
precisely the possibility of assigning a non-human interpretation to the implied
agent of the passive. This was illustrated in section 7.1 in (4) on the basis of Polish.
Moreover, passives which require their agents to be human tend to display features
which we have argued to be non-canonical. One of these is lack of an overt subject.
As mentioned in section 7.3.1, impersonal passives are more likely than personal
passives to be agentless. However, in the vast majority of the cases, the agent of
impersonal passives, implicit or explicit, is necessarily human. The only languages
which we have come across that allow agents other than human ones in impersonal
passives are Welsh, Lithuanian, Coptic, and Older Egyptian. Interestingly enough
the only examples of non-human agents that we have encountered in these four
languages are of animate agents as in (33) and furthermore involve impersonal
passives of transitive verbs. The passive marker in the Coptic example is ¼u glossed
as 3pl.
(33) Coptic (Reintges 2008: 4)
kan eStS
@nt-a¼u:-tarp@¼s hi-t@n-ne-therion
or if rel-pfv¼3pl-carry.away-3fsg by-hand-def.pl-animal
‘or whether she had been carried away by wild animals ( . . . )’
Impersonal passives of intransitive verbs, which are even less canonical than those
based on transitive verbs, occur exclusively with human agents. By way of compari-
son the agents of personal passives are often inanimate. For example, in the
newspaper corpus used by Engdahl (2006: 32) to investigate the use of the Swedish
passive half of the overt passive agents were inanimate. And according to Cornelis
(1995: 132), two-thirds of the overt agents found in written Dutch are inanimate.
Necessary human agency thus correlates with passives manifesting two less canonical
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 177
properties: absence of a grammatical subject and low semantic transitivity. Within the
context of the canonical approach to typology, this constitutes a strong argument for not
characterizing canonical passive agents with respect to humanness.19
Does the same hold for specificity? Specificity or even definiteness is the purview
of agents of active transitive clauses. We would therefore not expect there to be
passive constructions, other than those which are better analysed as inverse, which
require their agents to be specific. And indeed there do not appear to be any. Non-
specific, generic (human) agents, on the other hand are characteristic of the previ-
ously mentioned active impersonal constructions (see e.g. Blevins 2003). Admittedly
the agents of personal passives are often non-specific too. For instance, in Duškova’s
(1971: 122) study of the English passive 31 per cent of the unexpressed agents were
non-specific. But those of impersonal passives are virtually always so. Again, agents
of impersonal passives based on transitive verbs are more likely to diverge from this
trend, as suggested by the definite agent in (11) from Nuer, than those based on
intransitive verbs. Nonetheless examples of specific and even definite agents in
impersonal passives based on intransitive verbs are also occasionally found in the
literature. A case in point is presented in (34) from Dutch.
(34) Dutch (Kirsner 1976: 387)
Er wordt door de jongens gefloten
there become by the boys whistle. pst.ptcp
‘There is whistling by the boys.’
All of the above make it rather difficult to arrive at a decision with respect to whether
there should be a criterion involving the specificity of passive agents as in (10v) or
whether no mention should be made of specificity, as in the case of humanness. We
are inclined to favour (10v), since it better captures the differences between the
passive and the impersonal on the one hand and the active on the other (see Table
7.3, further below), with the proviso that canonical agents of active transitive clauses
are definite rather than just specific. However, we are very much aware that the
alternative might be preferred as it reflects the versatility of the semantic and
referential properties of passive agents that sets the construction apart from other
agent defocusing ones.
Turning to criterion (10vi), there are referents which are inherently salient and as
such extremely resistant to defocusing from subject status. These are the speech act
participants and, to a lesser extent, highly accessible (in the sense of Ariel 1990) third
parties—in other words referents typically rendered by person forms. Personal
19
Interestingly enough Maling and Sigurjónsdóttir (2002), and also Maling (2004) attribute the
development of an impersonal periphrastic passive from a personal one in current Icelandic to the fact
that the latter is restricted to a human agent, a restriction which they consider to be unnatural for a
personal as opposed to impersonal passive.
178 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
pronouns are even more strongly tied to transitive agents than are specific or human
NPs, as famously captured by Du Bois (1987) in his one lexical argument per clause
constraint, which identifies the A as the locus of pronominal arguments. For
example in the data considered by Kärkkäinen (1996) from American English
conversation, 93 per cent of transitive subjects are pronominal, as compared to 81
per cent of the intransitive subjects and just 38 per cent of the objects.20
As passive
agents, on the other hand, personal pronouns are notorious for their absence.
Needless to say they are not found in impersonal passives. Even the very liberal
Coptic does not permit personal pronouns as passive agents (Reintges 2008). In
personal passives the first and second person are particularly disfavoured. For
example, no first or second person agents are permitted in: the Indonesian di-passive
(Vamarasi 1999) or the Maanyan na-passive (Gudai 1985) discussed in section 7.4,
the Tzotzil passive (Aissen 1987), the Quiché
Ð
-passive (Campbell 2000), the Kak-
chiquel ki-passive (Broadwell and Duncan 2002), the Metzontla Popoloc š-passive
(Veerman-Leichsenring 2006), the Huehuetla Tepehua Vn-passive (Smythe Kung
2007), the Halkomelem passive (Galloway 1993), the Ostyak (Nikolaeva 1999) pas-
sive, and the Russian, Czech, and Slovak reflexive passives (Siewierska 1988). In
languages which do allow personal pronouns as passive agents such as English,
Irish (Noonan 1994), Polish (Górski 2008), Ndonga (Fivaz 1986), or Tariana
(Aikhenvald 2000), actual examples as opposed to made-up ones or elicited ones
are often hard to find. Some cases in point from the British National Corpus (BNC)
are presented in (35).
(35) a. They were terribly puzzled by me. BNC (A6V, 602)
b. Please find enclosed the formal application and indemnity forms—both of
which are signed by me. BNC (AP1 295)
c. In the Grants’ case, ‘contract sessions’ were organized in their own home
and were chaired by me. BNC (B10 1857)
By contrast to the prohibitions against pronominal agents, there are no comparable
prohibitions against lexical ones, unless the previously discussed inverse construc-
tion in Indonesian illustrated in (22b) and (23) is interpreted as passive. Recall that
the agent of this construction must be a personal pronoun. But even then the passive
in question would be viewed as quite exceptional by virtue of the necessary pro-
nominal agents and the lack of overt verbal marking. In view of the above, lexical
passive agents emerge as being clearly more canonical than pronominal ones.
Therefore, we suggest that criterion (10vi), like (10v) and unlike (10iv), should be
seen as valid.
20
For a table documenting the propensity of transitive subjects for being pronominal with data relating
to six languages, see Siewierska (2004: 41).
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 179
By way of summary the basis for our decisions regarding the canonical status of
humanness, specificity, and pronominality with respect to passive agents discussed
above are summarized in Table 7.3. A þ indicates that the positive value for that
feature is the norm, a minus that the negative value is the norm, þ/ that both
values are possible, and (þ) or () that the given value is marginally possible.
7.6 The formal realization of passive agents
There is every reason to consider oblique marking of passive agents to be more
canonical than non-oblique marking as captured in criterion (10vii).21
As the many
examples of passive clauses cited above document, passive agents typically occupy
clausal locations associated with oblique arguments. They also display morpho-
logical marking, both dependent and head, characteristic of obliques. Like other
obliques they are typically not head marked but do evince dependent marking. In
languages in which core constituents bear no overt dependent marking, passive
agents typically occur with adpositional marking as in English, Shona (8), Swedish
(30), and Dutch (34). In those languages in which core constituents are marked by
case affix or adposition, the marking used for passive agents is clearly distinct from
that of core marking. Thus, for example, in Polish (4), the passive agent is marked by
the preposition przez ‘through’ while core arguments in the languages occur in the
nominative, accusative, dative, and sometimes also instrumental cases. Passive
agents may also be marked by phrasal expressions such as ‘by the hand of’, as in
Coptic (33) or ‘on the part of’ as in the Slovene impersonal reflexive passive
illustrated in (36).
(36) Slovene (Grahek 2006: 310)
Naročniku se je s strani Telekoma preprosto
customer:dat refl aux on part telekom:gen simply
odklopilo telefon
disconnect:pst.ptcp.n:sg phone:acc
‘Telekom simply disconnected the telephone for the customer.’
Table 7.3 Humanness, specificity, and person pronoun realization of agents in five
constructions
Agent Active Tr Active Imps Imps Pass Intr V Imps Pass Tr V Pers Pass Criterion
Human þ/ þ þ þ/() þ/ unspecified
Specific þ   /(þ) /þ þspecific
Pers Pro þ/    /(þ)  Pers Pro
21
For an excellent discussion of the various marking possibilities of passive agents and especially the
synchronic polysemies exhibited by passive agents, see Palancar (2002).
180 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
As there is no reason to question the validity of criterion (10vii), we can employ it to
corroborate our decisions with respect to the canonical status of the three features
discussed in section 7.5. Further, given that canonical features are expected to
coincide with other canonical features, we can use (10vii) to provide more evidence
for the canonical nature of the passive subject and verb captured in (9) and thus for
the overall applicability of the canonical approach in investigating the passive. We
will begin in section 7.6.1 with a consideration of how the three semantic features
fare with respect to the formal realization of passive agents and then proceed in
section 7.6.2 to take a look at the relationship between the encoding of passive agents
and the nature of passive subjects and passive verbal marking.
7.6.1 Humanness, specificity, and pronominality revisited
In section 7.5 we argued that canonical passive agents should not be characterized
with respect to humanness but they should be characterized as being semantically
agentive, specific and lexical as opposed to pronominal. Within the context of the
canonical approach to typology this entails that there should be no systematic
convergence between humanness, on the one hand, and the oblique vs. non-oblique
marking of passive agents on the other. The first part of the discussion in this section
will be devoted to documenting that this is indeed so. There should, however, be a
systematic convergence between semantically agentive, specific, and lexical agents
and more oblique marking, and between semantically non-agentive, non-specific,
pronominal agents and less oblique marking. We will subsequently see that this
second positive expectation is also by and large borne out.
Beginning with the relation between the humanness of agents and their morpho-
logical marking, there are languages in which the more canonical agent marking is
displayed by human agents, and the less canonical by non-human ones. In the
Oceanic language Hoava, non-human animate agents occur without prepositional
marking and rather surprisingly are also cross-referenced on the verb. Human
agents display neither property. Compare (37a) and (37b).
(37) Hoava (Davis 2003)
a. Ta-hoqi-na-a rao sa boko
pass-gore-appl-3sg I art pig
‘I was gored by the pig.’
b. Ta-hakeagi rao ke isa
pass-look.after I by her
‘I am looked after by her.’
The variation in oblique vs. non-oblique agent marking found in Hoava is, however,
quite exceptional. Much more commonly if the humanness of passive agents is given
formal expression it is by means of two different types of oblique encoding which is
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 181
not so readily amenable to being classified in terms of more as opposed to less
canonical. Thus, for example, in the Australian language Kayardild (Evans 1995: 350),
human agents in the passive normally occur in the ablative case as in (38a) while
non-human animates take the verbal allative as in (38b) or sometimes a modal case.
(38) Kayardild (Evans 1995: 350)
a. Ngada ra-yii-ju mun-da balarr-inja maku-nth
1sg-nom spear-mv-pot buttock-nom white-abl woman-abl
‘I will be injected in the buttocks by the white woman.’
b. Nying-ka ra-yii-nyarra kurdalalng-kiiwa-nharr
2sg-nom spear-mv-appr stingray-vall-appr
‘You might get stung by a stingray.’
Both the ablative and the verbal allative are non-core ‘locative of motion’ cases and it
would be difficult to argue that one is more oblique than the other.
Somewhat more commonly the distinction between human and non-human
agents is reflected in an opposition between instrumental and a locative-type
marking, as is the case in Southern Hokkaido Ainu in which animate agents are
encoded by means of an ablative postposition and inanimate agents by means of an
instrumental one, as shown in (39).
(39) Southern Hokkaido Ainu (Anna Bugaeva, personal communication)
a. Hapo or-o wa a¼en¼koyki
mother place-poss from indf:A¼1sgP¼abuse
‘I was scolded by my mother.’
b. Rera ani cikuni a¼Ø¼kekke
wind by tree indf:A¼3P¼break
‘The tree was broken by the wind.’
It is tempting to suggest that when two such different cases are involved a distinction
could be made with respect to their degree of obliqueness by appealing to a case or
semantic role hierarchy. The problem with such a solution is that it is by no means
clear which hierarchy should be used. In the standard semantic role hierarchy based
on subjectivization and objectivization strategies as presented earlier in (13), the
locative precedes the instrumental. As argued by Blake (1994: 89, 159) this is also the
order in which inflectional case systems tend to be built up. However, cases
involving location in motion, such as the allative (to, towards) and ablative (from),
as opposed to just a static locational case, are much more difficult to rank hierarch-
ically relative to the instrumental. In fact Blake (1994: 159) states that ‘it does not
seem that the ablative and instrumental can be distinguished hierarchically’. What
applies to inflectional case need not apply to adpositional marking. But it may.
Arguably the most relevant criterion of the ranking of cases for the task at hand
182 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
would be the one used by Pinkster (1985), namely the extent to which cases encode
the arguments of a predicate rather than the adjuncts. However, such a criterion might
not allow us to differentiate between the ablative and instrumental. Neither may be used
as arguments, and at best will give us only language-specific orderings of the two. Thus,
in all it seems that there may not always be a satisfactory way of determining degrees of
obliqueness which would enable us to assess whether it is the human/animate agent that
displays more canonical marking or the non-human/inanimate one.
The situation is somewhat more promising when one form of marking is by means
of case inflection and the other via an adposition (plus case). It is generally accepted
that affixal case marking is more core-like, whereas adpositional marking is more
adjunct-like (see e.g. Blake 1994: 91). This is the situation in Polish, for instance, in
which animate passive agents are necessarily marked by the preposition przez (40a)
while inanimate ones may occur with either przez or in the instrumental case (40b).
(40) Polish
a. Został zastąpiony (
siostrą) /przez siostrę
was substituted (sister:ins) /by sister
‘He was replaced (with his sister/ by (his) sister.’
b. Został zastąpiony wzorem (33) / przez wzor (33).
was substituted formula:ins (33) / by formula (33).
‘It was substituted with formula (33) / by formula (33).’
However, as indicated by the English translation, the difference in the interpretation
of the preposition and the instrumental case in (40b) with respect to inanimate
agents parallels that of the English use of by as compared to with. The difference is
not therefore really one of animacy, but rather semantic role; only the preposition-
ally marked constituent is truly agentive, the instrumentally marked NP is inter-
preted as a means or instrument. This can be documented by the fact that the
instrumentally marked NP can co-occur with an agent, e.g. It was substituted with
formula X by the researcher. Presumably the same distinction is involved in the Ainu
(39a) as compared to (39b).
In all, the encoding of human agents in the passive cannot be seen as consistently
more oblique and thus more canonical than that of non-human ones. As for
semantic agentivity, we have just seen that inanimate agents which are by definition
non-volitional may be encoded differently from true agents. This typically holds for
natural forces or actual instruments. The difference in the encoding used may, but
need not be interpretable in terms of lower or higher canonicity. Other types of agent
such as experiencers or cognizers rarely receive different encoding (Palancar 2002).
Quite exceptional in this respect is Modern Eastern Armenian. In this language
human passive agents are normally marked with the ablative postposition koymic
which takes an NP in the dative. However, passive agents of verbs denoting mental
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 183
activities which are therefore not true agents but rather experiencers may be marked
by the ablative case without a postposition, as shown in (41).
(41) Modern Eastern Armenian (Kozintseva 1995: 19)
Petros-@ arhamarh-v-um ē @nker-ner-ic
Petros-def despise-pass-impf.ptcp aux comrade-pl-abl
‘Petros was despised by his comrades.’
Since the marking of experiencer agents involves only inflectional case and no
accompanying adposition, it constitutes a less canonical form of marking than that
found with true agents.
We have only two pieces of data relating to differences in the formal encoding of
specific as opposed to non-specific passive agents. The first is from the just men-
tioned Modern Eastern Armenian. In addition to the two types of marking of human
passive agents, i.e. by means of an adposition plus the dative and the ablative cases,
the language displays instrumental marking of natural phenomena, similarly to
Polish. Interestingly, such marking may also be applied for non-specific human
collective agents as in (42).
(42) Modern Eastern Armenian (Kozintseva 1995: 19)
T’argmanič-ner-i ton-@ hazar hing haryur tari
translators-pl-dat festival-def thousand five hundred year
katar-v-el e žoyovrd-ov
celebrate-pass-prf.ptcp aux people-ins
‘The translators’ festival has been celebrated by people for one and a half
thousand years.’
Again, assuming that adpositional marking is a more oblique form of marking than
inflectional case marking, the marking of non-specific collective human agents is
more core-like than that of specific human ones. Non-specificity thus coincides with
a less canonical form of agent encoding. In Slovene (Grahek 2006: 311 n.27), on the
other hand, the normal prepositional marking of passive agents by means of the
preposition od ‘from’ is used only for specific agents, whereas agent marking by the
previously mentioned s strani ‘on the part of’ illustrated in (36) can be used for both
specific and non-specific agents. If the phrasal marking is treated as being a more
oblique form of marking than prepositional marking, and thus as more canonical,
then Slovene exemplifies a situation where a non-specific agent receives more
canonical encoding than a specific one, which is counter to what (10v) would lead
us to expect. However, if the phrasal marking is viewed as a not fully grammatica-
lized form of marking of passive agents and therefore as less rather than more
canonical, then the situation would be similar to that in Armenian, namely a non-
specific agent receiving less canonical encoding. These divergent interpretations
184 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
therefore do not fully support our decision to characterize passive agents as specific
but nor do they provide clear counter-evidence for it.
As for pronominality, while most languages which allow pronominal agents in the
passive do not mark them differently from nominal ones, some do. In the Austro-
nesian language Nias the passive is used not in main clauses but only in relative
clauses where the patient or recipient is relativized. As we see in (43a) a pronominal
agent is indicated as a possessive suffix on the verb, while a lexical one (43b) is
marked by mutation of the noun, mutation being an indicator of non-core status in
the language.
(43) Nias (Brown 2001: 241)
a. Nukha ni-sasai-nia
clothes pass-wash-3sg
‘the clothes which were washed by her’
b. Nukha ni-sasai nakhi-gu
clothes pass-wash younger.sibling:mut-1sg:poss
‘the clothes which were washed by my little sister’
Thus Nias is fully in line with expectations; canonical lexical agents (be it of a non-
canonical passive) receive canonical oblique marking while non-canonical pronom-
inal ones are marked non-canonically like core arguments. The same may be
observed in Indonesian with respect to third person pronominals, as first and second
person ones are excluded as passive agents. A third person pronoun may be marked
by the preposition oleh just like a noun, as shown in (22c) but it may also be simply
cliticized to the verb. We find a similar situation in the previously mentioned
Kayardild. As shown earlier in (38) nominal agents occur in the ablative or verbal
allative cases. Pronominal agents are permitted only in nominalized clauses and in
contrast to nominal agents are prefixed to the verb (44).
(44) Kayardild (Evans 1995: 350)
Waldarr-a ra-yii-ja yuujband ngakuluwan-kurri-i-jarri
moon-nom spear-mv-pot long.ago 1incl.poss-see-mv-act
‘Moon was speared long ago, (it) wasn’t seen by us.’
Thus the marking of pronominal agents is more core-like and less canonical than
that of nominal agents. In Polish, on the other hand, pronominal passive agents,
while manifesting the same morphological marking as nominal ones, tend to be
positioned somewhat differently from their nominal counterparts. Passive agents are
normally located after the auxiliary and past participle combination as shown earlier
in (40). Pronominal passive agents, however, are observed by Górski (2008: 145) to
favour the position between the auxiliary and past participle, as in (45).
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 185
(45) Opozycja ma poczucie, że jest przez niego traktowana gorzej niż
opposition has feeling that is by him treated worse than
strona sprawująca władzę
side hold power
‘The opposition has the feeling that it is being treated by him worse than the
party in power.’
In his data 72 of the 104 instances of pronominal third person agents, i.e. 69 per cent,
were located between the auxiliary and past participle. No such positioning is noted
for nominal passive agents.22
As it is the norm in Polish for auxiliaries, including
passive auxiliaries, and lexical verbs to be contiguous to each other (Saloni 1976), the
positioning of a pronominal passive agent between the two is highly marked.
Unlike in the case of human and specific agents, we have not come across any
instances of the encoding of pronominal agents which would be more canonical than
that of nominal ones. Thus the evidence from the formal realization of passive agents
fully supports our decision to treat lexical agents as more canonical than pronominal
ones.
7.6.2 Agent marking
We have just seen that the more canonical marking of passive agents need not be
tied directly to the semantics of passive agents, at least not to their humanness or
specificity. Now we have yet to consider whether differences in agent marking might
not reflect the degree of canonicity of the passive subject or verb.
Assuming that different forms of non-canonicity are likely to converge, we may
expect agents in impersonal passives which do allow overt agent expression to evince
non-canonical encoding. This does not appear to be so. We have not come across
any instances of agent encoding in impersonal passives of either transitive or
intransitive verbs which would differ from that employed in personal passives,
let alone qualify as less canonical. The rarity of overt agents in impersonal passive
clauses may be the reason for this. Passives with non-patient subjects have proved to
be somewhat more rewarding. Unlike English, Dutch and German cannot passivize
the recipient, as opposed to the patient, in ditransitive clauses using the standard
become-passive. They can do so, however, using a passive with the auxiliary verb
‘get/receive’ which is krijgen in Dutch and kriegen in German (Noord and Kordoni
2005). In Dutch if the agent is expressed in the krijgen passive it is marked
obligatorily by van ‘from’ rather than door ‘by means of/through’ which is used in
the standard passive. This is illustrated in (46).
22
When nominal passive agents occur preverbally, they precede both the passive auxiliary and the
lexical verb.
186 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
(46) Dutch
a. Het boek wordt hem door Peter toegestuurd
the book become him through Peter sent
‘The book is sent to him by Peter.’
b. Hij krijgt het book 
door/ van Peter toegestuurd.
he gets the book through/from Peter sent
‘He is sent the book by Peter.’
There is no obvious basis for viewing agent marking by means of one adjunct-like
preposition as opposed to another as being more or less oblique. Nonetheless, within
the context of Dutch the use of the preposition van rather than door to mark a
passive agent is clearly a departure from the norm and thus does constitute a less
canonical form of agent. The Dutch krijgen passive thus provides us with an example
of a construction where the non-canonicity of the subject is matched by both non-
canonical verbal marking and non-canonical agent marking.
Interestingly in Japanese too agents in passives with recipient and less prototypical
patient subjects may be marked by the ablative postposition kara ‘from’ rather than
by either of the other two agentive postpositions, i.e. the locative-dative ni or the
more recent niyotte ‘means/way’ (Kinsui 1997). Hosokawa (1991: 270) argues that
only passive agents that can be conceived as being the source of an activity, emotion,
and especially acts of transfer, as in (47a) and (47b) may take kara.
(47) Japanese (Hosokawa (1991: 269, 294)
a. Hanako wa Taroo kara/ni hana o okur-are-ta
Hanako top Taroo from/by flowers acc present-pass-pst
‘Hanako was presented flowers by Taroo.’
b. Saikin ( . . . ) suunin no gakusha kara betsuno kangaekata ga
recently several gen researcher from different idea nom
nober-are-te iru
say-pass-dur be
‘Recently, a different idea has been put forward by several researchers.’
Unlike in the case of the Dutch door vs. van, the Japanese ni and kara can be
distinguished in terms of obliqueness. The postposition ni in Japanese is used not
only to mark passive agents but also NP arguments such as recipients and benefi-
ciaries in ditransitive clauses. Kara, by contrast is a marker of obliques. Therefore
somewhat paradoxically the marking of passive agents by means of kara may be seen
as constituting a more canonical form of encoding of passive agents than by ni.
However, on closer inspection it turns out that there is no paradox since ni-passives
are in fact less canonical than kara-marked ones. Passive agents marked by ni are
especially characteristic of so-called adversative passives, i.e. passives used primarily
to depict situations which are conceived as having a strong affect, typically adverse
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 187
but sometimes also beneficial, on the referent of the passive subject.23
The subjects of
kara-passives are unlikely to be so strongly affected since they occur in clauses which
involve causes or sources rather than agents. The subjects of kara-passives are
therefore somewhat closer to those of typical passive subjects which feature in so-
called neutral passives. Significantly neutral passives in Japanese favour agents
marked by niyotte, which is uncontroversially an oblique marker (Kinsui 1997).
Adversative passives are found not only in Japanese but throughout South East
Asia. They are attested in, for example, Chinese (Huang 1999), Hmong (Creswell and
Snyder 2000), Khmer, Khmu (Prēmsīrat 1987), Lao (Morev et al. 1979), Thai (Prasi-
thrathsint 2006), and Vietnamese. The effect on the subject is attributable to the
historical development of the respective passives from serial verb constructions
involving verbs such as ‘hit’ (e.g. raung in Hmong), ‘touch’ (e.g. thùuk in Thai), or
‘undergo’ (e.g. thyyk in Lao) now functioning also as passive auxiliaries. In some of
these languages the passive is nowadays also used to depict more neutral events. This
is typically attributed to the influence of European languages English, Dutch, French,
German, Portuguese, and Russian. Interestingly, the development of these neutral
passives is often accompanied by changes in agent marking. In most of the languages
in question the agent receives no morphological marking and occurs immediately
after the passive auxiliary, as illustrated in section 7.4.1 on the basis of Cantonese
(27). In line with what was argued above, this absence of any morphological marking
of the agent may be viewed as compatible with the non-canonical, adversative nature
of these passives. This is underscored by the fact that in some of the languages in
question, including the two mentioned above, the agent cannot be deleted at all,
while in others such as Hmong (Creswell and Snyder 2000: 76), it is omitted only
very rarely. A series of important developments away from the above norm have
been documented by Prasithrathsint (2006) for Thai. Prasithrathsint (2006: 125)
explains that in current Thai the former adversative passive based on the verb
thùuk ‘to touch’ illustrated in (48a) is in fact no longer adversative since approxi-
mately 90 per cent of its occurrences are either agentless or with the agent postposed
and preceded by dooy, an oblique marker as in (48b).
(48) Thai (Prasithrathsint 2006: 118, 124)
a. Lùuk thùuk mee tii
child pass mother beat
‘The child was beaten by his/her mother.’
b. Rôok chánit níi thùuk7 khón- phóp
disease kind this pass discover
dooy nák-wíttayaasàat chaaw-ciin
by scientist Chinese
‘This kind of disease was discovered by a Chinese scientist.’
23
According to Kinsui (1997) in current Japanese there is no strict dichotomy in regard to the use of ni
vs. niyotte. Nonetheless, niyotte is more common than ni with inanimate agents and ni cannot occur in
passives with inanimate, especially abstract subjects.
188 Anna Siewierska and Dik Bakker
The construction in (48b) is obviously a calque on the Indo-European passive, but,
crucially, one reflecting canonical encoding of the passive agent. Interestingly,
Prasithrathsint (2006: 125) notes that in place of thùuk, a new adversative passive
is emerging in Thai based on doon.
There are various other aspects of passive constructions relating to factors such as
tense, aspect and modality, event type, and productivity which can be argued to be
non-canonical and to have a reflection in the non-canonical encoding of the passive
agent. We trust, however, that our point has been made.
7.7 Conclusions
In arguing for the canonical nature of passives with overt agents we have had to
consider virtually all aspects of the passive. We could not do justice to any but we
hope to have given at least some idea of the complex nature of this construction and
the range of factors that need to be taken into account in exploring its potential
canonical properties.
Our attempt to relate the possibility of agent expression and the properties of
overtly expressed agents listed in (10) to the canonical properties of passive subjects
and passive verbs listed in (9) has shown that the latter tend to coincide with:
agentive as opposed to agentless passives, non-obligatoriness of the agent if ex-
pressed, more as opposed to less frequent agent expression, oblique encoding of the
agent, and agents which are semantically agentive and lexical. By contrast no
relationship was found to hold between the type of verbal marking of the passive,
synthetic vs. periphrastic, and agent expressibility or encoding. Nor was the human-
ness status of the passive agent seen to in any way correlate with its formal
realization. And for one feature, specificity, the existing data proved to be insuffi-
cient to allow us to arrive at a decision with respect to its position in the canon.
It remains an open question to what extent the correspondences between the
different properties of the passive relating to the passive subject, verb, and agent that
we have observed are a reflection of the properties in question constituting a canon
rather than just being epiphenomenal. Despite the enormous literature on the
passive, the data that we currently have available on the finer details of this
construction are far from satisfactory for virtually all languages of the world. We
hope that the above considerations will provide a good point of departure for further
deliberations of the issue.
Passive agents: prototypical vs. canonical passives 189
8
The criteria for reflexivization
MARTIN EVERAERT
8.1 Introduction1
Every scholar engaged in cross-linguistic research is confronted with the question of
whether the grammatical category or phenomenon in language X can be compared
with what he or she has observed in language Y (König and Gast 2008a: 5–9). The
Canonical Typology approach sets out to define a phenomenon in such a way that it
will be possible to answer this question.
Taking the clearest, indisputable example of a phenomenon as a starting point,
less ‘typical’ instances of the phenomenon can be properly charted. As Corbett
(2007a: 9) puts it: ‘The canonical approach means that I take definitions to their
logical end point, enabling me to build theoretical spaces of possibilities. Unlike
classical typology, only then does one ask how this space is populated with real
instances.’ So, the notion canonical does not mean that one sets out to find ‘the most
ideal’ instantiation of reflexivization, the one closely matching the canon. Instead,
Canonical Typology encourages us ‘to take sufficient care over our terminology so
[as to prevent] that phenomena labelled identically are in fact distinct’ (Corbett 2005:
25–6), to precisely define what we are looking for before we start looking.
In this paper I will explore the consequences of such a canonical approach for a
typology of ‘reflexivization’. Although there is a substantial body of typological
1
I would like to thank the organizers and participants of the ‘Creating infrastructure for canonical
typology’ workshop for their feedback on my work, and Dunstan Brown for his editorial patience.
Versions of the paper were also presented at the Freie Universität Berlin and Utrecht University. I want
to thank the audiences for their feedback. Comments of Alexis Dimitriadis, Claire Moyse-Faurie, and the
reviewers of my article allowed me to substantially improve my paper. This work is part of the research
programme Universals and the Typology of Reflexives (360-70-330) which is (partly) financed by the
Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO).
Note that anaphoric dependencies are indicated with italics. Glosses adhere as much as possible to the
Leipzig glossing rules. Apart from the standard abbreviations, three specific abbreviations are used: ‘emph’
for emphasis marker, ‘vr’ for verbal reflexive marker, ‘at’ for actor topic. In most cases I have followed the
author(s) in glossing of lexical items. This means that I am not always sure whether, for instance, the gloss
‘self’ actually is comparable to the English morpheme self or should better be translated by something else.
research on reflexives—for instance Faltz (1977), Kazenin (2002), König (2002), and
the papers in Frajzyngier and Curl (2000) and König and Gast (2008b)—it is still not
an easy task to define what a canonical case of reflexivization is. We immediately
recognize that, for English, Mary deceived herself is a typical instance of reflexiviza-
tion and John washed in its interpretation ‘John washed himself’ for English could be
taken as peripheral. But is the latter (John washed), therefore, from a cross-linguistic
point of view a peripheral instantiation? Not necessarily. It might be quite common
cross-linguistically but is still non-canonical.
Let me illustrate the issue here with a case from the literature. Take the following
reflexive examples from Tamil (Annamalai 2000: 180, 188–9):
(1) a. kumaar tann-e marand-aan
Kumar self-acc forget.pst-agr
‘Kumar forgot himself.’
b. kumaar-ukku tann-e-yee piDikkaadu
Kumar-dat self-acc-emph like.not
‘Kumar does not like himself.’
c. kumaar tann-e kaNNaaDile paattu-kiTT-aan / paatt-aan
kumar self-acc mirror.in look.at.pst-vr-agr / look.at.pst-agr
‘Kumar looked at himself in the mirror.’
As you can see taan can be taken as a reflexive pronoun, which can be accompanied
by an emphatic marker -ee (cf. 1b) and the verbal auxiliary predicate reflexive marker
-kiDu- (cf. 1c).2
In his Grammar of Modern Tamil, Lehmann (1989) discusses the
anaphoric system of Tamil. He observes that the features that are relevant for
personal pronouns in general are: number, gender, person, proximate/distal, hon-
orific. In describing the anaphoric element taan/taanga (cf. 1a) the specification
Lehmann gives is: - speaker, - addressee, þ3rd
person, - plural/þplural, under-
specified for gender, and not specified for proximate and honorific. He subsequently
notes that this element ‘is always coreferential with the subject of the same or higher
clause’. To illustrate this, observe the examples in (2) from Annamalai (2000: 181–183):
(2) a. kumaar tannooDa yaaro varraangaNNu keeTT-aan.
kumar self.with who come.prs.agr.comp ask.pst-agr
‘Kumar asked who was coming with him.’
b. kumaar umaa tann-e tiTTunaaNNu sonn-aan.
Kumar uma self-acc scold.pst.agr.comp say.pst-agr
‘Kumar said that Uma scolded him.’
c. kumaar umaa tann-e tiTTunaaNNu sonn-aan.
Kumar uma self-acc scold.pst.agr.comp say.pst-agr
‘Kumar said that Uma scolded herself.’
2
In some instances the auxiliary verb reflexive marker is obligatory.
The criteria for reflexivization 191
Whereas third personal pronouns can be used both deictically and anaphorically, the
pronoun taan is only ‘used anaphorically’ (Lehmann 1989: 94). To put it in genera-
tive terms, the element must be syntactically bound, c-commanded by its antecedent
(Chomsky 1981). But the reflexive and its antecedent need not be arguments of the
same predicate, as (2a, b) illustrate. And for that reason Lehmann calls it a ‘fourth
person’ pronoun. He is not prepared to call it a reflexive because ‘the occurrence of
taan in a reflexive construction is only one of its occurrences and there is, therefore,
no justification to call it a reflexive pronoun in the same way as there is not one to
call the first person pronoun naan (‘I’) a reflexive pronoun, just because it can occur
in a reflexive construction.’ (Lehmann 1989: 97)3
To put it differently, Lehmann
assumes that in order to call taan a reflexive it should have been bound by a co-
argument (as in (2c) ), and only by a co-argument. Still, Annamalai (2000), appar-
ently, sees no problem to take taan as a reflexive—avoiding the introduction of a
fourth person pronoun—simply because it is used in an environment where it has a
reflexivizing function. In this case, as in other cases, defining the ‘theoretical spaces
of possibilities’ of reflexivization might shed light on the status of taan as a
reflexivizing element.
8.2 Binding
The encoding of interpretative dependencies in language is subject to complex
syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic constraints. Within the Generative linguistics
tradition the focus is on the ‘binding of anaphors’, i.e. reflexives and reciprocals (cf.
Safir 2004, Reuland 2011). The crucial assumption underlying this research is that all
interpretative dependencies can be understood in terms of structural conditions on
the relation between anaphors and their antecedents. Lexical elements are classified
on the basis of two features <+anaphor> and <+pronominal>, anaphors being
specified <þanaphor,pronominal>. One of the things that this work has brought
to light is that there are systematic restrictions on the domain of interpretation, and
that there is a connection between the syntactic conditioning of the anaphoric
properties of anaphors and their morphological form.
Early generative grammar concentrated on ‘reflexivization’, taken as a local
predicate relation between a reflexive and its antecedent (Lees and Klima 1963).
3
In Tamil, as in Dutch, German, French, and Italian, among others, the personal pronoun is used with
first and second person antecedents in reflexive constructions:
(i) naan enne kaNNaaDile paattu-kiTT-een
I me.acc mirror.in look.at.pst-vr-agr
‘I looked at myself in the mirror.’
(ii) nii onne kaNNaaDile paattu-kiTT-e
you you.acc mirror.in look.at.pst-vr-agr
‘You looked at yourself in the mirror.’
192 Martin Everaert
This view was revitalized in the Reflexivity framework of Reinhart and Reuland
(1991, 1993), who took the identity relation between the reflexive and its co-argument
antecedent as central. However, in the Extended Standard Theory (Chomsky 1973,
1977) and its successors reflexivization as a rule played no role, and reflexives, just as
reciprocals, were taken as a type of anaphor whose distribution was described by
rules of construal, subject to syntactic locality constraints, later on reformulated as
the so-called binding conditions (Chomsky 1981), here rephrased as in (3):
(3) a. An anaphor (¼ herself, each other,..) is bound in a local interpretative
domain D
b. A pronominal (¼him, she,..) is free in a local interpretative domain D
c. An R-expression (¼ John, the girl) is free
Simplifying matters, condition (3a) states that anaphors are referentially dependent
on an element that is basically a co-argument of the anaphor, the antecedent. The
co-argument restriction, clause-boundedness, is also a feature of non-generative
approaches (Givón 1995: 258–60, 295–8; van Valin and LaPolla 1997: 392–417).
Whether functional or formal, theories differ about how the interpretive domain is
determined, what the precise hierarchical restrictions are on the relation between
antecedent and anaphor, or what ‘binding’ means (cf. Everaert 2003).
Conditions (3a) and (3b) predict that anaphors and pronouns—nominal elements
with no lexical semantic content, often only morphosyntactically marked for prop-
erties such as number, person, gender, etc.—are in complementary distribution.
Langacker (1991: 367) offers a straightforward functional grounding of this phenom-
enon: ‘In the unmarked situation, clausal participants are not only distinct from the
setting and the designated process, but also from one another. The profiled inter-
action involves separate and discrete entities.’ Again, different theories, whether
functional or formal, differ on how this should be derived, by pragmatic constraints
(Levinson 2000), a (syntactic) optimality inspired approach (Burzio 1991, Kiparsky
2002, Safir 2004), or syntactic constraints (Reuland 2011).
When we set out to define a canonical typology of reflexivization the results of
generative theorizing are incorporated, but note that not all binding theoretic
concepts are straightforwardly relevant. Their precise formulation is closely tied
up with the study of other grammatical phenomena, such as WH-movement, NP-
movement, control (Reinhart 1999), phenomena that I am not concerned with here.
Moreover, the binding theory is focused on the concept ‘anaphor’ and it remains to
be determined how the concept ‘anaphor’, subsuming reflexives and reciprocals,
relates to the notion of reflexivization. And as we will see later (section 8.5), it is
important to distinguish the notion ‘anaphor’, or ‘anaphoric dependency’ from
reflexive and reflexivization.
The criteria for reflexivization 193
8.3 Reflexivization
In this paper I take reflexivization as an instantiation of an anaphoric dependency,
taken in the binding theoretic sense, with the following descriptions as our starting
point (cf. also König and Gast 2008a):4
(4) a. Anaphoric dependency: a is anaphorically dependent on b if the reference
of a is entirely dependent on the reference of b.
b. Reflexivization is an instantiation of an anaphoric dependency, more
specifically: an identity relation between two co-arguments, a binder and
a bindee.
c. Reflexives express an identity relation between co-arguments.5
In principle there are many ways to encode an anaphoric dependency. When the
anaphoric dependency holds between two non-co-arguments the relation is canon-
ically encoded as one between a pronoun and its antecedent (cf. 5), and not one
between two identical referential expressions (cf. 6):6
(5) a. The man thought that Peter cheated him.
b. That Peter cheated him was no surprise to the man.
(6) a. The man thought that Peter cheated the man.
b. That Peter cheated the man was no surprise to the man.
An identity relation between co-arguments of a predicate could, likewise, in prin-
ciple be encoded through a pronoun (cf. 7a), or an identical referential expression
(cf. 7b). But in English this is not an option (though it is in other languages, a fact
that is in need of an explanation).7
We are interested in grammaticalized identity
relations in a language, such as (7c) for English:
(7) a. John loves him.
b. John loves John.
c. John loves himself.
To put it differently, reflexives are generally speaking morphologically distinct from
pronouns, which means that reflexivization is often morphosyntactically distinct
4
Because we take reflexivization as an instantiation of anaphora, (4a) would actually require us to
define the ‘theoretical space’ of anaphora, but this a daunting task. So, for the moment we will leave that
open, but will indicate where the two domains interact.
5
Generally co-argumenthood is defined semantically, two positions on the argument structure speci-
fication of a predicate. One can distinguish semantic from syntactic co-argumenthood (Reinhart and
Reuland 1993: 675–83, van Valin and LaPolla 1997: 405), but this is irrelevant for the present discussion.
6
Note that I use ‘pronominal’ in the semantic sense of the word. In some languages ‘pronominals’ may
be grammaticalized demonstratives or nouns, but that does not make any difference for the present
discussion.
7
Examples (6a) and (6b) allow a ‘co-referential’ reading, but it is pragmatically marked (cf. Reinhart
1983 for discussion).
194 Martin Everaert
from a pronominal coreference relation (cf. Faltz 1977, Schladt 2000, König and
Siemund 2008).
8.3.1 Reflexivization strategies
Following Dimitriadis and Everaert (2004) I will take reflexivization in essence as a
construction, the use of a pronoun, noun, morpheme, change in verb form, or any
other morphosyntactic means used by a language to carry out the reflexive function.
In the Utrecht Anaphora project <http://languagelink.let.uu.nl/anatyp/> several
reflexivization strategies have been identified, summarized in (8), along the lines of
Faltz (1977) and inspired by Reinhart and Reuland (1993):8
(8) Reflexivization strategies: the morphosyntactic encoding is manifested:
(i) through reflexive marking of one of the arguments: (a combination of) a
special reflexive form (pronoun, noun) (cf. 9, 10), other morphosyntactic
encoding such as doubling case agreement, addition of adverbs (cf. 11), etc.
(ii) through reflexive marking of the predicate, a morphosyntactic encoding
of the verbal predicate itself (affix of some type) (cf. 12) or the verbal
cluster (clitic,9
auxiliary verb (cf. 13), etc.
(iii) via a combination of (i) and (ii) (cf. 14)
For most languages it holds that reflexivization is either encoded on an argument of
the predicate, or it is encoded on the predicate itself, as illustrated by the examples in
(9) through (14):10
(9) a. Ania opowiada o sobie Polish
‘Ania talks about herself.’
b. Misha bejetin taptyyr Sakha (Yakut)
Misha self love
‘Misha loves himself/him.’
(10) a. Pekka näki itsen-sä Finnish
Pekka saw self-3sg.m.poss
‘Pekka saw himself.’
8
(8) should not be taken as limiting the inventory of reflexivization. Other options are possible.
Schladt (2000: 19), for instance, mentions that in Zande reflexivization is realized via a pronoun in a PP:
(i) Mì-ímí tì-rὲ
1sg-kill on-me
‘I kill myself.’
9
Kazenin (2002) talks about ‘verbal reflexives’. It is sometimes difficult to decide whether verbal
reflexives are clitics or verbal affixes (like in French).
10
Examples from Polish from Reinders-Machowska (1991: 139), Sakha from Nadezdha Vinokourova
(personal communication), Finnish from van Steenbergen (1991: 233), Georgian from Amiridze (2006: 90),
Xârâgurè from Moyse-Faurie (2008: 142), Ho and Manipuri from Subbarao (2012), Kannada from
Amritavalli (2000: 53), Warrwa from McGregor (2000: 92), Paiwan from Sung (2006: 10), and Kuuk
Thaayorre from Gaby (2008: 264).
The criteria for reflexivization 195
b. Gela tavis-i tav-is gulšemat
:k
:ivar-i-a Georgian
Gela.nom 3sg.refl.poss-nom self-gen fan-nom-cop
‘Gela is a fan of himself.’
(11) a. ai-na i-sa-na i-sa-bu thagat-i Manipuri (Meitei)
1sg-nom 1sg-self-nom 1sg-self-acc praise-fut
‘I will praise myself.’
b. nyärä sa nyärä mûgé Xârâgurè11
3pl hit 3pl again
‘They are hitting themselves.’
(12) a. ar
:si-re-m nel-ke-n-a Ho
mirror-in-2s see-pst-vr-fin
‘You saw yourself in the mirror.’
b. I-mu-kudali-nyji-ny Warrwa
3nom-refl-hide-refl-pst
‘He hit himself.’
(13) a. Jean se lave French
Jean himself washes
‘John washes himself.’
b. ki-vuci’ timad(j)u Paiwan
refl-cut 3sg.nom
‘He/she cut himself/herself.’
(14) a. avanu tann-annu hoDedu-koND-a Kannada
3sg himself-acc beat-vr.pst-3sg.m
‘He beats himself.’
b. nhangkanunt kar nhaath-e-ø Kuuk Thaayorre
2s.refl like look-vr-imp (Thayore)
‘You should look at yourself.’
8.3.2 Strategy type choices
If we focus on the element that can be classified as reflexive, it seems as if languages
often have only one candidate. Faltz (1977: 5) refers to this as the primary reflexive
strategy, the basic means of reflexivizing a dyadic predicate. Schladt (2000), for
instance, gives what he takes as the primary reflexive strategy in his typology of
reflexivization. However, presenting it this way might confuse matters. Many lan-
guages use more than one reflexive strategy, as is observed by Faltz. He uses the
11
Moyse-Faurie (2008: 142) mentions that in Oceanic languages, among which Xârâgurè, reflexivity
(and in other cases also reciprocity) can be expressed by adding an adverb meaning ‘again’ (or ‘return’) to
a predicate containing a pronoun coreferent with a co-argument.
196 Martin Everaert
notions primary, middle, secondary reflexivization strategies to describe this fact.
For us, it is not immediately straightforward to assume that one of the strategies a
language might employ is primary in the sense of being more basic than others, but I
will return to that issue in section 8.5. For the moment it is important to understand
that, contrary to what (9) through (14) might suggest, languages will most likely have
more than one strategy to encode reflexivization. English, for instance, could be
described as having four morphosyntactically distinct strategies:
(15) a. possessive pronoun þ self: I hate myself.
b. objective pronoun þ self: John sees himself.
c. pronoun: He had no money on him.
d. zero: John washes.
(15a–c) are manifestations of argument marking, and (15d) could be taken as a
predicate reflexivization strategy (even though not overtly marked).
The case of Papiamentu described in Muysken (1993) and Muysken and Smith
(1994) appears to be even more extreme, showing seven morphosyntactically distinct
ways to encode reflexivization:
(16) a. pronoun: Mi ta sinti mi un tiki tristo.
‘I feel a bit sad.’
b. pronoun þ intensifier mes: Bo a yuda bo mes.
‘You have helped yourself.’
c. possessive þ intensifier mes: Mi ta weta mi mes.
‘I look at myself.’
d. possessive þ body noun kurpa: El a dal su kurpa na un palo.
‘He walked into a pole.’
e. body noun kurpa: Mi ta deskansá kurpa.
‘I rest myself.’
f. body noun paña: Mi ta bisti paña.
‘I dress myself.’
g. zero-marking on the verb El a peña.
plus object drop: ‘She washes.’
Papiamentu illustrates that one can distinguish a number of parameters for strategy
choice. Papiamentu, has nominal reflexives, inalienable possession anaphors, null-
reflexives, and locally bound pronouns and the choice seems to be determined by the
parameters person, number, verb class. But there are other parameters. It is well
known that the type of binder can make a difference in the choice of bindee. In some
languages the bindee may vary because the binder is a generic pronoun, such as
Norwegian en used with a generic pronoun (cf. 17) vs. seg otherwise (Hellan 1988:
110), and French soi used with a generic pronoun vs. se otherwise (Zribi-Hertz 2008)
The criteria for reflexivization 197
(cf. 18). In other languages quantified NPs trigger a different reflexivization strategy,
such as in San Lucas Quiaviní Zapotec (cf. 19) (Lee 2003: 84, 90):12
(17) Vi snakket om det å beundre en selv Norwegian
we talked about it to admire one self
‘We talked about admiring oneself.’
(18) On ne doit pas dire aux gens de parler de soi French
One not should not say to people to talk about oneself
‘One shouldn’t tell people to speak about one.’
(19) a. R-yu’lààa’z Gye’eihlly Gye’eihlly San Lucas Quiaviní
hab-like Mike Mike Zapotec
‘Mike likes himself.’
b. Yra’ta’ ra bxuuhahz b-ghuty-rih la’arih
Every pl priest pfv-kill-3pl.dist 3pl.dist
‘Every priest killed himself.’
8.4 The morphosyntax of reflexivization
As formulated in (4b) reflexivization is taken as an identity relation between two co-
arguments. Let us now look in more detail how the semantic identity relation is
morphosyntactically encoded in the reflexivization strategies discussed in section 8.3.
Based on what is described there the morphosyntactic encoding can be summarized
as follows:
(20) In [x V y] identity between x and y is realized through
(i) identical forms
(ii) agreement
(iii) identity morphemes.
Identical forms (cf. 20i) means that binder and bindee are really identical, x¼y. It has
been noted in the literature that coreference can be instantiated by repetition of the
nominal element. (21) gives examples from Malayalam (Jayaseelan 1999: 32) and Thai
(Larson 2006: 437):13
12
Note that also in the case of a pronominal anaphoric dependency this distinction is relevant for some
languages, such as Japanese (Hoji 1991: 287):
(i) *Daremo-ga [kare-ga tukut-ta] omotya-o kowasi-ta
everyone-nom he-nom make-pst toy-acc break-pst
‘Everyone broke the toy that he made.’
(ii) Mike-ga [kare-ga tukut-ta] omotya-o kowasi-ta
Mike-nom he-nom make-pst toy-acc break-pst
‘Mike broke the toy that he made.’
13
Note that for Malayalam the strategy is limited to proper names only.
198 Martin Everaert
(21) a. raaman wicaariccu ñaŋŋa raaman-e man
¯
t
¯
ri aakkum en
¯
n
¯
ə. Malayalam
Raman thought we Raman-acc minister will.make comp
‘Raman thought that we would make him a minister.’
b. Aajan kid waa aajan jà cha-ná. Thai
Teacher think comp teacher will win
‘The teacher thinks that he will win.’
However, such simple repetition cannot be used to encode reflexivization in these
languages, Jayaseelan (1999: 33), Larson (2006: 428), respectively:14
(22) a. ??raaman raaman-e wer
:ut
¯
t
¯
u Malayalam
Raman Raman-acc hated
‘Raman hated himself.’
b. *
Sak dti Sak Thai
Sak hit Sak
‘Sak hit himself.’
In other languages repetition in context such as (22) is precisely the way to
reflexivize.15
This is exemplified by the example of San Lucas Quiaviní Zapotec in
(19a) and the examples in (23a, b) from Hmong (Mortensen 2004: 2;10) and (23c)
from Copala Trique (Hollenbach 1984: 278):16
(23) a. Pov yeej qhuas Pov Hmong
Pao always praise Pao
‘Pao always praises himself.’
b. Nwg tua nwg.
3sg kill 3sg
‘He killed himself.’
c. kene?e3
šnii3
mã3
(ma3
?ãs13
) šnii3
a32
Copala Trique
saw boy to (self-of) boy decl
‘The boy saw himself.’
14
But note that (i) is grammatical:
(i) raaman raaman-e t
¯
anne wer
:ut
¯
t
¯
u
Raman Raman-acc himself hated
‘Raman hated himself.’
Jayaseelan treats t
¯
anne, a focus element, as reflexivizer, which added to pronouns and proper names
creates reflexivity.
15
Some of the authors quoted classify the examples in (23) and (24) as reduplication. I will not take a
position in that matter because it is not crucial for the present discussion. Instead I will use the more
neutral term ‘repetition’ or ‘doubling’.
16
In all these cases the reflexive interpretation is, of course, a possible, not a necessary interpretation.
The criteria for reflexivization 199
There is another type of repetition which is indicative of an anaphoric dependency,
i.e. the identity relation is encoded on the bindee by means of doubling the
anaphoric element, often a pronoun (or an element that could be classified
as such), as in Tsakhur (cf. 24a; Lyutikova 2000: 229), Karachay-Balkar (cf 24b;
Lyutikova and Tatevosov 2005), and Telugu (cf 24c; Subbarao 2012):
(24) a. rasul-e: wuẐ-e: wuẐ get-u Tsakhur
Rasul-erg self.m-erg self.m.abs m.beat-pfv
‘Rasul beat himself.’
b. madina kesi-kesi-n mahta-d Karachay-Balkar
Madina self-self-acc praise-pst.3sg
‘Madina praised herself.’
c. emnīšia valla hari tana ni tanu marci pŁyºḑu Telugu
amnesia due.to Hari self acc self forgot
‘Hari forgot himself due to amnesia.’
Another straightforward way to encode an anaphoric dependency between bindee
and binder seems to be agreement, thus encoding the fact that the two positions are
related. Generally the bindee agrees with the binder in person, number, gender, or
case. Since pronouns are elements par excellence to exhibit agreement with their
antecedent, one would expect to find encoding of the identity of the subject and
object participant by means of a pronoun. And indeed we find these, as exemplified
by Middle Dutch (Everaert 1986: 3), Haitian Creole (Carden and Stewart 1988: 19),
and Upriver Halkomelem (Wiltschko 2004: 102):17
(25) a. Hij beschuldight hem Middle Dutch
‘He accuses him/himself.’
b. Emile dwe ede li Haitian Creole
Emile should help him
‘Emile should help him/himself.’
c. kw’éts-l-exw-es tú-tl’ò Upriver Halkomelem
see-tr-3obj-3sbj det-3indep
‘He saw him/himself.’
However, to quote Langacker (1991: 367): ‘this strategy is seldom used in third-
person reflexives, for in the context of the speech event there may be numerous
possible referents for the third-person pronoun.’ Whether this functional explan-
ation is correct or not, it is important to note that most (if not all) languages allowing
this pronominal strategy generally also allow other reflexivization strategies in which
reflexivization is uniquely morphosyntactically encoded.
17
Levinson (2000) gives more examples.
200 Martin Everaert
More complex examples of the agreement strategy are given in (26):
(26) a. They saw them-selv-es.
– the pronominal part of the reflexive agrees in person, number, gender
– selv-es agrees in number
b. O Jannis pleni ton eafto tu. Greek
the John washes the self his
‘John washes himself.’
– the possessive tu agrees in person, number
c. rasul-e: wuẐ-e: wuẐ get-u Tsakhur
Rasul-erg self.m-erg self.m.abs m.beat-pfv
‘Rasul beat himself.’
– the first (pronominal) part of the reflexive agrees in case
Reflexivization can also be indicated by an ‘identity’ morpheme. By that I mean that
a specific morpheme is used that reflects that there is a semantic identity relation.
This identity can be visible on the predicate (cf. 27), or on the bindee, in the form of
the obligatory use of an intensifier (cf. 28), a grammaticalized nominal head related
to nouns such as ‘body’, ‘self’, ‘head’, etc. (cf. 29), sometimes accompanied by a
possessive, turning it into an inalienable possession noun construction, such as ‘his
head’, ‘her body’, etc. (cf. 30):18
(27) a. laali amaah-cu a-in-that Mizo
Lali herself-acc 3sg-vr-kill
‘Lali killed herself.’
b. vanaja tana-ni tanu poguDu-kon-di Telugu
Vanaja self-acc self praise-vr-agr
‘Vanaja praised herself.’
(28) a. Ik denk alleen aan me-zelf Dutch
1sg.nom think only about 1sg.acc-self
‘I only think about myself’
b. Pierre est jaloux de lui-même French
‘Pierre is jealous of himself.’
(29) a. raam-nee apnee-koo maafi dii Hindi
Raam-erg self-dat pardon give.prf
‘Ram forgave himself.’
18
The identity element is in bold. Examples from Mizo from Murthy and Subbarao (2000: 785), Telugu
from Subbarao (2012), Hindi from Davison (2000: 412), Albanian from Abresha Maksutaj (personal
communication), Malagasy from Paul (2004: 39), Greek from Anagnostopoulou and Everaert (1999:
101), Basque from Everaert (2000: 71).
The criteria for reflexivization 201
b. Beni urre-n vet-en Albanian
Ben.nom hate-3sg self-acc
‘Ben hates himself.’
c. Manaja tena i Sahondra Malagasy
at.respect self art Sahondra
‘Sahondra respects herself.’
(30) a. O Petros agapai ton eafto tu Greek
the Peter loves the self his
‘Peter loves himself.’
b. Peruri bere burua gustatzen zaio Basque
Peru.dat 3sg.gen head.abs like.asp 3sg.abs.Root.3sg.dat
‘Peru liked himself.’
Observe that (20) is formulated as if there is no structural restriction on the binder–
bindee relation. But, it appears there is. The dependency relation is asymmetrical; in
a reflexivized predicate the binder outranks the bindee, the reflexive, either struc-
turally (c-command; cf. Chomsky 1981), or in terms of prominence of grammatical
function or semantic roles (cf. Dixon 1994: 138). The identity morpheme is never
found on the binder, but always on the bindee, and in the agreement relation the
binder is the controller and the bindee the target.19
We will return to this issue in the
next section.
8.5 Criteria for reflexivization
Following Corbett (2005), I will define canonical reflexivization through a set of
criteria, fleshing out what I have sketched in (20). These criteria specify the param-
eters relevant for the choice of reflexivization strategies and are formulated as
hierarchical rankings. The criteria relate to (i) the binder, (ii) the bindee, (iii) the
morphosyntactic encoding, and (iv) the domain. It is important to stress once more
that these hierarchies do not describe ‘canonical reflexivization’ in the sense of
19
It is an interesting issue whether there is any theoretical reason not to expect the identity morpheme
on the binder, for instance something like ‘John-self likes him’. In the classical binding there is, in the
Reflexivity framework of Reinhart and Reuland (1993) not necessarily. Instances of (exceptional) subject
reflexives have been discussed in the literature (cf. for instance Everaert and Anagnostopoulou 1997). The
case of Toba Batak (Sugamoto 1984 and Cole and Hermon 2008) is a well-known challenge for the claim
that there is a subject–object asymmetry. Moyse-Faurie (2011) claims that several Oceanic languages pose a
similar challenge.
Hurd and Hurd (1970) describe the Nasioi pronominal system in such a way that one is inclined to take
the language as an instantiation of such a system: ‘The reflexive subject marker -a could be translated
“self”, so that whereas we say in English “He hit himself”, the Nasioi speaker says “Self hit him”.’ But as
Ger Reesink has pointed out to me (personal communication) the description seems inconsistent.
202 Martin Everaert
‘primary reflexivization’ as used in Faltz (1977). I would rather take the rankings as
(optimal discovery) choices triggering different morphosyntactic manifestations of
reflexivization.
What can we say about binder and bindee? To begin with, both canonically
occupy an argument position, as encoded in criterion (31a) for the binder and
(32a) for the bindee. The reason is that reflexivization has been defined as a relation
between co-arguments (cf. 4).
We also know the bindee can be sensitive to the type of binder as discussed in
section 8.3.2 (cf. 15–19). Criterion (31b) basically encodes the person-hierarchy
universal from Faltz (1977: 150): the person marking of the binder may influence
the form of the binder.20
Criterion (31c) is focused on the semantic status of the
binder. Leaving proper names aside, one could distinguish ‘(in/definite) descriptions’
(a/the/this/John’s father) from quantified NPs (every/each woman), the latter forcing
a bound variable reading that could influence the choice of binder. If we would
follow the Bondedness Hierarchy (Foley 1980: 174) descriptions could be taken as the
most unmarked:
(31) binder requirements:
a. argument > non-argument
b. 3p > 1p/2p
c. (in/definite) descriptions > quantified NP
We now turn to the bindee. As noted in section 8.4, the reflexive marking is not
randomly encoded on the binder or the bindee, but only on the latter (cf. 32b), where
we take the direct object as the core argument for reflexivization (following
the grammatical function hierarchy of relational grammar/lexical functional gram-
mar (cf. Everaert 2003), and excluding the bindee from occupying the subject
position (or, slightly differently formulated selecting the P-argument over the
A-argument).21
As discussed in sections 8.3.1 and 8.4, reflexivization is morphosyntactically
encoded either on an argument (cf. 9–11) or on the predicate (cf. 12–13). Criteria
(32a) and (32b) are about argument encoding, and should be separated from (32c).
The latter criterion states that, generally speaking, reflexives are morphologically
distinct from other nominals, the natural way to encode an identity relation between
two non-co-arguments, as discussed in section 8.4 (cf. 21–30).
20
Universal 165 in the Konstanz Universals Archive <http://typo.uni-konstanz.de/archive/intro/index.
php>.
21
I am well aware of the fact that there are instances of subject reflexives (cf. Everaert and Anagnos-
topoulou 1997), but this issue is too complex to be addressed in this context (cf. discussion in Woolford
1999; Everaert 2001).
The criteria for reflexivization 203
(32) bindee requirements:
a. argument > non-argument
b. object > indirect object/prepositional object
c. morphosyntactically reflexive-marked > not morphosyntactically
reflexive-marked
Criterion (33a) subsequently states that reflexives are moreover morphologically
distinct from pronominals, as discussed in the context of the examples in (25).
Criterion (33b) focuses on predicate marking. It gives priority to reflexivity marking
on the argument:
(33) morphosyntactic encoding
a. morphosyntactically encoded differently from an identity relation between
two non-co-arguments (pronominals) > morphosyntactically encoded like
an identity relation between two non-co-arguments
b. morphosyntactically encoded on the argument > morphosyntactically
encoded on the predicate
But why would predicational reflexivity marking be less canonical? Encoding on the
predicate is often accompanied by arity reduction (cf. Faltz 1977; Subbarao 2012 for
discussion). It means that the identity relation between the co-arguments holds at a
lexical level, but is not syntactically encoded. One could view it as the lexical
reflexivization vs. syntactic reflexivization parameter that Reinhart and Siloni
(2005) formulated. The former is necessarily encoded on the predicate, the latter
will normally be encoded on the argument position (but could also be encoded on
the predicate in Reinhart and Siloni’s view). (33b), thus, basically states that syntactic
reflexive marking is more canonical than lexical marking. It strongly depends on
your theoretical position on the lexicon–syntax divide to decide on whether (33b)
should be reversed or not.22
Note that from this perspective the John washed
example discussed in section 8.1 should be considered as non-canonical because in
such a case reflexivization is not (clearly) morphosyntactically encoded.
Finally there is a domain restriction:
(34) The domain of the binder–bindee relation:
a. predicate > sentence
b. simple sentence > complex sentence
Again, as implied by the characterization of reflexivization given in (4), the relation
between binder and bindee is restricted to co-arguments, making the predicate more
22
One reviewer remarks that if linguistic objects which refer to entities are canonically nouns we might
therefore expect the information associated with the referent to be located on the nominal element, rather
than the predicate. That would make predicational reflexivity less canonical.
204 Martin Everaert
canonical than the sentence. Criterion (34a) reflects that ‘predicate’ is the relevant
domain for reflexivization, taking ‘reflexivization’ patterns in complex predicates as
non-canonical. Given (34b), the phenomenon described as ‘long-distance binding’ is
non-canonical, because it is an anaphoric dependency between an element we are
used to calling a reflexive and its non-co-argument antecedent. The phenomenon is
illustrated by the well-known example (35a) from Icelandic and example (2b) from
Tamil, here repeated as (35b):23
(35) a. Jón segir að María elski sig
John says that Maria loves.sbj refl
‘John says that Maria loves him.’
b. kumaar umaa tann-e tiTTunaaNNu sonn-aan
Kumar uma self-acc scold.pst.agr.comp say.pst-agr
‘Kumar said that Uma scolded him.’
It is generally assumed that special semantic/pragmatic restrictions (logophoricity,
point of view) are necessarily connected to such non-local reflexive binding as in
(35a) (cf. Cole et al. (2006) and Reuland (2006) for further references and discus-
sion). But it has also been observed (Everaert 1986; Jayaseelan 1996, 2005; Safir 2004)
that for many non-local reflexive binding cases such restrictions do not necessarily
play a role. It plays no role in the Tamil example in (35b), or for that matter other
Dravidian languages like Telugu, Marathi, and Malayalam described in Wali et al.
(1991), Jayaseelan (1996) and Lust et al. (2000). But, likewise no ‘logophoricity’
constraints hold for the Romanian reflexive sine, whether long distantly bound or
not, discussed in Sevcenco (2006) (cf. 36), or Greek o idhios, an anaphor requiring an
antecedent, but not locally (cf. 37) (Iatridou 1986; Anagnostopoulou and Everaert (to
appear)):
(36) a. Director-ul se admiră pe sine Romanian
Director-the refl.acc admires.3sg prep.acc self
‘The director admires himself.’
b. George vrea ca Alex să conteze on sine
George wants comp Alex sbj count on self
‘George wants that Alex count on George(/Alex)’.
(37) a. *O Vasilis agapai ton idhio Greek
The Vasilis.nom love.3sg.act.prs the same.acc
‘Vasilis loves himself.’
23
In Everaert (1986) I argued, contrary to the position here, that binding is, a priori, not necessarily
local, limited to the sentence-internal domain, and that syntactic properties of complementation and the
specific morphosyntactic properties of certain anaphors may conspire to make a distinction between local
and non-local binding.
The criteria for reflexivization 205
b. O Vasilis nomize oti i Maria agapouse ton idhio
The Vasilis.nom thought that the Maria.nom loved the-same.acc
‘Vasilis thought that Maria loved him (¼ Vasilis).’
The Icelandic, Tamil, and Romanian examples contain what one would call a
reflexive, the element used for co-argument dependencies in canonical reflexiviza-
tion. For the Greek example that is not the case: o idhios cannot be used as a local
binder—so, could not be called a ‘reflexive’—but still needs a sentence-internal
antecedent (Iatridou 1986). Such examples, thus, illustrate that there is reason to
make a distinction between the notion reflexive and the notion anaphor. Anaphors
are elements that require a linguistic antecedent, need a c-commanding antecedent
in the binding theoretic sense. Reflexives, a special instantiation of anaphora, when
encoding reflexivization, pose a further domain restriction, requiring a co-argument
antecedent. But reflexives, on occasion, happen to be also used for non-local
dependency relations.
8.6 Conclusion
We have described canonical reflexivization as an identity relation between two co-
arguments, morphosyntactically expressed by a reflexivization strategy. The mor-
phosyntactic manifestation of reflexivity is not generally expressed by a ‘reflexive
anaphor’, a dedicated anaphoric element (like English himself ). As we have illus-
trated its manifestation can be quite diverse. The fact that languages seem to allow a
‘reflexive anaphor’ for non-local identity relation as in (35–37) is cross-linguistically,
perhaps, exceptional.
We have taken reflexivization as an instantiation of an anaphoric dependency. If
one classifies anaphoric dependencies with respect to their canonical ‘domain’, we
will find morphosyntactically identifiable anaphora of all sorts: for deictic reference
(proximate pronouns), for sentence-internal non-local binding (distal pronouns),
for reference to the agent of reported speech or thought (logophors), etc. Reflexive
pronouns are just one particular instantiation, reserved for the identity relation
called ‘reflexivization’.
206 Martin Everaert
9
Possession and modification—a
perspective from Canonical Typology
IRINA NIKOLAEVA and ANDREW SPENCER
9.1 The link between possession and modification1
There are two very common ways in which a lexical noun head in a nominal phrase
(NP/DP) can be (loosely speaking) expanded by a dependent. In the first we have
some attributive modifier, (the) tall girl, and in the second we have a possessor
expression, (the) woman’s daughter, the girl’s hand. The semantics and the nature of
the dependency are rather different in the two cases. An attributive modifier
typically (we will say, canonically) denotes a gradable property concept, which is
normally represented semantically as a one-place predicate: tall(x). The meaning of
an attributively modified noun is the subset of the denotations of the head noun and
the class denoted by the property concept (that is, a tall girl denotes an entity which
is simultaneously a girl and a tall entity, i.e. of which the expression [tall(x) & girl(x)]
holds).
Inalienably possessed nouns such as hand or daughter are ‘transitive’, that is, they
are semantically two-place predicates: daughter-of(x, y), hand-of(x, y), where the ‘y’
argument stands for the entailed possessor. A possessive expression headed by a
relational noun, such as the woman’s daughter, the girl’s hand, denotes the head
noun in its relation to the possessor argument, which we can represent informally as
hand(x, girl), daughter(x, woman). Ordinary common nouns such as tree, woman
are usually treated as one-place predicates in semantics, with an argument structure
that can be represented as tree(x), woman(x). Such nouns do not entail the existence
1
Some of this material has been presented to audiences at the Linguistics Association of Great Britain,
Kings College London, September 2007, the International Conference on ‘Adjectives’, Université de Lille 3,
13–15 September 2007, the 7th meeting of the Association of Linguistic Typology, Paris, 25–28 September
2007, as well as the Creating Infrastructure For Canonical Typology, University of Surrey, 9–10 January
2009. We are grateful to the editors and to an anonymous referee for helpful comments. Part of this work
was conducted under grant 119393 to Andrew Spencer from the Arts and Humanities Research Council, to
whom we express our gratitude.
of a possessor argument, though one can be provided, of course, in which case the
possessed noun is an argument in a certain semantically unspecified two-place
relation as discussed below.
Clearly, the two types of construction, attributive modification and (inalienable)
possession, share the property of being noun-headed but are otherwise rather
different in type. This difference is generally reflected in the morphosyntax of the
constructions. Attributive modification is normally expressed by a dedicated lexical
class of adjectives whose members may show special morphosyntax, specifically
agreement in features such as gender, number, or case. In some languages, the
adjective heads a kind of relative clause, as in the Nilotic languages, DhoLuo
(Stafford 1967) and Lango (Noonan 1992). A number of typological studies have
been devoted to adjectives (Bhat 1994; Wetzer 1996; Dixon and Aikhenvald 2004),
though it has to be said that attributive modification plays a Cinderella role
compared to predicative use (the main focus of Wetzer 1996, for instance). This is
slightly odd, given that the attributive use of adjectives seems to be primary
(cf. Croft 1991).
A variety of typological studies of possessive constructions have been published.
Many of them deal principally with the notion of possession in general, including
possessive predication (of the kind Mary has a daughter), though studies such
as Koptjevskaja-Tamm (2003a, 2003b) do deal specifically with the kind of NP-
structure we are concerned with here. Possessive constructions may be head-marked
or dependent-marked (in the sense of Nichols 1986). Head-marking often takes the
form of agreement morphosyntax, in which the possessed noun (possessee, posses-
sum) is marked with pronominal features of the possessor. This is familiar from a
number of Uralic and Altaic languages. However, in other cases the head is marked
by appearing in a special form. In Maltese, for example, (Koptjevskaja-Tamm 2003a:
647) the noun (iz-)zij-a ‘(the) aunt’ takes the construct form zijt as in zijt Pawlu
‘Paul’s aunt’. Dependent marking is typically by case: the default or definitional
function of the case labelled ‘genitive’ in descriptive grammars is to express the
possessor in a possessive construction, though often a language lacks a specific
dedicated case with just this function alone and uses some more general oblique
case for the purpose.2
Another typical strategy is to use an adposition, such as
English of, or simple juxtaposition of the possessor and the possessed noun. A
double-marking pattern involves both possessive agreement and a kind of genitive
as, for example, in the Turkish definite izafet.
2
It is very common to find the term ‘genitive’ used as a synonym for ‘possessive’ in the literature, even
when the language concerned has no case system. We will distinguish carefully between the terms
‘possessive construction’ and ‘possessor’ and the term ‘genitive’, reserving the latter for clearly defined
case systems.
208 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
Given the rather different syntactico-semantic dependencies between head and
dependent in modification and possession constructions it is not surprising that
languages should choose to express tall girl and woman’s daughter differently. And
yet when we examine the structure of nominal phrases and nominal dependents
more closely we find there is a close typological connection between the two sorts of
construction. Languages sometimes adopt strategies for the two constructions that
are very similar if not identical. Perhaps surprisingly there have been relatively few
detailed studies of the morphosyntactic encoding strategies used to signal either
attributive modification or possession. An important exception is the work of
Koptjevskaja-Tamm (particularly, Koptjevskaja-Tamm 1997, 2000, 2001, 2002,
2003a, 2003b, 2004) and it will be obvious that her research has had a significant
influence on our thinking about these issues.
The close relationship between the expression of possession and modification
is revealed by the well-known ‘ezafe’ family of constructions in Persian and
other Iranian languages. In a typical example of this strategy there is an
uninflecting marker (in Persian -(y)e) which comes between the possessor
and possessed nouns and which in some languages may not even be affiliated
morphosyntactically with either constituent. This marker, however, is also used
to signal the dependency between an attribute and the head. The ezafe family
of constructions demonstrates clearly that there is some deeper link between
the two constructions than would be apparent from examining other language
types.
A very clear relationship can be seen between the possessive construction and
attributive modification in certain languages in which the possessive construction
acquires the agreement morphosyntax of typical adjectival constructions in that
language. We consider two such cases here, the ‘agreeing genitive postposition’
construction found in a number of Indo-Aryan languages (for instance, Hindi-
Urdu), and the ‘possessor clitic’ in Albanian, both of which have been consistently
misanalysed in the literature.3
In Hindi-Urdu there is a set of adjectives which inflect, agreeing with the modified
noun in number (singular/plural), gender (masculine/feminine), and case (direct/
vocative/oblique). The basic pattern of agreement for the direct and oblique cases is
shown in (1):
3
We depart from Koptjevskaja-Tamm (2003a) in not relating these constructions directly to the Bantu
‘a-of-association’ possessive construction. This is a construction, widespread in Bantu languages, in which
a possessor is marked by a preposed -a formative which agrees in noun class with the possessed noun.
However, in Swahili, for instance, the possessor agreements are expressed with the pronominal set of
agreements, found with various pronouns, determiners, and verbs, and not with the agreement set
reserved for the rather restricted class of adjectives. The parallel between the possessive construction
and attributive modification is therefore not necessarily exact.
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 209
(1) Hindi adjective agreement
direct Sg acchaa lar
kaa acchii lar
kii
Pl acche lar
ke acchii lar
kiyãã
oblique Sg acche lar
ke acchii lar
kii
Pl acche lar
kõ acchii lar
kiyõ
‘good boy(s)’ ‘good girl(s)’
The agreement is morphosyntactic in the sense that an inflecting adjective shows
agreement even if the modified noun is itself indeclinable (e.g. ghar ‘house’).
Thus far the description is uncontroversial. However, Hindi-Urdu also has a set of
postpositional clitics which signal grammatical functions. In traditional Western
descriptions as well as recent theoretical discussion these have been treated as case
markers (Masica 1991). One of these alleged case markers is the clitic postposition
kaa. This takes as its complement the possessor NP and it then agrees with the
possessed noun for gender (masc/fem), number (sg/pl), and case (direct/vocative/
oblique) in exactly the manner of an inflecting adjective such as acchaa (kaa
masculine singular direct, ke all other masculine forms, kii all feminine forms).
This means that the kaa postposition effectively serves to turn the possessor noun
phrase into an attributive modifier phrase:4
(2) Hindi ‘genitive’ postposition kaa (McGregor 1995: 9; see also Payne 1995)
a. us strii kaa bet
·aa
that woman kaa.m.sg son
‘that woman’s son’
b. us strii ke bet
·e
that woman kaa.m.pl son.pl
‘that woman’s sons’
c. us strii ke bet
·e kaa makaan
that woman kaa.m.obl.sg son.obl.sg kaa.m.dir.sg house(m)
‘that woman’s son’s house’
d. us aadmii kii bahnõ kaa makaan
that man kaa.f sister.obl.pl kaa.m.dir.sg house(m)
‘that man’s sisters’ house’
Notice that ‘son’ in (2c) is marked as ‘oblique’. All postpositions, including kaa, take
the oblique form of their noun complement. Hence, the word bet
·aa ‘son’ has to
appear in the oblique case form, bet
·e, when it is the complement of kaa in (2c). This
4
Note that we concur with Payne (1995) in denying that kaa is a derivational element which creates
adjectives. But that doesn’t mean we agree with Payne in concluding that the kaa postposition is some
kind of genitive case marker.
210 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
means that the kaa of us strii kaa ‘that woman’s’ in (2c) has to take the obl.m.sg
form ke. A similar pattern is found in a number of other Indo-Aryan languages, such
as Punjabi, Nepalese, and others. Clearly, the constructions illustrated here show
that possession is marked by means of an adjectival strategy in the sense that it
exhibits the same pattern of attributive agreement. Treating formatives such as the
Hindi-Urdu kaa postposition as a case marker is simply an error (see Otoguro 2006,
Spencer 2005a, and Spencer and Otoguro 2005 for more detailed exemplification of
this point).
Albanian adopts essentially the same strategy as Hindi for expressing possession.
A very convenient concise summary of the relevant grammar is provided by
Newmark (1998: xxviif, esp. xxix, xlivf] and also Morgan (1984). The system is
described in detail in Buchholz and Fiedler (1987: 201), Morgan (1984), and New-
mark (1998: xxix). Albanian nouns inflect for number, case, and definiteness and
fall into several inflectional classes broadly correlated with masculine or feminine
gender. Adjectives inflect for gender/number and fall into two groups, ‘articulated’
and ‘unarticulated’. The unarticulated adjectives do not agree in the features of
definiteness or case. The articulated adjectives are immediately preceded by a clitic
(or possibly affix), which Newmark calls the ‘proclitic attributive article’. This
article marks agreement with the head noun for gender, number, case, and to
some extent definiteness in a rather complex patterning, the essence of which is the
following: i for masculine nominative singular, e for other nominative/accusative
forms, së for feminine oblique, and të elsewhere. For definite noun phrases there
are two patterns of agreement depending on whether the modifier is the first in the
string of modifiers (‘proximal declension’) or not (‘distal declension’). Essentially
what we find is a form neutralization in which e/së from the proximal set are
replaced by të in the (default) distal set. Examples for definite nouns are shown in
(3–6), adapted from Zymberi (1991: 104):
(3) Nom djali i mirë dhe i sjellshëm
Acc djalin e mirë dhe të sjellshëm
Obl djalit të mirë dhe të sjellshëm
boy art good and art polite
‘the good and polite boy’
(4) Nom djemtë e mirë dhe të sjellshëm
Acc djemtë e mirë dhe të sjellshëm
Obl djemve të mirë dhe të sjellshëm
boys art good and art polite
‘the good and polite boys’
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 211
(5) Nom vajza e mirë dhe të sjellshëm
Acc vajzën e mirë dhe të sjellshëm
Obl vajzës së mirë dhe të sjellshëm
girl art good and art polite
‘the good and polite girl’
(6) Nom vajzat e mirë dhe të sjellshëm
Acc vajzat e mirë dhe të sjellshëm
Obl vajzave të mirë dhe të sjellshëm
girls art good and art polite
‘the good and polite girls’
We make no apologies for labouring the details of this system. The point is that
exactly the same patterning, in all its byzantine complexity, is found with possessive
constructions. The possessor noun acquires the proclitic attributive article, which
then agrees with the possessed head in exactly the manner just discussed:
(7) Albanian ‘genitive’ (adapted from Zymberi 1991: 53f.):
a. një djalë i një fshati
indf boy.nom.sg.indf art.m.nom indf village.obl.sg.indf
‘a boy of a village’
b. studentët i shkollës
student(m).nom.sg.def(m) art.m.nom school(f)obl.sg.def
‘the (male) student of the school’
c. studentes së kolegjit
girl.obl.sg.def art.f.obl college.(m)obl.sg.def
‘(to) the (female) student of the college’
As can be seen from these examples the article agrees with the possessed (head)
noun, not with the possessor. If the article were to agree with fshati, shkolës, kolegjit
it would have to take the form të.
In all cases of attributive modification or the possessor construction the proclitic
attributive article is associated syntactically with the dependent, that is, the adjective
or the possessor phrase, as in traditional descriptions. For attributive modifiers this
can be seen particularly clearly, from a variety of tests. First, the articles are repeated
on conjoined modifiers/possessors and don’t seem to be able to take wide scope (this
can be seen from (3) above). This indicates pretty clearly that they form a constituent
with the modifier, not the head. Second, when an articulated adjective is used
predicatively it brings its article with it (Morgan 1984: 238):
212 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
(8) a. Djali ësht [i zgjuar]
boy.def is [art intelligent]
‘The boy is intelligent.’
b. *[Djali i] ësht zgjuar
[boy.def art] is intelligent
Third, when an adjective is modified by a degree modifier the article remains
immediately adjacent to the adjective (9):
(9) një vajzë shumë e dashur (*e shumë dashur)
indf girl very art lovable (indf very lovable)
‘a very lovable girl’
Plank (2002: 165) provides evidence that nouns modified by nouns show the same
constituent structure, given here in (10):
(10) a. Akademia e Shkenca-ve të Shqipëri-së
academy.def art sciences-obl art.pl Albania-obl
‘the Academy of Albanian Sciences’
b. Akademia e Shkenca-ve e Shqipëri-së
academy.def art sciences-obl art.sg Albania-obl
‘Albanian Academy of Sciences’
From these examples we can see that the article takes a different form depending on
whether it is construed with ‘sciences’ ((10a), të, plural agreement) or with ‘Albania’
((10b), e, singular agreement). In (10a) the constituent structure is [Akademia
[e Shkencave [të Shqipërisë]]]. In (10b) the constituent structure is [[[Akademia
[e Shkencave]] [e Shqipërisë]]]. Clearly, in (10a) we have an instance in which a
modifying possessor is itself modified, forming a minimal pair with (10b). The point
is that in (10b) the article which agrees with the head noun Akademia is not adjacent
to that noun but appears as a prefix to the noun Shqipërisë.
Example (10) also illustrates the important point that the ‘genitive’-marked NP
behaves like a noun phrase in the syntax and not like an adjective phrase. On both of
the construals of (10) a possessor-marked noun is modified as a noun, namely by
means of the possessive construction, and not as an adjective. Further examples can
be found in Buchholz and Fiedler (1987: 418).
The Albanian possessor construction, like the Hindi-Urdu kaa construction, has
traditionally been mislabelled as a ‘genitive case’, a misapprehension that frequently
reappears in modern discussion of the language (despite the clearly enunciated
warnings to the contrary in Newmark 1957). However, the Albanian construction,
like its Indo-Aryan congener, has nothing to do with case (cf. also Koptjevskaja-
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 213
Tamm 2003a: 660–5) and demonstrates the inherent connection between possession
and attributive modification.
In this chapter we take a closer look at these affinities and investigate them from
the viewpoint of Canonical Typology. This will lead us to ask a number of general
questions about possession and modification and what makes them at once similar
and distinct. The goal of the chapter is to identify canonical and less canonical
instances of possession and modification, and cross-linguistic regularities in their
expression. As far as we can tell, however, there has been no systematic study of the
relationships between the whole range of constructions lying between attributive
modification and inalienable possession.
9.2 Canonical properties
9.2.1 Types of canonical property
We begin by considering ‘canonical possession’ and ‘canonical modification’. Our
first assumption is that there is a family of constructions in which an object-denoting
category (noun) is the head and some other category is in a dependent relation to
that head. This dependency takes the form either of a possessive construction or an
attributive construction. The way we will proceed is to discuss a number of prop-
erties of the constructions under study and their component concepts (such as
‘noun’ or ‘modification’) and identify those properties we regard as canonical (we
will sometimes use the term ‘criterion’ as a synonym for ‘canonical property’). These
criteria will take the form of absolute statements (‘a noun denotes a concrete object’)
or contextually defined statements (‘the relation between possessor and possessed is
permanent/individual-level’). The criteria we suggest refer to two domains: seman-
tics and syntax. We further divide the broadly syntactic properties into three groups:
external syntax, internal syntax, and categoriality. The three-way categorization is
mainly for expository convenience; we leave it to future research to determine
whether there are any strong correlations between these categories and canonical
properties.
External syntax refers to the distribution of the whole phrase within the wider
syntactic environment in its relation to other elements, in particular, the head.
A specific instance of external syntax is the relationship between the possessor
NP/DP and other types of phrase with a similar function, as in PossSyn1 below.
Internal syntax refers to the relations between words/phrases within the smallest
relevant phrase (the possessor or the modifier, in this case). Categoriality has to do
with word-class membership, but of course we will have to rely on some character-
ization of canonical word classes. Preliminary observations about the canonical
properties of nouns and verbs are made in Spencer (2005b). That paper proposes a
Principle of the Morpholexically Coherent Lexicon, in which all lexical classes have
214 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
uniquely identifiable morphological, syntactic, and semantic properties. For instance,
a noun is a word denoting a physical object which expresses the argument of a verb,
while an adjective denotes a gradable property in the form of an intransitive predicate,
serving as the attributive modifier of a noun (cf. also Croft 1991). The purpose of
that paper is to explore the various ways in which morpholexical coherence is
compromised by actual lexical entries. However, we can take the idealized properties
as canonical.
To some extent our claims about syntactic criteria are at the mercy of specific
model-particular assumptions, but we will try to be as neutral as we can in this
regard, while at the same time trying not to exclude specific models of grammar.
One area where we can hardly avoid controversy though is where we try to talk
about the argument structure of a noun. The notion of argument structure lies on
the interface between semantics and syntax and it is very unclear which side of that
divide it should lie on. However, we think there are enough clear cases to allow us to
identify canonical criteria even here. We will make a number of claims about what
we think the canonical syntactic patterns are.
In principle, we might also identify criteria for the encoding strategies, that is the
morphosyntactic exponents typically used to express those constructions. For in-
stance, we might speculate that possessive agreement morphology on a head noun is
a canonical way of expressing possession, while we might suggest that it is canonical
for an adjective to agree in gender, number, case, definiteness, or whatever with its
head noun. However, encoding strategies are heavily language dependent and their
study, while interesting for typology generally (as will become clear in section 4), is
tangential to our present concerns.
9.2.2 Canonical possession
It is sometimes thought that the prototypical possessive relationships include part/
whole, kinship, and legal ownership/disposal (Langacker 1991: 169, 1995: 59; Kopt-
jevskaja-Tamm 2001: 961). These are indeed the most frequent (and in this sense
prototypical) possessive meanings. However, the distinction between these three
meanings, on the one hand, and other possessive meanings, on the other, is rarely
grammaticalized. On the other hand, many languages do have unambiguous encod-
ing of the alienable/inalienable distinction (Chappell and McGregor 1996). As has
been repeatedly noted in the literature (among others Chomsky 1970; Jackend-
off 1977; Partee 1997; Partee and Borschëv 2003), the nature of this distinction largely
determines the semantics (and perhaps the syntax) of possessives. We therefore
prefer to treat alienables and inalienables differently.
There is no apparent way of grouping part/whole, kinship, and ownership to-
gether in semantic terms, while the alienable/inalienable distinction may be ex-
pressed as the opposition between relational vs. non-relational nouns. In this
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 215
chapter we will rely heavily on Barker’s (1995) insights in assuming that there is a
(relatively) clear semantic distinction to be drawn between alienable and inalienable
possession, specifically at the level of nominal argument structure representations.
Following much previous work, Barker (1995) distinguishes between ‘lexical’ (or
‘intrinsic’) possession and ‘extrinsic’ possession, which roughly correspond to ‘in-
alienable’ and ‘alienable’ possession, respectively. For the former the semantic
interpretation is determined by the meaning associated with the head noun, which
provides a determinate specification of the nature of the relation between the
possessor and the possessed. Thus, the phrase John’s wife biases an interpretation
of inalienable possession (‘the woman to whom John is married’). In principle, this
does not preclude the possibility that the expression could denote somebody else’s
wife, whom John has selected as a winner in a competition for wives, but such an
interpretation is constrained to occur in very special pragmatically stretched con-
texts and does not sound completely natural. This unique interpretation is ensured
by the fact that the nominal wife is relational. Relational nouns such as kin terms,
meronyms (part-of term, for instance, body parts), topological nouns, or nouns
denoting an inherent property are semantically dependent and expected to occur in
possession constructions, although the entities classified as inalienable are known to
vary considerably from language to language.5
The important point is that in each
language the choice is determined lexically: it has to do with the semantics (argu-
ment structure) of the possessed noun rather than style, the speaker’s construal of
the situation, or other similar factors (cf. Nichols 1992: 120).
So, the notion of inalienable possession refers to those nouns, or those nouns in
certain usages, whose semantics effectively defines them as two-place predicates:
lxly[head(x,y)], where the ‘y’ variable ranges over possible possessors (‘somebody’s
head’). The representations for ‘Mary’s head/daughter’ will therefore be roughly
as in (11):
(11) a. lxly[head(x,y)](mary)
b. lxly[daughter(x,y)](mary)
This entails the existence of the possessor argument. For instance, body parts imply
the existence of a body, as do other part-terms in part–whole relationships (such as
‘the corner of a box’). Similarly, kin terms imply their related kin terms: mother 
child, sister  sister and so on. In many languages with possessive agreement
morphology such words cannot be used without their possessor agreements (see
Nichols and Bickel 2005).
5
As is well known, there is no clear semantic basis for the alienable/inalienable opposition in a cross-
linguistic sense, nor any universally applicable hierarchy of what counts as inalienable (Chappell and
McGregor 1996: 89; Heine 1997). Moreover, there may be different degrees of inalienability: some
languages have several possessive classes. We will ignore these distinctions for present purposes.
216 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
Lexical possessives contrast in Barker’s theory with extrinsic (or alienable) pos-
sessives involving non-relational nouns, e.g. John’s book. As mentioned above, a
non-relational common noun is normally a one-place predicate: we can assume that
‘book’ has the argument structure lx[book(x)] or some such. In cultures that have
an institution of legal ownership the expression John’s book will often be paraphra-
sable as something like ‘the book which John owns’. However, this is by no means
the only possible interpretation. In many languages this expression can also refer to
the book that John wrote, the book that he stole, the book he always talks about, the
book he wants to buy, or the book that he has just been given to review as a class
assignment. The possessive relation here is not narrowly determined on the basis of
inherent semantic properties of the possessed noun and, consequently, it allows for
various readings. Although there is often a bias for an ownership interpretation,
consistent with a paraphrase using the verb own, other relations are also inferable.
That John’s book, unlike John’s wife, is semantically ambiguous is due to the fact that
the noun book is not intrinsically relational. Its semantic structure is such that there
is no exclusive candidate for elaboration by the possessor nominal. Whatever the
precise factors and mechanisms might be, the interpretation of the intended relation
between the possessor and the possessee is extrinsic to the lexical semantics of
possessed noun.
The twofold classification of possessives into lexical/intrinsic/inalienable and non-
lexical/extrinsic/alienable raises the question of which type is semantically ‘primary’.
We take inalienable possessives to instantiate canonical possession. Taylor (1989,
1995, 1996) suggested that the semantics of possessives is not amorphous but instead
has an internal structure, which does not depend on a single definitional criterion.
The possessive relationship is best regarded as a cluster of several independent
properties (simplified after Taylor 1996: 340):
(12) The possessive relationship
a. The possessor is a specific human being;
b. The possessed is an inanimate entity, usually a concrete physical object;
c. The relation is exclusive, in the sense that for any possessed entity, there is
usually only one possessor;
d. The possessor has exclusive rights of access to the possessed;
e. The possessed is typically an object of value, whether commercial or
sentimental;
f. The possessor’s rights of access to the possessed are invested in him
through a special transaction;
g. The possession relation is long term, measured in months and years, not
in minutes or seconds;
h. The possessor is typically located in the proximity of the possessed.
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 217
Inalienable possession is characterized by essentially all the properties listed above. It
involves an exclusive asymmetric long-term relation and physical proximity between
two entities; for each possessee there is only one possessor who has the right to make
use of the possessee, and the possessor is normally an individuated human being (cf.
Heine 1997, 2001). Quite probably humans are the most frequent possessors in type
and token corpus frequency measures (see Vergnaud and Zubizarreta 1992 and the
papers in Coene and d’Hulst 2003). It seems intuitively reasonable to say that
humans are also canonical possessors, however, nothing in our discussion hinges
on whether they are. Finally, it follows from the categorization in (12) that we take
inalienable possession to be a permanent property of a noun head. If ‘Mary’s head’
refers to her own head then the property ‘Mary has a head’ is surely a permanent, i.e.
individual-level property (Carlson 1977) of Mary, whereas if it refers, say, to a
chicken head she happens to have it is more likely to be a temporary, stage-level
possession. In sum, we believe that Taylor’s prototypical properties characterize
canonical (inalienable) possession, so this may well be a case of a prototypical
situation also being canonical.
Moving broadly from ‘most semantic/conceptual’ to ‘most syntactic’, we propose
the four groups of canonicity criteria for possession.
Semantics:
PossSem1: The relation between possessor and possessee is permanent (i.e. an
individual-level rather than stage-level predication)
PossSem2: Possessors are humans
PossSem3: Possessees are relational nouns (kin terms/meronyms . . . ) and hence
are two-place predicates
External syntax:
PossSyn1: (In languages with a specifier system), possessors occupy a spec(ifier)
position (and therefore are canonically in paradigmatic opposition to
other spec elements)
Internal syntax:
PossSyn2: (In languages with a specifier system), possessors can take their own
specifiers (other possessors and determiners) and attributive modifiers
Category:
PossSyn3: Possessors are (canonical) nouns, hence, show independent number
opposition, take attributive modifiers as adjuncts, determiners (and
possessors) as specifiers
PossSyn4: The possessed entity is a canonical noun
218 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
PossSyn5: The possessed noun is the semantic and syntactic head of the con-
struction (and the possessor expresses its argument)
The syntactic criteria seem to us to be fairly uncontroversial. One notion that may
require explanation is ‘specifier’. We broadly follow Sag, Wasow and Bender (2003)
in taking a specifier of a nominal to be a generalization of the notion of ‘determiner’,
that is, a syntactic satellite to a noun head which is not a complement or modifier
and which (canonically) serves to fix referential properties. The intuition we wish to
capture here is that canonical possessors are canonical nouns, and canonical nouns
have the potential to serve as referential expressions. In languages whose syntax
includes a specifier system this means that canonical nouns will take a specifier.
Moreover, by PossSyn1 in a canonical system with specifiers we expect possessors to
be in complementary distribution with determiner elements, and not, say, with
qualitative adjectives (indeed, we find it hard to even imagine such a possibility).
These criteria are not entirely independent. PossSyn2 follows in large part from
the fact that possessors are canonically nouns (PossSyn3), which in turn follows
from PossSem2 and PossSem3. Since possessors are nouns they will lexically head a
nominal phrase (NP or DP), hence, PossSyn2. However, we have not found a way of
deriving PossSyn1: although possessed nouns are canonically relational (PossSem3)
this does not mean that they have to have specifiers: the argument of a noun can
equally be expressed by means of an adpositional or case-marked complement, and,
indeed, has to be in a language which lacks a nominal specifier system.
9.2.3 Canonical modification
Following a long typological tradition (e.g. Dixon 1991; Croft 1990) we take the basic
type of modifier to be a word denoting some gradable property concept which
characterizes a physical object. Canonical modifiers are words denoting gradable
properties of size, shape, age, and the like. But we differ from Gil (2005) in that we do
not take colour terms to represent a canonical type of attribute (even if in some sense
colour might be a prototypical attribute). Colour terms tend to behave differently
from other attributes. They are often grammaticalized from nouns and can some-
times retain nominal properties lacking in true adjectives. This is even found in
English: for instance, in archaic or poetic registers we can say things like a sky of
blue, a coat of green, a wine of deepest red, and so on. These constructions are
unavailable to non-colour terms: *a sky of bright, *a coat of warm, *a wine of sweet.
Typologists agree that gradable property concepts are frequently expressed by a
separate word category of adjective (see Croft 1991 for typical discussion). Even
in languages in which the adjective is a minor or peripheral category, its exemplars
typically express prototypically gradable properties such as size or colour (Dixon
1991). We therefore propose that it is canonical for an adjective to denote a gradable
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 219
property (even though in those languages that have such a category, the adjective can
normally be used in a variety of functions). At the same time, we maintain with
many others, including Bhat (2000), Croft (1991), and Spencer (1999) that attributive
modification is the principal grammatical function realized by adjectives. The
predicative use of an adjective, or of any category other than a (finite) verb, is
secondary, as is secondary predication as in She painted the door blue.
Canonical modifiers are one-place predicates whose only argument is identified
with that of the head noun.6
In the standard semantic analysis, the meaning of
attributive modification by gradable property words such as the big house is set
intersection. The denotation of the adjective identifies a certain subset in the
denotation of the head noun by specifying which house is meant. Since modification
narrows the concept associated with the head noun, it serves the purpose of
classifying the respective entity. Distributionally, then, an adjective-noun group is
identical to a common noun in isolation. We will assume the standard semantics of
set intersection (taking both nouns and adjectives to be one-place predicates for the
sake of simplicity) (cf. Siegel 1980; Higginbotham 1985; Larson and Segal 1995 and
many other references). Thus, a typical instance will be (13):
(13) the big house: the (house \ big) ¼ lx [big(x) & house(x)]
In other words, the big house is an entity that belongs both to the class of houses and
the class of big things (modulo syncategorematicity).
The standard syntax of attributive modification is adjunction or juxtaposition of
attribute and head. The adjective itself does not determine phrasal properties in any
way. Where a language has a specifier system we take it to be canonical for attributes
to be distinguished from specifiers by iterativity: canonically it is possible to have an
indefinite number of attributive modifiers but it is non-canonical to have more than
one specifier. (Recall that ‘canonical’ does not mean ‘prototypical’, so the fact that
multiple attributes are generally rare is not relevant here.) For languages which have
a wealth of adjective-oriented morphosyntactic devices a canonical attribute will, for
instance, agree with the head for typical features (especially gender, but also number
and perhaps case, definiteness, and other nominal categories).
Canonical properties of attributive modifiers:
Semantics:
ModSem1: The modified element denotes a physical object
ModSem2: Modifiers denote gradable property concepts and hence one-
place predicates
6
A good deal of discussion of adjective semantics centres around puzzles such as ‘alleged criminal’,
‘good violinist’, and so on. We take such syncategorematic adjectives to be non-canonical and not relevant
to our discussion.
220 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
External syntax:
ModSyn1: Modifiers are adjuncts to noun heads
Internal syntax:
ModSyn2: Modifiers do not take specifiers and other (attributive) modifiers
Category:
ModSyn3: Modifiers are (canonical) adjectives
ModSyn4: The modified word is a canonical noun
ModSyn5: The modified word is the semantic and syntactic lexical head of
the construction (and the modifier the dependent)
We can summarize the syntactic difference between canonical modifiers and pos-
sessors schematically as in (14):
(14) Canonical modifiers and possessors compared
Possessors Modifiers
Lexical class N A
Syntactic distribution Spec, NP Adjunct
9.3 Intermediate (non-canonical) constructions
We now explore two sets of constructions headed by lexical nouns, one a type of
non-canonical modification, modification-by-noun, and the other non-canonical
possession, namely, alienable possession. In this section we summarize the way
that the two intermediate construction types are related to each other and to our
two canonical types.
9.3.1 Modification-by-noun
Given our characterization of canonical modifiers in section 9.2.3, non-canonical
modifiers denote non-gradable properties such as circumstances (time, place, man-
ner), function, material, events, and the like. It is possible for languages to modify
nouns with reference to such entities, even if they have purely noun-like denotations
(such as concrete count nouns) and belong to the lexical class of nouns. This means
that categorially non-canonical modifiers are words which canonically denote a
referential object rather than words which denote a property. We therefore refer
to this type as modification-by-noun.7
According to Koptjevskaja-Tamm (2000,
7
There does not seem to be a standard term for this semantic phenomenon. It has been referred to
as ‘non-anchoring relation’ in Koptjevskaja-Tamm (2000, 2004) and other work, and as ‘specification’
in Heine (1997: 156–7), but the latter term is also used in defining phrase structure relations, so we will
not use it.
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 221
2004), a dependent in the modification-by-noun relation (the modifying noun)
serves to classify, describe, or qualify the class of entities denoted by the head,
whereas Heine (1997: 157) states that it ‘refers to the same general entity as the
specified’ and characterizes the head noun by narrowing down the range of possible
referents that may qualify as the specified. These descriptions effectively characterize
intersective modification: the modified expression denotes a subset of the entities
denoted by the head noun.
A typical instance of modification-by-noun is Germanic-style noun-noun com-
pounding. In a regular endocentric compound of the type London bus or coffee table
the first noun serves as the attributive modifier of the head noun. Such modifying
nouns may sometimes take their own attributive modifiers, but they are similar to
adjectives in that they fail to take nominal specifiers such as definite articles (*a [the
capital] bus vs. a London bus). In English it is especially difficult to determine
whether the modifier London in London bus is categorially a noun or an adjective
because there is little relevant morphology which distinguishes the two categories,
but modifying nouns in non-lexicalized compounds have a distribution which is
rather similar to that of adjectives. For instance, we can coordinate such nouns with
adjectives: tribal and clan allegiances (see also Huddleston and Pullum 2002: Ch. 5,
section 14.4, on what they call the ‘composite nominal construction’).
The semantics of noun-noun compounding is a matter of debate. There are two
approaches, which we can think of as the semantic approach and the pragmatic
approach. Proponents of the semantic approach try to identify a small set of
primitive semantic relations that hold between head and modifier, such as location,
instrument, part-of, and so on. A good example of this approach is Levi (1978).
Proponents of the pragmatic approach argue that the relation between the two
nouns can be any pragmatically appropriate, contextually determined relation.
Downing (1977) provides a wealth of instances of compounds which can be inter-
preted in a whole host of ways depending on the precise context. For instance, bike
girl could mean ‘girl who comes to work on a bike’, ‘girl who is standing next to a
bike’, or whatever. When we look at nonce formations it is difficult to avoid the
conclusion that only the pragmatic account is adequate, because it’s so easy to
concoct or attest examples which defy any analysis in purely semantic terms. Even
fixed lexicalized expressions can sometimes be impossible to define in terms of
simple semantic primitives. For example, speed camera means ‘photographic appar-
atus for taking images of drivers exceeding the speed limit’. We therefore assume
that the semantic contribution of the noun-noun compound construction is to
predicate an unspecified, contextually determined relation, <, between the two
nouns (cf. Allen’s ‘R’-relation (1978) and many subsequent authors).
222 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
Many languages do not allow a noun to modify another noun directly and so we
find a variety of morphosyntactic encoding strategies being deployed in order to
express dependencies of the kind ‘Noun1 which bears some relation to Noun2’. A
popular strategy is to turn a noun into a word which has the grammatical properties
of an adjective. We will call such denominal adjectives ‘relational adjectives’.8
The
‘pure’ form of relational adjective is one in which the derived adjectival form has
exactly the same range of denotations as the original (undetermined) noun. In other
words, a relational adjective is derived from the base noun by a process of trans-
position (Beard 1995) which alters the morphosyntax of the word but does not
introduce any additional predicate to the semantic representation. Relational adjec-
tive formation is simply a way of bringing a noun into line with the grammar of the
language so that it can serve as a syntactic modifier. In this sense, the construction
‘relational adjective þ noun’ subserves effectively the same function as English
noun-noun compounding, and may be synonymous to it, cf. the English expressions
prepositional phrase/preposition phrase.
English relational adjectives do not provide good models of the type of construc-
tion we are interested in. They are generally borrowings from Romance languages or
Greek and compete with other devices for realizing modification-by-noun, notably
with noun-noun compounding. Moreover, English relational adjectives seldom have
a purely relational semantics, but often acquire additional nuances of meaning or
restrictions on meaning. In other languages, however, especially those lacking the
compounding strategy, a relational adjective will typically involve no additional
semantics whatsoever. In Russian, which lacks Germanic-type noun-noun com-
pounding, relational adjectives are derived from nouns with the suffix -n-. Like
canonical qualitative adjectives, they normally precede the head and agree with it in
case, number, and gender, although their syntactic behaviour does differ in part
from the behaviour of qualitative adjectives: relational adjectives in Russian do not
normally occur as predicates and lack so-called ‘short forms’. A typical example is
knižnyj magazin ‘book shop’, where kniž- is the palatalized allomorph of the root
knig- ‘book’ found before suffixes such as -n-, while -yj is an agreement affix.
The meaning of relational adjectives in -n- is as general as in English noun-noun
compounds. For example, knižnyj usually means ‘having books, with books’ and
zvezdnyj > zvezda ‘star’ typically means ‘starry, having stars, with stars’. However, it
is easy to find examples with lexicalized uses, just as we can find compounds with
fixed interpretations. For instance, stennoj derived from stena ‘wall’ does not mean
‘having a wall, with a wall’ but ‘located on a wall’ (relation of place), zamočnyj
derived from zamok ‘lock’ typically means ‘used for a lock’ (relation of purpose),
moločnyj derived from moloko ‘milk’ usually means ‘made of milk’ (relation of
8
Though the reader is warned that the term ‘relational adjective’ is sometimes used in other senses, too.
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 223
material), and nočnoj derived from noč’ ‘night’ means ‘in the night’ (time relation).
But even with examples such as these we find alternative uses. The particular
interpretation depends on the semantics of the base noun and general knowledge
of the world. For instance, moločnyj can occur in expressions such as moločnyj
kombinat/zavod ‘milk factory’, moločnaja dieta ‘milk diet’, moločnyj saxar ‘lactose’
(literally ‘milk sugar’), and moločnyj brat ‘brother through one’s wetnurse’. While
zvezdnyj usually has the proprietive meaning of ‘with/having stars’ as in zvezdnoe
nebo ‘starry sky’, with other head nouns it can have other meanings, cf. zvezdnye
vojny ‘star wars’, zvezdnyj god ‘sidereal year’, and zvezdnaja karta ‘star chart’ (see
also other examples cited in Mezhevich 2002).
Thus, the semantics of Russian relational adjectives in -n- is essentially empty:
they express some pragmatically defined relation between the head noun and its
modifier.9
Overall, then, the range of functions and uses of relational adjectives
corresponds very closely to the range of functions and uses of attributively modify-
ing nouns in noun-noun compounds.
In sum, in modification-by-noun a head noun is modified by a word which itself
has the (canonical) denotation of a noun. This means that the modifier is non-
canonical in a categorial sense. This type of modification involves a non-canonical
use of an object-denoting word (a noun or some denominal category) and has to be
to some extent syntactically non-canonical simply by virtue of the fact that attribu-
tive modification is a non-canonical grammatical function for such words to realize.
A noun used as an attributive modifier will lose some of its canonical noun
properties, in particular, its referentiality. This is particularly clear in languages
with a specifier system: attributively used nouns can sometimes head their own
modifiers but do not normally take their own specifiers. For proponents of the DP-
hypothesis, for instance, this means that what gets turned into an attribute is an
expression of category N or NP, not DP.
Whether modification-by-noun is syntactically non-canonical in other respects is
not so clear. If a language permits a noun to modify another noun by means of
syntactic adjunction then perhaps we can say that the structure is syntactically a
canonical modification structure. (Matters are made more complex here by the fact
that there is relatively little agreement about the nature of adjunction in any case,
and in the case of attributive modification in particular.) However, this seems to us
unlikely. In practice, noun-noun compounding, if syntactic at all, lacks much of the
syntactic freedom of genuine attributive modification. Indeed, a canonical definition
9
Although the distinction between relational and qualitative adjectives is primarily semantic, the
boundary between them is vague in part because many relational adjectives may acquire a metaphorical
qualitative meaning, cf. serdečnaja bolezn’ ‘heart disease’ and serdečnyj čelovek ‘warm-hearted person’
(literally ‘heart person’). The former is interpreted as involving a relation between the notions ‘disease’ and
‘heart’, and the latter expresses a quality of the modified noun and does not contain a direct reference to
heart.
224 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
of compounding might well take a compound to be a type of word rather than a type
of phrase. One could argue that the canonical semantic purpose of a compound is to
serve as a name for some permanently or temporarily nameworthy entity (see Dahl
2004: 252, 256; Booij 2009; and Spencer 2011).
Modification-by-noun is also semantically non-canonical, in that it has to be
mediated by a pragmatically determined relation. Although it appears in some
cases that the relation between modifier and modified is semantically specified (a
bookshop would be odd if it did not sell books, but much odder if it were not even a
shop), in many cases the nature of the relationship between the modifier noun and
the head noun is not determined by the meanings of the parts and is instead
contextually or pragmatically defined.
9.3.2 Alienable possession
The second intermediate construction type, alienable possession, is illustrated by
expressions such as John’s book. In languages such as English there hardly seems to
be any morphosyntactic difference between this and inalienable possession (e.g.
John’s wife) though of course in many languages the two types are sharply distin-
guished. But even when alienable possession looks superficially like inalienable
possession they differ in terms of argument structure of the possessed noun. We
have argued above that if the possessum is a relational noun, the possessive relation
is the relation implied by the possessum, and this corresponds to inalienable
possession. But if the possessum is non-relational, there will be no way for the
head noun to determine the semantic relation between the two nouns. Alienable
possession is defined over a noun lacking the lexical, intrinsic argument structure of
a relational noun. It often (always?) has semantic range extending beyond the core
semantic notions of kin relation, body part, part-whole, or ‘ownership’, and in fact
the precise relationship has to be determined by the context and pragmatics, rather
like a noun-noun compound in English.10
For instance, as mentioned above, an
expression like John’s book means essentially no more than ‘the book which bears
some relation to John’. It does not make a great deal of sense semantically to think of
these interpretations as possession in a strict sense, despite the fact that this is
commonly the type of term used to describe these constructions. The only reason
for referring to them as possession is because the formal means of expressing these
meanings are often the same as those for expressing ownership.
The question is how non-canonical possessive meanings arise and how a single
construction comes to express such a profusion of semantic relations. We have seen
10
Kay and Zimmer (1976) argue that the possessive (in their terms, Genitive) NP is simply a
metalinguistic instruction to the hearer that there is some kind of relation between the possessor and
the possessee. The hearer automatically supplies the appropriate interpretation in a manner that makes
sense, given the context in which they appear.
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 225
that Taylor describes the semantics of possession as the prototypical properties listed
in (12) above. Since the prototype is a complex cluster of properties, it permits
deviations. Possessive constructions involving non-relational nouns are open to
multiple interpretations which differ greatly with regard to their relative degree of
prototypicality in the sense that the more relevant properties characterize the
relation, the more it resembles the inalienable prototype. For example, when John’s
book is taken to mean ‘the book that John is reading at the moment (but which does
not belong to him)’ properties (12c), (12d), (12g), and perhaps (12f). do not hold.
Deviations are restricted by context-based conditions and can be described with
reference to various parameters, such as control and time (Heine 1997). The context
here may be characterized in terms of the speaker’s encyclopaedic knowledge of the
usual relation(s) that obtain between the relevant entities, as well as the specific
discourse situation that might mediate and modify this relation.
Some languages exhibit several alienable constructions signalling different kinds
of semantic relationships between the possessor and the possessed. For instance, in
Lonwolwol (Oceanic) so-called direct possessive marking occurs when the possessed
item is an inalienable object, which includes most kinship terms, most body parts,
and other parts of wholes (data from Paton 1971):
(15) a. hela-k b. v«ra-m
brother-1sg hand-2sg
‘my brother’ ‘your hand’
In contrast, alienable nouns can occur with one of the five indirect possessive hosts
which denote the intended use of the possessum, and act as host to the possessive
pronouns: liquid possessive host, container possessive host, fire possessive host,
vessel possessive host, and the general possessive host used for nouns that do not
belong to other categories. In this construction the possessive host itself receives the
agreement marker, for instance:
(16) a-k m«l«h
edible-1sg food
‘my food’
When the possessor is a lexical noun we see two constructions. With inalienable
possession we see the direct construction but with the possessor juxtaposed to the
possessum. With alienable possession the third person agreement marker attaches to
one of the five possessive hosts:
(17) a. hela-n vant«n
brother-3sg man
‘a/the man’s brother’
226 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
b. w« ma-n bülbülan
water liquid-3sg friend
‘the water of the friend’
Which of the five hosts the alienable possessor noun occurs with does not depend on
its own meaning, but rather on the nature of the relation that holds between the
possessor and the possessed:
(18) a. ha-k ol
general-1sg coconut
‘my copra (my coconut used as copra)’
b. a-k ol
edible-1sg coconut
‘my coconut (for eating)’
c. ma-k ol
liquid-1sg coconut
‘my coconut (for drinking)’
What we have here is grammaticalization of a number of specific semantic relations
within the very general semantically underdetermined relation between the alienable
possessor and possessed.11
It is important then (as many have pointed out) that the notion of alienable
possession should not be equated with any notion of a ‘legal’ ownership. Ownership
may well be the frequent interpretation in cultures with a notion of personal
property and, like inalienable possession, it involves more or less all relevant
properties. That is why it is often taken to be one of the prototypical possessive
relationships. However, it is very easy to override that interpretation. We doubt that
ownership (under whatever construal) is in some sense a canonical interpretation for
alienable possession. A more subtle interpretation, valid for many languages, might
be that ownership is a (perhaps language-specific) unmarked default interpretation
of alienable possession.12
On the other hand, it is unclear what other type of
interpretation could be canonical for alienable possession. The interpretation of
alienable possession thus seems to proceed along much the same lines as modifica-
tion-by-noun, provided we factor out those instances in which ownership is implied.
11
We are grateful to Dunstan Brown for comments which clarified our thinking about examples such
as these.
12
Taylor (1989: 681) argues that when the possessor is in focus (This is john’s car), as well as in some
other special contexts in English, the ownership reading is the only available interpretation of the alienable
possessive relation. Barker (1995) and Storto (2004) provide further evidence that (legal) ownership is an
unmarked interpretation of extrinsic possessives.
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 227
There are two points to make about the syntax of alienable possession.
First, alienable possession is non-canonical as a syntactic construction because the
possessed noun (head) is a non-canonical, non-relational possessum, hence, the
possession relation is not well defined. The possessive meaning is obtained by
effectively allowing ‘coercion’ of a possessor argument on a noun which does not
really have that argument structure (indeed, this is exactly how alienable possession
is expressed in Lexical Functional Grammar, see Bresnan 2001: 293). It may well be
that we would wish to say that a non-relational noun (such as girl or tree as opposed
to leg or branch) is canonical as a noun, but such a noun is not canonical as a
possessed noun.
There are, in fact, several ways in which a noun can be non-canonical as a
possessed noun. The most important are listed in (19):
(19) Non-canonical types of possessed noun
non-relational object tree, girl
event journey
deverbal/deadjectival noun destruction, arrival, sincerity
While simple event nouns such as journey do not seem to be much different from
any other non-relational noun, the overtly deadjectival or deverbal nouns interact
with possessive constructions in a rather complex way, as is well known from the
copious literature on argument structure realization in such constructions. Typically,
the possessive construction is used with such derived nominals to express one or
other of the base lexeme’s arguments: the enemy’s destruction of the city, Mary’s
arrival, the President’s sincerity are all directly relatable to the enemy destroyed the
city, Mary arrived, and the President is sincere. The fact that such nouns have an
implied argument structure brings them closer to the canonical possessed noun, but
they do not give rise to canonical possessive constructions. Even if we were to
identify true relational nouns such as kin terms with deverbal nominals, thereby
satisfying PossSem3 by fiat (a dubious manoeuvre), the latter would still almost
always violate criterion PossSem1.
The second important point about the syntax of alienable possession is that it is
similar to inalienable possession in that the possessor is canonically a fully fledged
NP/DP, and not just a bare noun. This makes alienable possessors crucially different
from the nominal modifiers discussed in section 9.3.1, even though in both cases we
have a one-place predicate and some kind of semantically underdetermined relation
between the dependent and the head. We have seen that modification-by-noun is
just that, a relation between two nouns, while alienable possession is a relation
between a head noun and a noun phrase. It is because alienable possession estab-
lishes a relation between a NP/DP and a head noun that it can so readily assume the
same form of morphosyntactic expression as inalienable possession.
228 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
9.4 The morphosyntax of possession-modification
in typological perspective
There exist languages which take our four-way typology seriously and adopt four
different encoding strategies, though this is not especially frequent. One example is
Lele (NigerKongo, data from Frajzyngier 2001), which exhibits the alienable/inali-
enable opposition. The inalienable construction is head marked: the head noun
follows the dependent and bears possessive agreement that indicates the gender of
the possessor (20a, b). With alienable possession the word order is reversed: the
dependent precedes the head. The dependent is followed by marker kV agreeing
with the head in gender (20c):
(20) a. kùrmbàlo cày
chief head.3m
‘chief ’s head’
b. kùrmbàlo kamday
chief wife.pl3m
‘chief ’s wives’ (Frajzyngier 2001: 66)
c. grà cànigé kèy
dog Canige gen.3m
‘Canige’s dog’ (Frajzyngier 2001: 70)
In contrast, nominal modification is achieved by simple juxtaposition of two
nouns involving no agreement and no linking elements, as shown in (21) (Frajzyngier
2001: 75):
(21) a. kàrà túgú
people village
‘village people’
b. wèlè kàsùgù
day market
‘market day (¼ Sunday)’
c. Godu tamá
monkey woman
‘monkey woman’
Property-denoting words used as attributive modifiers take one of two forms
(Frajzyngier 2001: 88). Either we see a postnominal attribute agreeing in number
and gender with the head (22a, b), or we see a postnominal non-agreeing verbal form
(a deverbal noun, 22c):
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 229
(22) a. tamá tùnya
woman(F) tall.f
‘tall woman’
b. kama jàlwa
waters cold.pl
‘cold waters’
c. kùlbá bóré
cow be.white.vn
‘white cow’
Other languages which belong to this type are Tuvaluan (Besnier 2000) and Hoava
(Davis 2003). In a number of other languages the alienability opposition is absent but
modification-by-noun and attributive modification are clearly distinct from posses-
sion, so our four construction types are rendered by three encoding strategies. This is
the case in Turkish and Kolyma Yukaghir (Maslova 2003).
At the other end of the spectrum, Chukchi (Chukotko-Kamchatkan) illustrates a
language type in which all four constructions under consideration are expressed by
essentially the same encoding strategy, in this case an adjectival strategy. Chukchi has
distinct morphology for deriving both relational and possessive adjectives and
both types of adjective are fully productive (Koptjevskaja-Tamm 1995; Skorik 1961:
225–68 on possessive adjectives, 268–80 on relational adjectives. NB both these
sections come in the ‘Nouns’ chapter of Skorik’s grammar). The possessive
adjectives are formed with the suffix -(n)in(e)/-(n)en(a) (for plural human possessors
-rgine/-rgena) as in (23a), while the relational adjectives are formed with -kin(e)/-ken
(a), as in (23b).13
(23) Possessive and relational adjectives in Chukchi
a. Possessive adjectives in -(n)in(e)/-rgin(e)
etlegen ‘father’ etleg-in wale ‘father’s knife’
?ett?e ‘dog’ ?ett?-in renren ‘(the/a) dog’s food’
tenec?en ‘flower’ tenec?-in wetwet ‘the leaf of the/a flower’
b. Relational adjectives in -kin
emnun ‘tundra’ emnun-kin gennik ‘tundra animal’
l?elen ‘summer’ l?elen-kin ewir?en ‘summer clothing’
Possessive adjectives in Chukchi tend to be used for kin relations, part-whole
relations, ownership, and other relations cross-linguistically described under the
13
The relational adjective strategy is not incompatible with the compounding strategy. Chukchi has
noun-noun compounding as well, but relational adjective formation is very productive and less prone to
lexicalization and in this sense is the default way to achieve modification-by-noun.
230 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
rubric of prototypical possession, and are regularly found with inanimate nouns, too.
The relational adjectives, however, are found mostly with inanimate nouns and are
used for general pragmatically determined relations (but with some overlap with
possessive adjectives, e.g. for part–whole relations). Inanimates then can take either
the possessive suffix or the relational suffix. Skorik (1961: 268–9) offers the minimal
pair reproduced in (24a, b):
(24) a. weem-in pec?ec?en
river-poss.adj current
‘the river(’s) current’
b. weem-kine-t wekwə-t
river-rel.adj-pl rock-pl
‘the rocks in the river’
Skorik (1961: 249, 268) explicitly states that with inanimates, possessive morphology
entails inalienable possession (for us, a kind of canonical possession), while relational
morphology entails alienable possession. On the other hand, animates seldom take
relational adjective suffixes, even to express alienable possession. For them the pos-
sessive forms express both alienable and inalienable possession. Chukchi then has a
possessive suffix for nouns which are prototypically able to own things, but possessive
morphology has been co-opted for expressing a prototypically possessive relationship
with respect to inanimates, namely, inalienable possession (particularly, part–whole).
Possessive adjectives are the principal way of expressing NP-internal possession in
this language. The example below is taken from Dunn (1999: 148–53).14
It shows that
the possessive form retains its nominal category, in that it can take its own possessor.
(25) Jare-n uweqəc-in ətləg-ə-n
Jare-poss.adj.3sg.abs husband-poss.adj.3sg.abs father-e-3sg.abs
‘[He was] Jare’s husband’s father’ (Dunn 1999: 149)
The possessor can also be modified by an adjective. The adjective is incorporated
when unfocused. For instance, the analytic phrase n-ilgə-qin qoraNə ‘ADJ-white-
ADJ reindeer’, ‘white reindeer’ focuses to some extent on the adjective ‘white’,
whereas the incorporated form elgə-qoraNə ‘white-reindeer’ is neutral with respect
to information structure (Skorik 1961: 103, 429). With the (circumfixal) comitative
and coordinative cases incorporation is obligatory, as seen in (26):15
(26) qolet?əljo muri nivinimuri ga-npənacg-ərg-ena-akka-ta
next.day we hunted com-old.man-pl-poss.adj-son-com
‘The next day we hunted with the sons of the old men.’
14
In the morpheme glosses ‘e’ stands for an epenthetic schwa which cannot be affiliated to any
particular morpheme.
15
Plural number is not usually expressed in oblique cases in the class of nouns to which ekk- ‘son’
belongs. The vowel alternations are the result of regular vowel harmony.
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 231
In (27) (Dunn 1999: 150) we see the possessive form -njiw-in of the noun -njiw-
‘uncle’, modified by means of an incorporated adjective ?eqe ‘bad’:
(27) ənr?aq ənqen ?eqe-njiw-in ekke-t¼?m
then that bad-uncle-poss.adj.3sg.abs son-3pl.abs¼emph
lejw–ə–lə–ə–t jet-g?e-t ecgi
walk-e-nmlz-e-3pl.abs come-pfv-3pl as.soon.as
ənqen ?era-mNəl-at-NNo-g?a-t
that.3sg.abs race-announce-e-inch-pfv-3pl
‘Then that bad uncle’s sons came, they walked there, as soon as they heard
about the race.’
On the other hand, possessive and relational adjectives are ‘true’ adjectives in the
sense that they show attributive agreement with the head, as shown in (28):
(28) a. nelwəl?ə-kine-k ?aacekə-k
herd-rel.adj-loc youth-loc
‘at the youth from the herd’ (i.e. ‘belonging to’)
b. mirg-ine-t kupre-t
grandfather-poss.adj-pl net-pl
‘grandfather’s nets’
c. mirg-ine-te kupre-te
grandfather-poss.adj-ins net-ins
‘with grandfather’s net’
Chukchi then employs the same adjectival strategy for all construction types. This is
also true of Hindi and Albanian, except that in Chukchi the modifying noun is
transposed into an adjective lexically, whereas in Hindi and Albanian the entire
noun phrase is turned into an agreeing attributive modifier by a particle or post-
position which bears the agreement morphology. Although Hindi and Albanian do
have noun-noun compounds with attributive meaning, these are apparently not as
productive as those, say, of the Germanic languages (as Kachru (2006: 114) explicitly
points out for Hindi). In Albanian the possessive construction would appear to be
the default, productive way of achieving modification-by-noun. Buchholz and Fie-
dler (1987: 219–21) identify twenty-five uses for the adnominal possessive, including
subject-like functions (‘the answer of the pupil’, ‘the author of the article’), object-
like functions (‘the defence of the fatherland’), picture-noun constructions, partitive-
type constructions (‘a salad of tomatoes’, ‘the number of listeners’), and so on. The
kaa-strategy in Hindi is also a productive way of expressing modification-by-noun
and is regularly used to render a wide range of types (the following examples are
taken from Dymshits 1986: 5–8: time, puchle saal kii fasal ‘last year kaa harvest’, ‘last
year’s harvest’; material, lakr
 ii kaa ghar ‘wood kaa house’, ‘wooden house’, quality;
232 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
laal rang kaa kapr
 aa ‘red colour kaa material’, ‘red-coloured material’, khušii ke
aasuu ‘joy kaa tears’, ‘tears of joy’; quantity, tiin saal kaa baccaa ‘three years
kaa child’, ‘three-year-old child’, paac rupaye kii kitaab ‘five rupees kaa book’,
‘five-rupee book’, bii kilomiit
ar kaa raastaa ‘twenty kilometer kaa road’, ‘twenty-
kilometer road’; function, bait
hne kii jagah ‘place kaa sitting’, ‘place for sitting’,
nahaane kaa paanii ‘bathing kaa water’, ‘bathing water’, silaaii kii mašiin ‘sewing
kaa machine’, ‘sewing machine’. In addition, the kaa construction expresses the
subject, object, instrument, and other arguments of deverbal nominals in expressions
of the form ‘the arrival of the delegation’, ‘the director of the school’, ‘preparation for
the journey’, ‘a feeling of confidence’, and so on.
When different morphosyntactic strategies are used for different construction
types, modification-by-noun occupies a pivotal point in the typology of the posses-
sion-modification family of constructions. Languages very often co-opt either the
adjectival strategy or the possession strategy to express such a meaning, but as far as
we can tell, there has been very little discussion in the literature about precisely these
relationships.
The type that involves two major strategies, one for possession and another for
modification, is very widespread. For example, in Taleshi alienable and inalienable
possession is expressed by the number-dependent ‘oblique’ marker on the depen-
dent noun.16
(29) a. Huseyn-i ka b. merdak-un ka
Huseyn-obl.sg house men-obl.pl house
‘Huseyn’s house’ ‘men’s house’
c. palang-i pust
panther-obl.sg skin
‘the skin of the panther’
Other semantic types employ the uninflectable linking clitic -a. In (30) we show
examples of nominal modification expressing various semantic relations, whereas
(31) shows attributive modification:
(30) a. palang-a pust b. səng-a ka
panther-lkr skin stone-lkr house
‘panther skin’ ‘stone house’
c. ner-a palang
male-lkr panther
‘male panther’
16
The Taleshi data are obtained from Gerardo De Caro.
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 233
(31) a. xub-a âdam b. qašang-a kela
good-lkr man beautiful-lkr girl
‘a/the good man’ ‘a/the beautiful girl’
In some languages modifying nouns are not turned into adjectives by an overt
derivational process, but show canonical adjectival properties such as attributive
agreement. For instance, in Tundra Nenets (Uralic) the possessive construction with
lexical possessors is dependent-marked: the possessor takes the genitive expressed by
-h in the singular and -q in the plural on non-possessed nouns, or a variety of other
affixes on possessed nouns. The possessive construction renders the usual alienable
and inalienable meanings:
(32) a. nyíbya-h mal8 b. puxacya-h pad8ko
needle-gen end woman-gen bag
‘the end of the needle’ ‘the woman’s bag’
In contrast, qualitative and nominal modification is expressed by prenominal juxta-
position. The semantic difference between these two constructions has been studied
in detail by Tereščenko (1967) and Tereščenko (1973: 219ff.) and by Nikolaeva (2002),
where it is argued that the dependent genitive expresses the relationship between two
referents, while the dependent nominative is non-referential and expresses a prop-
erty. Consider the following contrast:
(33) a. ti-h ya
reindeer-gen soup
‘reindeers’ soup, soup for the reindeer’
b. ti ya
reindeer soup
‘reindeer soup (soup made of reindeer meat)’
Other examples of nominal modification are sax8r xidya ‘sugar cup, cup used for sugar’
and myercya pyi ‘windy night’. The dependent nominative shows optional number
agreement with the head. In this it does not differ from qualitative adjectives, cf.:
(34) a. nyarawa-q loNkey8-q b. serako-q loNkey8-q
copper-pl button-pl white-pl button-pl
‘copper buttons’ ‘white buttons’
A roughly similar pattern obtains in a Numic language, Tümpisa (Panamint)
Shoshone, described by Dayley (1989), where genitives do not agree, whereas adjec-
tives and modificational nouns show case agreement with the head.
In contrast, a language such as Finnish uses its possessive construction with
genitive case as its principal productive strategy for modification-by-noun (there
are also noun-noun compounds in Finnish but their productivity is not as great as
234 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
in, say, Germanic languages). Possession is expressed by putting the possessor in the
genitive case in -n: Presidenti-n nimi ‘the President’s name’, kirjo-j-en sisältö ‘book-
pl-gen content’, ‘the content of the books’ (Karlsson 1987: 89). Karlsson explicitly
notes that the genitive strategy is the principal modification-by-noun strategy when
he says ‘Genitive expressions < . . . > are typical to Finnish; in many European
languages the corresponding forms are preposition or adjective structures or com-
pound nouns.’ He then cites examples including:
(35) a. Helsingi-n yliopisto
Helsinki-gen university
‘Helsinki University’
b. Niemise-n perhe
Nieminen-gen family
‘the Nieminen family’
c. ruotsi-n kieli-n opettaja
Swede-gen language-gen teacher
‘the Swedish language teacher’
Finnish attributive adjectives are a clearly distinguishable lexical category and they
agree with their head noun in number and case (there is no grammatical gender). Other
languages which belong to this type are, for example Swedish and Hausa. In these
languages the possessive encoding strategy is employed for modification-by-noun.
Finally, we find languages in which only non-canonical alienable possession (but
not canonical inalienable possession) assimilates in some sense to the class of
modifiers. For instance, in Miya (Chadic) the primary strategy for attributive
modification involves postnominal adjectives agreeing in gender and number with
the head. Miya further opposes the so-called ‘direct’ and ‘indirect’ genitives (Schuh
1998: 246f.). Direct genitives indicate inalienable possession and involve tonal alter-
nations but no agreement-sensitive elements.
(36) a. báa Vàziya b. átín laahə
father Vaziya nose jackal
‘Vaziya’s father’ ‘jackal’s nose’
Indirect or ‘linked’ genitives have the following structure: ‘head noun–agreeing
linker–dependent noun’. The linker is syntactically and phonologically attached
to the dependent and expresses gender and number agreement. The construction
is ambiguous between alienable possession and modificational interpretations, as
illustrated in (37) and (38), respectively.17
(37) a. mb
ergu na Vaziya b. t
emakwíy niy Vaziya
ram lkr.m Vaziya sheep.pl lkr.pl Vaziya
‘Vaziya’s ram’ ‘Vaziya’s sheep’
17
In these examples variations in the form of the masculine singular linker na/n are determined
phonologically by the quality of the following segment.
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 235
(38) a. dlángər naakám b. ts
erak
e taamúku
animal lkr.m.house standing lkr.f.sun
‘domestic animal’ ‘midday’
Thus, both non-canonical constructions (modification-by-noun and alienable pos-
session) are expressed by the adjectival strategy.
In Yamphu (Tibeto-Burman), as described in Rutgers (1998), the genitive in mi(n)
is used for inalienable possession (although it is not entirely clear what counts as
inalienable in this language). The genitive does not agree. But other types of
adnominal dependent host an attributivizing morpheme which agrees with the
head in number: m(a) in the singular and h(a) in the plural. It can be used on
attributive adjectives (albeit optionally).
(39) a. utthri;ma akma b. utthri;ha uN
white.sg.attr pig white.pl.attr flowers
‘white pig’ ‘white flowers’
Attributivizers are also found on nouns if they combine with postpositions and oblique
cases. These elements express various relationships between the head and dependent
noun, for example, the similative or sociative. This exemplifies modification-by-noun.
(40) a. pasadokma hæN
child.sim.sg.attr you
‘you who are like a child’
b. akoknuNha yamiji
load.soc.pl.attr person.nsg
‘people with a load, load people’
In addition, the plural attributivizer is present on the so-called ‘possessive’ case in -æ
(the singular attributivizer is omitted in this instance). The possessive case expresses
‘a certain belonging together’ (Rutgers 1998: 70), which can be understood as some
kind of possessive relation but ‘the nature of the relationship need not be so strict’.
This corresponds to our understanding of semantically undetermined alienable
possession. Alienable possession is illustrated in (41):
(41) a. Sittambæ khimbe b. ma;ksæ gotthabe
Sittambæ.poss house.loc bear.poss shed.loc
‘in the house of Sittamb’ ‘in the shed of the bear’
We can say that examples (40) and (41), i.e. nominal modification and alienable
possession, exemplify the same encoding strategy: the dependent agrees with the
head and hosts an additional marker which specifies the exact nature of the semantic
relationship between the head and the dependent. In our examples it is similative,
sociative, or ‘possessive’ (i.e. general pragmatically defined relation). The point is
236 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
that, just like in Miya, this strategy differs from non-agreeing inalienable genitives
and exhibits canonical modificational morphosyntax (attributive concord).
9.5 The canonical perspective on possession-modification
We began our study with the observation that constructions which realize attributive
modification and (inalienable) possession share the property of being headed by a
noun, embodied in our virtually equivalent criteria ModSyn4/ModSyn5 and Poss-
Syn4/PossSyn5. We developed a set of semantic, syntactic, and categorial criteria
for canonical attributive modification and canonical inalienable possession and
argued that modification-by-noun and alienable possession constructions are non-
canonical variants of these canonical constructions. Thus, we can take a canonical
instance of possession, such as John’s head or the branch of the tree and progressively
render it less canonical by violating increasingly more of the canonical criteria. We
can replace the relational term ‘head’ with a non-relational term such as ‘hat’ or
‘knife’ and obtain an instance of alienable possession, John’s hat/knife. Similarly, we
can replace the possessum ‘branch’ with a term such as ‘ceremony’ to obtain a phrase
denoting, say, a religious ceremony associated with a particular tree: the ceremony of
the tree/the tree ceremony. The less canonical the possessor and possessum the less
the construction resembles what we would normally think of as ‘possession’. In
an expression such as ‘tree ceremony’ what we have is modification-by-noun.
Conversely, we can take the notion of attributive modification and render the
modifier progressively less canonical. Semantically non-canonical modifiers
will include non-gradable concepts (dead rat, prime number) and syntactically
non-canonical modifiers will include those which are derived from verbs, such as
participles or relative clauses (a broken vase/the vase which John broke). When the
syntactically non-canonical modifier is a noun we get modification-by-noun: tree
ceremony.
By considering these criteria we have seen one possible way of appreciating the
(perhaps unexpected) unity of the four relevant constructions, as well as the differ-
ences between them. We saw that in many languages the same morphosyntax is used
to express various combinations of the four constructions and we have explored
some of the typological variation in terms of selective violations of canonical
properties. If our analysis is correct, there should be no ‘ideal’ way of expressing
intermediate construction types, modification-by-noun, and alienable possession.
All languages will have to make compromises in order to express these relations.
Thus, the adjectival strategy (relational adjective) used for expressing the modifica-
tion-by-noun construction in Russian, Taleshi, and Nenets can be seen to deploy the
morphosyntax of canonical modification even though the modifier is non-canonical
from the point of view of categoriality. On the other hand, where modification-by-
noun is expressed using a possessive strategy (as in Finnish, Swedish, or Hausa) the
Possession and modification—a perspective from Canonical Typology 237
modifier, being a noun, does not belong to the canonical category for modifiers, and
therefore the construction assumes some of the properties of nominal dependents.
We further saw that alienable possession differs somewhat minimally from canon-
ical possession in terms of the semantics of the possessed noun, and so it is often
expressed by the same encoding strategy. But it is still a distinct construction type,
which is reflected in languages with an alienability opposition. Moreover, there are
languages like Miya or Yamphu which treat alienable possession as a kind of
modification (as opposed to fully ‘nominal’ inalienable possession), reflecting the
fact that this type is not canonical possession.
Other than our own recent studies (Nikolaeva and Spencer 2009) we know of no
research which addresses directly the question of the relationship between all four of
these grammatical relationships or construction types, even though a number of
typological investigations have been devoted to individual types. Moreover, it is not
even clear how current conceptions of typology would address this question, since the
hierarchies and scales they generally propose do not naturally lead to the stepping-
stone effect which links adjectival modification and possession. In contrast, a feature of
the canonical approach to typological description is that the canonical criteria
appealed to are often very general and hence apply to a whole range of construction
types. Some of the criteria involve statements about category membership and about
basic syntactic and semantic relations. The result is that it becomes easier for us to see
overlaps and commonalities between apparently disparate construction types: we can
say exactly which canonical properties are violated in each particular case.
The Canonical Typology perspective also allows us to gain a better insight into
disputatious cases where analysts are at odds over how to describe certain phenom-
ena because they fail to fit closely enough into canonical (or indeed, prototypical)
construction types. A rather striking instance of this is the case of the Indo-Aryan
and the Albanian possessive constructions, discussed in section 9.1. Perhaps the
majority of authors who discuss possessive constructions in these languages speak of
a ‘genitive case’. If this description were taken seriously it would make it very
difficult for typologists to arrive at a clear understanding of what might be meant
by ‘case system’. By factoring out the components of the construction we can see that
these languages are simply more permissive than most in allowing the form of the
possessor phrase to deviate from the canonical expression of a noun phrase. And
Chukchi is even more permissive, in the sense that it deploys the morphological
system to create adjectives from nouns to render all semantic types of adnominal
dependents.
In sum, we believe that the canonical perspective allows us to look at familiar facts
in a new and possibly more illuminating light. The advantage of Canonical Typology
is that it gives us the tools to examine the precise relationship between attributive
modification and possession in those areas where the boundaries are blurred by
attested linguistic constructions.
238 Irina Nikolaeva and Andrew Spencer
10
An ontological approach to
Canonical Typology: Laying the
foundations for e-Linguistics
SCOTT FARRAR
10.1 Introduction
Canonical Typology provides a conceptual framework for comparing languages by
establishing canonical points for various linguistic dimensions. The canonical ap-
proach allows us to more precisely describe how one linguistic phenomenon differs
from another by comparing them to a central, widely understood canon. It is from
this starting point that a possible implementation emerges, an enterprise that we will
refer to as ontology-driven canonical typology. The other contributions to this
volume serve to situate various approaches to canonicity. The ontological approach,
however, needs some explanation.
First, the main goal of this enterprise is to establish a long-term, shared knowledge
base of our scientific ideas, a knowledge base that is not only meant for human
consumption, but one whose primary purpose is for machine processing. This
endeavour is not without precedent in other fields. For instance, genetics <http://
www.geneontology.org> and medicine are both attempting large projects to capture
scientific knowledge in this manner. With the ever increasing mass of descriptive
data, machine processing can facilitate rapid new discoveries and allow for the
verification of old ones. Even the most skilled of linguists require many hours of
research to analyse a single descriptive grammar and even more to place that
description within the context of linguistic theory. The process is not scalable
when hundreds or, for that matter, even dozens of grammars are in question. A
solution that has served other fields such as genetics and medicine is to automate
using technology from applied formal ontology and information science. For people,
multiple views and local control of data are important. For machines, interoperabil-
ity of databases and precise formal definitions are what matter. To achieve these
goals, we as a field must take advantage of emerging technologies to encode, store,
and process descriptive data. We should provide a straightforward pathway for data
providers to publish their data for other linguists and machines. Likewise, we should
also facilitate the smartest search possible over the data. So, with the Web as a
medium, the enterprise of using computers as the primary means to publish, search,
and visualize descriptive data is referred to in this chapter as e-linguistics. The goal
is then to situate an implementation of Canonical Typology within the e-linguistics
effort, such that the implementation will be freely available online.
Such an approach is not really new or radical. The subfield of corpus linguistics or
any integrative data-driven approach to linguistics, e.g. Haspelmath et al. (2005),
could be construed as an attempt at e-linguistics. More broadly we situate e-
linguistics under the rubric of e-humanities, thus inheriting all the associated
challenges, and potential rewards. E-humanities is inspired by the U.S. National
Science Foundation’s Cyberinfrastructure Program and the e-Science movement in
Europe and elsewhere. It concerns automated data analysis, text/media integration
(interoperability), computational modelling, as well as other activities. With the
expanding reach of digital data, e-linguistics in fact spans many fields including
humanities, computer science, and the social sciences. Due to the textual nature of
the data, e-humanities was one of the first such efforts.
There are specific challenges that face e-linguistics. The most serious of these
are a lack of infrastructure and the prevalence of ill-defined data types. In terms
of infrastructure, there are few widely accepted field-wide standards, though the
IPA, Unicode, and possibly ISO/Ethnologue language codes are exceptions. And,
there are certainly widely accepted traditional practices, such as the format of
interlinear glossed text, codified in the Leipzig Glossing Rules (Comrie et al. 2004).
In terms of data types, it is not a simple case of arguing for one data type or
another, for example, tree structures instead of feature structures. In fact, the lack
of accepted universal data types is more related to another issue: linguists do not
usually agree on a core conceptualization of linguistics (e.g. the basic inventory of
feature types and values). This contribution will explore one possible solution to
the conceptualization issue: a proposal for an implementation of the General
Ontology for Linguistic Description (GOLD) that covers canonical data points.
It should be said that while ontology building is best done in a small working
group (especially acclimatization), community acceptance demands community
involvement. It is hoped that this proposal will encourage debate and ultimate
acceptance of some ontology for linguistics, not necessarily the one proposed here.
The current chapter also explores the features and limitations of the primary
modelling language for GOLD, namely OWL-DL (Smith et al. 2004), a dialect of
the popular Web Ontology Language. This contribution could be written for
any particular domain of linguistics. However, it is hoped that the chapter will
240 Scott Farrar
be particularly relevant for Canonical Typology in the context of e-linguistics
through its use of numerous examples.
As background for this task, section 10.2 includes an introduction to knowledge
engineering and ontologies. This section details the class of logical formalisms
known as Description Logic (DL) that has led to the creation of OWL-DL. Included
is a discussion of the standard notation for generic DLs. Finally, we give a brief
overview of some of the major issues with linguistic modelling in GOLD. In section
10.3 we discuss the metaphor of the canonical ‘space’ as it relates to ontology and to
some related efforts from other fields. We begin in this section the argument that the
current ontological framework can be used to solve some of the issues associated
with an implementation of Canonical Typology. The argument rests on the notion of
a Community of Practice Extension (COPE) which is in turn detailed in section 10.4.
Finally, in section 10.5 we give specific examples of how real data can be represented
in the proposed framework, followed by a brief discussion of some of the key
enabling technologies.
10.2 Background
As background to the e-linguistics approach, we present an overview of the key
underlying frameworks and technologies. First, there is the knowledge engineering
approach and the general use of ontologies to represent the domain of descriptive
linguistics. Motivations for using an ontological approach have been given else-
where, for instance in Farrar and Langendoen (2003) and Farrar (2007). However, a
summary will be given here. After a brief introduction to knowledge engineering and
ontologies, we give a detailed discussion of the main formalism to be used through-
out the chapter, namely that of Description Logic. The use of DL notation in this
chapter is justified for reasons of brevity, as the XML syntax for OWL-DL is too
verbose to present in running text.1
We then present a methodology whereby a
knowledge base can be instantiated by using a Description Logic.
10.2.1 Knowledge engineering and ontologies
We define knowledge engineering as the task of representing the knowledge of a
particular domain in a machine readable format. For a particular knowledge engin-
eering task, the formal language used to represent the knowledge often has far-
reaching effects as to what kinds of domain knowledge can be captured by the
representation. Furthermore, the product of knowledge engineering, the knowledge
base, can be used in conjunction with automated reasoning tools to produce new
1
For a comprehensive description of XML see Bray et al. (2008).
Laying the foundations for e-linguistics 241
knowledge, to prove the consistency of existing knowledge, and to enhance search
within the knowledge base. The central assumptions in a knowledge base are
captured in the ontological theory, or the set of statements that make up the
essential knowledge of the domain, in other words, the knowledge that must always
hold if the theory is to be coherent. We refer to such sets of statements as simply the
ontology.
The statements included in the ontology hold according to a particular concep-
tualization of the domain (in this case language). A conceptualization is an abstract,
simplified view of the world being modelled (Gruber 1993). Due to the complexity of
any real-world domain such as descriptive linguistics, a conceptualization is neces-
sarily a simplified approximation of reality. Still, that the conceptualization is
approximate does not preclude it from being useful. A major issue in the modelling
of the linguistics domain is that various linguistic theories adopt different and often
incompatible conceptualizations. In fact, from the standpoint of the ontologist, the
aim of science may be cast as the search for the ideal conceptualization. But
admittedly, what is meant by ‘ideal’ can vary according to the task at hand. For
our task, we require only that our conceptualization be rich enough to account for
canonical linguistic concepts and for the differences expressed in various linguistic
descriptions. The nature of this task relaxes some of the requirements on the
ontological theory. An ontology for all of linguistics is, at this point, unachievable
and would require deep consensus as to how linguistics, in fact how language, is
conceptualized.
10.2.2 Description logic
The task of ontology building requires the use of logic as a means of axiomatiza-
tion, or the addition of definitional statements, axioms, in order to avoid ambigu-
ity. First-order logic (FOL), for instance, is one well understood language for this
task and is often employed, in one form or another, for this purpose; see the
ontologies of SUMO (Niles and Pease 2001) and DOLCE (Masolo et al. 2003). An
alternative to FOL in the design of knowledge-based systems is the class of logics
known collectively as Description Logic (DL), (Baader et al. 2003). A DL is a less
expressive, but highly structured fragment of first-order logic. Using a DL buys
improved computational tractability but at the cost of expressivity. This means
that algorithms for working with DLs will be fast, but that expressing certain
concepts in a DL might not be possible. This section gives an introduction to
this class of logics by discussing some of the key properties of DLs illustrated by
examples in typical DL notation. Furthermore, we limit our discussion here to the
linguistics domain.
A Description Logic is a formal logic in the strict sense, cf. the use of first-order
and other formal logics in formal semantic analysis. That is, it has a formal syntax
242 Scott Farrar
which specifies how to construct well-formed logical sentences and a formal seman-
tics which relates those sentences to a model. A Description Logic, as with all formal
logics, has an associated proof theory, or a system of how certain entailments follow
from a set of sentences. The focus of this section is mainly on the syntactic
operations of Description Logic, but supplemented with an informal discussion of
semantics. For a full account of the semantics of Description Logic, see Baader et al.
(2003).
Whereas the predicates in FOL have equal ontological status, those in a DL come
in two sorts: concepts and roles. Concepts in a DL are represented as unary
predicates, while DL roles are represented as binary predicates. What are referred
to as constants in a first-order logic are referred to as individuals in Description
Logic. Intuitively a concept represents a category or kind in the domain being
modelled. A concept is a universal notion and can be instantiated by individuals.
For example, Contemporary Standard Russian is an individual in the domain and an
instance of the concept language variety. The relation of instantiation holds between
concepts and individuals, making an individual an instance of some concept (Nardi
and Brachman 2003). Because they are not classes or subclasses themselves, but
specific instances, individuals are disjoint from concepts and cannot be instantiated
or related by the subsumption relation. Subsumption may hold between concepts.
For example, the concept A subsumes the concept B, if the set defined by A is
considered more general (that is, less specific) than the set defined by B (Nardi and
Brachman 2003: 9). Subsumption is written as v, so that if A subsumes B, this will be
written A v B. (We provide examples of subsumption for linguistic concepts later,
such as 10.13 and 10.14.) A role is a binary relation between individuals. Description
logic by definition has only binary relations and, thus, relations of higher arity (e.g.
ternary relations) are disallowed, one example of the limits of expressibility. The
terms concept and role show that the origins of Description Logic lie in the early
work on knowledge representation, particularly frame-based languages (Baader
et al. 2003). In such languages, information is gathered together into structures
called frames (structured objects), each particular type of which admits a specified
set of possible attributes related by slots (roles).
The terms concept, individual, and role are particular to the body of literature
concerning Description Logics. More general works in ontology and knowledge
engineering use class, instance, and (binary) predicate or relation, instead of the
DL-specific terms. In the language of OWL-DL, the term property is—confusingly—
used in place of binary relation. Though the current work is meant to guide the
reader in constructing OWL-DL ontologies, we use standard DL terminology
throughout, mainly for the sake of consistency since logical formulae are given in
DL notation. Thus, we will use concept, individual, and role.
Within a Description Logic system, concepts and roles are separated from indi-
viduals by partitioning the knowledge base into a TBox (short for terminology box)
Laying the foundations for e-linguistics 243
and an ABox (short for assertion box, in the sense that assertions are made about a
given terminology). The TBox consists of axioms and statements about the domain
in general in the form of logical sentences, while the ABox consists of facts about
individuals. A DL knowledge base KB may be defined minimally as a TBox T and an
ABox A, i.e. KB ¼ {T, A}, where T is the union of the set of concepts with the set of
roles in the domain, and A is the set of individuals in the domain. Furthermore, the
TBox also contains various axioms relating to concepts and roles, while the ABox
contains statements relating to individuals, mostly in the form of expressions
showing particular relations between individuals.
Description logic can be used to represent much more than just basic concepts
and individuals. Complex, non-atomic concepts can be specified through logical
statements. Statements in a DL differ considerably from those in standard FOL.
Moreover, statements in a DL are expressed using class and role names, but with no
variables. Thus, statement (10.1) gives an expression in a DL where the equivalence
symbol () is used to define the left-hand side concept InflectedUnit in terms of the
concepts GrammarUnit and InflectionalUnit, for which the role hasConstituent
is also defined.
InflectedUnit  GrammarUnit u 9 hasConstituent.InflectionalUnit (10.1)
This can be glossed as: ‘The class InflectedUnit is defined as the intersection of
the class of GrammarUnit and any class having at least one hasConstituent
role whose value is restricted to the class InflectionalUnit.’ Statements in DL are
therefore formulae containing predicates, technically with one free-variable, but
omitted in the syntax. Predicates in a DL represent concepts and roles. Concepts
are either atomic, i.e. those identified by name and may or may not be defined,2
or
complex, i.e. those derived from atomic concepts using a set of constructors. The
supported concept and role constructors in a particular DL determine its expressive
power (Horrocks et al. 2003: 6). Thus, the constructors are used to derive well-
formed formulae. In the following we have listed some examples of very common
constructors in DLs with notes about their respective semantics and how they could
be used in an ontology for linguistics. Furthermore, these constructors and others
are used to create right-hand side expressions that define anonymous concepts, or
those without an explicit name. Any of the expressions below could be placed with a
named concept on the left and related with either  or v.
conjunction (u):
AfricanLanguage u EndangeredLanguage (10.2)
2
Concepts that are never defined are referred to as primitive concepts.
244 Scott Farrar
Statement (10.2) can be glossed as ‘those individuals which are shared between
the concepts AfricanLanguage and EndangeredLanguage’. Conjunction is inter-
preted as the intersection of sets of individuals.
disjunction (t):
Tense Feature t Aspect Feature (10.3)
Statement (10.3) can be glossed as ‘the individuals that either belong to the concept
TenseFeature or AspectFeature’. Disjunction is interpreted as union of sets of
individuals.
negation (¬):
¬PhonologicalUnit (10.4)
Statement (10.4) can be glossed as ‘the set of all individuals that are not instances
of PhonologicalUnit’. Negation is interpreted as the complement of sets of indi-
viduals.
existential quantifier (9):
9hasPart.GrammarUnit (10.5)
Statement (10.5) can be glossed as ‘the set of individuals each member of which has some
member of the set GrammarUnit as its part.’ Two points should be made clear. First,
each member of the set must be related to at least one GrammarUnit by the hasPart
role.3
Thus, the existential in Description Logic guarantees the existence of certain
relationships. And second, the statement does not limit entities other than members
of GrammarUnit from being parts. If individual IND is in the set given in (10.5),
then the statement hasPart(IND, MORPH) where MORPH is an instance of Mor-
pheme, is perfectly acceptable. The fact that other entities could be members of
GrammarUnit is because of the open-world assumption built into the DL, namely
that the domain is not assumed to be complete unless explicitly stated. Finally, the
following serves to compare a simple DL formula (10.6) with the equivalent in
standard FOL (10.7). Note that R stands for some role and C for some concept.
9R.C (10.6)
{xj9y R(x,y) ^ C(y)} (10.7)
Thus, at least one y is guaranteed to exist and must be a member of C.
universal quantification (8):
Universal quantification in Description Logic behaves in a similar fashion as the
existential, but instead of the at-least-one criterion, members of the described set
must be related to only individuals of the concept given on the right, as in (10.8):
3
As we see earlier for (10.1), when they appear in statements, roles such as hasPart appear to the left
of concepts, separated from them by a period.
Laying the foundations for e-linguistics 245
8 hasFeature.MorphosyntacticFeature (10.8)
Statement (10.8) can be glossed as ‘the set of individuals whose features are only
individuals of MorphosyntacticFeature’. Universal quantification requires all roles
of some concept to be value-restricted by concepts of a certain type. Universal
quantification does not, however, ensure that there will be a role that satisfies the
condition, but if there are such roles, their ranges have to be restricted to the given
type. Again, the following serves to compare a simple DL formula (10.9) with the
equivalent in standard FOL (10.10).
8 R.C (10.9)
{xj8y R(x,y) ! C(y)} (10.10)
10.2.3 Linguistic modelling with GOLD
Whereas Description Logic provides the formalism for representing an ontological
theory, the General Ontology for Linguistic Description (GOLD) is an ontological
theory for descriptive linguistics in the sense that all the entities in the domain are
defined according to an ontology. Motivations for such an ontological approach
have been given elsewhere (Farrar and Langendoen 2003; Farrar 2007), and a
methodology for creating such ontologies is given in Farrar and Langendoen
(2009). Minimally, an ontological theory specifies the entities of interest for a
given domain. Those entities include classes and their instances along with the
relations that hold among those instances. Lightweight ontologies stop there, by
providing an enumeration of the classes and a limited number of relations, usually
enough to arrange the classes according to a taxonomy, that is, a specific kind of
classification that is formally defined using standard set theory. A catalogue of
morphosyntactic features, perhaps with the subsumption relation, would be con-
sidered a lightweight ontology according to the terminology used here, though
lightweight ontologies may not be considered as ontologies at all or, at best, merely
incomplete without full axiomatization. A more comprehensive formal ontology
places many more restrictions on the entities in the domain and can serve to
facilitate automated reasoning, for instance in deciding how close a certain gram-
matical system is to a canonical reference point.
The most important task in creating any ontology is to enumerate the entities
found in the domain. If the inventory is ad hoc or incomplete, then the resulting
ontology will not be an accurate conceptualization. The key is to establish an explicit
foundation such that later additions will not create problems for the overall theory.
We refer to such a foundation as the upper ontology. For descriptive linguistics such
an upper ontology contains the fundamental knowledge of structure, form, and
meaning, that which is usually shared among a variety of linguists and across
the subfields. This, ideally, would include general knowledge that applies to any
246 Scott Farrar
language or theoretical framework. Examples of general knowledge of this sort are
given below:
. A verb is a part of speech.
. A verb can assign case.
. Gender can be semantically grounded.
. Linguistic signs have a semantic component.
This kind of declarative knowledge is typical of that represented in an ontology in
knowledge-based systems. The ontology provides the means of formalizing such
expressions and defining them in a larger conceptual framework. For example, it
provides the means of specifying how a spoken linguistic expression is related to the
printed form of a writing system, or how the semantics of Tense is characterized.
Of the most fundamental entities that occur in the linguistics domain are the
linguistic expressions themselves. The basic entities here are: OrthographicExpres-
sion, SpokenExpression, and SignedExpression. An OrthographicExpression
has a physical form and is a special kind of symbolic string. The various modes of
expression can have physical parts, such as OrthographicWord, or can be grouped
to form a larger whole, such as OrthographicSentence.
Other than such concepts that are physical in nature, those occupying time and
space, there are the abstract concepts such as the traditional units of linguistic
analysis. As presented in Farrar (2007), these three types of entities are unified
under the concept of LinguisticUnit. A linguistic unit is any element of linguistic
analysis usually defined according to a particular level or stratum: form, meaning,
and grammatical structure. Language is multi-stratal (Halliday and Matthiessen
2004: 24), because it can be analysed and described from a variety of points of
view: in terms of form (or shape), meaning, or grammatical structure. For descrip-
tive purposes at least, the separation of these different kinds of entities into various
strata is necessary, because it is then possible to focus only on one stratum in an
analysis, as is often done in descriptive linguistics. For example, consider the single
bit of descriptive data, the Hungarian word emberek, meaning ‘people’. What we see
printed on the page is a single orthographic representation. But assuming a linguistic
analysis of emberek, we can talk about the existence of several different entities, all
represented by the orthographic representation on the page. At the level of syntax,
emberek represents a SyntacticWord. In terms of the phonology, it is a Phonolo-
gicalWord. And as for meaning, emberek signifies a meaning specific to Hungar-
ian, glossed in English as ‘more than one person’.
Next, there are the entities that relate the fundamental units to one another. For
instance, two expressions can be related via precedence in time and/or space, but
also via dominance relations as in grammatical structure. The mereology of such
units is a necessary component in the ontology, that is, how units are composed
of other units. Consider the example of sound structure. There are the basic
Laying the foundations for e-linguistics 247
phonological entities, in general, PhonologicalUnit, subsuming the concept of
Phoneme, PhonologicalWord, etc. An instance of PhonologicalWord is com-
posed of instances of Syllable, just as instances of Syllable may be composed of
instances of Mora. Each level of linguistic analysis has its own unit types and theory,
in short, its own mereology.
Finally, there are the various structuring devices used in linguistic analysis. In
general, we refer to these as linguistic data types. There are several fundamental
types, including Lexicon, GlossedText, PhonologicalParadigm, FeatureStruc-
ture, StructuralDescription, etc. Each of these data types has its own mereology,
e.g. FeatureStructure which is the pairing of a feature name and a feature value.
10.2.3.1 The linguistic sign The most fundamental modelling decisions in the upper
ontology concern the linguistic sign. This final section is devoted to laying out some
of these assumptions, as they will become relevant in the discussion of actual data in
section 10.5. Consider that in linguistic descriptions, as well as in ordinary speech,
linguists do not generally recognize all three levels of analysis at the same time. Thus,
when fish is used as an example, or described, a linguist might say ‘fish is a syntactic
word that can take a possessive morpheme’ or ‘fish is a monosyllabic (phonological)
word’. In terms of semantics, ‘fish is an animal’ or ‘fish means or refers to a kind of
animal’ would be a common way to describe the meaning. How linguistic concepts
are expressed in everyday speech is perhaps instructive for ontology. In particular,
linguists use the form of a sign to refer to its various facets: formal, semantic, or
grammatical.
In terms of using Description Logic to represent ontology, a similar situation
arises with objects and the various roles which they can assume. Consider, for
example, a particular person BOB who is an instance of the concept MaleHuman.
BOB may also be an instance of other concepts simultaneously such as Teacher,
Father, and Juror. Likewise, Bob’s yacht, YACHT1, can be modelled as an instance of
Yacht, MortgagedProperty, and ValuableObject.
The linguistic sign can be approached in the same way. What is represented by the
sign fish is both a phonological word and a syntactic word. Because Description
Logic allows for a single individual to belong to multiple concepts, we can simply
declare the individual sign once FISH1, and then assert that it belongs to whatever
types are relevant. Thus:
SyntacticWord(FISH1) (10.11)
PhonologicalWord(FISH1) (10.12)
But in order to preserve that FISH1 is a linguistic sign, SyntacticWord and Pho-
nologicalWord are asserted to be subclasses of LinguisticSign, as in:
248 Scott Farrar
SyntacticWord v LinguisticSign (10.13)
PhonologicalWord v LinguisticSign (10.14)
A sign is distinct from its material form. The printed word fish is neither a
phonological or syntactic unit. It is a physical object, defined as an entity that
occupies time and space. Thus, we have two relations that tie the sign to its physical
form:
. orthoForm: relation between a sign and an orthographic string
. spokenForm: relation between a sign and a sound sequence
Of course a language may have only the spoken form. In such a case, the ortho-
graphic component can simply be omitted.
An ontology for linguistic description requires an objectification of language
structure and form alongside its meaning. In most ontologies meant to support
Natural Language Processing (NLP), e.g. the FrameNet ontology (Ruppenhofer et al.
2005), the various concepts and relations correspond to some sort of semantic
component: events, spatial objects, semantic roles, etc. Language itself is never
explicitly modelled within the ontology. However, in an ontology such as GOLD,
we need to model the semantic space of various language varieties as well as the
grammatical systems. In GOLD the concept of SemanticUnit is asserted to subsume
all possible linguistic semantic concepts.
Modelling a language’s semantic space in a Description Logic assumes that the
modelling language is expressive enough to handle the complex semantic phenom-
ena expressed by language. Though there is no conclusive research, it can safely be
assumed that Description Logics are not appropriate for representing the meaning of
many linguistic semantic phenomena, e.g. quantification, complex event semantics,
etc. Description Logics, though quite expressive, can only handle limited existential
and universal quantification and can only be used to represent binary relations. One
open question, then, is which sorts of semantic phenomena can be handled by a
Description Logic.
10.3 Canonical Typology
In this section we compare the ontology-driven method to the canonical approach
discussed throughout the current volume. As the remaining sections will show, the
ontology-driven method for linguistic description already resembles canonical typ-
ology and can be easily adapted to formalize key parts of the canonical approach. We
first examine the idea that a conceptualization can be regarded as a multidimen-
sional space of sorts and then look at a specific ontological implementation of
conceptual spaces. Finally, we turn to how individual canons can be compared to
specific assertions found in the ontology.
Laying the foundations for e-linguistics 249
10.3.1 Conceptualization as canonical space
Consider the chapter by Greville Corbett where a canonical typology is characterized
by a multidimensional theoretical space of possibilities. The space is a metaphor for
the dimension by which various linguistic phenomena differ. In terms of ontology,
the conceptualization itself with its narrowly defined classes, instances, and asser-
tions is already a ‘space’ of sorts, in that no other members are allowed. The ontology
is, therefore, a limiting space. As an example, consider a treatment of linguistic
features. The issue concerns canonical knowledge versus specific knowledge of
particular languages. When linguists refer to some notion like the hodiernal past
in Nen, they are referring to the hodiernal past in the context of the Nen tense
system. No other language variety has the Nen hodiernal past as one of its tenses, yet
there exists languages (e.g. Cocama-Cocamilla) with tenses that behave similarly to
the Nen hodiernal.
(1) mὲ ná nìfú sámbὲ ó bùàná númwə̀
1SG HOD.PST parcel put LOC bed under
‘I have put the parcel under the bed.’
Nen (ISO 696-3: baz) (Mous 2003, p. 297)
(2) Ritama- ca tuts- ui
town- to go- HOD.PST
‘I went to town today.’
Cocama-Cocamilla (ISO 696-3: cod) (Bybee et al. 1994: 98)
What is being proposed then is a canonical entity (a class) for each individual feature
value type. Thus, there is the class HodiernalPast. A description of Nen would need
to refer to an individual NenHP from that class:
HodiernalPast(NenHP) (10.15)
Thus, though both occurrences of this feature seem to have the same label, HOD.
PST, there is no identity. The alternate treatment where the HOD.PST refers to the
same individual across languages would correspond to something like a cross-
linguistic category, or gram type (see Bybee and Dahl 1989).
10.3.2 Conceptual vs. canonical spaces
Next, consider the metaphor of the canonical space as used throughout the current
volume. There have been other formalizations of spaces using formal ontology,
namely the treatment of qualities in DOLCE4
(Masolo et al. 2003). DOLCE uses
the notion of a conceptual space to model qualities. Qualities are used to model the
4
‘DOLCE’ stands for Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering.
250 Scott Farrar
observable characteristics of entities such as physical objects and events. For in-
stance, colour, shape, and size are all modelled as qualities, as they can only exist by
virtue of the physical entities that bear them. What is significant about DOLCE’s
treatment is that there is a separation of actual qualities from their values, called
qualia (Masolo et al. 2003: 17), much in the same way that linguistic features are
treated differently from their values. The relationship of a quality bearer to a quality
and to its corresponding quale is shown in Fig. 10.1. Inspired from Gärdenfors’ work
on ‘conceptual spaces’, qualia in DOLCE are modelled as subregions in particular
quality regions. The notion of a region should not be taken literally to mean spatial
region, but an abstract conceptual region (Gärdenfors 2000). This is fitting, since
DOLCE is a conceptually oriented ontology, or one that attempts to account for how
conceptual systems are organized. Conceptual regions are, by virtue of the axioms of
mereology and topology, well behaved and analogous to bona fide spatial regions. In
fact, positions in real space can be modelled as special kinds of qualities (Bateman
and Farrar 2004). Quality regions can be modelled with n dimensions, where n>0.
The subregions within a quality region can be n-dimensional, where n$0. Further-
more, the framework ensures that individuals, particular instances of classes, may
not share the same individual qualities. But obviously, the intuition is that entities
can share qualities, for example, the weight of two physical objects may be identical.
In DOLCE’s framework, qualities share similar qualia, by virtue of the qt and qt
relations (as shown in the figure).
The difference between a Quality and a point in quality space may be explained
by reference to a distinction that is observable in natural language, given in (3).
(3) (a) This rose is red.
(b) The colour of this rose is red.
(c) The colour of this rose changed from red to brown.
Rose
Color
color space
red color
color#1 color#2 color#3
Color Region
P
P P P
qtc qlt
=
ql(qtc(rose#1,t))
qtc(rose#1)
Red Object
rose#1 the color
of rose#1
Physical Object
Physical Quality Physical Region
Quality Region
Non-agentive
Physical Object
Fig. 10.1 Quality and quality spaces (taken from Masolo et al. 2003: 12)
Laying the foundations for e-linguistics 251
The word red in (10.3a) is used as an adjective and refers to a particular instance of
Quality. This is the colour that the particular rose described has. This quality of
colour is uniquely that of this particular rose. In contrast, the red of (10.3b) is being
used as a nominal rather than an adjective and refers instead to an instance of a
colour quale, or position in abstract colour space, subsumed under the concept
Region. That this is necessary is argued by the existence of statements such as that of
(10.3c): here it makes little sense to say that it is the colour ‘red’ itself that is changing
from red to brown. It is only the particular instantiated colour of the rose that is
taking up different colour values within the abstract colour region. We need, then, to
keep these two layers of the account separate: the instantiated quality and the quale
that it takes as a value.
At first such an account of qualities may seem overkill. But the notion of a quality
region—or more precisely the separation of qualities from their values—provides a
way to compare the individual qualities and to place them within a system, some-
thing that could turn out to be quite useful in an ontological account of canonical
spaces. For instance, once canonical spaces are formalized, the task is then to
determine how ‘particular linguistic objects differ in terms of their proximity to a
point of convergence’ (see Brown and Chumakina’s chapter, this volume). Further-
more, it should be noted that DOLCE’s treatment of qualities differs from those
found in other formal ontologies. SUMO (Niles and Pease 2001), for instance, has
the class Attribute whose instances—like in DOLCE—inhere to other entities via
various relations such as ‘colour’ (cf. qt in DOLCE). Given the current SUMO
treatment, however, there is no straightforward way to express that red and orange
are more similar than, say, blue and orange. In short, there is no way to express
relationships among attributes. The benefit of using qualities and qualia to model
observable characteristics of things is that once a quality space has been formalized,
values in that space can be related to one another. Furthermore, a given quality can
have values in more than one quality space, depending on the measuring system
employed. This means that relations can be established across different quality
spaces. Concerning linguistic features, this is exactly what is required. And, the
notion of a quality region for linguistic features is exactly the mechanism needed for
describing the feature systems of individual languages.
10.3.3 Canons
Turning to particular canons then, the canonical approach relies on establishing
indisputable definitions which, at least in theory, are universally applicable and
should not cause disagreement among linguists working in different theoretical
frameworks (see Nikolaeva’s chapter, this volume). For instance, these are sample
canons that relate to finiteness:
252 Scott Farrar
C-1 tense marking > no tense marking
C-2 subject agreement > no subject agreement
Ontologies, GOLD in particular, establish definitions that are broadly applicable,
but should be treated as defeasible. Such statements (assertions expressed using
the logical machinery) can in principle be violated, provided that a reasoner (e.g.
a theorem prover) is not used. This suggests one way of measuring deviation from
the canon: determine how many assertions are violated by the actual data descrip-
tion and compare to the canon. But accommodating contradictions within an
ontology may not be the best solution. There is another option, that of partitioning
the ontological framework into upper- and sub-ontologies. For this, we turn to the
notion of a Community of Practice Extension, or COPE for short.
10.4 COPEs
In terms of an ontological approach to Canonical Typology, the task is one of
striking a balance between two opposing endeavours. The first is describing particu-
lar data from individual language varieties, a task that requires local knowledge. The
second is adhering to the established canons (even conventions) that many linguists
assume in scholarly work, a task that requires canonical knowledge. In other words,
whereas a description of particular language data allows the describer to provide
local knowledge of observed phenomena, any local description should adhere to the
norms of the field. The extent to which this is possible is largely to be determined by
the current project. In the simplest case, a local description requires a concept that is
already available in established linguistic knowledge, for instance some commonly
assumed linguistic feature.
But, there are two cases where established knowledge does not provide an accurate
base for a descriptive work. First, if the local phenomenon expands established
knowledge. For instance, a new type of linguistic feature is posited (e.g. a new
kind of tense) or a new structural category is posited (e.g. a new type of syntactic
category). Second, there are examples where there is no agreed established delinea-
tion of the extent of coverage of a particular concept, so that drawing a strict
distinction may be too rigid for all individual cases. An example would be the
treatment of pronominal affixes in relation to agreement, where the two are related
in a gradient way (Corbett 2006: 99–113). Problems such as these addressed by the
canonical approach to typology require that the assertion of what is canonical
knowledge can somehow be overridden.
Cast in the ontological framework, both cases may be handled by Community of
Practice Extensions (COPEs) as described in Farrar and Lewis (2007). A COPE is
simply an extension of the upper ontology, used in cases where the knowledge
required to describe particular data is lacking, or contradicts established knowledge.
Laying the foundations for e-linguistics 253
For instance, the upper ontology may only contain Noun as a part of speech,
whereas a COPE may be created for BareNoun InflectedNoun, or even Bantu-
Noun. COPEs were conceived to separate theory-specific knowledge (cf. the con-
structs of Minimalism or HPSG) from more broadly accepted knowledge. This is the
basic idea behind a COPE. The case where knowledge needs expanding is relatively
easy to deal with since knowledge is added monotonically without contradiction. A
COPE is created and the appropriate concept (e.g. a new type of noun) is asserted as
an extension of GOLD. As another example, consider the various linguistic proper-
ties: tense, case, aspect, person, number, etc. Their cross-linguistic relevance is
mostly beyond dispute. This is why CaseFeature, TenseFeature, etc. are included
as part of GOLD’s core inventory of concepts. However, the individual features for
particular linguistic descriptions may differ significantly. This suggests, for instance,
that past tense in, for example, German is different from the past tense of, say,
Igbo. But in general, we know that tense is a general linguistic feature, represented
as TenseFeature, and is applicable cross-linguistically. One way to capture individ-
ual tenses of particular languages is to extend TenseFeature with language-specific
classes (not instances of classes) such as GermanTenseFeature and IgboTense-
Feature. At the very local level, specific tenses are then instances of those classes.
GermanTenseFeature(DEU_PAST_TENSE) (10.16)
IgboTenseFeature(IBO_PAST_TENSE) (10.17)
Thus, the concept TenseFeature is defined directly in GOLD. But language- or
description-specific concepts such as GermanTenseFeature and IgboTenseFea-
ture would be defined in corresponding COPEs. More detailed assertions can be
made about specific classes in COPEs, such as ‘infinitives in German are not
inflected for tense’.
The second case where additional knowledge contradicts the upper ontology
resembles the problem encountered with Canonical Typology. This case is less
straightforward, because a knowledge base should be free of contradiction. This
principle applies to all types of knowledge, even to knowledge of the linguistic sort.
As noted in section 10.3, this is particularly true when a reasoner (e.g. a theorem
prover) is to be used. But a reasoner need not be employed using every component
of the knowledge base. If there is a canon stating that all lexical items of every part of
speech have access to all feature types (see Corbett, this volume), then that portion of
the knowledge base need not be factored in when a particular linguistic description is
being considered. Of course this example represents knowledge which is simply a
narrowing of assertions that are already present. But consider knowledge that is
directly contradicted, such as the canon stating that ‘a lexical item belongs to just one
part of speech’ (also from Corbett, this volume). In the case of mixed categories such
as gerunds and participles, as Corbett points out, the canonical assertion is clearly
violated.
254 Scott Farrar
One way of measuring deviation from the canon (‘distance’ in linguistic space) is
to determine how many assertions are violated by the actual data description. But
violations need to be of a particular sort, namely violations of canonical assertions,
and not general assertions, such as ‘linguistic signs have meaning components’.
What is proposed, then, is a framework that includes a COPE for canonical
knowledge. The result is a knowledge base with at least three separable components
or levels:
1. Upper ontology (inviolable assertions)
2. COPEs (mid-level assertions)
. Canonical COPE (likely violable assertions)
. Theory-specific COPE
. Area-specific COPE
3. Instance data (local assertions)
The first level is the upper ontology that contains only the most general sort of
knowledge that should not be violated—basically what GOLD is intended to be. The
second level is the COPE. COPEs can be of any type, not just for canonical
assertions. A theory- or area-specific COPE (e.g. HPSG or Grassfields languages
respectively) may only be applicable to a limited set of data. Third is the level of
instance data, or the local assertions that apply only to specific language varieties or
to individual descriptions of language varieties. Instance data instantiates classes
from any COPE except for the canonical COPE. This accords with the following
from Nikolaeva (this volume): ‘[l]ike comparative concepts, canons are linguists’
constructs and arguably not part of the speakers’ grammar.’ That is, concepts from a
canonical COPE will not be fully instantiated by real-wold data. Of course, all
languages will exhibit canonical properties along particular dimensions but certainly
not for all dimensions.
10.5 Encoding Descriptive Data
This section provides a discussion of how individual descriptions of language data
can be transformed to a knowledge base structured according to GOLD, and perhaps
according to a number of COPEs. First the problems associated with lexical data are
discussed, followed by a discussion of interlinear glossed text. Finally, we give a brief
overview of Linked Data, the technology behind storing such data on the Web.
10.5.1 Lexical data
In order to model lexical data in GOLD, several new concepts need to be introduced.
First is the lexeme itself. In GOLD the concept Lexeme is defined as a set of sign
instances all having the same basic sense. Thus, if LEX123 were the entry for the
Laying the foundations for e-linguistics 255
English lexeme fish, members of LEX123 would be any instance of the sign FISH (i.e.
all occurrences of fish, written or spoken). And, since the sign FISH belongs to the
language variety ENGLISH, a new subclass of Lexeme can be derived, namely
EnglishLexeme. In this way any specific assertions concerning the English lexeme
can be encoded in a separate COPE, without affecting other types of lexemes. In
summary, the following concepts are necessary to model the notion of a lexeme:
. Lexeme: the concept of lexeme (subsuming individual language lexemes)
. hasMember: the binary relation between a lexeme and a given sign instance
. EnglishLexeme: the concept of an English lexeme
The following assertions give a clear idea of how this knowledge is instantiated as
part of a COPE for the English lexicon:
EnglishLexeme v Lexeme (10.18)
EnglishLexeme(LEX123) (10.19)
hasMember(LEX123, FISH1) (10.20)
orthoForm(FISH1, “fish”) (10.21)
The first statement declares EnglishLexeme to be a subclass of Lexeme. The
second statement declares LEX123 as an instance of EnglishLexeme. The next
statement associates the sign instance FISH1 with the lexeme LEX123. Finally, the
orthographic form for the sign instance FISH1 is given.
In order to establish an implementation whose primary function is search across
disparate data sets, data first need to be migrated to a semantically informed
resource such as GOLD. In terms of migrating lexical data to GOLD, the main
issue concerns how to transform the dictionary form (a display-oriented data
format) into explicitly structured knowledge. The task includes deciding how par-
ticular descriptive data will be instantiated according to the concepts in the ontology,
i.e. according to GOLD or to a COPE. Consider a lexical entry in Table 10.1 for the
language Potawatomi5
(ISO 696–3: pot):
Table 10.1 Sample lexical entry (Potawatomi)
bgan ni. nut, butternut
pl. bganen
poss. nbeganem, mbaganem
dim. bganés
pej. bganesh
loc. bganek
5
Data were provided by Laura Buszard-Welcher, posted online at <http://emeld.org/school/classroom/
stylesheet/potawatomi1.html>
256 Scott Farrar
First, we should distinguish the structuring aspects of the entry from the entry’s
contents. An entry contains a headword and a definition as structuring devices,
things that are particular to this type of linguistic data structure. The linguistic data
content packaged in the entry consists of actual instances of linguistic signs. With
respect to a lexical entry, an analogy from computer science would be the array that
contains a company’s employee IDs, versus the IDs themselves. The structural
components of the lexical entry correspond to the array, while the linguistic signs
correspond to the employee IDs. The IDs are, thus, the content, while the array is the
structuring device.
How to separate data structuring devices from data content is sometimes not
so clear. But by comparing different kinds of linguistic data types, as shown in
Table 10.2, we get a sense of what is shared across them, namely linguistic signs. That
is, if the same language data were found in another type of data presentation format,
say a morphological paradigm, then whatever is shared among the two data types
would likely be the language data, and not relevant to a particular presentation
format. Particular linguistic forms are the most important elements of these data
types. On the other hand, structural components do not matter for language itself,
rather only for its description and presentation. Put yet another way, we see the
orthographic representations for several linguistic signs, but these signs are playing
particular roles within the given data type. For instance, we have bgan as the
headword, but also the various inflected forms, bganen, nbeganem, etc. as exemplars.
Finally, we have English linguistic signs as the definition. Notice that in a monolin-
gual Potawatomi dictionary, a form such as bgan could be used just as easily in the
definition as it could be in the headword.
That leaves the various linguistic properties, expressed in Table 10.1 as pl., poss.,
etc. These are of course specialized terms used to describe language data, part of a
controlled vocabulary for general linguistic description.6
Unlike the notions of
headword and definition, the specialized terminology concern a specific linguistic
analysis, much like a transcription or syllabification (not actually shown in the
entry). We encode such expression of linguistic analysis as properties of the linguis-
tic sign.
6
Controlled vocabularies are carefully selected sets of terms used to describe data.
Table 10.2 Anatomy of linguistic data types
linguistic data type data type component content
interlinear glossed text (IGT) gloss, translation linguistic sign, linguistic feature
lexical entry headword, definition linguistic sign, syntactic category
paradigm entry linguistic sign, linguistic feature
Laying the foundations for e-linguistics 257
The first set of statements assert the types for the various linguistic signs:
SyntacticWord is a subclass of LinguisticSign; the sign is associated with a
particular orthographic form:
SyntacticWord(POT_BGAN_1) (10.22)
orthoFrom(POT_BGAN_1,‘bgan’) (10.23)
SyntacticWord(POT_BGANEN_1) (10.24)
orthoFrom(POT_BGANEN_1,‘bganen’) (10.25)
Next, the lexeme and its members are asserted. Note that the members of the lexeme
are given as syntactic words, but this could be any number of sign subtypes such as
Stem, InflectedForm, etc.
PotawatomiLexeme(POT_BGAN_LEXEME) (10.26)
hasMember(POT_BGAN_LEXEME,POT_BGAN_1) (10.27)
hasMember(POT_BGAN_LEXEME,POT_BGANEN_1) (10.28)
According to the entry, the various signs have linguistic properties. This is expressed
in the following statements:
hasFeature(POT_BGAN_1,POT_SG) (10.29)
hasFeature(POT_BGANEN_1,POT_PL) (10.30)
10.5.2 Interlinear glossed text data
Turning to another data type, interlinear glossed text (IGT), we observe a similar
situation, where this data structure is a collection of linguistic signs packaged into a
three-line display format. Consider this very simple example:
(4) los perro- s
DET.PL dog PL
‘the dogs’
On the surface, we observe in (4) only linguistic signs, delimiters, and specialized
terminology, but arranged in a particular way. The required structural components
for simple IGT are in fact (1) various delimiters indicated by the hyphen and period,
(2) the glosses (abbreviations for specialized terms), and (3) a translation. In the
example, the sign the dogs plays the translation role, while DET.PL, dog, and PL are
glosses. The representation los corresponds to an individual instance of Linguistic-
Sign, actually an instance of SyntacticWord, call it LOS1. The statements below
provide further detail:
258 Scott Farrar
SyntacticWord(LOS1) (10.31)
Stem(PERRO1) (10.32)
InflectionalUnit(PLURAL_S1) (10.33)
Any level of morphosyntactic detail is possible, but the entire linguistic sign los
perros should be declared:
Phrase(PHRASE123) (10.34)
orthoFrom(PHRASE123, ‘los perros’) (10.35)
In this way a translation can be given and related to the phrase:
Phrase(PHRASE456) (10.36)
orthoFrom(PHRASE456, ‘the dogs’) (10.37)
translationOf(PHRASE123, PHRASE456) (10.38)
Finally, we specify the linguistic features that are associated with each sign. For
instance, assuming that part of speech and number are features, we have:
hasFeature(LOS1, PluralNumber) (10.39)
hasFeature(LOS1, Determiner) (10.40)
As the number of statements demonstrate, the amount of information packed into a
single simple example of IGT is large, perhaps larger than expected. This is because
so much is assumed in the compact display-oriented data structure. The above
statements are given in a Description Logic formalism which is rather compact,
although in an actual Web implementation, the compact nature of the representa-
tion is compromised due to the use of the Resource Description Framework (RDF)
(Lassila and Swick 1999) as a metalanguage, as RDF is known to be very verbose.
Such is necessary if the data and meaning of annotation are to be made explicit and
linked together as a coherent whole. The approach, known as Linked Data, is
explained in the following section.
10.5.3 Linked Data
The purpose of encoding descriptive data is to make every assumption explicit
especially regarding the meaning of the annotations. Two important criteria are
required for an implementation: (1) uniqueness both of annotation elements and
data content and (2) the ability to place such information on the Web and link
among individual data. Uniqueness refers to the identifiability of an individual
datum at any level of granularity. That is, a single phonetic feature instance should
Laying the foundations for e-linguistics 259
be as uniquely identifiable as an entire text. We want the Web to be the medium of
data storage and the ability to link among that data.
Uniqueness is achieved by using Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs) for all data
(Berners-Lee et al. 1998). A URI is a reference scheme that can be used to refer to
anything whatsoever, from documents on the Web to actual physical entities (e.g.
my horse) or even abstractions (e.g. world peace). As a naming scheme, URIs use the
typical http protocol of the Web. For instance, the following URIs refer to linguistic
constructs within the GOLD ontology:
. http://purl.org/linguistics/gold/PluralNumber
. http://purl.org/linguistics/gold/Lexeme
. http://purl.org/linguistics/gold/LinguisticFeature
Note that a URI does not need to actually be located ‘on the Web’. The following
URIs are perfectly valid identifiers (for the obvious referents):
. http://solar-system.org/Mars
. http://people.com/JohnSmith
. http://ideas.co.uk/WorldPeace
URIs are only the first requirement for the implementation. The second is a way to
link the data. For this we use the Resource Description Framework (RDF) (Lassila
and Swick 1999) which is basically a graph model with a serialization (physical
representation) amenable to the structure of the Web. Within an RDF graph, we
require that graph nodes and arcs all have URIs. Thus, every node and arc is
identifiable and definable. The ontological framework is built atop the RDF/URI
system and statements are made using URIs as predicate and argument. The basic
element of an RDF graph is the triple which is of the form subject-predicate-object.
The following statement can be represented as an RDF triple:
hasFeature(LOS1, Determiner) (10.41)
Each concept, role, and individual has a URI and occupies a node (or arc) in the
RDF graph. The entire enterprise of placing data on the Web using URIs and RDF is
known as the Linked Data approach (Berners-Lee 2006).
10.6 Summary and Discussion
Our main goal in this chapter was to contribute to an understanding of how
Canonical Typology might be implemented using an ontology-driven approach.
As the primary framework for discussing the various issues, we used the General
Ontology for Linguistic Description. To present various example assertions, we used
Description Logic formalism throughout. The main argument was that an ontology-
driven approach to typology resembles the canonical enterprise in several ways. In
260 Scott Farrar
particular, we showed that the metaphor of the canonical space has been formalized
in other (non-linguistic) ontological frameworks. We argued that the idea of a
Community of Practice Extension, a component already established within the
ontological framework, can be used as a device to compare individual language
descriptions to predefined canonical knowledge.
Also for the purpose of providing concrete examples, we showed how two types of
descriptive data (lexical entries and interlinear glossed text) could be encoded in an
ontological framework. We discussed how the amount of information packed into
these display-oriented structures is actually more than meets the eye and leads to a
proliferation, but a high degree of explicitness, of information. Finally, we discussed
the technology used to implement rich information, that of Linked Data which is
based on Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs) and the Resource Description Frame-
work (RDF).
A key open question relates to search. Starting with an inventory of descriptive
data, how can those data be searched to discover how they compare to the canon?
For instance, examples of such searches (given in prose) might be to show:
. the most canonical example of accusative case given several descriptions
. the least canonical example of negation given several descriptions
. the most canonical example of finiteness according to the dimension of tense
marking
. examples of how gender is morphologically realized, from the most to the least
canonical
The formalization and execution of such queries present significant technical chal-
lenges, the main issue being how non-discrete operations are to be handled. For
instance, the ontological machinery discussed here can only be used within particu-
lar discrete reasoning systems. Thus, scalar operations are not currently factored into
the framework. That is, there is no way to state that the tense system in Finnish is,
say, 7 units away from the canon for tense systems, while that of English is 8 units
away. It is not even clear what such a unit would be. Again, the issue relates to the
notion of a canonical ‘space’. We suggested that a discrete reasoner could be used to
measure the number of contradictions of canonical assertions (contained in a
canonical COPE), and perhaps this number could be one form of calculating
canonical distance. For the solution, the next area to explore is that of probabilistic
knowledge representation and reasoning. Within such systems, probabilities can be
assigned to each assertion. Contradictions are essentially allowed: they just have a
very low probability. Though likely inadequate for more complex queries, the
present framework provides a starting point for further research into how Canonical
Typology can be implemented and how linguists can start to tackle the problems
created by the ever growing amount of descriptive data in digital form.
Laying the foundations for e-linguistics 261
References
Adelaar, Willem F. H. (2004). The Languages of the Andes. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Adger, David. (2007). ‘Three domains of finiteness: A Minimalist perspective’, in Irina
Nikolaeva (ed.), Finiteness. Theoretical and Empirical Foundations. Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press, 23–58.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. (2000). ‘Transitivity in Tariana’, in R. M. W. Dixon and Alexandra
Y. Aikhenvald (eds), Changing Valency: Case Studies in Transitivity. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 145–172.
—— (2002). ‘Typological parameters for the study of clitics, with special reference to Tariana’,
in R. M. W. Dixon and Alexandra Aikhenvald (eds), Word: a Cross-linguistic Typology.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 42–78.
—— (2008a). ‘Semi-direct speech: Manambu and beyond’. Language Sciences 30: 383–422.
—— (2008b). The Manambu Language of East Sepik, Papua New Guinea. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
—— and R. M.W. Dixon, (1998). ‘Dependencies between grammatical systems’. Language 74:
56–80.
Aissen, Judith. (1987). Tzotzil Clause Structure. Berlin: Springer.
Akmajian, Adrian. (1984). ‘Sentence types and the form-function fit’, Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 2: 1–23.
Allen, Margaret. (1978). Morphological Investigations. Ph.D. dissertation, Cornell University,
New York.
Ameka, Felix. (2004). ‘Grammar and cultural practices: the grammaticalization of triadic
communication in West African languages’. Journal of West African Languages 30.2: 5–28.
Amiridze, Nino. (2006). Reflexivization Strategies in Georgian, LOT Publications 127, Utrecht:
Igitur (Utrecht University Doctoral dissertation).
Amritavalli, R. (2000). ‘Lexical anaphors and pronouns in Kannada’ in Barbara Lust, Kashi
Wali, J. Gair, and Karumuri V. Subbarao (eds), Lexical Pronouns and Anaphors in some
South Asian Languages: a Principled Typology. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 49–112.
Anagnostopoulou, Elena and Martin Everaert. (1999). ‘Toward a more complete typology of
anaphoric expressions’. Linguistic Inquiry 30.1: 97–118.
—— (to appear). ‘Identifying anaphoric dependencies’, in Lisa Cheng and Norbert Corver
(eds), Diagnosing Syntax. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Annamalai, E. (2000). ‘Lexical anaphors and pronouns in Tamil’, in Barbara Lust, Kashi Wali,
J. Gair, and Karumuri V. Subbarao (eds), Lexical Pronouns and Anaphors in Selected South
Asian languages: a Principled Typology. Mouton De Gruyter, 169–216.
Andersen, Torben. (1988). ‘Ergativity in Pari, a Nilotic OVS language’. Lingua 75: 289–324.
Anderson, John M. (1997). ‘Finiteness and auxiliarihood’, in Mats Rydén, Henryk Kardela, Johan
Nordlander, and Bengt Odenstedt (eds), From Runes to Romance. A Festschrift for Gunnar
Persson on his Sixtieth Birthday, November 9, 1997. Umeå: University of Umeå, 1–20.
Anderson, John M. (2001). ‘Finiteness, in Greek, and elsewhere’, Poznań Studies in Contem-
porary Linguistics 37: 5–33.
—— (2007) ‘Finiteness, mood, and morphosyntax’, Journal of Linguistics 43: 1–32.
Anderson, Stephen R. (1992). A-Morphous Morphology. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
—— (1993). ‘Wackernagel’s revenge: clitics, morphology, and the syntax of second position’.
Language 69: 68–98.
—— (2005). Aspects of the Theory of Clitics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
—— Lea Brown, Alice Gaby, and Jacqueline Lecarme. (2006). ‘Life on the edge: there’s
morphology there after all!’ Lingue e linguaggio 5(1): 1–16.
Anttila, Hanna (2008). The Effect of Interrogative Function on Intonation in Spontaneous
and Read Finnish. Master’s thesis, Department of Speech Sciences, University of Helsinki.
Available at https://oa.doria.fi/bitstream/handle/10024/39680/theeffec.pdf?sequence¼2
(accessed 3 Aug 2010).
Aoki, Haruo. (1979). Nez Perce Texts. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Anward, Jan. (2000). ‘A dynamic model of part-of-speech differentiation’, in Petra M. Vogel
and Bernard Comrie (eds), Approaches to the Typology of Word Classes. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter, 3–45.
—— (2001). ‘Parts of speech’, in Martin Haspelmath, Ekkehard König, Wulf Oesterreicher,
and Wolfgang Raible (eds), Language Typology and Language Universals I. Berlin: Walter
de Gruyter, 726–735.
Archangeli, Diana and Douglas Pulleyblank. (2007). ‘Harmony’, in Paul de Lacy (ed.), The
Cambridge Handbook of Phonology. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 353–378.
Ariel, Mira. (1990). Accessing Noun Phrase Antecedents. London: Croom Helm.
Arka, Wayan. (2002). ‘Voice systems in the Austronesian languages of Nusantara: Typology,
symmetricallity and undergoer orientation’. Paper presented at the 10th National Sympo-
sium of the Indonesian Linguistic Society, Bali-Indonesia, July 2002.
—— and Jeladu Kosmas. (2002). ‘Passive without passive morphology? Evidence from Man-
ggarai’. Paper read at 9 ICAL, Canberra. https://digitalcollections.anu.edu.au/bitstream/
1885/41059/3/Arka-Kosmas-final.pdf
Armendáriz, Rolando F. (2008). ‘The passive in the Taracahitic languages Yaqui, Warihio and
Tarahumara’, in Zarina Estrada Fernández, Soren K. Wichmann, Claudine Chamoreau and
Albert Alvarez González (eds), Studies in Voice and Transitivity. Munich: Lincom Europa,
165–182.
Aronoff, Mark (1998). ‘Isomorphism and monotonicity: Or the disease model of Morphology’,
in Steven G. Lapointe, Diane K. Brentari, and Patrick M. Farrell (eds), Morphology and Its
Relation to Phonology and Syntax. Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications, 411–418.
—— and Shikaripur Sridhar. (1983). ‘Morphological levels in English and Kannada; or atariz-
ing Reagan’, in Papers from the Parasession on the Interplay of Phonology, Morphology, and
Syntax. Chicago Linguistic Society. Volume 19: 3–16.
Asher, R. E. (1982). Tamil (Lingua descriptive studies). Amsterdam: North Holland.
Baader, Franz, Diego Calvanese, Deborah L. McGuinness, Daniele Nardi and Peter Patel-
Schneider. (2003). The Description Logic Handbook. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
References 263
Baayen, R. Harald. (2008). Analyzing Linguistic Data. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Baerman, Matthew. (2002). ‘Armenian’, in Surrey Syncretisms Database. Available at: http://
www.smg.surrey.ac.uk/
—— Dunstan Brown, and Greville G. Corbett. (2005). The Syntax-Morphology Interface:
A study of syncretism. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— and Greville G. Corbett. (2010). ‘Introduction: defectiveness: typology and diachrony’, in
Matthew Baerman, Greville G. Corbett, and Dunstan Brown (eds), Defective paradigms:
missing forms and what they tell us (Proceedings of the British Academy, 163). Oxford:
British Academy and Oxford University Press, 1–18.
Baker, Mark C. (2003). Lexical Categories: Verbs, Nouns and Adjectives. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Bakhtin, Mikhail. (1981). [1935]. ‘Discourse in the novel’, in Michael Holquist (ed.), The
Dialogic Imagination: Four Essays by M. M. Bakhtin. Translated by Caryl Emerson &
Michael Holquist. Austin: University of Texas Press, 259–422.
Bally, Charles. (1912). ‘Le style indirect libre en français modern I et II’. Germanisch-Romanische
Monatsschrift 4: 549–56, 597–606. Heidelberg: Winter.
Banfield, Ann. (1978). ‘Where epistemology, style and grammar meet literary history: the
development of respresented speech and thought’. New Literary History 9.3: 415–54.
Barker, Chris. (1995). Possessive Descriptions. Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.
Barnes, Janet. (1994). ‘Tuyuca’, in Peter Kahrel and René van den Berg (eds), Typological
Studies in Negation. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 325–342.
Barnwell, Katherine. (1969). A Grammatical Description of Mbembe (Adun Dialect), a Cross
River Language. PhD Thesis: University College London.
Barron, Julia. (2000). ‘The morphosyntactic correlates of finiteness’, in Miriam Butt and Tracy
Holloway King (eds), Proceedings of the LFG00 Conference University of California, Berke-
ley. Stanford, CA: CLSI.
Bateman, John and Scott Farrar. (2004). ‘Towards a generic foundation for spatial ontology’,
in Achille C. Varzi and Laure Vieu (eds), Formal Ontology in Information Systems: Proceed-
ings of the Third International Conference (FOIS 2004) Amsterdam. OIS Press. California,
Berkeley, 237–248. Stanford, CA: CSLI Online Publications. http://csli-publications.stanford.
edu/
Beard, Robert (1995). Lexeme-Morpheme Base Morphology. Albany, NY: SUNY Press.
Becker-Donner, Etta. (1965). Die Sprache der Mano. Vienna: H. Böhlaus Nachf.
Beedham, Christopher. (1982). The Passive Aspect in English, German and Russian. Tübingen:
Gunter Narr Verlag.
Bender, Lionel M. (1996). Kunama. Munich: Lincom Europa.
Bermúdez-Otero, Ricardo and Ana R Luís. (2009). ‘Cyclic domains and prosodic spans in the
phonology of European Portuguese functional morphs’. Talk given at the Workshop on the
Division of Labour between Morphology and Phonology, Meertens Instituut, Amsterdam,
16–17 January 2009.
Bermúdez-Otero, Ricardo and John Payne. (2011). ‘There are no special clitics’, in Alexandra
Galani, Glyn Hicks and George Tsoulas (eds), Morphology and its Interfaces, Amsterdam:
John Benjamins, 57–96.
Berners-Lee, Tim (2006). Linked data. http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/LinkedData.html.
264 References
Berners-Lee, Tim, R. Fielding and L. Masinter. (1998, Aug). ‘Uniform resource identifiers
(URI): Generic syntax’. Technical Report RFC 2396, IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force).
Besnier, Niko. (2000). Tuvaluan: a Polynesian Language of the Central Pacific. London:
Routledge.
Bhat, D. N. S. (1994). The Adjective Category: Criteria for Differentiation and Identification.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
—— (2000). ‘Word classes and sentential functions’, in Petra M. Vogel and Bernard Comrie
(eds), Approaches to the Typology of Word Classes. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 47–63.
Bianchi, Valentina. (2000). ‘On Finiteness and Nominative Case Licensing’, Quaderni del
Laboratorio di Linguistica (Nuova Serie) 1: 145–167.
—— (2003). ‘On Finiteness as Logophoric Anchoring’, in Jacqueline Guéron and Liliane
Tasmovski (eds), Temps et Point de Vue/Tense and Point of View. Nanterre: Université
Paris X, 213–246.
Bickel, Balthasar. (2010). ‘Capturing particulars and universals in clause linkage: a multivariate
analysis’, in Isabelle Bril (ed.), Clause Linking and Clause Hierarchy: Syntax and Pragmatics
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 51–101.
—— and Johanna Nichols. (2002). ‘Autotypologizing databases and their use in fieldwork’, in
Peter Austin, Helen Dry, and Peter Wittenburg (eds), Proceedings of the International LREC
Workshop on Resources and Tools in Field Linguistics, Las Palmas, 26–27 May 2002.
Nijmegen: MPI for Psycholinguistics.
Bisang, Walter. (2007). ‘Categories that make finiteness: discreteness from a functional
perspective and some of its repercussions’, in Irina Nikolaeva (ed.), Finiteness: Theoretical
and Empirical Foundations. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 115–137.
Blake, Barry J. (1994). Case. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Blatt, Franz. (1952). Précis de syntaxe latine (Les langues du monde 8). Lyon: IAC.
Blevins, James. (2003). ‘Passives and impersonals’. Journal of Linguistics 39: 473–520.
Bond, Oliver. (2007). ‘Towards a canon for negation’, in Peter K. Austin, Oliver Bond, and
David Nathan (eds), Proceedings of Conference on Language Documentation and Linguistic
Theory, London: Department of Linguistics, SOAS.
—— (2008). ‘Negation within Canonical Typology’, Paper presented in the Departmental
Seminar Series, Department of Linguistics and English Language, Lancaster University,
28th February 2008.
—— (2009). ‘Infrastructure requires a foundation: a base for canonical negation’. Paper
presented at the Conference on Creating Infrastructure for Canonical Typology, University
of Surrey, Guildford, 10th January 2009.
Booij, Geert (2009). ‘Phrasal names: A constructionist analysis’. Word Structure 2: 219–240.
—— and Jerzy Rubach. (1987). ‘Postcyclic versus postlexical rules in Lexical Phonology’.
Linguistic Inquiry 18(1): 1–44.
Borras, F. M. and R. F. Christian. (1971). Russian syntax (2nd edition). Oxford: Clarendon
Press.
Brainard, Sherri. (1994). Voice and ergativity in Karao, in Talmy Givón (ed.) Voice and
inversion. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 365–402.
References 265
Brandner, Eleonore. (2004). ‘Head–Movement in Minimalism and V2 as FORCE-Marking’, in
Horst Lohnstein, and Susanne Trissler (eds), Syntax and Semantics of the Left Periphery.
Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter, 97–138.
Brandt, M., M. Reis, I. Rosengren, and I. Zimmermann. (1992). ‘Satztyp, Satzmodus und
Illokution’, in I. Rosengren and I. Zimmermann (eds), Satz und Illokution: Volume 1.
(Linguistische Arbeiten 278). Tübingen: Niemeyer, 1–90.
Bray, Tim, Jean Paoli, C. M. Sperberg-McQueen, Eve Malerand, and François Yergeau. (2008).
Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (fifth edition). http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/.
Bresnan, Joan (2001). Lexical-Functional Syntax. Oxford: Blackwell.
Broadwell, George Aaron and Lachlan Duncan. (2002). ‘A new passive in Kaqchikel’. Lin-
guistic Discovery 1.2: 1–16.
Brown, Dunstan. (1998). ‘Defining ‘subgender’: Virile and devirilized nouns in Polish’. Lingua
104: 187–233.
—— Marina Chumakina, Greville G. Corbett, Gergana Popova, and Andrew Spencer. (forth-
coming). Defining ‘periphrasis’: key notions. To appear in Morphology.
Brown, Lea. (2001). A Grammar of Nias Selatan. Ph.D Dissertation, University of Sydney.
—— and Matthew S. Dryer. Ms. Diminutive as an inflectional category in Walman. Ms.
University at Buffalo. Available at: linguistics.buffalo.edu/people/faculty/dryer/dryer/
BrownDryerWalmanDimin.pdf [accessed 19.1.2009.]
Brown, Richard D. (1994). ‘Kresh’, in Peter Kahrel and René van den Berg (eds), Typological
Studies in Negation. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 163–189.
Buchholz, Oda and Wilfried Fiedler. (1987). Albanische Grammatik. Leipzig: VEB Verlag
Enzyklopädie.
Bull, William E. (1963). Time, Tense and the Verb. A Study in Theoretical and Applied
Linguistics, with Particular Attention to Spanish. Berkeley and Los Angeles: UCLA Press.
Burzio, Luigi. (1991). ‘The morphological basis of anaphora’. Journal of Linguistics 27: 81–105.
Bybee, Joan L. (1985). Morphology: A Study of the Relation between Meaning and Form.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
—— and Östen Dahl. (1989). ‘The creation of tense and aspect systems in the languages of the
world.’ Studies in Language, 13(1): 51–103.
—— , Revere Perkins and William Pagliuca. (1994). The Evolution of Grammar: Tense, Aspect
and Modality in the Languages of the World. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Campbell, Lyle. (2000). ‘Valency changing derivations in Ki’che’ in R. M. W. Dixon and
Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald (eds), Changing Valency: Case Studies in Transitivity. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 236–281.
Carden, Guy and William Stewart. (1988). ‘Binding theory, bioprogram and creolization:
Evidence from Haitian Creole’. Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages 3: 1–67.
Carlson, Gregory N. (1977). Reference to Kinds in English. Ph.D. dissertation, University of
Massachusetts at Amherst, Amherst, MA.
Carlson, Robert. (1994). A Grammar of Supyire. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Cavallin, Samuel. (1936). ‘Zur Verwendung des sogenannten Infinitivus historicus im Latein’.
Glotta 25: 57–65.
266 References
Chapman, Shirley and Desmond C. Derbyshire. (1991). ‘Paumari’, in Desmond C. Derbyshire
and Geoffrey K. Pullum (eds), Handbook of Amazonian Languages: Volume 3. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter, 161–351.
Chappell, Hilary. (2001). ‘Language contact and areal diffusion in Sinitic languages’, in
Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald and R. M. W. Dixon (eds), Areal Diffusion and Genetic Inherit-
ance. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 328–357.
—— and William McGregor. (1996). ‘Prolegomena to a theory of inalienability’ in Hilary
Chappell and William McGregor (eds), The Grammar of Inalienability: A Typological
Perspective on Body Part Terms and the Part-Whole Relation. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter,
3–30.
Chomsky, Noam (1970). ‘Remarks on nominalization’ in Roderick Jacobs and Peter
Rosenbaum (eds), Readings in English Transformational Grammar. Waltham, MA:
Blaisdell, 184–221.
—— (1973). ‘Conditions on Transformations’ in Stephen. R. Anderson and Paul Kiparsky
(eds), A Festschrift for Morris Halle, New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 232–286.
—— (1977). ‘On Wh-Movement’, in Peter Culicover, Tom Wasow, and Adrian Akmajian
(eds), Formal Syntax. New York: Academic Press, 71–132.
—— (1981). Lectures on Government and Binding: The Pisa Lectures. Dordrecht: Foris.
Chung, Sandra. (1976). ‘On the subject of two passives in Indonesian’, in C. N. Li (ed.), Subject
and Topic. New York: Academic Press, 57–98.
—— (1978). ‘Stem sentences in Indonesian’ Pacific Linguistics, Series C, No. 61: 335–365.
Chung, Siaw-Fong. (2005). ‘Kena as a third type of Malay passive. Oceanic Linguistics 44:
194–214.
Clements, Nick. (1979). ‘The logophoric pronoun in Ewe: its role in discourse’. Journal of West
African Languages 10.2: 141–177.
Coene, Martine and Yves d’Hulst (eds), (2003). From NP to DP: Volume II: The Expression of
Possession in the Noun Phrase. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Cole, Peter. (1982). Imbabura Quechua. Amsterdam: LDS.
—— and Gabriella Hermon. (2008). ‘VP raising in a VOS language’ Syntax 11.2: 144–197.
—— Gabriella Hermon and C.-T. James Huang. (2006). ‘Long distance binding in Asian
languages’, in Martin Everaert and Henk van Riemsdijk (eds), The Blackwell Companion to
Syntax: Volume III. Oxford: Blackwell, 21–84.
Collins, Wesley M. (1994). ‘Maya-Mam’, in Peter Kahrel and René van den Berg (eds),
Typological Studies in Negation. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 365–381.
Comrie, Bernard. (1976). ‘The syntax of action nominals: a cross-language study’, Lingua 40:
177–201.
—— (1985). Tense. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (2007). ‘Introduction’, in Ina Bornkessel, Matthias Schlesewsky, Bernard Comrie, and
Angela D. Friederici (eds), Semantic Role Universals and Argument Linking: Theoretical,
Typological, and Psycholinguistic Perspectives. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 1–13.
—— Martin Haspelmath and Balthasar Bickel. (2004). The Leipzig Glossing Rules. Available
at: http://www.eva.mpg.de/lingua/resources/glossing-rules.php. [Revised 2008.]
Contino, S. (1977). L’Infinito Storico Latino. Bologna: Pàtron.
References 267
Cooreman, Anne. (1987). Transitivity and Discourse Continuity in Chamorro Narratives.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Corbett, Greville G. (1991). Gender. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (2000). Number. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (2005). ‘The canonical approach in typology’, in Zygmunt Frajzingier, Adam Hodges and
David. S. Rood (eds), Linguistic Diversity and Language Theories. Amsterdam: John Benja-
mins, 25–29.
—— (2006). Agreement. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (2007a). ‘Canonical typology, suppletion and possible words’. Language 83: 8–42.
—— (2007b). ‘Deponency, syncretism, and what lies between’ in Matthew Baerman, Greville
G. Corbett, Dunstan Brown, and Andrew Hippisley (eds), Deponency and Morphological
Mismatches, (Proceedings of the British Academy 145). London: British Academy and
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 21–43.
—— (2008a). ‘Features and universals’, in Sergio Scalise, Elisabetta Magni, and Antonietta
Bisetto (eds), Universals of Language Today (Studies in Natural Language and Linguistic
Theory 76). Heidelberg: Springer, 129–143.
—— (2008b). ‘Canonical inflectional classes’, in Fabio Montermini, Gilles Boyé, and Jesse
Tseng (eds), Selected Proceedings of the 6th Décembrettes: Morphology in Bordeaux. Somer-
ville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings Project, 1–11. Available at: http://www.lingref.com/cpp/
decemb/6/abstract2231.html.
—— (2008c). ‘Determining morphosyntactic feature values: the case of case’, in Greville
G. Corbett and Michael Noonan (eds), Case and Grammatical Relations: Papers in Honor
of Bernard Comrie. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 1–34.
—— (2011). The penumbra of morphosyntactic feature systems. Morphology 21.445–480.
(special issue on “Markedness and Underspecification in the Morphology and Semantics
of Agreement” edited by Jonathan Bobaljik, Uli Sauerland and Andrew Nevins).
—— forthcoming. Features. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— Dunstan Brown, and Marina Chumakina (2008). Prolegomena to a typology of peri-
phrasis. Paper presented at the 13th International Morphology Meeting, Vienna, 3rd-6th
February 2008.
—— and Richard J. Hayward. (1987). ‘Gender and number in Bayso’. Lingua 73: 1–28.
Cornelis, Louise H. (1995). ‘Problemen met het Passief’. De Nieuwe Taalgids 88: 124–136.
Coulmas, Florian. (1986a). ‘Reported speech: some general issues’, in Florian Coulmas (ed.),
Direct and Indirect Speech. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 1–28.
—— (1986b). ‘Direct and indirect speech in Japanese’, in Florian Coulmas (ed.), Direct and
Indirect Speech. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 161–178.
Crazzolara, J. P. (1933). Outlines of a Nuer Grammar. Mödling, Vienna: Verlag Der Inter-
nationalen Zeitschrift “Anthropos”.
Creswell, Cassandre and Kieran Snyder. (2000). ‘Passive and passive-like constructions in
Hmong’. WCCFL 19: 71–82.
Cristofaro, Sonia. (2003). Subordination. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
268 References
Cristofaro, Sonia. (2007). ‘Deconstructing categories: finiteness in a functional-typological
perspective’, in Irina Nikolaeva (ed.), Finiteness: Theoretical and Empirical Foundations.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 91–114.
Croft, William (1990). Typology and Universals. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (1991). Syntactic Categories and Grammatical Relations. Chicago/London: The University
of Chicago Press.
—— (1995). ‘Modern syntactic typology’, in, Masayoshi Shibatani and Theodora Bynon (eds),
Approaches to Language Typology: Past and Present. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
85–143.
—— (2000). ‘Parts of speech as language universals and as language-particular categories’,
in Petra M. Vogel and Bernard Comrie (eds), Approaches to the typology of word classes.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 65–102.
—— (2001). Radical Construction Grammar: Syntactic Theory in Typological Perspective.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
—— (2003). Typology and universals. Second edition. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
—— and Alan Cruse. (2003). Cognitive Linguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Crowell, Thomas Harris. (1979). A Grammar of Bororo. Ph.D dissertation. Cornell University.
Crystal, David. (2003). A Dictionary of Linguistics and Phonetics. Fifth edition. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Cutler, Anne, John A. Hawkins, and Gary Gilligan. (1985). ‘The suffixing preference: a
processing explanation’. Linguistics 23: 723–758.
Dahl, Östen. (1979). ‘Typology of sentence negation’. Linguistics 17: 79–106.
—— (1985). Tense and aspect systems. Oxford: Blackwell.
—— (2004). The Growth and Maintenance of Linguistic Complexity. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
—— and Viveka Velupillai. (2008). ‘The Past Tense’, in Martin Haspelmath, Matthew
S. Dryer, David Gil, and Bernard Comrie (eds), The World Atlas of Language Structures
Online. Munich: Max Planck Digital Library, chapter 66. Available online at http://wals.
info/feature/66 Accessed on 2009-10–14.
Davis, Karen (2003). A Grammar of the Hoava Language, Western Solomons. Canberra: Pacific
Linguistics, Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies, Australian National University.
Davison, Alice. (2000). ‘Lexical anaphors and pronouns in Hindi/Urdu’, in Barbara Lust,
Kashi Wali, J. Gair, and Karumuri.V. Subbarao (eds), Lexical pronouns and anaphors in
selected South Asian languages: a principled typology. Mouton De Gruyter, 397–470.
Dayley, Jon P. (1989). Tümpisa (Panamint) Shoshone Grammar. Berkeley: University of
California Press.
De Haan, Ferdinand. (1997). The Interaction of Negation and Modality: a Typological Study.
New York: Garland.
De Roeck, Marijke. (1994). ‘A functional typology of speech reports’, in Elisabeth Engberg-
Peterson, Lisbeth Falstr-Jakobson, and Lone Schak Rasmussen (eds), Function and Expres-
sion in Universal Grammar. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 331–351.
Deal, Amy Rose. (2009). ‘Nez Perce verbs of speech and attitude’. Paper at SSILA 2009, San
Francisco, 10/1/2009.
References 269
Dennett, Daniel C. (1995). Darwin’s Dangerous Idea: Evolution and the Meanings of Life. New
York: Simon & Schuster.
Díaz-Negrillo, Ana, Detmar Meurers, Salvador Valera, & Holger Wunsch. (2010). Towards
Inter-language POS Annotation for Effective Learner Corpora in SLA and FLT. Language
Forum 36 (Special Issue on Corpus Linguistics for Teaching and Learning. In Honour of John
Sinclair, edited by María Moreno Jaén & Carmen Pérez Basanta), 139–154. [available at:
http://purl.org/dm/papers/diaz-negrillo-et-al-09.html]
Dik, Simon C. (1989). The Theory of Functional Grammar: Part I: The Structure of the Clause.
Doredrecht: Foris.
Dimitriadis, Alexis and Martin Everaert. (2004). ‘Typological perspectives on anaphora’, in
Bernard Comrie, Pirkko Suihkonen, and Valentin Kelmakov (eds), Proceedings of the
International Symposium on Deictic Systems and quantification in languages spoken in
Europe and North and Central Asia. Izhevsk: Udmurt State University, 51–67.
Dixon, R. M. W. (1991). A New Approach to English Grammar, on Semantic Principles. Oxford:
The Clarendon Press.
—— (1994). Ergativity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— and Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald (eds), (2000). Changing Valency. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
—— and Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald (eds.) (2004). Adjective Classes: A Cross-Linguistic
Typology. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Donohue, Mark. (1999). A Grammar of Tukang Besi. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
—— (2001). ‘Animacy, class and gender in Burmeso’, in Andrew Pawley, Malcolm Ross and
Darrell Tryon (eds), The Boy from Bundaberg: Studies in Melanesian Linguistics in Honour
of Tom Dutton (Pacific Linguistics 514). Canberra: Pacific Linguistics, 97–115.
Downing, Pamela. (1977). ‘On the creation and use of English nominal compounds’. Language
55: 810–842.
Drescher, James. (1947). Three Coptic Legends: Hilaria, Archellites, The Seven Sleepers, edited
with translation and commentary (Annales du Service des Antiquités de l’Égypte, supplé-
ment 4). Cairo: Institut Français d’Archéologie Orientale.
Dryer, Matthew S. (1989). ‘Universals of negative position’, in Edith Moravcsik, Jessica Wirth,
and Michael Hammond (eds), Studies in Syntactic Typology, Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
93–124.
—— (1997). ‘Are grammatical relations universal?’ in Joan Bybee, John Haiman, and Sandra
Thompson (eds), Essays on Language Function and Language Type, Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, 115–143.
Du Bois, John W. (1987). ‘The discourse basis of ergativity’. Language 63.4: 805–55.
Ducrot, Oswald. (1973). La preuve et le dire. Paris: Maison Mame.
Dunn, Michael J. (1999). A Grammar of Chukchi. Ph.D. thesis, Australian National University,
Canberra.
Durie, Mark. (1988). ‘The so-called passive in Acehnese’. Studies in Language 11: 365–399.
Duškova, Libuše. (1971). ‘On some functional and stylistic aspects of the passive voice in
Present-Day English’. Philologia Pragensia 14: 117–142.
Dymshits, Zalman Movshevich. (1986). Grammatika jazyka xindi [Hindi Grammar - in
Russian]: Volume 2. Moscow: Nauka.
270 References
Ebert, Karen. (1986). ‘Reported speech in some languages of Nepal’, in Florian Coulmas (ed.),
Direct and Indirect Speech. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 145–159.
Embick, David and Robert Rolf Noyer. (2007). ‘Distributed Morphology and the syntax-
morphology interface’, in Gillian Ramchand and Charles Reiss (eds), The Oxford Handbook
of Linguistic Interfaces. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 239–288.
Engdahl, Elisabet. (2006). ‘Semantic and syntactic patterns in Swedish passives’, in Benjamin
Lyngfelt and Torgrim Solstad (eds), Demoting the Agent. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 21–45.
Erteschik-Shir, Nomi. (2007). Information Structure: The Syntax-Discourse Interface. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Etxepare, Ricardo and Kleanthes K. Grohmann. (2000). ‘Conjunction of infinitival exclama-
tives and the Null Modal Hypothesis’ in Kerstin Schwabe and Niina Zhang (eds), Ellipsis in
conjunction. Tübingen: Max Niemeyer Verlag, 133–156.
—— (2002). ‘Towards a syntax of adult Root Infinitives’, in Teresa Satterfield, Christina
Tortora, and Diana Cresti (eds), Current Issues in Romance Languages: Selected Papers
from the 29th Linguistic Symposium on Romance Languages (LSRL), Ann Arbor, 8–11 April
1999. (Amsterdam studies in the theory and history of linguistic science 4). Amsterdam:
John Benjamins, 65–79.
Evans, Nicholas. (1995). A Grammar of Kayardild. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
—— (2003). Bininj Gun-wok: a Pan-Dialectal Grammar of Mayali, Kunwinjku and Kune.
Canberra: Pacific Linguistics.
—— (2006). ‘Relationality and word class typology’. Paper read at the Conference on Word
Class Typology, Amsterdam, June 2006.
—— (2007). View with a view: Towards a typology of multiple perspective. Proceedings of the
Berkeley Linguistics Society 2005. Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics Society, 93–120.
—— (2011). ‘A tale of many tongues: documenting polyglot narrative in North Australian oral
traditions’, in Brett Baker, Ilana Mushin, Mark Harvey, and Rod Gardner (eds), Indigenous
Languages and Social Identity: Papers in Honour of Michael Walsh. Canberra: Pacific
Linguistics, 291–314.
Everaert, Martin. (1986). The Syntax of Reflexivization. Dordrecht: Foris.
—— (2000). ‘Types of anaphoric expressions: reflexives and reciprocals’, in Zygmunt Fraj-
zyngier and Traci S. Curl (eds), Reciprocals. Forms and Functions. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, 63–83.
—— (2001). ‘Paradigmatic restrictions on anaphors’, in Karine Megerdoomian and Leora A.
Bar-el (eds), Proceedings of the 20th West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics. Somer-
ville, MA: Cascadilla Press, 178–191.
—— (2003). ‘Binding theories in the generative research tradition’, in Research in Language 1:
33–52.
—— (2005). ‘On binding domains’, in Stefan Müller (ed.), The Proceedings of the 12th
International Conference on Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar. Stanford, CA: CSLI
Publications, 503–518.
—— and Elena Anagnostopoulou. (1997). ‘Thematic hierarchies and binding theory: evidences
from Greek’, in Francis Corblin, Daniele Godard, and Jean-Marie Marandin (eds), Empir-
ical Issues in Formal Syntax and Semantics. Bern: Peter Lang, 433–460.
Everett, Daniel L. (1996). Why There are No Clitics. An Alternative Perspective on Pronominal
Allomorphy. (Summer Institute of Linguistics and University of Texas at Arlington Publi-
References 271
cations in Linguistics, 123). Dallas, TX: Summer Institute of Linguistics and the University
of Texas at Arlington.
Faarlund, Jan Terje, Svein Lie, and Kjell Ivar Vannebo. (1977). Norsk referansegrammatikk.
Oslo: Universitetsforlaget.
Fadden, Lorna. (2000). The Inverse Continuum. MA Dissertation, Simon Fraser University.
Faltz, Leonard M. (1977). Reflexivization: A Study in Universal Syntax. Doctoral Dissertation,
University of California at Berkeley.
Farrar, Scott. (2007). ‘Using ‘Ontolinguistics’ for language description’, in Andrea Schalley and
Dietmar Zaefferer (eds), Ontolinguistics: How Ontological Status shapes the Linguistic
Coding of Concepts. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 175–191.
—— and D. Terence Langendoen, (2003). ‘A linguistic ontology for the Semantic Web’. GLOT
International, 7(3): 97–100.
—— and D. Terence Langendoen, (2009). ‘An OWL-DL implementation of GOLD: An
ontology for the Semantic Web’, in Andreas Witt and Dieter Metzing (eds), Linguistic
modeling of information and Markup Languages. Contributions to language technology
Text, Speech and Language Technology. Springer, Dordrecht.
—— and William D Lewis. (2007). ‘The GOLD Community of Practice: An infrastructure
for linguistic data on the web.’ Language Resources and Evaluation, 41(1). DOI: 10.1007/
s10579–007–9016–x.
Fattah, Muhammad Maruf. (1997). A Generative Grammar of Kurdish. Ph.D. dissertation.
University of Amsterdam.
Fauconnier, Gilles. (1994). Mental spaces: Aspects of meaning construction in natural language.
Second edition. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Felix, Sascha. (1989). ‘Finite infinitives in Modern Greek’, in Christa Bhatt, Elisabeth Löbel,
and Claudia Schmid. (eds), Syntactic Phrase Structure Phenomena. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, 113–131.
Fisher, Karen L. (1988). ‘Agreement and the distribution of anaphora’, in Michael Hammond,
Edith Moravcsik, and Jessica Wirth (eds), Studies in Syntactic Typology. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, 25–36.
Fivaz, Derek. (1986). A Reference Grammar of Oshindonga. Windhoek: The Academy.
Fleck, David William. (2009). A Grammar of Matses. Berlin: Mouton der Gruyter.
Fleisch, Axel. (2005). ‘Agent phrases in Bantu passives’, in F. K. Erhard Voeltz (ed.), Studies in
African Linguistic Typology. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 93–111.
Foley, William. (1980). ‘Toward a universal typology of the noun phrase’, Studies in Language
4: 171–199.
—— and Robert D. van Valin. (1984). Functional Syntax and Universal Grammar. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Forest, Robert. (1993). Négations: essai de syntaxe et de typologie linguistique (Collection
Linguistique LXXVII). Paris: Klincksieck.
Fortune, George. (1955). An Analytical Grammar of Shona. London: Longmans.
Frachtenberg, Leo J. (1922). ‘Coos’, in Franz Boas (ed.), Handbook of American Indian
Languages, Part II. Smithsonian Institution Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin 40.
Washington: Government Printing Office, 297–429.
Frajzyngier, Zygmunt. (1993). A grammar of Mupun. Berlin: Reimer.
272 References
Frajzyngier, Zygmunt. (2001). A Grammar of Lele. Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.
—— and Traci S. Curl (eds), (2000). Reciprocals: Forms and Functions. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Franks, Steven and Tracy Holloway King. (2000). A Handbook of Slavic Clitics. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Frawley, William. (1992). Linguistic semantics. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Fruttero, Carlo. (2006). Donne informate sui fatti. Milano: Mondadori.
Gaby, Alice. (2008). ‘Distinguishing reciprocals from reflexives in Kuuk Thaayorre’, in Ekke-
hard König and Volker Gast (eds), Reciprocals and Reflexives. Theoretical and Typological
Explorations. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 259–288.
Galloway, Brent D. (1993). A Grammar of Upriver Halkomelem. Berkeley: University of
California Press.
Gärdenfors, Peter. (2000). Conceptual Spaces: the Geometry of Thought. MIT Press, Cam-
bridge, MA.
Georg, Stefan and Alexander P. Volodin. (1999). Die itelmenische Sprache: Grammatik und
Texte. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz.
Gerner, Matthias. (2003). ‘Passive of affect in Kam Dong and other Kadai Languages: The
missing link from synchrony’. Australian Journal of Linguistics 23: 35–69.
Gil, David. (2001). ‘Escaping eurocentrism: fieldwork as a process of unlearning’, in Paul
Newman and Martha Ratliff (eds), Linguistic Fieldwork. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 102–132.
—— (2005). ‘Genitives, adjectives, and relative clauses’, in Martin Haspelmath, Matthew S.
Dryer, David Gil, and Bernard Comrie (eds), World Atlas of Linguistic Structures. Oxford:
Oxford University Press. 246–249; available at http://wals.info/.
Gildea, Spike. (1994). ‘Inverse in the Carib of Surinam’, in Talmy Givón (ed.), Voice and
Inversion. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 187–230.
Givón, Talmy. (1978). ‘Negation in language: pragmatics, function, ontology’, in Peter Cole
(ed.), Syntax and semantics: Volume 9: Pragmatics. New York: Academic Press, 69–112.
—— (1979). On Understanding Grammar. New York: Academic Press.
—— (1981). ‘Typology and functional domains’. Studies in Language 5: 163–193.
—— (1990). Syntax: a Functional–Typological Introduction: Volume. 2. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
—— (1994a). ‘The pragmatics of de-transitive voice: functional and typological aspects of
inversion’ in Talmy Givón (ed.), Voice and Inversion. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 3–44.
—— (1994b). Voice and Inversion. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
—— (1995). Functionalism and grammar. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
—— (2001). Syntax: an Introduction: Volume 1. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Goodwin, William W. (1892). Greek Grammar. Boston: Ginn.
Gordon, Lynn. (1986). Maricopa Morphology and Syntax. Berkeley, CA: University of Cali-
fornia Press.
Gore, Edward C. (1931). A Zande Grammar. London: The Sheldon Press.
Górski, Rafał L. (2008). Diateza nacechowana w polszczyźnie. Kraków: Lexis.
References 273
Grahek, Sabina. (2006). Argument Structure in Slovene. Ph.D thesis. University of Leeds.
Granger, Sylviane. (1983). The Be þ Past Participle Construction in Spoken English. Amster-
dam: North Holland.
Green, Margaret M. and Georgewill E. Igwe. (1963). A Descriptive Grammar of Igbo. London:
Oxford University Press.
Greenberg, Joseph H. (1963). ‘Some universals of grammar with particular reference to the
order of meaningful elements’, in Joseph H. Greenberg (ed.), Universals of Language.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 73–113.
Gretsch, Petra and Clive Perdue. (2007). ‘Finiteness in first and second language acquisition’,
in Irina Nikolaeva (ed.), Finiteness: Theoretical and Empirical Foundations. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 432–484.
Grimes, Charles E. (1991). The Buru Language of Eastern Indonesia. Ph.D. Dissertation. The
Australian National University.
Grohmann, Kleanthes. K. (1999). ‘Infinitival exclamatives’. University of Maryland Working
Papers in Linguistics 8: 213–238.
—— (2000). ‘Null modals in Germanic (and Romance): Infinitival Exclamatives’, Belgian
Journal of Linguistics 14: 43–61.
Groot, Casper de. (1994). ‘Hungarian’, in Peter Kahrel and René van den Berg (eds), Typo-
logical Studies in Negation. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 143–162.
Gruber, Thomas R. (1993). ‘A translation approach to portable ontology Specifications’.
Knowledge Acquisition, 5(2): 199–220.
Gruzdeva, Ekaterina. (2001). ‘Finiteness in Nivkh: A three-way syntactic distinction’. Paper
presented at the Conference on Finiteness, Konstanz, Germany, May 11–13, 2001.
Gudai, Darmansyah H. (1985). A Grammar of Maanyan, a Language of Central Kalimantan.
Ph.D. Dissertation. Australian National University.
Haase, Martin. (1995). Finite infinitive: Portugiesisch, Rumänisch und Süditalien’, in Christian
Schmitt and Wolfgang Schweickard (eds), Die romanischen Sprachen im Vergleich: Akten
der gleichnamigen Sektion des Potsdamer Romanistentages (27.–30.9.1993). Romanistische
Kongreßberichte 2. Bonn: Romanistischer Verlag, 128–149.
Haberland, Hartmut. (1986). ‘Reported speech in Danish’, in Florian Coulmas (ed.), Direct and
Indirect Speech. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 219–253.
Haiman, John. (1974). Targets and Syntactic Change. The Hague: Mouton.
Halle, Morris and Alex Marantz. (1993). ‘Distributed Morphology and the pieces of inflection’,
in Kenneth Hale and Samuel J. Keyser (eds), The View from Building 20: Essays in Honor of
Sylvain Bromberger. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 111–176.
Halliday, Michael A. K. and Christian M. I. M. Matthiessen (2004). An Introduction to
Functional Grammar. Third edition. London: Arnold.
Halpern, Aaron. (1995). On the Placement and Morphology of Clitics. Stanford, CA: CSLI
Publications.
—— (1998). ‘Clitics’, in Andrew Spencer and Arnold Zwicky (eds), The Handbook of Morph-
ology. Oxford. Blackwell, 101–122.
Hasegawa, Yoko. (2005). Elementary Japanese: Volume 2. Tokyo: Tuttle Publishing.
274 References
Haspelmath, Martin. (1990). ‘The grammaticalization of passive morphology’. Studies in
Language 14: 25–72.
—— (1995). ‘The converb as a cross-linguistically valid category’, in Martin Haspelmath &
Ekkehard König (eds), Converbs in Cross-Linguistic Perspective: Structure and Meaning of
Adverbial Verb Forms – Adverbial Participles, Gerunds. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 1–56.
—— (1997). Indefinite Pronouns. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
—— (2007). ‘Pre-established categories don’t exist: consequences for language description and
typology’. Linguistic Typology 11: 119–132.
—— (2010a). ‘Framework-free grammatical theory’, in Bernd Heine and Heiko Narrog (eds),
The Oxford Handbook of Grammatical Analysis. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 341–365.
—— (2010b). Comparative concepts and descriptive categories in cross-linguistic studies.
Language 86: 663–687.
—— Matthew Dryer, David Gil, and Bernard Comrie. (2005). World Atlas of Language
Structures. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Hay, Jennifer. (2000). Causes and Consequences of Word Structure. Ph.D. dissertation, North-
western University, Chicago.
—— (2002). ‘From speech perception to morphology: affix ordering revisited’. Language 78:
527–555.
Heath, Jeffrey. (1980). ‘Nunggubuyu deixis, anaphora and culture’, in Jody Kreiman and
Almerindo E. Ojeda (eds), CLS Parasession on Pronouns and Anaphora, Chicago: Chicago
Linguistic Society, 151–165.
—— (2008). A Grammar of Jamsay. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Heine, Bernd. (1997). Possession. Cognitive Sources, Forces, and Grammaticalization. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (2001). ‘Ways of explaining possession’, in Irene Baron, Michael Herslund, and Finn
Sorensen (eds), Dimensions of Possession. (Typological Studies in Language 47). Amster-
dam. John Benjamins, 311–328.
Helden, W. Andries van. (1993). Case and Gender: Concept Formation between Morphology
and Syntax (II volumes) (Studies in Slavic and General Linguistics 20). Amsterdam:
Rodopi.
Hellan, Lars. (1988). Anaphora in Norwegian and the Theory of Grammar. Dordrecht: Foris.
Heller, Zoë. (2008). The Believers. London: Penguin.
Hengeveld, Kees. (1998). ‘Adverbial clauses in the languages of Europe’, in Johan van der
Auwera with D. P. Ó Baoill (eds), Adverbial Constructions in the Languages of Europe.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 335–419.
Hewitt, B. G. and S. R. Crisp. (1986). ‘Speech reporting in the Caucasus’, in Florian Coulmas
(ed.), Direct and Indirect Speech. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 121–143.
Heycock, Caroline. (2008). ‘Japanese -wa, -ga, and information structure’, in Shigeru Miya-
gawa and Mamoru Saito (eds), The Oxford Handbook of Japanese Linguistics. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 54–83.
Hidalgo, Raquel. (1994). ‘The pragmatics of de-transitive voice in Spanish’, in Talmy Givón
(ed.), Voice and Inversion. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 169–186.
References 275
Higginbotham, James. (1985). ‘On semantics’. Linguistic Inquiry 16: 547–593.
Himmelmann, Nikolaus. (2002). ‘Voice in two northern Sulawesi languages’, in Fay Wouk and
Malcolm D. Ross (eds), The History and Typology of Western Austronesian Voice Systems.
Canberra: Pacific Linguistics, 123–142.
Hoekstra, Teun and Nina Hyams. (1998a). ‘Aspects of root infinitives’, Lingua 106: 81–112.
—— (1998b). ‘Agreement and the finiteness of V2: evidence from child language’, in Annabel
Greenhill, Mary Hughes, Heather Littlefield, and Hugh Walsh (eds), Proceedings of the 22nd
Annual Boston University Conference on Language Development. Somerville, MA: Casca-
dilla, 360–373.
—— Nina Hyams, and Michael Becker. (1999). ‘The role of specifier and finiteness in early
grammar’, in David Adger, Bernadette Plunkett, George Tsoulas and Susan Pintzuk (eds),
Specifiers: Minimalist Approaches. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 251–270.
Hoji, Hajime. (1991). ‘Kare’, in Carol Georgopoulos and Roberta Ishihara (eds), Interdiscip-
linary Approaches to Language: Essays in Honor of Prof. S.-Y. Kuroda. Dordrecht: Reidel,
287–304.
Hollenbach, Barbara. (1984). ‘Reflexives and Reciprocals in Copala Trique’. International
Journal of American Linguistics 50: 272–291.
Holmberg, Anders and Christer Platzack. (1995). The Role of Inflection in Scandinavian
Syntax. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Holton, Gary. (2000). The Phonology and Morphology of the Tanacross Athabaskan Language.
Ph.D. Dissertation, University of California, Santa Barbara.
Hopper, Paul and Sandra Thompson. (1980). ‘Transitivity in grammar and discourse’. Lan-
guage 56: 251–299.
Horn, Laurence R. (1978). ‘Some aspects of negation’, in Joseph H. Greenberg, Charles A.
Ferguson, and Edith A. Moravcsik (eds), Universals of Human Language IV: Syntax.
Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 125–210.
—— (2001). A Natural History of Negation. Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.
—— and Yasuhiko Kato. (2000). ‘Introduction: negation and polarity at the millennium’, in
Laurence Horn and Yasuhiko Kato (eds), Negation and Polarity: Syntactic and Semantic
Perspectives. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1–19.
Hornstein, Norbert. (1977). ‘Towards a theory of tense’. Linguistic Inquiry 8: 521–557.
—— (1990). As Time Goes by: Tense and Universal Grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Horrocks, Ian, Peter F. Patel-Schneider, and Frank van Harmelen. (2003). ‘From SHIQ and
RDF to OWL: The making of a web ontology language’. Journal of Web Semantics, 1(1):
7–26.
Hosokawa, Yukiko. (1991). The Japanese Passive: a Semantic and Pragmatic Analysis. Ph.D
Dissertation. Australian National University, Canberra.
Hu, Jianhua, Haihua Pan and Liejiong Xu. (2001). ‘Is there a finite vs. non-finite distinction in
Chinese?’ Linguistics 39(6): 1117–1148.
Huang, C.-T. James. (1984). ‘On the Distribution and Reference of Empty Pronouns’, Lin-
guistic Inquiry 15: 531–574.
—— (1999). ‘Chinese passives in comparative perspective’. Tsing Hua Journal of Chinese
Studies 29: 423–509.
276 References
Huddleston, Rodney D. (1976). ‘Some theoretical issues in the description of the English verb’.
Lingua 40: 331–383.
—— and Geoffrey K. Pullum. (2002). The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hurd, Conrad and Phyllis Hurd. (1970). ‘Nasioi verbs’. Oceanic Linguistics, 9.1: 37–78.
Hyman, Larry M. (1977). The syntax of body parts, in Ernest Rugwa Byarushengo, Alessandro
Duranti, and Larry M. Hyman (eds), Haya Grammatical Structure: Phonology, Grammar,
Discourse (Southern California Occasional Papers in Linguistics no.6). Los Angeles: Uni-
versity of Southern California, 99–117.
—— (2009). ‘How (not) to do phonological typology: the case of pitch-accent’. Language
Sciences 31: 213–238.
Iatridou, Sabine. (1986). ‘An anaphor not bound in its governing category’. Linguistic Inquiry
17: 766–772.
International Phonetic Association. (1989). ‘Report on the Kiel Convention’. Journal of the
International Phonetic Association 19: 67–80.
Jackendoff, Ray S. (1977). X-Bar Syntax: A Study of Phrase Structure. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Jakobson, Roman. (1957/1971). ‘Shifters, verbal categories, and the Russian verb’. Selected
Writings: II: Word and Language. The Hague: Mouton, 130–147.
Jayaseelan, K. A. (1996). ‘Anaphors as pronouns’. Studia Linguistica 50: 207–255.
—— (1999). Parametric Studies in Malayalam Syntax. New Delhi: Allied Publishers Limited.
—— (2005). ‘Remnant movement and word order’. Paper presented at the 5th Asian GLOW
Colloquium, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, October 2005.
Jensen, Allen A. (1994). ‘Wayampi’, in Peter Kahrel and René van den Berg (eds), Typological
Studies in Negation. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 343–364.
Jespersen, Otto. (1917). Negation in English and Other Languages. København: A. F. Høst & Søn.
—— (1924). The Philosophy of Grammar. London: Allen & Unwin.
Jones, Daniel. (1956). An Outline of English Phonetics. (8th edition.) Cambridge: Heffer.
Juge, Matthew L. (1999). ‘On the rise of suppletion in verbal paradigms’. Berkeley Linguistics
Society 25: 183–194.
Julien, Marit (2002). Syntactic Heads and Word Formation. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
—— (2007). ‘On the relation between morphology and syntax’, in Gillian Ramchand and
Charles Reiss (eds), The Oxford Handbook of Linguistic Interfaces. Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press, 209–238.
Kachru, Yamuna. (2006). Hindi. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kalepky, Theodor. (1899). ‘Zur französischen Syntax’. Zeitschrift für Romanische Philologie
XXIII: 491–513.
Kalinina, Elena and Nina Sumbatova. (2007). ‘Clause structure and verbal forms in Nakh-
Daghestanian languages’. in Irina Nikolaeva (ed.), Finiteness: Theoretical and Empirical
Foundations. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 183–249.
Kammerzell, Frank and Carsten Peust. (2002). ‘Reported speech in Egyptian: Forms, types and
history’, in Tom Güldemann and Manfred von Roncador (eds), Reported Discourse: a
Meeting Ground for Different Linguistic Domains. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 289–322.
References 277
Kärkkäinen, Elise. (1996). ‘Preferred argument structure and subject role in American English
conversational discourse’. Journal of Pragmatics 25: 675–701.
Karlsson, Fred. (1987). Finnish Grammar (2nd edition). Porvoo: Werner Söderström
Osakeyhtiö.
Kay, Paul and Karl Zimmer. (1976). ‘On the semantics of compounds and genitives in English’,
Proceedings of the Sixth California Linguistics Association Conference, San Diego, CA: San
Diego State University, 29–35.
Kazenin, Konstantin I. (2002). ‘Verbal reflexives and the middle voice’, in Martin Haspelmath,
Ekkehard König, Wulf Oesterreicher, and Wolfgang Raible (eds), Language Typology and
Language Universals. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 916–927.
Kemmer, Suzanne. (1993). The Middle Voice. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Khokhlova, Liudmila. V. (2003). ‘The distribution of analytic and synthetic passives in Indo-
European languages in Western India’, in Ritva Laury, Gerald McMenamin, Shigeko
Okamoto, Vida Samiian, and Karumuri V. Subbarao (eds), Perspectives in Linguistics:
Papers in Honor of P. J. Mistry. New Delhi: Indian Institute of Language Studies, 139–158.
Kilian-Hatz, Christa. (2008). A Grammar of Modern Khwe (Central Khoisan). Cologne:
Rüdiger Köppe.
Kinsui, Satoshi. (1997). ‘The influence of translation on the historical development of the
Japanese passive construction’. Journal of Pragmatics 28: 759–779.
Kiparsky, Paul. (2002). ‘Disjoint reference and the typology of pronouns’, in Ingrid Kaufmann
and Barbara Stiebels (eds), More than Words a Festschrift for Dieter Wunderlich. Studia
Grammatica 53. Berlin: Akademie Verlag, 179–226.
Kirsner, Robert. (1976). ‘On the subject of pseudo-passives in Standard Dutch and the
semantics of background agents’, in Charles Li (ed.), Subject and Topic. New York:
Academic Press, 387–415.
Klavans, Judith. (1982). ‘Configuration in non-configurational languages’, in Proceedings of the
First West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics, Volume 1: 292–306.
—— (1985). ‘The independence of syntax and phonology in cliticization’. Language 61: 95–120.
Klein, Wolfgang. (1994). Time in Language. London: Routledge.
—— (1998). ‘Assertion and Finiteness’, in Norbert Dittmar and Zvi Penner (eds), Issues in the
Theory of Language Acquisition: Essays in Honor of Jürgen Weissenborn. Bern: Peter Lang,
225–245.
—— Ping Li, and Henriette Hendriks. (2000). ‘Aspect and Assertion in Mandarin Chinese’,
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 18: 723–770.
Klima, Edward S. (1964). ‘Negation in English’, in Jerry A. Fodor and Jerrold J. Katz (eds),
The Structure of Language: Readings in the Philosophy of Language. Englewood Cliffs, NJ:
Prentice Hall, 246–323.
König, Ekkehard. (2002). ‘Intensifiers and reflexives’, in Martin Haspelmath, Ekkehard König,
Wulf Oesterreicher, and Wolfgang Raible (eds), Language Typology and Language Univer-
sals. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 747–760.
—— and Volker Gast (2008a). ‘Reciprocity and reflexivity - description, typology and theory’,
in Ekkehard König and Volker Gast (eds), Reciprocals and Reflexives. Theoretical and
Typological Explorations. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 1–31.
278 References
König, Ekkehard. and Volker Gast (eds), (2008b). Reciprocals and Reflexives. Theoretical and
Typological Explorations. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
—— and Peter Siemund (with Stephan Töpper). (2008). ‘Intensifiers and reflexive pronouns’,
in Martin Haspelmath, Matthew Dryer, David Gil, and Bernard Comrie, (eds), The World
Atlas of Language Structures. Munich: Max Planck Digital Library. Available online at
http://wals.info/feature/47. Accessed on 2010–08–23.
Koptjevskaja-Tamm, Maria. (1993). Nominalizations (Theoretical linguistics series). London:
Routledge.
—— (1994). ‘Finiteness’, in Ronald E Asher (ed.), The Encyclopedia of Language and Linguis-
tics: Volume 3. Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1242–1248.
—— (1995). ‘Possessive and relational forms in Chukchi’, in Frans Plank (ed.), Double Case:
Agreement by Suffixaufnahme. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 301–321.
—— (1997). ‘Possessive NPs in Maltese: Alienability, iconicity and grammaticalization’. The
Maltese NP Meets Typology (Special issue of Rivista di Linguistica, edited by Albert Borg
and Frans Plank, 8(1)): 245–274.
—— (2000). ‘Romani genitives in cross-linguistic perspective’, in Viktor Elšík and
Yaron Matras (eds), Grammatical Relations in Romani: The Noun Phrase. John Benjamins,
123–149.
—— (2001). ‘Adnominal possession’, in Martin Haspelmath, Ekkehard König, Wulf Oester-
reicher, and Wolfgang Raible (eds), Language Typology and Language Universals, Volume 2.
Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 960–970.
—— (2002). ‘Adnominal possession in the European languages: form and function’. Sprach-
typologie und Universalienforschung, 55: 141–171.
—— (2003a). ‘Possessive noun phrases in the languages of Europe’, in Frans Plank (ed.), Noun
Phrase Structure in the Languages of Europe. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 621–722.
—— (2003b). ‘A woman of sin, a man of duty, and a hell of a mess: Non-determiner genitives
in Swedish’, in Frans Plank (ed.), Noun Phrase Structure in the Languages of Europe. Berlin.
Mouton de Gruyter, 515–558.
—— (2004). ‘ “Maria’s ring of gold”: adnominal possession and non-anchoring relations in
the European languages’, in J.-Y. Kim, Yury Lander, and Barbara H. Partee (eds), Posses-
sives and Beyond: Semantics and Syntax. Amherst, MA: GLSA Publications, 155–181.
Kornfilt, Jaklin. (1997). Turkish (Descriptive Grammars series). London: Routledge.
—— (2007). ‘Verbal and nominalised finite clauses in Turkish’, in Irina Nikolaeva (ed.),
Finiteness: Theoretical and Empirical Foundations. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 305–333.
Kozintseva, Natalia. (1995). Modern Eastern Armenian. Munich: Lincom Europa.
Krifka, Manfred. (2007). ‘Negated antonyms: creating and filling the gap’, in Uli Sauerland and
Penka Stateva (eds), Presupposition and Implicature in Compositional Semantics. (Palgrave
Studies in Pragmatics, Language and Cognition). Basingstoke: Palgrave MacMillan, 163–177.
References 279
Kroskrity, Paul V. (1984). ‘Negation and subordination in Arizona Tewa: discourse pragmatics
influencing syntax’. International Journal of American Linguistics 50: 94–104.
Kruspe, Nicole. (2004). A Grammar of Semelai. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kulikov, Leonid. (2009). ‘Voice typology’, in Jae Jung Song (ed.), The Oxford Handbook of
Linguistic Typology. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 368–398.
Kulonen, Ulla-Maija. (1989). The Passive in Ob-Ugric. Helsinki: Suomalais-Ugrilainen Seura.
Kuryłowicz, Jerzy. (1964). The Inflectional Categories of Indo-European. Heidelberg: Carl
Winter.
Kvavik, Karen H. (1986). ‘Direct and reported speech prosody: evidence from Spanish’ in
Florian Coulmas (ed.), Direct and Indirect Speech. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 333–360.
Laanemets, Anu. (2004). Dannelse og anvendelse af passiv i dansk, norsk og svensk. (Nordistica
Tartuensia 11). Tartu: Tartu University Press.
—— (2009). ‘The passive voice in written and spoken Scandinavian’, in Marc Fryd (ed.), The
Passive in Germanic Languages (Groninger Arbeiten zur germanistischen Linguistik 49),
144–166.
Ladefoged, Peter and Ian Maddieson. (1996). The Sounds of the World’s Languages. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Ladusaw, William. (1996). ‘Negation and polarity items’, in Shalom Lappin (ed.), Handbook of
Contemporary Semantic Theory. Oxford: Blackwell, 321–341.
Lambrecht, Knud. (1990). “What, me worry?” - ‘Mad Magazine sentences’ revisited. Berkeley
Linguistics Society 16: 215–228.
—— (1994). Information Structure and Sentence Form: Topic, Focus, and the Mental Repre-
sentations of Discourse Referents. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Langacker, Ronald W. (1987). Foundations of Cognitive Grammar: I: Theoretical Prerequisites.
Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
—— (1991). Foundations of Cognitive Grammar: II: Descriptive Applications. Stanford, CA:
Stanford University Press.
—— (1995). ‘Possession and possessive constructions’, in John R. Taylor and Robert
E. MacLary (eds), Language and the Cognitive Construal of the World (Trends in
Linguistics, Studies and Monographs 82). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 51–79.
—— (2004). ‘Grammar as image: the case of voice’, in Barbara Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk
and Alicja Kwiatkowska (eds), Imagery in Language Festchrift in Honour of Professor
Ronald W. Langacker, Łodz Studies in Language 10. Frankfurt: Peter Lang, 63–114.
Lapointe, Steven G. (1990). ‘EDGE Features in GPSG’, in Papers from the Twenty-Sixth
Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society, 221–235.
Larson, Meredith. (2006). ‘The Thais that bind: Principle C and bound expressions in Thai’, in
Christopher Davis, Amy Rose Deal and Youri Zabbal (eds), Proceedings of NELS 36,
Amherst: GLSA, 427–440.
Larson, Richard and Gabriel Segal. (1995). Knowledge of Meaning. An Introduction to Semantic
Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Lasser, Ingeborg. (1997). Finiteness in Adult and Child German. Wageningen: Ponsen and
Looijen bv.
280 References
Lassila, Ora and Ralph. R. Swick. (1999, Feb). Resource Description Framework (RDF) model
and syntax specification. Recommendation, W3C. http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-rdf-syntax/
Lea, Vanessa. (2004). ‘Aguçando o entendimento dos termos triádicos Me
~bêngôkre via os
aborígenes australianos: dialogando com Merlan e outros’. Liames: Línguas Indígenas
Americanas, IEL, UNICAMP, Campinas, 29–42.
Ledgeway, Adam. (1998). ‘Variation in the Romance infinitive: the case of the southern
Calabrian inflected infinitive’, Transactions of the Philological Society 96: 1–61.
—— (2000). A Comparative Syntax of the Dialects of Southern Italy. A Minimalist Approach.
Oxford: Blackwell.
—— (2007). ‘Diachrony and finiteness: subordination in the dialects of Southern Italy’, in
Irina Nikolaeva (ed.), Finiteness: Theoretical and Empirical Foundations. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 335–365.
Lee, Alan. (2005). ‘Verb morphology’, in Nicholas Evans, Jutta Besold, Hywel Soakes, and
Alan Lee (eds), Materials in Golin. Melbourne: Department of Linguistics and Applied
Linguistics, University of Melbourne, 31–54.
Lee, Felicia. (2003). ‘Anaphoric R-expressions as bound variables’. Syntax 6: 84–114.
Leech, Geoffrey and Jan Svartvik. (1994). A Communicative Grammar of English. 2nd edition.
London: Longmans.
Lees, Robert and Edward Klima. (1963). ‘Rules for English pronominalization’. Language 39:
17–28.
Lefebvre, Claire and Anne-Marie Brousseau. (2002). A Grammar of Fongbe. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
—— and Pieter Muysken. (1988). Mixed Categories: Nominalizations in Quechua. Dordrecht:
Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Legendre, Géraldine. (1990). ‘French impersonal constructions’. Natural Language and Lin-
guistic Theory 8.1: 81–128.
Lehmann, Thomas. (1989). A Grammar of Modern Tamil. Pondicherry: Pondicherry Institute
of Linguistics and Culture.
Lerch, Gertraud. (1919). Uneigentliche direkte Rede. Dissertation. Munich.
Levi, Judith N. (1978). The Syntax and Semantics of Complex Nominals. Academic Press, New
York.
Levinson, Stephen. (2000). Presumptive Meanings. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Lewin, Bruno. (1975). Abriß der japanischen Grammatik. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz.
Lewis, G. L. (1967). Turkish Grammar. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Li, Yen-Hui Audrey. (1990). Order and Constituency in Mandarin Chinese. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Lichtenberk, Frantisek. (2008). A Grammar of Toqabaqita (2 volumes). Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Lorck, Etienne. (1921). Die erlebte Rede: Eine sprachliche Untersuchung. Heidelberg: Carl
Winter.
Loughnane, Robyn M. (2003). Reported Speech in Golin (a Papuan Language of New Guinea).
Honours Thesis, University of Melbourne.
—— (2005). ‘Reported speech constructions in Golin’, in Nicholas Evans, Jutta Besold, Hywel
Soakes, and Alan Lee (eds), Materials in Golin. Melbourne: Department of Linguistics and
Applied Linguistics, University of Melbourne, 131–152.
References 281
Lust, Barbara C., Kashi Wali, James W. Gair, and Karumuri V. Subbarao. (eds), (2000). Lexical
Anaphors and Pronouns in Selected South Asian Languages: A Principled Typology. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Lyons, Christopher (1991). ‘An agreement approach to clitic doubling’. Transactions of the
Philological Society 88: 1–57.
Lyons, John. (1995). Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Lyutikova, Ekaterina A. (2000). ‘Reflexives and emphasis in Tsaxur (Nakh-Dagestanian)’, in
Zygmunt Frajzyngier and Traci S. Curl (eds), Reflexives: Forms and functions, Amsterdam:
John Benjamins, 227–255.
—— and Sergei Tatevosov. (2005). Event structure and binding, Ms. Moscow State University.
Maling, Joan. (2004). ‘From passive to active: syntactic change in progress in Icelandic’.
Proceedings of the 2004 LSK International Conference. Seoul: Linguistic Society of Korea
and Yonsei Institute of Language & Information Studies.
—— and Sigríður Sigurjónsdóttir. (2002). ‘The new impersonal construction in Icelandic’.
Journal of Comparative Germanic Linguistics 5: 97–142.
Man, On Lee. (2003). The Subject Function in Cantonese. Ph.D Dissertation. University of
Hong Kong.
Manoliu-Manea, Maria. (1988). ‘Pragmatique et sémantique du passif: l’agent et le réfléchi
roman’. Revue Romane 23.2: 198–210.
Martin, Jack B. (2000). ‘Creek voice: beyond valency’, in R. M. W. Dixon and Alexandra
Y. Aikhenvald (eds), Changing Valency. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 375–402.
Martin, Samuel. (1992). A Reference Grammar of Korean. New York and Tokyo: Tuttle.
Martineau, France and Virginia Motapanyane. (1996). ‘Hypothetical infinitives and
crosslinguistic variation in Continental and Québec French’, in James R. Black (ed.),
Microparametric Syntax and Dialect Variation. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins,
145–168.
Martins, Ana Maria. (2005). ‘Passive and impersonal se in the history of Portuguese’. Ms
University of Lisbon. http://www.clul.ul.pt/equipa/amartins.
Masica, Colin (1991). The Indo-Aryan Languages. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Masolo, Claudio, Stefano Borgo, Aldo Gangemi, Nicola Guarino, and Alessandro Oltramari,
(2003, December). Ontologies library (final). WonderWeb Deliverable D18, ISTC-CNR,
Padova, Italy.
Maslova, Elena S. (2003). A Grammar of Kolyma Yukaghir. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Master, Alfred. (1946). ‘The zero negative in Dravidian’. Transactions of the Philological Society
45: 137–155.
Matthews, Peter H. (1993). Grammatical Theory in the United States from Bloomfield to
Chomsky. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Mauri, Caterina. (2008). ‘The irreality of alternatives’. Studies in Language 32: 22–55.
Maynard, Senko. (1986). ‘The particle -o and content-oriented indirect speech in Japanese
written discourse’, in Florian Coulmas (ed.), Direct and Indirect Speech. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter, 179–200.
McCawley, James D. (1988). The Syntactic Phenomena of English: Volume 1. Chicago: Univer-
sity of Chicago Press.
282 References
McGregor, Ronald S. (1995). Outline of Hindi Grammar (3rd edition). Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
McGregor, William. (2000). ‘Reflexive and reciprocal constructions in Nyulnyulan languages’,
in Zygmunt Frajzyngier and Traci S. Curl (eds), Reciprocals: Forms and Functions, Am-
sterdam: John Benjamins, 85–122.
Mel´čuk, Igor. (1994). ‘Suppletion: toward a logical analysis of the concept’. Studies in
Language 18: 339–410.
Menge, Heinz. (2000). Lehrbuch der lateinischen Syntax und Semantik. Völlig neu bearbeitet
von Thorsten Burkard. Darmstadt: Wiss. Buchges.
Merin, Arthur and Irina Nikolaeva (2008). Ms. Exclamatives a universal speech act category:
A study in Decision-Theoretic Semantics and universal implications. Available at: http://
www.semanticsarchive.net/Archive/jUwMmYxY/eusac-sspa4.pdf
Merlan, Francesca. (1989). ‘Jawoyn relationship terms: interactional dimensions of Australian
kin classification’. Anthropological Linguistics 31, 3–4: 227–263.
Mezhevich, Ilana (2002). ‘English compounds and Russian relational adjectives’. In Proceed-
ings of the North Western Linguistics Conference 2002: 95–114.
Miestamo, Matti. (2005). Standard Negation: The Negation of Declarative Verbal Main Clauses
in a Typological Perspective. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Mildorf, Jarmila. (2008). ‘Thought presentation and constructed dialogue in oral stories: limits
and possibilities of a cross-disciplinary narratology’. Partial Answers: Journal of Literature
and the History of Ideas 6.2: 279–300.
Miller, Philip H. and Ivan A. Sag, (1997). ‘French clitic movement without clitics or move-
ment’. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 15(3): 573–639.
Mol, Frans. (1995). Lessons in Maa: A Grammar of Maasai language. Lemek: Maasai Centre.
Monachesi, Paula (1999). A Lexical Approach to Italian Cliticization. Stanford, CA: CSLI
Publications.
Morev, L. N., A. A. Moskalev and Y. Y. Plan. (1979). The Lao Language. Moscow: Nauka.
Morgan, Jerry L. (1984). ‘Some problems of agreement in English and Albanian’. Proceedings
of the Tenth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society. Berkeley: Berkeley Linguis-
tics Society, 233–247.
Morse, Nancy L. and Michael B. Maxwell. (1999). Cubeo Grammar. University of Texas at
Arlington.
Mortensen, David. (2004). ‘Two types of variable elements in Hmong anaphora’. MS UC
Berkeley.
Moscati, Vincenzo. (2006). The Scope of Negation. PhD dissertation: Università di Siena.
Mosel, Ulrike and Even Hovdhaugen. (1992). Samoan Reference Grammar. Oslo: Scandanavian
University Press.
Mous, Martin (2003). ‘Nen (A44)’, in David Nurse and Gérard Philippson (eds), The Bantu
Languages. London: Routledge, 283–306.
—— (2007). ‘The middle and passive derivations in Konso’, in Azeb Amha, Maarten Mous
and Graziano Savà (eds), Omotic and Cushitic Language Studies: Papers from the Fourth
Cushitic Omotic Conference, Leiden, 10–12 April 2003. Cologne: Rüdiger Köppe Verlag,
213–229.
References 283
Moyse-Faurie, Claire. (2008). Constructions expressing middle, reflexive and reciprocal situ-
ations in some Oceanic languages, in Ekkehard König and Volker Gast (eds), Reciprocals
and Reflexives: Theoretical and Typological Explorations. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter,
105–168.
—— (2011). Reflexives markers in Oceanic languages, talk at the Workshop “The World of
Reflexives”, August 26th, 2011, Utrecht.
Munro, Pamela. (1976). Mojave Syntax. New York: Garland.
Murphy, Patrick M. (2005). ‘The conceptual space of verbs: evidence from Russian’. Presen-
tation to the Midwest Slavic conference, the Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. http://
www.unc.edu/  murphy/research.html
Murthy, B. Lalitha and Karumuri V. Subbarao. (2000). ‘Lexical anaphors and pronouns in
Mizo’, in Barbara Lust, Kashi Wali, James Gair, and Karumuri V. Subbarao (eds), Lexical
Pronouns and Anaphors in Selected South Asian Languages: a Principled Typology. Berlin:
Mouton De Gruyter, 777–840.
Muysken, Pieter. (1993). ‘Reflexives of Ibero-Romance reflexive cliticþverb combinations in
Papiamentu: thematic grids and grammatical relations’, in Francis Byrne and Don Winford
(eds), Focus and Grammatical Relations in Creole Languages. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
285–301.
—— and Norval Smith. (1994). ‘Creole reflexives: an interim report’, in Dany. Adone and Ingo
Plag (eds), Creolization and Language Change, Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Nardi, Daniele and Ronald J. Brachman. (2003). ‘An introduction to Description Logics’, in
Franz Baader, Diego Calvanese, Deborah McGuinness, Daniele Nardi, and Peter Patel-
Schneider (eds), The Description Logic Handbook. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
1–40.
Nariyama, Shigeko. (2003). Ellipsis and Reference-Tracking in Japanese. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Nathan, Michele. (1977). Grammatical Description of the Seminole Dialect of Creek. Ph.D.
Dissertation Tulane University: distributed by University Microfilms, Michigan University.
Nau, Nicole. (1998). Latvian. Munich: Lincom Europa.
Nedyalkov [Nedjalkov], Igor. (1994). ‘Evenki’, in Peter Kahrel and René van den Berg (eds),
Typological Studies in Negation, 1–34. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Nedjalkov, Igor. (1997). Evenki. London: Routledge.
Nespor, Marina and Irene Vogel. (1986). Prosodic Phonology. Dordrecht: Foris Publications.
Nevis, Joel A. (2000). ‘Clitics’, in Geert Booij, Christian Lehmann, and Joachim Mugdan (eds),
Morphology. An International Handbook on Inflection and Word-Formation: Volume 1.
Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 388–404.
Newmark, Leonard. (1957). Structural Grammar of Albanian. Bloomington: Indiana Univer-
sity publications.
—— (1998). Albanian-English dictionary. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
Newmeyer, Frederick J. (2005). Possible and Probable Languages: A Generative Perspective on
Linguistic Typology. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Nichols, Johanna. (1986). ‘Head-marking and dependent-marking grammar’. Language 62:
56–119.
—— (1992). Linguistic Diversity in Space and Time. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
284 References
—— and Balthasar Bickel. (2005). ‘Possessive classification’, in Martin Haspelmath, Matthew
S. Dryer, David Gil, and Bernard Comrie (eds), World Atlas of Linguistic Structures.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 242–245. Available at http://wals.info/.
Niklas, Karl J. (1994). ‘Morphological evolution through complex domains of fitness’. Pro-
ceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 91: 6772–6779.
—— (2004). ‘Computer models of early land plant evolution’. Annual Review of Earth Planet
Sciences 32: 47–66.
Nikolaeva, Irina. (1999). Ostyak. Munich: Lincom Europa.
—— (2002). ‘Possession vs. nominal attribution in Uralic’, in Eugene Helimski and Anna
Widmer (eds), Wŭśa wŭśa - Sei gegrüsst! Beiträge zur Finnougristik zu Ehren von Gert Sauer
dargebracht zu seinem siebzigsten Geburtstag. (Veröffentlichungen der Societas Uralo-
Altaica 57). Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz, 239–250.
—— (2007a). ‘Introduction’, in Irina Nikolaeva (ed.), Finiteness: Theoretical and Empirical
Foundations. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1–19.
—— (2007b). ‘Constructional economy and nonfinite independent clauses’, in Irina Nikolaeva
(ed.), Finiteness: Theoretical and Empirical Foundations. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
138–182.
—— (to appear). ‘Narrative infinitive construction in French and Latin’, in Hans Boas and
Francisco Gonzálvez-García (eds), Romance Construction Grammar [provisional title],
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
—— and Andrew Spencer. (2009). ‘The possession-modification scale: a universal of
morphosyntax’. Unpublished ms, SOAS/University of Essex.
—— and M. Tolskaya. (2001). A Grammar of Udihe. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Niles, Ian and Adam Pease. (2001). ‘Toward a standard upper ontology’, in Christopher
Welty and Barry Smith (eds), Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Formal
Ontology in Information Systems (FOIS-2001) Ogunquit, Maine. Association for Computing
Machinery.
Nolan, Brian. (2006). ‘The passives of Modern Irish’, in Werner Abraham and Larisa
Leisiö (eds), Passivization and Typology: Form and function. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
132–164.
Noonan, Michael. (1985). ‘Complementation’, in Timothy Shopen (ed.), Language Typology
and Syntactic Description: Volume 2. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 42–140.
—— (1992). A Grammar of Lango. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
—— (1994). ‘A tale of two passives in Irish’, in Barbara Fox and Paul J. Hopper (eds), Voice
Form and Function. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 279–311.
—— (2007). ‘Complementation’, in Timothy Shopen (ed.), Language Typology and Syntactic
Description: Volume 3: Complex Constructions. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
52–150.
Noord, Gertjan van and Valia Kordoni. (2005). ‘A raising analysis of the Dutch Passive’, in
Stefan Müller (ed.), Proceedings of the HPSG05 Conference. Department of Informatics,
University of Lisbon. CSLI Publications. http://csli-publications.stanford.edu.
Noyer, Rolf. (1997). Features, Positions and Affixes in Autonomous Morphological Structure.
New York: Garland. [Revised version of 1992 MIT Doctoral Dissertation.]
References 285
Nunberg, Geoffrey. (1990). The Linguistics of Punctuation. Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.
Otoguro, Ryo (2006). Morphosyntax of Case: a theoretical investigation of the concept. Ph.D.
thesis, University of Essex.
Palancar, Enrique L. (2002). The Origin of Agent Markers. Berlin: Akademie Verlag.
Palmer, F. R. (1986). Mood and Modality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Partee, Barbara H. (1997). ‘Genitives, a case study’, in Johan van Benthem and Alice ter
Meulen (eds), Handbook of Logic and Language. Dordrecht: Elsevier, 417–473.
—— and Vladimir Borschëv. (2003). ‘Genitives, relational nouns, and argument-modifier
ambiguity’, in C. M. E. Lang and Cathrine Fabricius-Hansen (eds), Modifying Adjuncts.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 67–112.
Paton, William Frederick (1971). Ambrym (Lonwolwol) Grammar. Canberra: Pacific Linguistics.
Paul, Ileana. (2004). ‘NP versus DP reflexives: evidence from Malagasy’, Oceanic Linguistics 43:
32–48.
Payne, Doris. (2008). ‘The Maa (Eastern Nilotic) impersonal construction’. Paper presented at
the workshop ‘Impersonal Constructions’ at the 41st Annual meeting of the Societas
Linguistica Europaea, Forlì, 18th September 2008.
Payne, John R. (1985). ‘Negation’ in Timothy Shopen (ed.), Language typology and
syntactic description: Volume I: Clause structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 197–242.
—— (1995). ‘Inflecting postpositions in Indic and Kashmiri’, in Frans Plank (ed.), Double
Case. Agreement by Suffixaufnahme. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 283–298.
Pederson, Eric. (1993). ‘Zero negation in South Dravidian’, in Lise M. Dobrin, Lynn Nichols
and Rosa M. Rodriguez (eds), CLS 27, Papers from the 27th Regional Meeting of the Chicago
Linguistics Society 1991. Part Two: Parasession on negation. Chicago: Chicago Linguistics
Society, 233–245.
Peperkamp, Sharon (1997). Prosodic Words. HIL dissertations, 34. The Hague: Holland
Academic Graphics.
Pilot-Raichoor, Christiane. (1998). ‘Temps et négation en Dravidien: passé/non-passé/négatif.
Sémantique d’un système morphologique’, in Bernard Caron (ed.), Proceedings of the 16th
International Congress of Linguists, Paper N8 0204. Oxford: Pergamon.
Pinkster, Harm. (1985). ‘Latin cases and valency grammar: some problems’, in Christian Toura-
tier (ed.), Syntaxe et Latin: actes du IIeme Congrès International de Linguistique Latine, Aix-
en-Provence, 28–31 Mars, 1983. Aix-en-Provence: Université de Provence, 163–189.
Pires, Acrisio. (2002). ‘Cue-based change: inflection and subjects in the history of Portuguese
infinitives’, in David Lightfoot (ed.), Syntactic Effects of Morphological Change. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 143–150.
Plank, Frans (2002). ‘Grouping in multiple attribution: Advantage Albanian’, in Wolfram
Bublitz, Manfred von Roncador, and Heinz Vater (eds), Philology, Typology and Language
Structure. Frankfurt: Peter Lang, 157–170.
Platzack, Christer. (2007). ‘Embedded imperatives’, in Wim van der Wurff (ed.), Imperative
Clauses in Generative Grammar: Studies in Honour of Frits Beukema. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, 181–203.
—— and Anders Holmberg, (1989). ‘The role of AGR and finiteness in Germanic VO
languages’, Working Papers in Scandinavian Syntax 43: 51–76.
286 References
Platzack, Christer and Inger Rosengren. (1998). ‘On the subject of imperatives: A Minimalist
account of the imperative clause’. Journal of Comparative Germanic Linguistics 1: 177–224.
Potsdam, Eric. (n.d.) ‘Expressing exclamatives in Malagasy’. http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/lin/
nomz/pdf/Potsdam.pdf
Prasithrathsint, Amara. (2006). ‘Development of the thùuk passive marker in Thai’, in Werner
Abraham and Larisa Leisiö (eds), Passivization and Typology: Form and function. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins, 115–131.
Prēmsīrat, Suwilai. (1987). Khmu, a Minority Language of Thailand. Canberra: Pacific
Linguistics.
Pullum, Geoffrey K. and Hans-Jörg Tiede. (2010). ‘Inessential features and expressive power
of descriptive metalanguages’, in Anna Kibort and Greville G. Corbett (eds), Features:
Perspectives on a Key Notion in Linguistics. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 272–292.
Reesink, Ger P. (1993). “Inner speech” in Papuan languages. Language and Linguistics in
Melanesia 24, No.2: 217–225.
Reichenbach, Hans. (1947). Elements of Symbolic Logic. New York: The Free Press & London:
Collier-Macmillan.
Reinders-Machowska, Ewa. (1991). ‘Binding in Polish’, in Jan Koster and Eric Reuland (eds),
Long Distance Anaphora. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 137–150.
Reinhart, Tanya. (1983). Anaphora and Semantic Interpretation. Beckenham, Kent: Croom
Helm.
—— (1999). ‘Binding Theory’, in Robert A. Wilson and Frank C. Keil (eds), The MIT
Encyclopedia of the Cognitive Sciences. Cambridge Mass: MIT Press, 86–88.
—— and Eric Reuland. (1991). ‘Anaphors and logophors: an argument structure perspective’,
in Jan Koster and Eric Reuland (eds), Long Distance Anaphora. 283–321 Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
—— and Eric Reuland. (1993). ‘Reflexivity’. Linguistic Inquiry 24.4: 657–720.
—— and Tali Siloni. (2005). ‘The Lexicon-Syntax Parameter: reflexivization and other arity
operations’. Linguistic Inquiry 36.3: 389–436.
Reintges, Chris. (1997). Passive Voice in Older Egyptian - A Morpho-Syntactic Study. Den Haag:
Holland Academic Graphics (Leiden University Doctoral dissertation).
—— ‘Functional equivalents of the passive voice: A closer look at the impersonal third person
plural construction’. Paper presented at Coptic Egyptian 38th Colloquium on African
Languages and Linguistics (CALL), Leiden University 25–27 August 2008.
Reuland, Eric. (2006). ‘Long distance anaphors in Germanic Languages’, in Martin Everaert
and Henk van Riemsdijk (eds), The Blackwell Companion to Syntax, Volume III. Oxford:
Blackwell, 85–108.
—— (2011). Anaphora and Language Design. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Rice, Keren. (1989). A Grammar of Slave. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
—— (2000). ‘Voice and valency in the Athapaskan family’, in R. M. W. Dixon and Alexandra
Y. Aikhenvald (eds), Changing Valency: Case Studies in Transitivity. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 172–235.
Rizzi, Luigi. (1997). ‘The fine structure of the left periphery’, in Liliane Haegeman (ed.),
Elements of Grammar. Dordrecht: Kluwer, 281–337.
References 287
Roberts, John R. (1988). ‘Amele switch-reference and the theory of grammar’. Linguistic
Inquiry 19: 45–63.
Rosch, Eleanor. (1973). ‘Natural categories’. Cognitive Psychology 4: 328–350.
—— (1978). ‘Principles of categorization’, in Eleanor Rosch and Barbara B. Lloyd (eds),
Cognition and Categorization, Hillsdale, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Rosén, Hannah. (1995). ‘The Latin infinitivus historicus revisited’. Mnemosyne 48: 536–564.
Ross, John Robert. (1972). ‘The category squish: Endstation Hauptwort’, in Paul M. Peranteau,
Judith N. Levi and Gloria C. Phares (eds), Proceedings of the Eighth Regional Meeting of the
Chicago Linguistic Society, 316–338. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.
—— (1973). ‘Nouniness’, in Osama Fujimura (ed.), Three Dimensions of Linguistic Theory.
Tokyo: TEC Company, 137–257. Reprinted (2004), in Bas Aarts, David Denision, Evelien
Keizer and Gergana Popova (eds), Fuzzy Grammar: a Reader. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 351–422.
Ross, Malcolm. (2005). ‘Pronouns as a preliminary diagnostic for grouping Papuan languages’,
in Andrew Pawley, Robert Attenborough, Robin Hide, and Jack Golson (eds), Papuan
Pasts: Cultural, Linguistic and Biological Histories of Papuan-Speaking Peoples. Canberra:
Pacific Linguistics, 15–66.
Roussou, Anna (2001). ‘Control and raising in and out of subjunctive complements’, in Maria-
Luisa Rivero and Angela Ralli (eds), Comparative Syntax of Balkan Languages. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 74–104.
Rude, Noel. (1986). ‘Topicality, transitivity and the direct object in Nez Perce’. International
Journal of American Linguistics 52.2: 124–153.
Rühlemann, Christoph. (2007). ‘Lexical grammar: The GET-passive as a case in point’ ICAME
Journal 31: 111–127.
Ruppenhofer, Josef, Michael Ellsworth, Miriam R. L. Petruck, Christopher R. Johnson and Jan
Scheffczyk. (2005). ‘FrameNet II: Extended theory and Practice’. Technical report, ICSI,
Berkeley. https://framenet.icsi.berkeley.edu/fndrupal/documentation.
Rus, Dominik. (2005). ‘Slovenian embedded imperatives’, in Corinne Brandstetter and
Dominik Rus (eds), Georgetown Working Papers in Theoretical Linguistics 4: 153–183.
Georgetown University: Department of Linguistics.
Rutgers, Roland. (1998). Yamphu: Grammar, Texts and Lexicon. Leiden: CNWS Publications.
Sadock, Jerrold M. (1991). Autolexical Syntax: A Theory of Parallel Grammatical Representa-
tions. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Safir, Ken. (2004). The Syntax of Anaphora. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Sag, Ivan A., Thomas Wasow, and Emily Bender. (2003). Syntactic Theory: A Formal Intro-
duction. Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.
Salminen, Tapani. (1997). Tundra Nenets Inflection. Helsinki: Suomalais-Ugrilainen Seura.
Saloni, Zygmunt. (1976). Cechy składniowe polskiego czasownika. Wrocław: Ossolineum.
Sansò, Andrea. (2006). ‘Agent defocusing revisited: Passive and impersonal constructions in
some European languages’, in Werner Abraham and Larisa Leisiö (eds), Passivization and
Typology: Form and function. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 232–273.
—— (2011). ‘Grammaticalization paths and prototype effects. A history of the agentive
reflexive passive in Italian’ Folia Linguistica Historica 32: 219–252.
288 References
Sapir, Edward. (1922). ‘The Takelma language of southwestern Oregon’, in Bulletin of Ameri-
can Ethnology: Franz Boas (ed.), Handbook of American Indian Languages. Washington,
DC: Government Printing Office 40.2: 1–296.
Sasse, Hans-Jürgen. (1987). ‘The thetic/categorical distinction revisited’. Linguistics 25: 511–580.
Sasse, Hans-Jürgen. (2001). ‘Scales between nouniness and verbiness’, in Martin Haspelmath,
Ekkehard König, Wulf Oesterreicher, and Wolfgang Raible (eds), Language Typology and
Language Universals: Volume 1. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 495–509.
Schachter, Paul. (1977). ‘Reference related and role related properties of subjects’, in Peter Cole
and Jerrold Sadock (eds), Syntax and Semantics: Grammatical Relations. New York:
Academic Press, 279–307.
—— (1985). ‘Parts-of-speech systems’, in Timothy Shopen (ed.), Language Typology and
Syntactic Description: Volume 1: Clause Structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 3–61. [revised as Schachter and Shopen 2007.]
—— and Timothy Shopen (2007). ‘Parts-of-speech systems’, in Timothy Shopen (ed.), Lan-
guage Typology and Syntactic Description: Second edition: Volume 1: Clause Structure.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1–60.
Schladt, Mathias. (2000). ‘The typology and grammaticalization of reflexives’, in Zygmunt
Frajzyngier and Traci S. Curl (eds), Reflexives: Forms and functions. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, 103–124.
Schlicher, J. J. (1914/1915). ‘The Historical Infinitive’, Classical Philology 9: 279–294, 374–394; 10:
54–74.
Schuh, Russell G. (1998). A Grammar of Miya. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press.
Seiler, Hansjakob. (2001). ‘The Cologne UNITYP project’, in Martin Haspelmath, Ekkehard
König, Wulf Oesterreicher and Wolfgang Raible (eds), Language Typology and Language
Universals: Volume 1. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 323–343.
Sells, Peter. (2007). ‘Finiteness in non-transformational syntactic frameworks’, in Irina Niko-
laeva (ed.), Finiteness: Theoretical and Empirical Foundations. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 59–89.
Sevcenco, Anca. (2006). Terms of binding. (LOT Dissertation series). Utrecht: Igitur (Utrecht
University Doctoral dissertation).
Shaul, David Leedom. (1982). A Grammar of Nevome. Ph.D Dissertation. University of
California, Berkeley.
Shibatani, Masayoshi. (1985). ‘Passives and related constructions: a prototype approach’.
Language 61: 821–848.
—— (2006). ‘On the conceptual framework for voice phenomena’. Linguistics 44.2: 217–269.
Siegel, Muffy E. A. (1980). Capturing the Adjective. New York: Garland.
Siemund, Peter. (2007). Pronominal Gender in English: A Study of English Varieties from a
Cross-Linguistic Perspective. London: Routledge.
Siewierska, Anna. (1984). The Passive: A Contrastive Linguistic Analysis. London: Croom
Helm.
—— (1988). ‘The passive in Slavic languages’, in Masayoshi Shibatani (ed.), Passives and
Voicing. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 243–289.
—— (2004). Person. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
References 289
Siewierska, Anna. (2005). ‘Passive constructions’, in Martin Haspelmath, Matthew S. Dryer,
David Gil and Bernard Comrie (eds), World Atlas of Language Structure. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 434–437.
Simpson, Jane and Margaret Withgott. (1986). ‘Pronominal clitic clusters and Templates’, in
Hagit Borer (ed.), The Syntax of Pronominal Clitics (Syntax and Semantics: Volume 19).
Orlando: Academic Press, 149–174.
Skorik, Pjotr Ja. (1961). Grammatika čukotskogo jazyka, tom 1 [A Grammar of Chukchi,
Volume 1]. Leningrad: Nauka.
Słoń, Anna. (2003). Impersonal Constructions in English and Polish. A Cognitive Grammar
Approach. Ph.D. Dissertation, Maria Curie-Skłodowska University in Lublin.
Smith, Michael K., Chris Welty and Deborah L. McGuinness. (2004). Owl Web Ontology
Language Guide. W3C Recommendation 20040210, W3C. http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-
guide/.
Smythe Kung, Susan. (2007). A Descriptive Grammar of Huehuetla Tepehua. Ph.D Disserta-
tion. University of Texas at Austin.
Song, Jae Jung. (2001). Linguistic Typology: Morphology and Syntax. Harlow: Longman.
Spencer, Andrew (1991). Morphological Theory: An Introduction to Word Structure in Gen-
erative Grammar. Oxford: Blackwell.
—— (1999). ‘Transpositions and argument structure’, in Geert Booij and Jaap van Marle (eds),
Yearbook of Morphology 1998. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 73–102.
—— (2005a). ‘Towards a typology of ‘mixed categories’, in C. Orhan Orgun and Peter
Sells (eds), Morphology and the Web of Grammar: Essays in Memory of Steven G. Lapointe
(Stanford Studies in Morphology and the Lexicon). Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications,
95–138.
—— (2005b). ‘Inflecting clitics in Generalized Paradigm Function Morphology’. Lingue e
Linguaggio 4: 179–193.
—— (2005c). ‘Case in Hindi’, in Miriam Butt and Tracy Holloway King (eds), The Proceedings
of the LFG ’05 Conference, University of Bergen, Norway, 429–446.
—— (2011). What’s in a compound? [Review article on: Rochelle Lieber and Pavol Štekauer
(eds), The Oxford Handbook of Compounding (Oxford Handbooks of Linguistics). Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 2009. Pp. xxþ691.] Journal of Linguistics 47: 481–507.
—— and Ryo Otoguro. (2005). ‘Limits to case – a critical survey of the notion’, in Mengistu
Amberber and Helen de Hoop (eds), Competition and Variation in Natural Languages: The
Case for Case. Oxford: Elsevier, 119–145.
Sridhar, Shikaripur N. (1990). Kannada Descriptive Grammar. London: Routledge.
Stafford, R. (1967). The Luo Language. Nairobi: Longmans.
Stauder, Andréas. (2010). Detransitivity, Voice and Aspect. The Passive in Egyptian Diachrony.
Ph.D Dissertation, University of Basel.
Stassen, Leon. (1985). Comparison and Universal Grammar. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Steele, Susan. (1978). ‘Word order variation: A typological study’, in Joseph H. Greenberg,
Charles A. Ferguson and Edith A. Moravcsik (eds), Universals of Human Language IV:
Syntax. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 585–623.
Steenbergen, Marlies van. (1991). ‘Long-distance binding in Finnish’, in Jan Koster and Eric
Reuland (eds), Long Distance Anaphora. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 231–244.
290 References
Steever, Sanford F. (2002). ‘Direct and indirect discourse in Tamil’, in Tom Güldemann and
Manfred von Roncador (eds), Reported Discourse: a Meeting Ground for Different Linguistic
Domains. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 91–108.
Stevens, Martin. (1954). ‘The derivation of ‘ain’t’ ’. American Speech 29: 196–201.
Storto, Gianluca (2004). ‘Possessives in context’, in J.-Y. Kim, Yury Lander and Barbara H.
Partee (eds), Possessives and Beyond: Semantics and Syntax. Amherst, MA: GLSA Publica-
tions, 59–86.
Stump, Gregory T. (1998). ‘Inflection’, in Andrew Spencer and Arnold M. Zwicky (eds), The
Handbook of Morphology. Oxford: Blackwell, 13–43.
Subbarao, Karumuri V. (2012). South Asian Languages: A Syntactic Typology. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Sugamoto, Nobuko. (1984). ‘Reflexives in Toba Batak’, in Paul Schachter (ed.), Studies in the
Structure of Toba Batak (UCSL Occasional Papers in Linguistics 5), 151–171.
Sulkala, Helena and Merja Karjalainen. (1992). Finnish. (Descriptive Grammar series). London:
Routledge.
Suñer, Maria (1988). ‘The role of agreement in clitic-doubled constructions’. Natural Language
and Linguistic Theory 6: 391–434.
Sung, Li-May. (2006). ‘Verbal reflexives/reciprocals in (some) Formosan languages’, in Tenth
International Conference on Austronesian Linguistics. Palawan, Philippines. http://www.sil.
org/asia/ Philippines/ical/papers.html.
Sussex, Roland (1980). ‘On agreement, affixation and enclisis in Polish’, in Catherine V.
Chvany and R. D. Brecht (eds), Morphosyntax in Slavic. Columbus, Ohio: Slavica Pub-
lishers, 187–203.
Svenonius, Peter. To appear. ‘Case alternations in the Icelandic passive’, in Satu Manninen,
Diane Nelson, Katrin Hiietam, Elsi Kaiser and Virve Vihman (eds), Passives and Imperso-
nals in European Languages. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Tallerman, Maggie. (1998). ‘The uniform case-licensing of subjects in Welsh’, The Linguistic
Review 15: 69–133.
Tammi, Pekka and Hannu Tommola (eds), (2003). Linguistic and Literary Aspects of Free
Indirect Discourse from a Typological Perspective. Tampere: University of Tampere.
Tannen, Deborah. (1986). ‘Introducing constructed dialogue in Greek and American conver-
sational and literary narrative’, in Florian Coulmas (ed.), Direct and Indirect Speech. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter, 311–332.
Tang, Ting-Chi. (2000). ‘Finite and nonfinite clauses in Chinese’, Language and Linguistics 1:
191–214.
Taylor, John R. (1989). ‘Possessive genitives in English’. Linguistics 27: 663–686.
—— (1995). Linguistic Categorization: Prototypes in Linguistic Theory. Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
—— (1996). Possessives in English: An Exploration in Cognitive Grammar. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Tereščenko, Natalja M. (1967). ‘K razvitiju atributivnyx otnošenij v samodijskix jazykax’ [On
the development of attributive relations in the Samoyedic languages]. Voprosy finno-
ugorskogo jazykoznanija, 4: 234–242.
References 291
Tereščenko, Natalja M. (1973). Sintaksis samodijskix jazykov [The Syntax of the Samoyedic
Languages]. Leningrad: Nauka.
Thráinsson, Höskuldur. (1976). ‘Reflexives and subjunctives in Icelandic’, Proceedings of NELS
6: 225–239.
Tida, Syuntarô. (2006). A Grammar of the Dom language. PhD thesis. University of Kyoto.
Tija, Johnny. (2007). A Grammar of Mualang: an Ibanic Language of Western Kalimantan,
Indonesia. Ph.D Dissertation, University of Leiden.
Timberlake, Alan. (2007). ‘Aspect, tense, mood’, in Timothy Shopen (ed.), Language
Typology and Syntactic Description (second edition). Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 280–333.
Tobler, A. (1894). Vermischte Beiträge zur französischen Grammatik II. Leipzig.
Tolchinsky, Liliana and Elisa Rosado. (2005). ‘The effect of literacy, text type and modality on
the use of grammatical means for agency alternation in Spanish’ Journal of Pragmatics 37:
209–237.
Torn, Reeli. (2002). ‘The status of the passive in English and Estonian’. Cambridge Working
Papers in English and Applied Linguistics 7: 81–106.
Tosco, Mauro. (2001). The Dhaasanac Language. Cologne: Rüdiger Köppe Verlag.
Toyota, Junchi. (2007). ‘An adversative passive in English: in search of origins’, in Nicole
Delbecque and Bert Cornillie (eds), On Interpreting Construction Schemas. Berlin: Mouton
de Gruyter, 143–169.
Trask, Robert L. (1999). ‘Parts of speech’, in Keith Brown & Jim Miller (eds), Concise
Encyclopedia of Grammatical Categories. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 278–284.
Tsoulas, George. (1995). ‘The nature of the subjective and the formal grammar of obviation’, in
Karen Zagona (ed.), Grammatical Theory and Romance Languages. Amsterdam: Benja-
mins, 293–306.
Tucker, Archibald N. (1993). A Grammar of Kenya Luo (Dholuo). Edited by Chet A. Creider.
Köln: Rüdiger Köppe Verlag.
Vamarasi, Marit Kana. (1999). Grammatical Relations in Bahasa Indonesia. Canberra: Pacific
Linguistics.
Van Valin Jr., Robert and Randy LaPolla. (1997). Syntax: Structure, Meaning and Function.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Vanrespaille, Mila. (1991). ‘A semantic analysis of the English get-passive’. Journal of Applied
Linguistics 5: 95–112.
Veerman-Leichsenring, Annette. (2006). ‘Valency changing devices in Metzontla Popoloc’, in
Grazyna J. Rowicka and Eithene B. Carlin (eds), What’s in a Verb? Studies in the Verbal
Morphology of the Languages of the Americas. Utrecht: LOT, 93–118.
Verdín Díaz, Guillermo. (1970). Introducción al estilo indirecto libre in español. Madrid:
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas.
Vergnaud, Jean-Roger and Maria Luisa Zubizarreta. (1992). ‘The definite determiner and the
inalienable construction in French’. Linguistic Inquiry 23: 595–652.
Verhaar, J. W. M. (1978). ‘Some notes on the verbal passive in Indonesian’. Linguistic Studies of
Indonesian and other Languages in Indonesia 19: 11–19.
Verhagen, Arie. (2005). Constructions of Intersubjectivity: Discourse Syntax and Cognition.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
292 References
Viljamaa, Toivo. (1983). Infinitive of Narration in Livy: a Study in Narrative Technique. Turku:
Turun Yliopisto.
Vincent, Nigel. (1993). ‘Head versus dependent-marking: the case of the clause’, in Greville G.
Corbett, Norman M. Fraser, and Scott McGlashan (eds), Heads in Grammatical Theory.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 140–163.
—— (1998). ‘On the grammar of inflected nonfinite forms (with special reference to Old
Neapolitan)’, in Iørn Korzen, and Michael Herslund (eds), Clause Combining and Text
Structure. Copenhagen: Samfundslitteratur, 135–158.
Voloshinov, Valentin N. (1973). Marxism and the Philosophy of Language. New York: Seminar
Press. (First Russian Edition 1929).
Voort, Hein van der. (2002). ‘The quotative construction in Kwaza and its (de-)grammatica-
lisation’, in Mily Crevels, Simon van de Kerke, Sérgio Meira and Hein van der Voort (eds),
Current Studies on South American Languages. ILLA, 307–328.
—— (2004). A Grammar of Kwaza. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Wälchli, Bernhard (2005). Co-compounds and Natural Coordination. Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
Wali, Kashi, B. Lalitha Murthy, and Karumuri V. Subbarao. (1991). ‘Bound pronominals in
Marathi, Telugu and Mizo’, Language Sciences 13.2: 145–160.
Wechsler, Stephen. (1991). ‘Verb second and illocutionary force’, in Katherine Leffel and Denis
Bouchard (eds), Views on Phrase Structure. Dordrecht: Kluwer, 177–191.
Werner, Heinrich. (1997). Die Ketische Sprache (Tungosu-Sibirica 3). Wiesbaden: Harrasso-
witz.
Wetzer, Harrie (1996). The Typology of Adjectival Predication. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Whaley, Linsay J. (1997). Introduction to Typology: the Unity and Diversity of Language.
London: Sage.
Wierzbicka, Anna. (1972). Semantic Primitives. Frankfurt: Athenäum.
—— (1996). Semantics, Primes and Universals. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Williams, Edwin S. (2007). ‘Dumping Lexicalism’ in Gillian Ramchand and Charles
Reiss (eds), The Oxford Handbook of Linguistic Interfaces. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 351–381.
Wiltschko, Martina. (2004). ‘Reflexives in Upriver Halkomelem’, International Journal of
American Linguistics 70.2: 101–27.
Wolfart, H. Christoph. (1973). Plains Cree: A Grammatical Study. (Transactions of the
American Philological Society n.s. 63, pt. 5). Philadelphia: American Philological Society.
Woolford, Ellen. (1999). ‘More on the anaphor agreement effect’, Linguistic Inquiry 30:
257–287.
Woollams, Geoff. (1996). A Grammar of Karo Batak, Sumatra. Canberra: Pacific Linguistics.
Xiao, Richard, Tony McEnery, and Yufang Quiang. (2006). ‘Passive constructions in English
and Chinese. A corpus-based contrastive study’. Languages in Contrast 6.1: 101–149.
Zaliznjak, Andrej A. (1973). ‘O ponimanii termina ‘padež’ v lingvističeskix opisanijax’,
in Andrej A. Zaliznjak (ed.), Problemy grammatičeskogo modelirovanija. Moscow: Nauka,
53–87. Reprinted (2002) in Andrej A. Zaliznjak. Russkoe imennoe slovoizmenenie: s prilo-
ženiem izbrannyx rabot po sovremennomu russkomu jazyku i obščemu jazykoznaniju.
Moscow: Jazyki slavjanskoj kul´tury, 613–647.
References 293
Zifonun, Gisela, Ludger Hoffmann, and Bruno Strecker. (1997). Grammatik der deutschen
Sprache: Volume 3. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Zribi-Hertz, Anne (2008). ‘From intensive to reflexive: The prosodic factor’, in Ekkehard
König and Volker Gast (eds), Reciprocals and Reflexives: Theoretical and Typological
Explorations. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 591–631.
Zwicky, Arnold M. (1977). ‘On clitics’. Indiana University Linguistics Club, Bloomington.
Zwicky, Arnold M. and Geoffrey K. Pullum. (1983). ‘Cliticization vs. inflection: English n’t’.
Language 59: 502–513.
Zymberi, Isa. (1991). Colloquial Albanian. London: Routledge.
294 References
Language index
Acehnese 172 n. 15
Ainu 182, 183
Albanian 201 n. 18, 202, 209, 211–13, 232, 238
Amele 107
Arapesh 55
Armenian
Classical 49
Modern Eastern 183–4
Avar 80, 88
Basque 201 n. 18, 202
Bayso 53
Bininj Gun-wok 89
Bororo 157
Bulgarian 153
Burmese 114
Burmeso 9, 10
Buru 157, 162, 165, 167
Cantonese 173, 188
Carib 160, 169 n. 11
Chamorro 174 n. 16
Chepang 169 n. 11
Chinese 112, 115, 173, 188
Chiquitano 155
Chukchi 169 n. 11, 230–2, 238
Cocama-Cocamilla 250
Coptic 157, 162, 177, 179, 180
Cree, Plains 168–9, 169 n. 11
Creek 162
Croatian 124
Cubeo 157, 166–8
Czech 124, 143, 179
Dalabon (Ngalkbon) 72–4
Danish 71, 162, 168
Dargwa, Icari 101–3, 110
Dhaasanac 36–7
DhoLuo 208
Dom 84
Dutch
Modern 113, 177–8, 180, 186–7, 201
Middle 200
Dyirbal 114
Egyptian, Classical 84, 86–8, 155, 168 n. 10, 177
English 32, 37, 40–1, 50, 68, 69, 74, 77, 79,
87, 93, 94, 95, 108, 111–12, 114, 119, 135,
156, 157, 160–1, 163–6, 175, 178–80, 183,
186, 191, 194, 197, 208, 219, 222–3, 225, 227
n.12 256
Estonian 165, 176
Evenki 43–4, 162
Ewe 89, 94
Eyak 162
Finnish 133, 162, 195, 234–5, 237
Fongbe 157
French 50, 59, 71, 95, 119, 120, 124, 146–7, 162,
195 n. 9 196–8, 201
Canadian 118
Georgian 195 n. 10, 196
German 71, 92, 112, 119, 121, 163, 176 n. 17, 186
Golin 84–8, 93, 94, 97
Greek
Classical 71, 92
Modern 109, 201–2, 205, 206, 223
Haitian Creole 200
Halkomelem 179
Upriver 200
Hannis Coos 155
Hausa 235
Haya 162
Hindi 201, 209–11, 232
Hmong 188, 199
Ho 195 n. 10, 196
Hoava 181, 230
Hungarian 38, 247
Icelandic
Modern 162, 175–6, 178 n. 19 205–6
Old 80 n. 19
Igbo 32
Indonesian 165, 170–2, 179, 185
Irish 160, 165, 177, 179
Italian
Modern 79, 95, 118, 121, 124, 133
Old 160
Itelmen 162
Jamsay 77, 80, 81 n. 20, 87, 96
Japanese 77, 81–3, 87, 88 n. 28,
92 n. 36, 93, 97, 106, 109, 114, 118,
187–8, 198
Kakchiquel 179
Kannada 162, 195 n. 10, 196
Karachay-Balkar 200
Karo Batak 174
Kashmiri 145 n. 14
Kayardild 43–4, 182, 185
Ket 33–5, 39
Khmer 115, 188
Khmu 188
Khwe 40
Kimbundu 176
Konso 162
Korean 92 n. 36
Kresh 39–40
Kriol 73
Kunama 157
Kurdish, Central 175–6
Kutenai 169 n. 11
Kuuk Thaayorre (Thayore) 195
n. 10, 196
Kwakw’ala 136
Kwaza 70 n. 6, 74–7, 85, 87, 94, 97
Lango 208
Lao 188
Latin 10, 69, 71, 116, 118, 120
Latvian 162
Lele 229
Lithuanian 177
Lonwolwol 226
Luba 176
Lucanian 132–3
Luo 162
Luvale 176
Maa 162
Maanyan 171–2, 179
Maasai 33, 34
Macedonian 146–7
Malagasy 201 n. 18, 202
Malay 157
Malayalam 198–9, 205
Maltese 109, 208
Mam 40
Manam 55
Manambu 80 n. 19, 84, 88
Mandarin 160, 173
Manggarai 160, 172
Manipuri 195 n. 10, 196
Mano 32
Maori 55
Marathi 205
Maricopa 36–7
Matses 157
Mbembe 31
Miya 57, 235, 237–8
Mizo 201
Mojave 162
Mualang 171 n. 13, 172 n. 14
Mupun 39
Nasioi 202 n. 19
Navajo 169 n. 11
296 Language index
Ndonga 179
Neapolitan
Modern 132–3
Old 117
Nen (Bantu) 250
Nepalese 211
Nevome 176
Nez Perce 76–7, 83–5,
88, 157
Nias 185
Nivkh 102, 121
Norwegian 163, 168, 197–8
Nubian, Old 50
Nuer 162, 178
Nunggubuyu 88
Nuosu, Liangshan 173
Ojibwa 57
Ostyak 160, 179
Paiwan 195 n. 10, 196
Papiamentu 197
Papudungun 169 n. 11
Pari 155
Paumarí 157
Persian 209
Polish 147–8, 153, 160, 163 n. 7, 176–7, 179–80,
183–6, 195
Popoloc, Metzontla 179
Portuguese 117, 146, 162
Potawatomi 256–7
Punjabi 167–8, 211
Quechua
Cuzco 117
Imbabura 118, 157
Quiche 179
Rajasthani 168
Romanian 50, 162, 205–6
Romansh (Rumantsch)
Surmiran 145 n. 14
Surselvan 62–3
Russian 2, 4, 6–7, 54, 59, 77, 79–80, 80 n. 17,
82 n. 23, 87, 88 n. 28, 93, 95, 97, 105,
108, 117–18, 120–1, 168, 170, 175, 223–4,
237, 243
Sahaptin 169 n. 11
Sakha (Yakut) 195
Samoan 44–5
Semelai 34
Seminola 162
Serbian 124
Shona 156, 180
Shoshone, Tümpisa (Panamint) 234
Slave 75–7, 85, 87, 94, 97, 162
Slovak 179
Slovene 80 n. 19, 180, 184
Spanish 10, 70 n. 7, 124, 160, 162, 168
Swahili 209 n. 3
Swedish 80 n. 19, 160, 162, 168, 175, 177,
180, 235, 237
Tagalog 116, 173–4
Takelma 162
Taleshi 233, 237
Tamil
Modern 71 n. 8, 77, 78–9, 84, 117,
191–2, 205–6
Old 31
Tanacross 162
Tariana 157, 162, 179
Telugu 200–1, 205
Tepehua, Huehuetla 179
Tewa, Arizona 42
Thai 188–9, 198–9
Tigrinya 2
Toba Batak 202 n. 19
Tongan 116
Toqabaqita 73 n. 10
Trique, Copala 199
Tsakhur 117, 200–1
Tukang-Besi 162
Tundra Nenets 105–6, 234, 237
Turkish 102, 107–8, 115, 146, 147, 162, 208, 230
Language index 297
Tuvaluan 230
Tuyuca 40
Tzotzil 169 n. 11, 179
Udihe 101, 105, 115, 118, 163, 167
Urdu 209–11
Usan 84
Ute 162
Vietnamese 188
Vogul 160
Walman 63–4
Warihio 157
Warrwa 195 n. 10, 196
Wayampi 36–7
Welsh 115, 177
Xârâgurè 195 n. 10, 196
Yagua 2
Yamphu 34–6, 236, 238
Yimas 55
Yukaghir, Kolyma 106, 109, 230
Yup’ik, Central Alaskan 57
Zande 157, 195 n. 8
Zapotec, San Lucas Quiaviní 198, 199
298 Language index
Index of authors
Adelaar, Willem F. H. 155
Adger, David. 104, 114
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. 25 n. 6, 80, 84, 130,
151, 157, 162, 179, 208
Aissen, Judith. 179
Akmajian, Adrian. 113
Allen, Margaret. 222
Ameka, Felix. 89 n. 31
Amiridze, Nino. 195 n. 10
Amritavalli, R. 195 n. 10
Anagnostopoulou, Elena. 201 n. 18, 202 n. 19,
203 n. 21, 205
Annamalai, E. 191–2
Andersen, Torben. 155
Anderson, John M. 103, 108–9, 112
Anderson, Stephen R. 130, 130 n. 6, 132, 136,
141 n. 12, 144–6, 145 n. 14
Anttila, Hanna. 133 n. 7
Anward, Jan. 51
Aoki, Haruo. 76, 83
Archangeli, Diana. 134
Ariel, Mira. 178
Arka, Wayan. 160, 170–3, 172 n. 15
Armendáriz, Rolando F. 157
Aronoff, Mark. 129, 137, 138
Asher, R. E. 117
Baader, Franz. 242–3
Baayen, R. Harald. 8
Baerman, Matthew. 50, 55, 57
Baker, Mark C. 51
Bakhtin, Mikhail. 72
Bakker, Dik. 151–89
Bally, Charles. 71
Banfield, Ann. 72
Barker, Chris. 216–17, 227 n. 12
Barnes, Janet. 40
Barnwell, Katherine. 31
Barron, Julia. 121
Bateman, John. 251
Beard, Robert. 223
Becker, Michael. 113
Becker-Donner, Etta. 32
Beedham, Christopher. 168 n. 10
Bender, Emily. 219
Bender, Lionel. 157
Bermúdez-Otero, Ricardo. 124, 132
Berners-Lee, Tim. 260
Besnier, Niko. 230
Bhat, D. N. S. 208, 220
Bianchi, Valentina. 107–9, 113
Bickel, Balthasar. 13–14, 216, 240
Bisang, Walter. 104–6, 108
Blake, Barry J. 182–3
Blatt, Franz. 121
Blevins, James. 178
Bond, Oliver. 20–47
Booij, Geert. 147, 225
Borgo, Stefano. 242, 250, 251
Borras, F. M. 80
Borschëv, Vladimir. 215
Brachman, Ronald J. 243
Brainard, Sherri. 174 n. 16
Brandner, Eleonore. 111
Brandt, M. 114
Bray, Tim. 241 n. 1
Bresnan, Joan. 228
Broadwell, George Aaron. 179
Brousseau Anne-Marie. 157
Brown, Dunstan. 1–19, 57, 130, 140, 149
Brown, Lea. 63, 146, 185
Brown, Richard D. 39–40
Buchholz, Oda. 211, 213, 232
Bull, William E. 90 n. 32
Burzio, Luigi. 193
Bybee, Joan L. 25 n. 6, 57, 250
Calvanese, Diego. 242–3
Campbell, Lyle. 179
Carden, Guy. 200
Carlson, Gregory N. 218
Carlson, Robert. 104
Cavallin, Samuel. 121
Chapman, Shirley. 157
Chappell, Hilary. 173, 215, 216 n. 5
Chomsky, Noam. 107, 192–3, 202, 215
Christian, R. F. 80
Chumakina, Marina. 1–19, 130, 140, 149
Chung, Sandra. 170
Chung, Siaw-Fong. 157
Clements, Nick. 89
Coene, Martine. 218
Cole, Peter. 118, 157, 202 n. 19, 205
Collins, Wesley M. 40
Comrie, Bernard. 90 n. 32, 91, 100, 114, 152,
157 n. 4, 240
Contino, S. 120
Cooreman, Anne. 174 n. 16
Corbett, Greville G. 1–6, 9–10, 20–24, 32, 35,
48–65, 99, 124, 127 n. 2, 130, 136 n. 8, 140,
149, 152, 190, 202, 253
Cornelis, Louise H. 177
Coulmas, Florian. 69, 69 n. 4, 71–2, 81
Crazzolara, J.P. 162
Creswell, Cassandre. 188
Crisp, S.R. 80
Cristofaro, Sonia. 101–2, 104, 108
Croft, William. 21, 51, 99, 100, 102, 152–3,
208, 215, 219–20
Crowell, Thomas Harris. 157
Cruse, Alan. 152
Crystal, David. 26, 31, 41
Curl, Traci S. 191
Cutler, Anne. 130
Dahl, Östen. 2, 25 n. 6, 27, 28, 31–4, 225, 250
Davis, Karen. 181, 230
Davison, Alice. 201 n. 18
Dayley, Jon P. 234
De Haan, Ferdinand. 25 n. 6, 32 n. 9
De Roeck, Marijke. 69, 71
Deal, Amy Rose. 76, 83
Dennett, Daniel C. 66 n. 2
Derbyshire, Desmond C. 157
d’Hulst, Yves. 218
Díaz-Negrillo, Ana. 51 n. 2
Dik, Simon C. 163
Dimitriadis, Alexis. 195
Dixon, R. M. W. 25 n. 6, 151, 202, 208, 219
Donohue, Mark. 9–10, 162
Downing, Pamela. 222
Drescher, James. 86
Dryer, Matthew S. 27, 33, 34, 37–8, 39 n. 10,
63, 99, 240
Du Bois, John W. 179
Ducrot, Oswald. 30
Duncan, Lachlan. 179
Dunn, Michael J. 231–2
Durie, Mark. 172 n. 15
Duškova, Libuše. 178
Dymshits, Zalman M. 232
Ebert, Karen. 66
Ellsworth, Michael. 249
Embick, David. 137 n. 9
Engdahl, Elisabet. 162, 168, 175, 177
Erteschik-Shir, Nomi. 44
Etxepare, Ricardo. 119
Evans, Nicholas. 43–4, 51, 66–98, 182, 185
Everaert, Martin. 190–206
Everett, Daniel L. 124
Faarlund, Jan Terje. 163
Fadden, Lorna. 169 n. 11
Faltz, Leonard M. 191–96, 203–4
Farrar, Scott. 239–61
Fattah, Muhammad M. 175–6
Fauconnier, Gilles. 30
Felix, Sascha. 109
Fiedler, Wilfried. 211, 213, 232
Fielding, R. 260
Fisher, Karen L. 115
Fivaz, Derek. 179
300 Index of authors
Fleck, David W. 157
Fleisch, Axel. 176
Foley, William. 174, 203
Forest, Robert. 25 n. 6
Fortune, George. 156
Frachtenberg, Leo J. 155
Frajzyngier, Zygmunt. 39, 191, 229
Franks, Steven. 147
Frawley, William. 32 n. 9
Fruttero, Carlo. 79
Gaby, Alice. 146, 195 n. 10
Gair, James W. 205
Galloway, Brent D. 179
Gangemi, Aldo. 242, 250–1
Gärdenfors, Peter. 251
Gast, Volker. 190–1, 194
Georg, Stefan. 162
Gerner, Matthias. 173
Gil, David. 99, 240
Gildea, Spike. 160
Gilligan, Gary. 130
Givón, Talmy. 13, 21 n. 3, 30, 100–1, 103, 109,
152, 157 n. 4, 162–3, 174 n. 16, 193
Goodwin, William W. 92
Gordon, Lynn. 36
Gore, Edward C. 157
Górski, Rafał L. 160, 179, 185
Grahek, Sabina. 180, 184
Granger, Sylviane. 161, 165
Green, Margaret M. 32
Greenberg, Joseph H. 57
Gretsch, Petra. 103
Grimes, Charles E. 157, 162, 165
Grohmann, Kleanthes. K. 119
Groot, Casper de. 38
Gruber, Thomas R. 242
Gruzdeva, Ekaterina. 103
Guarino, Nicola. 242, 250–1
Gudai, Darmansyah H. 171–2, 179
Haase, Martin. 114
Haberland, Hartmut. 71
Haiman, John. 62–3
Halle, Morris. 128 n. 3
Halliday, Michael A. K. 247
Halpern, Aaron. 130, 146
Harmelen, Frank van. 244
Hasegawa, Yoko. 82 n. 24
Haspelmath, Martin. 1, 3, 14 n. 2, 23, 37,
99–100, 152, 155, 157, 157 n. 4, 240
Hawkins John A. 130
Hay, Jennifer. 138 n. 10
Hayward, Richard J. 53
Heath, Jeffrey. 80–1
Heine, Bernd. 216 n. 5, 218, 221 n. 7, 222, 226
Helden, W. Andries van. 57
Hellan, Lars. 197
Heller, Zoë. 78
Hendriks, Henriette. 112
Hengeveld, Kees. 100
Hermon, Gabriella. 202 n. 19, 205
Hewitt, B. G. 80
Heycock, Caroline. 109
Hidalgo, Raquel. 160
Higginbotham, James. 220
Himmelmann, Nikolaus. 174
Hoekstra, Teun. 113
Hoffmann, Ludger. 162, 176 n. 17
Hoji, Hajime. 198 n. 12
Hollenbach, Barbara. 199
Holmberg, Anders. 108–9, 111–12
Holton, Gary. 162
Hopper, Paul. 174
Horn, Laurence R. 21 n. 3, 25 n. 6, 30, 32, 37
Hornstein, Norbert. 91
Horrocks, Ian. 244
Hosokawa, Yukiko. 187
Hovdhaugen, Even. 44–5
Hu, Jianhua. 115
Huang, C.-T. James. 115, 188, 205
Huddleston, Rodney D. 108, 222
Hurd, Conrad. 202 n. 19
Hurd, Phyllis. 202 n. 19
Hyams, Nina. 113
Hyman, Larry M. 13, 162
Index of authors 301
Iatridou, Sabine. 205, 206
Igwe, Georgewill E. 32
Jackendoff, Ray S. 215
Jakobson, Roman. 69 n. 4
Jayaseelan, K. A. 198–9, 205
Jensen, Allen A. 36
Jespersen, Otto. 37, 71, 91 n. 35
Johnson, Christopher R. 249
Jones, Daniel. 11
Juge, Matthew L. 10
Julien, Marit. 137 n. 9
Kachru, Yamuna. 232
Kalepky, Theodor. 71
Kalinina, Elena. 101, 103, 110, 117
Kammerzell, Frank. 84, 86
Karjalainen, Merja. 162
Kärkkäinen, Elise. 179
Karlsson, Fred. 133, 235
Kato, Yasuhiko. 25 n. 6
Kay, Paul. 225 n. 10
Kazenin, Konstantin I. 191, 195 n. 9
Kemmer, Suzanne. 156 n. 3
Khokhlova, Liudmila.V. 167
Kilian-Hatz, Christa. 40–1
King, Tracy Holloway. 147
Kinsui, Satoshi. 187–8, 188 n. 23
Kiparsky, Paul. 193
Kirsner, Robert. 178
Klavans, Judith. 124, 129, 144
Klein, Wolfgang. 103, 111–12, 114
Klima, Edward S. 27, 32, 192
König, Ekkehard. 190–1, 194–5
Koptjevskaja-Tamm, Maria. 100, 208–9, 213,
215, 221, 230
Kordoni, Valia. 186
Kornfilt, Jaklin. 102, 107, 115, 162
Kosmas, Jeladu. 160, 172–3, 172 n. 15
Kozintseva, Natalia. 184
Krifka, Manfred. 30
Kroskrity, Paul V. 42
Kruspe, Nicole. 34
Kulikov, Leonid. 152
Kulonen, Ulla-Maija. 160
Kuryłowicz, Jerzy. 152
Kvavik, Karen H. 70 n. 7
Laanemets, Anu. 160, 162
Ladefoged, Peter. 11
Ladusaw, William. 30
Lambrecht, Knud. 44, 111, 119
Langacker, Ronald. W. 112, 153, 193,
200, 215
Langendoen, D. Terence. 241, 246
Lapointe, Steven G. 146
LaPolla, Randy. 193
Larson, Meredith. 198–9
Larson, Richard. 220
Lasser, Ingeborg. 103, 119
Lassila, Ora. 259–60
Lea, Vanessa. 89
Lecarme, Jacqueline. 146
Ledgeway, Adam. 103, 117–18
Lee, Alan. 85 n. 26
Lee, Felicia. 198
Leech, Geoffrey. 165
Lees, Robert. 192
Lefebvre, Claire. 117, 157
Legendre, Géraldine. 162
Lehmann, Thomas. 84, 192
Lerch, Gertraud. 71–2
Levi, Judith N. 222
Levinson, Stephen. 193, 200 n. 17
Lewin, Bruno. 81
Lewis, G. L. 146
Lewis, William D. 253
Li, Ping. 112
Li, Yen-Hui Audrey. 115
Lichtenberk, Frantisek. 73 n. 10
Lie, Svein. 163
Lorck, Etienne. 71
Loughnane, Robyn M. 84–5
Luís, Ana R. 123–50
Lust, Barbara C. 205
Lyons, Christopher. 147
302 Index of authors
Lyons, John. 114
Lyutikova, Ekaterina A. 200
Maddieson, Ian. 11
Malerand, Eve. 241 n. 1
Maling, Joan. 162, 175, 178 n. 19
Man, On Lee. 173
Manoliu-Manea, Maria. 162
Marantz, Alec. 128 n. 3
Martin, Jack B. 162
Martin, Samuel. 92 n. 36
Martineau, France. 118
Martins, Ana Maria. 162
Masica, Colin. 210
Masinter, L. 260
Masolo, Claudio. 242, 250–1
Maslova, Elena S. 230
Master, Alfred. 31
Matthews, Peter H. 137
Matthiessen, Christian M. I. M. 247
Mauri, Caterina. 23
Maxwell, Michael B. 157, 166
Maynard, Senko. 81 n. 22
McCawley, James D. 114
McEnery, Tony. 160, 165 n. 8
McGregor, Ronald S. 210
McGregor, William. 195 n. 10, 215, 216 n. 5
McGuinness, Deborah L. 240, 242–3
Mel’čuk, Igor. 20, 22–3
Menge, Heinz. 120
Merin, Arthur. 113, 117
Merlan, Francesca. 89
Meurers, Detmar. 51 n. 2
Mezhevich, Ilana. 224
Miestamo, Matti. 25 n. 6, 27–8, 32–4
Mildorf, Jarmila. 72
Miller, Philip H. 124
Mol, Frans. 33
Monachesi, Paula. 124
Morev, L.N. 188
Morgan, Jerry L. 211–12
Morse, Nancy L. 157, 166
Mortensen, David. 199
Moscati, Vincenzo. 37
Mosel, Ulrike. 44–5
Moskalev, A. A. 188
Motapanyane, Virginia. 118
Mous, Martin. 162, 250
Moyse-Faurie, Claire. 195 n. 10, 196 n. 11,
202 n. 19
Munro, Pamela. 162
Murphy, Patrick M. 168, 175
Murthy, B. Lalitha. 201 n. 18, 205
Muysken, Pieter. 117, 197
Nardi, Daniele. 242–3
Nariyama, Shigeko. 82
Nathan, Michele. 162
Nau, Nicole. 162
Nedjalkov, Igor. 44, 162
Nespor, Marina. 132
Nevis, Joel A. 130
Newmark, Leonard. 211, 213
Newmeyer, Frederick J. 122
Nichols, Johanna. 13, 208, 216
Niklas, Karl J. 98 n. 37
Nikolaeva, Irina. 99–122, 163, 167, 179,
207–38
Niles, Ian. 242, 252
Nolan, Brian. 165
Noonan, Michael. 92, 100, 160, 177,
179, 208
Noord, Gertjan van. 186
Noyer, Rolf. 57, 137 n. 9
Nunberg, Geoffrey. 68 n. 3
Oltramari, Alessandro. 242, 250–1
Otoguro, Ryo. 211
Pagliuca William. 25 n. 6, 250
Palancar, Enrique L. 180 n. 21, 183
Palmer, F. R. 100, 109
Pan, Haihua. 115
Paoli, Jean. 241 n. 1
Partee, Barbara H. 215
Patel-Schneider, Peter. 242–4
Index of authors 303
Paton, William F. 226
Paul, Ileana. 201 n. 18
Payne, Doris. 162
Payne, John R. 26, 31, 33–4, 124, 210
Pease, Adam. 242, 252
Pederson, Eric. 31
Peperkamp, Sharon. 132
Perdue, Clive. 103
Perkins, Revere. 25 n. 6, 250
Petruck, Miriam R. L. 249
Peust, Carsten. 84, 86
Pilot-Raichoor, Christiane. 31
Pinkster, Harm. 183
Pires, Acrisio. 103
Plan, Y. Y. 188
Plank, Frans. 213
Platzack, Christer. 80, 108–10, 112–14
Popova, Gergana. 5, 130, 140, 149
Potsdam, Eric. 113
Prasithrathsint, Amara. 188
Pre
msīrat, Suwilai. 188
Pullum, Geoffrey K. 54, 123, 125, 129, 141,
150, 222
Pulleyblank, Douglas. 134
Quiang, Yufang. 160, 165 n. 8
Reesink, Ger P. 84
Reichenbach, Hans. 91
Reinders-Machowska, Ewa. 195 n. 10
Reinhart, Tanya. 193, 195, 202 n. 19, 204
Reintges, Chris. 155, 157, 177, 179
Reis, M. 114
Reuland, Eric. 192–3, 195, 202 n. 19, 205
Rice, Keren. 75–6, 162
Rizzi, Luigi. 113
Roberts, John R. 107
Rosado, Elisa. 162
Rosch, Eleanor. 12, 151
Rosén, Hannah. 120, 121
Rosengren, Inger. 113–14
Ross, John Robert. 12
Ross, Malcolm. 9
Roussou, Anna. 102, 109, 114–15
Rubach, Jerzy. 147
Rude, Noel. 157
Rühlemann, Christoph. 165
Ruppenhofer, Josef. 249
Rus, Dominik. 80
Rutgers, Roland. 35, 236
Sadock, Jerrold M. 125, 135
Safir, Ken. 192, 193, 205
Sag, Ivan A. 124, 219
Salminen, Tapani. 105
Saloni, Zygmunt. 186
Sansò, Andrea. 160, 168
Sapir, Edward. 162
Sasse, Hans-Jürgen. 12, 116
Schachter, Paul. 51, 174
Scheffczyk, Jan. 249
Schladt, Mathias. 195–6, 195 n. 8
Schlicher, J. J. 121
Schuh, Russell G. 235
Segal, Gabriel. 220
Seiler, Hansjakob. 12
Sells, Peter. 104, 115, 118
Sevcenco, Anca. 205
Shaul, David L. 176
Shibatani, Masayoshi. 151, 153, 175
Shopen, Timothy. 51
Siegel, Muffy E. A. 220
Siemund, Peter. 50, 195
Siewierska, Anna. 151–89
Sigurjónsdóttir, Sigríður. 162, 176, 178 n. 19
Siloni, Tali. 204
Simpson, Jane. 142, 145
Skorik, Pjotr Ja. 230–1
Słoń, Anna. 163
Smith, Michael K. 240
Smith, Norval. 197
Smythe Kung, Susan. 179
Snyder, Kieran. 188
Song, Jae Jung. 99
Spencer, Andrew. 5, 51–3, 123–50, 207–38
Sperberg-McQueen, C. M. 241 n. 1
304 Index of authors
Sridhar, Shikaripur N. 129, 138, 162
Stafford, R. 208
Stauder, Andréas. 157, 162
Stassen, Leon. 99
Steele, Susan. 20, 22, 23
Steenbergen, Marlies van. 195 n. 10
Steever, Sanford F. 71 n. 8, 78
Stevens, Martin. 40
Stewart, William. 200
Storto, Gianluca. 227 n. 12
Strecker, Bruno. 162, 176 n. 17
Stump, Gregory T. 51
Subbarao, Karumuri V. 195 n. 10, 200, 201
n. 18, 204–5
Sugamoto, Nobuko. 202 n. 19
Sulkala, Helena. 162
Sumbatova, Nina. 101, 103, 110, 117
Suñer, Maria. 124
Sung, Li-May. 195 n. 10
Sussex, Roland. 148
Svartvik, Jan. 165
Svenonius, Peter. 175
Swick, Ralph. R. 259
Tallerman, Maggie. 115
Tammi, Pekka. 72
Tannen, Deborah. 72
Tang, Ting-chi. 115
Tatevosov, Sergei. 200
Taylor, John R. 217, 227 n. 12
Tereščenko, Natalja M. 234
Thompson, Sandra. 174
Tida, Syuntarô. 84
Tiede, Hans-Jörg. 54
Tija, Johnny. 171 n. 13, 172 n. 14
Timberlake, Alan. 23, 43
Tobler, A. 71
Tolchinsky, Liliana. 162
Tolskaya, M. 101, 115, 163, 167
Tommola, Hannu. 72
Torn, Reeli. 165
Tosco, Mauro. 37
Toyota, Junchi. 165–6
Trask, Robert L. 51
Tsoulas, George. 113
Tucker, Archibald N. 162
Valera, Salvador. 51 n. 2
Vamarasi, Marit Kana. 170, 179
Van Valin Jr., Robert. 174, 193
Vannebo, Kjell Ivar. 163
Vanrespaille, Mila. 165
Veerman-Leichsenring, Annette. 179
Velupillai,Viveka. 2
Verdín Díaz, Guillermo. 70 n. 7
Vergnaud, Jean-Roger. 218
Verhaar, J.W.M. 170
Verhagen, Arie. 30
Viljamaa, Toivo. 121
Vincent, Nigel. 102–3, 109, 118
Vogel, Irene. 132
Volodin, Alexander P. 162
Voloshinov, Valentin N. 95
Voort, Hein van der. 74–5
Wälchli, Bernhard. 146
Wali, Kashi. 205
Wasow, Thomas. 219
Wechsler, Stephen. 111
Welty, Chris. 240
Werner, Heinrich. 33
Wetzer, Harrie. 208
Whaley, Linsay J. 26, 41
Wierzbicka, Anna. 26 n. 6
Williams, Edwin S. 137 n. 9
Wiltschko, Martina. 200
Withgott, Margaret. 142, 145
Wolfart, H. Christoph. 169
Woolford, Ellen. 203 n. 21
Woollams, Geoff. 174
Wunsch, Holger. 51 n. 2
Xiao, Richard. 160, 165 n. 8
Xu, Liejiong. 115
Yergeau, François. 241 n. 1
Index of authors 305
Zaliznjak, Andrej A. 49
Zifonun, Gisela. 163, 176 n. 17
Zimmer, Karl. 225 n. 10
Zimmermann, I. 114
Zribi-Hertz, Anne. 197
Zubizarreta, Maria Luisa. 218
Zwicky, Arnold M. 123, 125, 129, 135–7, 141, 150
Zymberi, Isa. 211–12
306 Index of authors
Subject index
action nominal 105
adjunct 125, 132, 169, 183, 187, 218, 220–4
affectedness 151, 164, 175, 188
affirmative 27–34, 37, 42
affix 5, 16, 27, 33, 43, 123–31, 133–50, 152,
155–57, 180, 183, 195, 211, 223–4, 253
affixation 34, 126, 129, 146
agent 16–17, 42, 151–54, 158–89, 206
overt agent 16–17, 151–4, 158–9, 161–3, 163
n.7, 164–8, 174 n.16, 176, 176 n.17, 177,
186, 189
agreement 2–7, 13, 16, 20–24, 49–51, 54, 59,
62, 81 n. 20, 85 n. 26, 101–3, 105, 107–8,
110, 112, 115, 117–19, 122, 124, 127, 143, 147,
169 n. 11, 170, 172, 195, 198, 200–2, 208–11,
213, 215, 223–4, 226, 229, 232, 234–5, 253
anaphor 17, 191–93, 194 n. 4, 197, 200, 205–6
anaphoric dependency 17, 190 n. 1, 193,
194, 198 n. 12, 200, 205–6
animacy 13, 17, 166, 183,
animacy hierarchy 13, 55, 57
antipassive 174
acquisition 51 n. 2
aspect 2, 43, 51, 51 n. 3, 55, 56, 100–1, 112, 115,
120, 144, 155–7, 168, 245, 254
attributive modification 18, 208, 209, 212, 214,
220, 224, 230, 233, 235, 237–8
attributivizer 236
Autolexical Syntax 135, 141 n. 12
Base (in Canonical Typology) 3–6, 14, 15,
20–6, 28–32, 39 n. 10, 40–1, 46–7
binding 107, 109, 115, 173, 192–4, 202 n. 19, 205
bindee 17, 194, 197, 198, 200, 202–4
binder 17, 197–8, 200–5
biperspectival speech 8, 16, 67, 88–90, 92–8
canonical biperspectival speech 8, 92–3,
95–7
Bondedness Hierarchy 203
bracketing paradoxes 131
British National Corpus (BNC) 164–5 n. 8,
179
canonical core, see Canonical Ideal
Canonical Ideal/Canon (in Canonical
Typology) 3, 5–9, 11–13, 18, 67, 73, 99,
125, 126, 153–5, 157–9, 189, 239, 252–5, 261
cardinal vowel 11
case:
accusative 49, 69, 119, 121, 180, 211, 261
dative 23, 60, 108, 162, 180, 183–4, 187
direct case 209–10
ergative 174
nominative 50, 107–8, 121
oblique case 182, 208–11, 231 n. 15, 236
cislocative 83–4
Classification and Regression Trees
(CART) 8
clause-boundedness 193
clause-chaining 106, 108
clefting 109
clitic 123–50
canonical clitic 5, 123–5, 149
clitic group 132
enclitic 130–1, 144, 167
focus clitics 110
host of clitic 123–5, 130–4, 138, 139, 141, 147,
149–50
proclitic 36
second position 124, 126, 133, 144–5,
145 n. 14
simple clitics 126, 130 n. 6, 131, 135–6,
140, 145
special clitics 126, 144–5, 145 n. 15
Wackernagel clitic 128 n. 4
Cliticization Principle 135
closed class 15, 56, 61, 138 n. 11
co-argument 192–4, 196, 203–6
colour terms 219
Communities of Practice Extension
(COPE) 18, 241, 253–6, 261
comparative concepts 3, 21, 23, 99–100, 255
complement clause 106, 115, 118
complementizer 69, 81 n. 22, 144, 148
compositionality 5, 15, 49, 56, 61, 62
composite nominal construction 222
compounding 130, 133, 141 n.12, 149, 221–5,
230 n.13, 232–5
concatenation 35
concept (in ontology):
atomic 244
complex 244
conditional 42, 101, 103, 148
consistent expression 126
consistent form 126
Constructional Integrity Constraint 135
control constructions 105, 109, 118
controller 2, 4–6, 50, 60–3, 202
converb 43, 101–3, 105–6
convergence of criteria 3, 5, 6, 12, 25, 48,
125, 153, 157
copula 40, 92 n. 36, 101, 167, 177
Correspondence Problem 1–5, 14
counterfactual 30–1, 125
Criteria (in Canonical Typology) 3–18,
20–25, 28, 30, 32–3, 38, 41, 45–7, 49–62,
103–13, 117–18, 122, 126–40, 128 n. 5, 149,
154–58, 161, 176–83, 202–5, 214–18, 237–8
declarative 27–9, 34, 38, 112–15, 118, 133 n. 7
definiteness 13, 15, 17, 60, 62, 116, 146, 147, 178,
211, 215, 220, 222
deictic shift 67, 83
deliberative 113, 119
Description Logic (DL) 240–6
OWL-DL 240–1, 243
Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and
Cognitive Engineering (DOLCE) 242,
250–2
different subject adverbial clauses 106
direct speech:
canonical direct speech 68, 72, 74–5, 77,
95, 97
double-voicedness 72
economy of expression 126
e-linguistics 239–41,
embedded clause 38, 42, 107, 115, 120
epistemic verb 115
erlebte Rede 71
see also free indirect discourse; indirect
speech; semi-indirect speech
evidential 16, 106, 127, 157
exclusiveness (in defining features) 15, 49, 52,
61–2
exhaustiveness (in defining features) 15, 49,
54, 58, 60, 61–2
Exploratory Canonical Typology (in Canon-
ical Typology) 24
feature 48–65
non-autonomous 49–50
morphosemantic 56–7, 56 n. 5
morphosyntactic 1, 5, 15 49–54, 56–65,
56 n. 5, 103, 246
non-lexical value 62
finiteness 99–122
canonical finiteness 107, 113, 116–17
FinP 113
free indirect discourse 71
frequency 13, 16–17, 40, 46, 152, 158–61,
168, 218
function word:
canonical function word 125–26, 128,
130–31, 140, 143, 146–47, 149
gender:
feminine 2, 4, 53, 60, 62, 64, 209–11
masculine 2, 4, 53, 62, 64, 209–11, 235 n. 17
neutral 50, 62–3
General Ontology for Linguistic Description
(GOLD) 18, 19, 240–1, 246, 253–6, 260
308 Subject index
governee 50, 60
Government and Binding 107
governor 50, 60
gradable properties 18, 207, 215, 219–21
Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar
(HPSG) 254–5
hierarchy 13, 17–18, 103, 163, 182, 203, 216
honorifics 97, 106, 191
hortative 41, 80, 105, 113–14, 119
humanness 13, 153, 158–9, 165–6, 176–86,
189, 217–18
imperative 15, 30, 41, 80–1, 86–7, 96, 105,
108, 112–14, 119
incorporation 132, 141 n.12, 231
independent clause 101–6, 108–9, 113–4
see also main clause; matrix clause
indicative 27, 33, 38, 43, 103, 106, 109–10,
115, 118
indirect speech 66–71, 71 n. 8, 74–5, 77–8,
78 n. 14, 79–81, 81 n. 20, 81 n. 22,
82 n. 23, 83–4, 87, 88, 88 n. 29, 89–90,
92–6
canonical indirect speech 15, 67, 68, 72,
74, 77–88, 95–7
see also erlebte Rede; free indirect
discourse; semi-indirect speech
individuation 158
inflection 35–6, 52, 104, 121, 126–7, 138, 140,
142–3, 147, 149, 182–4, 244
contextual inflection 51 n. 3
canonical inflection 51, 35, 149
canonical inflectional paradigm 130
edge inflection 146
inherent inflection 51 n. 3
see also paradigm
inflectional class 4, 9–10, 12, 211
canonical inflectional class 9
infinitive 102, 105, 108, 113, 115, 117–21
INFL 113
inflectional ideal, see inflection, canonical
inflection
information structure 16, 44, 47, 109, 116, 231
irrealis 101, 103
irregularity 22–3, 137–8
kin relation 89, 89 n. 30, 216, 218, 225,
228, 230
see also relational noun
kin term, see kin relation
knowledge base 239, 241–4, 247, 254–5
knowledge engineering 241–3
Konstanz Universals Archive 203 n. 20
Lancaster-Oslo/Bergen corpus (LOB) 165
language acquisition 25, 46, 103
L1 25
L2 25, 51 n. 2
law of the excluded middle 30
left-dislocation 109
Leipzig Glossing Rules 190 n. 1, 240
lexical category, see part of speech
Lexical Functional Grammar (LFG) 51, 203,
228
lexical semantics 5, 55–7, 61, 217, 224
linear order 38, 109, 142, 144–5
Linearity Constraint 135–6
linguistic sign 247–9, 255, 257–9
linked data 255, 259–61
logophoricity 67, 80–1, 81 n. 20, 89–90,
89 n. 31, 92–4, 96, 113, 205
London-Lund corpus (LL) 165
main clause 26–8, 33, 34, 38, 70, 100–1, 104,
107, 109–10, 116, 118, 120–1, 185
see also independent clause; matrix clause
matrix clause 37, 38, 42, 102, 107, 116
see also independent clause; main clause
Minimalism 51, 137, 254
see also Government and Binding;
Principles and Parameters
modification-by-noun 18, 221–5, 228, 230,
230 n. 13, 232–8
modal 43, 47, 77, 80, 92–3, 103, 105–6, 112, 157,
168, 182, 189
Subject index 309
modifier 11, 18, 26, 51, 207, 211–15, 218–19,
220–5, 228–9, 232, 235, 237–8
canonical modifier 220–1
MoodP 113
Morpholexically Coherent Lexicon 214
morphemes as words 137
morphotactics 127
multiple exponence 35, 37
multivariate-based typology 13
negation 20–47
asymmetric negation 33–5, 47
canonical negation 14, 15, 21, 32–46
direct negation 37
Neg-Raising 37
standard negation 26–8, 32
superordinate negation 37
nominalization 44, 116, 118, 166, 185
non-productive 28, 39–40, 47
number 15, 35, 48–51, 53–5, 57, 59–62, 65, 74,
100, 102–3, 113, 143, 166, 191, 193, 197,
200–1, 208–11, 215, 218, 220, 223, 229,
231 n.15, 233–6, 254, 259, 260
obligatoriness 13, 17, 25, 36–40, 45, 47, 70,
104, 118, 121, 126, 141, 147, 154, 158,
186, 189
obligatoriness of agent expression 168–175
obviative 169
ontology 239–61
conceptualization of the domain 242
frame-based languages 243
ontological theory 242, 246
ontology-driven canonical typology 239,
249–53, 260
Suggested Upper Merged Ontology
(SUMO) 242, 252
upper ontology 246, 248, 253–5
see also concept
optative (mood) 105, 113, 114
optionality 38–9, 47, 69, 70, 147, 234, 236
see also obligatoriness
paradigm 85, 105, 118, 130, 140, 218, 257
participle 53, 61, 101, 105, 117, 138, 148–9,
163 n.7, 164, 185–6, 237, 254
part of speech 6, 12, 18, 50–61, 63–4, 214, 235,
247, 253–4, 257, 259
canonical part of speech 52
part-whole relations 216, 225, 230–1
passive 16–17, 24, 151–89
agentive passive 17, 154, 159–63,
165–8, 189
agentless passive 152, 154, 159–62, 166–7,
177, 188–9
areal distribution of passive 160
canonical passive 152, 156, 174, 178, 181
impersonal passive 17, 161–3, 163 n.7, 176
n.17, 177–9, 178 n.19, 186
periphrastic verbal marking of 152, 155–8,
163 n.7, 166–8, 170, 176, 178 n.19, 189
personal passive 17, 161–3, 177–9, 186
patient 42, 151–4, 158, 163–5, 169–70, 172–3,
175, 177, 185–7
periphrasis 5, 101, 130, 140, 149
see also passive, periphrastic verbal
marking of
person 15–17, 31, 35, 48–51, 53, 59–62, 65, 67–8,
71, 74–90, 93–8, 100, 101–4, 108–9, 113,
143, 169 n.11, 170, 178–9, 180, 185–6, 191–3,
197, 200–1, 203, 226, 254
first 68, 81 n.20, 84 n.25, 85, 86, 87, 87 n.27,
98, 179, 185, 192
second 15, 50, 74–7, 81, 82 n.23, 85, 85 n.26,
86–7, 94, 96, 98, 179, 185, 192 n.3, see also
second person attraction
third 17, 59, 68, 74–6, 81, 81 n.20, 82 n.23,
85 n.26, 86, 87 n.27, 90, 98, 108, 170,
185–6, 191–2, 200, 226
fourth 192
phrasal placement criterion 134
pivot 173, 174
polarity 37, 110–11, 115
polysynthetic languages 124
portmanteau 34
310 Subject index
possession 11, 17–18, 40, 51, 116, 175, 185, 197,
201, 207–38
canonical possession 11, 18, 215–19, 228,
231, 235, 237–8
alienable possession 18, 216–17, 221, 225–9,
231, 235–6, 238
inalienable possession 17–18, 197, 201, 208,
214, 216–18, 225–9, 231, 235–7
possessor 11, 98, 100, 207–10, 208 n.2, 209
n.3, 212–19, 221, 225 n.10, 226, 227, 227
n.12, 228–31, 234–5, 237–8
possessum/possessee 207–10, 209 n.3, 212,
214, 216–19, 225–8, 225 n.10, 234, 237
Possession-Modification Scale 17, 25
Precept of Independence (in Canonical
Typology) 10–11
prefix 27, 31, 34, 36, 131, 165, 171–3, 172 n.14,
185, 213
primary speech event 67, 69, 70 n.5, 74–6,
79, 80 n.17, 83, 85, 87 n.27, 88, 90, 96
Principles and Parameters 107
pro-drop see unirepresentation
productivity 28, 31, 39–40, 40 n.11, 47, 138
n.10, 162, 189, 234
promiscuous attachment 123, 129, 133,
135, 147
promiscuous placement, see promiscuous
attachment
prosody 13, 31–2, 34, 42, 46, 68, 68 n.3, 70,
111, 116, 123, 127–35, 130 n.6, 138–9, 141,
145, 147
prototype 8, 12, 13, 16–17, 100, 136, 138 n.11,
141–3, 148, 151–2, 155, 158, 164, 175, 215,
218–20, 226–7, 231
compared with the canonical ideal 8–9,
12–13, 17, 136, 138 n.11, 142–3, 148, 151–89,
218, 220, 227
pseudo-relative 121–2
punctuality 158
purposive clause 173
quoted speech 15, 66–98
reciprocal 192–3
Recognizability Precept (in Canonical
Typology) 9
Recyclability (in Canonical Typology) 11
reduplication 34, 149, 155, 199 n.15
reflexivization 17, 109, 157, 173, 176, 176 n.18,
179, 180, 190–206
and intensifiers 197, 201
canonical reflexivization 17, 202, 206
reflexivization strategies 195–8, 200, 202
see also anaphors, binding
regularity 23–4, 32, 55, 57
relative clause 106, 121, 173, 185, 208, 237
relational noun 207, 216, 218, 225, 228
see also kin relation
Resource Description Framework
(RDF) 259, 260, 261
reported speech event 67, 69, 69 n.4, 70 n.5,
74–7, 80, 85, 88, 90, 92–3
respect 15, 50, 59–61, 93, 106
see also honorifics
Retrospective Canonical Typology 14, 18, 24
scope 13, 29, 32, 36–8, 41–2, 46, 47, 111, 114,
128, 134, 138–41, 146–7, 212
narrow 41–2, 47, 128–9, 138
wide 41–2, 46, 47, 128–9, 134, 138–41,
146–7, 212
second person attraction 15, 74–7, 85, 94,
96, 98
second person magnetism, see second person
attraction
semantics 5, 12, 14 n. 2, 15, 32, 43, 46, 50,
52, 55, 61, 90, 94, 100, 110–17, 121, 135,
158, 176, 207, 214–24, 226, 238, 243–4,
247–9
canonical semantic function 51
semantic role hierarchy 163, 182
semi-direct speech 84, 88
semi-indirect speech 84, 88
serial verb constructions 188
spatial deixis 83, 85
Subject index 311
specificity 158–9, 163 n. 7, 173, 178–81, 184–5,
189, 217
specifier 218–24
split CP 113
standard negation 26–8, 32
stem 34–6, 38, 129, 131, 137–8, 141–2, 155–6
modification 155–7
stress domain 129, 147
Strong Linearity Constraint 135–6
style indirect libre 71
subject 7, 16–17, 42, 44, 51, 62, 69, 74–6, 80–2,
84–5, 94, 97–8, 101–3, 105–22, 147, 151–8,
161–6, 169–70, 172–3, 175–82, 186–9,
191–3, 200, 200 n. 19, 203, 203 n. 21,
232–3, 253, 260
subjunctive 81 n. 22, 92, 101–3, 105, 109, 113,
116, 121
subordinate clauses 28, 37, 42, 82, 84, 107,
109, 114
subsumption 243–6
suffix 31, 33, 35–6, 43–4, 106, 127–8, 130, 131,
133, 137–8, 141, 148, 155–6, 169, 173, 185,
223, 230–1
suppletion 10, 20, 22–4, 34, 124
suspended affixation 126, 146
switch-reference 107
symmetric negation 33–5, 39, 45, 47
syntactic category, see part of speech
syntax 5, 15–16, 34, 52, 70–71, 100–1, 103–4,
108, 114, 119, 121, 123–4, 127–8, 131, 133,
135, 140–2, 144–5, 213–15, 218–1,
228, 247
canonical syntactic function 51
synthetic marking 156–7
TAM (tense, aspect, mood) 101–2
target 2, 50, 60, 61–4, 202
telicity 158
temporal anchoring 114, 118
tense 1–2, 15–16, 31, 33, 35, 51, 67–8, 77–83,
87–98, 100–2, 104–5, 107–8, 110–22, 138,
144, 148, 157, 168, 245, 247, 250, 253–4, 261
thetics 116–18
topic 82, 109, 111, 116, 119, 157, 160 n. 6,
190 n. 1
transitivity 158, 173–5
truth value 27, 30, 36, 112, 114, 120
uneigentlich direkte Rede 71
see also free indirect discourse; indirect
speech; semi-indirect speech
Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) 260–1
unirepresentation 59, 118
UNITYP (typological framework) 12
Utrecht Anaphora project 195
V2 110
Venus Precept (in Canonical Typology)
1 n. 1, 9–10
vocative 77, 80–1, 87, 96, 209–10
voice 51, 153, 157, 158, 173–4
active 152–3, 158, 169–72, 174, 176–8, 180
anticausative 153, 157
causative 156–7
inverse 153, 157, 160 n. 6, 168–72, 174, 178–9
middle 156 n. 3, 157, 172 n. 14
reflexive 157, 176, 179–80, 195
see also passive
volitional 101–2, 115, 158, 164, 175, 183
vowel harmony 133–4, 231 n. 15
word class, see part of speech
zero marking 85 n. 26, 170–1, 197
Zwicky-Pullum criteria 123, 125, 129, 137,
141–3, 150
312 Subject index
