	 Determining morphosyntactic feature values	 
	 (10)	 krepk-omu	 čaj-u
		 strong-m.sg.dat	 tea(m)-sg.dat
		 ‘strongˉtea’
(10) can be used only in syntactic positions where a dative is required. It is not a
second genitive, and could not be used in (9). The problem is therefore a morpho-
logical one and not a syntactic issue: second genitives are not syntactic datives. To
sum up: the issues presented by the second genitive are that it has a unique distri-
bution but no unique form; it is available with a relatively small number of nouns,
and with these its degree of optionality varies considerably; it may be subject to the
syntactic condition that modifiers intervening between the governor and the noun
in the genitive disfavour the second genitive.26
4.3  
Second locative
Russian has a locative case, often called the prepositional case because it occurs
only together with a preposition (v ‘in’, na ‘on’, o ‘about, concerning’, or pri ‘by,
at, attached to, in the time of’, and rarely with po, as noted in §3, discussion of
criterion 8). Examples would be v žurnale ‘in the magazine’ and v komnate ‘in the
room’. For many nouns (including those of inflectional class I, like žurnal ‘maga-
zine’) the locative has a distinct form in the singular, and for all inflecting nouns
the locative is distinct in the plural.
For our purposes the second locative is of greater interest. It is restricted in
several ways. It occurs only with v ‘in’ and na ‘on’, primarily when used in their
basic locative or temporal sense, and not with the other two prepositions which
take the locative.27 It is distinguished only in the singular, and for relatively small
groups of nouns. However, these are of different inflectional classes, and within the
first inflectional class there are nouns belonging to different subclasses which have
the second locative.28 Second locatives are always stressed on the inflection: e.g., v
sadú ‘in the garden’; similarly for nouns of inflectional class III. This is important
when considering whether there are unique forms. For inflectional class I, which
.  While following Jakobson (1958) in accepting a second genitive and a second locative, we
do not also have to decompose the cases, and to accept Jakobson’s famous representation in the
form of a cube. We may agree with Worth (1984: 298) that ‘the cube was an enticing mistake’.
.  See Thorndahl (1974), Brown (2007) and references there, for the development of the
second locative, and see Plungian (2002) for recent discussion of its semantics.
.  Thus sad ‘garden’ and les ‘forest’ form the nominative plural differently (sady but lesa), but
both have the second locative (sadú and lesú).
	 Greville G. Corbett
has most of the nouns with a second locative, the -u inflection is shared with the
dative, but the forms are normally distinct, the second locative being stressed on
the inflection and the dative singular typically being stressed on the stem (for those
nouns with a second locative). In inflectional class III there are also nouns with the
second locative, for example v kroví ‘in blood’ (covered in blood). The inflection is
the same as for the dative singular and for the normal locative singular; these two
have stem stress, while the second locative is stressed on the inflection.
It is limited too in the number of nouns which have it:
	 (11)	
Nounsˉwithˉtheˉsecondˉlocativeˉ(Ilolaˉ&ˉMustajokiˉ(1989: 42– 43)29
fromˉZaliznjakˉ(1977)30
inflectional class example
nouns with second
locative available
of these, second
locative optional
I na beregú ‘on the bank’ 128 33
III v stepí ‘in the steppe’ 31 8
For some nouns (in locative contexts) the second locative is obligatory: it has to
be v sadú ‘in the garden’ (and not *v sade). For some nouns it is only optional. The
number of nouns involved is declining.
The restrictions continue in that the second locative, like the second genitive,
has special forms only for nouns. When case is marked on other word classes,
notably adjectives, the forms are as for the normal locative:
	 (12)	 my	 by-l-i	 v	 star-om	 sad-u
	 	 1pl	 be-pst-pl	 in	 old-m.sg.loc	 garden-loc.2
	 	 ‘weˉwereˉinˉanˉoldˉgarden’
	 (13)	 my	 razgovariva-l-i	 o	 star-om	 sad-e
	 	 1pl	 converse-pst-pl	 about	 old-m.sg.loc	 garden-loc
	 	 ‘weˉwereˉtalkingˉaboutˉanˉoldˉgarden’
The adjective is identical, for the second locative in (12) and the normal locative in
(13). Unlike the second genitive, there is no difficulty with including adjectives in
.  Brown (2007) reports similar but slightly lower figures, and adds interesting information on
frequency. The form is in decline and so published figures tend to be overestimates of its use.
.  Zaliznjak also includes v zabyt’í ‘in oblivion’ and v poluzabyt’í ‘in semiconsciousness’
(Zaliznjak 1967/2002: 287), and does not mark these as optional. However, Plungian (2002)
states that the distinction is largely lost for these two nouns, with one or other form (in -e or
in -í) being generalized for all uses. This view is adopted in the 2003 revision of Zaliznjak’s
dictionary.
	 Determining morphosyntactic feature values	 
such phrases. And as Brown (2007) demonstrates, such modifiers are not restricted
to set phrases. Speakers are fully comfortable with new expressions.
How then should we treat the second locative? Brown (2007) draws the anal-
ogy with sub-genders, specifically the animate/inanimate sub-genders of Russian.
These are distinct for a small proportion of the available paradigm cells. The same
is certainly true of the second locative (and is equally true of the second genitive).
This particular sort of non-canonicity has a satisfying account. Brown’s solution is
to treat the second locative as a ‘structured’ case (1998: 198–200). In his Network
Morphology analysis, which relies heavily on the notion of defaults, the default
realization of the second locative will be as the normal locative (this default is
overridden for the relative few nouns with a distinct second locative). Inflectional
morphology in this model is specified according to ordered paths, where more
specific information is ordered after more general. For instance the specification
of the ordinary locative singular may be given as:31
	 (14)	 〈singular	 locative〉
This ordering is justified by the fact that some nouns have different stems for
singular and plural (and these are specified within the lexical entry), while none
have a special stem for locative. Then the specification of the second locative is an
extension of this path:
	 (15)	 〈singular	 locative	 locative2〉
The effect is that when the second locative is ‘required’ by the preposition, if the
noun has a form matching the specification (15) completely, this is the appropri-
ate form. If not, by default, the closest matching path specifies the form, and that
path is as in (14). This latter will always occur with adjectives, which Brown covers
elegantly with no extra machinery. The analysis in effect says that all nouns have a
second locative, but very few nouns really do.
Two important points need to be made here. First, Brown’s solution for
this particular type of non-canonicity is not just an elegant idea. It is worked out
as a full implementation within Network Morphology (one of the inferential-
realizational approaches). Brown’s implementation gives the right outcomes and
others can test it to ensure that it is indeed a valid analysis (the fragment is provided
in Brown 1998). And second, it develops an idea found in Comrie (1991: 102), that
.  Brown (1998, 2007) uses ‘prepositional’ and ‘locative’ rather than ‘locative’ and ‘locative2’;
the labels are not important here, and I have retained locative and locative2 for consistency in
the text.
	 Greville G. Corbett
of having a hierarchical feature analysis for the second cases,32 one which captures
the specific nature of these case values and does not involve invoking other artifi-
cial features for other case values.
4.4  
The ‘adnumerative’
The loss of the dual has left strange remnants scattered across Slavonic. Few are
stranger than the adnumerative. The ‘normal’ situation in Russian is that the
numerals dva ‘two’, tri ‘three’, četyre ‘four’ (as well as oba ‘both’, poltora ‘one and a
half’, pol ‘half’ in compounds, for the latter see Billings 1998), provided they are
in the nominative case (or the accusative and are quantifying an inanimate) take
a noun in the genitive singular. For example, dva žurnala ‘two magazines’, where
žurnal is in the genitive singular as in cena žurnala ‘the price of the magazine’.
An extremely small number of nouns have a special form in these circumstances.
They are in inflectional class I, and the form is distinguished by stress only. Thus
dva časá ‘two hours, two o’clock’ shows the special ‘adnumerative’, in contrast with
okolo čása ‘about an hour’ with the normal genitive singular.
The restrictions, in addition to those alluded to already, are severe. The nouns
which have the form are: čas ‘hour’, šag ‘step, pace’, šar ‘ball, sphere’, rjad ‘row’, sled
‘footprint’. (Zaliznjak (1977) gives the form as being optional with šar ‘ball, sphere’
and sled ‘footprint’, while Mel’čuk (1985: 431–432) implies that it is optional for
more of them.) The use of the form is best maintained with čas ‘hour’. Mel’čuk
(1985: 430–437) offers interesting discussion, and suggests that with the nouns for
which the adnumerative is not obligatory, an intervening modifier requires the use
of the ordinary genitive (1985: 432):
	 (16)	 *dva	 širok-ix	 šag-áˉ(šágaˉisˉrequired,ˉaccordingˉtoˉMel’čuk)
		 two.nom	wide-pl.gen	 step-adnumerative
		 ‘twoˉwideˉsteps’
The feature specification of the modifier (genitive plural) is perhaps surprising;
however, this form can be used both with nouns with the adnumerative where a
modifier occurs (Mel’čuk (1985: 433) and for those nouns without an adnumera-
tive, which would stand in the genitive singular. For details of the choice between
genitive plural and nominative plural for the modifier in comparable phrases see
Corbett (1993).
Returning to the adnumerative, we should still ask if it is a case value. It appears
to be a rather odd combination of case and number. As Zaliznjak (1967/2002: 47)
.  Brown discusses the locative and Comrie the genitive, but in both instances the account
generalizes to both second cases.
	 Determining morphosyntactic feature values	 
says, it is special as a case in being available only in the singular.33 In its favour, it
has a unique form. Furthermore, Russian numerals typically govern a case, while
the number of the noun is limited (generally it must be plural but with lower
numerals singular), and so the adnumerative fits into this pattern. The adnumera-
tive seems to be on the extreme edge of what could be included as a case value.
4.5  
The ‘inclusive’
This case was suggested by Zaliznjak (1967/2002: 50), as one possible analysis to
account for expressions of the type idti v letčiki ‘to become a pilot’. These expres-
sions are particularly challenging for synchronic analysis. There is helpful initial
discussion in Zaliznjak (1967/2002: 50–52), and careful consideration of various
alternatives in Mel’čuk (1978/1985: 461–489). After reviewing the evidence we
shall conclude, with Mel’čuk that there is no need to postulate an additional case
here, but that the considerable problems lie elsewhere.
The essential problem with expressions like idti v letčiki ‘to become a pilot’ is
the form of the noun letčiki. This has the apparent form of the nominative plural.
However, the preposition v ‘in(to)’ takes the accusative or the locative. The accusa-
tive plural of animate nouns like letčik ‘pilot’ is as the genitive, that is, letčikov. This
is a fully general syncretic pattern in Russian: all animate nouns in the plural have
accusative as genitive, while all inanimates in the plural have accusative as nomi-
native. Thus the nominal form in the expression above cannot be accounted for by
the normal rules, and Zaliznjak proposes an additional case as a result.
Of course, it is tempting to say that we are dealing merely with a set phrase.
But that simply will not do. There are some one hundred verbs with the appropri-
ate semantics to take the place of idti ‘go’ in the first syntactic ‘slot’, and even some
nouns, like kandidat ‘candidate’ (Mel’čuk 1985: 461). Moreover, any animate noun
can in principle take the place of letčiki ‘pilots’ in the third slot (though it is usu-
ally those denoting professions or social groupings). What is constant is that these
expressions always involve becoming something. The two formal requirements are
the preposition v, which normally means ‘in(to)’ and that the noun following the
preposition must be in the plural. Interestingly, this requirement is maintained
.  Mel’čuk (1985: 430–431) argues that forms used with particular nouns (including supple-
tion in two instances) in the plural, when quantified by higher numerals (those above ‘four’ as
in the examples discussed above), should also be considered instances of the adnumerative. For
instance, dvenadcat’ čelovek ‘twelve people’ not *dvenadcat’ ljudej ‘twelve people’. I do not find
the argument convincing, but nevertheless urge the reader to check Mel’čuk’s reasoning inde-
pendently. The issue is difficult.
	 Greville G. Corbett
even when semantically it makes no apparent sense, as in this example (Mel’čuk
1985: 465):
	 (17)	 Derjagin	 pro-lez	 v	 sekretar-i
		 Derjagin[nom]	 through-climb[pst.sg.m]	 into	 secretary-pl
	 	 naš-ego	 partbjuro
		 our-n.sg.gen	 party.office34
		 ‘Derjaginˉwormedˉhisˉwayˉintoˉbeingˉsecretaryˉofˉourˉpartyˉoffice.’
The point is that there is only one secretary, but still the plural is required here.
Mel’čuk (1985: 462) rejects Zaliznjak’s additional case here, on the grounds
that it is being postulated on the basis of a single rather specific construction. That
is reasonable, provided an alternative analysis can be given. There are two options,
either nouns like letčiki ‘pilots’ in such expressions are in the nominative or they
are in the accusative.
The nominative option has the advantage of simplicity, in that the form in
the expression matches the normal nominative form. However, Mel’čuk produces
three specific arguments against this option. To take just one, he points out that
idti v soldaty ‘to become a soldier’ has a near synonym in idti v armiju ‘to join the
army’ and here armiju is indisputably in the accusative. Mel’čuk also gives what he
calls a metapravilo ‘metarule’, namely that in Russian prepositions never govern
the nominative. (There are other potential instances of prepositions governing the
nominative in Russian, Zaliznjak 1967/2002: 51n23, but Mel’čuk 1985: 438–452
has alternative analyses for these too.) Apart from the problematic instances in
question, Russian prepositions govern all cases but the nominative. Mel’čuk is keen
to maintain that generalization, though another linguist might look precisely for
a preposition governing the nominative to complete the set. I agree with Mel’čuk
that this construction is not sufficient to override the generalization.
Thus Mel’čuk takes the second option, and claims that letčiki and similar
nouns are in the accusative case. This seems an odd claim at first, since the nor-
mal accusative is letčikov (as the genitive). Mel’čuk argues that in this construction
the preposition v requires the governed noun phrase to be in the plural and to be
inanimate. Since the inanimate accusative is as the nominative, this would give the
right form. This solution has the great advantage of pinning the unusual behaviour
precisely on the preposition v in this construction (and avoids not only postulating
an extra case, but also doubling up of lexical entries). It is a remarkable require-
ment of a preposition, however.
.  This noun is indeclinable. Note that not all Russian speakers share Mel’čuk’s intuition con-
cerning this example; some find it strange if našego ‘our’ is included, which highlights the fact
that there is just one post.
	 Determining morphosyntactic feature values	 
There is a further very interesting complication. In this construction the noun
phrases are not fully inanimate. In attributive position, we find inanimate agree-
ment forms (Mel’čuk 1985: 466):
	 (18)	 ˉ…ˉpopa-l	 v	 starš-ie	 inžener-y.	 (notˉ*starš-ix)
		 ˉ…ˉget.pst[sg.m]	 into	 chief-pl	 engineer-pl	 *chiefˉ-pl.acc=gen
		 ‘(he)ˉmadeˉitˉtoˉchiefˉengineer’
Here the form staršie ‘chief’ can be treated as being in the accusative, identical
to the nominative, which is what we find with inanimates. The form *staršix,
with accusative identical to genitive, as for animates, is unacceptable. In relative
pronoun position, however, we find animate agreement (Igor Mel’čuk personal
communication):35
	 (19)	 ˉ…ˉpro-lez	 v	 sekretari	 partbjuro,
		 ˉ…ˉthrough-climb[pst.sg.m]	into	 secretary-pl	 party.office
			 kakov-yx	 u	 nas	 preziraj-ut
			 which-pl	 with	 1pl.gen	 despise-3pl
		 ‘…ˉwormedˉhisˉwayˉintoˉbeingˉsecretaryˉofˉtheˉpartyˉoffice,ˉwhichˉ(sort)ˉ
			 we despise’
Here the form kakovyx is accusative as genitive, marking animacy; the accusative-
nominative (inanimate) *kakovye is not accepted. Mel’čuk gives other examples of
such splits in animacy; the restriction to the accusative case together with the fact
that personal pronouns always show accusative-genitive syncretism means that
only two distinct agreement positions are available for us to test (attributive and
relative pronoun). In this limited sense, all Mel’čuk’s examples are in accord with
the Agreement Hierarchy (Corbett 2006: 206–237) in that we find syntactically
justified forms in attributive position, contrasted with semantically justified forms
of the relative pronoun.
As Mel’čuk points out, the basic idea can be found in Rothstein, who writes:
The mechanism of the metonymy here involves changing of a single lexical feature
specification from [+animate] (or more likely from [+human], which implies
[+animate]) to [–animate].’[footnote omitted] (1977: 98).
Mel’čuk traces the idea back to Vinogradov (1947:  165), but the care-
ful argumentation is all Mel’čuk’s. There is later discussion in Bílý (1988) and
Uspenskij (2004: 27–38).
.  The example is modified from that in Mel’čuk (1985: 466) to avoid the complication of
animacy in the original example. Mel’čuk’s judgement on the example remains the same.
	 Greville G. Corbett
To conclude this particular part of the discussion, we may say that these expres-
sions are challenging and fascinating, but that following Mel’čuk (and disagreeing
with Zaliznjak) there is no need to postulate a separate case to account for them.
5.  
A canonical view of the problematic case values of Russian
Since we have eliminated the potential ‘inclusive case’, this leaves four problematic
case values to consider in terms of canonicity. These are the vocative (presented in
§4.1 above), the second genitive (§4.2), the second locative (§4.3) and the adnu-
merative (§4.4). We therefore return to the criteria for canonicity, and assess these
four case values.
Principle I: 
Features and their values are clearly distinguished by formal means.
The case values we are considering show largely non-canonical behaviour
with respect to the criteria which fall under Principle I.
Criterion 1: 
Canonical features and their values have a unique form.
The value which is non-canonical here is the second genitive, whose form is
always the same as that of the dative.
Criterion 2: 
Canonical features and their values are uniquely distinguishable
across other features and their values.
Here all the values under discussion are non-canonical: each of them is
restricted to one number (almost exclusively the singular).36
Criterion 3: 
Canonical features and their values are distinguished consistently
across relevant word classes.
Again all four values are non-canonical here, since they are restricted to nouns,
while case is a feature also of adjectives and pronouns in Russian.
Criterion 4: 
Canonical features and their values are distinguished consistently
across lexemes within relevant word classes.
.  Two provisos are in order here. First, recall that Mel’čuk (1985: 430) claims that the adnu-
merative is found in the plural too. For this criterion, however, the effect would not change, since
any given noun has an adnumerative only for the singular or for the plural. Second there are the
vocatives rebjat ‘lads!’ and devčat ‘girls!’, formed from original plurals; again the effect does not
change since there is no corresponding singular vocative for these items.
	 Determining morphosyntactic feature values	 
Here all four values are non-canonical.37 We noted that each is dramatically
restricted in the nouns which can mark it. This is particularly true of the adnu-
merative, available for only a handful of nouns.
Principle II:  The use of canonical morphosyntactic features and their values is
determined by simple syntactic rules.
Once again, in different ways, the four values under discussion show non-
canonicity for the criteria which fall under this principle.
Criterion 5: 
The use of canonical morphosyntactic features and their values is
obligatory.
The new vocative is optional (the nominative is available for this function).
The remaining three values are optional for at least some of the nouns which
have them.
Criterion 6: 
Canonical use of morphosyntactic features and their values does not
admit syntactic conditions.
As we noted in §4.2, the second genitive is disfavoured if there is a modi-
fier with the noun. We saw a similar issue with the adnumerative in §4.4. This is
another non-canonical aspect of these two case values.
Criterion 7: 
Canonical use of morphosyntactic features and their values does not
admit semantic conditions.
Here the second locative is non-canonical. We have already noted that its use
is restricted to two particular prepositions. Furthermore, they must be used in a
locational sense. Thus the second locative na mostú ‘on the bridge’ is normal, in the
locational sense.38 Plungian (2002) argues further that the second locative is used
particularly (though not exclusively) for instances of ‘strict’ localization. This is
just one reflection of treating syntactic uses of case values as canonical, as opposed
to semantic uses.
.  Isačenko (1962: 82) believes that neither the second genitive nor the second locative should
be recognized as cases, since too few nouns have the forms; perhaps treating these case values
rather as non-canonical is preferable to a black/white decision.
.  With non-locational expressions the picture is complex: for some speakers, the normal
locative is available for expressions like ja nastaivaju na moste ‘I insist on a bridge’ (as opposed
to a ford or a tunnel, for instance), while others find this awkward or even unacceptable. The
important point is that the choice is na moste for some speakers, or avoiding the form for others;
no speaker offered na mostu ‘on a bridge’ using the second locative here.
	 Greville G. Corbett
Criterion 8: 
Canonical use of morphosyntactic features and their values does not
admit lexical conditions from the target.
There is no problem here. There are issues as to which nouns have the case
values in question, but we have not noted any further lexical conditions. The type
of condition discussed under criterion 8 in §3 involving different case values deter-
mined by the particular governee is not found with the problematic case values.
Criterion 9: 
Canonical use of morphosyntactic features and their values does not
admit additional conditions from the controller (governor).
The idea is that the controller should have a single, simple requirement (e.g.,
dative). The adnumerative is non-canonical here, since the few controllers that
govern it have an additional condition: the controller must stand in the nomina-
tive (or the accusative identical to the nominative as occurs when the governed
noun is inanimate). This is seen in the following contrast:
	 (20)	 dva	 čas-á
		 two.nom	 hour-adnumerative
		 ‘twoˉo’clock’
	 (21)	 k	 dvum	 čas-am
		 by	 two.dat	 hour-pl.dat
		 ‘byˉtwoˉo’clock’
In this respect the adnumerative is again non-canonical.39
Criterion 10: 
The use of canonical morphosyntactic features and their values is
sufficient (they are independent).
Just as the first locative, the second locative is non-canonical in this respect.
So too is the adnumerative, since it is available only together with one of the small
list of quantifiers which governs it. Thus the adnumerative časá ‘hour’ cannot be
used on its own (without a quantifier) to mean ‘two-four hours’. (For this reason,
alternative terms like ‘paucal’ are better avoided.)
Principle III:  Canonical morphosyntactic features and their values are expressed by
canonical inflectional morphology.
.  The syntax of Russian quantified expressions is well known for its complexity. Other
numeral expressions also have matching in case values in the obliques; however, the case values
involved all have numerous other uses outside quantified expression. The adnumerative is
non-canonical in that it is available only according to the constraint imposed by quantified
expressions.
	 Determining morphosyntactic feature values	 
As we noted earlier, there are several deviations from canonicity, but most
of these are not significantly different from those found with the main cases. The
one that stands out is the new vocative, formed by truncation. This is highly non-
canonical since this device is not used to mark case elsewhere in the paradigms
under discussion.
	 (22)	 Summary of non-canonical characteristics of the problematic case values
criterion (and brief
description) vocative second genitive second locative adnumerative
1. 
dedicated form
(autonomous)
X
2. 
distinguishable across
other features and values
X X X X
3. 
distinguished consistently
across relevant word classes
X X X X
4. 
distinguished consistently
across lexemes
X X X X
5. obligatory X (X) (X) (X)
6. no syntactic conditions X X
7. no semantic conditions X
8. 
no lexical conditions from
the governee
9. 
no additional lexical
conditions from the
governor
X
10. 
use is sufficient (features/
values are independent)
X X
In (22), X indicates non-canonical behaviour, and (X) somewhat non-canonical
behaviour. From (22) it is clear that the problematic case values are all non-canonical
to a high degree. It must be recalled that the six main case values were not fully
canonical either, yet the difference between the main six and these four is strik-
ing. Of the four problematic case values, the least difficult is the vocative. This is
the case value which is on the rise, expanding its range, while all the others are in
decline. Moreover, the vocative is typically a fringe case value, not well integrated
into the case system, and so the non-canonical properties of the Russian vocative
are not surprising. The other three values are dropping out of the system, none of
them ever having been well integrated into it. There is therefore no straightforward
answer to the question ‘how many case values has Russian?’ Whatever number we
give should be hedged with qualifications. Rather there are the traditional six val-
ues, which are canonical to varying degrees, there is the vocative, an innovation
	 Greville G. Corbett
which is doing rather well, given that it is after all a vocative, and the three other
values, all apparently in terminal decline, each highly non-canonical, and yet each
maintaining a presence in the case system.
6.  
Conclusion
Research on how to establish case values in a given language has been making
progress over the years. And Russian retains a central position since, though on
the one hand it appears a fairly conservative Indo-European language, it also con-
tains a plethora of challenging potential case values. We have seen the value of a
canonical approach in these circumstances; it allows us to bring out the different
properties of the case values, rather than having artificially to make black and
white analytical decisions for each. Moreover, the criteria developed for case turn
out to be largely applicable to other morphosyntactic values too.
References
Anderson, J.M. 2006. Modern Case Grammars. Oxford: OUP.
Arkadiev, P.M. (Arkad’ev, P.M.) 2006. Tipologija dvuxpadežnyx system. Kandidat dissertation,
Russian Academy of Sciences, Institute of Slavistics, Moscow.
Baerman, M., Brown, D. & Corbett, G.G. 2005. The Syntax-Morphology Interface: A Study of
Syncretism. Cambridge: CUP.
Billings, L. 1998. Morphology and syntax: Delimiting stump compounds in Russian. In Proceed-
ings of the First Mediterranean Conference of Morphology (Mytilene, Greece, Sept. 19–21
1997, G. Booij, A. Ralli & S. Scalise (Eds), 99–110. Patras: University of Patras.
Bílý, M. 1988. Russian quantification expressed via grammatical number and the construction
idti v soldaty. Scando-Slavica 34: 69–93.
Bílý, M. & Pettersson, T. 1988. Neutralization in case morphology. Working Papers 33: 5–21.
(Lund University, Department of Linguistics)
Blake, B.J. 1994. Case. Cambridge: CUP.
Boas, F. 1911. Introduction. In Handbook of American Indian languages: I [Bureau of American
Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution, Bulletin 40, part 1], F. Boas (Ed.), 1–83. Washington
DC: Government Printing Office.
Boas, F. 1938. Language. In General Anthropology, F.  Boas (Ed.) 124–145. Boston MA:
D.C. Heath.
Brehmer, B. 2006. Changes and persistencies in the use of the Russian masculine genitives
in –u-: New evidence from corpus linguistics. Paper presented at ‘Perspectives on Slavistics
II’, Regensburg, 21–24 September 2006.
Brown, D. 1998. From the General to the Exceptional: A network morphology account of
Russian nominal inflection. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Surrey.
Brown, D. 2007. Peripheral functions and overdifferentiation: The Russian second locative.
Russian Linguistics 31: 61–76.
	 Determining morphosyntactic feature values	 
Butt, M. 2006. Theories of Case. Cambridge: CUP.
Bybee, J.L. 1985. Morphology: A Study of the Relation between Meaning and Form. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Campe, P. 1994. Case, Semantic Roles, and Grammatical Relations: A Comprehensive Bibliogra-
phy [Case and grammatical relations across languages 1]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Chumakina, M., Hippisley, A. & Corbett, G.G. 2004. Istoričeskie izmenenija v russkoj leksike:
Slučaj čeredujuščegosja suppletivizma. Russian Linguistics 28: 281–315.
Chumakina, M., Kibort, A. & Corbett, G.G. 2007. Determining a language’s feature inventory:
Person in Archi. In Endangered Languages [Special issue of Linguistische Berichte 14],
P.K. Austin & A. Simpson (Eds), 143–172. Hamburg: Buske.
Chvany, C.V. 1986. Jakobson’s fourth and fifth dimensions: on reconciling the cube model of case
meanings with the two-dimensional matrices for case forms. In Case in Slavic, R.D. Brecht &
J. Levine (Eds), 107–129. Columbus OH.: Slavica.
Comrie, B. 1986. On delimiting cases. In Case in Slavic, R.D. Brecht & J. Levine (Eds), 86–106.
Columbus OH.: Slavica.
Comrie, B. 1991. Form and function in identifying cases. In Paradigms: The Economy of
Inflection [Empirical Approaches to Language Typology 9], F. Plank (Ed.), 41–55. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Comrie, B., Stone, G. & Polinsky, M. 1996. The Russian Language in the Twentieth Century.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Corbett, G.G. 1991. Gender. Cambridge: CUP.
Corbett, G.G. 1993. The head of Russian numeral expressions. In Heads in Grammatical Theory.
G.G. Corbett, N.M. Fraser & S. McGlashan (Eds), 11–35. Cambridge: CUP.
Corbett, G.G. 2006. Agreement. Cambridge: CUP.
Corbett, G.G. 2007a. Canonical typology, suppletion and possible words. Language 83: 8–42.
Corbett, G.G. 2007b. Deponency, syncretism and what lies between. In Deponency and Morpho-
logical Mismatches [Proceedings of the British Academy 145], M. Baerman, G.G. Corbett,
D. Brown & A. Hippisley (Eds), 21–43. Oxford: British Academy & OUP.
Corbett, G.G. Forthcoming. Higher order exceptionality in inflectional morphology. To appear
in Expecting the Unexpected: Exceptions in Grammar, H.J. Simon & H. Wiese (Eds). Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Corbett, G.G. & Fraser, M.N. 1993. Network morphology: A DATR account of Russian inflec-
tional morphology. Journal of Linguistics 29: 113–42. (Reprinted 2003. Morphology: Critical
Concepts in Linguistics, VI: Morphology: Its Place in the Wider Context, F.X. Katamba (Ed.),
364–396. London: Routledge.)
Daniel, M. In press. Zvatel’nost’ kak diskursivnaja kategorija. Issledovanija po teorii grammatiki
4. Moscow: Indrik.
Daniel, M. & Spencer, A. Forthcoming. Vocative: An outlier case. In The Handbook of Case,
A. Malchukov & A. Spencer (Eds), Oxford: OUP.
Evans, N., Brown, D. & Corbett, G.G. 2002. The semantics of gender in Mayali: Partially parallel
systems and formal implementation. Language 78: 111–155.
Ferguson, C.A. 1970. Grammatical categories in data collection. Working Papers in Language
Universals 4: F1-F15. Stanford CA: Stanford University.
Floricic, F. 2002. La morphologie du vocatif: L’exemple du sarde. Vox Romanica 61: 151–177.
Franks, S. 1995. Parameters of Slavic Morphosyntax [Oxford Studies in Comparative Syntax].
Oxford: OUP.
Friedman, V.A. 1993. Macedonian. In The Slavonic Languages, B. Comrie & G.G. Corbett (Eds),
249–305. London: Routledge.
	 Greville G. Corbett
Gladkij, A.V. 1969. K opredeleniju ponjatij padeža i roda suščestvitel’nogo. Voprosy jazykoz-
nanija 2: 110–123.
Gladkij, A.V. 1973a. Popytka formal’ɳogo opredelenija ponjatij padeža i roda suščestvitel’ɳogo.
In Problemy grammatičeskogo modelirovanija, A.A. Zaliznjak (Ed.), 24–53. Moscow: Nauka
(A substantial revision of Gladkij 1969)
Gladkij, A.V. 1973b. An attempt at the formal definition of case and gender of the noun. In
Mathematical Models of Language [Soviet Papers in Formal Linguistics], F. Kiefer (Ed.),
159–204. Stockholm: Skriptor. (Mathematical Models of Language also published 1973
as volume 18 in the series Linguistische Forschungen, Frankfurt am Main, Athenäum.)
(English version of Gladkij 1973a)
Gladkij, A.V. 1999. Nabrosok formal’ɳoj teorii padeža. Voprosy jazykoznanija 5: 45–55.
Goddard, C. 1982. Case systems and case marking in Australian languages: A new interpreta-
tion. Australian Journal of Linguistics 2: 167–196.
Graudina, L.K., Ickovič, V.A. & Katlinskaja, L.P. 1976. Grammatičeskaja pravil’nost’ russkoj reči:
Opyt častotno-stilističeskogo slovarja variantov. Moscow: Nauka.
de Groot, A.W. 1939. Les oppositions dans les systèmes de la syntaxe et des cas. In Mélanges
linguistiques offerts à Charles Bally, sous les auspices de la Faculté des Lettres de l’Université
de Genève par des collègues des confrères des disciples reconnaissants, 107–127. Geneva:
Georg & Cie.
Haspelmath, M. 2003. The geometry of grammatical meaning: Semantic maps and cross-linguistic
comparison. In The New Psychology of Language: Cognitive and Functional Approaches to
Language Structure, Vol. 2, M. Tomasello (Ed.) 211–242. Mahwah NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates.
van Helden, W.A. 1993. Case and Gender: Concept Formation between Morphology and Syntax,
2 Vols. [Studies in Slavic and General Linguistics 20]. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Hjelmslev, L. 1935–37. La catégorie des cas; étude de grammaire générale. Aarhus: Universitets-
vorlaget. (Revised Edn. 1972; E. Fischer-Jørgensen (Ed.), Munich: W. Fink)
Iggesen, O.A. 2005. Case-Asymmetry: A World-wide Typological Study on Lexeme-class-dependent
Deviations in Morphological Case Inventories. Munich: Lincom.
Ilola, E. & Mustajoki, A. 1989. Report on Russian Morphology as it Appears in Zaliznyak’s Gram-
matical Dictionary [Slavica Helsingiensia 7]. Helsinki: Department of Slavonic Languages,
University of Helsinki.
Iomdin, L.L. 1991. Slovarnaja stat’ja predloga ‘PO’. Semiotka i informatika 32: 94–120.
Isačenko, A.V. 1962. Die russische Sprache der Gegenwart, I: Formenlehre. Halle: Max
Niemeyer.
Jakobson, R.O. 1936. Beitrag zur allgemeinen Kasuslehre: Gesamtbedeutungen der russischen
Kasus. Travaux du Cercle Linguistique de Prague 6: 240–288. (Reprinted in R. Jakobson.
1971. Selected Writings II, 23–71. The Hague: Mouton. Translated 1984 as: Contribution
to the general theory of case: general meanings of the Russian cases. In Roman Jakobson.
Russian and Slavic grammar: Studies 1931–1981, L.R. Waugh & M. Halle (Eds), 59–103.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter)
Jakobson, R.O. 1958. Morfologičeskie nabljudenija nad slavjanskim skloneniem (sostav russkix
padežnyx form). In American Contributions to the Fourth International Congress of Slav-
ists, Moscow, September 1958, 127–156. The Hague: Mouton. (Reprinted in R. Jakobson
1971. Selected Writings II, 154–183. The Hague: Mouton. Translated 1984 as Morpholog-
ical observations on Slavic declension (the structure of Russian case forms). In Roman
	 Determining morphosyntactic feature values	 
Jakobson. Russian and Slavic grammar: Studies 1931–1981, L.R. Waugh & M. Halle (Eds),
105–133. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter).
Jakobson, R. 1959/1971. Boas’ view of grammatical meaning. In The anthropology of Franz Boas:
Essays on the centennial of his birth [Memoirs of the American Anthropological Association
89], W. Goldschmidt (Ed.), 139–145. (Reprinted in: R. Jakobson. 1971. Selected Writings II,
489–496. The Hague: Mouton, and cited from the 1971 publication)
Kilby, D.A. 1977. Deep and Superficial Cases in Russian [Specimina philologiae slavicae 14;
Beiträge zur Kasusgrammatik der slawischen Sprachen 2]. Frankfurt: Kubon & Sagner.
Klobukov, E.V. 1986. Semantika padežnyx form v sovremennom russkom literaturnom jazyke: Vve-
denie v metodiku pozicionnogo analiza. Moscow: Izdatel’stvo Moskovskogo universiteta.
Koval’, S.A. 2004. K voprosu o čisle padežej russkogo suščestvitel’ɳogo (Rešenija dlja kom­­­
p’juternoj lingvistiki). (Available online: http://www.dialog-21.ru/Archive/2004/Koval.pdf.
Accessed 20 May 2006)
Krylov, S.A. 2002. ‘Russkoe imennoe slovoizmenenie’ A.A. Zaliznjaka tridcat’ let spustja: Opyt
retrospektivnoj recenzii s pozicij neostrukturalistskoj morfologii. In Russkoe imennoe
slovoizmenenie, A.A. Zaliznjak. 699–748. Moscow: Jazyki slavjanskoj kul’tury.
Kuryłowicz, J. 1949. Le problème du classement des cas. Biuletyn Polskiego Towarzystwa
Językoznawczego 9. 20–43. (Reprinted 1960. Esquisses linguistiques, J. Kuryłowicz, 131–150.
Wrocław: Zakład Narodowy Imienia Ossolińskich, Wydawnictwo Polskiej Akademii Nauk)
Madojan, V.V. 1989. Principy vydelenija padeža v svjazi s sistemnym opisaniem jazykovyx fak-
tov (na materiale russkogo jazyka). Izvestija Akademii Nauk SSSR: Serija literatury i jazyka
48: 434–441.
Maslova, E.S. 1994. O kriterii objazatel’nosti v morfologii. Izvestija Akademii Nauk SSSR: Serija
literatury i jazyka 53: 44–50.
Maspero, H. 1934. La langue chinoise. In Conférences de l’Institut de Linguistique de l’Université
de Paris, année 1933, 33–70. Paris: Boivin et Cie.
Mel’čuk, I. 1960. K voprosu o ‘grammatičeskom’ v jazyke-posrednike. Mašinnyj perevod i
prikladnaja lingvistika 4: 25–45. (English version: Grammatical meaning in interlinguas for
automatic translation and the concept of grammatical meaning. In 1974. Essays on Lexical
Semantics, Vol. I, V.J. Rozencvejg (Ed.), 95–113. Stockholm: Skriptor.
Mel’čuk, I. 1978. O padeže suščestvitel’nogo v russkoj konstrukcii tipa idti v soldaty. Svantevit
5: 5–32. Reprinted with minor amendments in Mel’čuk. 1985: 461–489. (page references to
the 1985 version)
Mel’čuk, I.A. 1985. Poverxnostnyj sintaksis russkix čislovyx vyraženij [Wiener Slawistischer
Almanach, Sonderband 16]. Vienna: Institut für Slawistik der Universität Wien.
Mel’čuk, I. 1986. Toward a definition of case. In Case in Slavic, R.D. Brecht & J. Levine (Eds),
35–85. Columbus OH: Slavica. (Revised version in Mel’čuk, I. 2006, 110–179)
Mel’čuk, I. 2004. Meaning in nominal cases. In Tipologičeskie obosnovanija v grammatike. K
70-letiju professora V.S. Xrakovskogo, A.P. Volodin (Ed.), 313–337. Moscow: Znak.
Mel’čuk, I. 2006. Aspects of the Theory of Morphology, Ed. by D. Beck. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Meyer, P. 1994. Grammatical categories and the methodology of linguistics: Review article on
W.A. van Helden. 1993. Case and Gender: Concept Formation between Morphology and
Syntax. Russian Linguistics 18: 341–377.
Panov, M.V. (Ed.), 1968. Morfologija i sintaksis sovremennogo russkogo literaturnogo jazyka
(Russkij jazyk i sovetskoe obščestvo: Sociologo-lingvističeskoe issledovanie: III). Moscow:
Nauka.
	 Greville G. Corbett
Panov, M.V. 1997. Fonetika. In Sovremennyj russkij jazyk, V.A.  Belošapkova (Ed.), 54–189.
Moscow: Azbukovnik. (3rd Edn. first Edn. 1981)
Paus, C. 1994. Social and pragmatic conditioning in the decline of the Russian partitive case.
Russian Linguistics 18: 249–266.
Percov, N.V. 1996. Grammatičeskoe i objazatel’noe v jazyke. Voprosy jazykoznanija 4: 39–61.
Percov, N.V. 2001. Invarianty v russkom slovoizmenenii. Moscow: Jazyki russkoj kul’tury.
Plungian (Plungjan), V.A. 1997. Vremja i vremena: K voposu o kategorii čisla. In Logičeskij analiz
jazyka: jazyk i vremja, N.D. Arutjunova & T.E. Janko (Eds), 158–169. Moscow: Indrik.
Plungian (Plungjan), V.A. 2000. Obščaja morfologija: Vvedenie v problematiku. Moscow: Èdito-
rial URSS.
Plungian (Plungjan), V.A. 2002. K semantike russkogo lokativa. Semiotika i informatika 37: 
229–254.
Rothstein, R.A. 1977. A note on grammatical metonymy in Russian. Folia Slavica 1: 96–100.
Serbat, G. 1981. Cas et fonctions: Études des principales doctrines casuelles du moyen-age à nos
jours. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France.
Spencer, A. & Otoguro, R. 2005. Limits to case – a critical survey of the notion. In Competition
and Variation in Natural Languages: The Case for Case, M. Amberber & H. de Hoop (Eds),
Oxford: Elsevier.
Thorndahl, W. 1974. Genetivens og lokativens -u/-ju-endelser i russiske middelaldertekster: Med
tysk resumé. Copenhagen: Rosenkilde og Baggers Forlag.
Timberlake, A. 1975. Hierarchies in the genitive of negation. Slavic and East European Journal
19: 123–138.
Uspenskij, B.A. 2004. Čast’ i celoe v russkoj grammatike. Moscow: Jazyki slavjanskoj kul’tury.
Uspenskij,VladimirA.1957.KopredelenijupadežapoA.N. Kolmogorovu.Bjulleten’Ob’’edinenija
po problemam mašinnogo perevoda 5: 11–18. (Web version, with a postscript from 2001;
available at: http://www.kolmogorov.pms.ru/uspensky-k_opredeleniyu_pade zha_po_kol-
mogorovu.html, viewed 20 May 2006)
Vinogradov, V.V. 1947. Russkij jazyk (Grammatičeskoe učenie o slove). Moscow: Učpedgiz.
Wierzbicka, A. 1983. The semantics of case marking. Studies in Language 7: 247–275.
Worth, D.S. 1984. Russian gen2, loc2 revisited. In Signs of friendship: To Honour A.G. F. van Holk,
Slavist, Linguist, Semiotician, J.J. van Baak (Ed.), 295–306. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Yadroff, M. (1996). Modern Russian vocatives: A case of subtractive morphology. Journal of
Slavic Linguistics 4: 133–153.
Zaliznjak, A.A. 1967. Russkoe imennoe slovoizmenenie Moscow: Nauka. (Reprinted Zali­
znjak, A.A. 2002. Russkoe imennoe slovoizmenenie: s priloženiem izbrannyx rabot po sovre-
mennomu russkomu jazyku i obščemu jazykoznaɳiju. Moscow: Jazyki slavjanskoj kul’tury.
1–370)
Zaliznjak, A.A. 1973. O ponimanii termina ‘padež’ v lingvističeskix opisanijax. In Problemy
grammatičeskogo modelirovanija, Andrej A.  Zaliznjak (Ed.), 53–87. Moscow: Nauka.
(Reprinted Zaliznjak, A.A. 2002. Russkoe imennoe slovoizmenenie: s priloženiem izbrannyx
rabot po sovremennomu russkomu jazyku i obščemu jazykoznaɳiju. Moscow: Jazyki slavjan-
skoj kul’tury. 613–47)
Zaliznjak, A.A. 1977. Grammatičeskij slovar’ russkogo jazyka: slovoizmenenie. Moscow: Russkij
jazyk. (4th corrected Edn. 2003; Moscow: Russkie slovari.]
Zwicky, A. 1996. Syntax and phonology. In Concise Encyclopedia of Syntactic Theories, K. Brown &
J. Miller (Eds), 300–305. Oxford: Elsevier Science.
Does Hungarian have a case system?
Andrew Spencer
University of Essex
I argue that case markers in Hungarian are best thought of as ‘fused postpositions’.
There is no need to set up a separate syntactic or morphological [Case] attribute
as such. Rather, we just need a morphological principle stating that nominals
(including pronouns) have a special form, the traditional case form. In this
respect Hungarian is crucially different from languages such as Latin (which
requires both a morphological and a syntactic [Case] feature) or Finnish (which
requires at least a syntactic [Case] feature). I discuss certain typological issues
arising from this analysis, arguing that when grammarians refer to Hungarian
‘cases’, they are really referring to a rather more general notion of ‘canonical
grammatical function markers on dependents’.
1.  
Introduction1
The notion of ‘case’ is one that is often taken as a given by linguists but, as Comrie
(1986) demonstrated, concisely and clearly, the notion is far from straightforward
and the traditional understanding actually encompasses a number of distinct,
though interrelated, phenomena. Comrie (1986) argues that we need to distin-
guish a morphological notion of case, the ‘case forms’ of a lexeme, from a func-
tional notion, the ‘case’ that a noun phrase is ‘in’ in a given construction.2 The
.  Parts of this paper have been presented in talks at the universities of Paris VII (Alliance
funded research exchange), Surrey (ESRC-funded Grammatical Features project), Essex, York
(York Essex Morphology Meeting 3) and the 12th International Morphology Meeting, Buda-
pest. I am grateful to the audiences at those talks for useful comments, and especially to Bob
Borsley, Sonja Eisenbeiss, Claudia Felser, Jean-Pierre König, and Anna Zribi-Hertz. Thanks to
Danièle Goddard for originally directing me to the work of Denis Creissels and especially to
Edith Moravcsik for very detailed and helpful comments. Default disclaimers apply.
.  Sadler & Spencer (2001) argue for a generalized version of this distinction, since it is fre-
quently the case that a property such as ‘tense’, ‘voice’ or ‘definiteness’ is realized synthetically, by a
specific form of a lexeme, in some contexts, and by some kind of periphrastic construction in other
contexts. See Spencer (2003) for further discussion of the point that the syntactic notion of ‘case’
is really a property of noun phrases, while the morphological property is (typically/canonically)
a property of word forms.
	 Andrew Spencer
basic reason for this is simple: we often find that the ‘wrong’ morphological form
can realize a syntactically defined case function, in other words we have form:
function mismatches.
As Comrie (1986:  89) points out, in a thoroughly agglutinating language
such as Turkish ‘〈…〉 the traditional cases (nominative, accusative, genitive,
dative, locative, ablative) can just as readily be identified by their suffixes 〈…〉’,
as, indeed, is done in the Dravidian native descriptive tradition. His main argu-
ments rest on inflectional languages such as Russian and Latvian, where there is
a clear need for a morphological case feature in order to generalize across dis-
tinct forms in different inflectional classes, grammatical number forms and so
on. He shows that we need to look to the formal distinctions made in the mor-
phology of the language, the functional/distributional distinctions found in the
syntax, and establish a mapping between form:function, which will often as not
be a many: one relation. This may even be true of languages such as Turkish,
where it is only a definite/specific direct object that gets marked with the accusative
suffix, while an indefinite/non-specific object remains unmarked (and hence in
the ‘nominative’ case?).
The point about Turkish is crucial to my subsequent discussion of Hungarian
so I will expand on it a little here. In an inflecting language such as Russian forms
of nominal words reflect various syntactic properties and functions, so that there
is a special form for subjects, objects, possessors, complements to prepositions and
so on. These are the traditional cases, which in Russian include nominative, accu-
sative, genitive, prepositional. However, different classes of nominals may realize
these cases by means of entirely different forms, and, moreover, for a given lexeme
one and the same case may assume a different form in the singular and the plural.
The genitive singular of kniga ‘book’ is knigi and the genitive plural is knig, while
the genitive singular/plural of bloknot ‘notepad’ are bloknota/bloknotov. Yet in
terms of syntactic privileges of occurrence these are all just genitive case forms. To
capture this fact the grammar of Russian therefore requires an abstract attribute or
feature [Case] with values such as [Case: genitive]. This much is obvious. Equally
obvious ought to be the fact that corresponding nouns in, say, French lack a geni-
tive of this sort, or indeed any case. The ‘genitive’ function in French is realized by
the preposition de. To state the distribution of de we do not need to appeal to an
attribute-value pair [Case: genitive]. Instead, the grammar requires statements of
the form ‘in such-and-such a syntactic environment make the NP the complement
of the preposition de’. Similarly, there is no need to label English prepositions such
as of, to, with, from, etc. as ‘genitive’, ‘dative’, ‘instrumental’, ‘ablative’ cases. The fact
that there is no need for a [Case] attribute in French and English doesn’t prevent
grammarians from talking about ‘case forms’ in these languages, but that is either
an abuse of terminology or a mis-analysis.
	 Does Hungarian have a case system?	 
The conceptually puzzling situations arise in languages which express ‘case’
meanings and functions by dedicated forms of the nominal which are identical
across lexemes. Thus, in Turkish the word kitap ‘book’ has the forms kitap-ın ‘of
a book’ and kitaplar-ın ‘of books’. The nominals seem to bear morphological case
suffixes and this seems to warrant setting up a [Case] attribute, with a value [Case:
genitive], but Comrie’s observations cause us to question this and Beard (1995)
explicitly argues that such an attribute is extraneous in a formal grammar. State-
ments of distribution of such ‘cases’ can take the form ‘in such-and-such a syntactic
environment select the -In form of the head noun of the noun phrase’. By appealing
to the notion ‘the -In form of a nominal’ we obviate the need for a (morphologi-
cal) [Case] attribute. Of course, there may still be need for a [Case] attribute in the
syntax. To a large extent Finnish nominals inflect for case in an entirely agglutinat-
ing manner, just like Turkish (or Hungarian). However, Finnish adjectives agree in
case with their head nouns. This fact cannot be stated without appeal to a [Case]
attribute in the syntax, otherwise the agreement facts would have to be couched as a
dozen unrelated facts about each separate case form. Thus, a language such as Finn-
ish does have a case system, though arguably only in the syntactic sense.
When we come to ask whether a language has a case system, therefore, we
must really ask two sets of conceptually independent questions: (i) is there a need
for a [Case] attribute in the morphology to capture generalizations purely about
forms? (ii) is there a need for a [Case] attribute in the syntax to capture generaliza-
tions about the parallel distributions of sets of distinct forms? (This is what Spen-
cer and Otoguro 2005, refer to as ‘Beard’s Criterion’). I argue that for Hungarian
the answer to both questions has to be ‘no’.
The chapter is organized as follows. In §2 I lay out the essentials of the tradi-
tional case system of Hungarian, including the postpositions, whose position in
the system will prove rather ambivalent. In §3 I lay out the grammatical properties
of the case forms, together with relevant allomorphic variation in suffixes and in
stems. This establishes that Hungarian cases are at least affixes (as opposed to clitics,
say). However, we find no evidence of a syntactic case attribute. In §4 we examine
the postpositions and find that they share certain features with case endings and
certain features with fully-fledged nouns. The central question is broached in §5,
where I argue that there is no (strong) sense in which Hungarian can be said to
have a case system.3 Rather, Hungarian cases suffixes are special fused portmanteau
affixal postpositions, and no more deserve to be called ‘cases’ than prepositions
such as English ‘of’. However, these forms realize cross-linguistically identifiable
functions in the form of canonical grammatical function markers on dependents.
.  I thus arrive at different conclusions from Borin (1986).
	 Andrew Spencer
Both the morphological forms (‘fused postpositions’) and the canonical GF mark-
ers on dependents can be called ‘case’, but only in a weak and potentially mislead-
ing sense. I contrast Hungarian with the Samoyedic language Selkup, which has
a similar array of suffixal ‘cases’, but additionally a suffix occupying the ‘case’ slot
which creates similitudinal adjectives, with no case-like function at all. Finally, I
draw summary conclusions.
2.  
Basic Hungarian facts
2.1  
The traditional case system
In the descriptive sections I will use the term ‘case’ in its traditional sense, even
though I will be arguing that the suffixes themselves are not case markers proper.
The case suffixes are added to lexemes which can function as nouns, including
adjectives and numerals used as nouns. They are not, however, added to infinitive
forms of the verb. The case suffixes follow other inflections, namely plural and
possessor agreement. With one minor exception the suffixes show no clitic-like
(phrasal affix) properties (for example, there are no ‘suspended affixation’ effects).
The inventory of cases is a matter for dispute and ranges from 17 (including
the zero-marked nominative) to 28, with varying estimates between (Moravcsik
2003a: 117, for instance, has 22 cases). Kiefer (1987; see also Kiefer 2000: 580) pro-
vides one of the rare descriptions of the system which actually adduces linguistic
arguments in favour of a particular enumeration. He shows that there are eighteen
case-marked forms (including the nominative) that behave specifically like nouns
as opposed to adverbials. These are the case suffixes that can be attached to nouns
already inflected for number and/or possessor. The resulting noun form can be
used as the argument of a noun-taking predicate. I will follow Kiefer in consider-
ing just these eighteen forms as cases, though it’s of theoretical interest that other
forms have traditionally been included in the list.
Some cases are essentially grammatical in function (nominative, accusative,
dative):
	 (1)	 Hungarianˉcaseˉformsˉofˉemberˉ‘person’
		 nominative	 ember
		 accusative	 ember-t
		 dative	 ember-nek
The nine cases in (2) have primarily local/spatial meanings cumulating ‘orienta-
tion’ with ‘position/direction’, essive (at rest), allative (motion to), ablative (motion
from) (adapted from Comrie & Polinsky 1998: 107; Kenesei, Vago & Fenyvesi
1998: 235):
	 Does Hungarian have a case system?	 
	 (2)	 Hungarianˉlocalˉcases
		 a.	 ‘in’ˉorientation
			 essive	 inessive	 ember-ben	 ‘in’
			 allative	 illative	 ember-be	 ‘into’
			 ablative	 elative	 ember-ből	 ‘fromˉinsideˉof’
		 b.	 ‘on’ˉorientation
			 essive	 superessive	 ember-en	 ‘on’
			 allative	 sublative	 ember-re	 ‘onto’
			 ablative	 delative	 ember-ről	 ‘fromˉtheˉsurfaceˉof’
		 c.	 ‘at’ˉorientation
			 essive	 adessive	 ember-nél	 ‘at’
			 allative	 allative	 ember-hez	 ‘towards’
			 ablative	 ablative	 ember-től	 ‘fromˉ(near)’
The remaining six have various ‘adverbial’ meanings:
	 (3)	
Hungarianˉsemanticˉcasesˉ(withˉbasicˉallomorphˉandˉapproximateˉ
gloss;ˉcase namesˉfollowingˉKeneseiˉetˉal.ˉ1998: 1924)
		 instrumental	 ember-rel	 ‘with’
		 causal-final	 ember-ért5	 ‘as’
		 translative	 ember-ré	 ‘(change)ˉinto’
		 terminative	 ember-ig	 ‘upˉto’
		 essive-formal	 ember-ként	 ‘inˉtheˉcapacityˉof’
		 essive	 ember-ül	 ‘inˉtheˉcapacityˉof’
All the endings except -ért, -ig, -ként show allomorphy. Non-labial vowels alternate
between a ~ e in back/front vowel harmony contexts, while allative -hoz/hez/höz and
superessive -n/on/en/ön show limited labial harmony as well. The instrumental and
translativesuffixes-valand-váalsoundergoconsonantassimilationasseenintheforms
ember-rel, ember-ré. The accusative triggers stem allomorphy, to be discussed below. It’s
worth mentioning that a number of the ‘adverbial’ suffixes not counted by Kiefer as
cases also exhibit allomorphy and vowel harmony, for instance, the so-called comita-
tive -stul, -stül, -ostul, -astul, -estül, -östül. Hungarian has no inflectional classes, so the
same endings are used for all lexemes (but see below for case forms of pronouns).
.  Hungarian grammars use Latinized case names, but in the literature generally case termi-
nology appears not to be fixed. Kiefer (2000: 580) has ‘translativus-factivus’ for ‘translative’, ‘for-
mativus’ for ‘essive-formal’ and ‘superessivus’ for ‘essive’. However, ‘superessivus’ is also used
for the local superessive case. Tompa (1985) has ‘Translativ-Faktitiv’ for ‘translative’, but ‘Essiv-
Formal’ for ‘essive-formal’. However, for ‘essive’ he has ‘Essiv-Modal’.
.  In Kiefer (2000: 580) this form is unfortunately misprinted as embert-ért.
	 Andrew Spencer
2.2  
Postpositions
Hungarian is rich in postpositions. True postpositions take the nominative form of
the dependent noun (Kenesei et al. 1998: 337): mögött ‘behind’ a ház mögött ‘behind
the house’. Traditional descriptions include as postpositions adverbials which take
a case-marked form of the noun (Kenesei et al. 1998: 338), such as kívül ‘beside’: a
ház-on kívül lit. ‘the house-superessive beside’. However, Creissels (2003) argues
convincingly that these are best not treated as true postpositions, but rather have
the syntax of nouns. For instance, the kívül-type postposition can come either side
of its complement, kívül a házon, which is impossible for the mögött-type. Secondly,
it is possible to separate the kívül-type from its complement with a word such as
pontosan ‘just’, but this too is impossible with the mögött-type, which must remain
in tight juncture with its complement noun. Thirdly, when the complement of a true
postposition such as mögött is modified by a demonstrative the postposition has to
be repeated after that demonstrative, as in (4) (see also Kenesei et al. 1998: 278):
	 (4)	 e	 mögött	 a	 ház	 mögött
		 this	 behind	 the	 house	 behind
		 ‘behindˉthisˉhouse’
However,acomplementtoakívül-typepostpositiondoesnotpermitsuchdoubling
of the postposition after the demonstrative; instead, the demonstrative assumes
the case suffix of complement noun, just as in any other noun phrase type:
	 (5)	 ez-en	 a	 ház-on	 kívül
		 this-superessive	 the	 house-superessive	 beside
		 ‘besideˉthisˉhouse’
It is only the true postpositions such as mögött that show interesting parallels with
the case suffixes, so in future I shall be referring exclusively to such elements when
I speak of ‘postpositions’.
Some of the spatial postpositions have distinct orientation forms, mirroring
the three-way division of spatial cases essive, allative, ablative. Some common
examples are shown in (6):
	 (6)	 Spatialˉdistinctionsˉinˉpostpositions
			 essive	 allative	 ablative
		 under	 alatt	 alá	 alól
		 over	 fölött	 fölé	 fölül
		 inˉfrontˉof	 előtt	 elé	 elől
		 behind	 mögött	 mögé	 mögül
		 near	 mellett	 mellé	 mellől
		 between	 között	 közé	 közül
	 Does Hungarian have a case system?	 
3.  
Grammatical properties of cases
3.1  
Morphosyntax
The cases fail to trigger any processes that would require appeal to a syntactic case
attribute, in particular, there is no case agreement/concord or multiple marking of any
kind within the noun phrase. There are two apparent exceptions to this statement.
First,appositionalmodifiers(includingnumerals),separatedfromtheirheadnoun,take
the same nominal inflections as the nouns to which they relate (Tompa 1985: 185f).
	 (7)	 Azˉüzem-ben,	 azˉúj-ban,	 megindult	 a	 munka
		 theˉenterprise-iness	 theˉnew-iness	 started.up	 the	 work
		 ‘Workˉhasˉbeginˉinˉtheˉenterprise,ˉtheˉnewˉone’
In (8,9) we see that possessive form nouns and pronouns take case endings in the
same way as adjectives:
	 (8)	 Még	 nem	 voltam	 azˉiskolá-ban	 aˉfia-m-é-ban
		 still	 not	 I.was	 theˉschool-iness	 theˉson-my-his-iness
		 ‘Iˉstillˉhaven’tˉbeenˉtoˉtheˉschool,ˉmyˉson’s,ˉthatˉis’
	 (9)	 Felépítjük	 a	 háza-t,	 a	 magunké-t
		 we.build	 the	 house-acc	 the	 ours-acc
		 ‘Weˉareˉbuildingˉtheˉhouse,ˉourˉownˉone’
In these appositional constructions we don’t have agreement within the NP,
because the modifiers don’t form a constituent with their heads.
The second type of exception is found with the demonstratives ez ‘this’, az ‘that’
and other demonstratives based on these (emez/amaz ‘this/that other’, ugyanez/
ugyanaz ‘this/that same’). The demonstratives obligatorily take number/case inflec-
tions (though not possessive inflections), apparently agreeing with the head noun (a
list of forms is given in Kenesei et al. 1998: 277–8). However, the consensus seems
to be that the demonstratives are in apposition (Moravcsik 2003b: 448; Tompa
1985: 181). A syntactic indication of this is that the demonstratives invariably appear
before a definite article, which otherwise seems to mark the left edge of the NP:
	 (10)	 a.	 ez-ek-ben	 a	 háza-k-ban
			 this-pl-iness	 the	 house-pl-iness
			 ‘inˉtheseˉhouses’
		 b.	 *azˉezekbenˉházakban
One conceptual reason that could be cited for not treating the doubling as
agreement, at least where case suffixes are concerned, is that some of the case suf-
fixes don’t trigger doubling, namely, locative, iterative, comitative, essive, distributive,
	 Andrew Spencer
multiplicative, modal, modal-essive (Kenesei et al. 1998: 277). Now, of these only the
essive is universally accepted as a case suffix (and is the only one which I have included
as a bona fide instance). However, the conceptual problem remains. Some of the tra-
ditional cases left out of the list of eighteen do trigger doubling with demonstratives,
including the temporal -kor, the formal -képpen ‘as, in the capacity of’). Moreover, the
majority of the true postpositions are also usually repeated after the demonstratives, as
we saw in (4) above. Such doubling is even (optionally) possible with ‘fake’ postposi-
tions, such as kívül + superessive ‘beside’, which are really nouns taking a case-marked
complement, but then the demonstrative assumes the case form of the complement:6
	 (11)	 ez-en	 kívül	 aˉkönyv-ön	 kívül
		 this-superessive	 beside	 theˉbook-superessive	 beside
		 ‘besideˉthisˉbook’ˉ(Moravcsikˉ2003a:ˉ208)
A final distinction between true postpositions and those taking case-marked
complements is that the final -z of ez/az is ‘deleted’ before true postpositions, as
in (12) where ez ‘this’ appears as e (Kenesei et al. 1998: 278; see also Moravcsik
2003a: 208):
	 (12)	 A	 kulcs	 e	 mellett	 a	 könyv	 mellett	 van
		 the	 key	 this	 near	 the	 book	 near	 is
		 ‘Theˉkeyˉisˉnearˉthisˉbook’
I have taken it for granted that the case endings are bona fide affixes, rather than,
say, clitics. This is justified by a number of properties. First, the accusative affix trig-
gers idiosyncratic allomorphy on the stem (see below), a characteristic of affixes not of
clitics. Second, the suffixes lack almost all of the standard clitic properties. They show
no promiscuous attachment (if we grant that numerals, adjectives and other modifiers
with null heads arefunctionallynouns)andtheyshownosignsofthe‘suspendedaffix-
ation’ phenomenon characteristic of, say, Turkish, in which a single suffix takes scope
over a coordinated phrase. Thus, corresponding to a kert-ben és a park-ban ‘in the
garden and (in) the park’ we have no constructions such as *[a kert- és a park]-ban.
However, there is one construction in which the cases seem to behave more
like edge inflections or phrasal affixes than like bona fide stem-based affixes. The
.  From Moravcsik’s (2003a: 208f) discussion it would appear that demonstratives agree with
the nouns even when the repeated element is a ‘fake’ postposition. However, she points out that
this conclusion only holds if we regard the demonstrative as part of the NP constituent, and not
in apposition. Relevant here are her three arguments in favour of treating the demonstrative as
appositional (Moravcsik 2003b: 448). Perhaps the conclusion to draw from this is that Hun-
garian has an incipient, but as yet highly non-canonical system of ‘agreement’, which is therefore
better thought of as multiple marking. In any event it is hardly sufficient to warrant setting up an
independent syntactic [Case] attribute.
	 Does Hungarian have a case system?	 
Hungarian pseudo-partititive construction (see Selkirk 1977, for discussion of
the corresponding English construction) which translates ‘a box of apples’, ‘a pint
of milk’ is formed by taking a measure noun (phrase) and following it with the
semantic head, literally ‘a box apple’, ‘a pint milk’. The components of the phrase
can be elaborated by modifiers (‘a large box of red apples’), as in (13):
	 (13)	 az	 a	 három	 nagy	 üveg	 tokaji	 bor
		 that	 the	 three	 large	 bottle	 Tokaj	 wine
		 ‘thoseˉlargeˉbottlesˉofˉTokaiˉwine’
When we overtly case-mark the whole expression, the case-marker occurs not on
üveg ‘bottle’, but on the final word of the phrase, bor ‘wine’. This is surprising if we
assume that üveg ‘bottle’ is the syntactic head of the phrase rather than bor ‘wine’.
	 (14)	 a.	 Kérem	 az-t	 a	 három	 nagy	 üveg	 tokaji	 bor-t
			 I.ask.for	 that-acc	 the	 three	 large	 bottle	 Tokaj	 wine-acc
			 ‘ThoseˉthreeˉlargeˉbottlesˉofˉTokajˉwine,ˉplease’
		 b.	 *Kérem	 azt	 a	 három	nagy	 üveg-et	 tokaji	 bor
			 I.ask.for	 that-acc	 the	 three	 large	 bottle-acc	 Tokaj	 wine
I have not found in the literature any detailed formal discussion of this phenom-
enon or its implications. The fact that the demonstrative takes the accusative
marker shows that the accusative suffix on bort in (14a) is somehow marking üveg
as ‘being in the accusative’, though this represents a significant departure from the
default morphology-to-syntax relation.7
3.2  
Allomorphy
With the exception of z-assimilation with demonstratives and the assimilation
shown by v-initial suffixes, the case markers generally fail to trigger or undergo
idiosyncratic allomorphy. The principal exception is the accusative suffix -t.
Accusative suffixes may trigger idiosyncratic (i.e. unpredictable) stem allomor-
phy. Stems ending in a consonant may acquire a vowel extension before certain
consonant-initial affixes. For instance, a consonant-final noun stem generally
.  Preliminary investigations suggest that the edge marking phenomenon may affect more
than just the case system. If in examples such as (14a) we wish to talk about bottles, or about
your bottle(s) the plural and/or possessor agreement markers, too, appear as edge markers,
on bor ‘wine’ not on üveg ‘bottle’ (I am grateful to Edith Moravcsik for discussion of the
relevant examples). Clearly, rather more is going on here, but this will have to be the subject
of further research.
	 Andrew Spencer
takes a ‘linking vowel’ -o(ö)/e before the accusative suffix (and before the plural
and possessive suffixes):
	 (15)	 a.	 város	 város-o-k	 ‘town’
		 b.	 tőr	 tőr-ö-k	 dagger
		 c.	 egyetem	 egyetem-e-k	 ‘university’
Adjectives take case suffixes when they are converted to nouns or when they modify a
null head. Consonant-final adjectives functioning as nouns tend to take the linker -a/e,
not the -o/e linker associated with true nouns. Tompa (1985: 44) cites examples includ-
ing akadémikus ‘academic’, which has the plural form akadémikus-o-k in the nominal
meaning ‘members of the Academy’ but akadémikus-a-k in the converted adjective
function meaning ‘things which are academic, theoretical’. But these are at best strong
tendencies and there are exceptions in both directions. The noun ház ‘house’ takes the
linker -a-, ház-a-k, while the adjective nagy ‘large’ takes -o-, nagy-o-k.
AsCreissels(2003)pointsout,thechoiceoflinkerforallthesuffixesthatrequireone
is generally determined by the stem. Thus, irregular nouns and adjectives such as ház,
nagy take the ‘wrong’ linker for possessive and accusative forms as well as for the plural:
	 (16)	 nap	 ‘day’
		 napo-k	 ‘days’
		 napo-m	 ‘myˉday’
		 napo-t	 ‘day,ˉaccusative’
but
		 ház	 ‘house’
		 háza-k	 ‘houses’
		 háza-m	 ‘myˉhouse’
		 háza-t	 ‘house,ˉaccusative’
Some nouns undergo other types of stem allomorphy (Kenesei et al. 1998: 194;
Moravcsik 2003a: 125–126):
	 (17)	 nominative	 accusative
		 madár	 →	 madara-t	 ‘bird’	 vs.
		 határ	 →	 határ-t	 ‘border’
		 ló	 →	 lova-t	 ‘horse’	 vs.
		 jó	 →	 jó-t	 ‘good’8
		 korom	 →	 kormo-t	 ‘soot’
		 daru	 →	 darva-t	 ‘craneˉ(bird)’	 vs.
		 daru	 →	 daru-t	 ‘craneˉ(machine)’
		 kehely	 →	 kelyhe-t	 ‘chalice’	 vs.
		 Kehely	 →	 Kehely-t	 ‘(Mr.)ˉChalice’
.  As in jót tesz valakinek ‘to do somebody good’ and various other idioms.
	 Does Hungarian have a case system?	 
In this respect the accusative patterns with the plural and possessive affixes (see
the paradigms in Kenesei et al. 1998: 194).
Complicating the picture somewhat is the fact that plural and possessive
suffixes themselves determine the linking vowel for the following suffix. In both
cases the suffix selects the -a back harmony variant, even with (regular) nouns and
(irregular) adjectives whose stems select the -o vowel:
	 (18)	 nap-o-k-a-t	 ‘days,ˉaccusative’
		 nagy-o-k-a-t	 ‘largeˉones,ˉaccusative’
However, this fact is somewhat obscured in the traditional analysis of the accusa-
tive, which takes these as alternations in the shape of the affix, not the stem. Thus,
traditionally we see segmentations in which the linking vowel forms part of the suf-
fix: nap-ok-at, nagy-ok-at etc. (See, for instance, the extended defence of Carstairs’
(1987) ‘Peripherality Constraint’, in Moravcsik 2003a: 219ff, which hinges on the
traditional segmentation of the affixes, as set out in Moravcsik 2003a: 116, 118).
Finally, there is an unusual instance of affix allomorphy with 1st/2nd person
possessed forms, in which the accusative marker may optionally be zero:
	 (19)	 a.	 Látom	 a	 ház-am-at
			 I.see	 the	 house-my-acc
		 b.	 Látom	 a	 ház-am
			 I.see	 the	 house-my
			 ‘Iˉseeˉmyˉhouse’
The conclusion from these data is that suffixes select specific allomorphs of
their stems (including the linker vowel), and that suffixes themselves have allo-
morphs selected by immediately following suffixes (for instance, the plural suffix
takes the -a- linker when followed by the accusative suffix, even with nouns that
normally select the -o- linker with the accusative; see (18) above). One interest-
ing consequence of this analysis is that there is no case suffix allomorphy save for
vowel harmony and the assimilatory allomorphy of -val/vel, -vá/vé. In particular,
there is no cumulation of case with any other morphosyntactic property. In this
respect, the case suffixes, even the accusative, are morphophonologically more
like clitics than affixes (though triggering idiosyncratic allomorphy on a stem is
a canonical property of affixes, so one can’t take this analogy particularly far). I
discuss the question of case marking and pronouns below.
4.  
Postpositions and cases
The cases are all fairly recent grammaticalizations from postpositions, and so it
shouldn’t be surprising to find that cases and postpositions share a number of
	 Andrew Spencer
important characteristics. In addition, postpositions are generally derived histori-
cally from nouns, and in some respects the postpositions behave as though they
were still nouns. What is less expected of a case system is that the case suffixes
occasionally behave like nouns, too.
4.1  
Postpositions – similarities to nouns
Postpositions are fully fledged words with their own stress (and indeed they are
usually polysyllabic). Morphosyntactically they resemble nouns in that they take
case/possessor suffixes themselves:
	 (20)	 a.	 a	 ház	 mellett
			 the	 house	 next.to
		 b.	 mellett-e	 a	 ház
			 next.to-3sg	 the	 house
			 ‘nextˉtoˉtheˉhouse’
		 c.	 a	 ház	 mögött-ről
			 the	 house	 behind-del
			 ‘fromˉbehindˉtheˉhouse’ (Creisselsˉ2003)
Postpositions can receive the -i adjectivizer suffix, normally reserved for (the base
form of) a noun. Case-marked nouns behave like canonical inflected forms in not
accepting this derivational suffix (Moravcsik 2003a: 178f):
	 (21)	 a	 a	 kert-i	 út
			 the	 garden-adj	 road
			 ‘theˉgardenˉroad’
		 b.	 a	 kert	 mellett
			 the	 garden	 next.to
			 ‘nextˉtoˉtheˉgarden’
		 c.	 a	 kert	 mellett-i	 út
			 the	 garden	 next.to-adj	 road
			 ‘theˉroadˉnextˉtoˉtheˉgarden’
		 d.	 *a	 kert-ben-i	 út
			 the	 garden-iness-adj	 road
			 intended:ˉ‘theˉroadˉinˉtheˉgarden’
4.2  
Postpositions – similarities to cases
The true postpositions share a number of characteristics with case suffixes. We
have already seen the striking similarities with respect to ‘agreement’ of the
demonstratives ez/az. In addition, the true postpositions take a non-case marked
	 Does Hungarian have a case system?	 
(bare, nominative) form of noun complement. Third, they cannot be separated
from their noun complement. This is seen in (22):
	 (22)	 a.	 pontosan	 János	 mellett
			 just	 János	 next.to
			 ‘justˉnextˉtoˉJános’
		 b.	 *János	 pontosan	 mellett
			 János	 just	 next.to
4.3  
Cases – similarities to nouns
Perhaps less expectedly, cases suffixes themselves share an important noun-like
property with postpositions. Personal pronouns do not have their own case forms.
In order to express a ‘case feature’ such as [Case: Dative] on a pronoun we take a
dedicated nominal stem which corresponds to the case marker and inflect it for
possessor agreement. The nominal stem is sometimes identical to a case suffix
allomorph, but usually it shows partial or total suppletion (Moravcsik 2003a: 161).
The system is described by Kenesei et al. (1998: 270f). Examples of pronominal
case forms are shown in (23):
	 (23)	 a.	 -nak/nekˉ‘dative’,ˉ‘toˉme’ˉetc.
			 singular	 plural
			 1st	 nek-em	 nek-ünk
			 2nd	 nek-ed	 nek-tek
			 3rd	 nek-i	 nek-ik
		 b.	 -ban/benˉ‘inessive’,ˉ‘inˉme’ˉetc.
				 singular	 plural
			 1st	 benn-e-m	 benn-ünk
			 2nd	 benn-e-d	 benn-e-tek
			 3rd	 benn-e	 benn-ük
		 c.	 -hoz/hez/hözˉ‘allative’,ˉ‘towardsˉme’ˉetc.
				 singular	 plural
			 1st	 hozz-á-m	 hozz-á-nk
			 2nd	 hozz-á-d	 hozz-á-tok
			 3rd	 hozz-á	 hozz-á-juk
		 d.	 -(o)n/(e)nˉ‘superessive’,ˉ‘onˉtopˉofˉme’,ˉetc.
				 singular	 plural
			 1st	 rajt-a-m	 rajt-unk
			 2nd	 rajt-a-d	 rajt-a-tok
			 3rd	 rajt-a	 rajt-uk
The personal pronouns do not have forms for all of the eighteen uncontroversial
cases; they lack the translative, terminative, essive-formal, and essive.
	 Andrew Spencer
The accusative involves a greater degree of stem allomorphy, but essentially
follows the same pattern, at least for non-3rd person forms (3rd person pronouns
form their accusatives in the manner of nouns: ő-t, ő-ke-t):
	 (24)	 accusativeˉofˉ1st/2ndˉpersonˉpronouns
			 singular	 plural
		 1st	 engem(et)	 minket,ˉbennünket
		 2nd	 téget(et)	 titeket,ˉbenneteket
The possessor suffixes -m, -d, -nk, -tek, can just about be discerned in these forms,
which would make -g- the ‘accusative base’ for non-3rd person singular pronouns
and benn- the ‘accusative base’ for one of the plural form options. Note, however,
that in the plural, and optionally in the singular, these forms include the accusative
ending. Such double marking for case is found colloquially with other cases, too
(e.g. alongside nál-a-m ‘with me’ we find nál-a-m-nál).
These pronominal forms pose very interesting questions for the formal
description of Hungarian, though I have been unable to find explicit discussion
of this issue. The problem is that the pronominals represent an unusual case of
morphosyntactic mismatch. They fulfil the role of case marking with respect to
pronouns, but the paradigms are defined in terms of the possessor agreement
morphology of otherwise non-existent nouns. In a realizational model (e.g., Net-
work Morphology, Corbett & Fraser 1993, or Paradigm Function Morphology,
Stump 2001) it would be possible in principle to account for this by means of a
rule of referral, though there are difficulties in ensuring that a suffix can also be a
noun stem.9 For present purposes I merely note that the grammar of Hungarian
has to have some way of indicating that the feature set [Pronoun: {1st, 2nd, 3rd},
[Case: K]] is reinterpreted as the feature set [Lexeme-K, [PossessorAgreement:
{1st, 2nd, 3rd}]], where ‘Lexeme-K’ stands for the virtual case-noun base which
gets inflected with possessor agreements. The question then arises whether the
label [Case: K] has to be the name of a genuine case attribute.
5.  
Does Hungarian have a case system?
I argued earlier that a canonical case system of the type found in inflectional lan-
guages such as Russian is one which must appeal to a morphosyntactic property,
feature or attribute [Case] in order to generalize across systematically distinct
.  In Spencer (2006) I propose a rule of referral analysis within the framework of Generalized
Paradigm Function Morphology, a generalization of Stump’s (2001) model.
	 Does Hungarian have a case system?	 
forms. Clearly, whatever the Hungarian system represents it is not a canonical case
system of that type. Is it necessary, therefore, to set up a [Case] attribute at all for
the grammar of Hungarian, and if so what would it be used for?
Morphologically, we have found absolutely no need for such an attribute
within the inflectional system of nouns and adjectives. There is no cumulation
with any other property. When describing the ‘case forms’ of a noun, therefore, we
only need to make reference to the ‘ban-form’, or the ‘val-form’ or whatever, or use
any other arbitrary labelling system (such as integers, as in the traditional Czech
system, ‘Form1, 2, … , 18’; cf. Comrie 1986, on the morphology of Turkish case).
Even the accusative personal pronouns don’t give any reason to set up a case fea-
ture. The 3rd person forms and the 1st, 2nd plural forms can be treated as nouns
with rather odd suppletive allomorphy in the case of the 1st, 2nd person forms,
while the 1st, 2nd singular forms pattern like other cases, in exhibiting essentially
a kind of possessor agreement over a suppleting ‘case noun stem’. Admittedly, the
3rd person pronouns show rather odd behaviour in forming their accusatives as
though they were nouns and their other cases as though they were pronouns, but
this is orthogonal to the question of what kind of case attribute Hungarian may
or may not have. Syntactically, there is no warrant for a case feature, whether on
noun heads or on the right edge of noun phrases. The one apparent instance of
case agreement is better thought of as an appositional construction.
The simple answer to the question, then, is that Hungarian nouns don’t have
a true case system. Rather, nouns bear inflectional markers which have the func-
tions of adpositions in other languages, and which differ from the true postpo-
sitions of Hungarian only in relatively low-level morphological properties (and
even then show fewer clear-cut differences than the cases/postpositions of many
languages of a similar type). The cases, in other words, are better thought of as
‘fused postpositions’, a kind of regular portmanteau, akin to the portmanteau defi-
nite prepositional forms of German and Romance, such as German zum = zu dem
‘to the.m.dat.sg’ or French du = de le ‘of the.m.sg’. I return to the case forms of
pronouns below.
On the morphological side the grammar needs to have a way of defining eigh-
teen forms (provisionally labelled ‘ban-form’, ‘t-form’ and so on). On the syntactic
side the grammar needs to relate these forms to various grammatical and lexical
constructions. For instance, it is a (lexical) property of the ban-form that it conveys
a meaning akin to that expressed by an English prepositional phrase headed by in. It
is a (grammatical) property of the t-form that it realizes (usually!) the direct object
of a transitive verb (much like a pe-phrase in Rumanian, the et-phrase of Hebrew,
or the a-phrase of Spanish when the object is specific/animate). But there is no
need to provide these forms with an additional label such as [Case: Accusative]
any more than there is any need to provide English prepositional phrases such as
	 Andrew Spencer
of John with a label [Case: Genitive] (despite a long tradition in English and similar
languages of doing exactly this!).
And yet to say that Hungarian lacks a case system is hardly an uncontroversial
claim. Why should it be that linguistic descriptive tradition has taken Hungarian
not only to illustrate a case system but to be a parade example of such a system?
There are two reasons for this.
First, the case suffixes have the functions of cases in genuine case languages
(for instance, in the languages which respect Beard’s Criterion). But this does not
make the suffixes into cases, any more than it would make English of into a geni-
tive case. I have argued that there is a need to distinguish two notions of ‘case’ (cf.
Comrie 1986), a morphological notion and a syntactic notion. I would argue that
the term ‘case’ has also been used systematically with a third meaning, what we
might call a ‘metagrammatical usage’ (see also Comrie 1986, fn. 11).
Languages have various ways of marking grammatical functions, including
ways of marking dependents of predicates or of head nouns in noun phrases. These
include adpositional words, adpositional clitics, edge inflections and head-marking
affixes. Let’s refer to such devices collectively as ‘canonical GF markers on depen-
dents’ (CGFMDs). By this is meant ‘the manner in which a canonical grammatical
function (GF) such as subject, indirect object, etc. is marked on a depen-
dent’. CGFMDs show varying degrees of grammaticalization/morphologization,
of course, and they may have other functions besides that of marking core grammat-
ical functions. For instance, they may serve as ‘semantic cases’ (non-core adjuncts)
or as discourse markers. Moreover, grammatical function markers on dependents
may, non-canonically, mark other grammatical functions. This occurs when we
have dative-marked subjects, genitive-marked objects, nominative-marked direct
objects and so on.
Now, case labels such as nominative (object) or dative (subject) have come to
be used whenever the canonical way of marking a subject is also used to mark cer-
tain objects, or whenever the canonical way of marking an indirect object is used
to mark, say, the subject of an experiencer verb. But these patterns are independent
of true case marking. Indeed, they are not necessarily a property of dependent
marking in the first place. A verb which agrees with its indirect object may use the
same agreement morphology to cross-reference an experiencer predicate subject
even in a language which lacks the relevant case form, such as Abkhaz. Therefore,
just because a morphosyntactic device, such as a set of suffixes, constitutes a pro-
totypical set of CGFMDs, doesn’t mean to say that this device deserves to be called
a ‘case system’. On the contrary, by adopting such an analysis we would often do
serious injustice to the grammar of the language.
This point is emphasized in Spencer & Otoguro (2005) for Japanese. They
show that the so-called ‘case particles’ have none of the properties of genuine cases
	 Does Hungarian have a case system?	 
(other than the metagrammatical property of being CGFMDs), and that they have
a number of properties that genuine cases never have. Similarly, Spencer (2005)
and Otoguro (2006) show in some detail that it is a grave error to think of the ‘case
particles’ of Indo-Aryan languages such as Hindi as cases. Not only does this lead
to the same conceptual confusion as with Japanese, it also makes it impossible to
describe the real (admittedly somewhat vestigial) case system of these languages,
in which attributive adjectives and demonstratives agree in number, gender and
case with their head nouns (Hindi has three cases ‘direct’, ‘oblique’ and ‘vocative’).
In fact, the so-called case markers of Hindi are clitic postpositions, some of which
are used to mark core grammatical functions.
A further problem with treating the clitic postpositions as cases is revealed
when we look at the realization of direct objects in Hindi (or Turkish for that
matter). Under certain circumstances (involving the usual properties of animacy,
specificity, topicality and so on) a direct object can be marked with the clitic post-
position ko. The canonical function of this postposition, however, is to mark the
indirect object. Otherwise, a direct object is realized by a noun phrase lacking any
clitic postposition (the so-called ‘nominative’ form). Unfortunately, this form is the
canonical way of realizing subjects in non-perfect tenses. (In the perfect tenses, the
transitive subject is marked by an ‘ergative’ postposition ne, and intransitive sub-
jects and direct objects are left unmarked.) There is, in fact, no dedicated marker
for direct objects in any set of tenses. But this leads to complete confusion when we
come to describe a sentence with an unmarked direct object, especially in the non-
perfect tenses (where we can’t have recourse to a description in terms of ergative/
absolutive marking). Is such a noun phrase ‘in the nominative’ but ‘functioning as
an accusative’, or ‘in the accusative’ syntactically, but ‘in the nominative’ morpho-
logically? Or is it in some kind of ‘virtual’ accusative case which is always syncretic
with some other case (like the accusative of animate/inanimate masculines in
Russian)? No way of finessing these questions leaves us with a sensible answer. Of
course, if we abjure talk of ‘cases’ here there is no problem. There are various clitic
postpositions, some of which have the function of expressing notions like ‘subject
of perfect tense form verb’, ‘specific, animate direct object’ and so on. The default
is to use no postposition.10
.  As for the Hindi ‘genitive’, which behaves like an adjectival modifier in agreeing with its
head, the only way to make this into a case is to invent some convoluted story about ‘Suffixauf-
nahme’ even though what is really happening is that we have a particle which happens to agree
like an adjective, rather like the ‘associative a’ marker of Bantu languages or the so-called ‘genitive’
clitic of Albanian (see Koptjevskaja-Tamm 2003: 660–665).
	 Andrew Spencer
The second motivation for the tradition of treating Hungarian as a prototypi-
cal case language is that Hungarian nominals obligatorily have special inflected
forms for expressing case-related meanings. Therefore, the grammar of Hungar-
ian has to appeal to some sort of feature to ensure that all nouns can get ‘case’
suffixes (and moreover, that they appear in the right order, after the plural and
possessor suffixes).
In extant realizational theories of morphology the morphological organiza-
tion is governed by an attribute or feature which applies to all nouns (better, to
all nominals). Traditionally, this feature would take the form [Case: {Nominative,
Accusative, … , Inessive, … }]. However, these labels are for the linguist’s conve-
nience, they play no role in the grammar itself. All that the morphology needs is
an attribute such as [Form: {t-form, … , ban-form, … }]. Identifying these forms
with ‘cases’ is then a metagrammatical description, with attendant advantages for
typologizing, together with various pitfalls, as discussed above.
Notice that this [Form] feature is not actually a case feature and therefore
there is no need to describe a form which is unmarked. This means that there is
no nominative. Rather, the so-called nominative is simply the form that is used
when there is no requirement to use a marked form. This can include a variety
of situations, including possessive constructions and so-called ‘noun incorpora-
tion’ contexts. In (25) we see a bare noun form as a possessor, while in (26) we see
essentially the same construction, in which the possessor corresponds to the direct
object without accusative marking ‘incorporated’ into a nominalized verb:
	 (25)	 János	 könyv-e
		 János	 book-3sg.poss
		 ‘János’sˉbook’
	 (26)	 a	 könyv	 elolvas-ás-a
		 the	 book	 read-nmlzr-3sg.poss
		 ‘theˉreadingˉofˉtheˉbook’
Specifically, these bare forms are not ‘genitives’ (any more than -nek/nak ‘datives’
are ‘genitives’!).
Hungarian provides just one apparent argument in support of a morphologi-
cal [Case] feature. We have seen that the ‘case’ forms of pronominals are unusual
in that they take the possessor agreement form of an element which in some cases
is homophonous to a case suffix. I know of no description of this alternation in
a formal grammar of Hungarian but I have proposed that this unusual mode of
exponence be handled by a rule of referral (Spencer 2006). The obvious way to
state this rule is to use statements of the format ‘for the [Case: X] form of a pro-
noun with person/number features α, take the [Case: X] suffix (or its suppletive
variant) and inflect it as a possessed noun for features αʹ. However, it should be
	 Does Hungarian have a case system?	 
clear that all we really need is a feature which identifies specific forms of nominals.
Whether we call that feature ‘Case’ or ‘Form’ is immaterial. The rule of referral
can just as easily be stated as ‘for the [Form: X] form of a pronoun with person/
number features α, take the [Form: X] suffix and inflect it as a possessed noun for
features α’. To be sure there are interesting problems in defining the notion ‘[Form:
X] suffix’ in a realizational theory (these are addressed in Spencer 2006), but these
are independent of the question of whether a [Case] attribute is needed.
In sum, the Hungarian nominal system is similar to the English verbal sys-
tem. The forms walking, walked of the lexeme walk defy sensible featural defini-
tion, because they are used in so many functions (walking, for instance can be
analysed as a verb form, an adjective form or a noun). Although a variety of highly
misleading traditional terms are entrenched for these forms (‘present/past parti-
ciple’ and the like) the only motivated description is purely formal: [Form: -ing],
[Form: -ed1], [Form: -ed2], where [Form: -ed1], [Form: -ed2] are systematically
identical except for a largish number of irregular verbs. Indeed, in a realizational
approach to inflection this is precisely the situation we expect: affixes are not Sau-
ssurean signs, as they are in a classical morphemic model, and therefore there’s no
particular need for the morphological description to give any information about
the typical meanings or functions of particular inflected forms.
Finally, there is one language which is structurally very similar to Hungar-
ian in which it would be a positive disadvantage to insist on thinking of ‘case
suffixes’ as genuine cases. Selkup (Kuznecova, Xelimskij and Gruškina, 1980) is
a Samoyedic language (and hence at most distantly related to Hungarian) which
happens to inflect nouns for number-possessor-case in essentially the same man-
ner as Hungarian. Selkup nouns also take a very productive similitudinal suf-
fix, -šalʹ, creating an adjective with the meaning ‘similar (in some contextually
determined way) to N’. What is interesting about this suffix is that it attaches to
nouns inflected for number and/or possessor agreement even though its func-
tion seems to be that of a derivational, not an inflectional, affix (Kuznecova et al.
1980: 193):
	 (27)	 mat	 pra-ny-šalʹ	 qum
		 I.gen	 size-1sg-sim.adj	 man
		 ‘manˉofˉmyˉsizeˉ(lit.ˉmanˉsimilarˉtoˉmyˉsize)’
Moreover, it occupies the same position slot as the case markers and is in paradig-
matic opposition to them (that is, it is incompatible with case markers). Although
one could imagine meanings such as ‘similar to with a knife (instrumental)’ or
‘similar to at the river (locative)’ such forms are completely impossible, morpho-
logically. Thus, although it is not itself a case suffix in any sense of the term, the
-šalʹ suffix belongs functionally to the same set of suffixes as the case suffixes.
	 Andrew Spencer
What is important for Selkup morphology is not that there are case suffixes but
that there is a position slot after the number and possessor markers for suffixes
with ‘case’ and other functions. For Selkup, it would not only be unnecessary to
define the elements occupying this slot with a [Case] attribute, it would be
downright misleading.
6.  
Some consequences
If Hungarian lacks a case system then it doesn’t matter how many ‘cases’ there are
(just as it doesn’t matter how many prepositions English has). This means that
debate as to which suffixes are ‘really’ cases in Hungarian is really debate about
something else. In part such debates centre around the criteria for labelling, not
a very interesting question. The issues raised by Kiefer (1987) relate to more seri-
ous questions of regularity and productivity, as well as questions of word class
assignment. The facts of languages like Hungarian show that some affixes can
have partly or wholly adverbial functions and hence behave more like ‘deriva-
tional’ affixes than ‘inflectional’ ones. But this just makes Hungarian look a little
like Selkup. However, all that really matters for the morphology is that (some)
nouns bear such an affix, and that some affixes have restricted paradigms (for
instance, they don’t combine with already inflected forms). But this is a property
of the [Form] attribute.
One of the problems posed by Hungarian cases that I haven’t dwelt upon is the
issue of whether we can call Hungarian cases properly ‘inflectional’. In a language
with truly inflectional cases like Russian all the cases have a least one set of purely
grammatical uses and the question of whether a given case form can be used with
a purely lexical meaning becomes secondary. Whether or not we imagine that, say,
the instrumental case in Russian ‘really’ means ‘by means of’ and then has lots of
additional uses, we also have to say that ‘instrumental’ is a value of the [Case] attri-
bute in Russian. In Hungarian, where there is no motivation for a [Case] attribute
as such, it becomes problematical when we find so many ‘semantic cases’ whose
primary or only function is to express adverbial concepts such as ‘from the surface
of’ or ‘in the capacity of’. This looks very much as though we are changing the
meaning of the base noun, adding a semantic predicate in order to obtain a new
word (lexeme) which can be used as a kind of adverb. But if that is the situation,
aren’t we really talking about derivation rather than inflection?
To the extent that an inflection/derivation distinction can be maintained for
any language, such a question turns out to be in any case irrelevant if Hungarian
lacks a case system. The fact that some of the realizations of the [Form] attribute
have clear-cut adverbial semantics is neither unexpected nor problematical, just
	 Does Hungarian have a case system?	 
as it is neither unexpected nor problematical that some English prepositions have
purely grammatical uses, while others have purely semantic functions. Again, note
that the Selkup similitudinal adjective suffix has some of the character of a deriva-
tional, not inflectional, suffix.
My conclusion, therefore, is that Hungarian nouns regularly and productively
inflect for a [Form] feature which effectively defines a set of ‘fused postpositional
portmanteaus’. The best way of thinking of the labels for these forms is in terms of
the forms themselves. There is no need to generalize over these forms by means
of a redundant [Case] feature. Indeed, if we try to do that we encounter all sorts
of conceptual conundrums which dissolve as soon as we realize that Hungarian
doesn’t actually have a case system.
Abbreviations
acc – accusative, adj – adjectivizer, cgfmd – canonical grammatical function
marker on dependents, dat – dative, del – delative, gf – grammatical func-
tion, iness – inessive, m – masculine, nmlzr – nominalizer, pl – plural, poss –
possessor, sg – singular, sim.adj – similitudinal adjective
References
Beard, R. 1995. Lexeme Morpheme Base Morphology. Stony Brook NY: SUNY Press.
Borin, L. 1986. Is Hungarian a case language? Fenno-ugrica suecana 8: 1–33.
Carstairs, A. 1987. Allomorphy in Inflexion. Beckenham: Croom Helm.
Comrie, B. 1986. On delimiting cases. In Case in Slavic, R.D. Brecht & J.S. Levine (Eds), 86–106.
Columbus OH: Slavica Publishers.
Comrie, B. & Polinsky, M. 1998. The great Daghestanian case hoax. In Case, Typology and Gram-
mar, A. Siewierska & Jae Jung Song (Eds), 95–114. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Corbett, G.G. & Fraser, N. 1993. Network morphology. Journal of Linguistics 29: 113–142.
Creissels, D. 2003. Suffixes casuels et postpositions en hongrois. Talk delivered to the conference
Grammaire des formes faibles, Paris, 6 December, 2003. MS, University of Lyon 2.
Kenesei, I., Vago, R.M. & Fenyvesi, A. 1998. Hungarian. London: Routledge.
Kiefer, Ferenc. 1987. The cases of Hungarian nouns. Acta Linguistica Academiae Scientarum
Hungaricae, Vol. 37: 93–101.
Kiefer, Ferenc. 2000. Strukturális magyar nyelvtan III: Morfológia. Budapest: Akadémiai Kiadó.
Koptjevskaja-Tamm, M.S. 2003. Possessive noun phrases in the languages of Europe. In Plank
(Ed.), 621–722.
Kuznecova, A.I., Xelimskij, E.A. & Gruškina, E.V. 1980. Očerki po sel’kupskomu jazyku.
Moscow: Izdatel’stvo moskovskogo universiteta.
Moravcsik, E. 2003a. Inflectional morphology in the Hungarian noun phrase: A typological
assessment. In Plank (Ed.), 113–252.
	 Andrew Spencer
Moravcsik, E. 2003b. Non-compositional definiteness marking in Hungarian noun phrases. In
Plank (Ed.), 397–466.
Plank, F. 2003. Noun Phrase Structure in the Languages of Europe. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Otoguro, R. 2006. Morphosyntax of Case. A Theoretical Investigation of the Concept. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Essex.
Sadler, L. & Spencer, A. 2001. Syntax as an exponent of morphological features. In Yearbook of
Morphology 2000, G. Booij & J. van Marle (Eds), 71–96. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Selkirk, E.O. 1977. Some remarks on noun phrase structure. In Formal Syntax, P. Culicover,
T. Wasow & A. Akmajian (Eds), 285–316. New York NY: Academic Press.
Spencer, A. 2003. A realizational approach to case. In Proceedings of LFG ’03, T. Holloway King
& M. Butt (Eds). (Online: http://csli-publications.stanford.edu/LFG/08/lfg03.pdf)
Spencer, A. 2005. Case in Hindi. In Proceedings of LFG ’05, M. Butt & T. Holloway King (Eds),
(Online: http://csli-publications.stanford.edu/LFG/10/lfg05.html)
Spencer, A. 2006. ‘Heads’ in generalized paradigm function morphology. Talk delivered to the
12th International Morphology Meeting, Budapest, 29 May 2006.
Spencer, A. & Otoguro, R. 2005. Limits to case – a critical survey of the notion. In Competition
and Variation in Natural Languages. The Case for Case, M. Amberber & H. de Hoop (Eds),
119–145. Oxford: Elsevier.
Stump, G.T. 2001. Inflectional Morphology. A Theory of Paradigm Structure. Cambridge: CUP.
Tompa, J. 1985. Kleine Ungarische Grammatik. Budapest: Akadémiai Kiadó.
Case in Ingush syntax
Johanna Nichols
University of California, Berkeley
This paper reviews the morphological and syntactic patterns and the patterns
of lexical derivation in Ingush (Nakh-Daghestanian, Caucasus) in pursuit of a
typological generalization about alignment in the language. Morphological case
paradigms are almost entirely ergative. Simple clause alignment is split among
several salient and several minor patterns. Wherever constraints on syntactic
phenomena refer to morphology (and many of them do), they are ergative
(verb agreement, agreement climbing, argument sharing in serialization); if
constraints are syntactic they refer almost exclusively to subjects (case climbing,
reflexivization, control of infinitive). Patterns of lexical derivation are ergative
for simplex verbs (a large but closed class) and varied for compound verbs.
Overall, there is a good deal of what is at first glance syntactic ergativity but
on closer analysis turns out to be due to ergative morphological constraints on
syntactic processes.
1.  
Introduction
It is hard to imagine contemporary descriptive and comparative linguistics with-
out the accessibility hierarchy (Keenan & Comrie 1977), the subfield of relational
grammar that it helped engender, and the apparatus for applying typology to
description first codified by Comrie & Smith 1977. It is hard to imagine case and
cases without dealing with the basic structural issues of economy (Comrie 1986)
and the bounds of the case inventory (Comrie & Polinsky 1998). And it is impos-
sible to work on Nakh-Daghestanian morphosyntax without relying on the Tsez
and other Daghestanian work of Bernard Comrie and his colleagues. This paper
aims to bring together these threads of typologically informed description, typo-
logically based comparison, and the place of case in the grammar, using the results
of my work on the Nakh-Daghestanian language Ingush made possible for the last
few years by the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology. The basic
point of this paper is to show that Ingush has an unusual degree of morphological,
syntactic, and lexical ergativity, and much of the non-morphological ergativity is
the result of rigid constraints on morphological case, specifically restrictions to the
absolutive case.
	 Johanna Nichols
2.  
Morphological ergativity
Ingush has very consistent morphological ergativity. There is an ergative case
which is zero-suffixed and is the citation form. All case-bearing words – nouns
(simple and derived), pronouns, adjectives, participles, nominalized verb forms –
have morphologically ergative paradigms (S=O, A different; I use S, O, and A fol-
lowing Dixon 1979)1 except the third person singular reflexive pronoun and the
first person inclusive pronouns, which have neutral inflection (S=A=O). Verbs
agree in gender (but not person), and all agreement is on the ergative pattern.
There is no morphologically accusative inflection in the language.
About one-third of the verb roots of Ingush take gender agreement (prefixal).
These include several of the common auxiliaries and light verbs, which increase
the text frequency of gender agreement. In addition, the inflectional suffixes of the
future and nonwitnessed tenses include fused auxiliaries which agree in gender,
so that the number of inflected verb forms that agree in gender is over 50% in
running text (well over 50% in most narrative, since that is usually in the nonwit-
nessed tense). Gender agreement can only be with the absolutive argument: O if
one is present, otherwise S or absolutive A.2
	 (1)	 Yz	 chy-v.axar
		 3s(v)	 in-v.go.wp
		 Heˉwentˉhome.
		 (Intransitive;ˉverbˉagreesˉwithˉs.)
.  These letters label argument roles that are independent of either morphological case or se-
mantic role. The A is the less patient-like or theme-like argument of a two-argument or three-
argument verb (monotransitive or ditransitive respectively). Semantically it is variously an agent
(e.g., with “throw”, “give”), experiencer (“see”, “like”), possessor, etc. Its case is variously ergative,
dative, genitive, or absolutive. The S is the sole argument of a one-argument verb and is variously
absolutive, ergative, or in other oblique cases (examples below). The O is the more theme-like or
patient-like argument of a two-argument verb; it is most often absolutive, but some verbs have
oblique O’s. I follow the approach to argument roles and alignment laid out in Bickel & Nichols
in press.
.  Abbreviations: 1s first person singular, 3p third person plural, etc.; j, v, d, b gender classes
and markers; cases: allative, dative, ergative, genitive, lative; no interlinear for absolutive;
tenses: nw nonwitnessed, wp witnessed past, prs present; verb forms: auxiliary or light verb,
cs causative, cv converb, dx deictic prefix, infinitive, incp inceptive, nz nominalized, red re-
duplicate; rfl reflexive; & serializing clitic. Period = morpheme boundary of gender affix. The
transcription used here is a diacritic-free, Latin-only approximately phonemic practical system
described in detail in Nichols 2004 and forthcoming.
	 Case in Ingush syntax	 
	 (2)	 Cuo	 kinashjka	 d.iishaa.d
		 3s(v).erg	 book(d)	 d.read.nw.d
		 Heˉreadˉa/theˉbook.
		 (Transitive;ˉverbˉagreesˉwithˉo.)
	 (3)	 So	 qeika-j.yr
		 1s(j)	 cough-j.aux.wp
		 Iˉcoughed
		
(Deponentˉverb:ˉcausativeˉmorphology,ˉintransitive,ˉcausativeˉauxiliaryˉ
agreesˉwithˉsˉasˉanˉordinaryˉcausativeˉagreesˉwithˉitsˉo.)
	 (4)	 Aaz	bierazhta	 axcha	 d.alar
		 1s(j).erg	 child.pl.dat	 money(d)	 d.give.wp
		 Iˉgaveˉtheˉchildrenˉmoney
		 (Ditransitive:ˉergativeˉa,ˉdativeˉg,ˉabsolutiveˉo)3
Ingush has many valence frames with oblique case marking of subject and/or
object, and in these agreement is strictly controlled by case morphology, not syn-
tax. A dative experiencer subject (whether A or S) or a genitive subject (A) of a
possessive verb never controls agreement. An oblique transitive with absolutive
subject, a ditransitive with unusual primary-object alignment, and a compound
verb with internal gender-bearing object all show agreement with the S, O, or T
and hence with only an absolutive:
	 (5)	 Marem	 Muusaaigh	 cq’azahw	 cec-j.oal
		 Mariam(j)	 Musa(v).lat	 sometimes	 surprise-J.aux.prs
		 SometimesˉMariamˉisˉsurprisedˉatˉMusa.
		 (Obliqueˉtransitive;ˉabsolutiveˉa,ˉlativeˉo,ˉverbˉagreesˉwithˉa)
	 (6)	 Wa	 piela	 shuragh	 hwal-d.izaa-d.alieˉ…
		 2s.erg	 glass(d)	 milk(j).lat	 up-d.fill-d.cvirr
		 Ifˉyouˉhadˉfilledˉtheˉglassˉwithˉmilk,ˉ…
		 (Ditransitive:ˉergativeˉA,ˉabsolutiveˉGˉ(‘glass’),ˉlativeˉTˉ(‘milk’).)
	 (7)	 Muusaaz	 nab+j.u
		 Musa(v).erg	 sleep(j)+j.aux.prs
		 Musaˉsleeps.
		
(Deponentˉintransitive:ˉergativeˉs;ˉlightˉverbˉagreesˉwithˉinternalˉheavyˉ
element.)
.  In addition to s, a, and o, I use t and g for the objects of ditransitives: T is the more
theme-like object (direct or secondary object) and G the more goal-like one (indirect or primary
object). T and G are also pure argument roles, defined independently of case (see again note 1).
	 Johanna Nichols
3.  
Syntactic phenomena
The syntax of agreement and several essential forms of clause combining, espe-
cially narrative clause combining, are ergative and restricted to the absolutive case.
Control phenomena, chiefly reflexivization and control of infinitives, are broadly
accusative, referring to subjects with no constraints on case or on A vs. S. But even
here there is evidence of an older state of affairs where control was by A, S, or O,
i.e., neutral or at least not accusative.
3.1  
Agreement and agreement climbing
Agreement of verbs, as shown above, is ergative and strictly absolutive-controlled.
There are also some departures from the usual alignment, where again absolutive
case is a necessary condition for agreement. In addition to regular in-clause agree-
ment, several auxiliary verbs show agreement climbing (a.k.a. long-distance agree-
ment: see Corbett 2006: 65–66 for a world survey; Matasovic 2007 and Matasovic
in press have more examples from the Caucasus and a more general typological
analysis; Comrie & Polinsky 1999 for Tzez),4 agreeing with the absolutive argu-
ment of their infinitive complement:
	 (8)	 Kyljg	 bwiexa-d.ar	 v.ie	 v.ieza
		 hand(d)	 stain-d.nz(v)	 v.kill.inf	 v.should
		
Theˉguiltyˉoneˉisˉtoˉbeˉkilled.ˉ(We/they/one)ˉshouldˉkillˉtheˉguiltyˉoneˉ
(lit.ˉ‘theˉoneˉwithˉ[blood-]stainedˉhands’;ˉthisˉlegalˉphraseˉcanˉonlyˉreferˉ
toˉaˉmaleˉandˉisˉofˉvˉgender)
	 (9)	 Sag	 j.oala-j.ie	 j.ieza	 wa
		 person(j)	 j.bring-j.cs.inf	 j.should	 2s(v).erg
		
Youˉshouldˉgetˉmarried.ˉIt’sˉtimeˉyouˉgotˉmarried.ˉ(sagˉjoala-
j.u,ˉlit.ˉ‘bringˉsomeoneˉ[fem.]ˉhome’ˉisˉ‘marry,ˉgetˉmarried’ˉofˉaˉman;ˉtheˉ
addresseeˉhereˉisˉnecessarilyˉmaleˉandˉtheˉlowerˉobjectˉnecessarilyˉfemaleˉ
andˉhenceˉjˉgender)
3.2  
Case climbing
Agreement climbing in the above examples is accompanied by case climbing, in
which the subject of a modal or similar auxiliary takes the case of the subject of
its infinitive complement clause. While agreement climbing is strictly dependent
on morphology, case climbing is constrained by syntax: the complement subject
.  For Ingush I prefer to distinguish climbing, which involves only a clause and its infini-
tive complement clause, from long-distance processes such as reflexivization, which can reach
through an unlimited number of clauses.
	 Case in Ingush syntax	 
(whatever its case) triggers the climbing and its case is what climbs. The following
minimal pair is based on a folktale (thus the odd content). (10) has case climbing:
ergative aaz “I” is not assigned by b.ieza “should” but climbs up from the transitive
complement b.aaqqa “take”. In (11), genitive sy is the case normally taken by d.ieza
“should”. The semantic difference is that (10), with climbing, has to do with what
is necessary or required to achieve some goal, while (11), without climbing, has to
do with appropriateness, general obligation, etc. (Both examples have agreement
climbing, with infinitive complement b.aaqqa “take” and modal b.ieza “should”
agreeing with cho “hair”.)
	 (10)	 Massa	 cho	 b.aaqqa	 b.ieza	 aaz?
		 howˉmany	 hair(b)	 b.take.inf	 b.should	 1s.erg
		 HowˉmanyˉhairsˉshouldˉIˉcut?ˉHowˉmanyˉhairsˉdoˉIˉneedˉtoˉcut?
	 (11)	 Massa	 cho	 b.aaqqa	 b.ieza	 sy?
		 howˉmany	 hair	 b.take.inf	 b.should	 1s.gen
		 HowˉmanyˉhairsˉmustˉIˉcut?=Howˉmanyˉhairsˉareˉsupposedˉtoˉbeˉcut?
A near-minimal pair is the following, in which meg in (12) means “can, may” in
the sense “is likely, is possible” and requires case climbing while mog in (13) means
“is able, is capable” and does not take case climbing but assigns the dative case.
(12) has case climbing, with absolutive Muusaa reflecting the case that “go” assigns
to its S; (13) does not have case climbing, and the dative case is assigned by mog
and not by chyvaa. (The verb root of mog/meg does not take agreement. The two
forms here differ only in conjugation class.)5
	 (12)	 Muusaa	 chy-v.aa	 meg
		 Musa	 in-v.come.inf	 may.prs
		
Maybe Musa will come home. Musa may come home. It could be that
Musa will come home. (Infinitive ‘come’ has abs. s)
	 (13)	 Muusaaina	 chy-v.aa	 mog
		 Musa.dat	 in-v.come.inf	 can.prs
		 Musaˉcanˉcomeˉhome.ˉMusaˉisˉableˉtoˉcomeˉhome.
		 (Infinitiveˉ‘come’ˉtakesˉabs.ˉs)
Case climbing is accusative in that the s or a case climbs. (Similarly Kibrik
1981: 39; Polinsky 2000; Comrie 2003: 119 for Tsez, which uses climbing with
.  Kibrik 1981: 36–9 analyzes the pattern in Tsez analogous to (12) as having neither case
climbing nor case assignment by the modal verb, but simply an intact infinitive clause, with all
of its arguments present and in their regular cases, functioning as the argument of the modal
verb. I analyze the Ingush construction as case climbing with a subject position in each clause
and obligatory sharing, since the Ingush infinitive always has a shared subject.
	 Johanna Nichols
“try” and “begin”. See again note 4.) There are no morphological case con-
straints: the following examples, all with meg “can, may, is possible”, show that
various subject cases can climb (in addition to absolutive S shown in (12) just
above):
	 (14)	 Aaz	 yz	 d.ie	 meg
		 1s.erg	 3s	 d.do.inf	 may
		 Iˉmayˉbeˉableˉtoˉdoˉit.ˉMaybeˉIˉcanˉdoˉit.
		 (Infinitiveˉ‘do’ˉhasˉerg.ˉa,ˉabs.ˉo)
	 (15)	 Suonaˉyz	 hwa-xaza	 meg
		 1s.datˉ3s	 dx-hear.inf	 may
		 MaybeˉI’llˉhearˉit.
		 (Infinitiveˉ‘hear’ˉhasˉdat.ˉa,ˉabs.ˉo.)
	 (16)	 Ber	 sogh	 qiera-d.ala	 meg
		 child	 1s.lat	 fear-d.incp.inf	 may
		 Maybeˉtheˉbabyˉwillˉbeˉafraidˉofˉme.
		 (Infinitiveˉqiera-d.alaˉ‘fear-incp’ˉhasˉabs.ˉa,ˉlativeˉo.)
3.3  
Local reflexivization
In local, or within-clause, reflexivization, any subject, in any case, reflexivizes a
coreferential nonsubject or possessor.
	 (17)	 Aaz	 seina	 mashen	 iecad-d.y
		 1s.erg	 1srfl.dat	 car	 buy.fut.d
		 I’mˉgoingˉtoˉbuyˉmyselfˉaˉcar.
		 (Transitive;ˉergativeˉsubjectˉreflexivizesˉdativeˉindirectˉobject)
	 (18)	 Shei	 zhwalegh	 bierazh	 qer
		 3prfl.gen	 dog.lat	 child.pl	 fear
		 Theˉchildrenˉareˉafraidˉofˉtheirˉdog.
		 (Oblique;ˉabsolutiveˉsubjectˉreflexivizesˉpossessorˉofˉlativeˉobject)
Reflexivization is optional for first and second persons, obligatory for third per-
son. Only animates can control it. There are no other constraints, in particular no
morphological case constraints.
Objects can control reflexivization in one configuration: where the possessor
of a subject or another object is coreferential to an object, the object can reflexivize
the possessor. This configuration includes contexts of obviation (Aissen 1997)
or weak crossover, where the possessor of a subject is coreferential to an object,
contexts in which coreference between third persons is problematic in most lan-
guages, Ingush included:
	 Case in Ingush syntax	 
	 (19)	 Muusaai	 zhwalie	 cynna	 cerjg+tiexaai
		 Musa.gen	 dog.erg	 3s.dat	 tooth+strike.nw.J
		 Musa’siˉdogˉbitˉhimj;ˉ*ˉ…ˉbitˉhimi.
		 (Internalˉtˉ’tooth’ˉofˉtheˉcompoundˉverbˉisˉjˉgender.)
Ingushavoidsthisproblembyusingobject-controlledreflexivization.Butexamples
like (21) below, where an object reflexivizes the possessor of another object, show
that Ingush object-controlled possessor reflexivization goes beyond obviation.
	 (20)	 Yz	 shii	 daaz	 v.igaa.v
		 3s	 3srfl.gen	 father.erg	 v.lead.nw. v
		 o	 poss	 a
		 Heˉgotˉintoˉtrouble.ˉ(Lit.ˉ‘Hisˉfatherˉtookˉhimˉaway’)
		 (Absolutiveˉoˉreflexivizesˉpossessorˉofˉ a)
	 (21)	 Cynagh	 shii	 nenneana	 c’iˉ+tillaai
		 3s.lat	 3srfl.gen	 MoMo.gen	 name+put.nw.J
		 g	 poss	 poss	 p
		
‘Sheˉwasˉnamedˉafterˉherˉmaternalˉgrandmother’, ‘(They)ˉnamedˉherˉ…
(lit.ˉ‘(They)ˉgaveˉherˉherˉgrandmother’sˉname’)
		 (Lativeˉgˉreflexivizesˉpossessorˉofˉp
	 (22)	 Deana	 shii	 zhwalie	 cerjg+tiexaai
		 master.dat	 3srfl.gen	 dog.erg	 tooth+strike.nw.J
		 g	 poss	 a	 p
		 Theˉmaster’sˉdogˉbitˉhim.ˉHisˉownˉdogˉbitˉ(its)ˉmaster.
		 (Dativeˉgˉreflexivizesˉpossessorˉofˉa)
	 (23)	 Shei	 zhwalii	 bieregh	 qer
		 3p rfl.gen	 dog	 child.pl.lat	 fear
		 Theirˉ(own)ˉdogˉisˉafraidˉofˉtheˉchildren.ˉTheˉchildren’sˉdogˉfearsˉthem.
		 (Obliqueˉtransitive;ˉlativeˉoˉreflexivizesˉpossessorˉofˉabsolutiveˉa.)
(20) is a folk saying and (21) a standard expression, showing that they are tra-
ditional, established, and not innovations. (22) and similar examples were easily
elicited from several speakers. Such examples are also good in the first and second
person, as (24)–(26) show (the folk saying (20) is not idiomatic in the first person
as in (24), but it is entirely grammatical); this too goes beyond obviation and shows
that the issue is a purely syntactic one of weak crossover or command or the like.
	 (24)	 So	 sei	 daaz	 v.igaa.v
		 1s	 1s rfl.gen	 father.erg	 v.lead.nw.v
		 Lit.ˉ‘Myˉfatherˉtookˉmeˉaway’
	 (25)	 Sogh	 sei	 nenneana	 c’i+tillaai
		 1s.lat	 1s rfl.gen	 MoMo.gen	 name+put.nw.j
		 (They)ˉnamedˉmeˉafterˉmyˉgrandmother
	 Johanna Nichols
	 (26)	 Sei/sy	 zhwalie	 suona	 cerjgazh+tiexar
		 1srfl.gen/1s.gen	 dog.erg	 1s.dat	 teeth+strike.wp
		 Myˉown/myˉdogˉbitˉme.
(20)–(23) have different morphological cases on a and o, and (21) and (22) have
g, or indirect object, controllers, all of which shows that it is subject and object (in
the broad sense of object), not morphological cases, that define the context where
object-controlled reflexivization is possible.
In summary, local reflexivization can be controlled by subject (a=s) or object
(o, g, or t). Object control is restricted, but found in conservative contexts sug-
gesting that it may once have been widespread. That is, earlier usage may have
had neutral, a=s=o, control, though contemporary usage is more nearly subject-
controlled and accusative, a=s. There is no evidence of case restrictions on either
conservative or innovative usage.
3.4  
Long-distance reflexivization
Long-distance reflexivization is controlled by any subject and can affect any argu-
ment in a serialized or subordinate clause.
	 (27)	 Suona	shie	 bwarjg+v.eicha,	 hwa-’aara-v.ealar	 sy	 vosha
		 1s.dat	3s rfl	eye+v.see.cvtemp,	 dx-out-v.go.wp	 1s.gen	 brother
		 WhenˉIˉsawˉhim,ˉmyˉbrotherˉcameˉout.ˉ(‘WhenˉIˉsawˉhimself,ˉ…’)
		 (Absolutiveˉsˉreflexivizesˉabsolutiveˉo)
	 (28)	 [ˉsei	 joazuo	 cuo	 toa-d.eadˉ]	 aaz	 arg-xalcha
		 [1s.gen	 handwriting	 3s.erg	 forge-d.aux.nw]	 1s.erg	 say.fut-cvtemp
		 whenˉIˉwillˉsayˉheˉhasˉforgedˉmyˉhandwriting
		 (Ergativeˉaˉreflexivizesˉpossessorˉofˉabsolutiveˉo)
	 (29)	 Suona	 dieza	 cuo	 sei	 nanna	 nouq’ostal+d.ar
		 1s.dat	 d.want	 3s.erg	 1srfl.gen	 mother.dat	 help+d.aux.nz
		 Iˉwantˉhimˉtoˉhelpˉmyˉmother.
		 (Dativeˉaˉreflexivizesˉpossessorˉofˉdativeˉo)
	 (30)	 Ber	 yshtta	 sixa	 diegha+d.oagha-d.aacar,
		 child	 so	 fast	 grow+d.aux-d.neg.pst,
		 shiina	 dikaˉhama	 cy	 j.u’a-j.uorie
		 3s rfl.dat	 wellˉthing(j)	 neg	 eat-j.cs.cvirr
		 Theˉchildˉwouldn’tˉgrowˉsoˉfastˉifˉitˉweren’tˉbeingˉwellˉfed.
		 (Absolutiveˉsˉreflexivizesˉdativeˉg)
There are some additional grammatical constraints on long-distance reflexivization:
two different controllers cannot reflexivize targets in the same clause; presence of
a second person in a sentence inhibits long-distance reflexivization of any other
	 Case in Ingush syntax	 
person category; purpose clauses and future time reference inhibit reflexivization.
(For these and others see Nichols 2001; forthcoming.) None of these additional
constraints refers to case. Overall, long-distance reflexivization is subject-controlled
and accusative in alignment (a=s).
3.5  
Converbs and serialization
Ingush makes extensive use of converb constructions in serialization, subordina-
tion, and complementation, and lexicalized or at least conventionalized serial con-
structions are a mainstay of verbal word formation. Converb constructions are
probably the most central and salient feature of Ingush syntax and narrative, and
they are ergative in alignment and limited chiefly to the absolutive case, at least in
conservative usage.
Nuclear serialization, in Ingush, involves a converb and a main verb which
share core arguments as well as aspect, tense, and mood. (For nuclear serializa-
tion see Foley & Van Valin 1984: chaps. 4–5; Van Valin & LaPolla 1997: 441–484;
Crowley 2002; Nichols in press.) The shared argument is either S or O, in the abso-
lutive case. Usually the serialization is S S or O O, but occasionally it is O S.
	 (31)	 täbaa	 d.aagha	 [SˉS]
		 sneakˉup.cvant	 d.sit.prs
		 ‘liesˉinˉwait’ˉ(e.g.,ˉcat),ˉ‘sitsˉinˉambush’
	 (32)	 j.edda	 j.exaai	 [SˉS]
		 J.run.cvant	 j-go.nw.j
		 ‘ranˉaway,ˉescaped’,ˉlit.ˉ‘havingˉrun,ˉwent’
	 (33)	 hwoa-v.ea	 v.axiitar	 [OˉO]
		 move-v.caus.cvant	 v.go.csind.wp
		 ‘kickedˉ(him)ˉout’,ˉ‘gotˉridˉofˉ(him)’;ˉ‘(he)ˉwasˉkickedˉout’
	 (34)	 qeikaa	 wa-v.iixaa.v	 [OˉO]
		 call.cvant	 dx-v.invite.nw.v
		 ‘heˉwasˉsummoned’ˉ(lit.ˉ‘heˉwasˉcalled-invited’)
	 (35)	 qeikaa	 v.axaa-v.ar	 [OˉS]
		 call.cvant	 v.go.ppft.v
		 ‘(he)ˉwasˉinvited’,ˉ‘heˉwentˉbyˉinvitation’ˉ(lit.ˉ‘wentˉinvited’)
(31)–(32) involve intransitive verbs whose S constitutes the entire argument
frame. (33) and especially (34) have a shared O but not necessarily a shared A;
at least, they can be interpreted as having unspecified A’s, and, though in reality
it is likely that the same A performs both actions, this does not seem to be a
grammatical necessity.
	 Johanna Nichols
In normal Ingush narrative there is no coordination apart from the occasional
asyndetic run-on sequence or the occasional “or”; core serialization is used instead.
In core serialization, only one argument is shared; aspect is not shared. Core seri-
alization uses the same converbs as nuclear serialization, but differs formally. The
hallmarks of core serialization are described by Peterson 2001: the converb is pre-
ceded by a Type 5 clitic =’a which takes as its host the direct object if there is one,
otherwise the preverb or prefix, or lacking that a reduplication of the verb root.
(The clitic is glossed “&” here.)
	 (36)	 Qaalneaxa	 barcq’azh	 t’yˉ=’aˉd.iixaa,
		 woman.gen	 clothes(d)	 onˉ=&ˉd.putˉon.cvant
		 cu	 koa	 yzj	 v.ie	 v.oaghazh_xannuu
		 dem.obl	 yard.adv	 3s(v)	 v.kill.inf	 v.come.cvsim_tns.v
		 yzi	 cuo	 v.iinachyn	 v.osha
		 dem	 3s.erg	 v.kill.ppl.nz.gen	 brother
The brotheri of the man hej had killed had dressed in women’s clothing and was
coming to the yard to kill himj. (t’y-d.uux “dress, put on clothes” [A G O]; d.oagha
“come” [S]; shared arguments: A S)
	 (37)	 caar	 hwacarazh	 d.izaa	 barcq’azh	 hwa=’a	 d.eaxie,
		 3p.gen	 sweat	 d.filled	 clothes(d)	 dxˉ&	 D.take:ˉpl.cvirr
		 qaalnaaxa	 d.itta=’a	 d.ittie,ˉ…
		 women.erg	 redˉ&	 d.wash.cvirr (0415)
		 ˉ
… they would take off their sweaty clothes and the women would wash them …
(hwa-d.oax ‘take (off)’ A O, d.utt ‘launder’ A O; shared: O O, ‘clothing’)
In traditional usage the finite verb (e.g., v.oaghazh xannuu “was coming” in (36))
is usually intransitive and the shared argument is S in that clause. The converb
clauses can have an A shared with that S, as in (36), but most often have S or O,
always absolutive:
	 (38)	 Ilisxaa-jurtarcha	 Hwazhaz	 T’ugiena	 []ˉ=’a	 d.anna,
		 (placeˉname).adj.obl	 Hadji	 t.dat	 & d.give.cv ant
		 ˉ…T’ugiegara	 Iishwaq’aga	 []ˉ=’a	 qeachaa,
		 t.abl	 i.all	 &	 arrive.cvant
		 cy	 Iishwaq’agara	 Faadiega	 []ˉ=’a	 qeachaa,
		 dem.obl	 i.abl	 f.all			 arrive.cvant
		 Faadez	 handz=a,	 shie	 mogazh	 joacazh	 k’aljisaachyl
		 F.erg	 now	 3s rfl	 well	 j.be:ˉneg.cvsim	 succumb.csn
		 t’ehwagh,	 cy	 Muusaai	 veshii	 vowaa	 dwaˉ=’a	 d.anna,
		 after	 dem.obl	 m.gen	 son.gen	 son.dat	 dx=&	 d.give.cvant
	 Case in Ingush syntax	 
		 cyn	 vowaga	 d.y	 yzh	 sulhwaazh
		 3s.gen	 son.all	 d.be.prs	 dem:ˉpl	 bead.pl(d)
Kunta Hadji gave them to T’ugi, from T’ugi they came down to Isaac, from Isaac
to Faadii, and when her health failed she gave them to Musa’s nephew and now
his son has the beads. [O S S O S]
Younger speakers sometimes allow a shared A in the finite clause, but conser-
vative speakers do not. An oblique participle can be used instead of the converb
when the finite clause is transitive, but traditional narrative usually manages to
place intransitive verbs at episode boundaries and hence in finite clauses. Thus
the clause and sentence syntax as well as the construction of narrative are ergative,
limited to S and O and to absolutive case.
3.6  
Other nonfinites
The only form of complementation requiring a shared argument is the infinitive,
which is used only in same-subject complementation. Verbs that take infinitive
complements are mostly modal and similar verbs whose own subjects are dative,
genitive, absolutive, or the result of case climbing. The infinitive complement is
unrestricted as to valence, so the shared subject in the infinitive clause can be
A or S and in any case. For example, ghert “try” takes an absolutive subject plus
an infinitive clause whose subject needs to be more or less volitional but is unre-
stricted as to A vs. S and morphological case:
	 (39)	 diegha+b.oala-b.ie	 my	 ghert	 vei	 yz
		 body+b.go-v.cs.inf	 emph	 try	 1pincl	 3s
		 ‘We’reˉtryingˉtoˉmakeˉitˉ(=ourˉlanguage,ˉbˉgender)ˉgrowˉ…’
		 (Infinitiveˉisˉmorphologicalˉcausative,ˉtransitiveˉwithˉergativeˉ a)
	 (40)	 yz	 d.y	 so	 aala	 ghert
		 dem	d.be.prs	 1s	 say.inf	 try
		 That’sˉwhatˉI’llˉtryˉtoˉtalkˉabout.
		 (Ditransitiveˉwithˉergativeˉa)
	 (41)	 Aara-d.oallar	 fyd	 xaa	 ghert	 [txo]
		 outside-d.beˉlocated.nz	 what=d.be.prs	 know.inf	 try	 [1pex]
		 (We)ˉtryˉtoˉfindˉoutˉwhat’sˉgoingˉonˉoutˉthere.ˉ(Litˉ‘Weˉtryˉtoˉknowˉ…’)
		 (Obliqueˉtwo-argumentˉverbˉwithˉdativeˉa)
	 (42)	 Xoza-j.ala	 ghert
		 please-j.aux.inf	 try
		 ‘Sheˉtriesˉtoˉplease’
		 (Obliqueˉtwo-argumentˉverb:ˉabsolutiveˉa,ˉdativeˉo)
	 Johanna Nichols
	 (43)	 Jelsmala	 d.axa=m	 ghert	 vei	 d.errigazh=’a.
		 paradise.adv	 d.go.inf=emph	 try	 1pin(d)ˉd.all
		 Well,ˉweˉallˉtryˉtoˉgetˉtoˉparadise.
		 (IntransitiveˉwithˉabsolutiveˉSˉandˉadverbialˉgoal)
Relativization is another syntactic process requiring sharing. In Ingush there are
almost no constraints, either syntactic or morphological, on relativization; virtu-
ally the entire accessibility hierarchy (Keenan & Comrie 1977) can be relativized
on, except for standards of comparison.
4.  
Lexical phenomena
4.1  
Lexical derivation6
The only regular kinds of derivational pairing of Ingush verbs appear to be erga-
tive in alignment, with an S/O pivot and an optional or added A. Ingush has a
handful of ambitransitive, or labile, verbs whose valence may be described as S/O
(±A), where S/O is strictly absolutive. The ambitransitivity has to do with the pres-
ence or absence of the A. Such verbs include d.u “be born” and “give birth, bear (a
child)”; hwouz “get wound up, tangled, twisted; turn, twist, grow as a vine, be curly
(of hair)” and “spin (wool)”; d.uz “get filled up, become full” and “fill”; d.uq’ “get
plugged up, be blocked” and “plug, clog, block”; hwiesh “be oppressed, weighed
down, under pressure” and “weigh on, oppress”. This pattern appears to be ancient:
d.uz “fill” reconstructs with this valence to Proto-Nakh-Daghestanian (Nichols
2003a: 216–17, 257); hwouz “twist; spin” is an old pair with the meanings lexical-
ized and beginning to drift apart, and with an obviously archaic meaning “spin
(wool)” lexicalized while a literal causative hwouza-d.u “twist, wind, make wind”
is now overtly derived; other Nakh-Daghestanian languages also have a handful of
ambitransitive verbs (Haspelmath 1991).
Ingush has a regular inceptive derivation that is productive and formed from
nearlyeveryverb.ItisanAktionsartcategory,approximatelyingressive,aspectually
perfective, and often implying propensity or ability as well. The inceptive is ambi-
transitive, having an optional dative A (corresponding to an A, in any case other
than absolutive, of the non-inceptive form) and an obligatory absolutive S/O.
	 (44)	 d.uox	 ‘break’	 (abs.ˉs)	 d.uoxa-lu	 ‘break;ˉisˉbreakable’
		 qier	 ‘fear’	 (abs.ˉA, lat.ˉo)	 qiera-lu	 ‘getˉfrightened’
.  Gender-agreeing verbs are cited in the default D gender with a period after the gender prefix.
	 Case in Ingush syntax	 
		 qiera-d.u	 ‘frighten’	 (erg.ˉA,ˉabs.ˉO)	 qiera-lu	 ‘canˉfrighten’7
		 d.iesh	 ‘read’	 (erg.ˉA,ˉabs.ˉO)	 diesha-lu	 ‘canˉread;ˉcanˉbeˉread,ˉisˉreadable’
		 loac	 ‘catch’	 (erg.ˉa,ˉabs.ˉo)	 loaca-lu	 ‘canˉcatch;ˉcanˉbeˉcaught’
		 mott	 ‘think’	 (dat. a,ˉabs.ˉo)	 motta-lu	 ‘canˉimagine;ˉisˉimaginable’
In its S/O pivot, obligatory absolutive S/O, and optional A this derivation is also
ergative in alignment. There is a strict morphological case constraint on the S/O
and none on the A.
The Ingush direct causative derivation is a canonical one that applies to intran-
sitives, adds an A, and treats the original S as O. More precisely, in Ingush it applies
to any verb with an absolutive subject (intransitive or oblique two-argument), and
it keeps the original absolutive S or A as absolutive O. “fear” just above has an
absolutive A, and intransitives with absolutive S enter into pairs like these:
	 (45)	 d.ielx	 ‘cry,ˉweep’	 d.ielxa-d.u	 ‘makeˉcry’
		 laatt	 ‘stand’	 loatta-d.u	 ‘maintain,ˉmakeˉstand’
		 d.arst	 ‘gainˉweight’	 d.orsta-d.u	 ‘fattenˉ(livestock)’
		 ieg	 ‘shake,ˉquake,ˉrock’	 iega-d.u	 ‘shake,ˉmakeˉrock’
Thus the formation of the direct causative is morphologically ergative, agreeing
with the absolutive O and never with the A. In most of its applications it is syn-
tactically ergative, turning S into O. The pair qier “fear” (abs. A, lat. O): qiera-d.u
“frighten” (erg. a, abs. o=causee) turns A into O; this is accusative in the sense
that the A here corresponds to the S of other input verbs, but the A-O pivot is
not an ergative pattern. Verbs with absolutive A are not numerous so the great
majority of verb pairs formed with causative morphology are syntactically erga-
tive. Ingush causativization can probably best be described as syntactically ergative
with one extension where it is morphologically but not syntactically ergative.	
The same suffixes as for the inceptive and direct causative are also used to derive
pairs of deadjectival verbs. These pairings are morphologically and syntactically
ergative, in that the absolutive S of the one verb is the absolutive O of the other.
	 (46)	 d.waaixa	 ‘hot’	 d.woax-lu	 ‘getˉhot’
					 d.woax-d.u	 ‘makeˉhot’
	 (47)	 shiila	 ‘cold’	 shal-lu	 ‘getˉcold,ˉgetˉchilled’
				 shal-d.u	 ‘chill,ˉmakeˉcold’
.  qiera-d.u is the direct causative of qier “fear”. In the inceptive of a direct causative, the causative
suffix is dropped, so the form qiera-lu is ambitransitive (A) S/O corresponding to both simple and
causative verbs. The examples just below in the text derived from simplex transitives are ambitran-
sitive in the same way.
	 Johanna Nichols
	 (48)	 c’ie	 ‘red’	 c’ii-lu	 ‘blush’
				 c’ii-d.u	 ‘forge,ˉmakeˉred-hot’
Ingush has nothing like an applicative or other derivation that transitivizes by
adding an object, such as “laugh” : “laugh at, ridicule, mock”. Such derivations have
an accusative pivot, in that the S of “laugh” is the A of “mock”, and they are utterly
foreign to Ingush.
Another respect in which Ingush verbal derivation is ergative is that, while some
derivations change the case of an A (the inceptive changes any A to dative; the indirect
causative changes an ergative A to allative), no process changes the case of an absolu-
tive S or O. The absolutive argument is the pivot of the entire derivational paradigm.
There are no accusative or antipassive-like derivational patterns in Ingush.
Where other languages have such patterns Ingush simply uses a dummy or unspec-
ified object, e.g., d.u’ “eat” (erg. a, abs. o) : hama d.u’ lit. “eat something” (erg. a,
dummy O hama “thing, something”) = “eat, be eating, dine”.
What has been said above about verbal derivations and their alignment applies
only to simplex verbs. Ingush in fact has a split lexicon. Simplex verbs are a closed
class; though unproductive, they contain many high-frequency verbs, so the over-
all ergativity of their derivational behavior puts a strong stamp on the language.
Complex verbs, taking the form of light verb constructions consisting of a lexically
heavy piece plus a conjugated light verb, are an open and productive class and also
contain a number of high-frequency verbs. Some examples of light verb construc-
tions (light verbs are glossed in capitals):
	 (49)	 Yz	 cec+vealar
		 3s	 surprise+v.go.wp
		 Heˉwasˉsurprisedˉ(becameˉsurprised,ˉreactedˉwithˉsurprise)
	 (50)	 Cuo	 yz	 cec+veaqqar
		 3s.erg	 3s	 surprise+v.take.wp
		 S/heˉsurprisedˉhim
	 (51)	 Bieruo	 nab+j.u
		 child.erg	 sleep+j.do.prs
		 Theˉchildˉsleeps
	 (52)	 Bieraga	 nab+j.eitarˉaaz
		 child.all	 sleep+j.do-csind.wpˉ1s.erg
		 Iˉputˉtheˉchildˉtoˉsleep.ˉIˉsentˉtheˉchildˉtoˉbed.
	 (53)	 Xivˉk’edzh+jeaqqaai
		 water.ergˉboil+j.take.nw.J
		 Theˉwaterˉcameˉtoˉaˉboil.
The choice of light verb for a particular heavy piece must once have been semanti-
cally or syntactically motivated, and the first piece of the compound must once
	 Case in Ingush syntax	 
have been an argument of what is now the light verb. Synchronically, however, the
combinations are synchronically arbitrary for the most part, and the heavy piece
is no longer an argument. The light verb, however arbitrary its semantic connec-
tion, governs the same subject case as it does when used as a simplex verb, and this
results in a good deal of semantic disconnect between subject cases and verb mean-
ings. (49) is an ingressive state predicate “become surprised” which has an ingres-
sive intransitive light verb. Its causative is formed not suffixally but by suppletion,
replacing the intransitive light verb with the transitive “take” (50). The light verbs
in this pair agree in gender with the S. (51) is the semantically stative predicate
“sleep”, but the compound is literally “do a sleep”, with a transitive light verb that
requires an ergative subject and has a causative formed with indirect causative
morphology (52). (53) is a prototypically intransitive ingressive state verb with a
different transitive as light verb and again with an ergative subject. In both (51)
and (53) the first word is the sole argument, i.e., an ergative S. There are enough
such compounds that Ingush can be called a split-S language (Nichols 2008).
While in (49–50) the light verb agrees in gender with the S of the whole com-
plex verb, in (51–53) its agreement is fixed. This is fossilized agreement with what
was once syntactically an argument and lexically a noun but is now the first ele-
ment of the complex verb.8
These few examples will probably suffice to show that in the complex verb
lexicon of Ingush there is no single predominant alignment, and the derivational
patterning is quite varied and by no means usually ergative. Cases on arguments,
agreement, and whether and how a verb causativizes depend on its light verb and
not on the argument structure or transitivity of the entire complex verb.
5.  
Historical and typological conclusions
All in all, case as a morphological phenomenon is very consistently ergative in
Ingush; the few exceptions have neutral alignment, and there are no accusative para-
digms in the language. Several of the most important and highest-frequency syntactic
phenomena are ergative, and all of these are ergative both syntactically (in that S=O
while A is different) and morphologically in the sense that they are restricted to, or
have constraints referring to, a particular case and that is absolutive. Some syntactic
phenomena are accusative, but these have no case constraints; indeed, it appears that
the only case constraints in Ingush are ergative and refer to the absolutive case. One
.  Nab (J gender) “sleep” can be used as a noun in Ingush and declines for case (at least the
lative is attested in fixed expressions). K’edzh “boil” is found only in this complex verb.
	 Johanna Nichols
of these syntactic phenomena, local reflexivization, is neutral rather than accusa-
tive in its conservative form. The Ingush verbal lexicon is split, with complex verbs
showing no particular predominant alignment but simplex verbs ergative in their
own alignment and in their suffixal derivation. For both simplex and complex verbs,
any absolutive argument is the derivational pivot, stable through all derivational and
syntactic processes. Ergativity is thus very well installed throughout the grammar of
Ingush, both in the grammar itself and in the constraints on the grammar. In gen-
eral terms, the grammar of argument sharing and pivothood is ergative, while that
of control is accusative or neutral (and even that has some ergativity). Ergativity in
some of the individual phenomena, such as causativization, is unremarkable, but the
consistency of ergativity across the morphology, syntax, and lexicon is remarkable.
To judge from the conservative examples of O control of reflexivization and the
ergativity of core serialization in conservative speech, Ingush must have had more
ergativity and less accusativity at an earlier time. Most of the Nakh-Daghestanian
languages have a good deal of morphological ergativity as Ingush does, with noun
case paradigms, at least some pronouns, and gender agreement ergative. The close
sisters of Ingush, the other Nakh languages Chechen and Batsbi (Tsova-Tush),
have grammars nearly identical to Ingush. In the more distantly related Dagh-
estanian languages the alignment of syntactic processes is more variable (see
e.g., Kibrik 1985), but in languages preserving gender its agreement is ergative.
The lexicon appears to behave as in Ingush throughout the family, with gram-
matically unconstrained light verb constructions, ergative suffixal derivations,
ergative ambitransitivity, and absolutive pivots. The consistent ergativity of the
Ingush lexicon is striking, as is the consistency of morphological ergativity in the
very old Nakh-Daghestanian family; most families lose ergativity at a faster rate
(Nichols 1995, 2003b; Maslova & Nikitina 2006). The Pama-Nyungan family of
Australia, for example, is somewhat younger than Nakh-Daghestanian but, like
it, has had its daughter languages adjacent to each other with minimal outside
influence throught its history; yet the Nakh-Daghestanian languages have retained
their morphological ergativity while several Pama-Nyungan languages have lost
it. Perhaps the absolutive-centered lexicon and the presence of strict derivational
and syntactic restrictions to the absolutive case are what explains the remarkable
tenacity of ergativity in Nakh-Daghestanian.9
.  I thank Edith Moravcsik and an anonymous non-linguist for comments. Bernard Comrie,
in addition to making the fieldwork on which this paper is based possible (see Section 1), also
kindly proofread the presentation copy and enabled me to fix several errors.
	 Case in Ingush syntax	 
References
Aissen, J. 1997. On the syntax of obviation. Language 73: 705–750.
Bickel, B. & Nichols, J. In press. Case marking and alignment. In Handbook of Case, A.L. Mal-
chukov & A. Spencer (Eds), Oxford: OUP.
Comrie, B. 1986. On delimiting cases. In Case in Slavic, R.D. Brecht & J.S. Levine (Eds), 86–106.
Columbus OH: Slavica.
Comrie, B. 2003. Oblique-case subjects in Tsez. In Non-nominative Subjects, P. Bhaskararao &
K.V. Subbarao, 113–127. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Comrie, B. & Polinsky, M. 1998. The great Daghestanian case hoax. In Case, Typology, and
Grammar, A. Siewierska & Jae Jung Song (Eds), 95–114. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Comrie, B. & Smith, N. 1977. Lingua descriptive studies: Questionnaire. Lingua 47: 1–72.
Corbett, G.G. 2006. Agreement. Cambridge: CUP.
Crowley, T. 2002. Serial Verbs in Oceanic: A Descriptive Typology. Oxford: OUP.
Dixon, R.M.W. 1979. Ergativity. Language 55: 59–138.
Foley, W.A. & Van Valin, R.D., Jr. 1984. Functional Syntax and Universal Grammar. Cambridge:
CUP.
Haspelmath, M. 1991. On the question of deep ergativity: The evidence from Lezgian. Papiere
zur Linguistik 44/45: 5–27.
Keenan, E.L. & Comrie, B. 1977. Noun phrase accessibility and universal grammar. Linguistic
Inquiry 8: 63–99.
Kibrik, A.E. 1981. Materialy k tipologii ergativnosti. Vol. 13–16: Predvaritel’nye publikacii; 140.
Moscow: Russian Language Institute, AN SSSR. (Reprinted in Kibrik 2003).
Kibrik, A.E. 1985. Toward a typology of ergativity. In Grammar Inside and Outside the Clause:
Some Approaches to Theory from the Field, J. Nichols & A.C. Woodbury (Eds), 268–323.
Cambridge: CUP.
Kibrik, A.E. 2003. Konstanty i peremennye jazyka. St. Petersburg: Aleteia.
Maslova, E. & Nikitina, T. 2006. Stochastic universals and dynamics of cross-linguistic dis-
tributions: The case of alignment types. Ms, Stanford University. (http://www.stanford.
edu/~emaslova/publications/ergativity)
Matasovic’, R. 2007. The “dependent first” syntactic pattern in Kabardian and other Caucasian
languages. Presented at Conference on Languages of the Caucasus, Leipzig, December.
(www.eva.mpg.de/lingua/conference/07-CaucasusConference/index.html)
Matasovic, R. In press. A new typology of control constructions. In Studies in Role and Reference
Grammar (Proceedings of the RRG Conference, Mexico City, August 2007), eds. Lilián
Guerrero, Sergio Ibáñez, Valeria A. Belloro. Mexico City: Universidad Nacional Autónoma
de México.
Nichols, J. 1995. Diachronically stable structural features. In Historical Linguistics 1993: Papers
from the Eleventh International Conference on Historical Linguistics, H. Andersen (Ed.),
337–356. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Nichols, J. 2001. Long-distance reflexivization in Chechen and Ingush. In Long Distance Reflex-
ives, P. Cole, G. Hermon & C.-T.J. Huang, 255–278. New York NY: Academic Press.
Nichols, J. 2003a. The Nakh-Daghestanian consonant correspondences. In Current Trends in
Caucasian, East European, and Inner Asian Linguistics: Papers in Honor of Howard I. Aron-
son, D.A. Holisky & K. Tuite (Eds), 207–251. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
	 Johanna Nichols
Nichols, J. 2003b. Diversity and stability in language. In The Handbook of Historical Linguistics,
B. Joseph & R. Janda (Eds), 283–310. London: Blackwell.
Nichols, J. 2004. Ingush-English Dictionary. London: Routledge/Curzon.
Nichols, J. In press. Juncture-based split alignment and aspectuality in Ingush. Studies in Role
and Reference Grammar (Proceedings of the RRG Conference, Mexico City, August 2007),
eds. Lilián Guerrero, Sergio Ibáñez, Valeria A. Belloro. Mexico City: Universidad Nacional
Autónoma de México.
Nichols, J. Forthcoming. Ingush Grammar.
Nichols, J. 2008. Why are stative-active languages rare in Eurasia? Typological perspective on
split subject marking. In The Typology of Semantic Alignment Systems, M.  Donohue &
S. Wichmann. Oxford: OUP.
Peterson, D.A. 2001. Ingush ‘a: The elusive Type 5 clitic? Language 77: 144–155.
Polinsky, M. 2000. Tsez beginnings. BLS 25S.14–29.
Polinsky, M. & Comrie, B. 1999. Agreement in Tsez. Folia Linguistica 33: 109–130.
Van Valin, R.D., Jr. & LaPolla, R.J. 1997. Syntax: Structure, Meaning, and Function. Cambridge:
CUP.
Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz,
Georgian and Mingrelian
George Hewitt
A number of apparently anomalous features in the marking of arguments are
examined in three contiguous languages spoken in Transcaucasia: Abkhaz
from the North West Caucasian family, and Georgian and Mingrelian, two
South Caucasian (or Kartvelian) languages. Among the categories examined
are those of potentiality, unwilling/accidental activity, causation, (in)transitivity,
and non-standard case-assignment, as well as the much debated question of
whether Georgian (and, by extension, Proto-Kartvelian) is correctly described
in part of its morpho-syntax as exemplifying an Ergative as opposed to an
Active configuration. There are passing references to such other languages
as (Indo-European) Ancient Greek, (North West Caucasian) Circassian and
(Kartvelian) Svan.
1. 
The article considers a medley of features in three languages spoken in western
Transcaucasia: Abkhaz, a member of the North West Caucasian (NWC) family,
in Abkhazia in the extreme north-west of the region; Georgian, a South Cau-
casian language and the state-language of Georgia; Mingrelian, another South
Caucasian language, which historically has been a buffer between Abkhaz
and Georgian.
2. 
The interest in the argument-structure of Abkhaz has nothing to do with
cases, as this language does not make use of them to mark its verbal
arguments
All three members of NWC (Abkhaz-Abaza, Circassian, Ubykh) possess three
sets of pronominal agreement-affixes, which are differentiated from one another
principally by sequential ordering in the verb’s preradical structure and second-
arily sometimes by modification to the markers themselves. The Abkhaz affixal
sets are:
	 George Hewitt
Table 1.  Abkhaz Verbal Agreement-prefixes
	 Singular	 Plural
		 I	 II	 III	 I	 II	 III
1st		 s-1	 s-	 s-(/z-)	 A-	 A-	 A-(/ɑ: -)
2nd	 Masc/N-Hum	 w-	 w-	 w-	 ∫w-	 ∫w-	 ∫w-(/Šw-)
2nd	 Fem	 b-	 b-	 b-	 ∫w-	 ∫w-	 ∫w-(/Šw-)
3rd	 Masc Hum	 d-	 j-	 j-	 j-/Ø-	 r-(/d-)	 r-(/d-)
3rd	 Fem Hum	 d-	 l-	 l-	 j-/Ø-	 r-(/d-)	 r-(/d-)
3rd	 N-Hum	 j-/Ø-	 ɑ-/Ø-	 (n)ɑ-	 j-/Ø-	 r-(/d-)	 r-(/d-)
The way the system operates can be illustrated as follows:
Monovalent intransitive
	 (1)	
ɑ-
Ÿ
lɑmp’ɑ	 Ø-ps6-Ø-jt’
		 the-lamp	 it-die-past-fin(=aor)2
		 ‘The lamp went out’
Bivalent intransitive
	 (2)	
Ÿ
ɑ-dz-kwɑ	 s-ɑn	 j6-
Ÿ
l6-tsAɑ-wɑ-n
		 the-flea-pl	 my-mother	 they-her-bite-dyn-fin(=imperf)
		 ‘(The) fleas were biting3 my mother’
Bivalent transitive
	 (3)	
r-ɑb	 s-ɑn	 d6-j-’bɑ-Ø-jt’
		 their-father	 my-mother	 her-he-see-past-fin(=aor)
		 ‘Their father saw my mother’
Trivalent transitive (=ditransitive)
	 (4)	
r-ɑb	 s-ɑn	 ɑ-’pɑrɑ	 Ø-’l6-j-tɑ-Ø-jt’
		 their-father	 my-mother	 the-money	 it-her-he-give-past-fin(=aor)
		 ‘Their father gave the money to my mother’
.  A bracketed schwa could be added to each of the single consonants in this chart, and in the
immediate neighbourhood of/A/the close (schwa) vowel is lowered to the language’s open vowel.
.  Regarding glossing-conventions, a bracketed gloss preceded by an equals-sign, as in this
final element, means that the morpheme in question (here the Aorist tense) is a function of the
combination of more than one of the individually glossed morphemes (here Past + Finite). A
bracketed hyphen in the original means that there is a morpheme-division which is not germane
to any line of argument, and thus the individual morphemes are not assigned glosses.
.  From the affixal structure of Abkhaz there can be no doubt that this verb is construed as a biva-
lent INtransitive, however counter-intuitive this might appear from an anglocentric point of view.
	 Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz, Georgian and Mingrelian 	 
As intransitives contain no ‘agent’-affix (viz. one from set III, which stands second
in bivalent or third in trivalent transitives), they have a slot free to accommodate
one, when an additional argument is added under synthetic causativisation, which
is marked by pre-radical/r-/:
Monovalent intransitive causativised
	 (1ʹ)	
s-ɑn	 ɑ-
Ÿ
lɑmp’ɑ	 Ø-l6-r-’ps6-Ø-jt’
		 my-mother	 the-lamp	 it-she-caus-die-past-fin(=aor)
		 ‘My mother extinguished the lamp’
Bivalent intransitive causativised
	 (2ʹ)	
r-ɑb	
Ÿ
ɑ-dz-kwɑ	 s-ɑn	 j6-l-’j6-r-tsAɑ-wɑ-n
		 their-father	the-flea-pl	my-mother	them-her-he-caus-bite- dyn-fin(=imperf)
		 ‘Their father was making/letting the fleas bite my mother’
The process is not quite as simple when a bivalent transitive is causativised, as the
agent-slot is already filled. The problem is resolved in the way predicted by Com-
rie (1976): the causee is transformed into the indirect object of the causativised
verb and marked with the affixal set employed for indirect (and oblique) objects,
namely set II, leaving the causer to be marked (by the appropriate set III affix) as
the causativised verb’s agent:
	 (3ʹ)	
(sɑ(-’rɑ))	 r-ɑb	 s-ɑn	 d6-j-s6-r-’bɑ-Ø-jt’
		 I	 their-father	 my-mother	 her-him-I-caus-see-past-fin(=aor)
		 ‘I caused their father to see my mother/showed my mother to their father’
Though quadrivalent verbs are not absolutely excluded in Abkhaz, as demon-
strated by:
	 (5)	
j6-Aɑ-z-’r6-j-tɑ-Ø-jt’
		 it/them-us-for-them-he-give-past-fin(=aor)
		 ‘He gave them it/them (e.g., greeting(s)) on behalf of us’,
the language prefers to avoid them, and so a causativised ditransitive is treated
analytically, e.g.,
	 (4ʹ)	
(sɑ(-’rɑ))	 r-ɑb	 s-ɑn	 ɑ-’pɑrɑ	 Ø-’l6-j-tɑ-r(-)tw’
		 I	 their-father	 my-mother	 the-money	 it-her-he-give-result
		 Ø-q’ɑ-s-‘ts’ɑ-Ø-jt’	 /Ø-j6-‘s6-r-q’ɑ-ts’ɑ-Ø-jt’
		 it-prev-I-make-past-fin(=aor)	
it-him-I-caus-prev-make-past-fin(=aor)
		 ‘I got4 their father to give the money to my mother’
.  As this example demonstrates, the lexical causative verb in such circumstances can itself be
causativised.
	 George Hewitt
These examples suggest that everything is pretty straightforward in Abkhaz and
that arguments are easily identifiable from the verb’s affixal structure. Occasion-
ally, however, a puzzle emerges.
2.1  Compare the following, both insignificantly adapted from folk-tales:
	 (6)	
(jɑ(-’rɑ))	 j6-pɑ-’t.wɑ	 d-ɑ: -’r6-pχjɑ-Ø-jt’
		 he	 his-son-pl	 he-prev-them-summon-past-fin(=aor)
		 ‘He summoned his sons’
vs.
	 (7)	
j6-’pɑ	 d-’ɑ: -l-pχjɑ-Ø-jt’
		 his-son	 him-prev-she-summon-past-fin(=aor)
		 ‘She summoned his son’
The verb-root/-pχjɑ-/and associated orientational (sometimes modal) preverb/-ɑ:-/
are the same, but, whilst in example (7) the verb is treated as a bivalent transitive,
in example (6) it is treated as a bivalent intransitive, the stress-patterning helping
to distinguish them. Again compare the different affixal patterning in these verbs:
	 (8)	
s-ɑn	 s-χ6	 d-ɑ-gw’dz6-Ø-jt’/	 Ø-l6-gw’dz6-Ø-jt’
		 my-mother	my-head	 she-it-kiss-past-fin(=aor)	
it-she-kiss-past-fin(= aor)
		 ‘My mother kissed my head’
where now only the affixal patterning differs. But regardless of patterning, the argu-
ments are easily identifiable: with intransitives (whether mono- or bivalent) the first
affix in the sequence marks the subject, any second affix being the indirect, or pos-
sibly the oblique, object (sc. where the affix is ‘governed’ by a preverb), as in:
	 (9)	
ɑ-’z‰6	 ɑ-’gwɑrɑ	 j-ɑ-’χ6-pɑ-Ø-jt’
		 the-horse	 the-fence	 it-it-prev-jump-past-fin(=aor)
		 ‘The horse jumped over the fence’
and with transitives it is the affix closer/closest to the root which correlates with the
subject, as may be demonstrated by the usual control-tests (e.g., reflexivisation).
All the verbs in the examples presented above are of the ‘dynamic’ type. Abkhaz
also possesses so-called ‘stative’ verbs:
	 (10)	
ɑ-’χɑrp	 Ø-s-∫w6-w-p’
		 the-shirt	it-me-on-stat-fin(=pres)
		 ‘I am wearing the shirt’
which corresponds to the dynamic:
	 (10ʹ)	
ɑ-’χɑrp	 Ø-s-’∫w6-s-ts’ɑ-Ø-jt’
		 the-shirt	it-me-prev-I-put-past-fin(=aor)
		 ‘I put on the shirt’5
.  Though one might have expected a reflexive here to correlate with English ‘on myself’, if
one considers that the preverbal element is originally likely to have been a nominal indicating
	 Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz, Georgian and Mingrelian 	 
or again in:
	 (11)	
ɑ(-)
Ÿ
r6j	 ɑ-C’n6	 Ø-s-tw’6-w-p’
		 this	 the-house	 it-my-possession-stat-fin(=pres)
		 ‘This house belongs to me’ or ‘I own this house’
But where is the subject here? Assuming that the meaning equates to ‘belong
to’, then ‘house’ could be interpreted as subject. But if the meaning is rather
‘own’, then the first person singular affix would become subject. Since the
reflexive with many (?most) Abkhaz verbs is identical to the lexeme ‘head’
combined with appropriate possessive prefix, the relevant sequence with this
verb, namely:
	 (11ʹ)	
s-χ6	 Ø-s-tw’6-w-p’
		 my-head/self	 it-my-possession-stat-fin(=pres)
permits both the interpretations ‘My head belongs to me’ and ‘I own myself’,
which is unhelpful, although, if one considers this verb’s reciprocal form, one
finds it is the typically intransitive reciprocal formant/-ɑj-/which has to be
employed, and this suggests that the correct interpretation of (11ʹ) is ‘My head
belongs to me’, viz.:
	 (12)	
A-ɑj-’tw’6-w-p’
		 we-rec-belong-to-stat-fin(=pres)
		 ‘We belong to each other’6
However, for the similarly patterning verb ‘want’, one would definitely prefer to
take the affix standing next to the root as the subject-marker:
	 (13)	
s-χ6	 Ø-s-tɑ’χ6-w-p’
		 my-head/self	 it-I-want-stat-fin(=pres)
		 ‘I want myself’
One cannot say:
	 (13ʹ)	
*s-χ6	 s-ɑ-tɑ’χ6-w-p’
			 my-head/self	me-it-want-stat-fin(=pres)
			 ‘My head/self wants me’
‘body/torso’ incorporated within the verbal complex to function preverbally, then the absence of
a reflexive becomes understandable, as the notion will have been ‘I placed on my body/torso the
shirt’, from which it would follow that the stative form in (10) could be glossed as ‘it-my-body-
stat-fin(=pres)’ and thus produce a literal translation of ‘The shirt is on my body’.
.  Or ‘We are each other’s possession’?
	 George Hewitt
and the reciprocal affix employed with this verb is typically the one that replaces
an agent-affix (for fuller discussion see Hewitt 1979):
	 (14)	
A-ɑj(-)bɑ-tɑ’χ6-w-p’
		 us-rec-want-stat-fin(=pres)
		 ‘We want each other’
Though Abkhaz today makes no use of case to mark arguments, the likelihood is
that it once did possess a case-system similar to that of the sister-languages. But even
with such a system, where, to take Circassian, one finds a (definite) Absolutive case
in /-r/ vs. a (definite) Oblique case in /-m/ (the latter fulfilling such functions as Erga-
tive, Genitive and Dative), case alone does not unambiguously indicate grammatical
role, as both Ergative- and Dative-functions are packaged within the one morphic
shape. Nor, as already demonstrated, does verbal category alone necessarily predict
the argument-structure of the associated affixes, given the variations in (6)–(8).
2.2  A further peculiarity arises when one takes into account the marking of
(a) potentiality or (b) the idea that a verbal action is carried out unintentionally
(sometimes by mistake). If the verb is intransitive (i.e., does not contain a set III
agent-affix), then the relevant prefix is simply inserted at the appropriate point in
the verbal complex’s preradical structure:7
	 (15)	
s6-z-tsɑ-’wɑ-m
		 I-pot-go-dyn-not(=fin.pres)
		 ‘I cannot go’
where the potential-marking /-z/ stands immediately after the intransitive subject
affix. This contrasts with:
	 (16)	
‘j6-Ø-kw6-r-χ-χjɑ-jt’	 ɑ-rt	 ɑ-dɑw-’t.wɑ ---	 sɑ(-’rɑ)
		 them-it-on-they-take-perf-fin	 this-pl	 art-ogre-pl	 me
		 s6-r-‘z6-Ø-kw6-m-χ6-Ø-jt’
		 me-they-pot-it-on-not-take-past-fin(=aor)
		 ‘These ogres have liquidated them (literally: carried them off from it [the
		 surface of the earth]) … me they couldn’t destroy’
where it can be demonstrated that the second clause’s agent-marker is not a mem-
ber of the typically agentive set III but belongs to the typically indirect-/oblique-
object marking set II.8 The same applies to the prefix marking unwillingness on
the part of the subject/agent, as seen in:
.  Though the potential prefix is usually associated with a negative or interrogative, this re-
quirement is not absolute.
.  Hewitt (1979) gives details. In short, normal agent-affixes stand immediately before the
verb-internal negative, and, if the agent is 3rd person non-human singular and the complex
	 Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz, Georgian and Mingrelian 	 
	 (17)	
ɑ(-)q’әr(-)‘q’әr(-)Awɑ	 ‘d-ɑmχɑ-t∫t∫ɑ-Ø-jt’	
		 raucously	 he-unw9-laugh-past-fin(=aor)
		 ɑ-’wә(-)trɑ(-)q’ɑ(-)ts’ɑ(-)Cә
		 the-gardener
		 ‘The gardener, despite himself, laughed out raucously’
which parallels the intransitive verb of (15), whereas the transformation of an
underlying transitive verb (‘eat’) to provide a parallel with (16) is seen in:
	 (18)	
ɑ-bAwɑ-’gwɑtj-kwɑ	 Ø-j-ɑmχɑ-’fɑ-Ø-zɑ(-)r,
		 the-plum-stone-pl	 them-he-unw-eat-past(=non.fin)-if
		 d-ɑ-χ6-p
Ÿ
s-ɑ:-Ø-r	 Ø-’ɑ-l-‰ɑ-wɑ-jt’
		 he-it-of-die-suff-past(=non.fin)-if	 it-it-prev-be-possible-dyn-fin(=pres)
		 ‘If he ate the plum-stones accidentally/by mistake, he may die of it’
With bivalent intransitives the potential prefix splits subject- and indirect-object-
markers, as in:
	 (19)	
d6-z-s-’m6-s6-Ø-jt’
		 (s)he-pot-me-not-hit-past-fin(=aor)
		 ‘(s)he couldn’t hit me’
Some potentials present anomalies, which I investigated in 1999,10 but here every-
thing behaves predictably. However, when one associates the prefix of unwilling-
ness with the verb-root illustrated in (2) and (2ʹ), the prefix stands after (rather
than before) the indirect-object-marker, which for some speakers at least seems to
lead to confusion as to which of the verb’s two arguments is the agent and which
the patient:
	 (20)	
d-’s-ɑ/6mχɑ-tsAɑ-Ø-jt’
		 (s)he-me-unw-bite-past-fin(=aor)
		 ‘(s)he accidentally bit me’
contains a preverb or is tripersonal, it takes the shape /-nɑ/ – here, for example, the verb-form
in the first clause of (16) would with such an agent be /‘jә-Ø-kw-nɑ-χ-χjɑ-jt’/ ‘It has destroyed
them’. However, when a 3rd person non-human singular entity functions as indirect/oblique
object, it can only take the form /-ɑ/ – here the verb-form in the second clause of (16) would in
that case be /s-ɑ-’zә-Ø-kw’-m-χә-Ø-jt’/ ‘It could not destroy me’.
.  This affix has no role in Abkhaz external to the verb, whereas the potential affix is to be
related to the verb-external postposition of benefaction /-z’/ ‘for’.
.  On p. 197 of that article the verb-form quoted in the penultimate line of text is the same as
presented in example (4), namely (with transcription adapted to that used in the present article)
/j-ɑ-z-‘k’әlә-m-χә-Ø-jt’/; it should have read /j-ɑ-z-’k’әlɑ-m-χә-Ø-jt’/.
	 George Hewitt
Speakers who suggest this form rather means ‘I accidentally bit him/her’ are prob-
ably seduced into treating the verb as transitive by virtue of the fact that in transi-
tives this (sc. post-set II affixal slot) is the position adopted by this prefix. Clearly
the question to be investigated is why the prefix should find itself so deeply embed-
ded in bivalent intransitives (rather than immediately follow the initial pronomi-
nal prefix), but this peculiarity does not affect the point being made here, namely
that in transitive structures the normal affixal patterning is altered.
Abkhaz has no diathetic (sc. active vs. passive) opposition, and so it cannot
be argued that transitive structures containing a prefix indicating potentiality or
unwillingness are in any way passivised (or have arisen out of passive structures).
Control-tests indicate that it is the argument signalled by the indirect/oblique
object-marking affix within the verbal complex which functions as subject. We
have, then, with these verb-forms examples of pure subject-demotion. And Abkhaz
is not alone in the region in associating structural changes with these categories.
3.  The South Caucasian (Kartvelian) family, consisting of Georgian, Svan,
Laz and Mingrelian (the latter two being treated within Georgia as co-dialects of a
language called Zan), marks its arguments by a combination of pronominal cross-
referencing and case-marking. Differently from North West Caucasian, an active vs.
passive opposition does exist here. Consider first Georgian’s two agreement-systems:
Table 2
	 Singular	 Plural
Agreement-pattern A in Georgian
1st person	 v-	 v-	 -t
2nd person	 Ø(/χ)-	 Ø(/χ)-	 -t
3rd person	     -s/ɑ/f		 -(ɑ/ε)n/εs/nεn11
Agreement-pattern B in Georgian
1st person	 m-	 gv-	
2nd person	 g-	 g-	 -t
3rd person	 Ø(s/h)-	 Ø(s/h)-	 (-t)
The appropriate affix from Set A is universally selected to mark the subject for
(monovalent) intransitives, and the case is Nominative:
	 (21)	
kɑl-i	 dŠd-εb-ɑ
		 woman-nom	 sit-ts-3pA[=pres]
		 ‘The woman is sitting down’
.  The agreement-suffixes for the 3rd person vary according to the tense or mood (or, in kart-
velological parlance, ‘screeve’) of the relevant finite verb.
	 Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz, Georgian and Mingrelian 	 
Georgian can indicate within its verbs the presence of an indirect object. We can
add such an argument to (21) by placing the relevant noun in the Dative case, add-
ing the so-called Objective Version vocalic prefix to the verb,12 and using its Set B
correlate to cross-reference the Dative:
	 (21ʹ)	
kɑl-i	 mεgfbr-εb-s	 gvεrd-zε	 Ø-u-dŠd-εb-ɑ(-t)
		 woman-nom	 friend-pl-dat	 side-at	 3pB-ov-sit-ts-3pA(-PLB)
		 ‘The woman is sitting down beside her friends’
Because of structural (and, for transitives, syntactic) variation, Georgian TMA (or
‘screeval’) paradigms are divided into three so-called Series. In Series I transitives
have their subject in the Nominative, cross-referenced by a Set A affix, their direct
object (plus any indirect object) in the Dative, cross-referenced by a Set B affix:
	 (22)	
kɑl-i	 ts’εr(-)il-s	 Ø-ts’εr-s
		 woman-nom	 letter-dat	 3pB-write-3pA[=pres]
		 ‘The woman is writing a/the letter’
	 (22ʹ)	
kɑl-i	 mεgfbr-εb-s	 ts’εr(-)il-s	 Ø-s-ts’εr-s
		 woman-nom	 friend-pl-dat	 letter-dat	 3pB-3pioB-write-3pA[=pres]13
		 ‘The woman is writing a/the letter to (her) friends’
Depending on the type/class of verb, transitives can be transformed into corre-
sponding intransitives, some, but not all, of which can convey passive meaning, in
one of three ways, styled: markerless, suffixal, and prefixal.14 The suffixal method
employs the post-radical element /-d-/ in the first two screeve-Series and, in Series I,
the thematic suffix /-εb-/:
	 (23)	
sɑχl-s	 v-Ø-ɑ-∫εn-εb vs.	 sɑχl-i	 ∫εn-d-εb-ɑ
		 house-dat	 1pA-3pB-nv-build-ts[=pres]	 house-nom	 build-suff-ts-3pA[=pres]
		 ‘I am building a house’ vs. ‘The/A house is being built’
An associated indirect object here would produce:
	 (23ʹ)	
sɑχl-i	 mfχuts-eb-s	 gv-i-∫εn-d-εb-ɑ
		 house-nom	 old-pl-dat	 usB-ov-build-suff-ts15-3pA[=pres]
		 ‘A house is being built for us old folk’
.  Not all indirect objects require this versioniser.
.  The relative ordering of the direct and indirect object prefixes is conjecture, as one of them
will, for reasons we cannot discuss here, always be zero. Note that the s-prefix is never used to
cross-reference direct objects, whilst the bracketed t-pluraliser from Set B only very rarely does.
.  If the underlying agent is expressed, it stands in the Genitive case, governed by either of the
postpositions /miεr/ or /-gɑn/ ‘by’.
.  Since thematic suffix /-εb-/ is found in both transitives (23) and intransitives (23ʹ), its presence
alone encodes nothing – it is the combination of markers that defines a form’s (in)transitivity.
	 George Hewitt
The markerless intransitive employs no special prefix or suffix, as illustrated by the
verb-form in (21) and (21ʹ). Prefixal intransitives employ in the first two screeve-
Series the prefix/i-/and, in Series I, usually the thematic suffix /-εb-/:
	 (24)	
[∫εn]	 ts’εr(-)il-s	 Ø-Ø-ts’εr vs.	 ts’εr(-)il-i	 i-ts’εr-εb-ɑ
		 you nom	letter-dat	 2pA-3pB-write[=pres]	 letter-nom	 pref-write-ts- 3pA[=pres]
		 ‘You are writing a letter’ vs. ‘A letter is being written’
When an indirect object is associated with an intransitive whose monovalent form
is produced prefixally, the prefix /i-/ is replaced by /ε-/:
	 (24ʹ)	
ts’εr(-)il-i	 g-ε-ts’εr-εb-ɑ
		 letter-nom	 2pB-io pref-write-ts-3pA[=pres]
		 ‘A letter is being written to/for you’
With these preliminaries out of the way, we can investigate how Georgian handles
potentiality and unwilling/accidental actions.
3.1  Potentiality is, quite simply, an inherent feature of (at least some) prefixal
intransitives and indeed for a few their primary one:
	 (25)	
ε(-)s	tvinf	 i-sm-εb-ɑ,	 i(-)s	 χfrts-i
		 this	 wine nom	pref-drink-ts-3pA[-pres]	 that	 meat-nom
		 i-t∫’m-εb-ɑ
		 pref-eat-ts-3pA[=pres]
		 ‘This wine is drinkable, that meat edible’
and any Dative nominal associated with such a verb can be interpreted as the argu-
ment possessed of the potential to effect the action:
	 (25ʹ)	
ε(-)s	 tvinf	 ɑdɑmiɑn-s	 ɑr	 Ø-ε-sm-εb-ɑ,
		 this	 wine nom	human-dat	not	 3pB-io pref-drink-ts-3pA[=pres]
		 i(-)s	χfrts-i	 ɑr	 Ø-ε-t∫’m-εb-ɑ
		 that	 meat-nom	 not	 3pB-io pref-eat-ts-3pA[=pres]
		 ‘No human can drink this wine or eat that meat’
Which of the two nominals represents the verb’s subject? Considering that it is
the Dative nominal that imposes its plurality on the verb and also controls the
reflexive possessive in:
	 (26)	
m(-)∫(-)fb(-)l-εb-s	 tɑv(-)iɑnt-i	∫v(-)il-εb-i	 gɑnɑ
		 parent-pl-dat	 own-agr	 child-pl-nom	really?
		 Ø-ε-k’vl-εb-ɑ-t
		 3pB-io pref-kill-ts- 3pA-PLB[=pres]
		 ‘Does one really suppose that parents are able to kill their children?!’
	 Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz, Georgian and Mingrelian 	 
one must conclude that the Dative argument is functioning as subject, otherwise
one would have expected the Nominative nominal to have imposed its plural-
ity on the verb (giving/*Ø-ε-k’vl-εb-i-ɑn/). Now, Georgian has a class of so-called
‘inverted’ verbs (including ‘love’, ‘want’, ‘have’) which take Dative subjects and
Nominative direct objects; these behave the same way (and, indeed, are in part
formally identical to the bivalent potentials just introduced) as illustrated in (26).
Interestingly, an actual shift in subjecthood is attested for these verbs. Consider the
clause ‘if ye love them which love you’ from Luke 6.32. Old Georgian (mss. CDE,
whose date of copying is respectively: 897, 936, and 973) has:
	 (27)	
ukuε(-)tu	g-i-q’uɑr-d-ε-n	 tkuεn	 mf(-)q’uɑr(-)ε-n-i
		 if	 youB-ov-love-imperf-subj-3p-pla	 youdat	 lover-pl-nom
		 tkuεn-n-i
		 your-pl-agr
where it is the Nominative nominal that imposes its plurality on the verb and is
thus to be regarded as the subject. Modern Georgian,16 however, has:
	 (27ʹ)	
tu	 g-ε-q’vɑr-εb-ɑ-t	 tkvεn-i	 mf(-)q’vɑs-n-i
		 if	 youB-iopref-love-ts-3pA-PLB[=fut]	 your-agr	 lover-pl-nom
where the Dative’s plurality is marked, indicating that this is the nominal serving
as subject.17 One suspects a parallel development for the potentials, and, as Georgian
(/Kartvelian) has a formal voice-opposition which permits us to derive the biva-
lent potential construction with its ‘inverted’ morpho-syntax from the passive,
one might feel inclined to suggest that Abkhaz has been influenced in this regard
by the neighbouring Kartvelian family, given the absence of diathesis in North
West Caucasian. But the situation is not quite so straightforward for three reasons.
Firstly, we find an exact parallel usage of the Circassian benefactive postposition in
preverbless transitives,18 and Kartvelian influence on Circassian is highly unlikely.
Consider from West Circassian Temirgoi:
	 (28)	
Ø-s-fɑ-tx6-r-ɑp
		 3p-I-pot-write-fin-pres-not
		 ‘I cannot write it’
.  From the Georgian Patriarchate’s Bible.
.  The switch from Old Georgian Present Subjunctive to Modern Georgian Future Indicative
has nothing to do with the change in marking, for the equivalent Modern Georgian Present
Subjunctive would be /g-i-q’vɑr-d-ε-t/, with only the Dative’s plurality being markable.
.  In intransitives (and preverbal transitives) Circassian employs a potential suffix (the only
strategy available to the third member of the family, Ubykh) that does not affect the verb’s
normal preradical affixal structure (see Hewitt 2004: 135).
	 George Hewitt
Secondly, valency-altering constructions for potentiality are attested more widely
than just South and North West Caucasian. In the Nakh sub-group of North East
Caucasian a suffix is added to the lexical verb, which in Chechen-Ingush is the root
of the verb ‘give’, and its presence causes the agent to stand in the Dative and the
object in the Absolutive(-Nominative), e.g., (Ingush)
	 (29)	
su:o-nɑ	 Gz	 kinɑ∫kɑ-Ø	 dikɑ	 d-i:e∫ɑ-l-u
		 I-dat	 this	 book4-absol	 well	 419-read-give/pot-pres
		 ‘I can read this book well’ (from Nichols 1994: 123)
And, thirdly, the situation within Kartvelian is not totally uniform.
3.2  Whilst Georgian potentiality is contextually determined insofar as the
relevant verb-forms are structurally akin to bivalent intransitives, Mingrelian has
a formal marker of potentiality (at least in Series I screeves):
	 (30)	
ts’ign-i	 i-t∫’ɑr-u-Ø vs.	 ts’ign-i	 t∫kim	 fsur-s
		 book-nom	 pref-write-intr-3pA[-pres]	 book-nom	 my	 wife-dat
	 	 Ø-ɑ-t∫’ɑr-u-Ø
		 3pB-io pref-write-intr-3pA[=pres]
		 ‘A book is being written’ vs. ‘A book is being written for my wife’
	 (30ʹ)	
ts’ign-i	 i-t∫’ɑr-ε-Ø	 vs.	 ts’ign-i	 t∫kim
		 book-nom	 pref-write-intr/pot-3pA[-pres]	 book-nom	 my
	 	 fsur-s	 Ø-ɑ-t∫’ɑr-ε-Ø
		 wife-dat	 3pB-io pref-write-intr/pot-3pA[=pres]
		 ‘A book can be written’ vs. ‘My wife can write a book’
Indeed, Kartvelian permits even impersonal potentials, both monovalent and biva-
lent, as exemplified by the Mingrelian near-rendition of the RAF’s motto Per ardua
ad astra ‘Through challenges to the stars’, in which Latin sequence the understood
verb is the impersonal passive itur ‘it is gone’:
	 (31)	
ɑ(-)tɑ∫	 m[i]-i-rt-ε-Ø	 murεtsχ-εp-i(-)∫ɑ20
		 thus	 prev-pref-go-intr/pot-3pA	 star-pl-all
	 (31ʹ)	
k’f-s	 ɑ(-)tɑ∫	 wɑ	 mi-Ø-ɑ-rt-ε-Ø
		 man-dat	 thus	 not	 prev-3pB-io pref-go-intr/pot-3pA
		 murεtsχ-εp-i(-)∫ɑ21
		 star-pl-all
		 ‘Man cannot get to the stars this way’
.  Ingush has class-marking, and here the Absolutive noun belongs to class 4.
.  Cf. Georgian: ɑ(-)sε mi-i-svl-εb-ɑ vɑrsk’vlɑv-εb-is-k’εn.
.  In Georgian: /k’ɑts-s ɑ(-)sε ɑr mi-ε-svl-εb-ɑ vɑrsk’vlɑv-εb-is-k’εn/.
	 Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz, Georgian and Mingrelian 	 
3.3  How, then, does Kartvelian indicate unwilling or accidental activity? Potskh-
ishvili (1969) has described the Georgian phenomenon, which is basically found
in perfective forms. Perfective aspect is usually associated with the presence of a
preverb, and for the (admittedly somewhat rare) category of unwitting/accidental
action the verb’s regular preverb yields to the complex preverb /∫ε(-)mf-/, a transi-
tive verb being transformed into an intransitive and the unwilling/accidental agent
standing in the Dative, e.g.,
	 (32)	
[mε]	 bɑnk’-is	 dirεkt’ɔr-s	 gɑ-v-Ø-lɑndzt-ɑv vs.
		 Inom	 bank-gen	 director-dat	 prev-1pA-3pB-insult-ts[=fut]
		 tu	 [mε]	bɑnk’-is	 dirεkt’fr-i	 ∫ε(-)mf-m-ε-lɑndzt-εb-ɑ
		 if	 Idat	bank-gen	 director-nom	 prev-I/meB-io pref-insult-ts-3pA [=fut]
		 ‘I shall insult the bank-manager’ vs. ‘If I unwittingly insult the bank-manager’
If the idea is ‘kill unintentionally’, somewhat oddly perhaps, it is the intransi-
tive root ‘die’ that is used with a Dative argument, which is interpreted as the
unwitting actor in the act of killing; the regular preverb (/mf-/) still yields
to/∫ε(.)mf-/:
	 (33)	
mt’εr-s	 utsεb	 mf-v-Ø-k’l-ɑv-d-i
		 enemy-dat	 straightaway	 prev-1pA-3pB-kill-ts-imperf-condit-1p
		 mɑgrɑm	dzm(-)fb(-)il-i	 rɑ(-)t’fm	 Ø(-)u(-)nd(-)ɑ	∫ε(-)mf-m-ɑ-k’vd-ε-s
		 but	 sworn-brother-nom	 why	 necessary	 prev-meB-lv-die-
 aor-subj-3pA
22
		 ‘I would kill an enemy at once, but why should I be the unwitting agent of the
		 death of a sworn brother?’
Even the non-finite verbal noun with no overt expression of the agent implies ‘killing’
as much as ‘dying’, viz.
	 (34)	
k’ɑts-is	 ∫ε(-)mf-k’vd-fm-ɑ23	 u(-)bεd(-)ur(-)εb(-)ɑ-ɑ
		 man-gen	 prev-die-ts-masd[-nom]	 misfortune-is
		 ‘The unwitting killing/death of a man is a misfortune’
.  The vowel glossed as LV (viz. Locative Version) is another way of associating a Dative
nominal with verbs that are (usually) intransitive but not of the prefixal sub-type.
.  Glossed in the 8-volume Georgian Academy Dictionary as, and thus synonymous with, the
transitive masdar-phrase /k’ɑts-is u(-)nεb(-)liε(-)d mf-k’vl-ɑ/ ‘the accidental killing of a man’,
where the notion of non-volitional action is carried entirely by the free-standing adverb /u(-)
nεb(-)liε(-)d/.
	 George Hewitt
Mingrelian has the same preverbal substitution-strategy, the substituting preverb
being /ɑ-/:
	 (35)	
dɔ-b-tur-u-t vs.	 wɑ	 m-ɔ-k’ɔ-n-ɑ
		 prev-1pA-die-intr-pla[=fut]	 not	 1pB-lv-want-3pA-pl[=pres]
		 mɑ(-)χ(-)indŠ(-)i-s	 ɑ-v-Ø-ɔ-tur-ɑ-ti-n[i]
		 thief-dat	 prev-1pA-3pB-LV-die-aor-subj-pla-sub
		
‘We shall die’ vs. ‘We don’t want to die unwittingly at the hands of a thief/a thief
unwittingly to kill us’
The masdar-phrase in (34) would produce in Mingrelian /k’ft∫-i∫[i] ɑ-tur-ɑ/.24
4.  There is, then, quite widespread Caucasian evidence for potentiality to
require alteration to the valence-patterning of a transitive verb, whilst a similar
change is attested for unwilling/accidental activity in at least two of the language-
families. Whilst one can account for the resulting ‘inverted’ construction in Kart-
velian by hypothesising a shift from an original bivalent intransitive structure, this
explanation is hardly available in North West Caucasian or Nakh. Perhaps some-
thing more general underlies these phenomena. In actions which are potential or
the result of unwitting/accidental activity the entity (possibly) realising the verbal
action is hardly a fully blown agent; in one case the action is not even necessar-
ily ever effected, being only a potentiality, whilst in the other the performer is
assigned a non-volitional role. If the function of the case that normally marks a
transitive subject in the relevant languages is to underline its essential agentivity,
.  Associating the substituting preverbs with the roots for ‘kill’ is possible in both Georgian
and Mingrelian, but the verb is not transformed into a bivalent intransitive, possibly because of
the presence of the parallel construction with the roots for ‘die’, as illustrated already. However,
as direct object the reflexive pronoun (Georgian /tɑv.i/= Mingrelian/dud.i/ ‘head; self’) must be
added. The final verb in (35) could thus be replaced by:
		 dud-i	 ɑ-v-Ø-Ø-f-Ɂwil-ɑ-ti-n[i]
		 self-acc	 prev-1pA-3pB-3pB-lv-kill-aor-subj-pla-sub
to give literally ‘We don’t want to kill ourselves upon the thief as unwitting agent’ – why Mingre-
lian has an Accusative case is explained later in the article. The preverb seems to be semantically
associated more with the Dative indirect object. Though the verb here is not a causative, it is
semantically close to one, with the Dative nominal being something of a causee (or secondary
agent). Exactly the same conundrum is found in Georgian, where the corresponding clause
would read:
		 ɑr	 gv-i-nd-ɑ	 kurd-s	 tɑv-i	 ∫ε(-)mf-v-Ø-Ø-ɑ-k’l-ɑ-t
		
not	 weB-ov-want-3pA[-pres]	 thief-dat	 self-nom	 prev-1pA-3pB-3pB-LV-kill-
aor-subj-plA
	 Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz, Georgian and Mingrelian 	 
then there would be justification for placing the ‘logical’ subject in a different case
when that entity lacks full-blown agentivity. And so, an oblique case, appropriate
to the particularities of each language, is selected for the role, possibly accom-
panied by a subsidiary change (such as the alteration of the preverb to indicate
unwitting activity in Kartvelian).
4.1  Of course, it has been argued in recent years (see Harris 1985;
Amiridze 2006) that an Active-Inactive opposition is even more centrally rel-
evant to Georgian. I have argued against this interpretation in a number of
contributions to the debate (see especially 1987, 1989), but there are additional
arguments (see Lazard 1995), and one of them relates to a verb-type that has
figured above, namely the bivalent prefixal intransitive. Before discussing this,
however, more background needs to be provided on the morpho-syntax of
Georgian transitives.
4.1.1  As already stated, intransitives (whether mono- or bivalent) fol-
low the same patterns of case-assignment and agreement for their arguments
across all three screeve-series as illustrated above for Series I. The same does
not apply to transitives, and so far the only examples of transitives have been
from Series I. In Series II screeves (viz. Aorist Indicative and Subjunctive) tran-
sitive subjects/agents are characterised by /-m(ɑ)/, a case known in Georgian
as motxrobiti, which is literally translateable as ‘Narrative’, and this designation
will be employed for the moment not because I want to argue that it is the most
appropriate description for the morpheme’s function but simply in order not
to prejudge the issue to be discussed – additionally, transitive subjects/agents
are cross-referenced on the verb by the same affixal set that indexed this argu-
ment when standing in the Nominative for Series I screeves; the direct object
stands in the Nominative/Absolutive and is cross-referenced by the same set
of affixes that indexed this argument when standing in the Dative for Series I
screeves. To illustrate, examples (22) and (22ʹ) are transposed into their Aorist
Indicative equivalents:
	 (36)	
kɑl-mɑ	 ts’εr(-)il-i	 dɑ-Ø-ts’εr-ɑ
		 woman-narr	 letter-nom	 prev-3pB-write-3pA[=aor]
		 ‘The woman wrote a/the letter’
	 (36ʹ)	
kɑl-mɑ	 mεgfbr-εb-s	 ts’εr(-)il-i	 mi-Ø-s-ts’εr-ɑ
		 woman-narr	 friend-pl-dat	 letter-nom	 prev-3pB-3pioB-write-3pA [=aor]
		 ‘The woman wrote a/the letter to (her) friends’
In Series III screeves (Perfect, Pluperfect, IIIrd Subjunctive) transitive subjects/
agents stand in the Dative and are cross-referenced by the affixal set that hitherto
has been used to index (in)direct objects; the direct object stands in the Nomi-
native and is cross-referenced by means of the affixal set that has hitherto been
	 George Hewitt
associated with (in)transitive subjects; any indirect object is governed by the bene-
factive postposition and cannot be indexed in the verb:
	 (37)	
kɑl-s	 mεgfbr-εb-is-tvis	 ts’εr(-)il-i	 mi-Ø-u-ts’εr-i-ɑ
		 woman-dat	 friend-pl-gen-for	 letter-nom	 prev-3pB-ov-write-perf-3pA
		 ‘The woman has (apparently) written a/the letter to (her) friends’
If this were all there were to the Georgian verbal system, the conclusion would
be relatively straightforward, namely: in Series I there is Nominative-Accusative
alignment (the direct object being treated differently from (in)transitive subjects
both in terms of case-marking and verbal indexing); in Series III there is Ergative-
Absolutive alignment (the transitive subject standing apart in the Dative and
requiring Set B cross-referencing); Series II would be seen as exhibiting split Ergative-
Absolutive alignment insofar as, whilst the transitive subject stands uniquely in
the Narrative case and the Nominative signals both direct object and intransitive
subject, in terms of verbal indexing the same affixal set (A) correlates with both
transitive and intransitive subjects against the employment of the Set B affixal set
to mark direct (and indirect) objects. In fact, Series III is generally accepted to
be a relatively late Kartvelian development arising out of stative (and thus origi-
nally intransitive) structures such that today’s transitive Series III forms arose out
of bivalent intransitives whose indirect (Dative) object became reinterpreted as
the subject (just as we argued above happened with the Kartvelian Potentials), no
doubt under pressure from the rest of the paradigm, where the IIIrd Series Dative
nominal corresponded to the Nominative subject of Series I and the Narrative
subject of Series II. For this reason, it is customary to refer to the Series III transi-
tive structure as exemplifying inversion, and ergativity is normally assigned only
to Series II, the Narrative case being identified as the Georgian Ergative. Even after
consideration of the complicating factor, this remains for me the correct interpre-
tation of Georgian’s IInd Series morpho-syntax, but before examining the compli-
cation, one other verbal sub-category needs to be introduced.
4.1.2  Examples already presented have included an array of pre-radical vow-
els, known as the system of ‘Version’. Encountered so far have been: Neutral Ver-
sion (/ɑ-/ with some verbs vs. /Ø-/ for others), Objective Version (/i-/ for 1p/2p vs.
/u-/ for 3p indirect objects), and Locative Version (/ɑ-/). The remaining member
of this set is the Subjective Version in /i-/, which conveys in Ist and 2nd Series
screeves a notion of reflexivity: the object could be part of the subject’s body or
belongs to the subject, or the action could be carried out in the subject’s own
interest:
	 (38)	
εp’isk’fp’fs-mɑ	 mtvdεl-i	 gɑ-Ø-p’ɑrs-ɑ
		 bishop-narr	 priest-nom	 prev-3pB-shave-3pA[=aor]
		 ‘The bishop shaved = defrocked the priest’
	 Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz, Georgian and Mingrelian 	 
	 (38ʹ)	
εp’isk’fp’fs-mɑ	 (ts’vεr-i /	 ulvɑ∫-εb-i)	 gɑ-Ø-i-p’ɑrs-ɑ
		 bishop-narr	 beard-nom	moustache-pl-nom	prev-3pB-sv-shave-3pA
 [=aor]
		 ‘The bishop shaved (his beard/moustache)’
As (38ʹ) indicates, whilst not necessarily in every case, a predictable direct object
can be omitted with a verb so marked. The problematic class of verbs can now
be introduced.
4.2  A group of verbs exists whose Present Sub-Series screeves (Present
Indicative, Present Subjunctive, Imperfect Indicative) of Series I are formed in a
variety of ways. Nevertheless, such verbs generally take the Subjective Version in
the remaining screeves of Series I (viz. the so-called Future Sub-Series, which con-
sists of Future Indicative, Future Subjunctive and Conditional); this formant is
then carried over into Series II, where the subject stands in the Narrative; Series
III is characterised by inversion:
	 (39)	
gɔgɔ	 (si(-)mtεr(-)ɑ-s)	 Ø-mtεr-i-s	 vs.	 gɔgɔ	 (si(-)mtεr(-)ɑ-s)
		 girlnom	 song-dat	 3pB-sing-pres-	3pA	 girlnom	 song-dat
		 Ø-i-mtεr-εbs	 vs.	 gɔgɔ-m	 (si(-)mtεr(-)ɑ)	 Ø-i-mtεr-ɑ vs.
		 3pB-∫V-sing-ts-3pA[=fut]	 girl-narr	 songnom	 3pB-∫V-sing-3pA [=aor]
		 gfgf-s	 (si(-)mtεr(-)ɑ)	
Ø-u-mtεr(-n)-i-ɑ
		 girl-dat	songnom	 3pB-ov-sing-?-perf-3pA
		 ‘The girl sings vs. will sing vs. sang vs. has (apparently) sung (a song)’
If all the relevant verbs were like ‘sing’, there would be no problem, but the class
in question (styled Medial) contains many verbs that signify sound-production or
movement, which are never attested with a direct object:
	 (40)	
dzɑtl-i	 (?Ø-)q’εp-s vs.	 dzɑtl-i	 (?Ø-)i-q’εp-εb-s	 vs.
		 dog-nom	 3pB-bark-3pA[=pres]	 dog-nom	 3pB-sv-bark-ts-3pA[=fut]
		 dzɑtl-mɑ	 (?Ø-)i-q’εp-ɑ vs.	 dzɑtl-s	 Ø-u-q’εp(-n)-i-ɑ
		 dog-narr	 3pB-sv-bark-3pA[=aor]	 dog-dat	 3pB-ov-bark-?-perf-3pA
		 ‘The dog barks vs. will bark vs. barked vs. has (apparently) barked’
The argument then goes that, since such verbs appear to be intransitive, what
determines the use of the Narrative case to mark their subjects is the semantic
feature of activity which Medial subjects share with transitive subjects; the Nar-
rative case should, thus, be seen as Georgian’s Active case and the syntactic align-
ment of Series II in Georgian should be interpreted as of the Active-Inactive type.
When it is pointed out that such common verbs as that signifying motion (/svl-ɑ/)
or those meaning ‘sit down’ (/dɑ-dŠd-fm-ɑ/ vs. /dɑ-sχd-fm-ɑ/ if the subject is
human plural), ‘stand up’ (/ɑ-dg-fm-ɑ/) and ‘lie down’ (/dɑ-ts’-fl-ɑ/), all of which
	 George Hewitt
have subjects acting volitionally and should, therefore, on this analysis, take a Nar-
rative/Active subject but actually require the Nominative, the answer is that there
is dialectal evidence for the use of the Narrative and that the ‘conservative’ literary
language has yet to conform to Active alignment.
Whilst not denying that one future path of development for Georgian’s IInd
Series could be precisely for it to shift in this direction, I can see no reason to
accept the relevance of this semantic opposition to the current state of affairs man-
ifested across the range of Georgian dialects (literary and non-literary). In addi-
tion to dialectal evidence for the presence of the Narrative as subject-marker for
the common volitional verbs just listed, this case is also found marking the subject
of distinctly non-volitional verbs (I have adduced elsewhere examples of Narrative
subjects alongside /mf-k’vd-ɑ/ ‘X died’ and /dɑ-bεr-d-ɑ/ ‘X grew old’). Perhaps
more damaging for the hypothesis is the presence in the Medial class of very many
verbs which can by no stretch of the imagination be deemed to take volitional sub-
jects (e.g., /dut(-)il-i/ ‘boiling (of liquids)’, /livliv-i/ ‘lapping (of waves)’, /lik’lik’-i/
‘babbling (of a brook)’, /priɑl-i/ ‘flapping (of a flag)’). And, since Medials share
with ordinary transitives not only the presence of a IInd Series subject in the Nar-
rative case but inversion in Series III, why, if Activity is the common feature that
determines the morpho-syntax of Series II, is there no evidence for inversion in
Series III with the ‘volitional’ intransitives listed above (viz. the verbs for ‘go’, ‘sit
down’, ‘stand up’ and ‘lie down’)? The alternative and (to my mind) only plausible
explanation of the Georgian data is that, despite appearances, the verb-forms in
question are (or, at least, were in their origin) actually transitive outside the Pres-
ent Sub-Series,25 the Subjective Version allied to typically transitive morphology
being the clue to the (historical or underlying) presence of either a reflexive26 or
an internal direct object (by which term I mean a noun built from the same root as
the verb itself, as in the English ‘die a death’), and this transitive structure is then
the basis for the inversion exhibited in their IIIrd Series screeves. What, then, is
the further evidence, if any actually be needed, against the Active Hypothesis for
Georgian? That evidence is offered below, but it would have been well nigh impos-
sible for anyone new to the problem to appreciate its value without the essentials
of the debate to which it contributes having been delineated first – hence the need
for the preceding somewhat lengthy setting of the context, which might be already
familiar to some readers.
.  Originally Medials only existed in the Present Sub-Series and then filled out their para-
digms by borrowing morphologically related forms that happen to be transitive.
.  Viz. the noun /tɑv-i/ ‘head’.
	 Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz, Georgian and Mingrelian 	 
4.3  A relationship has long been postulated between the Subjective Version
vowel and the i-prefix of prefixal intransitives (Deeters 1930). Deeters’ pupil Karl
Horst Schmidt in a series of papers comparing Georgian to Indo-European struc-
tures devoted one (1965) to a comparison of Georgian’s Subjective Version and the
Indo-European Middle Voice. Monro (1998.9), having remarked that ‘the original
force of the Middle Person-Endings is ‘Reflexive’; that is to say, they denote that
the action of the Verb is directed towards the agent’, goes on (p. 10) to illustrate
both a Passive usage and an occasional ‘use intermediate between the Reflexive
and the Passive’. Consider Iliad 6.140:
	 (41)	
’επεὶ	 ἀθνάτoiσiν	 ἀπήχθετo	 πα̂σi	 θεoîσiν
		 as	 immortal	 X made self hateful	 all	 godsdat
		 ‘since he had made himself hateful to all the immortal gods’
or Iliad 13.110:
	 (42)	
oἳ	 кείνῳ	 ἐρίσaντες	 ἀμυνέμεν	 οὐκ	 ἐθέλουσι
		 whonom	 thatdat	 having argued	 to defend	 not	 they want
		 νηω̑ν	 ω’κυπόρων	 ἀλλὰ	 κτείνοντaι	 ἀν’	 aὐτάς
		 shipsgen	 swift	 but	 they let themselves be slain	 on	 themacc
		 ‘Who, having quarrelled with him [the commander], have no wish to defend
		 ɑny of our swift vessels, but allow themselves to be slaughtered by them’
What we have here is a kind of reflexive causative. Other examples can be located
at: Iliad 13.525 and 23.409, or Odyssey 3.284. Reflexive causation is, of course, pre-
cisely what has been argued to lie behind the peculiarity of Georgian’s borrowed
Medial forms, which are treated transitively for the reasons given above. But, if the
intransitive prefixal vowel is related to the Subjective Version, does Georgian offer
any parallels from its intransitive formations? One does not really find anything of
interest among the monovalent intransitives, but the situation is different, if one
examines the bivalent ones. Consider such occasional examples as:
	 (43)	
dεdɑ	 t’k’b(-)il	 dzil-s	 Ø-ε-dzl(-)εv-ɑ vs.
		 mothernom	 sweet	 sleep-dat	 3pB-io pref-give-3pA[=pres]
		 mi-Ø-ε-ts-ɑ vs.	 mi-s-ts-εm-i-ɑ
		 prev-3pB-io pref-give-3pA[=aor]	 prev-3pB-give-ts-perf-3pA
		 ‘Mother gives vs. gave vs. has (apparently) given herself up to sweet sleep’
	 (44)	
bit∫’-i	 gɔgɔ-s	 Ø-ε-tsn-ɔb-ɑ vs.
		 lad-nom	 girl-dat	 3pB-io pref-introduce-ts-3pA[=pres]
		 gɑ-Ø-ε-tsn-ɔ vs.	 gɑ-s-tsn-ɔb-i-ɑ
		 prev-3pB-Iɔpref-introduce-3pA[=aor]	 prev-3pB-introduce-ts-perf-3pA
		
‘The lad introduces vs. introduced vs. has (apparently) introduced
himself to the lass’
	 George Hewitt
We have here manifestly intransitive forms, with Nominative subject across the
screeve-Series. But an objection might be that the postulated Active semantics of
reflexive causation is a feature not of the Georgian originals but only of the English
renditions: might not (43) just be a way of saying ‘Mother fell into a sweet sleep’
or (44) just as acceptably rendered as ‘The lad got to know/was introduced to the
lass’, which do not necessarily imply volition on the part of the subjects? For such
examples such an objection might not be easily countered. But there is a group of
bivalent intransitives not open to such objection.
4.3.1  Georgian, like Abkhaz (and, indeed, other Caucasian languages), pos-
sesses a morphological causative, marked by the post-radical suffix /-(εv-)in-/.
With an overt reflexive direct object, the causee functions as indirect object:
	 (45)	
kɑl-i	 t∫’ir-s	 tɑv-s	 Ø-Ø-ɑ-lɑχ-v-in-εb-s vs.
		 woman-nom	 woe-dat	 self-dat	 3pB-3pB-lv-overcome-ts-caus-ts- 3pA[=pres]
		 kɑl-mɑ	 t∫’ir-s	 tɑv-i
		 woman-narr	 woe-dat	 self-nom
		 gɑ-Ø-Ø-ɑ-lɑχ-v-in-ɑ vs.
		 prev-3pB-3pB-lv-overcome-ts- caus-3pA[=aor]
		 kɑl-s	 t∫’ir-is-tvis	 tɑv-i	
		 woman-dat	woe-gen-for	 self-nom	
		 gɑ-Ø-u-lɑχ-v-in-εb-i-ɑ
		 prev-3pB-ov-overcome-ts-caus- ts-perf-3pA
		 ‘The woman allows vs. allowed vs. has (apparently) allowed herself to be
		 overcome by woe/woe to overcome her’
Here we have a ditransitive verb, whose three arguments are treated exactly as
one would expect: specifically, the transitive subject (agent) stands in the Narra-
tive (Ergative) in Series II and, via inversion, the Dative in Series III. The pecu-
liarity of crucial interest to us is that such structures in Georgian have synonyms
where the verb surfaces as a bivalent INtransitive, the reflexive direct object of
the transitive formation being somehow subsumed within the essentially reflex-
ive intransitive structure of the verb, leaving just two overt arguments (causer
and causee):
	 (45ʹ)	
kɑl-i	 t∫’ir-s	 Ø-ε-lɑχ-v-in-εb-ɑ	 vs.
		 woman-nom	 woe-dat	 3pB-io pref-overcome-ts-caus-intr-3pA[= pres]
		 gɑ-Ø-ε-lɑχ-v-in-ɑ vs.
		 prev-3pB-io pref-overcome-ts-caus-3pA[=aor]
		 gɑ-Ø-lɑχ-v-in-εb-i-ɑ
		 prev-3pB-overcome-ts-caus-ts-perf-3pA
	 Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz, Georgian and Mingrelian 	 
Any causative verb that can substitute for the verb illustrated in construction (45)
has an intransitive synonym that can build a parallel like that of (45ʹ). Examples
(in the Aorist) include: /gfgf mgεl-s gɑ-Ø-ε-t’ɑts-εb-in-ɑ/ ‘the girlnom allowed/ got
the wolfdat to carry her off’;27 /dŠɑr(-)is(-)k’ɑts-i mt’εr-s mf-Ø-ε-k’vl-εv-in-ɑ/
‘the soldiernom allowed/got the enemydat to kill him’; /kɑl-i mεzfbel-s gɑ-Ø-ε-
lɑndzt-v-in-ɑ/ ‘the womannom allowed/got her neighbourdat to abuse her’. Even
if the notion of permission is felt to be more salient than that of compulsion, this
still fits the criterion of volitional activity on the part of a subject in full control
of events, which is the fundamental justification proposed in the Active Hypoth-
esis to explain the use in the Aorist of the Narrative case. Yet it is a Nominative
subject which these verbs take across all three screeve-Series, and this is exactly
what one would expect of intransitives, regardless of their semantics. The con-
clusion is, I hope, clear: there are no grounds in Georgian to justify classifying it
as manifesting in any part of its morpho-syntax the Active-Inactive opposition
and the Narrative is, thus, correctly interpreted as Ergative in function.
5.  But one should not conclude that there remain no puzzles as regards
Georgian’s argument-structure. There are instances of verbs with patently intran-
sitive morphology taking what looks like a direct object:
	 (46)	
rɑ-s	 Ø-?Ø-∫vr-εb-i
		 what-dat	 2pA-3pB-do-intr-pres(=2p)
		 ‘What are you doing?’
.  These intransitive variants seem not to exist in Mingrelian where only the transitive struc-
tures are found. We would, thus, here have only:
		 dztɑb(-)i-k	 gεr-s	 dud-i	 kɑ-Ø-Ø-ɑ-χwɑmil-ɑp-u
		 girl-erg/nom	 wolf-dat	 self-nom/acc	 prev-3pB-3pioB-lv-snatch- caus-3pA[=aor]
I am grateful to Gia Karchava for providing this information. He was also the source of the ex-
amples in the second part of (35) and in footnote 24, which were his suggestions for rendering
into Mingrelian the Georgian:
		 ɑr	 gv-i-nd-ɑ	 ∫ɑrɑ(-)gz-is	 q’ɑt∫ɑt-εb-s
		 not	 weB-ov-want-3pA[=pres]	 highway-gen	 bandit-pl-dat
		 mf-v-Ø-ε-k’vl-εv(-)in-f-t
		 prev-1pA-3pB-io pref-kill-caus-aor-subj-plA
		 ‘We do not want to get ourselves killed by highwaymen’
		 where we have the intransitive variant.
	 George Hewitt
the origin of the Dative here no doubt lying in its old Locative function28 (?‘In
respect to what are you engaging in work?’). When it comes to the occasional such
verb that takes two Dative arguments, like:
	 (47)	
mɑmɑ	 dεdɑ-s	 pul-s	 dɑ-?Ø-h-p’ir-d-ɑ
		 fathernom	 mother-dat	money-dat	 prev-3pB-3pioB-promise-intr- 3pA[=aor]
		 ‘Father promised mother money’29
It is hardly surprising that speakers commonly ‘regularise’ matters in terms of case-
marking, interpreting ‘father’ as transitive subject and ‘money’ as direct object,
despite the resulting incompatibility between the syntax of case-marking and the
intransitive verbal morphology, to give:
	 (47ʹ)	
mɑmɑ-m	 dεdɑ-s	 pul-i
		 father-erg	 mother-dat	money-nom
		 dɑ-Ø-h-p’ir-d-ɑ
		 prev-3pB-3pioB-promise-intr-3pA[=aor]
There are cases of transitive verbs that take an indirect but no (overt) direct
object:
	 (48)	
mɑmɑ-m	 dεdɑ-s	 Ø-s-tsεm-ɑ	 vs.	 mεlɑ-m	 bude-s
		 father-erg	 mother-dat	 3pB-3pioB-hit-3pA[=aor]	 fox-erg	 nest-dat
		 mi-Ø-Ø-ɑ-gn-f vs.	 k’ɑts-mɑ	 nɑ(-)p’ir-s
		 prev-3pB-3pB-lv-locate-3pA[=aor]	 man-erg	 shore-dat
		 mf-Ø-Ø-ɑ-t’ɑn-ɑ
		 prev-3pB-3pB-lv-reach-3pA[=aor]
		 ‘Father hit mother’ vs. ‘The fox located the nest’ vs. ‘The man reached the shore’
To account for these cases one logically reconstructs a fully transitive sequence
with originally overt direct object which will have been omitted over time as a
result of predictability; for ‘hit’ this will have been the entity brought in contact
with the indirect obect, though the construction for this verb too is often ‘regular-
ised’ by marking the entity struck as a normal direct object (Shanidze 1979) – for
the other two verbs here it is, admittedly, not so easy to imagine what the missing
.  Any analysis of the verb at that stage of development would presumably not have included
any zero-marking of the (then non-existent) direct object.
.  Again, in origin, perhaps what Georgian had here was expressible as ‘Father made a
promise to mother in respect of money’, with /pul-s/ not representing a direct verbal argument.
Some other verbs (in the Aorist) that pattern this way are: /dɑ-?Ø-Ø-ε-nuk’v-ɑ/ ‘Xnom besought
Ydat of Zdat’, /∫ε-?Ø-Ø-ε-tsil-ɑ/ ‘Xnom vied with Ydat over Zdat’, /mf-?Ø-Ø-u-q’v-ɑ/ ‘Xnom
narrated Ydat to Zdat’, /dɑ-?Ø-Ø-ε-sεsχ-ɑ/ ‘Xnom took Ydat in loan from Zdat’.
	 Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz, Georgian and Mingrelian 	 
direct object might have been. And the final verb in (48) often surfaces without
either direct or indirect object, making it appear to be a monovalent intransitive
despite its tripersonal morphology – note, however, that the Active Hypothesis is
equally at a loss to explain the case-marking here:
	 (48ʹ)	
∫uɑ(-)tɑmε-m	 mf-Ø-Ø-ɑ-t’ɑn-ɑ
		 midnight-erg	 prev-3pB-3pB-lv-reach-3pA[=aor]
		 ‘Midnight came’
For engaging in the sort of argumentation I am advancing to rationalise these
anomalies I face charges in some linguists’ dock of falling ‘into the old trap of
recapitulating diachrony in synchrony’ or of having to resort to inserting ‘phan-
tom arguments’ into underlying structure (Tuite 1997). In fact, this is a trap into
which I am happy to consign myself to lodge there until such a time as a more
plausible explanation becomes available – as yet there is none that I find appeal-
ing. One of the examples underlying the criticism of resorting to ‘phantom argu-
ments’ concerned a transitive verb-form unaccompanied by any overt subject/
agent:
	 (49)	
nεt’ɑv	 sul	 ∫εn-tɑn	 m-ɑ-m(-)q’(-)fp-ɑ
		 would that	 always	 youdat-with	 me-nv-make-be-3pA[=aor]
which is a translation-equivalent of ‘Would that I be with you always!’ but more
literally equates to ‘Would that [?God/Providence] let me be with you forever!’
The fact that none of Tuite’s informants ‘ever invoked God, or any other extra-
terrestrial for that matter, as an explanation for the morphology’ is irrelevant;
how many native speakers of English, if asked to provide an analysis, would
explain the response ‘Bless you!’ to a sneeze as an abbreviated form of ‘God
bless you!’? How many would help an enquiring linguist or foreigner by inter-
preting the formula ‘Bless!’, which is articulated (largely by believers) in other
contexts, as being the subjunctive form of the verb with 3rd person subject?
Not many, I would wager. And just because one researcher’s informants offer
no concrete subject for this verb does not mean that there is no evidence for
one, if one only looks for it. Consider two examples on consecutive pages in
the play ubedureba ‘Misfortune’ from the 1981 2-volume collected works of
the distinguished Georgian writer Davit K’ldiashvili, wherein the first lacks an
overt subject for a clearly transitive verb in Objective Version, whilst the second
instantiation of the same root (this time with Neutral Version) happily includes
the (anticipated) subject, viz.
	 (50)	
imεd(-)dɑ(-)k’ɑrg(-)ul-i	 mt’εr-i	 Ø-g-i-m(-)q’(-)fp-f-s
		 hopeless-nom	 enemy-nom	 3pB-youB-ov-make-be-aor-subj-3pA
		 ‘May [?God] render your foe hopeless!’ = ‘May your foe be rendered hopeless!’
	 George Hewitt
vs.
	 (51)	
tmεrt-i	 dɑ	 ∫εn-i	 sɑ(-)lfts(-)ɑv-i	 k’ɑrg-ɑd	
		 God-nom	 and	 your-agr	 shrine-nom	 good-adv
		 g-ɑ-m(-)q’(-)fp-εb-s
		 youB-nv-make-be- ts-3pA[=fut]
		 ‘God and your shrine will render you well = keep you safe’
In the case of such subject-lacking expressions as:
	 (52)	
k’ɑts-s	 tsiv-i	 fpl-i	 dɑ-Ø-Ø-ɑ-sχ-ɑ vs.
		 man-dat	cold-agr	 sweat-nom	 prev-3pB-3pB-lv-pour-3pA[=aor]
		 k’ɑt∫’kɑt∫’-s	 gɑ-Ø-Ø-ɑ-tsiv-ɑ	 dɑ
		 magpie-dat	 prev-3pB-3pB-lv-make-cold-3pA[=aor]	and
		 gɑ-Ø-Ø-ɑ-tsχεl-ɑ	 ∫i∫-isɑ-gɑn
		 prev-3pB-3pB-lv-heat-3pA[=aor]	 fear-gen-from
		 ‘The man came out in a cold sweat’ vs. ‘The magpie came over all hot and cold
		 from fear’
it is not immediately obvious what the lost subject/agent might have been. The verbs
in the latter example also combine as the compound noun /tsi(-)εb-tsχεl(-)εb(-)ɑ/
‘fever’, suggesting a postulation that the original subject might have been the illness
that produces the fever in the indirect object, whereas in the former example it might
have been something as general as ‘the circumstances’ and, interestingly, the Nomi-
native-marked direct object in the first example of (52) can be moved up to subject-
slot and be marked (sc. for the quoted Aorist) by the Narrative/Ergative, to give:
/tsiv.mɑ fpl.mɑ/, to match exactly the English ‘Cold sweat poured over X’, with the
difference that the Georgian structure implies transitivity and, in this variant, leaves
the direct object slot unfilled. One final example in this section would be:
	 (53)	
bɑv∫v-s	 muts’uk’-εb-i	 gɑ(-)mf-Ø-Ø-ɑ-q’ɑr-ɑ
		 child-dat	 spot-pl-nom	 prev-3pB-3pB-lv-throw-3pA[=aor]
		 ‘The child came out in spots’
where, presumably, it will have been the particular illness associated with the spots
that was the original but now lost subject. For both this last and the first example
in (52) we have exact parallels in Abkhaz:
	 (53ʹ)	
ɑ-χw6’t∫’6	 (j6-)‘j6-kw-nɑ-psɑ-Ø-jt’ vs.	 ɑ-pχ’dz6	 ‘χj∫wɑ∫wɑ
		 the-child	 it/them-him-on-it-throw-past-fin[=aor]	 art-sweat	 cold
		 Ø-‘j6-kw-nɑ-twɑ-Ø-jt’
		 it-him-on-it-pour-past-fin[=aor]
		 ‘The child came out in a rash vs. cold sweat’
	 Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz, Georgian and Mingrelian 	 
with /-nɑ-/ ‘it’ referring to the externally absent agent. This, incidentally, is but one
instance (though not the first encountered in this article) where what is attested in
oneCaucasianlanguage/familyismirroredelsewhereintheregion,asubtletyunap-
preciated by those who would question the idea of a Caucasian ‘Sprachbund’.
5.1  With a little thought allied to an acceptance of the relevance of (in)tran-
sitivity and ergativity to Georgian one can understand the non-standard examples
of case-assignment reviewed above. But, how to account for the use of the Ergative
casewithunambiguouslyintransitivesubjectsinSeriesII?ExtensionoftheErgative
case within Kartvelian is nothing new for Laz and Mingrelian: the relevant case-
marker in these Zan sisters is /-k/, and for Laz it has spread to transitive subjects
in all screeve-series, whilst in Mingrelian it marks all Series II ‘subjects’. The crucial
factor in these cases of extension is subjecthood. There is general acceptance that,
whatever particularities today characterise the four Kartvelian sister-languages,
the starting-point will have reflected the pattern still found in Georgian. Depend-
ing on the screeve, the Nominative case in this system can mark both subjects
and direct objects; the Dative, similarly, can mark both types of argument as well
as indicate an indirect object; the Ergative, on the other hand, is the only mono-
functional case, its role being exclusively that of a subject-marker (specifically of
transitive subjects in Series II). Is it not reasonable to suppose that this exclusiv-
ity has simply led in non-standard varieties to its spread to intransitive subjects
(whether semantically Active or Inactive)? This is surely what happened in Min-
grelian, where the shift has been completed. The only complication is that, as it is
today’s direct object of inverted verbs in Mingrelian that is so marked in Series II,
the extension of the /k/-desinence to this argument must have taken place when
the argument in question was still interpreted as an intransitive subject, e.g.,
	 (54)	
tsirɑ-s	 kf-Ø-ε-?fr(-)fp-u [kε?frfp]	 dŠimu∫iεr-k
		 girl-dat	 prev-3pB-io pref-love-3pA[=aor]	 Dzhimushier-erg/nom
		 ‘The girl fell in love with Dzhimushier’ (Q’ipshidze 1994: 7525)
The case in /-k/ in Mingrelian has, thus, lost its Ergative function and become
a IInd-Series allomorph for the Nominative, with the result that the original
Nominative(-Absolutive) is transformed into an Accusative case. For comparison,
(54) in Georgian would be:
	 (54ʹ)	
gfgf-s	 ∫ε-Ø-u-q’vɑr-d-ɑ	 dŠimu∫iεr-i
		 girl-dat	 prev-3pB-ov-love-intr-3pA[=aor]	 Dzhimushier-nom
5.2  If the Active Hypothesis has no central relevance in Georgian, is the
same true of Kartvelian as a whole? Consider monovalent intransitive forms in
Series III, concentrating, for purposes of exposition, on the Perfect, as nothing
	 George Hewitt
irregular manifests itself in the other two screeves. The regular morphology basi-
cally fuses the past participle with the Present tense of the copula:
	 (55)	
[Georgian]	 dɑ-v-brun-εb-ul-v(-)ɑ(-)r vs.
			 prev-1pA-return-ts-ptc-amA	
		 [Mingrelian]	 df-b-rt-[εl-]ε(-)k vs.
			 prev-1pA-return-ptc-amA
		 [svan, Lashkh dialect]	 ɑn-mε-t’εχ-e:l-χw(-)i [εmt’εχe: lχwi]30
			 prev-ptc-pref-return-ptc-suff-amA
		 ‘I have (apparently) returned’
Separately, the participles and copulas are: Georgian /dɑ-brun-εb-ul-i v-ɑ-r/,
Mingrelian /df-rt-εl-i v-f-r-ε-k/, Svan /ɑn-mε-t’εχ-e:l-i χw-i/[ε-m-t’εχ-e:l-i χw-i].
Whilst one occasionally finds in Georgian an example where an inverted transitive
formation is recast to follow this intransitive pattern because of the lack of an overt
direct object (understandable if transitivity is relevant, but hardly so, were Activity
to lie at the root of inversion), e.g.,
	 (56)	
[mɑ-s]	dɑ-Ø-u-t∫fk-[n-]i-ɑ vs.	 [i-s]	 dɑ-t∫fk-il-ɑ
		 X-dat	 prev-3pB-ov-kneel-?-perf-3pA	 that-nom	prev-kneel- ptc-isA[=perf]
		 ‘X has (apparently) knelt down’,
what is not attested in Georgian is inversion in Series III for essentially intransitive
verbs (viz. those whose Ist and IInd Series’ screeves are formed in one of the three
ways – suffixal, prefixal, markerless – outlined earlier). Take the verb of motion and the
three common dynamic (semantically Active) intransitives ‘sit down’, ‘stand up’ and ‘lie
down’. In Georgian we have the anticipated conflation of participle with copula:
	 (57)	
[i-s]	 ts’ɑ-s(-)ul-ɑ vs.	 dɑ-m-dŠd-ɑr-ɑ
		 X-nom	prev-go-ptc-isA[=perf]	 prev-ptc.pref-sit-ptc.suff- isA[=perf]
		 vs.	 ɑ-m-dg-ɑr-ɑ vs.	 dɑ-ts’(-)fl-il-ɑ
			 prev-ptc.pref-stand-ptc.suff-isA[=perf]	 prev-lie-ptc-isA [=perf]
		 ‘X has (apparently) gone vs. sat down vs. stood up vs. lain down’
How do the corresponding forms behave in Mingrelian?
	 (57ʹ)	
[ti-s]	 mid[ɑ]-Ø-u-rt-um-[u-]Ø31	 vs.	 d[f]-Ø-u-χ-un-[u-]Ø	 vs.
		 X-dat	 prev-3pB-ov-go-?-perf-3pA	 prev-3pB-ov-sit-?-perf-3pA
		 gε-Ø-u-dg-in-[u-]Ø	 vs.	 d[f]-Ø-u-ndŠ-ir-[u-]Ø
		 prev-3pB-ov-stand-?-perf-3pA	 prev-3pB-ov-lie-?-perf-3pA
.  Topuria (1967: 204).
.  The pronunciation [midurtum] reflects that of a series of informants once resident in Ocham-
chira (Abkhazia), notably P’ant’e Basilaia, all of whom I thank for their time, patience and expertise.
	 Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz, Georgian and Mingrelian 	 
All are inverted. For the last Q’ipshidze offers the regular (sc. for Kartvelian intran-
sitives) combination of participle and copula: /df-[n]dŠ-ir-[εl-]ε-Ø/, which is in
fact the only possibility given in Kadzhaia’s 2002 dictionary. Another verb where
the regular and inverted patterns coexist is ‘return’, so that one can compare with
the Mingrelian variant of (55) this alternative:
	 (58)	
[ti-s]	 df-m-[i-]rt-in-[u-]Ø
		 X-dat	 prev-1pB-ov-return-?-perf-3pA
I would argue that the inverted forms are neologisms that have replaced/are
replacing the original formations. And, at first glance, one might be forgiven for
concluding that, given the semantics of the illustrated verbs, it will be their Activ-
ity which is motivating this shift. But before one rushes to such a conclusion, one
should consider:
	 (59)	
[ti-s]	 gε-Ø-u-r-in-[u-]Ø	 =	 [Georgian]	 [i-s]
		 X-dat	 prev-1pB-ov-stand32-?-perf-3pA			 X-nom
		 m-dg-ɑr-ɑ
		 ptc.pref-stand-ptc.suff-isA[=perf]
		 ‘X has (apparently) been standing’
where Mingrelian manifests inversion (against Georgian’s monovalent intransitive
and thus non-inverted patterning) despite the fact that ‘be standing’, describing
more of a state than an action, is hardly a prototypical example of a verb of Active
semantics. For this verb too Q’ipshidze quoted the regular intransitive form /gε-r-
in-[εl-]ε-Ø/, though this was never offered by my informants, who, when asked to
produce stative Perfects for ‘be sitting/lying’, tended to employ an entirely different
morphological form,33 though at least one accepted the inverted paradigm /Ø-u-
ndŠ-ir-[u-]Ø/ ‘X has been lying’, which is the preverbless variant of the form in
(57ʹ). In Svan all three stative Perfects exhibit inversion (Gagua 1976: 118–27), but
their dynamic equivalents34 and the verb of motion do not:
.  Actually this is the copular root, and it acquires the meaning ‘stand’ when combined with
the preverb /gε-/.
.  /tinɑ nf-dŠ-[ɑn-u(-)]ε-Ø/ ‘Xnom has been lying’; /tinɑ nf-χ-u-(-)ε-Ø/ ‘Xnom has been
sitting’. This paradigm is based on a different type of participle, the correspondingly built screeve
in Georgian being restricted to certain western dialects, dialects (perhaps significantly) abutting
the Mingrelian-speaking area.
.  Consider:
		 zurɑl	 Ši	 f-l-g-εn-εl-[l-]i
		 womannom	 up	 prev-ptc.pref-stand-?-ptc.suff-3pA-cop[=perf]
	 ‘The woman apparently rose’ (Shanidze 1939: 244).
	 George Hewitt
	 (60)	 χ-f-g-n-ɑ vs.	 χ-f-q’v-n-ɑ vs.	 χ-f-sgvr-ɑ
		 3pB-ov-stand-?-3pA[=perf]	3pB-ov-lie-?-3pA[=perf]	 3pB-ov-sit- 3pA[=perf]
		 ‘Xdat has (apparently) been standing vs. lying vs. sitting’
Since Active semantics cannot be motivating inversion with these verbs in Min-
grelian and Svan, what is?
5.2.1  Readers might have observed that many (if not quite all) of the Perfects
for the relevant verbs contain an element, glossed by a question-mark, immedi-
ately after the root. Georgian Medial Perfects also optionally contain /-n-/, unless
its presence creates an infelicitous consonant-complex, and Mingrelian Medials
also manifest a similarly optional /-in-/:
	 (61)	
[ti-s]	 Ø-u-ngɑr-[in-]u-Ø = [Georgian]	 [mɑ-s]	 Ø-u-t’ir-[n-]i-ɑ
		 X-dat	 3pB-ov-cry-?-perf-3pA	 X-dat	 3pB-ov-cry-?-perf- 3pA
		 ‘X has (apparently) cried’
Two of the Svan verbs in (60) also carry such a nasal. Now, we know that the
Causative marker in Georgian is basically /-in-/. In Svan /-in-/-un-/-wn-/ and in
Mingrelian /-in-u-/ (also/-(in-)ɑp-u-/)35 fulfil this role. Cross-linguistically Caus-
ative formants sometimes serve merely to buttress a verb’s transitivity. Series III
inversion characterises verbs traditionally deemed to be transitive. If some transi-
tive verbs ‘lost’ an argument and were thus in danger of being (mis)interpreted as
intransitive, what better location to employ the Causative formant in this transitiv-
ity-strengthening role? The nasal seems to be moribund in Georgian IIIrd Series
Medials (Donald Rayfield, p.c.), but in places the language has resorted/is resort-
ing to an alternative. Consider how a few verbs differentiate a transitive from a
ditransitive usage in Series III:
	 (62)	
mɑ-s	 bεrdzn(-)ul-i	 Ø-u-sts’ɑvl-i-ɑ
			 Greek-nom	 3pB-ov-learn-perf-3pA
		 ‘X has (apparently) learnt Greek’
	 (62ʹ)	
mɑ-s	 ∫v(-)il-is-tvis	 bεrdzn(-)ul-i	 Ø-u-sts’ɑvl-εb-i-ɑ
		 X-dat	 child-gen-for	 Greek-nom	 3pB-ov-teach-ts-perf-3pA
		 ‘X has (apparently) taught the child Greek’
The root in this pair of examples is the same but takes on the meaning ‘teach’ in
association (sc. in Series III) with the Thematic Suffix /-εb-/. Now, there are a num-
ber of Medial derivatives whose structure seems to have altered over the years
during which the Georgian Academy’s 8-volume Dictionary was being compiled/
.  /-ɑp-/ is cognate with /-εb-/, the commonest of Georgian’s Thematic Suffixes.
	 Cases, arguments, verbs in Abkhaz, Georgian and Mingrelian 	 
published (1950–64). Compare two virtually synonymous forms appearing respec-
tively in volumes III (1953) and VII (1962):
	 (63)	
mɑ-s	 dɑ-Ø-u-dzɑχ-n-i-ɑ	 vs.	 ∫ε-Ø-u-dzɑχ-εb-i-ɑ
		 X-dat	 prev-3pB-ov-shout-?-perf-3pA		 prev-3pB-ov-shout-ts-perf-3pA
		 ‘X has (apparently) shouted (in somebody’s direction)’
Theshiftindirectionalpreverbshouldnotmotivateanyothermorphologicalchange,
and yet the 1953-nasal yielded to Georgian’s commonest Thematic Suffix in 1962. Is
the reason that the structure’s essential transitivity needs to be underlined, the origi-
nal force of the nasal suffix has been forgotten, and /-εb-/ is perceived as best serving
thisfunction thanks to the sort of role it plays in pairings such as (62)–(62ʹ)? We have
seen inverted forms containing post-radical elements other than/-in-/in Mingrelian.
Perhaps, therefore, we should interpret /-um-/-un-/and/-ir-/ as Thematic Suffixes
performing the same function postulated for /-in-/ in the relevant verbs.
5.2.2  If IIIrd Series inversion correlates with transitivity, which incidentally hap-
penstobeprototypicallyassociatedwiththeActivesemanticsofagency,onecouldcon-
ceive of a situation in which the inverted construction could have spread to intransitive
verbs whose subjects shared the semantic feature of also actingvolitionally; thereafter,
the pattern might possibly have infected related verbs, even if they were charaterised
by Inactive semantics (since, after all, dynamic notions like ‘stand up’ easily pair with
statives like ‘be standing’). This would account for the situation attested in Mingrelian,
and ultimately the explanation for all cases of IIIrd Series inversion would be that,
however counter-intuitive it might appear for some of the verbs concerned, all such
verb-forms are essentially bipersonal transitives (accompanied, where necessary, by an
understood ‘internal’ direct object to correlate with the obligatory Set A agreement-
affix within the inverted verb-form). The puzzle is why it is the IIIrd Series forms for
the stative notions ‘be seated, standing, lying’ (and not their dynamic correlates) that
are construed this way in Svan. Future research may provide the answer. Meanwhile it
hasbeenarguedthat,howeverunexcitingitmightbe,thetraditionalcategoriesoferga-
tivity and transitivity still provide the best framework for understanding the aspects of
Georgian, Mingrelian and Abkhaz verbal morphology, argument-structure and asso-
ciated case-marking which have been examined above.
References
Amiridze, N. 2006. Reflexivization Strategies in Georgian. Utrecht: LOT.
Comrie, B. 1976. The syntax of causative constructions: Cross-language similarities and diver-
gences. In The Grammar of Causative Constructions, M. Shibatani (Ed.), New York NY:
Academic Press.
	 George Hewitt
Deeters, G. 1930. Das Kharthwelische Verbum. Leipzig: Kommissionsverlag von Markert und
Petters.
Gagua, K’. 1976. dronak’li zmnebi svanurshi (Tense-defective Verbs in Svan) Tbilisi:
Metsniereba.
Harris, A.C. 1985. Diachronic Syntax: The Kartvelian Case. New York NY: Academic Press.
Hewitt, B.G. 1979. Aspects of verbal affixation in Abkhaz (Abzhui Dialect). Transactions of the
Philological Society 1979: 211–238.
Hewitt, B.G. 1987. Georgian – ergative or active? In Lingua: Studies in Ergativity, R.M.W. Dixon
(Ed.), 319–340.
Hewitt, B.G. 1989. Review-article of Syntax and Semantics 18: A.C. Harris’ Diachronic Syntax:
The Kartvelian Case. Revue des Etudes Géorgiennes et Caucasiennes 3: 173–213.
Hewitt, B.G. 1999. Morphology revisited: Some peculiarities of the Abkhaz verb. In Studies in
Caucasian Linguistics. Selected papers of theeighth Caucasian Colloquium, H. van den Berg
(Ed.), 197–208. Leiden: CNWS.
Hewitt, B.G. 2004. Introduction to the Study of the Languages of the Caucasus. Munich: Lincom.
Kadzhaia, O. 2001, 2002, 2002. megrul-kartuli leksik’oni I, II, III (Mingrelian- Georgian Diction-
ary I, II, III). Tbilisi: Nek’eri.
Lazard, G. 1995. Le Géorgien: actance duale (‘active’) ou ergative? Typologie des verbs anti-
impersonnels. Sprachtypologie und Universalienforschung 48: 275–293. (Also included in
Etudes de linguistique générale: Typologie grammaticale [Collection linguistique publiée par
la Société de linguistique de Paris, LXXXII], 243–261. 2001. Leuven: Peeters).
Monro, D.B. 1998. Homeric Grammar. Bristol: Classical Press (facsimile of the 1891 Edn.)
Nichols, H. 1994. Ingush. In The Indigenous Languages of the Caucasus 4: The North East Cauca-
sian Languages, Part 2, R. Smeets (Ed.), 79–145.
Potskhishvili, A. 1969. unebliobis k’at’egoria kartul zmnashi (The category of unwillingness in
the Georgian verb). giorgi axvledians (To Giorgi Akhvlediani), 152–155.
Q’ipshidze, I. 1994. rcheuli txzulebani (Selected Works). Tbilisi: University Press. (First pub-
lished 1914).
Schmidt, K.H. 1965. Indogermanisches Medium und Sataviso im Georgischen. Bedi Kartlisa
XIX-XX: 129–135.
Shanidze, A. 1939. svanuri p’oezia (Svan Poetry). Tbilisi: Metsniereba.
Shanidze, A. 1979. scema igi tu scema mas (X hit YNOM or X hit YDAT). salit’erat’uro kartulis
sach’irborot’o sak’itxebi (Burning Questions of Literary Georgian), 122. Tbilisi: Ganatleba.
Topuria, V. 1967. shromebi I. svanuri ena I. zmna (Works I. Svan Language I. Verb). Tbilisi:
Metsniereba.
Tuite, K. 1997. Review of B.G. Hewitt Georgian. A Structural Reference Grammar. Functions of
Language 4: 258–260.
The degenerate dative in Southern
Norrbothnian
Östen Dahl
In some northern Swedish vernaculars, one can find some rather peculiar
developments in the use of inflectional forms of nouns. Thus, in the vernaculars
Pitemål and Rånemål, spoken in the province of Norrbotten, no less than three
kinds of forms compete for the territory taken up by indefinite nouns in other
Germanic languages such as Standard Swedish. These are: (i) definite plural
forms; (ii) forms historically derived from older (nominative forms of) indefinite
plurals; (iii) forms historically derived from (probably definite) dative plurals.
The expansion of the definite forms into indefinite territory is found over a large
part of the Swedish dialect area. The development of the old dative forms, on the
other hand, is restricted to a smaller area in Norrbotten, although the first stage
of it can be seen also in the province of Västerbotten. In this initial stage, dative
forms are found after quantifier words such as ‘some’, ‘many’. In some vernaculars,
datives are also used after numerals. The most plausible explanation here is that the
constructions historically involve a deleted preposition ‘of’. But the dative forms
have expanded way beyond the constructions where such a deletion is plausible, in
such a way that they are sometimes referred to in descriptions of the vernaculars
simply as ‘indefinite plurals’. However, the original indefinite plurals are still used
and there is a certain division of labor between the three types of forms that occur
in ‘indefinite’ contexts. Thus, a Swedish bare plural will normally be translated
using a definite form; if it is preceded by some kind of modifier such as an
adjective, however, it will typically be rendered with an ending which historically is
a dative, irrespective of the syntactic function the noun phrase has in the sentence.
If the noun is preceded by a quantifier, the form chosen may be one derived from
a historical indefinite plural; but this is possible only with certain quantifiers and
given that there is no modifier present. At the same time, the original functions
of the dative case have lost their productivity in these vernaculars. What we can
observe in Pitemål and Rånemål is thus a development in which a dative ending
loses its character as a case marker and instead turns into what looks like an
indefinite plural ending, although one which has a restricted use.
1.  
Introduction
The vernaculars spoken in northern Sweden exhibit many peculiar properties
in their nominal syntax (Delsing (2003: 232)). In this paper, I shall discuss a
	 Östen Dahl
phenomenon that, as far as I know, has not been treated systematically in recent
literature, namely some rather unexpected developments of dative suffixes, pri-
marily in three vernaculars spoken in Norrbotten, the northernmost province in
the traditional Swedish dialect area: Pitemål, Lulemål (proper) and Rånemål. As
an example, consider the following sentence:
	 (1)	 Pitemål
		 Hä	 stå:r	 å̀ått	 àasp	 dēna	 bå̀årt,
		 it	 stand.prs	 eight	 aspen.pl	 there	 away
		 å	 hä	 jär	 sto:ra	 àspom.
		 and	 it	 be.prs	 big.pl	 aspen.dat.pl
		
‘Thereˉareˉeightˉaspensˉoverˉthere,ˉandˉtheyˉareˉbigˉaspens.’ˉ(Lidströmˉ&ˉ
Berglundˉ(1991: 20))
The lexeme asp ‘aspen’ occurs twice in this sentence, first in the phrase å̀ått àasp
‘eight aspens’, where the form àasp is historically derived from a nominative plural
form, and then in the phrase sto:ra àspom ‘big aspens’, where the form àspom is
historically a dative plural, although syntactically there would not seem to be any
motivation for a dative case to appear here. It is this curious distribution of forms
that I will discuss in this paper.
Map 1 shows those parts of the provinces of Västerbotten, Norrbotten and
Lappland where North Germanic vernaculars (‘Swedish dialects’) are traditionally
spoken. (The remainders of those provinces are traditionally Finno-Ugric terri-
tory.) The vernaculars can be grouped into Westrobothnian and Norrbothnian,
but the borderlines between the vernacular groups do not wholly coincide with the
province boundaries. At a lower level, five or six smaller areas, which by and large
correspond to the river valleys, are commonly recognized. Two of these, situated
in southern and central Norrbotten, are Pitemål, along the Pite river, and Lulemål,
along the Lule river. In this paper, ‘Lulemål’, or ‘Lulemål proper’, will refer to the
variety spoken in the parish of Neder-Luleå at the Lule river. Rånemål, spoken in
the parish of Råneå at the mouth of the Råne river, is usually regarded as being a
variety of Lulemål. However, there may be some significant differences between
Rånemål and ‘Lulemål proper’, and the phenomena that I am discussing in this
paper are better documented in Rånemål, which motivates paying some extra
attention to that vernacular. In the following, I shall use ‘Southern Norrbothnian’
to refer to the vernaculars within the Pitemål and Lulemål areas as traditionally
defined (these areas are marked by grey in the map).
I have more or less exclusively used written sources, including both academic
and non-academic descriptions (grammars and lexica) and text collections: for
Pitemål: Dahlstedt (1956), Brännström (1993), Nyström (1988), Lidström & Berg­
lund (1991); for Lulemål proper: Nordström (1925), Nyström (1993); and for
	 The degenerate dative in Southern Norrbothnian 	
Sweden
Finland
Norway
S
Westrobothnian
Lulemål
Angermannian
Pitemål
N
Westrobothnian
Kalixmål
Northern
settler
DA
Jamtska
Ang-WB
transitional
area
Råneå
Nederluleå
Piteå
Socken
	 Östen Dahl
Rånemål: Wikberg (2004). I have tried to verify the grammatical statements of the
authors against text examples – it is not always possible, however, to attest all details
fully.1 The spelling varies quite significantly between the sources: I have refrained
from trying to unify it and render the examples as they are given in the original.
The vernaculars under discussion are seriously endangered and under strong
pressure from more standard varieties. The written sources tend to reflect the intu-
itions of speakers born in the second half of the 19th and the first half of the
20th century. It is to be expected that the language of these generations is already
in an unstable state, and that in particular written texts will be heavily influenced
by Standard Swedish norms. They therefore have to be treated with caution. On
the other hand, a relatively consistent pattern can be discerned in the various
descriptions and texts, putting off the area under discussion from the surrounding
vernaculars. (It may be noted here that the peculiar developments of the dative
case are not found in the Kalix vernaculars north of the Lulemål area.)
Before going into the specific phenomena found in Southern Norrbothnian,
I shall start by mentioning a few facts with wider significance concerning the
general fate of the dative case in Scandinavian varieties and the expansion of the
domain of the definite forms in northern Swedish vernaculars. I will then survey
the choice of inflectional forms in quantifier phrases in the three vernaculars, with
notes also about other vernaculars in the area, and then turn to the uses of histori-
cal datives forms specific to Southern Norrbothnian. The following two sections
are devoted to a general discussion of the phenomena from a synchronic and a
diachronic point of view.
2.  
The dative in Northern Peninsular Scandinavian
The dative has been preserved in many conservative dialects in Norway and north-
ern Sweden – as argued in Dahl & Koptjevskaja-Tamm (2006), the dative tends
to be the most resilient marked member of the old case system. It has however
undergone many changes with respect to both form and function. This is true
in particular of the Southern Norrbothnian vernaculars, where the only produc-
tive dative suffix (at least in the speech of recent generations) is the plural -om
(Pitemål) and -o (Lulemål & Rånemål). The traditional uses of the dative – e.g.,
.  It would of course have been desirable to have recourse to judgments of native speakers; in
view of the present unstable state of the vernaculars, I decided that it might be difficult to find
informants whose intuitions were secure enough to add significantly to the information obtain-
able from the written sources.
	 The degenerate dative in Southern Norrbothnian 	
to mark indirect objects, following prepositions – are only marginally present
in those vernaculars; in such constructions, forms unmarked for case tend to be
used, except in set expressions. Instead, the productive uses of the forms histori-
cally derived from dative forms tend to be conditioned by the internal structure
of the noun phrase, as we shall see in the following. (More productive traditional
uses of datives are found both in the Northern Westrobothnian vernaculars to the
south and the Kalix vernaculars to the north of the Southern Norrbothnian area.)
3.  
The expansion of definite forms of nouns
As already mentioned, noun phrases show many grammatical peculiarities in the
vernaculars of this region. In particular, there are some rather unorthodox uses of
inflectional forms. For instance, the definite forms of nouns are used not only in
cases where definite articles are found in languages like English but also e.g., when
English would have a bare noun (and French a partitive article), as in
	 (2)	 Pitemål
		 a.	 Vä	 sko	 i`ta	 paltn.
			 we	 will	 eat.inf	 dumpling.def
			 ‘We’llˉeatˉdumplings’ (Brännströmˉ(1993: 12))
		 b.	 I	 behöv	 penninga.	
			 I	 need.prs	 money.def.pl	
			 ‘Iˉneedˉmoney.’ (Brännströmˉ(1993: 20))
	 (3)	 Lulemål
		 Hån	 djåord	 upp	 eln	 ini	 spissn.
		 he	 make.pst	 up	 fire.def	 in	 stove.def
		 ‘Heˉmadeˉfireˉinˉtheˉstove.’ (Nyströmˉ(1993: 162))
	 (4)	 Rånemål
		 Förr	 at	 dåm	 grötn	 o	 kweln.
		 earlier	 eat.pst	 they	 porridge.def	 in	 evening.def
		 ‘Earlierˉtheyˉusedˉtoˉhaveˉporridgeˉinˉtheˉevening.’ (Wikbergˉ(2004: 112))
Similar uses of definite forms are found in a large area comprising most of northern
Sweden and the Swedish-speaking parts of the province of Österbotten (Pohjanmaa)
in Finland. In a smaller area in northern Sweden, definite forms are used also after
some quantifiers such as ‘much’ – this is a phenomenon that I shall return in 4.2.
At this point, it may be noted that the expansion of definite forms has as an effect
that the frequency of indefinite noun phrases, in particular plural ones, decreases
rather sharply. They show up mainly in predicative position and, as we shall see,
after quantifiers.
	 Östen Dahl
4.  
Plural nouns after quantifiers in Southern Norrbothnian
I use the term ‘quantifier’ to refer to words belonging to the traditional catego-
ries of numerals and indefinite pronouns such as ‘much’, ‘many’, ‘few’, and ‘some’.
(Quantifiers such as ‘all’ which are used with definite reference are not of interest
here.) In Southern Norrbothnian, plural nouns that follow quantifiers display an
astonishing diversity in grammatical form. We can distinguish three major pos-
sibilities: (i) forms historically derived from indefinite plural forms, unmarked for
case – henceforth referred to as ‘historical indefinites’; (ii) definite plural forms,
unmarked for case; (iii) forms historically derived from dative plurals (with neu-
tralization of the definite indefinite distinction) – henceforth ‘historical datives’.
I shall now look at these three possibilities in turn.
4.1  
Historical indefinites
The use of indefinite nouns after quantifiers is inherited from Common North
Germanic and is still the only alternative in the standard Scandinavian lan-
guages. It would thus seem that there should not be much to say about this
alternative. However, with respect to their form, historical indefinites in Pitemål
and Rånemål have undergone quite radical changes, which make them stand
out from the corresponding forms in the standard languages. As a result of a
general process of apocope, many words in Norrbothnian vernaculars have lost
their final vowels. This tends to be compensated through the retainment of a
compressed version of the ‘grave’ pitch accent of the original word (sometimes
referred to as a ‘circumflex accent’). In the particular case of plural forms in
Pitemål and Rånemål, this means that synchronically, the pitch accent is often
the only thing that sets historical indefinites off from singular indefinites, e.g.,
Pitemål kódd: kòdd ‘pillow: pillows’, Lulemål and Rånemål bat: baat ‘boat: boats’.
(The grave diacritic (`) and double vowels are here different ways of render-
ing the special pitch accent of the plural forms.) There are, however, also other
types of plural formations, e.g., with umlaut as in hánd: hénder (Pitemål) or hät:
hender (Lulemål & Rånemål) ‘hand’. Feminine ‘weak’ nouns, which in Standard
Swedish end in -a, behave differently in Pitemål, on the one hand, and the two
other vernaculars on the other: Standard Swedish stuga: stugor ‘hut, house’ cor-
responds to Pitemål stö`go: stö`go (with the plural identical to the singular) and
stogo: stogi in Lulemål and Rånemål.
In Lulemål and Rånemål, historical indefinites show up mainly after numer-
als and some quantifiers such as määk ‘many’, fLääir ‘several’ and näger ‘some’
(Wikberg (2004: 113)). In Pitemål, they show up in basically the same contexts but
appear to alternate with historical datives (see 4.3).
	 The degenerate dative in Southern Norrbothnian 	
Dahlstedt (1956: 36) quotes a few examples from Pitemål where endingless
historical indefinites are used after adjectives, the clearest one being små:`da band
‘small bands’ (example from Jävre village).
4.2  
Definite plurals
In many Northern Swedish vernaculars, definite forms are used quite widely after
quantifiers, e.g., in the following example from the Southern Westrobothnian area,
where a definite plural form is used after a numeral:
	 (5)	 Sorseleˉ(SouthernˉWestrobothnian)
		 Han	ha	 tre	 brödren.
		 he	 have:prs	 three	 brother:def.pl
		 ‘Heˉhasˉthreeˉbrothers.’ (Bergholmˉetˉal.ˉ(1999: 24))
In southern Norrbothnian, however, this construction is apparently restricted to the
word mȫ`tje (Pitemål) or mi:tji ‘much, many’ (Rånemål), which (like the cognate
mycket in Standard Swedish) can be used both with singular and plural nouns:
	 (6)	 Pitemål
		 a.	 Hä	 var	 mö`tje	 foLKe	 krö´gom	’en.
			 it	 be.pst	 much	 people.def	 around	 he.obl
			 ‘Thereˉwereˉlotˉofˉpeopleˉaroundˉhim.’ˉ(Brännströmˉ(1993: 52))
		 b.	 E	 fjȫƚomsómmarn	 var-e	 mȫtje	 djǟtinga.	
			 in	 last_summer.def	 be.pstˉit	 much	 wasp.def.pl	
			 ‘Lastˉsummerˉthereˉwereˉmanyˉwasps’ (Lidströmˉ&ˉBerglundˉ(1991: 93))
	 (7)	 Rånemålˉ
		 Åm	Biblen	 noförtudn	 hädd	 vöri	 luka	 staaor,
		 if	 Bible.def	 nowadays	 have.pst	 be.sup	 as	 big
		 sö	 skoll	 -ä	 at	 hå	 fånnese	 sö	 mitji	 predikäntan.
		 so	 will.pst	 it	 not	 have.inf	 exist.pst	 so	 much	 preacher.def.pl
‘[looking at an old Bible:] If Bibles had been that big nowadays, there
wouldn’t have been so many preachers.’ (Wikberg (2004: 22))
Exceptionally, however, the word stòitj (Pitemål) or stiits (Rånemål) ‘piece, item’,
which is commonly used as a placeholder, seems to be used regularly in the defi-
nite plural after any quantifier (Wikberg (2004: 113, 184)); Lidström & Berglund
(1991: 200)):
	 (8)	 Pitemål
		 I	 fann	 nà̄gȩr	 stoitja.
		 I	 find.pst	 some	 item.def.pl
		 ‘Iˉfoundˉsome.’
	 Östen Dahl
	 (9)	 Rånemål
		 Kän	jä	 fa	 nager	 stitsa	 bårti	 di	 här	 bLaomen?
		 can	 I	 get.inf	 some	 item.def.pl	 of	 dem	 here	 flower.def.pl
		 ‘CanˉIˉhaveˉaˉfewˉ(pieces)ˉofˉtheseˉflowers?’
For Lulemål, however, Nyström (1993: 165) quotes an example with an indefinite
plural after the corresponding word (stiitj):
	 (10)	 Lulemål
		 Dji	 me	 näger	 stiitj
		 give	me	 some	 item.pl
		 ‘Giveˉmeˉaˉcouple!’
Definite forms after quantifiers, then, play a relatively minor role in Pitemål
and Rånemål.
4.3  
Historical datives
Of central interest in this paper is the third alternative for noun marking after
quantifiers: when the noun following the quantifier is in a form that diachronically
and sometimes also synchronically can be labeled a dative, notably a dative plural.
This construction is found in Northern Westrobothnian and Southern Norrboth-
nian. Let us look at Northern Westrobothnian first.
In Northern Westrobothnian vernaculars, the use of the dative is possible with
a range of plural quantifiers. Larsson (1929: 132) lists the following words which
can be followed by the dative in Westrobothnian: mycket ‘much, many’, litet ‘some’,
mindre ‘less’, dussin ‘dozen’, liter ‘liter’, kilo ‘kilo’, kanna ‘pitcher’, sorters ‘kinds of’
and na ‘some’. (All of these except na are quoted by Larsson in their Standard
Swedish forms.) He gives a number of examples, such as:
	 (11)	 Westrobothnianˉ(locationˉnotˉindicated)
		 a.	 Howa	 se	 mytje	 olum	 he	 vaL!
			 gosh	 so	 much	 word.dat.pl	it	 become.pst
			 ‘Goshˉhowˉmanyˉwordsˉthereˉturnedˉoutˉtoˉbe.’
		 b.	 e	 dussin	 banum
			 one	 dozen	 child.dat.pl
			 ‘aˉdozenˉchildren’
		 c.	 nәpp	 ös	 na	 joLberum
			 pick	 us	 some	 strawberries
			 ‘pickˉsomeˉstrawberries’
		 d.	 әlla	 sorters	 tiningom
			 all	 kind.pl.gen	 newspaper.pl.dat
			 ‘allˉkindsˉofˉnewspapers’
	 The degenerate dative in Southern Norrbothnian 	
According to Marklund (1976), the dative is used in Northern Westrobothnian
(Skelleftemål) after a variety of quantifying words and expressions, such as möitje
‘much, many’, lite ‘little’, meinner ‘less’, mar ‘more’, mässt ‘most’, na ‘some’, noâ ‘some
(pl.)’, nâllta ‘some, a little’, and measures such as dUssaN ‘dozen’, tjåg ‘score’, ââN
‘ell’, kæænn ‘pitchers’, skâlpunn ‘pound’, liter ‘litre’, kilo ‘kilo’. Marklund provides
the following examples: möitje fLöuwjåm ‘many flies’, lite snaisåm ‘few sädessky-
lar’, nâllta potætom ‘some potatoes’, na sjiråm ‘some magpies’, e dussaN pännåm
‘a dozen pens’, tjwå kilo leinnbärom ‘two kilos of lingonberries’. As I already said,
the use is restricted to plurals. Westerberg (2004: 111) mentions several exam-
ples from Norsjö in northern Västerbotten which she says are in accordance with
Marklund’s such as möù̯kke benä´mɳiŋåm ‘many denominations’ and lit̀e gat̀åm
‘few riddles’.
Turning now to Southern Norrbothnian, Brännström (1993:  19) states for
Pitemål that the dative is obligatory with na ‘some’, as in (12), and optional after
numerals, as in (13).
	 (12)	 Pitemål
		 a.	 Hä	 kom	 na	 fLi`ttjom	 ötät	 väjen.
			 it	 come.pst	 some	 girl.dat.pl	 along	 road.def
			 ‘Thereˉcameˉsomeˉgirlsˉalongˉtheˉroad.’
		 b.	 Dji´v	 mä	 na	 kòrvom!
			 give.imp	 me	 some	 sausage.dat.pl
			 ‘Giveˉmeˉsomeˉsausages!’
	 (13)	 Pitemål
		 a.	 Hä	 satt	 fem	 fLö`go/fLö`jom	 opa	 fjö´La.
			 it	 sit.pst	 five	 fly.pl/fly.pl.dat	 on	 shelf.def
			 ‘Thereˉwereˉfiveˉfliesˉonˉtheˉshelf.’
		 b.	 No	 sàmblese	 ’ne	 säkert	 tjúgo	 kàrom.
			 now	gather.pst.pass	 it	 surely	 twenty	 man.pl.dat
			 ‘Nowˉaboutˉtwentyˉmenˉgathered.’
According to Brännström (1993), the dative forms are also possible with some
other quantifiers, e.g., nalta ‘some’, nager ‘some’, and a ‘a couple’, as in
	 (14)	 Pitemål
		 Vell	 dö	 små`ka	 nalta	 snå`ttrom?
		 want	 you	 taste	 some	 cloudberry.dat.pl
		 ‘Doˉyouˉwantˉtoˉtryˉsomeˉcloudberries?’
Other examples given in Brännström (1993) are na`ger gobbom ‘some old men’
(10), na`ger döudfLöjom ‘some dead flies’ (22), a tattarom ‘some travellers’ (19). On
the other hand, in Lidström & Berglund (1991: 11) it is said quite categorically that
	 Östen Dahl
nāgȩr ‘some, a certain number of’ cannot be followed by an om-ending in Pitemål,
and the following two examples are contrasted:
	 (15)	 Pitemål
		 a.	 Ställ	 fram	 nāgȩr	 stå̀oł!
			 put	 forth	 some	 chair.pl
			 ‘Putˉoutˉaˉfewˉchairs!’
		 b.	 Ställ	 fram	 na	 ståołom!
			 put	 forth	 some	 chair.dat.pl
			 ‘Putˉoutˉ(some)ˉchairs!’
Dahlstedt (1956:  30) quotes examples with fḷei:r ‘several’: fḷei:r sji`
ftom ‘several
shifts’ (Jävre).
In an older Pitemål text I have found an example withen par ‘a couple’, although
the sentence looks suspiciously acrolectal:
	 (16)	 Pitemål
		 … ve	 fekk	 oss	en	 par	 rejäla	drammom.
		 we	get.prs	 us	 indef	 couple	 real	 dram.dat.pl
		 ‘Weˉgotˉourselvesˉaˉcoupleˉofˉbigˉdrams.’
The contradictory information about the usage after the quantifier nager ‘some’
suggests that there may be dialectal variation within the Pitemål area. If that is
the case, the vernaculars from the Lulemål area seem to behave like the more
restrictive Pitemål varieties. For Lulemål proper, Nordström (1925: 16) says that
‘the plural ending o’ is added to most nouns when they are preceded by nä ‘some’.
Exceptions are words that take the plural endings -i and -ær, thus nä stjìdo ‘some
spoons’ but nä kùni ‘some women’. He compares nä to another quantifier with
the same meaning, nä̀gær, which is followed by a historical indefinite plural,
as in the following two synonymous sentences (cf. analogous examples from
Pitemål in:
	 (17)	 Lulemål
		 a.	 Hóiæ	 skul	 ‘n	 hå	 at	 nä̀gær	 heest.
			 hay.def	 would	 he	 have	 to	 some	 horse.pl
		 b.	 Hóiæ	 skul	 ‘n	 hå	 at	 nä	 he`sto.
			 hay.def	 would	 he	 have.inf	 to	 some	 horse.dat.pl
			 ‘Heˉneededˉtheˉhayˉforˉsomeˉhorses.’
Nordström’s account is probably a bit too restrictive however. Thus, in Nyström
(1993), we also find examples of the historical dative after ar ‘a couple, a pair’, and
määk ‘many’:
	 The degenerate dative in Southern Norrbothnian 	
	 (18)	 Lulemål
		 a.	 Ho	 stäkk	 ar	 vänto.
			 she	 knit.pst	 couple	 mitten.dat.pl
			 ‘Sheˉknittedˉaˉpairˉofˉmittens.’ (Nyströmˉ(1993: 21))
		 b.	 He	 lag	 ar	 bredo	 pa	 goLve.
			 it	 lie.pst	 couple	 plank.dat.pl	on	 floor.def
			 ‘Thereˉwereˉsomeˉplanksˉonˉtheˉfloor.’ (Nyströmˉ(1993: 21))
		 c.	 He	 vär	 määk	 bano	 kröyngo	 en.
			 it	 be.pst	 many	 child.dat.pl	around	 he.obl
			 ‘Thereˉwereˉmanyˉchildrenˉaroundˉhim’ (Nyströmˉ(1993: 96))
The usage in Rånemål appears to be similar to that of Lulemål. Wikberg (2004: 113)
gives examples with nä ‘some’ and ar ‘a couple/pair’ but also änger ‘no’ as in änger
peningo ‘no money (pl.)’ As was noted above (4.1), numerals, määk ‘many’,
fLääir ‘several’ and näger ‘some’ are said to be followed by historical indefinites
in Rånemål. Like in Lulemål, the historical datives in Rånemål are not formed
from nouns that take the endings -i and -er in the plural; for these the historical
indefinite forms are used instead. (It is unclear to what extent this restriction exists
in Pitemål; as can be seen from ex. (13) it does not apply to feminine words in -o
(which have identical forms in the plural) but I have not been able to establish
whether it would apply to words such as hand, for which Brännström (1993) lists
-om forms but without giving any examples of their use.)
We also find some examples where there is a preposition such as åv ‘of’
(Pitemål), a ‘of’ (Lulemål), or i ‘in’ between the quantifier and the noun, as in the
following examples:
	 (19)	 Pitemål
		 heuse,	 fullt	 åv	 gammaLsti´ntom
		 house.def	 full.nt	 of	 old_maid.dat.pl
		 ‘theˉhouse,ˉfullˉofˉoldˉmaids’ (Brännströmˉ(1993)ˉ22)
	 (20)	 Lulemål
		 d.	 He	 vär	 i	 heil	 reei	 a	 stjöso.
			 it	 be.pst	 a	 whole	 row	 of	 wagon.dat.pl
			 ‘Thereˉwasˉaˉwholeˉrowˉofˉwagons.’ (Nyströmˉ(1993: 135))
		 e.	 He	 lag	 fullt	 i	 lömpo	 pa	 båoLe.
			 it	 lie.pst	 full.neut	 in	 loaf.dat.pl	on	 table.def
			 ‘Theˉtableˉwasˉfullˉofˉloaves.’ (Nyströmˉ(1993: 110))
We have seen that one of the quantifiers that is used most consistently with the
dative and over the largest area is na or nä ‘some’. Na is a bit special as a quantifier
in that it seems to have undergone some kind of grammaticalization: it appears
	 Östen Dahl
to be more systematically used in certain contexts than the corresponding word in
Standard Swedish, although this is difficult to demonstrate by examples. It shows
up in particular in negative and interrogative contexts, but also elsewhere, as in
	 (21)	 Lulemål
		 Jö	 hä	 roske	 ihåop	 nä	 smapero.
		 I	 have	 rake.sup	 together	 some	 small_potato.dat.pl
		 ‘Iˉhaveˉrakedˉtogetherˉsomeˉsmallˉpotatoes’ (Nyströmˉ(1993: 138))
Other quantifiers that are consistently used with the dative are a ‘some’ in Pitemål
and ar ‘some, a couple, a pair’ in Rånemål and Lulemål. Dahlstedt (1956: 29) refers
to Pitemål a as a ‘plural indefinite article’. Similarly, Marklund claims that a or â in
Skelleftemål (Northern Westrobothnian) functions as an indefinite article in the
plural, and that it also has the meaning ‘a pair’. It would appear plausible that all
these forms are related. Their etymology and their relationship to the postadjecti-
val indefinite article discussed below in section 7 are unclear.
5.  
The historical dative after modifiers
I now come to what is the most peculiar extension of the use of the historical
dative forms. In Southern Norrbothnian, these forms are also used in contexts
such as the one exemplified in (1), repeated here:
	 (1)	 Pitemål
		 Hä	 stå:r	 å̀ått	 àasp	 dēna	 bå̀årt,
		 it	 stand.prs	 eight	 aspen.pl	 there	 away
		 å	 hä	 jär	 sto:ra	 àspom.
		 and	 it	 be.prs	 big.pl	 aspen.dat.pl
		
‘Thereˉareˉeightˉaspensˉoverˉthere,ˉandˉtheyˉareˉbigˉaspens’ˉ
 (Lidströmˉ&ˉBerglundˉ(1991: 20))
For Rånemål, Wikberg (2004: 113) provides examples such as truy swårta faro
‘three black sheep’ and nuya kLedo ‘new clothes’.
A rule for this use is formulated by Wikberg (2004: 113) as follows: The end-
ing -o is used with indefinite plurals if some modifier other than numerals, määk
‘many’, fLääir ‘several’ and näger ‘some’ precedes the noun. That is, the use of the
dative would be triggered by the presence of prenominal modifiers, including also
possessive pronouns, as in the examples våder bano å dåmers aongo ‘our children
and their brats’ or in Pitemål di`jn klä`ppom ‘your kids’ (Brännström (1993: 27)).
(In the last case, the noun phrase would be interpreted as definite, as is normal
with possessives.)
	 The degenerate dative in Southern Norrbothnian 	
Some more examples of this use of the historical dative from Pitemål and
Rånemål are:
	 (22)	 Pitemål
		 a.	 Ȩjn	 hàa	 rö:da	 strampom
			 one	 have.prs	 red.pl	 stocking.dat.pl
			 ‘Oneˉ(ofˉthem)ˉhasˉredˉstockings’ (Lidströmˉ&ˉBerglundˉ(1991: 11))
		 b.	 Hä	 jär	 langa	 bàkkom	 ōpǟt	 vä́äjjen
			 it	 is	 long.pl	 slope.dat.pl	along	 road.def
			 ‘Thereˉareˉlongˉslopesˉalongˉtheˉroad’ (Lidströmˉ&ˉBerglundˉ(1991: 22))
	 (23)	 Rånemål
		 Hä	 vär	 opa	 di	 tudn	 när-ä	 biärd	 a	 våra	 modernt
		 it	 be.pst	 on	 def	 time.def	 when-it	 begin.pst	 on	 be	 modern.nt
		 at	 hå	 kårta	 graa	 överrocko.
		 to	 have.inf	 short.pl	 grey.pl	 overcoat.dat.pl
		
‘Itˉwasˉatˉtheˉtimeˉwhenˉitˉwasˉgettingˉfashionableˉtoˉhaveˉshortˉgreyˉ
overcoats’ (Wikbergˉ(2004: 21))
Examples can also be found in Lulemål proper (although the construction is not
mentioned in Nordström):
	 (24)	 Lulemål
		 Hån	häd	 mioka	 föyngro	 dil	 at	 pela	 upa	 fejåol.
		 she	 have.pst	 soft.pl	 finger.dat.pl	to	 to	 play	 on	 fiddle
		 ‘heˉhadˉsoftˉfingersˉtoˉplayˉaˉfiddleˉwith’ (Nyströmˉ(1993: 128))
The usage may be less systematic here though. Cf. the following analogous exam-
ples from the same source, in which definite and historically indefinite forms of
the noun are used:
	 (25)	 Lulemål
		 a.	 Ho	 hä	 gråoa	 mjöLkadren.
			 she	 have.prs	 coarse	 milking-veins
			 ‘Sheˉ[theˉcow]ˉhasˉcoarseˉmilking-veins’ˉ(Nyströmˉ(1993: 116))
		 b.	 Hån	 hä	 ståor	 nesa	 o	 ståora	 nesahoL.
			 he	 have.prs	 big	 nose	 and	 big.pl	 nostril.pl
			 ‘Heˉhasˉaˉbigˉnoseˉandˉbigˉnostrils’ˉ(Nyströmˉ(1993: 122))
Nyström (1993: 82) also quotes examples with possessive pronouns:
	 (26)	 Lulemål
		 Jer	 e	 ider	 bano?
		 be.prs	 it	 poss.2pl	 child.dat.pl	
		 ‘Isˉitˉyourˉchildren?’
	 Östen Dahl
The premodification rule overrides the principles formulated above for the choice
of inflectional forms after quantifiers, that is, a premodified noun takes the his-
torical dative ending also when the noun phrase contains a quantifier. This means
that dative-marked phrases can take the same functional position as the historical
indefinite plural. Wikberg (2004: 113) provides the following minimal pairs:
	 (27)	 Rånemål
		 truyˉbLaaomˉ‘threeˉflowers’	 truyˉvackraˉbLaomoˉ‘threeˉbeautifulˉflowers’
		 määkˉstaantˉ‘manyˉgirls’	 määkˉaongaˉstaantoˉ‘manyˉyoungˉgirls’
		 fLääirˉpääjkˉ‘severalˉboys’	 fLääirˉgLådaˉpäjkoˉ‘severalˉhappyˉboys’
		 nägerˉbaoLˉ‘aˉfewˉballs’	 nägerˉrondaˉbaoLoˉ‘aˉfewˉroundˉballs’
But a dative-marked premodified noun phrase can also fill the same slot as a defi-
nite plural. Recall that in the vernaculars under discussion, indefinite bare nouns
are rare except after quantifiers and in predicative position – instead we find defi-
nite nouns and nouns in the dative preceded by na/nä ‘some’. In the Rånemål texts
in Wikberg (2004) we can find some striking illustrations of the functional equiva-
lence of definite nouns and historical datives. In the following examples from the
translation of the first chapters of Genesis into Rånemål we thus find dative forms
alternating with definite plurals in one and the same conjoined noun phrases,
depending on the presence of modifiers in the noun phrase:
	 (28)	 Rånemål
		 Må	 jaoLa	druv	 främ	 gröschka–
		 may	earth.def	 bring.inf	 forth	 vegetation
		 fre-berande	 växto	 å	 frukt-tredaˉ…ˉ
		 seed-bearing	 plant.dat.pl	 and	 fruit-tree.def.pl
		
‘Mayˉearthˉbringˉforthˉvegetationˉ–ˉseed-bearingˉplantsˉandˉ
fruit-treesˉ…’ˉ(Gen.ˉ1: 11)
	 (29)	 Rånemål
		 Må	 jaoLa	druv	 främ	 levande	 varelso,
		 may	earth.def	 bring.inf	 forth	 living	 being.dat.pl
		 ätt	 artten	dåmers,
		 after	species.def	 their
		 baoskäpsdjiora	 å	 kröLdjiora	 å	 vilda	 djioro,
		 livestock_animal.def.pl	 and	crawl_animal.def.pl	 and	wild.pl	animal.dat.pl
		 ätt	 arrten	 dåmers.
		 after	species.def	 their
		
‘Mayˉearthˉbringˉforthˉlivingˉcreatures,ˉaccordingˉtoˉtheirˉspecies,ˉcattleˉ[=liv
estock-animals]ˉandˉreptilesˉ[=crawl-animals]ˉandˉwildˉanimals,ˉaccordingˉto
ˉtheirˉspecies.’ˉ(Gen.ˉ1: 21)
	 The degenerate dative in Southern Norrbothnian 	
The non-modified nouns here happen to be compounds. These however count as
unmodified, and take a definite form, as opposed to nouns modified by an adjec-
tive, which take the historical dative. Thus, in (29), kröLdjiora ‘crawl-animals, i.e.,
reptiles’ appears in the definite plural form, whereas the immediately following
vilda djioro ‘wild animals’ takes the dative ending.
6.  
Discussion: The synchronic perspective
To sum up, for contexts where we find indefinite plural nouns in English and Stan-
dard Swedish, the Norrbothnian vernaculars discussed here offer a choice between
several different possibilities, viz. forms historically derived from (i) indefinite plu-
rals, unmarked for case; (ii) definite plurals, unmarked for case; (iii) plural datives.
In addition, bare plural nouns in other Germanic languages often correspond to
nouns in the dative preceded by na or nä ‘some’. The choice between the inflectional
forms is not free but determined by the internal syntax of the noun phrase. The
question is now: what grammatical categories do the different forms represent? The
problem is that there are several candidates for the label ‘indefinite plural’ without
any of them being wholly satisfactory. The historical indefinite plural is used only in
a few, syntactically well-defined contexts. The definite plural is in a way the default
choice as a translation of the indefinite plurals of other languages, but it also trans-
lates definite nouns, so it appears strange to call label it ‘indefinite’. And finally, the
historical dative is only used if there is a quantifier or a prenominal modifier. To
complicate things further, some historical indefinite plurals (in -i or -er) show up
also in contexts where the historical dative is found with other nouns.
Fromthetypologicalpointofview,itisnotauniquesituationfortheretobeforms
that are used only in specific contexts and which do not fit very well into a paradigm.
Like the Norrbothnian vernaculars, the Slavic languages have complex rules for com-
binations of quantifiers – in particular numerals – and nouns. In some cases, there are
forms which are only used after certain numerals and nowhere else, like Russian časá
from čas ‘hour’ which is exclusively used after 2, 3, and 4 (see Corbett, this volume). It
does appear that the historical indefinites in the Norrbothnian vernaculars are of the
same kind – forms that have been ‘trapped’ in a specific syntactic construction.
As for the two other forms – the definite plural and the dative – it is tempt-
ing to draw typological parallels here too. As we have seen, the choice depends on
the presence of a modifier in the wide sense of the word. In various languages, we
find morphemes that mark a noun as having a modifier. The most well-known is
perhaps the Persian ‘ezafe’, as in ketāb-e bozorg ‘a big book’, where the -e on ketāb
‘book’ is conditioned by the following adjectival modifier bozorg ‘big’. The ending
-om/-o in the Norrbothnian vernaculars is admittedly not quite parallel, since it is
	 Östen Dahl
restricted to the plural and is not general to all nouns. While its presence is clearly
dependent on the presence of a modifier, it is less clear that we should really treat
it as a ‘linker’ or marker of the modified status of the noun.
To the extent that the ending -om/-o alternates with definite forms of nouns, it
could be argued that the alternation should be formulated in terms of restrictions on
the latter: the extended uses of definites are only possible with non-modified nouns,
and when they are not possible, historical datives are used as a kind of default indef-
inite plural. However, this would not explain the distribution after numerals, which
at least in Rånemål also follows the premodified – non-premodified distinction.
On the other hand, there are some indications that the -om/-o forms may tend
to function as default indefinites, as in the following example, where there is an -o
form in predicative position:
	 (30)	 Rånemål
		 Bägge	 toen	 vär	 biggnadssnickaro
		 both	two.def	 be.pst	 construction_carpenter.def.pl	
		 å	 dillfällit	 eotan	 arbäit.
		 and	 temporarily	 without	 work
		
‘Bothˉofˉthemˉwereˉconstructionˉcarpentersˉandˉtemporarilyˉoutˉofˉ
work’(Wikbergˉ(2004: 46))
Dahlstedt (1956: 30)2 provides some examples from Pitemål where dative forms
are used with nouns which are not premodified, e.g.,
	 (31)	 Pitemålˉ(Jävreˉvillage)
		 Pa`ppa	 jåo:ḷ	 trerä´fsom.
		 father	 make.pst	 wooden_rake.dat.pl
		 ‘Fatherˉmadeˉwoodenˉrakes.’
		 å	 så	 sku	man	 tåga	 rö`nnkwi’stom	 dil	 pi`nnom.
		 and	 so	 should	 one	 take.inf	 rowan_twig.dat.pl	 to	 stick.dat.pl
		 ‘…ˉandˉthenˉoneˉshouldˉtakeˉrowanˉtwigsˉasˉsticks.’
However, such uses do not seem to be characteristic of Pitemål in general, and
even among Dahlstedt’s examples, the ones quoted are the only undisputable ones,
the others being in prepositional phrases, which may be seen as surviving ‘old’
datives, e.g., borti vi.`djom ‘of osiers’. (Dahlstedt, somewhat inconsistently. actually
treats quite parallel examples, e.g., bårta bje
`rtjom ‘from birches’ as dative forms
.  Dahlstedt’s account is slightly confusing in that he lists ‘free-standing nouns and immedi-
ately following an indefinite plural article a’ as the first of four possible uses of historical datives,
without commenting on the relative frequency of such cases.
	 The degenerate dative in Southern Norrbothnian 	
conditioned by prepositions.) It may be significant that the examples in (31) are
both from a village which is situated at the very south edge of the Pitemål area.
7.  
Discussion: The diachronic perspective
If we now take a diachronic point of view, the Norrbothnian development of the
old dative plural into an indefinite plural marker in premodified noun phrases
appears rather odd. How did it happen? Since there is virtually no documenta-
tion of the earlier stages of the process, we have to reconstruct it from synchronic
evidence, and the conclusions have to remain speculative. It appears reasonable,
however, to assume that there were two steps in the development, and that the
use of the dative following quantifiers came before the more generalized use in
premodified NPs. This assumption is consistent with the fact that the former has
a wider geographical distribution than the latter. But it also makes the steps in the
development seem plausible, even if the details are far from clear.
Aproposalforanexplanationoftheuseofdativesafterquantifierswasputforward
by Larsson (1929: 132), who suggests that they derive from a construction containing
a preposition governing the dative, in which the preposition was later deleted. In sup-
port of this hypothesis, he quotes the following example from Widmark (1863: 16):
	 (32)	 Westrobothnian
		 Jäg	 häv	 mykkje	 a	 hågom
		 I	 have.prs	 much	 of	 fence.pl
		 ‘Iˉhaveˉmanyˉfences.’
The explanation appears plausible, in particular in view of the expansion of the
definite forms – the choice of a definite dative plural form would be natural after
the quantifier mykkje ‘much, many’, but a definite form would normally entail the
use of a preposition: cf. English many fences but many of the fences. It may be noted
that several Norrbothnian vernaculars systematically use a preposition ‘of’ after
measure phrases such as ‘seven liters’, in the same way as English:
	 (33)	 Pitemål
		 I	 tjö̀öft	 shu:ˉ	 liter	 å	 mjöƚk.
		 I	 buy.pst	 seven	 liter.pl	 of	 milk
		 ‘Iˉboughtˉtwoˉlitersˉofˉmilk.’ (Lidströmˉ&ˉBerglundˉ(1991: 26))
Cf. also (19)–(20) above, which contain an overt preposition between the quanti-
fier and the noun.
How could we now explain the further expansion of the dative forms? It
appears reasonable that there is some kind of analogical extension from the quan-
tifier cases to the premodified ones. Arguably, they share the property that the
	 Östen Dahl
head noun appears non-initially in the noun phrase, but this may not seem to be
a sufficient explanation.
There are some slightly suspicious circumstances around the plural forms
with historical dative endings. In the vernaculars under discussion, like in many
vernaculars in the area, adjectival modifiers in definite noun phrases are usually
incorporated into the noun, e.g., Rånemål staor-äLjen ‘big-elk.def, i.e., the big elk’
(Wikberg (2004: 119)). It may be hypothesized that this is the result of a process
involving among other things apocope of the ‘weak’ adjective ending, which in
Standard Swedish coincides in form with the -a ending used on all plural adjec-
tives. In predicative position, the plural ending on adjectives is apocopated, yield-
ing a zero-marked form with circumflex accent:
	 (34)	 Pitemål
		 gòbbenˉjärˉlejdˉ‘theˉoldˉmanˉisˉugly’:ˉdömˉvåorˉlèjdˉ‘theyˉwereˉugly’ˉ
 (Brännströmˉ(1993: 23))
	 (35)	 Rånemål
		
bilnˉjärˉstaorˉ‘theˉcarˉisˉbig’:ˉpäjkanˉjäraˉstaaorˉ‘theˉboysˉareˉbig’ˉ
 (Wikbergˉ(2004: 120))
It may legitimately be asked why the plural -a ending in phrases such as Pitemål
sto: ra àspom was not apocopated in the same way (Dahlstedt (1956: 36): ‘the ending
-à amazes’). Indeed, incorporated adjectives are found also in definite-marked
noun phrases which correspond to English or Standard Swedish indefinites, e.g.,
	 (36)	 Lulemål
		 a.	 He	 gä	 kålgåran	 et	 riggen
			 it	 go	 cold_chill.def.pl	 along	 back.def
			 ‘Coldˉchillsˉrunˉupˉmyˉback.’ (Nyströmˉ(1993: 98))
		 b.	 Äkt	 de,	 do	 sko	 åt	 eta	 frusibera.
			 mind	 you.obl.sg	 you.nom.sg	 shall	 not	 eat	 frozen_berry.def.pl
			 ‘Beˉcareful,ˉdon’tˉeatˉfrozenˉberries.’ (Nyströmˉ(1993: 58))
		 c.	 Hån	 kåm	 o	 lovere	 ini	 witböxen.
			 he	 come.pst	 and	 brag.pst	 in	 white_trouser.dat.pl
			 ‘Heˉcameˉbraggingˉinˉwhiteˉtrousers.’ (Nyströmˉ(1993: 105))
The last sentence may be compared to the following one, which comes from the
same source but where an adjective in -a followed by a noun with the -o ending:
	 (37)	 Lulemål
		 Hån	hä	 fo	 fLugo,
		 he	 have.prs	 get.sup	 fly
		 hån	 hä	 låga	 se	 wita	 bökso.
		 he	 have.prs	 make.def	 refl	 white	 trouser.dat.pl
		 ‘He’sˉgotˉcrazy,ˉheˉhasˉgotˉhimselfˉwhiteˉtrousers.’
	 The degenerate dative in Southern Norrbothnian 	
In other words, there is at least in Lulemål proper a competition between the
incorporating construction and the syntactic construction that involves the his-
torical dative. Given the expansion of definite forms and the general use of incor-
porated adjectives in definite noun phrases, one might expect the incorporating
construction to be the normal way of translating English and Standard Swedish
premodified indefinite noun phrases – but instead it appears that the syntactic
construction is the dominating one in several vernaculars.
One possible scenario is that the construction with an adjective in -a and a noun
in the historical dative form has arisen as an attempt to fill what seemed like a gap
in the paradigm, namely an analogue to Standard Swedish premodified indefinite
noun phrase: the -a ending would have been directly imported from Swedish, while
the forms in -om/-o were apparently seen as more natural alternatives to Swedish
plural nouns than the endingless historical indefinites. For the nouns that preserved
a separate ending in the plural, it was not necessary to use an -om/-o form.
Even if this scenario cannot be directly corroborated, there is some evidence
that the ‘dative’ construction is relatively young. Thus, in the rather scanty docu-
mentation of the vernaculars in question from the 18th century we do not find it
full-fledged. In Johan Ihre’s Pitemål word list (Reinhammar (2002)), we find the
phrase fult å röd dittom ‘full of red dots’. Reinhammar comments that the dative
form dittom ‘dots’ here is to be seen as a ‘fossilized formal dative … used instead
of an indefinite plural form’. Interestingly, however, the adjective röd ‘red’ is used
without an ending – in the modern vernacular we would have expected röda
dittom as in the following example from Lidström & Berglund (1991: 232):
	 (38)	 Pitemål
		 I	 såg	 na	 rö:da	 vantom	 ōpa	 fjö:ła.
		 I	 see.pst	 some	 red.pl	 mitten.dat.pl	on	 shelf.def
		 ‘Iˉsawˉsomeˉredˉmittensˉonˉtheˉshelf.’
Of somewhat more indirect relevance are some dative forms found in a wedding
poem from 1736, partially written in Lulemål (Dahlstedt & Ågren (1954: 94)):
	 (39)	 Lulemålˉ(18thˉcentury)
		 Crouna	 hu	 glitter	 a	 båra	 Demäanto
		 crown	 it.fem	glitter.prs	 of	 sheer	 diamond.pl
		 Å	 fleiro	 dyirsteino	 i	 åll	 fyro	 känto
		 and	 several.dat	 precious_stone.pl.dat	 in	 all	 four.dat	 corner.dat.pl
		
‘Theˉcrownˉisˉglitteringˉofˉpureˉdiamonds,3ˉandˉseveralˉpreciousˉstones
ˉinˉallˉfourˉcorners.’
.  Båra looks a little like an adjective with the plural ending -a, but I have interpreted it here
as an adverb meaning ‘only’.
	 Östen Dahl
The datives here are conditioned by the preposition a ‘of’, but what is notable is
that the quantifiers fleiro ‘several’ and fyro ‘four’ agree with the following nouns
and also take an -o ending. In older forms of North Germanic, adjectives would
behave in a similar way, and the fact that we find a non-agreeing -a ending in the
modern vernaculars is thus in need of an explanation – e.g., that it has been bor-
rowed from varieties closer to Standard Swedish.
Dahlstedt (1956: 36) mentions the possibility that the -a ending is ‘a kind of
indefinite article in the plural’, and notes that with coordinated noun phrases, the
first -a is sometimes left out, as in
	 (40)	 Pitemålˉ(Jävreˉvillage)
		 små:´d	 å	 ståora	 dö`ssjon(m)
		 small	 and	 big.pl	 heap_of_hay.pl.dat	
		 ‘smallˉandˉbigˉheapsˉofˉhay’
The question is, however, how much this buys us: it still remains to be explained
where such an indefinite article would come from. Dahlstedt apparently identifies
it with the quantifier a mentioned in 4.3 above, but in Lulemål and Rånemål we
only find the form ar, so here such an identification is problematic. Some north-
ern Swedish vernaculars do have a ‘postadjectival indefinite article’. Thus, in Skel-
leftemål (Northern Westrobothnian), according to Marklund (1976: 33), there are
singularandpluralforms,identicaltothenormalindefinitearticle:endjup-entjeell
‘a deep spring’, e djufft-e vættn ‘a deep lake’, dju(u)p-â sjöa ‘deep lakes’. The singu-
lar form is optional but the plural form obligatory. Marklund provides the follow-
ing examples of the obligatory use of the form in plural, with optional doubling
of the article:
	 (41)	 Skelleftemålˉ(NorthernˉWestrobothnian)
		 d.	 Hân	 to	 oppâ	 se
			 he	 take-pst	 on	 refl
			 â	 töörr-â	 vâânnt	 männ	 bLaawt-a	 stroomp
			 indef	 dry-indef	 mitten.pl	 but	 wet-indef.pl	 sock.pl
			 ‘Heˉputˉonˉdryˉmittensˉbutˉwetˉsocks’
		 e.	 TaLför-a	 kweinn	 hâ
			 talkative-indef.pl	 woman.pl	 have.prs
			 mässte	 fâtt	 tösstlâtn-a	 kæra.
			 mostly	 get.sup	 taciturn-indef.pl	 man.pl
			 ‘Talkativeˉwomenˉhaveˉmostlyˉgotˉtaciturnˉhusbands’
These examples are parallel to the historical dative construction in Southern
Norrbothnian in some ways, but different in others. Like the Norrbothnian con-
struction, it shows that premodified indefinite plural nouns are possible in contexts
	 The degenerate dative in Southern Norrbothnian 	
where definite forms would otherwise be expected. But the forms are the usual
plural indefinite forms, not historical datives. The adjectival endings look the same
and although in Skelleftemål this is supposedly a plural indefinite article rather
than an inflection, a historical relationship seems plausible. One may wonder, how-
ever, about the direction of derivation. In fact, it has been claimed that postadjec-
tival articles are in fact reanalyzed (to use a modern term) adjectival endings, and
in some areas the synchronic analysis is unclear. In other words, it would be the
postadjectival a that is historically derived from the ending a rather than the other
way around. Also, as Dahlstedt himself notes, the singular forms are not found in
Norrbothnian, which makes the whole explanation less likely.
The use of historical datives after possessive pronouns constitutes a special
case. In most northern Scandinavian vernaculars, the usual pattern is for posses-
sive pronouns to be postposed to definite nouns. Preposed possessive pronouns
are used for emphasis but may also be due to standard language influence. We thus
obtain contrasting pairs such as
	 (42)	 Rånemål
		 a.	 gåLan	 dåmers
			 farm.def.pl	 their
		 b.	 dåmers	 gåLo
			 their	 farm.dat.pl
			 ‘theirˉfarms’
TotheextentthatthepreposingconstructioniscalquedonStandardSwedish,itcan
also be seen as filling a gap in the paradigm as it were, where the historical dative
has been recruited as an analogue to the Standard Swedish indefinite plural.
8.  
Conclusion
What we have seen in this paper is a rather unexpected development of a case
ending, by which it comes to serve as a kind of plural marker, simultaneously
signalling that the noun phrase is premodified. This is certainly not a major gram-
maticalization path that would be represented in many different languages of the
world, and exactly how the present-day situation regarding the historical dative in
Southern Norrbothnian has come about will probably remain a mystery in view
of the lack of diachronic data. But if the historical development sketched in the
preceding section is the correct one, it is a result of a number of rather complex
preconditions in the grammatical systems of the varieties in question, with a pos-
sible influence of areal pressure.
	 Östen Dahl
References
Bergholm, E., Linder, M. & Yttergren, C. 1999. Nordsvenska nominalfraser – analyser av en enkä-
tundersökning. C-uppsats 10 p. Thesis. Inst för filosofi och lingvistik, Umeå universitet.
Brännström, I. 1993. Grammatik på pitemålet. Piteå: Piteå museum.
Dahl, Ö. & Koptjevskaja-Tamm, M. 2006. The resilient dative and other remarkable cases in
Scandinavian vernaculars. Sprachtypologie und Universalienforschung 59: 56–75.
Dahlstedt, K.-H. 1956. Inledning till Pitemålet. Norrbotten. Norrbottens läns hembygdsfören-
ings årsbok, 9–46.
Dahlstedt, K.-H. & Ågren, P.-U. 1954. Övre Norrlands bygdemål: berättelser på bygdemål med
förklaringar och en dialektöversikt. Umeå: Vetenskapliga bibl.
Delsing, L.-O. 2003. Syntaktisk variation i nordiska nominalfraser. In Dialektsyntaktiska studier
av den nordiska nominalfrasen, Ø. A. Vangsnes, A. Holmberg & L.-O. Delsing (Eds), 11–64.
Oslo: Novus.
Larsson, S. 1929. Substantivböjningen i Västerbottens folkmål: Jämte en exkurs till ljudläran.
Uppsala.
Lidström, G. & Berglund, E. 1991. Pitemålet: ållt mila àagg å ööx. Piteå: ABF Piteåbygden.
Marklund, T. 1976. Skelleftemålet: Grammatik och ordlista: För lekmän – av lekman. Boliden.
Nordström, A. 1925. Luleåkultur. Luleå.
Nyström, H. 1988. Kann’dù Peit’måhle: blä’der få’dùsi’j. 5. uppl.  Stockholm: Författares
bokmaskin.
Nyström, J.-O. 1993. Ordbok över Lulemålet: på grundval av dialekten i Antnäs by, Nederluleå
socken. Skrifter utgivna av Dialekt-, ortnamns- och folkminnesarkivet i Umeå. Serie A,
Dialekter, 10. Umeå: Dialekt- ortnamns- och folkminnesarkivet.
Reinhammar, M. 2002. En 1700-talsordlista från Piteå [Acta Academiae Regiae Gustavi Adolphi
80]. Uppsala: Gustav Adolfs akad./Swedish Science Press.
Westerberg, A. 2004. Norsjömålet under 150 år [Acta Academiae Regiae Gustavi Adolphi 86].
Uppsala: Swedish Science Press.
Widmark, F. 1863. Bidrag till kännedomen om Vesterbottens landskapsmål. Stockholm:
Westrell.
Wikberg, D. 2004. Rånemålet i Böle = Ranmale opa Böle. Råneå: Böle hembygdsfören.
Case compounding in the Bodic languages
Michael Noonan
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Case compounding, which can be defined as the inclusion of two or more case
markers within a phonological word, has received a certain amount of attention
in the literature in recent years, in particular the phenomenon known as
Suffixaufnahme [e.g., in Plank 1995a] and the various sorts of case compounding
in Australian languages, some of which manifest Suffixaufnahme and other
types of case compounding. There has been relatively less attention paid to the
phenomenon outside of these two areas of research. This paper is an attempt
to rectify the situation somewhat by presenting a general typology of case
compounding, followed by a detailed analysis of the phenomenon in the Bodic
languages, a section of the Tibeto-Burman family.
1.  
Introduction
Case compounding has received a certain amount of attention in the literature
in recent years, in particular the phenomenon known as Suffixaufnahme [e.g., in
Plank 1995a] and the various sorts of case compounding in Australian languages,
some of which manifest Suffixaufnahme and other types of case compounding.
There has been relatively less attention paid to the phenomenon outside of these
two areas of research, and this paper is an attempt to rectify the situation some-
what by presenting data from a large family of languages, the Bodic languages,
spoken in the areas straddling the spine of the Himalayas.
1.1  Bodic languages
The Bodic languages are a large and ramified branch of the Tibeto-Burman lan-
guages.1 It is a controversial grouping in the sense that there is no consensus as
to what should be placed within it and indeed whether it is a legitimate genetic
grouping at all or just an assemblage of Tibeto-Burman languages that have been
.  The work reported on in this paper has been supported by the following grants from the
National Science Foundation: DBC-9121114; SBR-9600717; and SBR-9728369.
	 Michael Noonan
spoken in the region of the Himalayas long enough for the languages to have influ-
enced each other in a variety of ways. A figure illustrating possible relationships
among the Bodic languages can be found in Appendix 1.
For our purposes, nothing crucial hinges on the assumption that these lan-
guages form a genetic grouping. It suffices that structurally these languages share
certain features, among which is a tendency to compound markers of case within
a phonological word.
1.2  
Definition of case compounding
We will define case compounding as the inclusion of two or more case markers
within a phonological word. In this paper, we are concerned exclusively with case
compounding within nominal words, which is to say that we are not concerned
with instances of case compounding within verbal words or in those of adjectives,
though we will consider case compounding in nouns used adnominally. Further,
we are concerned with case only in two of its functional domains: relational case,
which relates core arguments to the verb and peripheral arguments to the clause;
and adnominal case, which relates one NP to another. We are not concerned with
case usage as it relates specifically to subordinate verbals either with regard to the
case marking of whole clauses or to arguments within these clauses headed by sub-
ordinate verbals; we are also not concerned with modal case (Evans 1995), whereby
a case marker with locative relational function may, under certain circumstances,
code clausal tense, mood, and aspect on certain non-subjects.
1.3  
Kinds of case compounding
Given the definition of case compounding above, we can distinguish at least the
following sorts of case compounding crosslinguistically.2

a.  case stacking:  This sort of case compounding is the functional equivalent
of preposition compounding in languages like English, e.g., into the house,
onto the chair, etc. With this type, two independently occurring case affixes
are used together to describe a complex trajectory, one that is understood as a
.  The terminological framework used here draws from Austin (1995), Plank (1995b), and
Moravcsik (1995). I exclude from the typology that follows instances where two forms sig-
naling the same case are found in a single word without substantially affecting the meaning. For
example, Huber (2005: 61) observes that in Kyirong Tibetan the ergative may be doubled as a
way of clarifying or emphasizing the ergative marking which might otherwise not be clear. So pu̱
‘son, boy’ has a regular ergative py̖, but in addition there is a reinforced ergative py̖-ge containing
-ge, an ergative marker ordinarily suffixed to stems with final consonants or long vowels.
	 Case compounding in the Bodic languages	
combination of the meanings of the two case affixes. The Tamangic language
Chantyal provides an example (Noonan 2003a, 2005):
	 (1)	 tɦim-nɦari-gәmsә
		 house-ines-abl
		 ‘outˉfromˉinsideˉtheˉhouse’
b.  derivational:  This is Austin’s (1995) term for a situation whereby one case
serves as the ‘basis’ [or ‘founding form’] for another, which is not found inde-
pendently without the first.3 The Tocharian A declension of ‘teacher’ can serve
as an example:
	 (2)			 singular	 plural
		 nominative	 kæ‰‰i	 kæ‰‰i\
		 accusative	 kæ‰‰iṁ	 kæ‰‰is
		 genitive	 kæ‰‰iyāp	 kæ‰‰i∫∫i
		 instrumental	 kæ‰‰inyo	 kæ‰‰isyo
		 perlative	 kæ‰‰inā	 kæ‰‰isā
		 comitative	 kæ‰‰ina∫∫æl	 kæ‰‰isa∫∫æl
		 allative	 kæ‰‰inaʧ	 kæ‰‰isaʧ
		 ablative	 kæ‰‰inæ‰	 kæ‰‰isæ‰
		 locative	 kæ‰‰inaṁ	 kæ‰‰isaṁ
The genitive singular and nominative apart, the other cases are based on the accu-
sative [historically -in and -is for the singular and plural, respectively] to which
postpositions which once had governed the accusative fused. As markers of case,
these former postpositions do not occur without the historic accusative.
c.  referential:  This term is also from Austin (1995) and, in the context of case
compounding as here defined, refers to a set of locative nominals which can
be interpreted either adnominally [as in (3)] or adverbially [as in (4)]. For
either sort, these are marked with one case indicating location or direction
and another referencing the NP it modifies or refers to. The first example is
from Warlpiri (Hale 1982),
	 (3)	 ŋarrka-ŋku	ka	 yankirri	 luwa-rni	 ŋapa-ŋka-rlu
		 man-erg	 pres	 emu	 shoot-nonpast	water-loc-erg
		 ‘Theˉmanˉatˉtheˉwaterholeˉisˉshootingˉtheˉemu.’
.  Austin’s definition of derivational case compounding is broader than mine and excludes
the last limiting clause; it could be interpreted to include at least some instances of what I call
here case stacking. His definition is, no doubt, appropriate for the Australian languages he was
concerned with, but mine is intended to deal with a larger range of data.
	 Michael Noonan
and the second is from Jiwarli (Austin 1995):
	 (4)	 thuthu-ngku	 juma-rti-nha	 yanga-rninyja	 warlpari-lu
		 dog-erg	 child-pl-acc	 chase-past	 south.all-erg
		 ‘Theˉdogˉchasedˉtheˉchildrenˉsouth.’
The referential type is clearly related to the adnominal types described below.
d.  headed adnominal, with a case-marked head:  This is the phenomenon
described in detail in Plank (1995a) and called there Suffixaufnahme. It
involves the agreement by a nominal modifier of the case of its head while
retaining its own adnominal case, typically a genitive, as in the following
Anguthimri example (Schweiger 1995):
	 (5)	 wazayi-ɣamɽa-ma	 patra-ma
		 old.man-gen-abl	 canoe-abl
		 ‘fromˉtheˉoldˉman’sˉcanoe’
e.  headed adnominal, with no case marking on the head:  This phenomenon,
called Suffixhäufung in Plank (1995a), is similar to the prototypical cases of
Suffixaufnahme except that the head is not marked for case, while the modi-
fier is marked both for the adnominal case and the case for the case of the
entire NP. An example from Arinda follows, reported in Moravcsik (1995):
	 (6)	 worra	 ingkata-kana-la
		 son	 chief-gen-erg
		 ‘theˉchief’sˉson’
In this example, the ergative is understood to be associated with the NP defined
by the head, son.
f.	 simple headless adnominal:  This construction is referred to as hypostasis
in Plank (1995a). In this construction a headless possessor is marked with the
genitive [or other adnominal case] and also with the case indicating the gram-
matical function of the whole, headless NP within the clause. An example
follows from Chantyal:
	 (7)	 nә-ye-sә	 kɦi-ye-ra	 jɦi-i
		 1s-gen-erg	 2s-gen-dat	 hit-perf
		 ‘Mineˉbitˉyours’
In this example, the ergative and dative cases are assigned to NPs filling subject
and direct object slots, respectively. The genitive-marked NPs filling these slots
take on the clausal case as well.
	 Case compounding in the Bodic languages	
g.  complex attributive nominal: In this construction, a case-marked noun is
further marked with a nominalizer-attributive affix,4 and the resulting noun
may be further case-marked as appropriate for its nominal role. Consider the
following examples from Chantyal:
	 (8)	 a.	 mәŋgәle-ri-wa	 mәnchi
			 Mangale-loc-nom	 person
			 ‘personˉfromˉMangale’
		 b.	 mәŋgәle-ri-wa	 kha-i
			 Mangale-loc-nom	 come-perf
			 ‘someone/somethingˉfromˉMangaleˉcame’
		 c.	 mәŋgәle-ri-wa-ma
			 Mangale-loc-nom-pl
			 ‘thoseˉfromˉMangale’
		 d.	 mәŋgәle-ri-wa-ma-sә	 na-ra	 mara-i
			 Mangale-loc-nom-pl	 1s-dat	see-perf
			 ‘thoseˉfromˉMangaleˉsawˉme’
The adnominal in (8a) is interpreted as a noun and fills a clausal noun slot
in(8b).Itispluralizedin(8c),andin(8d)acquirestheergativecaseappropriate
for its grammatical role within the clause. Case marked forms like these may
acquire an additional nominalizer-attributive affix, as in (9):
	 (9)	 mәŋgәle-ri-wa-ma-siŋ-wa	 photo
		 Mangale-loc-nom-pl-com-nom	 photo
		 ‘theˉphotoˉbelongingˉtoˉtheˉpeopleˉfromˉMangale’
This,ˉinˉturn,ˉmayˉacquireˉanˉappropriateˉcaseˉmarkerˉindicatingˉtheˉ
grammaticalˉstatusˉofˉtheˉwhole,ˉasˉinˉ(10):ˉ
	 (10)	 na-sә	 mәŋgәle-ri-wa-ma-siŋ-wa-ra	 dekhә-i
		 1s-erg	Mangale-loc-nom-pl-com-nom-dat	 show-perf
		 ‘IˉshowedˉitˉtoˉtheˉownersˉfromˉMangale’
NominalizationinthissenseisarecursiveprocessinChantyalandotherlan-
guages employing this construction and may involve case compounding under
the definition given here. mәŋgәle-ri-wa-ma-siŋ-wa-ra contains three case clit-
ics: a locative, a comitative, and a dative, all within the same phonological word.5
.  The syncretism of nominalization and attribution is typical of the Bodic languages (Noonan
1997, 2008).
.  Edith Moravcsik (p.c.) has suggested that the classification of types of case compounding
	 Michael Noonan
2.  Case compounding in the Bodic languages
2.1  
Attested types in Bodic
Of the seven types of nominal case compounding identified in the last section, the
Bodic languages attest four:
	 (11)	 a.	 caseˉstacking
		 b.	 derivational
		 f.	 simpleˉheadlessˉadnominal
		 g.	 complexˉattributiveˉnominal
Case stacking is quite widely attested, at least historically, in most branches of the
family. Derivational case compounding is not especially common, but it is cer-
tainly attested. The simple headless adnominal type is not frequently mentioned in
grammatical descriptions, so its frequency is difficult to assess; however, an infor-
mal sampling seems to indicate that it is probably very common in this group. The
complex attributive nominal type is probably not common, but most descriptions
of Bodic languages are not sufficiently detailed so as to make a clear assessment of
the frequency of this construction possible. Each of these types will be discussed
in the sections below.
2.2  
Case in Bodic
The Bodic languages are strongly verb-final and agglutinating. There are no con-
cord classes, though in a few cases adjectives borrowed from Indic languages may
reflect ‘natural’ gender, displaying a special form when modifying nouns designat-
ing human females.
With regard to case, within the nominal word the order is stem+number+case,
though in a few uncommon instances, number and case may be marked with a
fused form. Almost all Bodic languages are morphologically split-ergative, though
the semantic-pragmatic basis for the split varies considerably within the group. A
few languages, e.g., some Tamangic languages such as Chantyal and Gurung, are
fairly consistently ergative. As demonstrated by Bickel (2003), some languages [e.g.,
provided in this section could be reduced to a smaller number of distinct types: A. Case com-
pounding on heads, which would include as subtypes a. case stacking and b. derivational case
compounding; and B. Case compounding on modifiers, which would include as subtypes d. Headed
adnominal, with a case-marked head, e. Headed adnominal, with no case marking on the head,
and, as a single subtype c/f/g. which would be retitled Case marker on modifier, no head present.
The classification given in §1.3 is preserved here in part because it serves the narrow purposes of
this paper which is to present a discussion of case compounding in the Bodic languages.
	 Case compounding in the Bodic languages	
Belhare] may exhibit both A/P and S/P pivots; other languages [e.g., Chantyal]
effectively have no pivots. Primary object marking (Dryer 1986) is widespread in
the group: the case that marks indirect objects [usually called ‘dative’] also marks
high animacy direct objects. In all languages an unmarked [or zero-marked] noun
is used for at least some direct objects and typically for other nouns as well: such
nouns are usually referred to as ‘absolutives’.
Postpositions almost always govern either the genitive or an absolutive.
Instances of postpositional governance of other cases are very rare. As an example
of this phenomenon in Bodic, Koshal (1979) reports that in Ladakhi the postposi-
tion kә ‘on, above’ governs the ablative and the postposition phi ‘for’ governs the
dative, but it would be interesting to investigate the matter to determine if this is
truly an instance of governed case or an instance of case stacking since cognates of
both supposed postpositions occur as case clitics in closely related languages.
2.2.1  Case expressed by clitics
Though the literature on Bodic languages generally refers to case markers as ‘suf-
fixes’ and occasionally as ‘postpositions’, the ‘core’ case markers [those coding
grammatical cases and the basic local ones] are usually best analyzed as clitics:
they are not postpositions because they are not prosodically independent nor
may they occur in free discourse independently from the nouns to which they are
bound; they are not suffixes because when NPs are coordinated, the case forms
are ordinarily not repeated for each NP, and where word order in particular lan-
guages permits, the case forms can attach to words other than the nouns to which
they are logically associated since these clitics are always phrase-final clitics. As an
illustration of the phrase-final enclitic status of the case markers in a typical Bodic
language, consider the following data from the Tamangic language Nar-Phu:
	 (12)	 ŋӕ̂	 tile	 [čhupruŋ	 nartwε-re]	 ni-čin
		 1s	 yesterday	 Nar	 Phu-dat.loc	go-past
		 ‘IˉwentˉtoˉNarˉandˉPhuˉyesterday’.
	 (13)	 paŋčεn-se	 [nôkyu	 thεpε	 mɦlaŋ-re]	 šê-čin
		 leopard-erg	 dog	 big	 black-dat.loc	 kill-past
		 ‘Theˉleopardˉkilledˉtheˉbig,ˉblackˉdog’.
The dative-locative case marker -re illustrated in the sentences above is prosodi-
cally part of the word to which it is attached: in Nar-Phu, for example, the tone
associated with the noun or adjective spreads onto the case clitic -re [Noonan
2003b]. In (12), the conjoined locative NPs share the dative-locative case clitic. In
(13), the direct object NP is marked with the dative-locative clitic [Nar-Phu is a
primary object language in the sense of Dryer 1986]: note that the clitic is attached
to the final word in the NP, not to the head.
	 Michael Noonan
There are generally no declensional classes and, pronouns apart, few paradig-
matic irregularities. Where they occur, their grammatical import, if not necessar-
ily their historical origin, is usually fairly transparent. For example, in Kathmandu
Newari the plural affix is -tɔ for ordinary animate nouns, but -pĩ for honored refer-
ents: cf khica-tɔ ‘dog’s’ and pasa-pĩ ‘friends’ [Hargreaves 2003]. True irregularities
may have more complex origins. In the Tamangic language Chantyal, five high
frequency nouns have an irregular locative, not otherwise attested in Tamangic
nouns, though it is found in various directionals:6
	 (14)	 tɦem-әŋ	 ‘house, home’
		 kɦyam-әŋ	 ‘path, way’
		 gãw-әŋ	 ‘village’
		 Bini-әŋ	 ‘Beni’
		 kyels-әŋ	 ‘field’
[The locative is otherwise rendered by either -ri or -ra, depending on certain pre-
dictable semantic factors (Noonan 2005).] Of these five nouns, two [‘village’ and
‘Beni’] are of Nepali origin, and so cannot instantiate an old, retained pattern; of
the other three words, one demonstrates an otherwise unattested phonological
irregularity: ‘house’ is otherwise tɦim. The cognates of these words in the other
Tamangic languages do not exhibit any sort of irregularity. These and other facts
suggest that these forms were either borrowed from or influenced in their devel-
opment by the Bodic language Magar, whose generic locative is -aŋ: much of the
Chantyal population is descended from ethnic Magars (Noonan 1996, 2008b).
2.2.2  origin of case markers
Where we know for certain the origins of a case marker in the Bodic languages, the
source is invariably a noun. The historical succession of stages is roughly as follows:
	 (15)	 stageˉ1:ˉ	[Na-gen]ˉNb-locc	 genitivalˉmodificationˉofˉaˉlocative-markedˉN
		 stageˉ2:ˉ	[Na]ˉPb(-locc)	 locative-markedˉpostposition
		 stageˉ3:ˉ	Na-locb(-locc)	 (compound)ˉlocativeˉcase
In stage 1 we have a genitive modifier of a noun in construction with a local case
marker. By stage 2 the genitive usually disappears, and often so does the marker of
local case on the new denominal postposition. By stage 3 the postposition becomes
a case clitic. I’ll provide two examples illustrating this succession of stages.
.  By directionals, I mean words with meanings like ‘down [static]’, ‘downward’, ‘up [static]’,
‘upward’, etc. In these words, the element -ŋ indicates static location. With the nouns in (14),
the element -әŋ shares the static locative-allative sense of the other two locative case clitics in
the language.
	 Case compounding in the Bodic languages	
In Proto-Bodic there was a noun with a form something like *s-naŋ ‘interior,
inside’ which likely derived from *s-na with a suffixed relational etymon *Vŋ.7 In
the contemporary languages, this is widely attested as a noun, but it is also widely
attested as a postposition and a case clitic, with and without the historic locative.
All the stages find attestation from the Tamangic languages:
	 (16)	 stageˉ1:ˉˉchantyal
		 tɦim-ye	 nɦaŋ-ri
		 house-gen	 interior-loc
		 ‘to/inˉtheˉhouse’sˉinterior’
		 stage 2:ˉˉthakaliˉ(Georgˉ1996) 	 nar-phu
		 tim4 naŋ3-ri	 tɦîm nɦâŋ
		 house inside-loc	 house inside
		 ‘insideˉtheˉhouse’	 ‘insideˉtheˉhouse’
		 stageˉ3:ˉˉchantyal
		 tɦim-nɦari
		 house-inessive
		 ‘insideˉtheˉhouse’
As discussed in Noonan (2008a), *s-naŋ has evolved into a comitative in
a number of languages, and in others an allative [Central Monpa] and an
instrumental [Ladakhi].
A rather more interesting case is Proto-Bodic *(g-)lam ‘road, way’, which has
evolved into an ablative independently in Tamangic and Kiranti. A number of
Kiranti languages attest both the nominal reflex and the ablative, the latter occur-
ring either alone as the case clitic -lam or in combination with the widely attested
case etymon *ka, whose uses in the Kiranti languages center around the ergative-
instrumental-ablative syncretism, but which also signals generic locatives and
other relational notions elsewhere [Noonan 2008a]. In the Tamangic languages,
*(g-)lam is universally attested in its nominal form, and is also attested in Chantyal,
Dhankute Tamang, and Seke as an ablative, in these languages either alone or in
combination with their ergative-instrumental-ablative *sa. The semantic develop-
ment is as follows: ‘road’ together with an instrumental marker is in construction
with a place name resulting in a construction meaning ‘with/by means of the road
(of) X’. Path senses are primary, with ablative senses developing from these. The
old ergative-instrumental-ablative marker may either be retained as in Thulung
.  Matisoff 2003 reconstructs *na ‘ear’, which, with the relational affix, may underlie *s-naŋ.
Starostin & Pejros (n.d.) reconstruct *naŋ/*nak ‘inside’ for Proto-Sino-Tibetan.
	 Michael Noonan
-laŋka [Kiranti] and Chantyal -gәmsә [Tamangic] or deleted as in Dumi -lam
[Kiranti] or Dhankute Tamang -gjam [Tamangic].8
2.3  
Derivational case compounding
The transition from stage 1 to stage 2 is typically accompanied by the loss of the
genitive, as illustrated in (16) above, but this is not universally the case, and such
retentions account for all examples of derivational case compounding in Bodic. The
most common path to derivational case compounding, under the definition given
here, involves a grammaticalization chain whereby de-nominal postpositions gov-
erning the genitive lose their status as independent words and fuse with the genitive.
This results in a declension in which the genitive may occur independently and may
also occur in combination with case markers derived from the old postpositions.
An example of derivational case compounding can be seen in Kathmandu
Newari (Hargreaves 2003):
	 (17)	 -ya	 genitive
		 -ya-tɔ	 dative
		 -ya-ke	 comitative
In this language, the dative and comitative derived from denominal postpositions
in construction with the genitive, the case they once governed. The genitive ele-
ment has now become optional, rendering this example more typical of the usual
progression from NP head [via postposition] to case marker in Bodic, which inev-
itably seems to involve the loss of the historic genitive.
Derivational case compounding in Bodic never achieves the sort of systematic-
ity found in languages like Avar (Blake 1994), which combines a set of five basic
static locational markers with a set of three directionals to yield a system of twenty
cases: since the static locationals can occur independently as well [they are the base
forms], this system can be analyzed as an instance of derivational case combining.
	 (18)	 static	 motion	 motion	 path
		 location	 toward	 away
		 ‘onˉtopˉof’	 -da	 -d-e	 -da-ssa	 -da-ssa-n
		 ‘at’	 -q	 -q-e	 -q-a	 -q-a-n
		 ‘under’	 -ƛʹ	 -ƛʹ-e	 -ƛʹ-a	 -ƛʹ-a-n
		 ‘in,ˉamong’	 -ƛ	 -ƛ-e	 -ƛ-a	 -ƛ-a-n
		 ‘inˉaˉhollowˉ	 ø	 -e	 -a	 -ssa-n
		 object’		
.  In both Thulung and Chantyal, the erstwhile ergative-instrumental-ablative suffix may be
deleted as well, making these examples more like their Dumi and Dhankute Tamang counter-
parts. And in Chantyal, the erstwhile ergative-instrumental-ablative may also occur alone as an
ablative, though infrequently so apart from some common expressions: see below §2.4.
	 Case compounding in the Bodic languages	
The Avar system with its combination of forms with local meanings bears some
resemblance to typical instances of case stacking, which will be described in the
next section.
Kabak (2006) proposes that postpositions following inflected nouns are less
likely to cliticize than those following uninflected nouns. The succession from stage 1
to stage 2 proposed in (15) has the genitive dropping out prior to the cliticization
of the postposition [stage 3], and thus is not in conflict with Kabak’s hypothesis.
The situation described for Kathmandu Newari is, however, as would, in principle,
any instance of derivational case compounding whose origins lie in the cliticiza-
tion of a postposition, e.g., the Tocharian A example in (2) and the Avar system
described above, assuming that the directionals in the latter derive from postposi-
tions. In any case, the typical loss of the genitive in the transition from stage 1 to
stage 2 may explain the relative ease with which postpositions cliticize in Bodic
and, taken together with Kabak’s hypothesis, the comparative rarity of derivational
case compounding in this group.9
2.4  
Case stacking
The frequency of case stacking in the Bodic languages varies greatly from language
to language, though most branches provide evidence for the phenomenon, if only
in the reconstruction of contemporary case forms. Informally, we can distinguish
two sorts: case stacking for the expression of complex trajectories, and case stack-
ing for the expression of other relational notions.
The first sort – case stacking for the expression of complex trajectories – is
widely attested and in some languages is reasonably common. This is the case for
the Tamangic language Chantyal, and complex examples involving up to three
case clitics10 occur in spontaneous discourse:
	 (19)	 dɦuŋ-phyaraŋ-mar-gәmsә
		 tree-super-circ-abl
		 ‘fromˉaroundˉtheˉtopˉofˉtheˉtree’11
.  In principle, it is possible for a system of derivational case compounding to arise from case
stacking where in an arrangement of -loc1-loc2 the first, -loc1, is used with more than one
other case and particular instances of -loc2 come to be restricted so as not to occur indepen-
dently but only in -loc1-loc2 constructions. The Avar system may have its origin in such an
arrangement, but I know of no cases in Bodic where derivational case compounding has arisen
in this way.
.  It should be emphasized that these forms are all clitics [and not words] since together they
form a single stress unit with their head noun.
.  All of the case clitics in (19) are complex: -gәmsә was discussed in §2.2.2 above; -mar con-
tains locative -ri; phyaraŋ contains the locative element -ŋ.
	 Michael Noonan
Case stacking in Chantyal is used to code complex trajectories that cannot be
expressed by single case clitics.
For the expression of complex trajectories, the order of clitics is fairly consis-
tent. The rightmost clitic expresses a trajectory and the leftmost one a location;
where there are three, as in (19), the middle one may describe either a static loca-
tion or a motion. As a practical matter, the clitics marking trajectory in Chantyal
case stacking are just two: -gәmsә, signaling source dynamic [ablative] senses, and
-mar, signaling motion, random or circular, in the vicinity of something.12 Since
Chantyal instantiates the common tendency to use the same forms for static loca-
tion and for goal dynamic [allative] senses [see Noonan 2005 for extensive discus-
sion and exemplification], case stacking is not usual where the combination would
signal goal dynamic senses.
In Chantyal, case stacking seems to be a productive process in the sense that
novel forms may be produced and understood given an appropriate stimulus, but
most instances in free discourse are probably lexicalized to some degree, and this
opens the door for certain kinds of irregularity. For example, the ablative/path
clitic -gәmsә has a number of variants which are in more-or-less free variation
when the clitic is used alone with nouns, including the full form and two reduced
forms: one involving the initial syllable -gәm only, and the other involving the final
syllable -sә, itself a reflex of the old ergative-instrumental-ablative syncretism. In
certain combinations with other case clitics, certain allomorphs are preferred.
	 (20)	 -nɦari-gәmsә	 ‘fromˉinside’
		 -mar-gәmsә	 ‘fromˉaround’
		 -pɦiriŋ-sә	 ‘underˉandˉthrough’
		 -phyaraŋ-sә	 ‘overˉacross’
Of the set in (20), the last example provides an interesting contrast: where the
meaning ‘over across’ is intended, the reduced allomorph is required; there the
meaning ‘from over, from the top’ is required, the usual form is -phyaraŋ-gәmsә,
i.e., with the non-reduced form. This is evidence for the specialization of the allo-
morphs, lexicalization, or, more likely, both. What is interesting is that the path
senses evident in the meaning of the last two examples in (20) derive historically
from the full form: recall the discussion in §2.2.2 where it was noted that the full
form -gәmsә has its origin in a construction signaling path.
Case stacking for the expression of senses not involving complex trajectories
is much less common and never productive, though examples can be found easily
enough. For example in Spiti, a member of the Tibetan Complex (Sharma 1992),
.  -mar also signals location in the vicinity of something, as in (19).
	 Case compounding in the Bodic languages	
the dative [which expresses primary objects] can be signaled by -phi-la, which
consists of benefactive -phi and dative-locative -la. In other words, the dative
sense could already be signaled by dative-locative -la, but a new, dedicated dative,
-phi-la, was created by case stacking. This use of case stacking – to create dedi-
cated forms where the old forms express functional syncretisms – is one source for
renewal of case systems in these languages.
2.5  
Simple headless adnominals
It was noted in §1.3 that the sort of case compounding in the expression of simple
headless adnominals, while seldom discussed in the literature, seems possible in
all the Bodic languages I’ve investigated. I provide below another example, parallel
to the example in (7) above, this time from Thangmi [Mark Turin, p.c.]:
	 (21)	 gai-go-ye	 naŋ-ko-kai	 cah-Ø-u-no
		 1s-gen-erg	2s-gen-dat	bite-ag.su.sg-3pat-3→3.pret
		 ‘Mineˉbitˉyours’ˉ[e.g.,ˉofˉdogs]
Essentially, we have a bracketing like [[N-gen]Ø-case], where the phrase-final
case clitic simply attaches to the next available host. Looked at another way, the
genitive functions here as a sort of nominalizer, permitting the adnominal NP to
fill a noun slot requiring another case. In principle, this could even be a genitive
slot, though if it were, haplology would, at least in Chantyal, eliminate the second
genitive, except in very careful speech:
	 (22)	 nә-ye	 (<nә-ye-ye)	 pɦale-gәmsә	 ka	 kha-m
		 1s-gen	1s-gen-gen	 leg-abl	 blood	 come-npst
		 ‘Mine’sˉlegˉwasˉbleeding’ˉ[=ˉ‘Myˉdog’sˉlegˉwasˉbleeding’]
Notice that the English possessive adjective mine’s is a doubly marked genitive, a
rare instance of the phenomenon in English.
While case compounding of any sort is not that frequently encountered cross-
linguistically, the constructions illustrated here have many parallels in languages
that do not employ case compounding. For example, in the Romance languages,
proper names deriving from place names and composed with the preposition de
can be treated as simple nouns grammatically: de d’Artagnan ‘d’Artagnan’s’.
2.6  
Complex attributive nominals
As noted, the Bodic languages are characterized by employing a single grammati-
cal form which is used both as a nominalization and as an attributive (Noonan
1997, 2008). In some languages, this form, which is conventionally referred to as
a nominalizer, can be suffixed to a variety of lexical classes producing attributives
	 Michael Noonan
that can also be treated as nouns. A few examples of attributive use from Chantyal
follow:
	 (23)	 tәyla-wa	 saka
		 yesterday-nom	ancestor
		 ‘yesterday’sˉancestors’
	 (24)		 yәwta	 dyammәr-ma	citro-ma-ye	 ɦә-sәrә-wa	 phәlphul-ma-ye	rәksi
			 one	 dogwood-pl	 barberry-pl-gen	that-manner-nom	fruit-pl-gen	 raksi
		 ‘raksiˉfromˉsomeˉfruitsˉlikeˉdogwoodˉandˉbarberry’
	 (25)	 syãlkhәrkә-Õra-wa	 mәnchi
		 Syalkharka-circ-nom	 person
		 ‘personˉfromˉaroundˉSyalkharka’
	 (26)	 chә	 mәyna-ri-wa	 nani
		 six	 month-loc-nom	 baby
		 ‘six-monthˉoldˉchild’
	 (27)	 kɦwara-ru-wa	 kәru
		 wheat-com-nom	hooded.barley
		 ‘theˉhoodedˉbarleyˉamongˉtheˉwheat’
When used as nouns, these forms can occur with any case clitic appropriate for
their grammatical roles, resulting in a kind of case compounding:
	 (28)	 chә	mәyna-ri-wa-ra	 syãlkhәrkә-̣ra-wa-ye	 nɦin	 kha-i
		 six	 month-loc-nom-dat	 Syalkharka-circ-nom-gen	 fear	 come-perf
		 ‘Theˉsix-monthˉoldˉwasˉafraidˉofˉtheˉoneˉfromˉaroundˉSyalkharka’
Such forms have much in common with the simple headless adnominals discussed
in the last section in that the nominalization process creates a new noun that can
take additional case marking. This process can be recursive, as we note from exam-
ple (10), repeated below:
	 (10)	 na-sә	 mәŋgәle-ri-wa-ma-siŋ-wa-ra	 dekhә-i
		 1s-erg	Mangale-loc-nom-pl-com-nom-dat	 show-perf
		 ‘IˉshowedˉitˉtoˉtheˉownersˉfromˉMangale’
3.  
The prevalence of complex case markers in Bodic
In this section, I will provide two crude measures indicating the overall frequency of
complex case markers of any sort, either those resulting from case compounding or
those arising from denominal postpositions and case clitics as discussed in §2.2.2.
The first such measure is taken from Noonan (2008a) and reproduced as Appendix 2.
This chart provides a set of selected case etymons in Bodic, noting their occurrence
with various case roles/meanings in the literature, their overall frequency in those
roles, and the number of times they occur ‘uncompounded’. ‘Compounded’ in this
	 Case compounding in the Bodic languages	
context could refer to any sort of case compounding or to stage 2 or 3 developments
in(15)in§2.2.2:thatis,todenominalpostpositionsorcaseclitics.Thefiguresaredrawn
from the survey of 76 languages reported on in Noonan 2008a.
Appendix 2 shows that compounded forms occur with some regularity in Bodic,
even in the expression of ‘basic cases’. Note that the expression of complex trajecto-
ries via case stacking of the sort illustrated from Chantyal in §2.4 were not included;
only forms described in the literature under the labels provided13 were counted.
Appendix 2 also shows that the meanings of these clitics are quite changeable
over a long enough time span: see Noonan 2008a for discussion.
The second crude measure looks at a slightly larger sample of 80 Bodic languages
and counts polysyllabic [consisting of two or more syllables] and monosyllabic forms
coding particular case functions.14 The assumption here is that polysyllabic forms
are more likely to have a recent polymorphemic origin than monosyllabic forms –
though as an absolute principle this is, of course, false and is even false with respect
to certain forms counted in this way in the data. Nonetheless, since the etymologies
of most case markers in these languages are not known at this time, this crude mea-
sure can at least point to case meanings that are likely to be targets for reinforcement
via complex forms of any sort. The results are displayed in (29), wherein ‘percentage’
refers to the percentage of polysyllabic forms found for any given case function, and
‘number’ refers to the actual counts: polysyllabic/monosyllabic.
	 (29)	 case function	 percentage	 number
		 comparative	 61%	 17/11
		 ablative	 34%	 39/75
		 comitative	 32%	 29/62
		 dative	 17%	 16/77
		 instrumental	 6%	 5/84
		 genitive	 3%	 3/91
		 locative	 2%	 3/125
		 ergative	 2%	 2/86
	 	
[The numbers may be higher than the number of languages surveyed (80) because
some languages have more than one form with a given function; not all grammati-
cal descriptions provided a comparative, hence the low number count.]
The differences among the case functions are striking. For comparatives polysyl-
labic forms are the majority, and for ablative, comitative, and dative senses the
.  The labels were reinterpreted and standardized for the purposes of the study.
.  Itshouldbenotedthatboththe80languagesampleandthe76languagesamplereferredtoabove
are convenience samples drawn from available published and unpublished sources. They are not, nor
do they pretend to be, genetically or areally balanced. The numbers and percentages given here should
be interpreted in this light, namely as crude measures only of the phenomena discussed here.
	 Michael Noonan
percentages of polysyllabic forms are also relatively high. Instrumentals, genitives,
locatives, and ergatives, on the other hand, are overwhelmingly monosyllabic. One
way to interpret these data is to assume that those case senses likely to be coded
by polysyllabic forms are the locus of new forms entering the case system via case
compounding or via postpositions grammaticalizing to cases. Where the forms
are overwhelmingly coded by monosyllabic forms, we can assume that these case
senses are the ends of grammaticalization chains. A discussion of why the particu-
lar case functions array the way they do lies beyond the scope of this paper.
The data from these two crude measures both suggest that there are a substan-
tial number of historically complex case markers in the Bodic languages and that
the complex forms are unevenly distributed among the case functions.
4.  
Final remarks
This paper began with a typology of case compounding in the languages of the
world and followed this with a discussion of the sorts of case compounding found
in the Bodic languages. The final section discussed the prevalence of case com-
pounding in Bodic, and the role of case compounding in the evolution of case-
marking systems in these languages. One conclusion to be drawn from all this is
that not only is case compounding frequently attested in Bodic, but it is a major
factor in the historical development of case morphology, a fact that will have to be
taken into account in any attempt to reconstruct the histories of these languages.
Abbreviations
1s	 first person singular	 ines	 inessive
2s	 second person singular	 loc	 locative
3	 third person	 nom	 nominalizer
abl	 ablative	 npst	 non-past
acc	 accusative	 pat	 patient
ades	 adessive	 perf	 perfective
ag	 agent	 pl	 plural
all	 allative	 pres	 present
circ	 circumlative	 pret	 preterite
com	 comitative	 sg	 singular
comp	 comparative	 sub	 subessive
dat	 dative	 super	 superlative
elat	 elative	 →	 direction of transitive relationship
gen	 genitive	 erg	 ergative
	 Case compounding in the Bodic languages	
Proposed
genetic
relationships
within
the
Bodic
section
of
Tibeto-Burman
bodic
central
himalayish
bodish
lepcha
rgyalrong
newari
kham-magar
hayu-
chepang
thangmi-
baraam
kiranti
west
himalayish
tibetic
ghale
tamangic
tibetan
complex
central
bodish
tshangla
Classical
N.
Dolakha
N.
Jyapu
Newari
Kathmandu
N.
Gam
Kham
Maikot
Kham
Nishi
Kham
Sheshi
Kham
Takale
Kham
Kaike
Magar
Raji
Chepang
Hayu
Sunwar
Thangmi
Baraam
Athpare
Bantuwa
Belhare
Camling
Dumi
Khaling
Limbu
Thulung
Byangsi
Chaudangsi-Byangsi
Chhitkuli
Darmiya
Gahri
Kanashi
Kinnauri
Marchha
Pattani
Tinnani
Old
Zhangzhung
New
Zhangzhung
Ghale
Chantyal
Gurung
Manange
Nar-Phu
Tamang
Tangbe
Balti
Central
Monpa
Classical
Tibetan
Dura
Dzongkha
Jad
Jirel
Ladakhi
Leh
Lhasa
Tibetan
Nubra
Nyam-Kad
Purki
Sham/Purik
Sherpa
Spiti
Tod
Tshangla
Lepcha
Cogtse
Gyarong
Caodeng
rGyarlrong
Appendix
1
	 Michael Noonan
Distribution
of
the
reflexes
of
selected etymons
erg
inst
abl
gen
dat
loc
all
com
comp
circ
ines
ades
elat
sub
super
path
*ka
overall
usage
1
3
11
12
4
19
3
2
1
1
2
1
1
2
1
5
uncompounded
1
1
1
8
3
14
2
1
1
1
*ki
overall
usage
9
7
3
14
1
1
2
1
uncompounded
7
6
1
13
1
1
*(g-)lam
overall
usage
7
7
uncompounded
3
3
*na
overall
usage
8
11
19
4
2
6
2
7
2
1
1
uncompounded
7
9
10
4
1
5
1
4
1
*naŋ
overall
usage
1
1
1
6
23
2
1
uncompounded
1
1
1
3
13
1
Appendix
2
	 Case compounding in the Bodic languages	
*nyampo
overall
usage
2
10
uncompounded
4
*Vŋ
overall
usage
1
9
1
5
4
6
3
1
5
3
6
1
uncompounded
3
2
4
1
5
*r/la
overall
usage
2
6
3
24
19
14
9
3
1
10
1
1
1
3
uncompounded
1
3
3
21
14
13
1
6
1
*ri
overall
usage
1
3
8
6
3
1
1
1
uncompounded
3
8
6
*sV
overall
usage
33
28
22
2
3
4
11
3
1
1
2
uncompounded
28
25
15
2
2
2
5
1
Numbers
refers
to
the
number
of
languages
having
a
reflex
of
a
given
etymon
with
a
given
relational function.
	 Michael Noonan
References
Austin, P. 1995. Double case marking in Kanyara and Mantharta languages, Western Australia.
In Double case: Agreement by Suffixaufnahme, F. Plank (Ed.), 363–379. Oxford: OUP.
Bickel, B. 2003. Referential density in discourse and syntactic typology. Language 79(4).
Blake, B. 1994. Case. Cambridge: CUP.
Dryer, M. 1986. Primary objects, secondary objects, and antidative. Language 62(4): 808–45.
Evans, N. 1995. A Grammar of Kayardild. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Georg, S. 1996. Marphatan Thakali. München: Lincom.
Hale, K. 1982. Some essential features of Warlpiri verbal clauses. Work Papers of the Summer
Institute of Linguistics, AAB Series A 6: 217–315.
Hargreaves, D. 2003. Kathmandu Newar. In The Sino-Tibetan Languages, R. LaPolla & G. Thur-
good (Eds), London: Routledge.
Huber, B. 2005. The Tibetan Dialect of Lende (Kyirong): A Grammatical Description with Histori-
cal Annotations. Bonn: VGH Wissenschaftsverlag.
Kabak, B. 2006. An obstacle to the morphologization of postpositions. Studies in Language
30(1): 33–68.
Koshal, S. 1979. Ladakhi Grammar. Delhi: Motilal Barnasidass.
Matisoff, J. 2003. Handbook of Proto-Tibeto-Burman. Berkeley CA: University of California
Press.
Moravcsik, E. 1995. Summing up Suffixaufnahme. In Double case: Agreement by Suffixaufnahme,
F. Plank (Ed.), 451–484. Oxford: OUP.
Noonan, M. 1996. The fall and rise and fall of the Chantyal language. Southwest Journal of Lin-
guistics 15(1–2): 121–36.
Noonan, M. 1997. Versatile nominalizations. In Essays on Language Function and Language
Type. In Honor of T. Givón, J. Bybee, J. Haiman & S. Thompson (Eds), Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Noonan, M. 2003a. Chantyal. In The Sino-Tibetan Languages, R. LaPolla & G. Thurgood (Eds),
London: Routledge.
Noonan, M. 2003b. Nar-Phu. In The Sino-Tibetan Languages, R. LaPolla & G. Thurgood (Eds),
London: Routledge.
Noonan, M. 2005. Spatial reference in Chantyal. In Contemporary Issues in Nepalese Linguistics,
Y. Yadava (Ed.), Kathmandu: Linguistic Society of Nepal.
Noonan, M. 2008. Nominalizations in Bodic languages. In Rethinking Grammaticalization
[Typological Studies in Language 76], Maria Jose Lopez-Couso & Elena Soane (Eds),
219–238. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Noonan, M. 2008a. Patterns of development, patterns of syncretism of relational morphology in
the Bodic languages. In The Role of Semantics and Pragmatics in the Development of Case,
J. Barðdal & S. Chelliah (Eds), Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Noonan, M. 2008b. Contact-induced change in the Himalayas: The case of the Tamangic lan-
guages. In Language Contact and Contact Languages, P.  Siemund & N.  Kintana (Eds),
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Plank, F. (Ed.), 1995a. Double Case: Agreement by Suffixaufnahme. Oxford: OUP.
Plank, F. 1995b. (Re-)introducing Suffixaufnahme. In Double Case: Agreement by Suffixauf-
nahme, F. Plank (Ed.), 3–110. Oxford: OUP.
	 Case compounding in the Bodic languages	
Schweiger, F. 1995. Suffixaufnahme and related case marking patterns in Australian languages.
In Double case: Agreement by Suffixaufnahme, F. Plank (Ed.), 339–62. Oxford: OUP.
Sharma, D.D. 1992. Tribal Languages of Himachal Pradesh. Part II. Delhi: Mittal Publications.
Starostin, S. & Pejros, I. n.d. [Reconstruction of Proto-Sino-Tibetan]. (http://starling.rinet.ru/
babel.htm)
Leipzig fourmille de typologues – Genitive
objects in comparison*
Martin Haspelmath & Susanne Michaelis
In this paper we examine genitive objects in some of the major European
languages (French, Italian, Latin, German, English) and propose a semantic
invariant for them: We claim that in the great majority of cases, the genitive object
can be said to express a background theme, i.e., a participant whose location
(concrete or abstract) is at issue and which is not a (secondary) figure (e.g., Grev
cleared the table of the dishes, where the genitive object of the dishes is a moving
object, but the location is the secondary figure). Genitive objects also occur
with verbs in the semantic domains of possession (e.g., French fournir ‘supply’),
cognition (e.g., English warn of), and emotion (e.g., German sich erbarmen ‘have
pity’). These other domains can be thought of as modeled on the local domain,
with the roles of possessor, cognizer and emoter taking the place of the location.
1.  
Genitive objects
This paper examines genitive objects in a range of familiar European languages, in
particular German, English, Latin, French and Italian. Three initial examples are
given in (1)–(3) (in each case, the genitive object is in boldface).
	 (1)	 French
		 Claireˉfleuritˉleˉbalconˉdeˉgéraniums.	
		 ‘Claireˉplantsˉtheˉbalconyˉwithˉgeraniums.’
	 (2)	 Latinˉ(Luciliusˉ272)
		 quarumˉetˉabundemusˉrerumˉetˉquarumˉindigeamus
		 ‘ofˉwhichˉthingsˉweˉhaveˉtooˉmanyˉandˉofˉwhichˉweˉhaveˉtooˉfew’
	 (3)	 German
		 MichaelˉgedenktˉderˉgemeinsamenˉJahre.
		 ‘Michaelˉthinksˉofˉtheˉyearsˉspentˉtogether.’
*An earlier version of this paper was presented at the Drittes Bamberger Romanistisches Ar­
beitsgespräch, 12 April 1997. We thank the participants for useful discussion, especially Annegret
Bollée, Peter Koch, and Max Grosse.
	 Martin Haspelmath & Susanne Michaelis
By genitive object, we mean an argument of the verb that is lexically specified
as marked by a case or adposition (called ‘genitive’) that has as an additional func­
tion that of the possessor in an adnominal possessive construction. We are not
claiming that ‘genitive’ is a universally available category, or that all these languages
necessarily have ‘genitive markers’ in the same sense of the word (cf. Haspelmath
2008). All we are saying is that it is possible to isolate comparable markers on the
basis of the occurrence in one particular, semantically defined environment. Thus,
we do not want to claim or imply that genitive markers are semantically uniform
across languages. In fact, it seems quite clear that they are not, but for our current
purposes this is irrelevant. All we are interested in here is the occurrence of such
markers as verbal arguments. Genitive objects may be marked by a genitive adpo­
sition, as in French (de), Italian (di), and English (of), or they may be marked by a
morphological case (the German Genitive, the Latin Genitive).
Of course, not all languages have genitive objects. Many languages cannot
have them, because they do not use cases or adpositions in adnominal possessive
constructions. Many languages do have genitive markers, but do not use them
to mark verbal arguments. In fact, genitive objects seem to be quite rare in the
world’s languages, although they are commonly found in ancient Indo-European
languages (Delbrück 1893: 308–333).
In this paper, our modest aim is to compare genitive objects in Germanic
(especially German and English) and Latin-Romance (especially Latin, French,
and Italian), asking two main questions:
i.  How far do the parallels between the genitive objects in these languages go?
ii.  Can we identify a semantic invariant of genitive objects, within languages and
across languages?
It turns out that the parallels between the genitive objects in the five languages are
quite striking, and we believe that it is possible to identify a semantic invariant
that accounts for the bulk of the genitive objects in all of them. There are of course
many lexical differences and idiosyncrasies, but behind these there is a regular pat­
tern that is worth highlighting.
One final remark concerning the definition of ‘genitive object’: In this paper
we limit ourselves to verbal arguments whose genitive marking is strictly lexi­
cally determined by the governing verb. For example, the Latin verb abundare
‘abound’ requires a genitive object, and so does the German verb gedenken, see
(2)–(3) above, regardless of the semantic class of the argument and the semantic-
syntactic context. This means that we do not consider partitive genitives, which are
widespread in Italian and especially in French, but which are determined by the
semantics of the argument, not by the syntactic valence of the verb. We also do not
	 Leipzig fourmille de typologues – Genitive objects in comparison	 
consider cases like the Slavic genitive of negation, which has a relative in French
(e.g., Je n’ai pas de cheval. ‘I don’t have a horse’).1
2.  
The semantic invariant of genitive objects: Background theme
The central thesis of this paper is that in the languages considered, the geni­
tive object can be seen as expressing a background theme, in a narrower or
broader sense (cf. Michaelis 1993: 335, who inspired this paper). Theme is here
defined in the usual way as the role of an object that undergoes movement or
is in a certain position. An argument is in the background if it is not construed
as the primary figure (the subject) or the secondary figure (the direct object)
(cf. Langacker 1991: ch. 8). ‘Background’ is not meant here in the information-
structural sense (contrasting with ‘focus’), but in a cognitive-semantic sense,
contrasting with ‘figure’.
The most straightforward case of a background theme can be seen in
constructions which have been widely discussed in the context of the locative
alternation. Consider the examples in (4)–(6).
	 (4)	 French
		 a.	 Robertˉaˉenfiléˉleˉfilˉdeˉsoieˉdansˉlesˉperles.
			 ‘lit.ˉRobertˉstrungˉtheˉsilkˉstringˉintoˉtheˉbeads.’
		 b.	 Robertˉaˉenfiléˉlesˉperlesˉd’unˉfilˉdeˉsoie.
			 ‘Robertˉstrungˉtheˉbeadsˉonˉaˉsilkˉstring.’
	 (5)	 English
		 a.	 Grevˉclearedˉtheˉdishesˉfromˉtheˉtable.
		 b.	 Grevˉclearedˉtheˉtableˉofˉtheˉdishes.
	 (6)	 German
		 a.	 AscoliˉraubteˉLausbergdatˉdieˉMußeacc.
			 ‘lit.ˉAscoliˉstoleˉhisˉleisureˉfromˉLausberg.’
		 b.	 AscoliˉberaubteˉLausbergaccˉderˉMußegen.
			 ‘AscoliˉrobbedˉLausbergˉofˉhisˉleisure.’
In such cases, there are two constructions that alternate (i.e., that occur with a single
verb, as in (4), with a single verb stem, as in (6), or with a single verb meaning, as in
.  A related semantically and syntactically determined alternation between genitive and accu­
sative (relating to aspectuality and definiteness) is also found in older German, see Donhauser
1990 and Leiss 1990; the latter also cites Baldes 1882 and Kolvenbach 1973.
	 Martin Haspelmath & Susanne Michaelis
(5)). In one construction (the (a) example), the theme is the secondary figure (and
hence the direct object), while the recipient or source is in the background (and hence
expressed as a prepositional phrase or dative argument). In the other construction
(the (b) example), it is the recipient or source that is the direct object, while the theme
is in the background. In such cases, the theme can be coded with a genitive marker.
We will call constructions of the (a) type figure-theme constructions, and con­
structions of the (b) type background-theme constructions. These two types of con­
struction alternate not only in transitive clauses, but also in some intransitive clauses:
	 (7)	 French
		 a.	 Lesˉmouchesˉfourmillentˉdansˉleˉlac. (figure-theme)
			 ‘Fliesˉareˉswarmingˉinˉtheˉlake.’
		 b.	 Leˉlacˉfourmilleˉdeˉmouches. (background-theme)
			 ‘Theˉlakeˉisˉswarmingˉwithˉflies.’
Background-theme constructions do not always code the theme with a genitive
marker. In English, for example, the preposition with is often used, and Latin often
uses its Ablative case:
	 (8)	 Englishˉ(seeˉalsoˉtheˉtranslationsˉofˉ(1),ˉ(4b),ˉ(7b))
		 a.	 TesnièreˉsuppliedˉideasˉtoˉFillmore.
		 b.	 TesnièreˉsuppliedˉFillmoreˉwithˉideas.
	 (9)	 Latin
		 a.	 PopulusˉCiceronidatˉimmortalitatemaccˉdonavit.
			 ‘TheˉpeopleˉgaveˉimmortalityˉtoˉCicero.’
		 b.	 PopulusˉCiceronemaccimmortalitateablˉdonavit.
			 ‘TheˉpeopleˉendowedˉCiceroˉwithˉimmortality.’
However, we would like to suggest that genitive objects (almost) always express
background themes. This claim may seem surprising in view of the wide variety
of semantically diverse genitive objects in the five languages. We will see in the
next section that it presupposes a broadening of our understanding of what a
theme is.
In English, an important contrast among verbs that occur in the locative alter­
nation is between (what we call here) positive verbs and negative verbs. The for­
mer (verbs of putting such as supply, fill, load, spray, plant) express a change of
location resulting in the theme’s presence, whereas the latter (verbs of removal such
as rob, clear, clean) express a change of location resulting in the theme’s absence.
In English, only the latter have genitive theme objects in the background-theme
construction (see 5b). In French, however, this distinction is not morphosyntacti­
cally relevant: Background themes of positive verbs (cf. 4b) as well as background
themes of negative verbs are coded with de:
	 Leipzig fourmille de typologues – Genitive objects in comparison	 
	 (10)	 French
		 Laˉrévolutionˉdépouillaˉlesˉnoblesˉdeˉleursˉtitres.
		 ‘Theˉrevolutionˉdeprivedˉtheˉnoblesˉofˉtheirˉtitles.’
3.  
More on genitive objects with local verbs
In the class of intransitive local verbs, we have found only positive verbs, such as
French fourmiller (see (7) above) and the equivalent German wimmeln:
	 (11)	 LeipzigˉwimmeltˉvonˉTypologen.
		 ‘Leipzigˉisˉswarmingˉwithˉtypologists.’
Note that von-objects in German also count as genitive objects, because the prepo­
sition von also codes adnominal possessors. German wimmeln, incidentally, does
not occcur in the figure-theme construction.
While the class of intransitive local verbs is quite small in the five languages, the
corresponding transitive class is very rich in the Romance languages. A few French
examples are given in (12) (from Kailuweit 2003, who cites Guillet & Leclère 1992).2
	 (12)	 a.	 Claudeˉaˉtapisséˉleˉmurˉdeˉlin.
			 ‘Claudeˉpaperedˉtheˉwallˉwithˉlinen.’
		 b.	 Agnèsˉaˉinséminéˉlaˉvacheˉdeˉsemenceˉcongélée.
			 ‘Agnèsˉinseminatedˉtheˉcowˉwithˉfrozenˉsemen.’
		 c.	 GilbertˉaˉcoifféˉStéphaneˉd’unˉcanotier.
			 ‘lit.ˉGilbertˉdonnedˉStéphaneˉwithˉaˉstrawˉhat.’
In older Indo-European, it is mostly verbs of filling that can be used with a genitive
theme, e.g., in Latin and older German (Middle High German vüllen ‘fill’, settigen
‘saturate’). In addition to these, German has a few negative local verbs, such as
entheben ‘remove from’, entledigen ‘empty of’. In English, as we saw earlier, only
.  French also uses its genitive preposition de for the instrument with verbs of hitting:
	 i.	 Max frappa la table du poing.
		 ‘Max hit the table with his fist.’
This is similar to the local verbs of putting in (12) in that the instrument moves (and is hence a
kind of theme), while the patient (la table) is a sort of location. The construction in (i) alternates
with a kind of figure-theme construction in which the instrument of hitting is the direct object
(see Kailuweit 2003):
	 ii.	 Max frappa son bâton sur la table.
		 ‘Max hit his stick on the table.’
	 Martin Haspelmath & Susanne Michaelis
negative verbs take an of-object. A selection of local verbs with genitive objects is
given in Table 1.
Table 1.  Local verbs with genitive objects
intransitive transitive
positive positive negative
German wimmeln von,
strotzen von
füllen (gen old-fashioned) entheben, entledigen
Latin scateo (gen/abl),
abundo
compleo, repleo, impleo (gen/abl)
French fourmiller de,
dégouliner de,
résonner de,
retentir de
remplir de, charger de, peindre de,
peinturer de, badigeonner de,
barbouiller de, barioler de, enduire de,
laquer de, ripoliner de, frotter de,
frictionner de, placarder de, tapisser de,
tendre de, injecter de, vaporiser de,
arroser de, planter de, fleurir de,
bourrer de, coincer de, fourrer de,
boucher de, ensemencer de, parsemer de,
semer de, saupoudrer de, joucher de,
greffer de, coiffer de, infiltrer de,
imprégner de, plaquer de
balayer de, purger de,
purifier de
Italian abbondare di riempire di, circondare di, ungere de,
aspergere di, caricare di, coprire di,
affolare di, colmare di
…
English clear of, clean of,
drain of, empty
of (Levin’s ‘clear
verbs’ (1993: 124))
4.  
Extensions from the local domain
In addition to the local domain, three other semantic domains have verbal con­
structions that are evidently patterned on the local domain: the possessive domain
(verbs of possession and change of possession), the cognitive domain (verbs of
thinking, knowing and remembering), and the emotional domain. Such an exten­
sion of grammatical patterns from the local domain to more abstract semantic
domains has long been observed by grammarians, and we believe that our localist
interpretation of the phenomena needs no further justification here. Correspond­
ing to the locatum role (L) in the local domain, we find the possessor role (P) in
the possessive domain, the cognizer role (C) in the cognitive domain, and the
emoter (E) role in the emotional domain. The other role is always called ‘theme’
(T). Table 7 in the appendix gives an overview of all the different types of genitive
objects that are discussed in this paper, highlighting the parallels between them.
	 Leipzig fourmille de typologues – Genitive objects in comparison	 
The following subsections give examples from the three extended domains,
first intransitive and then transitive. (In §5 and §6, we will also see examples of
reflexive and subjectless verbs with genitive objects.) Within the two transitiv­
ity types, we first give positive and then negative examples. To show the perva­
sive parallelism, we first give a related figure-theme construction before we give a
background-theme construction with a genitive object.
4.1  
The possessive domain
In intransitive figure-theme constructions, the theme is the subject and the pos­
sessor is an oblique argument:
	 (13)	 a.	 French	 LeˉmétronomeˉappartientˉàˉLydie.
		 b.	 German	 DasˉMetronomˉgehörtˉLydiadat.
				 ‘TheˉmetronomeˉbelongsˉtoˉLydia.’
The corresponding background-theme construction has a subject possessor and a
genitive theme:
	 (14)	 French	 Lydieˉdisposeˉd’unˉmétronome.
			 ‘Lydieˉhasˉaˉmetronome.’
The above examples show positive possession verbs. Very similar behaviour is
shown by negative possession verbs:
	 (15)	 figure-theme
		 a.	 German	 FlaviusdatˉfehlenˉneueˉBüchernom.
		 b.	 Latin	 Flaviodatˉabsuntˉlibriˉnovinom.
			 ‘Flaviusˉlacksˉnewˉbooks.’
	 (16)	 background-theme
		 a.	 German	 FlaviusnomˉentbehrtˉneuerˉBüchergen.ˉ(old-fashioned)
		 b.	 Latin	 Flaviusnomˉindigetˉlibrorumˉnovorumgen.
			 ‘Flaviusˉlacksˉnewˉbooks.’
In Italian, there is one verb (mancare ‘lack’) that shows both patterns:
	 (17)	 a.	 (figure-theme)	 IˉsoldiˉmancanoˉaˉPaolo.
				 ‘lit.ˉTheˉmoneyˉisˉlackingˉtoˉPaolo.’
		 b.	 (background-theme)	 Paoloˉmancaˉdiˉsoldi.
				 ‘Paoloˉlacksˉmoney.’
A positive transitive verb showing an alternation is given in (18). Such exam­
ples are generally discussed as instances of the locative alternation.
	 Martin Haspelmath & Susanne Michaelis
3.  The verbs of lacking are semantically close to another group of verbs in German and Latin
which denote ‘desiring’, ‘seeking’, ‘waiting’ and similar concepts (e.g., German warten ‘wait’,
harren ‘wait’, Latin cupio ‘desire’). This is an old pattern inherited from the proto-language (Del­
brück 1893: 324–327), which may or may not be subsumable under the possessive category.
Interestingly, there do not seem to exist parallels in the Romance languages.
	 (18)	 French
		 a.	 (figure-theme)	 AnnegretˉfournitˉdesˉidéesˉàˉWolfgang.
				 ‘AnnegretˉsuppliesˉideasˉtoˉWolfgang.’
		 b.	 (background-theme)	 AnnegretˉfournitˉWolfgangˉd’idées.
				 ‘AnnegretˉsuppliesˉWolfgangˉwithˉideas.’
An example of a negative transitive possessive verb was given above in (6). English
has a large number of such ‘verbs of possessional deprivation (cheat verbs) (Levin
1993: 129–130)’. Levin lists 49 verbs in the (non-alternating) class of verbs like
cheat, deprive, drain, rid, rob, strip. A selection of possessive verbs with genitive
objects is given in Table 2.
Table 2.  Possessive verbs with genitive objects
intransitive transitive
positive negative positive negative
German walten ermangeln,
bedürfen,
entbehren,
entraten3
würdigen entbinden (gen/von),
entheben, entledigen,
berauben
Latin indigeo, egeo, privo, purgo, exuo
French disposer de,
abuser de
manquer de
(avoir besoin
de)
accoutrer de,
honorer de,
abreuver de,
accabler de,
accompagner
de, abrutir de
absoudre de, délier
de, accoucher de, priver
de, proscrire de
Italian disporre di,
abusare di
mancare
di, abbisognare
di
degnare di,
regalare di,
sommergere di
spogliare di, rapinare di, privare
di, scaricare di, sgombrare di/
da, liberare di/da, (assolvere da)
English cheat of, deprive of, drain of,
rid of, rob of, strip of … 
4.2  
The cognitive domain
In the cognitive domain, there are fewer verbs with genitive objects, but we find
an interesting parallel with the local and the possessive domain: The cognizer can
	 Leipzig fourmille de typologues – Genitive objects in comparison	 
occur in the dative case (in the figure-theme construction), or it can occur as the
subject or direct object (in the background-theme construction):
	 (19)	 figure-theme
		 a.	 German	 FlaviusdatˉkommtˉdieˉMutternomˉinˉdenˉSinn.
		 b.	 Latin	 Flaviodatˉinˉmentemˉvenitˉmaternom.
				
‘Flaviusˉthinksˉofˉhisˉmother.’ˉ(lit.ˉ’Motherˉcomesˉtoˉ
Flaviusˉintoˉmind.’)
	 (20)	 background-theme
		 a.	 German	 FlaviusnomˉgedenktˉderˉMuttergen. (old-fashioned)
		 b.	 Latin	 Flaviusnomˉmeminitˉmatrisgen. (‘Flaviusˉremembersˉhisˉmother.’)
		 c.	 English	 Flaviusˉthinksˉofˉhisˉmother.
There are also occasional corresponding negative verbs:
	 (21)	 background-theme
		 a.	 German	 FlaviusnomˉvergisstˉderˉMuttergen.ˉ(old-fashioned)
		 b.	 Latin	 Flaviusnomˉoblivisciturˉmatrisgen.
				 ‘Flaviusˉforgetsˉhisˉmother.’
(The corresponding figure-theme construction is found in German: Dem Jungendat
entfällt das Gedichtnom ‘The boy forgets the poem’, lit. ‘The poem falls away to
the boy.’)
In the transitive domain, again we find the theme both as the figure (the direct
object) and in the background (as the genitive object):
	 (22)	 figure-theme
		 a.	 French	 MartinetˉrappelleˉlaˉsolutionˉàˉLazard.
				 ‘MartinetˉremindsˉLazardˉofˉtheˉsolution.’
		 b.	 English	 FirthˉexplainsˉtheˉsolutionˉtoˉLyons.
	 (23)	 background-theme
		 a.	 French	 CampbellˉavertitˉNicholsˉd’uneˉerreur.
				 ‘CampbellˉmakesˉNicholsˉawareˉofˉanˉerror.’
		 b.	 English	 Chomskyˉinformsˉtheˉpublicˉofˉtheˉnewˉdevelopments.
The transitive cognitive verbs with a genitive object are all ‘positive’. The
only negative example that we have found that comes close to a genitive-object
construction is English talk somebody out of something, which semantically is
roughly the opposite of convince somebody of something, but has out of rather
than the simple genitive of. A selection of cognitive verbs with genitive objects
is given in Table 3.
	 Martin Haspelmath & Susanne Michaelis
Table 3.  Cognitive verbs with genitive objects
intransitive transitive
positive negative positive negative
German gedenken, innewerden,
zürnen (gen old-
fashioned), staunen
(gen old-fashioned)
vergessen
(gen old-
fashioned)
überzeugen von,
informieren von
Latin memini admoneo
French préjuger de avertir de,
prévenir de
Italian pensare di, sospettare
di, diffidare di
convincere di, avvisare
di, informare di
English think of remind of, inform of,
convince of, warn of,
persuade of
(talk out of)
In the European languages, a special productive subcategory of transitive cog­
nitive verbs taking a genitive object is formed by legal terms:
	 (24)	 Latin	 German	 French	 Italian	 English
		 accuso	 zeihen,ˉbezichtigen	 accuser	 accusare	 accuse
		 insimulo	 anklagen	 inculper	 imputare
			 beschuldigen	 incriminer	 addebitare
			 verdächtigen	 soupçonner	 sospettare	 suspect
		 convinco	 überführen	 convaincre	 convincere	 convict
		 absolvo		 absoudre	 assolvere	 absolve
		 damno			 rimproverare
		 arcesso
In this lexical domain, too, an alternative figure-theme construction is sometimes
found:
	 (25)	 German
		 (figure-theme)	 PeterˉhatˉPauldatˉSchlampereiaccˉvorgeworfen.
		 (background-theme)	 PeterˉbeschuldigtˉPaulaccˉderˉSchlampereigen.
		 ‘PeterˉaccusesˉPaulˉofˉsloppiness.’
4.3  
The emotional domain
In the emotional domain, most of the examples are reflexive or subjectless and will
be discussed below. However, there is an interesting alternation of a single (intran­
sitive) verb etymon in Spanish and Portuguese:
	 (26)	 Spanish:ˉfigure-theme
		 LosˉviajesˉgustanˉaˉBernard.
		 ‘TravelsˉareˉpleasingˉtoˉBernard.’
	 Leipzig fourmille de typologues – Genitive objects in comparison	 
	 (27)	 Portuguese:ˉbackground-theme
		 Bernardˉgostaˉdasˉviagens.
		 ‘Bernardˉlikesˉtravels.’
The only examples of genitive-object verbs in the five languages that we focus on
here come from French, which has a number of verbs such as piaffer de ‘be nervous
about’, rafoller de ‘be crazy about’.
5.  
Reflexive verbs with genitive objects
In Latin, German, and the Romance languages (but not in English), there are many
reflexive verbs taking genitive objects. By reflexive verb, we mean verbs with reflexive
forms but with a noncompositional meaning. (Note that in Latin, the passive counts as
‘reflexive’inthiscontext.)Theyareeitherreflexivedeponents,i.e.,verbsthatonlyoccur
reflexively (e.g., German sich schämen ‘be ashamed’, French se réjouir ‘be glad’), or idi­
omatic reflexive verbs, i.e., reflexive verbs whose meaning is not predictable from the
meaning of the basic form and the reflexivity meaning (e.g., French se servir ‘make use
of’, not compositionally ‘serve oneself’). We will look at the various extended domains
in turn, beginning with the possessive domain, because we have not found any reflex­
ive verbs with genitive objects in the most basic domain, the local domain.
5.1  
The possessive domain
A typical possessive reflexive verb with a genitive-object theme is given in (28).
	 (28)	 Latin	 RomanomˉpotiturˉGraeciaegen.
		 German	 RomnomˉbemächtigtˉsichˉGriechenlandsgen.
		 French	 Romeˉs’empareˉdeˉGrèce.
		 Italian	 Romaˉs’impadronisceˉdellaˉGrecia.
			 ‘RomeˉacquiresˉGreece.’
Note that even though the verbs are all deponents, the reflexive element can be
understood as having the possessor role, while the genitive object has the theme
role. These sentences mean ‘Rome (agent) makes itself the possessor of Greece
(theme)’. Since the reflexive element occupies the direct-object slot, the theme
must remain in the background and can only be in the genitive. Except for Latin,
these languages also have a corresponding reflexive figure-theme construction,
because the reflexive element can also have the dative-object slot: e.g., German
Rom nimmt sichdat Griechenlandacc ‘Rome takes Greece (for herself)’. However,
this construction is completely compositional and not particularly idiomatic.
In addition to positive examples like (28), we also find negative possessive verbs:
	 Martin Haspelmath & Susanne Michaelis
	 (29)	 German	 DerˉGrafˉentäußerteˉsichˉseinesˉVermögens.
			 ‘Theˉearlˉgotˉridˉofˉhisˉpossessions.’
	 (30)	 French	 Leˉmillionaireˉs’estˉdessaisiˉdeˉtoutˉceˉqu’ilˉpossédait.
			 ‘Theˉmillionaireˉgaveˉupˉeverythingˉthatˉheˉowned.’
Table 4.  Reflexive possessive verbs with genitive objects
positive negative
German sich bemächtigen, sich annehmen,
sich befleißigen, sich bedienen
sich begeben, sich entäußern,
sich enthalten
Latin potiri
French s’emparer de, se charger de, se
servir de, s’accointer de
se dessaisir de, s’abstenir de,
s’acquitter de
Italian impadronirsi di, servirsi di, ingegnarsi
di, studiarsi di, interessarsi di
spogliarsi di
5.2  
The cognitive domain
German and the Romance languages have a number of reflexive cognitive verbs
taking a genitive object:
	 (31)	 a.	 German	 PlankˉerinnertˉsichˉGirards. (old-fashioned)
		 b.	 French	 PlankˉseˉsouvientˉdeˉGirard.
		 c.	 Italian	 PlankˉsiˉricordaˉdiˉGirard.
				 ‘PlankˉremembersˉGirard.’
There are also a few negative cases. The Latin verb oblivisci ‘forget’, a deponent, was
already mentioned above (see (21)). French has se dédire de ‘recant, take back’. In
Spanish, ‘forget’ is olvidarse de.
Table 5.  Reflexive cognitive verbs with genitive objects
positive negative
German sich erinnern (gen/an), sich entsinnen, sich vergewissern,
sich rühmen
Latin reminiscor obliviscor
French se souvenir de, s’apercevoir de, s’assurer de, se vanter de,
se prévaloir de
se dédire de
Italian ricordarsi di, accorgersi di, assicurarsi di, accertarsi di dimenticarsi di,
rammentarsi di
5.3  
The emotional domain
In the emotional domain, there are more reflexive verbs taking genitive objects
than non-reflexive verbs. Some examples:
	 Leipzig fourmille de typologues – Genitive objects in comparison	 
	 (32)	 French	 Hagègeˉseˉréjouitˉdeˉlaˉmer.
			 ‘Hagègeˉisˉgladˉaboutˉtheˉsea.’
	 (33)	 German	 BrugmannsˉVorlesungˉerfreutˉsichˉgroßenˉZuspruchs.
			 ‘Brugmann’sˉlectureˉhasˉ(lit.ˉenjoys)ˉaˉlotˉofˉsuccess.’
Table 6.  Reflexive emotional verbs with genitive objects3
German sich freuen (gen/über), sich erfreuen, sich schämen (gen/für), sich erbarmen (gen/
über), sich fürchten (gen old-fashioned)
Latin misereor, vereor
French se réjour de, se repentir de, s’accommoder de, se dépiter de, se préoccuper de
Italian vergognarsi di, pentirsi di, impietosirsi di, preoccuparsi di, stupirsi di, meravigliarsi di,
sorprendersi di, offendersi di, godersi di
6.  Subjectless verbs with genitive objects
Especially the older languages also have subjectless (or ‘impersonal’) verbs taking
a dative or accusative possessor/cognizer/emoter and a genitive theme. Why the
theme cannot become the subject with these verbs is not clear, but it is interesting
that it again shows up in the genitive, as in the intransitive, transitive, and reflexive
cases, and that we find examples in the possessive domain, the cognitive domain,
and the emotional domain.
In the possessive domain, an example from German is brauchen ‘need’ (there
is no explicit possessor in this example):
	 (34)	 EsˉbrauchtˉkeinesˉBeweisesgen.ˉ(old-fashioned)
		 ‘Noˉproofˉisˉneeded.’ˉ(lit.ˉ’Itˉneedsˉofˉnoˉproof.’)
In the cognitive domain, an example from older French is souvenir
‘remember’:
	 (35)	 Souvientˉauˉroiˉdeˉsaˉmère.	
		
‘Theˉkingˉremembersˉhisˉmother.’ˉ(lit.ˉ’Itˉremembersˉto-
theˉkingˉofˉhisˉmother.’)
Intheemotionaldomain,Latinhasacoupleofverbssuchaspudet‘beashamed’,
taedet ‘be disgusted’, miseret ‘have pity’, paenitet ‘regret’, piget ‘be angry’, e.g.,
	 (36)	 ˉ…ˉutˉmeˉnonˉsolumˉpigeatˉstultitiaeˉmeae,ˉsedˉetiamˉpudeatˉ(C.ˉdom.ˉ29)
		 ‘thatˉIˉamˉnotˉonlyˉannoyedˉby,ˉbutˉalsoˉashamedˉofˉmyˉstupidity’
4.  The positive/negative distinction is not relevant to verbs of the emotional domain.
	 Martin Haspelmath & Susanne Michaelis
AlsoinolderGermanandotherGermaniclanguages,thistypewaswellrepresented.
The following examples from Middle Dutch are given by van den Berg (1986), who
also discusses the gradual loss of this construction in the history of Dutch.
	 (37)	 a.	 Hemdatˉvernooitˉdesgen.	 ‘Thatˉannoysˉhim.’
		 b.	 Midatwondertˉdesgen.	 ‘Thatˉsurprisesˉme.’
		 c.	 Midatlustˉdesgen.	 ‘Iˉfeelˉaˉdesireˉforˉthat.’
		 d.	 Midatdrometˉdesgen.	 ‘Iˉdreamˉofˉthat.’
		 e.	 Hemdatvergheetˉdesgen.	 ‘Heˉforgetsˉthat.’
		 f.	 Midat jamerdeˉsijnsgen.	 ‘Iˉfeltˉpityˉforˉhim.’
		 g.	 Hemdatontfarmteˉsijnsˉkintsgen.	 ‘Heˉfeltˉpityˉforˉhisˉchild.’
		 f.	 Hemdatberieuˉderˉmesdaetgen.	 ‘Heˉregrettedˉhisˉmisdeed.’
7.  
Historical considerations
A detailed discussion of the diachronic questions concerning the origins and develop­
mentsofgenitiveobjectsisbeyondthescopeofthisarticle.Itisclearthatthesimilarities
between the languages are primarily due not to universal tendencies, but to historical
relatedness:duetocommoninheritancefromProto-Indo-EuropeaninthecaseofLatin
and older Germanic (including German) (Delbrück 1893), and common inheritance
fromProto-RomanceinthecaseofFrenchandItalian;butalsoduetocontact-induced
syntactic change, mostly through educated written usage: Latin has clearly been influ­
encedbyGreek(Leumannetal.1965–1977),Germanhasprobablybeeninfluencedby
Latin, and English has probably been influenced by French. It is also likely that French,
Italian and English have been influenced by Latin, as speakers (and writers) equated
the genitive preposition de/di/of with the Latin morphological genitive.
Almost all the Indo-European languages have shown a more or less strong ten­
dency to lose their morphological genitive objects: We witness them disappear in
Latin-Romance, Greek, Indo-Aryan, and most Germanic languages (also modern
German, which is clinging to some genitive objects only in rather formal styles).5 Only
Slavic and Baltic languages have preserved them to this day. In the modern Romance
languages, genitive objects are alive and well, using the preposition de/di. In fact, geni­
tiveobjectsarefarmorefrequentinRomancethaninLatin,wheretheyhadapparently
already been lost to some extent (assuming that the oldest Greek and Sanskrit texts,
which have a lot more genitive objects, reflect the situation in Proto-Indo-European).
5.  In modern German, quite a few verbs occur with a genitive object only or primarily in
certain fixed expressions, e.g., jemanden keines Blickes würdigen ‘not look at someone’ (lit. ‘not
honor someone of any glance’), sich großer Beliebtheit erfreuen ‘be very popular’ (lit. ‘enjoy of
great popularity’), der Aufklärung harren ‘be in need of clarification’ (lit. ‘wait of clarification’)
	 Leipzig fourmille de typologues – Genitive objects in comparison	 
As we saw earlier, the genitive is not the only way in which a theme in the
background can be expressed. In Latin, the ablative is often an alternative (e.g.,
scatere ‘swarm’ and privare ‘deprive’ can take a genitive or an ablative object). In
English, the background theme is typically expressed by with in the local domain,
when the verb is not negative. In German, the genitive object is becoming (or has
become) obsolete with many verbs, and it is being replaced by prepositions such
as mit ‘with’, an ‘at, on’, über ‘over’. (In some cases, it is also replaced by von ‘off, of’,
but in this case it remains a genitive object according to our definition.)
8.  
Conclusions
We argued in this paper that genitive objects in a number of modern European lan­
guages, which have a seemingly diverse range of functions, can be seen as expressing a
single, relatively abstract notion: that of a theme (an entity that moves or is in a certain
position) which is a background element (i.e., not a primary or secondary figure).
This is most easily visible in verbs expressing spatial configurations and changes of
state, but parallel constructions are also found in three other domains: the possessive
domain, the cognitive domain and the emotional domain. The more conservative
languages Latin and German (using the Genitive case inherited from Proto-Indo-
European), and the more innovative languages French, Italian and English (using a
preposition with an originally ablative function) behave in surprisingly similar ways.
An issue that we have not addressed here is why genitive objects should have the
function of background theme. What is the relation between the adnominal pos­
sessive function and background themes? This is a difficult question that we cannot
answer here. Delbrück (1893) makes an attempt to link genitive objects to the parti­
tive function of the genitive, but we do not find this attempt convincing; we do not
see strong similarities between partitives and background themes. We should also
not forget that the phenomenon we are studying here seems to be very rare in the
world’s languages, so we should perhaps not expect an explanation based on uni­
versal semantic similarities. On the other hand, the parallels between the various
languages are so striking that they can hardly be accidental and the differences are
sufficientlystrongtoprecludeasimpleexplanationintermsofsyntacticborrowing.6
We are thus left with a big open question, a challenge for future research.
6.  A reviewer asks whether this is clear, given the strong influence of the various European lan­
guages on each other (cf. §7). The main problem for a simple borrowing story is that Latin had
very few genitive objects, while the Romance languages have a large number of them. Thus, at
least Romance and Latin genitive objects must be independent of each other to a large extent.
	 Martin Haspelmath & Susanne Michaelis
Table
7. 
An
overview
of
verbal
constructions
with
genitive objects
intransitive
transitive
reflexive
subjectless
local
 
positive
L
fourmille
de T
 
(‘L
swarms
with T’)
(figure-theme: )
 
T
fourmille
dans L
 
(‘T
swarms
in
L’)
A
insémine
L
de T
 
(‘
A
inseminates
L
with T’)
(figure-theme: )
 
A
insémine
T
dans L
 
(‘
A
inseminates
T
in L’)
es
wimmelt
in
L
von T
 
(‘it
swarms
in
L
with
T’)
 
negative
A
empties
L
of T
(figure-theme: )
A
empties
T
from L
possessive
 
positive
P
dispose
de T
 
(‘P
has T’)
(figure-theme: )
 
T
appartient
à P
 
(‘T
belongs
to P’)
A
fournit
p
de T
 
(‘
A
supplies
p
with T’)
(figure-theme: )
 
A
fournit
T
à P
 
(‘
A
supplies
T
to P’)
A/P
s’empare
de T
 
(‘
A
/P
acquires T’)
(figure-theme: )
 
A/P
takes
T
for herself
 
negative
P
manca
di T
 
(‘P
lacks T’)
(figure-theme:)
 
T
manca
a P
 
(‘T
is
lacking
to
P’)
A
robs
p
of T
(figure-theme: )
A
steals
T
from
P
A/P
s’abstient
de T
(‘
A
/P
abstains
from T’)
(figure-theme: )
A/P
versagt
sich
dat
 T
acc
(‘
A
/P
abstains
from
T’)
es
fehlt
P
dat
 T
gen
 
(‘P
lacks T’)
Appendix
	 Leipzig fourmille de typologues – Genitive objects in comparison	 
cognitive
 
positive
C
thinks
of T
(figure-theme:)
 
T
comes
into
C’s mind
A
reminds
C
of T
(figure-theme:)
 
A
rappelle
T
à C
 
(‘
A
remembers
T
to C’)
A/C
si
ricorda
di T
 
(‘
A
/C
remembers T’)
(figure-theme: )
 
A/C
se
rappelle T
 
(‘
A
/C
remembers T’)
souvient
à
C
de T
 
(‘C
remembers T’)
 
negative
C
vergisst T
gen
 
(‘C
forgets T’)
(figure-theme: )
 
T
entfällt C
dat
 
(‘T
falls
out
of
C’s
mind’)
(A
talks
C
out
of T)
(figure-theme:)
 
A
redet
C
dat
T
acc
aus
A/C
obliviscitur T
gen
 
(‘
A
/C
forgets
T’)
vergheet
C
dat
 T
gen
 
(‘C
forgets
T’)
emotional
E
gosta
de
T
(‘E
likes T’)
(figure-theme:)
 
T
gusta
a
E
(‘T
pleases E’)
A/E
erbarmt
sich T
gen
 
(‘
A
/E
has
pity
for
T’)
pudet
E
acc
 T
gen
 
(‘E
is
ashamed
of T’)
	 Martin Haspelmath & Susanne Michaelis
References
Baldes, H. 1882. Der Genitiv bei Verbis im Althochdeutschen. Dissertation, Strassburg.
Delbrück, B. 1893. Vergleichende Syntax der indogermanischen Sprachen. Erster Theil. Strass­
burg: Trübner. (= 3rd Vol. of K. Brugmann & B. Delbrück, Grundriss der vergleichenden
Grammatik der indogermanischen Sprachen)
Donhauser, K. 1990. Moderne Kasuskonzeptionen und die Kasussetzung im Althochdeutschen:
Überlegungen zur Stellung des Objektsgenitivs im Althochdeutschen. In Neuere Forschun-
gen zur historischen Syntax des Deutschen, A. Betten (Ed.), 98–112. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Guillet, A. & Leclère, C. 1992. La structure des phrases simples en français, II, Constructions tran-
sitives locatives. Genève: Droz.
Haspelmath, M. 2008. Terminology of case. In Handbook of Case, A. Malchukov & A. Spencer
(Eds), 509–517. Oxford: OUP.
Kailuweit, R. 2003. Lokativalternanz bei transitiven Verben: Englisch, Französisch, Spanisch
und Deutsch im Vergleich. Vortrag auf der Internationalen Tagung zum Sprachvergleich,
Leipzig, Oktober 2003. Ms., Universität Heidelberg.
Kolvenbach, M. 1973. Das Genitivobjekt im Deutschen: Seine Interrelationen zu Präpositional­
phrasen und zum Akkusativ. In Linguistische Studien IV, Festgabe für Paul Grebe zum 65.
Geburtstag, Teil 2. [Sprache der Gegenwart 24], 123–134. Düsseldorf: Pädagogischer Verlag
Schwann.
Langacker, R. 1991. Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, Vol. 2. Stanford CA: Stanford University
Press.
Leiss, E. 1990. Grammatische Kategorien und sprachlicher Wandel: Erklärung des Geni­
tivschwunds im Deutschen. In Proceeedings of the Fourteeenth International Congress of
Linguists 1987, W. Bahner, J. Schildt & D. Viehweger (Eds), 1406–1409. Berlin: Akademie-
Verlag.
Leumann, M., Hofmann, J.B. & Szantyr, A. 1965–1977. Lateinische Grammatik, 2 Vols. [Hand­
buch der Altertumswissenschaft II.2]. München: C.H. Beck.
Levin, B. 1993. English Verb Classes and Alternations. Chicago IL: The University of Chicago
Press.
Michaelis, L. 1993. On deviant case-marking in Latin. In Advances in Role and Reference Gram-
mar, R.D. Van Valin Jr. (Ed.), 311–373. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
van den Berg, E. 1986. Sur les traces de l’objet au génitif: L’évolution de la construction imperson­
nelle. Études Germaniques 41: 403–417.
An asymmetry between VO
and OV languages
The ordering of obliques*
John A. Hawkins
Cambridge University
The World Atlas of Language Structures has established an interesting asymmetry
between head-initial (VO) and head-final (OV) languages with respect to the
ordering of oblique phrases, i.e., phrases corresponding to with the key and on
the table in opened [the door] [with the key] and put [the book] [on the table].
Head-initial grammars have a consistent and almost exceptionless preference for
VOX order. Head-final grammars have variable basic orders: all of XOV, OXV and
OVX are productively attested, and there are fewer clear basic orders than in VO
languages. In this paper I offer a multi-factor explanation for this grammatical
asymmetry in terms of processing efficiency, developing principles proposed in
Hawkins (1994, 2004).
1.  
Introduction
Among the many important contributions made by Bernard Comrie to typology
and to the field of linguistics generally, in his first 60 years, the World Atlas of Lan-
guage Structures (WALS) must rank as one of the most innovative. The geographi-
cal display of structural variants reveals in so many of the maps the necessity of
considering areal contact, along with historical-genetic and grammatical factors,
in understanding cross-linguistic variation. Succinctly written chapters by leading
experts give state of the art summaries of research in different grammatical areas
*Some less familiar abbreviations used in this paper are: ap = Argument Precedence; def = defi­
nite article; dem = demonstrative determiner; eic = Early Immediate Constituents; ld = Lexical
Domain; miD = Minimize Domains; mpp = prepositional phrase (with a left-peripheral mother-
constructing preposition); npo = direct object in a head-final language; onp = direct object in
a head-initial language; pcd = Phrasal Combination Domain; pgch = Performance-Grammar
Correspondence Hypothesis; ppm = postpositional phrase (with a right-peripheral mother-
constructing postposition); pps = shorter prepositional or postpositional phrase; ppl = longer
prepositional or postpositional phrase; x = oblique phrase; xm = head-final oblique phrase.
	 John A. Hawkins
and draw attention to issues that students and specialists alike need to consider.
And the database, on an interactive CD, makes it possible for the rest of us to
respond to the challenges raised in these chapters by testing different ideas about
structural variation.
Bernard’s goal in co-editing WALS was to create a research tool that would be
useful. A fitting tribute to him on his birthday is perhaps to give a small illustration
of its usefulness. On Map 84 and in the accompanying chapter by Dryer with Gen-
sler (pp. 342–5) there is an excellent summary of a problem I have worried about
for some time: how are oblique phrases (abbreviated as X) ordered in relation to
direct objects (O) and verbs (V)? As the authors point out, this is a neglected area
of word order typology. It is also an intriguing one theoretically, and it raises some
important issues. Thanks to WALS and to Dryer with Gensler, we now have data
and some clear general patterns. In what follows I shall build on these patterns,
present additional ones derived from the WALS database, and address the theo-
retical issues that Dryer with Gensler raise, from the perspective of the ‘process-
ing typology’ research program developed in Hawkins (1994, 2004). This program
leads to predictions that can be tested on the WALS data. Whether and to what
extent this ‘modus explanandi’ is ultimately correct will depend on many further
studies and on whether its central hypothesis (the Performance-Grammar Cor-
respondence Hypothesis, cf. (7) below) is supported. In the meantime the predic-
tions are of potential interest to a number of theories and approaches.1
1.1  
Some basic facts and issues
An oblique phrase will be understood here (as in Dryer with Gensler’s chapter) as
a syntactic NP, DP or pp, functioning most frequently as an adjunct of the verb,
such as with the key in (1), or less frequently as a non-subject, non-direct object
.  I am grateful to Caroline Williams for her help in testing my hypotheses on the WALS database.
Many thanks also to Edith Moravcsik and to an anonymous reviewer for their comments on an
earlierversion.Theanonymousreviewerasksabouttherelationshipbetweeninformation-structural
considerations and the processing principles proposed in this paper. I have addressed this question
in some detail in Hawkins (1994: 214–42), (2000: 255–7), and most recently in (2004: 122–3). The
matter is subtle since there are strong correlations between syntactic complexity and givenness/
newness, and traditional claims about free word order being pragmatically driven failed to take
account of these correlations and of the kinds of factors considered in this paper and in the refer-
ences just cited. It is important also to distinguish between the grammar of information structure, as
found in topic and focus positions in various languages (cf. e.g., É. Kiss 1987, 2002), and free word
orders, with their multiple possible determinants. The interaction between these determinants is
currently being actively investigated, by me and others. The reviewer appears to be unfamiliar with
more recent research on free word order.
	 An asymmetry between VO and OV languages 	 
and (in languages that make the distinction) non-indirect object phrase that is
nonetheless a complement or argument of the verb, like on the table in (2):
	 (1)	 Johnˉopenedˉ[theˉdoor]ˉ[withˉtheˉkey]
	 (2)	 Johnˉputˉ[theˉbook]ˉ[onˉtheˉtable]
			 V	 O	 X
The different ordering possibilities for X in VO and OV languages and their
respective quantities in the WALS map 84 are summarized in Table 1. VO languages
show a remarkable consistency. Of the three logically possible orderings for V, O and
X, a full 98% of those with a basic order have X in rightmost position (VOX), none
have X intervening between V and O (VXO), and just 2% (3 entries, all of them dia-
lects of Chinese) have initial X (XVO). The VOX pattern is exemplified in English.
For XVO Dryer with Gensler give the following example from Mandarin:
	 (3)	 MandarinˉChinese  (Liˉ&ˉThompsonˉ1981: 390)
		 tāmen	 [zài	 fángzi-hòumian]	 xiūli	 diànshìjī
		 they	 at	 house-behind	 repair	television
			 X	 V	 O
		 ‘Theyˉrepairˉtelevisionsˉbehindˉtheirˉhouse.’
For 22 languages with VO (10% of the total) more than one ordering of X is pro-
ductive and none could be considered basic.2
Table 1.  {V, O, X} orders in the WALS Map 84 (Dryer with Gensler 2005: 342–5)
VO 1. VOX 189 lgs (98% of basic orders)
2. VXO 0
3. XVO 3 (2%)
4. More than one of 1–3, none dominant 22 (10% of VO)
OV 5. XOV 45 (43% of basic orders)
6. OXV 23 (22%)
7. OVX 37 (35%)
8. More than one of 5–7, none dominant 39 (27% of OV)
OV languages reveal a completely different picture. All three logically possible
basic orders of V, O and X are productive, occurring with the following relative fre-
quencies: XOV (43%) > OVX (35%) > OXV (22%). And the number of OV languages
without a single basic order is significantly higher than the 10% figure for VO, at 27%.
.  For a summary of the criteria used by Dryer with Gensler (2005) in deciding that a par-
ticular order is ‘basic’ in a language, see Dryer’s (2005) chapter in WALS.
	 John A. Hawkins
It is this asymmetry between the two major (head-initial and head-final) language
types that makes the current area of investigation interesting, but also challenging.
Examples of XOV, OXV and OVX languages given in Dryer with Gensler
(2005) are Slave, Nagatman, and Kairiru respectively:
	 (4)	 Slave  (Athapaskan,ˉRiceˉ1989: 997)
		 t’eere	 [deno	 gha]	 ?erákee?ee	 wihsį
		 girl	 refl.mother	 for	 parka	 3.made
			 X	 O	 V
		 ‘Theˉgirlˉmadeˉaˉparkaˉforˉherˉmother.’
	 (5)	 Nagatman  (isolate,ˉPapuaˉNewˉGuinea,ˉCampbellˉ&ˉCampbellˉ1987: 8)
		 [mo	me]	 [ke	 na]	 hohui-në-taya
		 fish	 obj	 these	 with	 look.for-1.subj-3pl.obj
			 O	 X	 V
		 ‘Weˉlookˉforˉfishˉwithˉthese.’
	 (6)	 Kairiruˉ(Oceanic,ˉPapuaˉNewˉGuinea,ˉWivellˉ1981: 151)
		 ei	 porritamiok	 a-pik	 [gege-i	 nat	 nai]
		 3sg	 axe	 3sg-take	 from-3sg	 child	 that
			 O	 V	 X
		 ‘He/Sheˉtookˉtheˉaxeˉfromˉthatˉchild.’
1.2  
The patterns
The data of Table 1 reveal a number of partly gradient, partly discrete patterns, which
are summarized in Table 2 using Roman numerals in square brackets to identify each.
Pattern [I] has already been commented on: the consistency of VO vs. OV variability.
Table 2.  Basic Patterns in Table 1
[I]	 VO consistency vs. OV variability
	 VO lgs: 98% of basic orders are VOX; 10% have no dominant order
	 OV lgs: all three basic orders productive; 27% have no dominant order
[II]	 V&O adjacency
	 VO lgs: 100% have adjacent V&O (no VXO)
	 OV lgs: 78% have adjacent V&O (all but OXV)
	 Across all lgs, adjacent basic orders of V&O = 92% (274/297)
[III]	 O and X on same side of V
	 VO lgs: 98% have O and X on same side (all but XVO)
	 OV lgs: 65% have O and X on same side (all but OVX)
	 Across all lgs, basic orders of O and X on same side = 87% (257/297)
[IV]	 O before X
	 VO lgs: 98% have OX, 2% XO (Chinese dialects only)
	 OV lgs: 57% have OX (60/105), 43% XO (45/105)
	 Across all lgs, basic orders of O before X = 84% (249/297)
	 An asymmetry between VO and OV languages 	 
Three more specific patterns contribute to this general pattern. Pattern [II]
is V&O adjacency. A remarkable 100% of VO languages have verb and object
adjacent (i.e., no VXO); 78% of OV languages also exhibit this preference (all but
OXV). Overall 274 out of 297 languages with basic orders have V and O adjacent
to one another, or 92%.
A futher pattern, found in 87% of all basic orders, is [III] O and X on the same
side of V. 98% of VO languages exemplify this (all but XVO), and 65% of OV (all
but OVX).
A final pattern, found in 84% of all basic orders is [IV] O before X, i.e., the
direct object precedes the oblique phrase. Again, 98% of VO languages exemplify
this, as do 57% of OV.
1.3  Processing typology
Processing typology is an interdisciplinary research program that examines pat-
terns such as these across grammars and compares them with the patterns and
preferences found in performance in languages with several structures of a given
type. In the present study this means looking at alternative orderings of V, O and
X within and across languages. In a study of relative clauses it means comparing
the distribution of different relative clause strategies within and across languages,
and so on. This program tests the hypothesis, termed the Performance-Grammar
Correspondence Hypothesis in Hawkins (2004), that the same principles underlie
both sets of patterns and hence that performance and processing can help us bet-
ter understand, and predict, grammatical variation and language universals. The
pgch is defined in (7):
	 (7)	 Performance-GrammarˉCorrespondenceˉHypothesisˉ(pgch)
		
Grammarsˉhaveˉconventionalizedˉsyntacticˉstructuresˉinˉproportionˉto
their degreeˉofˉpreferenceˉinˉperformance,ˉasˉevidencedˉbyˉpatternsˉof selection
inˉcorporaˉandˉbyˉeaseˉofˉprocessingˉinˉpsycholinguistic experiments.
For example, relative clauses may exhibit a ‘gap’ or a ‘resumptive pronoun’
strategy (Keenan & Comrie 1977), in Hebrew and many other languages, giving
alternations corresponding to the students [that I teach 0]) and the students [that
I teach them]. A relative clause can occur with and without a relative pronoun, as in
English the students [whom I teach] vs. the students [0 I teach]. One of these strate-
gies may be ‘fixed’ or ‘conventionalized’ in some environments, while there can be
optionality and variation in others.
The selection from the variants in performance exhibits patterns. The retention of
the relative pronoun in English is correlated with the degree of separation of the rela-
tive clause from its head, as Quirk (1957) first observed in his corpus of spoken British
English. Zero relatives (those without relative pronouns) are preferred when adjacent
	 John A. Hawkins
to the head noun; and the greater the separation between the relative clause and its
head, the greater the preference for the explicit relative pronoun (Hawkins 2004: 153).
The Hebrew gap is similarly favored with smaller distances between the head noun
filler and its gap than between the head noun and a resumptive pronoun (Ariel 1999).
The distribution of gaps to resumptive pronouns in the fixed conventions of
grammars also reveals patterns. The distribution follows the Keenan & Comrie
(1977) Accessibility Hierarchy (AH) (Subjects > Direct Objects > Indirect Objects/
Obliques > Genitives, cf. Comrie 1989), with gaps preferred in the higher positions
and explicit pronouns in the lower ones. More precisely, if a gap occurs low on the
hierarchy, it occurs all the way up, and if a pronoun occurs high, it occurs all the
way down. Keenan-Comrie argued that this grammatical pattern was ultimately
explainable by declining ease of processing down the AH. This line of reasoning
has been generalized beyond relative clauses within the processing typology pro-
gram (Hawkins 1999, 2004). The preferred word orders in languages and struc-
tures with considerable freedom appear to be those that are grammaticalized in
languages with more fixed and basic orderings such as English.
The pgch defines a very different relationship between performance and gram-
marsthantheclassiconepresentedinChomsky(1965)andinmostofhissubsequent
publications. The (competence) grammar is an important component of an overall
performance model for Chomsky, but he has argued repeatedly that grammars are
autonomous and independent of performance factors and that they are determined
by an innate U(niversal) G(rammar). Processing typology is built on the opposite
assumption of (7). It gives a different account of cross-linguistic variation, explains
numerous exceptions to proposed universals, and avoids unsupported appeals to
innate grammatical parameters. The need for a different approach has been argued
for recently by Newmeyer (2005) in his critique of Chomsky’s ‘principles and param-
eters’. Newmeyer shows that these principles are not adequate empirically, when
a wide range of languages is considered, and he advocates abandoning them and
replacing them with performance principles along the lines of the pgch.
The pgch also provides a better fit with findings from many branches of the
language sciences in which there is a growing awareness of this basic correspon-
dence. Haspelmath (1999) has proposed a theory of diachrony in which usage
preferences lead to changing grammatical conventions over time. Bybee & Hopper
(2001) document the clear role of frequency in the emergence of grammatical struc-
ture. There have been computer simulations of language evolution, exemplified by
Kirby (1999) in which processing preferences of the kind assumed for word order
in Hawkins (1990, 1994) are incorporated in the simulation and lead to the emer-
gence of the observed grammatical types after numerous iterations (corresponding to
successive generations of language users). There have been developments in Optimal-
ity Theory, exemplified by Haspelmath (1999) and Aissen (1999), in which functional
	 An asymmetry between VO and OV languages 	 
motivations are provided for many of the basic constraints of that theory, some of
them of an explicitly processing nature. A further extension, Stochastic Optimality
Theory (Bresnan et al. 2001; Manning 2003), is an explicit attempt to generate the
preferences of performance (‘soft constraints’) as well as the grammatical conven-
tions (‘hard constraints’) using the formal machinery of Optimality Theory, suit-
ably extended. O’Grady (2005) proposes an account of the emergence of syntactic
structures from basic operations of processing that is in the spirit of the pgch and he
explores the consequences for language acquisition.
The goal of the remainder of this paper will be to test this research hypothesis
(pgch) with respect to the data and patterns of Tables 1 and 2. Conventionalized
grammatical orderings of V, O and X across languages will be compared with per-
formance variants within languages involving these and similar categories, in the
search for principles that underlie the typological patterns.
2.  
Minimize domains in performance and grammars
Why is it that certain orders are preferred over others in performance and in gram-
mars? I have argued (Hawkins 1994, 2004) that it is because there are principles
of efficiency and complexity that motivate the preferences. One was suggested to
me when working on Greenberg’s (1963) word order correlations, such as the one
linking the position of the verb within VP to the presence of prepositions or post-
positions within pp (Hawkins 1990):
	 (8)	 a.	 vp[wentˉpp[toˉtheˉmovies]]
			 ----------
		 b.	 [[theˉmoviesˉto]ppˉwent]vp
			 -------------
		 c.	 vp[wentˉ[theˉmoviesˉto]pp]
			 -----------------------
		 d.	 [pp[toˉtheˉmovies]ˉwent]vp
			 -----------------------
(8a) is the English order, (8b) is the Japanese order, and these two sequences, with
adjacent lexical heads (V and P), are massively preferred in all language sam-
ples over the inconsistently ordered heads in (8c) and (8d). (9) summarizes the
quantitative distribution in the database of Dryer’s (1992) paper on the ‘Green-
bergian correlations’ (measuring languages here rather than ‘genera’, cf. Hawkins
1994: 257):
	 (9)	 a.	 vp[Vˉpp[PˉNP]]ˉ=ˉ161ˉ(41%)
		 b.	 [[NPˉP]ppˉV]vpˉ=ˉ204ˉ(52%)
	 John A. Hawkins
		 c.	 vp[Vˉ[NPˉP]pp]ˉ=ˉ18ˉ(5%)
		 d.	 [pp[PˉNP]ˉV]vpˉ=ˉ6ˉ(2%)
			 Preferredˉ(9a)+(b)ˉ=ˉ365/389ˉ(94%)
From a processing perspective, the adjacency of V and p guarantees the smallest
possible string of words (indicated by the underlinings in (8)) for the recognition
and construction of VP and its two immediate constituents (ICs), i.e., V and pp.
Non-adjacent V and p in (9cd) require longer and less efficient strings for the
parsing of phrase structure. This leads to a hypothesis (which I first formulated in
Hawkins 1990): the recognition and construction of phrases and of their combi-
natorial relations prefers the smallest possible string of words in processing (the
principle of Early Immediate Constituents, see (13) below). More generally I have
argued (Hawkins 2004) that the processing of all syntactic and semantic relations
prefers minimal domains. This principle is defined in (10), cf. also Gibson’s (1998,
2000) very similar principle in terms of ‘locality’.
	 (10)	 Minimize Domains (mid)
		
The human processor prefers to minimize the connected sequences of linguistic
forms and their conventionally associated syntactic and semantic properties in
which relations of combination and/or dependency are processed. The degree of
this preference is proportional to the number of relations whose domains can be
minimized in competing sequences or structures, and to the extent of the mini-
mization difference in each domain.
		
Combination = Two categories A and B are in a relation of combination iff
they	occur within the same syntactic mother phrase and maximal projections
(phrasal combination), or if they occur within the same lexical co-occurrence
frame (lexical combination).
		
Dependency = Two categories A and B are in a relation of dependency iff the
parsing of B requires access to A for the assignment of syntactic or semantic
properties to B with respect to which B is zero-specified or ambiguously or
polysemously specified.
2.1  Minimal domains in the performance of a head-initial language
The preferred orders (8a) and (b) reduce the number of words needed to recog-
nize a mother phrase M and its immediate constituent daughters (ICs), making
phrasal combination faster. Compare now the following alternative orderings in
post-verbal position in English, involving two PPs:
	 (11)	 a.	
The man vp[waited pp1[for his son] pp2[in the cold but not unpleasant
wind]]
			 1	 2	 3	 4	 5
			 ------------------------------
	 An asymmetry between VO and OV languages 	 
		 b.	 The man vp[waited pp2[in the cold but not unpleasant wind] pp1[for his son]]
			 1	 2	 3	 4	 5	 6	 7	 8	 9
			 ---------------------------------------------------------
The three items, V, pp1, pp2 can be recognized on the basis of five words in (11a),
compared with nine in (11b), assuming as I did for (8) that (head) categories like
p project to mother nodes such as pp and enable the parser to immediately con-
struct them and recognize them on-line. For comparable benefits within a Pro-
duction Model, cf. Hawkins (2004: 106).
Minimize Domains predicts that Phrasal Combination Domains (PCDs)
should be as short as possible.
	 (12)	 PhrasalˉCombinationˉDomainˉ(pcd)
		
TheˉpcdˉforˉaˉmotherˉnodeˉMˉandˉitsˉI(mmediate)ˉC(onstituent)sˉ
consistsˉofˉtheˉsmallestˉstringˉofˉterminalˉelementsˉ(plusˉallˉM-
dominatedˉnon-terminalsˉoverˉtheˉterminals)ˉonˉtheˉbasisˉofˉwhichˉtheˉ
processorˉcanˉconstructˉMˉandˉitsˉICs.
The degree of this preference should be proportional to the minimization differ-
ence between competing orderings. The principle of Early Immediate Constitu-
ents is a particular instance of Minimize Domains and is defined in (13):
	 (13)	 EarlyˉImmediateˉConstituentsˉ(eic)ˉ[Hawkinsˉ1994: 69–83]
		
Theˉhumanˉprocessorˉprefersˉlinearˉordersˉthat minimize PCDs (by maxi-
mizing their IC-to-word ratios), in proportion to the minimization difference
between competing orders.
In concrete terms eic amounts to a preference for short before long phrases in
head-initial structures, i.e., for short before long PPs in (11). These orders will have
higher ‘IC-to-word ratios’: they permit more ICs to be recognized on the basis of
fewer words in the terminal string. The IC-to-word ratio for the VP in (11a) is 3/5
or 60% (5 words are required for the recognition of 3 ICs). The comparable ratio
for (11b) is the much lower 3/9 or 33% (9 words required for the same 3 ICs).
In order to test eic’s predictions structures like (11) were selected from a cor-
pus using a permutation test (Hawkins 2000, 2001): the two PPs had to be permut-
able with truth-conditional equivalence (i.e., the language producer had a choice).
Only 15% (58/394) of these English sequences had long before short. Among those
with at least a one-word weight difference (excluding 71 with equal weight), 82%
had short before long, and there was a gradual reduction in the long before short
orders, the bigger the weight difference (pps = shorter pp, ppl = longer pp):
	 (14)	 nˉ=ˉ323	 pplˉ>ˉppsˉbyˉ1ˉword	 byˉ2–4	 byˉ5–6	 byˉ7+
		 [Vˉppsˉppl]	 60%ˉ(58)	 86%ˉ(108)	 94%ˉ(31)	 99%ˉ(68)
		 [Vˉpplˉpps]	 40%ˉ(38)	 14%ˉ(17)	 6%ˉ(2)	 1%ˉ(1)
	 John A. Hawkins
A possible explanation for this distribution can be given in terms of reduced
simultaneous processing demands in working memory. If, in (11a), the same
phrase structure information can be derived from a 5-word viewing window rather
than 9 words, then phrase structure processing can be accomplished sooner, there
will be fewer additional (phonological, morphological, syntactic and semantic)
decisions that need to be made simultaneously with this one, less structural com-
plexity to compute and fewer competing structural decisions to resolve (Lewis
1996; Vasishth 2003), and quite generally there will be fewer demands on working
memory and on the computational system. (11a) is more efficient, therefore. We
can hypothesize that this is why all syntactic and semantic relations prefer minimal
domains for processing (Hawkins 2004). There is no appeal in this approach to
some hypothesized and stipulated capacity overload in working memory (as in
e.g., Frazier & Fodor 1978; Just & Carpenter 1992; Gibson 1998, 2000). Minimal
domains are simply more efficient, for reasons of processing speed and reduced
simultaneous processing effort.
2.2  
Minimal domains for lexical combinations and complements
A pcd is a domain for the processing of a syntactic relation of phrasal combina-
tion or sisterhood. Some of these sisters contract additional relations of a semantic
and/or syntactic nature, of the kind that grammatical models try to capture in
terms of verb-complement (rather than verb-adjunct) relations, e.g., count on your
father versus play on the playground (place adjunct). Complements are listed in
the lexical entry for each head, and the processing of verb-complement relations
should also prefer minimal domains, by mid (11).
	 (15)	 LexicalˉDomainˉ(ld)
		
The ld for the assignment of a lexically listed property p to a lexical item L consists
of the smallest possible string of terminal elements (plus their associated syntactic
and semantic properties) on the basis of which the processor can assign p to L.
One practical problem here is that the complement/adjunct distinction is a
multi-factor one covering different types of combinatorial and dependency rela-
tions, obligatoriness vs. optionality, etc., and is not always clear (cf. Schütze & Gibson
1999). Hawkins (2000, 2001) proposes some entailment tests as a way of identifying
PPs that are lexically listed, and applies them to the data of (14). These tests are based
on the notion of a ‘dependency’ between verb and preposition as defined in (10).3
.  The entailment tests used in Hawkins (2000, 2001) were as follows:
	 (i)	
Verb Entailment Test: does [V, {pp1, pp2}] entail V alone or does V have a meaning
dependent on either pp1 or pp2? E.g. the man waited for his son in the early morning
	 An asymmetry between VO and OV languages 	 
When there was a complement relation between V and just one of the PPs,
according to these tests, 73% (151/206) had the complement pp adjacent to V, i.e.,
their LDs were minimal. Recall that 82% had a short pp adjacent to V preceding a
longer one in (15), i.e., their PCDs were minimal. For pps that were both shorter
and lexical complements, the adjacency rate to V was 96%, which was (statisti-
cally) significantly higher than for each factor alone.
The more syntactic and semantic relations whose domains are minimized in
a given order, the greater is the preference for that order. Multiple preferences
have an additive adjacency effect when they work together, but result in excep-
tions to each when they pull in different directions. For example, most of the 58
long-before-short sequences in (14) involved some form of lexical combination
or dependency between V and the longer pp (Hawkins 2000), i.e., these pps
were complements.
3.  
Verb & Object Adjacency [Pattern II]
With this much background we can now turn to Pattern II in Table 2.
3.1  
Performance data from English and Japanese support minimal domains
for the processing of {V, O} and {V, X} relations
Consider some corpus data involving the VOX/VXO alternation in English, i.e.,
with structures containing a post-verbal direct object and a pp as in (1) and (2)
above. It has been observed traditionally (by e.g., Ross 1967) that the VXO depar-
ture from the basic VOX is characteristic of direct objects that are particularly
‘heavy’, giving rise to the label ‘Heavy NP Shift’, e.g., John opened with the key the
door that had been closed for centuries. Hawkins (1994: 183) argued, based on the
corpus data of (16) below, that it is the relative weight of the NP versus the pp,
rather than the absolute size or complexity of NP, that conditions the shift and this
entails the man waited; the man counted on his son in his old age does not entail the
man counted.
	 (ii)	
Pro-Verb Entailment Test: can V be replaced by some general Pro-verb or does one
of the pps require that particular V for its interpretation? E.g. the boy played on the
playground entails the boy did something on the playground, but the boy depended on
his father does not entail the boy did something on his father.
If V or p was dependent on the other by these tests, then the pp was regarded as lexically listed,
i.e., dependency was used here as a sufficient condition for complementhood and lexical listing.
The pps classified as independent were (mostly) adjuncts or unclear cases.
	 John A. Hawkins
has since been supported in the production experiments conducted by Stallings
(1998) (see also the corpus and experimental data in Wasow 2002).
There are just 22/480 instances of VXO shifting (5%) in the data of (16), the
incidence of which increases in the left-hand columns as the weight difference of
O > X increases. English direct objects are abbreviated here as onp, and (preposi-
tional) pps as mpp (with the head on the left constructing the ‘mother’ pp at the
left edge). The [V onp mpp] basic order of English can be seen as a conventional-
ization of domain minimization preferences for the processing of PCDs (12) and
LDs (15). Direct object NPs are significantly shorter in general than post-verbal
pps, cf. §0.3.2. The same short-before-long preference evident in (14) will there-
fore favor onp before mpp. In addition, onps are always complements, whereas
pps are more often not in a lexical relation with V, i.e., there are more VO lexical
processing domains than VX domains. Direct object adjacency to V is preferred
for both pcd and ld processing, therefore.
	
(16)
	
[V NPmPP] 0% (0) 43% (6) 95% (38) 100% (68) 99% (209) 99% (103) 100% (34)
[VˉmPPˉNP] 100% (9) 57% (8) 5% (2) 0% (0) 1% (2) 1% (1) 0% (0)
oNP > mPP by oNP = mPP
n = 480 5+ 3−4 1−2
mPP > oNP by
1−2 3−7 8+
The preferred adjacency of V and onp can be seen overwhelmingly when mpp
>onp in the right-hand columns, when weight differences are equal, and even
when onp>mpp by 1–2 words. Heavy NP Shift to [V mpp onp] becomes signifi-
cant only when onp>mpp by larger (3–4 and 5+) weight differences.
Wasow (1997, 2002) gives further corpus data showing quite dramatically how
different kinds of V-pp relations impact shifting ratios to [V pp NP] in English, in
addition to weight. He distinguishes:
•	 ‘opaque collocations’ between V and pp, defined as lexical combinations
whose meanings are non-compositional and require a processing domain that
includes both V and pp for their appropriate meaning assignment, e.g., take
into account NP;
•	 ‘transparent collocations’, i.e., those that should be comprehensible to a speaker
who knows the literal meaning of each of the words in it, but has never before
encountered them in this combination, e.g., bring to someone’s attention NP; and
•	 ‘non-collocations’, i.e., compositional combinations that are not lexically listed,
e.g., take to the library NP.
Shifting ratios for sample instances of these three types in his data were:
	 An asymmetry between VO and OV languages 	 
	 opaque collocations = 60%
	 transparent collocations = 47%
	 non-collocations = 15%.
Wasow’s ‘collocations’ correspond to what we are calling a ‘lexical combina-
tion’ here, cf. (10). The transparency or opacity of the collocation seems to reflect
whether there is an additional dependency between V and pp, as defined in (10).
His data indicate that V-pp adjacency is preferred in proportion to the number
of lexical combination and lexical dependency relations holding between V and
pp. When one adds this finding to the clear weight effect in (16) the prediction
of mid in (10) is supported: the shifting preference to [V pp NP] is proportional
to the number of lexical and syntactic relations whose processing domains can
be minimized.
Consider now corpus data from Japanese involving the mirror-image alterna-
tion of XOV/OXV, i.e., sentence pairs such as (17a) and (b).
	 (17)	 a.	 (Tanakaˉga)	 [[Hanakoˉkara]pp	 [sono	 hon	 o]np	 katta]vp
			 TanakaˉNOM	 Hanakoˉfrom	 that	 book	 acc	 bought
				 X	 O	 V
			 ‘TanakoˉboughtˉthatˉbookˉfromˉHanako’
		 b.	 (Tanakaˉga)ˉ[[sonoˉhonˉo]npˉ[Hanakoˉkara]ppˉkatta]vp
				 O	 X	 V
In a head-final VP like this, long before short phrases will generally provide mini-
mal Phrasal Combination Domains, since the categories that construct mother
phrases (V, P, Comp, case particles, etc.) are on the right. If the direct object is a
long complement clause headed by the complementizer to, for example, as in (18),
and if this complement intervenes between the subject Mary ga and the verb it-ta
as it does in (18a), then the matrix pcd will proceed from the subject to the verb
and will be very long. In (18b), on the other hand, the distance from the comple-
mentizer to, which constructs the complement clause, to the verb is very short. As
a result the pcd for the two ICs of the VP (the complement and the verb) is short,
and the pcd for the matrix clause consisting of subject and VP is short as well.4
	 (18)	 a.	 Mary	 ga	 [[kinoo	 Johnˉga	 kekkonsi-ta	 to]s	 it-ta]vp
			 Mary	 nom	 yesterday	Johnˉnom	 married	 that	 said,ˉi.e.,
			 ‘MaryˉsaidˉthatˉJohnˉgotˉmarriedˉyesterday.’
		 b.	 [kinooˉJohnˉgaˉkekkonsi-taˉto]sˉMaryˉgaˉ[it-ta]vp
.  See Hawkins (1994: 80) in which IC-to-word ratios for (18a) and (b) are calculated, given
different assumptions about the derived constituent structure for (18b).
	 John A. Hawkins
By similar reasoning, a preference for (17b) is predicted in proportion to the rel-
ative weight difference between the object phrase (npo) and the head-final pp
(ppm). The longer npo or ppm is predicted to precede the shorter phrase.
The following Japanese data are reported in Hawkins (1994: 152) and were
collected by Kaoru Horie.
	
(19)
	
NPo > PPm by NPo = PPm
n = 244 5+ 3−4 1−2
PPm > NPo by
1−2 3−8 9+
[PPm NP V] 21% (3) 50% (5) 62% (18) 66% (60) 80% (48) 84% (26) 100% (9)
[NP PPm V] 79% (11) 50% (5) 38% (11) 34% (31) 20% (12) 16% (5) 0% (0)
There is more variability in Japanese than in English (16), but a clear mirror-image
pattern is evident between them. There is a strong preference for the adjacency of
V and npo in the right-hand columns when ppm > npo, and a similar adjacency
preference approaching 2-to-1 when weights are equal and when npo > ppm by
1–2 words. The equal or majority preposing of npo is seen in the left-hand col-
umns only when npo exceeds ppm by larger (3–4 and 5+) weight differences. This
mirror-image shifting preference has been corroborated in the experimental and
corpus studies of Yamashita & Chang (2001) and Yamashita (2002), and it under-
scores the eic prediction of (13): the directionality of weight effects depends on
the language type. Heavy phrases shift to the right in English-type (head-initial)
structures, and to the left in head-final Japanese.
The resistance to npo preposing when weight differences are small in (19)
matches the same resistance to postposing in English under these conditions and
supports the preferred adjacency of V and NP for reasons of lexical processing:
all direct objects are in a lexical relation with V, whereas most pps will not be, in
both languages.
3.2  Minimal domain predictions for grammatical conventions of ordering
The pgch of (7) predicts that when the kinds of performance variants exemplified
by English and Japanese are conventionalized in grammatical rules of ordering, the
conventions should follow the preferences of performance. I have suggested that
the basic [V onp mpp] order of English does this by providing minimal domains
for phrase structure and lexical processing. Post-verbal pps are significantly lon-
ger than object NPs on average, in the corpus data of Hawkins (1994):
	 (20)	 English  (Hawkinsˉ1994: 183)
		 mppˉ>ˉonp	73%	 (349/480)
		 onpˉ>ˉmpp	13%	 (63/480)
		 onpˉ=ˉmpp	14%	 (68/480)
	 An asymmetry between VO and OV languages 	 
pps are accordingly preferred to the right of NPs in performance, and this can
result in a conventionalized grammatical rule of ordering positioning the cate-
gory onp before mpp. There may also be a convention that positions arguments
of the verb adjacent to the verb and before adjuncts. Both rules can be argued to
have been conventionalized in English. Alternatively one might argue that these
are simply the preferred orders one would see in English anyway, even without a
grammatical convention, given the weight differences between mpp and onp, and
the fact that direct objects are always arguments of the verb whereas most pps
are not. Some evidence against this ‘pure performance’ account, and in favor of a
grammatical convention, comes from the data in the left-hand columns of (16).
The putatively basic and conventionalized order is regularly maintained in many
structures in which onp is heavier than mpp, except when weight differences
between them are large and lead to Heavy NP Shift. In comparable post-verbal
data from other languages (such as Hungarian) in which the relative orderings are
undoubtedly grammatically free (É. Kiss 1987, 2002), one finds an immediate sen-
sitivity to weight effects and clear ordering preferences between phrases with only
1- and 2-word weight differences (Hawkins 1994: 133). The absence of such effects
in English provides an interesting (performance) argument for the existence of a
grammatical ordering convention, one that is retained in a set of data that would
have shifted in response to weak performance preferences in languages without
the convention.5
Japanese direct objects (npo) are also shorter than (postpositional) pps
on average, but less consistently than in English, based on the data of Hawkins
(1994: 152) at least:
	 (21)	 Japanese  (Hawkinsˉ1994: 152)
		 ppmˉ>ˉnpo	 41%	 (100/244)
		 npoˉ>ˉppm	 22%	 (53/244)
		 npoˉ=ˉppm	 37%	 (91/244)
The relative weights are now more evenly divided, though ppm > npo exceeds npo >
ppm by almost 2-to-1. An XOV convention for Japanese is supported by the pro-
cessing advantages for both phrasal combination and lexical domains, therefore,
and the resistance to the OXV conversion (i.e., [npo ppm V])in the left-hand col-
umns of (19) provides some further support for this, albeit weaker support than
for the corresponding VOX convention in English.
.  See Hawkins (1994: 182) and (1998) for further discussion of the status of [V NP pp] as a
grammaticalized order in English.
	 John A. Hawkins
4.  
Object and X on Same Side of Verb [Pattern III]
So far we have considered alternations of VOX vs. VXO, and of XOV vs. OXV. In
both cases O and X occur on the same side of V, conforming with pattern [III] of
Table 2. There is a third OV type, OVX, with O and X on opposite sides. Object
and X on the same side is significantly preferred overall, however, and I shall argue
here that the principle of mid can account for this. mid also makes some predic-
tions for the nature of X in the minority languages with OVX, which can be tested
on the WALS database. Consider first some important general properties of O and
X in VO and OV languages.
4.1  
There is less structural differentiation between O and X
in OV languages
The more equal weight distribution between O and X in Japanese (21) compared
with the English (20) matches an important grammatical difference between these
twolanguages:thereisgreaterstructuraldifferentiationbetweenOandXinEnglish.
Direct objects are always NPs in this language, oblique phrases are generally pps,
and English like many or most VO languages has a productive class of free-stand-
ing prepositions (Hall 1992; Tsunoda et al. 1995), making pp and NP distinct
phrases, with pp at least one word longer in its minimal word content since it
contains p as well as NP. Japanese, by contrast, employs postposition-like case
particles for its nominative, accusative and dative NPs (ga, o, and ni respec-
tively), whose surface syntax and weight make them very similar to oblique pps
like Hanako kara in (17), requiring often subtle tests to distinguish NP from pp
(Kuno 1973).
This relative lack of structural differentiation between O and X is char-
acteristic of OV languages in general. Postpositions are less productive as a
category in OV languages than prepositions in VO. Some OV languages have
just one or two, some have none at all (Tsunoda et al. 1995). As a result oblique
phrases are syntactically often NPs, just like direct objects. Case suffixes are
very common in OV languages, cf. (27) below, and these cases often extend to
the oblique roles translated by prepositional phrases in VO languages. Again,
oblique phrases are (case-marked) NPs. And then there are the (many) OV
languages like Japanese whose case markers are postpositional particles or
clitics, cf. again (27).
The result of all this is that there is less weight differentiation between O and X
in OV languages and more processing motivation for the occurrence of alternative
orders (e.g., XOV and OXV) that maximize efficiency in PCDs, depending on the
weights that O and X happen to have in individual sentences. The productivity of
	 An asymmetry between VO and OV languages 	 
both XOV and OXV in the grammatical ordering conventions of OV languages
matches this greater performance variability.
4.2  Variable head positioning in OV lgs
There is also variability in the positioning of the head within the pp or NP that
constitutes X in OV languages. mid predicts that when X regularly precedes V, as
in Japanese, we should see head-final XPs (xm), with p to the right of pp, and N to
the right of NP. In this way the PCDs linking e.g., p and V will be minimal, as in
(17b) above. But in those OV languages in which X follows V, we should see more
head-initial XPs (mX) since the corresponding processing domains linking V and
the head of XP will then be shorter.
This prediction can be tested by searching for correlations between XOV, OXV,
and OVX on the one hand, and the different head orderings within XP phrases on
the other, i.e., within pps and NPs. (Recall that the XP in many OV languages will be
an NP rather than a pp, given the lesser structural differentiation between NP and pp
in these languages). The OVX languages should be more head-initial and have head
ordering correlations more like those of VO. The figures given below refer to ‘genera’ in
the WALS database (given in parentheses), not to individual languages (Dryer 1989).6
For correlations involving postpositions vs. prepositions within a pp as XP,
there is a clear tendency in this direction: one third of OVX languages have either
prepositions or no dominant order within pp and are transitional between the
overwhelmingly postpositional XOV and OXV and the predominantly preposi-
tional VO, as shown in (22):
	 (22)	 Postpositions	 PrepositionsˉorˉNoˉdominantˉorder
		 XOV	 97%	 (32)	 3%	 (1)
		 OXV	 94%	 (15)	 6%	 (1)
		 OVX	 67%	 (14)	 33%	 (7)
		 VO	 14%	 (22)	 86%	 (134)
There is a similar tendency in the direction of a head-initial noun before genitive
order within NPs in OVX languages, as seen in (23):
	 (23)	 Genitive-Noun	 Noun-GenitiveˉorˉNoˉdominantˉorder
		 XOV	 97%	(30)	 3%	 (1)
		 OXV	 89%	(16)	 11%	(2)
		 OVX	 69%	(18)	 31%	(8)
		 VO	 27%	(45)	 73%	 (124)
.  A genus for Dryer is a genetic grouping of languages comparable in time depth to the
subfamilies of Indo-European.
	 John A. Hawkins
On the other hand, the (two-thirds) majority of p and N orders remain head-final
for these XPs in OVX languages, a point to which I return in § 4.3 below.
For NPs consisting of a head noun plus an adjunct there is, however, striking
support for head-initial ordering in OVX languages. Prenominal relative clauses,
for example, are completely absent in OVX languages, in contrast to other OV
languages, making OVX almost identical in its correlations to VO:
	 (24)	 Rel-Noun	 Noun-RelˉorˉMixed/Correlative/Adjoined
		 XOV	 57%	(13)	 43%	 (10)
		 OXV	 36%	(4)	 64%	 (7)
		 OVX	 0%	 (0)	 100%	(17)
		 VO	 3%	 (3)	 97%	 (116)
Prenominal adjectives are entirely absent as well, making OVX even more head-
initial than VO languages:
	 (25)	 Adj-Noun	 Noun-AdjˉorˉNoˉdominantˉorder
		 XOV	 44%	 (16)	 56%	 (20)
		 OXV	 33%	 (6)	 67%	 (12)
		 OVX	 0%	 (0)	 100%	(23)
		 VO	 29%	 (51)	 71%	 (122)
The evolution of a definite article out of a demonstrative determiner is correlated
with VO languages and has been argued to serve an NP construction function
(inter alia) in Hawkins (2004). It is significant that OVX languages have the same
proportion of separate definite articles as VO, in contrast to other OV:
	 (26)	 Noˉdefiniteˉarticle	 defˉwordˉdistinctˉfromˉdem
		 XOV	 83%	(20)	 17%	(4)
		 OXV	 75%	(6)	 25%	(2)
		 OVX	 46%	(6)	 54%	(7)
		 VO	 42%	(44)	 58%	(62)
The existence of case suffixes or postpositional clitics is strongly correlated with
OV, whereas VO languages prefer no case affixes and either prepositional clitics or
occasionally case prefixes, with some case suffixes/postpositional clitics as well. It
is significant that the correlations for OVX are again quite different from other OV
languages and much closer to those of VO:
	 (27)	 CaseˉsuffixesˉorˉPostposˉclitics	 CaseˉprefixesˉorˉPrep.ˉclitics	 Noˉcaseˉaffixes
		 XOV	 73%	(27)	 3%	 (1)	 24%	(9)
		 OXV	 88%	(15)	 0%	 (0)	 12%	(2)
		 OVX	 48%	(10)	 5%	 (1)	 48%	(10)
		 VO	 27%	(42)	 16%	(25)	 58%	(91)
	 An asymmetry between VO and OV languages 	 
Since these case affixes play a significant role in the on-line construction of mother
and grandmother nodes (Hawkins 1994), the greater frequency of prefixes and of
unaffixed heads is expected in VO languages, and is also characteristic of OVX,
whereas suffixes predominate in XOV and OXV.
There are clearly many more head-initial phrasal orderings in OVX languages,
as predicted by MiD (10). Dryer with Gensler (2005) point to a further one: the
fronting of a finite Aux to clause-initial position (S Aux OVX) is characteristic
of many OVX languages throughout Africa, e.g., Supyire (Gur), Tunen (Bantu),
Grebo (Kru), Ma’di (Central Sudanic).7
4.3  
Object and X on the same side
The data of (22)–(23) show that there is resistance to departing from head-final
pps and NPs in OV languages overall, i.e., consistent head ordering is still pre-
ferred, with the departures from consistency generally favoring the OVX subtype.
In VO languages head ordering consistency is also preferred. In both OV and VO
languages O and X are generally preferred on the same side of V. This pattern
makes sense in terms of this head ordering consistency and can be argued to be
motivated by it. Consistency in turn is motivated by MiD (10).
Positioning O and X on different sides of V would require inconsistent head
orderings within NP and XP in order to make processing domains optimally effi-
cient. But in the languages in which O and X occur on opposite sides with any
frequency at all (OV languages) we have seen that XP often is an NP. Hence a head
ordering good for the post-verbal NP will not be good for the pre-verbal one in
these languages, and vice versa, lessening its desirability.
Positioning O and X on the same side of V with a head ordering consistent with
that of V is also compatible with O and X occurring efficiently in any relative order-
ing, before V (OV languages) or after V (VO). Positioning O and X on different sides
limits their efficient occurrences to one side of V only and to one relative ordering.
Inconsistent head ordering and opposite positioning for O and X also has
negative consequences for the formulation of grammatical conventions. It limits
the generality of the principles that define phrase structure, requiring less general
X-bar rules, more linearization exceptions and stipulations, as I argued in Hawk-
ins (1983) following Jackendoff (1977).
For all these interrelated reasons head ordering is generally consistent and
O and X are positioned on the same side of V in the majority of languages, while
there are correlations between opposite positioning and head inconsistency in the
minority of languages with OVX.
.  For the significance of finite verb fronting for processing, see Hawkins (1994: 381–7).
	 John A. Hawkins
5.  
Object before X [Pattern IV]
There is also head variability in VO languages. Some, a minority, have Postpositions
(cf. 22), Genitive-N (cf. 23), Rel-N (cf. 24) and Adjective-N (cf. 25), compatible
with pre-verbal positioning for these phrases by mid. Yet only in the most extreme
head-inconsistent languages (Chinese) do we find basic XVO orders mirroring
OVX. V and O are still adjacent in Chinese [pattern I], so this dispreference could
be the result of O and X not being on the same side (contrary to pattern II). But
there are productive cases of O and X on different sides in OV languages (OVX), so
why don’t we get the mirror image XVO productively in VO languages? I suggest
that there is a second general principle that interacts with mid (10), pushing X to
the right of (subject and) object complements, even in VO languages:
	 (28)	 ArgumentˉPrecedenceˉ(ap)
		 ArgumentsˉprecedeˉX
This is a linear precedence principle of language production that may have paral-
lels in comprehension. It is supported empirically by the productivity of (S)OVX
versus the rarity of the mirror-image (S)XVO, as we have seen.8 Theoretically it
may be motivated by the greater frequency and accessibility of argument NPs ver-
sus the greater diversity and lesser frequency of each XP type: every clause has
at least a subject argument for the relevant verb, and object arguments are more
frequent for each transitive verb than any single type of XP. Arguments are also
more definite and more salient and foregrounded than adjunct XPs. These kinds of
frequencies and accessibility differences are associated with earlier production in a
number of on-line production models (Bock 1982; Bock & Levelt 1994; Kempen &
Hoenkamp 1987; MacDonald et al. 1994; Stallings et al. 1998; Levelt 1989). Earlier
access to arguments before adjuncts may be motivated by their greater frequency
and accessibility, therefore.9
6.  
VO consistency vs. OV variability [Pattern I]
I have argued that V&O adjacency [pattern II], and O and X on the same side
[pattern III] are ultimately motivated by the principle of Minimize Domains (10),
a principle that is visible in both production and comprehension data (Hawkins
.  Argument Precedence (28) is also supported by languages with (S)OXV orders, of course.
.  But see Hawkins (1994: 229–37) for data from Japanese suggesting that given entities are
not always serialized early across languages.
	 An asymmetry between VO and OV languages 	 
1998, 2004). A second general principle of production, Argument Precedence
(28), appears to underlie O before X [pattern IV]. It is interesting now to observe
that these three patterns [II]–[IV] all converge and reinforce each other in VO
languages, resulting in consistent VOX. But in OV languages they are partially
opposed, and this, I suggest, is what leads to variability: more variation in perfor-
mance in response to the different ordering preferences of individual sentences;
more variable basic orderings in OV grammars; and fewer basic orders in OV
grammars than in VO grammars.
This interaction is shown in (29):
	 (29)	 Vˉ&ˉOˉAdjacency	 Oˉ&ˉXˉonˉSameˉSide	 OˉbeforeˉX
		 VOX	 +	 +	 +
		 XVO	 +	 –	 –
		 VXO	 –	 +	 –
		 XOV	 +	 +	 –
		 OXV	 –	 +	 +
		 OVX	 +	 –	 +
VOX languages conform to all three patterns, the VO competitors (XVO and
VXO) to at most one. The degree of preference for the former over the latter is
considerable and our approach predicts that the former will be highly favored both
in performance and in grammars. The OV language types, on the other hand, each
conform to two patterns, as shown in (30):
	 (30)	 VOX	 >	 XOV/OXV/OVX	 >	 XVO/VXO
		 3	 2	 1
The advantages for each OV type are more equal, and selections in both perfor-
mance and grammars should be more equal as well. Preferences will depend on
the degree of weight difference between X and O in individual sentences, and on
the (argument or adjunct) status of X. There may also be a difference in the rela-
tive strength of our two general principles, Minimize Domains (10) and Argument
Precedence (28), which can impact the selections in cases of competition.
7.  
Conclusions
The first point I wish to stress in concluding this paper is that WALS made it pos-
sible. Dryer with Gensler’s chapter identified some general patterns in cross-linguistic
variation involving the relative ordering of verb, direct objects and obliques (X). The
database made it possible to test for, and identify, further patterns, especially those
involving the nature of X. These patterns and their interaction did not emerge clearly
in earlier studies and they suggest principles of significance for any approach to
	 John A. Hawkins
typology and universal grammar. In this paper they have been analyzed within the
processing typology research program of Hawkins (1994, 2004).
Four patterns have been proposed:
	 (31)	 Patternˉ[I]	 VOˉconsistencyˉvs.ˉOVˉvariability
		 Patternˉ[II]	 Verbˉ&ˉObjectˉadjacency
		 Patternˉ[III]	 OˉandˉXˉonˉsameˉsideˉofˉV
		 Patternˉ[IV]	 OˉbeforeˉX
and two general principles: Minimize Domains (10) and Argument Precedence
(28). mid motivates patterns [II] and [III] and ap motivates [IV]. The interaction
between them results in the general pattern [I].
The data from (English and Japanese) performance and from grammars have
supported the Performance-Grammar Correspondence Hypothesis of (7). There
is a clear match between the performance data of §2 and §3.1 supporting MiD and
the corresponding grammatical data of WALS. More generally we have seen sup-
port for the following predictions of the pgch:
	 (32)	
Within each language type (VO and OV) the preferred orderings of O and X in
performance will be in proportion to the degree of preference for each in indi-
vidual sentences, according to principles such as mid (10) and ap (28).
	 (33)	
Within each language type (VO and OV) basic orders of O and X will be con-
ventionalized in proportion to the degree of preference for each order in perfor-
mance.
A number of issues have been raised here that require more investigation. I hope
I have shown that WALS is a highly useful research tool for theoretical as well as
descriptive purposes. I also hope to have shown the value and potential of the
processing typology research program in relation to it.
References
Aissen, J. 1999. Markedness and subject choice in optimality theory. Natural Language &
Linguistic Theory 17: 673–711.
Ariel, M. 1999. Cognitive universals and linguistic conventions: The case of resumptive
pronouns. Studies in Language 23: 217–269.
Bock, K. 1982. Towards a cognitive psychology of syntax: Information processing contributions
to sentence formulation. Psychological Review 89: 1–47.
Bock, K. & Levelt, W.J.M. 1994. Language production: Grammatical encoding. In Handbook of
Psycholinguistics, M.A. Gernsbacher (Ed.), Hillsdale NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Bresnan, J., Dingare, S. & Manning, C.D. 2001. Soft constraints mirror hard constraints: Voice
and person in English and Lummi. In Proceedings of the LFG 01 Conference, M. Butt &
T.H. King (Eds), Stanford CA: CSLI.
	 An asymmetry between VO and OV languages 	 
Bybee, J. & Hopper, P. (Eds), 2001. Frequency and the Emergence of Linguistic Structure. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins.
Campbell, C. & Campbell, J. 1987. Yadë grammar essentials. MS, SIL.
Chomsky, N. 1965. Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Comrie, B. 1989. Language Universals and Linguistic Typology, 2nd Edn. Chicago IL: University
of Chicago Press.
Dryer, M.S. 1989. Large linguistic areas and language sampling. Studies in Language 13: 257–292.
Dryer, M.S. 1992. The Greenbergian word order correlations. Language 68: 81–138.
Dryer, M.S. 2005. Determining dominant word order. In WALS, M. Haspelmath et al. (Eds), 371.
Dryer, M.S. with Gensler, O.D. 2005. Order of object, oblique, and verb. InWALS, M. Haspelmath
et al. (Eds), 342–345.
Frazier, L. & Fodor, J.D. 1978. The sausage machine: A new two-stage parsing model. Cognition
6: 291–326.
Gibson, E. 1998. Linguistic complexity: Locality of syntactic dependencies. Cognition 68: 1–76.
Gibson, E. 2000. The dependency locality theory: A distance-based theory of linguistic com-
plexity. In Image, Language, Brain, A. Marantz, Y. Miyashita & W. ONeil (Eds), 95–126.
Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Greenberg, J.H. 1963. Some universals of grammar with particular reference to the order of
meaningful elements. In Universals of Language, J.H. Greenberg (Ed.), 73–113. Cambridge
MA: The MIT Press,
Hall, C.J. 1992. Morphology and Mind. London: Routledge.
Haspelmath, M. 1999. Optimality and diachronic adaptation. Zeitschrift für Sprachwissenschaft
18: 180–205.
Haspelmath, M., Dryer, M.S., Gil, D. & Comrie, B. (Eds), 2005. The World Atlas of Language
Structures (WALS). Oxford: OUP.
Hawkins, J.A. 1983. Word Order Universals. New York NY: Academic Press.
Hawkins, J.A. 1990. A parsing theory of word order universal. Linguistic Inquiry 21: 223–261.
Hawkins, J.A. 1994. A Performance Theory of Order and Constituency. Cambridge: CUP.
Hawkins, J.A. 1998. Some issues in a performance theory of word order. In Constituent Order in
the Languages of Europe, A. Siewierska (Ed.), 729–781. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Hawkins, J.A. 1999. Processing complexity and filler-gap dependencies. Language 75: 244–285.
Hawkins, J.A. 2000. The relative order of prepositional phrases in English: Going beyond manner-
place-time. Language Variation and Change 11: 231–266.
Hawkins, J.A. 2001. Why are categories adjacent? Journal of Linguistics 37: 1–34.
Hawkins, J.A. 2004. Efficiency and Complexity in Grammars. Oxford: OUP.
Jackendoff, R. 1977. X-bar Syntax: A Study of Phrase Structure. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Just, M.A. & Carpenter, P.A. 1992. A capacity theory of comprehension: Individual differences
in working memory. Psychological Review 99(1): 122–149.
Keenan, E.L. & Comrie, B. 1977. Noun phrase accessibility and Universal Grammar. Linguistic
Inquiry 8: 63–99.
Kempen, G. & Hoenkamp, E. 1987. An incremental procedural grammar for sentence formula-
tion. Cognitive Science 11: 201–258.
Kirby, S. 1999. Function, Selection and Innateness: The Emergence of Language Universals. Oxford: OUP.
É. Kiss, K. 1987 Configurationality in Hungarian. Dordrecht: Reidel.
É. Kiss, K. 2002. The Syntax of Hungarian. Cambridge: CUP.
Kuno, S. 1973. The Structure of the Japanese Language. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
	 John A. Hawkins
Levelt, W.J.M. 1989. Speaking: From Intention to Articulation. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Lewis, R. 1996. Interference in short-term memory: The magical number two (or three) in sen-
tence processing. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research 25: 93–115.
Li, C.N. & Thompson, S.A. 1981. A Functional Reference Grammar of Mandarin Chinese. Berke-
ley CA: University of California Press.
MacDonald, M.C., Pearlmutter, N.J. & Seidenberg, M.S. 1994. The lexical nature of syntactic
ambiguity resolution. Psychological Review 101: 672–703.
Manning, C.D. 2003. Probabilistic syntax. In Probability Theory in Linguistics, R. Bod, J. Hay &
S. Jannedy (Eds), 289–341. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press,
Newmeyer, F.J. 2005. Possible Languages and Probable Languages. Oxford: OUP.
O’Grady, W. 2005. Syntactic Carpentry: An Emergentist Approach to Syntax. Mahwah NJ: Law-
rence Erlbaum Associates.
Quirk, R. 1957. Relative clauses in educated spoken English. English Studies 38: 97–109.
Rice, K. 1989. A Grammar of Slave. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Ross, J.R. 1967. Constraints on Variables in Syntax. Ph.D. dissertation, MIT.
Schütze, C.T. & Gibson, E. 1999. Argumenthood and English prepositional phrase attachment.
Journal of Memory and Language 40: 409–431.
Stallings, L.M. 1998. Evaluating Heaviness: Relative Weight in the Spoken Production of
Heavy-NP Shift. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Southern California.
Stallings, L.M., MacDonald, M.C. & OSeaghdha, P. 1998. Phrasal ordering constraints in sen-
tence production: Phrase length and verb disposition in Heavy-NP Shift. Journal of Mem-
ory and Language 39: 392–417.
Tsunoda, T., Ueda, S. & Itoh, Y. 1995. Adpositions in word-order typology. Linguistics 33: 741–761.
Vasishth, S. 2003. Working Memory in Sentence Comprehension: Processing Hindi Center Embed-
dings. London: Routledge.
Wasow, T. 1997. Remarks on grammatical weight. Language Variation and Change 9: 81–105.
Wasow, T. 2002. Postverbal Behavior. Stanford CA: CSLI.
Wivell, R. 1981. Kairiru grammar. MA thesis, University of Aukland.
Yamashita, H. 2002. Scrambled sentences in Japanese: Linguistic properties and motivation for
production. Text 22: 597–633.
Yamashita, H. & Chang, F. 2001. ‘Long before short’ preference in the production of a head-final
language. Cognition 81: B45–B55.
On the scope of the referential hierarchy
in the typology of grammatical relations
Balthasar Bickel
University of Leipzig
Split alignment in case-marking has often been hypothesized to be affected by
the referential hierarchy in that higher-ranking arguments are more likely to be
accusatively aligned while lower-ranking arguments are more likely to be ergatively
aligned. A survey of typological databases suggests that while there are only very
few counterexamples to the hypothesis, the total number of relevant cases is so small
as to provide only marginal statistical evidence. In split alignment in agreement
morphology and in structures like relativization, the statistical evidence is nil. The
only domains where hierarchy effects seem to be common is (a) where they affect
optional case-marking in discourse and (b) where they directly define grammatical
relations, independently of alignment patterns, such as in hierarchical agreement.
1.  
Introduction
In the late seventies, Bernard Comrie was one of the first linguists to explore the
effects of the referential hierarchy (RH) on the distribution of grammatical rela-
tions (GRs). The referential hierarchy is also known in the literature as the animacy,
empathy or indexibability hierarchy and ranks speech act participants (i.e., first and
second person) above third persons, animates above inanimates, or more topical
referents above less topical referents. Depending on the language, the hierarchy is
sometimes extended by analogy to rankings of possessors above possessees, sin-
gulars above plurals, or other notions. In his 1981 textbook, Comrie analyzed RH
effects as explaining (a) differential case (or adposition) marking of transitive subject
(‘A’) noun phrases in low RH positions (e.g., inanimate or third person) and of object
(‘P’) noun phrases in high RH positions (e.g., animate or first or second person), and
(b) hierarchical verb agreement coupled with the marking of a transitive scenario as
being ‘direct’ vs. ‘inverse’, as in Algonquian (Comrie 1981: Chapter 6). The relevant
effects are captured by what I call here the Marking-based RH Hypothesis:
	 (1)	
TheˉMarking-basedˉRHˉHypothesis:ˉ
		 a.	
ForˉAˉarguments,ˉtheˉoddsˉforˉzeroˉcase-markingˉcorrelateˉpositivelyˉ
withˉtheˉrankˉofˉtheˉargumentˉonˉtheˉreferentialˉhierarchy.
	 Balthasar Bickel
		 b.	
Forˉpˉarguments,ˉtheˉoddsˉforˉzeroˉcase-markingˉcorrelateˉnegativelyˉ
withˉtheˉrankˉofˉtheˉargumentˉonˉtheˉreferentialˉhierarchy.
		 c.	
For transitive direction marking, the odds for zero direction-marking are
higher for argument scenarios where A ranks higher than p (‘direct’ scenarios)
than for scenarios where p ranks higher than A (‘inverse’ scenarios).
Because nominatives and absolutives tend to have zero exponence, the most com-
mon case systems that are consonant with the hypothesis are those that reserve
accusative or neutral aligment for upper and ergative or neutral alignment for
lower segments of the referential hierarchy. In such systems, high-ranking A
arguments receive the same zero-marking as S (intransitive subject) arguments,
whereas low-ranking A arguments are assigned an overt marker (‘ergative’); high-
ranking p arguments receive an overt marker (‘accusative’) while low-ranking p
arguments receive the same zero-marking as S.
The link with alignment typology motivates a more general approach, where
the referential hierarchy is expected to determine whether GRs are aligned erga-
tively or accusatively regardless of whether the alignment manifests itself in case
or any other construction, such as verb agreement or word order, and regardless
of the concrete morphological exponence pattern (zero vs nonzero marking). This
generalization, first proposed explicitly by Silverstein (1976: 112f), is captured by
what I call here the Alignment-based RH Hypothesis:
	 (2)	
TheˉAlignment-basedˉRHˉHypothesis:ˉ
		 a.	
Forˉaˉgivenˉgrammaticalˉrelationˉinˉanyˉkindˉofˉconstruction,ˉtheˉ
oddsˉforˉaccusativeˉalignmentˉcorrelateˉpositivelyˉwithˉtheˉrankˉ
ofˉtheˉargumentˉinˉthatˉrelationˉonˉtheˉreferentialˉhierarchy.
		 b.	
Forˉaˉgivenˉgrammaticalˉrelationˉinˉanyˉkindˉofˉconstruction,ˉtheˉ
oddsˉforˉergativeˉalignmentˉcorrelateˉnegativelyˉwithˉtheˉrankˉofˉ
theˉargumentˉinˉthatˉrelationˉonˉtheˉreferentialˉhierarchy.
It is possible to collapse (2a) and (2b) into a single hypothesis about the relative
distribution of accusative and ergative alignment.
	 (2ʹ)	
AlternativeˉversionˉofˉtheˉAlignment-basedˉRGˉHypothesis:ˉ
		
Forˉaˉgivenˉgrammaticalˉrelationˉinˉanyˉkindˉofˉconstruction,ˉtheˉ
distributionˉofˉaccusativeˉandˉergativeˉalignmentsˉtendsˉtoˉfollowˉtheˉ
referentialˉhierarchyˉinˉsuchˉaˉwayˉthatˉaccusativeˉalignmentˉisˉfoundˉ
onˉhigherˉandˉergativeˉalignmentˉonˉlowerˉsegmentsˉofˉtheˉhierarchy.
Thisˉreformulationˉexcludesˉasˉirrelevantˉdataˉfromˉlanguagesˉthatˉcontrastˉerg-
ativeˉorˉaccusativeˉwithˉneutralˉalignment.
In this chapter I submit these two hypotheses and their versions to empirical
testing against typological data. I first test two predictions from the Alignment-based
	 On the scope of the referential hierarchy in the typology of grammatical relations 	
RH Hypothesis: the prediction that the distribution of alignment patterns in verb
agreement reflects the referential hierarchy (Section 2), and the prediction that the
referential hierarchy determines case alignment regardless of actual marking patterns
(Section 3). I show that the Alignment-based RH Hypothesis fails with regard to verb
agreement, and that it has no better support than the Marking-based RH Hypothesis
with regard to case-marking. However, unlike the Alignment-based RH Hypothesis,
the Marking-based RH Hypothesis makes no predictions on other grammatical rela-
tions than those identified by case or inverse marking, and in Section 4 I discuss
possible alternative accounts that may capture the full range of RH impacts on gram-
matical relations. Section 5 summarizes the results.
2.  
The referential hierarchy and verb agreement
According to the Alignment-based RH Hypothesis, the referential hierarchy
is expected to determine alignment patterns in any kind of grammatical rela-
tion. I test this prediction on data from verb agreement. The hypothesis predicts
that if agreement morphology shows an alignment split, accusative alignment is
expected to be limited to higher RH positions and ergative alignment is expected
to be limited to lower RH positions. The prediction is borne out by splits with or
without neutral alignments, i.e., it extends to splits split with accusative alignment
on higher positions and neutral alignment on lower positions; or with ergative
alignment on lower positions and neutral alignment on higher positions. How-
ever, under the alternative version of the Alignment Hypothesis in (2ʹ), such splits
involving neutral alignment are irrelevant. The predictions under both versions
are spelled out in Table 1.
Table 1.  Predictions of the Alignment Hypothesis
In line with prediction Against prediction
RH rank high low high low
Alignment
Hypothesis
accusative or
neutral alignment
ergative or
neutral alignment
ergative or neutral
alignment
accusative or
neutral alignment
Alternative
version of
Alignment
Hypothesis
accusative
alignment
ergative alignment ergative alignment accusative
alignment
In order to test these predictions, I searched Bakker & Siewierska’s (2006)
verb agreement database (N = 402) for languages coded as having any kind of
	 Balthasar Bickel
RH-sensitive alignment splits, excluding cliticized pronouns (which are expected
to behave like pronouns).1 Table 2 summarizes the results.
Table 2.  Verb agreement with RH-sensitive alignment splits in Bakker & Siewierska (2006)
Language Split, as coded in the database Stock Location
Ainu 1s,2 accusative; 1p tripartite (isolate) E. Eurasia
Chácobo 1s,2s,3s,1p tripartite;
2p,3p accusative;
Panoan S. America
Comox 1,2 accusative; 3s tripartite Salish N. America
Kamass 1,2 accusative; 3 tripartite Uralic Eurasia
Paumarí 1,2,3p accusative; 3s,3d ergative Arauan S. America
Seri 1s tripartite; 2s,p accusative;
3 neutral (zero)
(isolate) N. America
Yimas 1,2 tripartite; 3 ergative Lower Sepik Papua New Guinea
? Maricopa 1,2 accusative; 3 neutral (zero) Yuman N. America
? Maung 1,2 accusative; 3 ergative Iwaidjan Australia
? Nez Perce 1,2 accusative; 3 ergative Plateau Penutian N. America
? Tepehua 1,2 accusative; 3 neutral Totonac-Tepehuan C. America
? Washo 1,2 accusative; 3 ergative (isolate) N. America
The Alignment Hypothesis only makes predictions about the location of accu-
sative and ergative alignments on the hierarchy. Tripartite alignments, where S,
A, and p are all treated differently, share properties of both alignments: there is a
distinct form for A as in ergative alignment, and there is a distinct form for p as in
accusative alignment. This excludes Ainu, Chácobo, Comox, Kamass, and Yimas
from the testing ground of the hypothesis. One of the remaining languages, Pau-
marí, distributes alignment types on non-contiguous segments of the hierarchy
(third person plural, but not third person singular or dual, pattern with first and
second person). Under one reading of the Alignment Hypothesis, this runs coun-
ter the prediction. A more friendly reading of the hypothesis, however, restricts
the predictions to languages with ‘clean’ splits, assuming that non-contiguous
splits are due to other factors of paradigm development. I follow this reasoning
here and exlude languages like Paumarí from the testing ground. What is left, then,
.  I am grateful to Dik Bakker who helped me perform the search in early August 2006. The
database is available online via the Typological Database System at http://languagelink.let.uu.nl/
tds/. Languages retrieved by the search but excluded from Table 1 because they involve clitics
are Ngiyambaa, Yukulta, Warao, and Nadeb. My criterion for clitic status was (a) a phonolog-
ical structure reflecting simple reduction of full pronouns, with near-identity in segments, and
(b) a ban on coocurrence of clitics with coreferential argument NPs in the same clause. Note that
from the raw search results I also excluded cases with missing values in the relevant alignment
variable, i.e., I did not expand the database. But see the discussion below for possible additions.
	 On the scope of the referential hierarchy in the typology of grammatical relations 	
are six languages (Seri, Maung, Nez Perce, Washo, Tepehua, and Maricopa). All of
these show accusative alignment on higher and ergative alignment on lower ranks
of the RH, and this at first sight supports the Alignment Hypothesis.
However, the support is very weak for but one case (Seri), indicated in Table 1
by question marks. For Maung, Curnow (1999) has offered an alternative analysis
that does not involve any alignment pattern in the system, and his analysis has
better data coverage. Four other languages in Table 1 are marked by ‘?’ because
they contain traces of contradictory evidence: Nez Perce has plural prefixes (pe-
‘1/2/3pS/A’ and nees- ‘1/2/3pP’) which align accusatively and are also used with
third person arguments; in addition there is a prefix é- dedicated to third person
singular p arguments (Crook 1999). Both these facts suggest that the third person
shows at least some traces of accusative alignment, in conflict with the prediction.
Similarly, in Washo, there is an intransitive third person marker ʔ- ‘3S’, which also
covers 3>1 (though not 3>2 and 3>3) scenarios (Jacobsen 1964). This again repre-
sents a minor pattern of accusative for third persons in conflict with the prediction.
Tepehua, too, has traces of accusative alignment in the third person: while third
person singular has neutral alignment as a result of zero marking, plural arguments
trigger ta- when in S or A function and lak- when in p function (Watters 1988).
In Maricopa, the evidence for accusative alignment in the agreement morphology
rests on the first person prefix ʔ- which occurs in both intransitive and 1>3 transi-
tive forms. However, the same prefix also occurs in 2>1 scenarios, where it marks a
p argument – in fact it even disambiguates the role of another first person marker
(ny-) which is role-neutral: in ʔ-ny-m-aham-m [1-1-2-hit-REAL] ‘you hit me’, ʔ-
signals that ny- ‘1’ is in p role. Without the prefix, ny- covers both A and p roles, as
in ny-aham-m [1-hit-REAL] ‘I hit you’ or ‘he hit me’. Second person is marked by a
role-neutral prefix and third person is zero-marked in all roles (Gordon 1986).2
If the Alignment-based RH Hypothesis is a genuine universal of human lan-
guage, we expect it to have strong and frequent effects on the way alignment is
split in verb agreement. The present findings, however, suggest that only one single
language (Seri) supports the hypothesis in (2) – and this only insofar as accusative
alignment for first person plural and second person (singular and plural) is opposed
to zero-marked agreement for third persons in any role. The zero exponence could
also be analyzed as mere absence of agreement, and this would further weaken the
relevance of Seri for the hypothesis. Note that under the alternative version of the
.  There is another second person prefix, k-, which covers only S and A. However, this is not an
RH effect but results from the fact that k- is limited to imperative forms, and that in Maricopa,
just like in most other languages, imperatives follow a near-universal principle of accusative
alignment (see Dixon 1979; Comrie 1981, among others).
	 Balthasar Bickel
Alignment Hypothesis in (2ʹ), the Seri pattern would immediately fall outside the
predictive scope of the hypothesis, regardless of how one analyzes zero agreement.
In return and in support of the Alignment Hypothesis, however, one could
add Chinook, one of the languages on which Silverstein based the formulation of
the hypothesis in the first place. Further research might detect a couple of more
cases, or remove a couple of question marks in Table 2, or both. But in any of these
events, half a dozen languages out of 400 is a very narrow testing ground for genu-
ine universals, and not much can be inferred from such a small number.
Despite this small number, one could still note that Table 2 contains no straight-
forward counterexample to Silverstein’s predictions – i.e., there is no language with
ergative alignment on higher and accusative or neutral alignment on lower RH
positions. Yet this may just as well be chance:3 even if there were seven languages
supporting the prediction (including those with question marks and also Chinook),
and none contradicting it, such a score (7:0) only reaches a .015 probability level
on a χ2-based one-sample randomization test (Janssen et al. 2006), i.e., there is only
weak evidence to reject the null hypothesis of a chance distribution. The actually
attested score of relatively clear cases (2:0) is not significant at all. And if one were
to discover only one clear counterexample, i.e., a language that distributes ergative
and accusative alignment in a way exactly opposite to Seri or Chinook, the evidence
for rejecting the null hypothesis of chance distribution would dissipate even under
the best-case scenario for the hypothesis, where all question marks in Table 1 were
proved wrong, or one were to discover an equal number of other languages in line
with the hypothesis (a 7:1 score, with an associated p-level of .077). In fact, field
research over the past few years has unearthed robust counterexamples.
These counterexamples come from the Kiranti branch of Sino-Tibetan (Bickel
2000; Siewierska 2004). The basic pattern found in a number of languages of this
family is shown in Table 3. Merged cells in the table mean that the cells are covered
by the same form, e.g., the same form covers the cells for A, S, and p in the second
Table 3.  Split ergativity in Kiranti
A S P
1 singular
1 nonsingular
2
3
.  cf. Cysouw 2002 on the problematic nature of zeros as evidence for universals.
	 On the scope of the referential hierarchy in the typology of grammatical relations 	
person. Grey-shading identifies cell mergers following an ergative or accusative
pattern. Dashed lines indicates variation between languages.
Here, the first person, or at least the first person singular, aligns ergatively, the
second person is coded neutrally, and the third person aligns accusatively – i.e.,
the exact opposite of what is expected from the Alignment-based RH Hypothesis.
A S P
1s - (>3)
ŋ ŋ
ŋ
-na (>2)
- a (NPST)
-o (PST)
-ci~c b
1da
ni- -ci~c (>2)
1pa -m (>3)
ni- -i~ni (n)~n (>2)
-i~ni(n)~n
2s t -
-na (1s>)
2d t - -ci~c
-na-ci (1s>)
2p t - -i~ni(n)~n
t - -m (>3)
ø-
3s
p - (>1)
-u~-i
3d p - -ci~c
ni-p - -ci~c (>1)
ni- -ci~c (>2)
m -
p - (>3s)
ni-p - (>1s)
3p
ni-p -i~ni (n)~n (>1ns)
ni- -i~ni (n)~n (>2)
ʌ
ʌ
ʌ
ʌ
ʌ
ʌ
ʌ ʌ
ʌ ʌ
ʌ
ʌ
ʌ
ʌ
ʌ
ʌ
ʌ
ʌ
ʌ
ʌ
ʌ
-ci
Table 4.  Split ergativity in Puma
1.All first person nonsingular forms distinguish exclusive vs. inclusive forms, marked by -ka, but ommitted
here since this does not affect alignment.
2.For the conditions regulating allomorphies (marked here by a tilde), see Bickel et al. (2007b).
	 Balthasar Bickel
Table 4 exemplifies the pattern in Puma, a language of the Southern subgroup of
Central Kiranti (Bickel, Gaenszle et al. 2007). The Puma verb agrees with S, and in
transitives, with both A and p arguments.
While many person-marking affix strings are specialized for specific scenarios
defined by both A and p roles (represented as ‘>’ in Table 4), there is a consis-
tent pattern of ergative alignment in the first person singular and plural. This pat-
tern is identified by dark grey shading in the table. Further down the referential
hierarchy, and with first person dual arguments, we find neutral (no shading) or
accusative alignment (light grey shading). To be sure, in most of these cases there
are also some counterexamples, but they all involve specific markers selected by
global argument marking rules in the sense of Silverstein 1976 (a typical feature of
Kiranti morphology in general: see Bickel 1995; Bickel, Banjade et al. 2007). For
example, there is dedicated A-marking for third person singular arguments (pʌ-),
but it is limited to forms with concomitant first person P-arguments. The more
general pattern aligns A with S marking in the third person.
The forms in (3) and (4) illustrate the contrast between first and third person
alignment with past indicative forms of the intransitive verb puks- ‘to go’ and the
transitive verb pukɖ- ‘to take’; the relevant affixes are underlined:4
	 (3)	
a.	
1sS	 puks-oŋ
				 go-1ss/p.pst
				 ‘Iˉwent.’
		 b.	
1sP	 pʌ-pukɖ-oŋ
				 3s/a-take-1ss/p.pst
				 ‘S/heˉtookˉme.’
		 c.	
1sP	 tʌ-pukɖ-oŋ
				 2-take-1ss/p.pst
				 ‘Youˉtookˉme.’
		 d.	
1sA	pukɖ-u-ŋ
				 take-3sp-1sa
				 ‘Iˉtookˉhim/her.’
		 e.	
1sA	puk-na-a
				 take-1>2-pst
				 ‘Iˉtookˉyou.’
	 (4)	
a.	
3sS	 Ø-puks-a
				 3ss/a-go-pst
				 ‘S/heˉwent.’
.  Complete Puma paradigms can be inspected at the DOBES archive (http://www.mpi.nl/
DOBES) by searching for sessions of genre ‘paradigm’ with content ‘verb’.
	 On the scope of the referential hierarchy in the typology of grammatical relations 	
		 b.	
3sP	 Ø-pukɖ-i
				 3ss/a-take-3sp
				 ‘S/heˉtookˉhim/her.’
		 c.	
3sP	 tʌ-pukɖ-i
				 2-go-3sp
				 ‘Youˉtookˉhim/her.’
		 d.	
3sP	 pukɖ-u-ŋ
				 took-3sp-1sa
				 ‘Iˉtookˉhim/her’.
		 e.	
3sA	Ø-pukɖ-i
				 3ss/a-take-3sp
				 ‘S/heˉtookˉhim/her.’
		 f.	
3sA	Ø-tʌ-pukɖ-a
				 3ss/a-2-take-pst
				 ‘S/heˉtookˉyou.’
		 g.	
3sA	pʌ-pukɖ-oŋ
				 3s/a-take-1ss/p.pst
				 ‘S/heˉtookˉme.’
As can be seen when comparing (3a) with (3b–c), the first person is coded by
the same suffix -oŋ in both S and p functions. When in A function, the first per-
son is marked differently: by -ŋ when the p is third person (3d) and as part of
the portmanteau morpheme -na when the p is second person (3e). In contrast
to this, third person shows accusatively-aligned agreement: whereas in S func-
tion, third person singular has zero exponence (4a), in p function it is marked
by –i (4b-c) or its pre-nasal allomorph -u (4d). In A function, third person
singular is coded like S, i.e., by zero, when the p argument is third or second
person (4e–f).
If the p argument is first person, as in (4g), a third person A argument is coded
(as noted above) by the prefix pʌ-, which at first sight suggests a tripartite pat-
tern (Ø for S, -i for P, and pʌ- for A), but a closer look at the paradigm shows that
the overall distribution of pʌ- follows again an accusative pattern: the prefix also
marks third person S in the dual, though not in the singular and the plural. This is
evidenced by the following data:
	 (5)	
a.	
Ø-puks-a.
			 3ss/a-go-pst
			 ‘S/heˉwent.’
		 b.	
pʌ-puks-a-ci.
			 3s/a-go-pst-d
			 ‘Theyˉ(two)ˉwent.’
	 Balthasar Bickel
		 c.	
mʌ-puks-a.
			 3ps/a-go-pst
			 ‘Theyˉ(threeˉorˉmore)ˉwent.’
This pattern of a ‘reverse ergativity split’ is frequent in Kiranti languages, with a
higher concentration in the Central and Eastern branches (which are likely to form
a unified taxon at some very early level) than in the Western branch of the family.
Table 5 shows the distribution of reverse splits according to genealogical subgroups
established by regular sound change (based on work by van Driem 1990, 2001;
Michailovsky 1994; Opgenort 2004a, 2004b, and my own ongoing research).
Table 5.  Reverse ergativity splits in Kiranti verb agreement
Branch
With reverse ergativity split
(at least in part)
Without ergative alignment (i.e.,
with first person showing tripartite,
accusative or neutral alignment)
Eastern Athpare (Ebert 1991, 1997) Belhare (Bickel 2003)
Limbu (van Driem 1987;
Michailovsky 1997, 2001)
Mewahang (M. Gaenszle p.c.)
Lohorung (van Driem 1992)
Chintang (Bickel et al. 2007a)
Yamphu (Rutgers 1998)
Central Puma (Bickel et al. 2007b) Camling (Ebert 1991, 1994)
Bantawa (Rai 1984; Ebert 1994)
Kulung (Tolsma 1999)
Western Hayu (Michailovsky 1988) Wambulea (Opgenort 2004a)
Khaling (Toba 1988; Ebert 1994) Thulung (Allen 1975; Lahaussois 2003)
Bahingb (van Driem 1991) Jero (Opgenort 2005)
Dumi (van Driem 1993)
a Wambule (Opgenort 2004a) has -ki ‘1ns’ covering both S and P, but it denotes inclusive in S and exclusive
in P function. There are no other traces of ergative alignment in the paradigm.
b In Bahing (van Driem 1991), alignment is also split on tense: first person shows S=A alignment in the
nonpast and S=P aligment in the past. In this language, S=P alignment also extends to the second person
(singular in the nonpast; all numbers in the past), but again not to third person, which has a thorough S=A
alignment. An extension to second person is also found in Kulung.
On one possible count, the table provides twelve cases of a reverse split. Earlier
we found that there are no more than two cases of a RH-predicted split. This distri-
bution would suggest a trend in the opposite direction from what is predicted by
the Alignment-based RH Hypothesis, or, more likely, that plain chance is at work.
However, it is possible, perhaps indeed likely, that the twelve languages share a
reverse split because they inherited it from Proto-Kiranti: although only about two
	 On the scope of the referential hierarchy in the typology of grammatical relations 	 
thirds of the entire family is at present sufficiently documented and represented
in Table 5, reverse splits appear to be the default pattern, and some exceptions
demonstrably represent innovations (e.g., in Belhare, where first person p markers
are recent developments of generic nouns, cf. Ebert 1991; Bickel & Gaenszle 2005).
But even under this scenario, the Kiranti facts speak against a universal principle
disfavoring reverse splits (the Alignment-based RH Hypothesis): even if Kiranti
counts only as a single genealogically independent case, the total score (two cases
following the hypothesis, one contradicting it) would not suggest any significant
trend. But the absence of statistical evidence can never demonstrate the absence
of an underlying principle, especially if the sample size is so extremely small as it
is here.
Stronger evidence against the Alignment-based RH Hypothesis comes from
the following: the Kiranti family is a fairly heterogeneous group of about 30 lan-
guages, and even on the most conservative estimate, the family is at least as old
as Germanic. Therefore, if it is inherited, the reverse split pattern would need to
have been diachronically stable to a degree that is unexpected if there was a strong
universal principle acting against it – at each generation, for a few thousand years.
Now, the survival of patterns that are otherwise disfavored by universal principles
are sometimes strengthened by areal connections (Nichols 2003). But this is an
unlikely scenario in the Kiranti context. First, the distribution of reverse erga-
tive splits is not geographically contiguous: the reverse-split languages Bahing and
Hayu, for example, are completely surrounded by languages lacking the pattern
(Jero, Wambule, Dumi, Camling, Thulung, and Nepali, the Indo-Aryan lingua
franca of the region).5 Second, the distribution of ergativity splits cross-cuts the
few sociological units that could arguably bring about some areal integration or at
least sufficiently intensified language contact: one such unit that is well-established
ethnographically by intermarriage patterns, a shared mythology and a traditional
ethnonym (Rāī; cf. Gaenszle 1991: Chapter 3.2; Gaenszle in press) contains both
languages with reverse splits (e.g., Puma) and languages without (e.g., Camling);
and some languages with splits are part of the unit (e.g., Puma), while others are
not (e.g., Limbu).
Whether the Kiranti pattern consists of several independent cases of parallel
innovations, or whether it represents a single but diachronically stable case (or a
combination of these two possibilities), it undermines the evidence for a universal
principle in verb agreement that would favor ergative alignment in the lower and
accusative alignment in the upper parts of the referential hierarchy. And, as we
.  As Mickey Noonan reminds me, the distribution could of course have been very different in
the past, when the split developed. But we have no independent evidence on this.
	 Balthasar Bickel
have seen before, there is no good statistical evidence for such a principle on a
world-wide scale.
3.  
The referential hierarchy and case marking
There is no empirical support for the Alignment-based RH Hypothesis because it
already fails in one central domain outside case, viz. split alignment in verb agree-
ment. But what is the empirical support in the domain of case marking? For those
languageswherenominativesorabsolutivesarezero-marked,theAlignment-based
RH Hypothesis makes the same predictions as the Marking-based RH Hypoth-
esis. For these cases of zero-marking we expect higher-ranking arguments to favor
accusative and lower-ranking arguments to favor ergative alignment because such
an alignment distribution ensures that higher-ranking As and lower-ranking Ps
are zero-marked (being assigned ‘unmarked’ nominatives and absolutives, respec-
tively), while lower-ranking As and higher-ranking Ps are marked by special case
morphology (ergative and accusative or dative, respectively). But for languages
with alignment splits and nonzero (‘marked’) nominatives or absolutives, the two
hypotheses make opposite predictions: under the Alignment-based Hypothesis,
a nonzero nominative behaves like a zero-marked nominative, and so we expect
it to be favored by high-ranking arguments; the Marking-based Hypothesis, by
contrast, predicts that the nonzero nominative is favored by lower-ranking A
arguments. With regard to nonzero absolutives, the Alignment-based Hypothesis
predicts that the absolutive is favored by low-ranking arguments; the Marking-
based Hypothesis predicts that it is favored by high-ranking p arguments. Table 6
shows the predictions in detail.
There is no large-scale survey available that allows extensive testing of any of
thesehypotheses.Whatispossibletotest,however,isonespecialeffectonpronouns
and nouns that is predicted by the hypothesis (Comrie 2005). First and second per-
son pronouns always rank higher on the RH than lexical nouns (barring perhaps
some lexical honorifics), and it is likely that also third person pronouns more often
rank higher than lexical nouns. In Comrie’s (2005) sample of 172 languages there
are 20 languages in line with the Marking-based Hypothesis, and 2 in conflict with
it (the Cushitic language Iraqw, where accusative alignment is limited to nouns,
and pronouns are neutral; and the Austronesian language Chamorro, where erga-
tive alignment is limited to pronouns, and nouns are neutral). The only language
in the database with an alignment split and a nonzero nominative or absolutive is
Middle Atlas Berber (Afroasiatic), and in this language, a nonzero nominative in
accusative alignment is limited to lexical nouns; pronouns have no case-marking.
This violates the prediction of the Alignment-based Hypothesis, but it is a single
	 On the scope of the referential hierarchy in the typology of grammatical relations 	
instance, and nothing universal can be inferred from it. There are a few further
languages with a differential use of a nonzero S/A case marker, but in the instances
I am aware of, the distribution is at least in part governed by focus structure (e.g.,
in the Papuan languages Fore or Kâte, cf. Donohue & Donohue 1997; Suter 2006;
respectively), and this requires nonzero marking on an argument regardless of
what one would expect from its position on the referential hierarchy.
The 20:2 score for languages with zero-marked nominatives and absolutives
allows slightly more inference to universal trends, but it still falls short of the sam-
ple size required to postulate robust universals. The score itself is unlikely to be
due to chance but it is possible – indeed likely – that other factors than the RH also
affect the distribution of case markers on nouns and pronouns: for example, Com-
rie (2005) notes that 4 of the supporting languages (i.e., 20%) are from Australia,
and we cannot exclude therefore areal (or genealogical) confounding factors. Also
specific etymologies and paradigm structures are often demonstrably relevant for
the distribution on case markers. For example, if an ergative develops from an
instrumental, a limitation of the ergative to low-ranking As is to be expected just
because animate nouns may never have had an instrumental form to begin with
(Garrett 1990). Specific etymologies can also work against the prediction from
the RH: for example, an ergative system might survive in pronouns, which often
are generally more conservative morphologically, while lexical NPs loose case
or develop new accusative marking, and this might result in a distribution that
reverses what is predicted by the RH – such as happened in a number of Dardic
and other Indo-Aryan languages (Filimonova 2005).
Thus, when limited to the special case of pronouns vs. nouns, the Marking-
based RH Hypothesis receives some, albeit not very strong quantitative support,
1. For consistency, I use the terminology of alignment typology also for the absence of overt case-marking,
called here ‘zero neutral’. If both pronouns and nouns are zero-marked, the predictions are vacuous.
Table 6.  Comparing predictions5
In line with prediction Against prediction
RH rank high low high low
Marking-
based
Hypothesis
non-zero
accusative and
zero nominative;
or non-zero
absolutive and
zero ergative; or
zero neutral
non-zero
ergative and
zero absolutive;
or non-zero
nominative and
zero accusative;
or neutral
ergative and
zero absolutive;
or nonzero
nominative and
zero accusative;
or zero neutral
accusative and zero
nominative; or
non-zero absolutive
and zero ergative; or
neutral
Alignment-
based
Hypothesis
accusative or
neutral alignment
ergative
or neutral
alignment
ergative
or neutral
alignment
accusative or neutral
alignment
	 Balthasar Bickel
and we cannot rule out that such factors as areal influence, genealogical stabil-
ity and individual etymologies might in the end account for the distributional
findings equally well or better. But the Marking-based RH Hypothesis reaches
far beyond this special case of pronoun vs. noun declension, and there is a rich
literature on differential subject and object marking demonstrating that in many
languages from many different parts of the world, the referential hierarchy is
directly responsible for the distribution of case markers in discourse: there are
many languages like Nepali (Indo-Aryan), where the odds for overt ergative
case-marking have a distributional peak for A arguments that are nontopical,
nonspecific, or inanimate, and the odds for dative case have a distributional peak
for p arguments that are definite, specific and animate (Pokharel 2054; Bickel
in press).
4.  
Beyond case marking
The preceding two sections suggest that overall the Marking-based RH Hypothesis
has better empirical support than the Alignment-based RH Hypothesis. A likely
reason for this is that the Marking-based Hypothesis can be reduced to standard
Zipfian effects: we know from discourse studies that A arguments are more fre-
quently topical, i.e., filled by referents higher on the hierarchy, while p arguments
are more frequently NPs with referents lower on the hierarchy, especially with
rhematic and new referents (see, e.g., DuBois et al. 2003 or Jäger 2007 for statisti-
cal evidence of this in various languages). As per Zipf’s Law, more frequent pat-
terns generally tend to be less overtly marked and therefore, higher-ranking As
and lower-ranking Ps are more likely to be zero-marked than lower-ranking As
and higher-ranking Ps.
However, once the Marking-based Hypothesis is reduced to standard Zipfian
effects, there is no inherent reason that it should be limited to case marking, and so
one would expect its scope to extend to other kinds of grammatical relations. For
example, one would expect a universal trend for nonzero agreement morphology
to be split in such a way that A-agreement is limited to inanimate or third person
arguments; or P-agreement to animate, or first and second person arguments. This
prediction is explored by Siewierska (2004), who finds equivocal evidence. There
is a substantial number of languages where p agreement is limited to animate or
human referents (e.g., in the Papuan language Hua: Haiman 1980), or where it is
favored by such referents (e.g., Swahili: Seidl & Dimitriadis 1997, among others).
But Siewierska (2004: 150) also identifies quite a few languages with the oppo-
site pattern, where verbs show P-agreement only with third persons but not with
speech act participants, so that a full assessment of the prediction must await fur-
	 On the scope of the referential hierarchy in the typology of grammatical relations 	 
ther statistical testing with careful control for genealogical and areal confounding
factors. The same is true for the prediction on A-agreement. Although there are
languages like English where nonzero agreement is limited to third person A (and
S) arguments, there is also a substantial – and probably much larger – number of
language where A-agreement is limited to or favored by positions higher up on the
referential hierarchy (e.g., Kiowa: Watkins & McKenzie 1984; Zúñiga 2006).
A-agreement limited to higher RH positions contradicts the expectations
from the Marking-based RH Hypothesis. However, this kind of agreement rule is
likely to reflect a competing universal trend: a general trend for reserving gram-
matical relations, such as those that trigger agreement, to the topmost segments of
the referential hierarchy. I call this the GR-based RH Hypothesis:
	 (6)	
GR-based RH Hypothesis
		
If grammatical relations (of any construction, with any alignment) have
restricted access based on the referential hierarchy, the odds for this access
correlate positively with the rank of an argument on the referential hierarchy.
The hypothesis follows from grammaticalization theory: under this theory, gram-
matical relations are taken to represent grammaticalized topicality assignments,
and since higher positions in the referential hierarchies are intrinsically more
likely to be topical, they will have better access to grammatical relations than lower
positions (Givón 2001).
Although again full statistical testing must await better surveying, the GR-
based Hypothesis has independent support from the many languages with strictly
hierarchical agreement, i.e., where access to the agreement-triggering GR is based
on the position of an argument on the referential hierarchy rather than its seman-
tic role (see DeLancey 1981; Ebert 1987; Siewierska 2004; Zúñiga 2006; among
others). One example is the Tibeto-Burman language Gyarong (lCog-rtse rGyal-
roṅ): when a speech act participant (i.e., a high-ranking referent) co-occurs with
a third person (i.e., a lower ranking referent), the speech act participant triggers
agreement, no matter what its role is. Thus, both ‘I give him’ and ‘he gives me’
trigger first person agreement (-ŋ), resulting in wuŋ and wuwuŋ, respectively. The
meanings are differentiated by an inverse-marking prefix wu- (Nagano 1984, 2003;
Bickel 1995).
Beyond agreement, the evidence for the GR-based Hypothesis is uncertain.
With regard to relative constructions, for example, there are both languages where
the relativizable GR favors higher-ranking arguments and languages where the
same GR favors lower-ranking arguments. Available survey work does not yet
allow an assessment of what, if anything, is more common.
An example of a GR preference to high-ranking arguments is Tagalog, where
only ang-NPs, which are topical and/or specific, can be the target of relativization
	 Balthasar Bickel
(Schachter 1976; Kroeger 1993). The role of the ang-NP is signaled by the verb
morphology as, e.g., A (marked by the infix -um-) or p (unmarked):
	 (7)	
a.	
ang=lalaki=ngˉb〈um〉asa	 ng=diyaryo
			 nom=man=attr〈A〉read	 obl=newspaper
			 ‘theˉmanˉwhoˉreadˉaˉnewspaper.’
		 b.	
ang=diyaryo=ng	 b〈in〉asa	 ng=lalaki
			 nom=newspaper=attr	 [p-]〈pfv〉read	 obl=man
			 ‘theˉnewspaperˉthatˉtheˉmanˉread’
		 c.	 *ang=lalaki=ng	 b〈in〉asa	 ang=diyaryo
			 nom=man=attr	 [p-]〈pfv〉read	 nom=newspaper
		 	 Intended:ˉˉ‘theˉmanˉwhoˉreadˉaˉnewspaper.’
Relativization on an A argument necessitates the A voice, as in (7a), because this
ensures that the A argument is in the relativizable ang-function. Relativization on
P, by contrast, requires the p voice, as in (7b), so as to ensure that now the p argu-
ment is in the ang-function. (7c) is ungrammatical because the relativized argu-
ment (‘the man’) is not in ang-function.
The opposite pattern is found in Movima, an isolate of Bolivia (Haude
2006) where only lower-ranking arguments in transitive clauses can be tar-
gets of relativization. Lower-ranking arguments of transitive clauses – called
‘ARG2’ by Haude – are formally characterized by, among other properties, (i)
optional realization (in contrast to ARG1 arguments, which are obligatory), (ii)
a lack of first and second person clitic pronouns, (iii) obviative case-marking
(under some conditions), and (iv) the fact that they refer to p arguments if the
verb is marked as direct and to A arguments if the verb is marked as inverse.
Arguments lower on the referential hierarchy are assigned to ARG2, arguments
higher on the hierarchy to ARG1, in either case regardless of their role. Rela-
tivization is possible only on ARG2 (obviative) arguments (or on the sole argu-
ment of intransitives):
	 (8)	
a.	
[isos	 waːka	 [di’	 chik〈a〉ye=is	 neyru=s	 beń‘i]]
			 art.ppst	 cow	 rel	 find〈dir〉=pl.absent	 here=det	 grassland
			 ‘theˉcowsˉwhichˉtheyˉhadˉfoundˉinˉthisˉgrassland’
		 b.	
[us	 ney	 juyeni	 [di’	 alwani-kaya=y’ɬi]]
			 art.m	 here	 person	 rel	 talk-inv=1p
			 ‘thatˉpersonˉwhoˉhadˉspokenˉtoˉus’
Relativization on a p argument, as in (8a), necessitates direct verb morphology
(infix -a), relativization on a A argument, as in (8b), inverse verb morphology (suffix
-kaya). In both cases, the remaining argument in the relative clause is ARG1, i.e., the
	 On the scope of the referential hierarchy in the typology of grammatical relations 	
higher-ranking argument (the clitic pronouns is ‘they (absent)’ in (8a) and y’ɬi ‘we’
in (8b). This is in direct contrast to the Tagalog pattern observed earlier in (7).
5.  
Conclusions
Empirical assessments of referential hierarchy effects on grammatical relations are
hampered by the lack of large-scale typological databases beyond person categories
in case marking and verb agreement. Where statistical testing is possible, we find
no support for a general trend linking accusative alignment with high RH positions
and ergative alignment with low RH positions. What is empirically supported is a
more specific correlation between zero case exponence and high-ranking A or low-
ranking p arguments, although the dataset that allows testing this is so far limited
to two dozen languages with case splits based on a pronoun vs. noun distinction
(Comrie 2005). If this correlation nevertheless reflects a genuine universal, it is pos-
sible that it extends to verb agreement. The evidence accumulated so far is equivo-
cal (Siewierska 2004), however, and one reason for this could be that any possible
trend towards zero verb agreement morphology for high-ranking A arguments is
cancelled out by a counteracting principle that favors agreement with high-ranking
arguments across any semantic role (assuming such a principle would have audible,
nonzero, effects.) However, although there is some tentative evidence for such a
principle, it cannot be taken as a given. It is also possible that the referential hier-
archy has a different impact on case (or adposition) and verb agreement because
these two ways of marking arguments have a fundamentally different relationship
to referential distinctions: the fact that normally case is realized on NPs implies that
is much more closely tied to the active, on-line management of reference and infor-
mation than agreement, and this causes perhaps a more direct impact of referential
distinctions on the realization of case than on agreement.
Acknowledgments
The research reported here was funded by DFG Grant No. BI 799/3–1. I am grate-
ful to Grev Corbett, Edith Moravcsik, Mickey Noonan, and Anna Siewierksa for
helpful comments on a first draft.
References
Allen, N.J. 1975. Sketch of Thulung Grammar. Ithaca NY: Cornell University.
Bakker, D. & Siewierksa, A. 2006. The agreement database. (http://www.lotschool.nl/Research/
ltrc/agreement.htm; accessed August 7, 2006)
	 Balthasar Bickel
Bickel, B. 1995. In the vestibule of meaning: Transitivity inversion as a morphological phenom-
enon. Studies in Language 19: 73–127.
Bickel, B. 2000. Person and evidence in Himalayan languages. Linguistics of the Tibeto-Burman
Area 23: 1–12.
Bickel, B. 2003. Belhare. In The Sino-Tibetan Languages, G. Thurgood & R.J. LaPolla (Eds.),
546–70. London: Routledge.
Bickel, B. In press. Grammatical relations typology. In The Oxford Handbook of Language Typol-
ogy, Jae Jung Song (Ed.), Oxford: OUP.
Bickel, B., Banjade, G., Gaenszle, M., Lieven, E., Paudyal, N., Rai, R., Rai, M., Rai, N.K. & Stoll S.,
2007a. Free prefix ordering in Chintang. Language 83: 43–73.
Bickel, B. & Gaenszle, M. 2005. 1P antipassives and the political history of the Southern Kirant.
Paper presented at the 11th Himalayan Languages Symposium, Bangkok, December 6–9,
2005. (Handout available at http://www.uni-leipzig.de/~ff/cpdp/frameset_publ.html)
Bickel, B., Gaenszle, M., Rai, A., Rai, P.D., Rai, S.K., Rai, V.S. & Sharma (Gautam), N.P. 2007b.
Two ways of suspending object agreement in Puma: Between incorporation, antipassiviza-
tion, and optional agreement. Himalayan Linguistics 7: 1–18.
Comrie, B. 1981. Language Universals and Linguistic Typology. Chicago IL: University of
Chicago Press.
Comrie, B. 2005. Alignment of case marking. In The World Atlas of Language Structures,
M. Haspelmath, M.S. Dryer, D. Gil & B. Comrie (Eds.), 398–405. Oxford: OUP.
Crook, H.D. 1999. The Phonology and Morphology of Nez Perce Stress. Ph.D. dissertation,
UCLA.
Curnow, T.J. 1999. Maung verbal agreement revisited: A reponse to Donohue (1998). Australian
Journal of Linguistics 19: 141–159.
Cysouw, M. 2002. Against implicational universals. Linguistic Typology 7: 89–110.
DeLancey, S. 1981. An interpretation of split ergativity and related patterns. Language 57: 626–657.
Dixon, R.M.W. 1979. Ergativity. Language 55: 59–138.
Donohue, C. & Donohue, M. 1997. Fore case marking. Language and Linguistics in Melanesia
28: 69–98.
van Driem, G. 1987. A grammar of Limbu. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
van Driem, G. 1990. The fall and rise of the phoneme/r/in Eastern Kiranti: Sound change in
Tibeto-Burman. Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies 53: 83–86.
van Driem, G. 1991. Bahing and the Proto-Kiranti verb. Bulletin of the School of Oriental and
Asian Studies 54(2): 336–56.
van Driem, G. 1992. Le proto-kiranti revisité: morphologie verbale du lohorung. Acta Linguistica
Hafniensia 24: 33–75.
van Driem, G. 1993. A Grammar of Dumi. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
van Driem, G. 2001. Languages of the Himalayas: An Ethnolinguistic Handbook of the
Greater Himalayan Region, Containing an Introduction to the Symbiotic Theory of Language.
Leiden: Brill.
DuBois, J.W., Kumpf, L.E. & Ashby, W.J. (Eds), 2003. Preferred Argument Structure: Grammar as
Architecture for Function. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Ebert, K.H. 1987. Grammatical marking of speech act participants. Journal of Pragmatics
11: 473–482.
Ebert, K.H. 1991. Inverse and pseudo-inverse prefixes in Kiranti languages: Evidence from Bel-
hare, Athpare and Dungmali. Linguistics of the Tibeto-Burman Area 14: 73–92.
Ebert, K.H. 1994. The Structure of Kiranti Languages. Zürich: ASAS Press.
	 On the scope of the referential hierarchy in the typology of grammatical relations 	
Ebert, K.H. 1997. A Grammar of Athpare. Munich: Lincom.
Filimonova, E. 2005. The noun phrase hierarchy and relational marking: Problems and counter-
evidence. Linguistic Typology 9: 77–113.
Gaenszle, M. 1991. Verwandtschaft und Mythologie bei den Mewahang Rai in Ostnepal: Eine
ethnographische Studie zum Problem der ‘ethnischen Identität’. Stuttgart: Steiner.
Gaenszle, M. In press. Rai mythology. In Rai Mythology: Kiranti Oral Texts, K. Ebert & M. Gaen-
szle (Eds), Harvard MA: Harvard University Press.
Garrett, A. 1990. The origin of NP split ergativity. Language 66: 261–296.
Givón, T. 2001. Syntax. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Gordon, L. 1986. Maricopa Morphology and Syntax. Berkeley CA: University of California Press.
Haiman, J. 1980. Hua: A Papuan Language of the Eastern Highlands of New Guinea. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Haude, K. 2006. A Grammar of Movima. Ph.D. dissertation, Radboud University, Nijmegen.
Jacobsen, W.H. Jr. 1964. A Grammar of the Washo Language. Ph.D. dissertation, University of
California, Berkeley.
Jäger, G. 2007. Evolutionary game theory and typology: A case study. Language 83: 74–109.
Janssen, D., Bickel, B. & Zúñiga, F. 2006. Randomization tests in language typology. Linguistic
Typology 10: 419–440.
Kroeger, P. 1993. Phrase Structure and Grammatical Relations in Tagalog. Stanford CA: CSLI.
Lahaussois, A. 2003. Thulung Rai. Himalayan Linguistics Archive 1: 1–25.
Michailovsky, B. 1988. La langue hayu. Paris: CNRS.
Michailovsky, B. 1994. Manner vs. place of articulation in the Kiranti initial stops. In Current
Issues in Sino-Tibetan Linguistics, H. Kitamura, T. Nishida & Y. Nagano (Eds), 766–772.
Osaka: National Museum of Ethnology.
Michailovsky, B. 1997. Catégories verbales et intransitivité duale en Limbu. Studi Italiani di Lin-
guistica Teorica e Applicata 26: 307–325.
Michailovsky, B. 2001. Limbu nous autres and first person morphology. Linguistics of the Tibeto-
Burman Area 24: 145–156.
Nagano, Y. 1984. A historical study of the rGyarong verb system. Tokyo: Seishido.
Nagano, Y. 2003. Cogtse Gyarong. In The Sino-Tibetan Languages, G. Thurgood & R.J. LaPolla,
469–498. London: Routledge.
Nichols, J. 2003. Diversity and stability in language. In Handbook of Historical Linguistics,
R.D. Janda & B.D. Joseph (Eds.), 283–310. London: Blackwell.
Opgenort, J. Robert. 2004a. A Grammar of Wambule. Leiden: Brill.
Opgenort, J. Robert. 2004b. Implosives and preglottalized stops in Kiranti. Linguistics of the
Tibeto-Burman Area 27: 1–27.
Opgenort, J.R. 2005. A Grammar of Jero, with a Historical Comparative Study of the Kiranti Lan-
guages. Leiden: Brill.
Pokharel, M. 2054 (VS, i.e., 1996/1997 AD). Nepāli Vākya Vyākaraṇ. Kāṭhmāṇḍū: Nepāl Rājakīya
Pragya-Pratiṣṭhān.
Rai, N.K. 1984. A Descriptive Study of Bantawa. Ph.D. dissertation, Deccan College Post-Grad-
uate Research Institute, Puṇe (India)
Rutgers, R. 1998. Yamphu. Leiden: CNWS Publications.
Schachter, P. 1976. The subject in Philippine languages: Topic, actor, actor-topic, or none of the
above. In Subject and Topic, N. Charles Li (Ed.), New York NY: Academic Press.
Seidl, A. & Dimitriadis, A. 1997. The discourse function of object marking in Swahili. Proceed-
ings of the 33rd Annual Meeting of the Chicago Linguistics Society: 373–389.
	 Balthasar Bickel
Siewierska, A. 2004. Person. Cambridge: CUP.
Silverstein, M. 1976. Hierarchy of features and ergativity. In Grammatical Categories in Austra-
lian Languages, R.M.W. Dixon (Ed.), 112–171. Atlantic Highlands NJ: Humanities Press.
Suter, E. 2006. The optional ergative in Kâte. To appear in: Bowden, John & Nikolaus Himmel-
mann (Eds) a Festschrift for Andrew Pawley. Canberra: Pacific Linguistics.
Toba, S. 1988. The pronominal affix system in Khaling. In Prosodic Analysis and Asian Linguis-
tics: To Honour R.K. Sprigg, D. Bradley, E.J.A. Henderson & M. Mazaudon (Eds), 201–204.
Canberra: Pacific Linguistics (PL–C 104)
Tolsma, G. 1999. A grammar of Kulung. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Leiden.
Watkins, L.J. & McKenzie, P. 1984. A Grammar of Kiowa. Lincoln NB: University of Nebraska
Press.
Watters, J.K. 1988. Topics in Tepehua Grammar. Ph.D. dissertation, University of California,
Berkeley.
Zúñiga, F. 2006. Deixis and Alignment: Inverse Systems in Indigenous Languages of the Americas
[Typological Studies in Language 70]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Does passivization require a subject category?
Marianne Mithun
Passives are usually described in terms of subjects: they shift subject status
from the semantic agent of a clause to a patient or other argument. We might
accordingly expect that languages without a robust subject category should lack
passives. Here passives are examined in a language with at best only marginal
evidence of a subject category, Central Pomo of California. The construction
alters argument structure by eliminating the grammatical agent from the clause,
but has none of the other syntactic effects expected of passives. It does not
promote arguments to subject status. There is no shift in pronominal shape or
case marking: patients remain coded as grammatical patients, and obliques as
obliques. It is not exploited for purely formal syntactic purposes, such as ensuring
coreferentiality of arguments in clause combining. It does, however, serve the
same kinds of semantic, pragmatic, and discourse functions as passives in many
other languages. It eliminates mention of generic, unknown, irrecoverable,
unimportant, predictable, stereotypical, and non-topical agents. The density of
passives in spontaneous Central Pomo speech indicates these functions are more
than sufficient to justify its central place in the grammar.
Descriptions of passives usually take as a point of departure the category of
subject. Bernard Comrie, who has been at the forefront of work on grammati-
cal relations, writes, for example, that the passive is ‘characterized as a process
whereby the original subject is deleted or demoted to an agentive phrase while
the original object is advanced to subject position’ (1989: 16). In their survey
chapter on passives in the world’s languages, Keenan & Dryer (2007: 352) iden-
tify ‘the defining characteristic of passives: in a passive, the corresponding sub-
ject in the active is expressed by an element that is neither a subject nor an
object in the corresponding passive.’ If the function of passives is to shift the
subject relation from one argument to another, we might wonder whether the
existence of a subject category in a language is a prerequisite for the existence of
a passive construction.
There are in fact a number of languages that lack evidence of a subject cat-
egory and that also lack passives. If this pattern is consistent cross-linguistically,
it will constitute an important typological correlation. In what follows, the rela-
tionship is examined in detail in a language indigenous to Northern California,
	 Marianne Mithun
Central Pomo. It will be seen that the correlation is not as universal as might be
expected: Central Pomo shows, at best, marginal evidence of a subject category,
but a ubiquitous passive. The presence of the robust passive without a strong sub-
ject category shows that there is more to passivization than reassignment of the
subject relation.
1.  
Subjects
A variety of approaches have been taken to defining subjects. Some definitions
have been framed in terms of particular models of syntax, such as Chomsky’s oft-
cited ‘the relation holding between the NP of a sentence of the form NP^AUX^VP
and the whole sentence’ (1965: 69). As that model evolved, so did the characteriza-
tion of subjects within it. More than twenty years later, Radford described subjects
in somewhat different terms: ‘Subjects originate internally within VP, and sub-
sequently move to spec-TP for checking purposes’ (1997: 315). A principle that
has not changed over the course of this evolution has been the assumption that
subjects are universal to all human languages.
A number of other authors, however, among them Comrie (1989), Mithun
(1991a), and Andrews (2007), have observed that not all languages exhibit clear
evidence of a formal subject category. In his seminal 1976 work ‘Towards a univer-
sal definition of ‘subject’, Keenan considers a structural definition along the lines
of Chomsky 1965; ‘the basic-subject is immediately dominated by the root node S’,
but finds that ‘there is no test to determine whether or not a subpart of a sentence
is a constituent’ (1976: 322). He thus turns to a multi-factor approach, listing 30
properties that are typically associated with subjects, but identifying none as neces-
sary or sufficient. He concludes that ‘subjecthood is a matter of degree’ (1976: 307).
Comrie remarks that ‘there seem to be some languages where either there is no
category subject, or where the various properties of subject are distributed across
more than one noun phrase’ (1989: 35). In his comparison of passive and ergative
constructions, he provides a set of core subject properties similar to those pro-
posed by Keenan, which include ‘nominative case, triggering verb agreement, and
being trigger or target for conjunction reduction, undergoing Equi, subject rais-
ing, etc.’ (1988: 13). This approach to the notion of subject differs from those cited
earlier in a fundamental way. Subjects are seen as categories that may or may not
develop in various parts of the grammars of individual languages, and to varying
degrees. They may be seen in morphological marking, such as the nominative case
and verb agreement cited by Comrie, or in syntactic patterns such as conjunction
reduction, equivalent noun phrase deletion, or raising. It is this second kind of
approach that will be taken here.
	 Does passivization require a subject category?	 
2.  
Central Pomo
Central Pomo is a language of the Pomoan family, indigenous to an area approxi-
mately 100 miles north of San Francisco, extending from the California coast to
about 50 miles inland.
Pomoan
Pomoan Language Family
Adapted from the Handbook of North American Indians
William C. Sturtevant, ed. Washington: Smithsonian Institution
Languages of this family provide a good test of the hypothesis that the exis-
tence of a passive construction is dependent on the presence of subjects. The
languages show little evidence of a category with the prototypical subject prop-
erties listed by Comrie. The Central Pomo examples cited here are drawn from
the speech of Salome Alcantra, Frances Jack, Eileen Oropeza, and Florence Paoli
(personal communication).
3.  
Subjects in Central Pomo
In this section, Central Pomo will be examined for each of the core subject proper-
ties cited by Comrie. We begin with more concrete coding properties, observable
in morphological marking patterns, then move toward more abstract behavioral
properties, observable in syntactic patterns. The structures investigated are pro-
noun categories, noun case, verb agreement, constituent order, conjunction reduc-
tion, relativization, switch reference, and logophoric or cross-clause reflexives.
3.1  
Pronouns
As in most languages, the shapes of the pronouns in Central Pomo reflect their
grammatical roles. The first person singular pronoun corresponding to the English
	 Marianne Mithun
subject ‘I’ is ’a:. The pronoun corresponding to the English object ‘me’ is t̯o:. The
third person singular pronoun corresponding to the English subjects ‘he’ and ‘she’ is
mu:l. The pronoun corresponding to the English objects ‘him’ and ‘her’ is mú:t̯u.
	 (1)	 ‘a:	 mú:t̯u	 ’é:y=čadi-w.
	 	 1sg	 3sg	 away=chase-perfective
		 ‘Iˉchasedˉhimˉaway.’
	 (2)	 Mu:l	 t̯o:	 ’é:y=čadi-w.
	 	 3sg	 1sg	 away=chase-perfective
		 ‘Heˉchasedˉmeˉaway.’
There are three pronominal paradigms, which we term for the moment Set I, Set II,
and Set III.
	 (3)	 
Pronominalˉparadigms: Mithunˉ1990
			 SetˉI	 SetˉII	 SetˉIII
	 	 1.sg	 ’a:	 t̯o:	 khe
	 	 2.sg	 ma	 mt̯o	 mkhe
	 	 3.sg	 mu:l	 mú:t̯u	 mú:khe
	 	 r.sg	 t̯i:	 t̯i:t̯o	 t̯i:khe
		 1.pl	 ya	 yal	 yá:’khe
		 2.pl	 máya	 máyal	 máya:’khe
	 	 3.pl	 mú:t̯uya	 mú:t̯uyal	 mú:t̯uya’khe
		 r.pl	 t̯íya	 t̯íyal	 t̯íya:’khe
The Set I pronouns in examples (1) and (2) above correspond to English sub-
jects in the translations, and the Set II pronouns to English objects. Further exam-
ples show that the sets do not represent subjects and objects, however. Both sets of
pronouns appear in intransitive clauses.
	 (4)	 
Intransitives
		 SetˉIˉ’a: ‘I’	 SetˉIIˉt̯o: ‘I’
		 ’a:	 wáq’i’le	 ‘Iˉwouldˉgo’	 t̯o:ˉ’ṭhál	 ‘I’mˉsick’
		 ’a:	 phdí:law	 ‘Iˉdoveˉin’	 t̯o:ˉbačú:	 ‘I’mˉtired’
		 ’a:	 sbíč’	 ‘Iˉgotˉup’	 t̯o:ˉqhót̯’a	 ‘I’mˉticklish’
Both sets of pronouns also appear in transitive clauses. Set I pronouns correspond
to English subjects in examples (5a)and (5c), but to the English objects (in (5a)
and (5b)). Set II pronouns correspond to subjects in (5b) and (5d), but to the
English object in (5d).
	 (5)	
Transitives
		 a.	 Mu:l	 ’a:	 ’yá:qankaw	 čhów.
		 	 that	 1sg	recall	 not
			 Iˉcouldn’tˉthinkˉofˉit.’
	 Does passivization require a subject category?	 
		 b.	
Me:n	 ’in	 t̯̯o:	 mu:l	 ’yá:qada,
			 so	 as	 1sg	 that	 thinking.about
			 ‘That’sˉwhyˉIˉamˉthinkingˉaboutˉit.’
		 c.	
Ma	 t̯̯o:	 t̯ét̯e:dan.
			 2sg.	1sg	 telling
			 ‘Youˉwereˉtellingˉme.’
		 d.	 T̯o:=wa	 mt̯o	 ’yá:qan?
			 1sg=q	 2sg	 remember
			 ‘Doˉyouˉrememberˉme?’
The verbs that occur with Set I pronouns in the examples above, ‘go’, ‘dive in’,
and ‘get up’ represent actions and events. Those that occur with Set II forms, being
‘sick’, ‘tired’, and ‘ticklish’ represent states. It might be hypothesized that pronoun
choice is determined by aspect. But Set I pronouns also appear with states, and Set II
patient pronouns also appear with events.
	 (6)	
SetˉIˉwithˉstates	 SetˉIIˉwithˉevents
		 ’a:	 ’ná: č	 ‘I’mˉhiding’	 t̯o: ló:ya	 ‘Iˉfell’
		 ’a:	 ma: báhčin	 ‘I’mˉconceited’	 t̯o: qhá: snám’khe	 ‘I’llˉdrown’
		 ’a:	 ’eˉbane: ’t̯aw	 ‘I’mˉlazy’	 t̯o: ’qá:č	 ‘Iˉgotˉlost’
This is thus not an active/stative system.
It is what is termed an agent/patient system: Set I pronouns generally rep-
resent semantic agents, and Set II patients. Some of the examples above might
bring to mind a distinction originally introduced by Perlmutter (1978) between
unergative and unaccusative verbs. Unergative verbs were defined as intransitives
that describe volitional acts and certain involuntary bodily processes. Unaccusa-
tive verbs were defined as intransitives that correspond to adjectives in English
and those whose argument is a semantic patient, as well as predicates of existing
and happening, emission of stimuli that impinge on the senses, aspectual predi-
cates, and duratives. The Central Pomo system is also based on semantic agency,
but it differs in an important way. The unergative/unaccusative distinction was
a categorization of intransitive verbs. The Central Pomo pronominal distinction
carries through clauses of all kinds, intransitive and transitive, as can be seen in
examples (4), (5), and (6).
The notion of semantic agency comprises a cluster of semantic features.
Agents usually instigate and perform actions and are in control. In most situa-
tions, the features of instigation, performance, and control coincide: someone who
dives into a river usually instigates the action, performs it, and controls it. In a
few situations, however, the features do not cluster: someone may perform the
action of sneezing without being in control. Languages with grammatical agent/
	 Marianne Mithun
patient systems vary in which feature is given priority for the categorization of
arguments. In some languages instigation or performance is criterial. Those who
sneeze, choke, or burp are categorized as grammatical agents. In other languages,
including Central Pomo, the lack of control is criterial. Those who sneeze, choke,
or burp are categorized as grammatical patients.
	 (7)	
Performanceˉwithoutˉcontrol: SetˉII
		 t̯o:	’és’esya	‘Iˉsneezed’
		 t̯o:	’t
˚
é’čya	 ‘Iˉchoked’
		 t̯o:	t̯éq’	 ‘Iˉburped’
Lackofcontrolaloneisnotsufficientforcategorizationasagrammaticalpatient
in Central Pomo, however. Participants must be viewed as both not in control and
significantly affected in order to be categorized as grammatical patients, affected
in a way with which the speaker empathizes. Inanimate objects and lower animals
are not generally cast as grammatical patients. In (5a) above, ‘I couldn’t think of it
(a name)’, the name is referred to with a Set I pronoun: the name was not considered
sufficiently affected to be cast as a grammatical patient, and certainly not in a way a
speaker would empathize with. Similarly in (8) below, the fly was represented with
a Set I form, while the person was represented with a Set II patient form.
	 (8)	
SetˉI	 SetˉII
		 Mu:l	 ’a:	 hk’úm.	   
Mú:t̯u	 ’a:	 hk’úm.
	 	 3.agent	1.agent	kill	   3.patient	1.agent	 kill
		 ‘Iˉkilledˉit.’ˉ(aˉfly)	   ‘Iˉkilledˉhim.’ˉ(aˉperson)
Speakers do not use Set II patient forms if they choose not to focus on affectedness
or empathize with the semantic patient, even if this is a person. The Set I agent
category is thus semantically unmarked, a default category, and the Set II patient
category marked.
The agent/patient system has a clear semantic basis, but it is now fully gram-
maticalized and categorical. Speakers do not make online judgments about degrees
of agency as they speak. When they learn a verb, they learn the case frame that
goes with it. There is a small set of verbs that appear sometimes with Set I pro-
nouns and sometimes with Set II. These verbs are not evidence of a fluid system:
they are lexical doublets. Speakers learn that there are two versions of these
particular verbs, one that appears with grammatical agents and the other with
grammatical patients.
	 (9)	
Lexicalˉdoublets
		 SetˉIˉAgents	 SetˉIIˉPatients
		 ’a: smáˉmt̯í:č’	 ‘Iˉwentˉtoˉbed’	 t̯o: smáˉmt̯í:čka	 ‘Iˉmust’veˉfallenˉasleep’
		 ’a: čhném	 ‘Iˉranˉintoˉit’	 t̯o: čhném	 ‘Iˉbumpedˉintoˉit’
		 ’a: k’lúk’lu:w	 ‘Iˉcoughedˉ(voluntarily)’	 t̯o: k’lúk’luw	 ‘Iˉcoughedˉ(involuntary)’
	 Does passivization require a subject category?	 
The Set III pronouns are used as obliques and possessives, usually for
alienable possession.
	 (10)	
SetˉIII:obliquesˉandˉpossessives
		 a.	
Kheˉqháˉbé:dum!	 ‘bringˉmeˉsomeˉwater!’
		 b.	
Kheˉbá:ṭhiyalˉ’a:h’élan.	 ‘I’mˉlookingˉforˉmyˉfather-in-law.’
3.2  
Noun case
Central Pomo shows case marking on nouns, but only on some nouns. These
are mainly terms for certain persons, especially kin. Agent nouns are unmarked.
Patient nouns carry the suffix -l. In example (11), the nouns ‘woman’ and ‘wife’
refer to the same person and share the same grammatical role. Only the term for
‘wife’ has a patient case form, however.
	 (11)	
Patientˉcaseˉonˉnouns: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Mú:khet̯’	 má:t̯a	 q’alá:w,	 míya:	 dáqa:de-l.
		 3sg.possessor	 woman	died	 3sg.kinship.possessor	 wife-patient
		 ‘Hisˉwomanˉdied,ˉhisˉwifeˉ(patient).’
When speakers wish to specify the role of an argument identified by a noun that
lacks grammatical patient or oblique case forms, they can add a pronoun, though
this is not obligatory. In both clauses in (12), the fish is a grammatical patient. The
noun ‘fish’ has no patient case form itself, but the pronoun which follows it speci-
fies its grammatical role.
	 (12)	
Caseˉbyˉpronominals: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Yá:	 ’el	 khmú,	 du:	 šá	 ’el	 mú:t̯u	 qaṭ’é:č’.
		 bone	 the	 all	 other	 fish	 the	 3sg.patient	 gave
		 ‘Heˉgaveˉtheˉotherˉfishˉallˉhisˉbones’.
		 Me:n	’dóma,	 šṭ’ó,	 mu:l	 šá	 ’el	 mú:t̯u	 ’úda:w	 ṭhédu:	 yá:.
		 so	 hearsay	 now	 3sg	 fish	 the	 3sg.patient	very	 many	 bone
		 ‘Soˉnow,ˉtheyˉsay,ˉoneˉfishˉswimsˉaroundˉwithˉlotsˉofˉbones.’
3.3  
Agreement
In many languages verbs carry a marker that shows agreement in one or more
features with their subjects. Certain Central Pomo verbal suffixes and clitics do
appear at first to show subject agreement. In most cases, however, a closer look
reveals that they are not subject agreement markers after all.
3.3.1  
Commands
The imperative endings of commands show agreement for number. The ending
for commands addressed to one person is -im, while that for commands to two or
more is -ime’.
	 Marianne Mithun
	 (13)	
Imperatives:-im/-ime’
		 a.	
Šó:č-im	 ‘Listen!’	 (commandˉtoˉone)
			 Šó:č-ime’	 ‘Listen!’	 (commandˉtoˉtwoˉorˉmore)
		 b.	
T̯á:saˉmčáma-m	 ‘Setˉtheˉtable!’	 (commandˉtoˉone)
			 T̯á:saˉmčáma-me’	 ‘Setˉtheˉtable!’	 (commandˉtoˉtwoˉorˉmore)
The agreement is actually not with subjects. Imperatives are addressed only to
those capable of instigating and controlling events. Commands agree in number
with agents.
3.3.2  -t̯a
The verbal suffix -t̯a might also appear at first to be a plural subject agreement
marker. It occurs in intransitive clauses with both grammatical agents (‘they
jumped into the water’) and grammatical patients (‘they are getting older’).
	 (14)	
-t̯a
		 Mú: lˉqhá: phdí:law.	 ‘Heˉjumpedˉintoˉtheˉwater.’
		 Mú:t̯uya qhá: hdít̯a:lam.	 ‘Theyˉjumpedˉintoˉtheˉwater.’
		 Mú:t̯u yémaq’	 ‘Heˉisˉgettingˉolder.’
		 Mú:t̯uyal yemáqt̯aw.	 ‘Theyˉareˉgettingˉolder.’
This suffix actually quantifies events rather than participants. It is a multiple event
marker. The people jumping into the water each jumped separately, at a different
spot and at a different moment. Those getting older were each getting older indi-
vidually, at their own pace. The suffix does not occur in verbs portraying group
activities. In the sentence in (15), the noun šná ‘boat’ carries no number marking,
but the verb contains the multiple event suffix -t̯a.
	 (15)	
Multipleˉeventˉ-t̯a
		 Šnáˉphadét̯a’kaw.	 
‘They’reˉallˉmovingˉtheirˉboats.’
3.3.3  -ma
A verbal suffix -ma/-m also appears at first appear to show number agreement
with subjects.
	 (16)	
-ma
		 bé:n	 ‘(he/she)ˉcarriedˉitˉ(aˉcompactˉobject)’
		 bé:n-ma-w	 ‘(they)ˉcarriedˉit’
This suffix -ma is not actually a plural marker. It specifies collective agency, that is,
the involvement of multiple agents working more or less together.
	 (17)	
Collectiveˉagencyˉ-ma
		 a.	
bé:n	 ‘(one)ˉcarriedˉitˉ(aˉcompactˉobject)’
			 bé:n-ma-w	 ‘(group)ˉcarriedˉitˉtogether’
	 Does passivization require a subject category?	 
		 b.	
qo’díya	 ‘(one)ˉbroughtˉitˉinˉ(somethingˉlong)’
			 qo’dí-mma-ya	 ‘(group)ˉbroughtˉitˉinˉtogether,ˉcarryingˉtheˉsameˉload’
The suffix occurs only in verbs with grammatical agents: it does not occur in verbs
whose only argument is a grammatical patient. In (18), the people under discus-
sion are grammatical agents of ‘carry’, as in (16), and the verb ‘carry’ contains the
collective agency suffix -ma-. But the same people are grammatical patients of the
verb ‘fall’, and this verb lacks the suffix.
	 (18)	
Multipleˉagentsˉandˉpatients
		 Bé:nmawda	 čhnánawsiya.
		 be:n-ma-w-da	 čhnana-w=siya
		 carry-collective.agency-prf-as	 fall-prf=almost
		 ‘Whenˉtheyˉcarriedˉitˉin,ˉtheyˉalmostˉfell.’
3.3.4  -aq
Another verb suffix might appear to be a plural subject agreement marker. It does
not appear on the verb in (19a) ‘he brought in firewood’, but it does appear on the
verb in (19b) ‘they brought in firewood’.
	 (19)	
-aq
		 a.	
Háyˉčawˉ’díya.	 ‘(He)ˉbroughtˉsomeˉfirewoodˉintoˉtheˉhouse.’
		 b.	
Háyˉčawˉ’diäa:q’ya.	‘(They)ˉbroughtˉsomeˉfirewoodˉintoˉtheˉhouse.’
This suffix, like the others seen so far, is not an agreement marker either. It is a dis-
tributed agency marker. Both sentences (17b) and (19b) are based on the stem ’di-
‘carry something long’ and have multiple agents. In (17b) the agents were acting
as a group, bringing in one large object together. In (19b), each was acting individu-
ally, each carrying separate loads. The distributed agency marker is somewhat more
marked than the collective agency suffix -ma. Note that (19b) also contains the mul-
tiple event suffix -t̯a.
3.3.5  =la, =ya, and =wiya
Two other endings might appear to mark subject agreement, this time with
subject person.
	 (20)	
=la,ˉ=ya
		 Šṭ’óˉšk’eˉqayú’čiwla.	 ‘Iˉjustˉstartedˉtoˉeat.’
		 Šṭ’óˉšk’eˉqa:yú’čimawla.	 ‘Weˉjustˉstartedˉtoˉeat.’
		 Šṭ’óˉšk’eˉqayú’čiya.	 ‘Heˉjustˉstartedˉtoˉeat.’
		 Šṭ’óˉšk’eˉqayú’čimaya.	 ‘Theyˉjustˉstartedˉtoˉeat.’
But =la does not occur on verb with a first person subject, and =ya does not
occur on every verb with a third person subject. The verb qayú’č’iw is common for
	 Marianne Mithun
‘(I/you/he/she) started eating’, and the verb qayú’čimaw is common for ‘(we/you
all/they) started eating’. Furthermore, =ya can occur on verbs with first or second
person subjects.
	 (21)	
Šṭ’óˉšk’eˉmaˉqayú’čiya.	 ‘Butˉyouˉjustˉstartedˉeating.’ˉ(Areˉyouˉleavingˉalready?)
These endings are actually evidentials. The enclitic =la indicates that the
speaker knows the event happened because he or she was involved as an agent.
It contrasts with another enclitic =wiya, which indicates that the speaker knows
about the situation because he or she was affected by it. The ending =ya indicates
that the speaker knows about the event through direct, first-hand experience. It
often appears with third persons, but it can appear with first or second as well.
	 (22)	
Evidentials
		 =la	
‘IˉknowˉbecauseˉIˉdid/amˉdoing/willˉdoˉitˉmyself,ˉinvolvedˉ
asˉanˉagent.’
		 =wiya	 ‘Iˉknowˉbecauseˉitˉhappenedˉtoˉme,ˉIˉwasˉinvolvedˉasˉaˉpatient.’
		 =ya	 ‘Iˉknowˉfromˉdirectˉobservation,ˉfirst-handˉexperience’
		 Phdí:law=la.	 ‘(I)ˉdoveˉin.’
		 Dóč=la.	 ‘(I)ˉdidˉit.’
		 Mṭ’á:kawan=la.	 ‘(I)’mˉcookingˉit.’
		 Bačú:=wiya.	 ‘(I)’mˉtired.’
		 Balá:čh=wiya.	 ‘(I)ˉmadeˉaˉmistake.’
		 Škhé:n=wiya.	 ‘(I)ˉamˉgettingˉwell.’
3.3.6  
Stem shape
A number of verbs show drastic differences between singular and plural forms.
The differences can be seen both in verbs with grammatical agents and verbs with
grammatical patients. (The perfective aspect suffix is -w after vowels and zero
after consonants.)
	 (23)	
Stemˉshifts
		 a.	
Mu:lˉyów.	 ‘He/sheˉwent.’
			 Mú:t̯uyaˉhlíw.	
‘Theyˉwent.’
		 b.	
Mú:t̯uˉmdál.	 ‘He/sheˉdied.’
			 Mú:t̯uyalˉléy.	
‘Theyˉdied.’
These differences in stem shape are also not subject agreement. The two forms
are distinct lexical items, part of whose meaning is the number of participants
involved. The lexical alternations do not set off a subject category as trigger. Simi-
lar alternations can be seen among transitive verb stems, but here it is the number
of the patient that is specified. If someone kills one person, the stem hq’úm is used,
	 Does passivization require a subject category?	 
but if the same person kills more than one, the stem ’léy is used. If someone lays
down one long object, the stem ném is used, but if he or she lays down more than
one, the stem mčám, is appropriate. The alternations do not reflect subject number,
agent number, or patient number, but rather absolutive number. The number is
part of the meaning of the verb, a semantic feature of these lexical items, not unlike
that in English stampede or massacre. Absolutive number patterning in the verbal
lexicon is widespread cross-linguistically and is generally independent of patterns
of case, pronominal shape, or grammatical relations.
3.3.7  
Imperfectives
All Central Pomo verbs distinguish aspect. As seen in the examples above, perfec-
tive aspect is marked by -w after a vowel and zero after a consonant, regardless
of number. Imperfective aspect, however, is marked by a pair of suffixes: -an/-ač
(with phonologically-defined variants).
	 (24)	
Imperfectiveˉsuffixes
		 a.	
Mu:lˉšó:č-an.	 ‘Heˉisˉlistening.’
			 Mú:t̯uyaˉšó:č-ač’.	 ‘Theyˉareˉlistening.’
		 b.	
Mu:lˉqawá-:n.	 ‘Heˉisˉeatingˉit.’
			 Mú:t̯uyaˉqawá-:č’.	 ‘Theyˉareˉeatingˉit.’
The verbs ending in -an, šó: č-an ‘is/was listening’ and qawá-:n ‘is/was eating’, are
used only with single listeners and eaters (‘I’, ‘you’, ‘he’, ‘she’). The verbs ending in
-ač’, šó:č-ač’ ‘are/were listening’ and qawá-:c’ ‘are/were eating’, are used only with
multiple listeners and eaters (‘we’, ‘you all’, ‘they’). Transitivity makes no difference:
the same endings are used with intransitives (‘listen’) and transitives (‘eat X’).
It is impossible to determine from these examples whether the -an/-ač’ alter-
nation is triggered by subject number or agent number, since the listeners and the
eaters would be both subjects in a language like English and grammatical agents in
Central Pomo. In order to find out, we should compare imperfective sentences in
which the argument which would be a subject in English is a grammatical patient
in Central Pomo. Imperfective intransitives with grammatical patients are actually
vanishingly rare. (States are inflected as perfectives.) Speakers often choose not to
highlight the affectedness of a semantic patient with grammatical patient marking,
and they typically do not mention arguments at all when their identity is clear.
Two examples have occurred. Both are based on the verb ley ‘multiple die’, which
can appear with a plural patient argument. Both contain imperfective suffixes: the
first is a basic imperfective with progressive meaning, and the second a habitual,
formed from a sequence of two imperfective markers. Both show the plural imper-
fective forms -ač’, reflecting the plurality of the patient arguments.
	 Marianne Mithun
	 (25)	
Patientˉsubjectsˉofˉintransitives: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 a.	
Mé:n	 ’íba	 šwáy	 ’el	 léyač’.
			 me:n	 ’í-ba	 šway	 ’el	 ley-ač’
			 so	 be-and	 laughter	 the	 multiple.die-imperfective.pl
			 ‘Andˉsoˉtheyˉwereˉjustˉdyingˉofˉlaughter.’
		 b.	
Mída	 yal	 smá	 léya:č’ač’.
			 mida	 ya-l	 sma	 ley-ač’-ač’
			 there	 1pl-patient	 sleep	 multiple.die-imperfective.pl-imperfective.pl
			 ‘Thereˉweˉwouldˉgoˉtoˉsleep.’
We thus might have a faint glimmer of a subject category as a trigger in
imperfective suffix selection. So far it has only surfaced with this one
verb root léy ‘die’, however, and only on these two occasions, over years of
recorded conversations.
3.4  
Word order
Subjectsarefrequentlyinvokedindescriptionsofconstituentorder.Basicwordorder
in a language is often characterized as SOV, SVO, VSO, etc. If a language showed
rigid and consistent order, it might be possible to define subjects as the first argu-
ment in the clause. Central Pomo does not show such invariant order. In the passage
in (26), the first clause shows what would be SOV order if Central Pomo had sub-
jects: ‘you me beat’. The second could be interpreted as OSV, but the bones could be
argued to be outside of the nuclear clause: ‘All my bones you (from) me will win’. The
third, however, shows what would be OSV order: ‘All your bones I will win’.
	 (26)	
Constituentˉorder: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Má	 t̯ó:	 q’álhla,
		 2sg.agt	1sg.pat	 beat.if
		 ’e	 khe	 yá:	 ’el	 khmú,	 ’e	 má	 t̯ó:	 ṭhá:y’khe.ˉ…ˉ
		 it.is	 1sg.poss	 bone	 the	 all	 it.is	 2sg.agt	 1sg.pat	 win.willˉ
		 Mkhe	 yá:	 t̯á:y	 ’el	 khmú	 ’a:	 ṭhá:y’khe.
		 2sg.poss	 bone	 pile	 the	 all	 1sg.agt	 win.will
		
‘Ifˉyouˉbeatˉme you’llˉwinˉallˉofˉmyˉbonesˉfromˉme.ˉ… I’llˉwinˉyourˉ
wholeˉ heapˉofˉbones.’
3.5  
Conjunction reduction
As pointed out by Keenan, Comrie, and others, evidence of a subject category can be
indirect, not marked morphologically but inferable from certain syntactic patterns.
	 Does passivization require a subject category?	 
One such pattern is English conjunction reduction, where the second of two corefer-
ential subjects is omitted: He washed his face and __combed his hair. The distribution
of overt arguments in Central Pomo provides no comparable evidence of a subject
category. Arguments in any role need not be mentioned so long as reference is clear,
whether it be from linguistic or extra-linguistic context. The two sentences in (27)
described the action of a little girl who had not been mentioned overtly for several
sentences. In the first of the two sentences, the girl was again not mentioned. In the
second, neither the girl nor the water was mentioned.
	 (27)	
Unspecifiedˉreference: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeaker,ˉp.c.
		 Mé:n-da	 bal	 qhá	 ’el	 bé-č’.
		 such-at	 this	 water	 the	 hold-inceptive.perfective
		 Mi:	 bé-m.
		 there	 hold-essive
		 ‘Duringˉthisˉtime,ˉ(she)ˉpickedˉupˉtheˉwater. (She)ˉheldˉ(it)ˉthere.’
3.6  
Switch reference
A number of languages reveal the existence of a subject category in clause-combining
constructions known as ‘switch-reference’. In his work on the general typological
properties of switch-reference systems, Comrie mentions the central role of subjects.
There is marking on the clause-final verb of a dependent clause to indicate
whether or not the subject of that clause is coreferential with the subject of the
independent clause on which the first clause is dependent.’ (1983: 18) … A sine-
qua-non of a switch-reference system is the distinction between same-subject
and different-subject forms.’ (1983: 21).
The Pomoan languages contain constructions that have sometimes been ana-
lyzed as switch reference. Clauses are combined by means of suffixes and enclitics
with meanings such as ‘and’, ‘if’, ‘while’, and ‘then’. The markers are attached to the
last word of the dependent clause, which is always the predicate. Different sets of
markers are used for irrealis and realis sentences.
	 (28)	
CentralˉPomoˉdependencyˉmarkersˉ(Mithunˉ1993)
				 Same	 Different
			 Irrealis	 -hi	 =hla	 ‘and,ˉif’
			 Realis
			 Coincident	 -in	 =da	 ‘and,ˉwhile’
			 Consecutive	-ba	 =li	 ‘andˉthen’
Examples of the use of the markers are below. The clauses in (29) are linked by the
‘same’ marker -hi. They have the same subject ‘I’ in the translation.
	 Marianne Mithun
	 (29)	
Irrealisˉ‘same’ˉmarker: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Mú:t̯u	 maqó-hi,
		 3sg.patient	 find-same.irrealis
		 ’a:	 t̯ét̯e-:n=’khe.
		 1sg.agent	tell-imprf.sg=future
		 ‘IfˉIˉseeˉhim, I’llˉtellˉhim.’
The coreferential arguments in (29) are also agents, so it is not clear whether the
‘same’ switch-reference marker is triggered by subjects or agents. In (30), the
coreferential arguments ‘you’ are translated as English subjects in both clauses
but categorized as grammatical patients in Central Pomo. The ‘same’ marker -hi is
again used.
	 (30)	
Irrealisˉ‘same’ˉmarker: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Čhná:-hi	 ’e
		 fall-same.irrealis	 copula
		 mt̯o	 ’t
˚
hál	 bá-č’-=i’khe.
		 2sg.patient	 hurt	 grow-reflexive=future
		 ‘Ifˉyouˉfallˉdown you’reˉgoingˉtoˉgetˉhurt.’
Examples (29) and (30) together suggest that the clause-combining system might
indeed reveal a subject category; the ‘same’ marker is used whether the coreferen-
tial arguments are grammatical agents or patients. The ‘different’ marker =hla ‘if’
can be seen in example (31). The arguments translated as subjects, ‘rain’ and ‘we’,
are indeed different.
	 (31)	
Irrealisˉ‘different’ˉmarker: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Čhé	 múlaq=hla,
		 rain	 fall=different.irrealis
		 ya	 čhó-w=’khe	 hlí-w.
		 1pl.agent	not-prf=future	 multiple.go-prf
		 ‘Ifˉitˉrains, weˉwon’tˉgo.’
A closer look at the uses of the Central Pomo dependency markers, however,
shows that they do not reveal a subject category after all. The clauses in (32) show
different translation subjects and even different agents (‘I’, ‘you’) but the ‘same’
marker -hi was used to connect them.
	 (32)	
Irrealisˉ‘same’ˉmarker: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 ’a:	 mkhe	 khčé	 ’el	 dó-č-hi
		 1sg.agent	 2sg.oblique	 bridge	 the	 make-semelfactive-same.irrealis
		 ‘I’llˉbuildˉtheˉbridgeˉforˉyouˉand
	 Does passivization require a subject category?	 
		 mí=:li	 ma	 ’dí-m=’khe.
		 that=with	 2sg.agent	 take.multiple-across=future
		 onˉthatˉyou’llˉtakeˉthemˉacross.’
The clauses in (33) show the same subjects and agents (both ‘you’), but the ‘differ-
ent’ marker =hla was used.
	 (33)	
Irrealisˉ‘different’ˉmarker: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Ma	 mu:l	 ’í-w	 čhó-w=hla,
		 2sg.agt	 that	 do-prf	 not-prf=different.irrealis
		 ma	 ma:	 basét
˚
’	 t
˚
habá:’-č’i-w	 ph-wí-w=’khe.
		 2sg.agt	 stuff	 bad	 happen-rfl-prf	 visually-perceive-prf=fut
		 ‘Ifˉyouˉdon’tˉdoˉthat, you’reˉgoingˉtoˉseeˉbadˉthingsˉhappen.’
In fact the Central Pomo markers do not specify reference relations between
arguments after all. They indicate whether the speaker is portraying the situations
expressed in the two clauses as components of the same event/state (‘same’) or as
two distinct ones (‘different’). This clause-combining system thus does not provide
evidence of a subject category.
3.7  
Relativization
As demonstrated by Keenan and Comrie (1977) and Comrie (1989: 155–163), evi-
dence of a subject category can be seen in some languages in relative clause for-
mation. In those languages, the argument shared by the main and relative clauses
must function as the subject of the relative clause. Sentences like I saw the man
[who won] and I saw the man [who won the lottery] are both possible, but not I saw
the man [that you mentioned] or I saw the man [that you told me about].
Relativization is not a major construction in Central Pomo, but the structures
closest to relative clauses show no such restrictions. We can see this in the last two
lines of (34): ‘not getting his things ready, the things he was going to wear’. The
coreferential ‘things’ is translated as the object of ‘wear’.
	 (34)	
Relativization: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Čalél	 wá:-’w-an,
		 just	 walk-around-imprf.sg
		 t̯í:khe	 lóq’	 ’el	 kay	 q’dí	 ’bá-:n	 t̯hi-n,
		 r.sg.possessor	 thing	 the	 too	 good	 get.ready-imprf.sg	 not-imprf.sg
		 t̯i:	 lóq’	 šim=’khe.
		 r.sg.agent	 thing	 wear=future
		
‘Heˉwasˉjustˉwanderingˉaround, notˉgettingˉhisˉthingsˉready, theˉthings
heˉwasˉgoingˉtoˉwearˉ[theˉthings].’
	 Marianne Mithun
3.8  
Cross-clause reflexives
In English, the subject of an embedded clause need not be mentioned if it is coref-
erential with an argument of the matrix clause: He wants _to go, She wants him _
to go. Such constructions have been described in terms of equivalent noun phrase
deletion. As seen in the previous section, there are no syntactic restrictions on
omitted arguments: it is sufficient that reference be clear.
Central Pomo does, however, contain a special set of pronouns t̯i, t̯í:t̯o, t̯i:khe
(singular)  and t̯íya, t̯íyal, t̯íya:’khe (plural), labeled r in Table 1 in Section 3.1.
In example (34) above, ‘(He) was just walking around, not getting his things
ready’, the r possessive t̯í: khe ‘his’ was used because the possessor was also the
subject/agent of both ‘walk around’ and ‘get ready’. Though this subject/agent was
not mentioned explicitly in either clause, it controlled the form of the posses-
sive pronoun. It also controlled the form of the pronoun t̯í: ‘he’ in the subordi-
nate clause ‘which he was going to wear’. On the basis of sentences in which it
occurs, it is not possible to determine whether the r pronouns are triggered by
subjects or agents. The triggers are normally both. Pronouns with functions like
these are sometimes called logophoric or cross-clause reflexives. They are used
in complements of verbs of saying (their logophoric use), and they show corefer-
ence across clauses within a sentence as in (34) (their cross-clause reflexive use).
(These pronouns are not used in simple reflexive constructions, which are based
on reflexive verbs formed with a derivational suffix -č’:’ná: - ‘hide (something)’,
’ná:-č’ ‘hide oneself’.
The special r pronouns have a second function. They are used when a
speaker is taking another’s point of view, presenting information as if he or she
were inside the mind of the referent. The sentence in (35) was uttered in the
course of a conversation while the speaker was looking at her dog. Another dog
that had been staying at her house had recently been given away. The use of the
special r form t̯í:khe ‘his’ indicates that the speaker was relaying the thoughts of
her dog.
	 (35)	
Pointˉofˉview: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 ’úda:w	 qamát̯’	 t̯’á-:’-d=a	 háyu.
		 really	 angry	 feel-reflexive-imprf.sg=immediate	dog
		 T̯í:khe	 má:t̯a-man	 ’čí:-ya-w.
		 r.sg.possessor	woman-specific	 take-passive-prf
		 ‘Theˉdogˉfeelsˉprettyˉmad. Hisˉwomanˉhasˉbeenˉtakenˉaway.’
Two different conclusions could be drawn from this example. It could be
argued that it demonstrates that the r pronouns are not triggered by subjects after
	 Does passivization require a subject category?	 
all. The subject of the sentence containing t̯í:khe ‘his’, ‘His woman has been taken
away’, is not the dog but his woman. Alternatively, it could be argued that (35)
demonstrates the r pronouns are in fact triggered by subjects rather than agents.
The antecedent of ‘his’ is the subject but not the agent of the immediately preced-
ing sentence, ‘The dog feels pretty mad’. The noun háyu ‘dog’ has no patient case
form, but those who are angry are generally classified as grammatical patients,
especially when the speaker adopts their point of view as here.
It is more likely that the sentences in (34) and (35) represent two now distinct
uses of the r pronouns. The r pronouns t̯í:khe ‘his’ and t̯í: ‘he’ in (34) are indeed
required by the syntax, triggered by their coreference with the (unmentioned)
subjects: ‘(He) was just wandering around, (he) not getting his things ready that
he was going to wear’. The r pronoun tí:khe ‘his’ in (35) ‘His woman has been taken
away’ is serving a semantic function, indicating that the speaker is portraying the
dog’s point of view. The syntactic and semantic functions are of course not unre-
lated. If we choose to infer from (35) that the trigger for the use of r pronouns in
syntactic constructions like (34) can be either an agent or patient, then we might
have a second possible glimmer of a covert subject category.
3.9  
Evidence for a Central Pomo subject category
The search for the core subject properties listed by Comrie in Central Pomo has
turned up very little evidence of a subject category in either morphology or syn-
tax. Pronoun shape and noun case distinguish grammatical agents and patients
rather than subjects and objects. Nearly all of the verbal morphology that might
at first glance be interpreted as subject agreement turns out to be something else.
One possible exception are the imperfective suffixes -an/-ač’. Two sentences, both
based on the verb ley ‘die’, suggest that the choice between the two might be trig-
gered by subject number.
Syntactic patterns similarly show little evidence of a subject category. Coun-
terparts to English word order, conjunction reduction, and equivalent noun phrase
reduction do no privilege a subject category. What might at first appear to be a
switch-reference system based on coreferentiality of subjects is not actually gov-
erned by subject coreference after all. The coreferential argument in relative clauses
need not be a subject. There is just one syntactic construction that might provide
a glimmer of a subject category: the use of cross-clause reflexive r pronouns: Pro-
nouns whose antecedents are the subject of their clause or a higher clause must
have the special r form. Evidence that the trigger must be a subject rests on the
interpretation of a slightly different construction involving the same pronouns.
Evidence of a subject category in Central Pomo is thus marginal.
	 Marianne Mithun
4.  
Central Pomo passives
If the usual function of passives is to shift the subject relation from one argument
to another, we might not expect to find a robust passive construction in Central
Pomo. But there is a ubiquitous construction that is usually translated as a passive.
It is marked by a verbal suffix -(y)a-.
	 (36)	
Passive: FlorenceˉPaoli,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 qawíw	 ‘bear,ˉgiveˉbirthˉto,ˉhaveˉ(aˉchild)’	 active
		 qawí:-ya-w	 ‘beˉborn’	 passive
	 a.	
active
		 Sheila	 do:	 ’íhla	 k’ú:	 qawí-w.
		 name	 quotative	 again	 child	 bear-prf
		 ‘SheˉsaidˉthatˉSheilaˉgaveˉbirthˉtoˉanotherˉbaby.’
	 b.	
passive
		 Šmá	 baku	 qawí:-ya-w.
		 ear	 blocked	 bear-passive-prf
		 ‘Heˉwasˉbornˉdeaf.’
	 (37)	
Passive: FlorenceˉPaoli,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 bayá’č’iw	 ‘answer’	 active
		 bayá’č’-a-w	 ‘wasˉanswered’	 passive
	 a.	
active
		 Mu:l	 št̯’o	 má:t̯a=ya	 ba-yá’č’i-w	 t̯o:
		 that	 now	 woman=topic	 orally-answer-semelfactive-prf	 1sg.patient
		 ‘Thenˉaˉladyˉansweredˉme.’
	 b.	
passive
		 [Iˉdon’tˉknowˉhowˉmanyˉtimesˉIˉcalledˉoverˉthere. Iˉthoughtˉtheyˉwereˉhome.]
		 Mu:l	 čhó-w=’ma	 ba-yá’č’-a-w.
		 that	 not-prf=factual	 orally-answer-semelfactive-passive-prf
		 ‘Butˉnobodyˉanswered.’ˉ(lit.ˉ‘Itˉwasn’tˉanswered.’)
Bothtransitiveandintransitiveclausescanbepassivized.Examples(36)and(37)
above show passives of the transitives ‘give birth to (someone)’ and ‘answer (some-
one)’. Example (38) shows a passive of the intransitive lówač’ ‘several talk, converse’.
	 (38)	
Passiveˉofˉintransitiveˉforˉvagueˉagent: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Lówa-:’-ya-w	 ’úda:w.
		 multiple.talk-imprf.pl-passive-prf	 lot
		 ‘There’sˉbeenˉaˉlotˉofˉtalk.’
The effect of passivization is to eliminate any mention of the single argument,
the talkers.
	 Does passivization require a subject category?	 
The Central Pomo suffix -(y)a- is derivational: it forms new intransitive verb
stems. It can occur before or after other derivational suffixes. In the verb in (39) it
passivizes a causative stem, so the sequence of suffixes is causative-passive.
	 (39)	
Causative-passive: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 [Weˉusedˉtoˉpickˉlotsˉofˉacornsˉthere.]
		 Mí=l=’ma	 mu:l	yal	 ’-yém-ka-ya-w	 ’e.
		 that=at=factual	 that	 1pl.patient	 fingering-stop-causative-passive	 copula
		 ‘Theyˉmadeˉusˉstopˉpickingˉthere.’	 (‘Weˉwereˉcausedˉtoˉstopˉpicking.’)
In the verb in (40) the causative suffix has scope over a passive stem, so the sequence
of suffixes is the reverse: passive-causative.
	 (40)	
Passive-causative: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Mu:l	 mú:t̯ˉuya	 baséṭ’	 t̯’á-:’č’i-w
		 that	 3pl.agent	 bad	 sense-reflexive-prf
		 mu:l	 da-ṭhíč’-a-:ka-w=’khe.
		 that	 pushing-uncover-passive-causative-prf-future
		 ‘Theyˉfeelˉbad aboutˉdiggingˉthemˉup.’ˉ(‘causingˉthemˉtoˉbeˉuncovered’)
Usually the primary syntactic effect of passives is to shift the grammatical rela-
tion of subject to another argument, a shift that affects all of the core subject prop-
erties seen so far, such as case marking, number agreement, and triggering various
syntactic patterns.
4.1  
Passives and case
The Central Pomo passive construction shares some features with prototypical
passives but not others. As in many languages, the semantic agent is eliminated
entirely: it is never expressed in an oblique. There is no evidence, however, that
the patient is promoted in any way. Pronouns and nouns retain their grammatical
patient forms. In (41) the unwanted ‘we’ is expressed with the pronominal patient
form yal, and those not wanting us are unmentioned.
	 (41)	
Unchangedˉpatientˉpronoun: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Yal	 mi:	 dá:-’-č’-a-w	 t̯hin.
		 1pl.patient	 there	 want-rfl-imprf.pl-passive-prf	 not-imprf.sg
		 ‘We’reˉnotˉwantedˉthere.’
In (42) the role of the deceased woman is specified with the patient pronoun
mú:t̯u after the noun phrase and an evidential, but the agents who laid her out are
not mentioned.
	 Marianne Mithun
	 (42)	
Unchangedˉpatientˉpronoun: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Meṭ’	má:t̯a,	 ’=ma	 mú:t̯u	 né:-ya-w		 ’e
		 that	woman	 copula=factual	 3sg.patient	 set-passive-prf	 copula
		 čá:č’	 ’bú-m-a-w	 má:=da.
		 person	 bury-collective.agency-passive-prf	 place=at
		 ‘Thatˉwoman wasˉlaidˉoutˉthere, atˉtheˉmortuary.’
4.2  
Passives and number
In languages like English, where verbs can show number agreement with the sub-
ject, passivization results in a shift in the agreement trigger. Agreement markers
reflect agent subject number in active constructions but patient subject number
in passives: Jokes always amuse_ (plural) him versus He is (singular) always
amused by jokes. The triggers of all verbal number marking in Central Pomo
remain unchanged under passivization. The participants in the situation whose
number was reflected in the basic construction are the same ones whose number
is reflected in the -ya- construction.
As described earlier, the meaning of some verb stems includes a specification
of the number of the absolutive argument: the single argument of intransitives and
the patient of transitives. The verb mdal is used if one person dies, but the verb ley
is used if more than one dies. The verb hk’um ‘kill’ is used for killing one person,
while the verb’ley is used for killing more than one. As would be expected, passiv-
ization does not alter the reference of the absolutive argument. In the clause ‘this
man was killed there’, the verb for killing one person was used, just as it would be
in its active counterpart ‘they killed one man there’.
	 (43)	
Singularˉverb: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Mu:l	 do:,	 mí=:
		 that	 hearsay	 there=at
		 ph-wí-m-a-w	 mu:l	 čá:č’
		 visually-perceive-collectiveˉagency-passive-prf	 that	 man
		 bal	 hihk’ú:m-a-w	 ’=mi=:.
		 this	 kill.one-passive-prf	 copula-there=at
		
‘Theyˉsay heˉwasˉseenˉthereˉ(byˉmoreˉthanˉone), thisˉmanˉthatˉwasˉ
killedˉthere.’
The trigger of the collective agency suffix -m(a) also remains unaffected by
passivization. In the clause ‘he was seen there’ in (43) above, the verb ‘seen’ con-
tains the collective agency suffix -m-, though there is no overt agent argument in
	 Does passivization require a subject category?	 
that clause. The suffix, which is derivational, reflects the semantics of the situation
rather than the syntactic structure of the clause. Similarly, in the clause ‘they’re put
in boxes [coffins]’ in (44) below, the plural stem in the passive verb ‘multiple were
put’ reflects the fact that multiple bodies are involved, and the collective agency
suffix -ma- reflects the fact that a group does this work together.
	 (44)	
Pluralˉverb: FlorenceˉPaoli,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Mu:l	 t̯’a=:
		 that	 sense=immediate
		 that	 couldˉbe
		 káhon	 met
˚
’	 mčát̯-t̯a-m-a-w.
		 box	 that	 put.multiple-multiple.event-collective.agency-passive-prf
		 box	 that	 theyˉareˉput
		 ‘Iˉthinkˉthey’re putˉinˉboxes.’
The only morphological distinction found in the language that might be trig-
gered by subjects was the imperfective pair -an/-ac’. The possibility that their alter-
nation might be triggered by subject number rather than agent number was based
on just two sentences, both based on the verb ley ‘multiple die’. Central Pomo pas-
sives are themselves always perfective: they describe a state resulting from an event
or activity, and in Central Pomo, states are classified grammatically as perfective.
They thus end in the perfective marker -w after vowels or zero after consonants.
Passives often contain imperfective markers before the final perfective suffix, how-
ever, which indicate the aspect of the activity that established the passive state.
Interestingly, the choice between the two imperfective suffixes remains unchanged
under passivization. It reflects the number of agents responsible for the original
event, even though the agents are no longer syntactic arguments of the clause. In
(45) ‘What is going to be discussed here?’, the plural imperfective suffix -ač’ (here
-a’-) reflects the fact that all members of the group were going to participate in
the discussion.
	 (45)	
Passiveˉofˉpluralˉimperfective: SalomeˉAlcantra,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Q’ó=’khe	 ló:w-a’-ya-w=’khe	 bé=da
		 what=from	 multiple.talk-imprf.pl-passive-prf=future	 here=at
		 aboutˉwhat	 itˉwillˉbeˉdiscussed	 here
		 ‘Whatˉareˉweˉgoingˉtoˉtalkˉaboutˉhere?’
Habitual aspect is indicated by a sequence of two imperfective suffixes, both of
which show the -an/-ač’ alternation for number. In the habitual verb in (46), both
imperfective suffixes show the plural form, reflecting the number of the unnamed
agents, even though the agents are not arguments of the clause.
	 Marianne Mithun
	 (46)	
Passiveˉpluralˉhabitual: EileenˉOropeza,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Me:n	 ’do:	 mí-t̯-a:q’-ač’-a’-ya-w.
		 so	 hearsay	 say-multiple.event-distr-imprf.pl-imprf.pl-passive-prf
		 ‘Apparentlyˉpeopleˉareˉsayingˉthis.’ˉ(‘Apparentlyˉitˉisˉbeingˉsaid.’)
4.3  
Passives and cross-clause reflexives
The only other possible evidence of a subject category in Central Pomo was the use
of the special r pronouns for arguments that are coreferential with the subject (or
agent) of their clause or a higher clause. It was not determined for certain whether
the controllers of these pronouns are subjects or agents, because the straightforward
instances of their use all involve triggers that could be classified as either. If passiviza-
tion resulted in a shift in control of the pronominal form from the agent to the patient,
we would have evidence of a subject category in this construction. We could conclude
that it was the subject that triggered use of the r pronouns rather than the agent.
There is no shift. The single argument of the passive need not control the
pronoun. In the passive sentence in (47), ‘We were not paid attention to when
we went into their stores’, the possessive t̯íya:’khe ‘their’ is coreferential with the
semantic agent, which is not even an argument of the sentence. The use of the r
pronoun here is not an instance of empathetic or logophoric use. The speaker was
describing white storekeepers in a nearby town who refused to recognize Pomo
customers. She was neither taking the point of view of the storekeepers nor relat-
ing something they had told her.
	 (47)	
rˉpronouns: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Q’ó=’t̯i	 ’-mu:l	 yal,
		 what-but	 copula=that	 1pl.patient
		 atˉall	 itˉis	 us
		 hól=yo:-ma=’le	 t̯hi-n
		 toward=go-collective.agency=conditional	 not-imprf.sg
		 wouldˉcome	 not
		 ya	 store,	 t̯íya:’khe	 store=da
		 1pl.agent	 store	 r.pl.possessive	 store=in
		 we	 store	 their	 inˉtheˉstore
		 čá-w	 hlí-w=da.
		 house-in	 multiple.go-prf=different
		 inside	 whenˉwouldˉgoˉin
		 ‘Weˉwereˉnotˉpaidˉattentionˉtoˉwhenˉweˉwentˉintoˉtheirˉstores.’
The same situation obtains with the logophoric use of the r pronouns. The r
pronouns need not be coreferential with the patients of passives. The speaker cited
in (48) was recounting what the victim had told her. If the use of the r pronouns
	 Does passivization require a subject category?	 
were triggered by subjects, the things done would have to be the trigger for the
t̯íyal and t̯í:t̯o pronouns. But these pronouns refer to the victims, including the
person who had described the events to the speaker.
	 (48)	
Logophoricˉuse: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 ’do:	 t̯íyal	 ma:	 yhé-t̯-a’-ya-w.
		 quot	 r.pl.patient	 stuff	 do-multiple.event-imprf.pl-passive-prf
		 T̯̯í:t̯o	 ma:	 yhé-’-ya-w.
		 r.sg.patient	stuff	 do-imprf.pl-passive-prf
		 ‘Aˉlotˉofˉthingsˉwereˉdoneˉtoˉthem. Thingsˉwereˉdoneˉtoˉher.’
Passivization in Central Pomo appears to have none of the syntactic effects
typical of passivization in other languages, even in the two constructions that could
possibly reflect evidence of a subject category, namely the imperfective aspect
suffixes and the cross-clause reflexives.
5.  
The functions of passives
The close association between subjects and passives cross-linguistically is not sur-
prising, given their usual ranges of functions. Comrie writes:
The prototype of subject represents the intersection of agent and topic, i.e., the
clearest instances of subjects, cross-linguistically, are agents which are also topics
(1989: 107).
Passivization would indicate a shift in topic away from the semantic agent toward
the semantic patient. There has been considerable discussion of whether the pri-
mary function of passives is to demote non-topical semantic agents out of subject
status, or to promote topical semantic patients into subject status. Givón explains
that passives with both functions exist, and this difference defines the main typo-
logical split between kinds of passive constructions.
The main typological features that distinguish promotional from non-
promotional passive clauses is the presence vs. absence, respectively, of profound
re-adjustment in grammatical relations – thus in overall syntactic structure – in
the passive clause, relative to the direct-active clause. (Givón 2001.II: 127)
He sees the primary function of passives as agent demotion.
As suggested above and following Shibatani (1985), the prototypical passive voice
is used primarily for agent suppression or de-topicalization. The fact that a non-
agent argument – most commonly the patient – is then topicalized is but the
default consequence of agent suppression. (Givón 2001.II: 125)
	 Marianne Mithun
He outlines the characteristics of the prototypical non-promotional passive as fol-
lows (2001.II: 128).
Main feature
a. 
The non-agent topic of passive does not undergo full promotion to subject-
hood, but rather retains its characteristic active-clause grammatical role.
Associated features
b.  The agent/subject of the active is typically missing.
c.  Consequently, the syntax of the passive clause tends to resemble that of the
direct-active.
d.  There is no restriction on the non-agent case roles that can become the
topic of the passive.
e.  Consequently, passivization can also apply to intransitive verbs.
Central Pomo passives fit this profile perfectly. They result in the elimination of the
agent from the clause, but no promotion of the patient or any other argument.
Various motivations have been observed behind speakers’ choices of agent-
demoting passives, some semantic, some pragmatic, and some syntactic.
	 (49)	
Motivationsˉforˉagentˉdemotion
		 Theˉagentˉmayˉbeˉgeneric.
		 Theˉagentˉmayˉbeˉunknownˉorˉirrecoverableˉ(Givónˉ2001).
		 Theˉagentˉmayˉbeˉunimportant.ˉ(Givónˉ2001)
		 Theˉagentˉmayˉbeˉpredictableˉandˉstereotypical.ˉ(Givónˉ2001).
		 The speaker may wish to avoid assigningˉresponsibility (Shibatani 1985,ˉ1988).
		 Theˉspeakerˉmayˉwishˉtoˉpreserveˉtopicality.
		
Theˉlanguageˉmayˉhaveˉsyntacticˉrestrictionsˉonˉclauseˉcombiningˉthatˉareˉ
controlledˉbyˉsubjects.
All of these semantic and pragmatic motivations can be seen in uses of the Central
Pomo passive construction, except for the syntactic ones.
5.1  
Semantic and pragmatic motivations
Some uses of the Central Pomo passive involve generic agents.
	 (49)	
Genericˉagent: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Ts’dá	’el	 ké:-t̯-a’-ya-w	 t̯hi-n.
		 skin	 the	 clean.with.knife-multiple.event-imprf.pl-passive-prf	 not-imprf.sg
	 	 ‘Theˉskinˉisn’tˉpeeledˉoffˉwithˉaˉknife.’
When generic agents are eliminated from the clause by passivization, the result
can be a focus on the activity described by the verb, rather than on a particular
participant. For this reason, passives are often used to name activities.
	 Does passivization require a subject category?	 
	 (50)	
Passiveˉtermsˉforˉactivities: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Hínt̯il	 ma:	 yhé-t̯a-’-ya-w
		 Indian	 things	 do-multiple.event-imprf.pl-passive-prf
		 Indian	 things	 beingˉdone
		 khé	 me:-ném-a-w
		 dance	 kicking-set-passive-prf
		 dance	 beingˉdanced
		 ma:	 wéyya	 ma:	 yhé-t̯a-’-ya-w	 meṭ’
		 things	 sacred	 things	 do-multiple.event-imprf.pl-passive-prf	 that.kind
		 things	 sacred	 things	 beingˉdone	 such
		 dá:’-du-w	 t̯hí-n.
		 want-reflexive-imprf.sg-prf	 not-imprf.sg
		 like	 not
		
‘Indianˉcelebrations, powˉwowˉdances, sacredˉthings,ˉsacredˉdoings, heˉdidn’tˉ
likeˉthatˉkindˉofˉthing.’
Some uses of passives involve unknown or irrecoverable agents. The sentence in
(51) was uttered while the speaker was looking at baskets displayed on her wall.
	 (51)	
Unknownˉagent: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Bal	 ’el	 kay	 ’é:y	 dó:-’-ya-w
		 this	 the	 too	 where	 make-imprf.pl-passive-prf
		 ’a:	 ph-yá:q’	 čhó-w.
		 1sg.agent	 visually-recognize	 not-prf
		 ‘Iˉdon’tˉknowˉwhereˉthisˉoneˉwasˉmade.’
The agent may be unimportant.
	 (52)	
Unimportantˉagent: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 [Theirˉhouseˉwasˉcloseˉtoˉthisˉroad.]
		 Mí-l	 ṭéč’
		 that-at	 stick
		 mu:l	 ’doma	 mí:	 ’do:	 bal	 čá:č’	 ’bú-m-a-w
		 that	 hearsay	 there	 hearsay	 this	 person	 bury-coll.agent-passive-prf
		 ‘Alongsideˉofˉit theyˉsayˉaˉlotˉofˉburiedˉpeople
		 maqó-t̯-a:q’-a-w.
		 find-multiple.event-distr-passive-prf
		 wereˉdiscovered.’
		 ‘Theyˉdiscoveredˉaˉlotˉofˉpeopleˉburiedˉ(alongsideˉofˉtheˉroad).’
The agent may be stereotypical, like the water that washed dirt off the hill.
	 Marianne Mithun
	 (53)	
Stereotypicalˉagent: SalomeˉAlcantra,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Má:	 ’=danó	 ’el	 s-kél-t̯-a-w
		 land	 copula-mountain	 the	 by.liquid-clean-multiple.event-passive-prf
		 t̯’a:	 mu:l.
		 feel	 that
		 ‘Thatˉhillˉlandˉwasˉwashedˉaway, Iˉguess.’
Passives allow speakers to avoid identification of agents.
	 (54)	
Avoidanceˉofˉagentˉidentification:FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		
[“Whenˉyouˉcomeˉintoˉtheˉschoolyard,ˉdon’tˉspeakˉIndianˉanyˉmore”,ˉsheˉ
[theˉteacher]ˉtoldˉme.]
		 Mu:l	 mt̯o	 ša-č’ó:-ya-w=’khe.
		 that	 2sg.patient	 swinging-whip-passive-prf=future
		 ‘You’llˉgetˉwhipped.’
Of course these motivations are not necessarily discrete.
5.2  
Syntactic motivations
A number of languages have requirements of coreference among subjects in clause-
combining constructions. In such languages, passivization can serve to promote
the semantic patient of a clause to subject status so that the clause can be conjoined
with another with a coreferential subject. Such a language might not permit sen-
tences like He made them angry and they chased him away, but permit He made
them angry and (he) was chased away.
There are no coreference requirements in Central Pomo. Combined clauses
may or may not share arguments, whether or not the linking dependency mark-
ers portray them as elements of the same event or as different events. Passiviza-
tion is thus not used to satisfy formal requirements of subject coreference. The
intransitive clauses in (55) are translated with different subjects: ‘they’ and ‘he’. The
passivization of the second clause, ‘and then he’ll be chased out of here’, actually
results in the elimination of an agent argument that would be coreferential with
the agent of the first clause ‘they’ll talk like that’. Interestingly, the ‘same’ depen-
dency marker was used, indicating that the two clauses are portrayed as elements
of a single event.
	 (55)	
Differentˉsubjects: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Mé:n	 lów-ač’-hi	 ’e	 mu:l,
		 so	 multiple.talk-imprf.pl-same.irrealis	 copula	 that
		 qów=yo-:ka-m-a-w=’khe.
		 out=go-causative-collective.agency-passive=future
		 ‘They’llˉtalkˉlikeˉthat andˉthenˉhe’llˉbeˉchasedˉoutˉofˉhere.’
	 Does passivization require a subject category?	 
Asseenearlier,thoughrelativeclausesarenotamajorconstructioninCentralPomo,
there are no restrictions on the argument structure of their closest counterparts.
5.3  
Discourse motivations
There is of course a reason why formal requirements of subject coreference between
combined clauses develop in languages. It is related to the essential function of
subjects described earlier: the notion that subjects are essentially grammaticalized
topics, ‘what the sentence is about’ (Comrie 1989: 64). Speakers are more likely to
combine sentences that share the same topic, the same point of departure.
ThoughwehaveseenverylittleevidenceofaformalsubjectcategoryinCentral
Pomo, either in coding or behavior, we can see the use of passivization to manage
discourse coherence, by ensuring that topical participants maintain a prominent
grammatical position in the clause, in many cases by eliminating a potential com-
petitor, the agent, from the clause. The passage in (56) below occurred near the
beginning of a story about two fish who decided to play a game. The passive in the
first sentence serves to focus attention on the activity of playing by eliminating the
agent players from the clause. The passive in the second serves to turn attention to
one of the fish, establishing him as a topic, by eliminating the agent, the winning
fish, from the clause.
	 (56)	
Topicalization: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Mé:n	 mu:l	 bal	 qaló-’č-a-w.
		 so	 that	 this	 gamble-inceptive-passive-prf
		 ṭ’á:ṭ’o=ya	 ’dóma	 ’úda:w,	 čh-léy-a-w.
		 one=topic	 hearsay	 lots	 gambling-exhaust-passive-prf	
		
‘Soˉthenˉtheyˉstartedˉtoˉplay.ˉ(Soˉthenˉgamblingˉwasˉbegun.) Oneˉofˉthem,ˉ
theyˉsay,ˉwasˉgettingˉbeatenˉaˉlot.’
In the passage in (57), the white people were explicitly introduced as the agents
of the first matrix clause in the third line. If this clause had been passivized, they
could not have been mentioned at all. In the following line, the matrix clause was
passivized and the white people, the agents, were eliminated entirely, shifting the
topic to the old man, the only remaining argument.
	 (57)	
Topicalization: FrancesˉJack,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Čá:’-yem	 ’el,
		 man-old	 the
		 ’doma	 dá:=wi	 wá-:da-n	 mú:t̯u
		 hearsay	 road=in	 walk-imprf.sg-as.same.realis	 3sg.patient
		 ph-yá-t̯-aq-t̯a-m	 masá:n=ya.
		 visually-recognize-me-distr-me-collective.agency	 white=topic
	 Marianne Mithun
		 Dá:=wi	 wá-:n=da	 mú:t̯u	
		 road=in	 go-imprf.sg=different	 3sg.patient	
		 čhmá:-č-ka-ya-w,
		 sit.on-inch-causative-passive-prf
		 khá:r=wi	 čhmá:-č-ka-ya-w.
		 car=in	 sit.on-inch-causative-passive-prf
		
‘Thisˉoldˉman wasˉwalkingˉalongˉtheˉroadˉand someˉwhiteˉpeopleˉ
recognizedˉhim. Asˉheˉwasˉwalkingˉalongˉtheˉroad,ˉheˉwasˉofferedˉ
aˉride; heˉwasˉinvitedˉtoˉgetˉintoˉtheˉcar.’
The white teenagers continued to play a peripheral role in the ensuing account: ‘He
rode. And then after he got home, he said to the young people, “You people don’t
know how to drive a car right. Hold your wheel and turn it slowly. Not fast.” ’ The
story was really about the old man, not the white teenagers. The use of passiviza-
tion served to eliminate the teenagers from competition for topic status.
Passivization is used for another discourse purpose in Central Pomo. It appears
in a kind of couplet construction, in which important ideas are presented twice, in
adjacent lines pronounced with similar prosody. The two lines typically differ only
slightly in form. A lexical item in one may be replaced by a synonym in the other.
Constituent order may be rearranged. Often, one line contains an active clause and
the other contains its passive counterpart, as in (58).
	 (58)	
CentralˉPomoˉactive/passiveˉcouplet: FlorenceˉPaoli,ˉspeakerˉp.c.
		 Bá:	 ph-t̯’a:	 mu:l	 masá:n;
		 someone	 visually-sense	 that	 steal
		 masá:di-ya-w	 min	 t̯’a:.
		 steal-passive-prf	 like	 sense
		 ‘Iˉthoughtˉsomebodyˉstoleˉit; Iˉthoughtˉitˉwasˉstolen.’
Such couplet structures occur in both formal oratory and colloquial conversation.
Similar structures are found in languages indigenous to many areas of the Americas.
6.  
Conclusion
It was observed at the outset that passives are usually described in terms of the
category of subject: they shift subject status from the semantic agent of a clause to
a patient or other argument. We might accordingly expect that languages without
a robust subject category should lack passives. A cursory survey of such languages
in North America indicates that this is indeed generally the case. Languages of the
Caddoan, Muskogean, Iroquoian, and Siouan families, as well as isolates Tunica,
	 Does passivization require a subject category?	 
Euchee, and Haida, all show agent/patient or active/stative organization in their
core argument marking, and they lack prototypical passives (Mithun 2008). The
closest counterparts of passives in these languages are impersonal agent construc-
tions, where the agent is specified by an indefinite agent pronoun meaning ‘one’ or
‘they’. These constructions permit the backgrounding or defocusing of the seman-
tic agent, but there is no change in argument structure.
Languages of the Pomoan family, however, illustrated here with material from
Central Pomo, show that the correlation is not exceptionless. They exhibit at best
only marginal evidence of a subject category, but they contain a robust construction
that is typically translated as a passive. The construction alters argument structure
by eliminating the grammatical agent from the clause, but has none of the other
syntactic effects expected of passives. It does not promote arguments to subject
status. There is no shift in pronominal shape or case marking: grammatical patients
remain coded as patients, and obliques as obliques. There is no change in the trigger
of number agreement: imperfective marking continues to reflect agent number, and
the collective agency and distributive agency markers continue to reflect features
of agents. The syntactic use of cross-clause reflexive pronouns continues to be trig-
gered by agents as well. Syntactically, the construction is a non-promotional passive.
It simply eliminates one argument from the clause, the agent.
Despite the lack of a subject category in Central Pomo, the passive construc-
tion is ubiquitous in speech. It serves the same kinds of semantic, pragmatic, and
discourse functions as passives in many other languages. It eliminates mention
of generic, unknown, irrecoverable, unimportant, predictable, stereotypical, and
non-topical agents.
A minor correlation has emerged between the absence of a robust subject cat-
egory and the place of the passive in the grammar of Central Pomo. The Central
Pomo passive is not exploited for purely formal syntactic purposes, such as ensuring
that conjoined clauses have coreferential subjects, or that the shared argument of
a relative clause be a subject. The density of passives in spontaneous Central Pomo
speech indicates, however, the semantic, pragmatic, and discourse effects of the
construction are more than sufficient to justify its central place in the grammar.
Abbreviations
distr	 Distributive	 prf	 Perfective
inch	 Inchoative	 q	 Interrogative
imprf	 Perfective aspect	 r	 Cross-clause reflexive
me	 Multiple event	 sg	 Singular
pl	 Plural
	 Marianne Mithun
References
Andrews, A. 2007. The major functions of the noun phrase. Language typology and syntactic
description I: 132–223.
Boas, F. & E. Deloria 1939. Dakota Grammar. Memoirs of the National Academy of Sciences
XXIII.
Chafe, W. 1990. Uses of the defocusing pronominal prefixes in Caddo. Anthropological Linguistics
32: 57–68.
Chomsky, N. 1965. Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Comrie, B. 1976. Aspect. Cambridge: CUP.
Comrie, B. 1983. Switch-reference in Huichol: A typological study. In Switch-reference and
Universal Grammar, J. Haiman & P. Munro (Eds), 17–38. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Comrie, B. 1988. Passive and voice. In Passive and Voice, M. Shibatani (Ed.), 9–24. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Comrie, B. [1981]/1989. Language Universals and Linguistic Typology. Chicago IL: University of
Chicago Press.
Enrico, J. 2003. Haida Syntax. Lincoln NB: University of Nebraska Press.
Givón, T. 2001. Syntax. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Haas, M.R. 1941. Tunica. In Handbook of American Indian Languages, 4:  1–143. New York
NY: J.J. Augustin.
Keenan, E. 1976. Towards a universal definition of ‘subject’. In Subject and Topic, C. Li (Ed.),
305–333. New York NY: Academic Press.
Linn, M. 2001. A Grammar of Euchee (Yuchi). Ph.D. dissertation, University of Kansas.
Keenan, E. & Comrie, B. 1977. Noun phrase accessibility and Universal Grammar. Linguistic
Inquiry 8: 63–99.
Keenan, E. & Dryer, M. 2007. Passive in the worlds languages. Language typology and syntactic
description I: 325–61.
Martin, J. 2004. A Grammar of Creek (Muskogee). MS, College of William and Mary,
Williamsburg VA.
Mithun, M. 1990. Third Person Reference and the Function of Pronouns in Central Pomo Natural
Speech, International Journal of American Linguistics 56: 361–376.
Mithun, M. 1991a. When grammaticization is superfluous. In Approaches to Grammaticalization,
Vol. 2, B. Heine & E. Traugott (Eds), 159–184. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Mithun, M. 1991b. Active/agentive case marking and its motivations. Language 67: 510–546.
Mithun, M. 1993 ‘Switch reference’: Clause linking in Central Pomo. International Journal of
American Linguistics 59: 119–137.
Mithun, M. 2008. The emergence of agentive systems. In The Typology of Semantic Alignment
Systems, M. Donohue & S. Wichmann (Eds), 297–333. Oxford: OUP.
Perlmutter, D. 1978. Impersonal passives and the Unaccusative Hypothesis. Proceedings of the
4th Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, 157–189.
Radford, A. 1997. Syntactic theory and the structure of English: A minimalist approach.
Cambridge: CUP.
Shibatani, M. 1985. Passives and related constructions: A prototype analysis. Language
61: 820–48.
Shibatani, M. 1988. Introduction. In Passive and Voice, M. Shibatani (Ed.), 1–8. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Sturtevant, W.C. (Ed.), 1978. Handbook of North American Indians. Washington DC: Smithsonian
Institution.
The definiteness of subjects and objects
in Malagasy
Edward L. Keenan
UCLA 2007
We evaluate, for Malagasy (W. Austronesian; Madagascar), a standard observation
regarding the distribution and marking of (in)definites in subject and in object
position. Bare nouns naturally constitute direct objects (DOs) with an indefinite
interpretation. But definite DOs are also natural, and some are marked with a
preposition which also has a locative function (cf Roumanian, Spanish). Bare
Ns do not occur as subjects, whereas inherently definite DPs – proper nouns,
personal pronouns, demonstratives, Ns with a definite or previous mention
article do. However three classes of Quantified DPs – cardinal, universal, and
proportionality ones, also naturally occur as subjects. They are constructed
with an apparent definite article, but their meanings in English would be called
indefinite.
1.  
Introduction
Natural languages (NLs) present a commonly acknowledged duality with regard
to the definiteness interpretation and marking of subjects and of objects:
Definiteness Duality (DD)
1.  NLs generally allow direct objects to be indefinite without specific morphological
marking. Definite objects may be overtly marked (Comrie 1978, 1981: Ch 6).
2.  NLs always allow definite subjects and may restrict subjects to definites
W. Austronesian languages, such as Tagalog and Malagasy, are often regarded as
strong instantiations of both parts of the DD. Here we assess how well Malagasy
(Madagascar) conforms to the DD. Malagasy does satisfy D.1 in ways comparable
to many other languages. But we also see that in general definite object mark-
ing is subject to much language particular variation involving factors other than
definiteness. Regarding D.2, classical definites such as personal pronouns, proper
names, and NPs built from Ns with a definite article or demonstrative occur very
naturally as subjects in Malagasy. But – and this is what is new here – Malagasy
	 Edward L. Keenan
allows three classes of quantified NPs to occur as subjects though their interpreta-
tion would not be considered semantically definite. To my knowledge these classes
are new in the literature (though Bell 1978 and Adams and Manaster-Ramer 1988
anticipate one in Cebuano and Tagalog respectively).
We use subject and (direct) object informally but we limit ourselves to simplex
Ss (no proper part is a sentence) built from a single transitive verb, and we study the
pattern of (in)definiteness requirements on its argument NPs. In a given language
L they are normally structurally identifiable, possibly in L specific ways. (See Keenan &
Stabler 2003 for a language independent definition of structurally identifiable).
2.  
Direct object marking
DD.1 is well illustrated in the typological literature. See Comrie 1981: Ch 6 and
Lazard 1984. Below we consider a few representative examples.
	 (1)	
a.	
Pinar	 kitab-i	 oku-du (Turkish: Dedeˉ1986)
			 Pinar	 book-acc	 readˉpst
			 ‘Pinarˉreadˉtheˉbook’
		 b.	
Aytül	bir	 kitap	 oku-yor
			 Aytül	 one	 book	 read-prog
			 ‘Aytülˉisˉreadingˉa/oneˉbook’
		 c.	
Aytül	 kitap	 oku-yor
			 Aytül	 book	 read-prog
			 ‘Aytülˉisˉreadingˉaˉbook/books’
So in Turkish the accusative marker -i forces a definite interpretation, as does
Persian -râ (not illustrated). In contrast in (2) from Hebrew the object is inde-
pendently definite (with ha- ‘the’) forcing the presence of the definite accusative
marker et:
	 (2)	
a.	
Ani	 roe	 yeladim	 ba	 gan
			 I	 see	 children	 in+the	 park
			 ‘Iˉseeˉchildrenˉinˉtheˉpark’
		 b.	
Ani	 roe	 et	 ha-yeladim	 ba	 gan
			 I	 see	 acc	the-children	 in+the	 park
			 ‘Iˉseeˉtheˉchildrenˉinˉtheˉpark’
A variant of this pattern of specific interest to us, is one where definite object mark-
ing is done with a marker that functions independently as a locative or dative, as in
Hindi, Spanish and Rumanian, (3, 4), (Nandris 1969):
	 The definiteness of subjects and objects in Malagasy 	 
	 (3)	
Cernăuţul	 e	 asezat	 pe	 malul	 Prutului
		 Cernautsi	 is	 situated	 on	 bank(of)+def	 Pruth
		 ‘CernautsiˉisˉsituatedˉonˉtheˉbankˉofˉtheˉriverˉPruth’
	 (4)	
a.	
Lăudăm	 pe	 Dumnezeu
			 praise+1pl	 on	 God
			 ‘WeˉpraiseˉGod’
		 b.	
N’am	 văzut	 pe	 cine	 căutam
			 not’1sg	 see	 on	 person	 sought+1sg
			 ‘IˉdidˉnotˉseeˉtheˉpersonˉIˉwasˉlookingˉfor’
Articles discussing definite object marking in any given language are usually quick
to assert that definiteness is but one pertinent factor – others include animacy,
humanness, referent identifiability by the Addressee or Speaker, and various lan-
guage specific morpho-syntactic and interpretative properties. Authors often
acknowledge that they do not have an exact characterization of the conditions
licensing “definiteness” marking.
For example Dede 1986 notes that generic objects in Turkish optionally
take the definite accusative ending (5a) and claims that this is obligatory with
plurals, (5b):
	 (5)	
a.	
Çocuk-lar	 çikolata(-yi)	 sev-er
			 Child-pl	 chocolate(-acc)	
like-aorist
			 ‘Childrenˉlikeˉchocolate’
		 b.	
Bir	 őğretmen	 őgrenci-ler-i/*Ø	 sev-meli
			 A	 teacher	 student-pl-acc	 like-must
			 ‘Aˉteacherˉmustˉlikeˉstudents’
Equally Dede asserts that an object removed from its unmarked immediate pre-
verbal position may take the definite accusative ending, (6). And animacy plays a
role in interpretation, as in (7):
	 (6)	
Bizim	ev-de	 çay-iˉher	 zaman	 Aytül	 yap-ar
		 our	 house-loc	tea-acc	 always	 Aytül	 make-aorist
		 ‘Aytülˉalwaysˉmakesˉteaˉinˉourˉfamily’
	 (7)	
Bir	 őǧrenci-yi	 ariyorum.	
Bulamiyorum.
		 one	 student-acc	I-seek.	
Iˉcan’tˉfindˉhim/*one
		 ‘I’mˉlookingˉforˉaˉstudent.ˉIˉcan’tˉfindˉhim’
Omitting the accusative marking in (7) is grammatical, but then both the defi-
nite and the indefinite translations of the second S are acceptable. This pattern is
unavailable with an inanimate noun (kitab ‘book’) replacing őǧrenci ‘student’ as
	 Edward L. Keenan
they do not accept the accusative marker here and only admit both the definite
and indefinite continuations.
Li and Thompson 1981 illustrate definite object selection in the ba construc-
tion in Mandarin Chinese with examples like (8a,b):
	 (8)	
a.	
tā	 măi-le	 yi-liàng	 chēzi
			 3s	 buy-perf	one-cl	 car
			 ‘S/heˉboughtˉaˉcar’
		 b.	
*tā	 ba	 yi-liàng	 chēzi	 măi–le
			 3s	 BA	 one-cl	 car	 buy–perf
			 ‘S/heˉboughtˉaˉcar’
But they also give examples where a ba is licensed even though only the speaker
can identify the referent of the object:
	 (9)	
wŏ	 bă	 yi-jian	 shì	 wàng	 le
		 1sg	 BA	 one-cl	 matter	 forget	 perf
		 ‘There’sˉsomethingˉIˉforgot’
And extending an ungrammatical S, (10a), with elements increasing the affected-
ness of the object can make it acceptable, (10b):
	 (10)	
a.	
*tā	 bă	 xiăo	 māo	 ài
			 3s	 BA	small	 cat	 love
			 ‘S/heˉlovesˉtheˉkitten’
		 b.	
tā	 bă	 xiăo	 māo	 ài	 de	 yào	 sĭ
			 3s	 BA	small	 cat	 love	 CSC	want	 die
			 ‘S/heˉlovesˉtheˉkittenˉsoˉmuchˉsheˉwantsˉtoˉdie’
And they cite several cases where independent definiteness is not sufficient to
license ba:
	 (11)	
*tā	 bă	 nĭ	 xiăng
		 3s	 BA	2sg	 miss
		 ‘S/heˉmissesˉyou’
Ultimately they treat the ba + NP construction as not simply definite object mark-
ing, but as a disposal construction, as crucial in its object selection is not simply
definiteness but how the referent(s) of the object is/are “handled, manipulated, … ,
disposed of …” (Li & Thompson 1981: 468).
We see then that languages exhibit various language specific conditions on the
distribution and interpretation of “definite objects”. Malagasy is no exception. A
certain range of independently definite objects are overtly marked with an-, which
otherwise functions as a locative preposition.
	 The definiteness of subjects and objects in Malagasy 	 
	 (12)	
a.	
Mitsangantsangana	 any	 an’ala	 i	 Soa
			 isˉstrolling	 there	 in’forest	 art	 Soa
			 ‘Soaˉisˉstrollingˉinˉtheˉforest’
		 b.	
Tsy	 ao	 an-trano	 Rabe
			 not	 there	 at-house	 Rabe
			 ‘Rabeˉisn’tˉhome’
Actor focus (AF) transitive verbs – roots prefixed with maN-, mi-, ma-, m+Ø or
their causatives (initial m varies with past n and future h) obligatorily mark proper
noun Themes with an-. Human proper nouns are usually built with articles such
as Ra- or I-. In distinction to Tagalog there is a definite accusative pronoun series:
ahy “me”, anao “you”, azy “him/her”:
	 (13)	
a.	
Nanenjika	 an-dRabe1	 aho
			 pst+AF+chase	 acc-Rabe	 I
			 ‘IˉchasedˉRabe’
		 b.	
Nanontany	 an’i	 Soa	 aho
			 pst+AF+ask	 acc’art	Soa	 I
			 ‘IˉaskedˉSoa’
		 c.	
Nanenjika	 azy	 aho
			 chased	 him	 I
			 ‘Iˉchasedˉhim’
		 d.	
Nanenjika	 ahy	 izy
			 chased	 me	 he
			 ‘Heˉchasedˉme’
The use of an- with demonstrative Themes and those built from the previous men-
tion article ilay (usually singular), is optional (Rajemisa-Raolison 1971):
	 (14)	
a.	
Tsy	 mahalala	 (an’)	 io	 olona	 io	 aho
			 not	 pres+AF+know	(acc-)	
that	 person	 that	 I
			 ‘Iˉdon’tˉknowˉthatˉperson’
		 b.	
Nisy	 nandray	 (an’)	
ilay	 sary	 teto
			 was	 pst+AF+take	 (acc’)	
that	 picture	 pst+here
			 ‘Someoneˉtookˉthatˉpictureˉthatˉwasˉhere’
On the other hand an- is not used with objects beginning with the definite article ny, a
major restriction as ny forms nominals from Ns as well as VPs, APs, pps and adverbs.
.  The proper noun Rabe consists of the article Ra- and the adjective be “big, numerous”. The
dR, in standard Malagasy orthography, is a post-alveolar voiced affricate.
	 Edward L. Keenan
	 (15)	
Tsy	 mahalala	 (*an-)	 ny	 anadahin’i	 Soa	 aho
		 not	 know	 (acc-)	
the	 brother+of+art+	 Soa	 I
		 ‘Iˉdon’tˉknowˉtheˉbrotherˉofˉSoa’
So an- is more like Spanish a, Rumanian pe or Hebrew et than like Turkish -i or
Persian -râ. We do not find minimal pairs differing just by the presence of an-, and
which differ according as the object is definite or not. Nominals with no article
occur easily as objects with an indefinite, even non-referential, interpretation, but
they cannot take an-:
	 (16)	
Manao	 (*an-)	 farafara	 mahafinaritra	 io	 mpandrafitra	 io
		 pres+AF+make	(acc-)	
bed	 pleasing	 that	 carpenter	 that
		 ‘Thatˉcarpenterˉmakesˉpleasingˉbeds’
But definite and articleless indefinite objects do differ in one structural way: the
indefinites occur adjacent to the verb and cannot be separated from it by adverbs,
(17b), whereas definite objects can (Rackowski & Travis 2000), (18b):
	 (17)	
a.	
Manasa	 lamba	 matetika	 Rasoa
			 wash	 clothes	 often	 Rasoa
			 ‘Rasoaˉwashesˉclothesˉoften’
		 b.	
*Manasa	 matetika	 lamba	 Rasoa
			 was	 often	 clothes	 Rasoa
			 ‘Rasoaˉwashesˉoftenˉclothes’
	 (18)	
a.	
Manasa	 ireto	 lamba	 ireto	 matetika	 izy
			 washes	 those	 clothes	 those	 often	 s/he
			 ‘S/heˉwashesˉthoseˉclothesˉoften’
		 b.	
Manasa	 matetika	 ireto	 lamba	 ireto	 izy
			 washes	 often	 those	 clothes	 those	 s/he
			 ‘S/heˉoftenˉthoseˉclothesˉwashes’
Lastly we note that clausal objects are not constructed with an-:
	 (19)	
Tsy	 mahafantatra	 (*an-)	 izay	 nanjo	 azy	 aho
		 not	 pres+AF+know	 acc-	what	 befell	 him	I
		 ‘Iˉdon’tˉknowˉwhatˉhappenedˉtoˉhim’
	 (20)	
Mihevitra	 aho	 (*an-)	 fa	 hisondrotra	 kilasy	 i	 Soa
		 think	 I	 acc-	 that	 fut+AF+rise	class	 art	 Soa
		 ‘IˉthinkˉthatˉSoaˉwillˉpassˉtoˉtheˉnextˉgrade’
(Object complement clauses are extraposed around the subject of an AF verb). We
turn now to our primary concern, the definiteness requirement on subjects.
	 The definiteness of subjects and objects in Malagasy 	 
3.  
The definiteness of subjects
DD.2 In any language inherently definite NPs such as personal pronouns, proper
names, and animate demonstratives (this student) can occur as subjects. More
telling are cases like Kinyarwanda (Kimenyi 1980) where subjects and objects
may occur without a Determiner but but determinerless subjects are obligatorily
interpreted as definite, (21a). But Theme objects may be indefinite (22), Kime-
nyi 1980:  59. An existential construction is used when an indefinite Agent is
intended, (22).
	 (21)	
a.	 U
΄mwáana	 a-ra-kir-a
			 Child	 he-pres-cry-asp
			 ‘Theˉchildˉisˉcrying/*Aˉchildˉisˉcrying’
		 b.	
Ha-ri	 úmwáana	 ú-rir-a
			 It- be	 child	 he+rel-cry-asp
			 ‘Aˉchildˉisˉcrying’
	 (22)	
N-a-haa-ye	 úmwáana	 igitabo
		 I-pst-give-asp	child	 book
		 ‘Iˉgaveˉa/theˉbookˉtoˉtheˉchild’
W. Austronesian languages are commonly asserted to require that subjects
(“topics”, “pivots”, … ) be definite (Schachter 1976; Katagiri 2005). Indeed Tagalog
(23) seems to instantiate DD fully, requiring the Agent NP in a transitive actor
focus sentence to be definite and the Theme to be indefinite. If the Theme is inde-
pendently definite the verb is put in the Theme Focus (TF) form, (23b), where it is
the Theme which is ang-marked.
	 (23)	
a.	
S-um-ampal	 ng	 babae	 ang	 bata
			 AF-slap	 NG	 woman	 ANG	 child
			 ‘The/*aˉchildˉslappedˉa/*theˉwoman’
		 b.	
S-in-ampal	 ng	 bata	 ang	 babae2
			 TF-slap	 NG	 child	 ANG	 woman
			 ‘A/theˉchildˉslappedˉthe/*aˉwoman’
Ang-NPs have a distinctive pronoun series. In (23b) the Agent ng bata is replace-
able with a pronominal form from the possessor series. No definite pronouns can
replace the Theme NP in (23a). Moreover inherently definite NPs, such as demon-
stratives and Proper Names of people do not occur in the ng position in (23a).
.  Some recent analyses of Tagalog treat -in- as a perfective marker and treat forms like si-
nampal as unmarked TF forms. See Katagiri 2005 for discussion.
	 Edward L. Keenan
In Malagasy adherence to DD.1 is less rigid than in Tagalog. AF Ss, (24a),
do allow definite Themes, replaceable with distinctive accusative pronouns. Agent
NPs in AF Ss take nominative pronouns: aho, ianao, izy. The genitive series is -ko,
-nao, and -ny used both for nominal possessors and for Agents of non-AF Ss, as
in Tagalog:
	 (24)	
a.	
Nanenjika	 (n+an+enjika)	 an’ilay	 jiolahy	 aho
			 chased	 past+AF+chase	 acc’ˉthatˉ(aforementioned)	
brigand	 1s.nom
			 ‘Iˉchasedˉthatˉbrigand’
		 b.	
Nenjehiko	 (n+enjika+ina+ko)	
ilay	 jiolahy
			 chased	 past+chase+TF+1s.gen	that	 brigand.nom
			 ‘Iˉchasedˉthatˉbrigandˉ(Thatˉbrigandˉwasˉchasedˉbyˉme)’
Thus with regard to object definiteness Malagasy resembles Cebuano (Bell
1978; Shibatani 1988) somewhat more than Tagalog as Cebuano allows specific
objects in AF Ss, though it does so by varying Theme case marker, as in (25a)
(Katagiri 2005):
	 (25)	
a.	
Miluto	 ang	 babaye	 ug/sa	 manok
			 AF.perf+cook	ANG	woman	 a/the	 chicken
			 ‘Theˉwomanˉcookedˉa/theˉchicken’
		 b.	
Giluto	 sa	 babaye	 ang	 manok
			 TF.perf+cook	gen	woman	 ANG	chicken
			 ‘Theˉwomanˉcookedˉtheˉchicken’
4.  
The definiteness of subjects in Malagasy
As an aid to understanding the glosses of Malagasy expressions, we note that
number is not marked on nouns or verbs; it is marked by the infix re on demon-
stratives and the 2nd person pronoun. The article ny combines with nouns
interpreted as singular or plural indifferently. Demonstratives usually frame the
noun they delimit, but the demonstrative ireo (plural of io) is fairly commonly
used pre-nominally without a post-noun copy, as a plural definite article. The
previous mention article ilay is most usually singular. Verbs do not agree with
any argument.
Subjects in Malagasy are arguments occurring as the right sister to the Predi-
cate Phrase. They are replaceable by pronouns from the series aho, ianao, izy, …
In Ss like (26a,b) there is extensive evidence, accepted by all generative grammar-
ians, that the clause final NP is a sister to the rest of the S, which we shall theory
	 The definiteness of subjects and objects in Malagasy 	
neutrally call the PredP (Predicate Phrase). For example the yes-no question par-
ticle ve immediately follows the PredP:
	 (26)	
a.	
[Namonjy	 anao]	 ve	 Rabe?
			 pst+AF+save	 2s.acc	?	 Rabe
			 ‘DidˉRabeˉsaveˉyou?’
		 b.	
[Novonjen-dRabe]	 ve	 ianao?
			 pst+save+TF+Rabe.gen	?	 2s.nom
			 ‘DidˉRabeˉsaveˉyou?’
We refer to the sister of the (maximal) PredP as the subject of the S. Classical defi-
nite NPs, such as personal pronouns, proper names of people (17a), demonstrative
NPs (16), and ones built with the Dets ilay and ny, occur naturally as subjects.
	 (27)	
a.	
Mangalatra	 omby	 ilay	 jiolahy
			 pres+AF+steal	 cow	 that	 brigand
			 ‘Thatˉ(aforementioned)ˉbrigandˉstealsˉcows’
		 b.	
Mamirapiratra	 ny	 kintana
			 pres+AF+shine	 the	 star
			 ‘Theˉstarsˉareˉshining’
Further, nouns with no article do not occur as subjects, though they do very natu-
rally as objects, (16, 17a). The negative judgments on (28a,b) are solid and uniform
across speakers. As in Tagalog, Ss expressing propositions with indefinite Agents
are formed with an Existential construction, as in (28c).
	 (28)	
a.	
*Manaikitra	 alika
			 pres+AF+bite	 dog
			 ‘Dogsˉbite’
		 b.	
*Monina	 any	 Antsirabe	 miaramila
			 pres+live	 there	 Antsirabe	 soldier
			 ‘SoldiersˉliveˉinˉAntsirabe’
		 c.	
Misy	 miaramila	 monina	 any	 Antsirabe
			 pres+exist	 soldier	 pres+live	 there	 Antsirabe
			 ‘ThereˉareˉsoldiersˉwhoˉliveˉinˉAntsirabe’
So Malagasy appears to instantiate D.2 very well: the classical as well as language
particular types of definite NPs occur naturally as subjects, and bare Ns, only inter-
pretable as indefinites, very clearly do not. However Malagasy has several types of
quantified NPs which are constructed with the definite article but take modifying
quantifiers or numerical adjectives to form NPs whose meaning would be tradition-
ally called indefinite. And these quantified NPs occur as subjects, as we see below.
	 Edward L. Keenan
5.  
Quantified NP subjects
Adams and Manaster-Ramer [A&M-R] 1988 cite the Tagalog (29) from Bowen
1968: 13 with a subject (ang-NP) headed by isa ‘one’. They suggest that nps headed
by higher numerals may be definite.
	 (29)	
Tumugtog	 ng	 gitara	 ang	 isa-ng	 binata
		 AF-played	 NG	guitar	 ANG	oneˉLinker	 bachelor
		 ‘Oneˉofˉtheˉbachelorsˉstartedˉplayingˉguitar’
Partitives are “partially definite” as the set from which we choose a part is identi-
fied in context (Comrie 1981: 128). A&M-R justify the partitive translation of (29)
on the grounds that the example is taken from a story about a group of bachelors,
so that set is given. But they give several other examples of “one” NPs not trans-
lated as partitives.
In Malagasy we find many non-partitive subjects of the form ny + Noun + 
number.
	 (30)	
RahaˉvaoˉtafiditraˉRabakoˉdia
		 nitsanganaˉnyˉzazalahyˉanankirayˉaryˉnanomeˉazyˉny toerany  [CM.28]
		 asˉsoonˉasˉenteredˉRabakoˉthen
		 stood-upˉtheˉyoung+manˉoneˉandˉgaveˉherˉtheˉplace+his
		
‘AsˉsoonˉasˉRabakoˉenteredˉ(theˉbus)ˉaˉyoungˉmanˉstoodˉupˉandˉgaveˉ
herˉhisˉplace’
In this text this is the only mention of the young man, so despite the presence of
the “definite” article ny the phrase does not refer to a young man either previously
mentioned or identifiable in context. It just means “a (or one) young man stood
up”. Similarly,
	 (31)	
Lasa	 ny	 ankizy	 anankiray [DR.66]
		 gone	 the	 child	 one
		 ‘Oneˉchildˉleft’
Manaster-Ramer 1992 in fact cites this example to support that Malagasy subjects
with the quantifier “one” can be interpreted as indefinites comparable to the Taga-
log examples in [A&M-R]. And that is correct. Moreover in Malagasy the indefi-
nite interpretation is not limited to the numeral ‘one’:
	 (32)	
Tsy	 nandeha	 tany	 an-tsekoly	 ny	 mpianatra	 telo
		 not	 pst+go	 pst+there	 at-school	 the	 student	 three
		 ‘Threeˉstudentsˉdidn’tˉgoˉtoˉschoolˉtoday’ˉ
		 *‘Itˉisˉnotˉtheˉcaseˉthatˉthreeˉstudentsˉwentˉtoˉschool’
(32) is naturally understood as just giving the number that didn’t go with no impli-
cation that the three students had been previously mentioned or are identifiable
	 The definiteness of subjects and objects in Malagasy 	 
in some way. The school principal could assert (32) just comparing the number of
students in attendance with the total enrollment. So (32) does not require that the
Speaker be able to identify the absent students, and nothing in (32) suggests that
the Speaker assumes that the Addressee could make such an identification. So the
subject in (32) is not pragmatically definite. Malagasy does have an overt partitive
construction: ny + Numeral + amin- (from) + NP[definite].
	 (33)	
ˉ…ˉaryˉatovana	 azy	 ny	 dimy	amin’ireo	 valopy	 nampiasaina	
 [LP.40]
		 ˉ…ˉandˉTF+appendedˉ(to)	
it	 the	five	 from’those	 envelopes	that	 were used
		 ‘…ˉ
andˉfiveˉofˉtheˉenvelopesˉthatˉwereˉusedˉareˉappendedˉtoˉitˉ[theˉofficialˉ
report]’
This example is part of a legal statute laying out what should happen if the envelopes
the government sends for elections do not arrive at the voting stations in time. The
plural definite article/demonstrative ireo governs the NP that determines the set of
envelopes we choose from. The article ny governs the entire partitive NP, which is
the subject of the predicate ‘are appended to it’. So ny does not contribute an inde-
pendent definite meaning to the NP. Another example from the same source:
	 (34)	
Raha	 tsy	 manolotra	fehin-teny	 ao	 anatin’ny	 fotoana	 voafetra [LP.58]
		 if	 not	 AF+offer	 response	 there	 in’the	 time	 designated
		 anaovany	 izany	 ny	 iray	 amin’ny	 mpiadyˉ…ˉ
		 for+him+to+do	 that the	 one	 from	 the	 litigantsˉ…ˉ
		
‘ifˉoneˉofˉtheˉlitigantsˉdoesˉnotˉofferˉaˉresponseˉwithinˉtheˉtimeˉallottedˉ
forˉhimˉtoˉdoˉthatˉ…’
A “higher order” example, from a newspaper article is:
	 (35)	
Mitangorona	 an-tanan-dehibe	 ny	 miaramila	 maro [JR.103]
		 AF-concentrate	 in-village-big	 the	 soldier	 many
		 ‘Manyˉsoldiersˉareˉconcentratedˉinˉlargeˉvillages’
The article complains about the portion of the national budget devoted to the mili-
tary. It emphasizes here that soldiers tend to congregate in cities (where costs are
higher), and is translated by the authors themselves as Many soldiers are concen-
trated in the large villages. The subject NP is not being used to refer to “the many
soldiers previously mentioned”, it is simply a claim about the living preferences of
soldiers. So, again, “ny miaramila maro” begins with ny “the”, but the sense of the
phrase is indefinite.
More generally NPs of the form in (36) occur as subjects and are semantically
classifiable according to properties of the Quantifier.
	 (36)	
nyˉ+ˉNounˉ+ˉQuantifier
	 Edward L. Keenan
5.1  
Cardinality quantifiers
Cardinality quantifiers include betsaka “many”, maromaro “pretty many” (but less-
than maro “many”), sasany and sasantsany “some”, vitsy “few” and vitsivitsy ‘not
too many, but more than vitsy “few”) and numerals: roanjato “two hundred”, iray
“one”, etc. In general they inform us about the number of objects with the Noun
property which also have the Predicate property.3 Here are some textual examples
of sasany ‘some’ which is cardinal in that it says that the set of objects having both
the Noun property and the Predicate property is non-empty (has cardinality > 0).
	 (37)	
a.	
Rehefa	 misasaka	 nyˉalina	 dia	 manonofy	 ny [MF.143]
			 when	 half+done	 the night	 then	 dream	 the	
			 olona	 sasany
			 person	 some
			 ‘Someˉpeopleˉdreamˉhalfwayˉthroughˉtheˉnight’
		 b.	
Tsy	 mety	 ho	 sitrana	 mandrakizay	 ny	 aretina	 sasanyˉ…ˉ [MF.143]
			 not	 possible	 fut	cured	 always	 the	illnesses	 someˉ…ˉ
			 ‘Someˉillnessesˉcanˉneverˉbeˉcuredˉand …’
			 *‘Itˉisˉnotˉtheˉcaseˉthatˉanyˉillnessesˉcanˉeverˉbeˉcured’
(37b), (32) and (34) provide a property of NPs of the form in (36) which aligns them
with classical definite NPs, despite their indefinite interpretations. Namely, they natu-
rally scope over negation tsy (the only interpretation my consultants accept with these
examples). What this says is that the existence of objects with the Noun property
implied by the subject NP is preserved under natural negation (and yes-no question-
ing). In this sense existence is logically presupposed. Compare (38a) with (38b):
	 (38)	
a.	
(Tsy)	 nanatrika	 ny	 lanonana	 ny	 mpianatra	 maro
			 (Not)	
pst+AF+attend	the	 celebration	 the	 student	 many
			 ‘Manyˉstudentsˉattended/didn’tˉattendˉtheˉcelebration’
		 b.	
(Tsy)	
maro	 ny	 mpianatra	 nanatrika	 ny	 lanonana
			 Not	 many	 the	 student	 pst+AF+attend	the	 celebration
			 ‘Theˉstudentsˉwhoˉattendedˉtheˉcelebrationˉwereˉmany/notˉmany’
Both the positive and negative forms of (38a) imply the existence of many stu-
dents, so that information is not in the semantic scope of negation. But in (38b)
where maro functions as a (fully natural) predicate this information is under the
scope of negation and the negative form of (38b) does not entail the existence of
.  The predicate in (35) is higher order in that it predicates of the set of soldiers, which is as-
serted to be numerous. So it is like gather or argue with each other in English.
	 The definiteness of subjects and objects in Malagasy 	 
many students. Most cardinal quantifiers are used naturally as predicates in Mala-
gasy: betsaka, maromaro, vitsy, vitsivitsy, telo, … though sasany4 and its reduplica-
tion sasantsasany do not.
	 (39)	
a.	
Telo/vitsy	 ny	 mpianatra	nanatrika	 ny	 lanonana
			 Three/few	 the	 student	 attended	 the	 celebration
			 ‘Three/Fewˉwereˉtheˉstudentsˉwhoˉattendedˉtheˉcelebration’
		 b.	
*Sasany/*sasantsasany	 ny	 mpianatra	 nanatrika	 ny	 lanonana
			 Some/some	 the	 student	 attended	 the	 celebration
			 *Someˉwereˉtheˉstudentsˉwhoˉattendedˉtheˉcelebration
Further this use of cardinal NPs is not limited to subjects. Here are two examples
from among many of such NPs as objects of Prepositions:
	 (40)	
ˉ…ny	 fikambanana…dia	 tokony	 ho	 afaka	 manolotra [LP.74]
		 ˉ…the	 organization…Top	 should	 fut	free	 AF+offer	
		 mpanara-maso	 iray	 raha	 vitsyˉindrindra	 ho	 an’ny	birao
		 follower-eye	 one	 at	 least	 for’	 the	 bureau
		 fandatsaham-bato	 dimy;
		 nom+drop-stone	 five
		
‘…ˉtheˉorganizationˉshouldˉbeˉableˉtoˉofferˉatˉleastˉoneˉobserverˉperˉ
fiveˉ votingˉbooths’
	 (41)	
ˉ…famoretana	 eo	 amin’ny	 mpifidy	 iray	 mba	 handatsaham-bato
		 ˉ…oppression	 there	 at’the	 voter	 one	 in+order+to	 drop-stone
		 ho an’ny safidy	 iray	 na	hoˉan’ny	 mpilatsakaˉhofidina	iray	 naˉ…ˉ [LP.18]
		 for’the choice	 one	 or	 for’the	  candidate	 one	 orˉ…ˉ
		
‘…constraintsˉonˉaˉvoterˉtoˉvoteˉforˉaˉgivenˉchoiceˉorˉforˉaˉgivenˉ
candidateˉ…’
5.2  
Universal quantifiers
Universal quantifiers in the format in (36) are illustrated in (42) and (43):
	 (42)	
a.	
Mahatazana	 tsara	 io	 solaitra	 be	 io	 ve	ny [T3.11]
			 pres+can+see	well	 that	 blackboard	 big	that	 ?	 the	
			 mpianatra	 tsirairay?
			 student	 each?
			 ‘Canˉeachˉstudentˉseeˉthatˉblackboard?’
.  Sasany “some” is etymologically sasaka “half” + ny “3.gen”. Thus (see later) it is originally a
proportionality quantifier not a cardinal one which perhaps accounts for its lack of a predicative
use. It does seem to have been reanalyzed as a new morpheme however since its reduplicated
form has the nasal, sasantsany. The reduplicated form of sasaka is simply sasatsasaka.
	 Edward L. Keenan
		 b.	
Manana	zo	 hianatra	 sy	 handray	 fanabeazan [CN.10]
			
AF+has	 right	fut+AF+study	and	 fut+AF+receive	education
			 any	 ankizy	 tsirairay	 avy
			 the	 child	 each	 each
			 ‘Eachˉchildˉindividuallyˉhasˉtheˉrightˉtoˉstudyˉandˉtoˉreceiveˉ
			 anˉeducation’
	 (43)	
Efa	 samy	 matahotra	 daholo	 ny	 olona	 rehetra [T8.90]
		 already	 all	 fear	 all	 the	 person	 all
		 ‘Alreadyˉallˉtheˉpeopleˉareˉafraid’
A structurally different but widely used universal quantifier is given by isaka-:
	 (44)	
Ankehitriny	 dia	 manana	 ny	 sekoliny	 avy	 ny	 isam-pokotany
		 Today	 Top	 has	 the	 school-its	 each	 the	 each-fokotany	
 [administrativeˉunit]
		 ‘Todayˉeachˉfokotanyˉhasˉitsˉownˉschool’
	 (45)	
ˉ…ˉefa	 samy	 nividy	 hena	 matavy	 ny	 isan-tokantrano	 [T8.62]
		 ˉ…ˉalready	 all	 pst+AF+buy	meat	 fat	 the	 each-household
		 ‘…ˉAlreadyˉeachˉhouseholdˉhasˉboughtˉsomeˉfatˉmeat
 (anticipatingˉaˉcelebration)’
	 (46)	
Amin’ny	 fifidianana	 dia	 mandatsa-bato	 ny	 isam-batan’olona
		 in’the	 elections	 Top	 drops-stone	 the	 each-trunk’person
		 ‘Inˉelectionsˉeachˉ(legal)ˉindividualˉvotes’
5.3  
Proportionality quantifiers
Proportionality quantifiers are illustrated in (47) and (48). They are constructed
with ny but are not of the form in (36).
	 (47)	
Tsy	 afa-panadinana	 ny	 sivim-polo	 isan-zaton’ny	 mpianatra
		 not	 free-examination	 the	 nine-ten	 each-hundred’of	 the student
		 ‘Ninetyˉpercentˉofˉtheˉstudentsˉdidn’tˉpassˉtheˉexam’
		 *‘Itˉisˉnotˉtheˉcaseˉthatˉninetyˉpercentˉofˉtheˉstudentsˉpassedˉtheˉexam’
Percentage phrases, (47), like numerals (49) and fractions (50) accept modifica-
tion with ‘at least’, ‘at most’, ‘approximately’, etc.:
	 (48)	
ˉ…ireo	 mpilatsaka  hofidina	 izay	 nahazo	 ahay	 ny	 folo [LP.22]
		 ˉ…those	 candidate	 which	 received	 at least	 the	 ten	
			 isan-jaton’ny	 vato	 manan-kery
			 each-hundred’of	 theˉvote	 has-force
			 farafahakeliny,	 ary…
			 at least,	 and…
			
‘…thoseˉcandidatesˉwhoˉreceivedˉatˉleastˉtenˉperˉcentˉofˉtheˉvalidˉvotes,ˉ
andˉ…’
	 The definiteness of subjects and objects in Malagasy 	 
	 (49)	
Telopolo andro farafahakeliny ary enimpolo andro farafahelany alohan’ [CN.16]
			 ny	 fe-potoana5…ˉ
		 Thirty day at least and sixty day at most before the expiration time…ˉ
		 ‘Atˉleastˉthirtyˉdaysˉandˉatˉmostˉsixtyˉdaysˉbeforeˉtheˉexpirationˉdate…’
	 (50)	
Tsy	 afa-panandinana	 ny	 roa	 amphatelon’ny	 mpianatra
		 not	 free-examination	 the	 two	 portion+three+of’the	 student
		 ‘Twoˉthirdsˉofˉtheˉstudentsˉdidn’tˉpassˉtheˉexam’
		 *‘Itˉisˉnotˉtheˉcaseˉthatˉtwoˉthirdsˉofˉtheˉstudentsˉpassedˉtheˉexam’
In [ny + Num1 + ampaha-Num2] the first numeral denotes the numerator of a
fraction, the second its denominator. So ny telo ampahadimy is “three fifths”. The
set we take this proportion of is presented as a possessor.
	 (51)	
Tsy	 mianatra	 ny	 Alahady	 ny	 ankabeazan’	 ny	 mpianatra6
		 not	 pres+AF+study	the	 Sunday	 the	 majority’of	 the	 student
		 ‘Mostˉstudentsˉdon’tˉstudyˉonˉSunday’
		 *‘ItˉisˉnotˉtheˉcaseˉthatˉmostˉstudentsˉstudyˉonˉSunday’
A synonym of ankabeazana is ankamaroana. For “half” we use a derivative of
sasaka “half”, as in the second conjunct of (37):
	 (52)	
…tsy	 hitsangana	 intsony	 ny	 antsasaky	 ny malemy [MF.143]
		 …not	 fut+AF+stand	longer	 the	 half-of-the	 paralyzed
		 ‘…Halfˉtheˉpeopleˉwhoˉareˉparalyzedˉwillˉneverˉstandˉagain’
6.  
Quantification and the scope of negation
We have exhibited three types of quantified NPs – cardinal, universal, and proportional
(see Keenan 1996 for a mathematically explicit definition of these classes) which occur
as subjects in Malagasy. They are not semantically definite. They typically do not denote
.  “At least”, farafahakeliny, is built up from the adjective kely “little” by prefixing a weak caus-
ative (m+)aha, nominalizing that with f-, suffixing with the 3.gen clitic (compare: sasaka +ny
ﬁ sasany) and prefixing the result with fara the root for “last”. Instead of kely here one may also
use ratsy “bad”, the sense being perhaps “in the worst of cases”. Similarly “at most” farafahelany
is built from the adjective ela ‘long (time)’.
.  Ankabeazana “majority” is felt to be derived from the adjective be “big, numerous” by pre-
fixing a fairly non-productive causative prefix anka and then putting this verb into the circum-
stantial form (the one used with oblique subjects). Ankamaroany is formed similarly from maro
“many”. However synchronically the verbs (m)ankabe and (m)ankamaro “make numerous” are
not attested.
	 Edward L. Keenan
a referent or referents which Speaker can identify or assumes Addressee can identify.
They have in common that morpho-syntactically they begin with the article ny.
We have however discerned one semantic property these NPs share with clas-
sical definites: namely they outscope natural negation. It is perhaps tempting to
think that there is something subtly “definite” about these quantified NPs which
accounts for the semantic scope facts. But a simpler account just relies on compo-
sitionality plus a natural assumption concerning the constituency of negative Ss.
Given that the order of the relevant constituents in a negative S is as in (53a) we
might consider the gross constituent structure to be as in (53b) or (53c).
	 (53)	
a.	 [Negˉ+ˉPredicateˉPhraseˉ+ˉSubject]
		 b.	 [Negˉ+ˉ[PredicateˉPhraseˉ+ˉSubject]]
		 c.	 [[Negˉ+ˉPredicateˉPhrase]ˉ+ˉSubject]
In(53b)negationcombineswithafullStoformanSandthustakesboththepredicate
and the subject of that S within its scope. But in (53c) negation only takes the predi-
cate phrase in its scope, not the subject. On the analysis in (53c) then quantified NP
subjects in particular are not in the scope of negation, and we need not posit anything
subtly definite about their meaning. And we think that (53c) is the natural structure.
It is in fact rare that natural negation in a language is unequivocally senten-
tial in nature. Semantically, individual denoting NPs (singular pronouns, proper
nouns, demonstratives, etc.) commute with negation rendering the analyses in
(53a,b) logically equiivalent. For example, Mary doesn’t like John anymore, in
which John is clearly in the syntactic scope of negation, is logically equivalent to
John is such that Mary doesn’t like him anymore. So removing John from the scope
of negation does not change semantic interpretation. That said, “sentential” nega-
tion is commonly placed with respect to the main or auxiliary verb (Payne 1985),
not the S as a whole. This is so in English in which (54a,b), like their Malagasy
counterparts, are not logically equivalent.
	 (54)	
a.	
Twoˉthirdsˉofˉtheˉstudentsˉdidn’tˉanswerˉquestionˉ6ˉcorrectly
		 b.	
Itˉisˉnotˉtheˉcaseˉthatˉtwoˉthirdsˉofˉtheˉstudentsˉansweredˉquestionˉ 6ˉ
correctly
In a situation in which exactly 100 students took the exam and exactly 60 of them
missed question 6, (54a) is false but (54b) is true. Similarly (55a) and (55b) are not
logically equivalent in English.
	 (55)	
a.	
Exactlyˉhalfˉtheˉstudentsˉdidn’tˉanswerˉquestionˉ6ˉcorrectly
		 b.	
Itˉisˉnotˉtheˉcaseˉthatˉexactlyˉhalfˉtheˉstudentsˉansweredˉquestion 6ˉ
correctly
Further support that the semantic scope of negation is just PredP is that the
combination of negation and negative polarity items normally just frame the PredP.
And (57a,b) show that coordinate subjects outscope negation like quantified NPs.
	 The definiteness of subjects and objects in Malagasy 	 
	 (56)	
Tsy	 milalao	 baolina	 intsony/	 mihitsy	 Rabe
		 not	 play	 ball	 longer	 at+all	 Rabe
		 ‘Rabeˉnoˉlongerˉplaysˉball/doesn’tˉplayˉballˉatˉall’
	 (57)	
a.	
Tsy	 afa-panadinana	 I	 Bao	 sy	 (I)	 Soa
			 not	 free-examination	 art	 Bao	 and	 (art)	
Soa
			 ‘BothˉSoaˉandˉBaoˉdidˉnotˉpassˉtheˉexam’
			 *‘Itˉisˉnotˉtheˉcaseˉthatˉbothˉpassedˉ(maybeˉjustˉoneˉfailed)’
		 b.	
Tsy	 madio	 ny	 rano	 sy	 ny	 trano
			 not	 clean	 the	 water	 and	 the	 house
			 ‘Bothˉtheˉwaterˉandˉtheˉhouseˉareˉnotˉclean’
			 *‘Itˉisˉnotˉtheˉcaseˉthatˉbothˉtheˉwaterˉandˉtheˉhouseˉareˉclean’
Secondly, there is a natural and very commonly used way to include the subject
under the scope of negation, namely, with a cleft structure:
	 (58)	
a.	
Rabe	 no	 niala
			 Rabe	 foc	 left
			 ‘ItˉwasˉRabeˉwhoˉleft’
		 b.	
Tsy	 Rabe	 no	 niala
			 not	 Rabe	 foc	 left
			 ‘Itˉwasn’tˉRabeˉwhoˉleft’
		 c.	
Rabe	 ve	 no	 niala?
			 Rabe	 ?	 foc	 left?
			 ‘WasˉitˉRabeˉwhoˉleft?’
The clefted constituent, Rabe, carries negation in (58b) and the question par-
ticle ve precedes the focus particle no in (58c) supporting that Rabe, which
binds the subject, functions as a predicate (Paul 2001). All three Ss in (58)
imply that someone left; they differ in asserting, denying, or questioning that
it was Rabe.
That negation forms a constituent with the predicate is further supported by
the fact that the predicate following no may also be negated (59a,b4):
	 (59)	
a.	
Tsy	ny	 manam-boninahitra	rehetra	no	 tsy	 mahay,	 fa…[JR.Ch 35]
			 not	the	have-honors	 all	 foc	not	pres+AF+able,	 but…ˉ
			 ‘ItˉisˉnotˉALLˉofficersˉwhoˉareˉnotˉable,ˉbutˉ…’
		 b.	
Rabe	 fotsiny	 no	 tsy	 nahazo	 valisoa
			 Rabe	 only	 Foc	 not	 pst+receive	 recompense
			 ‘ItˉwasˉonlyˉRabeˉwhoˉdidn’tˉreceiveˉanyˉrecompense’
Now comparing (60a,b) we see that ‘all the students’ outscopes negation in
the unmarked (60a), but it is under the scope of negation in the clefted (60b),
as expected.
	 Edward L. Keenan
	 (60)	
a.	
Tsy	 afa-panadinana	 ny	 mpianatra	 rehetra
			 not	 free-examination	 the	 student	 all
			 ‘Allˉtheˉstudentsˉdidn’tˉpassˉtheˉexam’
		 b.	
Tsy	 ny	 mpianatra	 rehetra	 no	 afa-panadinana
			 not	 the	 student	 all	 foc	 free-examination
			 ‘Itˉwasn’tˉallˉtheˉstudentsˉwhoˉpassed’ˉ(atˉleastˉsomeˉfailed)
Further, gerundive type nominalizations (Ntelitheos 2006) of PredPs, formed by
prefixing f- to the circumstantial form of the verb (the form it takes when a semantic
oblique such as Benefactee or Instrument is subject) naturally include negation:
	 (61)	
a.	
ny	 tsy	 fitiavan-dRabe	 an-dRasoa
			 the	 not	 nom+love-Rabe.gen	acc-Rasoa
			 ‘Rabe’sˉnotˉlovingˉRasoa’
		 b.	
Tsy	 mamboatra	 lalana	 izy	 ireo	 noho	 ny
			 not	 repair	 roads	 3+dem.pl		 because	 the
			 tsy	 fisian’ny		 fitaovana
			 not	 nom+exist’of	 the	 means
			
‘Theyˉdon’tˉrepairˉtheˉroadsˉbecauseˉofˉtheˉlackˉofˉ(non-existenceˉof)
ˉmeans’
		 c.	
Azon’ny Fitsarana … ambara	 ny	 tsy	 fahafahan’ny	 Filohan’ny	 ˉ
			 can’by+the Court … declared	 the	 not	 nom+able’the	 head’the	
			 Repoblika	miasa…
			 Republic	 work…
			
‘TheˉConstitutionalˉCourtˉmayˉdeclareˉtheˉincapacityˉ CN.18]
ofˉtheˉheadˉofˉtheˉRepublicˉtoˉwork…’
(61a,b,c)giveusaclueastowhyquantifiedNPsmaylackadefinitenessinterpretation
even though they are introduced with the “definite” article ny. In (61) the negator tsy
is part of what is nominalized, supporting that ny occurs as part of the nominaliza-
tion, not as an independent marker of definiteness. In these examples ny cannot be
replaced for example by the previous reference marker ilay or a demonstrative, like
io. But when ny introduces a nominal consisting solely of an N or another one place
predicate such as an adjective, it is naturally interpreted as definite:
	 (62)	
a.	
Nandositra	 haingana	 ny	 mpangalatra
			 pst+AF+flee	 quickly	 the	 thief
			 ‘Theˉthiefˉfledˉquickly’
		 b.	
Fidio	 ny	 mena	 (fa	 tsy	 ny	 manga)
			 choose+TF+Imp	 the	 red (one(s))	 (but	 not	 the	 blue (one(s))
			 ‘Chooseˉtheˉredˉone,ˉnotˉtheˉblueˉone’
	 The definiteness of subjects and objects in Malagasy 	 
These examples show that we were not simply mistaken in treating ny as a defi-
nite article. But its use in quantified NPs seems more like the use of the definite
article in French (63a) or English (63b) where it is better interpreted as part of the
nominalization:
	 (63)	
a.	
La	 plupart	 /La	 moitié	/Le	 quart	 des	 élèves	 n’ont/
			 The	 majority	/the	 half	 /the	 quarter	of+the	 students	 neg’have/
			 n’a	 pas	 répondu
			 neg’has	 neg	 answered
			 ‘Most/Half/Aˉquarterˉofˉtheˉstudentsˉdidn’tˉanswer’
		 b.	
Theˉvastˉmajorityˉofˉ(the)ˉstudentsˉdon’t/*?doesn’tˉsupportˉtheˉdraft
(Thanks to Vincent Homer for discussion of the French data). In both languages
plural agreement with élèves/students is natural (and strongly preferred in English)
despite a formally singular Determiner (La “the”). And in both (63a,b) neither the
speaker nor the addressee are expected to be able to identify the majority (the half,
the quarter) in question. Lastly, embedded questions, constructed with the nomi-
nalizer izay, also occur naturally as subjects.
	 (64)	
a.	
Tsy	 azoko	 izay	 lazain-dRabe
			 not	 receive+TF+1s.gen	what	 say+TF+Rabe.gen
			 ‘Iˉdon’tˉunderstandˉwhatˉRabeˉsays’
		 b.	
Fantatrao	 ve	 izay	 nanjo	 azy?
			 know+TF+2s.gen	?	 what	 pst+happenˉ(to)	
him?
			 ‘Doˉyouˉknowˉwhatˉhappenedˉtoˉhim?’
So independently of ny Malagasy has a nominalizing morpheme, izay, which
builds nominals that may occur as subjects (as well as objects, (19)).
7.  
Conclusion
Malagasy satisfies D.2 to a reasonable extent, but not perfectly. Bare nouns, which
occur prolifically as objects with an indefinite interpretation do not occur at all
as subjects. Personal pronouns, proper nouns, and NPs of the form Det + N +
(Det) are classical definites in Malagasy and occur with complete naturalness as
subjects. But properly quantified NPs – ones with cardinality, universal, or propor-
tional quantifiers – are formed with a nominalizing use of the definite article and
occur naturally as subjects though their meaning is indefinite. We simply don’t
know how this usage compares with other languages in which subjects have been
claimed to be definite, as commonly the claims are just illustrated with the simple
	 Edward L. Keenan
cases of definites we have cited above. The Malagasy data then suggest that claims
that subjects are definite may have to be in general restricted to DPs that are not
quantificational and not nominalizations. So more empirical typological work
is needed.
Source texts
[CM]	
Razafindrabe, Michel, Xavier Ralahatra and Elisabeth Ravaoarimalala. 1993. Cours de
Malgache pour les Etrangers. Editions Ambozontany, Antananarivo.
[CN]	
Lalampanorenan’ny Repoblikan’i Madagasikara. [no date] Constitution of the Repub-
lic of Madagascar. Foi et Justice BP 3832. Antananarivo.
[JR]	
Jedele, Thomas P.  and Lucien Em. Randrianarivelo. 1998. Malagasy  Newspaper
Reader. Dunwoody Press, Kensington, Maryland, USA. (Selections from October 1992
to November 1995).
[LP]	 Lalampifidianana. 1992. The Electoral Code.
[MF]	 Rabearivelo Athanase. 1976. Le Malgache Facile La Librairie de Madagascar.
[T3]	
Rakotondranaivo, André 1985–86. Fiarahamonina. Editions Ambozontany, Fianarant-
soa. (A school reader)
[T4–5]	 Ratsimaholy, Francinet. 1993. Tsangana (4th and 5th year school reader). Roneo.
[T8]	
Rakotonjanahary, Benoit et al. (Eds). 1987. LohaRano. Editions Ambozontany, Fian-
arantsoa. (An 8th grade reader)
References
Adams, K.L. & Manaster-Ramer, A. 1988. Some questions of topic/focus choice in Tagalog.
Oceanic Linguistics 27: 79–101.
Arka, I.W. & Ross, M. (Eds), 2005. The Many Faces of Austronesian Voice Systems [Pacific Lin-
guistics]. Canberra: Australian National University.
Bell, S. 1978. Two differences in definiteness in Cebuano and Tagalog. Oceanic Linguistics 17: 1–9.
Bowen, J.D. (Ed.). 1968. Intermediate Readings in Tagalog. Berkeley CA: University of California
Press.
Carnie, A. & Guilfoyle, E. (Eds), 2000. The Syntax of Verb Initial Languages. Oxford: OUP.
Comrie, B. 1978. Definite and animate direct objects: a natural class. Linguistica Silesiana
3: 13–21.
Comrie, B. 1981. Language Universals and Linguistic Typology. Chicago IL: University of
Chicago Press.
Dede, M. 1986. Definiteness and referentiality in Turkish verbal sentences. In Studies in Turkish
Linguistics, D.I. Slobin & K. Zimmer (Eds), 147–163. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
[DR] Domenichini-Ramiaramanana, Bakoly. 1976. Le malgache. Essai de description sommaire.
Paris: SELAF.
Katagiri, M. 2005. Voice, ergativity and transitivity in Tagalog and other Philippine languages:
A typological perspective. In Arka & Ross, 153–175.
	 The definiteness of subjects and objects in Malagasy 	 
Keenan, E.L. 1996. The semantics of determiners. In The Handbook of Contemporary Semantic
Theory, S. Lappin (Ed.), 41–63. Oxford: Blackwell.
Keenan, E.L. & Stabler, E.P. 2003. Bare Grammar. Stanford CA: CSLI.
Kimenyi, A. 1980. A Relational Grammar of Kinyarwanda. Berkeley CA: University of California
Press.
Li, C.N. & Thompson, S.A. 1981. Mandarin Chinese. Berkeley CA: University of California
Press.
Lazard, G. 1984. Actance variations and categories of the object. In F. Plank, 269–293.
Manaster-Ramer, A. 1992. Malagasy and the topic/subject issue. Oceanic Linguistics 31(2): 267–279.
Nandris, G. 1953. Colloquial Rumanian. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
Ntelitheos, D. 2006. The Morpho-Syntax of Nominalizations: A Case Study. Ph.D. dissertation,
UCLA.
Payne, J. 1985. Negation. In Language Typology and Syntactic Description, Vol. 1, T. Shopen
(Ed.), 197–242. Cambridge: CUP.
Paul, I. 2001. Concealed pseudo-clefts. Lingua 111: 707–727.
Plank, F. 1984. Objects. New York NY: Academic Press.
Rackowski, A. & Travis, L. 2000. V-Initial languages: X or XP movement and adverbial place-
ment. In A. Carnie & E. Guilfoyle, 117–141.
Rajemisa-Raolison, R. 1971. Grammaire Malgache. Ambozontany, Fianarantsoa.
Schachter, P. 1976. The subject in Philippine languages: Topic, actor, actor-topic or none of the
above? In Subject and Topic, C.N. Li (Ed.), 491–518. New York NY: Academic Press.
Shibatani, M. 1988. Voice in Philippine languages. In M. Shibatani (Ed.), 85–142.
Shibatani, M. 1988. Passive and Voice. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Without aspect*
Maria Polinsky
Harvard University
This paper presents and analyzes the encoding of aspect in Heritage Russian
(HR), an incompletely acquired language spoken by those for whom another
language became dominant at an early age. The HR aspectual system is distinct
from the baseline. Aspectual distinctions are lost due to the leveling or loss of
morphological marking. As a result, heritage speakers often maintain only one
member of a former aspectual pair. Such HR verb forms are underspecified
for aspect. To compensate for that, heritage speakers regularly express aspect
through the use of analytical forms with the light verbs ‘be’, ‘become’, ‘do’.
The frequent occurrence of these forms supports the notion that aspectual
distinctions are universal, belonging with the conceptual representation of
events. What varies is the actual linguistic encoding of these distinctions,
but not the underlying distinctions themselves.
1.  
Introduction1
The goal of this paper is to bring together old and new. On the side of the old,
I will revisit some issues in the study of Russian aspect, mostly reiterating what
*I am honored to be included in the celebration of Bernard Comrie’s distinguished career.
When I started working on incomplete acquisition about ten years ago, Bernard was one of the
few people who was always willing to hear about the unseemly quirks of heritage languages. His
own work on aspect has been a major inspiration for this study. Happy birthday to a wonderful
friend!
.  This paper owes a great deal to Hana Filip, whose insightful comments and general en-
couragement have made me think of some larger issues related to the grammar and meaning
of aspect. I am also grateful to Bernard Comrie, Grev Corbett, Michael Flier, Lenore Grenoble,
Gaby Hermon, Olga Kagan, Robert Kluender, Beth Levin, Hazel Pearson, David Perlmutter,
Keith Plaster, and Ekaterina Protassova for their comments and suggestions. All errors are my
sole responsibility.
The following abbreviations are used throughout the paper: acc–accusative; impf–­
imperfective; inf–infinitive; nom–nominative; perf–perfective; pl–plural; sg–singular; unm–
unmarked.
	 Maria Polinsky
has already been proposed in the relevant literature. As for the new, I will address
issues of incomplete acquisition, a phenomenon whose relevance for linguistic
description and theory has been steadily on the rise.
Incomplete, or interrupted, acquisition is represented by heritage speakers,
who only recently have been recognized as a group separate from those bilinguals
for whom one language is strongly dominant. In the last decade, heritage speak-
ers have come to the fore in a number of fields, from language teaching (Kagan &
Dillon 2001; Bermel & Kagan 2000; Geisherik 2005) to sociolinguistics (Andrews
1998; Fenyvesi 2005; Seliger and Vago 1991, among many others) to general lin-
guistics (Dorian 1989; Seliger & Vago 1991) and psycholinguistics (Sorace 2004;
Tsimpli et al. 2004; Montrul 2004; Montrul & Slabakova 2003). Very little is known
about heritage speakers, which makes the study of particular phenomena in their
language important from the standpoint of the initial data collection needed to
advance our understanding of heritage languages. Aspect is an intriguing phe-
nomenon in its own right, and heritage speakers’ control of aspectual distinctions
may shed new light on its grammar and meaning.
In what follows, I will first provide a general background on heritage speakers.
Then I will discuss aspect in heritage Russian, and in doing so will also address
some general issues relating to the grammar of aspect in Russian. To anticipate the
conclusions of this paper, the aspect data presented here argue that the language
system emerging under incomplete acquisition is subject to regular, systematic
constraints, albeit different from what is found in the baseline language.
2.  
Heritage speakers at a glance
An incomplete learner, or heritage speaker, of language A is an individual who grew
up speaking (or only hearing) A as his/her first language, but who later switched
to another language as dominant and primary. The language (A) that a heritage
speaker was exposed to as a child constitutes the baseline language. In general,
heritage speakers rarely, if ever, have access to the baseline language norm through
formal schooling; this means that the baseline should not be identified with the
standard language available to educated and fully competent speakers of A. Rather,
the baseline is the language that heritage speakers are exposed to in the home and
immediate community – in the case of Russian in the USA, this communal stan-
dard happens to be closer to southern Russian than to the standard language, which
reflects more central dialects (see Polinsky 2000). This proximity to southern vari-
eties of Russian is a mere accident of demographic patterns. But even the deviation
from the standard is just the beginning of a comprehensive understanding of the
baseline; given that different heritage speakers receive different dialectal input in
	 Without aspect	 
the home, their baseline may be generally more varied than the baseline assumed for
competent speakers, who have been exposed to different dialects and registers and
who generally have the awareness that there is a standard out there that may be dif-
ferent from their own speech. The general recognition that the baseline for heritage
speakers may be not entirely regular leads to another important observation – one
concerning the uniformity of the heritage group.
There is a temptation to treat heritage speakers as a homogenous group; what
seems to underlie this drive is the realization that heritage speakers are quite dif-
ferent from speakers of the baseline and all share the same language history: a
once-used home language later supplanted by the dominant language. However,
such an approach is dangerously simplistic; researchers have long-since noticed
that heritage speakers do not form a homogeneous group, and should be separated
into several groups. A parallel can be drawn with the lectal divisions in creole
languages. For extended pidgins and creoles, it is common to distinguish a basi-
lect, which is often identified with creole sensu stricto, a mesolect, and an acrolect,
which is closest to the lexifier. Disagreements abound as to whether basilect,
acrolect and mesolect form contiguous links in a creole continuum (Bickerton
1973, 1989, 1995; Rickford 1987, and many subsequent publications) or whether
they should be treated as distinct entities. Regardless of this issue, no one ques-
tions the existence of these three lectal divisions. Similarly, heritage speakers can
be divided into several groups, but the bases on which divisions should be made
are not yet clear.
Three main approaches to address the possible heterogeneity of heritage
speaker populations have emerged so far. The first approach is essentially socio-
linguistic in nature; under this approach, speakers are divided into groups on the
basis of their actual language history, relying especially on such criteria as the age
at which they switched from the home language to the dominant language, their
current use of the home language (when, with whom, and how extensively), and,
if applicable, their ability to read and write in the home language (cf. Yokoyama
2000; Geisherik 2005; Fenyvesi 2005). While a speaker’s language history is cer-
tainly important, there is no one-to-one correspondence between the age of inter-
ruption and proficiency (Godson 2003), and self-reporting of language history
may often yield faulty data because memory, especially that of early childhood, is
never perfect.
The second approach designed to address the heterogeneity of heritage
populations combines data from the speakers’ individual language histories with
information relating to the speakers’ understanding of the baseline language in
adulthood, in addition to their developmental profile. A distinction is drawn
between those who were never directly addressed in the home language (“over-
hearers”– cf. Au & Romo 1997; Au & Oh 2005) and those who actually spoke
	 Maria Polinsky
the language in the home prior to interruption by the dominant language, with
further subdivisions in the latter group on the basis of their understanding of the
language. This approach has proven effective in defining group boundaries in heri-
tage populations, and has been used to separate different levels of proficiency for
classroom purposes.
A third approach, and one that this author very much subscribes to, advocates
combining the speakers’ actual linguistic history with specific proficiency measures,
such as lexical knowledge, mean length of utterance, and speech rate (Polinsky 1995,
2008). Assuming that the speech rate for the baseline is known, heritage speakers
can be effectively assessed by comparing their rate to the rate for the baseline. More
research is needed to determine effective measures that would establish reliable sub-
groups within heritage populations, but the realization that such subgroups exist is
an important step in that direction. Much pedagogical effort has been directed at the
more proficient heritage speakers (Valdés 2001; Bermel & Kagan 2000, etc.), but from
a developmental standpoint, the less proficient groups may be equally interesting.
Thefocusofthisstudyisonthosespeakerswhorankquitelowontheproficiency
scale, and this choice is not accidental. Assuming that incomplete acquisition is a
phenomenon that needs to be distinguished from bilingualism, lower-proficiency
heritage speakers provide the most promising way to determine if this distinction
is real, rather than imaginary. The state of the grammar of low-proficiency speakers
can be taken as representative of incomplete acquisition per se, and the differences
from the baseline grammar found in the grammars of these speakers also would
be expected to be more pronounced. Russian aspect is one area in which a marked
distinction is evident between lower-proficiency speakers and bilinguals.
3.  
Aspect in Russian: Characteristics of the baseline system
The main distinction in Russian aspect is between formally perfective and imperfec-
tive verbs. However, this simple formal distinction is just the beginning – Russian
aspect is encoded in many different ways, and even the meanings of each aspectual
subclass are far from uniform.2
Simplifying things somewhat, aspectual distinctions are most commonly
expressed by prefixes (usually deriving formally perfective verbs), as in (1b), (2b),
.  The semantic issues that arise in the domain of aspect are set aside in the present discus-
sion; I assume that the semantics of aspect is an issue that is important, but orthogonal to my
immediate concerns, and give priority to the task of defining the lexical space in which heritage
speakers operate.
	 Without aspect	 
and (3b); suffixes whose common function is to derive imperfectives, as in (4b), or
perfectives, as in (5b); and combinations of prefixes and suffixes, as in (5c).
	 (1)	
a.	
zvat’ˉ‘call’
		 b.	
po-zvat’ˉ‘callˉup’
	 (2)	
a.	 
delat’	 ‘do,ˉmake’
		 b.	
s-delat’ˉ‘do,ˉmake’
	 (3)	
a.	
moč’ˉ‘beˉableˉto’
		 b.	
s-moč’ˉ‘manage’
	 (4)	
a.	
dat’ˉ‘giveˉ(perf.)’
		 b.	 
da-va-t’ˉ‘giveˉ(imperf.)’
	 (5)	
a.	
kričat’ˉ‘scream’
		 b.	
krik-nu-t’ˉ‘screamˉ(punctual)’
		 c.	 
po-krik-iva-t’ˉ‘shoutˉregularly’
Despite morphophonemic variation, the main suffixes that encode imperfec-
tive aspect are relatively regular; they include the suffix  –  (V)va-, (e.g., (4b),
(5c)), where V is the vowel conditioned by the stem, and the suffix – a- (Švedova
1982: 589–590), as in (6):
	 (6)	
a.	 
prognat’ˉ‘chaseˉaway’ˉ(perf.)
		 b.	 
progon’-a-t’ˉ‘chaseˉaway’ˉ(imperf.)
The derivation of the latter type of imperfectives crucially depends on the identifi-
cation of present vs. past verbal stems that are available for conjugation. As will be
discussed below, the loss of conjugation in heritage Russian thus plays a major role
in the restructuring of aspectual marking for these imperfectives.
Finally, some aspectual distinctions are expressed via suppletion, for
example:
	 (7)	
a.	 
brat’ –ˉvzjat’ˉ‘takeˉ(imperf./perf.)’
		 b.	
govorit’ –ˉskazat’ˉ‘sayˉ(imperf./perf.)’
Suppletion notwithstanding, the idea that Russian aspect can be treated as an
inflectional category relies on ‘true’ aspectual pairs, which are formed in two dif-
ferent ways: (i) from perfective verbs by means of imperfective suffixation (cf. (6)
above), or (ii) from bare imperfectives by simple prefixation, as in the aspectual
pairs in (2) and (3) above. However, such a view is difficult to maintain. Aspectual
prefixes3 are varied and verb class-dependent. The inventory of prefixes is a rich
.  Throughout this discussion, I use the term ‘aspectual prefixes’ to refer to prefixes that play
a role in encoding aspectual distinctions. However, the choice of terminology is not intended
	 Maria Polinsky
and diverse system that is arguably lexical, and thus the derivation of prefixed
perfective verbs is subject to lexical rules. This in turn suggests that the category
of aspect in Russian is not fully grammatical – rather, it represents a mix between
an inflectional and derivational system, as in fact has been proposed by many
researchers (Comrie 1976; Dahl 1983; Dahl & Karlsson 1976; Filip 1999; Spencer
1991: 195, and many others).
In the rich linguistic literature on Slavic aspect, the emphasis on the deriva-
tional facet of aspect often leads to a lexicalist treatment of aspect, which takes
us back to the beginning of the lexical-or-grammatical debate. Much of that gen-
eral discussion hinges on the following issues: (i) the derivational vs. inflectional
nature of prefixes and suffixes that encode aspectual distinctions, and (ii) the
relationship between grammatical aspect (perfective vs. imperfective) and event
structure. Both questions address fundamental issues of lexical semantics as well
as more language-specific issues of morphological structure and lexical rules. In
Filip’s (1999, 2003) thorough work on Slavic aspect, the argument is made that
the interpretation of aspect requires at least three ingredients: the recognition of
individual classes within the homogenous predicate category, the establishment of
fine-grained lexical distinctions within individual affixes (especially prefixes), and
the application of morphological rules that derive individual lexical items (mainly
via prefixation, which is particularly varied and suggestive of derivational, rather
than inflectional, processes). The division of labor that Filip argues for is critical
for the description and analysis of aspect in heritage Russian: while the concep-
tual distinctions are arguably stable across languages, the inventory of prefixes (a
lexical subsystem) and the application of morphological rules may be more fragile
under incomplete acquisition.
4.  
Aspect in Heritage Russian: Expectations and main results
4.1  
Some predictions
In this section, I will summarize the results of both my observation of spontaneous
production in heritage Russian and experiments designed to probe the expression
of aspect by heritage Russian speakers. Before doing so, I would like to formu-
late some general predictions concerning the representation of aspect in heritage
Russian. These predictions are based on the general outline of aspect sketched in
the previous section.
to suggest that the contribution made by these morphemes is restricted exclusively to aspectual
marking.
	 Without aspect	 
Firstly, taking as our object of interest the grammatical rather than semantic
side of aspect, we do not expect the grammatical realization of aspect via the mor-
phology of a given verb to remain unchanged in the grammar of heritage speakers.
As I have previously shown, the morphology of heritage Russian is impoverished
compared to the morphology of baseline Russian (see Polinsky 1995, 1997, 2000,
2006, 2008 for the loss of nominal declension classes, which lead to the restruc-
turing of case and gender). The impoverished morphology of the verbal domain
should lead to the weakening or loss of the past/present stem distinction, and this,
in turn, should affect the representation of aspect. In addition, the regular suffixal
derivation of imperfectives may either be lost, along with other morphological
processes, or overgeneralized, as is often the case with heritage speakers, who tend
to avoid irregular forms.
Second, assuming that aspectual prefixes are more derivational/lexical in
nature, heritage speakers should retain isolated prefixal forms, but these pre-
fixal forms may not be integrated into a general network of prefixed perfectives
derived from a particular stem, as exists in baseline Russian. In other words, for
a complete learner of Russian, it is natural to form associations among derived
forms of a particular verb, identifying the semantic contribution of the relevant
aspectual prefixes, but a heritage speaker may lack most of these forms and thus
be unable to produce, or possibly even understand, all of them. To illustrate, the
associations among all of the prefixal forms of ‘cook’, as in (8), are quite straight-
forward for baseline speakers, but due to their more limited vocabulary, heritage
speakers may not even be able to access some of the forms in (8).
	 (8)	
a.	
-varit’ˉ‘cook,ˉboil’ˉ(impf.)
		 b.	
s-varit’ˉ‘boil,ˉcook’ˉ(perf.)
		 c.	
za-varit’ˉ‘brew’ˉ(e.g.,ˉtea)
		 d.	
na-varit’ˉ‘cookˉaˉlargeˉquantity’
		 e.	
ob-varit’ˉ‘scald’
		 f.	
pod-varit’ˉ‘conductˉsomeˉadditionalˉboiling’
		 g.	
ot-varit’ˉ‘boil’
		 h.	
do-varit’ˉ‘cookˉasˉmuchˉasˉrequired’
		 i.	
pro-varit’ˉ‘cookˉthrough,ˉcookˉfully’
		 j.	
vy-varit’ˉ‘boilˉthrough’
		 k.	
u-varit’ˉ‘reduce,ˉpoach’
		 l.	
pere-varit’ˉ‘overcook’
Assuming the lexical nature of aspectual prefixes, heritage speakers are expected
to show significant individual variation in the retention of some but not other
prefixal forms. Using (8) as an illustration, speaker X could have (8a) and (8e),
speaker Y (8c), speaker Z (8b) and (8g), and so on. Lexical variation is of course
	 Maria Polinsky
very hard to constrain and the only apparent constraining factor may be the fre-
quency of individual lexical items.
Lastly, assuming that core aspectual distinctions such as telicity, incremen-
tal theme or measured out events are relatively stable cross-linguistically, and
hence have some independence from the question of how they are expressed in a
given language, one would expect that aspectual distinctions in heritage Russian
would still be expressed, albeit by different morphosyntactic or lexical means from
the baseline.
To summarize, given the loss of morphology and the reduced lexical com-
petence typical of heritage languages and speakers in general, it is expected that
heritage Russian will lose or regularize the formation of the imperfective, will
have a smaller set of prefixal perfective forms with possible variation across speak-
ers, and will develop compensatory mechanisms for expressing general aspectual
distinctions which have a conceptual basis. All of these predictions appear to be
borne out, although often with interesting complications.
4.2  
Morphological change in the encoding of aspect
The loss of morphological distinctions in heritage Russian has multiple repercus-
sions for the heritage verbal system. In production, heritage speakers often lack
the present tense entirely, using infinitives and past tense and imperative forms
instead (Polinsky 1995, 2006). As a result, the dual base distinction (perfective/
past–present) is absent from heritage Russian, which leads to the reduction of the
entire verbal paradigm. Consequently, the morphological foundation of the aspec-
tual distinction is no longer available, which in turn results in the weakening of the
aspectual paradigm.
In the formation of the imperfective, heritage speakers regularly use derived
forms in -Vva-, which suggests that this morphological operation is active in their
grammar. However, we also occasionally find forms in -Vva- that are ungrammati-
cal in the baseline, which suggests that heritage speakers actually overgeneralize
this suffix. Cf. the forms below, which are ungrammatical in the baseline:
	 (9)	 
vsegda	 on	 zabyvyvaet	 ego	 vešči (baselineˉzabyvaet)
		 always	 3sg	 forgets	 his	 things
		 ‘Heˉalwaysˉforgetsˉthings.’
	 (10)	 
èti	 doktory	 otmenivajut	 appointments (baselineˉotmenjajut)
		 these	 doctors	 cancel
		 ‘Suchˉdoctorsˉcancelˉappointments.’
The overgeneralization of this imperfectivizing suffix seems related to the loss of the
imperfectivizing -a- (cf. (6) above), which never occurs in spontaneous production.
	 Without aspect	 
Of course the suffix -a- is no longer productive in the baseline so it does not ‘com-
pete’ with the more productive -Vva-, which makes it less surprising that heritage
speakers overgeneralize the latter. It would be informative to conduct a systematic
study of the range of application of the suffix -Vva-, but at this stage I can only
offer general observations based on naturally occurring data.
4.3  
Loss of aspectual pairs
In addition to the overgeneralization of imperfective morphology, there are cases
where heritage speakers use imperfective forms while the baseline usage requires
the use of perfective forms, as in (11)–(14):
	 (11)	
ja	 tak	 ustalaja	 ty	 ne	 veriš’ (baselineˉpo-veriš’)
		 1sg	 so	 tired	 2sg	 not	 believe.impf.2sg
		 ‘Youˉwouldn’tˉbelieveˉhowˉtiredˉIˉam.’
	 (12)	 
oni	 mogli	 kupili	 ètot	 dom (baselineˉsmogliˉkupit’)
		 3pl	 be_able.3pl.impf	 buy.3pl.impf	this	 house
		 ‘Theyˉwereˉableˉtoˉbuyˉthisˉhouse.’
	 (13)	 
gde	 ty?	 ja	 uže	 gotovila	 tebja	 obed (baselineˉprigotovila)
		 where	 2sg	 1sg	already	 prepared.impf	2sg.obj	 dinner
		 ‘Whereˉareˉyou?ˉIˉhaveˉalreadyˉcookedˉaˉdinnerˉforˉyou.’
	 (14)	
ja	 ostavljala	 moj	 plašč	 zdes’ (baselineˉostavila)
		 1sg	 leave.imperf	 my	 coat	 here
		
‘Iˉleftˉmyˉcoatˉhere.’ˉ(theˉspeakerˉisˉlookingˉforˉherˉcoatˉinˉaˉcloakroomˉafter
ˉlunch)
The opposite pattern also holds – perfectives occur in cases where the baseline
requires the use of an imperfective:
	 (15)	 
moj	 deduška	 často	 porugal	 ego (baselineˉrugal)
		 my	 grandfather	 often	 scold.perf	 him
		 ‘Myˉgrandfatherˉoftenˉscoldedˉhim.’
	 (16)	 
ona	 vsegda	 postaraetsja	 pomogat’ (baselineˉstaraetsjaˉpomoč’)
		 3sg	 always	 try.perf	 help.imperf.inf
		 ‘Sheˉalwaysˉtriesˉtoˉhelp.’	
	 (17)	
ona	 tak	 bystro	 skazat’	 ja	 ne	 vse	 ponimaju4
		 3sg	 so	 fact	 talk.perf	 1sg	not	 all	 understand
		 ‘SheˉtalksˉsoˉfastˉIˉmissˉcertainˉthings.’
.  In addition to the difference from the baseline in terms of aspect, note that the main predi-
cate (skazat’) appears as an infinitive, not as an inflected form.
	 Maria Polinsky
In both replacement scenarios (use of the imperfective instead of the perfective,
and use of the perfective instead of the imperfective) there seems to be variation
across speakers. This suggests that, in at least some cases, heritage speakers retain
just one member of an aspectual pair, but the actual choice of the form (perfective/
imperfective) may be rather arbitrary. In earlier work (Polinsky 1995, 2000, 2007)
I entertained the idea that the retention of a particular form is determined by telic-
ity (see also Pereltsvaig 2005, who develops this idea further). While this may still
be a possibility (one that I revisit below, after the examination of aspect in verbs
of motion), it is certainly not the only relevant factor in the retention of one form
over another. In particular, cross-speaker variation suggests that the survival of
a particular form may also be determined by lexical idiosyncrasies, rather than
principled grammatical constraints.
4.4  
Verbs of motion and retention of isolated prefixal forms
With verbs of motion, the system of aspectual distinctions is further complicated
by the contrast between unidirectional and multidirectional verbs of motion; each
type has its own perfective and imperfective. For example, consider the verb ‘fly’:
Table 1.  Russian verbs of motion
unidirectional multidirectional
imperfective letet’ letat’
perfective prefix-letet’
(e.g., uletet’)
prefix-letat’
(e.g., poletat’)
In heritage Russian, only one of the four cells in the chart above is usually repre-
sented. The following example was spontaneously produced in a frog story narra-
tive (Polinsky 2007):
	 (18)	 
mal’čik	 i	 ego	 novyj	 ljaguška	 budet	 idet	 domoj
		 boy		 and	 his	 new	 frog	 will	 go.impf	 home
		 ‘Theˉboyˉandˉhisˉnewˉfrogˉwereˉgoingˉhome.’
In the corresponding baseline sentence, the perfective is required:
	 (19)	 
mal’čik	 s	 novoj	 ljaguškoj	 pošli/pojdut	 domoj
		 boy	 with	 new	 frog	 went.perf/willˉgo.perf	 home
		 ‘Theˉboyˉandˉhisˉnewˉfrogˉwent/willˉgoˉhome.’
In addition to idti ‘go’, seen in example (18), the following verbs of motion or posi-
tion were used differently from the requirements of the baseline by the heritage
speakers:
	 Without aspect	 
	 (20)	
a.	
‘jump’:ˉprygat’ˉ(imperf.)ˉinsteadˉofˉprygnut’ˉ(perf.)
		 b.	
‘sit’:ˉsidet’ˉ(imperf.)ˉinsteadˉofˉsest’ˉ(perf.)ˉ(seeˉalsoˉfn.ˉ7ˉbelow)
		 c.	
‘getˉup’:ˉvstavat’ˉ(imperf.)ˉinsteadˉofˉvstat’ˉ(perf.)
		 d.	
‘go’:ˉxodit’ˉ(multidirectional)ˉinsteadˉofˉidtiˉ(unidirectional)
		 e.	
‘run’:ˉbegat’ˉ(multidirectional)ˉinsteadˉofˉbežat’ˉ(unidirectional)
As with the other verbs discussed above, a question arises as to whether it is at all
possible to predict which aspectual form is retained for each verbal concept. An
even more general question concerning aspectual pairs in heritage Russian relates
to the difference between production and comprehension. It is conceivable that
heritage Russian speakers have problems producing a certain aspectual form, but
have no problem understanding both forms and, more importantly, differentiat-
ing between them. In that case, the use of one form instead of the other becomes a
simple production problem, and such problems are ubiquitous in language acqui-
sition, decline, or aging. Below I present some preliminary experimental data
which bear on this question.
Before turning to these more general questions, let me return to the predic-
tions that were outlined in the beginning of this section. As expected, heritage
Russian has regularized the formation of imperfective forms (and lost the less
morphologically transparent imperfective pattern in  -a-). Likewise, in keeping
with the expectations outlined above, heritage Russian shows a smaller set of pre-
fixal perfective forms, with variation across speakers. This result is not surprising
under the assumption that prefixal forms belong with lexical derivations, which
are severely limited in an incompletely acquired system. I will discuss the third
prediction, regarding the expression of aspect, later on.
5.  
Aspect in heritage Russian: Some emerging patterns
In this section, I will present empirical evidence that speaks to the third prediction
given above, addressing three main questions, each of which has already been men-
tioned in passing: (i) do the deficiencies in aspectual forms observed in heritage
Russian follow from the online limitations of heritage speakers (especially those
with lower proficiency), or do they reflect more fundamental properties of incom-
plete grammars? (ii) is there a principled explanation as to why the perfective or
imperfective form of a particular verb is retained, or is such retention completely
arbitrary? (iii) assuming that incomplete learners maintain the relevant conceptual
distinctions between different types of events, how are these distinctions encoded in
the absence of the standard aspectual machinery available to the baseline speaker?
I will take up these questions in turn.
	 Maria Polinsky
5.1  
Speechless or aspectless?
Observations of spontaneous production are insufficient to establish whether the
attested aspectual deficiencies observed in heritage Russian are merely an issue of
performance. With that in mind, a simple pilot experiment was conducted in which
heritage speakers were presented with a forced choice between aspectual pairs con-
sisting of a matrix verb followed by an infinitive in the perfective or imperfective. In
order to understand the nature of the experiment, the reader should be aware that
some matrix verbs in Russian require that the infinitive of the verbal complement
appear in just one aspect but not the other; for example, ‘get tired’ requires an imper-
fective complement (21a), while ‘forget’ requires a perfective complement (21b):
	 (21)	
a.	
ustat’ˉpit’/*vypit’ˉ‘getˉtiredˉofˉdrinkingˉ(imperf./*perf.)’
		 b.	 
zabyt’ˉ*pokupat’/kupit’ˉ‘forgetˉtoˉbuyˉ(*imperf./perf.)’
All of the matrix verbs used for this experiment were subject-restructuring verbs,
and are given in Table 2.
Table 2.  Matrix verbs restricting the aspect of the complement
Imperfective bias Perfective bias No bias control
Matrix verbs requiring the
imperfective
Matrix verbs requiring the
perfective
Matrix verbs that do not
impose aspectual constraints
on the complement
ustat’ ‘get tired’ zabyt’ ‘forget’ xotet’ ‘want’
prekratit’ ‘stop’ sumet’ ‘manage’ bojat’sja ‘be afraid’
prodolžat’ ‘continue’ soobrazit’ ‘realize’ obeščat’ ‘promise’
The embedded infinitives were chosen in such a way that their aspect was vis-
ible due to the affixal morphology (and in some cases, stem morphology as well,
cf. sobrat’–sobirat’ ‘collect’). The subjects were auditorily presented with full sen-
tences containing the congruent and the ungrammatical condition and were asked
to identify the correct sentence. For the non-biased control verbs, the subjects
were also given two choices. Each matrix verb was combined with ten embedded
infinitives, so that each subject heard 90 sentences altogether, presented in random
order. The infinitives were different for each matrix, and each lexical verb appeared
only once. Thus, the subjects were presented with pairs such as the ones illustrated
in Table 3.
Nine subjects, all of whom were chosen based on striking similarities in their
language histories and proficiency levels, participated in this experiment. Cur-
rently college students (mean age 20.8), each of the subjects was born in Russia
but arrived in the USA between age 2 and 5. All reported that they did not use
Russian and could not read it, but could understand when spoken to. In addition,
	 Without aspect	 
the subjects were tested for rate of speech in spontaneous production with a tra-
ditional frog-story task. They all had an extremely low rate of speech (43 wd/min
averaged over 9 subjects), which suggests very low proficiency (Kagan & Friedman
2003; Polinsky 2008). The aggregate results of their responses to the forced choice
task are shown in Figure 1.5
0
20
40
60
80
100
 bias  bias No bias


Figure 1.  Percentage correct responses to verb-verb combinations (30 sentences per category,
9 speakers)
.  The subjects performed slightly better with matrix verbs requiring a perfective complement
(though the difference is not significant). In general, child language acquisition studies show that
children under age 4;0 slightly favor the perfective (Stoll 2005), especially in the passive (Babyony-
shev & Brun 2004), and generally have difficulty with the imperfective (Kazanina & Phillips 2003).
It would be tempting to connect this child language preference for the perfective with the results
of heritage language comprehension, but such a connection seems premature. Firstly, the subjects
of this study were interrupted in their acquisition later than 3 years of age; secondly, the general
Jakobsonian ‘last in – first out’ approach to the acquisition and retention of linguistic phenomena
has been proven wrong outside incomplete acquisition (e.g., Caramazza 1994) and there are
reasons to doubt its validity in heritage language as well (Polinsky 1997, 2008).
Table 3.  Forced choice stimuli
imperfective bias perfective bias no bias control
congruent
condition
Deti ustali čitat’
rasskazy
Mal’čik sumel
sobrat’ vse konfety
Vnuk obeščal
navestit’ babušku
Vnuk obeščal
naveščat’ babušku
incongruent
condition
*Deti ustali pročitat’
rasskazy
*Mal’čik sumel
sobirat’ vse konfety
NA
translation ‘The children got
tired of reading
stories’
‘The boy managed
to collect all the
candy’
‘The grandson
promised to visit
his grandmother’
	 Maria Polinsky
These are only the results of a pilot study, and further work is needed to inves-
tigate individual variation across speakers and performance on similar forced
choice tasks by more proficient heritage speakers. But even without going into
the details of possible individual variation, the preliminary result is striking in
that the heritage speakers performed at chance. This suggests that their aspec-
tual system is indeed different from what is found in the baseline, and that the
deviations observed in spontaneous production go deeper than simple on-line
production problems.
5.2  
Perfective or imperfective?
Let’s address the next question: what explains the maintenance of the imperfec-
tive of some verbs and the perfective of others? The emerging descriptive gener-
alization is as follows: if only one verb is maintained in heritage Russian, then it
represents the member of the aspectual pair that denotes the more common con-
ceptualization associated with the activity designated by the verb. Supppose that
if a more commonly occurring eventuality is one that has an inherent limit, then
the event is conceptualized as telic, and the perfective form of the verb is more
likely to be maintained. If the event is more commonly conceptualized as atelic,
lacking an inherent limit, then the imperfective form is maintained.6 If indeed the
more common conceptualization of a given verb is the determining factor, then
the frequency of the perfective and imperfective verbs in aspectual pairs of the
input language may serve as an indirect predictor of what is going to be used in
heritage Russian. A sample of verb frequencies, presented in Table 4 below, shows
that frequency alone does not always predict the retention of a particular form–
some other mediating factors may be at work, but even if we can hypothesize what
they are (salience of conceptualization, for instance), it is unclear how to formalize
and quantify these intuitions.
The disagreement between the frequency and retention of a particular form
may be due to several additional factors. First, heritage speakers’ crucial input
was provided by the child-directed speech heard in the home. It would be ideal
to be in a position to rely on frequencies of the relevant verbs in child-directed
speech, since these are likely to be different from the corresponding frequencies
established on general adult corpora. However, there are no such statistics estab-
lished for Russian, and in their absence, existing frequency data have to be used,
if only as an approximation. Second, the frequency of conceptualizations may be
.  I again remain neutral as to the semantic questions that arise in the context of events; my
concern is rather with grammatical implementation of the relevant distinctions in heritage
Russian and its relationship with folk conceptualization of events.
	 Without aspect	 
better gleaned from type rather than token frequency, and it is the latter that is
available in standard frequency dictionaries. Third, as I have shown elsewhere,
frequency of input forms often plays a secondary, mediating role in heritage gram-
mars (Polinsky 2005).
Table 4.  Frequency of imperfectives vs. perfectives of certain verbs in baseline Russian
(Sharoff 2001; Lönngren 1993), and the form occurring in heritage Russian (based on the
frog-story narratives (Polinsky 2006b))7
Event baseline Russian heritage Russian
Imperfective,
frequency
Perfective,
frequency
more common form
cry, scream kričat’, 394 zakričat’, 1741 kričat’
call zvat’, 428 pozvat’, 1950 zvat’
give8 davat’, 149 dat’, 155 dat’
become stanovit’sja, 622 stat’, 59 stat’
stay, stand stojat’, 104 (v-)stat’, 444 stojat’
sit sidet’, 143 sest’, 343 sidet’
take brat’, 419 vzjat’, 132 vzjat’
lie down ležat’, 1368 leč’, 259 ležat’
look for, search iskat’, 646 poiskat’, 6641 iskat’
find naxodit’, 1197 najti, 234 najti
jump prygat’, 2994 prygnut’, 7450 prygat’
If the generalization concerning the way particular members of an aspectual pair
are chosen for retention is on the right track, it is important to bear in mind that
heritage speakers of Russian have a very different representation of aspectual forms
than baseline speakers. While a heritage speaker presumably maintains the con-
ceptual representation of telicity, this representation does not translate into a gram-
matical contrast. Thus, a heritage speaker may not perceive the verb they retain as
grammatically imperfective or perfective. Since heritage speakers no longer have
7.  The traditional view of Russian aspect has sadit’sja – sest’ as an aspectual pair, with sidet’ as
imperfective only, associated with posidet’; similarly vstavat’ pairs with vstat’ versus stojat’, and
ložit’ sja pairs with leč’ versus ležat’. Although such traditional pairings cannot be completely
ruled out for the heritage language, both spontaneous speech and experimentally monitored
production indicate that heritage speakers make the associations between sest’ and sidet’, etc. As
in other cases involving deviations from the standard, it would be counterproductive to assume
aspectual pairs the way they are set in the standard, because heritage speakers have never been
exposed to it.
8.  Here frequency cannot distinguish between the two.
	 Maria Polinsky
the relevant morphosyntactic oppositions of baseline Russian, for them the verb
dat’ ‘give’ or the verb sidet’ ‘sit’ is a lexical item without a specified aspectual value.
The chance performance on the aspectual pair task discussed above (see Fig. 1)
further confirms that the grammatical contrast present in the baseline language is
no longer available to heritage speakers for either production or comprehension.
5.3  
The expression of aspectual meanings in heritage Russian:
Emergence of a new grammar
The descriptive generalizations presented in the previous section raise the next set
of questions. Assuming that the baseline Russian system is no longer available to
heritage speakers, what means of expressing aspect are used in Heritage Russian?
Aspect has a strong semantic dimension, and it may therefore remain con-
ceptually constant even if the relevant morphosyntax used to express it is absent.
Thus, while in heritage Russian the means used to express aspect may be differ-
ent from those used in baseline Russian, the aspectual distinction does still exist.
Instead of the fairly arcane system of affixes employed in Russian aspectual gram-
mar, heritage Russian seems to use either a bare verb or a combination of a light
verb and content verb (or other lexical category) to express aspectual distinctions.
Roughly, the perfective of accomplishments and achievements is expressed using
the light verbs stat’ ‘become’ and načat’ ‘begin’; these same verbs are used as per-
fective forms in baseline Russian, but in Heritage Russian they become the primary
means of expressing perfectivity.
For example, in a frog story, describing how the boy grabs the reindeer by the
antlers, a speaker used the following:
	 (22)	 
on	 načinaet	 deržit	 olen’	 roga
		 he	 begins.impf	 holds.impf	 deer.nom	 horns.unm.pl
		 ‘Heˉgrabbedˉtheˉdeerˉbyˉtheˉantlers.’ˉ(M)
The corresponding baseline sentence involves synthetic verb forms: a prefixal per-
fective or a suffixal imperfective:
	 (23)	 
on	 sxvatil/xvataet	 olenja	 za	 roga
		 he	 seized.perf/seizes.impf	 deer.acc	 by	 horns.acc.pl
		 ‘Heˉgrabbed/grabsˉtheˉdeerˉbyˉtheˉantlers.’
The heritage Russian imperfective is either unmarked or is marked by the light
verb byt’ ‘be’ (the same verb is used as the auxiliary to express states if followed by
a noun or adjective). Overall, it seems that heritage speakers use a greater number
of perfective forms (at least in spontaneous production), which is different from
patterns found in child language, where there is a small imperfective bias (with
	 Without aspect	 
the exception of the passive) – cf. Gvozdev 1961; Babyonyshev and Brun 2004;
Kazanina & Phillips 2003.
This overall system of encoding aspect resembles aspect-marking strategies
in creole languages (for an overview of tense-aspect systems in creoles, see Singler
1990; for the development of a tense-aspect system as contrasted with the lexifier,
see Youseef & James 1999). In heritage Russian, such a system may have arisen
either under the influence of English, which would amount to transfer, or under
the creolization of Russian under incomplete learning. At this point, it is impos-
sible to tell which of these two scenarios applies; to choose between them, it would
be important to compare the heritage Russian of the USA with heritage Russian
that had developed in contact with languages other than English. Such data, how-
ever, are not yet available.8
9
6.  
Conclusions
A mixed lexical-grammatical category with complex nuances whose analysis bears
on event types and conceptual structure, Slavic aspect has long fascinated research-
ers, especially in the theoretical arena. However, understanding of the acquisition
or reanalysis of Russian aspect is much more limited, and new empirical data in
this area are of value not only to theoretical linguists, but to the field in general.
This paper has presented data, drawn mainly from spontaneous production, on
the encoding of aspect in heritage Russian, the incompletely acquired language
spoken by those for whom another language (in this case, American English)
became dominant at an early age. The data show that the aspectual system of heri-
tage speakers of Russian is distinct from baseline Russian in several ways.
First, in the restructuring of aspect, heritage Russian shows some loss of
aspectual distinctions present in the baseline, which is due to the leveling and loss
of morphological marking. The shallow morphology characteristic of Heritage
Russian leads to the disappearance of the perfective/present stem distinction in
verbs, and overgeneralization of suffixal imperfectives in -Vva-. The latter process
is quite unsurprising and actually finds parallels in the early acquisition of Rus-
sian, where children overmark imperfectives with -Vva- as well (Gvozdev 1961;
Stoll 2001).
9.  The rise of the analytical system of aspectual marking in Finnish Russian (heritage Russian
as spoken in Finland), reported by Leisiö (2001), suggests that the influence of English cannot
be the sole determining factor.
	 Maria Polinsky
Second, heritage speakers often maintain only one member of an aspectual
pair. For instance, if a baseline speaker has both leč’ and ležat’ ‘lie down’, a heritage
speaker may end up with just one verb (typically the imperfective ležat’ for this
particular pair). This loss of presumed aspectual pairs may be due to the afore-
mentioned shallowness of morphology, which could in turn be attributed to the
lexical nature of the relationship between members of Russian aspectual pairs. In
the more restricted, compressed lexicon that is typical of heritage speakers, it is
not surprising that only one form is retained. And if only one form is retained, it
no longer holds the aspectual value that it has in the baseline – after all, the oppos-
ing member of the pair is gone, leaving no source for an aspectual contrast; hence
whatever is left after this restriction of the lexicon is underspecified for aspect. At
least tentatively, we can then conclude that heritage speakers have certain verbal
items without aspectual value (that is, that are underspecified for aspect).
Finally, in the absence of regular expression of aspect by affixes or supple-
tion, heritage speakers regularly express aspect through the use of analytical forms
with the light verbs ‘be’, ‘become’, or ‘do’. The frequent occurrence of these forms
in heritage speech supports the notion that aspectual distinctions are universal,
belonging with the conceptual representation of events. What varies is the actual
linguistic encoding of these distinctions, but not the underlying distinctions them-
selves. If so, it is not accidental that heritage speakers, with limited morphological
dexterity, encode the universally specified properties of events, such as telicity or
inception, by analytical means.
Despite the relatively good retention of aspectual forms and a rather low num-
ber of aspectual errors, heritage speakers perform rather poorly on judgment tasks,
which suggests that their representation of aspect is quite different from that of the
baseline speaker. More work is needed to fully understand the aspectual grammar
of heritage speakers, but hopefully this paper will help us move in that direction.
References
Andrews, D. 1998. Sociocultural Perspectives on Language Change in Diaspora: Soviet Immigrants
in the United States. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Au, T. & Oh, J. 2005. Korean as a heritage language. In Handbook of East Asian Psycholinguistics,
Part III, Korean Psycholinguistics, Ping Li (gen. Ed.), Cambridge: CUP.
Au, T. & Romo, L. 1997. Does childhood language experience help adult learners? In The Cogni-
tive Processing of Chinese and Related Asian Languages, Hsuan-Chih Chen (Ed.), 417–441.
Beijing: Chinese University Press.
Babyonyshev,M.&Brun,D.2004.Theacquisitionofperfectiveandimperfectivepassiveconstruc-
tions in Russian. University of Pennsylvania Working Papers in Linguistics 10(1): 17–31.
	 Without aspect	 
Bermel, N. & Kagan, O. 2000. The maintenance of written Russian in heritage speakers. In The
learning and teaching of Slavic languages and cultures: Toward the 21st century, O. Kagan &
B. Rifkin (Eds), 405–436. Bloomington IN: Slavica.
Bickerton, D. 1973. The nature of a creole continuum. Language 49: 640–669.
Bickerton, D. 1989. The lexical learning hypothesis and the pidgin-creole cycle. In Wheels within
Wheels, M. Putz & R. Dirven (Eds), 87–99. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Bickerton, D. 1995. Language and Human Behavior. Seattle WA: University of Washington
Press.
Caramazza, A. 1994. Parallels and divergences in the acquisition and dissolution of language.
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London Series B 346: 121–127.
Comrie, B. 1976. Aspect: An Introduction to the Study of Verbal Aspect and Related Problems.
Cambridge: CUP.
Dahl, Ö. 1983. Temporal distance: Remoteness distinctions in tense-aspect systems. Linguistics
21: 105–122.
Dahl, Ö. & Karlsson, F. 1976. Verbal aspects and object marking: A comparison between Finnish
and Russian. International Review of Slavic Linguistics 1: 1–30.
Dorian, N. (Ed.). 1989. Investigating Obsolescence: Studies in Language Contraction and Death.
Cambridge: CUP.
Fenyvesi, A. (Ed.). 2005. Hungarian Language Contact outside Hungary. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Filip, H. 1999. Aspect, Eventuality Types, and Nominal Reference. New York NY: Garland.
Filip, H. 2003. Prefixes and the delimitation of events. Journal of Slavic Linguistics 11: 55–101.
Geisherik, A. 2005. Aspects of Teaching Literacy to Heritage Learners of Russian. Ph.D. Disserta-
tion, State University of New York, Stony Brook.
Godson, L. 2003. Phonetics of Language Attrition: Vowel Production and Articulatory Setting in
the Speech of Western Armenian Heritage Speakers. Ph.D. Dissertation, UCSD.
Gvozdev, A.N. 1961. Voprosy izučenija detskoj reči. Moscow: Izd. Akad. ped. nauk.
Kagan, O. & Dillon, K. 2001. A new perspective on teaching Russian: Focus on the heritage
learner. Slavic and East European Journal 45: 507–518.
Kagan, O. & Friedman, D. 2003. Using the OPI to place heritage speakers of Russian. Foreign
Language Annals 36: 536–545.
Kazanina, N. & Phillips, C. 2003. Russian children’s knowledge of aspectual distinctions.
Proceedings of the Annual Boston University Conference on Language Developmen, 27(1):
390–401.
Leisiö, L. 2001. Morphosyntactic Convergence and integration in Finland Russian. Ph.D. 
Dissertation, University of Tampere.
Lönngren, L. 1993. Častotnyj slovar’ sovremennogo russkogo jazyka (A Frequency Dictionary of
Modern Russian) [Studia Slavica Upsaliensia 32]. Uppsala: Acta Universitatis Upsaliensis.
Montrul, S. 2004. The Acquisition of Spanish: Morphosyntactic Development in Monolingual and
Bilingual L1 Acquisition and Adult L2. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Montrul, S. & Slabakova, S. 2003. Competence similarities between native and near-native
speakers: An investigation of the preterite-imperfect contrast in Spanish. Studies in Second
Language Acquisition 25: 351–398.
Pereltsvaig, A. 2005. Aspect lost, aspect regained: Restructuring of aspectual marking in American
Russian. In Aspectual Inquiries, P. Kempchinsky & R. Slabakova (Eds), 369–395. Dordrecht:
Kluwer.
	 Maria Polinsky
Polinsky, M. 1995. Cross-linguistic parallels in language loss. Southwestern Journal of Linguistics
14: 87–125.
Polinsky, M. 1997. American Russian: Language loss meets language acquisition. In Formal
Approaches to Slavic Linguistics, W. Browne et al. (Eds), 370–407. Ann Arbor MI: Michigan
Slavic Publications.
Polinsky, M. 2000. A composite linguistic profile of a speaker of Russian in the US. In The
learning and teaching of Slavic languages and cultures: Toward the 21st century, O. Kagan &
B. Rifkin (Eds), 437–466. Bloomington IN: Slavica.
Polinsky, M. 2005. Word class distinctions in an incomplete grammar. In Perspectives on
Language and Language Development, D. Ravid & H. Bat-Zeev Shyldkrot (Eds), 419–436.
Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Polinsky, M. 2006. Incomplete acquisition: American Russian. Journal of Slavic Linguistics 14:
163–219.
Polinsky, M. 2007. Heritage language narratives. In Heritage Languages: A New Field Emerging,
D. Brinton & O. Kagan (Eds), Mahwah NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Polinsky, M. 2008. Gender under incomplete acquisition: Heritage speakers’ knowledge of noun
categorization. Heritage Language Journal 6, Spring 2008.
Rickford, J. 1987. Dimensions of a Creole Continuum: History, Texts and Linguistic Analysis of
Guyanese Creole. Stanford CA: Stanford University Press.
Seliger, H.W. & Vago, R. 1991. First Language Attrition. Cambridge: CUP.
Sharoff, S. 2001. The Frequency Dictionary for Russian. (Online version: http://www.artint.ru/
projects/frqlist/frqlist-en.asp)
Singler, J.V. (Ed.), 1990. Pidgin and Creole Tense-mood-aspect Systems. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Sorace, A. 2004. Native language attrition and developmental instability at the syntax-discourse
interface: Data, interpretations and methods. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition
7: 143–45.
Spencer, A. 1991. Morphological Theory: An Introduction to Word Structure in Generative Gram-
mar. Oxford: Blackwell.
Stoll, S. 2001. The Acquisition of Russian Aspect. Ph.D. Dissertation, University of California,
Berkeley.
Stoll, S. 2005. Beginning and end in the acquisition of the perfective aspect in Russian. Journal
of Child Language 32: 805–825.
Švedova, N.J. (Gen. Ed.). 1982. Russkaja grammatika. Tom 1. Moscow: Nauka.
Tsimpli, I., Sorace, A., Heycock, C. & Filiaci, F. 2004. First language attrition and syntactic sub-
jects. International Journal of Bilingualism 8: 257–278.
Valdés, G. 2001. Spanish for Native Speakers. Vol. 1. New York NY: Harcourt College Publishers.
Yokoyama, O. 2000. Teaching heritage speakers in the college Russian language classroom.
In The Learning and Teaching of Slavic Languages and Cultures: Toward the 21st Century,
O. Kagan & B. Rifkin (Eds), 467–475. Bloomington IN: Slavica.
Youssef, V. & James, W. 1999. Grounding via tense-aspect in Tobagonian Creole: Discourse
strategies across a creole continuum. Linguistics 37: 597–624.
A
Aissen, J.  62, 172
Amiridze, N.  89
Anderson, J.M.  2
Ariel, M.  172
Arkadiev, P.  3
Austin, P.  128–29
B
Baerman, M.  2
Bakker, D.  193–94
Baldes, H.  151
Beard, R.  37, 50
Berglund, E.  106, 113
Bickel, B.  58, 132, 191, 197–98,
201, 204–05
Billings, L.  22
Bílý, M.  6, 25
Blake, B.J.  6
Boas, F.  11
Bock, K.  186
Brännström, I.  106, 113, 115
Brehmer, B.  18
Bresnan, J.  173
Brown, D.  2, 9, 19–22
Butt, M.  2
Bybee, J.  9, 172
C
Campe, P.  2
Carpenter, P.A.  176
Carstairs, A.  45
Chomsky, N.  172, 212
Chumakina, M.  7, 16
Chvany, C.V.  2
Comrie, B.  1, 5–6, 12–13, 16–18,
21–22, 35–38, 49–50, 57,
60–61, 68, 77, 167, 171–172,
191, 195, 202–03, 207,
211–13, 222–23, 225, 227,
233, 237, 241–42, 250, 268
Corbett, G.G.  2, 4–5, 7–9, 12,
14, 16–17, 22, 25, 48, 60, 119
Creissels, D.  40, 44
Crowley, T.  65
Curnow, T.J.  195
Cysouw, M.  196
D
Dahl, Ö.  108, 268
Dahlstedt, K.-H.  106, 111, 114,
116, 120, 122, 124–25
Daniel, M.  4, 11, 16
de Groot, A.W.  2
Deeters, G.  93
DeLancey, S.  205
Delbrück, B.  150, 156, 162–63
Delsing, L.-O.  105
Dixon, R.M.W.  58, 195
Donhauser, K.  151
Donohue, C.  203
Dryer, M.S.  133, 168–70, 173,
183, 185, 187, 211
DuBois, J.W.  204
E
É. Kiss, K.  168, 181
Ebert, K.H.  201, 205
Evans, N.  9, 128
F
Fenyvesi, A.  38–42, 44–45, 47
Ferguson, C.A.  3
Filimonova, E.  203
Filip, H.  268
Floricic, F.  16
Fodor, J.D.  176
Foley, W.A.  65
Franks, S.  2
Fraser, N.  5, 9, 48
Frazier, L.  176
Friedman, D.  9, 275
G
Gaenszle, M.  201
Garrett, A.  203
Gazdar, G.  2
Gensler, O.D.  168–70, 185, 187
Gibson, E.  174, 176
Givón, T.  205, 233
Gladkij, A.V.  3
Goddard, C.  5
Graudina, L.K.  18
Greenberg, J.H.  173
Gruškina, E.V.  53
Gvozdev, A.N.  279
H
Hall, C.J.  182
Harris, A.C.  89
Haspelmath, M.  3, 68, 150, 172
Haude, K.  206
Hawkins, J.A.  167–68, 171–77,
179–81, 184–86, 188
Hewitt, G.  80, 85
Hippisley, A.  16
Hjelmslev, L.  2
Hoenkamp, E.  186
Hopper, P.  172
I
Ickovič, V.A.  18
Iggesen, O.A.  8
Ilola, E.  17
Iomdin, L.L.  13
Isačenko, A.V.  27
J
Jackendoff, R.  185
Jäger, G.  204
Jakobson, R.O.  2, 11, 19
Just, M.A.  176
K
Kabak, B.  137
Kadzhaia, O.  101
Kailuweit, R.  153
Katlinskaja, L.P.  18
Keenan, E.L.  57, 68, 171–72,
211–12, 222, 225, 242, 255
Kempen, G.  186
Kenesei, I.  38–42, 44–45, 47
Kibort, A.  7
Kibrik, A.E.  61, 72
Author index
	 Author index
Kiefer, F.  38–39, 54
Kilby, D.A.  2
Kirby, S.  172
K’ldiashvili, D.  97
Klobukov, E.V.  16
Kolmogorov, A.N.  2, 5
Kolvenbach, M.  151
Koptjevskaja-Tamm, M.S. 
51, 108
Koshal, S.  133
Koval’, S.A.  3, 16–17
Kroeger, P.  206
Krylov, S.A.  2
Kuno, S.  182
Kuznecova, A.I.  53
L
Langacker, R.  151
LaPolla, R.J.  65
Larsson, S.  112, 121
Lazard, G.  89, 242
Leiss, E.  151
Leumann, M.  162
Levelt, W.J.M.  186
Levin, B.  154, 156
Lewis, R.  176
Li, C.N.  244
Lidström, G.  106, 113
M
MacDonald, M.C.  186
Manning, C.D.  173
Marklund, T.  113, 116, 124
Maslova, E.S.  11, 72
Maspero, H.  11
Matasovic, R.  60
Mel’čuk, I.  2–3, 7–8, 11,
16, 22–26
Meyer, P.  2, 8
Michaelis, L.  151
Michailovsky, B.  200
Monro, D.B.  93
Moravcsik, E.  38, 41–47,
128, 131
Mustajoki, A.  17
N
Nagano, Y.  205
Newmeyer, F.J.  172
Nichols, J.  4, 58, 65, 68,
71–72, 201
Nikitina, T.  72
Nikolaeva, I.  18
Noonan, M.  131, 133–35,
138–41, 201
Nordström, A.  106, 114, 117
Nyström, H.  106, 112, 114, 117
O
O’Grady, W.  173
Opgenort, J.R.  200
Otoguro, R.  2, 37, 50–51
P
Panov, M.V.  16, 18
Percov, N.V.  11
Pereltsvaig, A.  272
Peterson, D.A.  66
Pettersson, T.  6
Plank, F.  127–28, 130
Plungian, V.A.  3, 13, 19–20, 27
Pokharel, M.  204
Polinsky, M.  12, 16, 18, 38, 57,
60–61, 264, 266, 269–70,
272, 275, 277
Potskhishvili, A.  87
Q
Q’ipshidze, I.  101
Quirk, R.  171
R
Radford, A.  212
Reinhammar, M.  123
Ross, J.R.  177
Rothstein, R.A.  25
S
Sadler, L.  35
Schachter, P.  206, 247
Schmidt, K.H.  93
Schütze, C.T.  176
Selkirk, E.O.  43
Serbat, G.  2
Shanidze, A.  96
Shibatani, M.  233–34, 248
Siewierska, A.  193–94, 196,
204–05, 207
Silverstein, M.  192, 196, 198
Smith, N.  57
Spencer, A.  2, 16, 35, 37, 48,
50–53, 268
Stallings, L.M.  178, 186
Stone, G.  12, 16, 18
Stump, G.T.  48
Suter, E.  203
T
Thompson, S.A.  244
Thorndahl, W.  19
Timberlake, A.  12
Tompa, J.  39, 41, 44
Tsunoda, T.  182
Tuite, K.  97
U
Uspenskij, B.A.  2, 18, 25
V
Vago, R.M.  38–42, 44–45, 47
van den Berg, E.  162
van Driem, G.  200
van Helden, W.A.  2–3
van Valin, R.D., Jr.  65
Vasishth, S.  176
Vinogradov, V.V.  25
W
Wasow, T.  178–79
Westerberg, A.  113
Widmark, F.  121
Wierzbicka, A.  18
Wikberg, D.  108, 110–11,
115–16, 118, 122
Worth, D.S.  17, 19
X
Xelimskij, E.A.  53
Y
Yadroff, M.  16
Yamashita, H.  180
Z
Zaliznjak, A.A.  2–3, 5–8,
10–11, 17, 20, 22–24, 26
Zipf  204
Zúñiga, F.  205
Zwicky, A.  10
A
Abkhaz  50, 75–82, 85, 94, 98, 103
Abkhaz(-Abaza)  74
Ainu  194
Albanian  51
Athpare  143, 200
Avar  136–37
B
Bahing  200–01
Bantawa  200
Bantu  51, 185
Batsbi  72
Belhare  133, 143, 200–01
Berber, Middle Atlas  202
Bodic  127–28, 131–37, 139–43
C
Caddoan  238
Camling (Chamling)  143,
200–01
Caucasian  88, 94, 99
North East  86
North West  75, 82, 85–86, 88
South  75, 82
Central Monpa  135, 143
Central Pomo  211–13, 215–17,
222–34, 236–39
Chácobo  194
Chamorro  202
Chantyal  129–41, 143
Chechen  72
Chechen-Ingush  86
Chintang  200
Circassian  75, 80, 85
Comox  194
Creole languages  265, 279
Czech  49
D
Daghestanian  12, 57, 72
Dardic  203
Dhankute Tamang  135–36
Dravidian  36
Dumi  136, 143, 200–01
E
English  8, 36–37, 43, 49–50,
53–55, 78, 94, 109, 119,
121–23, 128, 139, 149–50,
152–54, 156–59, 162–63,
169, 171–75, 177–78,
180–82, 188, 205, 221, 223,
226–27, 230, 252, 256,
259, 279
Euchee  239
F
Finnish  35, 37, 279
Fore  203
French  36, 49, 109, 149–63, 259
G
Georgian
Modern  75, 82–96, 98–103
Old  85
German  8, 49, 149–51, 153–63
Grebo  185
Greek  75, 162
Gurung  132, 143
Gyarong
(lCog-rtse rGyalrong)  205
H
Haida  239
Hayu  143, 200–01
Hebrew  49, 171–72, 242, 246
Hindi  51, 242
Hua  204
Hungarian  35–40, 42–43,
48–50, 52–55, 181
I
Indo-Aryan  51, 162, 201,
203–04
Ingush  57–63, 65–66, 68–72, 86
Iraqw  202
Iroquoian  238
Italian  149–50, 154–56, 158,
159–63
J
Japanese  50–51, 173, 177,
179–83, 186, 188
Jero  200–01
K
Kairiru  170
Kamass  194
Kartvelian  75, 82, 85–90,
99, 101
Kâte  203
Kathmandu Newari  134, 136–37
Khaling  143, 200
Kinyarwanda  247
Kiranti  135–36, 143, 196,
198, 200–01
Kulung  200
L
Ladakhi  133, 135, 143
Latin  16, 35, 58, 86, 149–50,
152–63
Latvian  16, 36
Laz  82, 99
Limbu  143, 200–01
Lohorung  200
Lulemål  106–10, 112, 114–17,
122–24
M
Macedonian  9–10
Ma’di  185
Magar  134, 143
Malagasy  241, 244–45, 248–51,
253, 255–56, 259–60
Mandarin Chinese  169, 244
Maricopa  194–95
Maung  194–95
Mewahang  200
Middle Dutch  162
Mingrelian  75, 82, 86, 88,
95, 99–103
Movima  206
Muskogean  238
Language index
	 Language index
N
Nagatman  170
Nakh  72, 86, 88
Nakh-Daghestanian  57, 68, 72
Nar-Phu  133, 135, 143
Nepali  134, 201, 204
Nez Perce  194–95
North Germanic
(Common)  110
P
Pama-Nyungan  72
Paumarí  194
Persian  119, 242, 246
Pitemål  105–17, 120–24
Pomoan  213, 223, 239
Proto-Bodic  135
Proto-Indo European  162–63
Proto-Sino-Tibetan  135
Puma  197–98, 200–01
R
Rånemål  105–06, 108–12,
115–18, 120, 122, 124–25
Romance  49, 139, 150, 153, 156,
159–60, 162–63
Rumanian  49, 242, 246
Russian  1–19, 21–24, 26, 28–30,
36, 48, 51, 54, 119, 263–64,
266–69, 272, 274, 276–80
Heritage  263–64, 267–70,
272–74, 276–79
S
Sanskrit  162
Seke  135
Selkup  38, 53–55
Seri  194–96
Siouan  238
Skelleftemål  113, 116, 124–25
Slave  170
Spanish  49, 158, 160, 241–42,
246
Spiti  138, 143
Supyire  185
Svan  75, 82, 100–03
Swahili  204
Swedish  105–06, 108–09, 111,
123–24
Standard  108, 110–12, 116,
119, 122–25
T
Tagalog  205, 207, 241–42, 245,
247–50
Tamangic  129, 132–37, 143
Tepehua  194–95
Temirgoi  85
Thakali  135
Thangmi  139, 143
Thulung  135–36, 200–01
Tibetan Complex  138
Tibeto-Burman  127, 143, 205
Tsez  57, 61
Tsova-Tush  72
Tunen  185
Turkish  36–37, 42, 49, 51,
242–43, 246
U
Ubykh  75, 85
W
Wambule  200–01
Washo  194–95
Westrobothnian  106, 112, 121
Northern  107, 109, 112–13,
116, 124
Southern  107, 111
Y
Yamphu  200
Yimas  194
A
ablative case  38–40, 135–36,
138, 141, 152, 163
absolutive case  57–72, 80,
86, 89–90, 99, 133, 192,
202–03, 221, 230
Accessibility Hierarchy  57,
68, 172
accusative case  4–5, 7–8, 12,
22–25, 28, 38–39, 42–45,
48–49, 51–52, 88, 90, 99
active (-inactive) hypothesis  92,
95, 97, 99
active (-inactive)
opposition  89, 95
active case  91
adnominal  128–32, 139–40,
150, 153, 163
adnumerative  22–23, 26–29
adposition  49–50, 150, 207
affixes  37, 42–43, 45, 50,
53–54, 80, 89, 184–85,
268, 278, 280
agent  58, 77, 80–81, 83, 86–89,
93–94, 97–99, 211, 215–21,
224–37, 239, 247–49
demotion, see demotion,
agent
grammatical  211, 216,
218–21, 224, 227
semantic  211, 215, 229,
232–33, 238–39
agent/patient system  215–16, 239
agreement  12, 18, 25, 41–43,
50, 57–61, 71–72, 82, 89,
130, 191, 193, 195–96, 199,
204–05, 207, 217–20, 227,
229–30, 239
affixes  75–76, 82, 103
case  37, 41–42, 46, 49
climbing  57, 60–61
Hierarchy  25
possessor  38, 43, 47–49,
52–53
system  82
verb  57, 60, 71, 191–95,
200–02, 207, 212–13
Aktionsart  68
alignment  57–60, 65,
68–72, 90–92, 191–98,
200–05, 207
accusative  90, 192–03, 207
of agreement  193, 195, 202
of case  193
ergative  65, 68–69, 72, 90,
191–98, 200–03, 207
neutral  71, 192–93, 195–98,
200, 202–03
split  191, 194, 202
split-S  71
ambitransitive  68–69
animacy hierarchy, see
referential hierarchy
antipassive  70
applicative  70
area, linguistic  106, 167, 201,
203–05
argument  38, 58, 61, 64,
70–72, 75, 77–78,
80–85, 87, 89, 96–97,
99, 102, 128, 150–52,
155, 169, 181, 186–87,
191–92, 194–95, 198–99,
202–07, 211, 215–17,
219, 221–34, 236–39,
242, 248
precedence  186–88
sharing  57, 65–67
structure  75, 80, 95, 103
aspect  263–64, 266–74, 276–80
habitual  231
imperfective  221, 231, 233
perfective  68, 87, 220–21
autonomous  7, 10, 29
B
background theme, see theme,
background
baseline  263–66, 269–73,
276–80
Beard’s Criterion  37, 50
binary feature  2
bivalent intransitive  76–78,
81–82, 86, 88–90, 93–94
bivalent transitive  76–78
C
canonical  4–5, 7–15, 26–29,
45–46, 50–51, 69
approach  1–4, 30
case systems  48–49
constructions  4
features  5–8, 10, 26
grammatical function
markers on dependents
(CGFMD)  37–38, 50–51
inflection(al morphology)  7,
9, 14, 28
morphosyntactic features  6,
9–10, 12–14, 27–28
non-canonical  4, 10–11, 13,
15, 26–30
canonicity  4–6, 9, 14, 16, 26, 29
non-canonicity  8–9, 12–13,
15, 21, 27
cardinality quantifier  252, 259
case  1–30, 35–55, 57–62, 64–65,
67, 69–72, 80–82, 88–90,
92, 96–97, 99, 103, 108–10,
119, 125, 128–42, 150,
179, 182, 184–85, 191–93,
201–04, 206–07, 211, 213,
216–17, 221, 227, 229, 234,
239, 269
climbing  57, 60–61, 67
compounding  127–29,
131–32, 136–37, 139–42
markers  127–28, 133–34, 136,
140–42, 203–04
stacking  128–29, 132–33,
137–39, 141
categories  2, 8
Subject index
	 Subject index
causative  59, 67–71, 77, 93–95,
102, 229
analytic  77
synthetic  77
CGFMD, see canonical
grammatical function
markers on dependents
chance, see randomization test
climbing  60–61
clitic  38, 42, 45, 50–51, 66,
133–35, 137–41, 182, 184,
194, 206–07
cognizer role  149, 154, 156, 161
conceptual structure  279
conjunction reduction  212–13,
222–23, 227
contexts  5–6, 11, 20
converb  65–67
coreferential  62, 194, 211,
223–27, 232, 236, 239
cross-clause reflexives  213,
226–27, 232–33, 239
D
dative case  3, 61, 80, 83,
105–06, 108, 130, 157, 204
definite  35–36, 41, 49, 80, 105,
108–12, 116–23, 125, 151,
184, 186, 204, 241–52,
255–56, 258–60
demotion
agent  233–34
subject  82
deponent  59, 159–60
derivational  53–55, 68, 70–72,
129, 132, 136–37, 268–69
differential case marking  191,
203–04
direct object  36, 50–52, 66, 83,
85, 88–92, 94–100, 103,
130, 133, 151–53, 157, 168,
171–72, 177–82, 187, 241–42
direct vs. inverse
marking  191–93, 205–06
ditransitive  58–59, 76–77,
94, 102
dynamic verb  78, 100–01
E
Early Immediate Constituents
(EIC)  174–75, 180
emoter role  149, 154, 161
empathy hierarchy, see
referential hierarchy
ergative  57–62, 64–65, 67,
69–72, 75, 80, 90, 94–95,
98–99, 128, 130–32, 135–36,
138, 142, 197, 201–04, 212
alignment, see alignment,
ergative
case  58, 80, 99, 204
evidential  220, 229
F
features  2, 5–10, 12–15,
22, 26–29
figure  151–52, 157, 163
figure-theme construction  152
see also theme, figure
frequency  172, 185–86, 270,
276–77
G
gender  2, 6, 8–10, 58–59,
71–72, 132
genitive  17–19, 22–23, 36–37,
50–52, 134, 136–37, 139
of negation  151
object  149–65
global argument marking
rules  198
grammatical relations  191,193,
204–05, 207, 211, 221, 233
grammaticalization  45, 50, 115,
125, 136, 142, 205
grammemes  2
H
heavy NP shift  177–78, 181
Heritage language  264, 270,
275, 277
hierarchical agreement  191, 205
hierarchy, see referential
hierarchy
hypostasis  130
I
imperfective  221–22, 227, 231,
233, 239, 266–80
impersonal verb  86, 161, 239
inclusive  23, 26, 58
incomplete acquisition  263–64,
266, 268, 275
indefinite  36, 105, 109–12,
114–25, 239, 241, 243–44,
246–47, 249–52, 259
indexibility hierarchy, see
referential hierarchy
indirect object  50–51, 64, 81,
83–84, 88, 90, 94, 97–99,
133, 172
infinitive  57, 60–61, 67
inverse marking see direct vs.
inverse marking
L
language contact, see area,
linguistic
light verb construction  58,
70–72
linking
vowel(Hungarian)  44–45
locative  12, 14, 16, 19–23,
27–28, 96, 129, 135, 142
alternation  151–52, 155
case  19, 36, 41, 133–34
version, see version, locative
locatum role  154
logophoric pronouns, see
pronouns, logophoric
M
markerless passive  83–84
Masdar  87–88
medial verb  91–93, 102
middle voice  93
Minimize Domains
(MiD)  173–75, 186–88
monovalent intransitive  76–77,
82, 84, 86, 93, 97, 99, 101
N
narrative case  90–92, 95
Network Morphology  9, 21, 48
neutral
alignment, see alignment,
neutral
version, see version, neutral
nominal  11–12, 14, 35–37,
41, 44, 47, 52–53, 84–85,
87–88, 90, 105, 128–32,
135, 139
nominalizer  131, 139
nominative case  22, 82–83,
85–86, 89–90, 92, 94–95,
98–99, 202–03, 212
noun incorporation  52
number  6, 8–10, 12, 22–23,
26, 36, 38, 41, 51–54,
217–18, 220–21, 227,
229–31, 239, 248
Subject index 
O
object, see direct object,
indirect object, oblique
object
objective version, see version,
objective
oblique
argument  155
case  28, 51, 58–59, 80, 89, 217
constituents  167–68, 171–72,
182, 187
object  77–78, 80–82
obviation  62–63
Optimality Theory  172–73
P
partitive genitive  17–18, 150, 163
passive voice  82–83, 85–86, 93,
159, 211–13, 228–39
perfective  68, 87, 221, 231,
266–79
Performance-Grammar
Correspondence
Hypothesis (PGCH)  168,
171–73, 180, 188
Peripherality Constraint  45
person hierarchy, see
referential hierarchy
plural  105–06, 108–16, 118–25,
191, 259
possessive  154–56, 159–61,
163–64
adjectives  139
constructions  52, 150
inflection  41, 44–45, 79
nouns/pronouns  41, 116–17,
125, 217, 226, 232
reflexive  84, 159, 226
verbs  59, 154–56, 159–60
possessor  36, 38, 43, 46–49,
52–54, 62–64, 130, 149–50,
153–55, 159, 161, 191, 226,
248, 255
postadjectival indefinite
article  116, 124–25
postposition  37, 40, 42, 45–47,
49, 51, 85, 90, 129, 133–37,
140–42, 173, 182–84, 186
‘fused’  35, 37–38, 49, 55
potentiality  75, 80, 82, 84,
86, 88
pragmatics  132, 168, 221, 234,
239, 251
prefixal passive  83
prefixes  76, 83, 184–85, 195,
266–69
preverb  66, 78, 81, 87–89,
101, 103
primary object  59, 133
pronominal
affixes  47–48, 52, 75, 82
cross-referencing  82
pronouns
Hungarian  39, 41, 47–49,
52–53
logophoric  226, 232–33
vs. nouns  202–04, 207
properties  2, 29–30, 42, 176
clitic  38, 42
grammatical  37, 41
morphological  49
semantic  174, 176
syntactic  36
proportionality quantifier  241,
253–54
pseudo-partitive  43
Q
quadrivalent verb  77
quantified NP  242, 249–50,
255–56, 258–59
quantifiers  28, 105, 108–16,
118–19, 121, 124, 249–54, 259
R
randomization test  196
reciprocal  79–80
referential  129–30, 207
referential hierarchy  191–93,
198, 201–07
reflexive
verb  93–94, 155, 158–61,
164–65, 226
possessive  84, 160
reflexivization  57, 60, 62–65, 72
relative constructions  205
relativization  68, 191, 205–06,
213, 225
S
scales, see referential hierarchy
screeve  82, 99–101
screeve-series  83–84, 86,
89–92, 94–95, 99–100
second genitive  17–21, 26–27,
29, 139
second locative  2, 11, 19–21,
26–29
semantic maps  3
serialization  57, 65–66, 72
set A affix  82–83, 103
set B affix  83, 90
set-theoretical school  1–2, 5
similitudinal  38, 53, 55
split alignment, see alignment,
split
split-S alignment, see
alignment, split-S
stative verb  71, 78–79, 90,
101, 103
subject  13, 50–51, 57, 59–62,
64–65, 67, 69, 71, 79–85,
88–92, 94–99, 151, 155,
157, 161, 168, 172, 186,
191–92, 204, 211–14,
217–34, 236–39, 241–42,
246–53, 255–60
category  211–12, 220,
222–25, 227, 232–33,
237–39
demotion, see demotion,
subject
properties  212–13, 227, 229
subjective version, see version,
subjective
subjectless verb  155, 158, 161,
164–65
suffixal passive  83
Suffixaufnahme  51, 127, 130
Suffixhäufung  130
Swedish dialects  105–06
switch reference  213,
223–24, 227
syncretism  8–9, 17, 25, 131, 135,
138–39
T
telicity  270, 272, 277, 280
theme  58–59, 149, 151–55,
157, 159, 161, 163, 245,
247–48, 270
background  151–52,
155–59, 163
figure  152–53, 155–59, 164–65
topic  168, 233–34, 237–38, 247
topical  191, 204–05, 233, 237
non-topical  204, 211,
233, 239
topicality  51, 205, 234
hierarchy, see referential
hierarchy
topicalization  12, 233, 237
	 Subject index
transitive  62, 67, 69, 78, 85,
89, 92, 94, 96, 100, 155,
157, 161, 164, 191–92, 195,
214–15, 230, 247
clauses  67, 152, 206,
214–15, 228
complements  61
oblique  59, 63
structures  82, 90, 92, 95
subjects  51, 88–91, 94, 96,
99, 191
trivalent transitive  76–77
see also ditransitive
verbs  59, 71, 81–83, 87–88,
96–97, 102–03, 153–58,
164–65, 186, 198, 220,
242, 245
U
universal quantifier  253–54
unwillingness  80–82
V
values  1–16, 22, 26–30, 36
verb-object adjacency  170–71,
177–78, 186–88
version  90
locative  87, 90
neutral  90, 97
objective  83, 90, 97
subjective  90–93
VO and OV languages
correlations with
genitive and noun
ordering  183, 186
correlations with
prepositions and
postpositions  182–84, 186
correlations with
relative clause and noun
orders  184
correlations with adjective
and noun orders  184, 186
correlations with definite
articles  184
correlations with case
affixes  184–185
correlations with the
ordering of oblique
constituents  182
vocative  16–17, 26–27, 29–30, 51
vowel harmony  39, 45
word order  12, 133, 168, 172–73,
192, 222, 227
W
World Atlas of
Language Structures
(WALS)  167–69, 182–83,
187–88
Z
zero marking  38, 96, 122, 133,
192, 195, 202–04
Zipf’s Law  204
Typological Studies in Language
86	 Mahieu, Marc-Antoine and Nicole Tersis (eds.): Variations on Polysynthesis. The Eskaleut languages.
x, 306 pp. + index. Expected March 2009
85	 Givón, T. and Masayoshi Shibatani (eds.): Syntactic Complexity. Diachrony, acquisition, neuro-
cognition, evolution. vi, 543 pp. + index. Expected March 2009
84	 Newman, John (ed.): The Linguistics of Eating and Drinking. xii, 271 pp. + index. Expected February
2009
83	 Corrigan, Roberta L., Edith A. Moravcsik, Hamid Ouali and Kathleen M. Wheatley
(eds.): Formulaic Language.Volume 2. Acquisition, loss, psychological reality, functional applications.
xxii, 344 pp. + index. Expected February 2009
82	 Corrigan, Roberta L., Edith A. Moravcsik, Hamid Ouali and Kathleen M. Wheatley (eds.):
Formulaic Language.Volume 1. Distribution and historical change. xxii, 295 pp. + index. Expected February
2009
81	 Corbett, Greville G. and Michael Noonan (eds.): Case and Grammatical Relations. Studies in honor
of Bernard Comrie. 2008. ix, 290 pp.
80	 Laury, Ritva (ed.): Crosslinguistic Studies of Clause Combining. The multifunctionality of conjunctions.
2008. xiv, 253 pp.
79	 Abraham,Werner and Elisabeth Leiss (eds.): Modality–Aspect Interfaces. Implications and typological
solutions. 2008. xxiv, 422 pp.
78	 Harrison, K. David, David S. Rood and Arienne Dwyer (eds.): Lessons from Documented
Endangered Languages. 2008. vi, 375 pp.
77	 Seoane, Elena and María José López-Couso (eds.): Theoretical and Empirical Issues in
Grammaticalization. In collaboration with Teresa Fanego. 2008. x, 367 pp.
76	 López-Couso, María José and Elena Seoane (eds.): Rethinking Grammaticalization. New
perspectives. In collaboration with Teresa Fanego. 2008. x, 355 pp.
75	 Frajzyngier, Zygmunt and Erin Shay (eds.): Interaction of Morphology and Syntax. Case studies in
Afroasiatic. 2008. v, 234 pp.
74	 Kurzon, Dennis and Silvia Adler (eds.): Adpositions. Pragmatic, semantic and syntactic perspectives.
2008. viii, 307 pp.
73	 Ansaldo, Umberto, Stephen Matthews and Lisa Lim (eds.): Deconstructing Creole. 2007.
xii, 292 pp.
72	 Næss, Åshild: Prototypical Transitivity. 2007. x, 240 pp.
71	 Nedjalkov, Vladimir P. (ed.): Reciprocal Constructions.With the assistance of Emma Š. Geniušienė and
Zlatka Guentchéva. 2007. xxiii, 2219 pp. (5 vols.).
70	 Zúñiga, Fernando: Deixis and Alignment. Inverse systems in indigenous languages of the Americas.
2006. xii, 309 pp.
69	 Aranovich, Raúl (ed.): Split Auxiliary Systems. A cross-linguistic perspective. 2007. vii, 277 pp.
68	 Abraham, Werner and Larisa Leisiö (eds.): Passivization and Typology. Form and function. 2006.
x, 553 pp.
67	 Veselinova, Ljuba N.: Suppletion in Verb Paradigms. Bits and pieces of the puzzle. 2006. xviii, 236 pp.
66	 Hickmann, Maya and Stéphane Robert (eds.): Space in Languages. Linguistic Systems and Cognitive
Categories. 2006. x, 362 pp.
65	 Tsunoda, Tasaku and Taro Kageyama (eds.): Voice and Grammatical Relations. In Honor of
Masayoshi Shibatani. 2006. xviii, 342 pp.
64	 Voeltz, F. K. Erhard (ed.): Studies in African Linguistic Typology. 2006. xiv, 426 pp.
63	 Filimonova, Elena (ed.): Clusivity. Typology and case studies of the inclusive–exclusive distinction.
2005. xii, 436 pp.
62	 Couper-Kuhlen, Elizabeth and Cecilia E. Ford (eds.): Sound Patterns in Interaction. Cross-
linguistic studies from conversation. 2004. viii, 406 pp.
61	 Bhaskararao, Peri and Karumuri Venkata Subbarao (eds.): Non-nominative Subjects.Volume 2.
2004. xii, 319 pp.
A complete list of titles in this series can be found on the publishers’ website, www.benjamins.com
60	 Bhaskararao, Peri and Karumuri Venkata Subbarao (eds.): Non-nominative Subjects.Volume 1.
2004. xii, 325 pp.
59	 Fischer, Olga, Muriel Norde and Harry Perridon (eds.): Up and down the Cline – The Nature of
Grammaticalization. 2004. viii, 406 pp.
58	 Haspelmath, Martin (ed.): Coordinating Constructions. 2004. xcv, 578 pp.
57	 Mattissen, Johanna: Dependent-Head Synthesis in Nivkh. A contribution to a typology of
polysynthesis. 2003. x, 350 pp.
56	 Shay, Erin and Uwe Seibert (eds.): Motion, Direction and Location in Languages. In honor of Zygmunt
Frajzyngier. 2003. xvi, 305 pp.
55	 Frajzyngier, Zygmunt and Erin Shay: Explaining Language Structure through Systems Interaction.
2003. xviii, 309 pp.
54	 Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. and R.M.W. Dixon (eds.): Studies in Evidentiality. 2003. xiv, 349 pp.
53	 Givón, T. and Bertram F. Malle (eds.): The Evolution of Language out of Pre-language. 2002. x, 394 pp.
52	 Güldemann, Tom and Manfred von Roncador (eds.): Reported Discourse. A meeting ground for
different linguistic domains. 2002. xii, 425 pp.
51	 Newman, John (ed.): The Linguistics of Sitting, Standing and Lying. 2002. xii, 409 pp.
50	 Feigenbaum, Susanne and Dennis Kurzon (eds.): Prepositions in their Syntactic, Semantic and
Pragmatic Context. 2002. vi, 304 pp.
49	 Wischer, Ilse and Gabriele Diewald (eds.): New Reflections on Grammaticalization. 2002.
xiv, 437 pp.
48	 Shibatani, Masayoshi (ed.): The Grammar of Causation and Interpersonal Manipulation. 2002.
xviii, 551 pp.
47	 Baron, Irène, Michael Herslund and Finn Sørensen (eds.): Dimensions of Possession. 2001.
vi, 337 pp.
46	 Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y., R.M.W. Dixon and Masayuki Onishi (eds.): Non-canonical Marking of
Subjects and Objects. 2001. xii, 364 pp.
45	 Bybee, Joan and Paul J. Hopper (eds.): Frequency and the Emergence of Linguistic Structure. 2001.
vii, 492 pp.
44	 Voeltz, F. K. Erhard and Christa Kilian-Hatz (eds.): Ideophones. 2001. x, 436 pp.
43	 Gildea, Spike (ed.): Reconstructing Grammar. Comparative Linguistics and Grammaticalization. 2000.
xiv, 269 pp.
42	 Diessel, Holger: Demonstratives. Form, function and grammaticalization. 1999. xii, 205 pp.
41	 Frajzyngier, Zygmunt and Traci S. Walker-Curl (eds.): Reciprocals. Forms and functions.
Volume 2. 2000. xii, 201 pp.
40	 Frajzyngier, Zygmunt and Traci S. Walker-Curl (eds.): Reflexives. Forms and functions.Volume
1. 2000. xiv, 286 pp.
39	 Payne, Doris L. and Immanuel Barshi (eds.): External Possession. 1999. ix, 573 pp.
38	 Siewierska, Anna and Jae Jung Song (eds.): Case, Typology and Grammar. In honor of Barry J. Blake.
1998. 395 pp.
37	 Giacalone-Ramat, Anna and Paul J. Hopper (eds.): The Limits of Grammaticalization. 1998.
vi, 307 pp.
36	 Newman, John (ed.): The Linguistics of Giving. 1998. xv, 373 pp.
35	 Givón, T. (ed.): Grammatical Relations. A functionalist perspective. 1997. viii, 350 pp.
34	 Givón, T. (ed.): Conversation. Cognitive, communicative and social perspectives. 1997. viii, 302 pp.
33	 Fox, Barbara A. (ed.): Studies in Anaphora. 1996. xii, 518 pp.
32	 Bybee, Joan and Suzanne Fleischman (eds.): Modality in Grammar and Discourse. 1995. viii, 575 pp.
31	 Gernsbacher, Morton Ann and T. Givón (eds.): Coherence in Spontaneous Text. 1995. x, 267 pp.
30	 Downing, Pamela A. and Michael Noonan (eds.): Word Order in Discourse. 1995. x, 595 pp.
29	 Kahrel (PJK), Peter and René van den Berg (eds.): Typological Studies in Negation. 1994. x, 385 pp.
28	 Givón, T. (ed.): Voice and Inversion. 1994. viii, 402 pp.
27	 Fox, Barbara A. and Paul J. Hopper (eds.): Voice: Form and Function. 1994. xiii, 377 pp.
26	 Lord, Carol: Historical Change in Serial Verb Constructions. 1993. x, 273 pp.
25	 Svorou, Soteria: The Grammar of Space. 1994. xiv, 290 pp.
24	 Perkins, Revere D.: Deixis, Grammar, and Culture. 1992. x, 245 pp.
23	 Kemmer, Suzanne: The Middle Voice. 1993. xii, 300 pp.
22	 Payne, Doris L. (ed.): Pragmatics of Word Order Flexibility. 1992. viii, 320 pp.
21	 Downing, Pamela A., Susan D. Lima and Michael Noonan (eds.): The Linguistics of Literacy. 1992.
xx, 334 pp.
20	 Croft, William, Suzanne Kemmer and Keith Denning (eds.): Studies in Typology and Diachrony.
Papers presented to Joseph H. Greenberg on his 75th birthday. 1990. xxxiv, 243 pp.
19:2	Traugott, Elizabeth Closs and Bernd Heine (eds.): Approaches to Grammaticalization.Volume II.
Types of grammatical markers. 1991. xii, 558 pp.
19:1	Traugott, Elizabeth Closs and Bernd Heine (eds.): Approaches to Grammaticalization.Volume I.
Theoretical and methodological issues. 1991. xii, 360 pp.
18	 Haiman, John and Sandra A. Thompson (eds.): Clause Combining in Grammar and Discourse. 1988.
xiii, 428 pp.
17	 Hammond, Michael, Edith A. Moravcsik and Jessica Wirth (eds.): Studies in Syntactic Typology.
1988. xiv, 380 pp.
16	 Shibatani, Masayoshi (ed.): Passive and Voice. 1988. xi, 706 pp.
15	 Austin, Peter (ed.): Complex Sentence Constructions in Australian Languages. 1988. vii, 289 pp.
14	 Hinds, John, Shoichi Iwasaki and Senko K. Maynard (eds.): Perspectives on Topicalization. The
case of Japanese WA. 1987. xi, 307 pp.
13	 Never published.
12	 Nedjalkov, Vladimir P. (ed.): Typology of Resultative Constructions. Translated from the original
Russian edition (1983). Translation edited by Bernard Comrie. 1988. xx, 573 pp.
11	 Tomlin, Russell S.: Coherence and Grounding in Discourse. Outcome of a Symposium, Eugene, Oregon,
June 1984. 1987. viii, 512 pp.
10	 Ransom, Evelyn N.: Complementation: its Meaning and Forms. 1986. xii, 226 pp.
9	 Bybee, Joan: Morphology. A Study of the Relation between Meaning and Form. 1985. xii, 235 pp.
8	 Slobin, Dan I. and Karl Zimmer (eds.): Studies in Turkish Linguistics. 1986. vi, 294 pp.
7	 Craig, Colette G. (ed.): Noun Classes and Categorization. Proceedings of a symposium on categorization
and noun classification, Eugene, Oregon, October 1983. 1986. vii, 481 pp.
6	 Haiman, John (ed.): Iconicity in Syntax. Proceedings of a symposium on iconicity in syntax, Stanford,
June 24–26, 1983. 1985. vi, 402 pp.
5	 Rutherford, William E. (ed.): Language Universals and Second Language Acquisition. 1984. ix, 264 pp.
4	 Chisholm, William, Louis T. Milic and John A.C. Greppin (eds.): Interrogativity. A colloquium on
the grammar, typology and pragmatics of questions in seven diverse languages, Cleveland, Ohio, October
5th 1981-May 3rd 1982. 1984. v, 302 pp.
3	 Givón, T.: Topic Continuity in Discourse. A quantitative cross-language study. 1983. vi, 492 pp.
2	 Haiman, John and Pamela Munro (eds.): Switch Reference and Universal Grammar. Proceedings of a
symposium on switch reference and universal grammar,Winnipeg, May 1981. 1983. xv, 337 pp.
1	 Hopper, Paul J. (ed.): Tense-Aspect. Between semantics & pragmatics. 1982. x, 350 pp.
